A new Ballad , entitled , The Battle of Agen-Court , in France , between the English-men and Frenchmen . To the tune of , When flying Fame . A Counsel grave our King did hold , with many a Lord and Knight , That he might truly understand , that France did hold his right . Unto the King of France therefore , Imbassadors he sent . That he might truly understand , his mind , and whole intent : Desiring him in friendly sort , his lawful Right to yield : Or else , he swore by Dent of Sword , to win the fame in Field . The King of France with all his Lords , which herd his message plain , Unto our brave Imbassador , did answer in disdain : And said , our King was yet too young , and of too tender age , Therefore we weigh not of his wars , nor fear not his courage . His knowledge is , in feats of Arms , as yet , but very small : His tender Joints more fitter were , to toss a Tennis ball . A Tun of Tennis balls therefore , in pride and great disdain , He sent unto our noble King , to recompense his pain . Which answer , when our King did hear , he waxed wrath in heart , He said , he would such balls provide , should make all Fraunce to smart . And army then our King did hold , which was both good and strong . And from Southampton is our King , with all his Navy gone . In France he landed safe and found , with all his warlike train , Unto the town of Hurslew next , he marched up amain . But when he had besieged the same , against their fenced walls , To batter down their stately Towers , he sent his English balls . This done , our Noble King , marched up and down the land . And not a French man for his life , durst once his Force withstand . The second part , Of the battle at Agen-Court . To the tune of , When Flying Fame . U Ntill he came to Again Court , where as it was his chance , To find the King in readiness , with all his power of France . A mighty Host he had prepared , of armed Soldiers then : Which was no less , by just account , then fortie thousand men . Which sighed did much amaze our King : for he in all his Host , Not passing fyfteene thousand had , accounted with the most . The king of France , which well did know , the number of our men , In vaunting pride unto our Prince , did send a Harrold then , To understand what he would give , for Ransom of his life , When they in Field had taken him , amid that bloody strife . But then our King with cheerful heart , this answer them did make , And said , before this comes to pass , some of your hearts shall shake . And to your proud presumptuous Prince , declare this thing ( quoth he ) Mine own heart blood shall pay the price , none else he gets of me . With that bespoke the Duke of Yorke , Oh Noble King , quoth he , The leading of this Battle brave , vouchsafe to give it me . Godamarcie Cousin Yorke , quoth he , I grant thee thy request , Then march thou on courageously , and we will led the rest . Then came the bragging French men down , with their cruel force and might : With whom our Noble King begun , a hard and cruel fight . The Archers they discharged their shafts , so thick as hail from Sky , That many a French-man in the Field that happy day did die . The Horsemen tumbled on the Stakes , and so their lives they lost : And many a French man there was taken , for prisoners to their cost . Ten thousand men that day was slain , of Enemies in the Field , And eke as many prisoners , that day was forced to yield . Thus had our King a happy day , and victory over France , And brought them quickly under foot , that late in pride did prance . The Lord preserve our Noble King , and grant to him likewise , The upper hand , and victory , of all his Enemies . FINIS . Imprinted at London , for S . W.A new Ballad , entitled , The Battle of Agen-Court , in France , between the English-men and Frenchmen . To the tune of , When flying Fame . A Counsel grave our King did hold , with many a Lord and Knight , That he might truly understand , that France did hold his right . Unto the King of France therefore , Imbassadors he sent . That he might truly understand , his mind , and whole intent : Desiring him in friendly sort , his lawful Right to yield : Or else , he swore by Dent of Sword , to win the fame in Field . The King of France with all his Lords , which herd his message plain , Unto our brave Imbassador , did answer in disdain : And said , our King was yet too young , and of too tender age , Therefore we weigh not of his wars , nor fear not his courage . His knowledge is , in feats of Arms , as yet , but very small : His tender Joints more fitter were , to toss a Tennis ball . A Tun of Tennis balls therefore , in pride and great disdain , He sent unto our noble King , to recompense his pain . Which answer , when our King did hear , he waxed wrath in heart , He said , he would such balls provide , should make all Fraunce to smart . And army then our King did hold , which was both good and strong . And from Southampton is our King , with all his Navy gone . In France he landed safe and found , with all his warlike train , Unto the town of Hurslew next , he marched up amain . But when he had besieged the same , against their fenced walls , To batter down their stately Towers , he sent his English balls . This done , our Noble King , marched up and down the land . And not a French man for his life , durst once his Force withstand . The second part , Of the battle at Agen-Court . To the tune of , When Flying Fame . U Ntill he came to Again Court , where as it was his chance , To find the King in readiness , with all his power of France . A mighty Host he had prepared , of armed Soldiers then : Which was no less , by just account , then fortie thousand men . Which sighed did much amaze our King : for he in all his Host , Not passing fyfteene thousand had , accounted with the most . The king of France , which well did know , the number of our men , In vaunting pride unto our Prince , did send a Harrold then , To understand what he would give , for Ransom of his life , When they in Field had taken him , amid that bloody strife . But then our King with cheerful heart , this answer them did make , And said , before this comes to pass , some of your hearts shall shake . And to your proud presumptuous Prince , declare this thing ( quoth he ) Mine own heart blood shall pay the price , none else he gets of me . With that bespoke the Duke of Yorke , Oh Noble King , quoth he , The leading of this Battle brave , vouchsafe to give it me . Godamarcie Cousin Yorke , quoth he , I grant thee thy request , Then march thou on courageously , and we will led the rest . Then came the bragging French men down , with their cruel force and might : With whom our Noble King begun , a hard and cruel fight . The Archers they discharged their shafts , so thick as hail from Sky , That many a French-man in the Field that happy day did die . The Horsemen tumbled on the Stakes , and so their lives they lost : And many a French man there was taken , for prisoners to their cost . Ten thousand men that day was slain , of Enemies in the Field , And eke as many prisoners , that day was forced to yield . Thus had our King a happy day , and victory over France , And brought them quickly under foot , that late in pride did prance . The Lord preserve our Noble King , and grant to him likewise , The upper hand , and victory , of all his Enemies . FINIS . Imprinted at London , for S.W. 