News out of East India : Of the cruel and bloody usage of our English Mere chants and others at Amboyna , by the Netherlandish Governor and Council there . To the tune of Braggendary . F Rom India Land such news I have , of death and deadly dole , As may enforce a deep remorse , to each good Christian soul . To think what English blood was shed , Upon a small occasion bred . O heaven look down , upon poor innocent souls . Between the English and the Dutch , hath been a long debate : And mischiefs many hath been wrought , against our Merchant's state , Where Merchantmen have lost their lives , Their goods , their children , and their wives : O heaven look down , upon poor innocent souls . A town there stands Amboyna called . a Castle in the same : Made rich by these Low-Country States , and Merchant's of great name : Who on a time a plot devised , To have our Englishmen surprised . O heaven look down , etc They gave out words our Englishmen , by secret treason wrought , The town and Castle to blow up , and so in question brought , Our English Merchant's dwelling there , With all that held our Country deer . O heaven look down , etc Their Governor a Council called , and yet no reason why , That twenty of our Englishmen should there their causes try : And answer for a thing not done , Nor any way there thought upon . O heaven look down , etc . To cruel tortures day by day , our English thus were brought : Where strange tormenting instruments upon their bodies wrought : To make them all confess and say , They sought Amboyna to betray . O heaven look down , etc The first they laid upon a Rack , with arms and legs abroad , And spread him , till he did confess and most untruly showed , How that our Englishmen conspired , To have the town and castle fired , O heaven look down , upon poor innocent souls . The second Part , To the same tune . TO He second of these woeful men , they bound unto a stake : And throtle him about the neck , till he could hardly speak . Which cruel torments to avoid , Said that the town should be destroyed . O heaven look down , etc The third they bound in Iron chains , which gripped him so soar , That all his body round about , did gush out bloody gore : From which to find some ease he said , Amboyna should have been betrayed . O heaven look down , etc They whipped the fourth man at a post , unjustly without fault : And washed his bloody body over , with vinegar and salt . And to the fifth like punishment , Though to no ill he gave consent . O heaven look down , etc . With water they stuffed up the sixth , until his body swelled : The seventh likewise with twisted coard , most barbarously compelled , To say our English friends were those , That were the townsmen's greatest foes . O heaven look down , The eight with burning pincers pulled , made challenge of the rest : Though most untrue , to ease himself , and so false things confessed . So did the nynth by their pretence , Bring in most wrongful evidence . O heaven look down , etc The tenth they hung up by the arms two foot above the ground : And so with scorching candles burned his back and body round : With all the other parts about , Till drops of fat the lights put out . O heaven look down , etc The rest of these distressed souls , were used in like sort : At which the cruel Governor , made his tormenting sport . Till nynteene of our Englishmen , Felt more then common tortures then . O heaven look down , upon poor innocent souls . Then Captain Towerson came in place , to answer with the rest : To whom was told the treason was by those before confessed . Though all as false as God was true , Yet they affirm , the same he knew . O heaven look down , etc For which his goods were seized on , which all our English had : And so unto the Judgement seat , as traitors they were led . And there unjustly judged to die , Which was performed immediately , O heaven look down , etc Ten of our men they hanged forthwith , the other ten went free : Which was a wrongful Judgement given , and full of grief to see . That after all those torments past , They thus should suffer death at last . O heaven look down , etc But on the execution day , as God did so dispose , A sudden darkness and a gust of violent winds arose . Which cast two of their ships away , As they at road in harbour lay . Thus heaven looks down , etc Yea here to make Gods vengeance more , the chiefest of that plot . In this tormenting of our friends , as then escaped not , But felt Gods heavy Iron hand , And could no way the same withstand , Thus heaven looks down etc For coming to the graves where as the murdered bodies lay : He fell stark mad , and would not thence , with life depart away . But died most strangely in that place , Even as a wretch bereft of grace : Thus heaven looks down , etc Thus have you herd what bloody deeds , were late in India done : To make us all in England here , with sorrow to think upon , What sad misfortune should be hap , To take our friends in such a trap . Yet heaven looks down , Upon poor innocent souls . The names of those executed . 1 Captain Gabriel Towerson . 2 Samuel Colson Factor . 3 Emanuel Tomson Assistant . 4 Timothy Johnson Assistant . 5 John Wetherall Factor . 6 John Clarke Assistant . 7 William Griggs Factor . 8 Abel Price Chyrurgian . 9 Robert Browne Taylor . 10 John Fardo steward of the English house . As also nyne native Indians suffered together with them . The names of those pardoned . 1 John Beomont . 2 Edward Collins . 3 William Webber . 4 Ephraim Ramsey . 5 George Sharocke . 6 John Sadler . 7 John Powell . 8 Thomas Ladbrooke . 9 A Portingall . You may read more of this bloody Tragedy in a book printed by authory . 1624. Printed at London for F. Coules , dwelling at the upper end of Old Baily . News out of East India : Of the cruel and bloody usage of our English Mere chants and others at Amboyna , by the Netherlandish Governor and Council there . To the tune of Braggendary . F Rom India Land such news I have , of death and deadly dole , As may enforce a deep remorse , to each good Christian soul . To think what English blood was shed , Upon a small occasion bred . O heaven look down , upon poor innocent souls . Between the English and the Dutch , hath been a long debate : And mischiefs many hath been wrought , against our Merchant's state , Where Merchantmen have lost their lives , Their goods , their children , and their wives : O heaven look down , upon poor innocent souls . A town there stands Amboyna called . a Castle in the same : Made rich by these Low-Country States , and Merchant's of great name : Who on a time a plot devised , To have our Englishmen surprised . O heaven look down , etc They gave out words our Englishmen , by secret treason wrought , The town and Castle to blow up , and so in question brought , Our English Merchant's dwelling there , With all that held our Country deer . O heaven look down , etc Their Governor a Council called , and yet no reason why , That twenty of our Englishmen should there their causes try : And answer for a thing not done , Nor any way there thought upon . O heaven look down , etc . To cruel tortures day by day , our English thus were brought : Where strange tormenting instruments upon their bodies wrought : To make them all confess and say , They sought Amboyna to betray . O heaven look down , etc The first they laid upon a Rack , with arms and legs abroad , And spread him , till he did confess and most untruly showed , How that our Englishmen conspired , To have the town and castle fired , O heaven look down , upon poor innocent souls . The second Part , To the same tune . TO He second of these woeful men , they bound unto a stake : And throtle him about the neck , till he could hardly speak . Which cruel torments to avoid , Said that the town should be destroyed . O heaven look down , etc The third they bound in Iron chains , which gripped him so soar , That all his body round about , did gush out bloody gore : From which to find some ease he said , Amboyna should have been betrayed . O heaven look down , etc They whipped the fourth man at a post , unjustly without fault : And washed his bloody body over , with vinegar and salt . And to the fifth like punishment , Though to no ill he gave consent . O heaven look down , etc . With water they stuffed up the sixth , until his body swelled : The seventh likewise with twisted coard , most barbarously compelled , To say our English friends were those , That were the townsmen's greatest foes . O heaven look down , The eight with burning pincers pulled , made challenge of the rest : Though most untrue , to ease himself , and so false things confessed . So did the nynth by their pretence , Bring in most wrongful evidence . O heaven look down , etc The tenth they hung up by the arms two foot above the ground : And so with scorching candles burned his back and body round : With all the other parts about , Till drops of fat the lights put out . O heaven look down , etc The rest of these distressed souls , were used in like sort : At which the cruel Governor , made his tormenting sport . Till nynteene of our Englishmen , Felt more then common tortures then . O heaven look down , upon poor innocent souls . Then Captain Towerson came in place , to answer with the rest : To whom was told the treason was by those before confessed . Though all as false as God was true , Yet they affirm , the same he knew . O heaven look down , etc For which his goods were seized on , which all our English had : And so unto the Judgement seat , as traitors they were led . And there unjustly judged to die , Which was performed immediately , O heaven look down , etc Ten of our men they hanged forthwith , the other ten went free : Which was a wrongful Judgement given , and full of grief to see . That after all those torments past , They thus should suffer death at last . O heaven look down , etc But on the execution day , as God did so dispose , A sudden darkness and a gust of violent winds arose . Which cast two of their ships away , As they at road in harbour lay . Thus heaven looks down , etc Yea here to make Gods vengeance more , the chiefest of that plot . In this tormenting of our friends , as then escaped not , But felt Gods heavy Iron hand , And could no way the same withstand , Thus heaven looks down etc For coming to the graves where as the murdered bodies lay : He fell stark mad , and would not thence , with life depart away . But died most strangely in that place , Even as a wretch bereft of grace : Thus heaven looks down , etc Thus have you herd what bloody deeds , were late in India done : To make us all in England here , with sorrow to think upon , What sad misfortune should be hap , To take our friends in such a trap . Yet heaven looks down , Upon poor innocent souls . The names of those executed . 1 Captain Gabriel Towerson . 2 Samuel Colson Factor . 3 Emanuel Tomson Assistant . 4 Timothy Johnson Assistant . 5 John Wetherall Factor . 6 John Clarke Assistant . 7 William Griggs Factor . 8 Abel Price Chyrurgian . 9 Robert Browne Taylor . 10 John Fardo steward of the English house . As also nyne native Indians suffered together with them . The names of those pardoned . 1 John Beomont . 2 Edward Collins . 3 William Webber . 4 Ephraim Ramsey . 5 George Sharocke . 6 John Sadler . 7 John Powell . 8 Thomas Ladbrooke . 9 A Portingall . You may read more of this bloody Tragedy in a book printed by authory . 1624. Printed at London for F. Coules , dwelling at the upper end of Old Baily . 