The Wicked-mans Warning-piece . or , A looking-Glass for a lewd liver . Being a Caveat for all sinful and secure people , to avoid Gods Wrath and Vengeance by seeking to him for Repentance before it be too late . Tune of , Jasper Conningham . T. L . B Oath old & amp ; young , both rich & amp ; poor , repent without delay , Unto the Lord for mercy call , and cast your sins away : The terrible day of Judgement , is drawing very near , When as all sorts of people , shall at Gods Bar appear : Then cast off sinful pleasure , which is but vanity , And above all earthly treasure , remember thou must die . Thou that dost spend thy time , in many a found delight , Forgetting of the living Lord , who rules both day and night : Amend thy life , while thou hast space turn from thy former state , Call to the Lord above , for grace before it be too late : Then , etc Also thou that givest thy mind to the since of Drunkenness , Wasting of thy estate , to bring it less and less : It will consume thy body and soul , to all Eternity , And those that follows that since , be sure will beggars die : Then , etc Likewise thou cursed Swearer , that blasphemes God on high , Cast off that deadly since , and learn to live righteously : Remember what's prepared for , the Swearer and the Liar , They both shall have their portion in Hells eternal fire : Then cast off sinning pleasure , which is but vanity , And above all earthly treasure , remember thou must die . The Second Part , To the same Tune . TO Hen wicked men consider and think on your last end , Leave off your wickedness , and strive your lives to mend : Seek in time for Repentance , before your time be passed , Then the goodness of Gods mercies hereafter you shall taste : Then cast off sinning pleasure , which is but vanity , And above all earthly treasure , remember thou must die . But while pride and malice , and envy with us reign , We must not look , Gods Favour nor Mercy to obtain : There is some are so Malicious , and Envious too , we see , They hate to see each other live in Prosperity : Then , etc And Covetousness with Rich-Men of late is grown too brief , Unto the distressed they give but small relief ; For some Men's hearts are hardened , harder then Stone , or Steel , They don't think on the misery's , that many poor souls feel : Then , etc There is some Rich Cormudgeons , if you but them observe , Which will gripe and grind the poor , and care not if they starve , Upon their earthly riches , they daily set their mind , Some don't consider they must die , and leave their wealth behind . Then , etc But mortal man observe , that thou must yield to death , When as he stops thy wind , thou must resign thy breath , If thou wouldst give the world then , it can't thy life delay , Then prepare for death , for time and tide , will not for no man stay . Then , etc And after death thou shalt , within the grave remain , Until the day of judgement , then thou shalt rise again . And stand before the terrible Judge , a just account to give , How and in what manner thou didst in thy life time live . Then , etc Then happy are all those , that hath done righteously , For they shall live with God to all eternity . But the Wicked shall be tormented , in hells hight burning flame , Whereas there's no redemption , to come out of the same . Then , etc Then let's leave our Wickedness , and cast our sins away , Striving to mend our lives and no time delay . Let us always be seeking , to run a virtuous raze , That we in heaven hereafter , may have a during place . Then cast off sinning pleasure , which is but vanity , And above all earthly treasure , remember thou must die . Printed for F. Coals , TO , Vere , J . Wrigght , and J. Clarke . The Wicked-mans Warning-piece . or , A looking-Glass for a lewd liver . Being a Caveat for all sinful and secure people , to avoid Gods Wrath and Vengeance by seeking to him for Repentance before it be too late . Tune of , Jasper Conningham . T. L . B Oath old & amp ; young , both rich & amp ; poor , repent without delay , Unto the Lord for mercy call , and cast your sins away : The terrible day of Judgement , is drawing very near , When as all sorts of people , shall at Gods Bar appear : Then cast off sinful pleasure , which is but vanity , And above all earthly treasure , remember thou must die . Thou that dost spend thy time , in many a found delight , Forgetting of the living Lord , who rules both day and night : Amend thy life , while thou hast space turn from thy former state , Call to the Lord above , for grace before it be too late : Then , etc Also thou that givest thy mind to the since of Drunkenness , Wasting of thy estate , to bring it less and less : It will consume thy body and soul , to all Eternity , And those that follows that since , be sure will beggars die : Then , etc Likewise thou cursed Swearer , that blasphemes God on high , Cast off that deadly since , and learn to live righteously : Remember what's prepared for , the Swearer and the Liar , They both shall have their portion in Hells eternal fire : Then cast off sinning pleasure , which is but vanity , And above all earthly treasure , remember thou must die . The Second Part , To the same Tune . TO Hen wicked men consider and think on your last end , Leave off your wickedness , and strive your lives to mend : Seek in time for Repentance , before your time be passed , Then the goodness of Gods mercies hereafter you shall taste : Then cast off sinning pleasure , which is but vanity , And above all earthly treasure , remember thou must die . But while pride and malice , and envy with us reign , We must not look , Gods Favour nor Mercy to obtain : There is some are so Malicious , and Envious too , we see , They hate to see each other live in Prosperity : Then , etc And Covetousness with Rich-Men of late is grown too brief , Unto the distressed they give but small relief ; For some Men's hearts are hardened , harder then Stone , or Steel , They don't think on the misery's , that many poor souls feel : Then , etc There is some Rich Cormudgeons , if you but them observe , Which will gripe and grind the poor , and care not if they starve , Upon their earthly riches , they daily set their mind , Some don't consider they must die , and leave their wealth behind . Then , etc But mortal man observe , that thou must yield to death , When as he stops thy wind , thou must resign thy breath , If thou wouldst give the world then , it can't thy life delay , Then prepare for death , for time and tide , will not for no man stay . Then , etc And after death thou shalt , within the grave remain , Until the day of judgement , then thou shalt rise again . And stand before the terrible Judge , a just account to give , How and in what manner thou didst in thy life time live . Then , etc Then happy are all those , that hath done righteously , For they shall live with God to all eternity . But the Wicked shall be tormented , in hells hight burning flame , Whereas there's no redemption , to come out of the same . Then , etc Then let's leave our Wickedness , and cast our sins away , Striving to mend our lives and no time delay . Let us always be seeking , to run a virtuous raze , That we in heaven hereafter , may have a during place . Then cast off sinning pleasure , which is but vanity , And above all earthly treasure , remember thou must die . Printed for F. Coals , TO , Vere , J . Wrigght , and J. Clarke . 