A Looking-glass for a covetous Miser : OR , Comfort to a Contented mind . Being a serious discourse between a Rich Miser in the West Country , and a poor Husbandman , as they accidentally met upon the way : Their dispute being so tedious , and of so great concernment , A neigh - bour of theirs hearing them , took pains to write down the subject of their discourse , after he had herd what had befallen to the Richman ; He sent a Letter to a friend of his in London , and desired that he would get it Printed for and example to all unthankful men . to the tune of , the Fair Angel of England ; or , the Tyrant C Ome listen kind neighbours with heart and good will , I promise you truly I think no man ill , I'll only inform you what news I do hear , By Letters at London out of Devonshire . There was a rich miser that hoarded up grain , Likewise a poor Husbandman honest and plain The miser with sorrow did look pail and wan , And thus to disputing this Couple began . The Miser . Well met honest neighbour the Miser did say , What is the best News at the Market to day ; How did they fell Barley , their Wheat , & amp ; their Rye ? Declare the truth to me without any lie : For I was soar troubled last night in my sleep , With dreaming of matters which made me to weep , I thought my whole Barn full of Barley and Wheat The Rats , Mice , and Vermin , did seem for to eat . Husbandman . Seed Wheat gave three shillings a strike I protest , But this I'll assure you it was of the best ; The best Rye i'th market gave not half a crown , Which made some rich Misers to fret and to frown , For five groats and two pence good barley was sold ; To speak the plain truth out a man may be bold , Therefore be contented good neighbour with me , Praise God and be thankful such plenty to see . Miser . It gives me to thing what a Trade we shall drive , Our Lands and our livings will not make us thrive , The reason of this now I will tell you plan Because of the cheapness of all kind of Grain , Ere I will fell Barley two shillings a strike , I now am resolved to throw plough i'th dike ; If Grain hold so cheap as it plainly appears , I shall be undone within two or three years . Husbandman . Thou Covetous wiser didst thou ever hear , A Farmer undone in a plentiful year , You know how I lived and paid a great Rend , Sold Barley for fifteen and yet was concent , In plentful seasons Gods mercy is shown , He sends the poor Ploughman two Bushels for one , And great store of Cattle with fodder and stuff He that is contented hath treasure enough . Miser . It troubles me sadly this Tale should be told , I've Corn lying by me that's full three years old . They once bade sixe shillings a strike fored I think , But now I'm persuaded that Barley does stink Yet weel thrash no more then our family spends , I hope that next year it will make us amends If Grain holds so Cheap as it plainly appears , I'll fell no more Corn yet this two or three eears . Husbandman . The Richman i , that Gospel spoke thus , like a child . He , worser pull down his Barns that he larger might built Whereby he might solace himself with delight , Through his Soul was required of him that same night But I am contented I promise you true , When corn will but last until God seedeth new ; Though misers do murmur their grain they can't raise Let poor men be thankful and give God the praise . miser . Example by Joseph in Egypt , wh have , That in time of plenty men may their Corn save , For fear lest a Famine should be in the Land , That we may have storehouses then at command To furnish such people as then comes to buy , You know that no wise man such things will penny , If corn hold so cheap as it plainly appears , I shall be undone within two or three years . Husbandman . You know that wise Salomon this does rehearse , that man that keeps back his corn , people will curse , But he that with cheerfulness selleth his grain A blessing upon him will surely remain : But some men to covetousness are inclined . Ever they bore a farthing they see poor men pined , though misers do murmur their grain they can't raise , Let poor men be thankful and give God the praise . But mark what befell to this covetous Moam , His house it was robbed before he god home , His chests were broke open , his servants were bound He lost in one hour two hundred pound , This sure was a Judgement his neighbours did guss Because he these words did so often express If Grain hold so cheap as it plainly aprears He should be undone within two or three years . Concluding my story mark well what I say , The poor of this Nation are bound for to pray . That God would be pleased to help them at need . That they may have bred their poor Children to feed For Charity's cold enough as it's well known , Good housekeeping likewise is now baad grown , Take this admonition from me as a friend , Praise God and be thankful that plenty does send . FINIS . TO . London , Printed , for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger and W. Whitwood . A Looking-glass for a covetous Miser : OR , Comfort to a Contented mind . Being a serious discourse between a Rich Miser in the West Country , and a poor Husbandman , as they accidentally met upon the way : Their dispute being so tedious , and of so great concernment , A neigh - bour of theirs hearing them , took pains to write down the subject of their discourse , after he had herd what had befallen to the Richman ; He sent a Letter to a friend of his in London , and desired that he would get it Printed for and example to all unthankful men . to the tune of , the Fair Angel of England ; or , the Tyrant C Ome listen kind neighbours with heart and good will , I promise you truly I think no man ill , I'll only inform you what news I do hear , By Letters at London out of Devonshire . There was a rich miser that hoarded up grain , Likewise a poor Husbandman honest and plain The miser with sorrow did look pail and wan , And thus to disputing this Couple began . The Miser . Well met honest neighbour the Miser did say , What is the best News at the Market to day ; How did they fell Barley , their Wheat , & amp ; their Rye ? Declare the truth to me without any lie : For I was soar troubled last night in my sleep , With dreaming of matters which made me to weep , I thought my whole Barn full of Barley and Wheat The Rats , Mice , and Vermin , did seem for to eat . Husbandman . Seed Wheat gave three shillings a strike I protest , But this I'll assure you it was of the best ; The best Rye i'th market gave not half a crown , Which made some rich Misers to fret and to frown , For five groats and two pence good barley was sold ; To speak the plain truth out a man may be bold , Therefore be contented good neighbour with me , Praise God and be thankful such plenty to see . Miser . It gives me to thing what a Trade we shall drive , Our Lands and our livings will not make us thrive , The reason of this now I will tell you plan Because of the cheapness of all kind of Grain , Ere I will fell Barley two shillings a strike , I now am resolved to throw plough i'th dike ; If Grain hold so cheap as it plainly appears , I shall be undone within two or three years . Husbandman . Thou Covetous wiser didst thou ever hear , A Farmer undone in a plentiful year , You know how I lived and paid a great Rend , Sold Barley for fifteen and yet was concent , In plentful seasons Gods mercy is shown , He sends the poor Ploughman two Bushels for one , And great store of Cattle with fodder and stuff He that is contented hath treasure enough . Miser . It troubles me sadly this Tale should be told , I've Corn lying by me that's full three years old . They once bade sixe shillings a strike fored I think , But now I'm persuaded that Barley does stink Yet weel thrash no more then our family spends , I hope that next year it will make us amends If Grain holds so Cheap as it plainly appears , I'll fell no more Corn yet this two or three eears . Husbandman . The Richman i , that Gospel spoke thus , like a child . He , worser pull down his Barns that he larger might built Whereby he might solace himself with delight , Through his Soul was required of him that same night But I am contented I promise you true , When corn will but last until God seedeth new ; Though misers do murmur their grain they can't raise Let poor men be thankful and give God the praise . miser . Example by Joseph in Egypt , wh have , That in time of plenty men may their Corn save , For fear lest a Famine should be in the Land , That we may have storehouses then at command To furnish such people as then comes to buy , You know that no wise man such things will penny , If corn hold so cheap as it plainly appears , I shall be undone within two or three years . Husbandman . You know that wise Salomon this does rehearse , that man that keeps back his corn , people will curse , But he that with cheerfulness selleth his grain A blessing upon him will surely remain : But some men to covetousness are inclined . Ever they bore a farthing they see poor men pined , though misers do murmur their grain they can't raise , Let poor men be thankful and give God the praise . But mark what befell to this covetous Moam , His house it was robbed before he god home , His chests were broke open , his servants were bound He lost in one hour two hundred pound , This sure was a Judgement his neighbours did guss Because he these words did so often express If Grain hold so cheap as it plainly aprears He should be undone within two or three years . Concluding my story mark well what I say , The poor of this Nation are bound for to pray . That God would be pleased to help them at need . That they may have bred their poor Children to feed For Charity's cold enough as it's well known , Good housekeeping likewise is now baad grown , Take this admonition from me as a friend , Praise God and be thankful that plenty does send . FINIS . TO . London , Printed , for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger and W. Whitwood . 