CONTENT AND RICH ; Or , the Glass of Vain Glory . Being a SONG of the TIMES . SHOWING The Vanity of the World , The Uncertainty of Riches , The painfulness of Pleasure , The advantage of a Private Life , And the Crown of Contentment . To the Tune of , State and Ambition . PRomotion's a Trifle , a vanishing Vapour , there's nothing that's permanent under the Sun , Our days they consume , and end like a Taper , that begins to Extinguish , as soon as begun : [ Vam ] in Glory and Riches , are both shadows Flying , [ a ] and neither deserving our Labour , nor while , [ M ] ans life ( at the best ) from his birth's but a dying , I'll never believe it , though sometime it smile . [ Tu ] rn over and read backward the sad revolutions , [ tO ] he Tempests , and turnings of Church and of State , [ ? ] ush here to tell you the Kingdoms pollutions , [ a ] and how Charles was murdered at his own gate ; A Spark of Division , blows up with contention , that flamed with Sedition , and burned to good Cause , Did turn to Rebellion , and ( under pretention ) did quench out Religion , and smoke out the Laws . Nor City , nor Country , are ever well pleased , they're still a Complaining , with nothing to say , They grudge at their burdens , and long to be eased , and still a new Strafford does stand in the way : The Royal Delights are but like a Bubble , we nothing possess that is sure till the morrow : A Sword and a Sceptre are Tools but of trouble , a Crown of Gold is but the Capstone of sorrow ; The Nation's a Tennice-Court , rich men do revel in all wordly pleasures , poor men are the Balls . High spirits their wits , and their senses do level , projecting their rising , and other men's falls ; First Whig comes , and boldly drives all that's before him , but Tory ( in ambush ) he turns the Chase , And makes Great Coesar ( in his wrath ) to abhor him , then up flies His Highness , and down falls His Grace . The King's Proclamation was Hui Apprehend them , the Nations sad union , and loss to prevent , The fate of Misfortune I'm sure did attend them , Tome , Russel , and S idney were to their Graves sent : Monmouth did come to a matchless disaster , he lost the Kings favour , was turned out of place , The Headpiece of E ngland , the witty Forecaster , the great B urgo-Master he died with disgrace . Then pride and promotion look back , and but tell me , where reigneth the Glory of Great Alexander , The Monarch of Terrors , and age will compel you , the fort of your Flesh in a Storm to surrender : Then Princes , and S tates-men , let nothing deceive you , your airy exploits , and intentions lay by , And let not contrivance of your rest here bereave you , Since God hath appointed that all men must die The Court's but a Contest , the State is divided , the Church run to Scismes , the City does cry , The Country does grumble , at things undecided , and no man can tell you the great reason why : Then stay thy vain fancy , and be not concerned , in factions , though honours great Star should appear , Till the b'ast be over blown , and the Sky be discerned , commotions be felled , and the Heavens look clear . The frame of the World does wear out of fashion , the Sun Moon , and Stars will all lose their light , And men will leave off to be subject to passion , when once they are come where the'rs day without night Then stay thy proud Spirit , both Time and Ambition , are apt in turnings , to run thee ashore , Let private contentment here Crown thy condition , and thou shalt have Kingdoms , when time is no more . FINIS . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , T. Passing [ r . ] CONTENT AND RICH ; Or , the Glass of Vain Glory . Being a SONG of the TIMES . SHOWING The Vanity of the World , The Uncertainty of Riches , The painfulness of Pleasure , The advantage of a Private Life , And the Crown of Contentment . To the Tune of , State and Ambition . PRomotion's a Trifle , a vanishing Vapour , there's nothing that's permanent under the Sun , Our days they consume , and end like a Taper , that begins to Extinguish , as soon as begun : [ Vam ] in Glory and Riches , are both shadows Flying , [ a ] and neither deserving our Labour , nor while , [ M ] ans life ( at the best ) from his birth's but a dying , I'll never believe it , though sometime it smile . [ Tu ] rn over and read backward the sad revolutions , [ tO ] he Tempests , and turnings of Church and of State , [ ? ] ush here to tell you the Kingdoms pollutions , [ a ] and how Charles was murdered at his own gate ; A Spark of Division , blows up with contention , that flamed with Sedition , and burned to good Cause , Did turn to Rebellion , and ( under pretention ) did quench out Religion , and smoke out the Laws . Nor City , nor Country , are ever well pleased , they're still a Complaining , with nothing to say , They grudge at their burdens , and long to be eased , and still a new Strafford does stand in the way : The Royal Delights are but like a Bubble , we nothing possess that is sure till the morrow : A Sword and a Sceptre are Tools but of trouble , a Crown of Gold is but the Capstone of sorrow ; The Nation's a Tennice-Court , rich men do revel in all wordly pleasures , poor men are the Balls . High spirits their wits , and their senses do level , projecting their rising , and other men's falls ; First Whig comes , and boldly drives all that's before him , but Tory ( in ambush ) he turns the Chase , And makes Great Coesar ( in his wrath ) to abhor him , then up flies His Highness , and down falls His Grace . The King's Proclamation was Hui Apprehend them , the Nations sad union , and loss to prevent , The fate of Misfortune I'm sure did attend them , Tome , Russel , and S idney were to their Graves sent : Monmouth did come to a matchless disaster , he lost the Kings favour , was turned out of place , The Headpiece of E ngland , the witty Forecaster , the great B urgo-Master he died with disgrace . Then pride and promotion look back , and but tell me , where reigneth the Glory of Great Alexander , The Monarch of Terrors , and age will compel you , the fort of your Flesh in a Storm to surrender : Then Princes , and S tates-men , let nothing deceive you , your airy exploits , and intentions lay by , And let not contrivance of your rest here bereave you , Since God hath appointed that all men must die The Court's but a Contest , the State is divided , the Church run to Scismes , the City does cry , The Country does grumble , at things undecided , and no man can tell you the great reason why : Then stay thy vain fancy , and be not concerned , in factions , though honours great Star should appear , Till the b'ast be over blown , and the Sky be discerned , commotions be felled , and the Heavens look clear . The frame of the World does wear out of fashion , the Sun Moon , and Stars will all lose their light , And men will leave off to be subject to passion , when once they are come where the'rs day without night Then stay thy proud Spirit , both Time and Ambition , are apt in turnings , to run thee ashore , Let private contentment here Crown thy condition , and thou shalt have Kingdoms , when time is no more . FINIS . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , T. Passing [ r . ] 