A most Godly and Comfortable Ballad of the Glorious Resurrection of our L ord Jesus Christ , how he Triumphed over Death , and Hell and since , whereby we are certainly persuaded of our Rising again from the Dead . The Tune is , Rogero . W Hat faithful froward sinful man , so far from grace is fled ; That does not in his heart believe the rising of the Dead ? Or why do wicked mortal men , their Lives so vainly frame , Which being dead they do suppose they shall not rise again . For why if that the dead indeed , which now consuming lies , Shall not by God be raised again , then Christ did never rise : And if so be our Saviour sweet , did not rise from the death , Our Preaching is of no effect , and vain our hope on earth . If Christ rose not again I say , then are we yet in since , And they that fallen asleep in him , no part of joy shall win : Of all the Creatures Living then , which God on earth did frame , Most wretched are the states of men , which spend there days in vain . But Christ is risen up from death , as it was right and meet , And thereby trod down death and Hell , and since under his feet : And that the same to simple men , the plainer might appear , The glorious rising of the Lord , his word declareth clear . When he within the Grave was laid , the Jews did watchmen set , Lest by his friends his Corpse from thence should secretly be fetched : A mighty stone likewise they did , on his Sepulchre role ; And all for fear his body should away from thence be stole . B Ut in the dead time of the night , a mighty Earthquake came , The which did shake both Sea and Land and all within the same : And then the angel of the Lord , came down from heaven so high , And rolled away the mighty stone , which on the ground did lie . His face did shine like flaming fire , his clothes were white as S now , Which put the watchmen in great fear , who ran away for woe ; And told unto the high priest plain , what I do now rehearse , Who hired them for money straight that they would hold their peace . And say quoth he his servants came , whom he sometime did keep , And secretly stole him away , while you were fast asleep ; And if that Herod hear thereof , we will persuade him so , That you shall find no hurt at all wherever you do go . But faithful Mary Magdalen , and James her Brother too , They brought great store of ointment sweet as Jesus were wont to do ; Who rose up early in the morn before that it was day , The body of the Lord iT anoint , in Grave whereas he lay . And when unto the Grave they came ; they were in wondrous fear , They saw a youngman in the same but Christ they saw not there : Then said the Angel unto them why are you so afraid ? The Lord whom you do seek I know is risen up he said . Then went these women both away who told these tidings than , To John & amp ; Peter who in haste to the S epulchre ran : Who found it as the woman said , and then away did go , But Mary stayed weeping still , whose tears declared her woe . Who looking down into the grave , two angels there did see , Quoth they why weeps this woman so , even for my Lord quoth she : And turning then her self aside as she stood weeping so , The Lord was standing at her back , but him she did not know . Why does this woman weep he said , whom seekest thou in this place ; She thought it had the gardener been , and thus she shows her case If thou hast born him hence she said then tell me where he is And for to fetched him back again , besure I will not miss . What Marry then our Saviour said . dost thou lament for me Oh Master livest thou again my soul does joy in thee : Oh Marry touch me not he said , ever I have been above , Even with my God , the only God , and Father whom we love . And oftentimes did Christ appear , to his disciples all ; But Thomas would not it believe his faith it was so small Except that he might thrust his hand into the wound so deep And put his finger where the sphere did pierce his tender side . Then Christ which knew all secrets to them again came he Who said to Thomas here I am as plainly thou mayest see S ee here the hands which nails did pierce and holes are in my side And be not faithless thou man for whom these pains I bide . TO hus sundry times Christs showed himself when he did rise again And then descended into Heaven in glory for to reign Where he prepares a place for those whom he shall raise Likewise : To live with him in heavenly bliss , above the lofty Skies . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . A most Godly and Comfortable Ballad of the Glorious Resurrection of our L ord Jesus Christ , how he Triumphed over Death , and Hell and since , whereby we are certainly persuaded of our Rising again from the Dead . The Tune is , Rogero . W Hat faithful froward sinful man , so far from grace is fled ; That does not in his heart believe the rising of the Dead ? Or why do wicked mortal men , their Lives so vainly frame , Which being dead they do suppose they shall not rise again . For why if that the dead indeed , which now consuming lies , Shall not by God be raised again , then Christ did never rise : And if so be our Saviour sweet , did not rise from the death , Our Preaching is of no effect , and vain our hope on earth . If Christ rose not again I say , then are we yet in since , And they that fallen asleep in him , no part of joy shall win : Of all the Creatures Living then , which God on earth did frame , Most wretched are the states of men , which spend there days in vain . But Christ is risen up from death , as it was right and meet , And thereby trod down death and Hell , and since under his feet : And that the same to simple men , the plainer might appear , The glorious rising of the Lord , his word declareth clear . When he within the Grave was laid , the Jews did watchmen set , Lest by his friends his Corpse from thence should secretly be fetched : A mighty stone likewise they did , on his Sepulchre role ; And all for fear his body should away from thence be stole . B Ut in the dead time of the night , a mighty Earthquake came , The which did shake both Sea and Land and all within the same : And then the angel of the Lord , came down from heaven so high , And rolled away the mighty stone , which on the ground did lie . His face did shine like flaming fire , his clothes were white as S now , Which put the watchmen in great fear , who ran away for woe ; And told unto the high priest plain , what I do now rehearse , Who hired them for money straight that they would hold their peace . And say quoth he his servants came , whom he sometime did keep , And secretly stole him away , while you were fast asleep ; And if that Herod hear thereof , we will persuade him so , That you shall find no hurt at all wherever you do go . But faithful Mary Magdalen , and James her Brother too , They brought great store of ointment sweet as Jesus were wont to do ; Who rose up early in the morn before that it was day , The body of the Lord iT anoint , in Grave whereas he lay . And when unto the Grave they came ; they were in wondrous fear , They saw a youngman in the same but Christ they saw not there : Then said the Angel unto them why are you so afraid ? The Lord whom you do seek I know is risen up he said . Then went these women both away who told these tidings than , To John & amp ; Peter who in haste to the S epulchre ran : Who found it as the woman said , and then away did go , But Mary stayed weeping still , whose tears declared her woe . Who looking down into the grave , two angels there did see , Quoth they why weeps this woman so , even for my Lord quoth she : And turning then her self aside as she stood weeping so , The Lord was standing at her back , but him she did not know . Why does this woman weep he said , whom seekest thou in this place ; She thought it had the gardener been , and thus she shows her case If thou hast born him hence she said then tell me where he is And for to fetched him back again , besure I will not miss . What Marry then our Saviour said . dost thou lament for me Oh Master livest thou again my soul does joy in thee : Oh Marry touch me not he said , ever I have been above , Even with my God , the only God , and Father whom we love . And oftentimes did Christ appear , to his disciples all ; But Thomas would not it believe his faith it was so small Except that he might thrust his hand into the wound so deep And put his finger where the sphere did pierce his tender side . Then Christ which knew all secrets to them again came he Who said to Thomas here I am as plainly thou mayest see S ee here the hands which nails did pierce and holes are in my side And be not faithless thou man for whom these pains I bide . TO hus sundry times Christs showed himself when he did rise again And then descended into Heaven in glory for to reign Where he prepares a place for those whom he shall raise Likewise : To live with him in heavenly bliss , above the lofty Skies . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 