And Excellent Ballad of the Birth and Passion of our Saviour Christ . Tune is , Dulcina . JUry came to Jerusalem , ( all the world was taxed then ) Blessed M ary brought to Bethelem , more then all the world again : A Gift so blessed , So good , the best That ever was seen , was herd , or done ; A King , a Christ , Prophet and Priest , A Jesus , God , a Man , a Son . Happy night , a day was never half so happy , sweet , and fair , Singing Soldiers blessed ever , filled the sky with sweetest air : Amazed men fear , They see , they hear , Yet doubt and ask how this was done ; 'Twas bid behold , It was foretold , This night hath God himself a Son . There appears a Golden Usher , Kings attending on his Train ; The bright Sun could not out-blush her , such a Star never shone again : See now it stays , Seeming it says , Go in and see what there is done , a Child whose birth , joy's Heaven and Earth , Jesus to us , to God a Son . Subtle Herod sought to find him , with a purpose black as Hell , But a greater power confined him , and his purpose did repel : who should betray , do all obey , And fitting it was it should be done : they all adore , and kneel before This God and Man , to M and a Son . 'Twas upon a Comets blazing , Cuma to Augustus said , This foreshews and act amazing , for a Mother still a Maid : a Babe must bear , that all must fear , And suddenly it must be done : nay , Caesar thou to him must bow , He's God , a Man , to God a S on . Is not this a blessed wonder , God is Man , and Man is God , Foolish Jewes mistook the thunder , should proclaim this King abroad : Angels they sing , behold the King , In Bethelem where this was done , then we as they , rejoice and say , We have a Saviour , God a Son . TO Urn your eyes that are affixed of this world's deceiving things , And with joys and sorrows mixed , look upon the King of Kings : who left his Throne , with joys unknown , Took flesh like ours , like us drew breath , for us to die , here fix your eye , And think upon his precious Death . See him in the Garden praying , while his sad Disciples sleep , See him in the Garden sweating drops of blood , and how he weeped : as Man he was , he wept , alas , And trembling fear to loose his breath , yet to Heavens will , he yielded still , Then think upon his precious Death . See him by the Soldiers taken , when with Have and a Kiss , He that Heaven had quite-forsaken , had betrayed him , and with this , behold him bound , and guarded round , To Caiphas bourn to loose his breath , there see the Jews , Heavens King abuse , Then think upon his precious Death . See him in the Hands of Pilate , like a base offender stripped , See the moan and tears they smile at , while they see our Saviour whipped : behold him bleed , his purple weed , Record while you have life and breath , his taunts and scorns , his Crowns of throns , Oh think upon his precious Death . See him in the hour of parting , hanging on the bloody Cross , See his wounds , conceive his smarting , and our gain by his life's loss : on either side , a Felon died , The one derides him leaving breath , the other prays , and humbly says , Oh save me by thy precious Death . See how in these pangs he thirsted , and that heat to cold did call , Now these Jews ( like Judas ) cursed , bring him Vinegar and Gall : his Spirit then , to Heaven again , Commended with his latest breath , the world he leaves , that Men deceives , Oh think upon his precious Death . And Excellent Ballad of the Birth and Passion of our Saviour Christ . Tune is , Dulcina . JUry came to Jerusalem , ( all the world was taxed then ) Blessed M ary brought to Bethelem , more then all the world again : A Gift so blessed , So good , the best That ever was seen , was herd , or done ; A King , a Christ , Prophet and Priest , A Jesus , God , a Man , a Son . Happy night , a day was never half so happy , sweet , and fair , Singing Soldiers blessed ever , filled the sky with sweetest air : Amazed men fear , They see , they hear , Yet doubt and ask how this was done ; 'Twas bid behold , It was foretold , This night hath God himself a Son . There appears a Golden Usher , Kings attending on his Train ; The bright Sun could not out-blush her , such a Star never shone again : See now it stays , Seeming it says , Go in and see what there is done , a Child whose birth , joy's Heaven and Earth , Jesus to us , to God a Son . Subtle Herod sought to find him , with a purpose black as Hell , But a greater power confined him , and his purpose did repel : who should betray , do all obey , And fitting it was it should be done : they all adore , and kneel before This God and Man , to M and a Son . 'Twas upon a Comets blazing , Cuma to Augustus said , This foreshews and act amazing , for a Mother still a Maid : a Babe must bear , that all must fear , And suddenly it must be done : nay , Caesar thou to him must bow , He's God , a Man , to God a S on . Is not this a blessed wonder , God is Man , and Man is God , Foolish Jewes mistook the thunder , should proclaim this King abroad : Angels they sing , behold the King , In Bethelem where this was done , then we as they , rejoice and say , We have a Saviour , God a Son . TO Urn your eyes that are affixed of this world's deceiving things , And with joys and sorrows mixed , look upon the King of Kings : who left his Throne , with joys unknown , Took flesh like ours , like us drew breath , for us to die , here fix your eye , And think upon his precious Death . See him in the Garden praying , while his sad Disciples sleep , See him in the Garden sweating drops of blood , and how he weeped : as Man he was , he wept , alas , And trembling fear to loose his breath , yet to Heavens will , he yielded still , Then think upon his precious Death . See him by the Soldiers taken , when with Have and a Kiss , He that Heaven had quite-forsaken , had betrayed him , and with this , behold him bound , and guarded round , To Caiphas bourn to loose his breath , there see the Jews , Heavens King abuse , Then think upon his precious Death . See him in the Hands of Pilate , like a base offender stripped , See the moan and tears they smile at , while they see our Saviour whipped : behold him bleed , his purple weed , Record while you have life and breath , his taunts and scorns , his Crowns of throns , Oh think upon his precious Death . See him in the hour of parting , hanging on the bloody Cross , See his wounds , conceive his smarting , and our gain by his life's loss : on either side , a Felon died , The one derides him leaving breath , the other prays , and humbly says , Oh save me by thy precious Death . See how in these pangs he thirsted , and that heat to cold did call , Now these Jews ( like Judas ) cursed , bring him Vinegar and Gall : his Spirit then , to Heaven again , Commended with his latest breath , the world he leaves , that Men deceives , Oh think upon his precious Death . 