A Looking-Glass for a Christian Family . OR , A Warning for all people to fear God . Good People , in this Glass you may behold the Joys and Comfort the Righteous are in , the wicked being accursed for evermore : Likewise the great cause the Lord sends such soar Judgments among us for our Sins and Wickedness , and worse he will send if we repent not in time . The Tune is , Aim not too high . A LL you that fear the Lord that rules the sky , And fear his holy Name that sits on high : Do but observe these lines that I have penned , I hope it'll be a means your Lives to mend . You see that Charity is fled and gone , And love and Unity is left alone ; Whereas plain-dealing used to bear the sway , Deceit and Cozening hath god the day . O is it not a Grievous sighed to see , The Son against the Father for to be : The Daughter curse and ban her Mother dear , To bring her up she always took great care . This is the cause this Land is punished soar , And still I doubt it will be more and more : The Lord his judgements he does on nu send , Because we don't our wicked lives amend . Do you not see in Town and City too , How Men and Women's hearts are full of Woe , Soar sick dear friends , Oh this is all their cry , Praying to God to ease their misery . The burning fever and pain i'th head is chief And gripping in the belly is all their grief No easement can be had for it , no cure , But still poor souls the same they must endure . Therefore good people all both night and day , Unto the Lord on our knees let us pray , That he would be pleased to ease their pain , And grant them to their former health again . O England , England , whither wilt thou high ? Thy sins to God for vengeance they do cry , Thy pride and Whoredom thou seekest to maintain And the true Word of God dost still refrain . O silly Soul , where will thy pride become , When as grim death appears to strike thee home Then thy rich Jewels and thy brave attire , Will be but fuel for Eternal Fire . Then thou wilt curse the P ride that did the wrong , And wish thou'st died when thou hadst been young , But called to late , and vain be sure 'twill be : To call for help to ease thy misery . W Hen thou dost on thy bed of languish lie , Against thee then thy Conscience it will cry And witness all the sins thou hast comit , Make thee appear for heaven much unfit . Then from thy Gold and Silver thou must part : Though thou dost leave it with a heavy heart : But when Death comes thou must not put him by Nothing so sure that one day thou must die . C hildren see , you your parents do obey , So Heaven will protect you night and day , Servants be just to those your M asters be , Then God will surely bless you you shall see . It grieves my heart and Soul to see , How young Children to cursing given be : Those that can scarcely yet speak one word plain , Yet they can take the Name of God in vain . But all you that are M others meek and mild , Do not you spare the Rod to spoil the child : Apply the Twigs before they stubborn stand ; Lest at last you cant bend them wrth your hand . Uphold not Children Neighbours for to wrong , But look unto their ways in hand and Tongue , Let him be first a Liar , he [ ' ] l turn Thief Then thouled repent , when there is no relief . Then silly Soul why wilt thou not amend , Knowing that all things once well have and end : All Worldly pleasure are but vanity ; None knows but that to morrow we must die . The Glutton shall with hunger pine away , Drunkards the more they thirst the more they may Swearers and those that do delight therein ; Besure in Heaven shall never favour win . The U surer and those that grind the poor , Are like to have a judgement very soar : He that does seek the Widows overthrow Will one day repent that ever he did so . But he that relieves the widow & amp ; fatherless A tO the years end will never have the less : W hat thou dost give unto the blind or lame , The Lord he will restore to thee again . Suppose that thou hadst thousands lying by , And thou was sick and full of misery , Wouldst thou not give it all some ease to have , But mind Oh man it's not Gold thy life can save A and some so proud and lofty they are grown , That a poor man in heart they scorn to own , Because their Riches that will fade away , A and both their Beds must be a clod of clay . These things my Friends see that you do observe A and from the Word of God besure don't swerve For fear you should repent when it's too late When you shall ask God mercy at his gate . Thus Christian friends you hear in every thing : The difference between a wicked and good thing , He that fears the Lord a blessed man is he , But for the Wicked Damned shall he be . FINIS . P rinted for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. P assenger . A Looking-Glass for a Christian Family . OR , A Warning for all people to fear God . Good People , in this Glass you may behold the Joys and Comfort the Righteous are in , the wicked being accursed for evermore : Likewise the great cause the Lord sends such soar Judgments among us for our Sins and Wickedness , and worse he will send if we repent not in time . The Tune is , Aim not too high . A LL you that fear the Lord that rules the sky , And fear his holy Name that sits on high : Do but observe these lines that I have penned , I hope it'll be a means your Lives to mend . You see that Charity is fled and gone , And love and Unity is left alone ; Whereas plain-dealing used to bear the sway , Deceit and Cozening hath god the day . O is it not a Grievous sighed to see , The Son against the Father for to be : The Daughter curse and ban her Mother dear , To bring her up she always took great care . This is the cause this Land is punished soar , And still I doubt it will be more and more : The Lord his judgements he does on nu send , Because we don't our wicked lives amend . Do you not see in Town and City too , How Men and Women's hearts are full of Woe , Soar sick dear friends , Oh this is all their cry , Praying to God to ease their misery . The burning fever and pain i'th head is chief And gripping in the belly is all their grief No easement can be had for it , no cure , But still poor souls the same they must endure . Therefore good people all both night and day , Unto the Lord on our knees let us pray , That he would be pleased to ease their pain , And grant them to their former health again . O England , England , whither wilt thou high ? Thy sins to God for vengeance they do cry , Thy pride and Whoredom thou seekest to maintain And the true Word of God dost still refrain . O silly Soul , where will thy pride become , When as grim death appears to strike thee home Then thy rich Jewels and thy brave attire , Will be but fuel for Eternal Fire . Then thou wilt curse the P ride that did the wrong , And wish thou'st died when thou hadst been young , But called to late , and vain be sure 'twill be : To call for help to ease thy misery . W Hen thou dost on thy bed of languish lie , Against thee then thy Conscience it will cry And witness all the sins thou hast comit , Make thee appear for heaven much unfit . Then from thy Gold and Silver thou must part : Though thou dost leave it with a heavy heart : But when Death comes thou must not put him by Nothing so sure that one day thou must die . C hildren see , you your parents do obey , So Heaven will protect you night and day , Servants be just to those your M asters be , Then God will surely bless you you shall see . It grieves my heart and Soul to see , How young Children to cursing given be : Those that can scarcely yet speak one word plain , Yet they can take the Name of God in vain . But all you that are M others meek and mild , Do not you spare the Rod to spoil the child : Apply the Twigs before they stubborn stand ; Lest at last you cant bend them wrth your hand . Uphold not Children Neighbours for to wrong , But look unto their ways in hand and Tongue , Let him be first a Liar , he [ ' ] l turn Thief Then thouled repent , when there is no relief . Then silly Soul why wilt thou not amend , Knowing that all things once well have and end : All Worldly pleasure are but vanity ; None knows but that to morrow we must die . The Glutton shall with hunger pine away , Drunkards the more they thirst the more they may Swearers and those that do delight therein ; Besure in Heaven shall never favour win . The U surer and those that grind the poor , Are like to have a judgement very soar : He that does seek the Widows overthrow Will one day repent that ever he did so . But he that relieves the widow & amp ; fatherless A tO the years end will never have the less : W hat thou dost give unto the blind or lame , The Lord he will restore to thee again . Suppose that thou hadst thousands lying by , And thou was sick and full of misery , Wouldst thou not give it all some ease to have , But mind Oh man it's not Gold thy life can save A and some so proud and lofty they are grown , That a poor man in heart they scorn to own , Because their Riches that will fade away , A and both their Beds must be a clod of clay . These things my Friends see that you do observe A and from the Word of God besure don't swerve For fear you should repent when it's too late When you shall ask God mercy at his gate . Thus Christian friends you hear in every thing : The difference between a wicked and good thing , He that fears the Lord a blessed man is he , But for the Wicked Damned shall he be . FINIS . P rinted for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. P assenger . 