THE Young-Mans Repentance , OR , The sorrowful Sinners Lamentation ; Being the last Expressions of a Youngman , who having spent all his time in Pleasure and Jollity , was seriously sorrowful when he came to lie upon his Deathbed , mourning for his misspent time , and advising all Young-Men to be mindful of their latter end . Tune is , Aim not too high . This may be Printed , R. P . Y Ou that have spent your time in wickedness , Now mind the dying words I shall express ; Do not , like me , abuse your precious time , Nor waste one moment when you're in your prime . And do not promise to repent to Morrow , lest ever it comes you're overtook with sorrow ; Some are struck dead , you very well do know , How can you tell but your case may be so . See how I languish on my Dying-Bed , To think upon what I have done or said ; But let me now to you a Warning be , since to forsake , and shun iniquity . Frequent the Church , to which I once was strange But now repent it , since I now must change This wicked world , and for my Grave prepare , To be where blessed , or cursed People are . The sins that once were pleasant unto me , To my poor Soul sad Torments now they be ; But he that did his Blood for sinners spill , I hope he will have Mercy on me still . His Mercies see by no means you abuse , For Conscience at the last will you accuse For your misdeeds , and in your Face will fly [ , ] And sting your souls when you shall come to die . To others do , as you would be done by , This Reason is , and Justice certainly , And pleasant is to our Creators sighed , For he in Justice always takes delight . Bad Company see you avoid and shun , Thousands thereby have surely been undone ; And brought themselves to their untimely ends , To the great grief and sorrow of their Friends . Lewd Women by no means do you come near , lest for your pleasure you do pay full dear ; That is the Fountain of all Mischief , and Brings shame and sorrow to our Native Land. But Gods commands obey in every thing , among the Saints then shall you praises sing ; Your Souls be happy when your bodies die , And you shall live with Christ eternally . But now I'm almost ready to depart , The guilt of since does pierce my tender heart ; I tremble when I think upon the bar Where God and his dear Son the Judges are . And if my Saviour do not stand my friend , On whom my faith and hope's do both depend , My case will prove but bad , and I shall be Banished his presence to Eternity . among the wicked ones I shall remain , In Flames to burn , and feel immortal pain ; B lessed God forgive my sins , that I B e freed from pains that last Eternally . O let thy sufferings for my sins suffice , And pardon all my gross iniquities ; That after Death my Soul may fly to thee , And with thy Saints for ever blessed be . Thy Mercies do in number far exceed The sins which make my dying heart to bleed : And therein lies the very bounds and scope , That thou wilt grant me that for which I hope . My fainting spirits now I recommend , Into thy hands [ , ] for now my life must end , And having gained pardon for my since , When life does end , my joys will then begin . All you that read these Lines when I am dead , Pray ponder well the words that I have said ; F or without doubt you'll find them to be true , And so I bid this sinful World adieu . FINIS . Printed for J. Back , at the Black-Boy , on Londonbridg [ e ] THE Young-Mans Repentance , OR , The sorrowful Sinners Lamentation ; Being the last Expressions of a Youngman , who having spent all his time in Pleasure and Jollity , was seriously sorrowful when he came to lie upon his Deathbed , mourning for his misspent time , and advising all Young-Men to be mindful of their latter end . Tune is , Aim not too high . This may be Printed , R. P . Y Ou that have spent your time in wickedness , Now mind the dying words I shall express ; Do not , like me , abuse your precious time , Nor waste one moment when you're in your prime . And do not promise to repent to Morrow , lest ever it comes you're overtook with sorrow ; Some are struck dead , you very well do know , How can you tell but your case may be so . See how I languish on my Dying-Bed , To think upon what I have done or said ; But let me now to you a Warning be , since to forsake , and shun iniquity . Frequent the Church , to which I once was strange But now repent it , since I now must change This wicked world , and for my Grave prepare , To be where blessed , or cursed People are . The sins that once were pleasant unto me , To my poor Soul sad Torments now they be ; But he that did his Blood for sinners spill , I hope he will have Mercy on me still . His Mercies see by no means you abuse , For Conscience at the last will you accuse For your misdeeds , and in your Face will fly [ , ] And sting your souls when you shall come to die . To others do , as you would be done by , This Reason is , and Justice certainly , And pleasant is to our Creators sighed , For he in Justice always takes delight . Bad Company see you avoid and shun , Thousands thereby have surely been undone ; And brought themselves to their untimely ends , To the great grief and sorrow of their Friends . Lewd Women by no means do you come near , lest for your pleasure you do pay full dear ; That is the Fountain of all Mischief , and Brings shame and sorrow to our Native Land. But Gods commands obey in every thing , among the Saints then shall you praises sing ; Your Souls be happy when your bodies die , And you shall live with Christ eternally . But now I'm almost ready to depart , The guilt of since does pierce my tender heart ; I tremble when I think upon the bar Where God and his dear Son the Judges are . And if my Saviour do not stand my friend , On whom my faith and hope's do both depend , My case will prove but bad , and I shall be Banished his presence to Eternity . among the wicked ones I shall remain , In Flames to burn , and feel immortal pain ; B lessed God forgive my sins , that I B e freed from pains that last Eternally . O let thy sufferings for my sins suffice , And pardon all my gross iniquities ; That after Death my Soul may fly to thee , And with thy Saints for ever blessed be . Thy Mercies do in number far exceed The sins which make my dying heart to bleed : And therein lies the very bounds and scope , That thou wilt grant me that for which I hope . My fainting spirits now I recommend , Into thy hands [ , ] for now my life must end , And having gained pardon for my since , When life does end , my joys will then begin . All you that read these Lines when I am dead , Pray ponder well the words that I have said ; F or without doubt you'll find them to be true , And so I bid this sinful World adieu . FINIS . Printed for J. Back , at the Black-Boy , on Londonbridg [ e ] 