The Godly M aid of Leicester . Being a true Relation of Elizabeth Stretton , who lying upon her Deathbed , was wonderfully deli - vered from the Temptations of Satan ; worthy the noting of all that would live and die in the fear of God . The Tune is , In Summer time . A Amongst the Wonders God hath shown , within this Island and elsewhere , A wonder strange I will make known , as ever any man did hear : A virtuous Maid in Leister dwelled who came of honest Parentage , Temptations and afflictions felt , although she was of tender age . Elizabeth Stretton was her name , of conversation Godly given , Gods holy Word was all her name , whose soul no doubt is now in heaven ; Soar sick she was , and sick to death , and in a Trance for half and hour , That people thought her vital breath , extinguished was by death's strong power . He that raised Lazarus from the dead , did raise this Maid to life again , When as they thought her life was fled , and that by death she had been slave , At last with smiling countenance , upon the company did look , And said she had been in a trance , but Christ her soul had not forsook . I have been in a Combat great , even with the black prince of the air , By craft and by his strong deceit , did seek to bring me to despair , But Christ does never forsake his flock , who evermore on him depend , He was my Fortress and my Rock , and brought my troubles to and end . Satan . O silly Soul , the Devil said , in Christ why dost thou put thy trust , In hell with me thou must be laid , and thy frail body turn to dust . Maid . I know my Corpse to dust must fallen , but my sweet Christ redeemed my Soul , I am his Child on him I call : although my sins are very foul . Satan . No sinful soul in heaven may dwell , alas , poor wretch , thou art deceived Thy sins will weigh thee down to hell when death or life hath thee bereaved Maid . Gods mercy is above my since , who did protect me from my birth , My Father knows where I have been among vile sinners here on Earth . W Hose bad example me did cause to walk beside the path of grace I have broke all his Sacred Laws , yet he my soul does still embrace , When he perceived my faith so strong , Satan began to hide his head , I did by him receive no wrong , so presently he vanished . He was no sooner vanished but my sweet Saviour appeared to me When as you thought I had been dead , my soul her Saviour then did see , Poor wretch , said he , lo I will be , thy Father , Husband , and Delight , Thy sinful Soul from Hell to free , and overcome the Devils might . I hid my face a little space , to try how patient thou wouldst be , I gave thee faith and means of grace and that sufficient was for thee , To overcome the Devils power , the gates of hell could not prevail , I helped thee in a blessed hour , and thy poor soul I will not fail . Go tell thy Frieuds where thou hast been , and how my Children I protect , How I have pardoned thy since , and all the sins of my Elect. With Oil he did anoint my soul , my head and all my body over , He did forgive my sins most foul , I praise his holy name therefore . Now I my Saviours love have again , I nothing in this world do crave , But that I once were free from pain , and fairly laid within my grave . All you that stand about my bed , see that the Lord above you fear , And think on this when I am dead that you your course so well may steer . For I have fought a happy Fight , and overcome , by Gods good Grace , The Devil in his power and might , and run with Comfort now my raze . For henceforth is laid up for me , a Crown of immortality , Where I shall very shortly be , with Heavenly Saints that never die , Unto Gods Ordinance lets go , in the Week days with due respect , Think not the time ill spent all you that count your selves as Gods Elect As well as on the Sabbath day , as I have done as you do know , For I to you may truly say , I find the comfort of it now . Let none Gods Ordinance contemn , the means of their Salvation , Let not the Devil prevail with them , to bring them to Damnation , I praise my God in all my grief I never lost my hold of Grace , When other folks were bent to strife , I held the Church the chiefest place . And therefore mind me what I say , before your glass it be quite run , Though other people go astray , go forwords as you have begun And meddle not with them that are contentious any kind of way , But ever let it be your care Gods holy Ordinance to obey . For those that will not serve him here , in heaven with him shall never dwell . Therefore my Friends now have a care that you may escape the pains of hell So farewell friends , farewell to all , I'm going to a better place Let not the Devil bring you to thrall , nor fondly loose your hold of Grace . Lord Jesus now receive my soul I do bequeathe the same to thee , Oh Lord forgive my sins most foul , and so to heaven passed she ; And so departed she in peace , to heaven with Angels to remain , The Lord above gave her release , from her Afflictions , Grief and Pain . Let people mind her dying words , if in heaven they would live , Her life and death so much affords and heavenly comfort now does give Oh Lord give us all grace , that we may live to him and die to since , Our Life and Death shall happy be , though in a wicked world we've been . Printed for J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The Godly M aid of Leicester . Being a true Relation of Elizabeth Stretton , who lying upon her Deathbed , was wonderfully deli - vered from the Temptations of Satan ; worthy the noting of all that would live and die in the fear of God . The Tune is , In Summer time . A Amongst the Wonders God hath shown , within this Island and elsewhere , A wonder strange I will make known , as ever any man did hear : A virtuous Maid in Leister dwelled who came of honest Parentage , Temptations and afflictions felt , although she was of tender age . Elizabeth Stretton was her name , of conversation Godly given , Gods holy Word was all her name , whose soul no doubt is now in heaven ; Soar sick she was , and sick to death , and in a Trance for half and hour , That people thought her vital breath , extinguished was by death's strong power . He that raised Lazarus from the dead , did raise this Maid to life again , When as they thought her life was fled , and that by death she had been slave , At last with smiling countenance , upon the company did look , And said she had been in a trance , but Christ her soul had not forsook . I have been in a Combat great , even with the black prince of the air , By craft and by his strong deceit , did seek to bring me to despair , But Christ does never forsake his flock , who evermore on him depend , He was my Fortress and my Rock , and brought my troubles to and end . Satan . O silly Soul , the Devil said , in Christ why dost thou put thy trust , In hell with me thou must be laid , and thy frail body turn to dust . Maid . I know my Corpse to dust must fallen , but my sweet Christ redeemed my Soul , I am his Child on him I call : although my sins are very foul . Satan . No sinful soul in heaven may dwell , alas , poor wretch , thou art deceived Thy sins will weigh thee down to hell when death or life hath thee bereaved Maid . Gods mercy is above my since , who did protect me from my birth , My Father knows where I have been among vile sinners here on Earth . W Hose bad example me did cause to walk beside the path of grace I have broke all his Sacred Laws , yet he my soul does still embrace , When he perceived my faith so strong , Satan began to hide his head , I did by him receive no wrong , so presently he vanished . He was no sooner vanished but my sweet Saviour appeared to me When as you thought I had been dead , my soul her Saviour then did see , Poor wretch , said he , lo I will be , thy Father , Husband , and Delight , Thy sinful Soul from Hell to free , and overcome the Devils might . I hid my face a little space , to try how patient thou wouldst be , I gave thee faith and means of grace and that sufficient was for thee , To overcome the Devils power , the gates of hell could not prevail , I helped thee in a blessed hour , and thy poor soul I will not fail . Go tell thy Frieuds where thou hast been , and how my Children I protect , How I have pardoned thy since , and all the sins of my Elect. With Oil he did anoint my soul , my head and all my body over , He did forgive my sins most foul , I praise his holy name therefore . Now I my Saviours love have again , I nothing in this world do crave , But that I once were free from pain , and fairly laid within my grave . All you that stand about my bed , see that the Lord above you fear , And think on this when I am dead that you your course so well may steer . For I have fought a happy Fight , and overcome , by Gods good Grace , The Devil in his power and might , and run with Comfort now my raze . For henceforth is laid up for me , a Crown of immortality , Where I shall very shortly be , with Heavenly Saints that never die , Unto Gods Ordinance lets go , in the Week days with due respect , Think not the time ill spent all you that count your selves as Gods Elect As well as on the Sabbath day , as I have done as you do know , For I to you may truly say , I find the comfort of it now . Let none Gods Ordinance contemn , the means of their Salvation , Let not the Devil prevail with them , to bring them to Damnation , I praise my God in all my grief I never lost my hold of Grace , When other folks were bent to strife , I held the Church the chiefest place . And therefore mind me what I say , before your glass it be quite run , Though other people go astray , go forwords as you have begun And meddle not with them that are contentious any kind of way , But ever let it be your care Gods holy Ordinance to obey . For those that will not serve him here , in heaven with him shall never dwell . Therefore my Friends now have a care that you may escape the pains of hell So farewell friends , farewell to all , I'm going to a better place Let not the Devil bring you to thrall , nor fondly loose your hold of Grace . Lord Jesus now receive my soul I do bequeathe the same to thee , Oh Lord forgive my sins most foul , and so to heaven passed she ; And so departed she in peace , to heaven with Angels to remain , The Lord above gave her release , from her Afflictions , Grief and Pain . Let people mind her dying words , if in heaven they would live , Her life and death so much affords and heavenly comfort now does give Oh Lord give us all grace , that we may live to him and die to since , Our Life and Death shall happy be , though in a wicked world we've been . Printed for J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 