A Looking-Glass for all true Christians , Very useful and necessary for all people of what degree soever , to look upon in these trouble - some times of sorrow . The TO une is , A [ i ] m not too high . O Hark , Oh hark , methinks I hear a voice , Which said , the Lord made Man for his own choice , And yet he will not reconciled be , To leave his sins and to live righteously , Awake , awake , thou mortal man from sleep , Repent thy since , cry to the Lord and weep ; For it is he that only must thee save , Do thou repent , and mercy thou shalt have . Remember Man that thou art made of Clay , And in this Land thou art not long to stay ; Then led thy life while thou dost here remain , That being dead , thy Soul may Heaven gain . If thou the Lord dost fear that rules the sky , And puttest thy trust in him that sits on high : Thou needest not doubt by God will thee defend , And bring thee to a true and faithful end . But we too much delight in wicked ways , And do not yield unto the Lord due praise ; If we do think his mercies for to gain , We must then think his mercies to obtan . What wicked vice hath been in former time , Which in our Land does now begin to climb ; Therefore with Nineve let us repent , The Lord to us his Messenger hath sent . But all these warnings will not serve our turn To make us leave our sins with speed and mourn But we do still offend the Lord of might , And still we follow pleasure and delight . Here every Man takes care to please his mind , And seeks not for the Living God to find ; The which they will repent when it's too late , When they shall ask God mercy at his gate . We all do seek for worldly wealth and pleasure , And not to have store laid up in treasure ; Some do not think upon the world to come ; And therefore still a wicked course do run . The Lawyer he does think upon his fee , The Usurer Likewise on his money ; The Glutton he thinks on his dainty Cheer , The Drunkard on his Tobacco and Beer . And many grievous sinners more there are , And for to speak of all I do not dare ; But God alone that knows the hearts of all , Will bring them all together great and small . And when that day to many does appear , And see the Lord in judgement , then I fear Too late it will be for them to repent , With sorrow then their grief will still augment . Good Lord that men would but conceive aright , And fear the living God , the God of might ; Then would they not be bent so much to since , But now would seek a new life to begin . O Lord my God to thee I make my moan , Desiring that thy favour may by shown : And as we have offended thee full soar , Give us thy Grace , we may do so no more . M Y thoughts tell me that I have done amiss And now I seek for favour and redress ; Of thee sweet Lord I here do pardon ask , That I may please thee well in this my task : Methinks I see the Land is full of Pride , And also bent on covetousness beside : Which is a thing that does offend the Lord , In Scripture we do find it is abhorred . Then now let us prepare our hearts to live , And to the Lord let us our Prayers give ; And then no doubt but he will have respect To pardon us , our great and heinous fact . The Lord does say if a Sinner does repent , And turn him with a heart that ' [ ? ] s Penitent , He will forgive him his offences past , And will receive his Soul to him at last . But we in since do flourish and remain , And do not seek Gods favour to obtain ; We think not on the judgement day at last , Neither take care until the day is past . And then too late it will be for us to pray , When as the Soul from Body is away ; Therefore in time let us our selves amend , That we may make a true and faithful end Methinks I see the poor in great distress , The Rich to them do yield but small redress ; They do complain in woeful misery , And few there be that do regard their cry . Look what men give unto the poor and needy soul , The Lord will pay again to them ten fold Do thou regard thy brother in distress , No question thou shalt ever have the less : But it's no wonder now at all to see , Many like unto Judas for to be . Who fell our Saviour Christ for gold or pay , Like unto Judas who did him betray ; If that a man could think upon his death , While he does think upon the earth beneath ; He could not choose but fear the Lord on high , That made the earth , the Sea , and eke the sky . We lately have ill fortune us befall , The which is like to be a grief to all ; True Loyal Subject's to our Royal King , Did turn our joys in sorrow for to sing ; Which is a token of our great offence , And just reward of our sins recompense ; Because the Lord hath justly took occasion To make us yield by this his kind persuasion . Remember how Jerusalem did fallen , And how their enemies did them enthral ; Which were but righteous judgments from the Lord Because his holy word shall be abbored . The Ninevites we read did soon repent , When God the Prophet Jonah to them sent , Then why should we who have the Gospel sure Still seek our own Destruction to procure ? Remember Man wha [ tO ] woeful Torments be Prepared in Hell as torments you may see . The Pains are woeful to be thought upon , Beside all this , they never will be done ; And other wise all those that fear the Lord , And follow after his most holy Word : Shall live with Christ in perfect joy and peace , Where Heavenly Angels sing and never cease . Now to conclude Oh Lord give us thy grace That we may led our lives in such a case , That when we are departed hence away We then may live in perfect peace and joy . Printed fo3 J. Wright J. Clarke W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . A Looking-Glass for all true Christians , Very useful and necessary for all people of what degree soever , to look upon in these trouble - some times of sorrow . The TO une is , A [ i ] m not too high . O Hark , Oh hark , methinks I hear a voice , Which said , the Lord made Man for his own choice , And yet he will not reconciled be , To leave his sins and to live righteously , Awake , awake , thou mortal man from sleep , Repent thy since , cry to the Lord and weep ; For it is he that only must thee save , Do thou repent , and mercy thou shalt have . Remember Man that thou art made of Clay , And in this Land thou art not long to stay ; Then led thy life while thou dost here remain , That being dead , thy Soul may Heaven gain . If thou the Lord dost fear that rules the sky , And puttest thy trust in him that sits on high : Thou needest not doubt by God will thee defend , And bring thee to a true and faithful end . But we too much delight in wicked ways , And do not yield unto the Lord due praise ; If we do think his mercies for to gain , We must then think his mercies to obtan . What wicked vice hath been in former time , Which in our Land does now begin to climb ; Therefore with Nineve let us repent , The Lord to us his Messenger hath sent . But all these warnings will not serve our turn To make us leave our sins with speed and mourn But we do still offend the Lord of might , And still we follow pleasure and delight . Here every Man takes care to please his mind , And seeks not for the Living God to find ; The which they will repent when it's too late , When they shall ask God mercy at his gate . We all do seek for worldly wealth and pleasure , And not to have store laid up in treasure ; Some do not think upon the world to come ; And therefore still a wicked course do run . The Lawyer he does think upon his fee , The Usurer Likewise on his money ; The Glutton he thinks on his dainty Cheer , The Drunkard on his Tobacco and Beer . And many grievous sinners more there are , And for to speak of all I do not dare ; But God alone that knows the hearts of all , Will bring them all together great and small . And when that day to many does appear , And see the Lord in judgement , then I fear Too late it will be for them to repent , With sorrow then their grief will still augment . Good Lord that men would but conceive aright , And fear the living God , the God of might ; Then would they not be bent so much to since , But now would seek a new life to begin . O Lord my God to thee I make my moan , Desiring that thy favour may by shown : And as we have offended thee full soar , Give us thy Grace , we may do so no more . M Y thoughts tell me that I have done amiss And now I seek for favour and redress ; Of thee sweet Lord I here do pardon ask , That I may please thee well in this my task : Methinks I see the Land is full of Pride , And also bent on covetousness beside : Which is a thing that does offend the Lord , In Scripture we do find it is abhorred . Then now let us prepare our hearts to live , And to the Lord let us our Prayers give ; And then no doubt but he will have respect To pardon us , our great and heinous fact . The Lord does say if a Sinner does repent , And turn him with a heart that ' [ ? ] s Penitent , He will forgive him his offences past , And will receive his Soul to him at last . But we in since do flourish and remain , And do not seek Gods favour to obtain ; We think not on the judgement day at last , Neither take care until the day is past . And then too late it will be for us to pray , When as the Soul from Body is away ; Therefore in time let us our selves amend , That we may make a true and faithful end Methinks I see the poor in great distress , The Rich to them do yield but small redress ; They do complain in woeful misery , And few there be that do regard their cry . Look what men give unto the poor and needy soul , The Lord will pay again to them ten fold Do thou regard thy brother in distress , No question thou shalt ever have the less : But it's no wonder now at all to see , Many like unto Judas for to be . Who fell our Saviour Christ for gold or pay , Like unto Judas who did him betray ; If that a man could think upon his death , While he does think upon the earth beneath ; He could not choose but fear the Lord on high , That made the earth , the Sea , and eke the sky . We lately have ill fortune us befall , The which is like to be a grief to all ; True Loyal Subject's to our Royal King , Did turn our joys in sorrow for to sing ; Which is a token of our great offence , And just reward of our sins recompense ; Because the Lord hath justly took occasion To make us yield by this his kind persuasion . Remember how Jerusalem did fallen , And how their enemies did them enthral ; Which were but righteous judgments from the Lord Because his holy word shall be abbored . The Ninevites we read did soon repent , When God the Prophet Jonah to them sent , Then why should we who have the Gospel sure Still seek our own Destruction to procure ? Remember Man wha [ tO ] woeful Torments be Prepared in Hell as torments you may see . The Pains are woeful to be thought upon , Beside all this , they never will be done ; And other wise all those that fear the Lord , And follow after his most holy Word : Shall live with Christ in perfect joy and peace , Where Heavenly Angels sing and never cease . Now to conclude Oh Lord give us thy grace That we may led our lives in such a case , That when we are departed hence away We then may live in perfect peace and joy . Printed fo3 J. Wright J. Clarke W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 