Truth in Mourning : OR , Conscience kicked out of Countenance by City and Con - try , and , at last , Murdered by a Pack of rustic Millers , near Man - chester ; to the unspeakable grief of his two mourning Friends , Truth and Plain-dealing . To the Tune of , Scotch Haymakers . C Onscience , for a fancy , rambled forth to find Some friendly Entertainment , but Men was most unkind : Of a truth , it will appear , as he rambled far and near , The common Traders , truth invaders , they was most severe ; Like cruel Tigers on him they fallen , Declaring if he stayed , he would clearly starve them all : Then Conscience , in a heat , they kicked about the Street ; Thus they abused him , none excused him , Oh how he was beatrice ! To the passing Gallants , poor Conscience took his way , But , ne'ertheless , among them they would not let him stay ; Those that had been most unjust , in betraying of their trust , Did then degrade him , and upbraid him , nay , they raved and cursed , When Conscience entered within their Gates , Protesting , if he stayed , they shall never get Estates ; So Conscience , in a heat , they kicked about the Street , There was few excused him , but abused him ; Oh how he was beatrice ! To the Lawyer's Chamber , poor Conscience came at last , And there the doors against him was locked and bolted fast , That he could not enter in ; then to call he did begin , The Lawyer crying and replying , Make not such a din : Conscience , I'll never be controlled by thee , Nor yet will I forsake my old road of Bribery . Thus Conscience , in a heat , he kicked about the Street ; His woeful Ditty , few would pity , Conscience still was beatrice . To the wretched Miser , poor Conscience hastened then , To tell him of his grinding the poor distressed Men , By the rigour of the Laws , as they fell into his Claws . The Miser mauled him , raved and called him , lean and famish Jaws : Conscience , depart from my presence , straight , For I will not be checked by you at so vile a rate . Thus Conscience , in a heat , he kicked about the Street ; Whose doleful Ditty few would pity : Oh how he was beatrice ! Thomas Stitch , the Tailor , poor Conscience came to next , And told him of his cheating : O , how the Rogue was vexed ! Shall we learn indeed of you , what a Tailor ought to do ? By Cock and Bacon , you're mistaken : then in wrath he flew At honest Conscience with pointed Shears , And swore , if long he stayed , he would clip off both his Ears . Then Conscience , in a heat , he kicked about the Street ; Whose doleful Ditty few would pity : Oh how he was beatrice ! Conscience through the City did visit many more , Who at his first appearance did thrust him out of door . Will , the Baker , fierce and grim , swore he'd tear him limb from limb , In heat of passion and vexation , if he troubled him : And many others did him pursue . Poor Conscience scarce could get from that horrid cheating Crew , For , in their wrath and heat , they kicked him round the Street , Whose doleful Ditty few would pity : Oh how he was beatrice ! Seeing this distraction , poor Conscience left the Town , And therefore to the Country he took his ramble down : When the Millers came to know , that he would reprove them so , In Buff and Leather , all together , in one body go ; Against poor Conscience their force they raise , Of lusty rugged Millers , who bowed to end his days : Quoth they , we never shall nor will be at his call . With this confusion , in conclusion , Conscience left them all . Conscience , thus abused , was forced his Head to hide , And some now has reported , that , of his Wounds , he died ; For he's not to be found , though we search the Nation round ; Those wicked Millers , Conscience-killers , gave the fatal wound : Beside , there's many more in this Land , That , for destroying Conscience , did put their helping-hand . If I the truth may tell , he has took his Last Farewell ; He is gone for ever , now , or never , ring his Passing-bell . London : Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-glass on London-bridge . Truth in Mourning : OR , Conscience kicked out of Countenance by City and Con - try , and , at last , Murdered by a Pack of rustic Millers , near Man - chester ; to the unspeakable grief of his two mourning Friends , Truth and Plain-dealing . To the Tune of , Scotch Haymakers . C Onscience , for a fancy , rambled forth to find Some friendly Entertainment , but Men was most unkind : Of a truth , it will appear , as he rambled far and near , The common Traders , truth invaders , they was most severe ; Like cruel Tigers on him they fallen , Declaring if he stayed , he would clearly starve them all : Then Conscience , in a heat , they kicked about the Street ; Thus they abused him , none excused him , Oh how he was beatrice ! To the passing Gallants , poor Conscience took his way , But , ne'ertheless , among them they would not let him stay ; Those that had been most unjust , in betraying of their trust , Did then degrade him , and upbraid him , nay , they raved and cursed , When Conscience entered within their Gates , Protesting , if he stayed , they shall never get Estates ; So Conscience , in a heat , they kicked about the Street , There was few excused him , but abused him ; Oh how he was beatrice ! To the Lawyer's Chamber , poor Conscience came at last , And there the doors against him was locked and bolted fast , That he could not enter in ; then to call he did begin , The Lawyer crying and replying , Make not such a din : Conscience , I'll never be controlled by thee , Nor yet will I forsake my old road of Bribery . Thus Conscience , in a heat , he kicked about the Street ; His woeful Ditty , few would pity , Conscience still was beatrice . To the wretched Miser , poor Conscience hastened then , To tell him of his grinding the poor distressed Men , By the rigour of the Laws , as they fell into his Claws . The Miser mauled him , raved and called him , lean and famish Jaws : Conscience , depart from my presence , straight , For I will not be checked by you at so vile a rate . Thus Conscience , in a heat , he kicked about the Street ; Whose doleful Ditty few would pity : Oh how he was beatrice ! Thomas Stitch , the Tailor , poor Conscience came to next , And told him of his cheating : O , how the Rogue was vexed ! Shall we learn indeed of you , what a Tailor ought to do ? By Cock and Bacon , you're mistaken : then in wrath he flew At honest Conscience with pointed Shears , And swore , if long he stayed , he would clip off both his Ears . Then Conscience , in a heat , he kicked about the Street ; Whose doleful Ditty few would pity : Oh how he was beatrice ! Conscience through the City did visit many more , Who at his first appearance did thrust him out of door . Will , the Baker , fierce and grim , swore he'd tear him limb from limb , In heat of passion and vexation , if he troubled him : And many others did him pursue . Poor Conscience scarce could get from that horrid cheating Crew , For , in their wrath and heat , they kicked him round the Street , Whose doleful Ditty few would pity : Oh how he was beatrice ! Seeing this distraction , poor Conscience left the Town , And therefore to the Country he took his ramble down : When the Millers came to know , that he would reprove them so , In Buff and Leather , all together , in one body go ; Against poor Conscience their force they raise , Of lusty rugged Millers , who bowed to end his days : Quoth they , we never shall nor will be at his call . With this confusion , in conclusion , Conscience left them all . Conscience , thus abused , was forced his Head to hide , And some now has reported , that , of his Wounds , he died ; For he's not to be found , though we search the Nation round ; Those wicked Millers , Conscience-killers , gave the fatal wound : Beside , there's many more in this Land , That , for destroying Conscience , did put their helping-hand . If I the truth may tell , he has took his Last Farewell ; He is gone for ever , now , or never , ring his Passing-bell . London : Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-glass on London-bridge . 