And excellent song , wherein you shall find , Great consolation for a troubled mind . To the Tune of , Fortune my Foe . A Im not too High in things above thy reach Nor be too wise within thy own conceit , As thou hast wealth and wit at will . So give him thanks that shall increase it still . Beware of pride , the Mother of mishap , Whose sugared snares shall seek thee to entrap , Be meek in Heart , and lowly minded still , So shalt thou Gods Commandments fulfil . Cast all thy care upon the Lord , and he , In thy distress will send to succour thee , Cease not therefore to serve him every day , Who with his blood they ransom once did pay . drive from thy heart , ill thoughts that may offend Desire of God his Holy Spirit to send , Which will direct thy life in such a sort , As thou thereby shall find joy and comfort . Expect each day & amp ; hour when Christ shall come , With power to judge the world both all & amp ; some : Be ready then , and with the Bridge-groom Christ Receive reward in Heaven among the Highest Fear to offend his Heavenly Majesty , Faith does confirm true love and loyalty , Without which faith , as Holy Scriptures say , No man to Heaven can find the perfect way . Great is the Lord and merciful doubtless , To those that with true zeal their faults confess But unto those in mischief daily runs , He lets alone to taste what after comes . Hope in the Lord , on him pose thy trust , Serve him with fear whose judgments are most just Desire of him thy life for to direct , That to thy soul he may have good respect . Ensnare not man , but love thy enemy , Though to thy hurt , yet take it patiently , And think the Lord , although he suffers long , when time shall serve , will soon revenge thy wrong Keep thou no Cancar hidden in thy Heart Remember still the word Christ did impart , That is , forgive offences ever past , As thou thy self will be forgiven at last . Lay not thy treasure up in hoarding sort , But therewithal the poor feed and comfort , If thou cold water give in Christ his name , Thrice double-fold he will reward the same . Misorder not thy self in any wise , In meat and drink let reason still suffice , Moderate they mind , and keep they self content , So shalt thou please the Lord omnipotent . N Oh man can say that he is void of since , For if he do , he's much deceived therein , The Lord does say , the just seven times a day , Committeth since , and runneth oft astray . Obey his will , who to redeem thy loss , Did shed his blood for thee upon the Cross , Such was the love that Christ did show to man , Why should we be ungrateful to him than ? Pity the pure with such as God hath sent , And be not proud with that which God hath lent Remember well that Christ hath said to thee , Do this as though thou didst it unto me . Quench found desires and pleasures of the flesh , Fly Gluttony , the Mother of excess , For whoredom is the very sink of since , In which the wicked daily wollow in . Root from thy Heart malicious thoughts be sure which are a means Gods judgments to procure , For be assured when envy bears sway , The fear of God departeth soon away . Subdue thy self , let welcome by thy guide , Suppress ill thoughts , beware of hateful Pride , Despise the world , a vale of vanities , lest Headlong thou run into misery's . Turn unto me our Saviour Christ does say , And I will hear thy Prayers every day , If any thing thou ask in Christ his name , Be well assured thou shalt obtain the same . Vain exercise abolish from thy sighed , Desire of God his Faith and Holy Spirit , Who will direct thee in the perfect way , That leads to life , as Holy Scriptures say . When Satan seeks to tempt thee any way , Call upon God thy only strength and stay , And be assured from out his Holy Hill , He will preserve thy life from danger still . Experience of his love that lends thee life , Must make thee seek to live devoid of life , Let his love be thy rule , who so loved thee , That death he underwent to set thee free . Young Men & amp ; Maids , old man and babes repent , lest for your sins you at the last be shent , Be wise take heed , do not the time delay , For Christ must be our judge at the last day . zeal like to fire our good works let's make bright , That others thereof may behold the light , Light up your Lamps , & amp ; with the Virgins five , Have Oil in store to keep your Lamps alive . Printed for F. Coals , TO , Vere , and J. Wright . And excellent song , wherein you shall find , Great consolation for a troubled mind . To the Tune of , Fortune my Foe . A Im not too High in things above thy reach Nor be too wise within thy own conceit , As thou hast wealth and wit at will . So give him thanks that shall increase it still . Beware of pride , the Mother of mishap , Whose sugared snares shall seek thee to entrap , Be meek in Heart , and lowly minded still , So shalt thou Gods Commandments fulfil . Cast all thy care upon the Lord , and he , In thy distress will send to succour thee , Cease not therefore to serve him every day , Who with his blood they ransom once did pay . drive from thy heart , ill thoughts that may offend Desire of God his Holy Spirit to send , Which will direct thy life in such a sort , As thou thereby shall find joy and comfort . Expect each day & amp ; hour when Christ shall come , With power to judge the world both all & amp ; some : Be ready then , and with the Bridge-groom Christ Receive reward in Heaven among the Highest Fear to offend his Heavenly Majesty , Faith does confirm true love and loyalty , Without which faith , as Holy Scriptures say , No man to Heaven can find the perfect way . Great is the Lord and merciful doubtless , To those that with true zeal their faults confess But unto those in mischief daily runs , He lets alone to taste what after comes . Hope in the Lord , on him pose thy trust , Serve him with fear whose judgments are most just Desire of him thy life for to direct , That to thy soul he may have good respect . Ensnare not man , but love thy enemy , Though to thy hurt , yet take it patiently , And think the Lord , although he suffers long , when time shall serve , will soon revenge thy wrong Keep thou no Cancar hidden in thy Heart Remember still the word Christ did impart , That is , forgive offences ever past , As thou thy self will be forgiven at last . Lay not thy treasure up in hoarding sort , But therewithal the poor feed and comfort , If thou cold water give in Christ his name , Thrice double-fold he will reward the same . Misorder not thy self in any wise , In meat and drink let reason still suffice , Moderate they mind , and keep they self content , So shalt thou please the Lord omnipotent . N Oh man can say that he is void of since , For if he do , he's much deceived therein , The Lord does say , the just seven times a day , Committeth since , and runneth oft astray . Obey his will , who to redeem thy loss , Did shed his blood for thee upon the Cross , Such was the love that Christ did show to man , Why should we be ungrateful to him than ? Pity the pure with such as God hath sent , And be not proud with that which God hath lent Remember well that Christ hath said to thee , Do this as though thou didst it unto me . Quench found desires and pleasures of the flesh , Fly Gluttony , the Mother of excess , For whoredom is the very sink of since , In which the wicked daily wollow in . Root from thy Heart malicious thoughts be sure which are a means Gods judgments to procure , For be assured when envy bears sway , The fear of God departeth soon away . Subdue thy self , let welcome by thy guide , Suppress ill thoughts , beware of hateful Pride , Despise the world , a vale of vanities , lest Headlong thou run into misery's . Turn unto me our Saviour Christ does say , And I will hear thy Prayers every day , If any thing thou ask in Christ his name , Be well assured thou shalt obtain the same . Vain exercise abolish from thy sighed , Desire of God his Faith and Holy Spirit , Who will direct thee in the perfect way , That leads to life , as Holy Scriptures say . When Satan seeks to tempt thee any way , Call upon God thy only strength and stay , And be assured from out his Holy Hill , He will preserve thy life from danger still . Experience of his love that lends thee life , Must make thee seek to live devoid of life , Let his love be thy rule , who so loved thee , That death he underwent to set thee free . Young Men & amp ; Maids , old man and babes repent , lest for your sins you at the last be shent , Be wise take heed , do not the time delay , For Christ must be our judge at the last day . zeal like to fire our good works let's make bright , That others thereof may behold the light , Light up your Lamps , & amp ; with the Virgins five , Have Oil in store to keep your Lamps alive . Printed for F. Coals , TO , Vere , and J. Wright . 