THE Bountiful Knight of Sommersetshire , Who daily relieved the Poor in those parts , and after his Death , willed His Son to do the like , and though he solemnly protested to his Father on his Deathbed that he would , which he neglected the same , bringing himself to a miserable end , Tune is , Packington's Pound . Licensed according to Order . TO Here was and old Knight lived in Sommersetshire , Whom God had endued with three thousand a year ; A person of Generous bounty was he , Above many Nobles of higher degree : The Widows in need , he did Cloth and feed , And put out poor Fatherless Children to read , He being thus loving and good to the poor , A blessing from Heaven replenished his store . Three days in a week he ordained to be dressed , For old men and women good Beef of the best , And likewise at Christmas he gave Coats and Gowns , To many that lived in the neighbouring Towns , With Money and Meat , their Mirth to complete , That they might rejoice , and have something to eat . Thus was he continually good to the poor . And blessings from Heaven replenished his store . His Lady sometime in a passion would say , Methinks they increase and come every day , His answer was to her , my dear be not sad , For where should they come , but where it's to be had , Indeed I profess , the poor in distress , I feed them , and find I have never the less ; For those that are loving and good to the poor , A Blessing will always replenish their store . He many long years there did flourish and live , And freely he did to poor Travellers give , Good Bred and small Liquours still every day , There's none that came to him went empty away , Poor Travellers still he'd nourish and fill , And with a most generous heart and good will , By which he did purchase the Prayers of the poor , who daily was nourished and fed at his Door . His Lady at length with a Fever she died , And left one Son , whom she had brought up in Pride , And just as he was Two and Twenty Years Old , His Father died leaving much Silver and Gold , With Houses and Land , all at his Command , While dying he called to give him his hand , And like a good Christian he laid my dear Son , Endeavour to do as thy Father hath done No Docter my Life now is able to save , Behold I am just on the brink of the Grave , And when I go hence and shall see thee no more , For my sake see that you remember the poor ; And nourish them still , it's part of my will , See that you be careful the same to fulfil , On my dying blessing I charge thee my Son , To do for the poor as they F ather has done . Dear Honoured F ather , a vow here I make , Before God and you which I never will break , The poor shall be daily relieved by me , Or else I desire I never may see No Joy or delight , by day or by night , If ever the poor I endeavour to slight , No , here is my hand , As I am your dear Son , I [ ' ] ll constantly do as my Father has done . But yet not with standing , the Promise he made , Soon after his Father in Grave he was laid The Son Rid to London in Court for to live , And unto the Poor not a Tester would give , But followed all Dice , Wine , Harlots and Dice , Forgetting the vow that he made in a trice ; To folly and ruin , he straightways did run , And never would do as his F ather had done . Lewd Harlots and Taverns were all his delight , Nay , often by Gaming he'd loose in a night A Hundred or two of bright Guinys of Gold , And would not by any dear F riend be controlled , He'd often reply , give me Liberty , My Silver and Gold it was made for to fly , TO hus Prodigal like he to ruin did run , And never would do as his Father had done . The L and ( which had many years been in the name ) He Mortgaged and sold for to follow the Game , Till his Patrimony was utterly spent , Oh then did he find it too late to repent , This wretch could not hide the downful of pride , For Debt in the Counter of London he died , Thus Prodigal like he to ruin did run , Neglecting to do as his F ather had done . A Hundred pound he'd consume in a day , Till all that he had was quite squandered away , Then while in a prison he lay in distress , All persons that knew him were quite pitiless , In midst of his grief they told him in brief , That they would not yield him the least of relief , Because that he had been a Prodigal Son , Neglecting to do as his F ather had done , Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. BackTHE Bountiful Knight of Sommersetshire , Who daily relieved the Poor in those parts , and after his Death , willed His Son to do the like , and though he solemnly protested to his Father on his Deathbed that he would , which he neglected the same , bringing himself to a miserable end , Tune is , Packington's Pound . Licensed according to Order . TO Here was and old Knight lived in Sommersetshire , Whom God had endued with three thousand a year ; A person of Generous bounty was he , Above many Nobles of higher degree : The Widows in need , he did Cloth and feed , And put out poor Fatherless Children to read , He being thus loving and good to the poor , A blessing from Heaven replenished his store . Three days in a week he ordained to be dressed , For old men and women good Beef of the best , And likewise at Christmas he gave Coats and Gowns , To many that lived in the neighbouring Towns , With Money and Meat , their Mirth to complete , That they might rejoice , and have something to eat . Thus was he continually good to the poor . And blessings from Heaven replenished his store . His Lady sometime in a passion would say , Methinks they increase and come every day , His answer was to her , my dear be not sad , For where should they come , but where it's to be had , Indeed I profess , the poor in distress , I feed them , and find I have never the less ; For those that are loving and good to the poor , A Blessing will always replenish their store . He many long years there did flourish and live , And freely he did to poor Travellers give , Good Bred and small Liquours still every day , There's none that came to him went empty away , Poor Travellers still he'd nourish and fill , And with a most generous heart and good will , By which he did purchase the Prayers of the poor , who daily was nourished and fed at his Door . His Lady at length with a Fever she died , And left one Son , whom she had brought up in Pride , And just as he was Two and Twenty Years Old , His Father died leaving much Silver and Gold , With Houses and Land , all at his Command , While dying he called to give him his hand , And like a good Christian he laid my dear Son , Endeavour to do as thy Father hath done No Docter my Life now is able to save , Behold I am just on the brink of the Grave , And when I go hence and shall see thee no more , For my sake see that you remember the poor ; And nourish them still , it's part of my will , See that you be careful the same to fulfil , On my dying blessing I charge thee my Son , To do for the poor as they F ather has done . Dear Honoured F ather , a vow here I make , Before God and you which I never will break , The poor shall be daily relieved by me , Or else I desire I never may see No Joy or delight , by day or by night , If ever the poor I endeavour to slight , No , here is my hand , As I am your dear Son , I [ ' ] ll constantly do as my Father has done . But yet not with standing , the Promise he made , Soon after his Father in Grave he was laid The Son Rid to London in Court for to live , And unto the Poor not a Tester would give , But followed all Dice , Wine , Harlots and Dice , Forgetting the vow that he made in a trice ; To folly and ruin , he straightways did run , And never would do as his F ather had done . Lewd Harlots and Taverns were all his delight , Nay , often by Gaming he'd loose in a night A Hundred or two of bright Guinys of Gold , And would not by any dear F riend be controlled , He'd often reply , give me Liberty , My Silver and Gold it was made for to fly , TO hus Prodigal like he to ruin did run , And never would do as his Father had done . The L and ( which had many years been in the name ) He Mortgaged and sold for to follow the Game , Till his Patrimony was utterly spent , Oh then did he find it too late to repent , This wretch could not hide the downful of pride , For Debt in the Counter of London he died , Thus Prodigal like he to ruin did run , Neglecting to do as his F ather had done . A Hundred pound he'd consume in a day , Till all that he had was quite squandered away , Then while in a prison he lay in distress , All persons that knew him were quite pitiless , In midst of his grief they told him in brief , That they would not yield him the least of relief , Because that he had been a Prodigal Son , Neglecting to do as his F ather had done , Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back 