The Downfall of Pride : BEING And Account of a Merchant's Wife , who having two Daughters , loved one , and hated the other : Together with a Relation of her Dar - ling , and her own Misfortune , as likewise the Prosperity of her despised Daughter , by whom they were all at length Succoured in their Distress . To the Tune of Aim not too High . Licensed according to Order . I N London lived a wealthy Merchant's Wife , Who lived here a long and happy Life ; Her loving Husband Ploughed the Ocean Main , In sumptuous Robes his Lady to maintain . The Glory of this World she did behold Rich Jewels , Diamonds , Chains of shining Gold , Embroidered Silks , and other Gems vast store ; As Rich as ever London Lady wore , Her very Heart was swallowed up in pride , So that she minded little else beside ; If that she did frequent the House of Prayer , It was to see and learn new Fashions there . She had two Daughters , both of beauty bright , In one of which she placed her chief delight ; The other she did constantly despise , And over her did daily Tyrannise . The youngest Daughter , Modest , Meek , and Mild , She did not use as if she was her Child ; Father and Mother , both did her degrade , And kept her like a Drudge , or Servant-Maid . On all occasions , still early or late , The younger Sister was obliged to wait , She cheerfully the same did undergo , Because it was their will it should be so , Their Darling like a Peacock fine and gay , Was still adorned in sumptuous rich array ; And to a Boarding-School was sent to be Fit for a Husband of no mean degree . Her Portion being Fifteen hundred pound , The noise of which was blazed all London round ; So that rich Suitors came both Night and Day , At length a Merchant boar the prize away . In State and Triumph they the Wedding kept , The younger Sister , she in sorrow wept , Because while they did Feast with sumptuous fare , They did not think her worthy to be there . But now behold how Fortune soon did frown , To pull their high and haughty Spirits down In three Months space the wealthy Father died , And thus began the woeful Fallen of Pride . Soon after this , the Son-in-law was found To be in Debt , above Five thousand Pound , So that her Daughters Portion went at last , And he likewise into a Prison cast . The Mother to release him out of thrall , For her dear Darlings sake did part with all : And though by this , at length he was set free , They were reduced to woeful Poverty . The youngest Daughter whom they did revile , A hand of Providence did bless the while ; For living with a worthy Ancient Knight , He doted on her splendid Beauty bright . Then making her his honest lawful Wife , With whom she led a comfortable Life ; And when he Died , he left her all his store , Which was two thousand Pounds a year and more So soon as ever her Mourning year was passed , Many right worthy Suitors came at last ; Yet she no choice of any Match would make , But lived a Widow for her Mother's sake . Home to her House this Daughter took her straight To live there , on a plentiful Estate ; And was always to Duty so inclined , That former Wrongs she would not bear in mind Brother and Sister likewise did depend On her , for why they had no other friend ; But she whom they had often spighted lo , To whom they for their ronstant Succour go . Now , let all Parents that this Ditty hear , Have equal kindness for your Children dear ; Those that you think scarce worthy of your love Do oftentimes the greatest Blessings prove . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . The Downfall of Pride : BEING And Account of a Merchant's Wife , who having two Daughters , loved one , and hated the other : Together with a Relation of her Dar - ling , and her own Misfortune , as likewise the Prosperity of her despised Daughter , by whom they were all at length Succoured in their Distress . To the Tune of Aim not too High . Licensed according to Order . I N London lived a wealthy Merchant's Wife , Who lived here a long and happy Life ; Her loving Husband Ploughed the Ocean Main , In sumptuous Robes his Lady to maintain . The Glory of this World she did behold Rich Jewels , Diamonds , Chains of shining Gold , Embroidered Silks , and other Gems vast store ; As Rich as ever London Lady wore , Her very Heart was swallowed up in pride , So that she minded little else beside ; If that she did frequent the House of Prayer , It was to see and learn new Fashions there . She had two Daughters , both of beauty bright , In one of which she placed her chief delight ; The other she did constantly despise , And over her did daily Tyrannise . The youngest Daughter , Modest , Meek , and Mild , She did not use as if she was her Child ; Father and Mother , both did her degrade , And kept her like a Drudge , or Servant-Maid . On all occasions , still early or late , The younger Sister was obliged to wait , She cheerfully the same did undergo , Because it was their will it should be so , Their Darling like a Peacock fine and gay , Was still adorned in sumptuous rich array ; And to a Boarding-School was sent to be Fit for a Husband of no mean degree . Her Portion being Fifteen hundred pound , The noise of which was blazed all London round ; So that rich Suitors came both Night and Day , At length a Merchant boar the prize away . In State and Triumph they the Wedding kept , The younger Sister , she in sorrow wept , Because while they did Feast with sumptuous fare , They did not think her worthy to be there . But now behold how Fortune soon did frown , To pull their high and haughty Spirits down In three Months space the wealthy Father died , And thus began the woeful Fallen of Pride . Soon after this , the Son-in-law was found To be in Debt , above Five thousand Pound , So that her Daughters Portion went at last , And he likewise into a Prison cast . The Mother to release him out of thrall , For her dear Darlings sake did part with all : And though by this , at length he was set free , They were reduced to woeful Poverty . The youngest Daughter whom they did revile , A hand of Providence did bless the while ; For living with a worthy Ancient Knight , He doted on her splendid Beauty bright . Then making her his honest lawful Wife , With whom she led a comfortable Life ; And when he Died , he left her all his store , Which was two thousand Pounds a year and more So soon as ever her Mourning year was passed , Many right worthy Suitors came at last ; Yet she no choice of any Match would make , But lived a Widow for her Mother's sake . Home to her House this Daughter took her straight To live there , on a plentiful Estate ; And was always to Duty so inclined , That former Wrongs she would not bear in mind Brother and Sister likewise did depend On her , for why they had no other friend ; But she whom they had often spighted lo , To whom they for their ronstant Succour go . Now , let all Parents that this Ditty hear , Have equal kindness for your Children dear ; Those that you think scarce worthy of your love Do oftentimes the greatest Blessings prove . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 