Solomons Sentences . Being and Excellent Ditty , showing the sage Sayings and Wise Sentences of Solomon . The Tune is , Wigmore's Galliard . TO Hose that will run a Virtuous raze , and learn the Precepts of the Sage , Those that true wisdom will embrace , and learn to live in youth and age : Let them approach hereto with speed , And to my Lessons give good heed ; For bearing well these things away , The Lord will bless them night and day My Son , said Solomon the wise , if thou true wisdom wilt obtain , Then fear the Lord that rules the skys , for so the Scriptures teaches plain : Embrace his word , and him obey , This is the chief and only way ; For they that do these things despise , Are fools to God , though worldly wise . Unto thy Father honour give , and thou shalt surely blessed be , And be obedient while you live , and to thy Mother Courteous be , Then God will send thee evermore Sufficient wealth , and treasure store : All things shall prosper in thine hand , And long thou shalt enjoy the Land. The blessing of the Father dear , does cause his Children's good success But where the Mother does appear , to curse her Children's wickedness : Their whole foundation does decay , Like withered leaves that fallen away . Then all good Christians learn by me , To love your Parents faithfully . Set not thy mind on worldly wealth , nor put thy confidence therein , For riches does consume by stealth , and Covetousness is counted since : For while thou livest on the earth , Thou art uncertain of thy death ; And when that death does stop thy mind Then thou must leave thy goods behind Be friendly unto every man , but unto few familiar be , And try thy friend if that thou ran , his inward thoughts to prove & amp ; see . And if thou find him just and true , Change not and old friend for a new . For many promise much indeed , But clean forsake them in their need . If thou hast Sons , intrust them well and on thy Daughters never smile : Their wanton ways do far excel , let not affection thee beguile : With due correction love them still , And give them not their wanton will ; For if that they do stubborn grow , They will not then their duty know . Give honour to the aged sort , and to thy betters always bow , So shalt thou have a good report , for God himself does it allow , Of hateful Pride always beware , And have and Eye to after care ; Be not too wrath in any thing , For that will soon repentance bring . Lend not thy goods to mighty men , whose countenance passes thy degree For they are hard to get again , as now by daily proof we see : For other men give not thy word , No further then thou canst afford ; Lest afterwards thou chance to rue , And pay the debt when it is due . With him that is a Magistrate , in any wise go not to Law , Lest thou repent the same too late , for he will hold thee still in awe : Be always wary of thy words , For spiteful words are cruel swords And look to whom thou dost impart The thoughts and secrets of thy heart Be never jealous of thy Wife , lest she therefore mischief learn , And thou thereby dost purchase strife then wisely do each thing discern . And not evil occasion give , But lovingly together live ; We see when man and wife do hate , The curse of God hangs at the Gate . On Harlots cast not thou thy mind , lest thou thereby thy self consume ; And waste thy riches with the wind , while thou in fancy fret and fume : Their foul enticements brings death And poison comes out of their breath ; Their eyes are wandering too and from , And every one their fashions know . Praise no woman for beauty's sake , nor discommend no man ny sighed ; And with thy tongue no lying make , fulfil thy promise just and right : Be merciful unto the poor , And God will thee reward therefore ; Keep not thy Labourers wages back , And comfort such as comfort lack . Grieve not the heavy-hearted man , nor joy not at thy enemies harm ; Rebuke thy Brother friendly then , against no man use open charm : Credit not thou a Tale in haste , Lest trial make the matter waste ; And from all slander keep thy tongue , And work for age while thou art young 3 things there are that God does hate as holy Scriptures does declare ; A man too proud in Beggars state , a rich man for to lie and swear . To see and old man given to lust , These things of God are sure accursed , The lying tongue the soul does quell , But pride and lust throw down to hell . While thou art living , call for grace , thy life is like a fading flower ; Death comes stealing on apace , thou canst not know the day nor hour Thy Speech at all times may not last Use well the same that now thou hast ; And from repentance do not stay , Thou canst no time with death delay . If thou consider well the same , and hear these Lessons in thy mind ; And thereunto thy self do frame , great crmfort thou shalt quickly find Plant well these savings in thy heart , And from these Precepts never start ; So shalt thou live in perfect peace , And God will bless thee with [ i ] increase . F INIS . Solomons Sacrifice , With his P rayer in Gibeon ; And how God appeared to him in a Vision , and answered his Request . To a new Tune . O F all the Kings in Israel that reigned long ago ; I do remember very well that Chronicles does show That when it fell to Solomon , He proved such a Paragon , As never there was any one , as after you shall know . For when he came to be a King , He feared God in every thing ; In Sacrifice and worshipping great cost he did bestow ; There was a place in Israel , Called Gibeon at this day ; And thither went King Solomon to Sacrifice and pray . But God did in a Vision Appear unto King Solomon While he was yet in Gibeon , and thus to him did say : Because of thy Humility Ask what thou wilt ( Oh King ) of me Oh speak that I may give it thee before thou goest away . Then Solomon thus answered to thee be always praise ; For that as thou hast promised in our forefathers days : Since that as thou hast promised not to leave their Table unfurnished But to leave it [ v ] arnished to them that sees thy ways . Thy holy Wisdom grant to me thy holy Law to understand And understanding heart to see the judgements of each Land : That I may well Govern the same As justice rightly ought to frame To the Glory of his name with mercy in my hand . Then God who took it in good part what Solomon had said ; Because it was so in his heart to ask as he had prayed ; He said I will give unto thee As never none the like shall be Either before or after thee therefore be not afraid . I will give thee Wisdom great and Treasure passing store ; Fow sitting on thy Father's seat as no King had before ; With that arose King Solomon And went away to Gibeon To guide the charge he took upon as no King took before . Then after that in Israel He reigned long their King full well As all the Holy Books can tell with great increase and store . FINIS . Printed for W. Thackeray , in Duck-Lane . Solomons Sentences . Being and Excellent Ditty , showing the sage Sayings and Wise Sentences of Solomon . The Tune is , Wigmore's Galliard . TO Hose that will run a Virtuous raze , and learn the Precepts of the Sage , Those that true wisdom will embrace , and learn to live in youth and age : Let them approach hereto with speed , And to my Lessons give good heed ; For bearing well these things away , The Lord will bless them night and day My Son , said Solomon the wise , if thou true wisdom wilt obtain , Then fear the Lord that rules the skys , for so the Scriptures teaches plain : Embrace his word , and him obey , This is the chief and only way ; For they that do these things despise , Are fools to God , though worldly wise . Unto thy Father honour give , and thou shalt surely blessed be , And be obedient while you live , and to thy Mother Courteous be , Then God will send thee evermore Sufficient wealth , and treasure store : All things shall prosper in thine hand , And long thou shalt enjoy the Land. The blessing of the Father dear , does cause his Children's good success But where the Mother does appear , to curse her Children's wickedness : Their whole foundation does decay , Like withered leaves that fallen away . Then all good Christians learn by me , To love your Parents faithfully . Set not thy mind on worldly wealth , nor put thy confidence therein , For riches does consume by stealth , and Covetousness is counted since : For while thou livest on the earth , Thou art uncertain of thy death ; And when that death does stop thy mind Then thou must leave thy goods behind Be friendly unto every man , but unto few familiar be , And try thy friend if that thou ran , his inward thoughts to prove & amp ; see . And if thou find him just and true , Change not and old friend for a new . For many promise much indeed , But clean forsake them in their need . If thou hast Sons , intrust them well and on thy Daughters never smile : Their wanton ways do far excel , let not affection thee beguile : With due correction love them still , And give them not their wanton will ; For if that they do stubborn grow , They will not then their duty know . Give honour to the aged sort , and to thy betters always bow , So shalt thou have a good report , for God himself does it allow , Of hateful Pride always beware , And have and Eye to after care ; Be not too wrath in any thing , For that will soon repentance bring . Lend not thy goods to mighty men , whose countenance passes thy degree For they are hard to get again , as now by daily proof we see : For other men give not thy word , No further then thou canst afford ; Lest afterwards thou chance to rue , And pay the debt when it is due . With him that is a Magistrate , in any wise go not to Law , Lest thou repent the same too late , for he will hold thee still in awe : Be always wary of thy words , For spiteful words are cruel swords And look to whom thou dost impart The thoughts and secrets of thy heart Be never jealous of thy Wife , lest she therefore mischief learn , And thou thereby dost purchase strife then wisely do each thing discern . And not evil occasion give , But lovingly together live ; We see when man and wife do hate , The curse of God hangs at the Gate . On Harlots cast not thou thy mind , lest thou thereby thy self consume ; And waste thy riches with the wind , while thou in fancy fret and fume : Their foul enticements brings death And poison comes out of their breath ; Their eyes are wandering too and from , And every one their fashions know . Praise no woman for beauty's sake , nor discommend no man ny sighed ; And with thy tongue no lying make , fulfil thy promise just and right : Be merciful unto the poor , And God will thee reward therefore ; Keep not thy Labourers wages back , And comfort such as comfort lack . Grieve not the heavy-hearted man , nor joy not at thy enemies harm ; Rebuke thy Brother friendly then , against no man use open charm : Credit not thou a Tale in haste , Lest trial make the matter waste ; And from all slander keep thy tongue , And work for age while thou art young 3 things there are that God does hate as holy Scriptures does declare ; A man too proud in Beggars state , a rich man for to lie and swear . To see and old man given to lust , These things of God are sure accursed , The lying tongue the soul does quell , But pride and lust throw down to hell . While thou art living , call for grace , thy life is like a fading flower ; Death comes stealing on apace , thou canst not know the day nor hour Thy Speech at all times may not last Use well the same that now thou hast ; And from repentance do not stay , Thou canst no time with death delay . If thou consider well the same , and hear these Lessons in thy mind ; And thereunto thy self do frame , great crmfort thou shalt quickly find Plant well these savings in thy heart , And from these Precepts never start ; So shalt thou live in perfect peace , And God will bless thee with [ i ] increase . F INIS . Solomons Sacrifice , With his P rayer in Gibeon ; And how God appeared to him in a Vision , and answered his Request . To a new Tune . O F all the Kings in Israel that reigned long ago ; I do remember very well that Chronicles does show That when it fell to Solomon , He proved such a Paragon , As never there was any one , as after you shall know . For when he came to be a King , He feared God in every thing ; In Sacrifice and worshipping great cost he did bestow ; There was a place in Israel , Called Gibeon at this day ; And thither went King Solomon to Sacrifice and pray . But God did in a Vision Appear unto King Solomon While he was yet in Gibeon , and thus to him did say : Because of thy Humility Ask what thou wilt ( Oh King ) of me Oh speak that I may give it thee before thou goest away . Then Solomon thus answered to thee be always praise ; For that as thou hast promised in our forefathers days : Since that as thou hast promised not to leave their Table unfurnished But to leave it [ v ] arnished to them that sees thy ways . Thy holy Wisdom grant to me thy holy Law to understand And understanding heart to see the judgements of each Land : That I may well Govern the same As justice rightly ought to frame To the Glory of his name with mercy in my hand . Then God who took it in good part what Solomon had said ; Because it was so in his heart to ask as he had prayed ; He said I will give unto thee As never none the like shall be Either before or after thee therefore be not afraid . I will give thee Wisdom great and Treasure passing store ; Fow sitting on thy Father's seat as no King had before ; With that arose King Solomon And went away to Gibeon To guide the charge he took upon as no King took before . Then after that in Israel He reigned long their King full well As all the Holy Books can tell with great increase and store . FINIS . Printed for W. Thackeray , in Duck-Lane . 