The Distressed Gentlewoman ; Or , Satan's Implacable Malice . Being a True Relation of a young Gentlewoman near Lincolns-Inn-Fields , who is possessed with and Evil Spirit , which Speaks within her most Blasphemous Words , to the grief of her Friends and Relations , and all good Christian People . The Tune is , Aim not too High . Licensed according to Order . G Ood People all , I pray you now draw near , Unto these Lines lend and attentive Ear ; While I a dismal story do unfold , Which is as true as ever Mortal told . A Youthful Damsel now near London dwells , Whose Birth , and Education far excels Some thousands , for it is well known , that she Has been a pattern of true Piety . This is well known , it was her constant care , Still to frequent the Holy Home of Prayer ; To Worship God according to his will , His Holy Laws and Precepts to fulfil . All kind of Pride she hated and abhorred , Her care and study was to serve the Lord ; Therefore the Holy Scriptures did she Read , And eke and upright Christian Life did led . Now while she was Religiously inclined , Satan , the Enemy of all Mankind , He studied how he might her soon Possess , And blast that sweet Celestial Happiness . The which he thus endeavoured by degrees , First Melancholy did her Senses seize ; Which did her former Glory soon expel , But yet what was the cause she could not tell . At length it did to strange Distraction grow , While her dear friends beheld with grief and woe . All means were used for a Recovery , And free her from this sad Calamity . Learned Physicians used their chiefest Skill , Though all in vain , for she remained still Distracted , as she had been long before , Her Sense and Reason they could not restore . This done , all former means they laid aside , And did in God alone their hope's reside ; To whom they had recourse by fervent Prayer , And many faithful Ministers came there . Which she received with joy and sweet content , But as they offered her the Sacrament , Her very Teeth were set , and clenched fast , And eke a Voice was herd in her at last . In these like words the Hellish Fiend did taunt , Saying , She shall not take it , no , she shan't : Then Barking like a Dog , it did Revile , Her Mouth and Eyelids being closed the while . Next day she to the Savoy - Church was brought , Where Dr. Horneck many Years has Taught ; And in the time of Prayer this Fiend did Roar , More vehement than at any time before . Nay , in the hearing of all People there , He Cursed the Minister in time of Prayer ; And said , Come down , black Dog , this shall not do : This said , his Barking Tone he did renew . Next way to her a Learned Doctor went , Who after he some time in Prayer had spent , Demanded of the Fiend in Gods great Name , Now what he was , and eke from whence he came . At which the Spirit did in short reply , I am a Daemon of High-Germany ; And having found a Habitation here , It is not any such as you I fear . No Tongue is able to express her Grief , While thus she does remain , void of relief : Let sober Christians pray to God above , That he will manifest his tender Love To this the poor Creature which is thus possessed , Who at this time is woefully oppressed : Oh that her Glory he once more will raise That she may live to speak his lasti [ ng Praise ] FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. WORSER [ ? ] The Distressed Gentlewoman ; Or , Satan's Implacable Malice . Being a True Relation of a young Gentlewoman near Lincolns-Inn-Fields , who is possessed with and Evil Spirit , which Speaks within her most Blasphemous Words , to the grief of her Friends and Relations , and all good Christian People . The Tune is , Aim not too High . Licensed according to Order . G Ood People all , I pray you now draw near , Unto these Lines lend and attentive Ear ; While I a dismal story do unfold , Which is as true as ever Mortal told . A Youthful Damsel now near London dwells , Whose Birth , and Education far excels Some thousands , for it is well known , that she Has been a pattern of true Piety . This is well known , it was her constant care , Still to frequent the Holy Home of Prayer ; To Worship God according to his will , His Holy Laws and Precepts to fulfil . All kind of Pride she hated and abhorred , Her care and study was to serve the Lord ; Therefore the Holy Scriptures did she Read , And eke and upright Christian Life did led . Now while she was Religiously inclined , Satan , the Enemy of all Mankind , He studied how he might her soon Possess , And blast that sweet Celestial Happiness . The which he thus endeavoured by degrees , First Melancholy did her Senses seize ; Which did her former Glory soon expel , But yet what was the cause she could not tell . At length it did to strange Distraction grow , While her dear friends beheld with grief and woe . All means were used for a Recovery , And free her from this sad Calamity . Learned Physicians used their chiefest Skill , Though all in vain , for she remained still Distracted , as she had been long before , Her Sense and Reason they could not restore . This done , all former means they laid aside , And did in God alone their hope's reside ; To whom they had recourse by fervent Prayer , And many faithful Ministers came there . Which she received with joy and sweet content , But as they offered her the Sacrament , Her very Teeth were set , and clenched fast , And eke a Voice was herd in her at last . In these like words the Hellish Fiend did taunt , Saying , She shall not take it , no , she shan't : Then Barking like a Dog , it did Revile , Her Mouth and Eyelids being closed the while . Next day she to the Savoy - Church was brought , Where Dr. Horneck many Years has Taught ; And in the time of Prayer this Fiend did Roar , More vehement than at any time before . Nay , in the hearing of all People there , He Cursed the Minister in time of Prayer ; And said , Come down , black Dog , this shall not do : This said , his Barking Tone he did renew . Next way to her a Learned Doctor went , Who after he some time in Prayer had spent , Demanded of the Fiend in Gods great Name , Now what he was , and eke from whence he came . At which the Spirit did in short reply , I am a Daemon of High-Germany ; And having found a Habitation here , It is not any such as you I fear . No Tongue is able to express her Grief , While thus she does remain , void of relief : Let sober Christians pray to God above , That he will manifest his tender Love To this the poor Creature which is thus possessed , Who at this time is woefully oppressed : Oh that her Glory he once more will raise That she may live to speak his lasti [ ng Praise ] FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. WORSER [ ? ] 