The Protestants Prayer : BEING Their hearty Wishes for the Prosperity of Their Majesties Fleet at Sea , and likewise Their Land-Forces , that our Foes may be put to Flighs , and these Three Kingdoms flourish again in Peace . The Tune is , The Touch of the Times . Licensed according to Order . L ET Protestants now with true Courage advance , In time we shall blast all the Glory of France , And that the proud Tyrant Lewis shall see A common Disturber of Europe is he , But if the kind Heavens will Fight on our side , In time we shall pull down his insolent Pride : Then pray that the Lord by a powerful Hand Will preserve the Great Fleet and the Army by Land . King William and Mary , our Sovereigns they I hope long may flourish the Sceptre to sway , In spite of the French and the Irish too , And all that belongs to the Bloodsucking Crew , Who caused those many Commotions of late , Who strove to overthrow both Church and State : Then pray that the Lord will for Protestants stand , etc Our Case it is Righteous , and therefore we hope We fear not the French , the Turk , Devil , or Pope ; For what though their Malice and Envy may burn , If we from our Sins in this Nation will turn , The Lord to his People will be a strong Tower , And keep them from harm by his Heavenly Power : Let's pray that he will for the Protestants stand , etc I hope we go forth with the Fear of the Lord , And therefore a Blessing he will us afford , And walk in the midst of the Camp while we Fight , And put all our Enemies to the flight , Though we may be weak his Power is strong , And while he Fights for us none can do us wrong : Then pray that the Lord will for Protestants stand , To bless the Great Fleet and Army by Land . The French and the Irish would fain run us down , And do their endeavour to Conquer the Crown , And bring the True Protestants under their Yoke , But Heavens will send Room so fatal a stroke , That shall give them cause their hard Fate to bemoan , While Angels from Heaven will guard the bright Throne Then pray that the Lord will for Protestants stand , To bless the Great Fleet and Army by Land . Though Lewis of France he may vapour and boast , We fear not the Strength of his strong Armed Host , Who threatens this Nation and Land to devour ; They can do no more than the Lord give them power : Such Protestant-Courage I hope they will find , That shall make them fly like Chaff before the Wind : Then pray that , etc . The French - men no manner of pity afford , Both Women and Children they put to the Sword , And Cities with Fires they often do Burn , And the poor Inhabitants naked they turn , Starving abroad , while with hunger they die , Whose Blood to this day does for loud vengeance cry : This Tyrant much longer I hope will not stand , If God bless the Fleet and Army by Land . Now when the Irish Land do Reduce , We will set all our Protestant Prisoners lose , Who now in dark Dungeons , and Prisons do lie , Expecting each hour by Murder to die : But Forces is Landed with brave Major Kirk , And valiant Count Solmes who will finish the Work : Then pray that the Lord will for Protestants stand , etc There is brave Londonderry long time has besieged , Until at the length they were forced and obliged To feed upon Horseflesh , so great was their Grief , But the gallant Major did send them Relief , And there is fresh Forces now Landed likewise , Which will both the French and Tories surprise : Then pray that the Lord will for Protestants stand , To bless the Great Fleet and Army by Land . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare . J. BackThe Protestants Prayer : BEING Their hearty Wishes for the Prosperity of Their Majesties Fleet at Sea , and likewise Their Land-Forces , that our Foes may be put to Flighs , and these Three Kingdoms flourish again in Peace . The Tune is , The Touch of the Times . Licensed according to Order . L ET Protestants now with true Courage advance , In time we shall blast all the Glory of France , And that the proud Tyrant Lewis shall see A common Disturber of Europe is he , But if the kind Heavens will Fight on our side , In time we shall pull down his insolent Pride : Then pray that the Lord by a powerful Hand Will preserve the Great Fleet and the Army by Land . King William and Mary , our Sovereigns they I hope long may flourish the Sceptre to sway , In spite of the French and the Irish too , And all that belongs to the Bloodsucking Crew , Who caused those many Commotions of late , Who strove to overthrow both Church and State : Then pray that the Lord will for Protestants stand , etc Our Case it is Righteous , and therefore we hope We fear not the French , the Turk , Devil , or Pope ; For what though their Malice and Envy may burn , If we from our Sins in this Nation will turn , The Lord to his People will be a strong Tower , And keep them from harm by his Heavenly Power : Let's pray that he will for the Protestants stand , etc I hope we go forth with the Fear of the Lord , And therefore a Blessing he will us afford , And walk in the midst of the Camp while we Fight , And put all our Enemies to the flight , Though we may be weak his Power is strong , And while he Fights for us none can do us wrong : Then pray that the Lord will for Protestants stand , To bless the Great Fleet and Army by Land . The French and the Irish would fain run us down , And do their endeavour to Conquer the Crown , And bring the True Protestants under their Yoke , But Heavens will send Room so fatal a stroke , That shall give them cause their hard Fate to bemoan , While Angels from Heaven will guard the bright Throne Then pray that the Lord will for Protestants stand , To bless the Great Fleet and Army by Land . Though Lewis of France he may vapour and boast , We fear not the Strength of his strong Armed Host , Who threatens this Nation and Land to devour ; They can do no more than the Lord give them power : Such Protestant-Courage I hope they will find , That shall make them fly like Chaff before the Wind : Then pray that , etc . The French - men no manner of pity afford , Both Women and Children they put to the Sword , And Cities with Fires they often do Burn , And the poor Inhabitants naked they turn , Starving abroad , while with hunger they die , Whose Blood to this day does for loud vengeance cry : This Tyrant much longer I hope will not stand , If God bless the Fleet and Army by Land . Now when the Irish Land do Reduce , We will set all our Protestant Prisoners lose , Who now in dark Dungeons , and Prisons do lie , Expecting each hour by Murder to die : But Forces is Landed with brave Major Kirk , And valiant Count Solmes who will finish the Work : Then pray that the Lord will for Protestants stand , etc There is brave Londonderry long time has besieged , Until at the length they were forced and obliged To feed upon Horseflesh , so great was their Grief , But the gallant Major did send them Relief , And there is fresh Forces now Landed likewise , Which will both the French and Tories surprise : Then pray that the Lord will for Protestants stand , To bless the Great Fleet and Army by Land . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare . J. Back 