The Pensive Prisoners Apology . Directed to his Fellow-Prisoners wheresoever , wherein he adviseth them to be steadfast in faith and hope , and patiently to endure their careful imprisonment , and to keep their Vows , showing the way to true liberty . Tune of , Love with unconfined wings , Or , No , no , no , no , not yet . L Ove with unconfined Wings , hovers about my gates , And my divine Althema begins , to whisper at my grates , When I lie tangled in her hair , being fettered in her eye , The birds that wanton in the air , knows no such Liberty . When like contented Linits I , with silver notes will sing , The very meekness of the heart , and glory of the thing : When I shall noise abroad and spread how good their virtues be , Fish that tipple in the deep , knows no such liberty . My lodging is on the cold boards , my clothes are thin and bore , Falsehearted friends with flattering words , does seek me to ensnare : They counsel me to change my mind , and so my words deny : And I thereby shall surely find , a perfect Liberty . Faith , Hope , & amp ; Patience is my guide , my Conscience pure and clear , So that the Lord be on my side , what Foe need I to fear ? I neither fear the stroke of Death , nor tyrants villainy ? So soon as Christ receives my breath , I gain true Liberty . A faithful vow I once did make , which now I will maintain : While I have tongue and breath to speak and life in me remain : Rather then from Religion turn , in fiery flames to fry , And if my Corpse to ashes burn , my soul gains Liberty . patience makes plasters for my sores love lives without control , They lock my body within the doors , but cannot lock my soul : My Muses too and from does run , above and beneath the sky : The greatest Potentate under the Sun , oft wants such Liberty . The second Part , to the same tune . O Ur Keepers cruelty is great , to one and to us all , He bids us eat our flesh for meat , or stones that's in the wall : Yet though I am in prison cast , my fences mount on high , The wind that blows where it list , knows no such liberty . This neither pardon from the Pope nor prayers made to Saints , That can enlarge my further scope , nor shorten my complaints : This Christ above , the Lord of love , which for mankind did die , None but he can pardon me , nor work my liberty . There's many men hath Treasure store yet are so worldly bent , Having too much they scrape for more yet never are content , While I that am the poorest of all from worldly care am free , Which makes me think they live in thrall and I at liberty . the man that bears a wavering mind is subject to much woe , He that to anger is inclined , must sorrow undergo . But he that hath a patient heart , though he a prisoner be , Exceeds both nature , skill , and art , in point of liberty . You pensive prisoners every one with hearts loyal and true . This lines of mine to work upon , I dedicate to you . Let faith and patience be your guide , and you in time shall see , The powers of heaven will so provide you shall have liberty . Stone walls cannot a prison make , nor Iron bars a Cage , A spotless soul being innocent , calls that his hermitage So I am blameless in my choice , and from all troubles free , Angels alone that are above , enjoys such liberty . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . The Pensive Prisoners Apology . Directed to his Fellow-Prisoners wheresoever , wherein he adviseth them to be steadfast in faith and hope , and patiently to endure their careful imprisonment , and to keep their Vows , showing the way to true liberty . Tune of , Love with unconfined wings , Or , No , no , no , no , not yet . L Ove with unconfined Wings , hovers about my gates , And my divine Althema begins , to whisper at my grates , When I lie tangled in her hair , being fettered in her eye , The birds that wanton in the air , knows no such Liberty . When like contented Linits I , with silver notes will sing , The very meekness of the heart , and glory of the thing : When I shall noise abroad and spread how good their virtues be , Fish that tipple in the deep , knows no such liberty . My lodging is on the cold boards , my clothes are thin and bore , Falsehearted friends with flattering words , does seek me to ensnare : They counsel me to change my mind , and so my words deny : And I thereby shall surely find , a perfect Liberty . Faith , Hope , & amp ; Patience is my guide , my Conscience pure and clear , So that the Lord be on my side , what Foe need I to fear ? I neither fear the stroke of Death , nor tyrants villainy ? So soon as Christ receives my breath , I gain true Liberty . A faithful vow I once did make , which now I will maintain : While I have tongue and breath to speak and life in me remain : Rather then from Religion turn , in fiery flames to fry , And if my Corpse to ashes burn , my soul gains Liberty . patience makes plasters for my sores love lives without control , They lock my body within the doors , but cannot lock my soul : My Muses too and from does run , above and beneath the sky : The greatest Potentate under the Sun , oft wants such Liberty . The second Part , to the same tune . O Ur Keepers cruelty is great , to one and to us all , He bids us eat our flesh for meat , or stones that's in the wall : Yet though I am in prison cast , my fences mount on high , The wind that blows where it list , knows no such liberty . This neither pardon from the Pope nor prayers made to Saints , That can enlarge my further scope , nor shorten my complaints : This Christ above , the Lord of love , which for mankind did die , None but he can pardon me , nor work my liberty . There's many men hath Treasure store yet are so worldly bent , Having too much they scrape for more yet never are content , While I that am the poorest of all from worldly care am free , Which makes me think they live in thrall and I at liberty . the man that bears a wavering mind is subject to much woe , He that to anger is inclined , must sorrow undergo . But he that hath a patient heart , though he a prisoner be , Exceeds both nature , skill , and art , in point of liberty . You pensive prisoners every one with hearts loyal and true . This lines of mine to work upon , I dedicate to you . Let faith and patience be your guide , and you in time shall see , The powers of heaven will so provide you shall have liberty . Stone walls cannot a prison make , nor Iron bars a Cage , A spotless soul being innocent , calls that his hermitage So I am blameless in my choice , and from all troubles free , Angels alone that are above , enjoys such liberty . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . 