The Father's wholesome Admonition : OR , A A Lumping Pennyworth of Good Counsel for Bad Husbands . To the Tune of Grim King of the Ghosts . Licensed according to Order . M Y Son if you reckon to Wed , and take your self to a kind Wife , Then then , let it never be said , but that you'll reform your old Life : There's many good pounds you have spent , the which you had reason to prize , But labour in time to repent , it's good to be merry and wise . Be sure keep a penny in store , it'll help you when Friends they may fail ; For should you spend all , and grow poor , your Case you'll have cause to bewail : In Troubles you'll strangely be hurled , the which will your Senses surprise : But he that will thrive in this World , must learn to be merry and wise . Perchance you may meet with a Friend , which does to your Dealings belong , If with him a Tester you spend , this can do you no great wrong , And then to your Labour again , it being enough to suffice ; This care will your Household maintain , it's good to be merry and wise . There's many a Woman well bred , has Married a [ ? ] Knave , So that the same man she now Wed 'twere [ ? ] er she had gone to her Grave , Her Lan [ ? ] and her Things all sold , which caused Tears to flow from her Eyes , And likewise true Friendship grow cold , then it's good to be merry and wise . Son , if a Rich Wife be thy Lot , be careful and thrifty I pray , For Means is not so easily god , as it may be squandered away : Be careful , and always contrive those temporal Blessings to prize ; For he that is willing to thrive must learn to be merry and wise . There's some that are absolute poor , as well I can make it appear , Who will in strong Liquour spend more than some that has hundreds a year , And bring their poor Families low , and can't get wherewith to suffice ; But that Man would never do so , who learns to be merry and wise . The Workman that is a boon Lad , you'd find his Condition is thus If Trading should chance to grow bad , he scarce has a Groat in his Purse , While he that does yet spend , and save has always enough to suffice : Then Son if this Blessing you'd have , then learn to be merry and wise . This Counsel which to you I give , o prize it more dearer than Gold , And then you in Credit may live , and save something while you grow old . There's many has dearly bough Wit , when Father's good Words they despise , My Son never spend all that you get , but learn to be merry and wise . Great Getters that Spend all are like the Cow that gives much at a Meal , Who having done , straight ways does strike and kick it all down with her Heel . Act like the industrious be , and then you to Riches may rise , And flourishing days you will see , if you'll but be merry and wise . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon . J. Blare . J. Back . The Father's wholesome Admonition : OR , A A Lumping Pennyworth of Good Counsel for Bad Husbands . To the Tune of Grim King of the Ghosts . Licensed according to Order . M Y Son if you reckon to Wed , and take your self to a kind Wife , Then then , let it never be said , but that you'll reform your old Life : There's many good pounds you have spent , the which you had reason to prize , But labour in time to repent , it's good to be merry and wise . Be sure keep a penny in store , it'll help you when Friends they may fail ; For should you spend all , and grow poor , your Case you'll have cause to bewail : In Troubles you'll strangely be hurled , the which will your Senses surprise : But he that will thrive in this World , must learn to be merry and wise . Perchance you may meet with a Friend , which does to your Dealings belong , If with him a Tester you spend , this can do you no great wrong , And then to your Labour again , it being enough to suffice ; This care will your Household maintain , it's good to be merry and wise . There's many a Woman well bred , has Married a [ ? ] Knave , So that the same man she now Wed 'twere [ ? ] er she had gone to her Grave , Her Lan [ ? ] and her Things all sold , which caused Tears to flow from her Eyes , And likewise true Friendship grow cold , then it's good to be merry and wise . Son , if a Rich Wife be thy Lot , be careful and thrifty I pray , For Means is not so easily god , as it may be squandered away : Be careful , and always contrive those temporal Blessings to prize ; For he that is willing to thrive must learn to be merry and wise . There's some that are absolute poor , as well I can make it appear , Who will in strong Liquour spend more than some that has hundreds a year , And bring their poor Families low , and can't get wherewith to suffice ; But that Man would never do so , who learns to be merry and wise . The Workman that is a boon Lad , you'd find his Condition is thus If Trading should chance to grow bad , he scarce has a Groat in his Purse , While he that does yet spend , and save has always enough to suffice : Then Son if this Blessing you'd have , then learn to be merry and wise . This Counsel which to you I give , o prize it more dearer than Gold , And then you in Credit may live , and save something while you grow old . There's many has dearly bough Wit , when Father's good Words they despise , My Son never spend all that you get , but learn to be merry and wise . Great Getters that Spend all are like the Cow that gives much at a Meal , Who having done , straight ways does strike and kick it all down with her Heel . Act like the industrious be , and then you to Riches may rise , And flourishing days you will see , if you'll but be merry and wise . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon . J. Blare . J. Back . 