The Essex Miracle ; OR , THE Wonder of Wonders . Giving a true Account of a Poor Man in Distress , whose Orchard this Year did bear a vast increase , though there be a general scarcity through the Land beside , which stock of Fruit he sold for Three Score and Ten Pounds , which increase is looked upon as the wondered hand of Providence at the Poor M ans time of Distress . Tune of , If Love's a Sweet Passion . Licensed according to Order . G Ood People I pray to a wonder give ear , Which has happened by Pro [ v ] idence this very year , To the succour and perfect relief of the Poor , Thus we see that the Lord still hath mercies in store , For all those that unto him will make their address , He will never forsake them in times of Distress . The like in past Ages the world never knew , And although it seems strange it is absolute true , Which I shall in this Ditty discover at large , It is of a Poor Thresher , who had a great charge , To the L ord he is private did make his address , Who relieved him at last in a time of distress . He had a Poor Wife and six Children small , Having none but his labour to keep them withal , Now his wages was small , and all things being dear , I must tell you his sorrows was sharpened severe , To the Lord still in private he made his address , Who relived him at last in a time of Distress This poor man he rented a house and some ground , 'twas and Orchard in which this strange wonder was found Now the times being hard he could not pay his rend , Though the Landlord came often without it he went , Therefore many harsh words he would often express , B ut the poor man was helped in the time of distress . The Landlord for money he made a sad rout , Either pay me , said he , or in short you turn out , For I will have my Rend without longer delay , But the poor man entreated him still that he'd stay , For he hoped he should pay him yet nevertheless , Though at this very time he was much in Distress . The Landlord replied these are pretty delays , But I'ld very fain know how this money you'll raise , There is half a years Rend now alre [ a ] die my endue , I will [ n ] ever be fooled by such TO [ en ] ants as you . Now the poor man did weep as he this did express , For alas it was then a sad time of distress . The poor man cried , Landlord pray bened so severe , Do but trust me kind Sir to the end of the Year , And be [ f ] oh [ r ] e you shall lose ere a penny by me , I will fell all my goods for to pay you , said he , Now the landlord was pleased when he this did express For alas he was poor and in woeful distress . See what a Miraculous wonder was wrought , Though his Neighbour in Orchards no profit had brought . Yet the Trees in his Orchard this Summer brought m [ over ] Than he ever had had since he kept it before . It was all divine P rovidence surely no less That did help this poor man in the time [ of distress . ] The Branches was loaded on every Tree . It was pleasant , nay sweet and delightful to see , What and Ocean of Fruit in his Orchard he found , Which he sold for no less than full seventy pound , Thus we see how the hand of kind heaven did bless TO he poor with increase at the time of distress . When he of the Orchard this money had made , Straight he run to his Landlord and Joyfully said , I am come for to pay you the Rend which I owe [ e ] : Now the Landlord was Joyful to hear it were so , It was all divine Providence surely no [ less ] , Which did help this poor man in a [ time ] of distress When he had praised God for this happy increase , Which had borough him from sorrow [ to ] pleasure & amp ; pea [ ce ] To the Market next morning away he did high , Where a Couple of Cows he did readily [ buy ] , It was all divine Providence surely no less , That did comfort him thus at a time of distress . Printed for J. Blare at the Looking-Glass on Land [ on-bridge ] The Essex Miracle ; OR , THE Wonder of Wonders . Giving a true Account of a Poor Man in Distress , whose Orchard this Year did bear a vast increase , though there be a general scarcity through the Land beside , which stock of Fruit he sold for Three Score and Ten Pounds , which increase is looked upon as the wondered hand of Providence at the Poor M ans time of Distress . Tune of , If Love's a Sweet Passion . Licensed according to Order . G Ood People I pray to a wonder give ear , Which has happened by Pro [ v ] idence this very year , To the succour and perfect relief of the Poor , Thus we see that the Lord still hath mercies in store , For all those that unto him will make their address , He will never forsake them in times of Distress . The like in past Ages the world never knew , And although it seems strange it is absolute true , Which I shall in this Ditty discover at large , It is of a Poor Thresher , who had a great charge , To the L ord he is private did make his address , Who relieved him at last in a time of distress . He had a Poor Wife and six Children small , Having none but his labour to keep them withal , Now his wages was small , and all things being dear , I must tell you his sorrows was sharpened severe , To the Lord still in private he made his address , Who relived him at last in a time of Distress This poor man he rented a house and some ground , 'twas and Orchard in which this strange wonder was found Now the times being hard he could not pay his rend , Though the Landlord came often without it he went , Therefore many harsh words he would often express , B ut the poor man was helped in the time of distress . The Landlord for money he made a sad rout , Either pay me , said he , or in short you turn out , For I will have my Rend without longer delay , But the poor man entreated him still that he'd stay , For he hoped he should pay him yet nevertheless , Though at this very time he was much in Distress . The Landlord replied these are pretty delays , But I'ld very fain know how this money you'll raise , There is half a years Rend now alre [ a ] die my endue , I will [ n ] ever be fooled by such TO [ en ] ants as you . Now the poor man did weep as he this did express , For alas it was then a sad time of distress . The poor man cried , Landlord pray bened so severe , Do but trust me kind Sir to the end of the Year , And be [ f ] oh [ r ] e you shall lose ere a penny by me , I will fell all my goods for to pay you , said he , Now the landlord was pleased when he this did express For alas he was poor and in woeful distress . See what a Miraculous wonder was wrought , Though his Neighbour in Orchards no profit had brought . Yet the Trees in his Orchard this Summer brought m [ over ] Than he ever had had since he kept it before . It was all divine P rovidence surely no less That did help this poor man in the time [ of distress . ] The Branches was loaded on every Tree . It was pleasant , nay sweet and delightful to see , What and Ocean of Fruit in his Orchard he found , Which he sold for no less than full seventy pound , Thus we see how the hand of kind heaven did bless TO he poor with increase at the time of distress . When he of the Orchard this money had made , Straight he run to his Landlord and Joyfully said , I am come for to pay you the Rend which I owe [ e ] : Now the Landlord was Joyful to hear it were so , It was all divine Providence surely no [ less ] , Which did help this poor man in a [ time ] of distress When he had praised God for this happy increase , Which had borough him from sorrow [ to ] pleasure & amp ; pea [ ce ] To the Market next morning away he did high , Where a Couple of Cows he did readily [ buy ] , It was all divine Providence surely no less , That did comfort him thus at a time of distress . Printed for J. Blare at the Looking-Glass on Land [ on-bridge ] 