The Happy Damsel : OR , A Miracle of GOD's Mercy , signalized on Maria Anna Mollier , living near St. James ' s Westminster , a poor lame Creature , who had been a Cripple from her Cradle , and on the 26th of November , 1693 , she was perfectly cured by the Hand of Divine Providence , to the great amazement of all People . To the Tune of , Summertime . L Et unbelieving Men attend , unto this strange Relation here , Which as a naked truth I send to all the Land both far and near : The Lord is good and gracious still , to we poor Mortals here below ; To those who do obey his Will , he does his love and kindness show . As we by sad experience find now in the World among us here ; Yet were we faithfully inclined , strange Wonders daily would appear . Alas it is through unbelief , that Miracles so long have ceased ; And therefore now our pain and grief from Age to Age has been increased . For God is merciful to all , that are in grief and sad distress ; If on his righteous Name they call , he will not leave them comfortless . This Creature did sad Pains endure ; at length , to God she made her moan , Who sent her then a speedy Cure , down from his bright Celestial Throne . The truth at large I will unfold , how by a Fallen and fatal Stroke , When she was hardly five Months old , her little Infant-bones was broke . Her Thighbone clearly out of place , and likewise her poor Ankle too ; Crooked she was in woeful case , the like of her you never knew . Near thirteen Years this Grief she boar , as of a truth we understand ; At length God's Love she did implore , who healed her by a Mighty Hand . November , six and twentieth day , this mighty Wonder strange was wrought : Now as from Church she took her way , rude Children , better fed then taught , Abused her as she passed along , because of her deformity : As she suffered all this wrong , poor Soul , she wept most bitterly . Her Mistress said , Do not lament in Tears , and make this piteous Moan ; But labour , labour for content , and put thy Trust in God alone . The Bible then she took in hard , for to compare her grieved mind ; Where she in Mark did understand what cure the Palsie-man did find . By Miracle , from Jesus then , his perfect Health he did receive ; Yet Scribes and Pharisees were men that would not his great Works believe . O then , replied this youthful Maid , my very Heart is filled with grief ; I wonder they could be , she said , such stubborn Men of unbelief . Would I had lived in those Days , when he those mighty Wonders wrought , My Tongue should have set forth his Praise , though Scribes did set his Works at nought . Nay , gracious Lord , I do believe , thou able art to cure me still , And I might soon my Limbs receive , if it were but thy blessed will . These Words she had no sooner spoke , but Nerves and Bones did snap amain Thus God , who she did then invoke , in love her Limbs restored again . Likewise this poor distressed Maid , who many Years this Grief endured , Did think she herd a Voice which said , Arise and walk , for thou art cured . She then arose , and walk upright , across the Room , then to and from , Praising the Lord , as well she might , who did such dear Compassion show . Thousands hath seen her walk alone , both Young and Old , nay Rich and Poor , Who cries , the like was never known these many hunder'd Years before . Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-glass on London-bridge . The Happy Damsel : OR , A Miracle of GOD's Mercy , signalized on Maria Anna Mollier , living near St. James ' s Westminster , a poor lame Creature , who had been a Cripple from her Cradle , and on the 26th of November , 1693 , she was perfectly cured by the Hand of Divine Providence , to the great amazement of all People . To the Tune of , Summertime . L Et unbelieving Men attend , unto this strange Relation here , Which as a naked truth I send to all the Land both far and near : The Lord is good and gracious still , to we poor Mortals here below ; To those who do obey his Will , he does his love and kindness show . As we by sad experience find now in the World among us here ; Yet were we faithfully inclined , strange Wonders daily would appear . Alas it is through unbelief , that Miracles so long have ceased ; And therefore now our pain and grief from Age to Age has been increased . For God is merciful to all , that are in grief and sad distress ; If on his righteous Name they call , he will not leave them comfortless . This Creature did sad Pains endure ; at length , to God she made her moan , Who sent her then a speedy Cure , down from his bright Celestial Throne . The truth at large I will unfold , how by a Fallen and fatal Stroke , When she was hardly five Months old , her little Infant-bones was broke . Her Thighbone clearly out of place , and likewise her poor Ankle too ; Crooked she was in woeful case , the like of her you never knew . Near thirteen Years this Grief she boar , as of a truth we understand ; At length God's Love she did implore , who healed her by a Mighty Hand . November , six and twentieth day , this mighty Wonder strange was wrought : Now as from Church she took her way , rude Children , better fed then taught , Abused her as she passed along , because of her deformity : As she suffered all this wrong , poor Soul , she wept most bitterly . Her Mistress said , Do not lament in Tears , and make this piteous Moan ; But labour , labour for content , and put thy Trust in God alone . The Bible then she took in hard , for to compare her grieved mind ; Where she in Mark did understand what cure the Palsie-man did find . By Miracle , from Jesus then , his perfect Health he did receive ; Yet Scribes and Pharisees were men that would not his great Works believe . O then , replied this youthful Maid , my very Heart is filled with grief ; I wonder they could be , she said , such stubborn Men of unbelief . Would I had lived in those Days , when he those mighty Wonders wrought , My Tongue should have set forth his Praise , though Scribes did set his Works at nought . Nay , gracious Lord , I do believe , thou able art to cure me still , And I might soon my Limbs receive , if it were but thy blessed will . These Words she had no sooner spoke , but Nerves and Bones did snap amain Thus God , who she did then invoke , in love her Limbs restored again . Likewise this poor distressed Maid , who many Years this Grief endured , Did think she herd a Voice which said , Arise and walk , for thou art cured . She then arose , and walk upright , across the Room , then to and from , Praising the Lord , as well she might , who did such dear Compassion show . Thousands hath seen her walk alone , both Young and Old , nay Rich and Poor , Who cries , the like was never known these many hunder'd Years before . Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-glass on London-bridge . 