The True Protestants Contemplation : CONTAINING Serious Thoughts of the miraculous Deliverance from the intended Invasion : As likewise the preservation of his Majesties person from the Malice of bloody Conspirators . To the Tune of Sefautian's Farewell . Licensed according to Order . L Et all Men God's Mercies admire , whose gracious Love has preserved this Land , From those which did in private conspire , by Plots to bring in a vast armed Band ; Here to annoy , and clearly destroy Our Laws , Lives and Liberties which we enjoy : But let us own , that God alone , He hath our Enemies clearly overthrown . When alas ! we thought of no danger , but all things seemed right safe and secure , Our own Natives invited a Stranger , to blast the Gospel Religion so pure : Tyrant Monsieur , was invited here At which the whole Kingdom was startled with fear ; But God alone defends his own , He hath our Enemies clearly overthrown . This great Plot was clearly discovered , which they invented to ruin us all , On the Seas our Enemies hovered . in hope's our Navy would be at their Call ; As it was said , this Land to invade , And then the whole Kingdom in blood had been laid : But God alone defends his own , And he hath our Enemies clearly overthrown . Those sad Doubts not many days lasted , although they came with a passionate heat , The Design was suddenly blasted , and their great Navy burned , scattered and beatrice : Thus we indeed , were suddenly freed From those that did threaten to make the Land bleed Thus God alone defends his own , And he hath our Enemies clearly overthrown . Likewise Nobles in the French Palace , from when the blackest of Plotters do's spring , Hired three Men , freighted with Malice , to murder William our Sovereign King In Flanders ; where , his Forces they are , But these bloody Villains were caught in the Snare ; Thus God alone defends his own , While those that conspire , etc Though by Plots they still are confounded , and often brought to a Scaffold or Tree ; Where they are with sorrow surrounded ; why , yet this Folly they never will see : But run the Raze , which leads to the place , Where they shall expire in shame and disgrace : For God alone , defends his own , While Traitors and Ruffians are , etc Has our God defended this Nation from all our Enemies mighty and strong ; Let us pay him all adoration to whom alone do's all Glory belong : Since from above , by infinite love , So soon he our sorrows and fears did remove : Oh let us own , it's he alone , That suffers the mighty Men to be overthrown . Let our King be daily defended , with Angels guarded wherever he goes , From false Friends which much Love has pretended and likewise from his implacable Foes : With Laurels crown , his head of Renown , That he all his Enemies may trample down ; By Sea and Land , let him command , While Lewis against him dare never lift his hand . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. BackThe True Protestants Contemplation : CONTAINING Serious Thoughts of the miraculous Deliverance from the intended Invasion : As likewise the preservation of his Majesties person from the Malice of bloody Conspirators . To the Tune of Sefautian's Farewell . Licensed according to Order . L Et all Men God's Mercies admire , whose gracious Love has preserved this Land , From those which did in private conspire , by Plots to bring in a vast armed Band ; Here to annoy , and clearly destroy Our Laws , Lives and Liberties which we enjoy : But let us own , that God alone , He hath our Enemies clearly overthrown . When alas ! we thought of no danger , but all things seemed right safe and secure , Our own Natives invited a Stranger , to blast the Gospel Religion so pure : Tyrant Monsieur , was invited here At which the whole Kingdom was startled with fear ; But God alone defends his own , He hath our Enemies clearly overthrown . This great Plot was clearly discovered , which they invented to ruin us all , On the Seas our Enemies hovered . in hope's our Navy would be at their Call ; As it was said , this Land to invade , And then the whole Kingdom in blood had been laid : But God alone defends his own , And he hath our Enemies clearly overthrown . Those sad Doubts not many days lasted , although they came with a passionate heat , The Design was suddenly blasted , and their great Navy burned , scattered and beatrice : Thus we indeed , were suddenly freed From those that did threaten to make the Land bleed Thus God alone defends his own , And he hath our Enemies clearly overthrown . Likewise Nobles in the French Palace , from when the blackest of Plotters do's spring , Hired three Men , freighted with Malice , to murder William our Sovereign King In Flanders ; where , his Forces they are , But these bloody Villains were caught in the Snare ; Thus God alone defends his own , While those that conspire , etc Though by Plots they still are confounded , and often brought to a Scaffold or Tree ; Where they are with sorrow surrounded ; why , yet this Folly they never will see : But run the Raze , which leads to the place , Where they shall expire in shame and disgrace : For God alone , defends his own , While Traitors and Ruffians are , etc Has our God defended this Nation from all our Enemies mighty and strong ; Let us pay him all adoration to whom alone do's all Glory belong : Since from above , by infinite love , So soon he our sorrows and fears did remove : Oh let us own , it's he alone , That suffers the mighty Men to be overthrown . Let our King be daily defended , with Angels guarded wherever he goes , From false Friends which much Love has pretended and likewise from his implacable Foes : With Laurels crown , his head of Renown , That he all his Enemies may trample down ; By Sea and Land , let him command , While Lewis against him dare never lift his hand . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back 