THE Troubles of this World ; OR , Nothing Cheap but Poor Men's Labour . Concluding with a Line of Comfortable Consolation , to Cheer up our Drooping Hearts , in a time of Trouble . To the Tune of The Spinning Wheel . Licensed according to Order . L ET honest Tradesmen now attend , And bear a mournful part with me , It is to you these Lines I send , For to Condole our Misery ; I see the times which makes me weep , Here's nought but poor men's labour cheap . The Smiles of Fortune now are fled , And Gloomy Clouds with grief appear , Since times are hard , and trading dead , And every thing excessive dear ; Which makes some thousands sighs and weep , There's none but poor men's labour cheap . Some persons , that was free to give Relief to their poor Friends of late , Do hardly now know how to live ; The Taxes being grown so great , Since things are dear there own they'll keep , There's nought but poor men's labour cheap . From Forreign-Lands all Merchantdise , As Linen , Silks , Fruit , Sugar , Spice , They to the Nation sorrow rise , And to a vast excessive price , We have just cause to sighs and weep ; Here's nought but poor men's labour cheap . Those that have thousands lying by , Will hardly now the Poor regard , Tell them your grief and they reply , That trading's dead and times are hard , And therefore what they have they'll keep , There's nought but poor men's labour cheap . The working man may pinch and spare , To bring the weary week about , At length there comes another care , How he shall lay his money out , Since at a price all things they keep , There's nought but poor men's labour cheap It's to be feared that some there are , Who do in private make their moan , Oppressed with poverty and care ; Yet cannot make their sorrow known , All things at a high price they keep , There's nought but poor men's labour cheap . There's not a Loaf of Bred we By , But costs a double price or more , Of what it went at formerly , Now this must needs oppress the poor ; And give them cause to sighs and weep , There's nought but poor men's labour cheap . we see in Country Court , or Town , The rich will small Compassion show , Upon their sorrows they will frown , Of those that are but mean and low , Those things I see which makes me weep , There's nought but poor men's labour cheap . The Rich men they , continually , run down the Poor Men's Labour still , If he'll not work so ; strait they cry , begun , we know another will , And thus the poor in awe they keep ; There's nothing but their labour cheap The working man he strait complies , because of his young Children small , For half a Loaf of Bred he Cries , is better far then none at all , Because he hath a charge to keep , He's forced to work and labour cheap . When little Babes cries for Relief , the one for Bred , the other Beer , There cannot be a greater Grief , to tender loving Parents dear , Than for to hear them make their moan , For Bred , perhaps , when they have no [ ne ] Alas , to well , we understand what causes all our grief and care , It is the Wars by Sea and Land , Alas , Alas , who can forbear , In these hard times , to sighs and weep , There's nought but poor men's labour cheap . Let's pray to God , entreat him still , to look upon our grief and pain , And if it be his blessed will , to send the Nation Peace again , For while these Wars and Troubles are , Here's none but Sorrows , Grief , and Care . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . THE Troubles of this World ; OR , Nothing Cheap but Poor Men's Labour . Concluding with a Line of Comfortable Consolation , to Cheer up our Drooping Hearts , in a time of Trouble . To the Tune of The Spinning Wheel . Licensed according to Order . L ET honest Tradesmen now attend , And bear a mournful part with me , It is to you these Lines I send , For to Condole our Misery ; I see the times which makes me weep , Here's nought but poor men's labour cheap . The Smiles of Fortune now are fled , And Gloomy Clouds with grief appear , Since times are hard , and trading dead , And every thing excessive dear ; Which makes some thousands sighs and weep , There's none but poor men's labour cheap . Some persons , that was free to give Relief to their poor Friends of late , Do hardly now know how to live ; The Taxes being grown so great , Since things are dear there own they'll keep , There's nought but poor men's labour cheap . From Forreign-Lands all Merchantdise , As Linen , Silks , Fruit , Sugar , Spice , They to the Nation sorrow rise , And to a vast excessive price , We have just cause to sighs and weep ; Here's nought but poor men's labour cheap . Those that have thousands lying by , Will hardly now the Poor regard , Tell them your grief and they reply , That trading's dead and times are hard , And therefore what they have they'll keep , There's nought but poor men's labour cheap . The working man may pinch and spare , To bring the weary week about , At length there comes another care , How he shall lay his money out , Since at a price all things they keep , There's nought but poor men's labour cheap It's to be feared that some there are , Who do in private make their moan , Oppressed with poverty and care ; Yet cannot make their sorrow known , All things at a high price they keep , There's nought but poor men's labour cheap . There's not a Loaf of Bred we By , But costs a double price or more , Of what it went at formerly , Now this must needs oppress the poor ; And give them cause to sighs and weep , There's nought but poor men's labour cheap . we see in Country Court , or Town , The rich will small Compassion show , Upon their sorrows they will frown , Of those that are but mean and low , Those things I see which makes me weep , There's nought but poor men's labour cheap . The Rich men they , continually , run down the Poor Men's Labour still , If he'll not work so ; strait they cry , begun , we know another will , And thus the poor in awe they keep ; There's nothing but their labour cheap The working man he strait complies , because of his young Children small , For half a Loaf of Bred he Cries , is better far then none at all , Because he hath a charge to keep , He's forced to work and labour cheap . When little Babes cries for Relief , the one for Bred , the other Beer , There cannot be a greater Grief , to tender loving Parents dear , Than for to hear them make their moan , For Bred , perhaps , when they have no [ ne ] Alas , to well , we understand what causes all our grief and care , It is the Wars by Sea and Land , Alas , Alas , who can forbear , In these hard times , to sighs and weep , There's nought but poor men's labour cheap . Let's pray to God , entreat him still , to look upon our grief and pain , And if it be his blessed will , to send the Nation Peace again , For while these Wars and Troubles are , Here's none but Sorrows , Grief , and Care . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 