Jack Had-Lands Lamentation , That sold and made away his ' State , And spent his money early and late ; And let his Wife and Children want , Now he makes great moan , and does repent : And desires all Good-fellows where ever they be To take warning by his Poverty : He was cast in Prison at that bout , His own poor Wife she helped him out ; She had small reason to do that thing , But true love is a gallant thing ; There is scarce a Taphouse in London Town , Will help a man when he is cast down . To the Tune of , It is Old Ale that has undone me . This may be Printed , R. P . TO O all Good-fellows i'll declare , To take example , and have a care ; And do not spend your Means in waste , For you will repent it at the last ; For I my self was blindly led , And made all away , I was so bad : Let all I say , be warned by me , of Drinking and bad Company . I had Land and Living of my own , And a fine Estate , it was well known ; It was worth threescore pound a year , And I spent it all in Ale and Beer : My Hostestes was my delight , And I was up swilling day and night : Let all I say , etc . I never took no care at all , God knows I had a sudden fallen ; I sold my ' State then all away , To maintain the Alehouse night and day My Wife and Children was so poor , Neighbours cried shame at me therefore : Let all I say , etc . I would come home Drunk unto my wife And led her such a weary Life , And she would speak me then so fair , And entreat me with a lovely care ; And say , good Husband be content , Alas ! you will these things repent : Let all I say , be warned by me , Of Drinking , etc . My little naked Children , they Were almost pined , as Neighbours say ; And starve so soar for want of Close , I had no care of them God knows ; Now all is gone , and nothing left , I may say , farewell Dagger with dudgeon Haft : Let all I say , etc . I cast my self into some Debt , And was Arrested then for it ; Because I could not get no Bail , They cast me in a nasty Gaile , And there I lay from my poor Wife , She relieved me , or I I had lost my life : Let all I say , etc . When I was in that misery , Never and Alewife that would come to me ; For all I had spent my ' State away , I had no help of them I say ; But my poor Wife was my best Friend , And succoured me unto the end : Let all I say , etc . Then my poor Wife she sought about , And she made a Friend and god me out ; She sold her Wedding-Ring away , To pay me Fees without delay ; And did so rejoice at my release , And brought me home again in peace : Let all I say , etc . Now all is spent I plainly see , There is no help nor no remedy , But labour hard and work full soar , That money will be better then all before : And bring it home unto my Wife , And love her as I love my life : Let all I say , etc . A man that has a state or has good means , Never use so much these Tippling Queans They drown your money so very soar , And make you at the last be poor ; I am sure that I may say the same , But alas , alas , I was to blame : But all I say , etc . Let every one that goes along , Take notice of this new-made Song ; And take Example now by me , That am fallen into this Poverty : I wish that I might be the last , But alack aday I am not the first : Let all I say , etc . So to conclude to end the strife , Let every Man love his own Wife ; And save his Money , and keep his store , Drink not too much to make you poor ; A man that has Grace will then repent , To see his wife and Children live in want : Let all I say , be warned by me , Of Drinking and lewd Company . Printed for P. Brooksby [ at the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner . ] Jack Had-Lands Lamentation , That sold and made away his ' State , And spent his money early and late ; And let his Wife and Children want , Now he makes great moan , and does repent : And desires all Good-fellows where ever they be To take warning by his Poverty : He was cast in Prison at that bout , His own poor Wife she helped him out ; She had small reason to do that thing , But true love is a gallant thing ; There is scarce a Taphouse in London Town , Will help a man when he is cast down . To the Tune of , It is Old Ale that has undone me . This may be Printed , R. P . TO O all Good-fellows i'll declare , To take example , and have a care ; And do not spend your Means in waste , For you will repent it at the last ; For I my self was blindly led , And made all away , I was so bad : Let all I say , be warned by me , of Drinking and bad Company . I had Land and Living of my own , And a fine Estate , it was well known ; It was worth threescore pound a year , And I spent it all in Ale and Beer : My Hostestes was my delight , And I was up swilling day and night : Let all I say , etc . I never took no care at all , God knows I had a sudden fallen ; I sold my ' State then all away , To maintain the Alehouse night and day My Wife and Children was so poor , Neighbours cried shame at me therefore : Let all I say , etc . I would come home Drunk unto my wife And led her such a weary Life , And she would speak me then so fair , And entreat me with a lovely care ; And say , good Husband be content , Alas ! you will these things repent : Let all I say , be warned by me , Of Drinking , etc . My little naked Children , they Were almost pined , as Neighbours say ; And starve so soar for want of Close , I had no care of them God knows ; Now all is gone , and nothing left , I may say , farewell Dagger with dudgeon Haft : Let all I say , etc . I cast my self into some Debt , And was Arrested then for it ; Because I could not get no Bail , They cast me in a nasty Gaile , And there I lay from my poor Wife , She relieved me , or I I had lost my life : Let all I say , etc . When I was in that misery , Never and Alewife that would come to me ; For all I had spent my ' State away , I had no help of them I say ; But my poor Wife was my best Friend , And succoured me unto the end : Let all I say , etc . Then my poor Wife she sought about , And she made a Friend and god me out ; She sold her Wedding-Ring away , To pay me Fees without delay ; And did so rejoice at my release , And brought me home again in peace : Let all I say , etc . Now all is spent I plainly see , There is no help nor no remedy , But labour hard and work full soar , That money will be better then all before : And bring it home unto my Wife , And love her as I love my life : Let all I say , etc . A man that has a state or has good means , Never use so much these Tippling Queans They drown your money so very soar , And make you at the last be poor ; I am sure that I may say the same , But alas , alas , I was to blame : But all I say , etc . Let every one that goes along , Take notice of this new-made Song ; And take Example now by me , That am fallen into this Poverty : I wish that I might be the last , But alack aday I am not the first : Let all I say , etc . So to conclude to end the strife , Let every Man love his own Wife ; And save his Money , and keep his store , Drink not too much to make you poor ; A man that has Grace will then repent , To see his wife and Children live in want : Let all I say , be warned by me , Of Drinking and lewd Company . Printed for P. Brooksby [ at the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner . ] 