Wades Reformation , To all good Fellows in this Nation . Wherein he does show to'th old and to'th young , To beward of false hearts , and a flattering tongue , For they be two evils , and will bring you thither Where the Devil and the Hostis went together . But he has spent all and you plainly may see , That it's poverty parts good company . tune is , the maid is the best that lies alone ; or it's old Ale has undone me . TO OO long have I been a drunken Sot And spent my means on the Black Pot , Both jugs and flaggons I loved dear , For all my delight was in strong Beer , Once I had Gold , though now i've none , While I had money they wait me upon , But now it's turned to Farthings three , And it's old Ale has undone me . My wife full often would me tell If I took this course I should never do well , For Beer and Tobacco would bring me low , And make me so poor that I could not go , Quoth she be ruled and i'll show you a way Now you shall thrive both night and day , But I never regarded the words spoke she , Until etc . For here would I trust and there would I lend , And every one would be my friend , Because of my money they saw I was kind , And they'll pay me again when the Devil is blind . In all company still I would lay down For one a shilling , another a Crown , Thus my kind heart I plainly do see And this old etc . For my Host and Hostess was not slack To bring Tobacco , Beer and Sack , They bring ten dozen if I it said , For they knew that I would see it paid , There would I swagger drink and roar , When that was out fill as much more , If I called but for one she'd swear there was three S oh it's old Ale etc . And still them to please I was so given , If rhey reckoned but six i'd pay for seven ; For all my delight it was so still , Their minds and humours to fulfil : For when drink was in then wit was out , Then my head she would lap with a clout , But next morning I paid for it soundly ; S oh it's old etc . Then before that I should go away , She'd bring me a bit caused me to stay All the Daylong , may be night to boot , She had so got the length of my foot , She swore out of doors she'd never me shove , But 'twas more for my money than love , For while I had any full merry i'd be , Until etc . Then comes her Daughter in a silk Gown , The best men Wife might a woreed in the town She was not ashamed in my lap for to fit , Until I had lost both my money and wit : And what I of her did then require , She granted to me my hearts desire , Then into a Parlour went I and she , But now such doings has undone me . And thus my Silver it did fly , For none was more esteemed than I , And the best Chamber or the best Room Be sure I had when I did come . Then the Fiddlers to me they did bring ; And they a new found Song must sing , My Hostis smiling must fit on my knee , Until etc . But all this while I had not forgotten Now my stock did waste yet dreamed not That ever I should come to poverty My money so vainly it did fly , Its a shame for me to tell it here How I spent five hundred pound a year , From Cards and Dice I never was free Until etc . And when I found my stock to wast To fell the rest I soon made haste . Mortgaged House and sold my Land , And so god money in my hand . But the same i'd quickly fooled away And brought my self [ ? ] Then the Alewifes and I [ ? ] Until etc . For I went to a house where I dare swear I had spent twenty pound a year , I began to call as I did before But she straightways thrust me out of Door , Begun quoth she you fancy jack Then she pulled my Coat from off my back , This is all the comfort I god from she When that old Ale , etc . It grieves my heart and cuts me soar To think how well I lived before , Now i'm a laughing stock to those That I lent money to buy them Clothes , Now they are grown high and im'e grown low There former friends they will not know , All men let this a warning be For this old ale hath undone me . If my wives counsel I had took And not her loving words forsook I'de never come to this poverty Nor known half so much misery , But I her words could not abide At my Hostis's Bar I would be tried So I can lay no blame on she For its old ale , etc . Good fellows all be ruled in time Lest that your woes be like to mine , Take not and Alewife for thy friend Lest she deceive thee in the end , Repose no confidence in them That had rather see you sink than swim : But love thy wife as she loves thee For this old ale , etc . So to conclude to young men all Council isle give before they fallen Doubt by no means be led away By those that will bring you to decay , For times are hard and moneys scant And many a man does come to want : For my Gold is come to Farthings three And this old Ale has undone me . Printed for J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . Wades Reformation , To all good Fellows in this Nation . Wherein he does show to'th old and to'th young , To beward of false hearts , and a flattering tongue , For they be two evils , and will bring you thither Where the Devil and the Hostis went together . But he has spent all and you plainly may see , That it's poverty parts good company . tune is , the maid is the best that lies alone ; or it's old Ale has undone me . TO OO long have I been a drunken Sot And spent my means on the Black Pot , Both jugs and flaggons I loved dear , For all my delight was in strong Beer , Once I had Gold , though now i've none , While I had money they wait me upon , But now it's turned to Farthings three , And it's old Ale has undone me . My wife full often would me tell If I took this course I should never do well , For Beer and Tobacco would bring me low , And make me so poor that I could not go , Quoth she be ruled and i'll show you a way Now you shall thrive both night and day , But I never regarded the words spoke she , Until etc . For here would I trust and there would I lend , And every one would be my friend , Because of my money they saw I was kind , And they'll pay me again when the Devil is blind . In all company still I would lay down For one a shilling , another a Crown , Thus my kind heart I plainly do see And this old etc . For my Host and Hostess was not slack To bring Tobacco , Beer and Sack , They bring ten dozen if I it said , For they knew that I would see it paid , There would I swagger drink and roar , When that was out fill as much more , If I called but for one she'd swear there was three S oh it's old Ale etc . And still them to please I was so given , If rhey reckoned but six i'd pay for seven ; For all my delight it was so still , Their minds and humours to fulfil : For when drink was in then wit was out , Then my head she would lap with a clout , But next morning I paid for it soundly ; S oh it's old etc . Then before that I should go away , She'd bring me a bit caused me to stay All the Daylong , may be night to boot , She had so got the length of my foot , She swore out of doors she'd never me shove , But 'twas more for my money than love , For while I had any full merry i'd be , Until etc . Then comes her Daughter in a silk Gown , The best men Wife might a woreed in the town She was not ashamed in my lap for to fit , Until I had lost both my money and wit : And what I of her did then require , She granted to me my hearts desire , Then into a Parlour went I and she , But now such doings has undone me . And thus my Silver it did fly , For none was more esteemed than I , And the best Chamber or the best Room Be sure I had when I did come . Then the Fiddlers to me they did bring ; And they a new found Song must sing , My Hostis smiling must fit on my knee , Until etc . But all this while I had not forgotten Now my stock did waste yet dreamed not That ever I should come to poverty My money so vainly it did fly , Its a shame for me to tell it here How I spent five hundred pound a year , From Cards and Dice I never was free Until etc . And when I found my stock to wast To fell the rest I soon made haste . Mortgaged House and sold my Land , And so god money in my hand . But the same i'd quickly fooled away And brought my self [ ? ] Then the Alewifes and I [ ? ] Until etc . For I went to a house where I dare swear I had spent twenty pound a year , I began to call as I did before But she straightways thrust me out of Door , Begun quoth she you fancy jack Then she pulled my Coat from off my back , This is all the comfort I god from she When that old Ale , etc . It grieves my heart and cuts me soar To think how well I lived before , Now i'm a laughing stock to those That I lent money to buy them Clothes , Now they are grown high and im'e grown low There former friends they will not know , All men let this a warning be For this old ale hath undone me . If my wives counsel I had took And not her loving words forsook I'de never come to this poverty Nor known half so much misery , But I her words could not abide At my Hostis's Bar I would be tried So I can lay no blame on she For its old ale , etc . Good fellows all be ruled in time Lest that your woes be like to mine , Take not and Alewife for thy friend Lest she deceive thee in the end , Repose no confidence in them That had rather see you sink than swim : But love thy wife as she loves thee For this old ale , etc . So to conclude to young men all Council isle give before they fallen Doubt by no means be led away By those that will bring you to decay , For times are hard and moneys scant And many a man does come to want : For my Gold is come to Farthings three And this old Ale has undone me . Printed for J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 