Poor Man's Complaint : OR , The Sorrowful Lamentation of Poor Plain-Dealing , at this Time of Distress and Trouble To the Tune of Let Mary live long . A Trend to the Moan Of Honest Plain-Dealing , A sensible feeling , Of Sorrows alone , I have I declare : With watery Eyes , I behold the Excise , which Troubles me soar ; I weep when I think of I weep when I think of the Cry of the Poor . The Times they are hard , yet those that have Treasure , and Wealth out of measure They little regard poor Labouring Men , Who are out of Imply , Whose Children cry ; which troubles them soar : I weep when I think of I weep when I think of the Cry of the Poor . The Tax must be paid all over the Nation without Disputation ; Yet where is the Trade ? that's clearly run down By Strangers from France , With others perchance ; this troubles me soar : They run down all Labour , They run down all Labour , which pinches the Poor . It once was Decreed , to make a Collection , for Strangers protection , In order to feed , and nourish them here : Which encouraged them so , That from hence they'll not go , but live on our shore ; And ruin all Labour , And ruin all Labour , which pinches the Poor . The Taxes are laid on each large Possession ; yet by their Oppression , The same must be paid by Tenants at Will ; For the Landlords invent Still the raising of Rend , and Twenty things more To pay the King's Taxes , To pay the King's Taxes , by pinching the Poor . Rich Misers have Gold , yet scarce a poor Penny , they'll part with to any ; For Charity's cold , all over the Realm : We find every thing dear , Through the Land far and near , which troubles me soar : I weep when I think of I weep when I think of the Cry of the Poor . It is but in vain , to tell your Condition , with humble Submission ; For though you Complain , you're never the near : Every Time-serving Elf , Builds a Nest for himself , increasing his Store ; By cruel Oppression , By cruel Oppression , in pinching the Poor . Some that heretofore , has kept a good Table , now now are not able To keep from the Door , the ravenous Wolf : Those that use to relieve , Now are glad to receive ; this troubles me soar ; I weep when I think of I weep when I think of the Cry of the Poor . In every Town , sad Poverty's reigning , the poor are complaining , King Heavens look down and pity this Land ; Give the Blessing of Peace , That our Joys may increase , and flourish once more , Defend us from Ruin , Defend us from Ruin , and pity the Poor . Printed for C. Bates , at the White-Hart , in West-Smithfield . Poor Man's Complaint : OR , The Sorrowful Lamentation of Poor Plain-Dealing , at this Time of Distress and Trouble To the Tune of Let Mary live long . A Trend to the Moan Of Honest Plain-Dealing , A sensible feeling , Of Sorrows alone , I have I declare : With watery Eyes , I behold the Excise , which Troubles me soar ; I weep when I think of I weep when I think of the Cry of the Poor . The Times they are hard , yet those that have Treasure , and Wealth out of measure They little regard poor Labouring Men , Who are out of Imply , Whose Children cry ; which troubles them soar : I weep when I think of I weep when I think of the Cry of the Poor . The Tax must be paid all over the Nation without Disputation ; Yet where is the Trade ? that's clearly run down By Strangers from France , With others perchance ; this troubles me soar : They run down all Labour , They run down all Labour , which pinches the Poor . It once was Decreed , to make a Collection , for Strangers protection , In order to feed , and nourish them here : Which encouraged them so , That from hence they'll not go , but live on our shore ; And ruin all Labour , And ruin all Labour , which pinches the Poor . The Taxes are laid on each large Possession ; yet by their Oppression , The same must be paid by Tenants at Will ; For the Landlords invent Still the raising of Rend , and Twenty things more To pay the King's Taxes , To pay the King's Taxes , by pinching the Poor . Rich Misers have Gold , yet scarce a poor Penny , they'll part with to any ; For Charity's cold , all over the Realm : We find every thing dear , Through the Land far and near , which troubles me soar : I weep when I think of I weep when I think of the Cry of the Poor . It is but in vain , to tell your Condition , with humble Submission ; For though you Complain , you're never the near : Every Time-serving Elf , Builds a Nest for himself , increasing his Store ; By cruel Oppression , By cruel Oppression , in pinching the Poor . Some that heretofore , has kept a good Table , now now are not able To keep from the Door , the ravenous Wolf : Those that use to relieve , Now are glad to receive ; this troubles me soar ; I weep when I think of I weep when I think of the Cry of the Poor . In every Town , sad Poverty's reigning , the poor are complaining , King Heavens look down and pity this Land ; Give the Blessing of Peace , That our Joys may increase , and flourish once more , Defend us from Ruin , Defend us from Ruin , and pity the Poor . Printed for C. Bates , at the White-Hart , in West-Smithfield . 