Robin Hood newly revived : To a Delightful New Tune . C Ome listen a while you Gentlemen all , with a heigh down , down , a down , down , That are in this Bower within , for a story of gallant-bold Robin Hood , I purpose now to begin . What time of the day , quod Robin H ood then , with a heigh , etc . Quoth little John it's in the prime , why then we will to the greenwood gang For we have no Victuals to dine . As Robin Hood walked the Forest along , with a heigh , etc . It was in the midst of the day , there was he met with a deft Youngman As ever walked on the way . His Doublet was of Silk he said , with a heigh , etc . His Stockings like Scarlet shone : and he walked on along the way , To Robin Hood then unknown . A heard of Deer was in the Bend , with a heigh , etc . All feeding before his face : now the best of you i'll have to my dinner , And that in a little space . [ N ] owe the Stranger he made no much ado , with a heigh , etc . [ ? ] he bends a right good Bow , [ ? ] worser the best Buck in the Heard he slew , [ ? ] good Yards himfro . Well shot , well shot , quod Robin Hood then , with a heigh , etc . That shot it was shot in time , and if thou wilt except of the place , Thou shalt be a bold Yeoman of mine . Go play the Chiven the stranger said , with a heigh , etc . Make haste and quickly go : or with my Fist be sure of this , I'll give the Buffets store . Thou hadst not best buffet me , quod Rob. Hood with a heigh , etc . For though I seem forlorn , yet I can have those that will take my part If I blow but my Horn . Thou wast not best wind thy horn , the stranger said , with a heigh , etc Be'st thou never so much in haste , for I can draw out a good broad Sword , And quickly cut the blast . Then Robin Hood bent a very good Bow , with a heigh , etc . To that shot and he would fain : the stranger he bent up a noble Bow , To shoot at bold Robin again . O hold thy hand , hold thy hand , quod R. Hood , with a heigh , etc . To shoot it would be in vain , for if we should shoot the one at the other , The one of us must be slave . B Ut let's take our swords & amp ; our broad bucklers with a hey down , etc . And gang under yonder tree , as I hope to be saved , the stranger said , One foot I will not flee . Then Robin Hood lent the stranger a blow with a heigh down , etc . Most scared him out of his wit , thou never felt blow the stranger said , That shall be better quit . The stranger he drew out a good broad sword with a heigh , etc . And hit R obin on the Crown , that from every hair of bold Robins head , The blood ran trickling down . God-a-mercy good fellow quod R obin Hood then with a heigh , etc . And for this that thou hast done , tell me good fellow , what thou art , Tell me where thou dost won . The Stranger then answered bold R. Hood with a heigh down , etc I'll tell thee where I did dwell , in M axfield was I born and bred , My name is young Gamwell . For killing of my Father's Steward , with a heigh , etc I am forced to this English wood , and for to seek and Uncle of mine , Some call him R obin Hood . But art thou a Cozen of R. H oods then ? with a heigh , etc The sooner we should have done ; as I hope to be saved the stranger then said I am his own Sisters Son. But Lord what kissing and courting was there , with a heigh down , etc . When these two Cozens did greet , and they went all that Summer's day And little John did meet . But when they met with Little J ohn , with a heigh down , etc He thereunto did say , Oh Master where have you been , You have tarried so long away ? I met with a stranger quod R. H ood then , with a heigh down , etc Full soar he hath beaten me , then i'll have about with him quod little John And try if he can beatrice me . O no , o no , quoth Robin H ood with a heigh down , etc Little John it may not be so , for he is my own dear Sisters Son , And Cozens I have no more . But he shall be a bold Yeoman of mine , with a heigh down , etc My chief man next to thee , and I Robin H ood , and thou Little John And Scarlet he shall be . And we'll be three of the bravest outlaws , with a heigh down , etc That is in the north Country , if you'll have any more of bold R. H ood In this second part it will be . Then bold R . H ood to the north he would , with a heigh down , etc With Valour and much might , with sword by his side , which oft had been tried To fight and recover his right . The first that he met with was a bold Scot , with a heigh down , etc His servant he said he would be , no , quod R. Hood , it cannot be good , For thou wilt prove false unto me . thou hast not been true to Sire nor Cuz , with a heigh down , etc Nay , marry , the Scot he said , as true as your heart , i'll never part , Good Master be not afraid . Then Robin H ood turned his face to the Ea [ st ] with a heigh down , etc Fight on my merry men stout , our case is good ; quod brave Robin H ood , And we shall not be beaten out . The battle grows hight on every side , with a heigh down , etc The Scotchman made great moan , quoth Jockey good faith , they fight on eac [ h ] sid [ e ] Would I were with my wife Jone . The enemy compassed brave Robin about , with a heigh down , etc It's long ever the battle ends , there's neither will yield nor give up [ the ] Fie [ ld ] For both are supplied with friends . That [ ? ] it w [ ? ] in Robin H oods d [ ? ] Lets [ ? ] we , to giv [ ? ] that mischief ma [ y ] cea [ se ] And Wa [ ? ] to Love . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray [ and T. Passenger . ] Robin Hood newly revived : To a Delightful New Tune . C Ome listen a while you Gentlemen all , with a heigh down , down , a down , down , That are in this Bower within , for a story of gallant-bold Robin Hood , I purpose now to begin . What time of the day , quod Robin H ood then , with a heigh , etc . Quoth little John it's in the prime , why then we will to the greenwood gang For we have no Victuals to dine . As Robin Hood walked the Forest along , with a heigh , etc . It was in the midst of the day , there was he met with a deft Youngman As ever walked on the way . His Doublet was of Silk he said , with a heigh , etc . His Stockings like Scarlet shone : and he walked on along the way , To Robin Hood then unknown . A heard of Deer was in the Bend , with a heigh , etc . All feeding before his face : now the best of you i'll have to my dinner , And that in a little space . [ N ] owe the Stranger he made no much ado , with a heigh , etc . [ ? ] he bends a right good Bow , [ ? ] worser the best Buck in the Heard he slew , [ ? ] good Yards himfro . Well shot , well shot , quod Robin Hood then , with a heigh , etc . That shot it was shot in time , and if thou wilt except of the place , Thou shalt be a bold Yeoman of mine . Go play the Chiven the stranger said , with a heigh , etc . Make haste and quickly go : or with my Fist be sure of this , I'll give the Buffets store . Thou hadst not best buffet me , quod Rob. Hood with a heigh , etc . For though I seem forlorn , yet I can have those that will take my part If I blow but my Horn . Thou wast not best wind thy horn , the stranger said , with a heigh , etc Be'st thou never so much in haste , for I can draw out a good broad Sword , And quickly cut the blast . Then Robin Hood bent a very good Bow , with a heigh , etc . To that shot and he would fain : the stranger he bent up a noble Bow , To shoot at bold Robin again . O hold thy hand , hold thy hand , quod R. Hood , with a heigh , etc . To shoot it would be in vain , for if we should shoot the one at the other , The one of us must be slave . B Ut let's take our swords & amp ; our broad bucklers with a hey down , etc . And gang under yonder tree , as I hope to be saved , the stranger said , One foot I will not flee . Then Robin Hood lent the stranger a blow with a heigh down , etc . Most scared him out of his wit , thou never felt blow the stranger said , That shall be better quit . The stranger he drew out a good broad sword with a heigh , etc . And hit R obin on the Crown , that from every hair of bold Robins head , The blood ran trickling down . God-a-mercy good fellow quod R obin Hood then with a heigh , etc . And for this that thou hast done , tell me good fellow , what thou art , Tell me where thou dost won . The Stranger then answered bold R. Hood with a heigh down , etc I'll tell thee where I did dwell , in M axfield was I born and bred , My name is young Gamwell . For killing of my Father's Steward , with a heigh , etc I am forced to this English wood , and for to seek and Uncle of mine , Some call him R obin Hood . But art thou a Cozen of R. H oods then ? with a heigh , etc The sooner we should have done ; as I hope to be saved the stranger then said I am his own Sisters Son. But Lord what kissing and courting was there , with a heigh down , etc . When these two Cozens did greet , and they went all that Summer's day And little John did meet . But when they met with Little J ohn , with a heigh down , etc He thereunto did say , Oh Master where have you been , You have tarried so long away ? I met with a stranger quod R. H ood then , with a heigh down , etc Full soar he hath beaten me , then i'll have about with him quod little John And try if he can beatrice me . O no , o no , quoth Robin H ood with a heigh down , etc Little John it may not be so , for he is my own dear Sisters Son , And Cozens I have no more . But he shall be a bold Yeoman of mine , with a heigh down , etc My chief man next to thee , and I Robin H ood , and thou Little John And Scarlet he shall be . And we'll be three of the bravest outlaws , with a heigh down , etc That is in the north Country , if you'll have any more of bold R. H ood In this second part it will be . Then bold R . H ood to the north he would , with a heigh down , etc With Valour and much might , with sword by his side , which oft had been tried To fight and recover his right . The first that he met with was a bold Scot , with a heigh down , etc His servant he said he would be , no , quod R. Hood , it cannot be good , For thou wilt prove false unto me . thou hast not been true to Sire nor Cuz , with a heigh down , etc Nay , marry , the Scot he said , as true as your heart , i'll never part , Good Master be not afraid . Then Robin H ood turned his face to the Ea [ st ] with a heigh down , etc Fight on my merry men stout , our case is good ; quod brave Robin H ood , And we shall not be beaten out . The battle grows hight on every side , with a heigh down , etc The Scotchman made great moan , quoth Jockey good faith , they fight on eac [ h ] sid [ e ] Would I were with my wife Jone . The enemy compassed brave Robin about , with a heigh down , etc It's long ever the battle ends , there's neither will yield nor give up [ the ] Fie [ ld ] For both are supplied with friends . That [ ? ] it w [ ? ] in Robin H oods d [ ? ] Lets [ ? ] we , to giv [ ? ] that mischief ma [ y ] cea [ se ] And Wa [ ? ] to Love . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray [ and T. Passenger . ] 