THE Jolly Pinder of Wakefield ; WITH Robin Hood , Scarlet , and John. I N Wakefield there lives a jolly Pinder , in Wakefield all on a Green , in Wakefield all on a Green ; There is neither Knight nor Squire , said the Pinder ; nor Baron that is so bold , nor Baron that is so bold ; Dare make a tresspass to the town of Wakefield , but his Pledge goes to the Pinfold , etc All this beheard three witty young Men , 'Twas Robin Hood , Scarlet , and John , etc With that they espied the jolly Pinder , as he sat under a thorn , etc Now turn again , turn again , said the Pinder , for a wrong way you have gone , etc For you have forsaken the King's Highway and made a path over the Corn , etc O that were great shame , said jolly Robin , we being three , and thou but one , etc The Pinder leapt back then thirty good foot , 'twas thirty good foot and one , etc He leaned his back fast unto a thorn , and his foot against a stone , etc And there they fought a long Summer's day , a summer's day so long , etc Till that their swords on their broad bucklers , were broke fast unto their hands , etc Hold thy hand , hold thy hand , said Robin Hood , and my merry men every one , etc For this is one of the best Pinders that ever I tried with sword , etc And wilt thou forsake thy Pinders Craft , and live in the Greenwood with me , etc At Michelmas next my Covenant comes out , when every man gathers his fee , etc I'll take my blue blade all in my hand , and plod to the green wood with thee , etc Hast thou either meat or drink ? said Robin Hood , for my merry men and me , etc I have both bred and beef , said the Pinder , and good Ale of the best , etc And that is Meat good enough , said Robin Hood , for such unbidden Guest , etc O wilt thou forsake the Pinder his Craft , and go to the Green-Wood with me ? etc Thou shalt have a Livery twice in the year , the one green , the other brown , etc If Michaelmas day was come and gone , and my Master had paid me my fee , and my Master had paid me my fee , Then would I set as little by him , as my Master does by me , as my Master does by me The Noble A cts newly found , Of Arthur of the Table Round . To the Tune of , Flying Fame . W Hen Arthur first in Court began , and was approved King , By force of arms great Victories wone , and Conquest home did bring : Then into Brittain straight he came , where fifty stout and able Knights , then repaired unto him , which were of the Round table . And many Jousts and Tournaments , before him there were pressed . Wherein these Knights did then excel , and far surmount the rest . But one Sir Lancelot du Lake , who was approved well , He in his fights and deeds of arms , all others did excel . When he had rested him a while , to play , and game , and sport , He thought he would approve himself in some adventurous sort : He armed road in forest wide , and met a Damsel fair , Who told him of Adventures great , whereto he gave good ear , Why should not I ? ( quoth Lancelot though ) for that cause came I hither , Thou seemest , quoth she , and Knight right good , and I will bring thee thither , Where as the nightest Knight does dwell that now is of great fame , Wherefore tell me what Knight thou art , and then what is thy name . My name is Lancelot du Lake , quoth she it likes me then , Here dwells a Knight that never was overmatched of any man : Who hath in Prison threescore Knights , and some that he hath bound , Knights of King Arthurs Court they be , and of the Table round , She brought him to a River then , and also to a tree , Whereas a Copper Bason hung , his Fellow Shields to see . He struck so hard the Basin broke , when Tarquin herd the found , He drove a horse before him straight , whereone a Knight was bound . Sir Knight ( then said Sir L ancelot ) bring me that Horseload hither , And lay him down and let him rest , we'll try our force together : For as I understand , thou hast , as far as thou art able , Done great despite and shame unto the Knights of the round table . If thou art of the table round , quoth Tarquin speedily , Both thee and all thy Fellowship , I utterly defy . That's overmuch , quoth Lancelot though , defend thee by and by , They put their spurs unto their Steeds , and each at other fly . They couch their Spears and Horses run , as though they had been thunder , And each struck then upon the Shield , wherewith they break asunder : Their Horses backs break under them , the Knights they were astoned ; To avoid their horses they made haste , to fight upon the ground : They took them to their shields full fast , their Swords they drew out then , With mighty streaks most eagerly , each one at other run : They wounded were , and bled full soar , for breath they both did stand , And leaning on their Swords a while , quoth Tarquin hold thy hand , And tell to me what I shall ask , say on , quoth Lancelot though , Thou art , quoth Tarquin , the best Knight that ever I did know . And like a Knight that I did hate , so that thou be not he , I will deliver all the rest , and eke accord with thee . That is well said , quoth Lancelot then , but sith it so must be , What is the Knight thou hatest so ? I pray thee show to me : His name is Sir Lancelot du Lake , he slew my Brother dear , Him I suspect of all the rest , I would I had him here . Thy wish thou hast , but now unknown , I am Lancelot du Lake , Now of King A rthurs table round , King Hands Son of Benwake : And I defy thee do thy worst , would , would , quoth Tarquin though , One of us two shall end our lives , before that we do go . If thou be Lancelot du Lake , then welcome shalt thou be , Wherefore see thou thy self defend , for now I do thee defy . They hurled then together fast , like two wild Boards so rashing , And with their Swords & amp ; Shields they ran at one another slashing . The ground besprinkled was with blood . Tarquin began to faint , For he had backed and boar his Shield , so low he did repent : Which soon espied Lancelot though , he leapt upon him then , He pulled him down upon his knee , and rushed off his Helm : And then he struck his Neck in two , and when he had done so , From prison threescore Knights and four , Lancelot delivered though . Printed by and for Alex. Milbourn in Green-Arbor-Court in the Little Old-Baily . THE Jolly Pinder of Wakefield ; WITH Robin Hood , Scarlet , and John. I N Wakefield there lives a jolly Pinder , in Wakefield all on a Green , in Wakefield all on a Green ; There is neither Knight nor Squire , said the Pinder ; nor Baron that is so bold , nor Baron that is so bold ; Dare make a tresspass to the town of Wakefield , but his Pledge goes to the Pinfold , etc All this beheard three witty young Men , 'Twas Robin Hood , Scarlet , and John , etc With that they espied the jolly Pinder , as he sat under a thorn , etc Now turn again , turn again , said the Pinder , for a wrong way you have gone , etc For you have forsaken the King's Highway and made a path over the Corn , etc O that were great shame , said jolly Robin , we being three , and thou but one , etc The Pinder leapt back then thirty good foot , 'twas thirty good foot and one , etc He leaned his back fast unto a thorn , and his foot against a stone , etc And there they fought a long Summer's day , a summer's day so long , etc Till that their swords on their broad bucklers , were broke fast unto their hands , etc Hold thy hand , hold thy hand , said Robin Hood , and my merry men every one , etc For this is one of the best Pinders that ever I tried with sword , etc And wilt thou forsake thy Pinders Craft , and live in the Greenwood with me , etc At Michelmas next my Covenant comes out , when every man gathers his fee , etc I'll take my blue blade all in my hand , and plod to the green wood with thee , etc Hast thou either meat or drink ? said Robin Hood , for my merry men and me , etc I have both bred and beef , said the Pinder , and good Ale of the best , etc And that is Meat good enough , said Robin Hood , for such unbidden Guest , etc O wilt thou forsake the Pinder his Craft , and go to the Green-Wood with me ? etc Thou shalt have a Livery twice in the year , the one green , the other brown , etc If Michaelmas day was come and gone , and my Master had paid me my fee , and my Master had paid me my fee , Then would I set as little by him , as my Master does by me , as my Master does by me The Noble A cts newly found , Of Arthur of the Table Round . To the Tune of , Flying Fame . W Hen Arthur first in Court began , and was approved King , By force of arms great Victories wone , and Conquest home did bring : Then into Brittain straight he came , where fifty stout and able Knights , then repaired unto him , which were of the Round table . And many Jousts and Tournaments , before him there were pressed . Wherein these Knights did then excel , and far surmount the rest . But one Sir Lancelot du Lake , who was approved well , He in his fights and deeds of arms , all others did excel . When he had rested him a while , to play , and game , and sport , He thought he would approve himself in some adventurous sort : He armed road in forest wide , and met a Damsel fair , Who told him of Adventures great , whereto he gave good ear , Why should not I ? ( quoth Lancelot though ) for that cause came I hither , Thou seemest , quoth she , and Knight right good , and I will bring thee thither , Where as the nightest Knight does dwell that now is of great fame , Wherefore tell me what Knight thou art , and then what is thy name . My name is Lancelot du Lake , quoth she it likes me then , Here dwells a Knight that never was overmatched of any man : Who hath in Prison threescore Knights , and some that he hath bound , Knights of King Arthurs Court they be , and of the Table round , She brought him to a River then , and also to a tree , Whereas a Copper Bason hung , his Fellow Shields to see . He struck so hard the Basin broke , when Tarquin herd the found , He drove a horse before him straight , whereone a Knight was bound . Sir Knight ( then said Sir L ancelot ) bring me that Horseload hither , And lay him down and let him rest , we'll try our force together : For as I understand , thou hast , as far as thou art able , Done great despite and shame unto the Knights of the round table . If thou art of the table round , quoth Tarquin speedily , Both thee and all thy Fellowship , I utterly defy . That's overmuch , quoth Lancelot though , defend thee by and by , They put their spurs unto their Steeds , and each at other fly . They couch their Spears and Horses run , as though they had been thunder , And each struck then upon the Shield , wherewith they break asunder : Their Horses backs break under them , the Knights they were astoned ; To avoid their horses they made haste , to fight upon the ground : They took them to their shields full fast , their Swords they drew out then , With mighty streaks most eagerly , each one at other run : They wounded were , and bled full soar , for breath they both did stand , And leaning on their Swords a while , quoth Tarquin hold thy hand , And tell to me what I shall ask , say on , quoth Lancelot though , Thou art , quoth Tarquin , the best Knight that ever I did know . And like a Knight that I did hate , so that thou be not he , I will deliver all the rest , and eke accord with thee . That is well said , quoth Lancelot then , but sith it so must be , What is the Knight thou hatest so ? I pray thee show to me : His name is Sir Lancelot du Lake , he slew my Brother dear , Him I suspect of all the rest , I would I had him here . Thy wish thou hast , but now unknown , I am Lancelot du Lake , Now of King A rthurs table round , King Hands Son of Benwake : And I defy thee do thy worst , would , would , quoth Tarquin though , One of us two shall end our lives , before that we do go . If thou be Lancelot du Lake , then welcome shalt thou be , Wherefore see thou thy self defend , for now I do thee defy . They hurled then together fast , like two wild Boards so rashing , And with their Swords & amp ; Shields they ran at one another slashing . The ground besprinkled was with blood . Tarquin began to faint , For he had backed and boar his Shield , so low he did repent : Which soon espied Lancelot though , he leapt upon him then , He pulled him down upon his knee , and rushed off his Helm : And then he struck his Neck in two , and when he had done so , From prison threescore Knights and four , Lancelot delivered though . Printed by and for Alex. Milbourn in Green-Arbor-Court in the Little Old-Baily . 