Robin Hood and the Butcher . To the Tune of , Robin Hood and the Beggar . C Ome all you brave Gallants & amp ; listen a while , With a heigh down , down , and a down , that are in this Bower within , For of Robin Hood , that Archer good , a Song I intend to sing . Upon a time it chanced so , with a heigh , etc . bold Robin in the Forest did spy , A jolly Butcher , with a bonny fine Mare , with his Flesh to the Market did high . Good morrow , good fellow , said jolly Robin , with a heigh , etc . what food hast , tell unto me , And thy trade to me tell and where thou dost dwell , for I like well thy company . The Butcher he answered jolly Robin , with a heigh , etc . no matter where I dwell , For a Butcher I am and to Nottingham I am going my flesh to fell . What's the price of thy flesh , said jolly Robin , with a heigh , etc . come tell it soon unto me , And the price of thy Mare , be it never so dear , for a butcher fain would I be The price of my flesh , the butcher replied , with a heigh , etc . I soon will tell unto thee , With my bonny mare , and they are not dear , four mark thou must give unto me . Four Mark I will give thee , said jolly Robin , with a heigh , etc . four mark it will be thy fee , Thy money come count , and let me mount , for a Butcher I fain would be . Now Robin he is to Nottingham gone , with a heigh , etc . his Butchers Trade for to begin , With a good intent , to the Sheriff he went and there he took up his Inn. When other Butchers did open their meat with a heigh , etc . bold Robin he then begun , But how for to fell , he knew not well , for a Butcher he was but young . When other Butchers no meat could fell , with a heigh , etc . Robin god both Gold and fee , For he sold more meat for one penny , than others could do for three . But when he sold his meat so fast , with a heigh , etc . no Butcher by him could thrive , For he sold more meat for one penny than others could do for five . Which made the Butchers of Nottingham with a heigh , etc . to study as they did stand , Saying surely he was some Prodigal , that had sold his Father's land . The Butchers they stepped to jolly Robin , with a heigh , etc . acquainted with him for to be , Come brother , one said , we be all of a trade come will you go dine with me ? Accursed of his heart , said jolly Robin , with a heigh , etc . that a Butcher will deny ; I will go with you , my brothers true , and as fast as I can high . B Ut when to the Sheriffs house he came with a heigh , etc . to dinner they hied apace , And Robin he the man must be , before them all to say Grace . prey God bless us all , said jolly Robin , with a heigh , etc . and our meat within this place , A cup of sack so good , will nourish our blood , and so I end my grace . Come fill us more Wine , said jolly Bobin , with a heigh , etc . let us be merry while we do stay ; For wine and good cheer , be it never so dear I vow I the reckoning will pay , Come brother's be merry , said jolly R obin , with a heigh , etc . let us drink and never give over , For the shot I will pay ever I go my way , if it cost me five pound or more . This is a mad blade , the butchers then said with a heigh , etc . says the Sheriff he is some Prodigal , That some Land has sold for silver and gold and now he does mean to spend all . Hast any horned beasts the Sheriff then said with a heigh , etc . good Fellow to fell unto me , Yes that I have , good Master Sheriff , I have hundreds two or three . A hundred Acres of good free Land , with a heigh , etc . if you please it to see . And i'll make you as good assurance of it , as ever my Father made me . The Sheriff he saddled a good Palfrey , with a heigh , etc . and with three hundred pound in Gold , Away he went with bold R obin Hood , his horned Beasts to behold . Away then the Sheriff and R obin did ride , with a heigh , etc . to the Forest of merry S herwood , Then the Sheriff did say , God bless us this day from a man they call R ob . Hood : But when that a little further they came , with a heigh , etc . bold R obin he chanced to spy , A hundred head of good Read Deer , came tripping the Sheriff full nigh . How like you my horned beasts good Master Sheriff with a heigh , etc . they be fat and fair for to see , I tell thee good fellow , I would I were gone for I like not thy company . Then Robin he set his horn to his mouth , with a heigh , etc . and blew out blasts three , Then quickly anon , there came little John , and all his company . What is your will Master , said little John , with a heigh , etc . I pray you come tell it to me , I have brought the Sheriff of Nottingham this day to dine with thee . He is welcome to me , said little John , with a heigh , etc . I hope he will honestly pay , I know he has gold , were it but well told , will serve us to drink a whole day . Then Robin took his Mantle from his back , with a heigh , etc . and laid it upon the ground , And out of the Sheriffs Portmantle , he told five hundred pound . Then Robin brought him through the wood , with a heigh down , down and a down , and set him on his Dapple Grey , Oh have me commended to your wife at home so Robin went Laughing away . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . Robin Hood and the Butcher . To the Tune of , Robin Hood and the Beggar . C Ome all you brave Gallants & amp ; listen a while , With a heigh down , down , and a down , that are in this Bower within , For of Robin Hood , that Archer good , a Song I intend to sing . Upon a time it chanced so , with a heigh , etc . bold Robin in the Forest did spy , A jolly Butcher , with a bonny fine Mare , with his Flesh to the Market did high . Good morrow , good fellow , said jolly Robin , with a heigh , etc . what food hast , tell unto me , And thy trade to me tell and where thou dost dwell , for I like well thy company . The Butcher he answered jolly Robin , with a heigh , etc . no matter where I dwell , For a Butcher I am and to Nottingham I am going my flesh to fell . What's the price of thy flesh , said jolly Robin , with a heigh , etc . come tell it soon unto me , And the price of thy Mare , be it never so dear , for a butcher fain would I be The price of my flesh , the butcher replied , with a heigh , etc . I soon will tell unto thee , With my bonny mare , and they are not dear , four mark thou must give unto me . Four Mark I will give thee , said jolly Robin , with a heigh , etc . four mark it will be thy fee , Thy money come count , and let me mount , for a Butcher I fain would be . Now Robin he is to Nottingham gone , with a heigh , etc . his Butchers Trade for to begin , With a good intent , to the Sheriff he went and there he took up his Inn. When other Butchers did open their meat with a heigh , etc . bold Robin he then begun , But how for to fell , he knew not well , for a Butcher he was but young . When other Butchers no meat could fell , with a heigh , etc . Robin god both Gold and fee , For he sold more meat for one penny , than others could do for three . But when he sold his meat so fast , with a heigh , etc . no Butcher by him could thrive , For he sold more meat for one penny than others could do for five . Which made the Butchers of Nottingham with a heigh , etc . to study as they did stand , Saying surely he was some Prodigal , that had sold his Father's land . The Butchers they stepped to jolly Robin , with a heigh , etc . acquainted with him for to be , Come brother , one said , we be all of a trade come will you go dine with me ? Accursed of his heart , said jolly Robin , with a heigh , etc . that a Butcher will deny ; I will go with you , my brothers true , and as fast as I can high . B Ut when to the Sheriffs house he came with a heigh , etc . to dinner they hied apace , And Robin he the man must be , before them all to say Grace . prey God bless us all , said jolly Robin , with a heigh , etc . and our meat within this place , A cup of sack so good , will nourish our blood , and so I end my grace . Come fill us more Wine , said jolly Bobin , with a heigh , etc . let us be merry while we do stay ; For wine and good cheer , be it never so dear I vow I the reckoning will pay , Come brother's be merry , said jolly R obin , with a heigh , etc . let us drink and never give over , For the shot I will pay ever I go my way , if it cost me five pound or more . This is a mad blade , the butchers then said with a heigh , etc . says the Sheriff he is some Prodigal , That some Land has sold for silver and gold and now he does mean to spend all . Hast any horned beasts the Sheriff then said with a heigh , etc . good Fellow to fell unto me , Yes that I have , good Master Sheriff , I have hundreds two or three . A hundred Acres of good free Land , with a heigh , etc . if you please it to see . And i'll make you as good assurance of it , as ever my Father made me . The Sheriff he saddled a good Palfrey , with a heigh , etc . and with three hundred pound in Gold , Away he went with bold R obin Hood , his horned Beasts to behold . Away then the Sheriff and R obin did ride , with a heigh , etc . to the Forest of merry S herwood , Then the Sheriff did say , God bless us this day from a man they call R ob . Hood : But when that a little further they came , with a heigh , etc . bold R obin he chanced to spy , A hundred head of good Read Deer , came tripping the Sheriff full nigh . How like you my horned beasts good Master Sheriff with a heigh , etc . they be fat and fair for to see , I tell thee good fellow , I would I were gone for I like not thy company . Then Robin he set his horn to his mouth , with a heigh , etc . and blew out blasts three , Then quickly anon , there came little John , and all his company . What is your will Master , said little John , with a heigh , etc . I pray you come tell it to me , I have brought the Sheriff of Nottingham this day to dine with thee . He is welcome to me , said little John , with a heigh , etc . I hope he will honestly pay , I know he has gold , were it but well told , will serve us to drink a whole day . Then Robin took his Mantle from his back , with a heigh , etc . and laid it upon the ground , And out of the Sheriffs Portmantle , he told five hundred pound . Then Robin brought him through the wood , with a heigh down , down and a down , and set him on his Dapple Grey , Oh have me commended to your wife at home so Robin went Laughing away . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 