A New Song to drive away cold Winter , Between Robin Hood and the jovial Tinker . How Robin by a wile , the Tinker did cheat , But at the length as you shall hear , the Tinker did him beatrice , Where by the same , they did then agree , They after lived in love and unity , To the Tune of , In Summer time . I N summer time when leaves grow grin down , a down , a down , And Birds sing on every tree , heigh down , a down , a down , Robin Hood went to Nottingham , down , a down , a down , As fast as he could dree . heigh down , a down , a down . And as he came to Nottingham , a Tinker he did meet , And seeing him a lusty blade , he did him kindly greet . Where dost thou live quod Robin Hood , I pray thee now me tell , Sad news I hear there is abroad , I fear all is not well . What is that news the Tinker said , tell me without delay , I am a Tinker by my trade , and do live at B anburay . As for the news quoth Robin Hood , it is but as I hear Two tinkers they were set i'th stocks , for drinking ale and beer . If that be all the Tinker said , as I may say to you , Your news it is not worth a fart , since that they all be true . For drinking of good ale and beer , you will not lose your part , No by my faith quoth Robin Hood , I love it with all my heart . What news abroad , quoth Robin Hood , tell me what thou dost hear , Being thou goest from town to town , some news thou need not fear . All the news the tinker said , I hear , it is for good , It is to seek a bold Outlaw , which they call Robin Hood . I have a warrant from the King , to take him where I can , If you can tell me where he is , I will make you a man , The King would give and hundred pound , that he could but him see , And if we can but now him get , it will serve you and me . Let me see that warrant , said Robin Hood . i'll see if it be right , And I will do the best I can , for to take him this night . That will I not the Tinker said , none with it I will trust , And where he is , if you'll not tell , take him by force I must . But Robin Hood perceiving well , down , a down , a down , How then the game would go , heigh down , a down , a down , If you will go to Nottingham , down , a down , a down , We shall find him I know , hey down , a down , a down , TO he Tinker had a Crabtree staff , down , a down , a down , Which was both good and strong , R obin he had a good strong blade , So they went both along , heigh , down , etc . And when they came to Nottingham , there they took up their Inn , And they called for ale and wine , to drink it was no since . But ale and wine they drank so fast , that the tinker he forgotten , What thing he was about to do , it fell so to his lot . That while the tinker fell asleep , he made then haste away , And left the tinker in the lurch , for the great shot to pay . But when the tinker wakened , and saw that he was gone , He called then even for his host , and thus he made his moan , I had a warrant from the King , which might have done me good , That is to seek a bold Out-Law , some call him Robin Hood . But now my warrant and money's gone , nothing I have to pay , And he that promised to be my friend , he is gone and fled away . That friend you speak on said the Host , they call him Robin Hood , And when that first he met with you , he meant you little good , Had I known it had been he , when that I had him here , Th'one of us should have tried our strength which should have paid full dear . In the mean time I was away , no longer here i'll bide , But I will go and seek him out , what ever do betide . But one thing I would gladly know , what here I have to pay , Ten Shillings just I have to pay , i'll pay without delay . Or else take here my working bag , and my good hammer too , And if I light but on that Knave , I will then soon pay you . The only way then said the host , and not to stand in fear , Is to seek him among the Parks , killing of the Kings Deer . The tinker he then went with speed , and made then no delay , Till he had then found Robin Hood , that they might have a fray . At last he spied him in a Park , hunting then of the Deer , What Knave is that , quoth Robin Hood , that does come me so near , No Knave , no knave , the tinker said , and that you soon shall know , Whither of us hath done most wrong , my Crabtree staff shall show . Then Robin drew his gallant blade , made then of trusty steel , But the tinker he laid on so fast , that he made Robin reel . Then Robins anger did arise , he fought full manfully Until he had made the tinker , almost then fit to fly . With that they laid about again , they plied their weapons fast , The Tinker threshed his bones so soar , that he made him yield at last . A Boon , a boon Robin he cries , if thou wilt grant it me . Before I do it the Tinker said i'll hang thee on this Tree . But the Tinker looking him about , Robin his Horn did blow . Then came unto him little John , and Will Scadlock too , What is the matter quoth little John , you fit in the highway side , Here is a Tinker that stands by , that hath paid well my Hide . That Tinker then said little John , fain that Blade I would see , And I would try what I could do , if he'l do as much for me . But Robin he then wished them both they would the Quarrel cease , That henceforth we may be as one , and ever live in peace . And for the jovial Tinkers part a hundred pound I give , In the year to maintain him on , as long as he does live . In Manhood he is a Mettle-man , and a mettle-man by Trade , I never thought that any man should have made me so afraid . And if he will be one with us , we will take all one fare , And whatsoever we do get , he shall have his full share . So the Tinker was content , down a down a down , With them to go along , heigh down , a down a down , And with them a part to take , down , a down a down , And so I end my Song . heigh down , a down a down . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , & amp ; T. PassingerA New Song to drive away cold Winter , Between Robin Hood and the jovial Tinker . How Robin by a wile , the Tinker did cheat , But at the length as you shall hear , the Tinker did him beatrice , Where by the same , they did then agree , They after lived in love and unity , To the Tune of , In Summer time . I N summer time when leaves grow grin down , a down , a down , And Birds sing on every tree , heigh down , a down , a down , Robin Hood went to Nottingham , down , a down , a down , As fast as he could dree . heigh down , a down , a down . And as he came to Nottingham , a Tinker he did meet , And seeing him a lusty blade , he did him kindly greet . Where dost thou live quod Robin Hood , I pray thee now me tell , Sad news I hear there is abroad , I fear all is not well . What is that news the Tinker said , tell me without delay , I am a Tinker by my trade , and do live at B anburay . As for the news quoth Robin Hood , it is but as I hear Two tinkers they were set i'th stocks , for drinking ale and beer . If that be all the Tinker said , as I may say to you , Your news it is not worth a fart , since that they all be true . For drinking of good ale and beer , you will not lose your part , No by my faith quoth Robin Hood , I love it with all my heart . What news abroad , quoth Robin Hood , tell me what thou dost hear , Being thou goest from town to town , some news thou need not fear . All the news the tinker said , I hear , it is for good , It is to seek a bold Outlaw , which they call Robin Hood . I have a warrant from the King , to take him where I can , If you can tell me where he is , I will make you a man , The King would give and hundred pound , that he could but him see , And if we can but now him get , it will serve you and me . Let me see that warrant , said Robin Hood . i'll see if it be right , And I will do the best I can , for to take him this night . That will I not the Tinker said , none with it I will trust , And where he is , if you'll not tell , take him by force I must . But Robin Hood perceiving well , down , a down , a down , How then the game would go , heigh down , a down , a down , If you will go to Nottingham , down , a down , a down , We shall find him I know , hey down , a down , a down , TO he Tinker had a Crabtree staff , down , a down , a down , Which was both good and strong , R obin he had a good strong blade , So they went both along , heigh , down , etc . And when they came to Nottingham , there they took up their Inn , And they called for ale and wine , to drink it was no since . But ale and wine they drank so fast , that the tinker he forgotten , What thing he was about to do , it fell so to his lot . That while the tinker fell asleep , he made then haste away , And left the tinker in the lurch , for the great shot to pay . But when the tinker wakened , and saw that he was gone , He called then even for his host , and thus he made his moan , I had a warrant from the King , which might have done me good , That is to seek a bold Out-Law , some call him Robin Hood . But now my warrant and money's gone , nothing I have to pay , And he that promised to be my friend , he is gone and fled away . That friend you speak on said the Host , they call him Robin Hood , And when that first he met with you , he meant you little good , Had I known it had been he , when that I had him here , Th'one of us should have tried our strength which should have paid full dear . In the mean time I was away , no longer here i'll bide , But I will go and seek him out , what ever do betide . But one thing I would gladly know , what here I have to pay , Ten Shillings just I have to pay , i'll pay without delay . Or else take here my working bag , and my good hammer too , And if I light but on that Knave , I will then soon pay you . The only way then said the host , and not to stand in fear , Is to seek him among the Parks , killing of the Kings Deer . The tinker he then went with speed , and made then no delay , Till he had then found Robin Hood , that they might have a fray . At last he spied him in a Park , hunting then of the Deer , What Knave is that , quoth Robin Hood , that does come me so near , No Knave , no knave , the tinker said , and that you soon shall know , Whither of us hath done most wrong , my Crabtree staff shall show . Then Robin drew his gallant blade , made then of trusty steel , But the tinker he laid on so fast , that he made Robin reel . Then Robins anger did arise , he fought full manfully Until he had made the tinker , almost then fit to fly . With that they laid about again , they plied their weapons fast , The Tinker threshed his bones so soar , that he made him yield at last . A Boon , a boon Robin he cries , if thou wilt grant it me . Before I do it the Tinker said i'll hang thee on this Tree . But the Tinker looking him about , Robin his Horn did blow . Then came unto him little John , and Will Scadlock too , What is the matter quoth little John , you fit in the highway side , Here is a Tinker that stands by , that hath paid well my Hide . That Tinker then said little John , fain that Blade I would see , And I would try what I could do , if he'l do as much for me . But Robin he then wished them both they would the Quarrel cease , That henceforth we may be as one , and ever live in peace . And for the jovial Tinkers part a hundred pound I give , In the year to maintain him on , as long as he does live . In Manhood he is a Mettle-man , and a mettle-man by Trade , I never thought that any man should have made me so afraid . And if he will be one with us , we will take all one fare , And whatsoever we do get , he shall have his full share . So the Tinker was content , down a down a down , With them to go along , heigh down , a down a down , And with them a part to take , down , a down a down , And so I end my Song . heigh down , a down a down . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , & amp ; T. Passenger 