Robin Hood his Rescuing Will Stutly from the Sheriff and his Men , Who had taken him Prisoner , and was going to Hang him . To the Tune of , Robin Hood and Queen Katherine . W Hen Robin Hood in the green Wood , derry , derry , down , Under the green Wood Tree , Tidings there came to him with speed , Tidings for certainty : heigh down , derry , derry down . That Will Stutly surprised was , And eke in Prison lay , Three Varlets that the Sheriff had hired , Did likely him betray . I and to morrow hanged must be , To morrow as soon as it's day , But before they could this Victory get , Two of them did Stutly slay , When Robin Hood he herd this News , Lord he was grieved soar , I and to his merry Men said , Who altogether Swore , That Will Stutly should Rescued be , And be brought back again , Or else should many a gallant Wight , For his sake there be slave . He clothed himself in Scarlet then , His Men were all in Green , A fairer show throughout the world , In no place could be seen . Good Lord it was a gallant sighed To see them all on a row , With every Man a good broad Sword , And eke a good Yew Bow. Forth of the green Wood they are gone , Yea all Courageously , Resolving to bring Stutly home , Or every man to die . And when they came the Castle near , Whereas Will Stutly lay , I hold it good , said Robin Hood , We here in ambush stay . And send one forth some news to hear , To yonder Palmer fair , That stands under the Castle Wall , Some News he may declare . With that steps forth a brave young man , Which was of Courage bold , Thus he did say to the Old Man , I pray thee Palmer Old , Tell me if that thou rightly ken , derry , derry , down , When must Will Stutly die , Who is one of bold Robin Hoods men , And here does Prisoner lie ; heigh down , derry , derry , down . A Las , alas , the Palmer said , derry , derry , down , And for ever woe is me ; Will Stutly Hanged must be to day , On yonder Gallows Tree , heigh down , derry , derry , down . O had his Noble Master known , He would some succour send , A few of his bold Yeomandre Full soon would fetch him hence I that is true , the Youngman said , I that is true , said he ; Or if they were near to this place , They soon would set him free . But fare thou well thou good Old Man , Farewell , and thanks to thee ; If Stutly hanged be this day , Revenged his death will be . He was no sooner from the Palmer gone , But the Gates was opened wide , And out of the Castle Will Stutly came , Guarded on every side . When he was forth of the Castle come , And saw no help was nigh . Thus he did say unto the Sheriff , Thus he said gallantly . Now seeing that I needs must die , Grant me one boon , said he ; For my Noble Master never had Man That yet was Hanged on Tree . Give me a Sword all in my hand , And let me be unbound , And with thee and thy Men i'll fight , Until I lie dead on the ground . But this desire he would not grant , His wishes were in vain , For the Sheriff had swore he hanged should be , And not by the Sword be slave . Do but unbind my hands , he says , I will no Weapons crave , And if I hanged be this day , Damnation let me have . O no , Oh no , the Sheriff he said , Thou shalt on the Gallows die , I and so shall thy Master too , If ever in me it lie . O dastard Coward , Stutly cries , Thou fainthearted peasant slave , If ever my Master do thee meet , Thou shalt thy payment have . My Noble Master thee does scorn , And all thy cowardly crew , Such silly Imps unable are Bold Robin to subdue . But when he was to the Gallows come , And ready to bid adieu , Out of a Bush leaps Little John , And steps Will Stutly too . I pray thee Will before thou die , Of thy dear friends take leave , I needs must borrow him a while , How say you Master Sheriff ? Now as I live , the Sheriff said , That Varlet will I know , Some sturdy Rebel is that same , Therefore let him not go . With that Little John so hastily , Away cut Stutly's Bans , And from one of the Sheriffs Men , A Sword ' twicht from his hands . Here Will , here take thou this same , Thou canst it better sway , And here defend thy self a while , For aid will come straightway . And there they turned them back to back , In the middle of them that day , Till Robin Hood approached near , With many and Archer gay . With that and Arrow by them flew , I wist from Robin Hood , Make haste , make haste , the Sheriff he said , Make haste for it is good . The Sheriff is gone , his doubtless men Thought it no boot to stay , But as their Master had them taught , They run full fast away . O stay , Oh stay , Will Stutly said , Take leave ever you depart , You never will catch bold Robin Hood , Unless you dare him meet . O ill betide you , quoth Robin Hood , That you so soon are gone , My Sword may in the Scabbord rest , For here our work is done . I little thought when I came here , When I came here to this place , For to have met with L ittle John , Or seen my Master's face . Thus Stutly was at Liberty set , And safe brought from him Foe , Oh thanks , Oh thanks , to my Master , Since here it was not so . And once again my Fellows dear , derry , derry , down , We shall in the Green-Woods meet , Where we will make our Bowstrings twan [ g ] Music for us most meet , heigh down , derry , derry , down . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . Robin Hood his Rescuing Will Stutly from the Sheriff and his Men , Who had taken him Prisoner , and was going to Hang him . To the Tune of , Robin Hood and Queen Katherine . W Hen Robin Hood in the green Wood , derry , derry , down , Under the green Wood Tree , Tidings there came to him with speed , Tidings for certainty : heigh down , derry , derry down . That Will Stutly surprised was , And eke in Prison lay , Three Varlets that the Sheriff had hired , Did likely him betray . I and to morrow hanged must be , To morrow as soon as it's day , But before they could this Victory get , Two of them did Stutly slay , When Robin Hood he herd this News , Lord he was grieved soar , I and to his merry Men said , Who altogether Swore , That Will Stutly should Rescued be , And be brought back again , Or else should many a gallant Wight , For his sake there be slave . He clothed himself in Scarlet then , His Men were all in Green , A fairer show throughout the world , In no place could be seen . Good Lord it was a gallant sighed To see them all on a row , With every Man a good broad Sword , And eke a good Yew Bow. Forth of the green Wood they are gone , Yea all Courageously , Resolving to bring Stutly home , Or every man to die . And when they came the Castle near , Whereas Will Stutly lay , I hold it good , said Robin Hood , We here in ambush stay . And send one forth some news to hear , To yonder Palmer fair , That stands under the Castle Wall , Some News he may declare . With that steps forth a brave young man , Which was of Courage bold , Thus he did say to the Old Man , I pray thee Palmer Old , Tell me if that thou rightly ken , derry , derry , down , When must Will Stutly die , Who is one of bold Robin Hoods men , And here does Prisoner lie ; heigh down , derry , derry , down . A Las , alas , the Palmer said , derry , derry , down , And for ever woe is me ; Will Stutly Hanged must be to day , On yonder Gallows Tree , heigh down , derry , derry , down . O had his Noble Master known , He would some succour send , A few of his bold Yeomandre Full soon would fetch him hence I that is true , the Youngman said , I that is true , said he ; Or if they were near to this place , They soon would set him free . But fare thou well thou good Old Man , Farewell , and thanks to thee ; If Stutly hanged be this day , Revenged his death will be . He was no sooner from the Palmer gone , But the Gates was opened wide , And out of the Castle Will Stutly came , Guarded on every side . When he was forth of the Castle come , And saw no help was nigh . Thus he did say unto the Sheriff , Thus he said gallantly . Now seeing that I needs must die , Grant me one boon , said he ; For my Noble Master never had Man That yet was Hanged on Tree . Give me a Sword all in my hand , And let me be unbound , And with thee and thy Men i'll fight , Until I lie dead on the ground . But this desire he would not grant , His wishes were in vain , For the Sheriff had swore he hanged should be , And not by the Sword be slave . Do but unbind my hands , he says , I will no Weapons crave , And if I hanged be this day , Damnation let me have . O no , Oh no , the Sheriff he said , Thou shalt on the Gallows die , I and so shall thy Master too , If ever in me it lie . O dastard Coward , Stutly cries , Thou fainthearted peasant slave , If ever my Master do thee meet , Thou shalt thy payment have . My Noble Master thee does scorn , And all thy cowardly crew , Such silly Imps unable are Bold Robin to subdue . But when he was to the Gallows come , And ready to bid adieu , Out of a Bush leaps Little John , And steps Will Stutly too . I pray thee Will before thou die , Of thy dear friends take leave , I needs must borrow him a while , How say you Master Sheriff ? Now as I live , the Sheriff said , That Varlet will I know , Some sturdy Rebel is that same , Therefore let him not go . With that Little John so hastily , Away cut Stutly's Bans , And from one of the Sheriffs Men , A Sword ' twicht from his hands . Here Will , here take thou this same , Thou canst it better sway , And here defend thy self a while , For aid will come straightway . And there they turned them back to back , In the middle of them that day , Till Robin Hood approached near , With many and Archer gay . With that and Arrow by them flew , I wist from Robin Hood , Make haste , make haste , the Sheriff he said , Make haste for it is good . The Sheriff is gone , his doubtless men Thought it no boot to stay , But as their Master had them taught , They run full fast away . O stay , Oh stay , Will Stutly said , Take leave ever you depart , You never will catch bold Robin Hood , Unless you dare him meet . O ill betide you , quoth Robin Hood , That you so soon are gone , My Sword may in the Scabbord rest , For here our work is done . I little thought when I came here , When I came here to this place , For to have met with L ittle John , Or seen my Master's face . Thus Stutly was at Liberty set , And safe brought from him Foe , Oh thanks , Oh thanks , to my Master , Since here it was not so . And once again my Fellows dear , derry , derry , down , We shall in the Green-Woods meet , Where we will make our Bowstrings twan [ g ] Music for us most meet , heigh down , derry , derry , down . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 