Renowned ROBIN HOOD : Or , His Famous Archery truly related , with the Worthy Exploits he acted before Queen Katherine , being and Out lawman , and how he for the same obtained of the King , his own , and his Fellows pardon . To a New Tune . G Old taken from the Kings Harbingers , down a down a down , As seldom hath been seen , down a down a down , And carired by bold Robin Hood , for a present to the Queen ; down a down a down . If that I live one year to and end , thus gan Queen Katherine say , Bold Robin Hood I will by thy friend , and all thy Yeomen gay . The Queen is to her Chamber gone , as fast as she can wen , She calls unto her lovely Page , his name was Richard Parington : Come hither to me my lovely Page , come thou hither to me : For thou must now to Notingham , as fast as thou canst dree , And as thou goest to Notingham search all those English Woods , Inquire of one good Yeoman or another , that can tell thee of Robin Hood . Sometime he went , sometime he ran , as fast as he could wen : And when he came to Notingham , there he took up his Inn , And when he came to Notingham , and had took up his Inn , He calls for a Bottle of Rhenish wine , and drinks a health to his Queen . There sat a Yeoman by his side , tell me sweet Page said he , What is thy business or thy cause , so far in the North-Country . This is my business and my cause , for I tell it you for good , To inquire of one good Yeoman or another , to tell me of Robin Hood . I'll get my Horse betimes in the morn , by it be break of day , And I will show thee bold Robin Hood , and all his Yeomen gay , When that he came to R obin Hoods place , he fell down on his knee , Queen Katherine she does greet you well , she greets you well by me . She bids you post to fair Lodon Court , not fearing any thing , For there shall be a little sport , and she hath sent you her Ring . R obin took his Mantle from his back , it was of Lincoln green , And sent it by this lovely Page , for a present to the Queen , In Summer time when leaves grow green , it was a seemly sighed to see , How R obin Hood himself had dressed , and all his Yeomandree . He clothed his Men in Lincoln green and himself in Scarlet read , Black Hats , White Feathers all alike , now bold R obin is Rid. And when he came at Londons Court , he fell down on his Knee , Thou art welcome Locksly , said the Queen , and all thy Yeomandree . The King is gone to Finsbury field , down a down a down , Marching in Battle array , down a down a down , And after follows bold R obin Hood , and all his Yeomen gay . The second part , to the same same Tune . C Ome hither Tepus , said the King down a down a down : Bow-bearer after me , down a down a down , Come measure me out with this Line , how long our mark shall be down a down a down . What is the wager , said the Queen ? that must I now know here , Three hundered Tun of Rhenish Wine , Three hundred Tun of Beer . Three hundred of the fattest Hearts , that run on Dallom Lee , That's a Princely Wager , said the King , that needs must I tell to the With that bespoke one Clifton then , full quickly and full soon , Measure no mark for us most Sovereign Liege , we'll shoot at Sun and Moon , Full fifteen score your mark shall be , full fifteen score shall stand , I'll lay my Bow said Clifton then , i'll cleave the Willow-wand . With that the Kings Archers led about , till it was three and none , With that the Ladies began to shout , Madam your Game is gone . A boon , a boon , Queen Katherine cries , I crave on my bear Knee , Is there ever a Knight of your Privy-Counsel ; of Queen Katherines side will be ? Come hither to me Sir R ichard L ee , thou are and Knight full good : For I do know by thy Pedigree , thou sprangest from G oars blood . Come hither to me thou Bishop of Hereford shire for a Noble Piiest was he : By my Silver Miter , said the Bishop then , i'll not bet one penny , The King hath Archers of his own , full ready and full light , And these be strangers every one no man knows what they height . What wilt thou bet said Robin Hood , thou seest our Game the worse , By my Silver Miter , said the Bishop then , all the money within my Purse . what is in it said R obin Hood , throw it down on the ground , Fifteenscore Nobles , said the Bishop then , it's near and hundred pound . R obin Hood took his bag from his side , and threw it down on the ground . Will Scadlock went smiling away , I know who this Money must win . With that the Kings Archers led about , while it was three and three , With that the Ladies gave a shout , Woodcock beware thy knee , It is three and three now said the King , the next three pays for all ; R obin Hood went & amp ; whispered to the Queen the Kings shall be but small . R obin Hood he led about , he shot it underhand , And Clifton with a bearing Arrow , he clave the Willow Wand . And little Midge the Millers son , he shot not much the worse , He shot within a finger of the Prick , now Bishop beware thy purse . A boon , a boon , Queen Katherine cries ; I crave on my bore knee , That you would angry be with none , that is of my party . They shall have forty days to come , and forty days to go , And three times forty to sport and play , then welcome every one . then thou art welcome R . Hood said the Queen and so is little John , So is M idge the Millers Son , thrice welcome every one . Is this R obin Hood ? the King said now , for it was told to me , That he was slave in the Palace gate , so far in the North-Country , Is this R obin Hood quoth the Bishop then , as I see well to be , Had I known it had been that bold Outlaw , I would not a bet one penny . He took me late on Saturday night , and bound me fast to a tree , And made me sing a mass , God wot , to him and his Yeomen three . What and if I did , then says R obin Hood , of that Mass I was full fain : For recompense to thee he says , here's half the gold again . Now nay , now nay , says little John , down a down a down , Master that may not be , Down , a down , a down , We must give gifts to the Kings Officers , that gold will serve thee and me . Down , a down , a down . Printed for J.W. J.C. W.T. and T. Passenger . Renowned ROBIN HOOD : Or , His Famous Archery truly related , with the Worthy Exploits he acted before Queen Katherine , being and Out lawman , and how he for the same obtained of the King , his own , and his Fellows pardon . To a New Tune . G Old taken from the Kings Harbingers , down a down a down , As seldom hath been seen , down a down a down , And carired by bold Robin Hood , for a present to the Queen ; down a down a down . If that I live one year to and end , thus gan Queen Katherine say , Bold Robin Hood I will by thy friend , and all thy Yeomen gay . The Queen is to her Chamber gone , as fast as she can wen , She calls unto her lovely Page , his name was Richard Parington : Come hither to me my lovely Page , come thou hither to me : For thou must now to Notingham , as fast as thou canst dree , And as thou goest to Notingham search all those English Woods , Inquire of one good Yeoman or another , that can tell thee of Robin Hood . Sometime he went , sometime he ran , as fast as he could wen : And when he came to Notingham , there he took up his Inn , And when he came to Notingham , and had took up his Inn , He calls for a Bottle of Rhenish wine , and drinks a health to his Queen . There sat a Yeoman by his side , tell me sweet Page said he , What is thy business or thy cause , so far in the North-Country . This is my business and my cause , for I tell it you for good , To inquire of one good Yeoman or another , to tell me of Robin Hood . I'll get my Horse betimes in the morn , by it be break of day , And I will show thee bold Robin Hood , and all his Yeomen gay , When that he came to R obin Hoods place , he fell down on his knee , Queen Katherine she does greet you well , she greets you well by me . She bids you post to fair Lodon Court , not fearing any thing , For there shall be a little sport , and she hath sent you her Ring . R obin took his Mantle from his back , it was of Lincoln green , And sent it by this lovely Page , for a present to the Queen , In Summer time when leaves grow green , it was a seemly sighed to see , How R obin Hood himself had dressed , and all his Yeomandree . He clothed his Men in Lincoln green and himself in Scarlet read , Black Hats , White Feathers all alike , now bold R obin is Rid. And when he came at Londons Court , he fell down on his Knee , Thou art welcome Locksly , said the Queen , and all thy Yeomandree . The King is gone to Finsbury field , down a down a down , Marching in Battle array , down a down a down , And after follows bold R obin Hood , and all his Yeomen gay . The second part , to the same same Tune . C Ome hither Tepus , said the King down a down a down : Bow-bearer after me , down a down a down , Come measure me out with this Line , how long our mark shall be down a down a down . What is the wager , said the Queen ? that must I now know here , Three hundered Tun of Rhenish Wine , Three hundred Tun of Beer . Three hundred of the fattest Hearts , that run on Dallom Lee , That's a Princely Wager , said the King , that needs must I tell to the With that bespoke one Clifton then , full quickly and full soon , Measure no mark for us most Sovereign Liege , we'll shoot at Sun and Moon , Full fifteen score your mark shall be , full fifteen score shall stand , I'll lay my Bow said Clifton then , i'll cleave the Willow-wand . With that the Kings Archers led about , till it was three and none , With that the Ladies began to shout , Madam your Game is gone . A boon , a boon , Queen Katherine cries , I crave on my bear Knee , Is there ever a Knight of your Privy-Counsel ; of Queen Katherines side will be ? Come hither to me Sir R ichard L ee , thou are and Knight full good : For I do know by thy Pedigree , thou sprangest from G oars blood . Come hither to me thou Bishop of Hereford shire for a Noble Piiest was he : By my Silver Miter , said the Bishop then , i'll not bet one penny , The King hath Archers of his own , full ready and full light , And these be strangers every one no man knows what they height . What wilt thou bet said Robin Hood , thou seest our Game the worse , By my Silver Miter , said the Bishop then , all the money within my Purse . what is in it said R obin Hood , throw it down on the ground , Fifteenscore Nobles , said the Bishop then , it's near and hundred pound . R obin Hood took his bag from his side , and threw it down on the ground . Will Scadlock went smiling away , I know who this Money must win . With that the Kings Archers led about , while it was three and three , With that the Ladies gave a shout , Woodcock beware thy knee , It is three and three now said the King , the next three pays for all ; R obin Hood went & amp ; whispered to the Queen the Kings shall be but small . R obin Hood he led about , he shot it underhand , And Clifton with a bearing Arrow , he clave the Willow Wand . And little Midge the Millers son , he shot not much the worse , He shot within a finger of the Prick , now Bishop beware thy purse . A boon , a boon , Queen Katherine cries ; I crave on my bore knee , That you would angry be with none , that is of my party . They shall have forty days to come , and forty days to go , And three times forty to sport and play , then welcome every one . then thou art welcome R . Hood said the Queen and so is little John , So is M idge the Millers Son , thrice welcome every one . Is this R obin Hood ? the King said now , for it was told to me , That he was slave in the Palace gate , so far in the North-Country , Is this R obin Hood quoth the Bishop then , as I see well to be , Had I known it had been that bold Outlaw , I would not a bet one penny . He took me late on Saturday night , and bound me fast to a tree , And made me sing a mass , God wot , to him and his Yeomen three . What and if I did , then says R obin Hood , of that Mass I was full fain : For recompense to thee he says , here's half the gold again . Now nay , now nay , says little John , down a down a down , Master that may not be , Down , a down , a down , We must give gifts to the Kings Officers , that gold will serve thee and me . Down , a down , a down . Printed for J.W. J.C. W.T. and T. Passenger . 