Robin Hoods Progress to Nottingham . Where he met with fifteen Foresters all on a row , A and he desired of them some News to know : And with cross-graind words they did him thwart , For which at last he made them for to Smart . To the Tune of , Bold Robin Hood . RObin Hood he was a tall young man , derry , derry , down , And fifteen winter's old . And R. Hood he was a proper young man Of courage stout and bold , heigh down , derry , derry down . R. Hood he would unto fair Nottingham , derry , derry , down , With the General for to dine , There was he aware of Fifteen Foresters , And a drinking Beer , Ale , and wine : heigh down , etc What News , what news , said bold R. Hood derry , derry down What news fain wouldst thou know , Our King hath provided a shooting match And I'm ready with my Bow ; heigh down , etc We hold it in scorn , said bold R. Hood , derry , derry dow , That ever a Boy so young , Should bear a Bow before our King , That's not able to draw one string , heigh down , etc I'll hold you 20 marks said bold R. Hood , derry , derry down , By the leave of our Lady , That I'll hit the mark and hundred Rod And I'll cause one heart to die , hey down , etc We'll hold you 20 Marks then said the foresters , derry , derry down , By the leave of our Lady , That thou hitst not the mark and hundred Rod , Nor causest a Heart to die : heigh down , etc Robin Hood he bent up a noble Bow , derry , derry down , And a broad arrow he let fly , He hit the mark and hundred Rod , And he caused one heart to die . heigh down , etc Some said he brake Ribs one or two , derry , derry down , And some said he brake three , The arrow in the Heart would not abide , But it glanced in two or three ; heigh down , derry , derry down . TO He Heart did skip and the heart did leap derry , derry down , And the Heart lay on the ground , The Wager is mine , said bold R. H ood , If it were for a thousand pound , heigh down , etc The wager's none of thine , then siad the Foresters derry , derry down , Although thou be'st in haste , Take up thy Bow and get thee hence , lest we thy sides do baste , heigh down , etc Robin H ood he took up his noble Bow derry , derry down , And his broad arrows amain , And Robin he laughed and began to smile , As he went over the plain ; heigh down , etc Then Robin H ood he bent his noble Bow , derry , derry down , And his broad arrows he let fly , Till fourteen of these fifteen foresters , Upon the ground did lie , heigh down , etc . He that did this quarrel first begin , derry , derry down , Went tripping over the plain , But Robin H ood he bent his noble Bow , And he fetched him back again , heigh down , etc You said I was no archer , said R. H ood , derry , derry down , But say so now again , With that he sent another arrow , Which split his head in twain ; heigh down , derry , derry down . You have found me and archer said R. H ood derry , derry down , Which will make your wives to wring And wish you never had spoke the word That I could not draw one string heigh down , derry , derry down , The people that lived in fair Nottingham derry , derry down , Come running out amain , Supposing to have taken bold R. H ood With the Foresters that were slave : heigh down , derry , derry down , Some lost Legs , and some lost arms , derry , derry down , And some did lose their blood , But R. H ood he bent up his noble Bow And is gone to the merry green wood , heigh down , derry , derry down . They carried these Foresters to fair Not-tingham , derry , derry down , As many as there did know , They dug them Graves in their Churchyards , And they buried them all on a row : heigh down , derry , derry down . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . Robin Hoods Progress to Nottingham . Where he met with fifteen Foresters all on a row , A and he desired of them some News to know : And with cross-graind words they did him thwart , For which at last he made them for to Smart . To the Tune of , Bold Robin Hood . RObin Hood he was a tall young man , derry , derry , down , And fifteen winter's old . And R. Hood he was a proper young man Of courage stout and bold , heigh down , derry , derry down . R. Hood he would unto fair Nottingham , derry , derry , down , With the General for to dine , There was he aware of Fifteen Foresters , And a drinking Beer , Ale , and wine : heigh down , etc What News , what news , said bold R. Hood derry , derry down What news fain wouldst thou know , Our King hath provided a shooting match And I'm ready with my Bow ; heigh down , etc We hold it in scorn , said bold R. Hood , derry , derry dow , That ever a Boy so young , Should bear a Bow before our King , That's not able to draw one string , heigh down , etc I'll hold you 20 marks said bold R. Hood , derry , derry down , By the leave of our Lady , That I'll hit the mark and hundred Rod And I'll cause one heart to die , hey down , etc We'll hold you 20 Marks then said the foresters , derry , derry down , By the leave of our Lady , That thou hitst not the mark and hundred Rod , Nor causest a Heart to die : heigh down , etc Robin Hood he bent up a noble Bow , derry , derry down , And a broad arrow he let fly , He hit the mark and hundred Rod , And he caused one heart to die . heigh down , etc Some said he brake Ribs one or two , derry , derry down , And some said he brake three , The arrow in the Heart would not abide , But it glanced in two or three ; heigh down , derry , derry down . TO He Heart did skip and the heart did leap derry , derry down , And the Heart lay on the ground , The Wager is mine , said bold R. H ood , If it were for a thousand pound , heigh down , etc The wager's none of thine , then siad the Foresters derry , derry down , Although thou be'st in haste , Take up thy Bow and get thee hence , lest we thy sides do baste , heigh down , etc Robin H ood he took up his noble Bow derry , derry down , And his broad arrows amain , And Robin he laughed and began to smile , As he went over the plain ; heigh down , etc Then Robin H ood he bent his noble Bow , derry , derry down , And his broad arrows he let fly , Till fourteen of these fifteen foresters , Upon the ground did lie , heigh down , etc . He that did this quarrel first begin , derry , derry down , Went tripping over the plain , But Robin H ood he bent his noble Bow , And he fetched him back again , heigh down , etc You said I was no archer , said R. H ood , derry , derry down , But say so now again , With that he sent another arrow , Which split his head in twain ; heigh down , derry , derry down . You have found me and archer said R. H ood derry , derry down , Which will make your wives to wring And wish you never had spoke the word That I could not draw one string heigh down , derry , derry down , The people that lived in fair Nottingham derry , derry down , Come running out amain , Supposing to have taken bold R. H ood With the Foresters that were slave : heigh down , derry , derry down , Some lost Legs , and some lost arms , derry , derry down , And some did lose their blood , But R. H ood he bent up his noble Bow And is gone to the merry green wood , heigh down , derry , derry down . They carried these Foresters to fair Not-tingham , derry , derry down , As many as there did know , They dug them Graves in their Churchyards , And they buried them all on a row : heigh down , derry , derry down . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 