A Proper New Ballad of Bold Robin Hood . Showing his Birth , his Breeding , his Valour , and Marriage , at Ti [ tO ] berry Bull-Running . Calculated for the Meridian of Staffordshire , but may serve for Derbyshire or Kent . To a pleasant New Northern Tune . K Ind Gentlemen , will you be patient a while , I , and then you shall hear anon , A very good Ballad of bold Robin Hood and of his Man brave little John. And Locksley Town in merry Nottinghamshire , in merry sweet Locksley Town ; There bold Robin Hood he was born & amp ; was bred , bold Robin of famous renown . The Father of Robin a Forester was , and he shot in a lusty long Bow , Two North Country miles and and inch at a shoot as the Pinder of Wakefield does know . For he brought Adam Bell , and Clim of the Clugh , with William a Clowdel Lee : To shoot with our Forester for Forty Mark , and the Forester beatrice they all three . His mother was Niece to the Coventry Knight , which Warwickshire men call Sir Guy ; For he slew the blue Boar that hangs up at that gate , or mine Host of the Bull tells a lie . Her Brother was Gamwel of great Gamwel - Hall , and a noble Housekeeper was he : I , as ever broke Bred in sweet Nottinghamshire , and a Squire of a famous Degree . This Mother of Robin said to her Husband , my Honey , my Love , and my Dear ; Let Robin and I ride this Morning to Gamwell , to taste of my Brother's good cheer . And he said , I grant thee thy boon , gentle Joan , take one of my Horses I pray : The Sun is a rising , and therefore make haste , for to morrow is Christmas-day , Then Robin Hoods Father's grey Gelding was brought and Saddled and Bridled was he Got on his blue Bonnet , his new suit of Cloeths and a Cloak that did reach to his knee . She god on her Holiday Kirtle and gown , they were of a light Lincoln-Green : The Cloth was home spun , but for colour & amp ; make it might a beseemed our Queen . And then Robin god on his Basket-hilt Sword , and Dagger on his tother side : And said , my dear Mother lets hast to be gone , we have forty long miles to ride . When Robin had mounted this Gelding so gra [ y , ] his Father without any trouble ; Set her up behind him , and bade her not fear , for his Gelding has oft carried double . When she was settled , they road to their Neig [ h ] bo [ urs ] and drunk , and shook hands with them all : And then Robin galloped and never gave over , till they lighted at great Gamwel-Hall . And now you may think the right worshipful Squire was joyful his Sister to see ; For he kissed her , & amp ; kissed her , and swore a great Oath [ , ] thou art welcome kind Sister to me . To morrow when Mass had been said in the Chapel six tables were covered ith Hall ; And in comes the Squire , and makes a short speech it was , Neighbours y're Welcome all . But not a Man here shall taste my March-beer till a Christmas - Carrol be sung ; Then all clapped their hands , & amp ; they shouted & amp ; sung till the Hall and the Parlour did ring . Now Mustard & amp ; Brawn , Roast-Beef & amp ; Plumb-pies were set upon every Table : And noble George Gamwel said eat and be merry and Drink too , as long as you're able . When dinner was ended this Chaplin said Grace , and be merry my friends said the Squire ; It rains and it blows , but call for more Ale and lay some more Wood on the Fire . And now call you little John hither to me , for little John is a Fine Lad ; At Gambols and Juggling , and twenty such tricks as shall make you both merry and glad . When Little John came , to Gambals they went , both Gentleman Yeoman and Clown , And what do you think ? why , as true as I live , bold Robin Hood put them all down . And now you may think the right worshipful squire was joyful this sighed for to see : For he said Cousin Robin thou'st go no more home but tarry and dwell with me . Thou shalt have my Land when I die and till then thou shalt be the staff of my Age : Then grant me my boon dear Uncle , said Robin that Little John may be my Page . And he said kind Cousin I grant thee thy boon , with all my heart so let it be ; Then come hither little John , said Robin Hood , come hither my Page unto me . Go and fetch my Bow - my longest long Bow , and broad Arrows one , two and three ; For when it's fair weather we'll into Sherwood some merry pastime to see . When Robin Hood came into merry Sherwood he winded his Bugle so clear ; And twice five and twenty good Yeoman and bold before Robin Hood did appear . Where are your Companions all , said R . Hood , for still I want forty and three ? Then said a bold Yeoman , lo yonder they stand , all under a Green-Wood Tree . As that word was spoken , Clorinda came by , the Queen of the Shepherd's was she ; And her Gown was of velvet as green as the grass and her buskin's did reach to her knee . Her gate it was graceful , her body was straight , and her Countenance free from Pride ; A Bow in her Hand , and Quiver of Arrows , hung dangling by her sweet side . Her Eyebrows were black , I and so was her hair , and her skin was as smooth as glass ; Her Visage spoke Wisdom and Modesty too : sets with Robin Hood such a Lass. Said Robin Hood Lady fair whither away ; O whither fair Lady away ? And she made him answer , to kill a fat Buck , for to morrow is Tilbery-Day . Said Robin Hood , Lady fair , Wander with me , a little to yonder Green Bower : There fit down to rest you , and you shall be sure of a Brace or a Leaf in and hour . And as we beware going towards the green Bower , two hundred good Bucks we espied : She chosen out the fattest that was in the Heard , and she shot him through side and side . By the faith of my body , said bold Robin Hood , I never saw woman like thee : And comest thou from East , I , or comest thou from West , thou needest not beg Venison of me . However a long to my Bower you shall go , and taste of a Foresters Meat , And when we came thither , we found as good cheer , as any Man needs for to eat . For there was hight Venison , & amp ; Warden-pies cold , Cream clouted , with Honey-Combs plenty , And the Serviters they were beside Little John good Yeomen , at least four and twenty . Clorinda said , tell me your name gentle Sir ? and he said it's bold Robin Hood , Squire Gamwells mine Uncle , but all my delight is to dwell in the merry Sherwood . For it's a fine Life , and it's void of all strife , so it's Sir , Ciorinda replied : But O said bold Robin how sweet would it be , if Clorinda would be my Bride . She blushed at the motion yet after a pause , said , Yes Sir , and withal my heart : Then let us send for a Priest , said Robin Hood , and be merry before we do part . But she said , it may not be so gentle Sir , for I must be at Titbury Feast : And if Robin Hood will go thither with me , I'll make him the most Welcome Guest . Said Robin Hood reach me that Buck little John for i'll go along with my Dear ; Go bid my good Yeomen kill six brace of Bucks , and meet me to morrow just here . Before we had ridden five Staffordshire miles , six Yeomen that were too too bold : Bid Robin Hood Stand and deliver his Buck , a truer Tale never was told . I will not , faith , said bold Robin , come John , stand to me and we'll beatrice they all ; Then both drew their Swords and so cut they & amp ; slashed they , that five of the Six did fallen . The three that remained called to Robin for quar , ter and pitiful John begged their Lives ; When Johns boon was granted , he gave them good counsel , and so sent them home to their Wives . This battle was fought near to Titbery Town , when the Bagpipes baited the Bull : I am King of the Fiddlers , and sware it's a truth , and I call him that doubts it a Gull. For I saw them Fighting , and Fiddled the while , and Clorinda sung , Heigh derry down : The Bumpkins are beaten , put up thy Sword Rob. and now lets Dance into the Town . Before we came to it we herd a strange shouting and all that were in it looked madly ; For some ware a Bull-back , some dancing a Mor-ris , and some singing Arthur-a-Bradley . And there we see Thomas our Justices Clerk , and Marry to whom he was kind ; For Tom road before her and called Marry Madam , and kissed her full sweetly behind . And so may your Worships , but we went to dinner with Thomas , and marry , and Nan . They all drank a health to Clorinda , and told her , bold Robin Hood was a fine Man. When Dinner was ended , Sir Roger the Parson of Dubbridge , was sent for in haste ; He brought his Mass-Book , and he had them take hands and he joined them inam Proper New Ballad of Bold Robin Hood . Showing his Birth , his Breeding , his Valour , and Marriage , at Ti [ tO ] berry Bull-Running . Calculated for the Meridian of Staffordshire , but may serve for Derbyshire or Kent . To a pleasant New Northern Tune . K Ind Gentlemen , will you be patient a while , I , and then you shall hear anon , A very good Ballad of bold Robin Hood and of his Man brave little John. And Locksley Town in merry Nottinghamshire , in merry sweet Locksley Town ; There bold Robin Hood he was born & amp ; was bred , bold Robin of famous renown . The Father of Robin a Forester was , and he shot in a lusty long Bow , Two North Country miles and and inch at a shoot as the Pinder of Wakefield does know . For he brought Adam Bell , and Clim of the Clugh , with William a Clowdel Lee : To shoot with our Forester for Forty Mark , and the Forester beatrice they all three . His mother was Niece to the Coventry Knight , which Warwickshire men call Sir Guy ; For he slew the blue Boar that hangs up at that gate , or mine Host of the Bull tells a lie . Her Brother was Gamwel of great Gamwel - Hall , and a noble Housekeeper was he : I , as ever broke Bred in sweet Nottinghamshire , and a Squire of a famous Degree . This Mother of Robin said to her Husband , my Honey , my Love , and my Dear ; Let Robin and I ride this Morning to Gamwell , to taste of my Brother's good cheer . And he said , I grant thee thy boon , gentle Joan , take one of my Horses I pray : The Sun is a rising , and therefore make haste , for to morrow is Christmas-day , Then Robin Hoods Father's grey Gelding was brought and Saddled and Bridled was he Got on his blue Bonnet , his new suit of Cloeths and a Cloak that did reach to his knee . She god on her Holiday Kirtle and gown , they were of a light Lincoln-Green : The Cloth was home spun , but for colour & amp ; make it might a beseemed our Queen . And then Robin god on his Basket-hilt Sword , and Dagger on his tother side : And said , my dear Mother lets hast to be gone , we have forty long miles to ride . When Robin had mounted this Gelding so gra [ y , ] his Father without any trouble ; Set her up behind him , and bade her not fear , for his Gelding has oft carried double . When she was settled , they road to their Neig [ h ] bo [ urs ] and drunk , and shook hands with them all : And then Robin galloped and never gave over , till they lighted at great Gamwel-Hall . And now you may think the right worshipful Squire was joyful his Sister to see ; For he kissed her , & amp ; kissed her , and swore a great Oath [ , ] thou art welcome kind Sister to me . To morrow when Mass had been said in the Chapel six tables were covered ith Hall ; And in comes the Squire , and makes a short speech it was , Neighbours y're Welcome all . But not a Man here shall taste my March-beer till a Christmas - Carrol be sung ; Then all clapped their hands , & amp ; they shouted & amp ; sung till the Hall and the Parlour did ring . Now Mustard & amp ; Brawn , Roast-Beef & amp ; Plumb-pies were set upon every Table : And noble George Gamwel said eat and be merry and Drink too , as long as you're able . When dinner was ended this Chaplin said Grace , and be merry my friends said the Squire ; It rains and it blows , but call for more Ale and lay some more Wood on the Fire . And now call you little John hither to me , for little John is a Fine Lad ; At Gambols and Juggling , and twenty such tricks as shall make you both merry and glad . When Little John came , to Gambals they went , both Gentleman Yeoman and Clown , And what do you think ? why , as true as I live , bold Robin Hood put them all down . And now you may think the right worshipful squire was joyful this sighed for to see : For he said Cousin Robin thou'st go no more home but tarry and dwell with me . Thou shalt have my Land when I die and till then thou shalt be the staff of my Age : Then grant me my boon dear Uncle , said Robin that Little John may be my Page . And he said kind Cousin I grant thee thy boon , with all my heart so let it be ; Then come hither little John , said Robin Hood , come hither my Page unto me . Go and fetch my Bow - my longest long Bow , and broad Arrows one , two and three ; For when it's fair weather we'll into Sherwood some merry pastime to see . When Robin Hood came into merry Sherwood he winded his Bugle so clear ; And twice five and twenty good Yeoman and bold before Robin Hood did appear . Where are your Companions all , said R . Hood , for still I want forty and three ? Then said a bold Yeoman , lo yonder they stand , all under a Green-Wood Tree . As that word was spoken , Clorinda came by , the Queen of the Shepherd's was she ; And her Gown was of velvet as green as the grass and her buskin's did reach to her knee . Her gate it was graceful , her body was straight , and her Countenance free from Pride ; A Bow in her Hand , and Quiver of Arrows , hung dangling by her sweet side . Her Eyebrows were black , I and so was her hair , and her skin was as smooth as glass ; Her Visage spoke Wisdom and Modesty too : sets with Robin Hood such a Lass. Said Robin Hood Lady fair whither away ; O whither fair Lady away ? And she made him answer , to kill a fat Buck , for to morrow is Tilbery-Day . Said Robin Hood , Lady fair , Wander with me , a little to yonder Green Bower : There fit down to rest you , and you shall be sure of a Brace or a Leaf in and hour . And as we beware going towards the green Bower , two hundred good Bucks we espied : She chosen out the fattest that was in the Heard , and she shot him through side and side . By the faith of my body , said bold Robin Hood , I never saw woman like thee : And comest thou from East , I , or comest thou from West , thou needest not beg Venison of me . However a long to my Bower you shall go , and taste of a Foresters Meat , And when we came thither , we found as good cheer , as any Man needs for to eat . For there was hight Venison , & amp ; Warden-pies cold , Cream clouted , with Honey-Combs plenty , And the Serviters they were beside Little John good Yeomen , at least four and twenty . Clorinda said , tell me your name gentle Sir ? and he said it's bold Robin Hood , Squire Gamwells mine Uncle , but all my delight is to dwell in the merry Sherwood . For it's a fine Life , and it's void of all strife , so it's Sir , Ciorinda replied : But O said bold Robin how sweet would it be , if Clorinda would be my Bride . She blushed at the motion yet after a pause , said , Yes Sir , and withal my heart : Then let us send for a Priest , said Robin Hood , and be merry before we do part . But she said , it may not be so gentle Sir , for I must be at Titbury Feast : And if Robin Hood will go thither with me , I'll make him the most Welcome Guest . Said Robin Hood reach me that Buck little John for i'll go along with my Dear ; Go bid my good Yeomen kill six brace of Bucks , and meet me to morrow just here . Before we had ridden five Staffordshire miles , six Yeomen that were too too bold : Bid Robin Hood Stand and deliver his Buck , a truer Tale never was told . I will not , faith , said bold Robin , come John , stand to me and we'll beatrice they all ; Then both drew their Swords and so cut they & amp ; slashed they , that five of the Six did fallen . The three that remained called to Robin for quar , ter and pitiful John begged their Lives ; When Johns boon was granted , he gave them good counsel , and so sent them home to their Wives . This battle was fought near to Titbery Town , when the Bagpipes baited the Bull : I am King of the Fiddlers , and sware it's a truth , and I call him that doubts it a Gull. For I saw them Fighting , and Fiddled the while , and Clorinda sung , Heigh derry down : The Bumpkins are beaten , put up thy Sword Rob. and now lets Dance into the Town . Before we came to it we herd a strange shouting and all that were in it looked madly ; For some ware a Bull-back , some dancing a Mor-ris , and some singing Arthur-a-Bradley . And there we see Thomas our Justices Clerk , and Marry to whom he was kind ; For Tom road before her and called Marry Madam , and kissed her full sweetly behind . And so may your Worships , but we went to dinner with Thomas , and marry , and Nan . They all drank a health to Clorinda , and told her , bold Robin Hood was a fine Man. When Dinner was ended , Sir Roger the Parson of Dubbridge , was sent for in haste ; He brought his Mass-Book , and he had them take hands and he joined them in Marriage full fast . And then as bold Robin Hood and his sweet Bride went hand in hand to the green Bower ; The Birds sung with pleasure in merry Sherwood and 'twas a most joyful hour . And when Robin came in the sighed of his Bower , where are my Yeomen , said he , And little John answered , lo yonder they stand , all under a Greenwood Tree . Then a Garland they brought her by two & amp ; by two and placed them upon the Brides bed ; The Music struck up and we all fell to Dance , till the Bribe and the Groom were a bed . And what they did there must be counsel to me , because they lay long the next day : And I had hast home , but I god a good piece of the Bride-Cake , and so came away , Now , out alas , I had forgotten to tell you , that married they were with a Ring : And so will Nan Knight , or be buried a maiden , and now let us pray for the King . That he may get Children and they may get more to Govern and do us some good : And then I'll make Ballads in R. Hoods bower , and sing they in merry Sherwood . FINIS . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . Marriage full fast . And then as bold Robin Hood and his sweet Bride went hand in hand to the green Bower ; The Birds sung with pleasure in merry Sherwood and 'twas a most joyful hour . And when Robin came in the sighed of his Bower , where are my Yeomen , said he , And little John answered , lo yonder they stand , all under a Greenwood Tree . Then a Garland they brought her by two & amp ; by two and placed them upon the Brides bed ; The Music struck up and we all fell to Dance , till the Bribe and the Groom were a bed . And what they did there must be counsel to me , because they lay long the next day : And I had hast home , but I god a good piece of the Bride-Cake , and so came away , Now , out alas , I had forgotten to tell you , that married they were with a Ring : And so will Nan Knight , or be buried a maiden , and now let us pray for the King . That he may get Children and they may get more to Govern and do us some good : And then I'll make Ballads in R. Hoods bower , and sing they in merry Sherwood . FINIS . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 