The Noble Fisher-Man . Or , Robin Hood ' s preferment ; showing hew he wone a prize on the sea , and how he gave one half to his dame , and the other to the building of Almshouses . The Tune is , In Summer time when leaves grow green . I N Summer time when leaves grow green , when they grow both green and long , Of a bold Outlaw called Robin Hood , it is of him I sing my Song . When the Lily Leaf and the Elephant , does bud and spring with a merry cheer , This Outlaw was weary of the Wood side and chasing of the Fallow Deer . The Fishermen brave , more money have , than any Merchant two or three , Therefore I will to Scarbrough go , that I a Fisherman might be . This Outlaw called his merry men all , as they sat under the greenwood tree , If you have any gold to spend I pray you heartily spend it with me . Now quoth Robin i'll to Scarbrough go , it seems to be a very fair day , Who took up his inn at a widow-woman's house , hard by upon the waters grey , Who asked him , where wertenberg thou born , or tell to me where thou dost fare , I am a poor Fisher man , said he then , this day entrapped all in care . What is thy name thou fine fellow , I pray thee heartily tell it to me , In mine own Country where I was born , men call me Simon over the Lee . Simon , Simon , said the good wife , I wish thou mayest well brook thy name , The Out-Law was aware of her courtesy , and rejoiced he had god such a Dame . Simon , wilt thou be my man ? and good round wages I will give thee , I have as good a Ship of mine own , as any sails upon the Sea , Anchors and Planks thou shalt not want , Masts and Ropes that are so long , And if thou thus furnish me , said Simon nothing shall go wrong . TO Hey plucked up Anchor and away did sail , more of a day then two or three , When others cast in their baited hooks , the bore Lines into the Sea cast he . It will be long said the Master then , ever this great lubber do thrive on the Sea , I'll assure he shall have no part of our fish , for in truth he is no part worthy . O Woe is me , said Simon then , this day that ever I came here , I wish I were in Plompton Park , in chasing of the Fallow Deer . For every Clown laughs me to scorn and they by me set nothing at all , If I had them in Plompton Park , I would set as little by them all . They plucked up Anchor and away did sail more of a day than two or three , But Simon espied a Ship of War that sailed towards them valorously . O woe is me , said the Master then , this day that ever I was born : For all our fish that we have god , is every bit lost and forlorn , For yond french Robber on the Sea , they will not spare of us one man , But carry us to the Coast of France , and lay us in the Prison strong . But Simon said , do not fear them , neither Master take you any care , Give me my bent bow in my hand , and never a French-man will I spare . Hold thy peace , thou long Lubber , for thou art nought but brags and boast , If I should cast thee overboard , there's but a simple Lubber lost . Simon grew angry at these words , and so angry then was he , That he took his bent bow in his hand , and to the Ship-hatch go does he . Master tie me to the Mast , that at my Mark I may stand fair , And give me my bent bow in my hand and never a French-man will I spare . He drew his Arrow to the very head , and drew it with all might and main , And straight way in the twinkling of and eye does the French-mans heart the Arrow gain The frenchman fell down on the ship-catch and under the Hatches here below , Another frenchman that him espied , the dead corpse into the Sea does throw . O Master lose me from the Mast , he said and for them all take you no care , And give me my bent bow in my hand , and never a frenchman will I spare . Then they boarded the french ship , they lying all dead in their sighed , They found within the ship of War , twelve thousand pound in money bright . The one half of the ship , said Simon then , isle give to my Dame and children small , The other part of the ship , i'll give , to you that are my fellows all . But now bespoke the Master then , for so Simon it shall not be , For you have wone it with your own hands , and the owner thereof you must be . It shall be so as I have said , and with this gold for the oppressed , And Habitation I will built , where they can live in peace and rest . Printed for Alex. Milbourn , Will . Ownley , Tho. Thackeray at the Angel in Duck-Lane . The Noble Fisher-Man . Or , Robin Hood ' s preferment ; showing hew he wone a prize on the sea , and how he gave one half to his dame , and the other to the building of Almshouses . The Tune is , In Summer time when leaves grow green . I N Summer time when leaves grow green , when they grow both green and long , Of a bold Outlaw called Robin Hood , it is of him I sing my Song . When the Lily Leaf and the Elephant , does bud and spring with a merry cheer , This Outlaw was weary of the Wood side and chasing of the Fallow Deer . The Fishermen brave , more money have , than any Merchant two or three , Therefore I will to Scarbrough go , that I a Fisherman might be . This Outlaw called his merry men all , as they sat under the greenwood tree , If you have any gold to spend I pray you heartily spend it with me . Now quoth Robin i'll to Scarbrough go , it seems to be a very fair day , Who took up his inn at a widow-woman's house , hard by upon the waters grey , Who asked him , where wertenberg thou born , or tell to me where thou dost fare , I am a poor Fisher man , said he then , this day entrapped all in care . What is thy name thou fine fellow , I pray thee heartily tell it to me , In mine own Country where I was born , men call me Simon over the Lee . Simon , Simon , said the good wife , I wish thou mayest well brook thy name , The Out-Law was aware of her courtesy , and rejoiced he had god such a Dame . Simon , wilt thou be my man ? and good round wages I will give thee , I have as good a Ship of mine own , as any sails upon the Sea , Anchors and Planks thou shalt not want , Masts and Ropes that are so long , And if thou thus furnish me , said Simon nothing shall go wrong . TO Hey plucked up Anchor and away did sail , more of a day then two or three , When others cast in their baited hooks , the bore Lines into the Sea cast he . It will be long said the Master then , ever this great lubber do thrive on the Sea , I'll assure he shall have no part of our fish , for in truth he is no part worthy . O Woe is me , said Simon then , this day that ever I came here , I wish I were in Plompton Park , in chasing of the Fallow Deer . For every Clown laughs me to scorn and they by me set nothing at all , If I had them in Plompton Park , I would set as little by them all . They plucked up Anchor and away did sail more of a day than two or three , But Simon espied a Ship of War that sailed towards them valorously . O woe is me , said the Master then , this day that ever I was born : For all our fish that we have god , is every bit lost and forlorn , For yond french Robber on the Sea , they will not spare of us one man , But carry us to the Coast of France , and lay us in the Prison strong . But Simon said , do not fear them , neither Master take you any care , Give me my bent bow in my hand , and never a French-man will I spare . Hold thy peace , thou long Lubber , for thou art nought but brags and boast , If I should cast thee overboard , there's but a simple Lubber lost . Simon grew angry at these words , and so angry then was he , That he took his bent bow in his hand , and to the Ship-hatch go does he . Master tie me to the Mast , that at my Mark I may stand fair , And give me my bent bow in my hand and never a French-man will I spare . He drew his Arrow to the very head , and drew it with all might and main , And straight way in the twinkling of and eye does the French-mans heart the Arrow gain The frenchman fell down on the ship-catch and under the Hatches here below , Another frenchman that him espied , the dead corpse into the Sea does throw . O Master lose me from the Mast , he said and for them all take you no care , And give me my bent bow in my hand , and never a frenchman will I spare . Then they boarded the french ship , they lying all dead in their sighed , They found within the ship of War , twelve thousand pound in money bright . The one half of the ship , said Simon then , isle give to my Dame and children small , The other part of the ship , i'll give , to you that are my fellows all . But now bespoke the Master then , for so Simon it shall not be , For you have wone it with your own hands , and the owner thereof you must be . It shall be so as I have said , and with this gold for the oppressed , And Habitation I will built , where they can live in peace and rest . Printed for Alex. Milbourn , Will . Ownley , Tho. Thackeray at the Angel in Duck-Lane . 