Robin Hood & amp ; the Bishop ; SHOWING How Robin Hood went to and Old Woman's House , and changed Clothes with her , to escape from [ th ] e Bishop ; and how he robbed him of all his Gold , and made him Sing Mass. To the Tune of , Robin Hood and the Stranger . C Ome Gentlemen all , and listen a while , with a heigh down down and a down , And a story I'll to you unfold , i'll tell you how Robin Hood served the Bishop When he robbed him of his Gold . As it fell out of a Sunshining day , with a heigh , etc When Phebus was in her prime , that Robin Hood that Archer good , In mirth would spend some time . And as he walked the Forest along , with a heigh , etc Some pastime for to spy , there was he aware of a proud Bishop , And all his Company . O what shall I do , said Robin Hood then , with a heigh , etc If the Bishop he does take me , no mercy he'l show , unto me I know , But hanged shall I be . Then Robin was stout , and turned him about , with a heigh , etc And a little House there he did spy , and to and old Wife , for to save his life , He aloud began to cry . Why who art thou , said the old Woman , with a heigh , etc Come tell it to me for good , I am and Out-Law , as many do know , My name it is Robin Hood . And yonders the Bishop and all his men , with a heigh , etc And if that I taken be , then day and night , he'l work my spite , And hanged I shall be . If thou be Robin Hood , then said the Old woman with a heigh , etc As thou dost seem to be , I'll for thee provide , and thee I will hide From the Bishop and his Company . For I remember on saturday night , with a heigh , etc Thou bought me both shoes and hose , therefore i'll provide thy person to hide , And keep thee from thy Foes . Then give me soon thy Coat of gray , with a heigh , etc And take thou my mantle of green , thy Spindle and twine unto me resign , And take thou my arrows so keen . A Nd when that Robin Hood was thus ar-rayed with a heigh down down and a down , He went straight to his company , with his Spindle and Twine , he oft looked behind For the Bishop and his company . O who is yonder quoth little John , with a heigh , etc That now comes over the Lee , and arrow I will at her let fly , So like and Old Witch looks she . O hold thy hand hold thy hand , said Robin then , with a heigh , etc And shoot not thy arrows so keen , I am Robin Hood thy master good , And quickly it shall be seen . The Bishop he came to the Old Woman's house , with a heigh , etc And he called with furious mood come let me soon see , and bring unto me , That Trayter Robin Hood . The Old Woman he set on a milk white Steed with a heigh , etc Himself on a Dapple Gray , and for joy he had god Robin Hood , He went laughing all the way . But as they were Riding the Forest along with a heigh , etc The Bishop he chanced for to see , a hundred brave bowmen bold , Stand under the Greenwood tree . O who is yonder the Bishop then said , with a heigh , etc That's ranging within yonder wood marry says the old woman I think it to be A man called Robin Hood . Why who art thou , the Bishop he said , with a heigh . etc Which I have here with me ? Why I am a woman , thou Cuckoldy Bisho [ p ] Lift up my Leg and see . Then woe is me the Bishop he said , with a heigh , etc That ever I saw this day , he turned him about , but Robin Hood so stout Called him and bid him stay . Then Robin took hold of the Bishops Horse , with heigh , etc And tied him fast to a Tree , then little John smiled his Master upon , For joy of his company . Robin Hood took his Mantle from's back , with heigh , etc And spread it upon the ground , and out of the Bishops Portmantle he Soon told Five Hundred Pound . Now let him go , said Robin Hood , with heigh , etc Said little John that may not be , for I vow & amp ; protest he shall sing us a mass Before that he go from me . Then Robin Hood took the Bishop by'th han [ worser ] with heigh , etc And bound him fast to a Tree , and made him sing a Mass , Got-wot , To him and his Yeomanry . And when they brought him thorough the woo [ worser ] with hey down down and a down , And set him on his Dapple Gray , and gave the Tail within his hand , And bade him for Robin Hood pray . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger [ . ] Robin Hood & amp ; the Bishop ; SHOWING How Robin Hood went to and Old Woman's House , and changed Clothes with her , to escape from [ th ] e Bishop ; and how he robbed him of all his Gold , and made him Sing Mass. To the Tune of , Robin Hood and the Stranger . C Ome Gentlemen all , and listen a while , with a heigh down down and a down , And a story I'll to you unfold , i'll tell you how Robin Hood served the Bishop When he robbed him of his Gold . As it fell out of a Sunshining day , with a heigh , etc When Phebus was in her prime , that Robin Hood that Archer good , In mirth would spend some time . And as he walked the Forest along , with a heigh , etc Some pastime for to spy , there was he aware of a proud Bishop , And all his Company . O what shall I do , said Robin Hood then , with a heigh , etc If the Bishop he does take me , no mercy he'l show , unto me I know , But hanged shall I be . Then Robin was stout , and turned him about , with a heigh , etc And a little House there he did spy , and to and old Wife , for to save his life , He aloud began to cry . Why who art thou , said the old Woman , with a heigh , etc Come tell it to me for good , I am and Out-Law , as many do know , My name it is Robin Hood . And yonders the Bishop and all his men , with a heigh , etc And if that I taken be , then day and night , he'l work my spite , And hanged I shall be . If thou be Robin Hood , then said the Old woman with a heigh , etc As thou dost seem to be , I'll for thee provide , and thee I will hide From the Bishop and his Company . For I remember on saturday night , with a heigh , etc Thou bought me both shoes and hose , therefore i'll provide thy person to hide , And keep thee from thy Foes . Then give me soon thy Coat of gray , with a heigh , etc And take thou my mantle of green , thy Spindle and twine unto me resign , And take thou my arrows so keen . A Nd when that Robin Hood was thus ar-rayed with a heigh down down and a down , He went straight to his company , with his Spindle and Twine , he oft looked behind For the Bishop and his company . O who is yonder quoth little John , with a heigh , etc That now comes over the Lee , and arrow I will at her let fly , So like and Old Witch looks she . O hold thy hand hold thy hand , said Robin then , with a heigh , etc And shoot not thy arrows so keen , I am Robin Hood thy master good , And quickly it shall be seen . The Bishop he came to the Old Woman's house , with a heigh , etc And he called with furious mood come let me soon see , and bring unto me , That Trayter Robin Hood . The Old Woman he set on a milk white Steed with a heigh , etc Himself on a Dapple Gray , and for joy he had god Robin Hood , He went laughing all the way . But as they were Riding the Forest along with a heigh , etc The Bishop he chanced for to see , a hundred brave bowmen bold , Stand under the Greenwood tree . O who is yonder the Bishop then said , with a heigh , etc That's ranging within yonder wood marry says the old woman I think it to be A man called Robin Hood . Why who art thou , the Bishop he said , with a heigh . etc Which I have here with me ? Why I am a woman , thou Cuckoldy Bisho [ p ] Lift up my Leg and see . Then woe is me the Bishop he said , with a heigh , etc That ever I saw this day , he turned him about , but Robin Hood so stout Called him and bid him stay . Then Robin took hold of the Bishops Horse , with heigh , etc And tied him fast to a Tree , then little John smiled his Master upon , For joy of his company . Robin Hood took his Mantle from's back , with heigh , etc And spread it upon the ground , and out of the Bishops Portmantle he Soon told Five Hundred Pound . Now let him go , said Robin Hood , with heigh , etc Said little John that may not be , for I vow & amp ; protest he shall sing us a mass Before that he go from me . Then Robin Hood took the Bishop by'th han [ worser ] with heigh , etc And bound him fast to a Tree , and made him sing a Mass , Got-wot , To him and his Yeomanry . And when they brought him thorough the woo [ worser ] with hey down down and a down , And set him on his Dapple Gray , and gave the Tail within his hand , And bade him for Robin Hood pray . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger [ . ] 