Robin Hood and Allin of Dale , Or , a pleasant Relation how a young Gentleman being in Love with a Young Damsel , which was taken from him to be and Old Knights Bride , and how Robin Hood , pitying the young men case , took her from the Old Knight , when they were going to be Married , and restored her to her own Love again . Bold Robin Hood he did the young man right , And took the WORSER amsel from the Doting Knight . TO oh a Pleasant Northern TO une , or , Robin Hood in the Green-Wood stood , C Ome Listen to me , you Gallants so free , All you that loves mirth for to hear , And I will you tell , of a bold Outlaw , That lived in Nottinghamshire , that lived in Nottinghamshire . As Robin Hood in the Forest stood , All under the Greenwood tree , There was he aware of a brave young man , As fine as fine might be , as fine , etc The youngster was clothed in Scarlet read In Scarlet fine and gay , And he did frisk it over the plain , And chanted a round delay , and chanted , etc As Robin Hood next morning stood , among the leaves so gay , There did he espy the same young man Come drooping along the way , come drooping , etc The Scarlet he wore the day before , It was clean cast away , And every step he fetched a sighs Alack and a welladay , alack , etc Then stepped forth brave little John , And Neck the Miller's Son , Which made the young man bend his bow , When as he see them come , when as , etc Stand off , stand off , the young man said , What is your will with me , You must come before our Master straight , Under yond green wood Tree , under , etc And when he came bold Robin before Robin asked him courteously , Oh hast thou any money to spare , For my merry men and me . for my , etc I have no money ( the Youngman said ) But five shillings and a Ring , And that I have kept this seven long years To have it at my wedding . to have etc Yesterday I should have Married a Maid , But she was from me taken , And chosen to be and old Knights delight , Whereby my poor heart is slave , whereby etc What is thy name , then said Robin Hood , Come tell me without any fail , By the faith of my body then said the youngman , My name it is Allin a Dale , my name , etc What wilt thou give me ( said Robin Hood ) In ready gold or fee , To help thee to thy true love again , And deliver her unto thee : and deliver etc I have no money then quoth the Youngman No ready gold nor fee , But I will swear upon a book Thy true Servant for to be , thy true etc How many miles is it to thy true love , Come tell me without any guile ; By the faith of my body then said the Young man It is but five little mile . it is but etc Then Robin he hasted over the plain , He did neither stint nor lin , Until he came unto the Church , Where Allin should keep his wedding . where etc What dost thou here ( the Bishop he said ) I prithee now tell unto me , I am a bold Harper ( quoth Robin Hood ) And the best in the North-Country . and the best etc O welcome , Oh welcome the Bishop he said , That music best pleases me ; You shall have no music ( quoth Rob. Hood ) Till the bride and the bridegroom I see . till the etc With that came in a wealthy Knight , Which was both grave and old ; [ And ] worser after him a finikin lass Did shine like the glistering gold ; did shine etc This is not a fit match quod bold Rob. Hood , That you do seem to make here , For since we are come unto the church , The bride she shall choose her own Dear ; the bride etc Then Robin Hood put his horn to his mouth And blue blasts two or three , When four and twenty bowmen bold Came leaping over the lee , came leaping etc And when they came into the Church-Yard Marching all on a row , The first man was Allin a Dale , To give bold Robin his bow , to give etc This is thy true love ( Robin he said ) Young Allin as I hear say , And you shall be Married at the same time , Before we depart away . before we etc TO hat shall not be ( the bishop he said ) For thy word shall not stand , TO heigh shall be three times asked in the church As the Law is of our land . as the etc Robin Hood pulled off the Bishops Coat , And put it upon little John ; By the faith of my body then Robin said , TO his cloth does make thee a man , this cloth , etc When little John went into the Choir , TO he people began to laugh , He asked them seven times in the Church , lest three times should not be enough , lest three etc Who gives me this Maid , said little John Quoth Robin Hood that do I , He that does take her from Allin a Dale , Full dearly he shall her buy , full etc And thus having ended this merry wedding The Bride looked like a Queen , And so they returned to the merry green wood among the leaves so green , among the leaves so green . With Allowance . Printed for Alex. Milbourn in Green-Arbor-Court in the Little [ - Old-Baily . ] Robin Hood and Allin of Dale , Or , a pleasant Relation how a young Gentleman being in Love with a Young Damsel , which was taken from him to be and Old Knights Bride , and how Robin Hood , pitying the young men case , took her from the Old Knight , when they were going to be Married , and restored her to her own Love again . Bold Robin Hood he did the young man right , And took the WORSER amsel from the Doting Knight . TO oh a Pleasant Northern TO une , or , Robin Hood in the Green-Wood stood , C Ome Listen to me , you Gallants so free , All you that loves mirth for to hear , And I will you tell , of a bold Outlaw , That lived in Nottinghamshire , that lived in Nottinghamshire . As Robin Hood in the Forest stood , All under the Greenwood tree , There was he aware of a brave young man , As fine as fine might be , as fine , etc The youngster was clothed in Scarlet read In Scarlet fine and gay , And he did frisk it over the plain , And chanted a round delay , and chanted , etc As Robin Hood next morning stood , among the leaves so gay , There did he espy the same young man Come drooping along the way , come drooping , etc The Scarlet he wore the day before , It was clean cast away , And every step he fetched a sighs Alack and a welladay , alack , etc Then stepped forth brave little John , And Neck the Miller's Son , Which made the young man bend his bow , When as he see them come , when as , etc Stand off , stand off , the young man said , What is your will with me , You must come before our Master straight , Under yond green wood Tree , under , etc And when he came bold Robin before Robin asked him courteously , Oh hast thou any money to spare , For my merry men and me . for my , etc I have no money ( the Youngman said ) But five shillings and a Ring , And that I have kept this seven long years To have it at my wedding . to have etc Yesterday I should have Married a Maid , But she was from me taken , And chosen to be and old Knights delight , Whereby my poor heart is slave , whereby etc What is thy name , then said Robin Hood , Come tell me without any fail , By the faith of my body then said the youngman , My name it is Allin a Dale , my name , etc What wilt thou give me ( said Robin Hood ) In ready gold or fee , To help thee to thy true love again , And deliver her unto thee : and deliver etc I have no money then quoth the Youngman No ready gold nor fee , But I will swear upon a book Thy true Servant for to be , thy true etc How many miles is it to thy true love , Come tell me without any guile ; By the faith of my body then said the Young man It is but five little mile . it is but etc Then Robin he hasted over the plain , He did neither stint nor lin , Until he came unto the Church , Where Allin should keep his wedding . where etc What dost thou here ( the Bishop he said ) I prithee now tell unto me , I am a bold Harper ( quoth Robin Hood ) And the best in the North-Country . and the best etc O welcome , Oh welcome the Bishop he said , That music best pleases me ; You shall have no music ( quoth Rob. Hood ) Till the bride and the bridegroom I see . till the etc With that came in a wealthy Knight , Which was both grave and old ; [ And ] worser after him a finikin lass Did shine like the glistering gold ; did shine etc This is not a fit match quod bold Rob. Hood , That you do seem to make here , For since we are come unto the church , The bride she shall choose her own Dear ; the bride etc Then Robin Hood put his horn to his mouth And blue blasts two or three , When four and twenty bowmen bold Came leaping over the lee , came leaping etc And when they came into the Church-Yard Marching all on a row , The first man was Allin a Dale , To give bold Robin his bow , to give etc This is thy true love ( Robin he said ) Young Allin as I hear say , And you shall be Married at the same time , Before we depart away . before we etc TO hat shall not be ( the bishop he said ) For thy word shall not stand , TO heigh shall be three times asked in the church As the Law is of our land . as the etc Robin Hood pulled off the Bishops Coat , And put it upon little John ; By the faith of my body then Robin said , TO his cloth does make thee a man , this cloth , etc When little John went into the Choir , TO he people began to laugh , He asked them seven times in the Church , lest three times should not be enough , lest three etc Who gives me this Maid , said little John Quoth Robin Hood that do I , He that does take her from Allin a Dale , Full dearly he shall her buy , full etc And thus having ended this merry wedding The Bride looked like a Queen , And so they returned to the merry green wood among the leaves so green , among the leaves so green . With Allowance . Printed for Alex. Milbourn in Green-Arbor-Court in the Little [ - Old-Baily . ] 