A Lamentable Ballad of a Combat lately performed near London , between Sir James Steward , and Sir George Wharton , Knights ; who were both slave at that time . Tune is Down Plumpton Park , etc I TO grieves my heart to tell the woe : that did near London late befall , On Martlemas Eve , Oh woe is me , I grieve the chance and ever shall , Of two right gallant Gentlemen , who very rashly fell at words , But to their quarrel could not fallen , till they fell both by their keen Swords . The one was sir George Wharton called , the good Lord Whartons Son and heir , The other Sir James a Scottish Knight , a man that a valiant heart did bear : Near to the court these gallants stout , fell out as they in gaming were : And in their fury grew so hight , they hardly could from blows forbear . Nay kind entreaties could not stay , Sir James from striking in that place , For in the height and hiat of blood , he struck young Wharton over the face , What dost thou mean said Wharton then ? to strike in such unmanly sort : That I will take it at thy hands , the tongue of man shall never report . Why do thy worst then said Sir James , and mark me Wharton what I say : There's never a Lord in England breathes , shall make me give and inch of way . This brags too brave stout Wharton said , let our brave English Lords alone , And talk with me that am your foe , for you shall find enough of one . Alas Sir said the Scottish Knight , thy blood and minds too base for me , Thy oppositions are too bold , and will thy dire destruction be , Nay said young Wharton , you mistake , my courage and valour equals thine , To maked apparent cast thy Glove , to gage to try as I do mine . I , said sir James hast thou such spirit , I did not think within thy breast , That such a haughty daring heart , as that [ ou ] makest show of ever could rest : I enter [ c ] hang my Glove with thee , take it and point thy bed of death , The field I mean where we must fight , and one for both lose life and breath . We'll meet near Waltham said sir George , to morrow that shall be the day , We'll either take a single man , and try who bears the Bell away : This done together hands they shook , and without any envious sign , They went to Ludgate where they stayed and drank each man his pint of Wine . N Oh kind of anger could be seen , no words of malice might bewray , But all was fair as calm as cool , as love within their bosoms lay : Till parting time and then indeed they showed some rancour of their heart , George said sir James when next we meet , so found I know we shall not part . And so they parted both resolved to have their valour fully tried ; The second part shall briefly show , both how they met , and how they did . The Second Part , to the same Tune . Y Oung Wharton was the first that came to appointed place the next day , Who presently spied sir James coming , as fast as he could post away : And being met in manly sort , the Scotch Knight did to Wharton say , I do not like thy Doublet George , it sits so well on thee today . Hast thou no privy Armour on ; nor yet no privy Coat of Steel : I never saw Lord in all my iffe , become a Doublet half so well : Now nay , now nay , stout Wharton said ; sir James Steward that may not be , I'll not and armed man come hither , and thou a naked man truly . Our men shall strip our doublets George , so shall we know whither of us lie , And then we'll to our Weapons sharp , our selves true gallants for to try : Then they stripped off their doublets fair standing up in their Shirts of Lawn , Follow my counsel the Scotchman said , and Wharton to thee i'll make known . Now follow my counsel , i'll follow thine , and we'll fight in our shirts said he , Now nay , now nay young Wharton said , sir James Steward that may not be : Unless we were drunkards & amp ; quarrellers , that had no care of our fell : Not caring what we go about , or whither our soles go to heaven or hell We'll first to God bequeathe our Souls , then next our corpse to dust and clay , With that stout Wharton was the first , took R apier and Poniard there that day Seven thrusts in turns these gallants had , before one drop of blood was drawn ; The Scottish Knight then speak valiantly , stout Wharton still thou holdest thy own : With the next thrust that Wharton thrust , he ran him through the shoulder bone : The next was through the thick o'th thigh thinking he had the Scotch Knight slave , Then Wharton said the Scottish Knight , are you a living man ? tell me , If there be a Surgeon in England can , he shall cure your wounds right speedily . Now nay , now nay , the Scottish Knight said , Sir George Wharton that may not be : The one of us shall the other kill , ever of this ground that we do flee : Then in a maze Sir George looked back , to see what company was nigh , They both had dangerous marks of death , yet neither would from the other fly . But both through body wounded soar , with courage lusty strong and found , They made a deadly desperate close , and both fell dead unto the ground , Our English Knight was the first that fell , the Scotch Knight fell immediately , Who cried both to Jesus Christ , receive our Souls , Oh Lord we die . God bless our Noble King and Queen , and all the Noble Progeny : That Britain still may live in one , in perfect Love and Unity : Thus to conclude , I make and end , wishing that quarrels still may cease : And that we still may live in love , in prosperous state , in joy and peace . Printed for W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . A Lamentable Ballad of a Combat lately performed near London , between Sir James Steward , and Sir George Wharton , Knights ; who were both slave at that time . Tune is Down Plumpton Park , etc I TO grieves my heart to tell the woe : that did near London late befall , On Martlemas Eve , Oh woe is me , I grieve the chance and ever shall , Of two right gallant Gentlemen , who very rashly fell at words , But to their quarrel could not fallen , till they fell both by their keen Swords . The one was sir George Wharton called , the good Lord Whartons Son and heir , The other Sir James a Scottish Knight , a man that a valiant heart did bear : Near to the court these gallants stout , fell out as they in gaming were : And in their fury grew so hight , they hardly could from blows forbear . Nay kind entreaties could not stay , Sir James from striking in that place , For in the height and hiat of blood , he struck young Wharton over the face , What dost thou mean said Wharton then ? to strike in such unmanly sort : That I will take it at thy hands , the tongue of man shall never report . Why do thy worst then said Sir James , and mark me Wharton what I say : There's never a Lord in England breathes , shall make me give and inch of way . This brags too brave stout Wharton said , let our brave English Lords alone , And talk with me that am your foe , for you shall find enough of one . Alas Sir said the Scottish Knight , thy blood and minds too base for me , Thy oppositions are too bold , and will thy dire destruction be , Nay said young Wharton , you mistake , my courage and valour equals thine , To maked apparent cast thy Glove , to gage to try as I do mine . I , said sir James hast thou such spirit , I did not think within thy breast , That such a haughty daring heart , as that [ ou ] makest show of ever could rest : I enter [ c ] hang my Glove with thee , take it and point thy bed of death , The field I mean where we must fight , and one for both lose life and breath . We'll meet near Waltham said sir George , to morrow that shall be the day , We'll either take a single man , and try who bears the Bell away : This done together hands they shook , and without any envious sign , They went to Ludgate where they stayed and drank each man his pint of Wine . N Oh kind of anger could be seen , no words of malice might bewray , But all was fair as calm as cool , as love within their bosoms lay : Till parting time and then indeed they showed some rancour of their heart , George said sir James when next we meet , so found I know we shall not part . And so they parted both resolved to have their valour fully tried ; The second part shall briefly show , both how they met , and how they did . The Second Part , to the same Tune . Y Oung Wharton was the first that came to appointed place the next day , Who presently spied sir James coming , as fast as he could post away : And being met in manly sort , the Scotch Knight did to Wharton say , I do not like thy Doublet George , it sits so well on thee today . Hast thou no privy Armour on ; nor yet no privy Coat of Steel : I never saw Lord in all my iffe , become a Doublet half so well : Now nay , now nay , stout Wharton said ; sir James Steward that may not be , I'll not and armed man come hither , and thou a naked man truly . Our men shall strip our doublets George , so shall we know whither of us lie , And then we'll to our Weapons sharp , our selves true gallants for to try : Then they stripped off their doublets fair standing up in their Shirts of Lawn , Follow my counsel the Scotchman said , and Wharton to thee i'll make known . Now follow my counsel , i'll follow thine , and we'll fight in our shirts said he , Now nay , now nay young Wharton said , sir James Steward that may not be : Unless we were drunkards & amp ; quarrellers , that had no care of our fell : Not caring what we go about , or whither our soles go to heaven or hell We'll first to God bequeathe our Souls , then next our corpse to dust and clay , With that stout Wharton was the first , took R apier and Poniard there that day Seven thrusts in turns these gallants had , before one drop of blood was drawn ; The Scottish Knight then speak valiantly , stout Wharton still thou holdest thy own : With the next thrust that Wharton thrust , he ran him through the shoulder bone : The next was through the thick o'th thigh thinking he had the Scotch Knight slave , Then Wharton said the Scottish Knight , are you a living man ? tell me , If there be a Surgeon in England can , he shall cure your wounds right speedily . Now nay , now nay , the Scottish Knight said , Sir George Wharton that may not be : The one of us shall the other kill , ever of this ground that we do flee : Then in a maze Sir George looked back , to see what company was nigh , They both had dangerous marks of death , yet neither would from the other fly . But both through body wounded soar , with courage lusty strong and found , They made a deadly desperate close , and both fell dead unto the ground , Our English Knight was the first that fell , the Scotch Knight fell immediately , Who cried both to Jesus Christ , receive our Souls , Oh Lord we die . God bless our Noble King and Queen , and all the Noble Progeny : That Britain still may live in one , in perfect Love and Unity : Thus to conclude , I make and end , wishing that quarrels still may cease : And that we still may live in love , in prosperous state , in joy and peace . Printed for W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 