[ The King ] & amp ; Northern-man . [ Showing how a poor North ] umberland-Man ( Tenant to the King ) being wronged [ by a Lawyer ( his ] Neighbour ) went to the King himself to make known his grievance . To the Tune of , Slut . TO Oh drive away the weary day , a book I chanced to take in hand , And therein I read assuredly a story as you shall understand : [ Pe ] rusing many a History over , among the Leaves I chanced to view : [ TO ] he Books name and Title is this , The second Lesson , too good to be true . There read I of a Northumberland-man , that was born & amp ; up brought in the Kings land , He paid twenty Shillings Rend a year , to the King , as I do understand : By him there dwelled a Lawyer false , that with his Farm was not content , But over the poor man still hanged his nose , because he did gather the Kings Rend . He told him he his Lease had forfeit , and that he must there no longer abide : The K. by such Lowness hath much wrong done and for you the world is broad and wide . The poor man prayed him for to cease , and content himself if he would be willing , And pick no vantage in my Lease , and I shall give thee forty shilling : It's neither forty Shilling , nor forty pound , ice warrant thee , so can agree thee and me , Unless thou yield me thy farm so round , and stand unto my courtesy . The Poor man said he might not do sa , his wife and his Barns will make ill work , If thou with my Farm wilt let me gam , thou seemest a good fellow ice give thee 5 mark . The Lawyer would not be so content , but further i'th matter he means to smell : the neighbours bade the poor man provide his rend and make a submission to the King himself . He got a humble staff on his back , a jerkin I wot that was of gray : With a good blue Bonnet he thought it no lack to the King he is ganging as fast as he may : He had not gone a mile out o'th Town , but one of his Neighbours he did espy : How far is't to'th King , for thither i'm boun , as fast as ever I can high . I am sorry for you neighbour he said , for your simplicity I make moan , Ice warrant you , you may ask for the King , when nine or ten days journey you have gone . Had I wist the King had woned so far , ice never a sought him a mile out o'th town , He's either had sought me , or we'd never a come near , at home I had rather would spent a crown . But when he came to the City of London , of every man he for the King did call : They told him , that him he need not to fear , for the King he lies now at the White-Hall . And with spying of Farlies in the City , because he had never been their beforn , He lee so long a bed the next day , the Court was removed to Winsor that morn . You would lay too long , then said his Host , you would lay too long by a great while : The King is now to Winsor gone , he's further gone by twenty mile . I think I was cursed , then said the poor man , if I had been wise I might would consider , Belike the King of me has got some weet , he had never gone away , had not I come hither . He fled not for you , then said his Host , but high you to Winsor as fast as you may : Be sure it will requite your cost , for look what is passed the King will pay ? But when he came to Winsor Case i le , with his humble staff on his back . Although the Gates wide open stood , he laid on them till he made they crack . Why stay , pray friend , art mad quod the Porter , what makes thee keep this stir to day ? Why , I am a Tenant of the Kings , who have a Message to him to say : The King hath men enough , said the Porter , your message well that they can say : Why , there's never a Knave the King does keep , shall ken my secret mind to day . I were told ere I came from home , ever I god hither it would be dear bought , Let me in , ice give thee a single Penny , I see thou wilt would small , ere thou do it for nought . Gramercy , said the Porter then , thy reward is so great I cannot say nay : Yonders a Noble man within the Court , i'll first hear what he does say . When the Porter came to the Noble man , he said he would show him pretty sport , There's such a clown come to the gate , as came not there seven years to the Court . He calls all Knaves the King does keep , he raps at the Gates , and makes great din ; He's passing liberal of reward , he'd give a good single Penny to be let in . Let him in , then said the Nobleman , come in Fellow , the Porter gan say : If thou come within thy self , he said , thy staff behind the Gate must stay . And this Cuckolds Cur must lig behind , what a Deel what a Cur hast god with thee ? The King will take him up for his own fell , I'll warrant when as he does him see . Beshrew thy Limbs , then said the poor man , then mayest thou count me a fool or worse , I wot not what Bankrupt lies by the King , for want of money he may pick my purse . Let him in with his Staff and Dog , said the Lord he gave a nod with's head , & amp ; a beck with's knee If you be Sir King , then said the poor man , as I can very well think you be : For I was told ever I came from home , you're goodliest man that ever I saw beforn , With so many jinglejangles about one neck , as is about yours , I never saw none . I am not the King , said the Nobleman , fellow , though I have a proud coat : If you be not the King , help me to the speech of him , you seem a good fellow , ice give you a groat . Gramercy said the Nobleman , thy reward is so great , I cannot say nay ; I'll go know the Kings pleasure , if I can , till I come again , be sure you stay . Here's sike a staying , then said the poor man , belike the Kings better then any in our country I might a gane to the farthest Nuke i'th house , neither Lad nor Lown to trouble me . When the Noble-Man came to the King , he said he could show his grace good sport , Here's such a clown come to the gate , as came not this seven years to the Court . He calls all Knaves your Highness keeps , and more then that , he terms them worse , He'l not come in without his staff and his Dog for fear some Bankrupt will pick his purse . Let him in with his Staff , then said our King , that of his sport we may see some : We'll see how he'l handle every thing , as soon as our match of Bowls is done . The Noble man led him through many a room , and through many a Galleray gay ; What a deel does the King with so many houses that he gets them not filled with Corn & amp ; Hay ? At last they spied the King in a Garden , yet from his game he did not start , The day was so hight , he cast off his Doublet , he had nothing from the waste but his shirt . Lo yonder's the King , said the Nobleman , behold fellow , lo where he goes : Believed he's some unthrift , says the poor man , that has lost his money , and pawned his clothes . But when he came before the King , the Nobleman did his courtesy : The poor man followed after him , and gave a nod with's head , and a beck with's knee . And if you be Sir King then said the poor man , as I can hardly think you be : Here is a good fellow that brought me hither , is liker to be the King than you . I am the King his Grace now said , fellow let me thy case understand : If you be Sir King i'm a Tenant of yours , that was born & amp ; up brought in your own land : There dwells a Lawyer hard by me , and a fault in my Lease he says he hath found , And all was for felling five poor Ashes , to built and house upon your own ground . Hast thou a Lease here , said our King ? or canst thou show to me the Deed ? He gave it into the Kings own hand , and said , Sir , here it's if that you can read . Let's see thy Lease , then said the King : then from his Black Box he pulled it out , He gave it into the Kings own hand , with four or five knots t'yd fast in a clout . West never unlose these knots , said the King , he gave it to one that behind him did stay . It is a proud Horse then said the poor man , will not carry's own Provinder along the high way . Pay me forty shillings as ice pay you , I will not think much to unloose a knot ; I would I were so occupied every day , i'd unloose a score on they for a groat . When the King had got these Letters read , and found the truth was very so , I warrant thee , thou hast not forfeit thy Lease , if thou hadst felled five Ashes more . I , every one can warrant me , but all your warrants are not worth a flee , For he that troubles me and will not let me go , neither cares for warrant of you nor me . Thou'st have and Injunction , said our King , from troubling of thee he will cease [ The King ] & amp ; Northern-man . [ Showing how a poor North ] umberland-Man ( Tenant to the King ) being wronged [ by a Lawyer ( his ] Neighbour ) went to the King himself to make known his grievance . To the Tune of , Slut . TO Oh drive away the weary day , a book I chanced to take in hand , And therein I read assuredly a story as you shall understand : [ Pe ] rusing many a History over , among the Leaves I chanced to view : [ TO ] he Books name and Title is this , The second Lesson , too good to be true . There read I of a Northumberland-man , that was born & amp ; up brought in the Kings land , He paid twenty Shillings Rend a year , to the King , as I do understand : By him there dwelled a Lawyer false , that with his Farm was not content , But over the poor man still hanged his nose , because he did gather the Kings Rend . He told him he his Lease had forfeit , and that he must there no longer abide : The K. by such Lowness hath much wrong done and for you the world is broad and wide . The poor man prayed him for to cease , and content himself if he would be willing , And pick no vantage in my Lease , and I shall give thee forty shilling : It's neither forty Shilling , nor forty pound , ice warrant thee , so can agree thee and me , Unless thou yield me thy farm so round , and stand unto my courtesy . The Poor man said he might not do sa , his wife and his Barns will make ill work , If thou with my Farm wilt let me gam , thou seemest a good fellow ice give thee 5 mark . The Lawyer would not be so content , but further i'th matter he means to smell : the neighbours bade the poor man provide his rend and make a submission to the King himself . He got a humble staff on his back , a jerkin I wot that was of gray : With a good blue Bonnet he thought it no lack to the King he is ganging as fast as he may : He had not gone a mile out o'th Town , but one of his Neighbours he did espy : How far is't to'th King , for thither i'm boun , as fast as ever I can high . I am sorry for you neighbour he said , for your simplicity I make moan , Ice warrant you , you may ask for the King , when nine or ten days journey you have gone . Had I wist the King had woned so far , ice never a sought him a mile out o'th town , He's either had sought me , or we'd never a come near , at home I had rather would spent a crown . But when he came to the City of London , of every man he for the King did call : They told him , that him he need not to fear , for the King he lies now at the White-Hall . And with spying of Farlies in the City , because he had never been their beforn , He lee so long a bed the next day , the Court was removed to Winsor that morn . You would lay too long , then said his Host , you would lay too long by a great while : The King is now to Winsor gone , he's further gone by twenty mile . I think I was cursed , then said the poor man , if I had been wise I might would consider , Belike the King of me has got some weet , he had never gone away , had not I come hither . He fled not for you , then said his Host , but high you to Winsor as fast as you may : Be sure it will requite your cost , for look what is passed the King will pay ? But when he came to Winsor Case i le , with his humble staff on his back . Although the Gates wide open stood , he laid on them till he made they crack . Why stay , pray friend , art mad quod the Porter , what makes thee keep this stir to day ? Why , I am a Tenant of the Kings , who have a Message to him to say : The King hath men enough , said the Porter , your message well that they can say : Why , there's never a Knave the King does keep , shall ken my secret mind to day . I were told ere I came from home , ever I god hither it would be dear bought , Let me in , ice give thee a single Penny , I see thou wilt would small , ere thou do it for nought . Gramercy , said the Porter then , thy reward is so great I cannot say nay : Yonders a Noble man within the Court , i'll first hear what he does say . When the Porter came to the Noble man , he said he would show him pretty sport , There's such a clown come to the gate , as came not there seven years to the Court . He calls all Knaves the King does keep , he raps at the Gates , and makes great din ; He's passing liberal of reward , he'd give a good single Penny to be let in . Let him in , then said the Nobleman , come in Fellow , the Porter gan say : If thou come within thy self , he said , thy staff behind the Gate must stay . And this Cuckolds Cur must lig behind , what a Deel what a Cur hast god with thee ? The King will take him up for his own fell , I'll warrant when as he does him see . Beshrew thy Limbs , then said the poor man , then mayest thou count me a fool or worse , I wot not what Bankrupt lies by the King , for want of money he may pick my purse . Let him in with his Staff and Dog , said the Lord he gave a nod with's head , & amp ; a beck with's knee If you be Sir King , then said the poor man , as I can very well think you be : For I was told ever I came from home , you're goodliest man that ever I saw beforn , With so many jinglejangles about one neck , as is about yours , I never saw none . I am not the King , said the Nobleman , fellow , though I have a proud coat : If you be not the King , help me to the speech of him , you seem a good fellow , ice give you a groat . Gramercy said the Nobleman , thy reward is so great , I cannot say nay ; I'll go know the Kings pleasure , if I can , till I come again , be sure you stay . Here's sike a staying , then said the poor man , belike the Kings better then any in our country I might a gane to the farthest Nuke i'th house , neither Lad nor Lown to trouble me . When the Noble-Man came to the King , he said he could show his grace good sport , Here's such a clown come to the gate , as came not this seven years to the Court . He calls all Knaves your Highness keeps , and more then that , he terms them worse , He'l not come in without his staff and his Dog for fear some Bankrupt will pick his purse . Let him in with his Staff , then said our King , that of his sport we may see some : We'll see how he'l handle every thing , as soon as our match of Bowls is done . The Noble man led him through many a room , and through many a Galleray gay ; What a deel does the King with so many houses that he gets them not filled with Corn & amp ; Hay ? At last they spied the King in a Garden , yet from his game he did not start , The day was so hight , he cast off his Doublet , he had nothing from the waste but his shirt . Lo yonder's the King , said the Nobleman , behold fellow , lo where he goes : Believed he's some unthrift , says the poor man , that has lost his money , and pawned his clothes . But when he came before the King , the Nobleman did his courtesy : The poor man followed after him , and gave a nod with's head , and a beck with's knee . And if you be Sir King then said the poor man , as I can hardly think you be : Here is a good fellow that brought me hither , is liker to be the King than you . I am the King his Grace now said , fellow let me thy case understand : If you be Sir King i'm a Tenant of yours , that was born & amp ; up brought in your own land : There dwells a Lawyer hard by me , and a fault in my Lease he says he hath found , And all was for felling five poor Ashes , to built and house upon your own ground . Hast thou a Lease here , said our King ? or canst thou show to me the Deed ? He gave it into the Kings own hand , and said , Sir , here it's if that you can read . Let's see thy Lease , then said the King : then from his Black Box he pulled it out , He gave it into the Kings own hand , with four or five knots t'yd fast in a clout . West never unlose these knots , said the King , he gave it to one that behind him did stay . It is a proud Horse then said the poor man , will not carry's own Provinder along the high way . Pay me forty shillings as ice pay you , I will not think much to unloose a knot ; I would I were so occupied every day , i'd unloose a score on they for a groat . When the King had got these Letters read , and found the truth was very so , I warrant thee , thou hast not forfeit thy Lease , if thou hadst felled five Ashes more . I , every one can warrant me , but all your warrants are not worth a flee , For he that troubles me and will not let me go , neither cares for warrant of you nor me . Thou'st have and Injunction , said our King , from troubling of thee he will cease , He'l either show thee good cause why , or else he'l let thee live in peace . What's that Injunction , said the poor man ? good Sir to me I pray you say , Why , it is a Letter i'll cause to be written , but art thou so simple as thou showest today ? Why ifed be a Letter i'm never the better , keep it to thy self and trouble not me , I could would had a letter written cheaper at home , and never a came out of my own country . Thoust have and Attachment , said our King , charge all that thou seest to take thy part , Till he pay thee and hundredpound , be sure thou never let him start : If any seem against thee to stand , be sure thou come hither straightway , I marry , is that all ice get for my labour , then I may come trotting every day . Thou art hard of belief , then said our King , to please him with Letters he was willing , I see you have taken great pains in writing , with all my heart i'ce give a shilling . I'll have none of thy shilling said our King , man with thy money God give thee win , He threw it into the Kings bosom , the money lay cold next to his skin . Beshrew thy heart , then said our King , thou art a Carl something too bold : Dost thou not see I am hight with Bowling , and the money next to my skin lies cold . I never wist that before said the poor man , before sike time as I come hither , If the Lawyers in our Country thought 'twas cold , they would not heap up so much together . The King called up his Treasurer , and bade him fetch him twenty pound ; If ever thy errand lie here away , i'll bear thy charges up and down . When the poor man saw the gold down tendered , for to receive it he was willing : If I had thought the King had had so much gold beshrew my heart i've would kept my shilling . The poor man god home the next Sunday , the Lawyer soon did him espy ; Oh Sir , you have been a stranger long , I think from me you have kept you by . It was for you indeed said the poor man , the matter to the King , as I have tell : I did as my neighbour put into my head , and made a submission to him my fell . what a deel didst thou with the K. quod the lawyer could not neighbours and friends agree thee & amp ; me , The deel a neighbour or friend that I had , that would would been such a dayman as he : He has gin me a Letter , bat I know not what they call ; tO but if the Kings words be true to me When you have read and perused it over , I hope you'll leave and let me be . He has gin me another , but I know not what it's but I charge you all to hold him fast , Till he pay me and hundred pound , I will go tie him fast tull a Post . Marry God forbid , the Lawyer said , then the Tachment was read before them there , Thou must needs something credit me , till I go home and fetch some mear . Credit , nay that's it the King forbade , he bade it I god thee I should thee stay . The Lawyer paid him and hundred pound in ready money ever he went away . Would every Lawyer were served thus , from troubling poor men they would cease : They either show him good cause why , or else they let him live in peace . And thus I end my merry song , which shows the plain men simpleness , And the Kings great mercy in Righting wrongs , and the Lawyers fraud and wickedness . FINIS . Printed for W. Thackeary , in Duck-lane , , He'l either show thee good cause why , or else he'l let thee live in peace . What's that Injunction , said the poor man ? good Sir to me I pray you say , Why , it is a Letter i'll cause to be written , but art thou so simple as thou showest today ? Why ifed be a Letter i'm never the better , keep it to thy self and trouble not me , I could would had a letter written cheaper at home , and never a came out of my own country . Thoust have and Attachment , said our King , charge all that thou seest to take thy part , Till he pay thee and hundredpound , be sure thou never let him start : If any seem against thee to stand , be sure thou come hither straightway , I marry , is that all ice get for my labour , then I may come trotting every day . Thou art hard of belief , then said our King , to please him with Letters he was willing , I see you have taken great pains in writing , with all my heart i'ce give a shilling . I'll have none of thy shilling said our King , man with thy money God give thee win , He threw it into the Kings bosom , the money lay cold next to his skin . Beshrew thy heart , then said our King , thou art a Carl something too bold : Dost thou not see I am hight with Bowling , and the money next to my skin lies cold . I never wist that before said the poor man , before sike time as I come hither , If the Lawyers in our Country thought 'twas cold , they would not heap up so much together . The King called up his Treasurer , and bade him fetch him twenty pound ; If ever thy errand lie here away , i'll bear thy charges up and down . When the poor man saw the gold down tendered , for to receive it he was willing : If I had thought the King had had so much gold beshrew my heart i've would kept my shilling . The poor man god home the next Sunday , the Lawyer soon did him espy ; Oh Sir , you have been a stranger long , I think from me you have kept you by . It was for you indeed said the poor man , the matter to the King , as I have tell : I did as my neighbour put into my head , and made a submission to him my fell . what a deel didst thou with the K. quod the lawyer could not neighbours and friends agree thee & amp ; me , The deel a neighbour or friend that I had , that would would been such a dayman as he : He has gin me a Letter , bat I know not what they call ; tO but if the Kings words be true to me When you have read and perused it over , I hope you'll leave and let me be . He has gin me another , but I know not what it's but I charge you all to hold him fast , Till he pay me and hundred pound , I will go tie him fast tull a Post . Marry God forbid , the Lawyer said , then the Tachment was read before them there , Thou must needs something credit me , till I go home and fetch some mear . Credit , nay that's it the King forbade , he bade it I god thee I should thee stay . The Lawyer paid him and hundred pound in ready money ever he went away . Would every Lawyer were served thus , from troubling poor men they would cease : They either show him good cause why , or else they let him live in peace . And thus I end my merry song , which shows the plain men simpleness , And the Kings great mercy in Righting wrongs , and the Lawyers fraud and wickedness . FINIS . Printed for W. Thackeary , in Duck-lane , 