A new BALLAD of King John and the Ab - bot of Canterbury . To the Tune of , The King and the Lord Abbot . With Allowance , Ro. L' Estrange I Le tell you a Story , a Story anon , Of a noble Prince & amp ; his Name was King John For he was a Prince , and a Prince of great might He held up great Wrongs , he put down great Right . Derry down , down heigh derry down . I'll tell you a Story , a Story so merry , Concerning the Abbot of Canterbury , And of his Housekeeping and high Renown , Which made him resort to fair London Town : Derry down , etc How now Brother Abbot ? it's told unto me , That thou keepest a far better House then I , And for thy Housekeeping and High Renown , I fear thou hast Treason against my Crown : Derry down , etc I hope my Liege that you owe me no grudge , For spending of my true got goods : If thou dost not answer me questions three , Thy head shall be taken from thy Body : Derry down , etc When I am set on my steed so high With my Crown of Gold upon my head , among all my Nobility with joy and much mirth , Thou must tell me to one penny what I am worth : Derry down , etc And the next Question you must not flout , How long I shall be riding the World about ; And the third Question you must not shrink ; But tell to me truly what I do think : Derry down , etc O These are hard Questions for my shallow wit , For I cannot answer your Grace as yet , But if you will give me but three days space I'll do my endeavour to answer your Grace : Derry down , etc O three days space I will thee give , For that is the longest day thou hast to live , And if thou dost not answer these questions right , Thy head shall be taken from thy body quite : Derry down , etc And as the Shepherd was going to his fold , He spied the old Abbot come riding along , How now Master Abbot ? you're Welcome home : What News have you brought from good K. John . Derry down , etc Sad news , sad news , I have thee to give , For I have but three days space for to live If I do not answer him questions three , My head will be taken from my body : Derry down , etc When he is sat on his Steed so high : With his Crown of Gold upon his head , among all his Nobility with joy and much mirth I must tell him to one penny what he is worth : Derry down , etc And the next question I must not flout , How long he shall be riding the World about , And the third question thou must not shrink , But tell to him truly what he does think : Derry down , etc O Master did you never hear it yet , That a Fool may learn a Wiseman wit ; Lend me but your Horse & amp ; your apparel , I'll ride to fair London and answer the Quarrel : Derry down , etc Now I am set on my steed so high , With my Crown of Gold upon my head , among all my Nobility with joy & amp ; much mirth Now tell me to one penny , what I am worth Derry down , etc For thirty pence our Saviour was sold , among the false Jews as you have been told , And nine and twenty's the worth of thee , For I think thou art one penny worser that he : Derry down , etc And the next question thou mayest not flout , How long I shall be riding the World about , You must rise with the Sun , and ride with the same [ e ] Until the next morning he rises again : And then I am sure you will make no doubt , But in twenty four hours you'll ride it about : Derry down , etc And the third question you must not shrink , But tell to me truly what I do think : All that I can do , and it'll make you merry For you think i'm the Abbot of Canterbury ; But i'm his poor Shepherd as you may see , And am come to beg pardon for he and for me . Derry down , etc The King he turned him about and did smile , Saying , thou shalt be the Abbot the other while ; Oh no my Grace , there is no such need , For I can neither Write nor Read . Derry down , etc Then four pounds a week will I give unto thee ; For this merry true jest thou hast told unto me ; And tell the old Abbot when thou comest home , Thou hast brought him a pardon from good King John . Derry down , etc FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . A new BALLAD of King John and the Ab - bot of Canterbury . To the Tune of , The King and the Lord Abbot . With Allowance , Ro. L' Estrange I Le tell you a Story , a Story anon , Of a noble Prince & amp ; his Name was King John For he was a Prince , and a Prince of great might He held up great Wrongs , he put down great Right . Derry down , down heigh derry down . I'll tell you a Story , a Story so merry , Concerning the Abbot of Canterbury , And of his Housekeeping and high Renown , Which made him resort to fair London Town : Derry down , etc How now Brother Abbot ? it's told unto me , That thou keepest a far better House then I , And for thy Housekeeping and High Renown , I fear thou hast Treason against my Crown : Derry down , etc I hope my Liege that you owe me no grudge , For spending of my true got goods : If thou dost not answer me questions three , Thy head shall be taken from thy Body : Derry down , etc When I am set on my steed so high With my Crown of Gold upon my head , among all my Nobility with joy and much mirth , Thou must tell me to one penny what I am worth : Derry down , etc And the next Question you must not flout , How long I shall be riding the World about ; And the third Question you must not shrink ; But tell to me truly what I do think : Derry down , etc O These are hard Questions for my shallow wit , For I cannot answer your Grace as yet , But if you will give me but three days space I'll do my endeavour to answer your Grace : Derry down , etc O three days space I will thee give , For that is the longest day thou hast to live , And if thou dost not answer these questions right , Thy head shall be taken from thy body quite : Derry down , etc And as the Shepherd was going to his fold , He spied the old Abbot come riding along , How now Master Abbot ? you're Welcome home : What News have you brought from good K. John . Derry down , etc Sad news , sad news , I have thee to give , For I have but three days space for to live If I do not answer him questions three , My head will be taken from my body : Derry down , etc When he is sat on his Steed so high : With his Crown of Gold upon his head , among all his Nobility with joy and much mirth I must tell him to one penny what he is worth : Derry down , etc And the next question I must not flout , How long he shall be riding the World about , And the third question thou must not shrink , But tell to him truly what he does think : Derry down , etc O Master did you never hear it yet , That a Fool may learn a Wiseman wit ; Lend me but your Horse & amp ; your apparel , I'll ride to fair London and answer the Quarrel : Derry down , etc Now I am set on my steed so high , With my Crown of Gold upon my head , among all my Nobility with joy & amp ; much mirth Now tell me to one penny , what I am worth Derry down , etc For thirty pence our Saviour was sold , among the false Jews as you have been told , And nine and twenty's the worth of thee , For I think thou art one penny worser that he : Derry down , etc And the next question thou mayest not flout , How long I shall be riding the World about , You must rise with the Sun , and ride with the same [ e ] Until the next morning he rises again : And then I am sure you will make no doubt , But in twenty four hours you'll ride it about : Derry down , etc And the third question you must not shrink , But tell to me truly what I do think : All that I can do , and it'll make you merry For you think i'm the Abbot of Canterbury ; But i'm his poor Shepherd as you may see , And am come to beg pardon for he and for me . Derry down , etc The King he turned him about and did smile , Saying , thou shalt be the Abbot the other while ; Oh no my Grace , there is no such need , For I can neither Write nor Read . Derry down , etc Then four pounds a week will I give unto thee ; For this merry true jest thou hast told unto me ; And tell the old Abbot when thou comest home , Thou hast brought him a pardon from good King John . Derry down , etc FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . 