The Old ABBOT AND King OLFREY . TO oh the TO une of , The Shaking of the Sheets . [ I ] N old times passed there was a King we read , was bountiful in each degree , That gave Reward to every Subject's need , so orderly as it may be : [ A ] and kept his Princely Pallaty , [ I ] n every Kingly Quality , Maintaining Hospitality . [ W ] hen the King was given to understand ; there lived and Abbot in those days , [ TO ] hat kept a Noble House in such a band , and comely Men at all Affays , [ TO ] hat made the King to marvel much , [ TO ] he Abbots Living it should be such , [ And ] worser how he came for to be so Rich. Then the King sent for the Abbot straight , to come to Court he might him see , To number out the men on him did wait , the multitude as it might be : And thither went the Lord Abbot then , And after him five hundred men , To aid him out and home again . Then the noble King he did demand , of his Housekeeping and all his Train , How chance you keep so many men , quoth he ? or how come you by all your gain ? Unto your grief I'll make it known , I hope my cause is quickly shown , For I spend no more then is my own . Thou art too wealthy said the King , and it is time to cut off your head , For now I do suppose in every thing how daintily you must be fed . Unless you can resolve to me , Within one year these Questions three , Your head shall off I'll warrant you . First of all you must declare to me , to the uttermost what I am worth , See that you have a ready care , quoth he , for to study and to bring it forth : And secondly , the truth to know , How I about the world must go , This is the second Riddle you know . Then last of all to tell me what I think , and then you shall your Pardon have , Readily set down with Pen and Ink , your Lands and Livings all to save : If you your Livings mean to hold , With all your Gallants in their Gold , See these Riddles you ready unfold . And then the Abbot he sought out , to the cunningest men that there might be , How his purpose then might bring about , and for to set his Livings free : But yet by no good means could he , These Riddles expound in any degree , Nor yet by University . Then the old Abbot he a Brother had , a silly man that kept his Sheep , Who musing how his Brother came so sad , and how he came in dump so deep : Saying dear Brother tell to me How chance you look so heavily , That none of your friends can remand you ? Then the Lord Abbot told his Brother all the Questions three which made him sad , Saying dear Brother shall I be so bold , to answer them and make you glad : Let me put on your Abbots Weed , And I'll go Court like in your stead , And see dear Brother , how I shall speed . If you these Questions ready can put out , and answer them to my discharge , Half of my Living that I have no doubt , shall be thy own to live at large : And thither went the Shepherd then , And after him five hundred Men , To Guard him out and home again . Now you be very welcome said the King , indeed your day is just come forth I make no doubt but to me you bring , to the uttermost what I am worth : Yes I'll assure your Grace quoth he , Worth nine and twenty pence you be , Nor a penny more I will warrant you . For Jesus Christ who was the King of Kings was sold but for one penny more When Judas sold him to the Jewish things , the Scripture brings forth therefore : Then I do trust your Grace will say , You're worth no more no manner of way . But a Penny lesser then they did pay . Then touching how to go the world about , in twice twelve hours as you may see , The Sun does take its speedy course about so speedily as it may be : If you about the World would go , In twice twelve hours you may do so , And this the second Riddle you know . Then last of all to tell you what you think , I am sure you think that it is I Am the Lord Abbot which to you did bring , these questions so Readily : No , I am but his poor Brother God wot In Field which after his sheep do trot , For Lands and livings I have not . When as the Noble King had herd , his Questions he had answered so , He hearing that the Shepherd he had need , a living on him did bestow : And his Brother Likewise he did yield , Half of the Livings which then he held , Thus was he promoted from the field . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The Old ABBOT AND King OLFREY . TO oh the TO une of , The Shaking of the Sheets . [ I ] N old times passed there was a King we read , was bountiful in each degree , That gave Reward to every Subject's need , so orderly as it may be : [ A ] and kept his Princely Pallaty , [ I ] n every Kingly Quality , Maintaining Hospitality . [ W ] hen the King was given to understand ; there lived and Abbot in those days , [ TO ] hat kept a Noble House in such a band , and comely Men at all Affays , [ TO ] hat made the King to marvel much , [ TO ] he Abbots Living it should be such , [ And ] worser how he came for to be so Rich. Then the King sent for the Abbot straight , to come to Court he might him see , To number out the men on him did wait , the multitude as it might be : And thither went the Lord Abbot then , And after him five hundred men , To aid him out and home again . Then the noble King he did demand , of his Housekeeping and all his Train , How chance you keep so many men , quoth he ? or how come you by all your gain ? Unto your grief I'll make it known , I hope my cause is quickly shown , For I spend no more then is my own . Thou art too wealthy said the King , and it is time to cut off your head , For now I do suppose in every thing how daintily you must be fed . Unless you can resolve to me , Within one year these Questions three , Your head shall off I'll warrant you . First of all you must declare to me , to the uttermost what I am worth , See that you have a ready care , quoth he , for to study and to bring it forth : And secondly , the truth to know , How I about the world must go , This is the second Riddle you know . Then last of all to tell me what I think , and then you shall your Pardon have , Readily set down with Pen and Ink , your Lands and Livings all to save : If you your Livings mean to hold , With all your Gallants in their Gold , See these Riddles you ready unfold . And then the Abbot he sought out , to the cunningest men that there might be , How his purpose then might bring about , and for to set his Livings free : But yet by no good means could he , These Riddles expound in any degree , Nor yet by University . Then the old Abbot he a Brother had , a silly man that kept his Sheep , Who musing how his Brother came so sad , and how he came in dump so deep : Saying dear Brother tell to me How chance you look so heavily , That none of your friends can remand you ? Then the Lord Abbot told his Brother all the Questions three which made him sad , Saying dear Brother shall I be so bold , to answer them and make you glad : Let me put on your Abbots Weed , And I'll go Court like in your stead , And see dear Brother , how I shall speed . If you these Questions ready can put out , and answer them to my discharge , Half of my Living that I have no doubt , shall be thy own to live at large : And thither went the Shepherd then , And after him five hundred Men , To Guard him out and home again . Now you be very welcome said the King , indeed your day is just come forth I make no doubt but to me you bring , to the uttermost what I am worth : Yes I'll assure your Grace quoth he , Worth nine and twenty pence you be , Nor a penny more I will warrant you . For Jesus Christ who was the King of Kings was sold but for one penny more When Judas sold him to the Jewish things , the Scripture brings forth therefore : Then I do trust your Grace will say , You're worth no more no manner of way . But a Penny lesser then they did pay . Then touching how to go the world about , in twice twelve hours as you may see , The Sun does take its speedy course about so speedily as it may be : If you about the World would go , In twice twelve hours you may do so , And this the second Riddle you know . Then last of all to tell you what you think , I am sure you think that it is I Am the Lord Abbot which to you did bring , these questions so Readily : No , I am but his poor Brother God wot In Field which after his sheep do trot , For Lands and livings I have not . When as the Noble King had herd , his Questions he had answered so , He hearing that the Shepherd he had need , a living on him did bestow : And his Brother Likewise he did yield , Half of the Livings which then he held , Thus was he promoted from the field . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 