STRANGE and DREADFUL News from Holland ; OR , The Sad and Lamentable Account of a Fearful STORM , that continued for the space of two Days , by which the Seas were enraged to that degree , that overflowing the Dykes , they broke the Banks , and laid all the Country of 20 miles , under Water , to the ruin of many hundred Families ; Drowning diverse Islands in the River Elbe ; together with the villages of Batten - Rug and Groverot : As likewise , many Houses , Stacks of corn , Trees , People , and a great number of Cattle ; overthrowing the Chimneys and the tops of the Houses , the like never herd of before . Tune of , Russels Farewell . This may be Printed , R.P. HAMBURG . G Ive ear good people , while I tell a Story sad to hear , How late the Raging Seas did swell , as I shall make appear : To such a height , as breaking Bound , it fearfully did Rage , and all before it did confound , no force could it assuage . Driven by Storms over Villages , over Woods and Banks it rolled , There's none could stand before those Seas that would not be controlled ; The flying People e'ry where , their Houses did forsake , And though they swifter were through fear , the floods them overtake . And wrapped them in their watery Tomb , in vain they strove to climb , The Trees with them the waves Entomb , and Drown them ever their time ; The Cattle struggle against the Stream , by hundreds , but in vain , For why the Waves soon smothered them , and drove them back again . Here Houses float , their Stacks of Corn , the furious Torent drove , Which Villages did overturn , and roated up each Grove ; The stubborn Oak was forced to yield , to furious Winds and Floods , Which hurried over the watery Field , the People and their Goods . Their Banks & amp ; Dykes were broken down and where the Cattle fed , Salt water did inall parts Drown , and far and wide it spread ; In Elbes River Isles were lost , by the insulting Waves , The Houses overturned and tossed , the people found their Graves . The angry Skies and Seas contend , which should their ruin prove , Nor could the Hills their lives defend , so furious did they move ; The scattered Houses not to name , of Peasants , be it known , A pleasant town of ancient Fame , and many more overthrown . Fair Stadens Territory lies beneath the watery Brine , Nor could that ruin yet suffice , but Waves do undermine The mighty Fortresses , and swelled , over all the Neighbouring Plain ; That which the Country people held , possessed is by the Main . Where Cattle Grazed , the Fish now play , so dreadful was the Flood , That never the like in any day , has yet been understood ; Nor was the Trading Hamburg free , the fearul Winds overthrew , The Chimneys that few safe could be , and Houses tops off blew . In Warehouses the Merchandise were by the water spoiled , In vain against it they did devise , until the Flood recoiled ; Such fury it continued long , it laid the Country waste , And overwelmed the flying throng , that from its rage made haste . By which we plain may see that God , which sets the Sea a Bound , Commands the Billows with a Nod , or else they all would Drown ; Merciless waves would all destroy , and Deluge us once more , Then let us praise him , who enjoy our Safety on the Shore . Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-Glass on London-Bridge , STRANGE and DREADFUL News from Holland ; OR , The Sad and Lamentable Account of a Fearful STORM , that continued for the space of two Days , by which the Seas were enraged to that degree , that overflowing the Dykes , they broke the Banks , and laid all the Country of 20 miles , under Water , to the ruin of many hundred Families ; Drowning diverse Islands in the River Elbe ; together with the villages of Batten - Rug and Groverot : As likewise , many Houses , Stacks of corn , Trees , People , and a great number of Cattle ; overthrowing the Chimneys and the tops of the Houses , the like never herd of before . Tune of , Russels Farewell . This may be Printed , R.P. HAMBURG . G Ive ear good people , while I tell a Story sad to hear , How late the Raging Seas did swell , as I shall make appear : To such a height , as breaking Bound , it fearfully did Rage , and all before it did confound , no force could it assuage . Driven by Storms over Villages , over Woods and Banks it rolled , There's none could stand before those Seas that would not be controlled ; The flying People e'ry where , their Houses did forsake , And though they swifter were through fear , the floods them overtake . And wrapped them in their watery Tomb , in vain they strove to climb , The Trees with them the waves Entomb , and Drown them ever their time ; The Cattle struggle against the Stream , by hundreds , but in vain , For why the Waves soon smothered them , and drove them back again . Here Houses float , their Stacks of Corn , the furious Torent drove , Which Villages did overturn , and roated up each Grove ; The stubborn Oak was forced to yield , to furious Winds and Floods , Which hurried over the watery Field , the People and their Goods . Their Banks & amp ; Dykes were broken down and where the Cattle fed , Salt water did inall parts Drown , and far and wide it spread ; In Elbes River Isles were lost , by the insulting Waves , The Houses overturned and tossed , the people found their Graves . The angry Skies and Seas contend , which should their ruin prove , Nor could the Hills their lives defend , so furious did they move ; The scattered Houses not to name , of Peasants , be it known , A pleasant town of ancient Fame , and many more overthrown . Fair Stadens Territory lies beneath the watery Brine , Nor could that ruin yet suffice , but Waves do undermine The mighty Fortresses , and swelled , over all the Neighbouring Plain ; That which the Country people held , possessed is by the Main . Where Cattle Grazed , the Fish now play , so dreadful was the Flood , That never the like in any day , has yet been understood ; Nor was the Trading Hamburg free , the fearul Winds overthrew , The Chimneys that few safe could be , and Houses tops off blew . In Warehouses the Merchandise were by the water spoiled , In vain against it they did devise , until the Flood recoiled ; Such fury it continued long , it laid the Country waste , And overwelmed the flying throng , that from its rage made haste . By which we plain may see that God , which sets the Sea a Bound , Commands the Billows with a Nod , or else they all would Drown ; Merciless waves would all destroy , and Deluge us once more , Then let us praise him , who enjoy our Safety on the Shore . Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-Glass on London-Bridge , 