[ That ] e Lamentable fallen of Queen Elenor , who for her Pride and wickedness , by Gods [ J ] udgements sunk into the ground at Charing-Cross , and rose at Queen-Hith . Tune of , Gentle and courteous . W hen Edward was in England King , the first of all that name , [ Proud ] Elenor he made his Queen , [ a stately ] Spanish Dame : [ Whose ] wicked life in sinful pride , through England did excel To dainty dams and gallant maids , this Queen was known full well . He was the first that did invent in coaches brave to ride , She was the first that brought this Land to deadly since and Pride : No English Taylor here could serve to make her rich attire , But sent her Tailors into Spain , to feed her vain desire . They brought in fashions strange and new with golden garments bright , The Farthingale and mighty Ruff , with Gowns of Rich delight : You L ondon Dams in Spanish pride , [ ] sh every where ; Our English-men like women then , did wea [ ] long locks of Hair . [ ] and Child , both Maid and wife , [ ] oned in pride of Spain , And the Spanish Tailors then our English men did stain : Whereat the Queen did much despite , to see our English men , In vestures clad as brave to see , as any Spaniard then . She craved the King that every man that wore long locks of Hair , Might then be cut and poled all or shaved very near : Whereat the K ing did seem content , and soon thereto agreed , And first commanded that his own , should then be cut with speed . And after that to please his Queen , proclaimed through the Land , That every man that wore long hair should pole him out of hand : But yet this Spaniard not content , to women boar a spite , And then requested of the King , against all Law and right . That every woman = kind should have their right Breast cut away , And then with burning Irons seared , the blood to staunch and stay : King Edward then perceiving well , her [ s ] pight to womankind Devised soon by policy , to turn her bloody mind . He sent for burning Irons straight , all sparkling hight to see , And said , Oh Queen come on thy way , I will begin with thee : Which words did much displease the Queen that penance to begin , But asked him pardon on her knees , who gave her grace therein . But afterwards she chanced to pass along brave London streets : Whereas the Mayor of L ondon wife , in stately sort she meets : With music , mirth and melody , unto the Church they went , To give god thanks that to'th Lord Mayor a Noble Son had sent . It grieved much this spiteful Queen , to see that any one , Should so exceed in mirth and joy , except herself alone For which she after did devise , within her bloody mind , And practised still most secretly , to kill this Lady kind . U Unto the Mayor of London then she sent her Letters straight , To send his Lady to the Court upon her Grace to wait : But when the London Lady came before proud Elenors face , She stripped her from her Rich array , and kept her vile and base . She sent her unto Wales with speed , and kept her secret there , And used her still most cruelly , that every man did hear ; She madt her wash she made her startch she made her drudge always , She made her nurse up children small , and labour night and day . B ut this contented not the Queen , she showed her most despite , She bound this Lady to a Post , at twelve a clock at Night : And as poor Lady she stood bound , the Queen in angry mood , Did set two Snakes unto her Breast , that sucked away her blood . Thus died the Mayor of L ondons wife , most grievious for to hear , which made the Spaniard grow more proud as after shall appear : The food that fed this stately Dame , was boiled in costly Wines . The water that did spring from ground , she would not touch at all , But washed her hands with due of Heaven , that one sweet Roses fallen : She bathed her body many a time , in Fountains filled with milk , And every day did change attire , in costly meadian Silk . But coming then to London back , within her coach of Gold , A tempest strange within the skies , this Queen did there behold , Out of which storm she could not go , but there remained a space , Four Horses could not stir the coach , a foot out of the place . A judgement lately sent from Heaven , for shedding guiltless blood , Upon this sinful Queen that slew , the London Lady good : King Edward then as wisdom miled , accused her of that deed , But she denied and wished that God would send his wrath with speed . If that upon so vile a thing , her heart did ever think , She wished the ground might open wide , and she therein might sink : With that at Charing-Cross she sunk , into the ground alive , And after rose with life again , in London at Queen-hive . When after that she languished soar , full twenty days in pain , At last confessed the Ladies blood , her guilty hand had slave : And likewise how that by a fryer , she had a base born Child , Whose sinful Lustest and wickedness , her marriage bed defiled . Thus have you herd the fallen of pride , a just Reward of since , For those that will forswear themselves , Gods vengeance daily : B eware of Pride you London Dams , both Wives and Maidens all Bear this imprinted in your minds . [ That ] e Lamentable fallen of Queen Elenor , who for her Pride and wickedness , by Gods [ J ] udgements sunk into the ground at Charing-Cross , and rose at Queen-Hith . Tune of , Gentle and courteous . W hen Edward was in England King , the first of all that name , [ Proud ] Elenor he made his Queen , [ a stately ] Spanish Dame : [ Whose ] wicked life in sinful pride , through England did excel To dainty dams and gallant maids , this Queen was known full well . He was the first that did invent in coaches brave to ride , She was the first that brought this Land to deadly since and Pride : No English Taylor here could serve to make her rich attire , But sent her Tailors into Spain , to feed her vain desire . They brought in fashions strange and new with golden garments bright , The Farthingale and mighty Ruff , with Gowns of Rich delight : You L ondon Dams in Spanish pride , [ ] sh every where ; Our English-men like women then , did wea [ ] long locks of Hair . [ ] and Child , both Maid and wife , [ ] oned in pride of Spain , And the Spanish Tailors then our English men did stain : Whereat the Queen did much despite , to see our English men , In vestures clad as brave to see , as any Spaniard then . She craved the King that every man that wore long locks of Hair , Might then be cut and poled all or shaved very near : Whereat the K ing did seem content , and soon thereto agreed , And first commanded that his own , should then be cut with speed . And after that to please his Queen , proclaimed through the Land , That every man that wore long hair should pole him out of hand : But yet this Spaniard not content , to women boar a spite , And then requested of the King , against all Law and right . That every woman = kind should have their right Breast cut away , And then with burning Irons seared , the blood to staunch and stay : King Edward then perceiving well , her [ s ] pight to womankind Devised soon by policy , to turn her bloody mind . He sent for burning Irons straight , all sparkling hight to see , And said , Oh Queen come on thy way , I will begin with thee : Which words did much displease the Queen that penance to begin , But asked him pardon on her knees , who gave her grace therein . But afterwards she chanced to pass along brave London streets : Whereas the Mayor of L ondon wife , in stately sort she meets : With music , mirth and melody , unto the Church they went , To give god thanks that to'th Lord Mayor a Noble Son had sent . It grieved much this spiteful Queen , to see that any one , Should so exceed in mirth and joy , except herself alone For which she after did devise , within her bloody mind , And practised still most secretly , to kill this Lady kind . U Unto the Mayor of London then she sent her Letters straight , To send his Lady to the Court upon her Grace to wait : But when the London Lady came before proud Elenors face , She stripped her from her Rich array , and kept her vile and base . She sent her unto Wales with speed , and kept her secret there , And used her still most cruelly , that every man did hear ; She madt her wash she made her startch she made her drudge always , She made her nurse up children small , and labour night and day . B ut this contented not the Queen , she showed her most despite , She bound this Lady to a Post , at twelve a clock at Night : And as poor Lady she stood bound , the Queen in angry mood , Did set two Snakes unto her Breast , that sucked away her blood . Thus died the Mayor of L ondons wife , most grievious for to hear , which made the Spaniard grow more proud as after shall appear : The food that fed this stately Dame , was boiled in costly Wines . The water that did spring from ground , she would not touch at all , But washed her hands with due of Heaven , that one sweet Roses fallen : She bathed her body many a time , in Fountains filled with milk , And every day did change attire , in costly meadian Silk . But coming then to London back , within her coach of Gold , A tempest strange within the skies , this Queen did there behold , Out of which storm she could not go , but there remained a space , Four Horses could not stir the coach , a foot out of the place . A judgement lately sent from Heaven , for shedding guiltless blood , Upon this sinful Queen that slew , the London Lady good : King Edward then as wisdom miled , accused her of that deed , But she denied and wished that God would send his wrath with speed . If that upon so vile a thing , her heart did ever think , She wished the ground might open wide , and she therein might sink : With that at Charing-Cross she sunk , into the ground alive , And after rose with life again , in London at Queen-hive . When after that she languished soar , full twenty days in pain , At last confessed the Ladies blood , her guilty hand had slave : And likewise how that by a fryer , she had a base born Child , Whose sinful Lustest and wickedness , her marriage bed defiled . Thus have you herd the fallen of pride , a just Reward of since , For those that will forswear themselves , Gods vengeance daily : B eware of Pride you London Dams , both Wives and Maidens all Bear this imprinted in your minds . 