Shrowsbury for me : BEING , A Song in praise of that Famous Town , Which hath throughout all England gained renown , In Praise thereof , let every one agree , And say with one accord , Shrowsbury for me . To a delightful New Tune : or , Shrowsbury for me . C Ome listen you Gallants of S hrowsbury fair Town , For that is the place , that hath gained renown : To set forth its praises , we all will agree : Then every man to his mind , Shrowsbury for me . The merry Town of S hrowsbury , God bless it still , For it stands most gallantly upon a high Hill : It stands most bravely , for all men to see , Then every man to his mind , S hrowsbury for me . There's six Parish Churches all in that fair Town , And six gallant Ministers , in their black Gowns : There's twice a week Market , for all men to see , And every man to his mind , S hrowsbury for me . The second Part , to the same Tune . O The brave bells' of S hrowsbury , merrily does ring , And the gallant youngmen & amp ; Maid , sweetly they sing : There runs a fair River , for all men to see , And every man to his mind , S hrowsbury for me . O the Pinnacle of S hrowsbury , shows it self still , For it's mounted gallantly on a high Hill : It stands most bravely in view for to see , Then every man to his mind , S hrowsbury for me . The Tradesmen of S hrowsbury drive a fine Trade , Their wives go most gallant , and bravely arrayed , And like loving couples they always agree , Then every man to his mind , S hrowsbury for me . The Seamen went to Maidstone , the Jail for to see , And from thence to London , that noble City : Then home they returned , by one , two , and three , And every man to his mind , S hrowsbury for me . The youngmen of S hrowsbury , are jovial Blades , When they are in company , with pretty Maids . They court them completely , with compliments free , Then every man to his mind , S hrowsbury for me . There's Fishing and Fowling at S hrowsbury Town , There's shooting and bowling , both up hill and down : With brave recreations for every degree , Then every man to his mind , S hrowsbury for me . There is no man in S hrowsbury needs for to want , For all things are plenty , and nothing is scant : What ever you can wish for , for all men is free , Then every man to his mind , S hrowsbury for me . Then who would not gladly , live in this brave Town , Which flourishes gallantly , with high Renown : The like of it is not in England to see , Then every man to his mind , S hrowsbury for me . Then brave Lads of S hrowsbury , let us be merry , Carouse it most freely , in white-wine and Sherry : Cast up your Caps bravely , for all men to see , And still cry with one accord , S hrowsbury for me . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . Shrowsbury for me : BEING , A Song in praise of that Famous Town , Which hath throughout all England gained renown , In Praise thereof , let every one agree , And say with one accord , Shrowsbury for me . To a delightful New Tune : or , Shrowsbury for me . C Ome listen you Gallants of S hrowsbury fair Town , For that is the place , that hath gained renown : To set forth its praises , we all will agree : Then every man to his mind , Shrowsbury for me . The merry Town of S hrowsbury , God bless it still , For it stands most gallantly upon a high Hill : It stands most bravely , for all men to see , Then every man to his mind , S hrowsbury for me . There's six Parish Churches all in that fair Town , And six gallant Ministers , in their black Gowns : There's twice a week Market , for all men to see , And every man to his mind , S hrowsbury for me . The second Part , to the same Tune . O The brave bells' of S hrowsbury , merrily does ring , And the gallant youngmen & amp ; Maid , sweetly they sing : There runs a fair River , for all men to see , And every man to his mind , S hrowsbury for me . O the Pinnacle of S hrowsbury , shows it self still , For it's mounted gallantly on a high Hill : It stands most bravely in view for to see , Then every man to his mind , S hrowsbury for me . The Tradesmen of S hrowsbury drive a fine Trade , Their wives go most gallant , and bravely arrayed , And like loving couples they always agree , Then every man to his mind , S hrowsbury for me . The Seamen went to Maidstone , the Jail for to see , And from thence to London , that noble City : Then home they returned , by one , two , and three , And every man to his mind , S hrowsbury for me . The youngmen of S hrowsbury , are jovial Blades , When they are in company , with pretty Maids . They court them completely , with compliments free , Then every man to his mind , S hrowsbury for me . There's Fishing and Fowling at S hrowsbury Town , There's shooting and bowling , both up hill and down : With brave recreations for every degree , Then every man to his mind , S hrowsbury for me . There is no man in S hrowsbury needs for to want , For all things are plenty , and nothing is scant : What ever you can wish for , for all men is free , Then every man to his mind , S hrowsbury for me . Then who would not gladly , live in this brave Town , Which flourishes gallantly , with high Renown : The like of it is not in England to see , Then every man to his mind , S hrowsbury for me . Then brave Lads of S hrowsbury , let us be merry , Carouse it most freely , in white-wine and Sherry : Cast up your Caps bravely , for all men to see , And still cry with one accord , S hrowsbury for me . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 