The Valorous Acts performed at GAUNT , [ by ] the brave Bonny Lass Marry Ambree , who in Revenge of her Loves death , did play her part most gallantly . The Tune is , the blind Beggar . W Hen Captain courageous , whom death could not daunt Had roundly besieged the City of Gaunt , And manly they marched by two and by three , But the foremost in battle was Mary Ambree . Thus being inforced to fight with her Foes , On each side most fiercely they seemed to close : Each one sought for honour in every degree , But none so much wone it as Marry Ambree , When brave Segeant Major was slave in the fight , Who was her own true love her joy and delight : She swore unrevenged his blood should not be , Was not this a brave bonny lass Marry Ambree . She clothed her self from top to the toe , With Buff of the bravest and seemly to show : [ ? ] shirt of Male over that striped she , [ ? ] Lass Marry Ambree . A Helmet of proof she put on her head , A strong armed Sword she girded on her side ; Afair goodly Gauntlet on her side wore she , Was not this a brave bonny lass Marry Ambree . Then took she her Sword and her Target in hand ; And called all those that would be of her band ; To wait on her person there came thousands three , Was not this a brave bonny Lass Marry Ambree . Before you shall perish the worst of you all , Or come to any danger of Enemies thrall : This hand and this life of mine shall set you free , Was not this a brave bonny Lass Marry Ambree . The Drums and the Trumpets did found out alarm , And many a hundred did lose Leg and Arm ; And many a thousand she brought on their knee , Was not this a brave bonny Lass Marry Ambree . TO He Sky then she filled with the smoke of her Shot , And her Enemies bodies with Bullets so hight ; For one of her own men a Score killed she , Was not this a brave bonny Lass Marry Ambree . And then her false Gunner did spoil her intent , Her Powder and Bullets away he had spent ; And then with her weapon she flashed them in three , Was not this a brave bonny Lass Marry Ambree . Then took she her Castle where she did abide , Her Enemies besieged her on every side ; To beatrice down her Castle-walls they did agree , And all for to overcome Marry Ambree . Then took she her Sword and her Target in hand , And on her Castle-walls stoutly did stand ; So daring the Captains , to match any three , Oh what a brave Captain was Mary Ambree . At her then they smiled , not thinking in heart , That she could have performed so valorous a part ; The one said to the other , we shortly shall see This gallant brave captain before us to flee . Why what do you think or take me to be ? Unto these brave Soldiers so valiant spoke she : A Knight Sir of England , and Captain ( quoth they ) Whom shortly we mean to take prisoner away . No Captain of England , behold in your sighed , Two Breasts in my bosom , and therefore no Knight No Knight Sir of England nor Captain quoth she , But even a poor bonny Lass Marry Ambree . But art thou a woman as thou dost declare , That hath made us thus spend our armour in War ; The like in our lives we never did see , And therefore we'll honour brave Marry Ambree . The Prince of great Parma herd of her renown , Who long had advanced for Englands fair Crown , In token he sent her a Glove and a Ring , And said she should be his Bride at his wedding . Why what do you think or take me to be , Though he be a Prince of great dignity ; It shall never be said in England so free , That a stranger did maary with Marry Ambree . Then unto fair England she back did return , Still holding the Foes of brave England in scorn ; In Valour no Man was ever like she Was not this a brave bonny Lass Marry Ambree . In this Woman's praises I'll here end my Song , Whose heart was approved in valour most strong ; Let all sorts of people whatever they be , Sing forth the brave valours of Mary Ambree . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , & amp ; T. Passenger . The Valorous Acts performed at GAUNT , [ by ] the brave Bonny Lass Marry Ambree , who in Revenge of her Loves death , did play her part most gallantly . The Tune is , the blind Beggar . W Hen Captain courageous , whom death could not daunt Had roundly besieged the City of Gaunt , And manly they marched by two and by three , But the foremost in battle was Mary Ambree . Thus being inforced to fight with her Foes , On each side most fiercely they seemed to close : Each one sought for honour in every degree , But none so much wone it as Marry Ambree , When brave Segeant Major was slave in the fight , Who was her own true love her joy and delight : She swore unrevenged his blood should not be , Was not this a brave bonny lass Marry Ambree . She clothed her self from top to the toe , With Buff of the bravest and seemly to show : [ ? ] shirt of Male over that striped she , [ ? ] Lass Marry Ambree . A Helmet of proof she put on her head , A strong armed Sword she girded on her side ; Afair goodly Gauntlet on her side wore she , Was not this a brave bonny lass Marry Ambree . Then took she her Sword and her Target in hand ; And called all those that would be of her band ; To wait on her person there came thousands three , Was not this a brave bonny Lass Marry Ambree . Before you shall perish the worst of you all , Or come to any danger of Enemies thrall : This hand and this life of mine shall set you free , Was not this a brave bonny Lass Marry Ambree . The Drums and the Trumpets did found out alarm , And many a hundred did lose Leg and Arm ; And many a thousand she brought on their knee , Was not this a brave bonny Lass Marry Ambree . TO He Sky then she filled with the smoke of her Shot , And her Enemies bodies with Bullets so hight ; For one of her own men a Score killed she , Was not this a brave bonny Lass Marry Ambree . And then her false Gunner did spoil her intent , Her Powder and Bullets away he had spent ; And then with her weapon she flashed them in three , Was not this a brave bonny Lass Marry Ambree . Then took she her Castle where she did abide , Her Enemies besieged her on every side ; To beatrice down her Castle-walls they did agree , And all for to overcome Marry Ambree . Then took she her Sword and her Target in hand , And on her Castle-walls stoutly did stand ; So daring the Captains , to match any three , Oh what a brave Captain was Mary Ambree . At her then they smiled , not thinking in heart , That she could have performed so valorous a part ; The one said to the other , we shortly shall see This gallant brave captain before us to flee . Why what do you think or take me to be ? Unto these brave Soldiers so valiant spoke she : A Knight Sir of England , and Captain ( quoth they ) Whom shortly we mean to take prisoner away . No Captain of England , behold in your sighed , Two Breasts in my bosom , and therefore no Knight No Knight Sir of England nor Captain quoth she , But even a poor bonny Lass Marry Ambree . But art thou a woman as thou dost declare , That hath made us thus spend our armour in War ; The like in our lives we never did see , And therefore we'll honour brave Marry Ambree . The Prince of great Parma herd of her renown , Who long had advanced for Englands fair Crown , In token he sent her a Glove and a Ring , And said she should be his Bride at his wedding . Why what do you think or take me to be , Though he be a Prince of great dignity ; It shall never be said in England so free , That a stranger did maary with Marry Ambree . Then unto fair England she back did return , Still holding the Foes of brave England in scorn ; In Valour no Man was ever like she Was not this a brave bonny Lass Marry Ambree . In this Woman's praises I'll here end my Song , Whose heart was approved in valour most strong ; Let all sorts of people whatever they be , Sing forth the brave valours of Mary Ambree . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , & amp ; T. Passenger . 