The Christians new Victory Over the TURKS in Hungaria near the Drave . In this Famous Battle the Christians killed near Twenty Thousand , took 120 Guns , the Grand Vizier is Tents and Baggage , to and inestimable valve , of Gold , Silver and J ewels : a greater Victory was hardly ever known in Europe . To the Tune of , The Thundering Cannons Roar . R Owned Boys a Bumper to Lorrain , Drink it up , and fill again ; We'll empty the Thames , and drench the main , ever we'll want any liquour . Here's a Health to the valiant King o'th' Poles , And all the Loyal Germane Souls ; Let's every one drink of our Bowls , it'll make our Spirits quicker . Advance your Pikes and Cock your Guns , See how the Turkish Bashaw runs , Wee'll root they out oF their skulking Towns ; Brave Ensigns furl your Flags here . Starenburg that valiant Man , Falls on first with the Polish Van , Let's charge they briskly hand to hand ; He's a cowardly Sot that lags here . Let every Soldier keep their Ranks , Double their Files in the thinnest Flanks , The Foes stand thick on the Danube Banks , Yet the Turks dare scarce defend her . Our Thundering Cannon shall ring a Peal , And found they many a doleful Kneel , It'll send they Post to the King of Hell , If they quickly don't surrender . The Second Part to the same Tune . S Ee how our English Volunteers Charge , as Men that know no fears ; Where ever they come the Battle clears , Hark how the Trumpet blows Boys ! They strike the Foe with Terror and Death , Nor give the Turkish Tyrant breath : Their bodies strewed about the Heath , make savoury meat for Crows Boys . O that our Royal Monarch James , With and English Fleet would fill the Thames , Weed turn all Turkey into flames , For the honour of our King Boys . If we to Club-law once should come , Weed give the Turkish Rogues their Doom , And follow close by the found o'th' drum , And make the Heavens ring boys . See how the Royal Banners fly , Hark how the Cannons rend the Sky , The hideous groans of the Turks that die , Do pierce the airy Regions . In Mahomet they vainly placed Their trust , in vain his Shrines embraced , He lets they still be slave and chased By Caesar's Royal Legions . No more let Europe fear the Fame , Of the Ottomans , nor dread the same , But let they still adore the name Of Caesar's grand Successor . Our Arms with Turkish Blood we'll stain , Those Troops which filled the Hungarian Plain , Are trodden down , pursued and slave , By Mars his brave Professor . By J. S. This may be Printed , R . P . Printed for Phillip Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . The Christians new Victory Over the TURKS in Hungaria near the Drave . In this Famous Battle the Christians killed near Twenty Thousand , took 120 Guns , the Grand Vizier is Tents and Baggage , to and inestimable valve , of Gold , Silver and J ewels : a greater Victory was hardly ever known in Europe . To the Tune of , The Thundering Cannons Roar . R Owned Boys a Bumper to Lorrain , Drink it up , and fill again ; We'll empty the Thames , and drench the main , ever we'll want any liquour . Here's a Health to the valiant King o'th' Poles , And all the Loyal Germane Souls ; Let's every one drink of our Bowls , it'll make our Spirits quicker . Advance your Pikes and Cock your Guns , See how the Turkish Bashaw runs , Wee'll root they out oF their skulking Towns ; Brave Ensigns furl your Flags here . Starenburg that valiant Man , Falls on first with the Polish Van , Let's charge they briskly hand to hand ; He's a cowardly Sot that lags here . Let every Soldier keep their Ranks , Double their Files in the thinnest Flanks , The Foes stand thick on the Danube Banks , Yet the Turks dare scarce defend her . Our Thundering Cannon shall ring a Peal , And found they many a doleful Kneel , It'll send they Post to the King of Hell , If they quickly don't surrender . The Second Part to the same Tune . S Ee how our English Volunteers Charge , as Men that know no fears ; Where ever they come the Battle clears , Hark how the Trumpet blows Boys ! They strike the Foe with Terror and Death , Nor give the Turkish Tyrant breath : Their bodies strewed about the Heath , make savoury meat for Crows Boys . O that our Royal Monarch James , With and English Fleet would fill the Thames , Weed turn all Turkey into flames , For the honour of our King Boys . If we to Club-law once should come , Weed give the Turkish Rogues their Doom , And follow close by the found o'th' drum , And make the Heavens ring boys . See how the Royal Banners fly , Hark how the Cannons rend the Sky , The hideous groans of the Turks that die , Do pierce the airy Regions . In Mahomet they vainly placed Their trust , in vain his Shrines embraced , He lets they still be slave and chased By Caesar's Royal Legions . No more let Europe fear the Fame , Of the Ottomans , nor dread the same , But let they still adore the name Of Caesar's grand Successor . Our Arms with Turkish Blood we'll stain , Those Troops which filled the Hungarian Plain , Are trodden down , pursued and slave , By Mars his brave Professor . By J. S. This may be Printed , R . P . Printed for Phillip Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . 