[ ? ] Being a sad and true Relation of the Apprehension , Trial , Confession , Condemnation , and Execution of the two barbarous and bloody Murderers , who basely and unawares killed a worthy Knight of the North Country as he was going down to the Waterside ; not giving them the least abuse , for which cruel and inhumane actium they were both hanged in Fleet-Street , near White-Fryers , 22 of Octo. 1675. Tune is , Bleeding Heart . By W.P. A LL hearts that ever yet did bleed , For any barbarous cruel deed ; All tyey that ever yet did mourn , Now into floods your sorrows turn : No tongue such cruelty ever told , As I to you shall here unfold ; If that my trembling Pen will write , Or my astonished mind indite : The Cry of blood will reach the sky , And the bloody-thirsty man shall die . Of all the murders which are known , Compared to this I hear of none ; Those which such bloody acts commit , Expect that they shall gain by it ; But these the Devil did engage To murder in a furious rage ; No profit this base act could bring , Nor no abuse did cause this thing , The cry of blood , etc A worthy Knight out of the North , Oh pity 'twas he ever came forth ; To London came to see his Friends , Not thinking he was nigh his end : But back he never did return , Which caused his own dear wife to mourn : Sir Richard so they did him call , Pray listen how he came to fallen . The cry of blood , etc He had now in his company , One that did serve him formerly , Who walked out with him up and down , So long as he stayed in the Town : But as they walked the streets one day , They met two Persons as they say ; Of good extract , so that for shame , I shall not dare to tell their name : The cry of blood , etc The second Part , To the same Tune . The man which was with the Knight they knew , Then to a Tavern they must go ; The Knight also to the Tavern went , Which made him sorely to repent : But ever that they did make and end , These Hectors quarreled with his friend , 'Twas in White-Fryers they did drink , He little of his death did think . The cry of blood , etc Sir Richard willing to appease , And willing that their rage should cease , The Reckoning paid as I hear say , And with his friend did go away : They were not gone but little space , But the other two of little grace , Did follow them , and at one blow , Did run Sir Richards Body through The cry of blood , etc He being dead they both did fly , Thinking to shun their destiny ; But all in vain , in Barkshire they At Wallingford were forced to stay : To Reding Goal they both were sent , Such further mischief to prevent ; To New-Gate afterwards were brought , To suffer for the deed they wrought . The cry of blood , etc At the last Sessions they were tried , The bloody deed was not denied ; For which they sentenced were to die , A reward for impiety . In Fleet-street near White-Fryers end , Being near the place they did offend ; They hanged were , which was their due , lest further mischief they pursue . The cry of blood , etc This was the Murderers just fate , They both repent when 'twas too late ; Blood cries for vengeance which will come , And give those bloody men their doom : For if that such as those should live , And not for death their death receive , Those wretches would in fury great Kill any man they met i'th' street . The cry of blood , etc Let all men therefore have a care , How that the Devil does ensnare ; To act such barbarous deeds as those , Not to the very worst of foes : If they are wronged , the Law will find , Redress according to their mind ; Which serves such actions to prevent , Being ordered for the same intent . The cry of blood , etc Let all that hear this be afraid , And not by Satan be betrayed ; For life is sweet , and now we see Their fury was the death of three : The Knight did die innocence , They justly suffered for offence : God grant that their repentance might , Give to their Souls some sweet delight . The cry of blood , etc Consider well all wicked men , Fear God , repent , and surely then He'l keep you from such hanious crimes , Which rule too much in these our times : Abstain high drinking , do not swear , And of bad company be aware ; Seek not in quarrels to contend , Then blessed will be your latter end . The cry of blood , etc Printed for John Hose , over against Stapels-Inn , in Holburn , near Grays-Inn-Lane . [ ? ] Being a sad and true Relation of the Apprehension , Trial , Confession , Condemnation , and Execution of the two barbarous and bloody Murderers , who basely and unawares killed a worthy Knight of the North Country as he was going down to the Waterside ; not giving them the least abuse , for which cruel and inhumane actium they were both hanged in Fleet-Street , near White-Fryers , 22 of Octo. 1675. Tune is , Bleeding Heart . By W.P. A LL hearts that ever yet did bleed , For any barbarous cruel deed ; All tyey that ever yet did mourn , Now into floods your sorrows turn : No tongue such cruelty ever told , As I to you shall here unfold ; If that my trembling Pen will write , Or my astonished mind indite : The Cry of blood will reach the sky , And the bloody-thirsty man shall die . Of all the murders which are known , Compared to this I hear of none ; Those which such bloody acts commit , Expect that they shall gain by it ; But these the Devil did engage To murder in a furious rage ; No profit this base act could bring , Nor no abuse did cause this thing , The cry of blood , etc A worthy Knight out of the North , Oh pity 'twas he ever came forth ; To London came to see his Friends , Not thinking he was nigh his end : But back he never did return , Which caused his own dear wife to mourn : Sir Richard so they did him call , Pray listen how he came to fallen . The cry of blood , etc He had now in his company , One that did serve him formerly , Who walked out with him up and down , So long as he stayed in the Town : But as they walked the streets one day , They met two Persons as they say ; Of good extract , so that for shame , I shall not dare to tell their name : The cry of blood , etc The second Part , To the same Tune . The man which was with the Knight they knew , Then to a Tavern they must go ; The Knight also to the Tavern went , Which made him sorely to repent : But ever that they did make and end , These Hectors quarreled with his friend , 'Twas in White-Fryers they did drink , He little of his death did think . The cry of blood , etc Sir Richard willing to appease , And willing that their rage should cease , The Reckoning paid as I hear say , And with his friend did go away : They were not gone but little space , But the other two of little grace , Did follow them , and at one blow , Did run Sir Richards Body through The cry of blood , etc He being dead they both did fly , Thinking to shun their destiny ; But all in vain , in Barkshire they At Wallingford were forced to stay : To Reding Goal they both were sent , Such further mischief to prevent ; To New-Gate afterwards were brought , To suffer for the deed they wrought . The cry of blood , etc At the last Sessions they were tried , The bloody deed was not denied ; For which they sentenced were to die , A reward for impiety . In Fleet-street near White-Fryers end , Being near the place they did offend ; They hanged were , which was their due , lest further mischief they pursue . The cry of blood , etc This was the Murderers just fate , They both repent when 'twas too late ; Blood cries for vengeance which will come , And give those bloody men their doom : For if that such as those should live , And not for death their death receive , Those wretches would in fury great Kill any man they met i'th' street . The cry of blood , etc Let all men therefore have a care , How that the Devil does ensnare ; To act such barbarous deeds as those , Not to the very worst of foes : If they are wronged , the Law will find , Redress according to their mind ; Which serves such actions to prevent , Being ordered for the same intent . The cry of blood , etc Let all that hear this be afraid , And not by Satan be betrayed ; For life is sweet , and now we see Their fury was the death of three : The Knight did die innocence , They justly suffered for offence : God grant that their repentance might , Give to their Souls some sweet delight . The cry of blood , etc Consider well all wicked men , Fear God , repent , and surely then He'l keep you from such hanious crimes , Which rule too much in these our times : Abstain high drinking , do not swear , And of bad company be aware ; Seek not in quarrels to contend , Then blessed will be your latter end . The cry of blood , etc Printed for John Hose , over against Stapels-Inn , in Holburn , near Grays-Inn-Lane . 