The Life and Death of Sir HUGH of the Grime , A S it befell upon one time , about Midsummer of the year , Every man was taxed of his crime , for stealing the good Lord Bishops Mare . The good Lord Screw he saddled a Horse , and rid after this same scrime , Before he did get over the Moss , there was he aware of Sir Hugh of the Grime . Turn , Oh turn , thou false Traitor , turn and yield thy self unto me : Thou has stolen the Lord Bishops Mare and now thou thinkest away to flee . No , soft Lord Screw that may not be , here is a broad Swarod by my side , And if thou canst conquer me , the Victory will soon be tried . I never was afraid of a Traitor bold , although thy name be H ugh in the Grime , I'll make the repent thy speeehes foul , if day and life but give me time . Then do thy worst thou good Lord Screw and deal your blows as fast as you can : It will be tried between me and you . which of us two shall be the best man . The second part , to the same Tune . TO Hus as they dealt in blows so free , and both so bloody at that time , Over the moss ten Yeomen they see , come for to take sir H ugh in the Grime . Sir H ugh set his back against a Tree , and then the men encompassed him round , His much Sword from his hand did flee , & amp ; then they brought sir H ugh to the ground . Sir H ugh of the Grime now taken is , and brought back to Garland Town , The good Wives all in Garland Town sir H ugh in the Grime thou'st never gang down . The good Lord Bishop is come to the town and one the bench is set so high , And every man was taxed to his crime , at length called sir H ugh in the Grime . Here am I thou false Bishop , thy humours all to fulfil , I do not think my fact so great , but thou mayest put it into thy own will . The Quest of Jury men was called , the best that was in Garland Town , Eleven of them spoke all in a breast , sir Hugh in the Grime thou'st ner gang down . Then other Questy-men was called , the best that was in Rumery , Twelve of them spoke all in a breast , sir Hugh in the Grime thou'st now guilty . Then came down my good Lord Boles , falling down upon his knee , Five hundred pieces of gold would I give to grant Sir Hugh in the Grime to me . Peace , peace , my good Lord Boles , and of your speeches set him by , If there be Crimes all of aname , then by my honour they all should die . Then came down my good Lady Ward , falling down upon her knee , Five hundred measures of gold i'll give , to grant Sir Hugh of the Grime to me . Peace , peace , my good Lady Ward , none of your proffers shall him buy , For if there be twelve Grimes all of a name , by my one honour they all should die . Sir Hugh of the Grimes condemned to die . and of his friends he did not lack , Fourteen Foot he leapt in his ward , his hands bound fast unto his back . Then he looked over his left shoulder , to see whom he could see or spy , There was he aware of his Father dear , came tearing his hair most pitifully . Peace , peace my father dear , and of your speeches set them by , Though they have bereave me my life , they cannot bereave me of of heaven so high . He looked over his right shoulder to see whom he could see or spy , There was he aware of his Mother Eear , came tearing her hair most piittifully . Pray have me remembered to Peggy my wife , as she and I did walk the Moor , She was the causer of my life , and with the old Bishop she played the whrre . Here Johnny Armstrong take thou my Swore , that is made of mettle so fine : And when thou comest to the Border side , remember the death of Sir Hugh of the Grime . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball near the Bear Tavern in Pie Corner . The Life and Death of Sir HUGH of the Grime , A S it befell upon one time , about Midsummer of the year , Every man was taxed of his crime , for stealing the good Lord Bishops Mare . The good Lord Screw he saddled a Horse , and rid after this same scrime , Before he did get over the Moss , there was he aware of Sir Hugh of the Grime . Turn , Oh turn , thou false Traitor , turn and yield thy self unto me : Thou has stolen the Lord Bishops Mare and now thou thinkest away to flee . No , soft Lord Screw that may not be , here is a broad Swarod by my side , And if thou canst conquer me , the Victory will soon be tried . I never was afraid of a Traitor bold , although thy name be H ugh in the Grime , I'll make the repent thy speeehes foul , if day and life but give me time . Then do thy worst thou good Lord Screw and deal your blows as fast as you can : It will be tried between me and you . which of us two shall be the best man . The second part , to the same Tune . TO Hus as they dealt in blows so free , and both so bloody at that time , Over the moss ten Yeomen they see , come for to take sir H ugh in the Grime . Sir H ugh set his back against a Tree , and then the men encompassed him round , His much Sword from his hand did flee , & amp ; then they brought sir H ugh to the ground . Sir H ugh of the Grime now taken is , and brought back to Garland Town , The good Wives all in Garland Town sir H ugh in the Grime thou'st never gang down . The good Lord Bishop is come to the town and one the bench is set so high , And every man was taxed to his crime , at length called sir H ugh in the Grime . Here am I thou false Bishop , thy humours all to fulfil , I do not think my fact so great , but thou mayest put it into thy own will . The Quest of Jury men was called , the best that was in Garland Town , Eleven of them spoke all in a breast , sir Hugh in the Grime thou'st ner gang down . Then other Questy-men was called , the best that was in Rumery , Twelve of them spoke all in a breast , sir Hugh in the Grime thou'st now guilty . Then came down my good Lord Boles , falling down upon his knee , Five hundred pieces of gold would I give to grant Sir Hugh in the Grime to me . Peace , peace , my good Lord Boles , and of your speeches set him by , If there be Crimes all of aname , then by my honour they all should die . Then came down my good Lady Ward , falling down upon her knee , Five hundred measures of gold i'll give , to grant Sir Hugh of the Grime to me . Peace , peace , my good Lady Ward , none of your proffers shall him buy , For if there be twelve Grimes all of a name , by my one honour they all should die . Sir Hugh of the Grimes condemned to die . and of his friends he did not lack , Fourteen Foot he leapt in his ward , his hands bound fast unto his back . Then he looked over his left shoulder , to see whom he could see or spy , There was he aware of his Father dear , came tearing his hair most pitifully . Peace , peace my father dear , and of your speeches set them by , Though they have bereave me my life , they cannot bereave me of of heaven so high . He looked over his right shoulder to see whom he could see or spy , There was he aware of his Mother Eear , came tearing her hair most piittifully . Pray have me remembered to Peggy my wife , as she and I did walk the Moor , She was the causer of my life , and with the old Bishop she played the whrre . Here Johnny Armstrong take thou my Swore , that is made of mettle so fine : And when thou comest to the Border side , remember the death of Sir Hugh of the Grime . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball near the Bear Tavern in Pie Corner . 