The Judgement of God showed upon one John Faustus Doctor in Divinity . The Tune is , Fortune my Foe . A LL Christian men give ear a while to me , How I am plunged in pain but cannot die , I lived a life the like did none before , Forsaking Christ , and I am damned therefore . At Wittenberge a Town in Germany , There was I born and bred of good degree , Of honest stock which afterwards I shamed , Accursed therefore for Faustus was I named . In learning Joe my Uncle brought up me , And made me Doctor in Divinity , And when he died he left me all his wealth , Whose cursed Gold did hinder my Souls health . Then did I shun the holy Bible book , Nor on Gods word would ever after look ; But studied accursed Conjuration , Which was the cause of my utter Damnation . The Devil in Fr r ars weeds appeared to me , And straight to my request he did agree , That I might have all things at my desire , I gave him soul and body for his hire . Twice did I make my tender flesh to bleed , Twice with my blood I wrote the Devil a deed , Twice wretchedly I Soul and body sold , To live in peace and do what things I would . For four and twenty years this Bound was made , And at the length my Soul was truly paid , Time ran away , and yet I never thought How dear my soul our Saviour Christ had bought Would I at first been made a beast by kind , Then had not I so vainly set my mind ; Or would when reason first began to bloom , Some darksome Den had been my deadly Tomb. Woe to the day of my Nativity , Woe to the time that once did Foster me , And woe unto the hand that sealed the Bill , Woe to my self the cause of all my ill . TO He time I passed away with much delight , Amongst princes , peers , & amp ; many a worthy Knight . I wrought such wonders by my Magic Skill , That all the world may talk of Faustus still . The Devil he carried me up into the Sky , Where I did see how all the world did lie , I went about the world in eight days space , And then returned unto my Native place . What pleasure I did wish to please my mind , He did perform as Bound and Seal did bind , The secrets of the Stars and Planets told , Of Earth and Sea , with wonders manifold . When four and twenty years was almost run , I thought of all things that was past and done , How that the Devil would come & amp ; claim his right And carry me to everlasting Night . Then all too late I cursed my wicked deed , The deed whereof does make my heart to bleed , All days and hours I mourned wondrous soar , Repenting me of all things done before . I then did wish both Sun and Moon to stay , All times and seasons never to decay , Then had my time never come to dated end , Nor Soul and body down to Hell descend . At last when I had but one hour to come I turned my Glass for my last hour to run , And called in Learned men to comfort me , But faith was gone , and comfort none could be . By twelve a clock my Glass was almost out , My grieved conscience then began to doubt , I wished the Students stay in Chamber by , But as they stayed they herd a dreadful cry . Then presently they came into the Hall , Whereas my brains was cast against the wall , Both arms and Legs in pieces torn they see , My bowels gone , this was and end of me . You Conjurers and damned Witches all , Example take by my unhappy fallen , Give not your Souls and bodies unto Hell , See that the smallest hair you to not fell . But hope that Christ his Kingdom you may gain , Where you shall never fear such mortal pain : Forsake the Devil and all his crafty ways , Embrace true Faith that never more decays . Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger . The Judgement of God showed upon one John Faustus Doctor in Divinity . The Tune is , Fortune my Foe . A LL Christian men give ear a while to me , How I am plunged in pain but cannot die , I lived a life the like did none before , Forsaking Christ , and I am damned therefore . At Wittenberge a Town in Germany , There was I born and bred of good degree , Of honest stock which afterwards I shamed , Accursed therefore for Faustus was I named . In learning Joe my Uncle brought up me , And made me Doctor in Divinity , And when he died he left me all his wealth , Whose cursed Gold did hinder my Souls health . Then did I shun the holy Bible book , Nor on Gods word would ever after look ; But studied accursed Conjuration , Which was the cause of my utter Damnation . The Devil in Fr r ars weeds appeared to me , And straight to my request he did agree , That I might have all things at my desire , I gave him soul and body for his hire . Twice did I make my tender flesh to bleed , Twice with my blood I wrote the Devil a deed , Twice wretchedly I Soul and body sold , To live in peace and do what things I would . For four and twenty years this Bound was made , And at the length my Soul was truly paid , Time ran away , and yet I never thought How dear my soul our Saviour Christ had bought Would I at first been made a beast by kind , Then had not I so vainly set my mind ; Or would when reason first began to bloom , Some darksome Den had been my deadly Tomb. Woe to the day of my Nativity , Woe to the time that once did Foster me , And woe unto the hand that sealed the Bill , Woe to my self the cause of all my ill . TO He time I passed away with much delight , Amongst princes , peers , & amp ; many a worthy Knight . I wrought such wonders by my Magic Skill , That all the world may talk of Faustus still . The Devil he carried me up into the Sky , Where I did see how all the world did lie , I went about the world in eight days space , And then returned unto my Native place . What pleasure I did wish to please my mind , He did perform as Bound and Seal did bind , The secrets of the Stars and Planets told , Of Earth and Sea , with wonders manifold . When four and twenty years was almost run , I thought of all things that was past and done , How that the Devil would come & amp ; claim his right And carry me to everlasting Night . Then all too late I cursed my wicked deed , The deed whereof does make my heart to bleed , All days and hours I mourned wondrous soar , Repenting me of all things done before . I then did wish both Sun and Moon to stay , All times and seasons never to decay , Then had my time never come to dated end , Nor Soul and body down to Hell descend . At last when I had but one hour to come I turned my Glass for my last hour to run , And called in Learned men to comfort me , But faith was gone , and comfort none could be . By twelve a clock my Glass was almost out , My grieved conscience then began to doubt , I wished the Students stay in Chamber by , But as they stayed they herd a dreadful cry . Then presently they came into the Hall , Whereas my brains was cast against the wall , Both arms and Legs in pieces torn they see , My bowels gone , this was and end of me . You Conjurers and damned Witches all , Example take by my unhappy fallen , Give not your Souls and bodies unto Hell , See that the smallest hair you to not fell . But hope that Christ his Kingdom you may gain , Where you shall never fear such mortal pain : Forsake the Devil and all his crafty ways , Embrace true Faith that never more decays . Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger . 