The Lady Isabella is Tragedy ; OR , The Step-Mothers Cruelty . Being a Relation of a most Lamentable and Cruel Murder , committed on the body of the Lady Isabella , the only Daughter of a Noble Duke occasioned by the means of a Step-Mother and the Master-Cook , who were both adjudged to suffer a Cruel death , for committing the said Horrid Act. To the Tune of , The Ladies Fallen . TO Here was a Lord of worthy fame and a Hunting he would ride , Attended by a noble Train , of Gentry by his side , And while he did in chase remain , to see both sport and play , His Lady went as she did feign , unto the Church to pray . This Lord he had a Daughter fair whose beauty shined so bright : She was beloved both far and near of many a Lord and Knight . Fair Isabella was she called , A Creature fair was she , She was her father's only joy , as you shall after see . But yet her Cruel step-Mother , did envy her so much , That day by day she sought her life her Malice it was such . She bargained with the Master-Cook to take her life away , And taking of her Daughters Book she thus to her did say . Go home sweet daughter , I thee pray go hasten presently . And tell unto the Master-Cook these words that I tell thee . And bid him dress to dinner straight , that fair and milk white Doe , That in the Park does shine so bright , there's none so fair to show . TO His Lady fearing of no harm , obeyed her Mother's will , And presently she hasted home her mind for to fulfil . She straight into the Kitchen went , her message for to tell : And there the Master-Cook she spied who did with malice swell . You Master-Cook it must be so , do that which I thee tell You needs must dress the milkwhite doe , which you do know full well . Then straight his cruel bloody hands , he on the Lady laid , Who quivering and shaking stands , while thus to her he said . Thou art the Doe that I must dress , see here behold my Knife , For it is pointed presently , to rid thee of thy life . O then cried out the Scullen boy as loud as loud might be , Oh save her life good Master-Cook , and make your Pies of me . For pity sake do not destroy , my Lady with your Knife , You know she is her father's joy , for Christs sake save her life . I will not save her life he said , nor make my Pies of thee , But if thou do this deed bewray thy Butcher I will be , But when this Lord he did come home for to fit down and eat , He called for his Daughter Dear , to come and carve his meat . Now fit you down this Lady said Oh fit you down to meat , Into some Nunnery she is gone , your Daughter dear forget . Then solemnly he made a vow before the company , That he would neither eat nor drink , until he did her see . O then bespoke the Scullen boy , with a loud voice so high , If that you will your Daughter see , my Lord cut up that Pie . Wherein her flesh is minced small ; and parched with the fire : All caused by her Step-Mother , who did her death desire . And cursed be the Master-Cook , Oh cursed may he be , I proffered him my own hearts blood , from death to set her free . Then all in black this Lord did mourn , and for his Daughters sake He judged for her Stepmother , to be burned at a Stake , Likewise he judged the Master-Cook in boiling Led to stand , and made the simple Scullen Boy , the Heir to all his Land. Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . The Lady Isabella is Tragedy ; OR , The Step-Mothers Cruelty . Being a Relation of a most Lamentable and Cruel Murder , committed on the body of the Lady Isabella , the only Daughter of a Noble Duke occasioned by the means of a Step-Mother and the Master-Cook , who were both adjudged to suffer a Cruel death , for committing the said Horrid Act. To the Tune of , The Ladies Fallen . TO Here was a Lord of worthy fame and a Hunting he would ride , Attended by a noble Train , of Gentry by his side , And while he did in chase remain , to see both sport and play , His Lady went as she did feign , unto the Church to pray . This Lord he had a Daughter fair whose beauty shined so bright : She was beloved both far and near of many a Lord and Knight . Fair Isabella was she called , A Creature fair was she , She was her father's only joy , as you shall after see . But yet her Cruel step-Mother , did envy her so much , That day by day she sought her life her Malice it was such . She bargained with the Master-Cook to take her life away , And taking of her Daughters Book she thus to her did say . Go home sweet daughter , I thee pray go hasten presently . And tell unto the Master-Cook these words that I tell thee . And bid him dress to dinner straight , that fair and milk white Doe , That in the Park does shine so bright , there's none so fair to show . TO His Lady fearing of no harm , obeyed her Mother's will , And presently she hasted home her mind for to fulfil . She straight into the Kitchen went , her message for to tell : And there the Master-Cook she spied who did with malice swell . You Master-Cook it must be so , do that which I thee tell You needs must dress the milkwhite doe , which you do know full well . Then straight his cruel bloody hands , he on the Lady laid , Who quivering and shaking stands , while thus to her he said . Thou art the Doe that I must dress , see here behold my Knife , For it is pointed presently , to rid thee of thy life . O then cried out the Scullen boy as loud as loud might be , Oh save her life good Master-Cook , and make your Pies of me . For pity sake do not destroy , my Lady with your Knife , You know she is her father's joy , for Christs sake save her life . I will not save her life he said , nor make my Pies of thee , But if thou do this deed bewray thy Butcher I will be , But when this Lord he did come home for to fit down and eat , He called for his Daughter Dear , to come and carve his meat . Now fit you down this Lady said Oh fit you down to meat , Into some Nunnery she is gone , your Daughter dear forget . Then solemnly he made a vow before the company , That he would neither eat nor drink , until he did her see . O then bespoke the Scullen boy , with a loud voice so high , If that you will your Daughter see , my Lord cut up that Pie . Wherein her flesh is minced small ; and parched with the fire : All caused by her Step-Mother , who did her death desire . And cursed be the Master-Cook , Oh cursed may he be , I proffered him my own hearts blood , from death to set her free . Then all in black this Lord did mourn , and for his Daughters sake He judged for her Stepmother , to be burned at a Stake , Likewise he judged the Master-Cook in boiling Led to stand , and made the simple Scullen Boy , the Heir to all his Land. Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . 