The lamentation of a bad Market , OR , The Drownding of three Children on the Thames . With this fantastic Tragy Comedy , This like that one or other pleased will be ; Because the Method carries Mirth there n , Or else the Subject were not worth a pin : However you'll say it is no laughing matter , To see poor Children Drowned in the Water . Tune of , The Ladies Fallen . With Allowance . SOme Christian people all give ear , unto the grief of us ; Caused by the death of three children dear , the which it happened thus . And eke there befell and accident , by fault of a Carpenters Son , Who to saw chips , his sharp Axe lent , woe worth the time may Lon. May London say woe worth the Carpenter and all such Blockhead fools , Would he were hanged like Serpent here , for jesting with edged Tools . For into the chips there fell a Spark , which put out in such flames , That it was known into Southwark , which lies beyond the Thames . For lo the Bridge was wondrous high , with water underneath ; Over which as many Fish fly , as Birds therein do breath . And yet the fire consumed the bridge , not far from place of landing , And though the building was full big , it fell down not with standing . And eke into the water fell , so many Pewter Dishes , That a man might take up very well , both boiled and roasted Fish . And thus the Bridge of London Town , for building that was sumptuous , Was all by fire half burned down , for being too contumptious . Thus you have all , but half my Song , pray list to what comes after , For now I have cooled you with the fire , i'll warm you with the water . I'll tell you what the Rivers name is , where these children did slide [ - ] a : It was fair Londons silver Thames , that keeps both time and Tide-a . All on the tenth of January , to the wonder of much people , It frozen over , that well 'twould bear , almo s tO a Country Steeple . Three children sliding thereabouts , upon a place too thin , That so at last it did fallen out , that they did all fallen in . A gallant that was standing near , a willing wager makes , But when he saw it would not bear , he would have drawn his stakes . He said 'twould bear a man to slide , and laid a hundred pound : The other said 'twould break , so it did , for three children there were drowned . Of which ones head was from his Should - ers stricken , whose name was John , Who then cried out as loud as he could , Oh Lon , Oh Lon , a London . O , Tut , Tut , Turn from thy sinful raze , thus did his speech decay , I wonder that in such a case , he had no more to say . And thus being drowned , alack , alack , the water run down their throats , And stopped their breathes 3 hours by the clock , before they could get any Boats . the Parents all that children have , and you that have none yet , Preserve your children from the grave , and teach them at home to fit . For had these at a Sermon been , or else upon dry ground , Whey then I would have never been seen , if that they had been drowned . Even as a Huntsman ties his dogs , for fear they should go from him , So tie your children with strict clogs , untie um and you'll undo um . Let Maids and Nurse's lie in wait , and watch them to a tittle , Because your grief will be full great , to have them die so little . A Story you have herd is called , The Children in the Wood . Although the Subject's both are bad , yet this may be as good . And now for to conclude at last , I wish all others may , Be careful of their children dear , for fear they go astray . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . The lamentation of a bad Market , OR , The Drownding of three Children on the Thames . With this fantastic Tragy Comedy , This like that one or other pleased will be ; Because the Method carries Mirth there n , Or else the Subject were not worth a pin : However you'll say it is no laughing matter , To see poor Children Drowned in the Water . Tune of , The Ladies Fallen . With Allowance . SOme Christian people all give ear , unto the grief of us ; Caused by the death of three children dear , the which it happened thus . And eke there befell and accident , by fault of a Carpenters Son , Who to saw chips , his sharp Axe lent , woe worth the time may Lon. May London say woe worth the Carpenter and all such Blockhead fools , Would he were hanged like Serpent here , for jesting with edged Tools . For into the chips there fell a Spark , which put out in such flames , That it was known into Southwark , which lies beyond the Thames . For lo the Bridge was wondrous high , with water underneath ; Over which as many Fish fly , as Birds therein do breath . And yet the fire consumed the bridge , not far from place of landing , And though the building was full big , it fell down not with standing . And eke into the water fell , so many Pewter Dishes , That a man might take up very well , both boiled and roasted Fish . And thus the Bridge of London Town , for building that was sumptuous , Was all by fire half burned down , for being too contumptious . Thus you have all , but half my Song , pray list to what comes after , For now I have cooled you with the fire , i'll warm you with the water . I'll tell you what the Rivers name is , where these children did slide [ - ] a : It was fair Londons silver Thames , that keeps both time and Tide-a . All on the tenth of January , to the wonder of much people , It frozen over , that well 'twould bear , almo s tO a Country Steeple . Three children sliding thereabouts , upon a place too thin , That so at last it did fallen out , that they did all fallen in . A gallant that was standing near , a willing wager makes , But when he saw it would not bear , he would have drawn his stakes . He said 'twould bear a man to slide , and laid a hundred pound : The other said 'twould break , so it did , for three children there were drowned . Of which ones head was from his Should - ers stricken , whose name was John , Who then cried out as loud as he could , Oh Lon , Oh Lon , a London . O , Tut , Tut , Turn from thy sinful raze , thus did his speech decay , I wonder that in such a case , he had no more to say . And thus being drowned , alack , alack , the water run down their throats , And stopped their breathes 3 hours by the clock , before they could get any Boats . the Parents all that children have , and you that have none yet , Preserve your children from the grave , and teach them at home to fit . For had these at a Sermon been , or else upon dry ground , Whey then I would have never been seen , if that they had been drowned . Even as a Huntsman ties his dogs , for fear they should go from him , So tie your children with strict clogs , untie um and you'll undo um . Let Maids and Nurse's lie in wait , and watch them to a tittle , Because your grief will be full great , to have them die so little . A Story you have herd is called , The Children in the Wood . Although the Subject's both are bad , yet this may be as good . And now for to conclude at last , I wish all others may , Be careful of their children dear , for fear they go astray . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . 