CRIMINALS CRUELTY . Giving a Just and true Account of one John Wise , who together with Riehard Jones , and Charles Tooley yet untaken , did one Sunday night being the twentieth of April , commit that Barbarous and Unnatural Murder on Elizabeth Fairbank , Widow , who lived in a S eller , at Picadilly , that Robbed and Rifled her , being of Money and Plate , and Rings , for which fact John Wise at present was found guilty , and accordingly received the due Sentence of Death , the which was Executed on Friday , the 17tnth , of this instant October , 1684. at PICKADILLY . Tune is Aim not too high . O H ! this would make a stony heart Lament , That men should be so vild and insolent : They will proceed in their unlawful trade , Though many still are sad examples made . They'll Rob , and will defraud men of their due Not fearing any thing that will ensue : And in A Piteous course of Life run on , Contrary to the Law of God and man . Thus do they work their wits both night and day , Still to contrive how they may work their prey : Their wills are working to a base intent , But yet at last too late they may repent . When people by their care does something save , They'll Rob them of their lives for what they have : This is the highest act of Villainy , Their guiltless blood it will for Vengeance cry . Alas , that any Murder should lie hid , From true Discovery , the Lord forbid : Though they commit it never so secretly , They cannot hide from Gods all-seeing-eye . Last April the twentieth day at night , Those Villains did commit a sad Exploit : Three Criminals together they agreed , And did commit a Murder there indeed -- The Widow Fairbank as it's known full well , She in a Cellar all alone did dwell : To whom those Villains went without delay , And of her life and goods they made their prey . They with a Handkerchief did stop her breath , They also broke her neck , thus wrought her death ; They robbed her , and then away they fled , And leaving of her murdered on the Bed. At length it seems one coming down that night , Where they beheld this sad and dismal sighed , Undoubtedly it did them much surprise , To see this sudden change before their eyes . Those Criminals made their escape away , That night to Westminster without delay : Then Richard Jones , Charls Tooley , and John Wise , Among them they did share that fatal prize . Next day they were in a most wooful case , Their very Conscience flying in their face , When Jones and Tooley thought of what they done They were possessed with fear , and forced to run . But Wise was taken , and in Prison cast , And Tooleys wife returned again at last : Then all their Villainy was open laid , By what her Husband on his Deathbed said . Thus may we see , how Murders are found out By what strange means it may be brought about : For God who is the Righteous Judge of all , Such Criminals he will to Justice call . Wise was Arraigned , in process of time , And was found Guilty of this cruel Crime : He then received Sentence for to die , The Just reward of this his Cruelty . Now may this grieve some hundreds for to see , That he deserved to die so shamefully : Oh that his death may now a warning be , To every one of high or low degree . All you that sees or hears my fatal end , Observe my words , to you a dying friend : In evil Courses never take delight , It is the ready Road to ruin quite . I do Repent that ever I run astray , I might have lived many a happy day : My Wicked life has hastened death more soon , And now my Morning Sun goes down at Noon . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street , without Newgate . CRIMINALS CRUELTY . Giving a Just and true Account of one John Wise , who together with Riehard Jones , and Charles Tooley yet untaken , did one Sunday night being the twentieth of April , commit that Barbarous and Unnatural Murder on Elizabeth Fairbank , Widow , who lived in a S eller , at Picadilly , that Robbed and Rifled her , being of Money and Plate , and Rings , for which fact John Wise at present was found guilty , and accordingly received the due Sentence of Death , the which was Executed on Friday , the 17tnth , of this instant October , 1684. at PICKADILLY . Tune is Aim not too high . O H ! this would make a stony heart Lament , That men should be so vild and insolent : They will proceed in their unlawful trade , Though many still are sad examples made . They'll Rob , and will defraud men of their due Not fearing any thing that will ensue : And in A Piteous course of Life run on , Contrary to the Law of God and man . Thus do they work their wits both night and day , Still to contrive how they may work their prey : Their wills are working to a base intent , But yet at last too late they may repent . When people by their care does something save , They'll Rob them of their lives for what they have : This is the highest act of Villainy , Their guiltless blood it will for Vengeance cry . Alas , that any Murder should lie hid , From true Discovery , the Lord forbid : Though they commit it never so secretly , They cannot hide from Gods all-seeing-eye . Last April the twentieth day at night , Those Villains did commit a sad Exploit : Three Criminals together they agreed , And did commit a Murder there indeed -- The Widow Fairbank as it's known full well , She in a Cellar all alone did dwell : To whom those Villains went without delay , And of her life and goods they made their prey . They with a Handkerchief did stop her breath , They also broke her neck , thus wrought her death ; They robbed her , and then away they fled , And leaving of her murdered on the Bed. At length it seems one coming down that night , Where they beheld this sad and dismal sighed , Undoubtedly it did them much surprise , To see this sudden change before their eyes . Those Criminals made their escape away , That night to Westminster without delay : Then Richard Jones , Charls Tooley , and John Wise , Among them they did share that fatal prize . Next day they were in a most wooful case , Their very Conscience flying in their face , When Jones and Tooley thought of what they done They were possessed with fear , and forced to run . But Wise was taken , and in Prison cast , And Tooleys wife returned again at last : Then all their Villainy was open laid , By what her Husband on his Deathbed said . Thus may we see , how Murders are found out By what strange means it may be brought about : For God who is the Righteous Judge of all , Such Criminals he will to Justice call . Wise was Arraigned , in process of time , And was found Guilty of this cruel Crime : He then received Sentence for to die , The Just reward of this his Cruelty . Now may this grieve some hundreds for to see , That he deserved to die so shamefully : Oh that his death may now a warning be , To every one of high or low degree . All you that sees or hears my fatal end , Observe my words , to you a dying friend : In evil Courses never take delight , It is the ready Road to ruin quite . I do Repent that ever I run astray , I might have lived many a happy day : My Wicked life has hastened death more soon , And now my Morning Sun goes down at Noon . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street , without Newgate . 