THE Highway men Advice To his Brothers . Or , Nevison's Last Legacy to the Knights of the High-Padd ; By way of Caution , to deter them from following their Unlawful Enterprizes . Being a most Pleasant New Song , greatly in Request both in City and Country . Beware all you that set Unlawful Game , lest in the end your selves you sadly shame ; Hemp is a fatal Weed , and spoils the growth Of many a rash and unadvised Youth : Then timely warning take ere it's too late , And by that warning shun untimely Fate . To the pleasant New Tune of , Follow bonny Lad : Or , The Highway Man's Delight . F Ollow bonny Lad , By the Highway side , my own dear loving Brother ; But if thou love me as I love thee , then let us gang both together . And if we meet a Man , We'll cause him to stand , my own dear loving Brother ; But if thou love me , as I love thee , we'll make him stand both together . Be it better , be't worse , We will take his Purse , my own dear loving Brother ; But if thou love me , as I love thee , we will take it both together . And than by and by , Follow the Hue and Cry , my own dear loving Brother ; But if thou love me , as I love thee , we'll both be taken together . And [ then in a Cart , ] We'll [ be carried ] to York , my own dear loving Brother ; But if thou love me , as I love thee , we'll both be carried together . Then over Mount-Hill , And by the Mill , my own dear loving Brother ; But if thou love me , as I love thee , one pint we will drink together . And then we must lie Until the next Assize , my own dear loving Brother ; But if thou love me , as I love thee , there we will lie together . And the next Assize , We must be Trappized , my own dear loving B rother ; But if thou love me , as I love thee , we both will Swing together . With the Mattock and Spade , Our Graves shall be made , my own dear loving Brother ; But if thou love me , as I love thee , we'll lie in a Grave together . But let us not be Fearful while free , my own dear loving Brother ; For if thou love me , as I love thee , we will fight and die together . For a Knight of the Pad , Should never be sad , my own dear loving Brother ; But if thou lovest me , as I love thee , we will be merry together . Let what will come , We know our Doom , my own dear loving B rother ; But if thou love me , as I love thee , we will cast away fear together . Our Booty we'll share , And take no further care , my own dear loving Brother ; But if thou love me , as I love thee , we will spend it both together . Our Lasses and our Wine , Our Wits shall refine , my own dear loving Brother ; But if thou love me , as I love thee , we will share them both together . At nothing we'll grieve , So Silver we have , my own dear loving Brother ; For if thou lovest me , as I love thee , what we do we'll do together . Men of our Profession , Move by Discretion , my own dear loving B rother ; And if thou love me , as I love thee , we'll jovially move together . Goals we will Contemn , Till we fallen into them , my own dear loving B rother ; But if thou love me , as I love thee , we'll wear the stone doublet together . But as we now are , Let us have a care , my own dear loving Brother ; And if thou love me , as I love thee , let us have a care toghther . O let us-still beware , Of the wretched Snare , my own dear loving Brother ; And if thou lovest me , as I love thee , Oh let us have a care together . O to die in a Rope , Wilt destroy all our hope , my own dear loving Brother ; But if thou lovest me , as I love thee , if we die we'll die both together . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . THE Highway men Advice To his Brothers . Or , Nevison's Last Legacy to the Knights of the High-Padd ; By way of Caution , to deter them from following their Unlawful Enterprizes . Being a most Pleasant New Song , greatly in Request both in City and Country . Beware all you that set Unlawful Game , lest in the end your selves you sadly shame ; Hemp is a fatal Weed , and spoils the growth Of many a rash and unadvised Youth : Then timely warning take ere it's too late , And by that warning shun untimely Fate . To the pleasant New Tune of , Follow bonny Lad : Or , The Highway Man's Delight . F Ollow bonny Lad , By the Highway side , my own dear loving Brother ; But if thou love me as I love thee , then let us gang both together . And if we meet a Man , We'll cause him to stand , my own dear loving Brother ; But if thou love me , as I love thee , we'll make him stand both together . Be it better , be't worse , We will take his Purse , my own dear loving Brother ; But if thou love me , as I love thee , we will take it both together . And than by and by , Follow the Hue and Cry , my own dear loving Brother ; But if thou love me , as I love thee , we'll both be taken together . And [ then in a Cart , ] We'll [ be carried ] to York , my own dear loving Brother ; But if thou love me , as I love thee , we'll both be carried together . Then over Mount-Hill , And by the Mill , my own dear loving Brother ; But if thou love me , as I love thee , one pint we will drink together . And then we must lie Until the next Assize , my own dear loving Brother ; But if thou love me , as I love thee , there we will lie together . And the next Assize , We must be Trappized , my own dear loving B rother ; But if thou love me , as I love thee , we both will Swing together . With the Mattock and Spade , Our Graves shall be made , my own dear loving Brother ; But if thou love me , as I love thee , we'll lie in a Grave together . But let us not be Fearful while free , my own dear loving Brother ; For if thou love me , as I love thee , we will fight and die together . For a Knight of the Pad , Should never be sad , my own dear loving Brother ; But if thou lovest me , as I love thee , we will be merry together . Let what will come , We know our Doom , my own dear loving B rother ; But if thou love me , as I love thee , we will cast away fear together . Our Booty we'll share , And take no further care , my own dear loving Brother ; But if thou love me , as I love thee , we will spend it both together . Our Lasses and our Wine , Our Wits shall refine , my own dear loving Brother ; But if thou love me , as I love thee , we will share them both together . At nothing we'll grieve , So Silver we have , my own dear loving Brother ; For if thou lovest me , as I love thee , what we do we'll do together . Men of our Profession , Move by Discretion , my own dear loving B rother ; And if thou love me , as I love thee , we'll jovially move together . Goals we will Contemn , Till we fallen into them , my own dear loving B rother ; But if thou love me , as I love thee , we'll wear the stone doublet together . But as we now are , Let us have a care , my own dear loving Brother ; And if thou love me , as I love thee , let us have a care toghther . O let us-still beware , Of the wretched Snare , my own dear loving Brother ; And if thou lovest me , as I love thee , Oh let us have a care together . O to die in a Rope , Wilt destroy all our hope , my own dear loving Brother ; But if thou lovest me , as I love thee , if we die we'll die both together . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 