Sad and Dreadful News from Horsly-Down , in the Parish of St. Marry Magdalen Bermondsey ; OR , A Warning to Brokers , Tally-men , and such like unconscionable Caterpillars ; by the sad Example of Dorothy Winter-bottom , Alias Dirty-Doll , late of Horsly-Down , who according to her own Report , as it's Credibly attested , by contending with the Devil , received such mortal Bruises , as occasioned her death , she dying on the 27 th . of August , and war buried at St. Olives Southwark , on the 28 th . of the same month , 1684. Reader , behold what Mortals are , when since Opens the Gate and lets the Tempter in , A s by this Story may too plain be seen . To the Tune of , Now now the Fights Done ; Or , Packingtons Pound . A Story most strange I shall to you declare , The like in past ages will hardly appear , So sad and so dreadful that but to relate , May fear in the hearers and wonder create : It's of a wretched woman that lately did dwell , I n Horsly-Down as thousands know full well ; Who upon the Tally's put Money to use , Which oft the poor ruins when turned to abuse . And Dorothy-Winterbottom was her name , Though by Dirty Doll she was known most to Fame , Her vices were many as people express , Being given to curse and to drink to excess : Which gave the foul Tempter a way to get in , And still urge her on for to multiply since : To covetousness she was likewise inclined , For though she had store , yet she grieved in her mind , That she had no more , and so sparing was seen , That victuals she'd beg , where abroad she had been , Or Candles , or Shoes , or what else she could get , For her heart on her money was wholly now set : Which in her extravagant talk she would say , The Devil had lent her , and she must repay , But one day with her Tally's abroad having been , And not to her mind her extortion god in , She wished as it's said , if she then did fail , To arrest them and lay them to rot in a Jale : The Devil might mortify her at his will , Not minding that God does rash wishes take ill : And oft in his anger lets Satan prevail , Over those that before he'd no power to assail , When almost at midnight sometime after that , She staggering home at last to her house god . But scarce was she entered when with doleful cries , She called out for help , when strait at the sad noise , And murders repeating her daughter came there , But being surprised and amazed with fear , Her self durst not enter , till other did hast , To know what the matter was , but found all fast , So that the sad cry still increasing the more , With instruments fit they broke open the backdoor . When entering with lights they might plainly perceive Beneath the old Lumber poor Dorothy heave , For overwhelmed with its weight she was struggling for life , Yet threatening as if she had then been at strife , With some dreadful foe , and no sooner relieved , But as one distracted she flounced and she reaved ; And in and extravagent manner it's said , She confessed and encounter with Satan she had And that she two Devils had worsted , but then A third coming in , had overcome her again , And that the sad Quarrel for money was made , Which she had borrowed and lent in her trade : That they came in humane shapes she did confess , Two in men's clothing , the third in woman's dress ; Nor would she be persuaded that it was a dream , But angry with those that so told her did seem . When neglecting the bruises , and using no art , The gangreen increasing , soon reached to her heart , In spite of Chirurgeons who came all to late But could not reprieve her from death and sad fate ; Though raving she lay and oft ideley she talked , As if Hells black spirits about her had walked : Not minding advice though many it gave , In hope's her poor soul from the Tempter to save . Her talk of her money was mostly her care , Still asking those absent the time they would pay her , When falling asleep she soon fainted away , And groaning her last she no more had to say : When dead her own daughter to her husband did send , Who long had absented him , but in the end , He refusing to Bury her , her Daughter seized On what there was left , to dispose as she pleased . And for her Funeral straight did provide , As Duty enjoined her , when hundreds beside , Attended the Corpse to the Churchyard , and there , The Sexton did decently Old Doll Interr : To rest in her Grave now in spite of the Fiends , Until the great day comes , in which the world ends : Then by her take warning you that Tally's keep , lest Satan chastise you , and make you to weep . FINIS . Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-glass in the New-Buildings on London-Bridge . Sad and Dreadful News from Horsly-Down , in the Parish of St. Marry Magdalen Bermondsey ; OR , A Warning to Brokers , Tally-men , and such like unconscionable Caterpillars ; by the sad Example of Dorothy Winter-bottom , Alias Dirty-Doll , late of Horsly-Down , who according to her own Report , as it's Credibly attested , by contending with the Devil , received such mortal Bruises , as occasioned her death , she dying on the 27 th . of August , and war buried at St. Olives Southwark , on the 28 th . of the same month , 1684. Reader , behold what Mortals are , when since Opens the Gate and lets the Tempter in , A s by this Story may too plain be seen . To the Tune of , Now now the Fights Done ; Or , Packingtons Pound . A Story most strange I shall to you declare , The like in past ages will hardly appear , So sad and so dreadful that but to relate , May fear in the hearers and wonder create : It's of a wretched woman that lately did dwell , I n Horsly-Down as thousands know full well ; Who upon the Tally's put Money to use , Which oft the poor ruins when turned to abuse . And Dorothy-Winterbottom was her name , Though by Dirty Doll she was known most to Fame , Her vices were many as people express , Being given to curse and to drink to excess : Which gave the foul Tempter a way to get in , And still urge her on for to multiply since : To covetousness she was likewise inclined , For though she had store , yet she grieved in her mind , That she had no more , and so sparing was seen , That victuals she'd beg , where abroad she had been , Or Candles , or Shoes , or what else she could get , For her heart on her money was wholly now set : Which in her extravagant talk she would say , The Devil had lent her , and she must repay , But one day with her Tally's abroad having been , And not to her mind her extortion god in , She wished as it's said , if she then did fail , To arrest them and lay them to rot in a Jale : The Devil might mortify her at his will , Not minding that God does rash wishes take ill : And oft in his anger lets Satan prevail , Over those that before he'd no power to assail , When almost at midnight sometime after that , She staggering home at last to her house god . But scarce was she entered when with doleful cries , She called out for help , when strait at the sad noise , And murders repeating her daughter came there , But being surprised and amazed with fear , Her self durst not enter , till other did hast , To know what the matter was , but found all fast , So that the sad cry still increasing the more , With instruments fit they broke open the backdoor . When entering with lights they might plainly perceive Beneath the old Lumber poor Dorothy heave , For overwhelmed with its weight she was struggling for life , Yet threatening as if she had then been at strife , With some dreadful foe , and no sooner relieved , But as one distracted she flounced and she reaved ; And in and extravagent manner it's said , She confessed and encounter with Satan she had And that she two Devils had worsted , but then A third coming in , had overcome her again , And that the sad Quarrel for money was made , Which she had borrowed and lent in her trade : That they came in humane shapes she did confess , Two in men's clothing , the third in woman's dress ; Nor would she be persuaded that it was a dream , But angry with those that so told her did seem . When neglecting the bruises , and using no art , The gangreen increasing , soon reached to her heart , In spite of Chirurgeons who came all to late But could not reprieve her from death and sad fate ; Though raving she lay and oft ideley she talked , As if Hells black spirits about her had walked : Not minding advice though many it gave , In hope's her poor soul from the Tempter to save . Her talk of her money was mostly her care , Still asking those absent the time they would pay her , When falling asleep she soon fainted away , And groaning her last she no more had to say : When dead her own daughter to her husband did send , Who long had absented him , but in the end , He refusing to Bury her , her Daughter seized On what there was left , to dispose as she pleased . And for her Funeral straight did provide , As Duty enjoined her , when hundreds beside , Attended the Corpse to the Churchyard , and there , The Sexton did decently Old Doll Interr : To rest in her Grave now in spite of the Fiends , Until the great day comes , in which the world ends : Then by her take warning you that Tally's keep , lest Satan chastise you , and make you to weep . FINIS . Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-glass in the New-Buildings on London-Bridge . 