A L amentable Ditty made on the Death of Robert Deverux Earl of Essex , who was Beheaded ithe Tower of London , on Ash-wednesday , 1603. The Tune is Welladay . S Weet Englands pride is gone , welladay , welladay , Which makes her sighs and groan , evermore still , He did her fame advance , In Ireland Spain and France , And by a sad mischance , is from us taken . He was a virtuous Peer , welladay , etc And was esteemed dear , evermore still . He always loved the poor , Which makes them sighs full soar , His death they did deplore , in every place . Brave honour graced him still , gallantly , gallantly , He never did deed of ill , well it is known , But envy that foul fiend , Whose Malice there does end , Hath brought true virtues friend , unto this thrall . At Tilt he did surpass , gallantly , etc , All men that is and was , evermore still , One day as it was seen , In honour of the Queen , Such deeds are seldom been , as he did doe , Abroad and eke at home , gallantly , gallantly , For valour there was none , like him before , But Ireland France and Spain , That feared great Essexs name , But England loved the same , in every place . But all would not prevail , welladay , welladay , His deeds did not prevail , more was the pity , He was condemned to die , For Treason certainly , But God that sits on high , knoweth all things . That Sunday in the Morn , welladay , etc , That he to the City came with all his Troops . That first began the strife , And caused him lose his life , And others did the like , as well as he . Yet her Princely Majesty , graciously , graciously , Hath pardon given free , to many of them , She hath released them quite , And given them their right , They did pray day and night , God to defend her . Shrove-Tuesday in the night , welladay , etc With a heavy hearted spite , as it is said , The Lieutenant of the Tower , Who kept him in his power , At ten a clock that hour , to him did come , And said unto him there , mournfully , etc Mo Lord you must prepare , to die to morrow , Gods will be done , quoth he , Yet shall you strangely see , God strong in me to be , though I am weak . I pray you pray for me , welladay , etc That God may strengthen me against that hour , Then straightway he did call To the Guard under the wall , And did entreat them all for him to pray . For to morrow is the day , welladay , etc That I a debt must pay , which I do owe , It is my life I mean , Which I must pay the Queen , Even so hath justice given , that I must die . In the morning was he brought , welladay , etc Where the Scaffold was set up , within the Tower , Many Lords were present then , With other Gentlemen , Which were appointed then , to see him die . You Noble Lords , quoth he , welladay , etc That must the witness , of this my dream , Know I never loved Papistry , But still does it defy , And thus does Essex die , here in this place . I have a sinner been , welladay , etc Yet never wronged my Queen , in all my life , My God I did offend , Which grieves me at my end , May all the rest amend , I do them forgive . To the state I never meant ill , welladay , etc Neither wished the commons ill , in all my life : But loved with all my heart , And always took their part , Whereas there were desert , in every place . Then mildly did he pray , mournfully , etc He might the favour have , private to pray , He then prayed heartily , And with great fervency , To God that sits on high , for to receive him . And then he prayed again , mournfully , etc God to preserve his Queen , from all her foes . And send her long to reign , True Justice to remain , And not to let proud Spain , once to offend her , His Gown be stripped off then welladay , etc And put off his Hat and Band , and hung them by , Praying still continually , To God that sits on high , That he might patiently there suffer death . My Headsman that must be , then said he cheerfully , Let him come here to me , that I may see him , Who kneeled to him then , Art thou quoth he the Man , Who art appointed now , my life to free . Yes my Lord he did say , we [ l ] laday , etc Forgive me I you pray , for this your death : I here do thee forgive , And may true justice live , No foul crimes to forgive , within this place . That [ en ] he kneeled down again , welladay , etc And was required by some , there standing by , To forgive his Enemies , Before Death closed his eyes , Which he did in hearty wise , thanking him for it . That they would remember him , welladay , etc That he would forgive all them , that hath him wronged , Now my Lords I take my leave , Sweet Christ my Soul receive , Now when you will prepare , I am ready . He laid his head on the block , we [ l ] laday , etc But [ him ] s Doublet let the stroke , s [ om ] e there did say , What must be done quoth he , Sha [ ll ] be done presently , There [ h ] is Doublet off put he , a [ and ] laid down again . That [ en ] the Headsman did his part , cruelly , cruelly , He was not seen to start for all the blows , His soul is now at rest , In Heaven among the blessed , W [ he ] re God send us to rest w [ he ] n it shall please him , A Lamentable Ballad on the Earl of Essex Dea [ th ] The Tune is Essex , last Good Night . A LL you that cry Oh hone , Ohone , come now & amp ; sing Oh hone with me For why our Jewel is from us gone , the valiant Knight of Chivalry : Of rich and poor beloved was he , in time and honourable Knight ; When by our Laws condemned to die , he lately took his last good night . Count him not like to Champion , those Traitorous men of Babington , Nor like the Earl of Westmerland , by whom a number were undone : He never yet hurt Mother's Son , his quarrel still maintains the right , Which makes the tears my face down run when I think on his last good night . The Portugals can witness be , his Dagger at Lisborn Gate he flung , And like a Knight of Chivalry , his Chain upon the gate he hung ; I would to God that he would come to fetch them back in order right Which thing was by his honour done , yet lately took his last good night . The Frenchmen they can testify , the town of Gourney he took in , And marched to Room immediately , not caring for his foes a pin , With Bullets then he pierced their skin and made them fly from his sighed : He there that time did credit win , and now hath taken his last good night And stately Cales can witness be , even by his Proclamation right , He did command them all straightly , to have a care of Infants lives : And that none should hurt man or wife , which was against their right , Therefore they prayed for his long life , which lately took his last good night . Would God he never had Ireland known , nor set one foot on Flanders ground Then might we well enjoyed our own , where now our Jewel will not be found Which makes our foes still abound , trickling with salt tears in our sighed , To hear his name in our ears to found , Lord Deverux took his last good night . A shwednesday that dismal day , when he came forth of his chamber door , Upon a Scaffold there he saw , his headsman standing him before : His Nobles all they did deplore , shedding salt tears in his sighed , He said farewell to rich and poor , at his good morrow and goodnight : My Lords said he you stand but by , to see performance of the Law , It is I that have deserved to die . and yield my self unto the blow , I have deserved to die I know , but never against my Countries right , Nor to my Queen was ever foe , upon my death at my good night . Farewell Elizabeth my gracious Queen , God bless thee with thy council all , Farewell my Knights of Chivalry , farewell my Soldiers stout and tall . Farewell the Commons great and small , into the hands of men I light , My life shall make amends for all , for Essex bids the world good night . Farewell dear wife and children three , farewell my kind and tender son , Comfort your selves mourn not for me , although your fallen be now begun , My time is come my glass is run , comfort your self in former light , Seeing by my fallen you are undone , your father bids the world good night . Derick thou knowest at Cales I saved thy life lost for a Rape there done , As thou thy self canst testify , thine own hand three and twenty hung , But now thou seest my self is come by chance into thy hands I light , Strike out thy blow that I may know , thou Essex loved at his good night . When England counted me a Papist , the work of Papists I defy , I never worshipped saiA L amentable Ditty made on the Death of Robert Deverux Earl of Essex , who was Beheaded ithe Tower of London , on Ash-wednesday , 1603. The Tune is Welladay . S Weet Englands pride is gone , welladay , welladay , Which makes her sighs and groan , evermore still , He did her fame advance , In Ireland Spain and France , And by a sad mischance , is from us taken . He was a virtuous Peer , welladay , etc And was esteemed dear , evermore still . He always loved the poor , Which makes them sighs full soar , His death they did deplore , in every place . Brave honour graced him still , gallantly , gallantly , He never did deed of ill , well it is known , But envy that foul fiend , Whose Malice there does end , Hath brought true virtues friend , unto this thrall . At Tilt he did surpass , gallantly , etc , All men that is and was , evermore still , One day as it was seen , In honour of the Queen , Such deeds are seldom been , as he did doe , Abroad and eke at home , gallantly , gallantly , For valour there was none , like him before , But Ireland France and Spain , That feared great Essexs name , But England loved the same , in every place . But all would not prevail , welladay , welladay , His deeds did not prevail , more was the pity , He was condemned to die , For Treason certainly , But God that sits on high , knoweth all things . That Sunday in the Morn , welladay , etc , That he to the City came with all his Troops . That first began the strife , And caused him lose his life , And others did the like , as well as he . Yet her Princely Majesty , graciously , graciously , Hath pardon given free , to many of them , She hath released them quite , And given them their right , They did pray day and night , God to defend her . Shrove-Tuesday in the night , welladay , etc With a heavy hearted spite , as it is said , The Lieutenant of the Tower , Who kept him in his power , At ten a clock that hour , to him did come , And said unto him there , mournfully , etc Mo Lord you must prepare , to die to morrow , Gods will be done , quoth he , Yet shall you strangely see , God strong in me to be , though I am weak . I pray you pray for me , welladay , etc That God may strengthen me against that hour , Then straightway he did call To the Guard under the wall , And did entreat them all for him to pray . For to morrow is the day , welladay , etc That I a debt must pay , which I do owe , It is my life I mean , Which I must pay the Queen , Even so hath justice given , that I must die . In the morning was he brought , welladay , etc Where the Scaffold was set up , within the Tower , Many Lords were present then , With other Gentlemen , Which were appointed then , to see him die . You Noble Lords , quoth he , welladay , etc That must the witness , of this my dream , Know I never loved Papistry , But still does it defy , And thus does Essex die , here in this place . I have a sinner been , welladay , etc Yet never wronged my Queen , in all my life , My God I did offend , Which grieves me at my end , May all the rest amend , I do them forgive . To the state I never meant ill , welladay , etc Neither wished the commons ill , in all my life : But loved with all my heart , And always took their part , Whereas there were desert , in every place . Then mildly did he pray , mournfully , etc He might the favour have , private to pray , He then prayed heartily , And with great fervency , To God that sits on high , for to receive him . And then he prayed again , mournfully , etc God to preserve his Queen , from all her foes . And send her long to reign , True Justice to remain , And not to let proud Spain , once to offend her , His Gown be stripped off then welladay , etc And put off his Hat and Band , and hung them by , Praying still continually , To God that sits on high , That he might patiently there suffer death . My Headsman that must be , then said he cheerfully , Let him come here to me , that I may see him , Who kneeled to him then , Art thou quoth he the Man , Who art appointed now , my life to free . Yes my Lord he did say , we [ l ] laday , etc Forgive me I you pray , for this your death : I here do thee forgive , And may true justice live , No foul crimes to forgive , within this place . That [ en ] he kneeled down again , welladay , etc And was required by some , there standing by , To forgive his Enemies , Before Death closed his eyes , Which he did in hearty wise , thanking him for it . That they would remember him , welladay , etc That he would forgive all them , that hath him wronged , Now my Lords I take my leave , Sweet Christ my Soul receive , Now when you will prepare , I am ready . He laid his head on the block , we [ l ] laday , etc But [ him ] s Doublet let the stroke , s [ om ] e there did say , What must be done quoth he , Sha [ ll ] be done presently , There [ h ] is Doublet off put he , a [ and ] laid down again . That [ en ] the Headsman did his part , cruelly , cruelly , He was not seen to start for all the blows , His soul is now at rest , In Heaven among the blessed , W [ he ] re God send us to rest w [ he ] n it shall please him , A Lamentable Ballad on the Earl of Essex Dea [ th ] The Tune is Essex , last Good Night . A LL you that cry Oh hone , Ohone , come now & amp ; sing Oh hone with me For why our Jewel is from us gone , the valiant Knight of Chivalry : Of rich and poor beloved was he , in time and honourable Knight ; When by our Laws condemned to die , he lately took his last good night . Count him not like to Champion , those Traitorous men of Babington , Nor like the Earl of Westmerland , by whom a number were undone : He never yet hurt Mother's Son , his quarrel still maintains the right , Which makes the tears my face down run when I think on his last good night . The Portugals can witness be , his Dagger at Lisborn Gate he flung , And like a Knight of Chivalry , his Chain upon the gate he hung ; I would to God that he would come to fetch them back in order right Which thing was by his honour done , yet lately took his last good night . The Frenchmen they can testify , the town of Gourney he took in , And marched to Room immediately , not caring for his foes a pin , With Bullets then he pierced their skin and made them fly from his sighed : He there that time did credit win , and now hath taken his last good night And stately Cales can witness be , even by his Proclamation right , He did command them all straightly , to have a care of Infants lives : And that none should hurt man or wife , which was against their right , Therefore they prayed for his long life , which lately took his last good night . Would God he never had Ireland known , nor set one foot on Flanders ground Then might we well enjoyed our own , where now our Jewel will not be found Which makes our foes still abound , trickling with salt tears in our sighed , To hear his name in our ears to found , Lord Deverux took his last good night . A shwednesday that dismal day , when he came forth of his chamber door , Upon a Scaffold there he saw , his headsman standing him before : His Nobles all they did deplore , shedding salt tears in his sighed , He said farewell to rich and poor , at his good morrow and goodnight : My Lords said he you stand but by , to see performance of the Law , It is I that have deserved to die . and yield my self unto the blow , I have deserved to die I know , but never against my Countries right , Nor to my Queen was ever foe , upon my death at my good night . Farewell Elizabeth my gracious Queen , God bless thee with thy council all , Farewell my Knights of Chivalry , farewell my Soldiers stout and tall . Farewell the Commons great and small , into the hands of men I light , My life shall make amends for all , for Essex bids the world good night . Farewell dear wife and children three , farewell my kind and tender son , Comfort your selves mourn not for me , although your fallen be now begun , My time is come my glass is run , comfort your self in former light , Seeing by my fallen you are undone , your father bids the world good night . Derick thou knowest at Cales I saved thy life lost for a Rape there done , As thou thy self canst testify , thine own hand three and twenty hung , But now thou seest my self is come by chance into thy hands I light , Strike out thy blow that I may know , thou Essex loved at his good night . When England counted me a Papist , the work of Papists I defy , I never worshipped saint nor Angel in heaven nor the Virgin Marry I But to Christ which for my sins did die , trickling with Salt tears in his sighed Spreading my arms to God on high , Lord Jesus receive my soul this night Printed for W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . nt nor Angel in heaven nor the Virgin Marry I But to Christ which for my sins did die , trickling with Salt tears in his sighed Spreading my arms to God on high , Lord Jesus receive my soul this night Printed for W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 