THE Mournful Murderer : OR , The last Dying Lamentation of Thomas Randall , who was arraign - ed and found guilty of the Murder of Roger Levins , at Stone-bridge , near Kings - land , for which he received the due Sentence of Death , and was accordingly Executed and Hanged in Chains at the said Bridge , on the 29th of this Instant January . To the Tune of , Russel's Farewell , etc Licensed according to Order . WIth melting Eyes and bleeding Heart , of Grief and Heaviness , Before this Life I do depart , my Sins I here confess , The which alas ! are manifold , and of a scarlet Die ; The Blood I shed , does , now behold , for fearful Vengeance cry . The Laws of God and Man I broke , by lewd unlawful ways , And therefore now Death's fatal stroke , will end my wretched days ; Mercy , I'm sure , they cannot show to such a one as I , My scarlet Sins , they do , I know for fearful Vengeance cry . I must acknowledge to my shame , the Road I did frequent , So rich and poor where-e'r I came , though never so innocent , I robbed them of their Wealth with speed , such was my villainy ; But now my Heart begins to bleed , my Sins for Vengeance cry . among my many Crimes , at last a Quaker's Blood I spilled , Which does my hope of Glory blast , my Soul is stained with guilt ; I murdered him , and robbed his Wife , for which I come to die ; But , o ! the Sins of my lewd Life does for just Vengeance cry . At Stone-bridge , near to Kingsland - Town , I did my Pistol load , I shot him , and he soon dropped down , and died there in the Road ; His Wife , when she the Pistol hears , it was a sad surprise , By him she shed a flood of Tears , to hear his Groans and Cries . I took away what Gold they had , and likewise Silver too ; Then after that , a little Lad I likewise did pursue ; I spared neither Rich nor Poor , such was my villainy , Alas ! my wicked Sins therefore , does for just Vengeance cry . When I this wicked Deed had done , my Heart was hardened sure , Though through the Town the news did run , I thought myself secure ; But Justice fairly found me out , condemned I am to die , My bloody Sins , I make no doubt , they did for Vengeance cry . A wicked Creature I have been , unto a high degree ; But now the Soul-amazing since , of Murder startles me , The fearful wrath of God I dread , as being brought to die , Because the Blood which I have shed , does for just Vengeance cry . There's few or none regards my moan , because I was inclined , To covet that which waned my own , a just Reward I find ; It is no more than what is fit , that I should die , for why The Murder which I did commit , does for just Vengeance cry . All you that sad Spectators are , of this my shameful end , Afford me now a Christian-prayer , my Soul to God commend ; For though I lived in Wickedness , yet since I come to die , A hearty Sorrow I express , for all my Villainy . London : Printed for J. Blare , at the sign of the Looking-glass on London-bridge . THE Mournful Murderer : OR , The last Dying Lamentation of Thomas Randall , who was arraign - ed and found guilty of the Murder of Roger Levins , at Stone-bridge , near Kings - land , for which he received the due Sentence of Death , and was accordingly Executed and Hanged in Chains at the said Bridge , on the 29th of this Instant January . To the Tune of , Russel's Farewell , etc Licensed according to Order . WIth melting Eyes and bleeding Heart , of Grief and Heaviness , Before this Life I do depart , my Sins I here confess , The which alas ! are manifold , and of a scarlet Die ; The Blood I shed , does , now behold , for fearful Vengeance cry . The Laws of God and Man I broke , by lewd unlawful ways , And therefore now Death's fatal stroke , will end my wretched days ; Mercy , I'm sure , they cannot show to such a one as I , My scarlet Sins , they do , I know for fearful Vengeance cry . I must acknowledge to my shame , the Road I did frequent , So rich and poor where-e'r I came , though never so innocent , I robbed them of their Wealth with speed , such was my villainy ; But now my Heart begins to bleed , my Sins for Vengeance cry . among my many Crimes , at last a Quaker's Blood I spilled , Which does my hope of Glory blast , my Soul is stained with guilt ; I murdered him , and robbed his Wife , for which I come to die ; But , o ! the Sins of my lewd Life does for just Vengeance cry . At Stone-bridge , near to Kingsland - Town , I did my Pistol load , I shot him , and he soon dropped down , and died there in the Road ; His Wife , when she the Pistol hears , it was a sad surprise , By him she shed a flood of Tears , to hear his Groans and Cries . I took away what Gold they had , and likewise Silver too ; Then after that , a little Lad I likewise did pursue ; I spared neither Rich nor Poor , such was my villainy , Alas ! my wicked Sins therefore , does for just Vengeance cry . When I this wicked Deed had done , my Heart was hardened sure , Though through the Town the news did run , I thought myself secure ; But Justice fairly found me out , condemned I am to die , My bloody Sins , I make no doubt , they did for Vengeance cry . A wicked Creature I have been , unto a high degree ; But now the Soul-amazing since , of Murder startles me , The fearful wrath of God I dread , as being brought to die , Because the Blood which I have shed , does for just Vengeance cry . There's few or none regards my moan , because I was inclined , To covet that which waned my own , a just Reward I find ; It is no more than what is fit , that I should die , for why The Murder which I did commit , does for just Vengeance cry . All you that sad Spectators are , of this my shameful end , Afford me now a Christian-prayer , my Soul to God commend ; For though I lived in Wickedness , yet since I come to die , A hearty Sorrow I express , for all my Villainy . London : Printed for J. Blare , at the sign of the Looking-glass on London-bridge . 