The Lamentation of Mr. Pages Wife of Plimouth , Who being forced to Wed against her will , did consent to his Murder , for that [ e ] love of George Stringwidge . for which fact they suffered Death at Barnstable in Devonshire . The Tune is , Fortune my Foe . U Nhappy she whom Fortune hath forlorn , Despised of grace , that proffered grace did scorn , My lawless love hath luckless wrought my woe , My discontent , content did overthrow . My loathed life too late I do lament , My woeful deeds in heart I do repent : A Wife I was that wilful went awry , And for that fault am here prepared to die : In blooming years my Father's greedy mind , Against my will a match for me did find , Great wealth there was , yes , gold and silver store , But yet my herd had chosen one before . Mine eyes disliked my Father's liking quite , My heart did loath my Parents found delight : My greedy mind and fancy told to me , That with his Age my Youth could not agree . On knees I prayed they would not me constrain , With tears I cried , their purpose to refrain : With sighs and sobs I did them often move : I might not Wed whereas I could not Love . But all in vain my speeches still I spent , My Mother's will my wishes did prevent , Though wealthy page possessed the outward part , George Strangwidge still was lodged in my heart . I Wedded was and wrapped all in woe , Great discontent within my heart did grow : I loathed to live , yet lived in deadly strife , Because perforce I was made pages Wife . My chosen eyes could not his sighed abide , My tender Youth did loath his aged side , Scant could I taste the meat whereon I fed , My Legs did loath to lodge within his bed . Cause knew I none , I should despise him so , That such disdain within my heart did grow : Save only this , that fancy did me move , And told me still George Strangwidge was my love . Lo here began my downfall and decay , In mind I mused to make him straight away : I that became his Discontented Wife , Contented was he should be rid of Life . Methinks the Heavens cry vengeance for my fact , Methinks the World condemns my monstrous act , Methinks within my conscience tells me true , That for that Deed Hell fire is my endue . My pensive Soul does sorrow for my since , For which offence my soul does Bleed within , But mercy Lord , for mercy still I cry , Save thou my soul , and let my body die . Well could I with that page enjoyed his life , So that he had some other to his Wife : But never could I wish of low or high , A longer life than see sweet Strangwidge Die . O woe is me that had no greater grace , To stay till he had run out nature's raze : My Deeds I rue , but more I do Repent , That to the same my Strangwidge gave consent . You Parents found that greedy minded be , And seek to grafted upon the Golden tree : Consider well , and rightful judges be , And give your Doom , betwixt parents love & amp ; me . I was their Child , and bound for to obey , Yet not to love where I no love could lay , I married was in muck and endless strife , But faith before had made me Strangwidge Wife . O wretched world whom cankered rust does blind And cursed men who bear a greedy mind : And hapless I whom Parents did force so , To end my Days in sorrow , shame , and woe . You Devonshire dams , & amp ; courteous Cornwal Knights , That here are come to visit woeful wights , Regard my grief , and mark my woeful end , But to your Children be a better friend . And thou my Dear which for my fault must Die , Be not afraid the sting of Death to try : Like as we lived and loved together true , So both at once let's bid the World adieu . Ulalia thy friend does take her last farewell Whose soul with thee in Heaven shall ever dwell , Sweet Saviour Christ do thou my soul receive , The World I do with all my heart forgive . And Parents now whose greedy mind does show , Your hearts desire , and inward heavy woe : Mourn you no more , for now my heart does tell , Ever Day be done , my Soul shall be full well . And Plimouth proud I bid thee now farewell , Take heed you Wives , let not your hands Rebel , And farewell life wherein such sorrow shows , And welcome Death that does my Corpse enclose . And now sweet Lord forgive me my misdeeds , Repentance cries for Soul that inward bleeds , My Soul and Body I commend to thee , That with thy Blood from Death redeemed me . Lord bless our King with long and happy life , And send true Peace betwixt each Man and Wife : And give all Parents Wisdom to foresee , The match is marred where minds do not agree . The lamentation of George Strange - widge , who for consenting to the Death of Mr. Page of Plimouth , suffered Death at Barnstable . TO He Man that sighs end sorrows for his since , The Corpse which care & amp ; woe hath wrapped in : In doleful sort records her Swanlike Song , That waits for death , and loathes to live so long . O Glansfield cause of my committed Crime , So wed in Wealth as Birds in Bush of Lime : What cause hadst thou to hear such wicked spite Against my Love and eke my hearts delight . I would to God thy wisdom had been more , Or that I had not entered in thy door : Or that thou hadst a kinder Father been Unto thy child , whose Years are yet but green . The match unmet which thou for me didst make , When aged page thy Daughter home did take ; Well mayest thou cue with tears that cannot dry , Which is the cause that four of us must die . Ulalia more brighter than the Summer's Sun , Whose beauty has for ever my Love wone : My soul more sobs to think of thy disgrace , Then to behold my own untimely raze . The deed late done in heart I do repent , But that I loved I cannot yet relent : Thy seemly sighed was ever sweet to me , Would God my Death could thy excuser be . It was for me alas thou didst the same , On me by right they ought to lay the blame : My worthless love hath brought my life in scorn , And woe is me that ever I was born . Farewell my love , whose Royal heart was seen , I would thou hadst not half so constant been : Farewell my Love , the pride of plymouth Town , Farewell the Flower whose beauty is cut down . For twenty Years great was the cost I know , Thy unkind Father did on thee bestow : Yet afterwards so sour did Fortune lower , He lost his joy and Child within and hour . By wrong and woe to God I do commit , Who was the cause of matching them unfit : And yet I cannot so my guilt excuse , We gave consent his life for to abuse . Wretch that I am , that my consent did give , Had I denied , Ulalia still should live : Blind fancy said , this suit do not deny : Live thou in bliss , or else in sorrow die . O Lord forgive this cruel deed of mine , Upon my soul let beams of mercy shine : I n justice Lord do thou not vengeance take , F orgive us both , for Jesus Christ his sake . The Complaint of Mrs. Page for causing her Husband to be Murdered , for the love of George Strangwidge , who were execu - ted together . I F ever woe did touch a woman's heart , Or grief did gall for since the outward part : My conscience then and heavy heart within , Can witness well the sorrow for my since . When Years were Young , my father forced me wed Against my will , where fancy was not fed : I was content their pleasure to obey , Although my heart was linked another way . Great were the gifts they proffered in my sighed , With wealth they thought to win me to delight , But Gold nor gifts my mind could not remove For I was linked whereas I could not love . Methought his sighed was loathsome to my Eye , My heart did grudge against him inwardl y : This discontent did cause my deadly strife , And with his wealth did cause a grievous life . My constant love was on Young Strangwidge set , And woe to him that did our welfare let : His love so deep a root in me did take , I would have gone a begging for his sake . Wronged he was through found desire of gain , Wronged he was even through my Parents plain : If faith and troth a perfect pledge might be , I had been Wife unto no man but he . Eternal God forgive my Father's Deed , And grant all Parents may take better heed . If I had been but constant to my friend , I had not matched to make so bad and end . But wanting Grace I sought my own decay , And was the cause to make my Friend away ; And he on whom my earthly joys did lie , Through my amiss a shameful Death must die . Farewell sweet George , always my loving friend Needs must I laud and love thee to the end : And albeit that Page possessed thy due , In sighed of God The Lamentation of Mr. Pages Wife of Plimouth , Who being forced to Wed against her will , did consent to his Murder , for that [ e ] love of George Stringwidge . for which fact they suffered Death at Barnstable in Devonshire . The Tune is , Fortune my Foe . U Nhappy she whom Fortune hath forlorn , Despised of grace , that proffered grace did scorn , My lawless love hath luckless wrought my woe , My discontent , content did overthrow . My loathed life too late I do lament , My woeful deeds in heart I do repent : A Wife I was that wilful went awry , And for that fault am here prepared to die : In blooming years my Father's greedy mind , Against my will a match for me did find , Great wealth there was , yes , gold and silver store , But yet my herd had chosen one before . Mine eyes disliked my Father's liking quite , My heart did loath my Parents found delight : My greedy mind and fancy told to me , That with his Age my Youth could not agree . On knees I prayed they would not me constrain , With tears I cried , their purpose to refrain : With sighs and sobs I did them often move : I might not Wed whereas I could not Love . But all in vain my speeches still I spent , My Mother's will my wishes did prevent , Though wealthy page possessed the outward part , George Strangwidge still was lodged in my heart . I Wedded was and wrapped all in woe , Great discontent within my heart did grow : I loathed to live , yet lived in deadly strife , Because perforce I was made pages Wife . My chosen eyes could not his sighed abide , My tender Youth did loath his aged side , Scant could I taste the meat whereon I fed , My Legs did loath to lodge within his bed . Cause knew I none , I should despise him so , That such disdain within my heart did grow : Save only this , that fancy did me move , And told me still George Strangwidge was my love . Lo here began my downfall and decay , In mind I mused to make him straight away : I that became his Discontented Wife , Contented was he should be rid of Life . Methinks the Heavens cry vengeance for my fact , Methinks the World condemns my monstrous act , Methinks within my conscience tells me true , That for that Deed Hell fire is my endue . My pensive Soul does sorrow for my since , For which offence my soul does Bleed within , But mercy Lord , for mercy still I cry , Save thou my soul , and let my body die . Well could I with that page enjoyed his life , So that he had some other to his Wife : But never could I wish of low or high , A longer life than see sweet Strangwidge Die . O woe is me that had no greater grace , To stay till he had run out nature's raze : My Deeds I rue , but more I do Repent , That to the same my Strangwidge gave consent . You Parents found that greedy minded be , And seek to grafted upon the Golden tree : Consider well , and rightful judges be , And give your Doom , betwixt parents love & amp ; me . I was their Child , and bound for to obey , Yet not to love where I no love could lay , I married was in muck and endless strife , But faith before had made me Strangwidge Wife . O wretched world whom cankered rust does blind And cursed men who bear a greedy mind : And hapless I whom Parents did force so , To end my Days in sorrow , shame , and woe . You Devonshire dams , & amp ; courteous Cornwal Knights , That here are come to visit woeful wights , Regard my grief , and mark my woeful end , But to your Children be a better friend . And thou my Dear which for my fault must Die , Be not afraid the sting of Death to try : Like as we lived and loved together true , So both at once let's bid the World adieu . Ulalia thy friend does take her last farewell Whose soul with thee in Heaven shall ever dwell , Sweet Saviour Christ do thou my soul receive , The World I do with all my heart forgive . And Parents now whose greedy mind does show , Your hearts desire , and inward heavy woe : Mourn you no more , for now my heart does tell , Ever Day be done , my Soul shall be full well . And Plimouth proud I bid thee now farewell , Take heed you Wives , let not your hands Rebel , And farewell life wherein such sorrow shows , And welcome Death that does my Corpse enclose . And now sweet Lord forgive me my misdeeds , Repentance cries for Soul that inward bleeds , My Soul and Body I commend to thee , That with thy Blood from Death redeemed me . Lord bless our King with long and happy life , And send true Peace betwixt each Man and Wife : And give all Parents Wisdom to foresee , The match is marred where minds do not agree . The lamentation of George Strange - widge , who for consenting to the Death of Mr. Page of Plimouth , suffered Death at Barnstable . TO He Man that sighs end sorrows for his since , The Corpse which care & amp ; woe hath wrapped in : In doleful sort records her Swanlike Song , That waits for death , and loathes to live so long . O Glansfield cause of my committed Crime , So wed in Wealth as Birds in Bush of Lime : What cause hadst thou to hear such wicked spite Against my Love and eke my hearts delight . I would to God thy wisdom had been more , Or that I had not entered in thy door : Or that thou hadst a kinder Father been Unto thy child , whose Years are yet but green . The match unmet which thou for me didst make , When aged page thy Daughter home did take ; Well mayest thou cue with tears that cannot dry , Which is the cause that four of us must die . Ulalia more brighter than the Summer's Sun , Whose beauty has for ever my Love wone : My soul more sobs to think of thy disgrace , Then to behold my own untimely raze . The deed late done in heart I do repent , But that I loved I cannot yet relent : Thy seemly sighed was ever sweet to me , Would God my Death could thy excuser be . It was for me alas thou didst the same , On me by right they ought to lay the blame : My worthless love hath brought my life in scorn , And woe is me that ever I was born . Farewell my love , whose Royal heart was seen , I would thou hadst not half so constant been : Farewell my Love , the pride of plymouth Town , Farewell the Flower whose beauty is cut down . For twenty Years great was the cost I know , Thy unkind Father did on thee bestow : Yet afterwards so sour did Fortune lower , He lost his joy and Child within and hour . By wrong and woe to God I do commit , Who was the cause of matching them unfit : And yet I cannot so my guilt excuse , We gave consent his life for to abuse . Wretch that I am , that my consent did give , Had I denied , Ulalia still should live : Blind fancy said , this suit do not deny : Live thou in bliss , or else in sorrow die . O Lord forgive this cruel deed of mine , Upon my soul let beams of mercy shine : I n justice Lord do thou not vengeance take , F orgive us both , for Jesus Christ his sake . The Complaint of Mrs. Page for causing her Husband to be Murdered , for the love of George Strangwidge , who were execu - ted together . I F ever woe did touch a woman's heart , Or grief did gall for since the outward part : My conscience then and heavy heart within , Can witness well the sorrow for my since . When Years were Young , my father forced me wed Against my will , where fancy was not fed : I was content their pleasure to obey , Although my heart was linked another way . Great were the gifts they proffered in my sighed , With wealth they thought to win me to delight , But Gold nor gifts my mind could not remove For I was linked whereas I could not love . Methought his sighed was loathsome to my Eye , My heart did grudge against him inwardl y : This discontent did cause my deadly strife , And with his wealth did cause a grievous life . My constant love was on Young Strangwidge set , And woe to him that did our welfare let : His love so deep a root in me did take , I would have gone a begging for his sake . Wronged he was through found desire of gain , Wronged he was even through my Parents plain : If faith and troth a perfect pledge might be , I had been Wife unto no man but he . Eternal God forgive my Father's Deed , And grant all Parents may take better heed . If I had been but constant to my friend , I had not matched to make so bad and end . But wanting Grace I sought my own decay , And was the cause to make my Friend away ; And he on whom my earthly joys did lie , Through my amiss a shameful Death must die . Farewell sweet George , always my loving friend Needs must I laud and love thee to the end : And albeit that Page possessed thy due , In sighed of God thou wast my Husbandtrue . My watery eyes into the Heavens I bend , Craving of Christ his mercy to extend My bloody deed do me Oh Lord forgive , And let my Soul within thy Kingdom live . Farewell false world , and friends that fickle be , All Wives farewell , example take by me . Let not the Devil to murder you entice , Seek to escape such foul and sinful vice . And now , Oh Christ to thee I yield my breath , Strengthen my faith in bitter pangs of Death : Pardon my faults and follies I thee pray , And with thy blood wash thou my sins away . FINIS . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackery , and " T. Passenger . thou wast my Husbandtrue . My watery eyes into the Heavens I bend , Craving of Christ his mercy to extend My bloody deed do me Oh Lord forgive , And let my Soul within thy Kingdom live . Farewell false world , and friends that fickle be , All Wives farewell , example take by me . Let not the Devil to murder you entice , Seek to escape such foul and sinful vice . And now , Oh Christ to thee I yield my breath , Strengthen my faith in bitter pangs of Death : Pardon my faults and follies I thee pray , And with thy blood wash thou my sins away . FINIS . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackery , and " T. Passenger . 