A wondered Example of Gods Justice showed upon one Jasper Conningham , a Gentleman born in Scotland , who was of opinion that there was neither God nor Devil . To the Tune of , Oh Neighbour Robert . I TO was a Scotchman , a Scotch man lewd of Life , That long had lived unlawful from his wife : His name was Jasper Conningham , as I did understand ? Whose dwelling was at Aberdeen , a town in fair Scotland . He had a sister which was both fair and bright , Worshipfully wedded , unto a worthy Knight , Godly , wise and virtuous in every thing was she : A fairer comely Lady , in Scotland could not be . Her wicked Brother such inward pains did prove , That with his fair Sister he greatly was in love : He watches time and woes her , he shows to her his mind , And still he says sweet sister be not to me unkind . This comely Lady in mild and gentle wise , Unto her Brother thus modestly replies ; The Lord forbid dear brother I should consent at all , To such a damned action to bring our souls in thrall . Are not great torments prepared for hateful since ? Is not God as righteous as ever he hath been ? Is not hell prepared with quenchless flames of fire , To give such wicked persons , their due deserved hire ? Wherefore dear brother repent and call for grace , Let not these motions within your heart take place : Consider how to judgement , we shall one day be brought , To answer for our follies which in our lives we wrought , Her brother hearing her Godly Christian talk , Within the Garden as they alone did walk Blasphemously replied , as shameless as he stood , Saying she had declared a tale of Robin Hood . You are deceived fair sister then said he , To talk of Heavens Glory , or hells Plagues unto me ; These are devised fables to keep poor souls in fear , That were by wise men written , though no such things there were . You spoke of a reckoning , and of a judgement day : And after life is ended , and flesh consumed away : And of a God most justly , will plague all things amiss , And those that do believe it , are much deceived I wis . Alas , said he , my sister , these things are nothing so . No God nor Devil is ' biding , in heaven nor hell I know : All things are wrought by nature the Earth , the air , and Sky , There is no joy nor sorrow after that men do die . Therefore let me have pleasure while hear I do remain I fear not Gods displeasure nor hells tormenting pain : No sooner had he spoken this foul blasphemous thing , But that a heavy judgement upon him God did bring , For in the Garden , whereas he did abide , Suddenly a fire sprung up on every side , Which round about enclosed this Damned wretch that Day Who roraed and cried most grievous but could not start away . TO His fearful fire . up to his knees did rise , Burning blue like brimstone in most outrageous wise : The Lady which beheld it , ran crying in for aid To pluck away her brother which in the fire stayed . But nought prevailed , for all that they could do , Long staves and also pitchforks they reached him unto ; Because they durst not venture near to the fiery flame . He taking hold upon them to draw him out of the same . But not a finger nor hand that he could move , His arms hung dead behind him great pains that he did prove And now he bans and curses the day that he was born , And wishes that his carcase by devils might be torn . Now feel I surely , quoth he , there is a god , That soar does plague me , with his strong iron rod . O hide me from his presence , his looks are death to me , Nothing but wrath and vengeance , about him I do see . I have despised him , but can no whit repent , My heart is hardened , my mind cannot relent , No pity nor compassion , nor mercy is in store . For me vile wretched creature despised for evermore I am in hell tormented and to endless pain , Look how the devils torment me in strething every vein , Look how they swarm about me , o what hell fiends are these , Who Worth the time thet ever , I did the Lord displease . I burn in flaming fire , yet do no whit consume , My conscience does torment me , that did in since presume , Alas my loving Sister , now I do know full well , There is a God most righteous , and eke a devil in hell . And with these speeches his eyes fell from his head , And by the strings hung dangling below his chin stark dead . See how the devils then he said , have pluck tO my eyes out quite , That always was unworthy to view the heavenly light . Then from his mouth there fell his foul blasphemous tongue , In very ugly manner it most piteously it hung . And there away it rotted in all the peoples sighed , By lice and filthy vermin , it was consumed quite . With ghastly groaning and Shrieks that sounded high , Two hours after this cursed man did lie , And there at length he died , and then the fire ceased His carcase stunk more filthy than any carrion beast . No man was able for to endure the smell , Nor yet to come to bury him , as true report does tell ; Until he was consumed he laid above the ground , The doors about the garden , therefore was Locked round . Let all Blasphemers take warning by this thing , Lest that Gods vengeance they do upon them bring , And Lord grant all Christians thy holy grace and fear , They may think on the punishment that Conningham had here , FINIS . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke W. Thackeray , and T. PassingerA wondered Example of Gods Justice showed upon one Jasper Conningham , a Gentleman born in Scotland , who was of opinion that there was neither God nor Devil . To the Tune of , Oh Neighbour Robert . I TO was a Scotchman , a Scotch man lewd of Life , That long had lived unlawful from his wife : His name was Jasper Conningham , as I did understand ? Whose dwelling was at Aberdeen , a town in fair Scotland . He had a sister which was both fair and bright , Worshipfully wedded , unto a worthy Knight , Godly , wise and virtuous in every thing was she : A fairer comely Lady , in Scotland could not be . Her wicked Brother such inward pains did prove , That with his fair Sister he greatly was in love : He watches time and woes her , he shows to her his mind , And still he says sweet sister be not to me unkind . This comely Lady in mild and gentle wise , Unto her Brother thus modestly replies ; The Lord forbid dear brother I should consent at all , To such a damned action to bring our souls in thrall . Are not great torments prepared for hateful since ? Is not God as righteous as ever he hath been ? Is not hell prepared with quenchless flames of fire , To give such wicked persons , their due deserved hire ? Wherefore dear brother repent and call for grace , Let not these motions within your heart take place : Consider how to judgement , we shall one day be brought , To answer for our follies which in our lives we wrought , Her brother hearing her Godly Christian talk , Within the Garden as they alone did walk Blasphemously replied , as shameless as he stood , Saying she had declared a tale of Robin Hood . You are deceived fair sister then said he , To talk of Heavens Glory , or hells Plagues unto me ; These are devised fables to keep poor souls in fear , That were by wise men written , though no such things there were . You spoke of a reckoning , and of a judgement day : And after life is ended , and flesh consumed away : And of a God most justly , will plague all things amiss , And those that do believe it , are much deceived I wis . Alas , said he , my sister , these things are nothing so . No God nor Devil is ' biding , in heaven nor hell I know : All things are wrought by nature the Earth , the air , and Sky , There is no joy nor sorrow after that men do die . Therefore let me have pleasure while hear I do remain I fear not Gods displeasure nor hells tormenting pain : No sooner had he spoken this foul blasphemous thing , But that a heavy judgement upon him God did bring , For in the Garden , whereas he did abide , Suddenly a fire sprung up on every side , Which round about enclosed this Damned wretch that Day Who roraed and cried most grievous but could not start away . TO His fearful fire . up to his knees did rise , Burning blue like brimstone in most outrageous wise : The Lady which beheld it , ran crying in for aid To pluck away her brother which in the fire stayed . But nought prevailed , for all that they could do , Long staves and also pitchforks they reached him unto ; Because they durst not venture near to the fiery flame . He taking hold upon them to draw him out of the same . But not a finger nor hand that he could move , His arms hung dead behind him great pains that he did prove And now he bans and curses the day that he was born , And wishes that his carcase by devils might be torn . Now feel I surely , quoth he , there is a god , That soar does plague me , with his strong iron rod . O hide me from his presence , his looks are death to me , Nothing but wrath and vengeance , about him I do see . I have despised him , but can no whit repent , My heart is hardened , my mind cannot relent , No pity nor compassion , nor mercy is in store . For me vile wretched creature despised for evermore I am in hell tormented and to endless pain , Look how the devils torment me in strething every vein , Look how they swarm about me , o what hell fiends are these , Who Worth the time thet ever , I did the Lord displease . I burn in flaming fire , yet do no whit consume , My conscience does torment me , that did in since presume , Alas my loving Sister , now I do know full well , There is a God most righteous , and eke a devil in hell . And with these speeches his eyes fell from his head , And by the strings hung dangling below his chin stark dead . See how the devils then he said , have pluck tO my eyes out quite , That always was unworthy to view the heavenly light . Then from his mouth there fell his foul blasphemous tongue , In very ugly manner it most piteously it hung . And there away it rotted in all the peoples sighed , By lice and filthy vermin , it was consumed quite . With ghastly groaning and Shrieks that sounded high , Two hours after this cursed man did lie , And there at length he died , and then the fire ceased His carcase stunk more filthy than any carrion beast . No man was able for to endure the smell , Nor yet to come to bury him , as true report does tell ; Until he was consumed he laid above the ground , The doors about the garden , therefore was Locked round . Let all Blasphemers take warning by this thing , Lest that Gods vengeance they do upon them bring , And Lord grant all Christians thy holy grace and fear , They may think on the punishment that Conningham had here , FINIS . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger 