THE Bloody-minded Husband ; OR , The Cruelty of John Chambers , who lately lived at Tanworth , in Warwickshire , and conspired the Death of his Wife , hiring a Servant to Shoot her with a Musket , which he accordingly did ; for which they were both Arraigned , found Guilty , and Executed for the same . Tune is , Aim not too high . Licensed according to Order . G Ood People all I pray attend , and mind This Mournful Ditty and you'll quickly find , That cruel Sins does in this Kingdom Reign , Of which we have just reason to Complain . To see how Men run on their wicked Raze With eagerness , as being void of Grace ; Taking delight in those Notorious Crimes , Which are the cause of our Distracted times . Some Men with wanton Harlots leads their Life , And slights the kind Embraces of a Wife ; Till ruin and destruction proves their fate , And then at length Repentance comes too late . As by these Mournful Lines it will appear , John Chambers , living in fair Warwickshire , And at the Town of Tanworth , I declare , A lose lascivious life he did led there . Keeping a wanton Harlot Company , But for his loving Wife continually He then abused , and likewise hated so . That at the length it proved his overthrow . That he those sinful pleasures might enjoy , Alas ! he studied daily to destroy The Life of his right lawful loving Bride , Unto that end he many methods tried . As from her Brother's House with him she went , His cruel heart to wickedness was bent ; He did attempt to Drown her by the way , Yet Providence preserved her that day . Though at this time he could not have his will , His most enraged Malice reigned still ; So that he neither night nor day could rest , Making the thoughts of Murder in his breast . Two Soldiers then he laboured to employ , In this most horrid cruel Villainy ; Yet though he proffered them large Money then , They would not be such bloody-minded Men . Though he did with these disappointments meet , Yet he was still resolved to complete This bloody Murder on his loving Wife , And in short space bereave her of her Life . He hired then a Servant of his own , Declaring that it never would be known . This said , the Wretch did not disputing stand , But straightways took the Bloody work in hand . Now while they did their Treachery conceal , Poor heart , who was set at her Spinning-Wheel , Free from the thoughts of either dread or fear , Who little knew her Death was drawing near . Servant and Master being both agreed , A Muskuet straight they Charge , and Load with speed ; The Servant coming to his harmless Dame , He Shot her through the Body with the same . Just as she had received the fatal Wound , And languishing , lay sprawling on the ground , Her Husband came for to Salute her then , Like a false wretch , the very worst of Men . But she ( alas ) refused his Judas Kiss , And with her dying voice , she told him this : By Murder now you have procured my death , And with those words she yielded up her breath , Master and Man was then to Prison sent , In order for a Lawful Punishment : Nay , likewise when Assizes came at last , They for this Murder was Arraigned and Cast. Now on the day that he was brought to Die , The Master called to all the standers by ; Wishing that they by him might warning take , And all lewd Women's Company forsake . For they alone , alas ! has Ruined me , And now this day my dismal Doom I see ; Had I been kind and loving to my Wife , I might have lived a long and happy Life . Farewell the World , and all vain Pleasures here , Good God , when I before thy Throne appear , Although my Sins are many , gross and foul , Do thou be merciful , and save my Soul. Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Giltspur street , without Newgate . THE Bloody-minded Husband ; OR , The Cruelty of John Chambers , who lately lived at Tanworth , in Warwickshire , and conspired the Death of his Wife , hiring a Servant to Shoot her with a Musket , which he accordingly did ; for which they were both Arraigned , found Guilty , and Executed for the same . Tune is , Aim not too high . Licensed according to Order . G Ood People all I pray attend , and mind This Mournful Ditty and you'll quickly find , That cruel Sins does in this Kingdom Reign , Of which we have just reason to Complain . To see how Men run on their wicked Raze With eagerness , as being void of Grace ; Taking delight in those Notorious Crimes , Which are the cause of our Distracted times . Some Men with wanton Harlots leads their Life , And slights the kind Embraces of a Wife ; Till ruin and destruction proves their fate , And then at length Repentance comes too late . As by these Mournful Lines it will appear , John Chambers , living in fair Warwickshire , And at the Town of Tanworth , I declare , A lose lascivious life he did led there . Keeping a wanton Harlot Company , But for his loving Wife continually He then abused , and likewise hated so . That at the length it proved his overthrow . That he those sinful pleasures might enjoy , Alas ! he studied daily to destroy The Life of his right lawful loving Bride , Unto that end he many methods tried . As from her Brother's House with him she went , His cruel heart to wickedness was bent ; He did attempt to Drown her by the way , Yet Providence preserved her that day . Though at this time he could not have his will , His most enraged Malice reigned still ; So that he neither night nor day could rest , Making the thoughts of Murder in his breast . Two Soldiers then he laboured to employ , In this most horrid cruel Villainy ; Yet though he proffered them large Money then , They would not be such bloody-minded Men . Though he did with these disappointments meet , Yet he was still resolved to complete This bloody Murder on his loving Wife , And in short space bereave her of her Life . He hired then a Servant of his own , Declaring that it never would be known . This said , the Wretch did not disputing stand , But straightways took the Bloody work in hand . Now while they did their Treachery conceal , Poor heart , who was set at her Spinning-Wheel , Free from the thoughts of either dread or fear , Who little knew her Death was drawing near . Servant and Master being both agreed , A Muskuet straight they Charge , and Load with speed ; The Servant coming to his harmless Dame , He Shot her through the Body with the same . Just as she had received the fatal Wound , And languishing , lay sprawling on the ground , Her Husband came for to Salute her then , Like a false wretch , the very worst of Men . But she ( alas ) refused his Judas Kiss , And with her dying voice , she told him this : By Murder now you have procured my death , And with those words she yielded up her breath , Master and Man was then to Prison sent , In order for a Lawful Punishment : Nay , likewise when Assizes came at last , They for this Murder was Arraigned and Cast. Now on the day that he was brought to Die , The Master called to all the standers by ; Wishing that they by him might warning take , And all lewd Women's Company forsake . For they alone , alas ! has Ruined me , And now this day my dismal Doom I see ; Had I been kind and loving to my Wife , I might have lived a long and happy Life . Farewell the World , and all vain Pleasures here , Good God , when I before thy Throne appear , Although my Sins are many , gross and foul , Do thou be merciful , and save my Soul. Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Giltspur street , without Newgate . 