ROMES Cruelty : OR , The Earl of ESSEX Barbarously Murdered in the Tower . To the Tune of , There is one Black and Sullen Hour . TO he Earl of Essex in the Tower , he did not cut his own dear Throat , But Ruffians did him overpower , as by the Sequel you may note : Behold the bloody Razor , which they threw Out of the Window , then in view out of the Window , then in view Of many more than one or two : of many more than one or two . There was a French man near the Room , his Servant , whom the world may blame , Because no living Soul could come , but he must see and bear the same ; As being next his Person night and day , He , Judas - like , was drawn away , he , Judas - like , etc His Lord and Master to Betray : his L ord and Master to Betray . They thought it never might be known , but let such bloody Ruffians know , The Lord from his most Righteous Throne , sees all the Actions here below : And though committed by the greatest care , In dark and silent Corners , where No living Mortal does repair ; Yet Gods all-seeing Eye is there . yet Gods all-seeing Eye is there . This black and bloody dismal Day , sweet Russel was to Trial brought , That all the World might think and say , Despair had Essex ruin wrought Rather then bring his Crimes to open view : A sweet contrivance of the Crew ; a sweet , etc All this and more , black Room can do : all this and more , etc His Throat was cut from Ear to Ear , the Jug'lar Veins and Gullet too , The which this worthy Noble Peer , could not have life nor strength to do ; All kind of motions straightways would consume But ah ! most fatal was his Doom ; but ah ! etc He fell a Sacrifice to Room : he fell a Sacrifice to Room . When he was found upon the floor , by those whom we may well suspect , Bathed in reeking purple Gore , let us observe the first neglect : By Cor'ners Inquest , Jurymen I mean , He was not suffered to be seen , he was not suffered , etc Till they had stripped and washed him clean : till they had stripped and washed him clean . The Room and Closet where he lay , most carefully was cleansed too , Nay , and his Clothes conveyed away , and never was brought to open view : From whence a grand suspicion straight arose , Beside , a Young Man would depose , beside a young man , etc He see upon his Master's Hose , a bloody foot stepped on his Hose . From there , and many signs beside , it seems a Murder plain and clear , That by some hired Ruffians died , this Noble thrice Renowned Peer ; Whose Blood does to this day for vengeance cry And sure they do deserve to die , and sure they do deserve to die , Who acted such like Villainy , who acted such like Villainy . FINIS . Printed for P. B . ROMES Cruelty : OR , The Earl of ESSEX Barbarously Murdered in the Tower . To the Tune of , There is one Black and Sullen Hour . TO he Earl of Essex in the Tower , he did not cut his own dear Throat , But Ruffians did him overpower , as by the Sequel you may note : Behold the bloody Razor , which they threw Out of the Window , then in view out of the Window , then in view Of many more than one or two : of many more than one or two . There was a French man near the Room , his Servant , whom the world may blame , Because no living Soul could come , but he must see and bear the same ; As being next his Person night and day , He , Judas - like , was drawn away , he , Judas - like , etc His Lord and Master to Betray : his L ord and Master to Betray . They thought it never might be known , but let such bloody Ruffians know , The Lord from his most Righteous Throne , sees all the Actions here below : And though committed by the greatest care , In dark and silent Corners , where No living Mortal does repair ; Yet Gods all-seeing Eye is there . yet Gods all-seeing Eye is there . This black and bloody dismal Day , sweet Russel was to Trial brought , That all the World might think and say , Despair had Essex ruin wrought Rather then bring his Crimes to open view : A sweet contrivance of the Crew ; a sweet , etc All this and more , black Room can do : all this and more , etc His Throat was cut from Ear to Ear , the Jug'lar Veins and Gullet too , The which this worthy Noble Peer , could not have life nor strength to do ; All kind of motions straightways would consume But ah ! most fatal was his Doom ; but ah ! etc He fell a Sacrifice to Room : he fell a Sacrifice to Room . When he was found upon the floor , by those whom we may well suspect , Bathed in reeking purple Gore , let us observe the first neglect : By Cor'ners Inquest , Jurymen I mean , He was not suffered to be seen , he was not suffered , etc Till they had stripped and washed him clean : till they had stripped and washed him clean . The Room and Closet where he lay , most carefully was cleansed too , Nay , and his Clothes conveyed away , and never was brought to open view : From whence a grand suspicion straight arose , Beside , a Young Man would depose , beside a young man , etc He see upon his Master's Hose , a bloody foot stepped on his Hose . From there , and many signs beside , it seems a Murder plain and clear , That by some hired Ruffians died , this Noble thrice Renowned Peer ; Whose Blood does to this day for vengeance cry And sure they do deserve to die , and sure they do deserve to die , Who acted such like Villainy , who acted such like Villainy . FINIS . Printed for P. B. 