A most Notable Example of and Ungracious son , who in pride of his heart denied his own Father , and how God for his offence turned his meat to loathsme Toads . To the Tune of , Lord Derby . I N searching Famous Chronicles , it was my chance to read , A worthy story strange and true whereto I took good heed : Betwixt a father and a Son , this rare example stands , Which well may move the hardest hearts to weep and ring their hands . A Farmer in the Country lived , whose substance did excel , He sent therefore his eldest son in Paris for to dwell . Where he became a Merchant man and traffic great he used , So that he was exceeding rich till he himself abused : For having now the world at will , his mind was fully bent To Gaming Wine and wantonness till all his goods were spent Yet [ ecceessive ] rioutness , by him was showed forth That he was three times more in debt then all his wealth was worth At length his credit quite was cracked and he in Prison cast , And every man against him then did set his actium fast : Then he lay locked in Irons strong , for ever and for aye , Unable while his life did last this grievous debt to pay . And living in this woeful case , his eyes with tears he spent The lewdness of his former life too late he did repent r And being bold of all relief of help and comfort quite , Unto his Father at the last , he thus began to write Bow down a while your heedful ear , my loving father dear , And grant I pray in gracious sort ; my piteous plaint to hear ; Forgive the foul offences all of your unworthy Son. Which through the lewdness of his life hath now his self undone , Oh my good father take remorse , on this my extreme need , And succour his distressed case , whose heart for woe does bleed : In direful dungeon here I lie ; my feet in fetters fast , Where my most cruel Creditors in prison have me cast . Let pity therefore pierce your breast and mercy move your mind And to release my miser , Come shift dear father find . My chiefest cheer is bred full brown , the boards my softest bed , And flinty stones my pillows serve to rest my troubled head . M Y garments all are worn to rags , my body starves with cold And creeping vermin eat my flesh , most grievous to behold : Dear father come therefore with speed and rid me out of thrall , And let me not in prison die sith for your help I call ; The good old man no sooner had perused this written scrowl , But trickling tears along his cheeks most plenteously did roll , Alas my son my son quoth he , in whom I joyed most , Thou shalt not long in prison be , whatever it me cost . Two hundred herd of well fed Beast , he changed into Gold , Four hundred quarters of good coin . for Silver eke he sold : But all the same could not suffice this hanious tO [ a ? ] tO to pay , Till at tee last constrained was to fell his land away Then was his son released quite his debts discharged clean , And he like as well to live as he before had been Then went his loving father who for to help his son , Had sold his living quite away , and eke himself undone : So that he lived poor and bore , and in such extreme need That many times he wanted food his hungry Borps to feed . His Son Mean time in Wealth did grow , whose substance now was such , That sure within the City then few men were found so rich . But as his goods did still increase , and riches it did slide , So more and more his hardened heart , did swell in hateful pride . But st fell out upon a time ween ten years woe was passed , Unto his son he did repair , for sum relief at last : And being come unto his house , in very poor array . It chanced so that with his son , great store should dine that dsy : The poor old man with hat in hand , did tuen the porter pray , To show his Son that at the Gate his Father there did stay : Whereat this proud disdainful wretch ; with taunting speeches said That long ago his father's bones within the grave was laid : What Rascal then , is this , quoth he that stains , thus my state , I charge thee porter presently , to drive him from my Gate . Which answer when the old man herd , he was in mind dismayed . He wept he wailed , and wrung his hands and thus at length he said : Oh cursed wretch and most unkind . and worker of my woe , Thou monster of humadity ; and eke thy Fataers foe , Have I been careful of thy dase , maintaining still thy s [ l ] ate , And dost thou now most doggedly enforce me from thy Gate And hove I wronged thy brothers all , from thrall to set the free , And brought my self to beggars state , and all to succour thee ; Woe worth the time thavt first of all thy body I espied , Which hath in hardness of thy heat thy father's face denied But now behold how God that time , did show a wonder great , Even when his Son and all his friends were sitting down to meat : For when the fairest pie was cut a strange and dreadful case Most ugly Toads came crawling out , and leapt in his face : Then did this wrttch his fault confess and for his father seht , And for his great ingratitude , full soar he did repent , All virtuous Children learn by this , obedient hearts to show And honour still your parents dear , for God commanded so , And think how he did turn his meat , to poisonous Toads indeed , Which did his father's face deny , because his stood in need . FINIS . Printed for J. Clark , W. Thackeray and T. Passenger . A most Notable Example of and Ungracious son , who in pride of his heart denied his own Father , and how God for his offence turned his meat to loathsme Toads . To the Tune of , Lord Derby . I N searching Famous Chronicles , it was my chance to read , A worthy story strange and true whereto I took good heed : Betwixt a father and a Son , this rare example stands , Which well may move the hardest hearts to weep and ring their hands . A Farmer in the Country lived , whose substance did excel , He sent therefore his eldest son in Paris for to dwell . Where he became a Merchant man and traffic great he used , So that he was exceeding rich till he himself abused : For having now the world at will , his mind was fully bent To Gaming Wine and wantonness till all his goods were spent Yet [ ecceessive ] rioutness , by him was showed forth That he was three times more in debt then all his wealth was worth At length his credit quite was cracked and he in Prison cast , And every man against him then did set his actium fast : Then he lay locked in Irons strong , for ever and for aye , Unable while his life did last this grievous debt to pay . And living in this woeful case , his eyes with tears he spent The lewdness of his former life too late he did repent r And being bold of all relief of help and comfort quite , Unto his Father at the last , he thus began to write Bow down a while your heedful ear , my loving father dear , And grant I pray in gracious sort ; my piteous plaint to hear ; Forgive the foul offences all of your unworthy Son. Which through the lewdness of his life hath now his self undone , Oh my good father take remorse , on this my extreme need , And succour his distressed case , whose heart for woe does bleed : In direful dungeon here I lie ; my feet in fetters fast , Where my most cruel Creditors in prison have me cast . Let pity therefore pierce your breast and mercy move your mind And to release my miser , Come shift dear father find . My chiefest cheer is bred full brown , the boards my softest bed , And flinty stones my pillows serve to rest my troubled head . M Y garments all are worn to rags , my body starves with cold And creeping vermin eat my flesh , most grievous to behold : Dear father come therefore with speed and rid me out of thrall , And let me not in prison die sith for your help I call ; The good old man no sooner had perused this written scrowl , But trickling tears along his cheeks most plenteously did roll , Alas my son my son quoth he , in whom I joyed most , Thou shalt not long in prison be , whatever it me cost . Two hundred herd of well fed Beast , he changed into Gold , Four hundred quarters of good coin . for Silver eke he sold : But all the same could not suffice this hanious tO [ a ? ] tO to pay , Till at tee last constrained was to fell his land away Then was his son released quite his debts discharged clean , And he like as well to live as he before had been Then went his loving father who for to help his son , Had sold his living quite away , and eke himself undone : So that he lived poor and bore , and in such extreme need That many times he wanted food his hungry Borps to feed . His Son Mean time in Wealth did grow , whose substance now was such , That sure within the City then few men were found so rich . But as his goods did still increase , and riches it did slide , So more and more his hardened heart , did swell in hateful pride . But st fell out upon a time ween ten years woe was passed , Unto his son he did repair , for sum relief at last : And being come unto his house , in very poor array . It chanced so that with his son , great store should dine that dsy : The poor old man with hat in hand , did tuen the porter pray , To show his Son that at the Gate his Father there did stay : Whereat this proud disdainful wretch ; with taunting speeches said That long ago his father's bones within the grave was laid : What Rascal then , is this , quoth he that stains , thus my state , I charge thee porter presently , to drive him from my Gate . Which answer when the old man herd , he was in mind dismayed . He wept he wailed , and wrung his hands and thus at length he said : Oh cursed wretch and most unkind . and worker of my woe , Thou monster of humadity ; and eke thy Fataers foe , Have I been careful of thy dase , maintaining still thy s [ l ] ate , And dost thou now most doggedly enforce me from thy Gate And hove I wronged thy brothers all , from thrall to set the free , And brought my self to beggars state , and all to succour thee ; Woe worth the time thavt first of all thy body I espied , Which hath in hardness of thy heat thy father's face denied But now behold how God that time , did show a wonder great , Even when his Son and all his friends were sitting down to meat : For when the fairest pie was cut a strange and dreadful case Most ugly Toads came crawling out , and leapt in his face : Then did this wrttch his fault confess and for his father seht , And for his great ingratitude , full soar he did repent , All virtuous Children learn by this , obedient hearts to show And honour still your parents dear , for God commanded so , And think how he did turn his meat , to poisonous Toads indeed , Which did his father's face deny , because his stood in need . FINIS . Printed for J. Clark , W. Thackeray and T. Passenger . 