The Yorkshire Tragedy : GIVING And Account of a Barbarous Murder Committed on the Bodies of a young Man and Maid , by Thieves , who made their escape , and was not found in two Years after ; and then being ap - prehended , they were Arraigned , and their Ringleader found Guilty ; for which he received the due Sentence of Death , and was accordingly Executed at York late Sizes . Licensed and Entered according to Order . To the Tune of , Found Boy . N Owe , now loving People be pleased to draw near , For a dismal Relation at large you shall hear , How the innocent Blood of a Damsel was shed , A Youth mortally wounded , the Murderers fled ; Yet at length being seized , they to Justice was brought , At a time when all danger was passed , as they thought . The manner how they did this Murder commit , And the time they escaped , to the World I have writ , That it may be a warning to others this day , Therefore listen a while to this Ditty I pray , In the Town of fair Slatburn a Widow did dwell , Who had and [ ? ] only Daughter she loved right well . She had but that Daughter , not any Child more ; Now for her she had gathered up Riches great store , In broad pieces of Gold , nay , and Silver likewise ; Now the Thieves being told of this wondered Prize , They were never at rest , but did constantly wait For a fit opportunity , early and late . While these cruel Ruffians in close ambush lay , Like the Fox , or fierce Lion that wait for their Prey ; The good Woman went forth , leaving no one within But a Youth and her Daughter ; the Thieves did begin For to enter the House , and was desperate too , And a sad bloody Slaughter did straightways ensue . The poor frighted Damsel did trembling stand , One of them did come to her with Pistol in hand , And discharged the same through the midst of her head , Blood and brains both did follow , she fell down for dead ; Yet they pinned he likewise with a Sword to the ground , And the Youth that was with her received his death's wound . Now while the young Damsel lay bathed in her blood , Which did flow from her Veins like a deluge or flood ; Oh! these murderous Thieves they were pleased to make bold With the best of Apparel , nay , Silver and Gold , For they rifled the House to replenish their store , And was never discovered for two Years and more . This was to the Mother a dreadful surprise , For to see the young Youth and her Daughter likewise , In that bloody condition , both wreaking in gore , Then she bitterly screaked when she entered the door , For her Daughter she found with the Sword in her side , I am ruined , I'm ruined , her Mother she cried . A young Man that had been in league with his Maid , For the space of two Years he did lay by his Trade , Ever searching for them , and by Fortune at last They were taken and tried , their head Ringleader cast , A ruff Villain , bold Henry Grigson by name , He confessed the Murder , and died for the same . At length being brought to the place of his Death , Where he was to surrender and yield up his breath , He besought all the People that stood round him there , For to join with him then in the Duty of Prayer , That the Lord would be pleased his Sins to forgive , So his Soul may in Heaven eternally live . Then mounting the Ladder he bitterly wept , Fare you well the bad Company which I have kept , You have ruined me , for my Life's at and end ; Loving Father of Heaven on thee I depend , For thy Mercies are many I needs must confess ; Let my Sins be forgiven though I did transgress . London : Printed for J Blare , on London-bridge . The Yorkshire Tragedy : GIVING And Account of a Barbarous Murder Committed on the Bodies of a young Man and Maid , by Thieves , who made their escape , and was not found in two Years after ; and then being ap - prehended , they were Arraigned , and their Ringleader found Guilty ; for which he received the due Sentence of Death , and was accordingly Executed at York late Sizes . Licensed and Entered according to Order . To the Tune of , Found Boy . N Owe , now loving People be pleased to draw near , For a dismal Relation at large you shall hear , How the innocent Blood of a Damsel was shed , A Youth mortally wounded , the Murderers fled ; Yet at length being seized , they to Justice was brought , At a time when all danger was passed , as they thought . The manner how they did this Murder commit , And the time they escaped , to the World I have writ , That it may be a warning to others this day , Therefore listen a while to this Ditty I pray , In the Town of fair Slatburn a Widow did dwell , Who had and [ ? ] only Daughter she loved right well . She had but that Daughter , not any Child more ; Now for her she had gathered up Riches great store , In broad pieces of Gold , nay , and Silver likewise ; Now the Thieves being told of this wondered Prize , They were never at rest , but did constantly wait For a fit opportunity , early and late . While these cruel Ruffians in close ambush lay , Like the Fox , or fierce Lion that wait for their Prey ; The good Woman went forth , leaving no one within But a Youth and her Daughter ; the Thieves did begin For to enter the House , and was desperate too , And a sad bloody Slaughter did straightways ensue . The poor frighted Damsel did trembling stand , One of them did come to her with Pistol in hand , And discharged the same through the midst of her head , Blood and brains both did follow , she fell down for dead ; Yet they pinned he likewise with a Sword to the ground , And the Youth that was with her received his death's wound . Now while the young Damsel lay bathed in her blood , Which did flow from her Veins like a deluge or flood ; Oh! these murderous Thieves they were pleased to make bold With the best of Apparel , nay , Silver and Gold , For they rifled the House to replenish their store , And was never discovered for two Years and more . This was to the Mother a dreadful surprise , For to see the young Youth and her Daughter likewise , In that bloody condition , both wreaking in gore , Then she bitterly screaked when she entered the door , For her Daughter she found with the Sword in her side , I am ruined , I'm ruined , her Mother she cried . A young Man that had been in league with his Maid , For the space of two Years he did lay by his Trade , Ever searching for them , and by Fortune at last They were taken and tried , their head Ringleader cast , A ruff Villain , bold Henry Grigson by name , He confessed the Murder , and died for the same . At length being brought to the place of his Death , Where he was to surrender and yield up his breath , He besought all the People that stood round him there , For to join with him then in the Duty of Prayer , That the Lord would be pleased his Sins to forgive , So his Soul may in Heaven eternally live . Then mounting the Ladder he bitterly wept , Fare you well the bad Company which I have kept , You have ruined me , for my Life's at and end ; Loving Father of Heaven on thee I depend , For thy Mercies are many I needs must confess ; Let my Sins be forgiven though I did transgress . London : Printed for J Blare , on London-bridge . 