The Kentish Wonder . OR , The Unmerciful Farmers Misfortune . Containing and Account of and Old Miser , living in the Town of Maulden in the County of Kent , that kept his Corn so long , in hope's it would be still Dearer , that at length the very Hogs would not eat it . Likewise in his Field this S ummer , a sheaf of Corn was herd to cry like a young Child while it was bound , but when it was open , and spread , it ceased ; but when bound up again it did the like , to the astonishment of all Spectators . Tune of , If Love's a sweet passion . Licensed according to Order . C Ome listen a while and I here will unfold A strange Wonder , the like I think never was told , This Miraculous Judgement from Heaven was sent , To a wealthy old Farmer at Maulden in Kent , Who had laid up his Corn in a plentiful store , For enriching his Coffers , and starving the Poor . It seems that he went to the Market one day , And in presence of many this Miser did say , That a Bushel of Wheat from his hands should not go At the Price which they sold it , for , said he , I know , That ever long I shall fell it for near as much more : Thus the covetous Wretch was for starving the Poor . The honest good farmers that near him did dwell , Did persuade this old covetous creature to fell , For , said they , ever long it may happen to fallen , But he made them no Rational Answer at all : Like a wretch void of reason , he bitterly swore , He would keep up his Corn , and a Fig for the Poor . They found him resolved his Barns for to fill , So they let him alone to his resolute will , But he often repeated he made no great doubt , That before the next quarter of a year came about , He should fell up his Corn for almost as much more , Thus he studied for Riches by starving the Poor . But God he was pleased a Judgement to send , For the cruel oppression which he did intend . First the Wheat in his Barns did perish and waste , Having lost its good Virtue , sweet relish and taste , Sure the like was never known in all Ages before , Thus the Wretch was rewarded for starving the Poor . He went to another large Barn of Grain , For to use some of that , but it proved in vain , To the Mill it was carried with speed to be ground , But when they came to use it no relish was found , Thus a Judgement was sent on his plentiful store , For his being resolved to starve up the poor . O then in a Fury he threw it the Swine , And alth ' to the Eye it was pleasant and fine , Yet the Hogs they run from it , refusing to Eat , Or to taste of a grain of the Barley or Wheat , Thus a Judgement was sent on his plentiful store , For his seeking of Riches by starving the poor . Now here is another strange wonder beside , A new sheave of his Corn like a little Child cried , With a voice as if something were to be revealed , Now it filled them with wonder who were in the Field , When the sheaf they unbound , then it ceased . Therefore 'Twas a Miracle sent with the cries of the Poor . They went for to bind up the sheaf once again , Strait the cry of and Infant was herd loud and plain , As a Miracle sent to this wretch from above , For his binding up close the dear Bowels of Love , When at Market he vowed he would keep up his store , For enriching his Coffers by starving the Poor . So as soon as the Corn was at Liberty laid , Strait the Cry was abated , and therefore they said , From the sign that was given did well understand , That no Miser should hoard up the Bred of the land , But as God does afford us a plentiful store , TO heigh should have a Compassion and Love to the Poor . FINIS . Printed for E. Tracey , at the Three Bibles on London-Bridge . The Kentish Wonder . OR , The Unmerciful Farmers Misfortune . Containing and Account of and Old Miser , living in the Town of Maulden in the County of Kent , that kept his Corn so long , in hope's it would be still Dearer , that at length the very Hogs would not eat it . Likewise in his Field this S ummer , a sheaf of Corn was herd to cry like a young Child while it was bound , but when it was open , and spread , it ceased ; but when bound up again it did the like , to the astonishment of all Spectators . Tune of , If Love's a sweet passion . Licensed according to Order . C Ome listen a while and I here will unfold A strange Wonder , the like I think never was told , This Miraculous Judgement from Heaven was sent , To a wealthy old Farmer at Maulden in Kent , Who had laid up his Corn in a plentiful store , For enriching his Coffers , and starving the Poor . It seems that he went to the Market one day , And in presence of many this Miser did say , That a Bushel of Wheat from his hands should not go At the Price which they sold it , for , said he , I know , That ever long I shall fell it for near as much more : Thus the covetous Wretch was for starving the Poor . The honest good farmers that near him did dwell , Did persuade this old covetous creature to fell , For , said they , ever long it may happen to fallen , But he made them no Rational Answer at all : Like a wretch void of reason , he bitterly swore , He would keep up his Corn , and a Fig for the Poor . They found him resolved his Barns for to fill , So they let him alone to his resolute will , But he often repeated he made no great doubt , That before the next quarter of a year came about , He should fell up his Corn for almost as much more , Thus he studied for Riches by starving the Poor . But God he was pleased a Judgement to send , For the cruel oppression which he did intend . First the Wheat in his Barns did perish and waste , Having lost its good Virtue , sweet relish and taste , Sure the like was never known in all Ages before , Thus the Wretch was rewarded for starving the Poor . He went to another large Barn of Grain , For to use some of that , but it proved in vain , To the Mill it was carried with speed to be ground , But when they came to use it no relish was found , Thus a Judgement was sent on his plentiful store , For his being resolved to starve up the poor . O then in a Fury he threw it the Swine , And alth ' to the Eye it was pleasant and fine , Yet the Hogs they run from it , refusing to Eat , Or to taste of a grain of the Barley or Wheat , Thus a Judgement was sent on his plentiful store , For his seeking of Riches by starving the poor . Now here is another strange wonder beside , A new sheave of his Corn like a little Child cried , With a voice as if something were to be revealed , Now it filled them with wonder who were in the Field , When the sheaf they unbound , then it ceased . Therefore 'Twas a Miracle sent with the cries of the Poor . They went for to bind up the sheaf once again , Strait the cry of and Infant was herd loud and plain , As a Miracle sent to this wretch from above , For his binding up close the dear Bowels of Love , When at Market he vowed he would keep up his store , For enriching his Coffers by starving the Poor . So as soon as the Corn was at Liberty laid , Strait the Cry was abated , and therefore they said , From the sign that was given did well understand , That no Miser should hoard up the Bred of the land , But as God does afford us a plentiful store , TO heigh should have a Compassion and Love to the Poor . FINIS . Printed for E. Tracey , at the Three Bibles on London-Bridge . 