The Bloody-minded Husband ; OR , The Unfortunate Wife : Giving a True Account of one WILLIAM TERRY of WORSER erbyshire , within Two Miles of Ashbourn , who murdered his Wife Jane : For which he received due Sentence of Death , according to the Cruelty of his Crime . To the Tune of Russel's Farewell . Licensed according to Order . TO His is a black and gloomy Day , dark Clouds of Grief appear ; And all my Joys are fled away , my Soul is wracked with Fear : Death with a gastful Countenance , does make me soar afraid , For now I see I soon shall be a just Example made . Alas my kind and loving Wife , whom I sometime enjoyed , In cruel sort her dearest Life , my guilty Hands destroyed : Which Deed has brought me into thrall , the World may me degrade : I am this day before you all a sad Example made . A guilty Conscience now does fly here in this Face of mine ; Her Blood does for loud Vengeance cry to God enthroned on high : Therefore this World I bid adieu , since I her Life betrayed , I am this Day in open view , a just Example made . When I had done this bloody Deed , I was with Grief oppressed ; My very Heart began to bleed , I could not be at rest , But was tormented still in mind , since I her Life betrayed , And I shall be this day , I find a sad Example made . My lawful Wife , and bosom Friend , whom I had cause to love , I brought to and untimely end : my Crime is far above The greatest Villain in the Land : her Life I have betrayed ; For which I shall be out of hand , a just Example made . It is my trying Sins I know , and likewise want of Grace , Which proves my fatal Overthrow , and brought me to this place : My Conscience being stained with guilt , to die I am afraid ; I shall be for the Blood I spilled , a just Example made . I did destroy , as well as she , the Infant in her Womb , If God should be severe with me , Eternal Death's my Doom , But gracious Lord be not severe , as I have often prayed ; Let this suffice that I am here a just example made . Who leads a discontented Life , take Warning by my Ill , And live in love like Man and Wife , curbing your Passion still ; For fear it proves your Overthrow , as I have often said : In sorrow from this World I go , a just example made . O that my dear beloved Mate , I could recall again ; But that Repentance comes too late , my Tears are all in vain : She now lies sleeping in the Dust , whose Life I have betrayed ; For which by justice now I must be and example made . This very day the World I leave , therefore some pity take , Good Lord ! and here my Soul receive even for thy Mercies sake ; And cleanse me from the guilt of since for which I oft have prayed ; Let it suffice that I have been a just example made . Printed for J. Bissel , at the Hospital Gate in West-Smithfield . The Bloody-minded Husband ; OR , The Unfortunate Wife : Giving a True Account of one WILLIAM TERRY of WORSER erbyshire , within Two Miles of Ashbourn , who murdered his Wife Jane : For which he received due Sentence of Death , according to the Cruelty of his Crime . To the Tune of Russel's Farewell . Licensed according to Order . TO His is a black and gloomy Day , dark Clouds of Grief appear ; And all my Joys are fled away , my Soul is wracked with Fear : Death with a gastful Countenance , does make me soar afraid , For now I see I soon shall be a just Example made . Alas my kind and loving Wife , whom I sometime enjoyed , In cruel sort her dearest Life , my guilty Hands destroyed : Which Deed has brought me into thrall , the World may me degrade : I am this day before you all a sad Example made . A guilty Conscience now does fly here in this Face of mine ; Her Blood does for loud Vengeance cry to God enthroned on high : Therefore this World I bid adieu , since I her Life betrayed , I am this Day in open view , a just Example made . When I had done this bloody Deed , I was with Grief oppressed ; My very Heart began to bleed , I could not be at rest , But was tormented still in mind , since I her Life betrayed , And I shall be this day , I find a sad Example made . My lawful Wife , and bosom Friend , whom I had cause to love , I brought to and untimely end : my Crime is far above The greatest Villain in the Land : her Life I have betrayed ; For which I shall be out of hand , a just Example made . It is my trying Sins I know , and likewise want of Grace , Which proves my fatal Overthrow , and brought me to this place : My Conscience being stained with guilt , to die I am afraid ; I shall be for the Blood I spilled , a just Example made . I did destroy , as well as she , the Infant in her Womb , If God should be severe with me , Eternal Death's my Doom , But gracious Lord be not severe , as I have often prayed ; Let this suffice that I am here a just example made . Who leads a discontented Life , take Warning by my Ill , And live in love like Man and Wife , curbing your Passion still ; For fear it proves your Overthrow , as I have often said : In sorrow from this World I go , a just example made . O that my dear beloved Mate , I could recall again ; But that Repentance comes too late , my Tears are all in vain : She now lies sleeping in the Dust , whose Life I have betrayed ; For which by justice now I must be and example made . This very day the World I leave , therefore some pity take , Good Lord ! and here my Soul receive even for thy Mercies sake ; And cleanse me from the guilt of since for which I oft have prayed ; Let it suffice that I have been a just example made . Printed for J. Bissel , at the Hospital Gate in West-Smithfield . 