Capt. WHITNEY's Confession : OR , HIS Penitent Lamentation , Under a Sense of a Guilty Conscience , on the Day of his Execution at the Porter's Block , near Smithfield-Bars , which was on the First of February , 1693. To the Tune of , Johnson's Farewell . Licensed according to Order . TO He fatal day is come at last , of sorrow , grief , and shame , Which will the fading glory blast , of Whitney now by name . My wicked life has been the cause of this sad destiny ; For since I broke the Nation's laws , it's just that I should die . Here to the world I freely leave these lines , my last farewell ; And though I do not seem to grieve , yet conscience , like a hell , Does wrack and fill my soul with dread , and does against me cry ; The wicked life which I have led , makes me afraid to die . The dreadful oaths which I have swore , comes fresh into my mind , When the Great God I come before , shall I a pardon find ? Who did for sad damnation call , when in my villainy ; I under his displeasure fallen , which makes me fear to die . It's true , a cheerful countenance I seeminly do bear , But now my most unhappy chance , drives me unto despair ; Were conscience clear , what would I give , all that I have , for why ? The thoughts of how I here did live , makes me afraid to die . I robbed the roads both night and day , young harlots to maintain , From honest men I took away , and gave it gills again ; Whom I loved better than a wife , I cannot this deny ; Yet this perfidious wretched life , makes me afraid to die . With loaded pistol in my hand , myself among the rest , Would force the travellers to stand , with pistols at their breast , Their purses to give up with speed , or soon the shot should fly ; To think of which my heart does bleed , I am afraid to die . What though I suffer on a tree , it is not that I fear ; But o ! what will become of me , if God should be severe ? To me who all my days have spent with thieves continually , And never did in the least repent , therefore I fear to die . My brother Holland , and the rest are gone five days before , While I in sorrow am oppressed , my heart is grieved soar ; This seems a second death to be , and I in sorrow cry , And hope you all will pity me , who now at last must die . I sighs at my sad destiny , my very heart does bleed : Alas ! why did they flatter me , with hope's of being freed ? Why did they bring me a reprieve ? O tell me , tell me why ? Yet I at last the world must leave , and be compelled to die . Farewell thou world , I must embrace the bitter pangs of death , And here in shame and sad disgrace , surrender up my breath ; For which this day I hither came , so sad's my destiny ; And though I startle at the same , it's just that I should die . London : Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . Capt. WHITNEY's Confession : OR , HIS Penitent Lamentation , Under a Sense of a Guilty Conscience , on the Day of his Execution at the Porter's Block , near Smithfield-Bars , which was on the First of February , 1693. To the Tune of , Johnson's Farewell . Licensed according to Order . TO He fatal day is come at last , of sorrow , grief , and shame , Which will the fading glory blast , of Whitney now by name . My wicked life has been the cause of this sad destiny ; For since I broke the Nation's laws , it's just that I should die . Here to the world I freely leave these lines , my last farewell ; And though I do not seem to grieve , yet conscience , like a hell , Does wrack and fill my soul with dread , and does against me cry ; The wicked life which I have led , makes me afraid to die . The dreadful oaths which I have swore , comes fresh into my mind , When the Great God I come before , shall I a pardon find ? Who did for sad damnation call , when in my villainy ; I under his displeasure fallen , which makes me fear to die . It's true , a cheerful countenance I seeminly do bear , But now my most unhappy chance , drives me unto despair ; Were conscience clear , what would I give , all that I have , for why ? The thoughts of how I here did live , makes me afraid to die . I robbed the roads both night and day , young harlots to maintain , From honest men I took away , and gave it gills again ; Whom I loved better than a wife , I cannot this deny ; Yet this perfidious wretched life , makes me afraid to die . With loaded pistol in my hand , myself among the rest , Would force the travellers to stand , with pistols at their breast , Their purses to give up with speed , or soon the shot should fly ; To think of which my heart does bleed , I am afraid to die . What though I suffer on a tree , it is not that I fear ; But o ! what will become of me , if God should be severe ? To me who all my days have spent with thieves continually , And never did in the least repent , therefore I fear to die . My brother Holland , and the rest are gone five days before , While I in sorrow am oppressed , my heart is grieved soar ; This seems a second death to be , and I in sorrow cry , And hope you all will pity me , who now at last must die . I sighs at my sad destiny , my very heart does bleed : Alas ! why did they flatter me , with hope's of being freed ? Why did they bring me a reprieve ? O tell me , tell me why ? Yet I at last the world must leave , and be compelled to die . Farewell thou world , I must embrace the bitter pangs of death , And here in shame and sad disgrace , surrender up my breath ; For which this day I hither came , so sad's my destiny ; And though I startle at the same , it's just that I should die . London : Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 