Win at First , Loose at Last : Or , A New Game at CARDS . Wherein the King recovered his Crown , and Traitors lost their Heads . To the Tune of , You Gallants that delight to play . Y E merry hearts that love to play At Cards , see who hath wone the day ; You that once did sadly sing , The Knave o'th'Clubs hath wone the King : Now more happy times we have , The King hath overcome the Knave , The King hath overcome the Knave . Not long ago , a Game was played , When three Crowns at the stake was laid ; England had no cause no boast , Knaves wone that which Kings had lost : Coaches gave the way to Carts , And Clubs were better Cards than Hearts . Old Noll was the Knave o'th'Clubs , A [ n ] worser Dad of such as Preach in Tubs : Bradshaw , [ ? ] reton , and Pride , Were three other Knaves beside : And they played with half the Pack , Throwing out all Cards but black , etc But the just Fates threw these four out , Which made the Loyal Party shout ; The Pope would fain have had the Stock , And with these Ca [ r ] ds have whipped his Dock [ . ] But soon the Devil these Cards snatches , To dip in brimstone and make Matches . But still the sport for to maintain , Lambert , Haslerige , and Vain , And one-eyed Hewson took their places , Knaves were better Cards than Ances ; But Fleetwood he himself did save , Because he was more F ool than Knave . Cromwel , though he so much had wone , Yet he had and unlucky Son ; He sits still and not regards [ , ] While cunning Gamesters sets the Cards , And thus , alas ! poor silly Dick , He played a while but lost the trick . The Rumpers that had wone whole Towns , The spoils of Martyrs and of Crowns , Were not contented , but grew rough , As though they had not wone enough ; They kept the Cards still in their hands , To play for Tithes and Colledge-Lands . The Presbyters began to fret , That they were like to loose the set ; Unto the Rump they did appeal , And said it was there turn to deal ; Then dealt the Presbyterians , but The Army swear that they will cut , The Army swear that they will cut . TO He Foreign Lands did all wonder , To see what gallant Games of [ u ] nder , That they that Christmas did forswear , Should follow Gaming all the Year , Nay more , which was the strangest thing , To play so long without a King , etc The bold Fanatics present were , Like bu [ tO ] tlers with their boxes there : Not doubting but that every Game Some profit would redound to them : Because they were the Gamesters Minions , And every day broach [ tO ] new Opinions , etc But Cheshire men ( as Stories say ) Began to show them Gamesters play : Brave Booth and all his Army strives To save the Stakes or loose their lives : But O , sad fate , they were undone , B y playing of their Cards too soon , etc . Thus all the while a Club was trump , There's none could ever beatrice the Rump : Until a Noble G [ e ] neral came , And gave the Cheaters a clear slam : His finger did outwit their noddy , And [ s ] crewed up poor Jack Lambert is body . Then Hasl [ ? ] rige began to scowl , And said the General played foul : Look to him P [ a ] rtners , for I tell you , This Monk has god a King in's belly : Not so quoth Monk , but I believe , Sir Arthur has a Knave in's sleeve . When General Monk did understand The Rump were peeping into's hand , He wisely kept his Cards from sighed , Which put the Rump into a fright : He saw how many were betrayed , That showed their Cards before they played . At length , quoth he , some Cards we lack , I will not play with half a pack , What you cast out I will bring in , And a New Game we will begin , With that the Standers-by did say , They never yet saw fairer play , etc But presently this Game was passed , And for a second Knaves were cast , All New Cards , not stained with spots , As was the Rumpers and the Scots , Here good Gamesters played their parts , They turned up the King of Hearts , etc After this Game was done , I think , The Standers-by had cause to drink : And the loyal Subject's sing . Farewell Knaves , and welcome King : For till we saw the King returned , We wished the Cards had all been burned , etc Printed for F. Coal , T. Vere , J. Wright , J [ . ] Clark , and TO . Passenger . 16 [ 8 ] 2Win at First , Loose at Last : Or , A New Game at CARDS . Wherein the King recovered his Crown , and Traitors lost their Heads . To the Tune of , You Gallants that delight to play . Y E merry hearts that love to play At Cards , see who hath wone the day ; You that once did sadly sing , The Knave o'th'Clubs hath wone the King : Now more happy times we have , The King hath overcome the Knave , The King hath overcome the Knave . Not long ago , a Game was played , When three Crowns at the stake was laid ; England had no cause no boast , Knaves wone that which Kings had lost : Coaches gave the way to Carts , And Clubs were better Cards than Hearts . Old Noll was the Knave o'th'Clubs , A [ n ] worser Dad of such as Preach in Tubs : Bradshaw , [ ? ] reton , and Pride , Were three other Knaves beside : And they played with half the Pack , Throwing out all Cards but black , etc But the just Fates threw these four out , Which made the Loyal Party shout ; The Pope would fain have had the Stock , And with these Ca [ r ] ds have whipped his Dock [ . ] But soon the Devil these Cards snatches , To dip in brimstone and make Matches . But still the sport for to maintain , Lambert , Haslerige , and Vain , And one-eyed Hewson took their places , Knaves were better Cards than Ances ; But Fleetwood he himself did save , Because he was more F ool than Knave . Cromwel , though he so much had wone , Yet he had and unlucky Son ; He sits still and not regards [ , ] While cunning Gamesters sets the Cards , And thus , alas ! poor silly Dick , He played a while but lost the trick . The Rumpers that had wone whole Towns , The spoils of Martyrs and of Crowns , Were not contented , but grew rough , As though they had not wone enough ; They kept the Cards still in their hands , To play for Tithes and Colledge-Lands . The Presbyters began to fret , That they were like to loose the set ; Unto the Rump they did appeal , And said it was there turn to deal ; Then dealt the Presbyterians , but The Army swear that they will cut , The Army swear that they will cut . TO He Foreign Lands did all wonder , To see what gallant Games of [ u ] nder , That they that Christmas did forswear , Should follow Gaming all the Year , Nay more , which was the strangest thing , To play so long without a King , etc The bold Fanatics present were , Like bu [ tO ] tlers with their boxes there : Not doubting but that every Game Some profit would redound to them : Because they were the Gamesters Minions , And every day broach [ tO ] new Opinions , etc But Cheshire men ( as Stories say ) Began to show them Gamesters play : Brave Booth and all his Army strives To save the Stakes or loose their lives : But O , sad fate , they were undone , B y playing of their Cards too soon , etc . Thus all the while a Club was trump , There's none could ever beatrice the Rump : Until a Noble G [ e ] neral came , And gave the Cheaters a clear slam : His finger did outwit their noddy , And [ s ] crewed up poor Jack Lambert is body . Then Hasl [ ? ] rige began to scowl , And said the General played foul : Look to him P [ a ] rtners , for I tell you , This Monk has god a King in's belly : Not so quoth Monk , but I believe , Sir Arthur has a Knave in's sleeve . When General Monk did understand The Rump were peeping into's hand , He wisely kept his Cards from sighed , Which put the Rump into a fright : He saw how many were betrayed , That showed their Cards before they played . At length , quoth he , some Cards we lack , I will not play with half a pack , What you cast out I will bring in , And a New Game we will begin , With that the Standers-by did say , They never yet saw fairer play , etc But presently this Game was passed , And for a second Knaves were cast , All New Cards , not stained with spots , As was the Rumpers and the Scots , Here good Gamesters played their parts , They turned up the King of Hearts , etc After this Game was done , I think , The Standers-by had cause to drink : And the loyal Subject's sing . Farewell Knaves , and welcome King : For till we saw the King returned , We wished the Cards had all been burned , etc Printed for F. Coal , T. Vere , J. Wright , J [ . ] Clark , and TO . Passenger . 16 [ 8 ] 2 