Summer's his Frolic , Showing , How he was Condemned ( this last Lent Assizes , 1691 , at Alisbury ) for a Highway-Man . And how he sold his body , in Goal , for eight shillings to a Surgeon , to be made and Anatomy of after it was hanged , and how he drank the money all out in Wine before he went to be Executed . To the Tune of , Russels Farewell . Licensed according to Order . G Odd prosper long the Just and Good , our lives and safeties all , A woeful Frolic once there did in Alisbury befall . All in the Land of Buckingham a set of Robbers dwell , As they that on the Forrest-sides of Whittledown can tell . For neither Sheep , nor Cows , nor Colts , nor Deer , nor Pigs , nor Fowl , Can ever escape their filching hands , but some of all are stole . Nay , Butchers that to Market go , with honest minds , to fell Their Goods , cannot with safety thence return Home where they dwell . For Rogues , all night , the narrow Lanes beset , and block the Gates , And when Men stop to open them , they strike them in their Pates . Knocked down a Butcher fell from Horse , all stunned in dirt and gore , And then they robbed his pockets clear of what he had in Store . Some bloody Rogues ( full bad as these ) took worse things in hand , To Kill and Murder all they Robbed , although they yield to stand . With such was filled the Alisbury Goal , this Sizes Ninety Three , A Knot of such Notorious Rogues you well can never see . A Nd that their number might be full of Rogues of every size , A Pickpocket in face of Court , of a Juror made a prize . With him seven more were then condemned , all Rogues as bad as he , To take their leaves of all the World upon the Gallows Tree . But mark my friends what now I say , and hark to this sad Ditty , These Villains after Sentence past , had on themselves no pity . For , being sent from Bar to Goal , some fell to Drink and Swear , When one would think that at that time , they should have fell to Prayer . But they who serve the Devil long in vile and wicked ways , To Gaolers and the Hangman too are great and certain Preys . And when they're under locks and keys , and chains and fetters sure , Them to repent the Devil stops , for that he can't endure . But puts them off to rant and drink , damn and curse , and swagger , To play at Cards and Dices too and all things that are badder . And when they money want , they fell their lives and bodies too , A Story like was never read in Books both old and new . For when that Summer's in the Goal , there could not fell his Soul , For none would bid him money fored , it was so black and foul . He then stood up and put to Sale his body all alive , For to be had , when it was hanged , for shillings three and five . A Surgeon then to increase his skill , in bodies to Disect , In Goal did come and there did buy his body all complete . The price he paid were Shillings eight , for more it was not worth , Unless it better proved when that to Hanging it came forth . No sooner was the money paid , and put in Summer's hands , But straight he drank it out in wine , until he could not stand . O fie on such that thus purpose their souls and bodies too ! Who first live bad and then die worse , when they bid all adieu . Such souls must to the Devil go , but bodies not to grave , Who fell their bodies , that for wine some money they may have . May all bad people warning take , from this ungodly wretch , For lost their soul and bodes are , if they like him shall stretch . And now the Saying is fullfilled , which in most mouths is rife , He sold himself , and spent it all before he lost his life . Though Heraclitus Ridens is unknown , and hardly seen with eyes , Yet wise men say , it must be he that laughs until he cries . Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , without NewgateSummers his Frolic , Showing , How he was Condemned ( this last Lent Assizes , 1691 , at Alisbury ) for a Highway-Man . And how he sold his body , in Goal , for eight shillings to a Surgeon , to be made and Anatomy of after it was hanged , and how he drank the money all out in Wine before he went to be Executed . To the Tune of , Russels Farewell . Licensed according to Order . G Odd prosper long the Just and Good , our lives and safeties all , A woeful Frolic once there did in Alisbury befall . All in the Land of Buckingham a set of Robbers dwell , As they that on the Forrest-sides of Whittledown can tell . For neither Sheep , nor Cows , nor Colts , nor Deer , nor Pigs , nor Fowl , Can ever escape their filching hands , but some of all are stole . Nay , Butchers that to Market go , with honest minds , to fell Their Goods , cannot with safety thence return Home where they dwell . For Rogues , all night , the narrow Lanes beset , and block the Gates , And when Men stop to open them , they strike them in their Pates . Knocked down a Butcher fell from Horse , all stunned in dirt and gore , And then they robbed his pockets clear of what he had in Store . Some bloody Rogues ( full bad as these ) took worse things in hand , To Kill and Murder all they Robbed , although they yield to stand . With such was filled the Alisbury Goal , this Sizes Ninety Three , A Knot of such Notorious Rogues you well can never see . A Nd that their number might be full of Rogues of every size , A Pickpocket in face of Court , of a Juror made a prize . With him seven more were then condemned , all Rogues as bad as he , To take their leaves of all the World upon the Gallows Tree . But mark my friends what now I say , and hark to this sad Ditty , These Villains after Sentence past , had on themselves no pity . For , being sent from Bar to Goal , some fell to Drink and Swear , When one would think that at that time , they should have fell to Prayer . But they who serve the Devil long in vile and wicked ways , To Gaolers and the Hangman too are great and certain Preys . And when they're under locks and keys , and chains and fetters sure , Them to repent the Devil stops , for that he can't endure . But puts them off to rant and drink , damn and curse , and swagger , To play at Cards and Dices too and all things that are badder . And when they money want , they fell their lives and bodies too , A Story like was never read in Books both old and new . For when that Summer's in the Goal , there could not fell his Soul , For none would bid him money fored , it was so black and foul . He then stood up and put to Sale his body all alive , For to be had , when it was hanged , for shillings three and five . A Surgeon then to increase his skill , in bodies to Disect , In Goal did come and there did buy his body all complete . The price he paid were Shillings eight , for more it was not worth , Unless it better proved when that to Hanging it came forth . No sooner was the money paid , and put in Summer's hands , But straight he drank it out in wine , until he could not stand . O fie on such that thus purpose their souls and bodies too ! Who first live bad and then die worse , when they bid all adieu . Such souls must to the Devil go , but bodies not to grave , Who fell their bodies , that for wine some money they may have . May all bad people warning take , from this ungodly wretch , For lost their soul and bodes are , if they like him shall stretch . And now the Saying is fullfilled , which in most mouths is rife , He sold himself , and spent it all before he lost his life . Though Heraclitus Ridens is unknown , and hardly seen with eyes , Yet wise men say , it must be he that laughs until he cries . Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , without Newgate 