Save a thief from the Gallows , and he'l Hang thee if he can , Or , The Merciful Father , and the merciless Son. To the Tune of , Fortune my Foe . Y Ou disobedient Children mark my fallen , And by my timeless end take warning all , Against my own dear Father have I done , A deed the like did never graceless Son. In blooming years I was enticed to since , Ever I perceived what danger lay therein : And so from day to day , until this hour , To leave the same , as yet I have no power . My Mother dead , my Father cockered me , As men will do when Motherless we be : And nothing for me then he thought too dear , Which brought me thus into a graceless fear . And when as I to elder years did grow , By wicked courses god I timely woe ; Each vain delight belonging to Youngmen , Deceived me , and wrought my ruin then . The deadly sins that are in number seaven , without more grace have lost my joys in heaven : From first to last of these most cursed crimes , Have made me now a wonder of these times . For wanting means to nourish my delight , I went the wrong , and left the ways of right ; Which to maintain , my Father growing poor , Forgetting God , I daily robbed for more . Three times he saved me from the Gallow-tree , Three times he cast himself in debt for me : Three times he set me up in good estate , In hope to keep me from untimely fate . By me the Proverb is fulfilled here , Who saves a Thief from Gallow , finds it dear For saving me , I sought his dear life's woe , My gentle Father's timeless overthrow . For wanting means still to relieve my need , Put me in mind to do a woeful deed : And seek his blood , the highway unto since , Who wanting grace , I soon grew perfect in . My Father's Brother of good living known , Being dead , as next of Kin they were mine own [ On ] e which I wrought with these accursed hands To be the heir of all my Uncles Lands . With mind prepared for Murder thus I went , Unto the Field where he did much frequent , where meeting him , with mine own father's knife Which I had stolen , I took away his life . And laid it down all bloody by his side , That all might see my Uncle therewith died : And challenged it my Father's knife to be , When people came the Murdered Corpse to see . O homicide ! O cursed viperous brood , Like Cain , to seek my father's dearest blood ; My own dear father being thus betrayed , I his own child the evidence was made . So judged to death for that he never did , The Lord in mercy did the same forbid : For as he was to Execution led , A World of torments in my bosom bred . To see him stand upon the Gallow-tree , From which before poor man he saved me : I could not choose but tell what I had done , And so confess my self a wicked son . The Confession and Repentance of George Saunders , Gentleman late of Sugh , in the County of Hertford , who killed his own Uncle , and accused his own Father for the Mur - der , but by Gods providence being discovered , died for the same whereas he wrote this Song with his own hand . G Ods judgements now are rightly seen said I , Dear Father I have slave him , let me die , Oh let me die and set my Father free , Or else like Judas damned shall I be . Whereat the people in that very place , They praised God that gave me so much grace , To quit my Father from that crying since , Which I with blood-red streams am drowned in . My Father saved and I to Prison sent , Where I remained with many a sad lament , Which when you see , you cannot choose but say , Repentance comes before my Dying day . His Repentance in Prison , To the same Tune . Amongst L yons fell in Daniels den am I , In lowest Prison cast with Jeremy : [ F ] ed with Elias by the Ravens fell , And placed with Judas in the Maw of Hell Naked with Esau fearful doe I walk , Dumb with old Zahary silent do I talk , Afflictions bred with Micha is my food , And with the Prophet drink I sorrows flood . As poor as Job , even now so poor am I , Despised with Lazarus in great misery , Banished with David from my native land , Cast up with J onas on the Nenivites sand . Made blind with Toby , by the Swallows dung , And with poor Joseph cast in Prison strong , I weep with Marry who had lost her Master , And run with Peter who should run the faster . I sinned have , for since God cursed the ground , I sinned have , for since the world was drowned , I sinned have , since Sodom set on fire , Also for since did AEgypt fell Gods ire , I sinned have , for since did Adam die , I sinned have , since caused David , cry , I sinned have , and for since Satan fell From and high Angel , to a Devil in Hell . Did David weep , and shall not I then cry , Did Marry weep , and shall mine eyes be dry ? Did Esau weep , and shall not I weep more , Did Peter weep , such tears let me have store . Did Mary weep , for loss of master dear , Did Marthe weep , with sorrow touch her near . Spring Eyes with tears to wash his sacred feet , That for my since did shed his blood so sweet . Lark like I fly into the living spring , Desiring pardon of my Heavenly King , Passed worldly hope , now like the Thief on tree , I only fix my faith and hope in thee , L ook back on me , as thou didst unto Peter , Speak to my soul , as to the thief most sweeter , Oh spy me out with Zache on the tree , And with sweet Bartholomew call me lord to thee . O let me now with holy Abraham spy , A saving Ram that Isaac may not die : Oh let me live for to found forth thy praise , That I may show thy mercy in my days . Make me a swallow in thy house , Oh King , That Swallow like I may fit there and sing , Oh let me in thy Temple keep a door , That I may praise thy name for evermore , FINIS . Printed for J.C. W.T. and TO . P.Save a thief from the Gallows , and he'l Hang thee if he can , Or , The Merciful Father , and the merciless Son. To the Tune of , Fortune my Foe . Y Ou disobedient Children mark my fallen , And by my timeless end take warning all , Against my own dear Father have I done , A deed the like did never graceless Son. In blooming years I was enticed to since , Ever I perceived what danger lay therein : And so from day to day , until this hour , To leave the same , as yet I have no power . My Mother dead , my Father cockered me , As men will do when Motherless we be : And nothing for me then he thought too dear , Which brought me thus into a graceless fear . And when as I to elder years did grow , By wicked courses god I timely woe ; Each vain delight belonging to Youngmen , Deceived me , and wrought my ruin then . The deadly sins that are in number seaven , without more grace have lost my joys in heaven : From first to last of these most cursed crimes , Have made me now a wonder of these times . For wanting means to nourish my delight , I went the wrong , and left the ways of right ; Which to maintain , my Father growing poor , Forgetting God , I daily robbed for more . Three times he saved me from the Gallow-tree , Three times he cast himself in debt for me : Three times he set me up in good estate , In hope to keep me from untimely fate . By me the Proverb is fulfilled here , Who saves a Thief from Gallow , finds it dear For saving me , I sought his dear life's woe , My gentle Father's timeless overthrow . For wanting means still to relieve my need , Put me in mind to do a woeful deed : And seek his blood , the highway unto since , Who wanting grace , I soon grew perfect in . My Father's Brother of good living known , Being dead , as next of Kin they were mine own [ On ] e which I wrought with these accursed hands To be the heir of all my Uncles Lands . With mind prepared for Murder thus I went , Unto the Field where he did much frequent , where meeting him , with mine own father's knife Which I had stolen , I took away his life . And laid it down all bloody by his side , That all might see my Uncle therewith died : And challenged it my Father's knife to be , When people came the Murdered Corpse to see . O homicide ! O cursed viperous brood , Like Cain , to seek my father's dearest blood ; My own dear father being thus betrayed , I his own child the evidence was made . So judged to death for that he never did , The Lord in mercy did the same forbid : For as he was to Execution led , A World of torments in my bosom bred . To see him stand upon the Gallow-tree , From which before poor man he saved me : I could not choose but tell what I had done , And so confess my self a wicked son . The Confession and Repentance of George Saunders , Gentleman late of Sugh , in the County of Hertford , who killed his own Uncle , and accused his own Father for the Mur - der , but by Gods providence being discovered , died for the same whereas he wrote this Song with his own hand . G Ods judgements now are rightly seen said I , Dear Father I have slave him , let me die , Oh let me die and set my Father free , Or else like Judas damned shall I be . Whereat the people in that very place , They praised God that gave me so much grace , To quit my Father from that crying since , Which I with blood-red streams am drowned in . My Father saved and I to Prison sent , Where I remained with many a sad lament , Which when you see , you cannot choose but say , Repentance comes before my Dying day . His Repentance in Prison , To the same Tune . Amongst L yons fell in Daniels den am I , In lowest Prison cast with Jeremy : [ F ] ed with Elias by the Ravens fell , And placed with Judas in the Maw of Hell Naked with Esau fearful doe I walk , Dumb with old Zahary silent do I talk , Afflictions bred with Micha is my food , And with the Prophet drink I sorrows flood . As poor as Job , even now so poor am I , Despised with Lazarus in great misery , Banished with David from my native land , Cast up with J onas on the Nenivites sand . Made blind with Toby , by the Swallows dung , And with poor Joseph cast in Prison strong , I weep with Marry who had lost her Master , And run with Peter who should run the faster . I sinned have , for since God cursed the ground , I sinned have , for since the world was drowned , I sinned have , since Sodom set on fire , Also for since did AEgypt fell Gods ire , I sinned have , for since did Adam die , I sinned have , since caused David , cry , I sinned have , and for since Satan fell From and high Angel , to a Devil in Hell . Did David weep , and shall not I then cry , Did Marry weep , and shall mine eyes be dry ? Did Esau weep , and shall not I weep more , Did Peter weep , such tears let me have store . Did Mary weep , for loss of master dear , Did Marthe weep , with sorrow touch her near . Spring Eyes with tears to wash his sacred feet , That for my since did shed his blood so sweet . Lark like I fly into the living spring , Desiring pardon of my Heavenly King , Passed worldly hope , now like the Thief on tree , I only fix my faith and hope in thee , L ook back on me , as thou didst unto Peter , Speak to my soul , as to the thief most sweeter , Oh spy me out with Zache on the tree , And with sweet Bartholomew call me lord to thee . O let me now with holy Abraham spy , A saving Ram that Isaac may not die : Oh let me live for to found forth thy praise , That I may show thy mercy in my days . Make me a swallow in thy house , Oh King , That Swallow like I may fit there and sing , Oh let me in thy Temple keep a door , That I may praise thy name for evermore , FINIS . Printed for J.C. W.T. and T.P. 