The Bloody Murderer : OR , The Sorrowful Lamentation of James Selbee , who was Executed of Goodman's-fields , on the 2d of May , for the Murder which he Come - mitted on the Body of MRS. Bartlett . To the Tune of , Aim not to High . Licensed according to Order . A Ll you that come to see my fatal end , Unto my dying words I pray attend ; Let my misfortunes now a warning be To e'ry one of high and low degree . Had I been kind and loving to my Wife , I might have lived a long and happy life ; But having run a lose lascivious raze , My days will end in shame and sad disgrace . My Duty towards God I did neglect , Therefore what mercy can I now expect ; When I before the mighty Judge appear , To answer for my sins committed here . In wicked pleasures I my days have spent , And never had the Power to Repent , Till now at last my dismal doom I see , The just reward of Cruel Villainy Here to the World I solemnly declare , I seldom did frequent the House of Prayer , But Harlots Houses and Carousing too , And now I see what it has brought me to . Upon a Sabbath day it happened so , To mrs . Bartletts House I chanced to go . One that did live by base Debauchery , And this has proved a fatal day to me . I entered in , and sat me down a while , Then came the Harlot with a pleasing smile , Invited me straight to and upper Room , Where we in since the Sabbath did consume . The Glass with Sider then went freely round , Nay , Mum likewise in plenty did abound , And Cherry-brandy too , we drank beside , Till all my Senses they were stupyfied I finding this , I fain would gone my way , But Bartlett she entreated me to stay ; And further to oblige me , said that I All night between her Nurse and she should lie . But I despised the proffer which she made , Then calling to her Nurse and likewise said , Go fetch one gill of Cherry-brandy more , This done , then I'll hasten out of door ? Then I did take in hand a bloody Knife , With which I soon bereft her of life , For why , I cut her throat immediately , Thus Drunk I sent her to Eternity . This done , the Nurse I strove to kill , But Heaven would not let me have my will , I soon was seized , and unto Justice brought , And this has now my sad destruction wrought . In So d oms sins , you know her days she spent , Yet this can be no proper Argument , That I should thus her bloody Butcher be , Therefore I suffer for my Villainy . My loving Wife , a Thousand times farewell , Thy sorrows here no Tongue or Pen can tell Yet God above I hope will still provide , For thee and all thy little ones beside . O let me be a warning to you all , That comes this day to see my dismal fallen , Serve you the Lord and shun all evil ways , And by that means you may prolong your days , Lord though my sins are of a scarlet die , Yet let my Prayers come up to thee on High . My supplications unto thee I'll make O save my soul even for thy mercies [ sake . ] Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J . Blare , and J . Back . The Bloody Murderer : OR , The Sorrowful Lamentation of James Selbee , who was Executed of Goodman's-fields , on the 2d of May , for the Murder which he Come - mitted on the Body of MRS. Bartlett . To the Tune of , Aim not to High . Licensed according to Order . A Ll you that come to see my fatal end , Unto my dying words I pray attend ; Let my misfortunes now a warning be To e'ry one of high and low degree . Had I been kind and loving to my Wife , I might have lived a long and happy life ; But having run a lose lascivious raze , My days will end in shame and sad disgrace . My Duty towards God I did neglect , Therefore what mercy can I now expect ; When I before the mighty Judge appear , To answer for my sins committed here . In wicked pleasures I my days have spent , And never had the Power to Repent , Till now at last my dismal doom I see , The just reward of Cruel Villainy Here to the World I solemnly declare , I seldom did frequent the House of Prayer , But Harlots Houses and Carousing too , And now I see what it has brought me to . Upon a Sabbath day it happened so , To mrs . Bartletts House I chanced to go . One that did live by base Debauchery , And this has proved a fatal day to me . I entered in , and sat me down a while , Then came the Harlot with a pleasing smile , Invited me straight to and upper Room , Where we in since the Sabbath did consume . The Glass with Sider then went freely round , Nay , Mum likewise in plenty did abound , And Cherry-brandy too , we drank beside , Till all my Senses they were stupyfied I finding this , I fain would gone my way , But Bartlett she entreated me to stay ; And further to oblige me , said that I All night between her Nurse and she should lie . But I despised the proffer which she made , Then calling to her Nurse and likewise said , Go fetch one gill of Cherry-brandy more , This done , then I'll hasten out of door ? Then I did take in hand a bloody Knife , With which I soon bereft her of life , For why , I cut her throat immediately , Thus Drunk I sent her to Eternity . This done , the Nurse I strove to kill , But Heaven would not let me have my will , I soon was seized , and unto Justice brought , And this has now my sad destruction wrought . In So d oms sins , you know her days she spent , Yet this can be no proper Argument , That I should thus her bloody Butcher be , Therefore I suffer for my Villainy . My loving Wife , a Thousand times farewell , Thy sorrows here no Tongue or Pen can tell Yet God above I hope will still provide , For thee and all thy little ones beside . O let me be a warning to you all , That comes this day to see my dismal fallen , Serve you the Lord and shun all evil ways , And by that means you may prolong your days , Lord though my sins are of a scarlet die , Yet let my Prayers come up to thee on High . My supplications unto thee I'll make O save my soul even for thy mercies [ sake . ] Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J . Blare , and J . Back . 