[ The ] Kings last Speech at his time of E xecution , as he made upon the S caffold , a little before his Death , which was to this effect : Which shall in Verse , and not in Prose , Through England range to Friends and Foes . To the Tune of , Gerheards Mistress . I Come My blessed Saviour , now behold I come to thy Kingdom , At thy Tribunal seat to be and Heir Of bliss ; The Angels joys is only Heavenly bliss , sweet Saviour kiss With Lips of Grace , for God alone I fear : Sweet Christ Descend down with thy Spirit , to sanctify my Soul ; Cleanse every chink , from filth and stink , for I with since am foul : O wash Me with thy blood so precious , which on the Cross was shed , Anoint my heart , in every part , that when my body's dead , My soul May soon ascend to fair Olympus high , above the Sky , among the Saints and Martyrs for to be In grace among Gods Angels , there to be in Grace , a dwelling place Prepared for those who put their trust in thee : I will Oh Lord rely upon thee , that when the stroke of death Hath taken away my life this day , and stopped my vital breath : I may Be shadowed with thy mercies , and covered with thy Wings ; In Heaven to be , above with thee , which art the King of Kings . O Lord , That I a Protestant do die , though scandals fly , Which do report that I a Papist am , But God Which knows the secrets of a Princes mind , can see , and find That I am innocent , like to a Lamb ; For all The wealth that is in Europe I'de not infringe my Oath , For grace I look , and on Gods book I plighted have my troth : For which My secret Protestation I never will forsake , Although I die , by tyranny , and lose my life at stake . The Second Part , to the same Tune . I N heart And mind I freely do forgive all those which are my foes , Let not my blood Oh Lord in judgement rise : Let not This foul and filthy act which they commit , yet they think fit To blast that Sun , which gives light to the skies : In heart Lord I do desire that thou wouldst pass this by , That I and they , which part this day , may be friends though I die : For he Shall certainly be blessed that loves to die in peace ; O that my life , might free all strife , that Englands Wars may cease . O that My wretched life a ransom now might be , this Land to free , From all her troubles , grievous wars and cares , Then I Should think my self a happy man to die , from misery , For to expel old Englands poisoning Wars : Yet is My state most sure and happy , though England never be free ; For God will scourge , those that do urge his mighty Majesty ; And all Which do transgress his Statutes , and will not him obey , Those God will smite , and put to flight , that headlong run astray . O Lord Look down in mercy , and compassion take , though they forsake Both thee their God , and me their Sovereign King , That when Their breath departs : for why , they are but men we may again Meet in thy Kingdom , laud and praise to sing To thee , The God and great Jehovah , Omnipotent art thou , Which wilt respect , thy own elect , and make thy foes to bow : For those Which do oppose Gods power , and are stiffnecked too , Like Pharaoh they shall plagued be , the Lord does Kings subdue . Now for My wife , and eke my Royal Children all , before my fallen , I will petition to Almighty God , That they May be preserved , to God I humbly pray both night and day , O let them not feel Vassals cruel Rod : But from Their foes O Lord defend them even for my Saviours sake , Now in distress , their wrongs redress , and pity on them take ; For they Are fatherless appointed , and I e'n trodden down , Let Charles my Son , when I am gone , possess alone the Crown . My soul Into celestial Heaven I do commit , a place most fit For to receive the spirit of a Saint , To drink The draught of sure and everlasting life , that's free from strife , Where neither soul nor spirit shall not faint . Come Death And do thy execution , for thou to me art blessed , From hence I fly , above the sky , unto a throne of rest . Farewell My Wife , and dearest Children , true Subject's all adue , Here must I die , for what , and why , it is well known to you . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . [ The ] Kings last Speech at his time of E xecution , as he made upon the S caffold , a little before his Death , which was to this effect : Which shall in Verse , and not in Prose , Through England range to Friends and Foes . To the Tune of , Gerheards Mistress . I Come My blessed Saviour , now behold I come to thy Kingdom , At thy Tribunal seat to be and Heir Of bliss ; The Angels joys is only Heavenly bliss , sweet Saviour kiss With Lips of Grace , for God alone I fear : Sweet Christ Descend down with thy Spirit , to sanctify my Soul ; Cleanse every chink , from filth and stink , for I with since am foul : O wash Me with thy blood so precious , which on the Cross was shed , Anoint my heart , in every part , that when my body's dead , My soul May soon ascend to fair Olympus high , above the Sky , among the Saints and Martyrs for to be In grace among Gods Angels , there to be in Grace , a dwelling place Prepared for those who put their trust in thee : I will Oh Lord rely upon thee , that when the stroke of death Hath taken away my life this day , and stopped my vital breath : I may Be shadowed with thy mercies , and covered with thy Wings ; In Heaven to be , above with thee , which art the King of Kings . O Lord , That I a Protestant do die , though scandals fly , Which do report that I a Papist am , But God Which knows the secrets of a Princes mind , can see , and find That I am innocent , like to a Lamb ; For all The wealth that is in Europe I'de not infringe my Oath , For grace I look , and on Gods book I plighted have my troth : For which My secret Protestation I never will forsake , Although I die , by tyranny , and lose my life at stake . The Second Part , to the same Tune . I N heart And mind I freely do forgive all those which are my foes , Let not my blood Oh Lord in judgement rise : Let not This foul and filthy act which they commit , yet they think fit To blast that Sun , which gives light to the skies : In heart Lord I do desire that thou wouldst pass this by , That I and they , which part this day , may be friends though I die : For he Shall certainly be blessed that loves to die in peace ; O that my life , might free all strife , that Englands Wars may cease . O that My wretched life a ransom now might be , this Land to free , From all her troubles , grievous wars and cares , Then I Should think my self a happy man to die , from misery , For to expel old Englands poisoning Wars : Yet is My state most sure and happy , though England never be free ; For God will scourge , those that do urge his mighty Majesty ; And all Which do transgress his Statutes , and will not him obey , Those God will smite , and put to flight , that headlong run astray . O Lord Look down in mercy , and compassion take , though they forsake Both thee their God , and me their Sovereign King , That when Their breath departs : for why , they are but men we may again Meet in thy Kingdom , laud and praise to sing To thee , The God and great Jehovah , Omnipotent art thou , Which wilt respect , thy own elect , and make thy foes to bow : For those Which do oppose Gods power , and are stiffnecked too , Like Pharaoh they shall plagued be , the Lord does Kings subdue . Now for My wife , and eke my Royal Children all , before my fallen , I will petition to Almighty God , That they May be preserved , to God I humbly pray both night and day , O let them not feel Vassals cruel Rod : But from Their foes O Lord defend them even for my Saviours sake , Now in distress , their wrongs redress , and pity on them take ; For they Are fatherless appointed , and I e'n trodden down , Let Charles my Son , when I am gone , possess alone the Crown . My soul Into celestial Heaven I do commit , a place most fit For to receive the spirit of a Saint , To drink The draught of sure and everlasting life , that's free from strife , Where neither soul nor spirit shall not faint . Come Death And do thy execution , for thou to me art blessed , From hence I fly , above the sky , unto a throne of rest . Farewell My Wife , and dearest Children , true Subject's all adue , Here must I die , for what , and why , it is well known to you . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 