HERE IS Encouragement to Loyalty . And gives Advice to those that loyal are , That they for Countries good should nothing spare ; Nothing can be too much for you to do , To serve your King , preserve your Country too . To the Tune of , Let Coesar Live long . Y Ou Traitors be gone , for the Plot you thought on , apparently now is Detected ; You'd gone a great way , and some People do say , you were by the Devil directed : For Men and their Wives , should have lost all their Lives , with their Babes and Relations also ; You by Heaven were stopped , and the Blossoms were Croped , before that the Flower could blow : Give Princes their endue , give Princes their endue , All you that are Protestants loyal and true ; He's deceived of his Hope , who expected a Pope , Let him fly , let him fly , his Confederates too . What the Devil contrives , long seldom survives , and our God who for ever is blessed , To make it appear , he loves the King dear , would not have his Subject's oppressed : If in his Dominion , we'd but one Opinion , O happy for England 'twould be : But so much Division , does cause a Derision , and the Papists Rejoice for to see . Give Princes their endue , etc But that which is worst , and here is Traitors accursed , who'd their Prince and their Country betray ; And for their Reward , they should have a strong Cord , from Mass it would keep them away : That our Monarch he might , in his Subject's Delight , not fearing their Assassination : But when it'll be so , I do not well know , such Plotters there are in this Nation : Give Princes their endue , give Princes their endue , All you that are Protestants loyal and true ; He's deceived of his Hope etc . I F any do come , to Betray us from Room , and does bring by his Holiness order , A Bull to Dispense , with each Traitors Offence , Squire Catch he shall be their Rewarder : Though they Fire us by stealth , and do covet our Wealth , to enrich the old Whore of Babel ; With Unanimous minds , we'll oppose their Designs , and send them short home if we're able . Give Princes their endue , etc In the Snare they have laid , let themselves be Betrayed , since Slaughter for us they intended ; If us they had taken , we had surely been Slave , and why should they then be befriended : But Protestants they , show more in a Day , of Pity and Christian Compassion , Then they in a Year , it does plainly appear , it is not his Holiness's Fashion . Give Princes their endue , etc Those that are confined , were strangely unkind , that Popery sought here to bring ; If the Government turn , some surely will Burn , then pray for the Life of the King : For Life's but a Bubble , and meeteth with Trouble , and Chiefly when Power's Subverted ; Yea Fire does affright , Professors to Flight , and Religion is merely deserted . Give Princes their endue , etc But if our English-men , were as Loyal as when the Spaniards Designed and Invasion ; We need not to fear , they would ever come here , though the Pope used the Art of Persuasion : For Providence then , so dispersed them again , and the Prayers of the Queen did prevail : They straight were Confounded , and some of them Drowned , yea , we Routed them every Sail : Give Princes their endue , etc The same God have we , and if he does see , uprightly before him we live ; He will keep us from Harm , by his Powerful Arm , to our Foes he not power will give : In him let us trust , and be loyal and just , and Defend our King with our Blood : And think nothing too dear , that we enjoy here , to Engage for our Countries' good : Give Princes their endue , give Princes their endue , All you that are Protestants loyal and true ; He's deceived of his Hope , who expected a Pope , Let him fly , let him fly , his Confederates too . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , & amp ; T. Passing [ r ] HERE IS Encouragement to Loyalty . And gives Advice to those that loyal are , That they for Countries good should nothing spare ; Nothing can be too much for you to do , To serve your King , preserve your Country too . To the Tune of , Let Coesar Live long . Y Ou Traitors be gone , for the Plot you thought on , apparently now is Detected ; You'd gone a great way , and some People do say , you were by the Devil directed : For Men and their Wives , should have lost all their Lives , with their Babes and Relations also ; You by Heaven were stopped , and the Blossoms were Croped , before that the Flower could blow : Give Princes their endue , give Princes their endue , All you that are Protestants loyal and true ; He's deceived of his Hope , who expected a Pope , Let him fly , let him fly , his Confederates too . What the Devil contrives , long seldom survives , and our God who for ever is blessed , To make it appear , he loves the King dear , would not have his Subject's oppressed : If in his Dominion , we'd but one Opinion , O happy for England 'twould be : But so much Division , does cause a Derision , and the Papists Rejoice for to see . Give Princes their endue , etc But that which is worst , and here is Traitors accursed , who'd their Prince and their Country betray ; And for their Reward , they should have a strong Cord , from Mass it would keep them away : That our Monarch he might , in his Subject's Delight , not fearing their Assassination : But when it'll be so , I do not well know , such Plotters there are in this Nation : Give Princes their endue , give Princes their endue , All you that are Protestants loyal and true ; He's deceived of his Hope etc . I F any do come , to Betray us from Room , and does bring by his Holiness order , A Bull to Dispense , with each Traitors Offence , Squire Catch he shall be their Rewarder : Though they Fire us by stealth , and do covet our Wealth , to enrich the old Whore of Babel ; With Unanimous minds , we'll oppose their Designs , and send them short home if we're able . Give Princes their endue , etc In the Snare they have laid , let themselves be Betrayed , since Slaughter for us they intended ; If us they had taken , we had surely been Slave , and why should they then be befriended : But Protestants they , show more in a Day , of Pity and Christian Compassion , Then they in a Year , it does plainly appear , it is not his Holiness's Fashion . Give Princes their endue , etc Those that are confined , were strangely unkind , that Popery sought here to bring ; If the Government turn , some surely will Burn , then pray for the Life of the King : For Life's but a Bubble , and meeteth with Trouble , and Chiefly when Power's Subverted ; Yea Fire does affright , Professors to Flight , and Religion is merely deserted . Give Princes their endue , etc But if our English-men , were as Loyal as when the Spaniards Designed and Invasion ; We need not to fear , they would ever come here , though the Pope used the Art of Persuasion : For Providence then , so dispersed them again , and the Prayers of the Queen did prevail : They straight were Confounded , and some of them Drowned , yea , we Routed them every Sail : Give Princes their endue , etc The same God have we , and if he does see , uprightly before him we live ; He will keep us from Harm , by his Powerful Arm , to our Foes he not power will give : In him let us trust , and be loyal and just , and Defend our King with our Blood : And think nothing too dear , that we enjoy here , to Engage for our Countries' good : Give Princes their endue , give Princes their endue , All you that are Protestants loyal and true ; He's deceived of his Hope , who expected a Pope , Let him fly , let him fly , his Confederates too . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , & amp ; T. Passing [ r ] 