Good Subject's Delight : Or , True Love in its proper Colours ; A most pleasant and delectable new Play-Song , greatly in request , both in Court and City : Good Subject's are the Jewels of the Crown , Procure their Soverai [ g ] ns Glory and Renown , But bad are those who seek to pull him down ; Union and Ornament that Kingdom Graces , Who seeks Division , all that's good defaces , And for his pains may he beware Hempen Tresses . To a pleasant New Play-Tune , of , At last let the Murmurs , etc Or , Ah Cloris awake ! Entered according to Order . A TO last let the Murmurs and Tumults all cease , And let us lie down , in the Shades of sweet peace , Let Envy , strife , Hurry , and all that attend u'm , Be banished to those that among us did send u'm . Let our cares and our fears , and all jealousy perish , Let no idle fancies and false rumours Cherish : For in vain they disturb us , in vain to torment us , And banish those joys that were is used to frequent us . Let State Politicians aspire to renown , By contriving the welfare , and peace of the Crown : Let Caesar be happy , let him long live and Reign , To him let our Loyalty , ever remain . Let him live , let him live , in all pleasure and peace , Let his Laurels still flourish , and his Triumphs never cease ; While a health it goes round , and may none be blessed ; That thoughts of disloyalty , shrowds in his Breast . Let England rejoice , let the Nations be glad , Let Divisions all vanish , that makes us so sad ? While a Health it goes round and we love one another , All heats and all passion From henceforth lets smother Lets rejoice and be glad , let England now flourish And those that divide us would let them all perish : In peace and in unity blessings await us , And those that love others conclude that they hate us . And let them be branded , as the Nations chief foes , While each good Subject , his loyalty shows : This King and his Country , he ever is true , Who thoughts of disloyalty , never yet knew . Here's a Health to all such then come lets see't go round , While the drum it beats dub a dub and Trumpets found : While our joys and our wishes , like our Glasses are full , And hang up all those , that morrosly are dull . It's mine boy , it's thine boy . come about let it go , A Health to true loyalties where ever they grow : A fig for all others , they are not for us boys . Let , let them be banished in that there is no loss Boys . But the Nation will quiet be , better without um , Then heres a good Health boy , to those that do rout um : And to all good Subject's that pray for their King , For from him boys , from him our welfare does spring . FINI S . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . Good Subject's Delight : Or , True Love in its proper Colours ; A most pleasant and delectable new Play-Song , greatly in request , both in Court and City : Good Subject's are the Jewels of the Crown , Procure their Soverai [ g ] ns Glory and Renown , But bad are those who seek to pull him down ; Union and Ornament that Kingdom Graces , Who seeks Division , all that's good defaces , And for his pains may he beware Hempen Tresses . To a pleasant New Play-Tune , of , At last let the Murmurs , etc Or , Ah Cloris awake ! Entered according to Order . A TO last let the Murmurs and Tumults all cease , And let us lie down , in the Shades of sweet peace , Let Envy , strife , Hurry , and all that attend u'm , Be banished to those that among us did send u'm . Let our cares and our fears , and all jealousy perish , Let no idle fancies and false rumours Cherish : For in vain they disturb us , in vain to torment us , And banish those joys that were is used to frequent us . Let State Politicians aspire to renown , By contriving the welfare , and peace of the Crown : Let Caesar be happy , let him long live and Reign , To him let our Loyalty , ever remain . Let him live , let him live , in all pleasure and peace , Let his Laurels still flourish , and his Triumphs never cease ; While a health it goes round , and may none be blessed ; That thoughts of disloyalty , shrowds in his Breast . Let England rejoice , let the Nations be glad , Let Divisions all vanish , that makes us so sad ? While a Health it goes round and we love one another , All heats and all passion From henceforth lets smother Lets rejoice and be glad , let England now flourish And those that divide us would let them all perish : In peace and in unity blessings await us , And those that love others conclude that they hate us . And let them be branded , as the Nations chief foes , While each good Subject , his loyalty shows : This King and his Country , he ever is true , Who thoughts of disloyalty , never yet knew . Here's a Health to all such then come lets see't go round , While the drum it beats dub a dub and Trumpets found : While our joys and our wishes , like our Glasses are full , And hang up all those , that morrosly are dull . It's mine boy , it's thine boy . come about let it go , A Health to true loyalties where ever they grow : A fig for all others , they are not for us boys . Let , let them be banished in that there is no loss Boys . But the Nation will quiet be , better without um , Then heres a good Health boy , to those that do rout um : And to all good Subject's that pray for their King , For from him boys , from him our welfare does spring . FINI S . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 