The Loyal PROTESTANT Or , A defiance to Traitors , being a most pleasant and delightful new Play Song . Tune of , Let Traitors plot on . Romes fury now by Heaven is quite suppressed , And yet the Scarlet Beast can take no rest , We live secure beneath the Monarchs wings , Who justly may be stiled the best of Kings . LEt Traitors Plot on till at last they're undone , By hurting their brains to destroy us ; We whose hearts are at rest in our Loyalty blessed , What Demon or Power can annoy us ? Ambition , like Wine , does the sense confound , And Treason's a damnable thing , Then let him that thinks well see his Brimmer go round And pray for the safety and life of the King . Let Caesar live long , let Caesar live long , For ever be happy , and ever be young , And he that dares hope to change King for Pope Let him die , let him die , whilst Caesar lives long . How happy are we when our thoughts are all free , And blessed in our foresaid obedience ? Whilst the politic fool that's ambitious to rule Still bawks at the Oath of Allegiance . He trembles and flies from his numerous foes , Like a Deer that the Hunteas so round , While we that hate all that would Monarchs depose Make the joys of our hearts like the glasses abound . Let Caesar live etc Those Traitors that toil to betray their own soil , Who the murder of Princes are plotting , Let ruin and fate continually wait , And Room never n England get footing . While our nobler souls are dranched in full bouls , And Loyalty in our breasts flourish , Declaring the fame of our Monarchs great name , Till all the bold Traitors shall perish . Let Caesar etc Romes counsels we'll banish , no French , nor Spanish Shall gain their vile ends to deceive us , Nor in Jesuites Caps for London lay Traps , With flames of our wealth to bereave us : That old triple head that made Monarch once dread On whom the great Harlot came riding , Has now god the Trade to destroy a poor maid To fire our houses by bribing . Yet let Cesar live long , let Cesar live long , For ever be happy for ever be young . And het that dares hope to change King for Pope Let him die , let him die , while Cesar lives long . Nay , still let they fret , and be caught in the Net , That they had close laid for our slaughter , While in vain they conspire to set Albion on fire , And Protestant - blood spill like water . Yet in spite o'th Meal-tub , or the white-horse club Old England aboundeth in pleasure , It's Heavens chief end her Prince to defend , And store us with plenty of treasure . Then let Cesar live long , let Cesar live long , For ever be happy and ever be young , And he etc The beasts in the Tower are spoiled of their power And now they may roar but in vain , The Eagle prevails , and their plotting now fails , While that they stand snarling for shame , For so basely being bulled and by their Priest gulled In hope's of Ambitious renown , And left in the lurch by their false Mother Church While they greedily catched at a Crown . Let Cesar live etc While Loyalty Reigns in true English Veins , And Protestant glory abounds , Till Babylon's whore shall tempt us no more Till the beast has received his wounds , For this let us pray and continually say , All glory and honour be given To him that can quell the fierce potents of Hell Till the locust be back again driven . Let Cesar etc . For Charles is long reign let each subject now dain To express a good wish in a Brimmer ; Then trowle his health round while our joys do abound While the Stars in the Firmament glimmer Let honour and fame still crown his great name , And prosperous days may still grace him , Which its Heavens design for to make him divine among Angels for ever to place him . Let Caesar live long , let Caesar live long , For ever be happy and ever be young , And he that does hope to change King for a Pope , Let him die , let him die , while Caesar lives long . LONDON Printed for J. Conyers at the Black Raven in Duck Lane . The Loyal PROTESTANT Or , A defiance to Traitors , being a most pleasant and delightful new Play Song . Tune of , Let Traitors plot on . Romes fury now by Heaven is quite suppressed , And yet the Scarlet Beast can take no rest , We live secure beneath the Monarchs wings , Who justly may be stiled the best of Kings . LEt Traitors Plot on till at last they're undone , By hurting their brains to destroy us ; We whose hearts are at rest in our Loyalty blessed , What Demon or Power can annoy us ? Ambition , like Wine , does the sense confound , And Treason's a damnable thing , Then let him that thinks well see his Brimmer go round And pray for the safety and life of the King . Let Caesar live long , let Caesar live long , For ever be happy , and ever be young , And he that dares hope to change King for Pope Let him die , let him die , whilst Caesar lives long . How happy are we when our thoughts are all free , And blessed in our foresaid obedience ? Whilst the politic fool that's ambitious to rule Still bawks at the Oath of Allegiance . He trembles and flies from his numerous foes , Like a Deer that the Hunteas so round , While we that hate all that would Monarchs depose Make the joys of our hearts like the glasses abound . Let Caesar live etc Those Traitors that toil to betray their own soil , Who the murder of Princes are plotting , Let ruin and fate continually wait , And Room never n England get footing . While our nobler souls are dranched in full bouls , And Loyalty in our breasts flourish , Declaring the fame of our Monarchs great name , Till all the bold Traitors shall perish . Let Caesar etc Romes counsels we'll banish , no French , nor Spanish Shall gain their vile ends to deceive us , Nor in Jesuites Caps for London lay Traps , With flames of our wealth to bereave us : That old triple head that made Monarch once dread On whom the great Harlot came riding , Has now god the Trade to destroy a poor maid To fire our houses by bribing . Yet let Cesar live long , let Cesar live long , For ever be happy for ever be young . And het that dares hope to change King for Pope Let him die , let him die , while Cesar lives long . Nay , still let they fret , and be caught in the Net , That they had close laid for our slaughter , While in vain they conspire to set Albion on fire , And Protestant - blood spill like water . Yet in spite o'th Meal-tub , or the white-horse club Old England aboundeth in pleasure , It's Heavens chief end her Prince to defend , And store us with plenty of treasure . Then let Cesar live long , let Cesar live long , For ever be happy and ever be young , And he etc The beasts in the Tower are spoiled of their power And now they may roar but in vain , The Eagle prevails , and their plotting now fails , While that they stand snarling for shame , For so basely being bulled and by their Priest gulled In hope's of Ambitious renown , And left in the lurch by their false Mother Church While they greedily catched at a Crown . Let Cesar live etc While Loyalty Reigns in true English Veins , And Protestant glory abounds , Till Babylon's whore shall tempt us no more Till the beast has received his wounds , For this let us pray and continually say , All glory and honour be given To him that can quell the fierce potents of Hell Till the locust be back again driven . Let Cesar etc . For Charles is long reign let each subject now dain To express a good wish in a Brimmer ; Then trowle his health round while our joys do abound While the Stars in the Firmament glimmer Let honour and fame still crown his great name , And prosperous days may still grace him , Which its Heavens design for to make him divine among Angels for ever to place him . Let Caesar live long , let Caesar live long , For ever be happy and ever be young , And he that does hope to change King for a Pope , Let him die , let him die , while Caesar lives long . LONDON Printed for J. Conyers at the Black Raven in Duck Lane . 