A health to the Royal Family Or , the TORIES Delight . A new Play house song , Tune , Heigh boys up go we . C ome give's a brimmer fill it up this to Great Charles our King , And merrily let it go round while we rejoice and sing ; Let Rebels plot this all in vain they plot themselves but woe Come Loyal Lads unto the Queen and briskly let it go . He's no Tory balks his wine let sneaking Whigs make faces Who'd pull the King & amp ; Bishops down that they might have their places Here's to the Duke & amp ; Duchess healths wishing them long to live , And to all those that wish their fallen their dues may Tyburn give . To Noble George the Danish Prince and to his Royal Bride , Come set it round without delay by whom it is denied Loves not the King nor Duke this plain then let him noted be , As one that no wellwisher is to'th Royal Progeny . Come merrily set round the glass come fill it brisk away To me to thee , to thee to me let us have no delay ; Here goes this Bummer this but small for such & amp ; Loyal Health And he that balks it let him have henceforth no wine nor wealth . We Pope & amp ; Presbyter deffe who'd led us by the noses Till they find time fit to destroy such as their will opposes ; With Baccus still we traffic will for briskest juice oath Vine And drink about like Loyal boys until our faces shine . Why should we care , we have enough and never can be poor Since such Nector we have god we care for nothing more ; Then lets be merry jovial Lads and turn about the glasses To all true Loyalists lets drink forgetting fools and asses . Let drowsiness be banished hence this is a time to bar it , See here the Bottles all are out fill they once more with Clarret , Be sure to bring us of the best that is in the three Nations Look sharp be quick and do not stay lest that you try our patience . Tooth Prince of Orange let it go heres to his Princess tother , May he a happy Father be and she a happy mother , Let none forget them though the Seas divide them from our sighed But let us with them health & amp ; wealth peace , plenty and delight . Come fill another Bumper up blind Fortune wont forsake us He that made two , made surely three come hangt 'twill never break us . For State affairs let them alone to those that are to wield um Come come we'll drink the other glass because we meet but seldom . Come turn it off then & amp ; weel home to show we can give over And Loyalty without excess can modestly discover . Each one his Bottle has to pay this done we'll now be packing Tomorrow we will meet again where no good wine is lacking . Printed , for J. Wright , J Clark , W. Thackery , and T. Passen [ her ] . A health to the Royal Family Or , the TORIES Delight . A new Play house song , Tune , Heigh boys up go we . C ome give's a brimmer fill it up this to Great Charles our King , And merrily let it go round while we rejoice and sing ; Let Rebels plot this all in vain they plot themselves but woe Come Loyal Lads unto the Queen and briskly let it go . He's no Tory balks his wine let sneaking Whigs make faces Who'd pull the King & amp ; Bishops down that they might have their places Here's to the Duke & amp ; Duchess healths wishing them long to live , And to all those that wish their fallen their dues may Tyburn give . To Noble George the Danish Prince and to his Royal Bride , Come set it round without delay by whom it is denied Loves not the King nor Duke this plain then let him noted be , As one that no wellwisher is to'th Royal Progeny . Come merrily set round the glass come fill it brisk away To me to thee , to thee to me let us have no delay ; Here goes this Bummer this but small for such & amp ; Loyal Health And he that balks it let him have henceforth no wine nor wealth . We Pope & amp ; Presbyter deffe who'd led us by the noses Till they find time fit to destroy such as their will opposes ; With Baccus still we traffic will for briskest juice oath Vine And drink about like Loyal boys until our faces shine . Why should we care , we have enough and never can be poor Since such Nector we have god we care for nothing more ; Then lets be merry jovial Lads and turn about the glasses To all true Loyalists lets drink forgetting fools and asses . Let drowsiness be banished hence this is a time to bar it , See here the Bottles all are out fill they once more with Clarret , Be sure to bring us of the best that is in the three Nations Look sharp be quick and do not stay lest that you try our patience . Tooth Prince of Orange let it go heres to his Princess tother , May he a happy Father be and she a happy mother , Let none forget them though the Seas divide them from our sighed But let us with them health & amp ; wealth peace , plenty and delight . Come fill another Bumper up blind Fortune wont forsake us He that made two , made surely three come hangt 'twill never break us . For State affairs let them alone to those that are to wield um Come come we'll drink the other glass because we meet but seldom . Come turn it off then & amp ; weel home to show we can give over And Loyalty without excess can modestly discover . Each one his Bottle has to pay this done we'll now be packing Tomorrow we will meet again where no good wine is lacking . Printed , for J. Wright , J Clark , W. Thackery , and T. Passen [ her ] . 