AEuropes Pride ; OR , ENGLAND is Glory . Behold the pattern of Delight , whose Subject's vow to be ; Obedient to his just Demands , and live in Loyalty . To the Tune of , Now now the Fight's done . Rejoice English Gallants since fortune does smile , You are blessed with a Monarch in this little Isle ; All people admire at his virtues so rare , That with him no Prince yet could ever compare : Then let English Subject's most cheerfully sing , They have a merciful God and a gracious King . Do but mind how his pity he freely bestows On Wicked Offenders , and such Men as those ; Whom the Laws have condemned for to die for their Crimes , As we have too many such Souls in our times : Then let English Subject's most cheerfully sing , They have , etc And Heaven has blessed him in all his designs , Has blasted the Pope and his great Undermines ; Has discovered such Plots as were never known before , And such as I hope we shall never see more : Then let English Subject's most cheerfully sing , They have , etc Through AEurope and Asia , and Africa too , They count to pay Homage to Charles is their endue ; But see how Ambassadors beyond the Line , Come hither a Peace with our King to combine : Then let English Subject's most cheerfully sing , They have , etc The second part , to the same Tune The Heathen Morocco did visit this Nation , And here he was filled with strange admiration ; He once thought our King and indifferent Prince , But reason at last did his folly Convince : Then let English Subject's most cheerfully sing , They have , etc The Bantum Ambassador here stood amazed , And at our Kings Majesty strangely he gazed ; He thought without doubt he some rare man must be , Such a Monarch before his eye never did see : Then let English Subject's most cheerfully sing , They have , etc From France and from Spain , and from Italy too , They come to Old England its Prince for to woo ; And tie him to Friendship , and he Princely Man , Is free to assist and to help all he can : Then let English Subject's most cheerfully sing , They have , etc Then brave English Boys , let no Prejudice spring , Or lodge in your breast against your Sovereign King ; The pattern of pity , and Subject's Delight , Who nothing will do but what just is and right : Then let English Subject most cheerfully sing , They have , etc Be Loyal and true , that the world all may see , Then English there's none more obedient can be : O who could deny such a Prince for to serve , Since no Tongue can relate what his love does deserve : Then let English Subject's most cheerfully sing , They have , etc Then God bless the Branches that spring from his Loins , And let them be prosperous in their designs , The brave Duke of Monmouth where ever he goes , God bless and preserve him from all cruel Foes : Then let English Subject's most cheerfully sing , They have a merciful God and a gracious King . FINIS . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . AEuropes Pride ; OR , ENGLAND is Glory . Behold the pattern of Delight , whose Subject's vow to be ; Obedient to his just Demands , and live in Loyalty . To the Tune of , Now now the Fight's done . Rejoice English Gallants since fortune does smile , You are blessed with a Monarch in this little Isle ; All people admire at his virtues so rare , That with him no Prince yet could ever compare : Then let English Subject's most cheerfully sing , They have a merciful God and a gracious King . Do but mind how his pity he freely bestows On Wicked Offenders , and such Men as those ; Whom the Laws have condemned for to die for their Crimes , As we have too many such Souls in our times : Then let English Subject's most cheerfully sing , They have , etc And Heaven has blessed him in all his designs , Has blasted the Pope and his great Undermines ; Has discovered such Plots as were never known before , And such as I hope we shall never see more : Then let English Subject's most cheerfully sing , They have , etc Through AEurope and Asia , and Africa too , They count to pay Homage to Charles is their endue ; But see how Ambassadors beyond the Line , Come hither a Peace with our King to combine : Then let English Subject's most cheerfully sing , They have , etc The second part , to the same Tune The Heathen Morocco did visit this Nation , And here he was filled with strange admiration ; He once thought our King and indifferent Prince , But reason at last did his folly Convince : Then let English Subject's most cheerfully sing , They have , etc The Bantum Ambassador here stood amazed , And at our Kings Majesty strangely he gazed ; He thought without doubt he some rare man must be , Such a Monarch before his eye never did see : Then let English Subject's most cheerfully sing , They have , etc From France and from Spain , and from Italy too , They come to Old England its Prince for to woo ; And tie him to Friendship , and he Princely Man , Is free to assist and to help all he can : Then let English Subject's most cheerfully sing , They have , etc Then brave English Boys , let no Prejudice spring , Or lodge in your breast against your Sovereign King ; The pattern of pity , and Subject's Delight , Who nothing will do but what just is and right : Then let English Subject most cheerfully sing , They have , etc Be Loyal and true , that the world all may see , Then English there's none more obedient can be : O who could deny such a Prince for to serve , Since no Tongue can relate what his love does deserve : Then let English Subject's most cheerfully sing , They have , etc Then God bless the Branches that spring from his Loins , And let them be prosperous in their designs , The brave Duke of Monmouth where ever he goes , God bless and preserve him from all cruel Foes : Then let English Subject's most cheerfully sing , They have a merciful God and a gracious King . FINIS . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 