ENGLAND'S MERCIES In the Midst of Miseries . OR , The Poor-Man's Comfort in a Time of Trouble . To the Tune of , Packingtons Pound , OR , Digbys Farewell . Entered according to Order . P Oor England in thy sorrows this many a year , Has caused in thy mind a suspicion of fear , Dreading that thou shoulded be brought very low , But be of good comfort it may not be so : We have a good God that still does provide , If we do but serve him he will be our guide ; We need not to fear that our Foes can devour They can do no more then the Lord gives them power What though the times they be never so bad , Yet be of good comfort and look not so sad , For every sorrow will sure have and end ; If thou dost endeavour to make him thy friend : Who certainly will provide for the just In troubles and sorrows thou still shalt be blessed : Thou needest not to fear the fierce rage of thy foes Nor yet in the least to be discomposed . Every morsel of bred thou dost eat , If thou art contented besure [ it ] is sweet ; It's better to thee then the Mi [ ser ] s great store , Though he hath abundance yet still he is poor : His covetous heart is his Heaven for Gold , And's never at quiet though he does behold A sufficient supply for many a year , Yet he is possessed with a poverty fear . Why should we encumber our selves with such care To distract our wits or to live in despair , What though thy condition be never so mean , If there be content , there will comfort be seen : It's certain we have not long for to stay , Death does approach , and our lives does decay , Then blessed is he that does lie down in peace , His sorrows does end , and his joys will increase . Why should we distrust in his Mercies at all , We see that his bountiful hand is to all . We find that he hath a regard to the poor , And feeds them with Bred from a plentiful store : And though thou art cast into Prison for debt , Yet be of good cheer in the least do not fret ; For thou shalt have food for to nourish thy life , And God will provide for thy Children and wife : Some men are complaining that trading is dead , But blessed be God there is plenty of bred , The earth in abundance brings forth her increase , Can we be but thankful , and rest here in peace : We have no just cause to grieve and repine , Rely upon him who is so divine , For sure he is able always to provide , For thee and for me , and the whole world beside . Great persons that go so gallant and fine , That hath in their pockets great plenty of Coin , Yet still they have troubles we daily do see , On this side the Grave there is no man is free : And extravagant Son may waste and estate , Which may to his Father much sorrow create , There is this way and likewise many ways more , That rich men hath troubles as well as the poor . Then let us prepare for the hour of death , It's certain we must surrender our breath , For whither thou art prepared or no , Death will thee arrest , thou must certainly go , Then set not thy heart on things here below , For riches does often thy mind overthrow , For better it is to live mean and upright , Then to have great plenty to ruin us quite . Alas in this life is trouble and pain , Let's keep a good conscience that we may obtain The true joys of Heaven , likewise perfect peace , And then all the cares of the world it will cease : That man that does live and die in the Lord , Shall certainly then receive his reward , For Death shall appear like a stingless friend , And led him to joys which shall never have end . All you that have herd these words now of me , I wish they may prove and advantage to thee : To bear us thy Spirits in sorrow and care , And keep thee from every thought of despair : Then may we have comfort and joy to the end , As knowing that God will still be our friend , For he in his mercies will still us defend , And be our safe gaurd even to our lives end . This may be printed , R. L . S. FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel without Newgate . ENGLAND'S MERCIES In the Midst of Miseries . OR , The Poor-Man's Comfort in a Time of Trouble . To the Tune of , Packingtons Pound , OR , Digbys Farewell . Entered according to Order . P Oor England in thy sorrows this many a year , Has caused in thy mind a suspicion of fear , Dreading that thou shoulded be brought very low , But be of good comfort it may not be so : We have a good God that still does provide , If we do but serve him he will be our guide ; We need not to fear that our Foes can devour They can do no more then the Lord gives them power What though the times they be never so bad , Yet be of good comfort and look not so sad , For every sorrow will sure have and end ; If thou dost endeavour to make him thy friend : Who certainly will provide for the just In troubles and sorrows thou still shalt be blessed : Thou needest not to fear the fierce rage of thy foes Nor yet in the least to be discomposed . Every morsel of bred thou dost eat , If thou art contented besure [ it ] is sweet ; It's better to thee then the Mi [ ser ] s great store , Though he hath abundance yet still he is poor : His covetous heart is his Heaven for Gold , And's never at quiet though he does behold A sufficient supply for many a year , Yet he is possessed with a poverty fear . Why should we encumber our selves with such care To distract our wits or to live in despair , What though thy condition be never so mean , If there be content , there will comfort be seen : It's certain we have not long for to stay , Death does approach , and our lives does decay , Then blessed is he that does lie down in peace , His sorrows does end , and his joys will increase . Why should we distrust in his Mercies at all , We see that his bountiful hand is to all . We find that he hath a regard to the poor , And feeds them with Bred from a plentiful store : And though thou art cast into Prison for debt , Yet be of good cheer in the least do not fret ; For thou shalt have food for to nourish thy life , And God will provide for thy Children and wife : Some men are complaining that trading is dead , But blessed be God there is plenty of bred , The earth in abundance brings forth her increase , Can we be but thankful , and rest here in peace : We have no just cause to grieve and repine , Rely upon him who is so divine , For sure he is able always to provide , For thee and for me , and the whole world beside . Great persons that go so gallant and fine , That hath in their pockets great plenty of Coin , Yet still they have troubles we daily do see , On this side the Grave there is no man is free : And extravagant Son may waste and estate , Which may to his Father much sorrow create , There is this way and likewise many ways more , That rich men hath troubles as well as the poor . Then let us prepare for the hour of death , It's certain we must surrender our breath , For whither thou art prepared or no , Death will thee arrest , thou must certainly go , Then set not thy heart on things here below , For riches does often thy mind overthrow , For better it is to live mean and upright , Then to have great plenty to ruin us quite . Alas in this life is trouble and pain , Let's keep a good conscience that we may obtain The true joys of Heaven , likewise perfect peace , And then all the cares of the world it will cease : That man that does live and die in the Lord , Shall certainly then receive his reward , For Death shall appear like a stingless friend , And led him to joys which shall never have end . All you that have herd these words now of me , I wish they may prove and advantage to thee : To bear us thy Spirits in sorrow and care , And keep thee from every thought of despair : Then may we have comfort and joy to the end , As knowing that God will still be our friend , For he in his mercies will still us defend , And be our safe gaurd even to our lives end . This may be printed , R. L . S. FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel without Newgate . 