Englands Darling , OR Great Brittains Joy and hope on that Noble Prince JAMES Duke of MONMOUTH . Brave Monmouth , Englands Glory , Hated of none but Papist and Tory , Mayest thou in thy Noble Father's love remain , who happily over this Land does Reign . Tune of , Young Jemmy , or Philander . Y Oung Jemmy is a Lad that's Royalty descended ; With every Virtue clad , by every Tongue commended : A true and faithful English heart , Great Brittains joy and hope , And bravely will maintain their part in spite of Turk and Pope . Young Jemmy is a Lad that hates all base pretences ; No Tory , Masquerade , with Popish sham-pretences : A Heart and Soul so great and just , such Conduct and Command , A Champion in his Countries trust young Jemmy still will stand . Young Jemmy is a youth who thinks it no transgression To stand up for the Truth , and Protestant Profession : But Oh! he fights with such success , all mortal powers obey , No god of war but must confess young Jemmy bea [ ? ] s the [ s ] way . At Jemmy is powerful voice the Drums & amp ; Trumpets sounded ; And England did rejoice when Jemmy is fame abounded . Of Jemmy the victorious name did through all Europe fly , And all the nations did proclaim his matchless Gallantry . In Mastricht , and in France , in Germany , and Flanders , Young Jemmy did advance among the chief Commanders : By Sea and Land his fame did fly , and all the Nations round , Of Jemmy is constant victory and valour did resound . In Scotland Jemmy is hand dispersed the Whig and Tory , And Bothwel Bridge will stand to his eternal glory . There he the Rebels force withstood , and did their Might oppose , Both for the King and Countries good , in spite of all his foes . But o ! unhappy fates ! a curse on Pride and Malice ; The Popish plotting States have banished him the Palace . They turned him out of grace of late , of dignity and fame , And every mighty place of State , yet Jemmy is still the same . Maliciously they plot ( against all sense and reason ) Against Shaftsbury and Scot , to Cloak their Popish Treason : Tories and Papists all agree to blast his spotless fame , But ' spite of all their policy , young Jemmy is still the same . For still to loose his blood young Jemmy does importune , And for his Countries good , to spend his Life and Fortune For to support the Church and State , our Liberties and Laws , Against their Malice , Plots , and Hate , that would our rights oppose . Let all good men implore for Jemmy is Restauration , Whose conduct must restore the ruins of our Nation : That he to Charles is praise may live , our freedom to maintain , When Jemmy shall his fame rest [ re ] ive and be in grace again . Printed for J. Wright [ , ] J. Clark [ , ] W , Thackery and T. Passenger , Englands Darling , OR Great Brittains Joy and hope on that Noble Prince JAMES Duke of MONMOUTH . Brave Monmouth , Englands Glory , Hated of none but Papist and Tory , Mayest thou in thy Noble Father's love remain , who happily over this Land does Reign . Tune of , Young Jemmy , or Philander . Y Oung Jemmy is a Lad that's Royalty descended ; With every Virtue clad , by every Tongue commended : A true and faithful English heart , Great Brittains joy and hope , And bravely will maintain their part in spite of Turk and Pope . Young Jemmy is a Lad that hates all base pretences ; No Tory , Masquerade , with Popish sham-pretences : A Heart and Soul so great and just , such Conduct and Command , A Champion in his Countries trust young Jemmy still will stand . Young Jemmy is a youth who thinks it no transgression To stand up for the Truth , and Protestant Profession : But Oh! he fights with such success , all mortal powers obey , No god of war but must confess young Jemmy bea [ ? ] s the [ s ] way . At Jemmy is powerful voice the Drums & amp ; Trumpets sounded ; And England did rejoice when Jemmy is fame abounded . Of Jemmy the victorious name did through all Europe fly , And all the nations did proclaim his matchless Gallantry . In Mastricht , and in France , in Germany , and Flanders , Young Jemmy did advance among the chief Commanders : By Sea and Land his fame did fly , and all the Nations round , Of Jemmy is constant victory and valour did resound . In Scotland Jemmy is hand dispersed the Whig and Tory , And Bothwel Bridge will stand to his eternal glory . There he the Rebels force withstood , and did their Might oppose , Both for the King and Countries good , in spite of all his foes . But o ! unhappy fates ! a curse on Pride and Malice ; The Popish plotting States have banished him the Palace . They turned him out of grace of late , of dignity and fame , And every mighty place of State , yet Jemmy is still the same . Maliciously they plot ( against all sense and reason ) Against Shaftsbury and Scot , to Cloak their Popish Treason : Tories and Papists all agree to blast his spotless fame , But ' spite of all their policy , young Jemmy is still the same . For still to loose his blood young Jemmy does importune , And for his Countries good , to spend his Life and Fortune For to support the Church and State , our Liberties and Laws , Against their Malice , Plots , and Hate , that would our rights oppose . Let all good men implore for Jemmy is Restauration , Whose conduct must restore the ruins of our Nation : That he to Charles is praise may live , our freedom to maintain , When Jemmy shall his fame rest [ re ] ive and be in grace again . Printed for J. Wright [ , ] J. Clark [ , ] W , Thackery and T. Passenger , 