THE Happy Return : OR , The PARLIAMENTS Wellcome to London . Which was A djourned till the Ninth Day of November , 1685. B ut now Sitting again at WESTMINSTER . To the Tune of , The Fair One Let me in . This may be P rinted , R.L.S. TO Hrice Noble Lords , and Gentlemen , whose Faith and Loyalty , Was always constant to your King , and void of Treachery ; We humbly welcome you again , and wish you all content : That Subject's still may reap the Fruits of this our P parliament . Rebellion now is Rooted out , Sedition's like to die , And all the Trimmers of the Times submit to Majesty . How can we then but wish those well , who sorrow did prevent , And pay allegiance to the King , and thank the P parliament . Now Tradesmen muster all their tools and Seamen sail the main , This Fly-Boat now intends to F rance , that Ship is bound to S pain : The tempests of the Sea are great , but nothing to a rend Of state at Land that does molest both King and P parliament . The evils that molest a state , innumerable are , But there is none to be compared , unto a Civil War : Then we are greatly bound to these , Who cured our discontents : Wee'll drink the King's good Health in Wine in A le the P arliaments If peace and plenty be our fate , and truth be in our Land , A farthing for a foreign war , while James us does command : Though all the Kings of E urope should against us their passion vent , We have a remedy at hand , our King and P parliament . State-weather wise men did conclude , when C harles the Great did die , The tempests of the Church and State , would quite eclipse our sky : But James the second with with his rays away the vapours sent , Then pray God save our Noble King , and bless the P arlament . Conjectures are no prophecies , and chance submits to fate , For providence governeth all , in Church all well as state : Men should resolve to live conform , to Gods Commandment , And always pray God save the King , and bless the P parliament . The chief disease which troubles us , swells from ambitious eyes , which does molest the Kingdoms health and small things magnifies : Instead of mending up the hold , we pick Seditions rend , But let us pray , God save the King , and bless the P parliament . May all the Members be indeed , both honest , just , and true , Impartial , void of base presence , all Vices to subdue : May all their acts be righteous , and good be their intent , And then we'll pray God save the King , and Oh brave P parliament . P rinted for C . Deunisson , at the Stationers - A rmes within A ldgate . THE Happy Return : OR , The PARLIAMENTS Wellcome to London . Which was A djourned till the Ninth Day of November , 1685. B ut now Sitting again at WESTMINSTER . To the Tune of , The Fair One Let me in . This may be P rinted , R.L.S. TO Hrice Noble Lords , and Gentlemen , whose Faith and Loyalty , Was always constant to your King , and void of Treachery ; We humbly welcome you again , and wish you all content : That Subject's still may reap the Fruits of this our P parliament . Rebellion now is Rooted out , Sedition's like to die , And all the Trimmers of the Times submit to Majesty . How can we then but wish those well , who sorrow did prevent , And pay allegiance to the King , and thank the P parliament . Now Tradesmen muster all their tools and Seamen sail the main , This Fly-Boat now intends to F rance , that Ship is bound to S pain : The tempests of the Sea are great , but nothing to a rend Of state at Land that does molest both King and P parliament . The evils that molest a state , innumerable are , But there is none to be compared , unto a Civil War : Then we are greatly bound to these , Who cured our discontents : Wee'll drink the King's good Health in Wine in A le the P arliaments If peace and plenty be our fate , and truth be in our Land , A farthing for a foreign war , while James us does command : Though all the Kings of E urope should against us their passion vent , We have a remedy at hand , our King and P parliament . State-weather wise men did conclude , when C harles the Great did die , The tempests of the Church and State , would quite eclipse our sky : But James the second with with his rays away the vapours sent , Then pray God save our Noble King , and bless the P arlament . Conjectures are no prophecies , and chance submits to fate , For providence governeth all , in Church all well as state : Men should resolve to live conform , to Gods Commandment , And always pray God save the King , and bless the P parliament . The chief disease which troubles us , swells from ambitious eyes , which does molest the Kingdoms health and small things magnifies : Instead of mending up the hold , we pick Seditions rend , But let us pray , God save the King , and bless the P parliament . May all the Members be indeed , both honest , just , and true , Impartial , void of base presence , all Vices to subdue : May all their acts be righteous , and good be their intent , And then we'll pray God save the King , and Oh brave P parliament . P rinted for C . Deunisson , at the Stationers - A rmes within A ldgate . 