Good News for the Nation , Or , The Cities joy and the Countries Happiness . Plainly showing the great satisfaction and content , that all Loyal Subject's do enjoy , by the new Election of members of Parliament , whom God preserve , and direct , that they may Act for the good of their King , and Country , and the benefit and Happiness of all true English Protestants . Tune of Digbys farewell , Or Packintons pound . C Ome all loyal Subject's of every degree Lay sorrow aside and come listen to me , For we have good tidings of late come to town Our friends they shall rise and our foes be cast down , The Parliament House is again to be filled With brave solid members all of them well skilled , Then let us rejoice with a Loyal consent , And all for the choice of our New Parliament . We need not to murmur but give God the praise For now we do hope for to see better days , Our fears they will vanish no more we'll repine The Sunbeams of comfort upon us will shine , A Summer of joy is approaching at hand To bring satisfaction unto the whole land . Then let us rejoice with a Loyal consent , [ And all f ] or the choice of our New Parliament . Each City , and Burrough , and Corporate town Have chosen brave persons of gallant renown , Sucg men as have gained their Countries love And from honest principles scorn for to move , The laws of the land they will bravely maintain And put all our Nation in order again , Then let us rejoice with a Loyal consent And all for the choice of our New Parliament . 'Twas fine in the Country to beatrice the choice When each man was free for to give in their voice , They whoop and they hollow they crowd & amp ; they pother While some cries for one man and some for another , They cast up their caps and they thunder about They rally a while and again they do shout . Then let us rejoice with a Loyal consent And all for the choice of our New Parliament . The se [ cond part ] to the same tune M Arch beer and strong ale are as plenty that time , As if it were water , and so is good Wine , Where every freeholder does take off his dish And each man does Tipple and drink like a Fish , When they are well liquord to polling they go Their voices shall carry it it there must be so . Then let us rejoice with a loyal consent And all for the choice of our New Parliament . When they have Elected they homeward repair Well pleasant worser with their pains and their noble good fare Now that they have chosen such men as will serve And seek the whole Nation in peace to preserve , They follow their callings without any fear And in their own houses enjoy happy cheer . Then let us , etc Now what can out enemies say in this case Whilst that we have union in so high a place , No difference in Parliament after shall be Like peaceable members they all shall agree : Their votes they shall pass and good laws they shall stand And all they shall act for the good of the land . Then let us , etc The Papists they now may despair of their hope And send up these tidings to Room to the Pope , They now have to friends in the House for to fit We have no occasion for them nor their wit , Tdeir plots and contrivances now will be found Though carried on never so deep under Ground . Then let us , etc Then cheer up good Neighbours and be not dismayed We now are in hope's for to have a brisk trade , By Sea and by Land there employment will be That all in their Stations may live happily For those that have money shall not be in fear for to lay it out now the coast it is clear . Then let us , etc Though we have been wearied with troubles & amp ; fears We now shall have time for to wipe off our tears , Since by this great blessing we are in the way Again to live happy who ever says nay : God bless our good King and defend him from wrong , That he may in safety reign over us long , And let us rejoice with a loyal consent And pray for the good of our New Parliament . With Allowance , London , Printed for [ P } Brooksby at the Golden Ball [ in West ] - smithfield . Good News for the Nation , Or , The Cities joy and the Countries Happiness . Plainly showing the great satisfaction and content , that all Loyal Subject's do enjoy , by the new Election of members of Parliament , whom God preserve , and direct , that they may Act for the good of their King , and Country , and the benefit and Happiness of all true English Protestants . Tune of Digbys farewell , Or Packintons pound . C Ome all loyal Subject's of every degree Lay sorrow aside and come listen to me , For we have good tidings of late come to town Our friends they shall rise and our foes be cast down , The Parliament House is again to be filled With brave solid members all of them well skilled , Then let us rejoice with a Loyal consent , And all for the choice of our New Parliament . We need not to murmur but give God the praise For now we do hope for to see better days , Our fears they will vanish no more we'll repine The Sunbeams of comfort upon us will shine , A Summer of joy is approaching at hand To bring satisfaction unto the whole land . Then let us rejoice with a Loyal consent , [ And all f ] or the choice of our New Parliament . Each City , and Burrough , and Corporate town Have chosen brave persons of gallant renown , Sucg men as have gained their Countries love And from honest principles scorn for to move , The laws of the land they will bravely maintain And put all our Nation in order again , Then let us rejoice with a Loyal consent And all for the choice of our New Parliament . 'Twas fine in the Country to beatrice the choice When each man was free for to give in their voice , They whoop and they hollow they crowd & amp ; they pother While some cries for one man and some for another , They cast up their caps and they thunder about They rally a while and again they do shout . Then let us rejoice with a Loyal consent And all for the choice of our New Parliament . The se [ cond part ] to the same tune M Arch beer and strong ale are as plenty that time , As if it were water , and so is good Wine , Where every freeholder does take off his dish And each man does Tipple and drink like a Fish , When they are well liquord to polling they go Their voices shall carry it it there must be so . Then let us rejoice with a loyal consent And all for the choice of our New Parliament . When they have Elected they homeward repair Well pleasant worser with their pains and their noble good fare Now that they have chosen such men as will serve And seek the whole Nation in peace to preserve , They follow their callings without any fear And in their own houses enjoy happy cheer . Then let us , etc Now what can out enemies say in this case Whilst that we have union in so high a place , No difference in Parliament after shall be Like peaceable members they all shall agree : Their votes they shall pass and good laws they shall stand And all they shall act for the good of the land . Then let us , etc The Papists they now may despair of their hope And send up these tidings to Room to the Pope , They now have to friends in the House for to fit We have no occasion for them nor their wit , Tdeir plots and contrivances now will be found Though carried on never so deep under Ground . Then let us , etc Then cheer up good Neighbours and be not dismayed We now are in hope's for to have a brisk trade , By Sea and by Land there employment will be That all in their Stations may live happily For those that have money shall not be in fear for to lay it out now the coast it is clear . Then let us , etc Though we have been wearied with troubles & amp ; fears We now shall have time for to wipe off our tears , Since by this great blessing we are in the way Again to live happy who ever says nay : God bless our good King and defend him from wrong , That he may in safety reign over us long , And let us rejoice with a loyal consent And pray for the good of our New Parliament . With Allowance , London , Printed for [ P } Brooksby at the Golden Ball [ in West ] - smithfield . 