The SUCCESS of Two English Travellers ; Newly Arrived in London . To a new Irish Tune . A S we was a ranging upon the salt Seas , For France and for Spain , our humours to please , But when we came there , the first news that we hear Was , you Rebels of England what do you do here ? When we was a walking along in the street , Both Men , Wives and Children , and all we did meet , They gathered up stones , and at us did sling , Cried Rebels of England you murdered your King . All this being odious unto our own heart , Then from the French we were forced to depart ; The French did deride us with scornful disdain , We hoist our Top sail and sailed for Spain . But when we came there , we'd not set foot on Land , But strait they perceived that we were English Men , With their hands on their Rapiers their Clothes off did fling , Crying Rebels of England , you murdered your King . All this being odious unto our Conceits , We hoist and hastened up into the Straits ; Next Port unto Venice intending to go , Not fearing nor dreading they did of it know . But when we came there , our ships they did scan , They saw by our Colours we were English Men , Oh they laughed in their Lingo , and at us did sleer ; You Rebels of England what do you do here ? Thus twenty years wandering from Seaport to Town , In all parts abused , resolved to turn home : We steered up for London , But when we came there , The Court all in Mourning put us in despair . Then Great Charles of England we found was interred And some known Offenders in Mourning appeared ; Who for some Years together had designed and swore To serve him as they did his Father before . Great James of his Birthright they sought to depose . But now for ten Guineas you'll find none of those King James is Established safe in his Throne , And none shall invade the just Rights of the Crown . And now we're resolved In England to stay , And wait for to serve , and our King to obey , And his Royal Consort , Queen Maries blessed Name : And we'll drive both the French and the Dutch over the Main . LONDON , Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . The SUCCESS of Two English Travellers ; Newly Arrived in London . To a new Irish Tune . A S we was a ranging upon the salt Seas , For France and for Spain , our humours to please , But when we came there , the first news that we hear Was , you Rebels of England what do you do here ? When we was a walking along in the street , Both Men , Wives and Children , and all we did meet , They gathered up stones , and at us did sling , Cried Rebels of England you murdered your King . All this being odious unto our own heart , Then from the French we were forced to depart ; The French did deride us with scornful disdain , We hoist our Top sail and sailed for Spain . But when we came there , we'd not set foot on Land , But strait they perceived that we were English Men , With their hands on their Rapiers their Clothes off did fling , Crying Rebels of England , you murdered your King . All this being odious unto our Conceits , We hoist and hastened up into the Straits ; Next Port unto Venice intending to go , Not fearing nor dreading they did of it know . But when we came there , our ships they did scan , They saw by our Colours we were English Men , Oh they laughed in their Lingo , and at us did sleer ; You Rebels of England what do you do here ? Thus twenty years wandering from Seaport to Town , In all parts abused , resolved to turn home : We steered up for London , But when we came there , The Court all in Mourning put us in despair . Then Great Charles of England we found was interred And some known Offenders in Mourning appeared ; Who for some Years together had designed and swore To serve him as they did his Father before . Great James of his Birthright they sought to depose . But now for ten Guineas you'll find none of those King James is Established safe in his Throne , And none shall invade the just Rights of the Crown . And now we're resolved In England to stay , And wait for to serve , and our King to obey , And his Royal Consort , Queen Maries blessed Name : And we'll drive both the French and the Dutch over the Main . LONDON , Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . 