Rebellion Rewarded with Justice . OR , The Last farewell of the late Duke of Monmouth which was B eheaded on Tower-Hill on the 15th of this Instant July 1685 . It is not well for to Rebel , Against a Gracious Prince , Let all beware and shun the Snare , That would be Men of Sense . To the Tune of , Russels Farewell , Or , Busy Fame . This may be Printed , July the 15th . 1685. R . L S. F Arewell Farewell deceitful Pride , for thou hast me betrayed , Upon vain hope's I here relied , when I the Traitor played : Had I not wandered with Lord Gray , which proves my overthrow , I never had beheld this day , to feel the Fatal Blow . Too much I hearkened to that Crew , which never did me good , But now I bid the World adieu , and here my dearest blood Must be a Ransom for my Crime , to pay the Death I owe , And Justice now has found a time , to strike the fatal Blow . Alas ! I have not quite forgotten the favour that I found , When I was in that Helish Plot , ah ! this my soul does Wound : That I again should be misled , into a sea of woo , And here I must lay down my head , unto the fatal Blow . My proud aspiring heart I find , has brought me to this thing Ah! how could I be so unkind to such a Gracious King : Which once did intercede for me , as I in conscience know , But now pale Death must set me free , then welcome fatal Blow . And now at last I did Rebel , against him in his Throne , I was most like and Infidel , as I may justly own : But this has wrought my life's decay , and final Overthrow , And Juyice will no longer stay , but strike the Fatal Blow . While I did in Rebellion stand , some lives did you pay full dear , A sad confusion in the Land but now I bear a share , And brought to my deserved doom whither I would or no , No Friend I have that will presume , to stop the fatal Blow . False Friends alas hath ruined me , and brought me to this place , And now the sad effect I see , will end in my disgrace : My Lady I must leave behind , and my sweet Babes in woo . For Destiny hath now designed for me the fatal Blow : And now my last and dying Speech , is to advice you all , Both friends and Foes I do beseech , be warned by my fallen : Let Loyolty your actions Crown , then you'll be free from woe , And now I willingly lie down , come strike the fatal Blow . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-Spur-Street without Newgate . Rebellion Rewarded with Justice . OR , The Last farewell of the late Duke of Monmouth which was B eheaded on Tower-Hill on the 15th of this Instant July 1685 . It is not well for to Rebel , Against a Gracious Prince , Let all beware and shun the Snare , That would be Men of Sense . To the Tune of , Russels Farewell , Or , Busy Fame . This may be Printed , July the 15th . 1685. R . L S. F Arewell Farewell deceitful Pride , for thou hast me betrayed , Upon vain hope's I here relied , when I the Traitor played : Had I not wandered with Lord Gray , which proves my overthrow , I never had beheld this day , to feel the Fatal Blow . Too much I hearkened to that Crew , which never did me good , But now I bid the World adieu , and here my dearest blood Must be a Ransom for my Crime , to pay the Death I owe , And Justice now has found a time , to strike the fatal Blow . Alas ! I have not quite forgotten the favour that I found , When I was in that Helish Plot , ah ! this my soul does Wound : That I again should be misled , into a sea of woo , And here I must lay down my head , unto the fatal Blow . My proud aspiring heart I find , has brought me to this thing Ah! how could I be so unkind to such a Gracious King : Which once did intercede for me , as I in conscience know , But now pale Death must set me free , then welcome fatal Blow . And now at last I did Rebel , against him in his Throne , I was most like and Infidel , as I may justly own : But this has wrought my life's decay , and final Overthrow , And Juyice will no longer stay , but strike the Fatal Blow . While I did in Rebellion stand , some lives did you pay full dear , A sad confusion in the Land but now I bear a share , And brought to my deserved doom whither I would or no , No Friend I have that will presume , to stop the fatal Blow . False Friends alas hath ruined me , and brought me to this place , And now the sad effect I see , will end in my disgrace : My Lady I must leave behind , and my sweet Babes in woo . For Destiny hath now designed for me the fatal Blow : And now my last and dying Speech , is to advice you all , Both friends and Foes I do beseech , be warned by my fallen : Let Loyolty your actions Crown , then you'll be free from woe , And now I willingly lie down , come strike the fatal Blow . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-Spur-Street without Newgate . 