The Sorrowful Lamentation of the Widows of the West , For the Death of their Deceased Husbands . Wherein they declare their hearty sorrow that ever their Husbands was led away by fair words to this foul Rebellion . Together with their kind Advice to all people , to be Loyal to their Prince . To the Tune of , Russels Farewell . This may be Printed R. P. A Las ! we Widows of the West whose Husbands did Rebel , Of Comfort we are dispossessed , our sorrows did excel : Here for their Crimes they lost their lives Rebellion was the cause , And we confess that was their wives , they did oppose the Laws . When Monmouth came ashore at Lime , it was a fatal day , To carry on that base Design , which did their lives betray : And many daily did presume to come unto his aid , Bridgewater , Taunton-Dean , and Frome , the Nation to invade . We said it was a horrid thing , and prayed them to forbear , To take up arms against their King , who was the Lawful Heir : Yet like distracted men they run , to cast their lives away , And we their Widows are undone , this is a dismal day . Alas ! we had no cause at all , our Laws was still the same , That we should to Confusion fallen , and many hundeds slave : They knew not what they went about , confusion did attend , The Heavens would not bear them out , since they did thus offend . When Monmouth did the Land invade , poor men was drawn aside , To leave their business and their Trade for which at length they died : It's true it was a just Reward , because they did Rebel , Against their Gracious Sovereign , though we in sorrow dwell . Those Criminals that did oppose our Lawful Government , Did likewise prove our deadly Foes , and caused our Discontent : For had they never come on shore , we had been happy still , Alas ! we had no thoughts before , of any kind of ill . We might have lived in happy state , in this our good Kings Reign , But now , alas ! it is too late , to call them back again : For they are sleeping in their Gore , laid in their Beds of Clay , Together with some hundreds more , that thus was led astray . Both youth and old , and rich and poor , in multitudes they fallen , Let this a warning be therefore let never none Rebel : That our most Renowned King , may have a happy Reign , Then Subjects may rejoice and Sing , and never more complain . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Sign of the Angel in Guiltspur-street . The Sorrowful Lamentation of the Widows of the West , For the Death of their Deceased Husbands . Wherein they declare their hearty sorrow that ever their Husbands was led away by fair words to this foul Rebellion . Together with their kind Advice to all people , to be Loyal to their Prince . To the Tune of , Russels Farewell . This may be Printed R. P. A Las ! we Widows of the West whose Husbands did Rebel , Of Comfort we are dispossessed , our sorrows did excel : Here for their Crimes they lost their lives Rebellion was the cause , And we confess that was their wives , they did oppose the Laws . When Monmouth came ashore at Lime , it was a fatal day , To carry on that base Design , which did their lives betray : And many daily did presume to come unto his aid , Bridgewater , Taunton-Dean , and Frome , the Nation to invade . We said it was a horrid thing , and prayed them to forbear , To take up arms against their King , who was the Lawful Heir : Yet like distracted men they run , to cast their lives away , And we their Widows are undone , this is a dismal day . Alas ! we had no cause at all , our Laws was still the same , That we should to Confusion fallen , and many hundeds slave : They knew not what they went about , confusion did attend , The Heavens would not bear them out , since they did thus offend . When Monmouth did the Land invade , poor men was drawn aside , To leave their business and their Trade for which at length they died : It's true it was a just Reward , because they did Rebel , Against their Gracious Sovereign , though we in sorrow dwell . Those Criminals that did oppose our Lawful Government , Did likewise prove our deadly Foes , and caused our Discontent : For had they never come on shore , we had been happy still , Alas ! we had no thoughts before , of any kind of ill . We might have lived in happy state , in this our good Kings Reign , But now , alas ! it is too late , to call them back again : For they are sleeping in their Gore , laid in their Beds of Clay , Together with some hundreds more , that thus was led astray . Both youth and old , and rich and poor , in multitudes they fallen , Let this a warning be therefore let never none Rebel : That our most Renowned King , may have a happy Reign , Then Subjects may rejoice and Sing , and never more complain . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Sign of the Angel in Guiltspur-street . 