THE PRINCESS Welcome to England , Being , The Unanimous Joy of Her Loyal Subject's . To the Tune of , The Cannons Roar . W Elcome Princess to the Shore , We your Royal Aid implore , All our Blessings to restore , and do our Souls surrender ; For we know that you would be In your Royal Dignity , Always to maintain us free , and prove our Faiths Defender . Virtuous , Wise in all her ways , And deserves the Nations praise , Who can ever her Glory raise , or to her worth commend her ? Who the Land may truly own , To be with her Prince alone , The true preservers of the Throne , and prove our Faiths Defender . We have had a Papist Queen , But [ another ] may be seen In Attire far more mean , yet none can discommend her ; For we [ find humility ] In a [ Royal ] Dignity , Speaks her evermore to be the Changed [ u ] rch and Faiths Defender . While she did from Holland Sail , Although with a pleasant Gale , Protestants did much bewail , that Boreas did her hinder ; But they Heaven did implore , All their Blessings to restore , So this Princess soon came over , the Church and Faiths Defender . She no sooner came to Land , But all Souls with heart and hand , Yielded to her just Command , their Fortune's to surrender : Knowing that her Royal Name , Will in lasting Books of Fame , To the world her self proclaim , the Church and Faiths Defender . She no sooner came to Shore , But Guns did like Thunder roar , To proclaim the News all over , while Nobles did attend her ; Lords and Ladies did repair , That they might with Christian care , Welcome in the Princess Dear , the Church and Faiths Defender . Cannons Roar , while Bells' did Ring , While the joyful News did bring , That under her most Gracious Wing , no Pope our peace could hinder : Therefore Royal Princess now , To the Sceptre we will bow , You we must and will allow the Church and F aiths Defender . The Princess Health went fairly round , While L ondon was with Glory Crowned And while our Joys did thus abound , true Subject's did commend her : Though she was Modest , Mild and Mean , Behold her in her Glorious Sceene She's now Great-Brittains Royal Queen , [ the ] C [ h ] urch and [ Faiths ] Defender . FINI S . Printed for W. Thackeray , at the Angel in Duck-Lane . THE PRINCESS Welcome to England , Being , The Unanimous Joy of Her Loyal Subject's . To the Tune of , The Cannons Roar . W Elcome Princess to the Shore , We your Royal Aid implore , All our Blessings to restore , and do our Souls surrender ; For we know that you would be In your Royal Dignity , Always to maintain us free , and prove our Faiths Defender . Virtuous , Wise in all her ways , And deserves the Nations praise , Who can ever her Glory raise , or to her worth commend her ? Who the Land may truly own , To be with her Prince alone , The true preservers of the Throne , and prove our Faiths Defender . We have had a Papist Queen , But [ another ] may be seen In Attire far more mean , yet none can discommend her ; For we [ find humility ] In a [ Royal ] Dignity , Speaks her evermore to be the Changed [ u ] rch and Faiths Defender . While she did from Holland Sail , Although with a pleasant Gale , Protestants did much bewail , that Boreas did her hinder ; But they Heaven did implore , All their Blessings to restore , So this Princess soon came over , the Church and Faiths Defender . She no sooner came to Land , But all Souls with heart and hand , Yielded to her just Command , their Fortune's to surrender : Knowing that her Royal Name , Will in lasting Books of Fame , To the world her self proclaim , the Church and Faiths Defender . She no sooner came to Shore , But Guns did like Thunder roar , To proclaim the News all over , while Nobles did attend her ; Lords and Ladies did repair , That they might with Christian care , Welcome in the Princess Dear , the Church and Faiths Defender . Cannons Roar , while Bells' did Ring , While the joyful News did bring , That under her most Gracious Wing , no Pope our peace could hinder : Therefore Royal Princess now , To the Sceptre we will bow , You we must and will allow the Church and F aiths Defender . The Princess Health went fairly round , While L ondon was with Glory Crowned And while our Joys did thus abound , true Subject's did commend her : Though she was Modest , Mild and Mean , Behold her in her Glorious Sceene She's now Great-Brittains Royal Queen , [ the ] C [ h ] urch and [ Faiths ] Defender . FINI S . Printed for W. Thackeray , at the Angel in Duck-Lane . 