THE Princely Triumph : Or , Englands Joy in the BIRTH of the Young Prince of WALES : Born on the 10 th . of June , 1688. to the great Content and Satisfaction of all LOYAL SUBJECT'S . To the Tune of , Packington's Pound . This may be Printed , R. P. L Et England Rejoice and all sorrows expel , Since there is no doubt but all things will be well , The Heavens has smiled , and to add to our joy , Has sent to this languishing Nation a Boy : A Princely young Heir , of the Royal Pair , And of whose protection the Gods will take care ; Now we have no reason to sighs and complain , A young Prince is Born , may he long live to Reign . On the tenth of June this sweet blessing was sent , To give the whole Nation true joy and content , What we had long p [ r ] ayed for was sent on that day , True joys to increase , and our griefs to allay : On the loud Wings of fame , this glad tidings came , The Glory of Brittain aloud to proclaim , Let true loyal voices strike all in a strain , A young Prince is Born , may he long live to Reign . As soon as this tidings in London was herd , True joy in the face of each Subject appeared , The thundering Cannons aloud they did roar , To send the Glad Tidings on every shore : All tongues did express , then their true thankfulness , Their joy was so great that they could do no less , Then with loyal voices rejoice all amain , A young Prince is Born , may he long live to Reign . B Oath Lords , Dukes and Earls , & amp ; the commons also , In e'ry degree did their Loyalty show , Their hearts was transported with so much delight , That from that blessed Morning till late in the Night The Bells' loudly Ring , and swift Fame was one wing And all loyal Subject's did merrily sing , Let Happiness flourish , give Sorrow her Bane , A young Prince is Born , may he long live to Reign . Through City and Suburbs this joy did abound , And Loyal brisk Glasses went merrily round , Not one in ten thousand in Loyalty fails , But drank a good health to the young Prince of Wales : With this happy Prayer , that kind Heavens good care Would nourish , and cherish , our young Princely Heir ; In these very words they rejoiced amain , A young Prince is Born , may he long live to Reign . This Blessing and Triumph the more to complete , All Loyal true Subject's in every street Made Fires , which like blazing Comets did shine , And Tab [ l ] es was filled with Bottles of Wine : Both rich Men and mean , was in Loyalty seen , All prayed for Royal King JAMES and his Queen , And in the conclusion they cried out amain , A young Prince , etc We do by our Ancestors well understand , Some notable signs did Alarum the Land , Predicting some manifold favours from Heaven , But now unexpected , this blessing is given , By which we may see , our felicity Does happen , though late , the completer to be , Then rejoice Town and City , yea , Shepherd & amp ; Swain A young Prince , etc Then throw up your Caps and rejoice e'ry one , Since we have a Prince to inherit the Throne ; A Prince without doubt , for great actions designed , To Valour , to Justice , and Goodness inclined : Then let us agree , for a Jubilee , That all the whole world may our gratitude see , This blessing from Heaven won't given in vain , A young Prince is Born , may he long live and Reign . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden Ball in Pie Corner , near West-Smithfield . THE Princely Triumph : Or , Englands Joy in the BIRTH of the Young Prince of WALES : Born on the 10 th . of June , 1688. to the great Content and Satisfaction of all LOYAL SUBJECT'S . To the Tune of , Packington's Pound . This may be Printed , R. P. L Et England Rejoice and all sorrows expel , Since there is no doubt but all things will be well , The Heavens has smiled , and to add to our joy , Has sent to this languishing Nation a Boy : A Princely young Heir , of the Royal Pair , And of whose protection the Gods will take care ; Now we have no reason to sighs and complain , A young Prince is Born , may he long live to Reign . On the tenth of June this sweet blessing was sent , To give the whole Nation true joy and content , What we had long p [ r ] ayed for was sent on that day , True joys to increase , and our griefs to allay : On the loud Wings of fame , this glad tidings came , The Glory of Brittain aloud to proclaim , Let true loyal voices strike all in a strain , A young Prince is Born , may he long live to Reign . As soon as this tidings in London was herd , True joy in the face of each Subject appeared , The thundering Cannons aloud they did roar , To send the Glad Tidings on every shore : All tongues did express , then their true thankfulness , Their joy was so great that they could do no less , Then with loyal voices rejoice all amain , A young Prince is Born , may he long live to Reign . B Oath Lords , Dukes and Earls , & amp ; the commons also , In e'ry degree did their Loyalty show , Their hearts was transported with so much delight , That from that blessed Morning till late in the Night The Bells' loudly Ring , and swift Fame was one wing And all loyal Subject's did merrily sing , Let Happiness flourish , give Sorrow her Bane , A young Prince is Born , may he long live to Reign . Through City and Suburbs this joy did abound , And Loyal brisk Glasses went merrily round , Not one in ten thousand in Loyalty fails , But drank a good health to the young Prince of Wales : With this happy Prayer , that kind Heavens good care Would nourish , and cherish , our young Princely Heir ; In these very words they rejoiced amain , A young Prince is Born , may he long live to Reign . This Blessing and Triumph the more to complete , All Loyal true Subject's in every street Made Fires , which like blazing Comets did shine , And Tab [ l ] es was filled with Bottles of Wine : Both rich Men and mean , was in Loyalty seen , All prayed for Royal King JAMES and his Queen , And in the conclusion they cried out amain , A young Prince , etc We do by our Ancestors well understand , Some notable signs did Alarum the Land , Predicting some manifold favours from Heaven , But now unexpected , this blessing is given , By which we may see , our felicity Does happen , though late , the completer to be , Then rejoice Town and City , yea , Shepherd & amp ; Swain A young Prince , etc Then throw up your Caps and rejoice e'ry one , Since we have a Prince to inherit the Throne ; A Prince without doubt , for great actions designed , To Valour , to Justice , and Goodness inclined : Then let us agree , for a Jubilee , That all the whole world may our gratitude see , This blessing from Heaven won't given in vain , A young Prince is Born , may he long live and Reign . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden Ball in Pie Corner , near West-Smithfield . 