The Masterpiece of LOVE-SONGS . A Dialogue betwixt a bold Keeper and a Lady gay , He wooed his Lords Daughter and carried the day , But soon after marriage was forced for to fight , With his Lord and six Gentlemen for his own right , He cut them , and hewed them , and paid them with blows , And made them his friends that before were his foes . To the Tune of , The week before Easter , the days long and clear . I TO was a bold Keeper that chased the Deer ; Of a stouter bold spirit , you never did hear ; And he loved a Lady of beauty most clear , And now you shall hear of his wooing . Keeper . O pity fair Lady , the suit which I move , For i'm deep in affection , and tossed in love : For you are the Lady , the Turtle and Dove , Whereon I have cast my affection . Lady . O Keeper for bear , I shall thus answer thee , I am a Match for a Lord of a high degree , For my birth and yours , they not equal be , Therefore Keeper forbear your wooing . Keeper . This repulse it makes , me sadly to grieve , And true it's w e all came from Adam and Eve , One loving w ord to my life , is a reprieve ; Though I am linked fast in Cupid's Prison . Lady . O w hy should you say you're a prisoner to me ; Oh hold forbear Keeper , for that may not be : We both may have Matches fitter for each degree ; Then forbear , and take this for answer , [ Keeper ] N O not for and answer , that I shall it take , And yet this denial , makes my heart [ br ] ache , And I shall lay down , my life at the stake To obtain the favour of my Lady . Lady . It is a mere Madness your life to lay down , What will people say ? there's and end of a clown ; That passed many dangers till fortune did frown ; And now died a petended Lover . Keeper . The name of a Clown in my heart I do scorn , Being noble descended And a Gentleman born Yet I am a Keeper that must be forlorn ; Except you can love me fair Lady . Lady . Well Keeper I perceive thou hast a good heart Well thou art come [ ? ] p [ ac ] ted in every part , It my Lord did know we should both suffer smart , My father would be so offended . Keeper . L ady if you will consent to be my Bride , I will gird my Sword and Buckler by my side ; And then to the Church in private we'll ride : Where we will be Married fair Lady . She then gave consent , and away they did ride , The valiant bold Keeper , and his lovely Bride , Not fearing of danger what ever betide [ For she was a valiant ? ] Being Married he turned [ b ] ack speedily , And riding along her Father did espy ; A [ l ] ack , quoth the Lady , one or both shall die , Fear nothing , quoth the Keeper , fair Lady . The Lord he came posting so fast as he could high : And six lusty Gentlemen for company , Quoth he to the Keeper Villain thou shalt die For deluding away my fair daughter Come on , quoth the Keeper , it's no time to prattle , I see by your Swords your prepared for Battle : With his Sword and Buckler he made them to rattle : The Lady did hold the Horse for the Keeper . He cut them and hewed them on the place he did stand ; Oh then , quoth the Lord bold Keeper hold thy hand ; If you'll give your daughter thirty thousand in Land You shall not die by the hand of the Keeper . Keeper , quoth the Lady , it's too small a portion : Peace , quoth the Lord , Daughter let your will be done ; I will love thy Husband , and thee ever own , Thus a Keeper gained a fair Lady FINIS . By Abraham Miles . Printed for John C lark , William Thackeray , and Thomas [ Passenger . ] The Masterpiece of LOVE-SONGS . A Dialogue betwixt a bold Keeper and a Lady gay , He wooed his Lords Daughter and carried the day , But soon after marriage was forced for to fight , With his Lord and six Gentlemen for his own right , He cut them , and hewed them , and paid them with blows , And made them his friends that before were his foes . To the Tune of , The week before Easter , the days long and clear . I TO was a bold Keeper that chased the Deer ; Of a stouter bold spirit , you never did hear ; And he loved a Lady of beauty most clear , And now you shall hear of his wooing . Keeper . O pity fair Lady , the suit which I move , For i'm deep in affection , and tossed in love : For you are the Lady , the Turtle and Dove , Whereon I have cast my affection . Lady . O Keeper for bear , I shall thus answer thee , I am a Match for a Lord of a high degree , For my birth and yours , they not equal be , Therefore Keeper forbear your wooing . Keeper . This repulse it makes , me sadly to grieve , And true it's w e all came from Adam and Eve , One loving w ord to my life , is a reprieve ; Though I am linked fast in Cupid's Prison . Lady . O w hy should you say you're a prisoner to me ; Oh hold forbear Keeper , for that may not be : We both may have Matches fitter for each degree ; Then forbear , and take this for answer , [ Keeper ] N O not for and answer , that I shall it take , And yet this denial , makes my heart [ br ] ache , And I shall lay down , my life at the stake To obtain the favour of my Lady . Lady . It is a mere Madness your life to lay down , What will people say ? there's and end of a clown ; That passed many dangers till fortune did frown ; And now died a petended Lover . Keeper . The name of a Clown in my heart I do scorn , Being noble descended And a Gentleman born Yet I am a Keeper that must be forlorn ; Except you can love me fair Lady . Lady . Well Keeper I perceive thou hast a good heart Well thou art come [ ? ] p [ ac ] ted in every part , It my Lord did know we should both suffer smart , My father would be so offended . Keeper . L ady if you will consent to be my Bride , I will gird my Sword and Buckler by my side ; And then to the Church in private we'll ride : Where we will be Married fair Lady . She then gave consent , and away they did ride , The valiant bold Keeper , and his lovely Bride , Not fearing of danger what ever betide [ For she was a valiant ? ] Being Married he turned [ b ] ack speedily , And riding along her Father did espy ; A [ l ] ack , quoth the Lady , one or both shall die , Fear nothing , quoth the Keeper , fair Lady . The Lord he came posting so fast as he could high : And six lusty Gentlemen for company , Quoth he to the Keeper Villain thou shalt die For deluding away my fair daughter Come on , quoth the Keeper , it's no time to prattle , I see by your Swords your prepared for Battle : With his Sword and Buckler he made them to rattle : The Lady did hold the Horse for the Keeper . He cut them and hewed them on the place he did stand ; Oh then , quoth the Lord bold Keeper hold thy hand ; If you'll give your daughter thirty thousand in Land You shall not die by the hand of the Keeper . Keeper , quoth the Lady , it's too small a portion : Peace , quoth the Lord , Daughter let your will be done ; I will love thy Husband , and thee ever own , Thus a Keeper gained a fair Lady FINIS . By Abraham Miles . Printed for John C lark , William Thackeray , and Thomas [ Passenger . ] 