The Manifestation of Joy , Or , The Loyal Subject's grateful acknowledgment . Occasionally Written upon the Publication of his Majesties most Gracious Declaration , Allowing LIBERTY of CONSCIENCE . Tune of , The Country Farmer This may be Printed , R. P. L Et England rejoice and good Subject's be glad Since by royal indulgence we happy are made , Since by a Monarch that studies our rest , Of Freedom and Liberty we are possessed , Each under his Vine now may fit with content , Secure in the plenty which providence sent , While all needless Jealousies idle may lie , And , unemployed , pine till at last they do die . The Jars that divided opinions might cause , Our great Moderator decides , and those laws , Which Conscience restrained he does easy now make And freedom of Conscience let's each one partake , In Mildness and Mercy his power does dispense , Making us happy beneath a good Prince , While each in his Station and calling may be , From fear of disturbance and trouble set free . That trade may increase and more plenty abound , And each in obediance and Loyalty found , With grateful returns for a favour so great , As none without joy has the power to re [ l ] ate , A favour more welcome then is the gay spring , Which comfort extremely to thousands does bring As welcome as peace to a mind in distress , Or the hand that a Captive from Chains does re-l [ e ] ase . What long was desired Royal bounty affords , And graciously with our [ ? ] [ words ] [ ? ] , That each his religion in peace may enjoy , And none by encroachment each other Annoy , But living in peace we may joyfully sing , Long live , reign , & amp ; prosper our most gracious King And if we contend ever hereafter mayed be , Who shall exceed each in true loyalty . Let us be thankful for what we receive , And be in our stations contented to live , Let each in his calling his diligence use , And none ever presume such a Grace to abuse : But count it a blessing sent down from above , To end our debates and unite us in love , To give us a pattern how Christians should live , Declining each other to vex or to grieve . Let names and distinctions that do give offence Be now no more started on any pretence , But let each one study for quiet and peace , That unkind discord from henceforth may cease , And let each good Subject's in Brittains fair Isle , Give thanks to a Prince that does make her to smile With fullness of plenty and prospect of trade , Which appeared by complaints but so lately to fade . While other Nations our people did drain , Who now have no cause to repine or complain , But freely returning may all things possess , To which a due claim to their right can express , No scruples of Conscience they now can pretend , Since the royal indulgence to all does extend , Great James our good King does by clemency prove , How well he deserves e'ry Subject's true love . With mildness and Mercy he wonders performs , And is lovely therein as he'd dreadful in arms , Then let us rejoice and each strive to do best While our duty and Loyalties to him's expressed , Nor let us ever think that enough we can do , To deserve such a blessing but ever pursue , The ways of obedience and Loyalty prize , Renouncing for ever all tumult and noise . FINIS . Printed for W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The Manifestation of Joy , Or , The Loyal Subject's grateful acknowledgment . Occasionally Written upon the Publication of his Majesties most Gracious Declaration , Allowing LIBERTY of CONSCIENCE . Tune of , The Country Farmer This may be Printed , R. P. L Et England rejoice and good Subject's be glad Since by royal indulgence we happy are made , Since by a Monarch that studies our rest , Of Freedom and Liberty we are possessed , Each under his Vine now may fit with content , Secure in the plenty which providence sent , While all needless Jealousies idle may lie , And , unemployed , pine till at last they do die . The Jars that divided opinions might cause , Our great Moderator decides , and those laws , Which Conscience restrained he does easy now make And freedom of Conscience let's each one partake , In Mildness and Mercy his power does dispense , Making us happy beneath a good Prince , While each in his Station and calling may be , From fear of disturbance and trouble set free . That trade may increase and more plenty abound , And each in obediance and Loyalty found , With grateful returns for a favour so great , As none without joy has the power to re [ l ] ate , A favour more welcome then is the gay spring , Which comfort extremely to thousands does bring As welcome as peace to a mind in distress , Or the hand that a Captive from Chains does re-l [ e ] ase . What long was desired Royal bounty affords , And graciously with our [ ? ] [ words ] [ ? ] , That each his religion in peace may enjoy , And none by encroachment each other Annoy , But living in peace we may joyfully sing , Long live , reign , & amp ; prosper our most gracious King And if we contend ever hereafter mayed be , Who shall exceed each in true loyalty . Let us be thankful for what we receive , And be in our stations contented to live , Let each in his calling his diligence use , And none ever presume such a Grace to abuse : But count it a blessing sent down from above , To end our debates and unite us in love , To give us a pattern how Christians should live , Declining each other to vex or to grieve . Let names and distinctions that do give offence Be now no more started on any pretence , But let each one study for quiet and peace , That unkind discord from henceforth may cease , And let each good Subject's in Brittains fair Isle , Give thanks to a Prince that does make her to smile With fullness of plenty and prospect of trade , Which appeared by complaints but so lately to fade . While other Nations our people did drain , Who now have no cause to repine or complain , But freely returning may all things possess , To which a due claim to their right can express , No scruples of Conscience they now can pretend , Since the royal indulgence to all does extend , Great James our good King does by clemency prove , How well he deserves e'ry Subject's true love . With mildness and Mercy he wonders performs , And is lovely therein as he'd dreadful in arms , Then let us rejoice and each strive to do best While our duty and Loyalties to him's expressed , Nor let us ever think that enough we can do , To deserve such a blessing but ever pursue , The ways of obedience and Loyalty prize , Renouncing for ever all tumult and noise . FINIS . Printed for W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 