A comfortable & amp ; friendly Advice For all the Truehearted Subject's of ENGLAND . To the Tune of , Five Sails of Frigates bound for Maligo . C Hear up all true Subject's , and seen not to frown , But show your selves joyful , though trading is down , Serve God night and day , with a Heart just and free , And the Nation will after it soon happy be . O never seem amazed , nor murmuring stand , To see Trade and Traffic so down in the Land , But serve God , and keep his Commandments free , And the Nation will after it soon happy be . Likewise leave your swearing , your cursing and pride , And embrace you your Bibles , let them be your Guide , Read them and regard them , with a Heart good & amp ; free , And then you a happy sweet Kingdom shall see . Also there is Whoredom and Drunckenness too , Used much in this Kingdom , which makes many rue , But leave off such Sins , and you quickly shall see , That England a happy sweet Kingdom will be . For Since the main cause , we may all understand , Makes Trading so dead and decayed in the Land , And the Lord sure is angry , our actions to see , But let's hearty Repent and we happy shall be . Then let me advice , both the Young and the Old , To leave wicked Vice , and on Scripture lay hold , And laid in your Hearts , and you quickly shall see , The Lrod take your parts , and you happy will be . These Verses of mine , here which to you I write , Are truths of a certain , then follow them quite , And do as these Verses does wish , and you'll see , That England a flourishing Nation will be . That is to serve God and to Honour King James , Who will be a easer of these your Extremes , For his great care and goodness is for us amain , And will help famous England to Trading again . For his Ships are preparing and fit for the Seas , To out-Nations , bearing Englands Mercandize , God send them a prosperous Voyage over the Main , Then England still flourish when they come again . Then follow your Labour , Boys stand to your stint , For there's Money a making , great store in the Mint , And you shall have share oned , if you'll careful be , And England a Flourishing Nation you'll see . The Wool Trade in England hath long been decayed , But lately in London , a Contract was made , That none but by Licence should follow it free , Then this a fine Flourishing calling will be . The poor Spinners that to the Wooll-Combers , do work , And by them was held down , as slaves to the Turk , Yet soon shall they find a good comfort , and see That England a Flourishing Nation will be . So God save King James and the Peers of his Land , Lord prosper and keep them with thy Mighty Hand , That they the true Protestant Church may maintain , And God send good Trading in England again . So you that have herd these Verses I've penned , Pray love one another , take me as your Friend , And mind well their [ Fruits ] which is your just thing , Pray serve God Almighty and Honour your King . No more at this present , I mean to relate , But to all the Kings Subjects I this Dedicate , And what here is Printed , I hope you will find , Ever long to be true , and so bear it in mind . FINIS . Printed for J. Clark , W. Thackery , and T. Passenger . A comfortable & amp ; friendly Advice For all the Truehearted Subject's of ENGLAND . To the Tune of , Five Sails of Frigates bound for Maligo . C Hear up all true Subject's , and seen not to frown , But show your selves joyful , though trading is down , Serve God night and day , with a Heart just and free , And the Nation will after it soon happy be . O never seem amazed , nor murmuring stand , To see Trade and Traffic so down in the Land , But serve God , and keep his Commandments free , And the Nation will after it soon happy be . Likewise leave your swearing , your cursing and pride , And embrace you your Bibles , let them be your Guide , Read them and regard them , with a Heart good & amp ; free , And then you a happy sweet Kingdom shall see . Also there is Whoredom and Drunckenness too , Used much in this Kingdom , which makes many rue , But leave off such Sins , and you quickly shall see , That England a happy sweet Kingdom will be . For Since the main cause , we may all understand , Makes Trading so dead and decayed in the Land , And the Lord sure is angry , our actions to see , But let's hearty Repent and we happy shall be . Then let me advice , both the Young and the Old , To leave wicked Vice , and on Scripture lay hold , And laid in your Hearts , and you quickly shall see , The Lrod take your parts , and you happy will be . These Verses of mine , here which to you I write , Are truths of a certain , then follow them quite , And do as these Verses does wish , and you'll see , That England a flourishing Nation will be . That is to serve God and to Honour King James , Who will be a easer of these your Extremes , For his great care and goodness is for us amain , And will help famous England to Trading again . For his Ships are preparing and fit for the Seas , To out-Nations , bearing Englands Mercandize , God send them a prosperous Voyage over the Main , Then England still flourish when they come again . Then follow your Labour , Boys stand to your stint , For there's Money a making , great store in the Mint , And you shall have share oned , if you'll careful be , And England a Flourishing Nation you'll see . The Wool Trade in England hath long been decayed , But lately in London , a Contract was made , That none but by Licence should follow it free , Then this a fine Flourishing calling will be . The poor Spinners that to the Wooll-Combers , do work , And by them was held down , as slaves to the Turk , Yet soon shall they find a good comfort , and see That England a Flourishing Nation will be . So God save King James and the Peers of his Land , Lord prosper and keep them with thy Mighty Hand , That they the true Protestant Church may maintain , And God send good Trading in England again . So you that have herd these Verses I've penned , Pray love one another , take me as your Friend , And mind well their [ Fruits ] which is your just thing , Pray serve God Almighty and Honour your King . No more at this present , I mean to relate , But to all the Kings Subjects I this Dedicate , And what here is Printed , I hope you will find , Ever long to be true , and so bear it in mind . FINIS . Printed for J. Clark , W. Thackery , and T. Passenger . 