Great Britains Earnest Desires FOR THE Princess MARYS Happy Arrival . Being the Protestants firm Hope and Resolution of the preservation of [ our ] Laws and Liberties . Tune of , Grim King , etc S Weet Princess the Nations delight , and joy of each Protestant Soul , Whose Highness we here do invite , the Roman shall never control : We all are united in love , then hasten soon over the Sea : [ You ] be ordained by the Powers abov : [ the Glory of Britain to be . ] The Tower great Canons shall roar , the Bells' shall as merrily ring ; To welcome her Highness on shore , who Heavenly Blessings does bring . Long may she prosper and Reign , and keep from her Enemies free , And hasten now over the Main , the glory of Britain to be . All Noble great Persons of Fame , rejoice at this royal good day , Wherein they [ ' ] r resolved to maintain our Rights , Room ' s rage to allay : A Protestant placed in the Throne and by the high Heavens decree , Her Highness all people do own the glory of Britain to be . Sweet Neptune the god of the Seas , afford her a sweet pleasant gale , That may not her Highness displease , while she is in bark under Sail ; And bring her here safe to the Town , attended with Nobility ; As being of royal renown , the G lory of Britain to be . The Protestants now in all parts they hope for a prosperous Reign : And with a true consort of hearts they sweetly strike all in a strain : Long , long let her live to enjoy the height of her great Dignity ; And Popery clearly destroy : the glory of Britain to be . We would root out the Relics of Room that may now grieve us again , Let banishment now be their doom , and every Soul say Amen : Her Highness we do understand is coming by Heavens Decree , To flourish and reign in this land , the glory of Britain to be . While hundreds and thousands doe throng to welcome her here to her own , May Angels conduct her along , she being next Heir to a Throne , To nourish Religion and Laws , ordained by the Heavens Decree , Defending the Protestants Cause , the glory of Britain to be . Let every soul be agreed to root out the pestilent French ; Away with the Jesuits breed , and give us and Orange sweet Babe . And likewise let this be our Prayer , now if it be Heavens Decree , To send a young Protestant Heir , the glory of Britain to be . printed for P. B . Great Britains Earnest Desires FOR THE Princess MARYS Happy Arrival . Being the Protestants firm Hope and Resolution of the preservation of [ our ] Laws and Liberties . Tune of , Grim King , etc S Weet Princess the Nations delight , and joy of each Protestant Soul , Whose Highness we here do invite , the Roman shall never control : We all are united in love , then hasten soon over the Sea : [ You ] be ordained by the Powers abov : [ the Glory of Britain to be . ] The Tower great Canons shall roar , the Bells' shall as merrily ring ; To welcome her Highness on shore , who Heavenly Blessings does bring . Long may she prosper and Reign , and keep from her Enemies free , And hasten now over the Main , the glory of Britain to be . All Noble great Persons of Fame , rejoice at this royal good day , Wherein they [ ' ] r resolved to maintain our Rights , Room ' s rage to allay : A Protestant placed in the Throne and by the high Heavens decree , Her Highness all people do own the glory of Britain to be . Sweet Neptune the god of the Seas , afford her a sweet pleasant gale , That may not her Highness displease , while she is in bark under Sail ; And bring her here safe to the Town , attended with Nobility ; As being of royal renown , the G lory of Britain to be . The Protestants now in all parts they hope for a prosperous Reign : And with a true consort of hearts they sweetly strike all in a strain : Long , long let her live to enjoy the height of her great Dignity ; And Popery clearly destroy : the glory of Britain to be . We would root out the Relics of Room that may now grieve us again , Let banishment now be their doom , and every Soul say Amen : Her Highness we do understand is coming by Heavens Decree , To flourish and reign in this land , the glory of Britain to be . While hundreds and thousands doe throng to welcome her here to her own , May Angels conduct her along , she being next Heir to a Throne , To nourish Religion and Laws , ordained by the Heavens Decree , Defending the Protestants Cause , the glory of Britain to be . Let every soul be agreed to root out the pestilent French ; Away with the Jesuits breed , and give us and Orange sweet Babe . And likewise let this be our Prayer , now if it be Heavens Decree , To send a young Protestant Heir , the glory of Britain to be . printed for P. B. 