THE Rare Virtue of and Orange ; OR , Popery purged and expelled out of the Nation . To the Tune of , The Pudding . G Ood People come buy The Fruit that I cry , That now is in season , though Winter is nigh ; It'll do you all good , And sweeten your Blood ; I'm sure it will please when you've once understood it's and Orange . Its Cordial Juice , Does much Vigour produce : I may well recommend it to every men use , Though some it quite chills , And with fear almost kills , Yet certain each healthy Man benefit feels by and Orange . Perhaps you may think That the Jesuits stink , Because that they can't get away with their Chink ; For Hemp is their Doom , If they dare to presume , To tarry so long as to smell the Perfume of and Orange , Dear Teague and his Fellow's Come over the Main , And thought in Great-Brittain like Landlords to Reign ; They played for our Houses , And lost them again , Some of those deer-Joys now has met with their bane , by and Orange . The Friars and Jesuits Thought to excel , By singing , and Ringing their Tantany - Bell ; But there is nothing That can ever do so well , The Poison of P ---- y quite to expel , as and Orange . There's Old Father P ---- s , Religious and Chaste , Has left all his lasses that once he embraced And now he is scoured Away in all haste , Because that he cannot endure the sharp taste of and Orange . Old Stories rehearse , In Prose and in Verse , How a Welsh child was found by loving of cheese Then the smelling sense , Now may prove the true Prince , And all the whole Nation of folly convince by and Orange . If they Cure the ails Of England and Wales , And with the Old Jesuits fill all the Goals , Who strove the whole Nation , Alas ! to deceive , And now at old Tyburn let them take their leave of and Orange . Though the Mobile bawl , Like the Devil and all , For Religion , Property , Justice and Laws , Yet in very good sooth , I'll tell you the truth , There nothing is better to stop a man's mouth then and Orange . Printed for A. B . THE Rare Virtue of and Orange ; OR , Popery purged and expelled out of the Nation . To the Tune of , The Pudding . G Ood People come buy The Fruit that I cry , That now is in season , though Winter is nigh ; It'll do you all good , And sweeten your Blood ; I'm sure it will please when you've once understood it's and Orange . Its Cordial Juice , Does much Vigour produce : I may well recommend it to every men use , Though some it quite chills , And with fear almost kills , Yet certain each healthy Man benefit feels by and Orange . Perhaps you may think That the Jesuits stink , Because that they can't get away with their Chink ; For Hemp is their Doom , If they dare to presume , To tarry so long as to smell the Perfume of and Orange , Dear Teague and his Fellow's Come over the Main , And thought in Great-Brittain like Landlords to Reign ; They played for our Houses , And lost them again , Some of those deer-Joys now has met with their bane , by and Orange . The Friars and Jesuits Thought to excel , By singing , and Ringing their Tantany - Bell ; But there is nothing That can ever do so well , The Poison of P ---- y quite to expel , as and Orange . There's Old Father P ---- s , Religious and Chaste , Has left all his lasses that once he embraced And now he is scoured Away in all haste , Because that he cannot endure the sharp taste of and Orange . Old Stories rehearse , In Prose and in Verse , How a Welsh child was found by loving of cheese Then the smelling sense , Now may prove the true Prince , And all the whole Nation of folly convince by and Orange . If they Cure the ails Of England and Wales , And with the Old Jesuits fill all the Goals , Who strove the whole Nation , Alas ! to deceive , And now at old Tyburn let them take their leave of and Orange . Though the Mobile bawl , Like the Devil and all , For Religion , Property , Justice and Laws , Yet in very good sooth , I'll tell you the truth , There nothing is better to stop a man's mouth then and Orange . Printed for A. B. 