Great Brittains GLORY , OR , The Protestants Confidence in a Free Parliament . How many Evils did attend this drooping L and of late ; To which I hope they'll put and end , and settle Church and State . The Tune is , Touch of the Times , etc . L Et all Honest Protestants merrily sing , For to your great comfort , glad tidings I bring , To cheer up the Spirits of every Soul , Who did on the Sorrows of Brittain condole ; The brave Prince of Orange is come to subdue The Friars , a [ n ] worser all the whole Jesuit Crew , And Crown the whole Nation with perfect Content , In having the choice of a free Parliament . Found Men of undoubted Integrity , Will use their endeavour the Nation to free . From that slavish Yoke which we justly did fear , Which Room would have lain upon Protestants here ; But having a Valiant and Renowned Prince , Who venters his Life in the Kingdoms defence ; Then let's be united in Love and Content ; And we shall be blessed in this free Parliament . Some Time-serving Persons were trusted of late , With more than was reason in matters of State , As being Ambitious of Fame and Renown , They strove for to trample our Liberties down ; Yet while they did exercise this insolence , We did not dare speak in our own just defence ; But now to our Comfort and perfect Content , We hope to blessed in the free Parliament . The Jesuits thought it would never be day , While here they did bear such and absolute sway ; They frowned on the Protestants , cursing the Test , But now at the last comes the cream of the Jest , Brave Orange he brought in and Army and Fleet , Which made the poor Jesuits forced to retreat , And some that are taken to Prison are sent , And trembles for fear of a free Parliament . Our Charters was taken away when they pleased , And the Learned Bishops unworthily seized , And hurried to Prison like Criminals then , But God in his Mercy restored them again ; Now those that for Honour the Laws overruled , In process of time will be plaguely Schooled ; Alas ! it will then be too late to repent , We being all blessed with a free Parliament . All places of Trust was committed to those , Who then was the Churches implacable Foes , And daily they acted contrary to Law , To keep the poor Protestants always in Awe , But Heaven was pleased in mercy to send , A brave Prince of Orange to be our good Friend , Then let us receive him with Joy and Content , And we shall be blessed with a free Parliament . This vast undertaking may Chronicled be , If that we consider it in each degree , He came to this Nation for Protestants good , And Conquered without the effusion of Blood ; A thing never known in all [ a ] ges before , But God would in mercy in People restore ; Then let us endeavour of since to repent , And we may be blessed in a free Parliament . The French King in wrath he does threaten us still , And if such a Tyrant might have his will , The Protestants he would soon Sacrifice , By bloody strange tortures which he would devise ; TO hen let us all pray the Lord may be our guide , Then Brittain may pull down this Tyrants great pride , And England may flourish with Joy and Content , And blessed in the choice of a free Parliament . Since the Prince of Orange is come to our aid , We hope soon to flourish and have a good Trade ; Let us be united like true Christians all , A and then our Enemies hope's will be small ; TO here's none but Divisions that ever can wrong TO hese Protestant Nations , to which we belong ; Let's all be united in Love , by Consent , Then shall we be blessed in a free Parliament . TO he Papists now wishes they may not agree , TO heigh always desire distraction to see ; But being all Protestant Members , never doubt , But they will be careful here how they fallen out ; Let Heavenly blessings fallen down like a Due , Upon the great Prince , and the Parliament too , A and we may enjoy here Peace , Love , and Content , And blessed in the Protestant free Parliament . Printed for J. WORSER . Great Brittains GLORY , OR , The Protestants Confidence in a Free Parliament . How many Evils did attend this drooping L and of late ; To which I hope they'll put and end , and settle Church and State . The Tune is , Touch of the Times , etc . L Et all Honest Protestants merrily sing , For to your great comfort , glad tidings I bring , To cheer up the Spirits of every Soul , Who did on the Sorrows of Brittain condole ; The brave Prince of Orange is come to subdue The Friars , a [ n ] worser all the whole Jesuit Crew , And Crown the whole Nation with perfect Content , In having the choice of a free Parliament . Found Men of undoubted Integrity , Will use their endeavour the Nation to free . From that slavish Yoke which we justly did fear , Which Room would have lain upon Protestants here ; But having a Valiant and Renowned Prince , Who venters his Life in the Kingdoms defence ; Then let's be united in Love and Content ; And we shall be blessed in this free Parliament . Some Time-serving Persons were trusted of late , With more than was reason in matters of State , As being Ambitious of Fame and Renown , They strove for to trample our Liberties down ; Yet while they did exercise this insolence , We did not dare speak in our own just defence ; But now to our Comfort and perfect Content , We hope to blessed in the free Parliament . The Jesuits thought it would never be day , While here they did bear such and absolute sway ; They frowned on the Protestants , cursing the Test , But now at the last comes the cream of the Jest , Brave Orange he brought in and Army and Fleet , Which made the poor Jesuits forced to retreat , And some that are taken to Prison are sent , And trembles for fear of a free Parliament . Our Charters was taken away when they pleased , And the Learned Bishops unworthily seized , And hurried to Prison like Criminals then , But God in his Mercy restored them again ; Now those that for Honour the Laws overruled , In process of time will be plaguely Schooled ; Alas ! it will then be too late to repent , We being all blessed with a free Parliament . All places of Trust was committed to those , Who then was the Churches implacable Foes , And daily they acted contrary to Law , To keep the poor Protestants always in Awe , But Heaven was pleased in mercy to send , A brave Prince of Orange to be our good Friend , Then let us receive him with Joy and Content , And we shall be blessed with a free Parliament . This vast undertaking may Chronicled be , If that we consider it in each degree , He came to this Nation for Protestants good , And Conquered without the effusion of Blood ; A thing never known in all [ a ] ges before , But God would in mercy in People restore ; Then let us endeavour of since to repent , And we may be blessed in a free Parliament . The French King in wrath he does threaten us still , And if such a Tyrant might have his will , The Protestants he would soon Sacrifice , By bloody strange tortures which he would devise ; TO hen let us all pray the Lord may be our guide , Then Brittain may pull down this Tyrants great pride , And England may flourish with Joy and Content , And blessed in the choice of a free Parliament . Since the Prince of Orange is come to our aid , We hope soon to flourish and have a good Trade ; Let us be united like true Christians all , A and then our Enemies hope's will be small ; TO here's none but Divisions that ever can wrong TO hese Protestant Nations , to which we belong ; Let's all be united in Love , by Consent , Then shall we be blessed in a free Parliament . TO he Papists now wishes they may not agree , TO heigh always desire distraction to see ; But being all Protestant Members , never doubt , But they will be careful here how they fallen out ; Let Heavenly blessings fallen down like a Due , Upon the great Prince , and the Parliament too , A and we may enjoy here Peace , Love , and Content , And blessed in the Protestant free Parliament . Printed for J. D. 