THE Protestant's Satisfaction ; OR , The Joy and Glory of HAMPTON-COURT , In the Birth of a young Prince Born of Her Royal Highness the Princess ANNE of DENMARK on the 24th . of this instant July , to the universal Joy of the whole Kingdom . To the Tune of , Protestant Boys shall carry the day . Licensed and Entered according to Order . P Rotestants now your Glory proclaim , see what the Hand of Heaven has done , Valiant Prince George , of Honour and Fame , now do's enjoy a Royal young Son , Who in time may sway the Sceptre , and like the Prince pull Popery down : Let Room and her Faction be all in distraction , while we have and Heir to the Royal Crown . This happy News no sooner was known but all true hearts was pleasant and free , From the Great King that sets on the Throne , to the Protestant Nobility ; All the Commons was well pleased , nothing but Joy was seen in the Town : Let Room , etc Long may he live to Flourish and Reign , every true Soul do's heartily pray , Protestant Subject's Rights to maintain , and the most Royal Sceptre to sway , That the Roman may be Rooted out of the Court , the City and Town , Let Room and her Faction be all in Distraction , while we have and Heir to the Royal Crown . Joy to the Thrice-renowned Prince George , and his dear Lady in her sweet Son ; Heaven in them ispleased to enlarge The Royal Raze for Ages to come . May the Kingdom now be joyful , and all the Papists lower and frown : Let them and their , etc The Four and twentieth day of July it was the day of his Royal Birth ; Nobles of true Integrity honoured the same with Triumph and M irth , Bells was Ringing , Trumpets sounding , Protestants laughed though Papists did frown : For they and their Faction , etc Protestants Peers that day to adorn , Guinea's let fly in plentiful sort : The Royal Babe no sooner was Born but his good Health was drank at the Court ; Then through famous London City , many good Healths went merrily round , Yet Room , etc While speedy Fame was Posting on Wing , for to convey the Tidings all over , Loyal Huzza's through London did Ring , ay , and the loud mouthed Cannons did roar From the Wharves like Claps of Thunder , the which did echo through the Town : But Rome , etc To King and Queen full Bumpers went round , who do's the Rights of Britain maintain ; M aybe the Romish Rebels confound , that they may have a prosperous Reign ; Then Prince George with his sweet Lady , and the young Babe of Royal Renown : But Rome , etc God bless Prince George with the Princess Anne , and likewise the young sweet Protestant Air ; Every Loyal true hearted man ever be found to make that his Prayer ; That the Church and State may flourish , I and in fine pull popery down : And let Room and their Faction be all in distraction , while we have and Heir to the Royal Crown . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . THE Protestant's Satisfaction ; OR , The Joy and Glory of HAMPTON-COURT , In the Birth of a young Prince Born of Her Royal Highness the Princess ANNE of DENMARK on the 24th . of this instant July , to the universal Joy of the whole Kingdom . To the Tune of , Protestant Boys shall carry the day . Licensed and Entered according to Order . P Rotestants now your Glory proclaim , see what the Hand of Heaven has done , Valiant Prince George , of Honour and Fame , now do's enjoy a Royal young Son , Who in time may sway the Sceptre , and like the Prince pull Popery down : Let Room and her Faction be all in distraction , while we have and Heir to the Royal Crown . This happy News no sooner was known but all true hearts was pleasant and free , From the Great King that sets on the Throne , to the Protestant Nobility ; All the Commons was well pleased , nothing but Joy was seen in the Town : Let Room , etc Long may he live to Flourish and Reign , every true Soul do's heartily pray , Protestant Subject's Rights to maintain , and the most Royal Sceptre to sway , That the Roman may be Rooted out of the Court , the City and Town , Let Room and her Faction be all in Distraction , while we have and Heir to the Royal Crown . Joy to the Thrice-renowned Prince George , and his dear Lady in her sweet Son ; Heaven in them ispleased to enlarge The Royal Raze for Ages to come . May the Kingdom now be joyful , and all the Papists lower and frown : Let them and their , etc The Four and twentieth day of July it was the day of his Royal Birth ; Nobles of true Integrity honoured the same with Triumph and M irth , Bells was Ringing , Trumpets sounding , Protestants laughed though Papists did frown : For they and their Faction , etc Protestants Peers that day to adorn , Guinea's let fly in plentiful sort : The Royal Babe no sooner was Born but his good Health was drank at the Court ; Then through famous London City , many good Healths went merrily round , Yet Room , etc While speedy Fame was Posting on Wing , for to convey the Tidings all over , Loyal Huzza's through London did Ring , ay , and the loud mouthed Cannons did roar From the Wharves like Claps of Thunder , the which did echo through the Town : But Rome , etc To King and Queen full Bumpers went round , who do's the Rights of Britain maintain ; M aybe the Romish Rebels confound , that they may have a prosperous Reign ; Then Prince George with his sweet Lady , and the young Babe of Royal Renown : But Rome , etc God bless Prince George with the Princess Anne , and likewise the young sweet Protestant Air ; Every Loyal true hearted man ever be found to make that his Prayer ; That the Church and State may flourish , I and in fine pull popery down : And let Room and their Faction be all in distraction , while we have and Heir to the Royal Crown . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 