A Full Description of these Times ; Or The Prince of ORANGE's March from EXETER to LONDON ; And Father PETERS and the rest of the Jesuites put to flight . The Pope and Jesuites are undone , They could not England overcome To bring it into Popery , Though very boldly they did try ; Until a Prince came over the Main , And blasted all that they had done ; And now there is no more to be said , They run all away and hide their heads Tune of , Packingtons Pound , Country Farmer , Or , Digby's Farewell . N Owe let all true Protestants ever Rejoice , And render thanksgiving with heart and with voice , The Brave Prince of Orange has been our best friend , And Routed all Popery out of the Land , The blessing of God be upon him I say , And let every Protestant heartily pray , That would take upon him to do that great work , Now a Fig for the Devil the Pope and the Turk . Now , now the true Church it will flourish again , In England there will be no cause to complain , The Brave Prince of Orang he takes such great care , Secures all the Passages every where ; He'l have no Idolatry used in this Land , For the Gospel of Christ he will ever more stand , Let Pope and the Jesuits stay all at Room , [ He ] will not allow them in England to come . They have us tormented this three or four year , Since this course of Rome did in England appear ; But now they are gone to the Pope to Complain , If they can pass safely but over the Main ; Our Protestant Ships they may be in their way , They'll ask them some Questions , and cause them to stay ; They may be prevented from seeing the Pope , And Tyburn may Nooze them at last in a Rope . The fair Londons Tower the Prince does Command , And all the Sea-Ports that in England does stand ; Now he is in London with his Noble Train , The Bells' they did trowl it again and again ; The Bonfires did blaze , and the People rejoice , For joy of this Prince they did strain up their voice : The Lord he did bless him along in his way , To save and secure our Religion this day . This Protestant Army that came with the Prince , The Lord gives a Blessing to them ever since : The Catholic Irish are put to the Rout , And brave English Men they do Hallow and Shout : The Prince his own Soldiers are Men of Renown , And they are made much on in every Town : Let all English People then evermore pray , The Lord he may bless them by Night and by Day . They pay all their Quarters most honest and brave , They charge not the Country for ought that they have ; This Army with God it is blessed to be sure , And that Prince their Leader , may with them endure : God grant him long life the true Church to maintain : And true Government be in England again , For the Popes a deciever and Jesuites too , In Pardoning of sins is more then they can do . The Irish Bravadoes did fight it is said , But our English Soldiers away from them fled ; They said they fight in our Religions defence , And so they marched away to the Prince , And said for the Church of England they stand , As long as they could hold a Sword in their hand ; They'll not be drawn in for to fight the Popes Cause , Against their Religion the Church and the Laws . And now a free Parliament's that we do crave , For the Prince and the Nobles they say we shall have , To see [ tO ] tle the Laws , and will give all content , It cannot be done but by a Parliament : Then every poor man will be kept in supply , It will fill all the Nation with Mirth and with Joy ; Then a fig for the Jesuits and Pope of Rome , That has lost there Maß-houses in England so soon . When the Laws are well settled , and peace does remain , In England we shall have brave trading again ; Our religion's secured , and the Church is set free , It will be a great comfort for all men to see , That the Gospel may flourish and have its full course , And not be endangered by the French Force , And the true Church of England to stand its own [ ground , ] That the Gospel of Christ my have its full found . FINIS . Printed for A. B . A Full Description of these Times ; Or The Prince of ORANGE's March from EXETER to LONDON ; And Father PETERS and the rest of the Jesuites put to flight . The Pope and Jesuites are undone , They could not England overcome To bring it into Popery , Though very boldly they did try ; Until a Prince came over the Main , And blasted all that they had done ; And now there is no more to be said , They run all away and hide their heads Tune of , Packingtons Pound , Country Farmer , Or , Digby's Farewell . N Owe let all true Protestants ever Rejoice , And render thanksgiving with heart and with voice , The Brave Prince of Orange has been our best friend , And Routed all Popery out of the Land , The blessing of God be upon him I say , And let every Protestant heartily pray , That would take upon him to do that great work , Now a Fig for the Devil the Pope and the Turk . Now , now the true Church it will flourish again , In England there will be no cause to complain , The Brave Prince of Orang he takes such great care , Secures all the Passages every where ; He'l have no Idolatry used in this Land , For the Gospel of Christ he will ever more stand , Let Pope and the Jesuits stay all at Room , [ He ] will not allow them in England to come . They have us tormented this three or four year , Since this course of Rome did in England appear ; But now they are gone to the Pope to Complain , If they can pass safely but over the Main ; Our Protestant Ships they may be in their way , They'll ask them some Questions , and cause them to stay ; They may be prevented from seeing the Pope , And Tyburn may Nooze them at last in a Rope . The fair Londons Tower the Prince does Command , And all the Sea-Ports that in England does stand ; Now he is in London with his Noble Train , The Bells' they did trowl it again and again ; The Bonfires did blaze , and the People rejoice , For joy of this Prince they did strain up their voice : The Lord he did bless him along in his way , To save and secure our Religion this day . This Protestant Army that came with the Prince , The Lord gives a Blessing to them ever since : The Catholic Irish are put to the Rout , And brave English Men they do Hallow and Shout : The Prince his own Soldiers are Men of Renown , And they are made much on in every Town : Let all English People then evermore pray , The Lord he may bless them by Night and by Day . They pay all their Quarters most honest and brave , They charge not the Country for ought that they have ; This Army with God it is blessed to be sure , And that Prince their Leader , may with them endure : God grant him long life the true Church to maintain : And true Government be in England again , For the Popes a deciever and Jesuites too , In Pardoning of sins is more then they can do . The Irish Bravadoes did fight it is said , But our English Soldiers away from them fled ; They said they fight in our Religions defence , And so they marched away to the Prince , And said for the Church of England they stand , As long as they could hold a Sword in their hand ; They'll not be drawn in for to fight the Popes Cause , Against their Religion the Church and the Laws . And now a free Parliament's that we do crave , For the Prince and the Nobles they say we shall have , To see [ tO ] tle the Laws , and will give all content , It cannot be done but by a Parliament : Then every poor man will be kept in supply , It will fill all the Nation with Mirth and with Joy ; Then a fig for the Jesuits and Pope of Rome , That has lost there Maß-houses in England so soon . When the Laws are well settled , and peace does remain , In England we shall have brave trading again ; Our religion's secured , and the Church is set free , It will be a great comfort for all men to see , That the Gospel may flourish and have its full course , And not be endangered by the French Force , And the true Church of England to stand its own [ ground , ] That the Gospel of Christ my have its full found . FINIS . Printed for A. B. 