THE FAMOUS ORANGE : Or , and Excellent Antidote against Romish Poison . Tune of the Pudding . Licensed and Entered according to Order . TO Here's none can express , Your great Happiness , The like was never seen since the Days of Queen Bess A Nation enslaved , And Justice outbraved , To be thus redeemed , and gallantly saved , By and Orange . O who can declare , A thing that's so rare , To be thus delivered from Lion and Bear : Was the like ever seen , That both King and Queen . And the counterfeit Prince too , should thus loose [ tO ] heir Skreen , By and Orange . The Guns in the Tower Have desperate power , To fright all the City in less than and Hour ; But though Powder and Shot Be cursedly hight , [ I ] tO may yet be cooled , pray why may it not , With and Orange . The King was so bold To march through thee Could , Though he was so weak , so crazy and old ; To carry his Train , To Salisbury Plain , But soon was he frighted to turn back again , By and Orange . Our terrible Guns , And Catholic Sons , Did march with their Bullets , in Barrels and Tons ; But as People say , They kept Holiday , Till most of their Keepers were frighted away , By and Orange . Our Queen in a Fit Did storm up her Wit , To fight with as many , as she did think fit ; But G ------ and his N --- , With many a brave Man , To cure her Madness will do what they can , With and Orange . What brave gallant Tales Of our Prince of Wales Might easily be told , if it were not for Jails ; But time may evince This wondered Prince May prove but a Peasant , if once he but mince Of and Orange . All which to prevent , Our Queen was content , That he into France , should straightway be sent ; His birth to conceal , And Grandeur to steal , Till he is sufficiently able to deal , With and Orange Our Cathloicks rare Do bid very fair , To stand by the Dad , & amp ; his new fashioned Heir ; Some say they do well , But yet who can tell ? They all may sing backwards , because they do smell , Of and Orange . Our Friars and Devils And such kind of Evils , That pestered our Nation , has now god the Snivils ; Yet still they can croak , And keep on their Cloak , But thinking to swallow , they meet with a Choke , From and Orange . Our Irish Dear-Joys , And such Tory-Boys , That lately disturbed all our Nation with Noise ; and gave out their votes , For cutting of Throats ; There's nothing against them , can make Anti - dotes , Like and Orange . Alas what cursed Fate , Brought Teague and his Mate , To be thus exposed to Fury and Hate ; When they come to fight , For young Tyle'rs Right They should be thus shamefully put to the Flight , By and Orange ? Alloo , Allagone , Faith had we but known , The Tricks the damned English to us here have shown ; Weed taken up our Dwell , In St. Patricks Well , So had we escaped this damnable Smell . Of and Orange . What scampering play Do we see e'ry day ? What Monshish Devices , to run clear away ? Our Jesuits now Do both swear and vow , They run far enough , if they did but know how , From and Orange . O the Buck and the Doe , With many knows who : The King , and the Queen , and the Counterfeit too , Do strangely encroach By Boat and by Coach , As not being able to abide the Approach , Of and Orange . Now you Protestants all , That so your selves Call , Where ever you dwell , though it be at White-Hall : It does you behove Your time to improve , And while it's in Season learn quickly to love A Dutch Orange . For it you delay And trifle away Your time ( that is given to work in ) at play ; You'll surely be crossed , And dreadfully tossed , And sadly repent , you so foolishly lost , A Brave Orange . If you Love your lives , Religion and Wives , The turn out these Hornets , that lurk in your Hives : Don't let Dirt and Mud Run thorough your Blood ; For Protestant Stomach there's nothing so good As and Orange . This bold Roman Witch Has been digging a Ditch , And long time advancing with Spur and with Switch : Till your Fetters were fast , And your hope's were even past ; But Providence sent you a Medicine at last , In and Orange When you have god Power , Oh do not devour , Your Brothers ( as formerly ) every Hour : But let's all agree , to give Liberty , And bless God Almighty , for setting us free , By and Orange Printed for A. Milbourn , in Green Arbour-Court , in the Little-Old-Baily . THE FAMOUS ORANGE : Or , and Excellent Antidote against Romish Poison . Tune of the Pudding . Licensed and Entered according to Order . TO Here's none can express , Your great Happiness , The like was never seen since the Days of Queen Bess A Nation enslaved , And Justice outbraved , To be thus redeemed , and gallantly saved , By and Orange . O who can declare , A thing that's so rare , To be thus delivered from Lion and Bear : Was the like ever seen , That both King and Queen . And the counterfeit Prince too , should thus loose [ tO ] heir Skreen , By and Orange . The Guns in the Tower Have desperate power , To fright all the City in less than and Hour ; But though Powder and Shot Be cursedly hight , [ I ] tO may yet be cooled , pray why may it not , With and Orange . The King was so bold To march through thee Could , Though he was so weak , so crazy and old ; To carry his Train , To Salisbury Plain , But soon was he frighted to turn back again , By and Orange . Our terrible Guns , And Catholic Sons , Did march with their Bullets , in Barrels and Tons ; But as People say , They kept Holiday , Till most of their Keepers were frighted away , By and Orange . Our Queen in a Fit Did storm up her Wit , To fight with as many , as she did think fit ; But G ------ and his N --- , With many a brave Man , To cure her Madness will do what they can , With and Orange . What brave gallant Tales Of our Prince of Wales Might easily be told , if it were not for Jails ; But time may evince This wondered Prince May prove but a Peasant , if once he but mince Of and Orange . All which to prevent , Our Queen was content , That he into France , should straightway be sent ; His birth to conceal , And Grandeur to steal , Till he is sufficiently able to deal , With and Orange Our Cathloicks rare Do bid very fair , To stand by the Dad , & amp ; his new fashioned Heir ; Some say they do well , But yet who can tell ? They all may sing backwards , because they do smell , Of and Orange . Our Friars and Devils And such kind of Evils , That pestered our Nation , has now god the Snivils ; Yet still they can croak , And keep on their Cloak , But thinking to swallow , they meet with a Choke , From and Orange . Our Irish Dear-Joys , And such Tory-Boys , That lately disturbed all our Nation with Noise ; and gave out their votes , For cutting of Throats ; There's nothing against them , can make Anti - dotes , Like and Orange . Alas what cursed Fate , Brought Teague and his Mate , To be thus exposed to Fury and Hate ; When they come to fight , For young Tyle'rs Right They should be thus shamefully put to the Flight , By and Orange ? Alloo , Allagone , Faith had we but known , The Tricks the damned English to us here have shown ; Weed taken up our Dwell , In St. Patricks Well , So had we escaped this damnable Smell . Of and Orange . What scampering play Do we see e'ry day ? What Monshish Devices , to run clear away ? Our Jesuits now Do both swear and vow , They run far enough , if they did but know how , From and Orange . O the Buck and the Doe , With many knows who : The King , and the Queen , and the Counterfeit too , Do strangely encroach By Boat and by Coach , As not being able to abide the Approach , Of and Orange . Now you Protestants all , That so your selves Call , Where ever you dwell , though it be at White-Hall : It does you behove Your time to improve , And while it's in Season learn quickly to love A Dutch Orange . For it you delay And trifle away Your time ( that is given to work in ) at play ; You'll surely be crossed , And dreadfully tossed , And sadly repent , you so foolishly lost , A Brave Orange . If you Love your lives , Religion and Wives , The turn out these Hornets , that lurk in your Hives : Don't let Dirt and Mud Run thorough your Blood ; For Protestant Stomach there's nothing so good As and Orange . This bold Roman Witch Has been digging a Ditch , And long time advancing with Spur and with Switch : Till your Fetters were fast , And your hope's were even past ; But Providence sent you a Medicine at last , In and Orange When you have god Power , Oh do not devour , Your Brothers ( as formerly ) every Hour : But let's all agree , to give Liberty , And bless God Almighty , for setting us free , By and Orange Printed for A. Milbourn , in Green Arbour-Court , in the Little-Old-Baily . 