The Kingdoms Joy for the Proclaiming King William and his Royal Consort Queen Marry In the Throne of ENGLAND . Tune , Lilli Burlero . TO He Protestant Subjects of England rejoice , that you are so Blessed in so happy a Choice ; The Members unanimously are agreed : Brave Orange in England the Crown shall succeed ; Now our Rights and Privileges And our Religion He will maintain ; Heaven has chosen him , let none then oppose him , but bless him with Peace to the end of his reign . When Priests were set up , and the Bishops plucked down , Our Rights and our Liberties taken away ; Our Laws were oppressed by the weight of the Crown , And Subject's were slaved by a priest-riden sway : Brave King William nicked the moment , gave us our Rights to enjoy again : Heaven has chosen him , let none then oppose him , but bless him with peace to the end of his reign . He nobly ventured his Fortune to come , And Save us from being devoured by Room ; We ought to submit to his Regal Command , Who hazarded Life for to Rescue our Land , Popery which so lately disturbed us , He as quite driven over the Main : Heaven has chosen him , let none then oppose him , but bless him with peace to the end of his reign . Our Rights whom the Roman so greatly oppressed , Now under King William again we've possessed : How kind has his Aid , and how Just is his Cause , Who raised up our Church , and supported our Laws by his Care and great Assistance , Now we have broke the Romish Chain , heaven has chosen him , let none then oppose him , But bless him with peace to the end of his reign . May the King and our Nation forever agree , And then from Disorders our Land will be free , May grudges and all animosities cease , And may we be blessed both with plenty and peace , heavens prosper good King William , And may our Nation flourish again , heaven has chosen him , let none the oppose him , But bless him with peace to the end of his reign . May Royal Queen Marry his Consort live long , For ever be Fruitful , and ever be Young , That their Offspring futurely in the Throne may shine , And carry the Crown in a Protestant line : may no blessings ever be wanting , That they desire for to obtain heaven has chosen them , let none ever oppose they , But bless them with peace to the end of their reign . No Protestants here could refuse him their Votes , Who saved the vile Papists from cutting our Throats ; Therefore we ought our Allegiance to pay , And gladly submit to his Protestant sway ; our Church and Laws are both secure , Both he has promised for to maintain , heaven has chosen him , let none ever oppose him , But bless him with peace to the end of his reign . Welcome great King and the Queen to the Throne , Who set up our Laws , and plucked popery down ; May all the Three Kingdoms be speedily brought , To pay their Allegiance to you as they ought ; that the Crown in's Ancient Splendour , May appear toth' world again , and e'ry Blessing , that's worth the possessing , Attend our King William toth' end of his reign . Printed for J. B. 1689. The Kingdoms Joy for the Proclaiming King William and his Royal Consort Queen Marry In the Throne of ENGLAND . Tune , Lilli Burlero . TO He Protestant Subjects of England rejoice , that you are so Blessed in so happy a Choice ; The Members unanimously are agreed : Brave Orange in England the Crown shall succeed ; Now our Rights and Privileges And our Religion He will maintain ; Heaven has chosen him , let none then oppose him , but bless him with Peace to the end of his reign . When Priests were set up , and the Bishops plucked down , Our Rights and our Liberties taken away ; Our Laws were oppressed by the weight of the Crown , And Subject's were slaved by a priest-riden sway : Brave King William nicked the moment , gave us our Rights to enjoy again : Heaven has chosen him , let none then oppose him , but bless him with peace to the end of his reign . He nobly ventured his Fortune to come , And Save us from being devoured by Room ; We ought to submit to his Regal Command , Who hazarded Life for to Rescue our Land , Popery which so lately disturbed us , He as quite driven over the Main : Heaven has chosen him , let none then oppose him , but bless him with peace to the end of his reign . Our Rights whom the Roman so greatly oppressed , Now under King William again we've possessed : How kind has his Aid , and how Just is his Cause , Who raised up our Church , and supported our Laws by his Care and great Assistance , Now we have broke the Romish Chain , heaven has chosen him , let none then oppose him , But bless him with peace to the end of his reign . May the King and our Nation forever agree , And then from Disorders our Land will be free , May grudges and all animosities cease , And may we be blessed both with plenty and peace , heavens prosper good King William , And may our Nation flourish again , heaven has chosen him , let none the oppose him , But bless him with peace to the end of his reign . May Royal Queen Marry his Consort live long , For ever be Fruitful , and ever be Young , That their Offspring futurely in the Throne may shine , And carry the Crown in a Protestant line : may no blessings ever be wanting , That they desire for to obtain heaven has chosen them , let none ever oppose they , But bless them with peace to the end of their reign . No Protestants here could refuse him their Votes , Who saved the vile Papists from cutting our Throats ; Therefore we ought our Allegiance to pay , And gladly submit to his Protestant sway ; our Church and Laws are both secure , Both he has promised for to maintain , heaven has chosen him , let none ever oppose him , But bless him with peace to the end of his reign . Welcome great King and the Queen to the Throne , Who set up our Laws , and plucked popery down ; May all the Three Kingdoms be speedily brought , To pay their Allegiance to you as they ought ; that the Crown in's Ancient Splendour , May appear toth' world again , and e'ry Blessing , that's worth the possessing , Attend our King William toth' end of his reign . Printed for J. B. 1689. 