The Subject's Satisfaction , Being a new SONG of the Proclaiming King William and Queen Marry , on the 13 th . of this Instant February ; to the great Joy and Comfort of the whole Kingdom . To the Tune of , Grim King of the Ghosts : Or , Hail to the Myrtle Shades . K King William is come to the Throne , the Nations Defender to be , And this is a blessing we own , ordained by the Heavens decree ; Let Protestants truly rejoice , and Bells' to a [ ll ? ] merrily Ring , While all with a [ n a ] udable voice , cry God bless great William our King . Queen Marry his Royal Consort , invested with fame and renown , She is the bright Star of the Court , as being true Heir to the Crown ; Long may the both flourish and Reign , their fame thorough Europe to ring , While Subject's they cry out amain , God prosper great William our King . The Triumph of that Noble day , as they were in London proclaimed , Was duly observed e'ry way ; vast Burnfires gallantly flamed ; Canary was plenty and free , as water that flows from a Spring , While all in one voice did agree , saying God bless great William our King . As being released from the fear , which threatened this Nation of late , A blessing is come in the rear , to settle Religion and State , The Glory of Brittain is come , then Boys , let us merrily sing , And turn a Glass over your Thumb , with God save great William our King There is such a change in the Scene , which soon all our Rights will restore , A Protestant King and a Queen , the like was scarce ever before , Let loud acclamations resound , and make the high Elements ring , The Glory of Brittain is found , in our true Protestant King . Now good Queen Elizabeth is Laws , in full force and power shall stand , To maintain the Protestant Cause , and make this a flourishing Land , We'll purge out all Popery quite , which plots to this Nation did bring , And all in Obedience unite , to pray [ for ? gre ] at William our King . The Lords and the Commons agreed , and gave satisfaction to all ; Though Romans fa [ l ] se rumours did breed , and hoped they to variance would fallen , Yet Heaven has blessed the great work , which Joy to the Nation does bring , A fig for the French or the Turk , now we have a Protestant King . Except those that would us destroy , there is not a sorrowful Soul ; The land is transported with Joy , full bumbers does merrily troul : Great Guns at the Tower did rear , while fame she was boasting on wing , To carry the tidings all over , of William our Protestant King . Let Marry his Royal good Queen , be blessed by the powers above , And that to her Joy may be seen , a Mother ever long she may prove , And have a Male Heir of her own , whose fame may through Christedom ring And set in the height of the Throne ; to reign a true Protestant King , Printed for J. Deacon , in Guiltspur-street . The Subject's Satisfaction , Being a new SONG of the Proclaiming King William and Queen Marry , on the 13 th . of this Instant February ; to the great Joy and Comfort of the whole Kingdom . To the Tune of , Grim King of the Ghosts : Or , Hail to the Myrtle Shades . K King William is come to the Throne , the Nations Defender to be , And this is a blessing we own , ordained by the Heavens decree ; Let Protestants truly rejoice , and Bells' to a [ ll ? ] merrily Ring , While all with a [ n a ] udable voice , cry God bless great William our King . Queen Marry his Royal Consort , invested with fame and renown , She is the bright Star of the Court , as being true Heir to the Crown ; Long may the both flourish and Reign , their fame thorough Europe to ring , While Subject's they cry out amain , God prosper great William our King . The Triumph of that Noble day , as they were in London proclaimed , Was duly observed e'ry way ; vast Burnfires gallantly flamed ; Canary was plenty and free , as water that flows from a Spring , While all in one voice did agree , saying God bless great William our King . As being released from the fear , which threatened this Nation of late , A blessing is come in the rear , to settle Religion and State , The Glory of Brittain is come , then Boys , let us merrily sing , And turn a Glass over your Thumb , with God save great William our King There is such a change in the Scene , which soon all our Rights will restore , A Protestant King and a Queen , the like was scarce ever before , Let loud acclamations resound , and make the high Elements ring , The Glory of Brittain is found , in our true Protestant King . Now good Queen Elizabeth is Laws , in full force and power shall stand , To maintain the Protestant Cause , and make this a flourishing Land , We'll purge out all Popery quite , which plots to this Nation did bring , And all in Obedience unite , to pray [ for ? gre ] at William our King . The Lords and the Commons agreed , and gave satisfaction to all ; Though Romans fa [ l ] se rumours did breed , and hoped they to variance would fallen , Yet Heaven has blessed the great work , which Joy to the Nation does bring , A fig for the French or the Turk , now we have a Protestant King . Except those that would us destroy , there is not a sorrowful Soul ; The land is transported with Joy , full bumbers does merrily troul : Great Guns at the Tower did rear , while fame she was boasting on wing , To carry the tidings all over , of William our Protestant King . Let Marry his Royal good Queen , be blessed by the powers above , And that to her Joy may be seen , a Mother ever long she may prove , And have a Male Heir of her own , whose fame may through Christedom ring And set in the height of the Throne ; to reign a true Protestant King , Printed for J. Deacon , in Guiltspur-street . 