ENGLANDS Triumph , OR , The Kingdoms Joy for the proclaiming of King William , and His Royal Consort , Queen Marry , in the Throne of ENGLAND , on the 13th . of this instant February . 1688. To the Tune of , Thundering Cannons roar . N owe the Royal deed is done , King William is seated on the Throne , and we his Subject's justly own , He was our preservation : We our Lives and Fortune's owe , To him who did that now'r overthrow , And laid the Cross and Miter low , which so disturbed our Nation . His Royal Consort's now come over , To bless with him our English shore , What can Subjects covet more , then such a pair to Rule us , The Glories of our Court are clear , Now Room is dark Clouds all disappear , And shall no more overcast us here , nor send their priests to fool us . When vile popery ruled the Throne , And nought without a priest was done , Those pimps to the whore of Babylon , who love to raise Sedition : Our Bishops claped into the Tower , and we expecting every hour , When Room should all our land devour ; how bad was our Condition . Till our brave P rince William came , Who smote the Babylonian Dame , And brought her Tod-pole Tools to shame , redeemed us all from Slavery : Now we enjoy our Rights again , We all their popish slights disdain , And live secure beneath his Reign , who scorns their Romish Knavery . Englands Church so much oppressed Of all its Rights now repossessed , With all its Sacred Glories blessed , it shines in Heavenly splendour , May it ever so endure , A and everlasting peace procure , For him who keeps our Church secure , and crushed the Romish Grandieur . Now Injustice is plucked down , The Lords those Jewels of the Crown , Will glittering stand about the Throne , to show it in its Glories , While the Roman void of hope , A re half in danger of a Rope , They bite their thumbs and curse the pope , and wish rheyed ve're been Tories . God preserve the Royal pair , May Heavens bless them with and Heir , For 'twould end brave Englands care , and bless our Isle hereafter : When Royal Sons they have good store , So many that they ask no more , May Heavens kindness never give over , but bless them with a Daughter . May they all delights obtain , P rove happy in a prosperous Reign , And every thing they wish for gain , and prove to them a blessing : P lenty of Treasure bless his Store , A and peace flow all his Kingdom over , May he meet with all things more , that's worth a Kings possessing , Printed for W. Thackeray in Duck-lane . ENGLANDS Triumph , OR , The Kingdoms Joy for the proclaiming of King William , and His Royal Consort , Queen Marry , in the Throne of ENGLAND , on the 13th . of this instant February . 1688. To the Tune of , Thundering Cannons roar . N owe the Royal deed is done , King William is seated on the Throne , and we his Subject's justly own , He was our preservation : We our Lives and Fortune's owe , To him who did that now'r overthrow , And laid the Cross and Miter low , which so disturbed our Nation . His Royal Consort's now come over , To bless with him our English shore , What can Subjects covet more , then such a pair to Rule us , The Glories of our Court are clear , Now Room is dark Clouds all disappear , And shall no more overcast us here , nor send their priests to fool us . When vile popery ruled the Throne , And nought without a priest was done , Those pimps to the whore of Babylon , who love to raise Sedition : Our Bishops claped into the Tower , and we expecting every hour , When Room should all our land devour ; how bad was our Condition . Till our brave P rince William came , Who smote the Babylonian Dame , And brought her Tod-pole Tools to shame , redeemed us all from Slavery : Now we enjoy our Rights again , We all their popish slights disdain , And live secure beneath his Reign , who scorns their Romish Knavery . Englands Church so much oppressed Of all its Rights now repossessed , With all its Sacred Glories blessed , it shines in Heavenly splendour , May it ever so endure , A and everlasting peace procure , For him who keeps our Church secure , and crushed the Romish Grandieur . Now Injustice is plucked down , The Lords those Jewels of the Crown , Will glittering stand about the Throne , to show it in its Glories , While the Roman void of hope , A re half in danger of a Rope , They bite their thumbs and curse the pope , and wish rheyed ve're been Tories . God preserve the Royal pair , May Heavens bless them with and Heir , For 'twould end brave Englands care , and bless our Isle hereafter : When Royal Sons they have good store , So many that they ask no more , May Heavens kindness never give over , but bless them with a Daughter . May they all delights obtain , P rove happy in a prosperous Reign , And every thing they wish for gain , and prove to them a blessing : P lenty of Treasure bless his Store , A and peace flow all his Kingdom over , May he meet with all things more , that's worth a Kings possessing , Printed for W. Thackeray in Duck-lane . 