The ROYAL Dignity : OR , The Happy Accession of the Thrice Renowned King William and Queen Marry to the Stately Crown of England , which was Celebrated in a most Magnificent manner , on the 11 th . of April , 1689. The Tune is , My sweet Corydon . Licensed according to Order . N Oble English Boys , here's a thousand Joys , with a Protestant King and Queen , Which the Heavens sent , Romans to prevent , changing the Superstitious scene : Some Priests flew like Chaff before the wind , others are confined , to receive their doom , While King William is Crowned , and Renowned , in the very spite of Rome . Now no Jesuit shall in Council fit , or be trusted in affairs of State , None such Vipers dare , to the Court repair , we had enough of them of late : Sion now shall flourish once again , in this happy Reign from all danger free , Now King William is Crowned , and renowned , with his Royal Dignity . On this day of fame , the chief Nobles came , all the Town was with Triumph filled , With their Ladies gay , in as rich array , as ever Mortal Eyes beheld : Joy and Glory did attend the Train , no one could refrain , but the blessings own , While our King was seen , with his Queen , seated on the Royal Throne . For their high descent , gives the Land content , being born of the Royal Raze , The rich Diadem , he becomes it then , with such a most Majestic Grace , Which did Joy to all his Subject's bring , seeing of their King , in his Royal Robe , A and resolve to fight , with delight , make him Lord of all the Globe . Healths went fairly round , with knees to the ground while soft Music did sweetly play , A and the Cannons roar , from the Tower shore , all for to celebrate the day ; From the thrice Renowned , to the mean , drink to King and Queen , on their bent knees , A and when he shall call , they will all , cross the raging roaring Seas . That we may subdue , Talbot and his Crew , making Brittain with glory shine ; Since King William came , who is Crowned with fam [ e ] blessed by a power most divine : Since the work so far is carried on , there is scarce a Man , but will there presume , In the spite of France , now advance to the very gates of Rome . Let the Roman rave , while we them outbrave , since great William is Crowned King Let them fret and Chafe , while our Church is safe under his gracious Princely wing ; Our sharp Swords shall fairly reap the Field , and make papists yield , to a prince of Fame , We'll make all his Foes , with our blows , tremble at his Royal Name . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , in Pye-Corner . The ROYAL Dignity : OR , The Happy Accession of the Thrice Renowned King William and Queen Marry to the Stately Crown of England , which was Celebrated in a most Magnificent manner , on the 11 th . of April , 1689. The Tune is , My sweet Corydon . Licensed according to Order . N Oble English Boys , here's a thousand Joys , with a Protestant King and Queen , Which the Heavens sent , Romans to prevent , changing the Superstitious scene : Some Priests flew like Chaff before the wind , others are confined , to receive their doom , While King William is Crowned , and Renowned , in the very spite of Rome . Now no Jesuit shall in Council fit , or be trusted in affairs of State , None such Vipers dare , to the Court repair , we had enough of them of late : Sion now shall flourish once again , in this happy Reign from all danger free , Now King William is Crowned , and renowned , with his Royal Dignity . On this day of fame , the chief Nobles came , all the Town was with Triumph filled , With their Ladies gay , in as rich array , as ever Mortal Eyes beheld : Joy and Glory did attend the Train , no one could refrain , but the blessings own , While our King was seen , with his Queen , seated on the Royal Throne . For their high descent , gives the Land content , being born of the Royal Raze , The rich Diadem , he becomes it then , with such a most Majestic Grace , Which did Joy to all his Subject's bring , seeing of their King , in his Royal Robe , A and resolve to fight , with delight , make him Lord of all the Globe . Healths went fairly round , with knees to the ground while soft Music did sweetly play , A and the Cannons roar , from the Tower shore , all for to celebrate the day ; From the thrice Renowned , to the mean , drink to King and Queen , on their bent knees , A and when he shall call , they will all , cross the raging roaring Seas . That we may subdue , Talbot and his Crew , making Brittain with glory shine ; Since King William came , who is Crowned with fam [ e ] blessed by a power most divine : Since the work so far is carried on , there is scarce a Man , but will there presume , In the spite of France , now advance to the very gates of Rome . Let the Roman rave , while we them outbrave , since great William is Crowned King Let them fret and Chafe , while our Church is safe under his gracious Princely wing ; Our sharp Swords shall fairly reap the Field , and make papists yield , to a prince of Fame , We'll make all his Foes , with our blows , tremble at his Royal Name . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , in Pye-Corner . 