The Protestant Court of England : OR , THE Joyful Coronation of K. William III . and Q. Marry II Setting Forth The English , Welsh , Scots , and Dutch-Man's Defiance of the Common Enemy , and Disturber of this Protestant Kingdom , the JESUITE ; with the Irish-Man's and Monsieur's [ Ro ] mish Vindication of Him . The Tune of , The Pudding . English-man . COme Gallants , let's tender Those Hearts we surrender At the blessed Coronation of our Faiths great Defender , Now Glory shall Rule : No more Popish Edge-tool ; Thank Heaven , of a knave we've at last made a Fool , of a Jesuit . Who but they and their Crew Poor James could undo , And loose him his Honour and Diadem too ; By Petres false measure , The unfortunate Caesar , Turned ( alas ) out a grazing , like Nebuchadnezzar , by the Jesuit . With you Chancellor false Steward , Romes Scholar so towards , Your Castlemain Nuncio & amp ; your Cardinal Howard , You have outdone the shot Of your Gunpowder Plot , And blown up the credulous James ; have you not ? you false Jesuit . Our Freedoms and Charters Were the first of your Martyrs , For Rome had begun to take up her head Quarters Her Vengeance to wreak , All Faith we must break , For Law , Oaths , & amp ; Gospel are all Bonds too weak for a Jesuit . Taffy . A Shesuit , that Sheater , Rogue , Villain , and Traitor : By the flesh of her pones , her Welsh blood rises at her ; Very fine , Shemle folks , A Welsh Heir , with a pox , Was her get a Prince in a Shugglers Box ? Cunning Shesuit . Has her forehead no blush on Such Prosbects to push on , As was raise her Welsh Heir to Three Crowns from a Cushion To who , splutternalls , Does her tell her sham Tales ? Has her none to put trick on but her Nation of Wales , Roguy Shesuit ? Oh! to pay her old score , Had her Son of a Whore On a Ladder as high her owe [ n ] Penmenmour Was her oh n ce but [ tr ] ussed up , Till Her cut the Rope , Her might hang there till doomsday , her self & amp ; her Pope for a Shesuit . Sawny . TO He Pope that saw Turk , So [ sleely ] at [ woe ] rk , With awe his favu [ i ] mps to pull down the [ K ] irk , Now the Mange , our Scotch plague , On that Scarlet Whore-Hag , And Deel split the wem , the luggs , and the crag of the Jesuit . For awed Jemmy's sad folly , With J [ u ] ggy and Dolly He dance a Scotch Jig for bonny WILLY and MOLLY ; With Jockey and Sawny , Awe lads teugh and brawny , Weese drub the favu face , awe black , blue , & amp ; tawny , of the Jesuit . Monsieur . O De Rogue English trick ! That the poor Catolick Should be kick , knock , & amp ; tump , and run down to Old Neck . But Begar , de Vengeance Of my Ma'ter of France Shall led English Heretic dog a French Dance , for de Jesuit . Sall Lewis fit still ? Vat fool , tink he will , When old Jame and he so long piss in a Quill ? No , Bourgre Garsoon , With Monsieur Dagroon , Begar we come over , and fight blood and won for de Jesuit . Dough Jemmy Monsier , ( Pox taka Mynheer ) Has losta de Crewn of de damn Angletere ; In Eerland , brave boy , With Vive le Roy We crewn him again a new Monarch dear-joy , for de Jesuit . Teague . Bub a boo ! Bub ! o hone ! The Brother of the son , And the Shield of me Mother the poor Teague undone ! Pull down Mass-house and Altar , And burn Virgin Psalter , And make hang upon Priest , and no friend cut the Halter of poor Jesuit . When Teague first came over To de Engeland shore , Wid 6 , 7 , 8 Tousand Irish Lads , all and more : Teague was promised good Fashion , Great Estate in the Nation , Wid all London in his pocket , upon me shaul washion by de Jesuit . But when the Boar Dutch , Get Teague in his clutch , Stead of make great estate , & amp ; Chrees knows what much Damned Heretic Dogue Made Teague a poor Rogue , Turned him home to make starve widout shoe or broge ; for de Jesuit . But I'll beg Captains Plaash Of the sweet Eyes and Faash Of me De r-joy Tyrconnel his Majesties Graash ; And fight like a Hero , By me shoul a Mack-Nero , Cut Throat for Shaint Patrick , and sing Lilli burlero for de Jesuit . Hym-heer . H Old cut-weason Skellom , And let Mynheer tell om , For Englond's great Hogan & amp ; Megan Lord Willom And the dear English-mons , Their Church , Laws , and Londs , Van Dutch-londers fight with all hoarts & amp ; honds , against the Jesuit , English-man . Sayest thou so , Friend Mynheer ? Then adieu to all fear , France , Ireland , Pope , Devil , come all if you dare , Come Lads , let's be jogging , The French Ears want lugging , And Teague , and Tyrconnel is false Hide must have floggin [ g ] Farewell Jesute Licensed and Entered According to Order . Printed for A. Milbourn in Green-Arbour-Court in the Little-Old-Baily . The Protestant Court of England : OR , THE Joyful Coronation of K. William III . and Q. Marry II Setting Forth The English , Welsh , Scots , and Dutch-Man's Defiance of the Common Enemy , and Disturber of this Protestant Kingdom , the JESUITE ; with the Irish-Man's and Monsieur's [ Ro ] mish Vindication of Him . The Tune of , The Pudding . English-man . COme Gallants , let's tender Those Hearts we surrender At the blessed Coronation of our Faiths great Defender , Now Glory shall Rule : No more Popish Edge-tool ; Thank Heaven , of a knave we've at last made a Fool , of a Jesuit . Who but they and their Crew Poor James could undo , And loose him his Honour and Diadem too ; By Petres false measure , The unfortunate Caesar , Turned ( alas ) out a grazing , like Nebuchadnezzar , by the Jesuit . With you Chancellor false Steward , Romes Scholar so towards , Your Castlemain Nuncio & amp ; your Cardinal Howard , You have outdone the shot Of your Gunpowder Plot , And blown up the credulous James ; have you not ? you false Jesuit . Our Freedoms and Charters Were the first of your Martyrs , For Rome had begun to take up her head Quarters Her Vengeance to wreak , All Faith we must break , For Law , Oaths , & amp ; Gospel are all Bonds too weak for a Jesuit . Taffy . A Shesuit , that Sheater , Rogue , Villain , and Traitor : By the flesh of her pones , her Welsh blood rises at her ; Very fine , Shemle folks , A Welsh Heir , with a pox , Was her get a Prince in a Shugglers Box ? Cunning Shesuit . Has her forehead no blush on Such Prosbects to push on , As was raise her Welsh Heir to Three Crowns from a Cushion To who , splutternalls , Does her tell her sham Tales ? Has her none to put trick on but her Nation of Wales , Roguy Shesuit ? Oh! to pay her old score , Had her Son of a Whore On a Ladder as high her owe [ n ] Penmenmour Was her oh n ce but [ tr ] ussed up , Till Her cut the Rope , Her might hang there till doomsday , her self & amp ; her Pope for a Shesuit . Sawny . TO He Pope that saw Turk , So [ sleely ] at [ woe ] rk , With awe his favu [ i ] mps to pull down the [ K ] irk , Now the Mange , our Scotch plague , On that Scarlet Whore-Hag , And Deel split the wem , the luggs , and the crag of the Jesuit . For awed Jemmy's sad folly , With J [ u ] ggy and Dolly He dance a Scotch Jig for bonny WILLY and MOLLY ; With Jockey and Sawny , Awe lads teugh and brawny , Weese drub the favu face , awe black , blue , & amp ; tawny , of the Jesuit . Monsieur . O De Rogue English trick ! That the poor Catolick Should be kick , knock , & amp ; tump , and run down to Old Neck . But Begar , de Vengeance Of my Ma'ter of France Shall led English Heretic dog a French Dance , for de Jesuit . Sall Lewis fit still ? Vat fool , tink he will , When old Jame and he so long piss in a Quill ? No , Bourgre Garsoon , With Monsieur Dagroon , Begar we come over , and fight blood and won for de Jesuit . Dough Jemmy Monsier , ( Pox taka Mynheer ) Has losta de Crewn of de damn Angletere ; In Eerland , brave boy , With Vive le Roy We crewn him again a new Monarch dear-joy , for de Jesuit . Teague . Bub a boo ! Bub ! o hone ! The Brother of the son , And the Shield of me Mother the poor Teague undone ! Pull down Mass-house and Altar , And burn Virgin Psalter , And make hang upon Priest , and no friend cut the Halter of poor Jesuit . When Teague first came over To de Engeland shore , Wid 6 , 7 , 8 Tousand Irish Lads , all and more : Teague was promised good Fashion , Great Estate in the Nation , Wid all London in his pocket , upon me shaul washion by de Jesuit . But when the Boar Dutch , Get Teague in his clutch , Stead of make great estate , & amp ; Chrees knows what much Damned Heretic Dogue Made Teague a poor Rogue , Turned him home to make starve widout shoe or broge ; for de Jesuit . But I'll beg Captains Plaash Of the sweet Eyes and Faash Of me De r-joy Tyrconnel his Majesties Graash ; And fight like a Hero , By me shoul a Mack-Nero , Cut Throat for Shaint Patrick , and sing Lilli burlero for de Jesuit . Hym-heer . H Old cut-weason Skellom , And let Mynheer tell om , For Englond's great Hogan & amp ; Megan Lord Willom And the dear English-mons , Their Church , Laws , and Londs , Van Dutch-londers fight with all hoarts & amp ; honds , against the Jesuit , English-man . Sayest thou so , Friend Mynheer ? Then adieu to all fear , France , Ireland , Pope , Devil , come all if you dare , Come Lads , let's be jogging , The French Ears want lugging , And Teague , and Tyrconnel is false Hide must have floggin [ g ] Farewell Jesute Licensed and Entered According to Order . Printed for A. Milbourn in Green-Arbour-Court in the Little-Old-Baily . 