Englands Happiness Revived ; OR , A Farewell to Popery , To the Tune of , Soldiers Departure . N Owe he in the West is Landed , whom we have expected long , Tracing Famous Alexander , with and Army stout and strong : Trumpets sounding , and Drums beating Bullets flying too and from , And the Roman still expecting when to have their Overthrow . Now they must to Purgatory , to be Purged of their Sins , Father Petres shall go before them , [ to ] make room to let them in : Lord Jefferys shall be their Chancellor , to decide their wrongful Cause , And the Pope must grant them Pardon , for Transgressing this our Laws . No Historian ever Penned such strange Wonders done before , Within two Months three Nations Conquered , all that Idols did adore . Now the Triple Crown is Tottered , and is shaking too and from , And a Peace falls without Fighting , like the Walls of Jerico . Where's our Beads and Crucifixes ? where's our Holy Waters now ? Will they not free us from Destruction , to whom so often we did bow ? Where's our Plots and Counter-Plotting to destroy the Heretic Sheep , Where's our Jesuits running trotting , wondering how to escape the Deep . Orange is bitter in the tasting , but for Health is very good , There had some thousands lain a bleeding , as the Wise have understood . Had not the Nobles of our Nation , on this Cure cast a smile , And brought Orange over the Ocean , to be planted in our Isle . And when Orange Prince was landed , with several Lords of high degree , Then the Nation stood amazed , wondering what the Effect would be ; Then soon their Plot it was discovered , when the Game did once begin , And the Snare for us prepared , they themselves did fallen therein , Romish Errors in our Nation , now of late crept in amain , And a dark Cloud was like to cover our true light that still remains . But on the fourteenth of October , the bright Son did hide its Head , Which I saw was a forerunner of some great ones banished . In the Western Equinoctial , two Religions stood awhile , But the Balance gave distinction , lest one the other should beguile . But the one on false foundation , brought dishonour and disgrace , And Babylons abomination , must no longer here take place . Printed in the Year , 168 [ 9 ] Englands Happiness Revived ; OR , A Farewell to Popery , To the Tune of , Soldiers Departure . N Owe he in the West is Landed , whom we have expected long , Tracing Famous Alexander , with and Army stout and strong : Trumpets sounding , and Drums beating Bullets flying too and from , And the Roman still expecting when to have their Overthrow . Now they must to Purgatory , to be Purged of their Sins , Father Petres shall go before them , [ to ] make room to let them in : Lord Jefferys shall be their Chancellor , to decide their wrongful Cause , And the Pope must grant them Pardon , for Transgressing this our Laws . No Historian ever Penned such strange Wonders done before , Within two Months three Nations Conquered , all that Idols did adore . Now the Triple Crown is Tottered , and is shaking too and from , And a Peace falls without Fighting , like the Walls of Jerico . Where's our Beads and Crucifixes ? where's our Holy Waters now ? Will they not free us from Destruction , to whom so often we did bow ? Where's our Plots and Counter-Plotting to destroy the Heretic Sheep , Where's our Jesuits running trotting , wondering how to escape the Deep . Orange is bitter in the tasting , but for Health is very good , There had some thousands lain a bleeding , as the Wise have understood . Had not the Nobles of our Nation , on this Cure cast a smile , And brought Orange over the Ocean , to be planted in our Isle . And when Orange Prince was landed , with several Lords of high degree , Then the Nation stood amazed , wondering what the Effect would be ; Then soon their Plot it was discovered , when the Game did once begin , And the Snare for us prepared , they themselves did fallen therein , Romish Errors in our Nation , now of late crept in amain , And a dark Cloud was like to cover our true light that still remains . But on the fourteenth of October , the bright Son did hide its Head , Which I saw was a forerunner of some great ones banished . In the Western Equinoctial , two Religions stood awhile , But the Balance gave distinction , lest one the other should beguile . But the one on false foundation , brought dishonour and disgrace , And Babylons abomination , must no longer here take place . Printed in the Year , 168 [ 9 ] 