The Downfall of POPERY ; OR , the Distressed JESUITS in Flight . They wring their Hands , because they're sure their work is all undone , The smell of Hemp they can't endure , therefore they strive to run . To the Tune of , A New Game at Cards . TO He Pope and his Agents strove of late , To overthrow both our Church and State ; It's true we beheld their base intent , But for the present could not prevent The fatal designs which they had laid , Until the Gallant Prince came to our Aid . The Jesuits they came to our Land , And laboured to get the upper hand ; The Clergy of England they abused , Whle they their Mass and Trinkets used ; But now they are utterly dismayed , Brave Orange is come unto our Aid . prey what can such Religion be , Which does delight in Massacree ? And shedding of the blood of those , Who does not in the least oppose ; Yet they the Land would have betrayed , Had not the Valiant Prince come to our Aid . They thought our Soldiers they would Fight In bloody Field , with Armour bright ; For to maintain the Roman Cause , Against our Conscience , Lives , and Laws , So we might all have been betrayed , Had not the Valiant Prince come to our Aid . The Lords and chief Nobility , Who did these Fatal Dangers see , Resolved not to stand the Field , Where needless Blood might have been spilled : Each Soldier Sheathed his Massy Blade , And went in to the Princes Aid . You Jesuits and Priests , what can you say , That to your Beads and false Gods Pray ? We very well do understand , You lived upon the Fat o'th Land ; And yet you would our Lives Invade . Had not the Valiant Prince come to our Aid . Surely the POPE he is partaker With some Butcher or Black-Pudding-maker : He thrists so after Protestant Blood , That nothing else can do him good : By Jesuits we had been betrayed , Had not the Valiant Prince come to our Aid . And Old Father Peters he was one , Desired to see us Overthrown ; That Jesuits they might bear the Sway , But now they are glad to run away ; To tarry here they are afraid , Because our gallant Prince came to our Aid . The Mass-House in City and Town , Are some demolished , and some pulled down : Was ever Jesuits so Crossed ! Their Charge and Labour all is lost : The Youngmen they much Havoc made , When the gallant Prince came to our Aid . Their Wooden Images they Burned , And Crosses they to Ashes turned ; They vowed to have no Masses more , But would pull down the Scarlet Whore : So shall we all be Happy made , Our Gallant Prince he still will be our Aid . FINIS . Printed for A. B . The Downfall of POPERY ; OR , the Distressed JESUITS in Flight . They wring their Hands , because they're sure their work is all undone , The smell of Hemp they can't endure , therefore they strive to run . To the Tune of , A New Game at Cards . TO He Pope and his Agents strove of late , To overthrow both our Church and State ; It's true we beheld their base intent , But for the present could not prevent The fatal designs which they had laid , Until the Gallant Prince came to our Aid . The Jesuits they came to our Land , And laboured to get the upper hand ; The Clergy of England they abused , Whle they their Mass and Trinkets used ; But now they are utterly dismayed , Brave Orange is come unto our Aid . prey what can such Religion be , Which does delight in Massacree ? And shedding of the blood of those , Who does not in the least oppose ; Yet they the Land would have betrayed , Had not the Valiant Prince come to our Aid . They thought our Soldiers they would Fight In bloody Field , with Armour bright ; For to maintain the Roman Cause , Against our Conscience , Lives , and Laws , So we might all have been betrayed , Had not the Valiant Prince come to our Aid . The Lords and chief Nobility , Who did these Fatal Dangers see , Resolved not to stand the Field , Where needless Blood might have been spilled : Each Soldier Sheathed his Massy Blade , And went in to the Princes Aid . You Jesuits and Priests , what can you say , That to your Beads and false Gods Pray ? We very well do understand , You lived upon the Fat o'th Land ; And yet you would our Lives Invade . Had not the Valiant Prince come to our Aid . Surely the POPE he is partaker With some Butcher or Black-Pudding-maker : He thrists so after Protestant Blood , That nothing else can do him good : By Jesuits we had been betrayed , Had not the Valiant Prince come to our Aid . And Old Father Peters he was one , Desired to see us Overthrown ; That Jesuits they might bear the Sway , But now they are glad to run away ; To tarry here they are afraid , Because our gallant Prince came to our Aid . The Mass-House in City and Town , Are some demolished , and some pulled down : Was ever Jesuits so Crossed ! Their Charge and Labour all is lost : The Youngmen they much Havoc made , When the gallant Prince came to our Aid . Their Wooden Images they Burned , And Crosses they to Ashes turned ; They vowed to have no Masses more , But would pull down the Scarlet Whore : So shall we all be Happy made , Our Gallant Prince he still will be our Aid . FINIS . Printed for A. B . 