A View of the POPISH-PLOT ; OR , A Touch of the Cunning Contrivance of the Romish Faction , from the Year Seventy-Eight , to this late Time . To the Tune of , The bonny Blacksmith . C Ome listen a while both Young and Old , While I in brief to you will unfold , A Ditty as true as ever was told , Which no body can deny . In Seventy-Eight the Jesuit - Plot Was private , yet Hellish , and desperate hight , For which some at last did go fairly to Pot , Which no body can deny . Some Papist L ----- did strive to devour A Protestant Monarch who then was in power , For which they were decently sent to the Tower , Which no body can deny . With Fire and Sword they thought to have marred The P rotestants and not a Soul to have spared . And therefore the Citizens stood on their Guard , Which no body can deny . As soon as the Crew of the Jesuits see They were to be punished for this villainy , They presently Murdered Sir Edmund Godfrey , Which no body can deny . Then Harcourt and other sweet Sons of the [ Nooze ] , Which nothing of Law in the least could excuse Why , these had the honour to die in their Shoes , Which no body can deny . With promises fair they were sweetly led on , To clearly [ deny all ] as much as they c [ and ] Till Coleman cried out , What belie [ f is in Man ] ? Which no body can deny . Then straight a false Rumor was raised in the Town , Some Courtiers did on the true P rotestants frown , Nay , valiant brave Monmouth with speed they ran down , Which no body can deny . The hanious Distractions most violent hight , The Papists desired might have been forgotten , Or otherwise call it a Protestant Plot , Which no body can deny . And then for a cunning and subtle Device , Some honest Men's lives was and absolute price , And thus all Affairs was turned round in a trice , Which no body can deny . Some persons for Favour , at Protestants fume , Thus R ------ and S ------- was brought to their doom , They fell by the fury and malice of Room , Which no body can deny . The Monster became the grand Scourge of the Age , Ever since Popery mounted the Stage , But now he's shut up like a Bird in a Cage , Which no body can deny . Then those that discovered the Jesuit Crew , And what they were seeking and plotting to do , These was to be Whipped , ay , and Pilloried too , Which no body can deny . They never could stop Doctor Oh ------- his Mouth , Although he was then Degraded forsooth , Nay , Whipped and Imprisoned for speaking the Truth , Which no body can deny . Now he that first found out the Whipping Trade , Which did the WORSER ------- and J -------- Degrade , Let him by the same and Example be made , Which no body can deny . Then Jesuits stood for the upper hand , And in [ the heigh ] th of Defiance did stand , Against our Clergy and Laws of the Land , Which no body can deny . In order to [ baffle ] the Protestant Power , [ The Bishops away ] were sent to the Tower , [ And a young Prince ] of Wales was [ Born the same ] hour , It's True , if they do not Lie . [ The Jesuits then was ] never at rest , [ But still was contriving to ] Murder the Test , [ But now good ] King William has quite spoiled the Jest Which no body can deny . [ Prin ] ted in the Year 1689. A View of the POPISH-PLOT ; OR , A Touch of the Cunning Contrivance of the Romish Faction , from the Year Seventy-Eight , to this late Time . To the Tune of , The bonny Blacksmith . C Ome listen a while both Young and Old , While I in brief to you will unfold , A Ditty as true as ever was told , Which no body can deny . In Seventy-Eight the Jesuit - Plot Was private , yet Hellish , and desperate hight , For which some at last did go fairly to Pot , Which no body can deny . Some Papist L ----- did strive to devour A Protestant Monarch who then was in power , For which they were decently sent to the Tower , Which no body can deny . With Fire and Sword they thought to have marred The P rotestants and not a Soul to have spared . And therefore the Citizens stood on their Guard , Which no body can deny . As soon as the Crew of the Jesuits see They were to be punished for this villainy , They presently Murdered Sir Edmund Godfrey , Which no body can deny . Then Harcourt and other sweet Sons of the [ Nooze ] , Which nothing of Law in the least could excuse Why , these had the honour to die in their Shoes , Which no body can deny . With promises fair they were sweetly led on , To clearly [ deny all ] as much as they c [ and ] Till Coleman cried out , What belie [ f is in Man ] ? Which no body can deny . Then straight a false Rumor was raised in the Town , Some Courtiers did on the true P rotestants frown , Nay , valiant brave Monmouth with speed they ran down , Which no body can deny . The hanious Distractions most violent hight , The Papists desired might have been forgotten , Or otherwise call it a Protestant Plot , Which no body can deny . And then for a cunning and subtle Device , Some honest Men's lives was and absolute price , And thus all Affairs was turned round in a trice , Which no body can deny . Some persons for Favour , at Protestants fume , Thus R ------ and S ------- was brought to their doom , They fell by the fury and malice of Room , Which no body can deny . The Monster became the grand Scourge of the Age , Ever since Popery mounted the Stage , But now he's shut up like a Bird in a Cage , Which no body can deny . Then those that discovered the Jesuit Crew , And what they were seeking and plotting to do , These was to be Whipped , ay , and Pilloried too , Which no body can deny . They never could stop Doctor Oh ------- his Mouth , Although he was then Degraded forsooth , Nay , Whipped and Imprisoned for speaking the Truth , Which no body can deny . Now he that first found out the Whipping Trade , Which did the WORSER ------- and J -------- Degrade , Let him by the same and Example be made , Which no body can deny . Then Jesuits stood for the upper hand , And in [ the heigh ] th of Defiance did stand , Against our Clergy and Laws of the Land , Which no body can deny . In order to [ baffle ] the Protestant Power , [ The Bishops away ] were sent to the Tower , [ And a young Prince ] of Wales was [ Born the same ] hour , It's True , if they do not Lie . [ The Jesuits then was ] never at rest , [ But still was contriving to ] Murder the Test , [ But now good ] King William has quite spoiled the Jest Which no body can deny . [ Prin ] ted in the Year 1689. 