The Jesuits Lamentation ; OR , The Downfall of The Whore of BABYL [ ON ] To the Tune of , Russels Farewell . WHat damned confounded fate is this Has checked our hopeful Cause , Nor would Dispensing Power do : Confound those Penal Laws . Those Props and Friends to Heresy That raise their Strumpet high ; And all in spite of Romes fair Charms Our brighter Spouse defy . Or those who they , their Bishops call , Had long ever this been sent Into the Mansions of the Deep , It was the Wise Intent Of our Indulgent Father's , who Did in the Vinyard sweat : Nay HELL to their Assistance called To hedge in their Old Debt . The Abbey-Lands , from us purloined , Which is our due Entail , Though all Ignatian Arts we used , It seems we can't prevail . Our Church [ ? ] Trappins dressed , And with Delusions decked , Is much admired in Foreign Parts , But here gains no Respect . A Curse upon that Monarch's Pride That first our Church declined , And likewise on that cunning Rat Who Penal Laws designed . Now we are basely forced to sneak That held our Heads so high , And all the Refuge that we have Is to Forswear and Lie . Our Priests are gone that Fate to shun Which hovered or're their Heads ; Their Relics they demolished all , And wisely burned their Beads . But these that here are stopped behind May swing for all the rest , Though had they all god quite away It would have spoiled the Jest . Then let us mourn these Father's Fates Which Catch ( that bloody Cur ) Begins the deadly round again , Nor can the Fates demur . For in the Popish Plot we saw Our Saints no Aid could lend , No Miracles their Lives could save , Or these poor Souls befriend . Yet we are sure they Martyrs died For Romes Beloved Cause , To Satisfy the Bloody Thirst Of their damned Penal Laws . Those Laws which do our Pope run down And makes our Priests to fly , And brings down low the Triple Crown Which once was mounted high . London , Printed and Sold by J. Wallis [ , ] in White-Friars . The Jesuits Lamentation ; OR , The Downfall of The Whore of BABYL [ ON ] To the Tune of , Russels Farewell . WHat damned confounded fate is this Has checked our hopeful Cause , Nor would Dispensing Power do : Confound those Penal Laws . Those Props and Friends to Heresy That raise their Strumpet high ; And all in spite of Romes fair Charms Our brighter Spouse defy . Or those who they , their Bishops call , Had long ever this been sent Into the Mansions of the Deep , It was the Wise Intent Of our Indulgent Father's , who Did in the Vinyard sweat : Nay HELL to their Assistance called To hedge in their Old Debt . The Abbey-Lands , from us purloined , Which is our due Entail , Though all Ignatian Arts we used , It seems we can't prevail . Our Church [ ? ] Trappins dressed , And with Delusions decked , Is much admired in Foreign Parts , But here gains no Respect . A Curse upon that Monarch's Pride That first our Church declined , And likewise on that cunning Rat Who Penal Laws designed . Now we are basely forced to sneak That held our Heads so high , And all the Refuge that we have Is to Forswear and Lie . Our Priests are gone that Fate to shun Which hovered or're their Heads ; Their Relics they demolished all , And wisely burned their Beads . But these that here are stopped behind May swing for all the rest , Though had they all god quite away It would have spoiled the Jest . Then let us mourn these Father's Fates Which Catch ( that bloody Cur ) Begins the deadly round again , Nor can the Fates demur . For in the Popish Plot we saw Our Saints no Aid could lend , No Miracles their Lives could save , Or these poor Souls befriend . Yet we are sure they Martyrs died For Romes Beloved Cause , To Satisfy the Bloody Thirst Of their damned Penal Laws . Those Laws which do our Pope run down And makes our Priests to fly , And brings down low the Triple Crown Which once was mounted high . London , Printed and Sold by J. Wallis [ , ] in White-Friars . 