A NEW SONG . To the Tune of , The Prince of Orange is Delight . I . COme London Boys all , and listen to me , And the Papists now we will Convince , Then let the Bells' Ring , while we merrily Sing , For to welcome the Protestant Prince . II Let the Bonfires Burn , the Papists all turn , And their Wooden Gods all be pulled down , Let the Churches all flourish , the Gospel to nourish , With great Joy to the Princes Renown . III . Then you Irishmen all , in Country and Town , Repent for the time that is past , For Tryconnel is taken , and his Laws are farsaken , And your Roguery is found out now at last . IV. But let me advice you the best way I can , As I stand near Related to you ; Your old Coats for to turn , & amp ; your Altars to burn , And to hang up your Jesuit Crew . V. For your downfall is come , and you shall receive Doom For we Protestants now do advance ; And our brave Prince and we , will unite & amp ; agree For to drive Lewis King , out of France . VI . Let Shoemakers all pack up Knives and heel-Awl , For to join to and Universe Sum ; Let's charge and let's prime , for we hope in Gods time For to give the Death's Wound unto Room . VII . But first let the Glory and Praise be to God , Who hath wrought such a Miracle great ; Their Delusions to spoil , and their Plots all beguile , Then rejoice both in Church and in State . VIII . And now to the Instrument of this great work , Which the like was never before , nor since ; Let's drink his Health round , with our knees to the ground For to welcome this Protestant Prince . IX . And now to Conclude this my Protestant Song , Pray remember these Verses of mine ; For Popery is pulled down , both in Country and Town , And the Gospel in Splendour shall shine . X. With Peace , Mirth , and Plenty our Land will abound And the Papists they all must go hence ; For search the World round , there will scarcely be found Such another brave Protestant Prince . XI . If any one questions who made these few Lines ? It's my self , if I may you convince ; Then let's merry be , and Il'e drink unto thee , A good Health to this Protestant Prince . XII . Then fill up the Glass , about let it pass , All our sorrows in Wine we will drown ; Here is a good Health to that Commonwealth Whose Prince is come lately to Town . Written by Richard Rigby , Shoemaker . London : Printed and Sold [ by John Wallis in ] White Friars , 1689. A NEW SONG . To the Tune of , The Prince of Orange is Delight . I . COme London Boys all , and listen to me , And the Papists now we will Convince , Then let the Bells' Ring , while we merrily Sing , For to welcome the Protestant Prince . II Let the Bonfires Burn , the Papists all turn , And their Wooden Gods all be pulled down , Let the Churches all flourish , the Gospel to nourish , With great Joy to the Princes Renown . III . Then you Irishmen all , in Country and Town , Repent for the time that is past , For Tryconnel is taken , and his Laws are farsaken , And your Roguery is found out now at last . IV. But let me advice you the best way I can , As I stand near Related to you ; Your old Coats for to turn , & amp ; your Altars to burn , And to hang up your Jesuit Crew . V. For your downfall is come , and you shall receive Doom For we Protestants now do advance ; And our brave Prince and we , will unite & amp ; agree For to drive Lewis King , out of France . VI . Let Shoemakers all pack up Knives and heel-Awl , For to join to and Universe Sum ; Let's charge and let's prime , for we hope in Gods time For to give the Death's Wound unto Room . VII . But first let the Glory and Praise be to God , Who hath wrought such a Miracle great ; Their Delusions to spoil , and their Plots all beguile , Then rejoice both in Church and in State . VIII . And now to the Instrument of this great work , Which the like was never before , nor since ; Let's drink his Health round , with our knees to the ground For to welcome this Protestant Prince . IX . And now to Conclude this my Protestant Song , Pray remember these Verses of mine ; For Popery is pulled down , both in Country and Town , And the Gospel in Splendour shall shine . X. With Peace , Mirth , and Plenty our Land will abound And the Papists they all must go hence ; For search the World round , there will scarcely be found Such another brave Protestant Prince . XI . If any one questions who made these few Lines ? It's my self , if I may you convince ; Then let's merry be , and Il'e drink unto thee , A good Health to this Protestant Prince . XII . Then fill up the Glass , about let it pass , All our sorrows in Wine we will drown ; Here is a good Health to that Commonwealth Whose Prince is come lately to Town . Written by Richard Rigby , Shoemaker . London : Printed and Sold [ by John Wallis in ] White Friars , 1689. 