THE Lord Chancellors Villainies Discovered . Or , His Rise and Fallen in the Four Last Years : Tune of , Heigh brave Popery , etc GOod people , I pray now attend to my Muse , I'll sing of [ a ] Villain I cannot abuse , The Halter and Axe not such Men will refuse ; Sing heigh brave Chancellor , Oh fine Chancellor , Delicate Chancellor , O . This he was the Cause of the Nations dismay , He hath ever been a Knave from his birth to this day To see the Sot hanged we will make Holiday . Sing heigh brave Chancellor , etc . And first I will show what he is in grain , I care not a pin for the Boobee's disdain , His deeds now in brief unto you I'll proclaim . [ ? ] He was the Inventer of Oat is Punishment , From Newgate to Tyburn , and thither he sent , To him well Whipped he gave his consent , sing heigh , etc The good Mr. Cornish did innocent die , And all by this Chancellor's Villainy ; His blood now from Heaven for vengeance does cry ; sing heigh , etc He was the first Author that opened his Jaws To take off the Test and Privilege Laws ; The beheading of Russel , 'twas he was the cause sing heigh , etc Then next to the West he hurried with speed , To murder poor men , a very good deed , He made many honest men's hearts for to bleed : sing heigh , etc The prisoners to plead to his Lordship did cry , But still did make answer , and thus did reply ; We'll hang you up first , and then after we'll try : sing heigh , etc Against their petitions then he stopped his Ears , And still did create all their doubts & amp ; their fears , He left the poor Widows and Children in tear [ s ] sing heigh , etc He was the Inventer that first did promote That place called the Ecclesiastical Court , And thither he made the poor Clergy resort : sing heigh , etc Of Magdalen College he thought it most fit To turn out the Fellows , a very fine trick , And place Father Walker , that cursed Jesuit ; sing heigh , etc Then next to the Tower our Bishops was packed , And swore he had done a very good act , But now shall be tried for the matter of fact : sing heigh , etc And when that the Bishops were brought to be tried To accept a Petition they humbly desired ; He swore he would prove it a Libel he cried , sing heigh , etc What can he say now the Parliament sits ? Alas ! they will Vote him quite out of his Wits , They'll make him run mad , or fallen into Fits : sing heigh , etc In Wapping he thought for to make his e [ escape ] A very good Jest , but Faith it won't [ take ] His Head on the Bridge must be stuck [ on a ] stake sing heigh , etc He many Seditious Lines hath penned , And sent them to P ----- his honest friend ; My Muse she grows weary , and thus she does end With pox oF Chancellor , villainous Chancellor , Damnable Chancellor , o . London , Printed in the Year , 1689. THE Lord Chancellors Villainies Discovered . Or , His Rise and Fallen in the Four Last Years : Tune of , Heigh brave Popery , etc GOod people , I pray now attend to my Muse , I'll sing of [ a ] Villain I cannot abuse , The Halter and Axe not such Men will refuse ; Sing heigh brave Chancellor , Oh fine Chancellor , Delicate Chancellor , O . This he was the Cause of the Nations dismay , He hath ever been a Knave from his birth to this day To see the Sot hanged we will make Holiday . Sing heigh brave Chancellor , etc . And first I will show what he is in grain , I care not a pin for the Boobee's disdain , His deeds now in brief unto you I'll proclaim . [ ? ] He was the Inventer of Oat is Punishment , From Newgate to Tyburn , and thither he sent , To him well Whipped he gave his consent , sing heigh , etc The good Mr. Cornish did innocent die , And all by this Chancellor's Villainy ; His blood now from Heaven for vengeance does cry ; sing heigh , etc He was the first Author that opened his Jaws To take off the Test and Privilege Laws ; The beheading of Russel , 'twas he was the cause sing heigh , etc Then next to the West he hurried with speed , To murder poor men , a very good deed , He made many honest men's hearts for to bleed : sing heigh , etc The prisoners to plead to his Lordship did cry , But still did make answer , and thus did reply ; We'll hang you up first , and then after we'll try : sing heigh , etc Against their petitions then he stopped his Ears , And still did create all their doubts & amp ; their fears , He left the poor Widows and Children in tear [ s ] sing heigh , etc He was the Inventer that first did promote That place called the Ecclesiastical Court , And thither he made the poor Clergy resort : sing heigh , etc Of Magdalen College he thought it most fit To turn out the Fellows , a very fine trick , And place Father Walker , that cursed Jesuit ; sing heigh , etc Then next to the Tower our Bishops was packed , And swore he had done a very good act , But now shall be tried for the matter of fact : sing heigh , etc And when that the Bishops were brought to be tried To accept a Petition they humbly desired ; He swore he would prove it a Libel he cried , sing heigh , etc What can he say now the Parliament sits ? Alas ! they will Vote him quite out of his Wits , They'll make him run mad , or fallen into Fits : sing heigh , etc In Wapping he thought for to make his e [ escape ] A very good Jest , but Faith it won't [ take ] His Head on the Bridge must be stuck [ on a ] stake sing heigh , etc He many Seditious Lines hath penned , And sent them to P ----- his honest friend ; My Muse she grows weary , and thus she does end With pox oF Chancellor , villainous Chancellor , Damnable Chancellor , o . London , Printed in the Year , 1689. 