The JACOBITE tossed in a Blanket : Or , A DIALOGUE between A WILLIAMITE AND A JACOBITE : Concerning the Times , and the Losses of the French . Tune Fala : Or , Tan tara Tantroy . Licensed according to Order . I pray Mr. Jacobite tell me why , Fa la la la la la la la , You on our Government look awry ; fa la la la la la la la , Which Paltry Hat , and a threadbare Coat , And Laws as thin as Harry Groat , You've brought your selves & amp ; your cause to nought With a fa la , etc Indeed Mr. Williamite it's well known , fa la la la la la la la , Why we are all so unfortunate grown , fa la la la la la la la , Our Estates we lost the Nations knows , To support our Master and Popish cause , To pluck down the Heretics Rights and Laws With a fa la , etc What think you now the French Fleet are lost fa la la , etc And all our hope's of Invasion crossed , fa la la , etc It makes your Tribe now look so pale , The World may see what this you Ail , Since all your Plots and Stratagems fail , with a fa la , etc Pray good Mr. Williamite tell me how , fa la la , etc You'd look if King James had stayed till now , fa la la , etc You should have seen had he but stayed , What work with Williamites we'd have made Had not our Plots been all betrayed , with a fa la , etc But Heaven has crossed your base designs fa la la , etc And stop your Evil intent betimes , fa la la , etc Your Cloaks for Knavery were too thin , What you proposed had we not seen , The Pope and the Devil our Kings had been , with a fa la , etc The English Church you greatly prize , fa la la , etc You love the truth though you practice lies , fa la la , etc TO he Church that now is set on foot , You swear you love both branch and root , B ut care not how seldom you go to't , with a fa la , etc W e'll give you now the upper hand , fa la la , etc Because your Party bears command , fa la la , etc B ut when King James regains his Crown , The Williamite title shall all come down , TO he TO own shall then be all our own . with a fa la , etc You think that I the Church approve , fa la la , etc Just as you your Master love , fa la la , etc There's many makes the Tribe to think , They're full of Loyalty to the brink , Who'll deny the cause for a pot of Drink , with a fa la , et . Printed for J. Conyers at the black Raven in Holbourn , and J. Conyers adjoining to St. Peters Alley , at the upper end of Cornhil . The JACOBITE tossed in a Blanket : Or , A DIALOGUE between A WILLIAMITE AND A JACOBITE : Concerning the Times , and the Losses of the French . Tune Fala : Or , Tan tara Tantroy . Licensed according to Order . I pray Mr. Jacobite tell me why , Fa la la la la la la la , You on our Government look awry ; fa la la la la la la la , Which Paltry Hat , and a threadbare Coat , And Laws as thin as Harry Groat , You've brought your selves & amp ; your cause to nought With a fa la , etc Indeed Mr. Williamite it's well known , fa la la la la la la la , Why we are all so unfortunate grown , fa la la la la la la la , Our Estates we lost the Nations knows , To support our Master and Popish cause , To pluck down the Heretics Rights and Laws With a fa la , etc What think you now the French Fleet are lost fa la la , etc And all our hope's of Invasion crossed , fa la la , etc It makes your Tribe now look so pale , The World may see what this you Ail , Since all your Plots and Stratagems fail , with a fa la , etc Pray good Mr. Williamite tell me how , fa la la , etc You'd look if King James had stayed till now , fa la la , etc You should have seen had he but stayed , What work with Williamites we'd have made Had not our Plots been all betrayed , with a fa la , etc But Heaven has crossed your base designs fa la la , etc And stop your Evil intent betimes , fa la la , etc Your Cloaks for Knavery were too thin , What you proposed had we not seen , The Pope and the Devil our Kings had been , with a fa la , etc The English Church you greatly prize , fa la la , etc You love the truth though you practice lies , fa la la , etc TO he Church that now is set on foot , You swear you love both branch and root , B ut care not how seldom you go to't , with a fa la , etc W e'll give you now the upper hand , fa la la , etc Because your Party bears command , fa la la , etc B ut when King James regains his Crown , The Williamite title shall all come down , TO he TO own shall then be all our own . with a fa la , etc You think that I the Church approve , fa la la , etc Just as you your Master love , fa la la , etc There's many makes the Tribe to think , They're full of Loyalty to the brink , Who'll deny the cause for a pot of Drink , with a fa la , et . Printed for J. Conyers at the black Raven in Holbourn , and J. Conyers adjoining to St. Peters Alley , at the upper end of Cornhil . 