THE Protestant Triumph : OR , The signal Victory of K. William over the French and Irish , Chasing them from Hill to Hill , taking their Arms and Ammunition also ; the Surrender of Drogheda , and the King's entering the City of Dublin ; to the un - speakable Joy and Satisfaction of all True Protestants . This Victory was obtained on Tuesday the First of July 1690. To the Tune of The Spinning wheel . Licensed according to Order . B Rave Boys , let Bells' now sweetly ring , and flowing Bowls go freely round , With Healths to our most gracious king , who is this day with Triumph Crowned : A Fig for all our Romish Foes , K. William Conquers where he goes . While Trumpets sounded Victory , and rattling Warlike Drums did beatrice ; We laughed to see the Tories flee , in what Confusion they retreat , While we pursued with hardy Blows , K. William Conquers where he goes . The French and Torys hearts did ache , as soon as ever we drew near , And did their Passes soon forsake , being glad to run away for fear : They knew they could not us oppose , K . William Conquers where he goes . To Ardee Pass we marched with speed , where many Thousand Tories lay , Who being the right Irish Breed , they took to heels and ran away : K. William he such Courage shows , Which Conquers all where ever he goes . Our right renowned King replied , March on , my valiant warlike Boys , For we shall soon subdue the Pride of both the French and the Dear-joys : Thus did he Chase his flying Foes , and Conquers all where ever he goes . King William Marching in the Head , while Trumpets did most sweetly found , And all our flying Colours spread , which sighed did all our Foes confound : K . William's Courage scares his Foes , He Conquers all where ever he goes . At length we had a bloody Fray , our Guns like Thunder then did roar , K. William he did win the day , and laid the French in reeking Gore : His Courage scares his mighty Foes , He conquers all where ever he goes . Now while the fight we did maintain , we made the Tory Rebels rue ; Lord Carlingford he being slave , and many Great Commanders too : K . William's Courage daunts his Foes , He Conquers all where ever he goes . Stout Colonel Parker , with his Teagues , likewise lay bleeding on the Ground , We scourged them for their late Intrigues ; while our King is with Trophies Crowned : To Dublin Gates he chased his Foes , He Conquers all where ever he goes . The King he sent to Drogheda , to yield before it was too late ; Or else his roaring Guns he'd play ; with that they did surrender strait ; Now they could not him oppose , Who Conquers all where ever he goes . Late James he quit Dublin straight , And great King William did march in , It's joyful Tidings to relate , how he do's Fame and Honour win : His Courage scares the mighty Foes , He Conquers , etc Poor Protestants he did free , which in close Prisons long hath lain , They all enjoy their Liberty , under K. William who do's Reign In spite of all insulting Foes , He Conquers all where ever he goes . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . THE Protestant Triumph : OR , The signal Victory of K. William over the French and Irish , Chasing them from Hill to Hill , taking their Arms and Ammunition also ; the Surrender of Drogheda , and the King's entering the City of Dublin ; to the un - speakable Joy and Satisfaction of all True Protestants . This Victory was obtained on Tuesday the First of July 1690. To the Tune of The Spinning wheel . Licensed according to Order . B Rave Boys , let Bells' now sweetly ring , and flowing Bowls go freely round , With Healths to our most gracious king , who is this day with Triumph Crowned : A Fig for all our Romish Foes , K. William Conquers where he goes . While Trumpets sounded Victory , and rattling Warlike Drums did beatrice ; We laughed to see the Tories flee , in what Confusion they retreat , While we pursued with hardy Blows , K. William Conquers where he goes . The French and Torys hearts did ache , as soon as ever we drew near , And did their Passes soon forsake , being glad to run away for fear : They knew they could not us oppose , K . William Conquers where he goes . To Ardee Pass we marched with speed , where many Thousand Tories lay , Who being the right Irish Breed , they took to heels and ran away : K. William he such Courage shows , Which Conquers all where ever he goes . Our right renowned King replied , March on , my valiant warlike Boys , For we shall soon subdue the Pride of both the French and the Dear-joys : Thus did he Chase his flying Foes , and Conquers all where ever he goes . King William Marching in the Head , while Trumpets did most sweetly found , And all our flying Colours spread , which sighed did all our Foes confound : K . William's Courage scares his Foes , He Conquers all where ever he goes . At length we had a bloody Fray , our Guns like Thunder then did roar , K. William he did win the day , and laid the French in reeking Gore : His Courage scares his mighty Foes , He conquers all where ever he goes . Now while the fight we did maintain , we made the Tory Rebels rue ; Lord Carlingford he being slave , and many Great Commanders too : K . William's Courage daunts his Foes , He Conquers all where ever he goes . Stout Colonel Parker , with his Teagues , likewise lay bleeding on the Ground , We scourged them for their late Intrigues ; while our King is with Trophies Crowned : To Dublin Gates he chased his Foes , He Conquers all where ever he goes . The King he sent to Drogheda , to yield before it was too late ; Or else his roaring Guns he'd play ; with that they did surrender strait ; Now they could not him oppose , Who Conquers all where ever he goes . Late James he quit Dublin straight , And great King William did march in , It's joyful Tidings to relate , how he do's Fame and Honour win : His Courage scares the mighty Foes , He Conquers , etc Poor Protestants he did free , which in close Prisons long hath lain , They all enjoy their Liberty , under K. William who do's Reign In spite of all insulting Foes , He Conquers all where ever he goes . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 