King James his Lamentation For the Loss of His Kingdom of Ireland , Being a Dialogue between Him , and the French KING . To the Tune of , The Leggan Water . James . WORSER Ear Brother , and Confederate , Your Slave is come again once more , With some the chiefest of my Friends , Your aid and pity to implore . Lewis . Brother of No-Land how d'ye think That I should trust you once again , I lent you Ships a and Soldiers too , What are become of all my Den ? James . What need you such a question ask , When we , and all the world well knows , You valve not the lives of men , More than the dust under your shoes . Lewis . O Sir , I now begin to feel The want of what I wasted then , And should I see you up once more , Your luck is nought , you'd break again . James . You have my Jewels and my Plate , Lewis . For that I keep your Son , & amp ; Molly , James . For that she pays another rate , And I believe rewards you fully . Lewis . You see my Navies out to serve you , Which lost , I never should get another , And yet upon your Subject's Plot , I ventured hard for Church our Mother . James . It's true , I thought the Cockmatch would Have set my Kingdoms all a Fighting , And my Mongrel Protestants were true , By their Address to you in w [ r ] iting . Lewis . And I had served them to a Hair , Had not our Fleet miscarried so , James . I think my Admiral did his part , Lewis . Your Admiral n'er strook a blow . James . Thank Mongrel Protestants for that , You see what ample power they have , To make a Seamans Conscience kick , The Church and Popery to save . Lewis . It's true , your Mongrel Protestants Their parts did act with fair pretence , Nor did I cease to grease the wheels , You little think to what expense . James . But since our hopeful Cake proves Dough , Our losses how must we restore , For I will n'er my Person trust , To head and Irish Army more . Lewis . I dare believe it , You , nor I , Ever headed Armies in our lives , We better were for Chamber Wars , To Kiss our Maids , and P ---- r our Wives . Let our Slaves into danger run , And Bones expose to sturdy walls , The Prince was cursed in Mother's womb , That by a Cannon Bullet falls . James . No more of this , but to the point , Our Jesuits must to work again , The Rebels will recruit their Fleet , And then ride Master's of the Main . Lewis . If they Ride Master's of the Main , Let Jesuites all together Plot , I fear their Plots will all prove vain . With mongrel Protestants to boot . James . For Heavens sake Sir , do something more , Our sinking Mother Church to cherish , At least to keep my Wife and Son From coming poorly to the Parish . Lewis . What would you have me more to do ? My Moneys spent , my Stores are gone , And all the world about my ears , Pray Heaven that I may save my own . Which if I do , I'll promise this , That you and Abbey shall enjoy , I'll make and Abbess of your Wife . And to his Fortune leave the Boy . FINIS . Printed for for Charles Thorp in Picadilly . King James his Lamentation For the Loss of His Kingdom of Ireland , Being a Dialogue between Him , and the French KING . To the Tune of , The Leggan Water . James . WORSER Ear Brother , and Confederate , Your Slave is come again once more , With some the chiefest of my Friends , Your aid and pity to implore . Lewis . Brother of No-Land how d'ye think That I should trust you once again , I lent you Ships a and Soldiers too , What are become of all my Den ? James . What need you such a question ask , When we , and all the world well knows , You valve not the lives of men , More than the dust under your shoes . Lewis . O Sir , I now begin to feel The want of what I wasted then , And should I see you up once more , Your luck is nought , you'd break again . James . You have my Jewels and my Plate , Lewis . For that I keep your Son , & amp ; Molly , James . For that she pays another rate , And I believe rewards you fully . Lewis . You see my Navies out to serve you , Which lost , I never should get another , And yet upon your Subject's Plot , I ventured hard for Church our Mother . James . It's true , I thought the Cockmatch would Have set my Kingdoms all a Fighting , And my Mongrel Protestants were true , By their Address to you in w [ r ] iting . Lewis . And I had served them to a Hair , Had not our Fleet miscarried so , James . I think my Admiral did his part , Lewis . Your Admiral n'er strook a blow . James . Thank Mongrel Protestants for that , You see what ample power they have , To make a Seamans Conscience kick , The Church and Popery to save . Lewis . It's true , your Mongrel Protestants Their parts did act with fair pretence , Nor did I cease to grease the wheels , You little think to what expense . James . But since our hopeful Cake proves Dough , Our losses how must we restore , For I will n'er my Person trust , To head and Irish Army more . Lewis . I dare believe it , You , nor I , Ever headed Armies in our lives , We better were for Chamber Wars , To Kiss our Maids , and P ---- r our Wives . Let our Slaves into danger run , And Bones expose to sturdy walls , The Prince was cursed in Mother's womb , That by a Cannon Bullet falls . James . No more of this , but to the point , Our Jesuits must to work again , The Rebels will recruit their Fleet , And then ride Master's of the Main . Lewis . If they Ride Master's of the Main , Let Jesuites all together Plot , I fear their Plots will all prove vain . With mongrel Protestants to boot . James . For Heavens sake Sir , do something more , Our sinking Mother Church to cherish , At least to keep my Wife and Son From coming poorly to the Parish . Lewis . What would you have me more to do ? My Moneys spent , my Stores are gone , And all the world about my ears , Pray Heaven that I may save my own . Which if I do , I'll promise this , That you and Abbey shall enjoy , I'll make and Abbess of your Wife . And to his Fortune leave the Boy . FINIS . Printed for for Charles Thorp in Picadilly . 