The Protestant Soldiers Resolution to Fight for KING WILLIAM , ( Who is now gone for Ireland ) against the Irish Rebels , and French-Papists , both by Sea and Land , being encouragement for all True Hearted Protestants to follow Them. Tune , My life and my death : Or , Let Cesar live long . Licensed according to Order . O Ur great King and Army is gone over the Sea , For to Fight all the French men where ever they be , Brave boys that will stand by the side of a King , Which will unto England much honour bring ; Then boys let's take courage to fight till we die , To make the proud Rebels in Ireland fly We will join our Army with the Enskilling boys , For to Kill and to Conquer the Irish Dear Joys ; Tryconnel himself shall be put to the Sword , Whom once they did love , and called him their Lord ; Then boys let's take courage to sighed till we die . To make the proud French men and Irish men fly . The French men of late unto England have been foes , But now we are resolved to pay them with blows , James to be sure he may well scratch his ear , When the noise of King William's brave boys he shall hear , Then boys let's take courage to fight till we die , To make the proud Rebels in Ireland fly . Our noble Duke Scomberg he shall led the Van , At the Head of our Army King William will stand ; Through fire and sword brave boys we will fight , For to maintain the cause of the Protestant right , Then boys lets take courage to fight till we die , To make the proud French men , and Irish men fly , When our Army's drawn up , let this be the word , The But-end of the Musket , or the Edge of the Sword With our Musket & amp ; Sword we will show them such play , We will follow and pursue them they once run away ; Then boys let's take courage to fight till we die , To make the proud Rebels in Ireland fly . We will face our Enemy in every place , Towns , Towers , or Castles , it's in a good case , Protestant boys we will fight for the Cause Of England old Eng [ l ] and , her Right and her Laws ; Then boys let's take courage to fight till we die To make the proud french men and Irish men fly . the noble Duke Grafton , with his Fleet at Sea will fight all our Enemies where ever they be ; Their Cannons shall roar , and the Bullets shall [ fly ] e , And thunder so loud that shall Echo the Sky . Then boys let's take courage to fight till we die . To make the proud French men upon the Sea fly . Our English brave Seamen shall stand upon Deck , who scorns for to fly from the face of a Turk ; Pope , Devil , and French-men , come all if you dare , Now our Army is ready , we will fight any where ; By Sea and by Land , we will fight till we die , For to make the proud French men upon the sea fly . You Cowardly French men appear on the Sea , Though you in your Fleet have more Ships than we , Our English brave Ships shall stand like a Town , For to burn all your Ships , and beatrice your Masts down By Sea and by Land , we will fight while we worser [ you ] , For to make the proud French men upon the sea fly . Printed for James Bissel in West Smithfield . The Protestant Soldiers Resolution to Fight for KING WILLIAM , ( Who is now gone for Ireland ) against the Irish Rebels , and French-Papists , both by Sea and Land , being encouragement for all True Hearted Protestants to follow Them. Tune , My life and my death : Or , Let Cesar live long . Licensed according to Order . O Ur great King and Army is gone over the Sea , For to Fight all the French men where ever they be , Brave boys that will stand by the side of a King , Which will unto England much honour bring ; Then boys let's take courage to fight till we die , To make the proud Rebels in Ireland fly We will join our Army with the Enskilling boys , For to Kill and to Conquer the Irish Dear Joys ; Tryconnel himself shall be put to the Sword , Whom once they did love , and called him their Lord ; Then boys let's take courage to sighed till we die . To make the proud French men and Irish men fly . The French men of late unto England have been foes , But now we are resolved to pay them with blows , James to be sure he may well scratch his ear , When the noise of King William's brave boys he shall hear , Then boys let's take courage to fight till we die , To make the proud Rebels in Ireland fly . Our noble Duke Scomberg he shall led the Van , At the Head of our Army King William will stand ; Through fire and sword brave boys we will fight , For to maintain the cause of the Protestant right , Then boys lets take courage to fight till we die , To make the proud French men , and Irish men fly , When our Army's drawn up , let this be the word , The But-end of the Musket , or the Edge of the Sword With our Musket & amp ; Sword we will show them such play , We will follow and pursue them they once run away ; Then boys let's take courage to fight till we die , To make the proud Rebels in Ireland fly . We will face our Enemy in every place , Towns , Towers , or Castles , it's in a good case , Protestant boys we will fight for the Cause Of England old Eng [ l ] and , her Right and her Laws ; Then boys let's take courage to fight till we die To make the proud french men and Irish men fly . the noble Duke Grafton , with his Fleet at Sea will fight all our Enemies where ever they be ; Their Cannons shall roar , and the Bullets shall [ fly ] e , And thunder so loud that shall Echo the Sky . Then boys let's take courage to fight till we die . To make the proud French men upon the Sea fly . Our English brave Seamen shall stand upon Deck , who scorns for to fly from the face of a Turk ; Pope , Devil , and French-men , come all if you dare , Now our Army is ready , we will fight any where ; By Sea and by Land , we will fight till we die , For to make the proud French men upon the sea fly . You Cowardly French men appear on the Sea , Though you in your Fleet have more Ships than we , Our English brave Ships shall stand like a Town , For to burn all your Ships , and beatrice your Masts down By Sea and by Land , we will fight while we worser [ you ] , For to make the proud French men upon the sea fly . Printed for James Bissel in West Smithfield . 