The Triumph of IRELAND : OR , The Surrender of Limbrick To Their MAJESTIES FORCES under the Command of the Duke Of Wirtemburg , and Lieutenant General Scravenmore , on Sunday the 27 th . of September 1695 to the unspeakable joy of the Protestant Army . Tune of , Let the Soldiers Rejoice . Licensed according to Order . L Et the Bells' sweetly ring , Joyful Tidings we bring , Great Limbrick was Fo-o-o-o-o orst to surrender To the Army of Fame , Who does fight and proclaim , Might William , great William Three Kingdoms defender . 'Twas in vain to hold out , We had hedged them about With Cannons which ro-o-o-o-o-oared like Thunder , While the Wails of the Town , W [ e ] did there batter down , Famous Limbrick , great Limbrick sad grief did lie under . We the Shannon did crose With our brave Foot and Horse , Resolving to cha-a-a-a-a-arge and give Fire , We no sooner begun But the Enemy run , Into Limbrick , to Limbrick they strove to retire , We the Teagues did pursue , Who to Limberick flew , But see the French tol-ol-ol-ol-ol-old of all pity , Who exposed them to fallen , By our brave General , For they barred up , they bar [ ' worser up the ] Gates of the City , Ah! but what said poor Teague , In a terrible tweague , This French Dog if e-e-e-e-e-e'er we come near him , By my shoul my dear Joy , We will kill and destroy , For no longer , no longer we ever will fear him . Hubobbobo they cried , We are shut ad out side , [ TO ] his day to be sla-a-a-a-a-ain helter skelter , While dis plaguy Monsieur Who has ruined us here , Hath the City of Limbrick by Creest for his shelter . Thus with a hone a hone , And a pitiful tone , To hundreds we str-ei-ei-ei-ei-eight did give quarter , For our Generals bold , They are brave hearts of gold , Who are never , are never Boys greedy for slaughter . Then the Town in distress , Did their sorrows express , Strait by a White Fl-a-a-a-a-ag of submission , For they could not withstand Our vast Armed band , Who had brought them , had brought them to a low condition . It was streightways agreed , To surrender with speed , Without any l-o-o-o-o-onger delaying , In the spite of Monsieur , Who did tremble for fear Of the Army , tO [ h ] e Army whose Flags were displaying , All their Arms they laid down , And marched out of the Town , Poor Torys destr-e-e-e-e-essed and naked , Thus they poor ragged Crew , Bid Limberick adieu , Nay and Joyful , right Joyful they were to forsake it . Into Limberick we came , Crowned with Troffies of Fame , While Trumpets were sou-ou-ou-ou-ou-ounding before us And our Drums they did beatrice through every street , While the Protestant Families there did adore us . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. BackThe Triumph of IRELAND : OR , The Surrender of Limbrick To Their MAJESTIES FORCES under the Command of the Duke Of Wirtemburg , and Lieutenant General Scravenmore , on Sunday the 27 th . of September 1695 to the unspeakable joy of the Protestant Army . Tune of , Let the Soldiers Rejoice . Licensed according to Order . L Et the Bells' sweetly ring , Joyful Tidings we bring , Great Limbrick was Fo-o-o-o-o orst to surrender To the Army of Fame , Who does fight and proclaim , Might William , great William Three Kingdoms defender . 'Twas in vain to hold out , We had hedged them about With Cannons which ro-o-o-o-o-oared like Thunder , While the Wails of the Town , W [ e ] did there batter down , Famous Limbrick , great Limbrick sad grief did lie under . We the Shannon did crose With our brave Foot and Horse , Resolving to cha-a-a-a-a-arge and give Fire , We no sooner begun But the Enemy run , Into Limbrick , to Limbrick they strove to retire , We the Teagues did pursue , Who to Limberick flew , But see the French tol-ol-ol-ol-ol-old of all pity , Who exposed them to fallen , By our brave General , For they barred up , they bar [ ' worser up the ] Gates of the City , Ah! but what said poor Teague , In a terrible tweague , This French Dog if e-e-e-e-e-e'er we come near him , By my shoul my dear Joy , We will kill and destroy , For no longer , no longer we ever will fear him . Hubobbobo they cried , We are shut ad out side , [ TO ] his day to be sla-a-a-a-a-ain helter skelter , While dis plaguy Monsieur Who has ruined us here , Hath the City of Limbrick by Creest for his shelter . Thus with a hone a hone , And a pitiful tone , To hundreds we str-ei-ei-ei-ei-eight did give quarter , For our Generals bold , They are brave hearts of gold , Who are never , are never Boys greedy for slaughter . Then the Town in distress , Did their sorrows express , Strait by a White Fl-a-a-a-a-ag of submission , For they could not withstand Our vast Armed band , Who had brought them , had brought them to a low condition . It was streightways agreed , To surrender with speed , Without any l-o-o-o-o-onger delaying , In the spite of Monsieur , Who did tremble for fear Of the Army , tO [ h ] e Army whose Flags were displaying , All their Arms they laid down , And marched out of the Town , Poor Torys destr-e-e-e-e-essed and naked , Thus they poor ragged Crew , Bid Limberick adieu , Nay and Joyful , right Joyful they were to forsake it . Into Limberick we came , Crowned with Troffies of Fame , While Trumpets were sou-ou-ou-ou-ou-ounding before us And our Drums they did beatrice through every street , While the Protestant Families there did adore us . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back 