The Rambling Roman Catholic : OR , THE Surprised PAPIST Turned PROTESTANT . To the Tune of A Begging we will go . Licensed according to Order . I Am a Roman Catholic , whom Protestants does scorn , And I was sent from hence to Room , when pretty Prince was Born , Indeed to tell his Holiness the News , and how the whole Plot was laid . I was one of the Nuntio's Men , therefore most fit to go ; I had a great desire then , to kiss the Pope's great Toe , Likewise to tell his Holiness the News , and how the Intrigue went on . I told him Father Peters , that Precious Saint indeed , With all his other Creatures did gallantly proceed , And now the Romish Work goes fairly on , the Game will be soon our own . The Pope he turned his head and smiled , then blessed the Tenth of June ; Likewise by me he sent the Child a Consecrated Spoon , With many other pretty little Toys and Coral to rub his Gums . I took the Benediction of the great Pope of Rome : But coming to Great Britain , most dismal was our Doom ; For why , his Highness he was fled away , and good Father Peters too . My heart was filled with fear and dread , when coming to White-Hall ; Therefore without delay I did for Father Peters call , But strait they told me he was run away , I , and all the Friars too . Then being very zealous I searched the Court all round , Expecting to have gone to Mass , but the Dee'l a Mass I found ; The Doors I see was locked and barred up strong , at which I stood amazed . I straitways did retire unto St. James is , where I could not find a Friar to Thatch a Gallows there , No , no , I found they all was fled away , and others in their Room . I asked for the Nuncio , some said , I was too bold : Said I , There's no more hurt in him than a Dee'l of Two year old ; For a precious Saint I'm sure he was indeed , well fed and bred at Rome . I found the Doors all locked up fast , when to Lime-street I went , Quoth I , What are they run away because they could not pay their Rend ? I wondered in my Heart what was the Cause . that all the Crew was gone . A Youngman standing by me , in friendly sort he said , In Newgate the poor Jesuites were forced to hide their head , And same likewise are run away to France , they have no Trading here . I hearing then what he did say , and every Word did note ; Thought I , there is no other way , but strait to Turn my Coat , I'll throw my Beads and Crucifix away , and be a Protestant . For why , I was the same before , yet turned for private Gain , And did Room is Priests and Mass adore , while Jemmico did Reign , But now good Faith I do defy them all , the Cause goes clearly down . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . The Rambling Roman Catholic : OR , THE Surprised PAPIST Turned PROTESTANT . To the Tune of A Begging we will go . Licensed according to Order . I Am a Roman Catholic , whom Protestants does scorn , And I was sent from hence to Room , when pretty Prince was Born , Indeed to tell his Holiness the News , and how the whole Plot was laid . I was one of the Nuntio's Men , therefore most fit to go ; I had a great desire then , to kiss the Pope's great Toe , Likewise to tell his Holiness the News , and how the Intrigue went on . I told him Father Peters , that Precious Saint indeed , With all his other Creatures did gallantly proceed , And now the Romish Work goes fairly on , the Game will be soon our own . The Pope he turned his head and smiled , then blessed the Tenth of June ; Likewise by me he sent the Child a Consecrated Spoon , With many other pretty little Toys and Coral to rub his Gums . I took the Benediction of the great Pope of Rome : But coming to Great Britain , most dismal was our Doom ; For why , his Highness he was fled away , and good Father Peters too . My heart was filled with fear and dread , when coming to White-Hall ; Therefore without delay I did for Father Peters call , But strait they told me he was run away , I , and all the Friars too . Then being very zealous I searched the Court all round , Expecting to have gone to Mass , but the Dee'l a Mass I found ; The Doors I see was locked and barred up strong , at which I stood amazed . I straitways did retire unto St. James is , where I could not find a Friar to Thatch a Gallows there , No , no , I found they all was fled away , and others in their Room . I asked for the Nuncio , some said , I was too bold : Said I , There's no more hurt in him than a Dee'l of Two year old ; For a precious Saint I'm sure he was indeed , well fed and bred at Rome . I found the Doors all locked up fast , when to Lime-street I went , Quoth I , What are they run away because they could not pay their Rend ? I wondered in my Heart what was the Cause . that all the Crew was gone . A Youngman standing by me , in friendly sort he said , In Newgate the poor Jesuites were forced to hide their head , And same likewise are run away to France , they have no Trading here . I hearing then what he did say , and every Word did note ; Thought I , there is no other way , but strait to Turn my Coat , I'll throw my Beads and Crucifix away , and be a Protestant . For why , I was the same before , yet turned for private Gain , And did Room is Priests and Mass adore , while Jemmico did Reign , But now good Faith I do defy them all , the Cause goes clearly down . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 