King Williams Triumph ; OR , H is signal Victory over his Enemies ; Together , With the surrender of Drogheda , and His Joyful Entrance into The CITY of DUBLIN . To the Tune of , Valiant Jockey . B Oys , the Day is all our own , The Rebels being overthrown : Gracious good K. William now , brave Boys Puts the scare upon the poor Dear-joys : Cheerful Trumpets sweetly found , And roaring Cannons tear the Ground : Never did they hear the like before , While our King approached the Irish shore : Our Armed Host , so ruled the Roast , That it was in vain for Teague to boast ; Great things were done , the Field we wone , And the French and Tories Run , they Run . While they took their hasty flight , Still we pursued in Armour bright , Headed by a Warlike Monarch , who Like a Sun of Thunder does pursue ; Den bespoke a poor Monsieur , Begar me stay no longer here ; For they Shoot and Cut , and make us bleed , While the King he does the Army Led ; Boots and Carbine , me will resign , could me but to Paris get over , And likewise Swear , ah Morblew , begar , me will fight the English - man no more . But those wishes are in vain , King William with a Warlike Train , Made the very Elements resound , While his Army was with Conquest Crowned ; He himself with Sword in hand , Led on his Noble Armed Band ; Which did much encourage Soldiers then , Never was there better fighting men : Our King with skill , from hill to hill , Seven mile about he coursed them still , Happy was they , could get away , While we did maintain the Bloody Fray. With undaunted Courage bold , Right Valiant Noble hearts of Gold , Charge the Rebels home on every side , Bravely done my Lads , the King replied ; Though it was a sharp dispute , We did so often them Salute ; With repeated showers of Leaden Ball , Till at length we fairly Conquered all ; King William he , immediately , Sent a Message unto Drogheda , Declaring they , should yield straightway , Or his roaring Cannons soon should play . Now they knew it was in vain , For to oppose his Warlike Train ; Therefore then they did Surrender [ strai ] ght , This is Joyful Tidings to relate : Dublin did the like also , To which our Mighty King did go , Nothing did oppose him in the least , Thus his Fame and Triumph still increased : King William he , gave Liberty , To the Protestants in Misery : Then healths went round , with knees to ground While our Monarch is with Trophies Crowned FINIS . Printed for Charles Bates , next door to the Crown-Tavern , near Duck-Lane-end , in West-Smithfield . King Williams Triumph ; OR , H is signal Victory over his Enemies ; Together , With the surrender of Drogheda , and His Joyful Entrance into The CITY of DUBLIN . To the Tune of , Valiant Jockey . B Oys , the Day is all our own , The Rebels being overthrown : Gracious good K. William now , brave Boys Puts the scare upon the poor Dear-joys : Cheerful Trumpets sweetly found , And roaring Cannons tear the Ground : Never did they hear the like before , While our King approached the Irish shore : Our Armed Host , so ruled the Roast , That it was in vain for Teague to boast ; Great things were done , the Field we wone , And the French and Tories Run , they Run . While they took their hasty flight , Still we pursued in Armour bright , Headed by a Warlike Monarch , who Like a Sun of Thunder does pursue ; Den bespoke a poor Monsieur , Begar me stay no longer here ; For they Shoot and Cut , and make us bleed , While the King he does the Army Led ; Boots and Carbine , me will resign , could me but to Paris get over , And likewise Swear , ah Morblew , begar , me will fight the English - man no more . But those wishes are in vain , King William with a Warlike Train , Made the very Elements resound , While his Army was with Conquest Crowned ; He himself with Sword in hand , Led on his Noble Armed Band ; Which did much encourage Soldiers then , Never was there better fighting men : Our King with skill , from hill to hill , Seven mile about he coursed them still , Happy was they , could get away , While we did maintain the Bloody Fray. With undaunted Courage bold , Right Valiant Noble hearts of Gold , Charge the Rebels home on every side , Bravely done my Lads , the King replied ; Though it was a sharp dispute , We did so often them Salute ; With repeated showers of Leaden Ball , Till at length we fairly Conquered all ; King William he , immediately , Sent a Message unto Drogheda , Declaring they , should yield straightway , Or his roaring Cannons soon should play . Now they knew it was in vain , For to oppose his Warlike Train ; Therefore then they did Surrender [ strai ] ght , This is Joyful Tidings to relate : Dublin did the like also , To which our Mighty King did go , Nothing did oppose him in the least , Thus his Fame and Triumph still increased : King William he , gave Liberty , To the Protestants in Misery : Then healths went round , with knees to ground While our Monarch is with Trophies Crowned FINIS . Printed for Charles Bates , next door to the Crown-Tavern , near Duck-Lane-end , in West-Smithfield . 