Englands TRIUMPH , OR , Valiant King William is MARCH on his Expedition , TO IRELAND . Tune of , The Beggar with the Wooden-Leg . With allowance . COME Brave Boys don't you hear , the Drums & amp ; Trumpets found ? The Hills and the Valleys with Echo's do rebound . And to Ireland we'll go , we'll go , we'll go , and to Ireland now we'll go . Great William do's declare , that he'll prosecute the War , And expose His Royal Person to Danger and to Care . For to Ireland now he'll go , he'll go , for to Ireland he will go . When Teague herd the News , he was forced to change his Tone , From his Lily bo lero , Lily bo lero , to Oh Hone , Oh Hone . For the King to Ireland goes , he goes . for the King to Ireland goes . Old Jemmy , and his Friars were in a Plague Sweat , And Swore their Beads and Crosses would never do the Feat . If the King to Ireland comes , he comes , he comes , if the King to Ireland comes . Then up starts Monsieur in his Fantastic geer , Begar your Humble Servant , me stay no longer here . If the King to Ireland comes , he comes , he comes , if the King to Ireland comes . Alack then says's Jemmy , you will not serve me so , Nay take me first along with you , for I know not what to do . If the King to Ireland comes , he comes , he comes , if the King to Ireland he comes . Then comes the Priest's with their Pater-Noster-Row , And tell to great St. Patrick their Sorrow , Grief , and Woe . How the King to Ireland comes , he comes , he comes , how the King to Ireland comes . By my Shoul then says St. Patrick , you're a pack of Silly Rogues , If you do not leave your Shack-boots and take you to your Broges . When the King to Ireland comes , he comes , he comes , when the King to Ireland comes . And now they say that Jemmy is in so great a Fright , He's packing up his Baggage , and bids they all goodnight ; Since the King for Ireland comes , he comes , he comes , since the King for Ireland comes . The Priests are all a Scouring , and giving Teagues the flip ; And happy is the Friar gets first aboard a Ship ; Since the King for Ireland comes , he comes , he comes , since the King for Ireland comes . A Market they are making , their Trinkets for to fell ; For all upon a sudden their trading it is fell : Since the King for Ireland goes , he goes , he goes , since the King for Ireland goes . Poor Teagues are now compounding , for Life at any rates : Don't put thee hang upon them , they'll give you their Estates : Since the King for Ireland comes , he comes , he comes , since the King for Ireland comes . Then rub a dub a dub dub , rouse the warlike Boys ; Honour , Wealth , and Victory , he that goes enjoys : Since the King for Ireland goes , he goes , he goes , since the King for Ireland goes . The Army they'll have Plunder , when they are landed there ; Each Soldier will have Money , much more than he can bear ; When the King to Ireland comes , he comes , he comes , when the King to Ireland comes . Then off fly's the shoulder-knot Teague had upon his Sword , And instead of Blood and Battle , to Plough , and So's the word . When the King to Ireland , he comes , he c [ ome ] s , When the King to Ireland he comes . Nay hold a while says Schomberg , you count without your Host , For we must be repaid again for all our Charge and Cost , If the King to Ireland comes , he comes , he comes , if the King to Ireland he goes . Begar iT be no good Fashion , quoth Monsieur then to Teague , Our Popish Tricks are all destroyed by a Protestant Intrigue . Now the King for Ireland he comes , he comes , he comes , now the King to Ireland he comes . Thus Monsieur who had promised Teague , to kill the Heretic - Dogs , They're forced to learn of Teague to Trot and Tripp it over the Bogs . Since the King for Ireland goes , he goes , he goes , since the King for Ireland goes . Printed by J. W. near Fleet-street , 1689. Englands TRIUMPH , OR , Valiant King William is MARCH on his Expedition , TO IRELAND . Tune of , The Beggar with the Wooden-Leg . With allowance . COME Brave Boys don't you hear , the Drums & amp ; Trumpets found ? The Hills and the Valleys with Echo's do rebound . And to Ireland we'll go , we'll go , we'll go , and to Ireland now we'll go . Great William do's declare , that he'll prosecute the War , And expose His Royal Person to Danger and to Care . For to Ireland now he'll go , he'll go , for to Ireland he will go . When Teague herd the News , he was forced to change his Tone , From his Lily bo lero , Lily bo lero , to Oh Hone , Oh Hone . For the King to Ireland goes , he goes . for the King to Ireland goes . Old Jemmy , and his Friars were in a Plague Sweat , And Swore their Beads and Crosses would never do the Feat . If the King to Ireland comes , he comes , he comes , if the King to Ireland comes . Then up starts Monsieur in his Fantastic geer , Begar your Humble Servant , me stay no longer here . If the King to Ireland comes , he comes , he comes , if the King to Ireland comes . Alack then says's Jemmy , you will not serve me so , Nay take me first along with you , for I know not what to do . If the King to Ireland comes , he comes , he comes , if the King to Ireland he comes . Then comes the Priest's with their Pater-Noster-Row , And tell to great St. Patrick their Sorrow , Grief , and Woe . How the King to Ireland comes , he comes , he comes , how the King to Ireland comes . By my Shoul then says St. Patrick , you're a pack of Silly Rogues , If you do not leave your Shack-boots and take you to your Broges . When the King to Ireland comes , he comes , he comes , when the King to Ireland comes . And now they say that Jemmy is in so great a Fright , He's packing up his Baggage , and bids they all goodnight ; Since the King for Ireland comes , he comes , he comes , since the King for Ireland comes . The Priests are all a Scouring , and giving Teagues the flip ; And happy is the Friar gets first aboard a Ship ; Since the King for Ireland comes , he comes , he comes , since the King for Ireland comes . A Market they are making , their Trinkets for to fell ; For all upon a sudden their trading it is fell : Since the King for Ireland goes , he goes , he goes , since the King for Ireland goes . Poor Teagues are now compounding , for Life at any rates : Don't put thee hang upon them , they'll give you their Estates : Since the King for Ireland comes , he comes , he comes , since the King for Ireland comes . Then rub a dub a dub dub , rouse the warlike Boys ; Honour , Wealth , and Victory , he that goes enjoys : Since the King for Ireland goes , he goes , he goes , since the King for Ireland goes . The Army they'll have Plunder , when they are landed there ; Each Soldier will have Money , much more than he can bear ; When the King to Ireland comes , he comes , he comes , when the King to Ireland comes . Then off fly's the shoulder-knot Teague had upon his Sword , And instead of Blood and Battle , to Plough , and So's the word . When the King to Ireland , he comes , he c [ ome ] s , When the King to Ireland he comes . Nay hold a while says Schomberg , you count without your Host , For we must be repaid again for all our Charge and Cost , If the King to Ireland comes , he comes , he comes , if the King to Ireland he goes . Begar iT be no good Fashion , quoth Monsieur then to Teague , Our Popish Tricks are all destroyed by a Protestant Intrigue . Now the King for Ireland he comes , he comes , he comes , now the King to Ireland he comes . Thus Monsieur who had promised Teague , to kill the Heretic - Dogs , They're forced to learn of Teague to Trot and Tripp it over the Bogs . Since the King for Ireland goes , he goes , he goes , since the King for Ireland goes . Printed by J. W. near Fleet-street , 1689. 