THE Royal Favours of K. WILIIAM ; Being the Substance of his Speech to his Valiant Soldiers in FLANDERS . As likewise His Princely Present to them , with which they Drank His Royal Health , while Drums was Beating , and Trumpets Sounding through the whole Army . Tune of , Let the Soldiers Rejoice . Licensed according to Order . W Orthy Gentlemen all , Of the Powder and Ball , The Protestant A ----- rmy of Flanders ; Now be all of good Cheer , [ And ] the Coasts you will clear , You have [ Vam ] liant , right Valiant and Noble Commanders Men of Conduct and Skill , That will venture , Boys , still , Therefore I have re ----- ason to praise ' um . And the huffing Monsieur , He will tremble for fear , For your courage your courage , brave boys , will amaze they Mighty Princes of late , In the Coun [ sell ] of State , The Plots of proud Fra ----- nce has confounded ; For we all are agreed , Now to sail on with speed , Therefore Lewis , proud Lewis , with fear be surrounded . Then my brave hearts of Gold , Most Courageous and Bold , All Losses they so ----- on shall restore us ; While the Cannons do Roar , They shall lie in their Gore , And their Army , their Army , we'll drive Boys , before Nay , my Lads , you shall see , I'll your General be , Then fear not to fo ----- llow your Leader ; I resolve to March on , Up to Lewis le Grand , And to lay low , to lay low that lofty high Cedar . Coll'nel Talmash , said he , Here's your Regiment I see , Hath two years in Fla ----- nders resided ; Here is Guinnies five score , I will give them therefore , Now be careful , and see it be fairly Divided . Nay , the Army all through , He was Generous to , For they did parta ----- ke of his Treasure ; With a Huzza of Joy , Crying Vive le Roy , Let us fight for our King , Boys , and count it a pleasure . Then the Trumpets did found , All the Army quite round , And rattling Dr ----- ums they were beating ; And e'ry honesty Soul , Drank a full flowing Bowl , There was never , was never , a happier Greeting . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . THE Royal Favours of K. WILIIAM ; Being the Substance of his Speech to his Valiant Soldiers in FLANDERS . As likewise His Princely Present to them , with which they Drank His Royal Health , while Drums was Beating , and Trumpets Sounding through the whole Army . Tune of , Let the Soldiers Rejoice . Licensed according to Order . W Orthy Gentlemen all , Of the Powder and Ball , The Protestant A ----- rmy of Flanders ; Now be all of good Cheer , [ And ] the Coasts you will clear , You have [ Vam ] liant , right Valiant and Noble Commanders Men of Conduct and Skill , That will venture , Boys , still , Therefore I have re ----- ason to praise ' um . And the huffing Monsieur , He will tremble for fear , For your courage your courage , brave boys , will amaze they Mighty Princes of late , In the Coun [ sell ] of State , The Plots of proud Fra ----- nce has confounded ; For we all are agreed , Now to sail on with speed , Therefore Lewis , proud Lewis , with fear be surrounded . Then my brave hearts of Gold , Most Courageous and Bold , All Losses they so ----- on shall restore us ; While the Cannons do Roar , They shall lie in their Gore , And their Army , their Army , we'll drive Boys , before Nay , my Lads , you shall see , I'll your General be , Then fear not to fo ----- llow your Leader ; I resolve to March on , Up to Lewis le Grand , And to lay low , to lay low that lofty high Cedar . Coll'nel Talmash , said he , Here's your Regiment I see , Hath two years in Fla ----- nders resided ; Here is Guinnies five score , I will give them therefore , Now be careful , and see it be fairly Divided . Nay , the Army all through , He was Generous to , For they did parta ----- ke of his Treasure ; With a Huzza of Joy , Crying Vive le Roy , Let us fight for our King , Boys , and count it a pleasure . Then the Trumpets did found , All the Army quite round , And rattling Dr ----- ums they were beating ; And e'ry honesty Soul , Drank a full flowing Bowl , There was never , was never , a happier Greeting . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 