Poor TEAGUE in Distress : OR , The French and Irish Army Routed . Together with the Flight of the Duke of Berwick , Fitz-James , Tyrconnel , and the rest of the Head Leaders , to FRANCE . To the Tune of , The ORANGE . GOod Tidings I bring , from William our Kig , The Glory of P rotestant Soldiers shall ring , While the French and Teagues , for their cruel Intrigues Are forced to scour and run many Leagues , Being Routed . De English Boy , they will us destroy , Where shall we go hide our selves now , my Dear-Joy ? Our Leaders are fled , which fills us with dread , Be Chreest , they will hang up poor Teague till he's dead , Being Routed . It is the French Crew that makes us to rue , For dem we are forced to sing Hubbub bub boo ; Had they not come over , to our Native Shore , We then would have turned to King William before We were Routed . Begar , says Monsieur , when first I came here , they tell me of having five hundred a year ; But here me find none , but the broken Bone , And Army dispersed , and quite overthrown , Being Routed . The Teagues straight replied , it can't be denied , You sent over to France our Gold . Silver beside ; And Cattle consume , so sad is our Doom , We have nothing left here but Brass in the room , Now we're Routed . Me came to help you , a Cowardly Crew , Therefore all that ever you have is our due ; Begar , speak a word , me draw out my Sword , To kill you , so presently scamper abroad , Being Routed . With that they did part , but Teague grieved at heart , A thousand times wished he had kept Blow and Cart ; And never mounted Horse , for by Patrick is Cross , We Irish are beaten , and suffer the loss , Being Routed . De English did Fight , and put us to flight , We could not endure to behold they in sighed : As they did Advance , to Run was our chance , Dear-Joy , we did led them a delicate Dance , Being Routed . In midst of the fray , we run , but my Faith , But 'twas our good Officers taught us the way ; By help of our Brogues , we took to the Bogs , For fear they would thump us , and thrash us like Dogs Being Routed . My friends I did Trace , but could not keep pace , With Noble Tyrconnel , his Majesties Grace : He cannot deny , but while we did fly , His speed was so swift , he run faster than I , Being Routed . The French Brigadeer , he scoured for fear , He knew it not safe for to stay longer here : With dexterous skill , he rid Dales and Hill , And left the poor Teagues to be Hanged if they will , Being Routed . When Berwick did find Fitz-James in the mind , To follow their Leaders , and never look behind ; The Monsieur D'Louson , and Noble Lord Powis , They're all gone to tell a sad Story to Lewis , Being Routed . Be Chreest , let them go , it's certain , we know A Friend we shall find of a Protestant Foe , Our Joys to complete , therefore we'll Retreat , And fallen down for Mercy at King Williams Feet , He will Save us . FINIS . Printed for Charles Bates , next door to the Crown-Tavern near Duck-Lane-end , in West-Smithfield . Poor TEAGUE in Distress : OR , The French and Irish Army Routed . Together with the Flight of the Duke of Berwick , Fitz-James , Tyrconnel , and the rest of the Head Leaders , to FRANCE . To the Tune of , The ORANGE . GOod Tidings I bring , from William our Kig , The Glory of P rotestant Soldiers shall ring , While the French and Teagues , for their cruel Intrigues Are forced to scour and run many Leagues , Being Routed . De English Boy , they will us destroy , Where shall we go hide our selves now , my Dear-Joy ? Our Leaders are fled , which fills us with dread , Be Chreest , they will hang up poor Teague till he's dead , Being Routed . It is the French Crew that makes us to rue , For dem we are forced to sing Hubbub bub boo ; Had they not come over , to our Native Shore , We then would have turned to King William before We were Routed . Begar , says Monsieur , when first I came here , they tell me of having five hundred a year ; But here me find none , but the broken Bone , And Army dispersed , and quite overthrown , Being Routed . The Teagues straight replied , it can't be denied , You sent over to France our Gold . Silver beside ; And Cattle consume , so sad is our Doom , We have nothing left here but Brass in the room , Now we're Routed . Me came to help you , a Cowardly Crew , Therefore all that ever you have is our due ; Begar , speak a word , me draw out my Sword , To kill you , so presently scamper abroad , Being Routed . With that they did part , but Teague grieved at heart , A thousand times wished he had kept Blow and Cart ; And never mounted Horse , for by Patrick is Cross , We Irish are beaten , and suffer the loss , Being Routed . De English did Fight , and put us to flight , We could not endure to behold they in sighed : As they did Advance , to Run was our chance , Dear-Joy , we did led them a delicate Dance , Being Routed . In midst of the fray , we run , but my Faith , But 'twas our good Officers taught us the way ; By help of our Brogues , we took to the Bogs , For fear they would thump us , and thrash us like Dogs Being Routed . My friends I did Trace , but could not keep pace , With Noble Tyrconnel , his Majesties Grace : He cannot deny , but while we did fly , His speed was so swift , he run faster than I , Being Routed . The French Brigadeer , he scoured for fear , He knew it not safe for to stay longer here : With dexterous skill , he rid Dales and Hill , And left the poor Teagues to be Hanged if they will , Being Routed . When Berwick did find Fitz-James in the mind , To follow their Leaders , and never look behind ; The Monsieur D'Louson , and Noble Lord Powis , They're all gone to tell a sad Story to Lewis , Being Routed . Be Chreest , let them go , it's certain , we know A Friend we shall find of a Protestant Foe , Our Joys to complete , therefore we'll Retreat , And fallen down for Mercy at King Williams Feet , He will Save us . FINIS . Printed for Charles Bates , next door to the Crown-Tavern near Duck-Lane-end , in West-Smithfield . 