DUBLIN'S Deliverance : OR , The Surrender of DROGHEDA . Showing , King William's Conquest over his Catholic Enemies in his Warlike Progress in IRELAND . To the Tune of , Lilli burlero . Licensed according to Order . PRotestant Boys , good Tidings I bring , the which may blast our sorrowful fears ; For our most Gracious Sovereign King , Ireland now before him he clears . None is able to withstand him , while he do's march the Irish Shore ; Wherever he do's meet they , with Shot he do's treat they , the Rebels was never so peppered before . Our Troops did then in Armour appear , being right valiant Protestant Boys ; When the proud foe did seem to draw near , who was so swift as Tory Dear-Joys . Over the Boys to skip and scamper , fearing they should be laid in their Gore , In heat of the Battle , the Guns they did rattle , the Rebels was never so peppered before . Some of the French Troops seemed to stand , with and intent our Men to degrade ; But our King with drawn Sword in his hand , among them there strange havoc he made : So that they were forced to scour , and in their Lingua bitterly swore , With horror they fill us , both shoot , cut and kill us , begar we was never so peppered before . We neither French nor Tories did fear , for we up to their Faces did ride , Charging them from the Front to the Rear , vowing to cut down Catholic Pride . Pistols , Carbines , horsemen fire , likewise our loud-mouthed Cannons did roar ; The French they did lower , and Tories did scour , for Faith they were never so peppered before . Drums they did beatrice , and Trumpets did found , . while our great King the Rebels pursued ; From Hill to Hill , full seven miles round , being with warlike Courage endued : French and Tories both did scowr , while our Guns like Thunder did roar ; We blasted the Glory of Mounsieur and Tory , the Rogues were never so peppered before . The Inniskilling horsemen , and Danes , seized Tyrconnel is Jewels and Plate , And still will take industrious pains to secure his Lordship's Estate : For their warlike satisfaction , being resolved never to give oe'er , Till blasting the Glory of both French and Tory , the Rogues they were never so routed before . Now when the Battle was at and end , gracious K. William thus did proceed , To Drogheda then he streightways did send , willing them to surrender with speed , To his Army at Discretion , [ or ] else his loud-mouthed Cannons should roar ; They strait did Surrender to our Faith's Defender , no King ever conquered like him before . Dublin City yielded also , to our great King of Fame and Renown ; Where he in Royal Person did go , no French being left to give him a Frown . Protestants he soon released , which did their former Comforts restore : A heavenly Blessing he still is possessing , no King ever Conquered like him before . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. BackDUBLIN'S Deliverance : OR , The Surrender of DROGHEDA . Showing , King William's Conquest over his Catholic Enemies in his Warlike Progress in IRELAND . To the Tune of , Lilli burlero . Licensed according to Order . PRotestant Boys , good Tidings I bring , the which may blast our sorrowful fears ; For our most Gracious Sovereign King , Ireland now before him he clears . None is able to withstand him , while he do's march the Irish Shore ; Wherever he do's meet they , with Shot he do's treat they , the Rebels was never so peppered before . Our Troops did then in Armour appear , being right valiant Protestant Boys ; When the proud foe did seem to draw near , who was so swift as Tory Dear-Joys . Over the Boys to skip and scamper , fearing they should be laid in their Gore , In heat of the Battle , the Guns they did rattle , the Rebels was never so peppered before . Some of the French Troops seemed to stand , with and intent our Men to degrade ; But our King with drawn Sword in his hand , among them there strange havoc he made : So that they were forced to scour , and in their Lingua bitterly swore , With horror they fill us , both shoot , cut and kill us , begar we was never so peppered before . We neither French nor Tories did fear , for we up to their Faces did ride , Charging them from the Front to the Rear , vowing to cut down Catholic Pride . Pistols , Carbines , horsemen fire , likewise our loud-mouthed Cannons did roar ; The French they did lower , and Tories did scour , for Faith they were never so peppered before . Drums they did beatrice , and Trumpets did found , . while our great King the Rebels pursued ; From Hill to Hill , full seven miles round , being with warlike Courage endued : French and Tories both did scowr , while our Guns like Thunder did roar ; We blasted the Glory of Mounsieur and Tory , the Rogues were never so peppered before . The Inniskilling horsemen , and Danes , seized Tyrconnel is Jewels and Plate , And still will take industrious pains to secure his Lordship's Estate : For their warlike satisfaction , being resolved never to give oe'er , Till blasting the Glory of both French and Tory , the Rogues they were never so routed before . Now when the Battle was at and end , gracious K. William thus did proceed , To Drogheda then he streightways did send , willing them to surrender with speed , To his Army at Discretion , [ or ] else his loud-mouthed Cannons should roar ; They strait did Surrender to our Faith's Defender , no King ever conquered like him before . Dublin City yielded also , to our great King of Fame and Renown ; Where he in Royal Person did go , no French being left to give him a Frown . Protestants he soon released , which did their former Comforts restore : A heavenly Blessing he still is possessing , no King ever Conquered like him before . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back 