The Royal Recreation ; OR , King WILLIAM is Merriment . Showing , The manner of his Entertainment at a Country Farmer's House , in his Return from the Irish Wars . Tune of Let Caesar live long . Licensed according to Order O Ld Stories do tell us of notable things , Which has been transacted by Sovereign Kings , To make themselves merry , their Nobles likewise , As they in their Progress did ride in disguise : Those were the best days when great Kings they would be Jocose with their Subject's of every degree . Yet none of our Kings that has governed of late , Has been so familiar as William the Great , Who's great Condescension when I call to mind , For which he is termed , The Delight of Mankind : With Courage and Conduct he governs the Land , The meanest of Subject's and Grace at his hand . But setting aside all the Toils of the War , Where William the Great had so glorious a share ; When coming from Ireland , on the H igh way , For Merriment he at a Farmers would stay : The King and his Nobles they all did alight , The Maid in the H ouse stood amazed at this sighed . In all Towns and Places the Subject's did throng , To see our good King as he passed along ; This Farmer a H orseback was gone with his Wife , For why , she had never seen a King in her Life : The Daughter alone at his H ouse did remain , To wait on King William and his Courtly Train , She scarce ever before god a Kiss of a Man , But now they come trooping Will , Robin and Jan , Each Thrasher and Miller concluding that he Should then look as great as a Lord in degree : Her Glory and Fame through the Nation does ring , She having the Honour to wait on the King . Stout Roger he told his dear Mother one night , That Man that should Wed her the King will requite , In token of Love , for that Royal Feast , And make him Duke , Lord , or Squire at least . Her Glory and Fame through the Nation do's ring , She having the Honour to wait on the King . In troth , quoth the Mother , I'ld have thee to go , And see if she'll have a poor Plowman , or no : And then if K. William should make thee a Lord , Udzookers I'll count it a Royal Reward : Her Glory and Fame through the Nation do's ring , She having the honour to wait on the King . He dressed himself straight in his best Roast-meat Clothes , His Hat , Band , and likewise his H oly-day H ose ; Yet Roger the Ploughman was never the near , She sent him away with a Flay in his Ear : Her Glory and Fame through the Nation shall ring , As having , etc At length came a Squire his Love to reveal , For he could no longer his Passion conceal ; He Wooed and he Wedded this Lass out of Hand , And made her a Lady of houses and land : Her Glory and Fame through the Nation did ring , As having the Honour to wait on the King . The young Lads and Lasses that lived far and near , As soon as the happy good News they did hear , They came to the Wedding for Merriness sake , And the noble Squire great Feasting did make , And her Fame through all the whole Nation does ring As having the honour to wait on the King . [ ] all the the Dainties which they did prepare A Rash of good Bacon and Eggs too was there , And valued above the Goose , Capon , or Duck , It being the Prologue of all this good luck : Her Glory and Fame through the Nation does ring , As having the Honour to wait on the King . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . The Royal Recreation ; OR , King WILLIAM is Merriment . Showing , The manner of his Entertainment at a Country Farmer's House , in his Return from the Irish Wars . Tune of Let Caesar live long . Licensed according to Order O Ld Stories do tell us of notable things , Which has been transacted by Sovereign Kings , To make themselves merry , their Nobles likewise , As they in their Progress did ride in disguise : Those were the best days when great Kings they would be Jocose with their Subject's of every degree . Yet none of our Kings that has governed of late , Has been so familiar as William the Great , Who's great Condescension when I call to mind , For which he is termed , The Delight of Mankind : With Courage and Conduct he governs the Land , The meanest of Subject's and Grace at his hand . But setting aside all the Toils of the War , Where William the Great had so glorious a share ; When coming from Ireland , on the H igh way , For Merriment he at a Farmers would stay : The King and his Nobles they all did alight , The Maid in the H ouse stood amazed at this sighed . In all Towns and Places the Subject's did throng , To see our good King as he passed along ; This Farmer a H orseback was gone with his Wife , For why , she had never seen a King in her Life : The Daughter alone at his H ouse did remain , To wait on King William and his Courtly Train , She scarce ever before god a Kiss of a Man , But now they come trooping Will , Robin and Jan , Each Thrasher and Miller concluding that he Should then look as great as a Lord in degree : Her Glory and Fame through the Nation does ring , She having the Honour to wait on the King . Stout Roger he told his dear Mother one night , That Man that should Wed her the King will requite , In token of Love , for that Royal Feast , And make him Duke , Lord , or Squire at least . Her Glory and Fame through the Nation do's ring , She having the Honour to wait on the King . In troth , quoth the Mother , I'ld have thee to go , And see if she'll have a poor Plowman , or no : And then if K. William should make thee a Lord , Udzookers I'll count it a Royal Reward : Her Glory and Fame through the Nation do's ring , She having the honour to wait on the King . He dressed himself straight in his best Roast-meat Clothes , His Hat , Band , and likewise his H oly-day H ose ; Yet Roger the Ploughman was never the near , She sent him away with a Flay in his Ear : Her Glory and Fame through the Nation shall ring , As having , etc At length came a Squire his Love to reveal , For he could no longer his Passion conceal ; He Wooed and he Wedded this Lass out of Hand , And made her a Lady of houses and land : Her Glory and Fame through the Nation did ring , As having the Honour to wait on the King . The young Lads and Lasses that lived far and near , As soon as the happy good News they did hear , They came to the Wedding for Merriness sake , And the noble Squire great Feasting did make , And her Fame through all the whole Nation does ring As having the honour to wait on the King . [ ] all the the Dainties which they did prepare A Rash of good Bacon and Eggs too was there , And valued above the Goose , Capon , or Duck , It being the Prologue of all this good luck : Her Glory and Fame through the Nation does ring , As having the Honour to wait on the King . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 