A WORSER ialogue Between the Late King James The WORSER uke of Berwick , and Tyrconnel ; A while after the Fight , that happened about Nine Miles from Dublin : Together with their full Resolu - cion to quit Ireland , and to take Shipping and so Sail to France , to tell Proud Lewis their great Misfortune . To the Tune of , Why are my Eyes still Flowing . O My kind Officers what shall we do ? For the English Army both make us look blue ; Their noble Commanders are Courageous & amp ; stout , We shall be all Routed , the thing I do doubt : There is Noble King William will die in the field , Before one inch of ground he will yield ; Therefore to be gone , I think it is time , To go into the Ship , and there wait for a wind . You say to be gone away with all speed , For the Protestant Army will make us to bleed , Their Cannons do roar when once we draw nigh , Their Bullets do fly like hail from the sky , They fight for the Cause which once you run down , Their freedom and Charter belongs to the Crown . Therefore to be gone I think it is time , To go into a Ship , and there wait for a wind . Would I was in England well settled again , Proud Lewis should never send me over the Main ; To fight against my Country , which he did me bring I am not but a Soldier , that once was a King . What hard fortune have I for to have such bad luck , Proud Lewis hath brought me for to carry his Cloak . Therefore to be gone , I think it is time , To go into a Ship , and there wait for a wind . When you was in England , upon Salisburyplain , You then had no reason nor cause to complain Against all your Soldiers , for why they were true , If you had stood by them , they would have stood by you You never was fortunate in any thing , When you was a Duke , and when you was a King . Therefore , etc They were most of my friends in England and here , Whom long I have loved , and held them most dear ; I never did think they would me forsake , Which that was the cause that my Army did break : My Chief Officers flying , which when I did hear , My self to be gone I soon did prepare . Therefore , etc When you was at Hounslow what a doe was there among all your friends , though never the near : You Camped your Men , and they lay on the ground , And all to be ready when the Trumpets found ; To make them all hardy , and fit for a Figst , But they all did stand up for Old Englands Right , Therefore , etc When I was in France proud Lewis did own He then wanted nothing but Englands Crown , Scotland he would have , and Ireland was his own , The Towers and Castles he vowed to beatrice down ; And burn all the Protestants over the Land , That dare against proud Lewis withstand . Therefore , etc In Ireland we see that there was one poor Town , Proud Lewis his arms they could not beatrice down ; That was Londonderry , that prace void of fear , The strength of the Popish Army coul not clear , The valiant Colonel Walker he fought for renown , He caused some thousands to fallen to the ground . Therefore , etc You was always a Coward both in England , & amp ; here , The force of and Enemy ypu ever did fear : You were fearful to fight when first you came o'e [ p ] , Or else you would have laid all the Heretics lower : Foe , now the Tide's turned , and the day is their own , And all the poor Frenchmen may be glad to get home . Therefore to be gone , I think it is time , To go into a Ship , and there wait for a wind . Printed for James Bissel , at the Bible and Harp in West-Smithfield . A WORSER ialogue Between the Late King James The WORSER uke of Berwick , and Tyrconnel ; A while after the Fight , that happened about Nine Miles from Dublin : Together with their full Resolu - cion to quit Ireland , and to take Shipping and so Sail to France , to tell Proud Lewis their great Misfortune . To the Tune of , Why are my Eyes still Flowing . O My kind Officers what shall we do ? For the English Army both make us look blue ; Their noble Commanders are Courageous & amp ; stout , We shall be all Routed , the thing I do doubt : There is Noble King William will die in the field , Before one inch of ground he will yield ; Therefore to be gone , I think it is time , To go into the Ship , and there wait for a wind . You say to be gone away with all speed , For the Protestant Army will make us to bleed , Their Cannons do roar when once we draw nigh , Their Bullets do fly like hail from the sky , They fight for the Cause which once you run down , Their freedom and Charter belongs to the Crown . Therefore to be gone I think it is time , To go into a Ship , and there wait for a wind . Would I was in England well settled again , Proud Lewis should never send me over the Main ; To fight against my Country , which he did me bring I am not but a Soldier , that once was a King . What hard fortune have I for to have such bad luck , Proud Lewis hath brought me for to carry his Cloak . Therefore to be gone , I think it is time , To go into a Ship , and there wait for a wind . When you was in England , upon Salisburyplain , You then had no reason nor cause to complain Against all your Soldiers , for why they were true , If you had stood by them , they would have stood by you You never was fortunate in any thing , When you was a Duke , and when you was a King . Therefore , etc They were most of my friends in England and here , Whom long I have loved , and held them most dear ; I never did think they would me forsake , Which that was the cause that my Army did break : My Chief Officers flying , which when I did hear , My self to be gone I soon did prepare . Therefore , etc When you was at Hounslow what a doe was there among all your friends , though never the near : You Camped your Men , and they lay on the ground , And all to be ready when the Trumpets found ; To make them all hardy , and fit for a Figst , But they all did stand up for Old Englands Right , Therefore , etc When I was in France proud Lewis did own He then wanted nothing but Englands Crown , Scotland he would have , and Ireland was his own , The Towers and Castles he vowed to beatrice down ; And burn all the Protestants over the Land , That dare against proud Lewis withstand . Therefore , etc In Ireland we see that there was one poor Town , Proud Lewis his arms they could not beatrice down ; That was Londonderry , that prace void of fear , The strength of the Popish Army coul not clear , The valiant Colonel Walker he fought for renown , He caused some thousands to fallen to the ground . Therefore , etc You was always a Coward both in England , & amp ; here , The force of and Enemy ypu ever did fear : You were fearful to fight when first you came o'e [ p ] , Or else you would have laid all the Heretics lower : Foe , now the Tide's turned , and the day is their own , And all the poor Frenchmen may be glad to get home . Therefore to be gone , I think it is time , To go into a Ship , and there wait for a wind . Printed for James Bissel , at the Bible and Harp in West-Smithfield . 