The Loyal Subject's Prayers for King WILLIAMS Good Success Over His Enemies in Flanders . Tune , Let Caesar Live long , etc Licensed according to Order . O Ur Royal King William to Flanders is gone , God give him a blessing from thence to Return , And make the proud French-men submit to his Will , That Protestants Blood never more may be spilled : Then the Heavens protect our Sovereign King , And to send him safe Home from Flanders again . Our brave Noble Lords with our King they did go , And will venture their lives to bring down that great Foe ; Proud Lewis of France they will make him to fear , When our Royal King William he then shall come near . Then the H eavens protect our Sovereign King , And to send him safe Home from Flanders again . Methinks I do hear our Royal King say , Fight on my brave Soldiers and never run away , While I have one drop of Blood I will fight , To maintain the Laws of Old Englands right : Against all my foes that dare me withstand , And caused me to come now from fair England . Come all you brave English and Dutch-men let's go , To fight for the King , and to bring down his great foe , Let it never be said that we dare not fight , To maintain the cause of the Protestants right : Then Boys let us fight with our Courage so free , To pull down the French and the pride of popery . The brave Noble Commanders that in Flanders be , Pray God give them power over their Enemy , That God would be pleased unto the land bring , Peace , Joy and Triumph , under William our King , then the H eavens protect our Sovereign King , etc How many poor Souls in Montz has been lost , And all by the French-men they have been so crossed , But had not proud Lewis shot Gold in the Town , There many more French-men had fell to the ground , then the H eavens protect our Sovereign King , etc With our Swords in our hands brave Boys we will go , And fully resolve to pull down that great foe ; Proud Lewis we will make thee for to rue the day , That ever in Montz you first boar the sway : To hire the Priests for to Let you come in , But the Heavens long prosper great William our King . At the head of our Army King William will stand , Who fights for Religion , and the Laws of the land , Be you true to the King , and he will stand by you , For to give all the French-men their endue : then the H eavens protect our Sovereign King , etc . Now King William is there how the Drums they do play , We'll fight till we die , and never run away ; Against all the French-men that will not yield , We'll die on the spot before We'll loose the field ; Then the heavens protect our Sovereign King , And send him safe Home from Flanders again . London printed for James Bissel at the Bible and Harp in West-Smithfield near the hospital gate . The Loyal Subject's Prayers for King WILLIAMS Good Success Over His Enemies in Flanders . Tune , Let Caesar Live long , etc Licensed according to Order . O Ur Royal King William to Flanders is gone , God give him a blessing from thence to Return , And make the proud French-men submit to his Will , That Protestants Blood never more may be spilled : Then the Heavens protect our Sovereign King , And to send him safe Home from Flanders again . Our brave Noble Lords with our King they did go , And will venture their lives to bring down that great Foe ; Proud Lewis of France they will make him to fear , When our Royal King William he then shall come near . Then the H eavens protect our Sovereign King , And to send him safe Home from Flanders again . Methinks I do hear our Royal King say , Fight on my brave Soldiers and never run away , While I have one drop of Blood I will fight , To maintain the Laws of Old Englands right : Against all my foes that dare me withstand , And caused me to come now from fair England . Come all you brave English and Dutch-men let's go , To fight for the King , and to bring down his great foe , Let it never be said that we dare not fight , To maintain the cause of the Protestants right : Then Boys let us fight with our Courage so free , To pull down the French and the pride of popery . The brave Noble Commanders that in Flanders be , Pray God give them power over their Enemy , That God would be pleased unto the land bring , Peace , Joy and Triumph , under William our King , then the H eavens protect our Sovereign King , etc How many poor Souls in Montz has been lost , And all by the French-men they have been so crossed , But had not proud Lewis shot Gold in the Town , There many more French-men had fell to the ground , then the H eavens protect our Sovereign King , etc With our Swords in our hands brave Boys we will go , And fully resolve to pull down that great foe ; Proud Lewis we will make thee for to rue the day , That ever in Montz you first boar the sway : To hire the Priests for to Let you come in , But the Heavens long prosper great William our King . At the head of our Army King William will stand , Who fights for Religion , and the Laws of the land , Be you true to the King , and he will stand by you , For to give all the French-men their endue : then the H eavens protect our Sovereign King , etc . Now King William is there how the Drums they do play , We'll fight till we die , and never run away ; Against all the French-men that will not yield , We'll die on the spot before We'll loose the field ; Then the heavens protect our Sovereign King , And send him safe Home from Flanders again . London printed for James Bissel at the Bible and Harp in West-Smithfield near the hospital gate . 