Dunkirk's Lamentation : Written in French by Monsier de Lo [ oh ] n , and after Translated into Irish by Patrick Agraw , for the benefit of the < him rend = " bold " > Teagues , and now done into < him rend = " bold " > English by a Gentleman who received it from a Prisoner which they took on the Coast of Flanders , and set to the Tune of The French < him rend = " bold " > Dancing-master : or , The Soldiers Departure . BEgar , what we have long been doing , will come to nothing now we find , Fortune has proved the dismal ruin , of the Intrigue which we designed ; Russel he lies now with a Navy , ready to send us Bomb and Ball , Therefore , Begar , we cry , Per cave , our Devil has deceived us all . Here we have made vast Preparation , to lay the Protestants in gore , Who guards the famous British-Nation , yet now at last we can't get over , For the whole Plot is quite disjointed , we shall to dismal Ruin fallen ; Was ever Men so disappointed ? our Devil has deceived us all . Their Prince was likewise to been Murdered , just at the time we were to land , This would our great Designs have furthered , for with our potent armed Band , We could have marched away for < him rend = " italic " > London , but now I find we never shall , Well may we cry , We are clearly undone , our Devil has deceived us all . There are some Protestants deducted from their own Land-sosciety , Who by our friends was so instructed , that they'll cut throats as well as we : First they were to observe our Motion , then to that Work they were to fallen , But Russel lies now upon the Ocean , our Devil has deceived us all . It's but in vain for us to venture over the roaring Seas at last , For if their Kingdom we should enter , they'll soon our Pride and Glory blast ; For the whole Plot is rend asunder , and our dear friends to Ruin fallen , Quoth TO [ e ] ague , By Crist , [ s ] trange and wonder , our Devil has deceived us all . Berwick , it seems , he told your Master , that he might soon obtain that Throne , And need not fear the least Disaster , in making all the Realm his own ; Both the Exchequer and the < him rend = " italic " > Tower , into his hands he said would fallen , But they will never be in his power , our Devil has deceived us all . We were encouraged to go over , with many Promises of Gold , Which we were to receive at Dover , to make us valiant , stout and bold , Every one of us consented to fallow the French General , But we are fatally prevented , our Devil has deceived us all . Sad dreadful fears we now lie under , for if our Troops should go on board , Russel will rend our Ships asunder , no kind of Quarter he'll afford : Our Rising-Sun , you know he fixed , with other Ships both great and small , In sad confusion we retired , and once again our fleet he'll maul . Quoth Teague , By Crist , I'ld rather tarry , in the Confines of famous < him rend = " italic " > France , Then to go forth and to miscarry , by some unhappy fatal Chance ; De English has a Fleet that bears not any thing less then Bomb and Ball , And by my shoul , there's Russel cares not if he consumes and burns all . London : Printed for P. Brooksby in Pye-cornerDunkirk's Lamentation : Written in French by Monsier de Lo [ oh ] n , and after Translated into Irish by Patrick Agraw , for the benefit of the < him rend = " bold " > Teagues , and now done into < him rend = " bold " > English by a Gentleman who received it from a Prisoner which they took on the Coast of Flanders , and set to the Tune of The French < him rend = " bold " > Dancing-master : or , The Soldiers Departure . BEgar , what we have long been doing , will come to nothing now we find , Fortune has proved the dismal ruin , of the Intrigue which we designed ; Russel he lies now with a Navy , ready to send us Bomb and Ball , Therefore , Begar , we cry , Per cave , our Devil has deceived us all . Here we have made vast Preparation , to lay the Protestants in gore , Who guards the famous British-Nation , yet now at last we can't get over , For the whole Plot is quite disjointed , we shall to dismal Ruin fallen ; Was ever Men so disappointed ? our Devil has deceived us all . Their Prince was likewise to been Murdered , just at the time we were to land , This would our great Designs have furthered , for with our potent armed Band , We could have marched away for < him rend = " italic " > London , but now I find we never shall , Well may we cry , We are clearly undone , our Devil has deceived us all . There are some Protestants deducted from their own Land-sosciety , Who by our friends was so instructed , that they'll cut throats as well as we : First they were to observe our Motion , then to that Work they were to fallen , But Russel lies now upon the Ocean , our Devil has deceived us all . It's but in vain for us to venture over the roaring Seas at last , For if their Kingdom we should enter , they'll soon our Pride and Glory blast ; For the whole Plot is rend asunder , and our dear friends to Ruin fallen , Quoth TO [ e ] ague , By Crist , [ s ] trange and wonder , our Devil has deceived us all . Berwick , it seems , he told your Master , that he might soon obtain that Throne , And need not fear the least Disaster , in making all the Realm his own ; Both the Exchequer and the < him rend = " italic " > Tower , into his hands he said would fallen , But they will never be in his power , our Devil has deceived us all . We were encouraged to go over , with many Promises of Gold , Which we were to receive at Dover , to make us valiant , stout and bold , Every one of us consented to fallow the French General , But we are fatally prevented , our Devil has deceived us all . Sad dreadful fears we now lie under , for if our Troops should go on board , Russel will rend our Ships asunder , no kind of Quarter he'll afford : Our Rising-Sun , you know he fixed , with other Ships both great and small , In sad confusion we retired , and once again our fleet he'll maul . Quoth Teague , By Crist , I'ld rather tarry , in the Confines of famous < him rend = " italic " > France , Then to go forth and to miscarry , by some unhappy fatal Chance ; De English has a Fleet that bears not any thing less then Bomb and Ball , And by my shoul , there's Russel cares not if he consumes and burns all . London : Printed for P. Brooksby in Pie-corner 