POPERY'S Downfall , and The Protestants Uprising By the CROWNING of King WILLIAM and Queen MARY . Tune of , Heigh boys up go we NOw now the Papists all go down , and those that take their parts ; The King and Queen will now be Crowned , the Joy of all our hearts : Our lives and liberties are free , and we shall all be made , For heigh boys down goes popery , and now begins our Trade . Our Nation sure will flourish now , good days are coming on , The King and Queen are such we know , the like before were none ; For They'll maintian our liberty , and we shall all be made , By rooting out of popery , that always spoiled our Trade The Citizens looked pale and wan ; no money they could take , Their Rends are great , and scarce a man of Goods could Money make ; Long of this haughty popery , that made all men afraid : But now goes down their roguery , and hey boys up goes Trade . The Countryman held down his head , and wondered for to see That all their Stock so long lay dead , none could take one penny : Then Wife and Bearns were like to starve , 'twould make ones heart to bleed ; Long of these Roguish Papishes , better to hang than feed . But now all heartily rejoice to see this happy day ; With Bells' , with Bonfires , and with voice , as very well we may ; That we have god a King and Queen that will encourage Trade , That by the Papists villainy was very much decayed . And to conclude , let all rejoice and give to God the praise , Unfeignedly with heart and voice , for these are happy days : Let us unite , and fear no foe nor Foreign Enemy ; But fight and stand with heart and hand , to rout out Popery . Printed for G.C. on Ludgate Hill. POPERY'S Downfall , and The Protestants Uprising By the CROWNING of King WILLIAM and Queen MARY . Tune of , Heigh boys up go we NOw now the Papists all go down , and those that take their parts ; The King and Queen will now be Crowned , the Joy of all our hearts : Our lives and liberties are free , and we shall all be made , For heigh boys down goes popery , and now begins our Trade . Our Nation sure will flourish now , good days are coming on , The King and Queen are such we know , the like before were none ; For They'll maintian our liberty , and we shall all be made , By rooting out of popery , that always spoiled our Trade The Citizens looked pale and wan ; no money they could take , Their Rends are great , and scarce a man of Goods could Money make ; Long of this haughty popery , that made all men afraid : But now goes down their roguery , and hey boys up goes Trade . The Countryman held down his head , and wondered for to see That all their Stock so long lay dead , none could take one penny : Then Wife and Bearns were like to starve , 'twould make ones heart to bleed ; Long of these Roguish Papishes , better to hang than feed . But now all heartily rejoice to see this happy day ; With Bells' , with Bonfires , and with voice , as very well we may ; That we have god a King and Queen that will encourage Trade , That by the Papists villainy was very much decayed . And to conclude , let all rejoice and give to God the praise , Unfeignedly with heart and voice , for these are happy days : Let us unite , and fear no foe nor Foreign Enemy ; But fight and stand with heart and hand , to rout out Popery . Printed for G.C. on Ludgate Hill. 