The Protestants JOY For the King's safe Arrival from the bloody Scene of Ireland , to his Gram - cious Queen , and his Royal Throne ; who landed in England , at Kings Weston , near Bri - stol , September the 6th , 1690. to the unspeakable satisfaction of his Loyal Subject's . To the Tune of Let Caesar live long . Licensed according to Order . L ET all Loyal Protestants both far and near Rejoice , and be glad , these good Tidings to hear ; King William ' s returned again to his Throne , Whose Valour and Courage Three Kingdoms will own Then let Healths go round , and the Bells' sweetly ring For the safe return of Great William our King . When first to the Irish Wars he did go , It was to engage with a powerful Foe ; Yet this never daunted his noble Design , He there was preserved by the Powers Divine : Then let Healths go round , and the Bells' sweetly ring For the safe return of great William our King . Our most Loyal Monarch in midst of the Fight , When Bullets all round him were taking their Flight ; Good Angels from Heavens his Person did guard , Preserving the Life of our Sovereign Lord : Then let Healths go round , and the Bells' sweetly ring For the safe Return of Great William our King . He gave the proud French and the Tories their Endue , They run , while our Monarch did sweetly pursue ; While he many Castles and Cities did clear , His Conquering Sword they had reason to fear ; Then let Healths go round , and the Bells' sweetly ring For the safe Return , etc He now having made such a Progress we find To his Great Commanders the Care he resigned ; The rest of the Irish Wars to maintain , While he is returned to fair England again : Then let Healths go round , and the Bells' sweetly ring For the safe Arrival , etc When his Royal Person first entered on Board , Kind Heaven was pleased in Love to afford A prosperous Gale , which did soon bring him over To the pleasant Banks of the English Shore , Where Bumpers went round , and the Bells' they did ring To welcome home William our Protestant King . As soon as he came to the Land with his Fleet , Both Hundreds and Thousands was joyful to meet His Majesty , who was with Victory Crowned , While flowing full Bumpers went merrily round The Cannons did fire , and Bells' sweetly ring , For the safe Return , etc . Both Dukes , Lords , and Commons attended his Train , All wished him a long and a prosperous Reign ; Who ventured his Life for the sake of us all When our Laws did stand like a tottering Wall : Then let Healths go round , and the Bells' sweetly ring For the safe return , etc Through every City and Village he came , True Loyal brave Boys did his Glory proclaim ; As being transported with Raptures of Joy , For his Royal Presence all Grief to destroy : Full Bumpers went round , Boys , and Bells' they did ring For the safe Re [ r ] urn , etc The noble Great City of London also , In order their Loyalty likewise to show , Her Guns from the Tower like Thunder did roar To carry this joyful glad Tidings all over Full Bumpers went round , Boys , and Bells' they did ring For the safe Return , etc Thus being arrived from the sharp bloody Scene , To the Royal Court , and his Consort the Queen , She did with unspeakable Joy then receive Her Monarch , for whom she did oftentimes grieve Sweet Music was playing , and Bells' they did ring For the safe Return of Great William our King . Printed for P. Brooksby J. Deacon J. Blare J. BackThe Protestants JOY For the King's safe Arrival from the bloody Scene of Ireland , to his Gram - cious Queen , and his Royal Throne ; who landed in England , at Kings Weston , near Bri - stol , September the 6th , 1690. to the unspeakable satisfaction of his Loyal Subject's . To the Tune of Let Caesar live long . Licensed according to Order . L ET all Loyal Protestants both far and near Rejoice , and be glad , these good Tidings to hear ; King William ' s returned again to his Throne , Whose Valour and Courage Three Kingdoms will own Then let Healths go round , and the Bells' sweetly ring For the safe return of Great William our King . When first to the Irish Wars he did go , It was to engage with a powerful Foe ; Yet this never daunted his noble Design , He there was preserved by the Powers Divine : Then let Healths go round , and the Bells' sweetly ring For the safe return of great William our King . Our most Loyal Monarch in midst of the Fight , When Bullets all round him were taking their Flight ; Good Angels from Heavens his Person did guard , Preserving the Life of our Sovereign Lord : Then let Healths go round , and the Bells' sweetly ring For the safe Return of Great William our King . He gave the proud French and the Tories their Endue , They run , while our Monarch did sweetly pursue ; While he many Castles and Cities did clear , His Conquering Sword they had reason to fear ; Then let Healths go round , and the Bells' sweetly ring For the safe Return , etc He now having made such a Progress we find To his Great Commanders the Care he resigned ; The rest of the Irish Wars to maintain , While he is returned to fair England again : Then let Healths go round , and the Bells' sweetly ring For the safe Arrival , etc When his Royal Person first entered on Board , Kind Heaven was pleased in Love to afford A prosperous Gale , which did soon bring him over To the pleasant Banks of the English Shore , Where Bumpers went round , and the Bells' they did ring To welcome home William our Protestant King . As soon as he came to the Land with his Fleet , Both Hundreds and Thousands was joyful to meet His Majesty , who was with Victory Crowned , While flowing full Bumpers went merrily round The Cannons did fire , and Bells' sweetly ring , For the safe Return , etc . Both Dukes , Lords , and Commons attended his Train , All wished him a long and a prosperous Reign ; Who ventured his Life for the sake of us all When our Laws did stand like a tottering Wall : Then let Healths go round , and the Bells' sweetly ring For the safe return , etc Through every City and Village he came , True Loyal brave Boys did his Glory proclaim ; As being transported with Raptures of Joy , For his Royal Presence all Grief to destroy : Full Bumpers went round , Boys , and Bells' they did ring For the safe Re [ r ] urn , etc The noble Great City of London also , In order their Loyalty likewise to show , Her Guns from the Tower like Thunder did roar To carry this joyful glad Tidings all over Full Bumpers went round , Boys , and Bells' they did ring For the safe Return , etc Thus being arrived from the sharp bloody Scene , To the Royal Court , and his Consort the Queen , She did with unspeakable Joy then receive Her Monarch , for whom she did oftentimes grieve Sweet Music was playing , and Bells' they did ring For the safe Return of Great William our King . Printed for P. Brooksby J. Deacon J. Blare J. Back 