The Glory of Londonderry : OR , The Courageous Protestants Success on the French and Irish Army . To the Tune of , The Leggan Water Or , Nanny Oh. Licensed according to Order . PRotestants cheer up amain , Never fear the Popish Train , For here I bring you News of Joy , Now they the Irish do destroy . Londonderry still holds out , Putting Romans to the Rout ; Valiantly they bravely stand , And daily fight with heart and hand . From a spacious Steeple high , Cannon-Bullets they do fly , Which will kill two miles and more , And lays the Irish Teagues in Gore . Killmore-Castle is regained , And by Protestants maintained ; For now they've Fortified it so , That they defy the greatest foe . Londonderry then with care , Searched to find their Substance there , This being done , they found therefore Both food and Ammunition store . Of a truth , they do relate , Guns were placed at e'ry Gate , And many on the City Wall , By which some thousand Irish fallen . Many Sallies have they made , And their Courage so displayed , That their Enemies declare , They dare not to the Siege repair . At one Sally , as they say , On the seventh day of May , Six thousand Irish Teagues were slave , Beside two hundred more was taken . Many chief Commanders then , Noble Lords and Gentlemen , Of the French and Irish too , Was forced to bid the world adieu . Thirteen Coaches which was there , With dead Bodies loaded were , Of the Great ones which did fallen , Before Great Londonderry Wall . When the Romish Army see This their woeful Destiny , Straight they quit the Siege therefore , And flew full forty miles and more . Other forces then were sent , Who , as on their March they went , Did straight begin to Mutiny , And this they often did reply . By our Shalvashion , we'll not go To the King's Slaughterhouse , no , no Where the French Army Routed were , For we as bad as them shall fare . We'll not bear the French-men is Yoke , No , by Chreest , nor strike a stroke Against the Protestant , we swear : Thus they in much Confusion were . Londonderry this has done , Made the Popish forces run ; And struck such terror in the rest , That they are still with fear possessed . Now fresh forces does repair , Unto Londonderry , where They resolve to take the Field , And make the Romish Army yield . Printed for J. Blare , on London-Bridge . The Glory of Londonderry : OR , The Courageous Protestants Success on the French and Irish Army . To the Tune of , The Leggan Water Or , Nanny Oh. Licensed according to Order . PRotestants cheer up amain , Never fear the Popish Train , For here I bring you News of Joy , Now they the Irish do destroy . Londonderry still holds out , Putting Romans to the Rout ; Valiantly they bravely stand , And daily fight with heart and hand . From a spacious Steeple high , Cannon-Bullets they do fly , Which will kill two miles and more , And lays the Irish Teagues in Gore . Killmore-Castle is regained , And by Protestants maintained ; For now they've Fortified it so , That they defy the greatest foe . Londonderry then with care , Searched to find their Substance there , This being done , they found therefore Both food and Ammunition store . Of a truth , they do relate , Guns were placed at e'ry Gate , And many on the City Wall , By which some thousand Irish fallen . Many Sallies have they made , And their Courage so displayed , That their Enemies declare , They dare not to the Siege repair . At one Sally , as they say , On the seventh day of May , Six thousand Irish Teagues were slave , Beside two hundred more was taken . Many chief Commanders then , Noble Lords and Gentlemen , Of the French and Irish too , Was forced to bid the world adieu . Thirteen Coaches which was there , With dead Bodies loaded were , Of the Great ones which did fallen , Before Great Londonderry Wall . When the Romish Army see This their woeful Destiny , Straight they quit the Siege therefore , And flew full forty miles and more . Other forces then were sent , Who , as on their March they went , Did straight begin to Mutiny , And this they often did reply . By our Shalvashion , we'll not go To the King's Slaughterhouse , no , no Where the French Army Routed were , For we as bad as them shall fare . We'll not bear the French-men is Yoke , No , by Chreest , nor strike a stroke Against the Protestant , we swear : Thus they in much Confusion were . Londonderry this has done , Made the Popish forces run ; And struck such terror in the rest , That they are still with fear possessed . Now fresh forces does repair , Unto Londonderry , where They resolve to take the Field , And make the Romish Army yield . Printed for J. Blare , on London-Bridge . 