The Royal Farewell : Or , a Conference between Their present Majesties King William & amp ; Queen Marry On Their Parting , when the KING took his Leave , in order for the Irish Expedition . Tune , Let Caesar live long . Licensed according to Order . King . MY Dearest , to Ireland with speed I must go , To Conquer Great Britains implacable Foe ; Then rest you contented , till I Sail the Main , And crowned with triumph I'll see you again , Of Papists and Rebels , to Conquer a crew , I quickly must go now , and bid you adieu . Queen . How can you , in sorrow , thus leave me behind , Deprived of your Company , troubled in mind ? Then pray be contented , and stay still with Me , To shun all the Dangers of Land and of Sea ; I cannot , I will not be parted from YOU ; Then be not so cruel to bid Me adieu . King . Pray rest now contented , for needs I must go ; The Peace of the Kingdom will have it be so : The Power of the Government is in your hand ; And every true Subject is at your command : Then dearest and loving , both real and true , I must of necessity bid you adieu . Queen . Distractions , in City and Country , may rise , With Uproars & amp ; Rumours , false Stories & amp ; Lyes ; A Woman's soon daunted , and when You are gone , Your Wit will be wanted , and I be undone ; Then cannot be pleased to part with you so , To Conquer the Irish , or any such foe . King . For Britain & amp ; Ireland I haz [ ards ] have run ; When their Church & amp ; their Store were almost undone And now I , in spite of old Babylon's Whore , Their Laws and their Liberties hope to restore . I'm sorry and grieved to part with You too ; But must , of necessity , bid You adieu . Queen . The Plots , and the Battles , by Sea and by Land , With many Misfortunes , which none can withstand And all the great dangers , which You undergo , Will tend to my sorrow , and turn to my woe : Then do not Encounter with Babylons crew , Nor think upon biding your Dearest Adieu . King . When Cannons do roar , and Bullets do fly ; Who honour would win , must not fear to [ to ] die Your words , and your sorrow , your sighs and your grief , They add to my trouble , but give no relief : Then do not my passion , but sighing renew , But suffer Me , freely , to bid You Adieu . Queen . My Sex , it is fearful , and quickly cast down ; And many sad troubles lie under a Crown ; Distractions and Contests at home and abroad , which are , for a Woman , too heavy a load : Then of your departing , I cannot allow , Nor can I endure YOU to speak of Adieu King . Do not more persuade me , but live still content ; There's nothing that can now my going prevent : And though You be one of the female kind ; There's nothing hard to a Courageous Mind . My Dearest Grive not , for I know what I do , And must ( though I'm sorry ) now bid you Adieu . Then sighing , the Queen in his arms he did take , Whose heart was , with sorrow , then ready to break : He kissed her , while She , that was modest & amp ; meek Dropped Pearls , that clouded the Skys of her Cheek . Then both , at Their parting , their Passion renew And , with a sad Sighs , bade each Other Adieu . Printed for Robert Hayhurst in Little BritainThe Royal Farewell : Or , a Conference between Their present Majesties King William & amp ; Queen Marry On Their Parting , when the KING took his Leave , in order for the Irish Expedition . Tune , Let Caesar live long . Licensed according to Order . King . MY Dearest , to Ireland with speed I must go , To Conquer Great Britains implacable Foe ; Then rest you contented , till I Sail the Main , And crowned with triumph I'll see you again , Of Papists and Rebels , to Conquer a crew , I quickly must go now , and bid you adieu . Queen . How can you , in sorrow , thus leave me behind , Deprived of your Company , troubled in mind ? Then pray be contented , and stay still with Me , To shun all the Dangers of Land and of Sea ; I cannot , I will not be parted from YOU ; Then be not so cruel to bid Me adieu . King . Pray rest now contented , for needs I must go ; The Peace of the Kingdom will have it be so : The Power of the Government is in your hand ; And every true Subject is at your command : Then dearest and loving , both real and true , I must of necessity bid you adieu . Queen . Distractions , in City and Country , may rise , With Uproars & amp ; Rumours , false Stories & amp ; Lyes ; A Woman's soon daunted , and when You are gone , Your Wit will be wanted , and I be undone ; Then cannot be pleased to part with you so , To Conquer the Irish , or any such foe . King . For Britain & amp ; Ireland I haz [ ards ] have run ; When their Church & amp ; their Store were almost undone And now I , in spite of old Babylon's Whore , Their Laws and their Liberties hope to restore . I'm sorry and grieved to part with You too ; But must , of necessity , bid You adieu . Queen . The Plots , and the Battles , by Sea and by Land , With many Misfortunes , which none can withstand And all the great dangers , which You undergo , Will tend to my sorrow , and turn to my woe : Then do not Encounter with Babylons crew , Nor think upon biding your Dearest Adieu . King . When Cannons do roar , and Bullets do fly ; Who honour would win , must not fear to [ to ] die Your words , and your sorrow , your sighs and your grief , They add to my trouble , but give no relief : Then do not my passion , but sighing renew , But suffer Me , freely , to bid You Adieu . Queen . My Sex , it is fearful , and quickly cast down ; And many sad troubles lie under a Crown ; Distractions and Contests at home and abroad , which are , for a Woman , too heavy a load : Then of your departing , I cannot allow , Nor can I endure YOU to speak of Adieu King . Do not more persuade me , but live still content ; There's nothing that can now my going prevent : And though You be one of the female kind ; There's nothing hard to a Courageous Mind . My Dearest Grive not , for I know what I do , And must ( though I'm sorry ) now bid you Adieu . Then sighing , the Queen in his arms he did take , Whose heart was , with sorrow , then ready to break : He kissed her , while She , that was modest & amp ; meek Dropped Pearls , that clouded the Skys of her Cheek . Then both , at Their parting , their Passion renew And , with a sad Sighs , bade each Other Adieu . Printed for Robert Hayhurst in Little Britain 