THE ROYAL DIALOGUE OR , The Courtly Salutation B ETWEEN King William and Queen Marry : At their Parting for his Famous Achievements in the present Wars of Flanders . To the Tune of , If Lovers a sweet Passion . Licensed according to the Order . KING . M Y most Royal Lady , I now must away , In this fair Princely Court I no longer will stay ; Being freely resolved my Foes to pursue , Till the Rights of three Kingdoms I fairly renew , And my Valiant Brave Army with me will advance , For to curb and subdue the Vainglory of France . QUEEN . Great William , my Monarch , how can I forbear , For to show the sad symptoms of sorrow and care ; When to sharp Bloody Fights , thou Sailest over the Main , And I cannot be sure I shall see thee again , In those desperate Wars there is Hazard I know , Unto which my Great Sovereign Lord thou must go . KING . Let no fear of Danger ever trouble thy mind , For , I hope , my true Conquering Boys I shall find , Bravely Armed with true Courage my Foes to cut down , Who opposes the Royal true Protestant Crown , Valiant Colonels and Captains with me will advance , Now to curb and subdue the Vainglory of France . Queen . The Kingdom is Poisoned by Treacherous Room . And too many there are who daily presume Now to lay their black Treasons against Church and State Quite forgetting how they were delivered of late , Thus the Nation is pestured with Villians I know , Yet my Royal Great Sovereign Lord thou must go . KING . Alas ! I acknowledge such Villains there be , That endeavour to Plot against true Dignity , Yet on GOD's Divine Providence cast all thy care , And thy Enemies then will be catched in the snare , Therefore , Lady , be patient while I do advance , For to blast and subdue the Vainglory of France . QUEEN . Alas ! when I think of the vast Ocean wide , Where the dangers of death are on every side , And the sharp bloody Battles where Cannons do roar , While the best of Commanders lies reaking in gore , Oh! thoughts of these sorrows will grieve me I know , Yet my Royal great Sovereign Lord thou must go . KING . Sweet Lady it is not a Battle I fear , For that GOD that preserved me when first I came here , Will defend me from Dangers on every side , While I valiantly conquer the Catholic Pride , By a valiant brave Army who now will advance , For to blast and subdue the Vainglory of France . QUEEN . My Prayers up to Heaven I'll constantly send , That the blessed sweat Angels may guard and defend , Thy dear life from the malice of insolent foes , Who , in Flanders , thy glory and honour oppose , For in sharp bloody Fights there is danger I know , Unto which my great Sovereign Lord thou must go . KING . He with a Rich Jewel presented the Queen , And declaring that he the next morning did mean For to part with the Court and the Queen for a while , Then presented a kiss with a most Royal smile , Heavens bless thee sweet Queen while I now do advance , For to blast and subdue the Vainglory of France . Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-glass on London-BridgeTHE ROYAL DIALOGUE OR , The Courtly Salutation B ETWEEN King William and Queen Marry : At their Parting for his Famous Achievements in the present Wars of Flanders . To the Tune of , If Lovers a sweet Passion . Licensed according to the Order . KING . M Y most Royal Lady , I now must away , In this fair Princely Court I no longer will stay ; Being freely resolved my Foes to pursue , Till the Rights of three Kingdoms I fairly renew , And my Valiant Brave Army with me will advance , For to curb and subdue the Vainglory of France . QUEEN . Great William , my Monarch , how can I forbear , For to show the sad symptoms of sorrow and care ; When to sharp Bloody Fights , thou Sailest over the Main , And I cannot be sure I shall see thee again , In those desperate Wars there is Hazard I know , Unto which my Great Sovereign Lord thou must go . KING . Let no fear of Danger ever trouble thy mind , For , I hope , my true Conquering Boys I shall find , Bravely Armed with true Courage my Foes to cut down , Who opposes the Royal true Protestant Crown , Valiant Colonels and Captains with me will advance , Now to curb and subdue the Vainglory of France . Queen . The Kingdom is Poisoned by Treacherous Room . And too many there are who daily presume Now to lay their black Treasons against Church and State Quite forgetting how they were delivered of late , Thus the Nation is pestured with Villians I know , Yet my Royal Great Sovereign Lord thou must go . KING . Alas ! I acknowledge such Villains there be , That endeavour to Plot against true Dignity , Yet on GOD's Divine Providence cast all thy care , And thy Enemies then will be catched in the snare , Therefore , Lady , be patient while I do advance , For to blast and subdue the Vainglory of France . QUEEN . Alas ! when I think of the vast Ocean wide , Where the dangers of death are on every side , And the sharp bloody Battles where Cannons do roar , While the best of Commanders lies reaking in gore , Oh! thoughts of these sorrows will grieve me I know , Yet my Royal great Sovereign Lord thou must go . KING . Sweet Lady it is not a Battle I fear , For that GOD that preserved me when first I came here , Will defend me from Dangers on every side , While I valiantly conquer the Catholic Pride , By a valiant brave Army who now will advance , For to blast and subdue the Vainglory of France . QUEEN . My Prayers up to Heaven I'll constantly send , That the blessed sweat Angels may guard and defend , Thy dear life from the malice of insolent foes , Who , in Flanders , thy glory and honour oppose , For in sharp bloody Fights there is danger I know , Unto which my great Sovereign Lord thou must go . KING . He with a Rich Jewel presented the Queen , And declaring that he the next morning did mean For to part with the Court and the Queen for a while , Then presented a kiss with a most Royal smile , Heavens bless thee sweet Queen while I now do advance , For to blast and subdue the Vainglory of France . Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-glass on London-Bridge 