The Relief of Londonderry ; OR , THE Happy Arrival of the Timely Succours Landed at Londonderry , by the Prudent Care and Conduct of Major General Kirk , To the unspeakable Joy of the Besieged . To the Tune of , The Glory of Londonderry . Licensed according to Order . [ L ] ET True Subject's hear a part , with and honest thankful heart , [ Foe ] r the Tidings which we hear , [ TO ] he truth thereof we need not fear . [ L ] ondon-Derry now at last , [ I ] s in hope's the worst is past , [ W ] ant of food was all their Grief , [ B ] ut now they've succour and relief . [ W ] hen great Major Kirk was told TO ] heigh could not much longer hold , [ Li ] ke a noble-General , [ He ] for their sakes would venture all . Then he leaving Captain Steward , Who the Isle of Inch secured , And strait he did towards Derry sail , Attended with a pleasant Gale , The swift Swallow gallantly , With three Sail in Company , Freely ventured on before , With Food and Ammunition store . Another Captain then straightway Informed him where the Dartmouth lay , For which he presently did send , The Victualed Vessels to defend . Then to Kilmore Castle they Order had to make their way , Where the Dartmouth is Guns did roar , And slew the Irish Teagues on shore . The Dartmouth is valiant Captain Leak , Of whose Courage let us speak , For he behaved himself so well , That few or none could him excel . For while his Bullets they did fly , The brave Mountjoy sailed safely by ; The Long Boat of the Swallow too , Well Armed , all danger to go through . Manned with noble Hearts of Gold , Courageous valiant Seamen bold , Who in the Swallow Long Boat they passed on before to clear the way . To cut the Bomb . This done , at last They strait to Londonderry passed , And likewise sailed after them The gallant sweet Jerusalem . Store of all Provision then Landed was , for Derry-men ; But for Forces they have none , They stand it out themselves alone . When those poor Souls this Food beheld , Oh they were then with Comfort filled They through the City did express Their Joy with hearty thankfulness . Their Great Guns they let off likewise , The which did Echo to the Skies , That Major Kirk might understand Relief was safe arrived at Land. Great King William is Royal Fame On the Walls they did Proclaim , With Drums , & amp ; Trumpets , loud Huzza's Defender of our Faith , and Laws . Boys we'll have the tother Bout , Like brave Hero's Sally out ; For we'll never never yield , We'll love our Lives , or win the field . Printed for P. Brooksby . J. Deacon . J. Blare . J. Back . The Relief of Londonderry ; OR , THE Happy Arrival of the Timely Succours Landed at Londonderry , by the Prudent Care and Conduct of Major General Kirk , To the unspeakable Joy of the Besieged . To the Tune of , The Glory of Londonderry . Licensed according to Order . [ L ] ET True Subject's hear a part , with and honest thankful heart , [ Foe ] r the Tidings which we hear , [ TO ] he truth thereof we need not fear . [ L ] ondon-Derry now at last , [ I ] s in hope's the worst is past , [ W ] ant of food was all their Grief , [ B ] ut now they've succour and relief . [ W ] hen great Major Kirk was told TO ] heigh could not much longer hold , [ Li ] ke a noble-General , [ He ] for their sakes would venture all . Then he leaving Captain Steward , Who the Isle of Inch secured , And strait he did towards Derry sail , Attended with a pleasant Gale , The swift Swallow gallantly , With three Sail in Company , Freely ventured on before , With Food and Ammunition store . Another Captain then straightway Informed him where the Dartmouth lay , For which he presently did send , The Victualed Vessels to defend . Then to Kilmore Castle they Order had to make their way , Where the Dartmouth is Guns did roar , And slew the Irish Teagues on shore . The Dartmouth is valiant Captain Leak , Of whose Courage let us speak , For he behaved himself so well , That few or none could him excel . For while his Bullets they did fly , The brave Mountjoy sailed safely by ; The Long Boat of the Swallow too , Well Armed , all danger to go through . Manned with noble Hearts of Gold , Courageous valiant Seamen bold , Who in the Swallow Long Boat they passed on before to clear the way . To cut the Bomb . This done , at last They strait to Londonderry passed , And likewise sailed after them The gallant sweet Jerusalem . Store of all Provision then Landed was , for Derry-men ; But for Forces they have none , They stand it out themselves alone . When those poor Souls this Food beheld , Oh they were then with Comfort filled They through the City did express Their Joy with hearty thankfulness . Their Great Guns they let off likewise , The which did Echo to the Skies , That Major Kirk might understand Relief was safe arrived at Land. Great King William is Royal Fame On the Walls they did Proclaim , With Drums , & amp ; Trumpets , loud Huzza's Defender of our Faith , and Laws . Boys we'll have the tother Bout , Like brave Hero's Sally out ; For we'll never never yield , We'll love our Lives , or win the field . Printed for P. Brooksby . J. Deacon . J. Blare . J. Back . 