The Glory of Flanders : OR , The Triumphant Army's Victory over the French at Na - mur , forcing them to yield and surrender up the Town to King WILLIAM , the Royal Conqueror . The Tune , Found Boy . H Ere joyful good tidings I bring you this day , Therefore listen a while , loving Subject's , I pray , Now the Monsieurs at Namur , have met with their match There's and Army in Flanders the work will dispatch , For already King William of fame and renown , He has made them been glad to surrender the town . The French had not power nor strength to oppose Such and Army , which followed them up with dry blows , They were forced to give back , and we followed them still With a taste of our courage and conquering skill : Thus our valiant King William of fame and renown , He compelled him to yield and surrender the town . At first they their cannon did fire amain , But we sent them back double and triple again ; From the morning till night our loud mortars did roar , They had scarce ever herd such a thunder before : Thus their walls and high battlements we batter down , Till the French they were forced to surrender the town . We pressed on a main for to take the half moon , And with courage undaunted we conquered them soon , For our noble Commanders , right valiant and bold , Was resolved at last for the seize the stro [ ng ] hold . Thus right valiant K William of fame and renown , Has compelled the proud French to surrender the town . The noble Lord Cuts , with a party of men , Through the fire he followed our enemies then , With that resolution the like was never known , Till the French was distressed and made piteous maon , For they see that dame fortune upon them did frown , Therefore willing they were to surrender the town . The Cannons were roaring , and bullets did fly , While the smoke of the boombs seem to darken the sky , Many valiant brave Soldiers lay dead on the ground ; We at last was with triumph and victory crowned : For right valiant King William of fame and renown , Did compel them to yield and surrender the town . It was but a folly for them to dispute , For he still did afford them a warlike salute , Never giving them rest neither morning nor night ; They were all in a fear and a sorrowful plighted : Thus right valiant King William of fame and renown , Did compel them to yield and surrender the town . We'll soon have the castle we make no great doubt , Though perhaps , at the present , they seem to hold out , For we find that their glory begins to decay , While King William , for victory carries the day ; For the pride of the French he begins to pull down , And has made them be glad to surrender the town . Let's pray that he still may be crowned with success , For he venture's his life our wrongs to redress , He the greatest of hazard and danger goes through , While he labours with care the proud foe to subdue ; The French Courage at Namur he now has pulled down , Ay and made them be glad to surrender the town . We hope that ever long he'll subdue many more ; Cherle [ r ] oy , likewise Mons , they at length must restore , Or the fury of valiant King William they'll feel , Though perhaps for a time he the same may conceal : Let them think how at Namur he pulled their pride down , And did force them to yield and surrender the town . London : Printed for J . B [ i ] ssel , in West-Smithfield , The Glory of Flanders : OR , The Triumphant Army's Victory over the French at Na - mur , forcing them to yield and surrender up the Town to King WILLIAM , the Royal Conqueror . The Tune , Found Boy . H Ere joyful good tidings I bring you this day , Therefore listen a while , loving Subject's , I pray , Now the Monsieurs at Namur , have met with their match There's and Army in Flanders the work will dispatch , For already King William of fame and renown , He has made them been glad to surrender the town . The French had not power nor strength to oppose Such and Army , which followed them up with dry blows , They were forced to give back , and we followed them still With a taste of our courage and conquering skill : Thus our valiant King William of fame and renown , He compelled him to yield and surrender the town . At first they their cannon did fire amain , But we sent them back double and triple again ; From the morning till night our loud mortars did roar , They had scarce ever herd such a thunder before : Thus their walls and high battlements we batter down , Till the French they were forced to surrender the town . We pressed on a main for to take the half moon , And with courage undaunted we conquered them soon , For our noble Commanders , right valiant and bold , Was resolved at last for the seize the stro [ ng ] hold . Thus right valiant K William of fame and renown , Has compelled the proud French to surrender the town . The noble Lord Cuts , with a party of men , Through the fire he followed our enemies then , With that resolution the like was never known , Till the French was distressed and made piteous maon , For they see that dame fortune upon them did frown , Therefore willing they were to surrender the town . The Cannons were roaring , and bullets did fly , While the smoke of the boombs seem to darken the sky , Many valiant brave Soldiers lay dead on the ground ; We at last was with triumph and victory crowned : For right valiant King William of fame and renown , Did compel them to yield and surrender the town . It was but a folly for them to dispute , For he still did afford them a warlike salute , Never giving them rest neither morning nor night ; They were all in a fear and a sorrowful plighted : Thus right valiant King William of fame and renown , Did compel them to yield and surrender the town . We'll soon have the castle we make no great doubt , Though perhaps , at the present , they seem to hold out , For we find that their glory begins to decay , While King William , for victory carries the day ; For the pride of the French he begins to pull down , And has made them be glad to surrender the town . Let's pray that he still may be crowned with success , For he venture's his life our wrongs to redress , He the greatest of hazard and danger goes through , While he labours with care the proud foe to subdue ; The French Courage at Namur he now has pulled down , Ay and made them be glad to surrender the town . We hope that ever long he'll subdue many more ; Cherle [ r ] oy , likewise Mons , they at length must restore , Or the fury of valiant King William they'll feel , Though perhaps for a time he the same may conceal : Let them think how at Namur he pulled their pride down , And did force them to yield and surrender the town . London : Printed for J . B [ i ] ssel , in West-Smithfield , 