THE Bloody Fight of Flanders ; WITH And Account of the fierce Battle between the English and the French Forces To and Excellent New Tune ; Or , Now the fatal fight is over . HEre is News from famous Flanders , of a fierce and bloody Fight ; Valiant Noble brave Commanders , clothed in shining Armour bright , Did both Life and Fortune venture , and would not disputing stand , But a bloody Scene did enter , in a strange and Foreign Land. July was the time of Battle , on the five and twentieth day , When the roaring Guns did rattle , for to show the French fair play : English Boys did long to fight them , therefore they their Lives exposed , Nothing ever could delight them , half so much as fight their Foes . Monsieur never could keep under valiant Soldiers Brittain bred , On they marched like Sons of Thunder , with their flying Colours spread ; It's well known they did not fear they , though the French were ten to one , For as soon as they came near they , English courage they made known . Drums were beating , Trumpets sounding , warlike Music led the way , Not a Soldier feared Wounding , but pressed on to win the day , Over Banks , through Bogs and Water , we were forced to march and fight , Hoping by the dismal slaughter , for to put the French to flight . Which we valiantly completed , seven great Field Guns we took , While the Frenchmen they retreated , and that Pass and Post forsook : In confusion how they scouered , while we made their Cannons roar , Until we were over-power'ed by full fifteen Squadrons more . Though that Pass we soon surrendered , by a sharp and bloody Fray , Yet we took the Dauphine Standard , which we bravely boar away , As a Trophy of true Honour , and ever long we will have more , Fighting under William is Banner , or we'll die in streams of Gore . True it is , without Contraction , while we did this Fight maintain , In this brave Heroic Actium , many valiant Boys was slave , Who did fight through Flame and Water , pressing on for Victory , And our Foes have felt the slaughter most severe , as well as we . Cannons roaring , Bullets flying , smoky Vapours dimmed the Air ; Coll'nels , Captains , Soldiers dying , yet King William he was there , With true Courage , to inspire his Victorious hearts of Gold , In the midst of Smoke and Fire , with his brave Commanders bold . May he ever be defended from all kind of Danger still , Since he never yet intended , any living Mortal ill : May he Conquer all before him , like and Alexander there , Till his Enemies adore him , for his Love and Princely Care . Printed for C. Bates , near Duck-Lane-end , in West-Smithfield . THE Bloody Fight of Flanders ; WITH And Account of the fierce Battle between the English and the French Forces To and Excellent New Tune ; Or , Now the fatal fight is over . HEre is News from famous Flanders , of a fierce and bloody Fight ; Valiant Noble brave Commanders , clothed in shining Armour bright , Did both Life and Fortune venture , and would not disputing stand , But a bloody Scene did enter , in a strange and Foreign Land. July was the time of Battle , on the five and twentieth day , When the roaring Guns did rattle , for to show the French fair play : English Boys did long to fight them , therefore they their Lives exposed , Nothing ever could delight them , half so much as fight their Foes . Monsieur never could keep under valiant Soldiers Brittain bred , On they marched like Sons of Thunder , with their flying Colours spread ; It's well known they did not fear they , though the French were ten to one , For as soon as they came near they , English courage they made known . Drums were beating , Trumpets sounding , warlike Music led the way , Not a Soldier feared Wounding , but pressed on to win the day , Over Banks , through Bogs and Water , we were forced to march and fight , Hoping by the dismal slaughter , for to put the French to flight . Which we valiantly completed , seven great Field Guns we took , While the Frenchmen they retreated , and that Pass and Post forsook : In confusion how they scouered , while we made their Cannons roar , Until we were over-power'ed by full fifteen Squadrons more . Though that Pass we soon surrendered , by a sharp and bloody Fray , Yet we took the Dauphine Standard , which we bravely boar away , As a Trophy of true Honour , and ever long we will have more , Fighting under William is Banner , or we'll die in streams of Gore . True it is , without Contraction , while we did this Fight maintain , In this brave Heroic Actium , many valiant Boys was slave , Who did fight through Flame and Water , pressing on for Victory , And our Foes have felt the slaughter most severe , as well as we . Cannons roaring , Bullets flying , smoky Vapours dimmed the Air ; Coll'nels , Captains , Soldiers dying , yet King William he was there , With true Courage , to inspire his Victorious hearts of Gold , In the midst of Smoke and Fire , with his brave Commanders bold . May he ever be defended from all kind of Danger still , Since he never yet intended , any living Mortal ill : May he Conquer all before him , like and Alexander there , Till his Enemies adore him , for his Love and Princely Care . Printed for C. Bates , near Duck-Lane-end , in West-Smithfield . 