The Courtly Salutation : OR , The Royal Greeting between K. William and Q. Marry at his Return from the Irish Wars to his Princely Palace . To the Tune of I often for my Jenny strove , etc Licensed according to Order . Queen . W Hen Royal William of Renown , had passed the sharp and bloody Scene , And road in Triumph to the Town , for to behold his gracious Queen : Then the Nobles all rejoiced , likewise did the Queen amain ; Said she , A Blessing I'm possessing , to behold my Lord again . The French and Rebels felt thy Rage , which Catholics did not deny ; They were not able to engage , but did before the Army fly : When this happy News came over , Subject's they rejoiced amain , And I a Blessing am possessing , to behold my Lord again . King . Said he , My Army fierce and bold , did scorn the proud insulting Foe , Fighting like noble Hearts of Gold , and did the best of Courage show ; Running on like Men undaunted , that the Coast they soon might clear , When as they fired Foes retired , being all possessed with Fear . We through the River Boyne did wade , then having gained the other shore , The Teagues in reeking Gore we laid , they never see the like before ; Horse and Foot were both Courageous , charging both the Front and Rear , And as we fired , Foes retired , being then possessed with Fear . Queen . My Royal Lord , the Queen replied thou wast exposed to Dangers there , Where Shot did fly on every side , 'twas Providence thy Life did spare . In the midst of all the Battle , where some Hundreds then lay slave : It is a Blessing I'm possessing , to behold my Lord again . King . It's true my Army wone the day , our Foes on us their Backs they turned , Yet Schombergh falling in the Fray , for him I highly was concerned : Oh! that thrice Renowned Heros , who hath ventured Life and Limb ; Though he expired when they fired , France shall dearly pay for him . Queen . That sudden sad surprising News , did grieve thy Loyal Subject's here , Likewise the Senses to amuse , that few forbear to shed a Tear : Likewise noble Colonel Walker at the River Boyne was slave , Yet here's a Blessing I'm possessing , to behold my Lord again . Lay by thy weary Armour bright , and take thy Sceptre , Crown , and Ball And with thy Nobles take Delight , thou art King , and Lord of all ; As thou on the Throne art feared , thy Friends with a happy Reign , And here's a Blessing I'm possessing , to behold my Lord again . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . The Courtly Salutation : OR , The Royal Greeting between K. William and Q. Marry at his Return from the Irish Wars to his Princely Palace . To the Tune of I often for my Jenny strove , etc Licensed according to Order . Queen . W Hen Royal William of Renown , had passed the sharp and bloody Scene , And road in Triumph to the Town , for to behold his gracious Queen : Then the Nobles all rejoiced , likewise did the Queen amain ; Said she , A Blessing I'm possessing , to behold my Lord again . The French and Rebels felt thy Rage , which Catholics did not deny ; They were not able to engage , but did before the Army fly : When this happy News came over , Subject's they rejoiced amain , And I a Blessing am possessing , to behold my Lord again . King . Said he , My Army fierce and bold , did scorn the proud insulting Foe , Fighting like noble Hearts of Gold , and did the best of Courage show ; Running on like Men undaunted , that the Coast they soon might clear , When as they fired Foes retired , being all possessed with Fear . We through the River Boyne did wade , then having gained the other shore , The Teagues in reeking Gore we laid , they never see the like before ; Horse and Foot were both Courageous , charging both the Front and Rear , And as we fired , Foes retired , being then possessed with Fear . Queen . My Royal Lord , the Queen replied thou wast exposed to Dangers there , Where Shot did fly on every side , 'twas Providence thy Life did spare . In the midst of all the Battle , where some Hundreds then lay slave : It is a Blessing I'm possessing , to behold my Lord again . King . It's true my Army wone the day , our Foes on us their Backs they turned , Yet Schombergh falling in the Fray , for him I highly was concerned : Oh! that thrice Renowned Heros , who hath ventured Life and Limb ; Though he expired when they fired , France shall dearly pay for him . Queen . That sudden sad surprising News , did grieve thy Loyal Subject's here , Likewise the Senses to amuse , that few forbear to shed a Tear : Likewise noble Colonel Walker at the River Boyne was slave , Yet here's a Blessing I'm possessing , to behold my Lord again . Lay by thy weary Armour bright , and take thy Sceptre , Crown , and Ball And with thy Nobles take Delight , thou art King , and Lord of all ; As thou on the Throne art feared , thy Friends with a happy Reign , And here's a Blessing I'm possessing , to behold my Lord again . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 