ENGLANDS Triumph : OR , The COURT and COUNTRYS Joy FOR THE Kings Safe Return from Flanders . Together with the true Subject's hearty Wish for a long and prosperous Reign . To the Tune of , Let Caesar Live long . Licensed according to Order . LEt Bells' through the Nation now merrily Ring , To welcome home William our Conquering King ; Who headed his Army in Flanders this Year , Making the proud Frenchmen fly from him for fear : And now is returned from fair Flanders again , God send him a prosperous flourishing Reign . The Trumpets did found and the Drums they did beatrice , At which Warlike Music the French did Retreat ; As fearing to face our Great King in the field , Whose Courage and Conduct much Terror did yield : And now he's returned from fair Flanders again , God send him a prosperous flourishing Reign . He does not desire to live at his Ease , But leaving the Court , still he crosses the Seas , In order our Insolent Foes to Subdue , And many a hazard of Life hath [ r ] un through ; Yet he is in safety returned again , God send him a prosperous flourishing Reign . Confederate Princes of Fame and Renown , Whom Trophies of Honour for ever shall Crown , Attended King William , whose Glory and Fame , This day through all Europe , brave Boys we'll proclaim He's safely Arrived from fair Flanders again , God send him a prosperous flourishing Reign . As famous fair Holland King William came through , The former Rejoicing again they renew ; And as at the length he took leave of the Shore , To enter on Board , the loud Cannons did Roar : Now , now he's Arrived to fair England again , God send him a prosperous flourishing Reign . Now as he arrived to the Banks of our Land , True Protestant Subject's in thousands did stand Ready to receive him with Joy and Delight , His Presence soon put Clouds of Sorrow to flight : He's safely Arrived from fair Flanders again , God send him a prosperous flourishing Reign . Full Bumpers went round then his most Royal Health , Still wishing him Triumph , with Glory and Wealth , To make his proud insolent Enemies bow , While Joy sat Enthroned on every Brow , To see him in safety from Flanders again ; God send him a prosperous flourishing Reign . And as he approached to the Court and the Queen , among all the Nobles true Triumph was seen , Expressing their Joy , the sweet Music did play , For to Celebrate the Magnificent Day On which he returned from fair Flanders again ; God send him a prosperous flourishing Reign . Let Jacobite-Catholicks frown if they please , We care not a fig for such Persons as these , So long as King William is blessed from above , And we are partaking of his Royal Love : Brave Boys , he's returned from fair Flanders again , God send him a prosperous flourishing Reign . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. BackENGLANDS Triumph : OR , The COURT and COUNTRYS Joy FOR THE Kings Safe Return from Flanders . Together with the true Subject's hearty Wish for a long and prosperous Reign . To the Tune of , Let Caesar Live long . Licensed according to Order . LEt Bells' through the Nation now merrily Ring , To welcome home William our Conquering King ; Who headed his Army in Flanders this Year , Making the proud Frenchmen fly from him for fear : And now is returned from fair Flanders again , God send him a prosperous flourishing Reign . The Trumpets did found and the Drums they did beatrice , At which Warlike Music the French did Retreat ; As fearing to face our Great King in the field , Whose Courage and Conduct much Terror did yield : And now he's returned from fair Flanders again , God send him a prosperous flourishing Reign . He does not desire to live at his Ease , But leaving the Court , still he crosses the Seas , In order our Insolent Foes to Subdue , And many a hazard of Life hath [ r ] un through ; Yet he is in safety returned again , God send him a prosperous flourishing Reign . Confederate Princes of Fame and Renown , Whom Trophies of Honour for ever shall Crown , Attended King William , whose Glory and Fame , This day through all Europe , brave Boys we'll proclaim He's safely Arrived from fair Flanders again , God send him a prosperous flourishing Reign . As famous fair Holland King William came through , The former Rejoicing again they renew ; And as at the length he took leave of the Shore , To enter on Board , the loud Cannons did Roar : Now , now he's Arrived to fair England again , God send him a prosperous flourishing Reign . Now as he arrived to the Banks of our Land , True Protestant Subject's in thousands did stand Ready to receive him with Joy and Delight , His Presence soon put Clouds of Sorrow to flight : He's safely Arrived from fair Flanders again , God send him a prosperous flourishing Reign . Full Bumpers went round then his most Royal Health , Still wishing him Triumph , with Glory and Wealth , To make his proud insolent Enemies bow , While Joy sat Enthroned on every Brow , To see him in safety from Flanders again ; God send him a prosperous flourishing Reign . And as he approached to the Court and the Queen , among all the Nobles true Triumph was seen , Expressing their Joy , the sweet Music did play , For to Celebrate the Magnificent Day On which he returned from fair Flanders again ; God send him a prosperous flourishing Reign . Let Jacobite-Catholicks frown if they please , We care not a fig for such Persons as these , So long as King William is blessed from above , And we are partaking of his Royal Love : Brave Boys , he's returned from fair Flanders again , God send him a prosperous flourishing Reign . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back 