The READING Skirmish : Or , The Bloody Irish Routed by the Victorious Dutch . Five hundred Papishes came there , to make a final end Of all the Town , in time of Prayer , but God did them defend . To the Tune of , Lilli borlero . WE came into brave Reading by Night , five hundred Horsemen proper and tall ; Yet not resolved fairly to fight , [ but ] for to cut the Throats of them all : Most of us was Irish Papists , [ w ] ho vowed to Kill , then Plunder the Town ; We this never doubted , but soon we were Routed , by Chreest and St. Patrick , we all go down . In Reading Town we never went to Bed , every Soul there mounted his Horse , Hoping next day to fill them with dread , yet I Swear by St. Patrick is Cross , We most shamefullly was Routed , Fortune was pleased to give us a Frown , And blasted our Glory , i'll tell you the Story , by Chreest and St. Patrick , we all go down . We thought to slay them all in their sleep , but by my Shoul , were never the near ; The Heretics their Guard did so keep , which [ put ] [ us ] in a trembling fear : We concluded something further , to seize the Churches all in the Town , With killing and slaying , while they were a Praying , but we were Routed , and soon run down . Nay , before Noon , we vowed to dispatch every Man , nay , Woman and Child ; This in our hearts we freely did hatch , vowing to make a prey of the Spoil : But we straightways was prevented , when we did hope for Fame and Renown , In less then and hour , we forced to scour , by Chreest and St. Patrick , we are run down . We were resolved Reading to clear , having in hand the flourishing Sword , The Bloody Sceen was soon to appear , for we did then but wait for the Word : While the Ministers were Preaching , we were resolved to have at their Gown , But straight was surrounded , and clearly confounded , by Chreest and St. Patrick , we all go down . Just as we all were fit to fallen on , in came the Dutch with fury and speed ; And among them there was not a Man , but what was rarely Mounted indeed : And Rid up as fierce as Tigers , knitting their Brows , they on us did frown , Not one of them idle , their Teeth held their Bridle , by C hreest and S tO . Patrick , we were run down . They never stood to use many Words , but in all haste up to us they flocked , In their right hands their flourishing Swords , and in their left Carbines ready Cock'd : We were forced to fly before them , thorough the Lanes and Streets of the Town , While they pursued after , and threatened a slaughte [ r ] by C hreest and S tO . Patrick , we were run down . Thus being fairly put to the Rout , hunted and drove before they like Dogs , Our Captain bid us then face about , but we wished for our Irish Bogs ; Having no great mind for Fighting , the Dutch did drive us thorough the Town ; Our Foreheads we Crossed , yet still was unhorsed by Chreest and St. Patrick , we're all run down . We threw away our Swords and Carbines , Pistols and Cloaks lay strowed on the Lands ; Cutting off Boots , for running , Uds-doyns , one pair of Heels was worth two pair of Hands Then we called on sweet St. C oleman , hoping he might our Victory Crown ; But Dutchmen pursuing , poor Teagues , to our Ruin by Chreest and St. Patrick , we're all run down . Never was Teagues so much in Distress , as the whole World may well understand ; When we came here we thought to possess worthy Estates of Houses and Land : But we find it's all a Story , Fortune is pleased on us to frown ; Instead of our Riches we stink in our Breeches , By Chreest and St. Patrick , we're all run down . They call a thing a Three-legged Mare , where they will fit each Neck with a Nooze ; Then with our Beads to say our last Prayer , after all this to Die in our Shoes : Thence we pack to Purgatory , for us let all the J [ e ] suits Pray ; Farewell Father Peters , here's some of your Creature's [ es ] would have you to follow the self same way . Printed for J . [ WORSER ] in the Year 1689The READING Skirmish : Or , The Bloody Irish Routed by the Victorious Dutch . Five hundred Papishes came there , to make a final end Of all the Town , in time of Prayer , but God did them defend . To the Tune of , Lilli borlero . WE came into brave Reading by Night , five hundred Horsemen proper and tall ; Yet not resolved fairly to fight , [ but ] for to cut the Throats of them all : Most of us was Irish Papists , [ w ] ho vowed to Kill , then Plunder the Town ; We this never doubted , but soon we were Routed , by Chreest and St. Patrick , we all go down . In Reading Town we never went to Bed , every Soul there mounted his Horse , Hoping next day to fill them with dread , yet I Swear by St. Patrick is Cross , We most shamefullly was Routed , Fortune was pleased to give us a Frown , And blasted our Glory , i'll tell you the Story , by Chreest and St. Patrick , we all go down . We thought to slay them all in their sleep , but by my Shoul , were never the near ; The Heretics their Guard did so keep , which [ put ] [ us ] in a trembling fear : We concluded something further , to seize the Churches all in the Town , With killing and slaying , while they were a Praying , but we were Routed , and soon run down . Nay , before Noon , we vowed to dispatch every Man , nay , Woman and Child ; This in our hearts we freely did hatch , vowing to make a prey of the Spoil : But we straightways was prevented , when we did hope for Fame and Renown , In less then and hour , we forced to scour , by Chreest and St. Patrick , we are run down . We were resolved Reading to clear , having in hand the flourishing Sword , The Bloody Sceen was soon to appear , for we did then but wait for the Word : While the Ministers were Preaching , we were resolved to have at their Gown , But straight was surrounded , and clearly confounded , by Chreest and St. Patrick , we all go down . Just as we all were fit to fallen on , in came the Dutch with fury and speed ; And among them there was not a Man , but what was rarely Mounted indeed : And Rid up as fierce as Tigers , knitting their Brows , they on us did frown , Not one of them idle , their Teeth held their Bridle , by C hreest and S tO . Patrick , we were run down . They never stood to use many Words , but in all haste up to us they flocked , In their right hands their flourishing Swords , and in their left Carbines ready Cock'd : We were forced to fly before them , thorough the Lanes and Streets of the Town , While they pursued after , and threatened a slaughte [ r ] by C hreest and S tO . Patrick , we were run down . Thus being fairly put to the Rout , hunted and drove before they like Dogs , Our Captain bid us then face about , but we wished for our Irish Bogs ; Having no great mind for Fighting , the Dutch did drive us thorough the Town ; Our Foreheads we Crossed , yet still was unhorsed by Chreest and St. Patrick , we're all run down . We threw away our Swords and Carbines , Pistols and Cloaks lay strowed on the Lands ; Cutting off Boots , for running , Uds-doyns , one pair of Heels was worth two pair of Hands Then we called on sweet St. C oleman , hoping he might our Victory Crown ; But Dutchmen pursuing , poor Teagues , to our Ruin by Chreest and St. Patrick , we're all run down . Never was Teagues so much in Distress , as the whole World may well understand ; When we came here we thought to possess worthy Estates of Houses and Land : But we find it's all a Story , Fortune is pleased on us to frown ; Instead of our Riches we stink in our Breeches , By Chreest and St. Patrick , we're all run down . They call a thing a Three-legged Mare , where they will fit each Neck with a Nooze ; Then with our Beads to say our last Prayer , after all this to Die in our Shoes : Thence we pack to Purgatory , for us let all the J [ e ] suits Pray ; Farewell Father Peters , here's some of your Creature's [ es ] would have you to follow the self same way . Printed for J . [ WORSER ] in the Year 1689 