The Low-Country-Soldier : OR , His humble Petition at his Return into England , after his bold Adventures in bloody Battles . To and excellent new Tune . Licensed according to Order . G Ood your Worship cast and eye Upon a Soldier's Misery ; Let not theses lean Cheeks , I pray , Your Worship's Bounty from me stay ; But like a n [ oh ] ble friend , Some Silver lend , And Jove shall pay you in the end , And I will pray that Fate , May make you fortunate , In H eaven , or in some Earthly State . To beg I never was bred , kind Sir , Which makes me blush to keep this stir ; Nor do I rove from Place to Place : For to make known my woeful Case : For I am none of those that a roving goes , And in rambling show their drunken blows For all that they have god , Is by banging of the Pot , In wrangling who should pay the shot . Olympic Games I oft have seen , And in brave Battles have I been ; The Cannons there aloud did roar , My Proffer high was evermore : For , out of a Bravado , When in a Barricado , By tossing of a hand Granadoe , Death then then was very near , When it took away this ear ; But yet , thank God , I'm here , I'm here . And at the Siege of Buda there , I was blown up into the Air , From whence I tumbled down again , And lay awhile among the slave ; Yet rather than be beatrice , I god upon my Feet , And made the Enemy retreat ; My self and seven more We fought Elevenscore ; The Rogues was never so thrashed before . I have , at least , a dozen times , Been blown up by these roguish Mines ; Twice through the Skull have I been shot , That my Brains do boil like any Pot : Such Dangers have I passed , At first and at last , As would make your Worship soar aghast ; And there I lay for dead , Till the Enemy was fled , And then they carried me home to Bed. At push of Pike I lost this Eye , And at Birgam Siege I broke this Thigh , At Oftend , like a warlike Lad , I laid about as I were mad ; But little would you think , That ever I had been Such a good Soldier of the Queen ; But if Sir Francis Vere Were living now and here , H e would tell you how I slashed them there . The Hollanders my Fury know , For oft with them I've dealt a Blow : Then did I take a warlike Dance , Quite through Spain and into France ; And there I spent a flood Of very noble Blood , Yet all would do but little good ; For now I home am come , With my Rags upon my Bum , And crave of your Worship one small Sum . And now my Case you understand , Pray lend to me your helping hand ; A little thing would pleasure me , To keep in mind your Charity : It is not Bred and Cheese , Nor Barley Lees , Or any suchlike Scraps as these ; But what I beg of you , Is a Shilling one or Two , Kind Sir , your Purse-string pray undo . EPILOGUE . HAve I spent all my days in bloody Wars , Thus slashed , carbonadoed , & amp ; cut out in scars ? Have I danced over the Ice , marched through the Dirt , Without either Hat , Hose , Shoe , or Shirt ? And must I now beg , bow , troop , trudge and trot , To every Pagan , and poor Peasant Sot ? No , by this Hand and Sword not I , That Man's not fit to live who fears to die : I'll Purse it then , the Highway is my hope ; His Heart's not big , that fears a little Rope , ------- Stand , and Deliver , Sir , ----------- Here Boy , take my Horse , walk him if thou'rt able , Led him a turn or two , and put him into stable As for you Mrs. Minks , don't at me Jeer , To night for Supper let me have good Cheer ; My Pheasants , my Fowls , and choice of other Birds , I'll not be fed with Apple-pie , Cheese , and Curds : As for your Swine's flesh I'll eat none , Unless it be a roast big , and then I may pick a Bone . The rest my Boy shall transport into his Snap - sack , and so we are prepared for the next Rendezvous . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . The Low-Country-Soldier : OR , His humble Petition at his Return into England , after his bold Adventures in bloody Battles . To and excellent new Tune . Licensed according to Order . G Ood your Worship cast and eye Upon a Soldier's Misery ; Let not theses lean Cheeks , I pray , Your Worship's Bounty from me stay ; But like a n [ oh ] ble friend , Some Silver lend , And Jove shall pay you in the end , And I will pray that Fate , May make you fortunate , In H eaven , or in some Earthly State . To beg I never was bred , kind Sir , Which makes me blush to keep this stir ; Nor do I rove from Place to Place : For to make known my woeful Case : For I am none of those that a roving goes , And in rambling show their drunken blows For all that they have god , Is by banging of the Pot , In wrangling who should pay the shot . Olympic Games I oft have seen , And in brave Battles have I been ; The Cannons there aloud did roar , My Proffer high was evermore : For , out of a Bravado , When in a Barricado , By tossing of a hand Granadoe , Death then then was very near , When it took away this ear ; But yet , thank God , I'm here , I'm here . And at the Siege of Buda there , I was blown up into the Air , From whence I tumbled down again , And lay awhile among the slave ; Yet rather than be beatrice , I god upon my Feet , And made the Enemy retreat ; My self and seven more We fought Elevenscore ; The Rogues was never so thrashed before . I have , at least , a dozen times , Been blown up by these roguish Mines ; Twice through the Skull have I been shot , That my Brains do boil like any Pot : Such Dangers have I passed , At first and at last , As would make your Worship soar aghast ; And there I lay for dead , Till the Enemy was fled , And then they carried me home to Bed. At push of Pike I lost this Eye , And at Birgam Siege I broke this Thigh , At Oftend , like a warlike Lad , I laid about as I were mad ; But little would you think , That ever I had been Such a good Soldier of the Queen ; But if Sir Francis Vere Were living now and here , H e would tell you how I slashed them there . The Hollanders my Fury know , For oft with them I've dealt a Blow : Then did I take a warlike Dance , Quite through Spain and into France ; And there I spent a flood Of very noble Blood , Yet all would do but little good ; For now I home am come , With my Rags upon my Bum , And crave of your Worship one small Sum . And now my Case you understand , Pray lend to me your helping hand ; A little thing would pleasure me , To keep in mind your Charity : It is not Bred and Cheese , Nor Barley Lees , Or any suchlike Scraps as these ; But what I beg of you , Is a Shilling one or Two , Kind Sir , your Purse-string pray undo . EPILOGUE . HAve I spent all my days in bloody Wars , Thus slashed , carbonadoed , & amp ; cut out in scars ? Have I danced over the Ice , marched through the Dirt , Without either Hat , Hose , Shoe , or Shirt ? And must I now beg , bow , troop , trudge and trot , To every Pagan , and poor Peasant Sot ? No , by this Hand and Sword not I , That Man's not fit to live who fears to die : I'll Purse it then , the Highway is my hope ; His Heart's not big , that fears a little Rope , ------- Stand , and Deliver , Sir , ----------- Here Boy , take my Horse , walk him if thou'rt able , Led him a turn or two , and put him into stable As for you Mrs. Minks , don't at me Jeer , To night for Supper let me have good Cheer ; My Pheasants , my Fowls , and choice of other Birds , I'll not be fed with Apple-pie , Cheese , and Curds : As for your Swine's flesh I'll eat none , Unless it be a roast big , and then I may pick a Bone . The rest my Boy shall transport into his Snap - sack , and so we are prepared for the next Rendezvous . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 