Major General Kirks Happy Arrival , To the Relief of Londonderry : with some Particulars , Relating to his Glorious Undertaking . Tune of , Liggan Water , Or , Glory of Londonderry Licensed according to Order . N Owe the joyful day appears , Which removes our panic fears : Bringing comfort , joy and light : Instead of dark and dismal night . We have been overjoyed with tales , Blown about by factious gales : Simple people to deceive And of their courage to bereave . But the truth I here declare , To all such as loyal are : And will boldly serve the King , To them most happy news I bring . Londonderry is relieved , And from bloody Fate reprieved : If the manner you would know , TO he same I will in few words show . Enniskilling men most brave : Armed their Country for to save : Marching were upon the way , To Balishanon Town one day . Whom the Duke of Berwick met , Having all the fields beset : With five thousand chosen boys The flower of mounsieurs & amp ; dear-joys , Straight a battle fierce begun , Streams of blood along did run : Many hours they held the fight , And all with equal strength & amp ; might . Till the Protestants at last , Found their powder gan to wast : Then with But-end they attack The Irish who straight give their back . Hotly they pursue the spoil , Hunt their game into the Toil : Some they took but more they killed , Remaining Master's of the field . This Defeat hath struck a damp , Into the French and Irish Camp : They confused counsels take , And self destroying Order make . Fearing they han't force enough , Draw their men from Derry-Lough : Thus the way they naked give For Kirk the City to Relieve . He ( as prudent Generals use No advantage to refuse : ) Straight returned with wind and tide , Into the Lough again to ride . Where the Banks disarmed he found , Former Guards had quit their Ground Only Killmore Castle sent Two Bullets in a Compliment . TO hus encouraged he made on , Seeing all his foes were gone , TO ill to Derry Walls he came , Outstripping the Career of Fame . TO hen with Arms he stored the TO own , Sent them from the English Crown : And whole Tons of wholesome Beef , With other meats for their Relief . But for Men they needed none , They enough if half were gone : All united in this Sense , TO oh Die in that brave TO owns defence . FINIS . London , Printed for A. Milbourn , at the Stationers Arms in Green - Arbour-Court in the Little-Old-BailyMajor General Kirks Happy Arrival , To the Relief of Londonderry : with some Particulars , Relating to his Glorious Undertaking . Tune of , Liggan Water , Or , Glory of Londonderry Licensed according to Order . N Owe the joyful day appears , Which removes our panic fears : Bringing comfort , joy and light : Instead of dark and dismal night . We have been overjoyed with tales , Blown about by factious gales : Simple people to deceive And of their courage to bereave . But the truth I here declare , To all such as loyal are : And will boldly serve the King , To them most happy news I bring . Londonderry is relieved , And from bloody Fate reprieved : If the manner you would know , TO he same I will in few words show . Enniskilling men most brave : Armed their Country for to save : Marching were upon the way , To Balishanon Town one day . Whom the Duke of Berwick met , Having all the fields beset : With five thousand chosen boys The flower of mounsieurs & amp ; dear-joys , Straight a battle fierce begun , Streams of blood along did run : Many hours they held the fight , And all with equal strength & amp ; might . Till the Protestants at last , Found their powder gan to wast : Then with But-end they attack The Irish who straight give their back . Hotly they pursue the spoil , Hunt their game into the Toil : Some they took but more they killed , Remaining Master's of the field . This Defeat hath struck a damp , Into the French and Irish Camp : They confused counsels take , And self destroying Order make . Fearing they han't force enough , Draw their men from Derry-Lough : Thus the way they naked give For Kirk the City to Relieve . He ( as prudent Generals use No advantage to refuse : ) Straight returned with wind and tide , Into the Lough again to ride . Where the Banks disarmed he found , Former Guards had quit their Ground Only Killmore Castle sent Two Bullets in a Compliment . TO hus encouraged he made on , Seeing all his foes were gone , TO ill to Derry Walls he came , Outstripping the Career of Fame . TO hen with Arms he stored the TO own , Sent them from the English Crown : And whole Tons of wholesome Beef , With other meats for their Relief . But for Men they needed none , They enough if half were gone : All united in this Sense , TO oh Die in that brave TO owns defence . FINIS . London , Printed for A. Milbourn , at the Stationers Arms in Green - Arbour-Court in the Little-Old-Baily 