LONDONS TRIUMPH : OR , The Magnificent Glory at the head of Cheapside , on the Kings Birth-Day , and the Fifth of November , erected on a stately Structure , and splendidly set forth in lively Figures . First , King Williams Landing with and Army to the relief of England : Second , The Glorious Conquest of Ireland . Third , Lewis of France Murdering his Protestant-Subjects . Fourth , the Gun - powder-Plot and F [ oh ] ux with his Dark-Lanthorn ; With many other Beautiful Figures , appearing in the aforesaid place both the Days , and each Night adorned with and innumerable quantity of Candles lighted , which caused it to appear most Glorious to all Spectators . Tune is , Let Cesar live long . Licensed according to Order . TO Rue Protestants listen while I shall relate , The Triumph of London , the Glory and State , Which was to be seen on King William is Birthday , In delicate figures both sumptuous and gay ; Likewise on the Fifth of November also , The City was graced with this Beautiful Show . First Figure was William our Protestant King , As likewise the Army he with him did bring ; War-Horses , with [ Shipping ] & amp ; Streamers displayed , Nay Colonels and Captains , all richly arrayed ; As was when he first did arrive to this Shore , Religion , nay , likewise our Laws to restore . With Lines to this purpose , for Subject's to read , When Catholics thought to make Protestants bleed , God's all Divine Providence them did oppose , And acted as infinitely as he knows ; For this we thank Nassau , and kind Heavens bless , The one for his Care , and the next for Success . Next figure was taking of Athlone by Storm , The Battle of Agram , the manner and from Of King William ' s Army , who valiantly fought , And put the proud French and the Tories to rout : The Siege and Surrender of fair Galloway , To Celebrate gracious King William ' s Birthday . And under these Figures these following Lines , Did set forth the fame of these Glorious Designs : No longer the terror of Bellona's Fears , In his settled Nations and Kingdoms appears : His Conquering Army for fresh Trophies waits , To right wronged Subjects , & amp ; give Law to States . The third Figure shows you how Lewis le Grand , That desperate Tyrant and Torment to man , What vast Floods of Protestant Blood he has spilled , With Swords in their Bodies sheathed up to the Hilt ; His booted Apostles some thousands did kill , The bloody Commands of their King to fulfil . With this like Inscription , he mercy abhors , Whose black civil Murders has outdone the Wars : His poor groaning Natives wander [ ' ] worser for repose , And Exile before sad Oppression they chosen ; Thus Tyrant Lewis his Subject's oppress , Which under King William we Joy do possess . The Gun-Powder-Plot did in Figure appear , And Faux with his Romish Dark-Lanthorn was here , Who with the whole Faction a Bargain had made , The Match being lighted , the Train likewise laid To blow up the King , and his great Parliament , But most Divine Providence them did prevent . Found Protestants are you so stupid of late ? To pine after those that would ruin your state ; Those Catholic Vipers , right impudent bold , Who Plotted against your Fore-Fathers of old : Destroying young Children , nay , Husband and Wife , For Murders and Treasons they love as their Life . The Fifth of November still honoured shall be , On which we have twice been delivered , set free From snares which proud Room did for Protestants lay , King William to save us , he Landed that Day : Let Triumph and Glory with Protestants Ring , To set forth the Fame of our Protestant King . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . LONDONS TRIUMPH : OR , The Magnificent Glory at the head of Cheapside , on the Kings Birth-Day , and the Fifth of November , erected on a stately Structure , and splendidly set forth in lively Figures . First , King Williams Landing with and Army to the relief of England : Second , The Glorious Conquest of Ireland . Third , Lewis of France Murdering his Protestant-Subjects . Fourth , the Gun - powder-Plot and F [ oh ] ux with his Dark-Lanthorn ; With many other Beautiful Figures , appearing in the aforesaid place both the Days , and each Night adorned with and innumerable quantity of Candles lighted , which caused it to appear most Glorious to all Spectators . Tune is , Let Cesar live long . Licensed according to Order . TO Rue Protestants listen while I shall relate , The Triumph of London , the Glory and State , Which was to be seen on King William is Birthday , In delicate figures both sumptuous and gay ; Likewise on the Fifth of November also , The City was graced with this Beautiful Show . First Figure was William our Protestant King , As likewise the Army he with him did bring ; War-Horses , with [ Shipping ] & amp ; Streamers displayed , Nay Colonels and Captains , all richly arrayed ; As was when he first did arrive to this Shore , Religion , nay , likewise our Laws to restore . With Lines to this purpose , for Subject's to read , When Catholics thought to make Protestants bleed , God's all Divine Providence them did oppose , And acted as infinitely as he knows ; For this we thank Nassau , and kind Heavens bless , The one for his Care , and the next for Success . Next figure was taking of Athlone by Storm , The Battle of Agram , the manner and from Of King William ' s Army , who valiantly fought , And put the proud French and the Tories to rout : The Siege and Surrender of fair Galloway , To Celebrate gracious King William ' s Birthday . And under these Figures these following Lines , Did set forth the fame of these Glorious Designs : No longer the terror of Bellona's Fears , In his settled Nations and Kingdoms appears : His Conquering Army for fresh Trophies waits , To right wronged Subjects , & amp ; give Law to States . The third Figure shows you how Lewis le Grand , That desperate Tyrant and Torment to man , What vast Floods of Protestant Blood he has spilled , With Swords in their Bodies sheathed up to the Hilt ; His booted Apostles some thousands did kill , The bloody Commands of their King to fulfil . With this like Inscription , he mercy abhors , Whose black civil Murders has outdone the Wars : His poor groaning Natives wander [ ' ] worser for repose , And Exile before sad Oppression they chosen ; Thus Tyrant Lewis his Subject's oppress , Which under King William we Joy do possess . The Gun-Powder-Plot did in Figure appear , And Faux with his Romish Dark-Lanthorn was here , Who with the whole Faction a Bargain had made , The Match being lighted , the Train likewise laid To blow up the King , and his great Parliament , But most Divine Providence them did prevent . Found Protestants are you so stupid of late ? To pine after those that would ruin your state ; Those Catholic Vipers , right impudent bold , Who Plotted against your Fore-Fathers of old : Destroying young Children , nay , Husband and Wife , For Murders and Treasons they love as their Life . The Fifth of November still honoured shall be , On which we have twice been delivered , set free From snares which proud Room did for Protestants lay , King William to save us , he Landed that Day : Let Triumph and Glory with Protestants Ring , To set forth the Fame of our Protestant King . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 