[ ? ] Protestant SOULDIER , And his LOVE : Or , The Damsels Resolution at length to take up Arms against the Irish Rebels for the true Enjoyment of her Dear . To the Tune of , Liggan Water : Or , Glory of Londonderry . Licensed according to Order . L Ove I come to take my leave , Yet I would not have thee grieve ; Though we must divided be , I will be Loyal , Love , to thee . A most Noble Armed Band , Will away to Ireland , Where the French and Teagues shall know , That we have strength to lay them low . Then this fair and virtuous Maid , To her loving Soldier said , It will [ surely ] break my heart , If that my Dear and I must part . Prithee stay at home with me , Where you will in safety be ; Go not to the Irish Shore , For fear I never see thee more . I am Listed , Love , he cried , Therefore now what ever betide , I will with the Army go , To prove the Rebels overthrow . Thirty thousand Men , my dear , Will in shining Arms appear , Who with speed will march away , I hope to fare as well as they . Love , I'll to your Colonel go , He may so much pity show , As to discharge you far my sake , When as he hears the moan I make . Twenty pounds I have in store , Nay , and had I ten times more , Every Groat I'de freely give , So thou at home with me might live . Love , they Tears are all in vain , I at home will not remain , But will to the Wars with speed , And fight while I have drop to bleed . Can I hear great Ireland , On the brink of Ruin stand , Protestants for succour call And yet be not concerned at all . No , we'll make the Roman yield , Our sharp Swords shall Reap the Field , Since our Cause is just and right , My dear , I'll never fear to Fight . If my Tears will not prevail , But to Ireland you'll Sail , Let me so much favour find , Not left to languish here behind . Whensoever you march away , In this Land I will not stay , But thy true Comrade will be , And freely live or die with thee . My sweet Jewel say not so , If along with me you go , In that Land you'll hardship find , And likewise strangers most unkind . Love I prize thy presence so , That I am resolved to go , Being still with thee my dear , There's nothing in the world I fear . These two Lovers straight agreed , And she Listed was with speed , Not a Person knowing there , That she was then a Damsel fair . With her love in Field she'll fight , In rich shining Armous bright , Being for the Wars designed , And with a most Courageous mind . FINIS . Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking - [ Glass ] on London-Bridge . [ ? ] Protestant SOULDIER , And his LOVE : Or , The Damsels Resolution at length to take up Arms against the Irish Rebels for the true Enjoyment of her Dear . To the Tune of , Liggan Water : Or , Glory of Londonderry . Licensed according to Order . L Ove I come to take my leave , Yet I would not have thee grieve ; Though we must divided be , I will be Loyal , Love , to thee . A most Noble Armed Band , Will away to Ireland , Where the French and Teagues shall know , That we have strength to lay them low . Then this fair and virtuous Maid , To her loving Soldier said , It will [ surely ] break my heart , If that my Dear and I must part . Prithee stay at home with me , Where you will in safety be ; Go not to the Irish Shore , For fear I never see thee more . I am Listed , Love , he cried , Therefore now what ever betide , I will with the Army go , To prove the Rebels overthrow . Thirty thousand Men , my dear , Will in shining Arms appear , Who with speed will march away , I hope to fare as well as they . Love , I'll to your Colonel go , He may so much pity show , As to discharge you far my sake , When as he hears the moan I make . Twenty pounds I have in store , Nay , and had I ten times more , Every Groat I'de freely give , So thou at home with me might live . Love , they Tears are all in vain , I at home will not remain , But will to the Wars with speed , And fight while I have drop to bleed . Can I hear great Ireland , On the brink of Ruin stand , Protestants for succour call And yet be not concerned at all . No , we'll make the Roman yield , Our sharp Swords shall Reap the Field , Since our Cause is just and right , My dear , I'll never fear to Fight . If my Tears will not prevail , But to Ireland you'll Sail , Let me so much favour find , Not left to languish here behind . Whensoever you march away , In this Land I will not stay , But thy true Comrade will be , And freely live or die with thee . My sweet Jewel say not so , If along with me you go , In that Land you'll hardship find , And likewise strangers most unkind . Love I prize thy presence so , That I am resolved to go , Being still with thee my dear , There's nothing in the world I fear . These two Lovers straight agreed , And she Listed was with speed , Not a Person knowing there , That she was then a Damsel fair . With her love in Field she'll fight , In rich shining Armous bright , Being for the Wars designed , And with a most Courageous mind . FINIS . Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking - [ Glass ] on London-Bridge . 