The Countries Loyalty : Showing , their Joy and Gladness for the good Success of King William ' s Arms. The Tune is New News and Tidings : L ET Drums beatrice and Trumpets found , Let Bells' ring the Nation round ; let Banfires Flame to parley with the Stars : Let's this Joyful Tidings Sing , Of our most Victorious King , who now returns with Triumph from the Wars . Let full flowing Bumpers roar , Let Caps lie on the Floor , let Conduits run abundantly with Wine ; Let us cheerfully declare , We true Loyal Subject's are , assisters to King William is great Design . Come Boys fill's a spacious Glass , And to William let it pass the Hands of all our Noble English Peers ; Why should not this Royal Gem , Wear the Golden Diadem , whose Equal was not Born this many years ? At his first Arrival here , England was in deadly fear of downfall , by the hand of Room ; But this rare Low-Country Pearl , With Prince , Marquis , Duke and Earl , did quickly make the stoutest of them run . When late James had fixed his Train , Richly Armed on Salisbury Plain , though they in note and number did excel ; Yet when they herd of his report , Many had good laughing sport , they ran and never bid their King farewell . Now , now , King William is safe at home , The bravest Prince in Christendom , whose very Name through all the world does ring , No Prince that ever wore a Crown , Did ever gain so much Renown , as this most Noble and Victorious King , Fame told us into Flanders , With all his great Commanders , this Royal Monarch bravely took his way , The Power of France he treaded not , No nor the Thundering Cannot shot , be smiled to heear the wife-mouthed Guns to play . When wounded Men on every side , With heavy groans fell down and died ; his Princely Heart was not with fear possessed : Says he , come on my English Boys , Our Trumpets make a pleasant noise , these noble Words his Royal mouth expressed . The Town of Mons so much renowned , He would have Battered to the ground , had not the fearful French forsook the Town , But they his coming durst not stay , They left the Town and run away , thus he came off with Triumph and Renown . The bloody Wars are ended , Which Lewis once intended should quite consume the Realm of Ireland : Most of his famous Captains slave , The rest do Prisoners remain , and France it self in no good case does stand . Of late in Noble manner , To Englands Fame and Honour , his high undaunted many Force was seen ; He vows to Fight with Heart and Hand , So long as he can go or stand , for to defend his Kingdoms and his Queen . The Fame of English Men is spread As far as Phebus shows his Head ; report of them flies swiftly up and down ; Stout Cavendish that Heroic Peer , And brave Undaunted Delamere , Made all the Tories tremble at their frown . Now , now , let us rejoice and sing , Let us applaud our gracious King , who lately gave so many French their Doom ; He boldly ventured Life and Limb , Then let us bravely follow him , and pitch our Standards at the Gates of Rome . FINIS . The Countries Loyalty : Showing , their Joy and Gladness for the good Success of King William ' s Arms. The Tune is New News and Tidings : L ET Drums beatrice and Trumpets found , Let Bells' ring the Nation round ; let Banfires Flame to parley with the Stars : Let's this Joyful Tidings Sing , Of our most Victorious King , who now returns with Triumph from the Wars . Let full flowing Bumpers roar , Let Caps lie on the Floor , let Conduits run abundantly with Wine ; Let us cheerfully declare , We true Loyal Subject's are , assisters to King William is great Design . Come Boys fill's a spacious Glass , And to William let it pass the Hands of all our Noble English Peers ; Why should not this Royal Gem , Wear the Golden Diadem , whose Equal was not Born this many years ? At his first Arrival here , England was in deadly fear of downfall , by the hand of Room ; But this rare Low-Country Pearl , With Prince , Marquis , Duke and Earl , did quickly make the stoutest of them run . When late James had fixed his Train , Richly Armed on Salisbury Plain , though they in note and number did excel ; Yet when they herd of his report , Many had good laughing sport , they ran and never bid their King farewell . Now , now , King William is safe at home , The bravest Prince in Christendom , whose very Name through all the world does ring , No Prince that ever wore a Crown , Did ever gain so much Renown , as this most Noble and Victorious King , Fame told us into Flanders , With all his great Commanders , this Royal Monarch bravely took his way , The Power of France he treaded not , No nor the Thundering Cannot shot , be smiled to heear the wife-mouthed Guns to play . When wounded Men on every side , With heavy groans fell down and died ; his Princely Heart was not with fear possessed : Says he , come on my English Boys , Our Trumpets make a pleasant noise , these noble Words his Royal mouth expressed . The Town of Mons so much renowned , He would have Battered to the ground , had not the fearful French forsook the Town , But they his coming durst not stay , They left the Town and run away , thus he came off with Triumph and Renown . The bloody Wars are ended , Which Lewis once intended should quite consume the Realm of Ireland : Most of his famous Captains slave , The rest do Prisoners remain , and France it self in no good case does stand . Of late in Noble manner , To Englands Fame and Honour , his high undaunted many Force was seen ; He vows to Fight with Heart and Hand , So long as he can go or stand , for to defend his Kingdoms and his Queen . The Fame of English Men is spread As far as Phebus shows his Head ; report of them flies swiftly up and down ; Stout Cavendish that Heroic Peer , And brave Undaunted Delamere , Made all the Tories tremble at their frown . Now , now , let us rejoice and sing , Let us applaud our gracious King , who lately gave so many French their Doom ; He boldly ventured Life and Limb , Then let us bravely follow him , and pitch our Standards at the Gates of Rome . FINIS . 