Englands Welcome to King William : OR , THE Loyal Subject's hearty Joy For the Return of King WILLIAM , after his many Perils and Dangers . To the Tune of , When the Stormy Wind does Blow . Licensed according to Order Y Ou Nobles here of England , safe from all Foreign Foes , How many are the Dangers , King William undergoes , To make the Nation happy , and blessed in every thing , Then lay aside your Murmurs , And say God save the King . How many Storms and Tempests , of sea , and Land , has he , Endured to keep his Subject's from all Misfortunes free , Give ear , unto this Story , and mark well every thing , And you will have Just Reason , To say God save the King . When to Preserve all England , to Ireland he came , By many mighty hazard , he god renowned Fame , Victorous and Fortunate , he was in every thing Then let his faithful subject's , All say God save the King . He bravely passed the Boyne , a River , Deep , and Great , On Horseback for to Join , the Irish which we Beatrice , His Wisdom and his valour , is seen in every thing , That all his Arts admire , And say God save the King . In Ireland when the Armies were Joined in Battle ray , And when with Peals of Thunder , The Cannon loud , did play , So Great was then his Danger , that Fame thereof does ring , And says it mighty Providence , That then preserved the King . A Cannon Bullet Crazed , upon his shoulder by , The Captains were amazed , and all the soldiers Nigh , For though it killed Diverse , this was a wondrous thing , That he should only Graze , On our Triumphant King . So when he went for Holland , his danger there was great , Which to Heavens praise and glory , his subject's do repeat , For though his Ship was bound , with Ice , yet Heaven did bring , By Miracle to shore , Our Great Victorious King . And when he was in Flanders , and stayed at Beamont near , The Army for to see them pass , that all march by him there , He Narrowly Escaped , Great Danger he was in , Yet there Kind Heaven preserved Again our G racious King . A Canon Ball did fallen . Just where the King had sat , Two Minutes , scarce was gone but comes the Bullet strait , Thus he by Heaven is guarded , and blessed in every thing : And we will with Consent , All say , God save the King ! Within a cozy Barn to , his Royal head did lay , And that was then his Palace , to pass the Night away , These things are strange & amp ; therefore , we should his Praises Ring . And every faithful Subject , Will say G od save the King Then once our Gracious Sovereign is Landed on the shore , Let us , ( as it's our Duty , ) thank Heaven for evermore , And since he is in safety , returned we ought to sing , And to say every Day , God bless William Englands King . To him we all our Liberites our Lives , and Fortune's , Owe , Whatever we enjoy here , his Favour does bestow , It's therefore Englands Duty , his Noble Acts to sing , And declare , every where , Our Obedience to the King . How happy now is England , from Popery quite Freed , That thought to ruin Kingdoms , and make the Nation bleed , Till our Great Prince came over , they Did their Masses sing . Therefore we have Just Reason , To say G od save the King . Then Let all Loyal Subject's , our Gracious Monarch meet , And lay their lives and Fortune's , most humbly at his feet , With many Thousand Welcomes , his Triumphs we will sing , And declare , every where , That Heaven preserves the King . Printed for J. Conyers , at the black Raven in Hathourn . Englands Welcome to King William : OR , THE Loyal Subject's hearty Joy For the Return of King WILLIAM , after his many Perils and Dangers . To the Tune of , When the Stormy Wind does Blow . Licensed according to Order Y Ou Nobles here of England , safe from all Foreign Foes , How many are the Dangers , King William undergoes , To make the Nation happy , and blessed in every thing , Then lay aside your Murmurs , And say God save the King . How many Storms and Tempests , of sea , and Land , has he , Endured to keep his Subject's from all Misfortunes free , Give ear , unto this Story , and mark well every thing , And you will have Just Reason , To say God save the King . When to Preserve all England , to Ireland he came , By many mighty hazard , he god renowned Fame , Victorous and Fortunate , he was in every thing Then let his faithful subject's , All say God save the King . He bravely passed the Boyne , a River , Deep , and Great , On Horseback for to Join , the Irish which we Beatrice , His Wisdom and his valour , is seen in every thing , That all his Arts admire , And say God save the King . In Ireland when the Armies were Joined in Battle ray , And when with Peals of Thunder , The Cannon loud , did play , So Great was then his Danger , that Fame thereof does ring , And says it mighty Providence , That then preserved the King . A Cannon Bullet Crazed , upon his shoulder by , The Captains were amazed , and all the soldiers Nigh , For though it killed Diverse , this was a wondrous thing , That he should only Graze , On our Triumphant King . So when he went for Holland , his danger there was great , Which to Heavens praise and glory , his subject's do repeat , For though his Ship was bound , with Ice , yet Heaven did bring , By Miracle to shore , Our Great Victorious King . And when he was in Flanders , and stayed at Beamont near , The Army for to see them pass , that all march by him there , He Narrowly Escaped , Great Danger he was in , Yet there Kind Heaven preserved Again our G racious King . A Canon Ball did fallen . Just where the King had sat , Two Minutes , scarce was gone but comes the Bullet strait , Thus he by Heaven is guarded , and blessed in every thing : And we will with Consent , All say , God save the King ! Within a cozy Barn to , his Royal head did lay , And that was then his Palace , to pass the Night away , These things are strange & amp ; therefore , we should his Praises Ring . And every faithful Subject , Will say G od save the King Then once our Gracious Sovereign is Landed on the shore , Let us , ( as it's our Duty , ) thank Heaven for evermore , And since he is in safety , returned we ought to sing , And to say every Day , God bless William Englands King . To him we all our Liberites our Lives , and Fortune's , Owe , Whatever we enjoy here , his Favour does bestow , It's therefore Englands Duty , his Noble Acts to sing , And declare , every where , Our Obedience to the King . How happy now is England , from Popery quite Freed , That thought to ruin Kingdoms , and make the Nation bleed , Till our Great Prince came over , they Did their Masses sing . Therefore we have Just Reason , To say G od save the King . Then Let all Loyal Subject's , our Gracious Monarch meet , And lay their lives and Fortune's , most humbly at his feet , With many Thousand Welcomes , his Triumphs we will sing , And declare , every where , That Heaven preserves the King . Printed for J. Conyers , at the black Raven in Hathourn . 