THE Devonshire Boys Courage AND Loyalty to Their Majesties King WILLIAM and Queen MARY ; in defending their Country from the Invasion of the French . To and Excellent New Tune ; called The Devonshire Boys delight : Or , The Ligganwaters , etc B Rave Devonshire Boys made haste away , When Jews did come from Tinmouth-bay , The French were landed in that Town , And Treacherously had burned it down . When to the Town they did draw near , The French did straightways disappear ; Because that they had then beatrice down , And basely burned down Tinmouth Town . On Halden-Hill they did design , [ To ] draw their Men up in a line ; But Devonshire Boys did make them run , [ When once ] they did discharge a Gun. Brave Blew-Coat Boys did watch them so , They to no other place dare go ; For if they had returned again , I'm sure the French-men had been slave . They for their coming to prepair , In Devonshire , if to land they dare ; Never doubt their Courage they'll pull down , For burning of poor Tinmouth Town . The French they'll show and English Dance , Ever they again return to France ; They wont forget their beating down , And burning of poor Tinmouth Town . Let Monsieur then do what he can . We'll still Reign Master's over the Main ; Old Englands Right upon the [ S ] ea , In spite of France maintained shall be . No Seaman fears to loose his Blood , To justify a cause so good ; To fight the French , who have begun With burning of poor Tinmouth Town . The Cornish Lads will lend a hand , And Devonshire Boys will with them Band , To pull the pride of Monsieur down , Who basely burned poor Tinmouth Town . In our most Gracious King and Queen , Their Loyalty it shall be seen ; With heart and hand they vow to fight , For to maintain King William's Right . I wish such Loyal hearts be found , In all the Counties England Round ; Then let the French-man us approach , Their Brandy Vessels we will broach . We hope our Fleet will prove most just , In not betraying of their Trust , Then the French shall pay full soar , For Trespassing on our English-shore . If in our hands they once do fallen , They certainly shall pay for all , The Damage done in beating down , And burning of poor Tinmouth Town . Dutch-men of War they will us meet , For to complete our Royal Fleet ; Which being done they will [ advance , ] For to pull down the pride of France . Let's pray kind Heaven for to bless , Our Gracious Being with good [ success ] Then we shall all right happy be , For to Enjoy our Liberty . We will advance King William's [ fame ] , And add new Glorys to his name , The haughty Monsieur we'll pluck down , For to advance Old Englands Crown . Now England is so powerful grown , Poor Monsieur Totters in his Throne , Brave Boys with Courage let's proceed , No English-man will fear to bleed . Then let proud French-man all bewail , That Ever they did to England Sail , Not words but blows shall make it out , When we with them have tother bout . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . THE Devonshire Boys Courage AND Loyalty to Their Majesties King WILLIAM and Queen MARY ; in defending their Country from the Invasion of the French . To and Excellent New Tune ; called The Devonshire Boys delight : Or , The Ligganwaters , etc B Rave Devonshire Boys made haste away , When Jews did come from Tinmouth-bay , The French were landed in that Town , And Treacherously had burned it down . When to the Town they did draw near , The French did straightways disappear ; Because that they had then beatrice down , And basely burned down Tinmouth Town . On Halden-Hill they did design , [ To ] draw their Men up in a line ; But Devonshire Boys did make them run , [ When once ] they did discharge a Gun. Brave Blew-Coat Boys did watch them so , They to no other place dare go ; For if they had returned again , I'm sure the French-men had been slave . They for their coming to prepair , In Devonshire , if to land they dare ; Never doubt their Courage they'll pull down , For burning of poor Tinmouth Town . The French they'll show and English Dance , Ever they again return to France ; They wont forget their beating down , And burning of poor Tinmouth Town . Let Monsieur then do what he can . We'll still Reign Master's over the Main ; Old Englands Right upon the [ S ] ea , In spite of France maintained shall be . No Seaman fears to loose his Blood , To justify a cause so good ; To fight the French , who have begun With burning of poor Tinmouth Town . The Cornish Lads will lend a hand , And Devonshire Boys will with them Band , To pull the pride of Monsieur down , Who basely burned poor Tinmouth Town . In our most Gracious King and Queen , Their Loyalty it shall be seen ; With heart and hand they vow to fight , For to maintain King William's Right . I wish such Loyal hearts be found , In all the Counties England Round ; Then let the French-man us approach , Their Brandy Vessels we will broach . We hope our Fleet will prove most just , In not betraying of their Trust , Then the French shall pay full soar , For Trespassing on our English-shore . If in our hands they once do fallen , They certainly shall pay for all , The Damage done in beating down , And burning of poor Tinmouth Town . Dutch-men of War they will us meet , For to complete our Royal Fleet ; Which being done they will [ advance , ] For to pull down the pride of France . Let's pray kind Heaven for to bless , Our Gracious Being with good [ success ] Then we shall all right happy be , For to Enjoy our Liberty . We will advance King William's [ fame ] , And add new Glorys to his name , The haughty Monsieur we'll pluck down , For to advance Old Englands Crown . Now England is so powerful grown , Poor Monsieur Totters in his Throne , Brave Boys with Courage let's proceed , No English-man will fear to bleed . Then let proud French-man all bewail , That Ever they did to England Sail , Not words but blows shall make it out , When we with them have tother bout . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 