Teague , the Irish Trooper : BEING His Sorrowful Lamentation to his Cousin Agra , and the rest of his Fell - low Soldiers , recounting their Misfortunes in the most remarkable Fights , from the River BOYNE , to the Surrender of LIMERICK , their last Hope . To the Tune of the Old Siege of Limerick : Or , Let Cesar live long . Licensed according to Order . WORSER ear Cousin Agra , and my Friends now attend To this doleful Ditty , which poor Teague has penned : The Irish Nation be Chreest now is lost , In [ all ] our designs we are utterly crossed : We still have been forced to Surrender and Yield , To K. William ' s Army who Conquers the Field . When first his vast Army set foot on the Land , Against them we marched , yet not able to stand : For they did with Courage and Conduct appear , Which caused us streightways to tremble for fear : When ever they drew near , we were forced to Yield , To K. William ' s Army who Conquered the Field . Remember the Fight at the Boyne my dear Joy , How they did our Army and Forces destroy ; Through Fire and Water they marched amain , And vowed that the Kingdom they soon would regain : That day we were forced to Surrender and Yield , To K. William ' s Army , which Conquered the Field . They threaten to put then the Kill upon Teague , Therefore by my shoul we run one , to three League , Too many for us they have been all along , Which makes me to sing this sorrowful Song ; As being compelled to Surrender and Yield , To K. William ' s Army which Conquers the Field . There's fair Drogheda , nay , and Dublin too , This Conquering Army in short did subdue ; While we to the Bogs , and the Mountains did fly , Dear Cousin , cause Teague was unwlling to die : Thus were we constrained to Surrender and Yield , To K. William is Army , which Conquers the Field . Then famous Athlone we resolved to defend , The which then was taken by storm in the end : And Galloway likewise Surrendered also , Be Chreest then our game did begin to run low , And forced we were to Surrender and Yield , To K. William ' s Army , which Conquers the Field . The Fight at fair Agram I'ld like to forgotten , Where so many Thousands were slave on the spot ; My Father and Brother were killed in the Fray , My heart now is ready to break Cousin G ray , And still we are forced to Surrender and Yield , To King William ' s Army , which Conquers the Field . There's great Colonel Sarsefield did swagger and boast , That he would soon down with the Protestant Host ; But now to our sorrow by Chreest we have found , That they have like Tigers encompassed us round : And famous fair Limerick is forced to Yield , To K. William ' s Army which Conquers the Field . In that very City our hope's we did place , And now we are all in a sorrowful case ; For why their great Cannons against us they played , At which Warlike Thunder we all were afraid . And Limerick at length now is forced to Yield , To K. William ' s Army which Conquers the Field . Be Chreest Brother Tory when we Sallied out , Like Soldiers of courage both Valiant and Stout , The Governor Monsieur did bar up the Gate , The which is a sorrowful tale to relate ; For there Teague was slaughtered and forced to Yield To K. William is Army which Conquers the Field . I put on my Shack-boots , and left Cart and Blow , And thought to have been a Commander ever now , But I must return like a poor tattered Rogue , Without ever a Shirt , Coat , nay Stocking , or Broague , Since famous fair Limerick is forced to Yield , To K. William ' s Army , who C onquers the Field . A curse of the French would they never had come here , By them our sorrows has been most severe ; But seeing we find how we have been misled , Great William for ever shall now be our head ; To His Royal Power and Conduct we'll Yield , Where ever he goes let him conquer the Field . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . Teague , the Irish Trooper : BEING His Sorrowful Lamentation to his Cousin Agra , and the rest of his Fell - low Soldiers , recounting their Misfortunes in the most remarkable Fights , from the River BOYNE , to the Surrender of LIMERICK , their last Hope . To the Tune of the Old Siege of Limerick : Or , Let Cesar live long . Licensed according to Order . WORSER ear Cousin Agra , and my Friends now attend To this doleful Ditty , which poor Teague has penned : The Irish Nation be Chreest now is lost , In [ all ] our designs we are utterly crossed : We still have been forced to Surrender and Yield , To K. William ' s Army who Conquers the Field . When first his vast Army set foot on the Land , Against them we marched , yet not able to stand : For they did with Courage and Conduct appear , Which caused us streightways to tremble for fear : When ever they drew near , we were forced to Yield , To K. William ' s Army who Conquered the Field . Remember the Fight at the Boyne my dear Joy , How they did our Army and Forces destroy ; Through Fire and Water they marched amain , And vowed that the Kingdom they soon would regain : That day we were forced to Surrender and Yield , To K. William ' s Army , which Conquered the Field . They threaten to put then the Kill upon Teague , Therefore by my shoul we run one , to three League , Too many for us they have been all along , Which makes me to sing this sorrowful Song ; As being compelled to Surrender and Yield , To K. William ' s Army which Conquers the Field . There's fair Drogheda , nay , and Dublin too , This Conquering Army in short did subdue ; While we to the Bogs , and the Mountains did fly , Dear Cousin , cause Teague was unwlling to die : Thus were we constrained to Surrender and Yield , To K. William is Army , which Conquers the Field . Then famous Athlone we resolved to defend , The which then was taken by storm in the end : And Galloway likewise Surrendered also , Be Chreest then our game did begin to run low , And forced we were to Surrender and Yield , To K. William ' s Army , which Conquers the Field . The Fight at fair Agram I'ld like to forgotten , Where so many Thousands were slave on the spot ; My Father and Brother were killed in the Fray , My heart now is ready to break Cousin G ray , And still we are forced to Surrender and Yield , To King William ' s Army , which Conquers the Field . There's great Colonel Sarsefield did swagger and boast , That he would soon down with the Protestant Host ; But now to our sorrow by Chreest we have found , That they have like Tigers encompassed us round : And famous fair Limerick is forced to Yield , To K. William ' s Army which Conquers the Field . In that very City our hope's we did place , And now we are all in a sorrowful case ; For why their great Cannons against us they played , At which Warlike Thunder we all were afraid . And Limerick at length now is forced to Yield , To K. William ' s Army which Conquers the Field . Be Chreest Brother Tory when we Sallied out , Like Soldiers of courage both Valiant and Stout , The Governor Monsieur did bar up the Gate , The which is a sorrowful tale to relate ; For there Teague was slaughtered and forced to Yield To K. William is Army which Conquers the Field . I put on my Shack-boots , and left Cart and Blow , And thought to have been a Commander ever now , But I must return like a poor tattered Rogue , Without ever a Shirt , Coat , nay Stocking , or Broague , Since famous fair Limerick is forced to Yield , To K. William ' s Army , who C onquers the Field . A curse of the French would they never had come here , By them our sorrows has been most severe ; But seeing we find how we have been misled , Great William for ever shall now be our head ; To His Royal Power and Conduct we'll Yield , Where ever he goes let him conquer the Field . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 