THE King's Return from Holland , AND His Joyful Reception by His Royal Consort the QUEEN , Together with Loyal and Obedient Subject's . To the Tune of , The Spininng-Wheel . Licensed according to Order . B Oys , let the Bells' most sweetly ring , and likewise loud-mouthed Cannon roar , To welcome home our Gracious King , from the right Gallant Holland Shore : In Safety he's returned again , Long may he Live to Rule and Reign . Although his Potent Enemies , may seem to Triumph over all , Yet British Glory still shall rise , when France shall to Destruction fallen : In Safety he's returned again , Long may he Live to Rule and Reign . Great Mars , the Mighty God of War , and Neptune of the Ocean wide ; Likewise the sweet propitious Star , with Angels too on e'ry side ; Conveyed our Monarch over the Main , Long may he Live to Rule and Reign . The Mighty States of Holland fair , of whom our Monarch took his leave , Did then most Solemnly declare , his Love they did with Joy receive : And now he's safe returned again , Long may he Live to Rule and Reign , Boreas with his pleasant Gales , appearing then both sweet and kind , To fill his swelling Royal Sails , with a soft pleasant breathing Wind , Which brought King William over the Main , Long may he Live , etc On Board of the most Royal Fleet , King William did in Person go , And did with stout Commanders meet , who does not fear the daring foe : The Sailors all Rejoiced amain , To see him safe returned again . The Noble Captains brave and stout , together with their whole Fleets Crew ; Did pass King William ' s Health about , until the very Sky looked Blue : With Shouts of Joy , they cried amain . Long May King William Rule and Reign . The Warlike Trumpets then did found , while the brave stout Tarpaulin Boys , Did make the Elements resound , to show the Transport of their Joys : King William ' s safe returned again , Long may he Live to Rule and Reign . As up the Thames he passed along , the Bells' did Ring , the Guns did Roar ; And Subject's did in Thousands throng , to see their Warlike King once more ; Who'n Safety was returned again , Long may he Live , etc 'Twas April the Thirteenth day , that he in Safety Landed here ; True Subjects your Allegiance pay , let double Triumph now appear : In Safety he's returned again , Long may King William Rule and Reign . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . THE King's Return from Holland , AND His Joyful Reception by His Royal Consort the QUEEN , Together with Loyal and Obedient Subject's . To the Tune of , The Spininng-Wheel . Licensed according to Order . B Oys , let the Bells' most sweetly ring , and likewise loud-mouthed Cannon roar , To welcome home our Gracious King , from the right Gallant Holland Shore : In Safety he's returned again , Long may he Live to Rule and Reign . Although his Potent Enemies , may seem to Triumph over all , Yet British Glory still shall rise , when France shall to Destruction fallen : In Safety he's returned again , Long may he Live to Rule and Reign . Great Mars , the Mighty God of War , and Neptune of the Ocean wide ; Likewise the sweet propitious Star , with Angels too on e'ry side ; Conveyed our Monarch over the Main , Long may he Live to Rule and Reign . The Mighty States of Holland fair , of whom our Monarch took his leave , Did then most Solemnly declare , his Love they did with Joy receive : And now he's safe returned again , Long may he Live to Rule and Reign , Boreas with his pleasant Gales , appearing then both sweet and kind , To fill his swelling Royal Sails , with a soft pleasant breathing Wind , Which brought King William over the Main , Long may he Live , etc On Board of the most Royal Fleet , King William did in Person go , And did with stout Commanders meet , who does not fear the daring foe : The Sailors all Rejoiced amain , To see him safe returned again . The Noble Captains brave and stout , together with their whole Fleets Crew ; Did pass King William ' s Health about , until the very Sky looked Blue : With Shouts of Joy , they cried amain . Long May King William Rule and Reign . The Warlike Trumpets then did found , while the brave stout Tarpaulin Boys , Did make the Elements resound , to show the Transport of their Joys : King William ' s safe returned again , Long may he Live to Rule and Reign . As up the Thames he passed along , the Bells' did Ring , the Guns did Roar ; And Subject's did in Thousands throng , to see their Warlike King once more ; Who'n Safety was returned again , Long may he Live , etc 'Twas April the Thirteenth day , that he in Safety Landed here ; True Subjects your Allegiance pay , let double Triumph now appear : In Safety he's returned again , Long may King William Rule and Reign . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 