The Discovery of the New Plot : A brief Account of ROME is old treacherous Trade continued ; for which we hope they will in Time be equally rewarded . To the Tune of Lilli burlero . Licensed according to Order . P rotestant Boys now stand on your Guard , this very day it well do's appear , Room with her Plots is labouring hard , for to destroy our Liberties here ; Yet never doubt , the Laws will seize them that would the King and Kingdom abuse ; Those that have been brewing the Nations undoing , Will have the good luck to die in their Shoes . Every false and Treacherous Lord , that would his native Nation betray ; Though it may be in hope's of Reward , yet let him take this word by the way : The severest hand of Justice , will not such Villains Treasons excuse ; For those that are brewing the Kingdom's undoing , Shall have the good luck to die in their Shoes . When our Rights , Religion , and Laws , stood like a Feeble tottering Wall , William our King espoused the Cause , freeing us straight from Infinite Thrall : Those that dare to plot against him . surely the Laws can no ways excuse Those that have been brewing the Kingdoms undoing , Let them have the luck to due in their Shoes . Irish Teagues the Ocean did cross , at which sad humours ran in our Heads ; Nay , at the length it came to that pass that we were feared to lie in our Beds : But K. William bravely freed us therefore let those that would us abuse , By plotting and brewing the Kingdoms undoing ; Let them have the luck to die in their Shoes . Those that should be a support to the Throne by their wise Council , Conduct and Care , Now at this time it's ' parently known , here have contrived a treacherous Snare , To betray us all to ruin , surely the Law can never them excuse , Whoe'ever have been brewing the Kingdoms undoing , Let them have the luck to die in their Shoes . Plotting you know has been and old Trade , practised by all the Villains of Room , Many hath sad examples been made having the Ax , and Halter their Doom ; Yet we find they take no Warning , but those would their gracious Monarch abuse ; Those that have been brewing the Nations undoing , May they have the luck to die in their Shoes . Letters we find we were going for France , there to inform the Jacobite crew ; Yet they were seized and taken by chance , ay , and the hopeful Messengers too ; Which were brought to London ' s Tower there to be scourged for carrying of News As they have been brewing the Nations undoing , May they have the luck to die in their Shoes . Yet after all , we Protestants hope that our most Gracious Sovereign King , In spite of French , Turk , Devil , and Pope , Triumph into this Kingdom shall bring ; While those false deceitful Traitors they shall be Scourged for carrying of News , Was it in their Power they Laws too , devour , For which they shall fairly die in their Shoes . Printed for Charles Bates next door to the Crown Tavern in West-Smithfield . The Discovery of the New Plot : A brief Account of ROME is old treacherous Trade continued ; for which we hope they will in Time be equally rewarded . To the Tune of Lilli burlero . Licensed according to Order . P rotestant Boys now stand on your Guard , this very day it well do's appear , Room with her Plots is labouring hard , for to destroy our Liberties here ; Yet never doubt , the Laws will seize them that would the King and Kingdom abuse ; Those that have been brewing the Nations undoing , Will have the good luck to die in their Shoes . Every false and Treacherous Lord , that would his native Nation betray ; Though it may be in hope's of Reward , yet let him take this word by the way : The severest hand of Justice , will not such Villains Treasons excuse ; For those that are brewing the Kingdom's undoing , Shall have the good luck to die in their Shoes . When our Rights , Religion , and Laws , stood like a Feeble tottering Wall , William our King espoused the Cause , freeing us straight from Infinite Thrall : Those that dare to plot against him . surely the Laws can no ways excuse Those that have been brewing the Kingdoms undoing , Let them have the luck to due in their Shoes . Irish Teagues the Ocean did cross , at which sad humours ran in our Heads ; Nay , at the length it came to that pass that we were feared to lie in our Beds : But K. William bravely freed us therefore let those that would us abuse , By plotting and brewing the Kingdoms undoing ; Let them have the luck to die in their Shoes . Those that should be a support to the Throne by their wise Council , Conduct and Care , Now at this time it's ' parently known , here have contrived a treacherous Snare , To betray us all to ruin , surely the Law can never them excuse , Whoe'ever have been brewing the Kingdoms undoing , Let them have the luck to die in their Shoes . Plotting you know has been and old Trade , practised by all the Villains of Room , Many hath sad examples been made having the Ax , and Halter their Doom ; Yet we find they take no Warning , but those would their gracious Monarch abuse ; Those that have been brewing the Nations undoing , May they have the luck to die in their Shoes . Letters we find we were going for France , there to inform the Jacobite crew ; Yet they were seized and taken by chance , ay , and the hopeful Messengers too ; Which were brought to London ' s Tower there to be scourged for carrying of News As they have been brewing the Nations undoing , May they have the luck to die in their Shoes . Yet after all , we Protestants hope that our most Gracious Sovereign King , In spite of French , Turk , Devil , and Pope , Triumph into this Kingdom shall bring ; While those false deceitful Traitors they shall be Scourged for carrying of News , Was it in their Power they Laws too , devour , For which they shall fairly die in their Shoes . Printed for Charles Bates next door to the Crown Tavern in West-Smithfield . 