A DIALOGUE between a French and Irish Officer , Concerning their Leaving LIMERICK , With their full Resolution to go for FRANCE , and inform the late King James of all their Misfortunes . Tune , Let Caesar Live Long . O H Brother Teague what shall we now do , For that Army thats come now does make us look blue ; The English came up like men of great might , We shall never be able to stand them one fight For their Cannons do rattle , & amp ; drums they do play We hold it convenient for to go away . The Dutch men are stout , & amp ; strong in the field They will die for great William before they will yield ; Their Looks they are grim , with a Voice when they speak , The thoughts of a Dutch man does make my heart quake And their Cannons do rattle , & amp ; Drums they do play , W e hold it convenient for to go away . The Danes they did fight for Englands brave Crown , And they are fully resolved to beatrice Popery down Their Noble Commanders will die in the field , To make all the French men & amp ; Irish men yield , For their Cannons do rattle , and Drums they do play , We hold it convenient for to go away . There is not a Commander not one among ten , That dare to Encounter with the English men ; For why ? they are Courageous , not fearing to die They scorn from the face of a Tory to fly , And their Cannons , etc We will go to France , where James we shall see , And there will unfold our great misery , Against all the Forces that to K. William is come We will go and take Shipping , and all Sail to Room . For their Cannons , etc All our Army now does to France Repair , We must leave all our Castles and Towns e'ry where Unto all the English , for why they do say , Fight on my brave Boys , for we have wone the Day , And their Cannons , etc There is not one Battle that ever was fought , But that all the French men was put to the rout and all by K. William , who never would yield But fight for to Conquer , or die in the field , And their Cannons , etc Our designs they are Crossed as this we may see , Which has brought our Church to great misery For getting a Prince to be true to the Crown , the Heretics beatrice our Wooden Gods down , For their Cannons , etc Welcome now Brother , we will leave the town And stand to the mercy of Englands brave Crown , Although in Rebellion long time we have stood , Against all the English and Protestants good , F or great William is merciful as we may see , We hope for a Pardon for thee and for me . Printed for J. Bisse at the Bible and Harp near the Hospital-gate in West-Smithfield . A DIALOGUE between a French and Irish Officer , Concerning their Leaving LIMERICK , With their full Resolution to go for FRANCE , and inform the late King James of all their Misfortunes . Tune , Let Caesar Live Long . O H Brother Teague what shall we now do , For that Army thats come now does make us look blue ; The English came up like men of great might , We shall never be able to stand them one fight For their Cannons do rattle , & amp ; drums they do play We hold it convenient for to go away . The Dutch men are stout , & amp ; strong in the field They will die for great William before they will yield ; Their Looks they are grim , with a Voice when they speak , The thoughts of a Dutch man does make my heart quake And their Cannons do rattle , & amp ; Drums they do play , W e hold it convenient for to go away . The Danes they did fight for Englands brave Crown , And they are fully resolved to beatrice Popery down Their Noble Commanders will die in the field , To make all the French men & amp ; Irish men yield , For their Cannons do rattle , and Drums they do play , We hold it convenient for to go away . There is not a Commander not one among ten , That dare to Encounter with the English men ; For why ? they are Courageous , not fearing to die They scorn from the face of a Tory to fly , And their Cannons , etc We will go to France , where James we shall see , And there will unfold our great misery , Against all the Forces that to K. William is come We will go and take Shipping , and all Sail to Room . For their Cannons , etc All our Army now does to France Repair , We must leave all our Castles and Towns e'ry where Unto all the English , for why they do say , Fight on my brave Boys , for we have wone the Day , And their Cannons , etc There is not one Battle that ever was fought , But that all the French men was put to the rout and all by K. William , who never would yield But fight for to Conquer , or die in the field , And their Cannons , etc Our designs they are Crossed as this we may see , Which has brought our Church to great misery For getting a Prince to be true to the Crown , the Heretics beatrice our Wooden Gods down , For their Cannons , etc Welcome now Brother , we will leave the town And stand to the mercy of Englands brave Crown , Although in Rebellion long time we have stood , Against all the English and Protestants good , F or great William is merciful as we may see , We hope for a Pardon for thee and for me . Printed for J. Bisse at the Bible and Harp near the Hospital-gate in West-Smithfield . 