Tyrconnels Courage Confounded . OR , His Armies Resolution to Surrender , rather than feel the Dangerous Effects of the English Forces . To the Tune of , The Cannons Roar . Licensed according to Order . TEague and all his Fellows , they Vow they will their Flags display , and not yield to us the day , for pray observe their Boasting ; Some thousands we have laid in Gore , and do resolve as many more , If that they dare to come ashore , yet they're to Ruin posting . We understand they fain would be At their old Trade of Massacre , Which was from Fortione to Three observe Tyrconnel ' s Order ; Now Murder all where ever you come And let them know that is their doom , Because they would not stoop to Room , but we will drive them further . Tyrconnel cries , be not surprised , I with the Pope have thus advise , To have you truly Cannonzed among our Saints of Glory ; Kill , Murder , Poison , Stab , Rebel , Our Priests can all your Sins expel , So that you shan't one minute dwell , in pains of Purgatory . Scomberg by good King William sent , Intends our Conquest to prevent , Which if he does we may lament at his great Warlike power ; That ever we did in Arms appear , Rebellion in our Land to rear , His Prowis all the world does fear , it's he will make us scour . Tyrconnel said , should I be slave , With sweet St. Coleman I shall Reign , And others of the Popish Train , which Faction did Empanel , And further still the Pope does say , That for my Soul they'll surely pray , And it shall be my Holiday , they'll call it St. Tyrconnel . As soon as he these words had spoke , His sayings did his Men provoke , Who vowed they would not strike a stroke , his Saintship to be furthered , In rugged terms each Teague did say , Must we endure the bloody fray , Be hanged upon your Holiday , we will not thus be Murdered . We will surrender ever we feel The sharpness of the pointed Steel , Of Soldiers that will make us Reel , of the true English Nation ; Our Forces has not strength to stand Against so great and Armed Band , Which shortly will approach the Land , unto our soar vexation . From France we did some succour crave , He said that we the same should have But he's a false and perjured Slave , beside , he can't befriend us ; His Fleet they say , dare not appear , If that the Dutch be in the Rear , His Rigging from their Masts he'll tear how can he then defend us ? The English Fleet is coming over , With Thunder they'll approach the shore And lay us all in purple Gore , what Forces can withstand ' um ? Our hope of Conquest is but small , They have a Noble General , Monsieur de Scomberg they him call , who bravely does Command ' um . Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Guiltspur-Street . Tyrconnels Courage Confounded . OR , His Armies Resolution to Surrender , rather than feel the Dangerous Effects of the English Forces . To the Tune of , The Cannons Roar . Licensed according to Order . TEague and all his Fellows , they Vow they will their Flags display , and not yield to us the day , for pray observe their Boasting ; Some thousands we have laid in Gore , and do resolve as many more , If that they dare to come ashore , yet they're to Ruin posting . We understand they fain would be At their old Trade of Massacre , Which was from Fortione to Three observe Tyrconnel ' s Order ; Now Murder all where ever you come And let them know that is their doom , Because they would not stoop to Room , but we will drive them further . Tyrconnel cries , be not surprised , I with the Pope have thus advise , To have you truly Cannonzed among our Saints of Glory ; Kill , Murder , Poison , Stab , Rebel , Our Priests can all your Sins expel , So that you shan't one minute dwell , in pains of Purgatory . Scomberg by good King William sent , Intends our Conquest to prevent , Which if he does we may lament at his great Warlike power ; That ever we did in Arms appear , Rebellion in our Land to rear , His Prowis all the world does fear , it's he will make us scour . Tyrconnel said , should I be slave , With sweet St. Coleman I shall Reign , And others of the Popish Train , which Faction did Empanel , And further still the Pope does say , That for my Soul they'll surely pray , And it shall be my Holiday , they'll call it St. Tyrconnel . As soon as he these words had spoke , His sayings did his Men provoke , Who vowed they would not strike a stroke , his Saintship to be furthered , In rugged terms each Teague did say , Must we endure the bloody fray , Be hanged upon your Holiday , we will not thus be Murdered . We will surrender ever we feel The sharpness of the pointed Steel , Of Soldiers that will make us Reel , of the true English Nation ; Our Forces has not strength to stand Against so great and Armed Band , Which shortly will approach the Land , unto our soar vexation . From France we did some succour crave , He said that we the same should have But he's a false and perjured Slave , beside , he can't befriend us ; His Fleet they say , dare not appear , If that the Dutch be in the Rear , His Rigging from their Masts he'll tear how can he then defend us ? The English Fleet is coming over , With Thunder they'll approach the shore And lay us all in purple Gore , what Forces can withstand ' um ? Our hope of Conquest is but small , They have a Noble General , Monsieur de Scomberg they him call , who bravely does Command ' um . Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Guiltspur-Street . 