Great Britain's Triumph ; Or , The Nation's JOY for a General PEACE , between the Potent Princes of Europe , which was Signed the 10th of this Instant Sept. 1697 , between the Ambassadors and Plenipoten - tiaries of England , Spain , and Holland , on the Part of the Allies , and the King of France on the other Part. To the Tune of , The Evening Ramble . Y Ou Nobles , and Peers of the Kingdom , and Commons of e'ry Degree , Here's Tidings of Joy our Grief to destroy , a flourishing Land we shall see : Vast Armies no more shall invade , Nor Banners in Field be displayed , no Killing nor Slaying , nor Kingdoms Betraying , But now for a prosperous Trade , To make us all happy , our Joys to increase , While Europe is Blessed with a General Peace . Our Swords shall be turned into Ploughshares , and glittering Armour likewise , No longer we'll wear , for Laurels prepare , true Peace is the Blessing we prize : Though Lewis was once in a huff , And we as courageous and tough , yet every Nation , without disputation , Of fighting , has fairly enough ; Therefore let the Title of Conquering cease , While Europe is blessed with a General Peace . Why should we stand longer contending , with Armies of Foot and of Horse ; While War we maintain , a Conquest to gain , the Winner sits down by the loss : This has been considered of late , By Monarchs both glorious and great , wherefore they desire from Field to retire , For Peace is the prosperous State , The Wealths of all Kingdoms and Courts to increase This makes them conclude in a General Peace . The Plenipotentiaries of Europe , they met for that general Good , Whose Master's we find , are fairly inclined , to stop the effusion of Blood . God sent them a happy Successs , And all their Endeavours did bless in the Undertaking , while Peace they were making , And now we have had the Express , Of the happy Tidings our Joy to increase , That Europe is blessed with a General Peace . Our Champion and King of Great Britain , is honoured by Lewis of France ; Who owns him as King in everything , no Army shall ever advance Against him , or any Allies ; Nay Cities and Castles likewise , and e'ry strong Tower , which is in his power , The which has been taken as Prize , He'll freely surrender , that fighting may cease , And Europe be blessed with a General Peace . Himself he obliges on Honour , a Treaty of Peace to maintain , And while he shall live , no Aid will he give , to any Pretenders again , That ever by insolent ways , Should study new Troubles to raise , which lasting foundation of Peace to this Nation , Will bless us with flourishing Days : Neighbouring Nations from Fighting shall cease , As Europe is blessed with a General Peace . The Merchant shall blow the wide Ocean , from Kingdom to Kingdom for Gold , Without any fear , the Seas being clear , and bring home their Treasure untold , To store us with Riches again , Then let us no longer complain ; the War being ended , we shall be defended , And see a true prosperous Reign : Our Griefs will grow less and our Comforts increase , As Europe is blessed with a General Peace . The happy Effects of this Treaty , ascribed be't to Heaven alone ; Who prospered our Prince , the World to convince , that still he should Reign on the Throne , To reap the sweet Fruits of his Toil , Now , now , in a plentiful Isle ; where long may he flourish , his People to nourish , Their Sorrows and Griefs to beguile : Never doubt but our Comforts will daily increase , As Europe is blessed with a General Peace . Licensed according to Order . London : Printed for John Shooter . Great Britain's Triumph ; Or , The Nation's JOY for a General PEACE , between the Potent Princes of Europe , which was Signed the 10th of this Instant Sept. 1697 , between the Ambassadors and Plenipoten - tiaries of England , Spain , and Holland , on the Part of the Allies , and the King of France on the other Part. To the Tune of , The Evening Ramble . Y Ou Nobles , and Peers of the Kingdom , and Commons of e'ry Degree , Here's Tidings of Joy our Grief to destroy , a flourishing Land we shall see : Vast Armies no more shall invade , Nor Banners in Field be displayed , no Killing nor Slaying , nor Kingdoms Betraying , But now for a prosperous Trade , To make us all happy , our Joys to increase , While Europe is Blessed with a General Peace . Our Swords shall be turned into Ploughshares , and glittering Armour likewise , No longer we'll wear , for Laurels prepare , true Peace is the Blessing we prize : Though Lewis was once in a huff , And we as courageous and tough , yet every Nation , without disputation , Of fighting , has fairly enough ; Therefore let the Title of Conquering cease , While Europe is blessed with a General Peace . Why should we stand longer contending , with Armies of Foot and of Horse ; While War we maintain , a Conquest to gain , the Winner sits down by the loss : This has been considered of late , By Monarchs both glorious and great , wherefore they desire from Field to retire , For Peace is the prosperous State , The Wealths of all Kingdoms and Courts to increase This makes them conclude in a General Peace . The Plenipotentiaries of Europe , they met for that general Good , Whose Master's we find , are fairly inclined , to stop the effusion of Blood . God sent them a happy Successs , And all their Endeavours did bless in the Undertaking , while Peace they were making , And now we have had the Express , Of the happy Tidings our Joy to increase , That Europe is blessed with a General Peace . Our Champion and King of Great Britain , is honoured by Lewis of France ; Who owns him as King in everything , no Army shall ever advance Against him , or any Allies ; Nay Cities and Castles likewise , and e'ry strong Tower , which is in his power , The which has been taken as Prize , He'll freely surrender , that fighting may cease , And Europe be blessed with a General Peace . Himself he obliges on Honour , a Treaty of Peace to maintain , And while he shall live , no Aid will he give , to any Pretenders again , That ever by insolent ways , Should study new Troubles to raise , which lasting foundation of Peace to this Nation , Will bless us with flourishing Days : Neighbouring Nations from Fighting shall cease , As Europe is blessed with a General Peace . The Merchant shall blow the wide Ocean , from Kingdom to Kingdom for Gold , Without any fear , the Seas being clear , and bring home their Treasure untold , To store us with Riches again , Then let us no longer complain ; the War being ended , we shall be defended , And see a true prosperous Reign : Our Griefs will grow less and our Comforts increase , As Europe is blessed with a General Peace . The happy Effects of this Treaty , ascribed be't to Heaven alone ; Who prospered our Prince , the World to convince , that still he should Reign on the Throne , To reap the sweet Fruits of his Toil , Now , now , in a plentiful Isle ; where long may he flourish , his People to nourish , Their Sorrows and Griefs to beguile : Never doubt but our Comforts will daily increase , As Europe is blessed with a General Peace . Licensed according to Order . London : Printed for John Shooter . 