The Distressed Damosel For the loss of her Bridegroom : Who having received the Sum of Twenty Shillings , together with a Ring , Shirt , and Aparrel , which she had borrowed , in order for their Marriage , but giving her the slip , he went away with all the aforesaid things , to the great shame and dis - content of the Maid ; who sounds forth her sorrow in the these lins that follow . To the Tune of , My Life and my Death . This may be Printed R.P. W As ever poor Maiden so left in distress , My grief & amp ; my trouble is great you may guess For he that pretended my true love to be , He's gone and has proved falsehearted to me , He took Rings and money never bid me good by , Was ever poor Maiden so served as I . His love in abundance at first he revealed , Long time I was courted before I would yield , But when he had god me at last in the mind , I found him deceitful and prove most unkind : As here by this ditty I now will make known , Which causeth me here to make pitiful moan . He told me he'd Marry and make me his Bride , If he had but money and Clothing beside , Now I being willing a Husband to have , Full twenty good Shillings unto him I gave : Then borrowed a Ring and what ever he did lack , With every thing , nay , the Shirt to his back . Said he isle be loyal as long as I live , Then many sweet kisses to me he did give ; There nothing then seemed my peace to annoy , I being transported with Raptures of joy : That all kind of sorrow did clearly expel , The thoughts of a husband did please me so well . We both had concluded next morning to be , The time of our Marriage in love to agree ; Both youngmen and maids , we invited also , Who freely attending , did make a fine show : My Bridegroom the Joiner he likewise was gent , In that fine apparel which to him was sent . And thus to be married unto him I went , But little mistrusting his evil intent , For when we came almost unto the Church door , He made and excuse bidding us go before : And there I stayed waiting for him in the Church , At length I perceived I was left in the lurch . From six in the morning it being so soon , I waited his coming till it was high noon , My heart and my spirits was clearly cast down , To see how Dame Fortune upon me did frown , I waited and waited , yet all was in vain , He never returned to his true love again . The Clothes that I borrowed , I brought them to him , In which he was decked most gallant and trim , Both Hat , Coat , and Breeches , nay , Shirt I declare For he of himself having nothing to wear , With Ring , Clothes and money , away he is run , And left me alas a poor Maiden undone . My hope of ever finding him now is but small , Both Clooths and the Ring I must pay for them all , Beside I am laughed at wherever I go , This fills my poor senses with sorrow and woe : I needs must confess I was something too free , Let all other Maidens take warning by me . FINI S . P rinted for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street without Newgate . The Distressed Damosel For the loss of her Bridegroom : Who having received the Sum of Twenty Shillings , together with a Ring , Shirt , and Aparrel , which she had borrowed , in order for their Marriage , but giving her the slip , he went away with all the aforesaid things , to the great shame and dis - content of the Maid ; who sounds forth her sorrow in the these lins that follow . To the Tune of , My Life and my Death . This may be Printed R.P. W As ever poor Maiden so left in distress , My grief & amp ; my trouble is great you may guess For he that pretended my true love to be , He's gone and has proved falsehearted to me , He took Rings and money never bid me good by , Was ever poor Maiden so served as I . His love in abundance at first he revealed , Long time I was courted before I would yield , But when he had god me at last in the mind , I found him deceitful and prove most unkind : As here by this ditty I now will make known , Which causeth me here to make pitiful moan . He told me he'd Marry and make me his Bride , If he had but money and Clothing beside , Now I being willing a Husband to have , Full twenty good Shillings unto him I gave : Then borrowed a Ring and what ever he did lack , With every thing , nay , the Shirt to his back . Said he isle be loyal as long as I live , Then many sweet kisses to me he did give ; There nothing then seemed my peace to annoy , I being transported with Raptures of joy : That all kind of sorrow did clearly expel , The thoughts of a husband did please me so well . We both had concluded next morning to be , The time of our Marriage in love to agree ; Both youngmen and maids , we invited also , Who freely attending , did make a fine show : My Bridegroom the Joiner he likewise was gent , In that fine apparel which to him was sent . And thus to be married unto him I went , But little mistrusting his evil intent , For when we came almost unto the Church door , He made and excuse bidding us go before : And there I stayed waiting for him in the Church , At length I perceived I was left in the lurch . From six in the morning it being so soon , I waited his coming till it was high noon , My heart and my spirits was clearly cast down , To see how Dame Fortune upon me did frown , I waited and waited , yet all was in vain , He never returned to his true love again . The Clothes that I borrowed , I brought them to him , In which he was decked most gallant and trim , Both Hat , Coat , and Breeches , nay , Shirt I declare For he of himself having nothing to wear , With Ring , Clothes and money , away he is run , And left me alas a poor Maiden undone . My hope of ever finding him now is but small , Both Clooths and the Ring I must pay for them all , Beside I am laughed at wherever I go , This fills my poor senses with sorrow and woe : I needs must confess I was something too free , Let all other Maidens take warning by me . FINI S . P rinted for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street without Newgate . 