THE French Monstrous BEAST , Which Devours all before it ; Overthrowing Houses and devouring Friars alive , the sighed of which frighted Lewis into a Confession of his Evils . Tune of Liggan Water . Licensed according to Order H Ere's strange Tidings which I bring , From proud Lewis the French King , The which is of late come over , The like was never herd before . There's a strange and Monstrous Beast , Thirty foot in length at least ; Thousands wonder at the same , But no one knows from whence it came . His Eyes like flaming Fire burns , Out of his Throat he likewise turns A foul and noisome stinking Breath , Which every where does threaten Death . The from and fashion of his Head , Do's fill them all with fear and dread ; His very voice does thousands fear , He roars like Thunder in the Air . His Back more hard than Brass is found , No Sword or Spear can pierce or wound , Neither can Bullets enter in His horny-Hide , that hardened skin . His long and curled knotty Tail , He swings it like a Thrasher's Flail , That when he strikes a sturdy Oak , He splits it with a single stroke . The Monster ranges up and down , Through many Cities , Court and Town , And do's their Houses overthrow , In every place where he do's go . From place to place he roves each day , The Friars do become his Prey ; And they alas ! his Fury feel , He eats a Dozen at a Meal . Sometime he eats sixteen of them , To satisfy their hungry Wem ; The Rogues were never so annoyed , For fear they should be all destroyed . Marlow that famous City then , The like there was not one in ten ; Which cost Ten Hundred Thousand Pound , This Beast has Leveled to the ground . The Monks and well-fed Friars they , In sad Confusion , ran away ; And as before the Beast they fly , Where shall we hide our selves ? they cry . His Welsh Highness was frightened too , This Monstrous Beast did him pursue , And all that did attend his Train , Did run for fear they should be slave . Friars made their sad Complaints Unto their Virgin and their Saints , To mitigate their slavish fear , But yet the Rogues were never the near . For why ? the fury of the Beast , Against the Friars so increaed ; The News was then to Lewis brought , What sad Destruction it had wrought . He did upon a Tower stand , And took his Spying-Glass in hand , This mighty Monster to behold , Of which such dismal things was told . When Lewis he the same beheld , His very Heart with Grief was filled ; This is a dreadful sighed , said he , My Friends , what will become of me ? It's said his very Heart did fail , His Visage also waxed pale ; Straightways he fell dow in a found , For troops of fear did him surround . His Senses did return again , O then he cried ! I fear my Reign It is but short , this do's presage , France ruined in this present Age . The Articles which I have broke , Will bring on me a Fatal Stroke , For which alas ! I blame my self , As being known a perjured Elf. Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner , J. Deacon at the Angel in Gilt-spur-street , J. Blare at the Looking - glass on London-bridge , near the Church , J. Back at the Black Boy on the middle of London-bridge . THE French Monstrous BEAST , Which Devours all before it ; Overthrowing Houses and devouring Friars alive , the sighed of which frighted Lewis into a Confession of his Evils . Tune of Liggan Water . Licensed according to Order H Ere's strange Tidings which I bring , From proud Lewis the French King , The which is of late come over , The like was never herd before . There's a strange and Monstrous Beast , Thirty foot in length at least ; Thousands wonder at the same , But no one knows from whence it came . His Eyes like flaming Fire burns , Out of his Throat he likewise turns A foul and noisome stinking Breath , Which every where does threaten Death . The from and fashion of his Head , Do's fill them all with fear and dread ; His very voice does thousands fear , He roars like Thunder in the Air . His Back more hard than Brass is found , No Sword or Spear can pierce or wound , Neither can Bullets enter in His horny-Hide , that hardened skin . His long and curled knotty Tail , He swings it like a Thrasher's Flail , That when he strikes a sturdy Oak , He splits it with a single stroke . The Monster ranges up and down , Through many Cities , Court and Town , And do's their Houses overthrow , In every place where he do's go . From place to place he roves each day , The Friars do become his Prey ; And they alas ! his Fury feel , He eats a Dozen at a Meal . Sometime he eats sixteen of them , To satisfy their hungry Wem ; The Rogues were never so annoyed , For fear they should be all destroyed . Marlow that famous City then , The like there was not one in ten ; Which cost Ten Hundred Thousand Pound , This Beast has Leveled to the ground . The Monks and well-fed Friars they , In sad Confusion , ran away ; And as before the Beast they fly , Where shall we hide our selves ? they cry . His Welsh Highness was frightened too , This Monstrous Beast did him pursue , And all that did attend his Train , Did run for fear they should be slave . Friars made their sad Complaints Unto their Virgin and their Saints , To mitigate their slavish fear , But yet the Rogues were never the near . For why ? the fury of the Beast , Against the Friars so increaed ; The News was then to Lewis brought , What sad Destruction it had wrought . He did upon a Tower stand , And took his Spying-Glass in hand , This mighty Monster to behold , Of which such dismal things was told . When Lewis he the same beheld , His very Heart with Grief was filled ; This is a dreadful sighed , said he , My Friends , what will become of me ? It's said his very Heart did fail , His Visage also waxed pale ; Straightways he fell dow in a found , For troops of fear did him surround . His Senses did return again , O then he cried ! I fear my Reign It is but short , this do's presage , France ruined in this present Age . The Articles which I have broke , Will bring on me a Fatal Stroke , For which alas ! I blame my self , As being known a perjured Elf. Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner , J. Deacon at the Angel in Gilt-spur-street , J. Blare at the Looking - glass on London-bridge , near the Church , J. Back at the Black Boy on the middle of London-bridge . 