The Unfortunate Damsel . Being and Excellent New SONG : Showing how a Maid Courted a Gardeners Apprentice ; who after they had lived together on parrol like Man and Wife , a whole Months time , he turned her off ; she now being forced to go to Service again : Whence every sober young Maid may learn Wisdom , Chastity , and Sobriety . To the Tune of , My Child must have a Father . Or , She god money byed . This may be Printed , R.P. I N Debtford lived a Bonny Lass , both handsome brisk and airy , For Money she was well to pass , and she was mad to marry ; A Prentice she did bravely court , with Wine , Beer , Ale , and Brandy , And now and then gave him a kiss as sweet as Sugar-Candy . The young man he did stand aloof , and bid her court another , Quoth he I am but young and thin , your Old , to be my Mother : If I should think upon a wife , my friends have freely told me , My Master and my Mistress both , they will both beatrice and scold me . Sweetheart the wench she did reply , never think upon Indentures , The bravest Captains go to Sea , and to the Rudder venture : You see I am a lusty Lass , both handsome , brisk and airy , Therefore we will embrace a while , and afterwards we'll marry , My fancy it is set on fire , as Lovesick as another , I love to taste of Married joys , as well as did my Mother : You are the Engine that must quench the flames of my affection , If you will be my Husband dear , i'll follow your derection . He was a Gardener by his trade , as good's within the Nation , He took her to his Garden green , a while for Recreation : They did a thing the which I Blush to give you a Relation , She ruined both her name and Fame , and stained her Reputation . He took her by the Nutbrown hand , and led her to his Mother , Where they did live at bed and board , like man and wife together : They could not marry at the Church , for both had never a farthing , And she was like to starve for want , and now repents her bargain . She called him Logarhead by name , and silly man like Monkey , But he in passion did reply , peace soon or else i'll thump you : But when the brush was past and gone , they being tender-hearted , They sweetly huged and kissed a while , and afterwards they parted . She lives now distressed in mind , her sweetheart did forsake her , And now she passes for a Maid , to Service she did take her : You Debtford , Greenwich , London Maids be sober when you're jolly , Remember still what Susan did , and be wise by her folly . Printed for C. Dennisson , at the Stationers-Arms within Aldgate . The Unfortunate Damsel . Being and Excellent New SONG : Showing how a Maid Courted a Gardeners Apprentice ; who after they had lived together on parrol like Man and Wife , a whole Months time , he turned her off ; she now being forced to go to Service again : Whence every sober young Maid may learn Wisdom , Chastity , and Sobriety . To the Tune of , My Child must have a Father . Or , She god money byed . This may be Printed , R.P. I N Debtford lived a Bonny Lass , both handsome brisk and airy , For Money she was well to pass , and she was mad to marry ; A Prentice she did bravely court , with Wine , Beer , Ale , and Brandy , And now and then gave him a kiss as sweet as Sugar-Candy . The young man he did stand aloof , and bid her court another , Quoth he I am but young and thin , your Old , to be my Mother : If I should think upon a wife , my friends have freely told me , My Master and my Mistress both , they will both beatrice and scold me . Sweetheart the wench she did reply , never think upon Indentures , The bravest Captains go to Sea , and to the Rudder venture : You see I am a lusty Lass , both handsome , brisk and airy , Therefore we will embrace a while , and afterwards we'll marry , My fancy it is set on fire , as Lovesick as another , I love to taste of Married joys , as well as did my Mother : You are the Engine that must quench the flames of my affection , If you will be my Husband dear , i'll follow your derection . He was a Gardener by his trade , as good's within the Nation , He took her to his Garden green , a while for Recreation : They did a thing the which I Blush to give you a Relation , She ruined both her name and Fame , and stained her Reputation . He took her by the Nutbrown hand , and led her to his Mother , Where they did live at bed and board , like man and wife together : They could not marry at the Church , for both had never a farthing , And she was like to starve for want , and now repents her bargain . She called him Logarhead by name , and silly man like Monkey , But he in passion did reply , peace soon or else i'll thump you : But when the brush was past and gone , they being tender-hearted , They sweetly huged and kissed a while , and afterwards they parted . She lives now distressed in mind , her sweetheart did forsake her , And now she passes for a Maid , to Service she did take her : You Debtford , Greenwich , London Maids be sober when you're jolly , Remember still what Susan did , and be wise by her folly . Printed for C. Dennisson , at the Stationers-Arms within Aldgate . 