A Pleasant JIGG B etwixt Jack and his Mistress : Or , The young Carman's Courage cooled by the sudden approach , of his Master , who found him too kind to his M istress . Tune of Mary Live Long . Licensed according to Order . A Carman of late , Who lived in the City , A sorrowful Dity , His Wife was too great , With their P rentice Boy , But aswinging young Spark , At a wench in the dark ; Now this his Dame knew , And therefore stout Johnny , And therefore stout Johnny , Must tickel her to , It happened one day , His Mistress came to him , No question she knew him , To be e'ry way , a Lad for her turn , Where's your Master , she cried ? With a friend he replied ; She then void of shame , Said Johnny come kiss me , Sweet Johnny come kiss me , Make much of thy Dame . Sweet Mistress I fear , A woeful disaster , The wrath of me Master , If once he should hear , I played with your Lute , He would liquour my hide , You're a fool , she replied , Take courage for shame , Oh fear not your Master , Boy fear not your Master , But pleasure your Dame . I count it no crime , To dally in pleasure , We'll Toy out of measure , It's not the first time , Nor sha'ned be the last , Therefore come on my Boy , Let us Pleasure enjoy , Take Courage for shame , It's sweet Recreation , It's sweet Recreation , To pleasure thy Dame . Thy Master , I'll swear , If once he should Cavel , We'll send to dig Gravel , With friends to Horn-fair , He dare not say no , But at home we will stay , Then in order to play , The Frolicsome Game , Boy do not deny me , John do not deny me , But pleasure thy Dame , Thy Corral and Bells' , And Whistle I know it , If thou wilt bestow it : For pleasures excels , The [ b ] est in the Town , Thou art L usty and strong And can lay me along , Take Courage for shame , Thou here in the Stable , Thou here in the Stable , Shall pleasure thy Dame . His master by chance , Then bring near them . Did soon overhear them , And strait did advance , With fury and Rage , Like a Fellow Horn-mad , He fell on the Lad , his shoulders he paid , Because John in his Pasture , Because John in his Pasture , a Tresspass had made . Ah! what hast thou done , So sad a vexation , Was never in the nation , Horn-mad I shall run , Without all dispute , O you villain said he , I will not make you free , But bring you to shame , Because you have wronged me , Because you have wronged me , and played with your Dame . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . A Pleasant JIGG B etwixt Jack and his Mistress : Or , The young Carman's Courage cooled by the sudden approach , of his Master , who found him too kind to his M istress . Tune of Mary Live Long . Licensed according to Order . A Carman of late , Who lived in the City , A sorrowful Dity , His Wife was too great , With their P rentice Boy , But aswinging young Spark , At a wench in the dark ; Now this his Dame knew , And therefore stout Johnny , And therefore stout Johnny , Must tickel her to , It happened one day , His Mistress came to him , No question she knew him , To be e'ry way , a Lad for her turn , Where's your Master , she cried ? With a friend he replied ; She then void of shame , Said Johnny come kiss me , Sweet Johnny come kiss me , Make much of thy Dame . Sweet Mistress I fear , A woeful disaster , The wrath of me Master , If once he should hear , I played with your Lute , He would liquour my hide , You're a fool , she replied , Take courage for shame , Oh fear not your Master , Boy fear not your Master , But pleasure your Dame . I count it no crime , To dally in pleasure , We'll Toy out of measure , It's not the first time , Nor sha'ned be the last , Therefore come on my Boy , Let us Pleasure enjoy , Take Courage for shame , It's sweet Recreation , It's sweet Recreation , To pleasure thy Dame . Thy Master , I'll swear , If once he should Cavel , We'll send to dig Gravel , With friends to Horn-fair , He dare not say no , But at home we will stay , Then in order to play , The Frolicsome Game , Boy do not deny me , John do not deny me , But pleasure thy Dame , Thy Corral and Bells' , And Whistle I know it , If thou wilt bestow it : For pleasures excels , The [ b ] est in the Town , Thou art L usty and strong And can lay me along , Take Courage for shame , Thou here in the Stable , Thou here in the Stable , Shall pleasure thy Dame . His master by chance , Then bring near them . Did soon overhear them , And strait did advance , With fury and Rage , Like a Fellow Horn-mad , He fell on the Lad , his shoulders he paid , Because John in his Pasture , Because John in his Pasture , a Tresspass had made . Ah! what hast thou done , So sad a vexation , Was never in the nation , Horn-mad I shall run , Without all dispute , O you villain said he , I will not make you free , But bring you to shame , Because you have wronged me , Because you have wronged me , and played with your Dame . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 