The Venturing Lover , Or , John and Betties Wooing . This Young Man he did Love this Maiden dear But made as if for her he did not care , For he her Fort did strive to enter But she in battle with him would not venture , And so to save each others Life They both consented to be Man and Wife . A Man and a Maiden lately did walk Together , and both of them lovely did talk . The man replies none does [ us ] assault then sweet wilt thou venture . Maid To venture kind sir , that would I very fain For that is the reason that hither I came , But you do dissemble I do tell you plain . therefore isle not venture . Man. I do not dissemble my honey and joy It is thy invention because thouled be coy If thou canst but love me isle be thy own boy . then , etc My boney sweet Betty I love thee so true There's no female that I can fancy like you Then he that dissembles is worse than a Jew . then etc . Sweet wilt thou go with me to yonder little town And isle call for a dinner shall cost me a Crown And as we come home i'll give thee a green gown then etc . Thou need not fear Betty isle do thee any wrong By thought , deed , or word that proceeds from my tongue , But only fulfil what to Lovers belong . then etc . Y Ou know young men & amp ; maids together will play Then why stands thou mute come speak yea or nay , But let us go forward and make no delay . then sweet wilt thou venture . Maid . To venture kind John I think it is in vain For my Maidenhead belike is your chiefest aim And when you have had your will then yowl me disdain . therefore isle not venture , For young men will flatter dissemble and lie And proffer maids gifts their kindness to try , But at last leaves them to sing Lulla baby by . therefore , etc . Man. Oh prithee my dear do not think me no ill Since I to thy person do bear such good will , I'll wed thee isle swear if I do try my skill . then , etc Theirs Alice , Sue , & amp ; Doll , and their's Isabel & amp ; Kate , Theirs Margaret & amp ; Bridget are handsome and neat Yet Kissing does them more good than their meat then etc . I herd Joan & amp ; Sarah and Jane often tell They loved Tom & amp ; Robin & amp ; Dick very well They had rather do so then led Apes in hell , then etc Maid . Now John I perceive you are fully bent To wrong a poor maiden it is your intent But go to such Girls as wont you prevent . therefore , etc If Peg & amp ; Bridget are Girls for the Game Their's Harry & amp ; William will them all disdain I love men that's civel I do tell you plain , therefore , etc . Theirs James Joe & amp ; Peter isle lay five to ten Their Richard & amp ; Thomas isle lay it again With Lawrence & amp ; Daniel , all honest young men , therefore etc . Man. Now Betty I have tried thee in every part Thy Wit & amp ; thy Beauty hath gained my heart . Come let us not tarry but strait go & amp ; marry . then etc . Come let us to Church my only sweet Girl For I prize thee more dear than Rubies or Pearl [ s ] And I love thee more dear than Lord Duke or Earl then etc . Maid . Well if that your tongue & amp ; heart do agree I willing am to wait upon thee , And to end further strife I will be thy wife . so with thee isle venture . The conclusion . They made haste to the Church & amp ; was married that tide & amp ; home the young man went & amp ; his lovely bride : And at night I did hear they lay side to side . then bold she did venture . Thus maids you do hear how young men will court Theyl see whither you're civil , or Girls for the game Then doubt yield to their way till your wedding day , then bold you may venture , Printed for F. Coal . T. Vere . J. Wright and J. Clark . The Venturing Lover , Or , John and Betties Wooing . This Young Man he did Love this Maiden dear But made as if for her he did not care , For he her Fort did strive to enter But she in battle with him would not venture , And so to save each others Life They both consented to be Man and Wife . A Man and a Maiden lately did walk Together , and both of them lovely did talk . The man replies none does [ us ] assault then sweet wilt thou venture . Maid To venture kind sir , that would I very fain For that is the reason that hither I came , But you do dissemble I do tell you plain . therefore isle not venture . Man. I do not dissemble my honey and joy It is thy invention because thouled be coy If thou canst but love me isle be thy own boy . then , etc My boney sweet Betty I love thee so true There's no female that I can fancy like you Then he that dissembles is worse than a Jew . then etc . Sweet wilt thou go with me to yonder little town And isle call for a dinner shall cost me a Crown And as we come home i'll give thee a green gown then etc . Thou need not fear Betty isle do thee any wrong By thought , deed , or word that proceeds from my tongue , But only fulfil what to Lovers belong . then etc . Y Ou know young men & amp ; maids together will play Then why stands thou mute come speak yea or nay , But let us go forward and make no delay . then sweet wilt thou venture . Maid . To venture kind John I think it is in vain For my Maidenhead belike is your chiefest aim And when you have had your will then yowl me disdain . therefore isle not venture , For young men will flatter dissemble and lie And proffer maids gifts their kindness to try , But at last leaves them to sing Lulla baby by . therefore , etc . Man. Oh prithee my dear do not think me no ill Since I to thy person do bear such good will , I'll wed thee isle swear if I do try my skill . then , etc Theirs Alice , Sue , & amp ; Doll , and their's Isabel & amp ; Kate , Theirs Margaret & amp ; Bridget are handsome and neat Yet Kissing does them more good than their meat then etc . I herd Joan & amp ; Sarah and Jane often tell They loved Tom & amp ; Robin & amp ; Dick very well They had rather do so then led Apes in hell , then etc Maid . Now John I perceive you are fully bent To wrong a poor maiden it is your intent But go to such Girls as wont you prevent . therefore , etc If Peg & amp ; Bridget are Girls for the Game Their's Harry & amp ; William will them all disdain I love men that's civel I do tell you plain , therefore , etc . Theirs James Joe & amp ; Peter isle lay five to ten Their Richard & amp ; Thomas isle lay it again With Lawrence & amp ; Daniel , all honest young men , therefore etc . Man. Now Betty I have tried thee in every part Thy Wit & amp ; thy Beauty hath gained my heart . Come let us not tarry but strait go & amp ; marry . then etc . Come let us to Church my only sweet Girl For I prize thee more dear than Rubies or Pearl [ s ] And I love thee more dear than Lord Duke or Earl then etc . Maid . Well if that your tongue & amp ; heart do agree I willing am to wait upon thee , And to end further strife I will be thy wife . so with thee isle venture . The conclusion . They made haste to the Church & amp ; was married that tide & amp ; home the young man went & amp ; his lovely bride : And at night I did hear they lay side to side . then bold she did venture . Thus maids you do hear how young men will court Theyl see whither you're civil , or Girls for the game Then doubt yield to their way till your wedding day , then bold you may venture , Printed for F. Coal . T. Vere . J. Wright and J. Clark . 