Flora's Farewell : Or , The Shepherd's Love-Passion Song . Wherein he does greatly Complain , Because his Love was spent in vain . To a Delicate Tune , Or , A thousand times my Love commend . FLora farewell , I needs must go , for if with thee I longer stay , Thine Eyes prevail over me so , I shall grow blind and lose my way . Fame of thy beauty and thy Youth , to seek for Love me hither brought , But when in thee I found no truth it was no boot too stay I thought . Now i'm engaged by word and oath , a servant to another's will , Yet for thy sake would forgo both , wouldst thou besure to love me still . But what assurance can I have of thee , who seeing my abuse , In that which Love desires to crave , may leave me with a just excuse . For thou must say , 'twas not thy fault , that thou didst so unconstant prove , Thou wertenberg by mine example taught to break thy Oath and leave thy love . No Flora , no , I will recall , the former words which I have spoke , And thou shalt have no cause at all , to hamper me in Cupids Yoke . But since thy humour is to range , and that thou bearest a wavering mind , Like to the Moon with thee i'll change , and turn I can with every wind . Henceforth blind fancy i'll remove , and cast all sorrow from my heart , Young men do die for doting love , I hold it but a foolish part , The second Part , to the same Tune . W High should I to one love be bound and fix my thoughts on none but thee , When as a thousand may be found , that's far more fair and fit for me . Though I am but a Shepherd Swain , my mind to me does comfort bring , Feeding my Flocks upon a Plain , I triumph like a petty King . No female Rat shall me deceive , nor catch me by a crafty wild , Though I do love , yet I can leave , and will no longer be beguiled . Flora , once more , farewell adieu , I so conclude my Passion Song : To thy next love see that thou prove true , for thou hast done me double wrong . Fair F lora's answer to the S hep - herds Song Wherein she shows that he hath done the wrong . F You Shepherd , fie , thou art to blame to rail against me in this sort : Thou dost disgrace a sweethearts name to give thy love a false report . There was a Proverb used of old , and now I find it is no lie : One Tale is good till another's told she that loves most is least set by . A brief Description I will tell of thy favour , love and flattery : And how at first thou didst excel , with cunning tricks and policy . But Oh that flattering tongue of thine , and tempting eye sought to entice , And to ensnare the heart of mine , and bring me in fools Paradise . When thou at first began to woo , and with thy skill my patience tried : You though there was no more to do , but presently to up and ride . Thou saidst that I was fair and brigh [ tO ] and fitting for thy Marriage bed : Thou fed'st my fancy with delight , thinking to have my Maidenhead . But when thou sawest thou couldst not g [ ain ] the jem that thou desirest to have , My company thou didst refrain , like to a false dissembling Knave . Whereby I answered thus and said , to shun the cause oh [ f ] further strife , I would contain my self a Maid , until such time I was made a Wife . And since you my mind have crossed , you may bestow you as you will Shepherd farewell , there's nothing lost , I am resolved to say so still . Blind Cupid with his wounding Dart could never make me sorrow feel , I'll not lay that unto my heart as others shake off with their heel . Printed for J. Wrighe , J. Clark , W. TO hackeray [ , ] and T. Passenger . Flora's Farewell : Or , The Shepherd's Love-Passion Song . Wherein he does greatly Complain , Because his Love was spent in vain . To a Delicate Tune , Or , A thousand times my Love commend . FLora farewell , I needs must go , for if with thee I longer stay , Thine Eyes prevail over me so , I shall grow blind and lose my way . Fame of thy beauty and thy Youth , to seek for Love me hither brought , But when in thee I found no truth it was no boot too stay I thought . Now i'm engaged by word and oath , a servant to another's will , Yet for thy sake would forgo both , wouldst thou besure to love me still . But what assurance can I have of thee , who seeing my abuse , In that which Love desires to crave , may leave me with a just excuse . For thou must say , 'twas not thy fault , that thou didst so unconstant prove , Thou wertenberg by mine example taught to break thy Oath and leave thy love . No Flora , no , I will recall , the former words which I have spoke , And thou shalt have no cause at all , to hamper me in Cupids Yoke . But since thy humour is to range , and that thou bearest a wavering mind , Like to the Moon with thee i'll change , and turn I can with every wind . Henceforth blind fancy i'll remove , and cast all sorrow from my heart , Young men do die for doting love , I hold it but a foolish part , The second Part , to the same Tune . W High should I to one love be bound and fix my thoughts on none but thee , When as a thousand may be found , that's far more fair and fit for me . Though I am but a Shepherd Swain , my mind to me does comfort bring , Feeding my Flocks upon a Plain , I triumph like a petty King . No female Rat shall me deceive , nor catch me by a crafty wild , Though I do love , yet I can leave , and will no longer be beguiled . Flora , once more , farewell adieu , I so conclude my Passion Song : To thy next love see that thou prove true , for thou hast done me double wrong . Fair F lora's answer to the S hep - herds Song Wherein she shows that he hath done the wrong . F You Shepherd , fie , thou art to blame to rail against me in this sort : Thou dost disgrace a sweethearts name to give thy love a false report . There was a Proverb used of old , and now I find it is no lie : One Tale is good till another's told she that loves most is least set by . A brief Description I will tell of thy favour , love and flattery : And how at first thou didst excel , with cunning tricks and policy . But Oh that flattering tongue of thine , and tempting eye sought to entice , And to ensnare the heart of mine , and bring me in fools Paradise . When thou at first began to woo , and with thy skill my patience tried : You though there was no more to do , but presently to up and ride . Thou saidst that I was fair and brigh [ tO ] and fitting for thy Marriage bed : Thou fed'st my fancy with delight , thinking to have my Maidenhead . But when thou sawest thou couldst not g [ ain ] the jem that thou desirest to have , My company thou didst refrain , like to a false dissembling Knave . Whereby I answered thus and said , to shun the cause oh [ f ] further strife , I would contain my self a Maid , until such time I was made a Wife . And since you my mind have crossed , you may bestow you as you will Shepherd farewell , there's nothing lost , I am resolved to say so still . Blind Cupid with his wounding Dart could never make me sorrow feel , I'll not lay that unto my heart as others shake off with their heel . Printed for J. Wrighe , J. Clark , W. TO hackeray [ , ] and T. Passenger . 