The Frantic LOVER ; Or , The Wandering Young-Man . With Grief and Care he is oppressed , no Comfort can he find ; In Nights he is disturbed of Rest , caused by his Love unkind . To and Excellent New Play-House Tune . This may be Printed , R.P. Y Ou are so fair and cruel too , I am amazed what I shall do to purchase my desire , Sometime your Eyes does me invite , But when I enter you kill me quite , and the more increase my fire . Long I have loved , and am abused , And when I offer , I am refused , can any suffer more ? Be coy , be cruel , do your worst , Though for your sake I am accursed , I must and will adore . Was you as kind , as sweet and fair , No creature could with thee compare , to Love I am inclined ; Yet will I understand and see , That you're resolved to to [ r ] ture me , Oh are you not unkind ? C And you forget the Vow you made , When as in solemn sort you said , I was your chiefest joy ? Yet now you will no favour show , But prove my final overthrow , and would my life destroy . Sometime in Dreams I do behold Your Tresses like fair threads of Gold , likewise your Beauty bright ; But when I waken from my rest , And find that I am dispossessed , it proves my ruin quite . When first I did thy Beauty see , Oh then thou didst appear to be and Angel in my Eye ; Like Lambs together we did play , But now thy heart is drawn away , tell me the reason why ? Was I not always just and true , [ Pra ] y let me here be tried by you . then what may be the cause That you unworthily sake Your Love , and like a Tyrant break : the bonds of Cupids Laws . What grief of heart do I endure ! It's thee a [ l ] one can Kill or Cure , send me one gentle smile , Or else I through the world will range , For why my love can never change , Oh do not me revile . For sure I am , my love is true , Where ever I range i'll honour you ; in sounding forth thy praise ; If I may not enjoy the bliss , Bestow on me a parting kiss , i'll wander out my days . FINIS . Printed for R. Kell , at the Blue Anchor in Pye-Corner . The Frantic LOVER ; Or , The Wandering Young-Man . With Grief and Care he is oppressed , no Comfort can he find ; In Nights he is disturbed of Rest , caused by his Love unkind . To and Excellent New Play-House Tune . This may be Printed , R.P. Y Ou are so fair and cruel too , I am amazed what I shall do to purchase my desire , Sometime your Eyes does me invite , But when I enter you kill me quite , and the more increase my fire . Long I have loved , and am abused , And when I offer , I am refused , can any suffer more ? Be coy , be cruel , do your worst , Though for your sake I am accursed , I must and will adore . Was you as kind , as sweet and fair , No creature could with thee compare , to Love I am inclined ; Yet will I understand and see , That you're resolved to to [ r ] ture me , Oh are you not unkind ? C And you forget the Vow you made , When as in solemn sort you said , I was your chiefest joy ? Yet now you will no favour show , But prove my final overthrow , and would my life destroy . Sometime in Dreams I do behold Your Tresses like fair threads of Gold , likewise your Beauty bright ; But when I waken from my rest , And find that I am dispossessed , it proves my ruin quite . When first I did thy Beauty see , Oh then thou didst appear to be and Angel in my Eye ; Like Lambs together we did play , But now thy heart is drawn away , tell me the reason why ? Was I not always just and true , [ Pra ] y let me here be tried by you . then what may be the cause That you unworthily sake Your Love , and like a Tyrant break : the bonds of Cupids Laws . What grief of heart do I endure ! It's thee a [ l ] one can Kill or Cure , send me one gentle smile , Or else I through the world will range , For why my love can never change , Oh do not me revile . For sure I am , my love is true , Where ever I range i'll honour you ; in sounding forth thy praise ; If I may not enjoy the bliss , Bestow on me a parting kiss , i'll wander out my days . FINIS . Printed for R. Kell , at the Blue Anchor in Pye-Corner . 