A New Western BALLAD , Of a Butcher that Cuckolded the Farmer [ , ] Good Husbands all be loving to your wives , F or that's the way to live contented lives ; But if you're negligent , you may be sure They'll never want that [ th ] ey can elsewhere procure Tune of , Ladies of London . This may be printed , R.P. A Farmer of Tanton - dean Town in the West had a Wife both obliging and witty ; Acute with her tongue , and when ever she was dressed was thought to be wondered pretty . But the good man was so lazy in bed , that he often neglected to touch her ; Which made the good woman place Horns on his head [ ? ] the help of a lusty young Butcher . One morning the Farmer by break of the day , god up ( as his custom was ) early , And called up his Servants , who hasted away to mow down and Acre of Barley : In the mean time the Butcher he came , and god to his Wives bedside , Sir , Where quickly he ploughed up my Countrymans Dame without ever being denied , Sir . S Ecure they lay in the midst of their joys , and had what each other desired ; Kissing and clasping and other such toys , till at last the poor Butcher was tired : She trotted so hard , he dismounted his Mare , which is very well worth the relating , How the Butcher god up on the sweat like a Bear , as if he'd been at a Bullbaiting . He kissed her , and lovingly bid her good-by , and said that he must be returning ; While she with kind looks bid him not to deny to come thither again the next morning : The butcher replied , he could not refuse to come to so charming a Creature , But when he was gone , he swore first he would use to be hanged before ever he'd meet her . The Butcher was never so set in the Stocks , nor tied up so hard to his labour ; For he swore half the strokes would have knocked down and Ox that he in one hour had gave her . But rather than she the pastime wou [ l ] worser lack , when the good man was out of the way , Sir , My Countryman John he came in for a snack , when he should have been making of Hay , Sir . Therefore take every man care of his Dame , and not think too much of his labour , If you do , she will still get a bit of that same , though she borrows it of a kind Neighbour But be you loving be sure to your wife , and then you'll be free from the danger , Of living a Henpeckt and Hornified life , and be always at Rack and Manger . Printed for R. Kell at the Anchor in Py-corner . A New Western BALLAD , Of a Butcher that Cuckolded the Farmer [ , ] Good Husbands all be loving to your wives , F or that's the way to live contented lives ; But if you're negligent , you may be sure They'll never want that [ th ] ey can elsewhere procure Tune of , Ladies of London . This may be printed , R.P. A Farmer of Tanton - dean Town in the West had a Wife both obliging and witty ; Acute with her tongue , and when ever she was dressed was thought to be wondered pretty . But the good man was so lazy in bed , that he often neglected to touch her ; Which made the good woman place Horns on his head [ ? ] the help of a lusty young Butcher . One morning the Farmer by break of the day , god up ( as his custom was ) early , And called up his Servants , who hasted away to mow down and Acre of Barley : In the mean time the Butcher he came , and god to his Wives bedside , Sir , Where quickly he ploughed up my Countrymans Dame without ever being denied , Sir . S Ecure they lay in the midst of their joys , and had what each other desired ; Kissing and clasping and other such toys , till at last the poor Butcher was tired : She trotted so hard , he dismounted his Mare , which is very well worth the relating , How the Butcher god up on the sweat like a Bear , as if he'd been at a Bullbaiting . He kissed her , and lovingly bid her good-by , and said that he must be returning ; While she with kind looks bid him not to deny to come thither again the next morning : The butcher replied , he could not refuse to come to so charming a Creature , But when he was gone , he swore first he would use to be hanged before ever he'd meet her . The Butcher was never so set in the Stocks , nor tied up so hard to his labour ; For he swore half the strokes would have knocked down and Ox that he in one hour had gave her . But rather than she the pastime wou [ l ] worser lack , when the good man was out of the way , Sir , My Countryman John he came in for a snack , when he should have been making of Hay , Sir . Therefore take every man care of his Dame , and not think too much of his labour , If you do , she will still get a bit of that same , though she borrows it of a kind Neighbour But be you loving be sure to your wife , and then you'll be free from the danger , Of living a Henpeckt and Hornified life , and be always at Rack and Manger . Printed for R. Kell at the Anchor in Py-corner . 