The New Scotch-Jigg : OR , The Bonny Cravat . Johnny wooed Jenny to tie his Cravat ; But Jenny perceiving what he would be at , With delays put him off , till she found out his mind ; And then afterwards she proved more kind : At length , both Parties were well agreed , And went to the Kirk to be Wed with all speed . Tune of , Jenny come tie my , & amp ; c . A S Johnny met Jenny a going to play , Quoth Johnny to Jenny , I prithee love stay : Since thou art my honey , my joy , and delight , I'll love thee all day . & amp ; I'll please thee at night . Jenny come tie my , Jenny come tie my , Jenny come tie my bonny Cravat . I have tied it behind , and I've tied it before , I've tied it so often , I'll tie it no more . O say not so Jenny , nor do me not scorn , For better poor Johnny had never been born : Oh kill not my Heart with being unkind , I'll ever endeavour to pleasure thy mind . Jenny come tie my , & amp ; c . But Johnny I ken it , although to my grief , When you stole my heart away like a sly thief , You promised me Marriage , with many things more Which yet is not wiped out off the old score , Jenny come tie my , & amp ; c . O Jenny , let none of this trouble thy mind , For now thou shalt see , I'll be loving and kind : A little forgetful I was , I confess , But all shall be mended that now is amiss . Jenny come tie my , Jenny come tie my , Jenny come tie my bonny Cravat . I have tied it behind , and I've tied it before , I've tied it so often , I'll tie it no more . I Le buy thee a Gown , and a Scarf , & amp ; a Hood : If thou wilt believe me , I'll ever be good : For Rings , & amp ; for Ribbons , never matter for that , If thou art but willing to tie my Cravat . Jenny come tie my , Jenny come tie my , Jenny come tie my bonny Cravat . I have tied it behind , and I've tied it before I've tied it so often , I'll tie it no more . All this you did promise me often before , If I would but tie it one time , or two more ; But yet you were never so good as your word , Therefore for to tie it I cannot afford . Jenny come tie my , & amp ; c . My Jenny if thou wilt be ruled by me , It shall not be long ere we wedded will be : For I have god Money , & amp ; House , & amp ; good Land , Which all shall be ready at Jenny's Command . Jenny come tie my , & amp ; c . Beside , on the Common I have god a Cow To give us some Milk , and bonny black You ; I likewise at Heam have a Dog and a Cat , Then prithee good Jenny come tie my Cravat . Jenny come tie my , & amp ; c . Your House , I believe , is not often repaired ; And as for your Land , it lies in the Churchyard : Y our Money , if any such thing you may have , With it keep you honest , & amp ; prove not a Knave . Jenny come tie my , & amp ; c . Your Cow on the Common that grazes you say , May wheadle another your will to obey : Then prithee make much of your dog & amp ; your Cat , For I am not willing to tie your Cravat . Jenny come tie my , & amp ; c . O Jenny , why art thou so hard of belief ? I fear thou art minded to kill me with grief : Before thee I'll open my Heart to the life , I tell thee I mean for to make thee my Wife . Jenny comy tie my , Jenny come tie my , Jenny come tie me bonny Cravat . I have tied it behind , and I have tied it before , I have tied it so often , I ' le tie it no more [ r ] e . Then do not thou flout me , but freely comply , Nothing shall be wanting for Jenny and I : Then give me my Jenny , thy heart & amp ; thy hand , For I will be ever at Jenny's command . Jenny come tie , & amp ; c . O Johnny ! I fear thou dost flatter me now , Or else I could love thee , I swear and I vow : But with fair delusions I may be undone , Therefore from thy Jenny good Johnny begone . Jenny come tie , & amp ; c . A Maid by her choice she may soon be destroyed , And left in the lurch , when she hath been enjoyed : But if you be honest , declare it in brief , And let me not languish in sorrow and grief . Jenny come tie , & amp ; c . My Jenny , then prithe take one word for all , I never will leave thee what ever befall : In Sickness and Health I will for thee provide And at the next K [ i ] rk , I will make thee my bride . Jenny come tie , & amp ; c . Then Johnny I love thee as dear as my Life , And I am contented for to be thy Wife : And we will be married to both our content , I hope we shall never have cause to repent . Jenny come tie my , Jenny come tie my , Jenny come tie my bonny Cravat . I have tied it behind , and I've tied it before , And now I will tie it a hundred times more . London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood , The New Scotch-Jigg : OR , The Bonny Cravat . Johnny wooed Jenny to tie his Cravat ; But Jenny perceiving what he would be at , With delays put him off , till she found out his mind ; And then afterwards she proved more kind : At length , both Parties were well agreed , And went to the Kirk to be Wed with all speed . Tune of , Jenny come tie my , & amp ; c . A S Johnny met Jenny a going to play , Quoth Johnny to Jenny , I prithee love stay : Since thou art my honey , my joy , and delight , I'll love thee all day . & amp ; I'll please thee at night . Jenny come tie my , Jenny come tie my , Jenny come tie my bonny Cravat . I have tied it behind , and I've tied it before , I've tied it so often , I'll tie it no more . O say not so Jenny , nor do me not scorn , For better poor Johnny had never been born : Oh kill not my Heart with being unkind , I'll ever endeavour to pleasure thy mind . Jenny come tie my , & amp ; c . But Johnny I ken it , although to my grief , When you stole my heart away like a sly thief , You promised me Marriage , with many things more Which yet is not wiped out off the old score , Jenny come tie my , & amp ; c . O Jenny , let none of this trouble thy mind , For now thou shalt see , I'll be loving and kind : A little forgetful I was , I confess , But all shall be mended that now is amiss . Jenny come tie my , Jenny come tie my , Jenny come tie my bonny Cravat . I have tied it behind , and I've tied it before , I've tied it so often , I'll tie it no more . I Le buy thee a Gown , and a Scarf , & amp ; a Hood : If thou wilt believe me , I'll ever be good : For Rings , & amp ; for Ribbons , never matter for that , If thou art but willing to tie my Cravat . Jenny come tie my , Jenny come tie my , Jenny come tie my bonny Cravat . I have tied it behind , and I've tied it before I've tied it so often , I'll tie it no more . All this you did promise me often before , If I would but tie it one time , or two more ; But yet you were never so good as your word , Therefore for to tie it I cannot afford . Jenny come tie my , & amp ; c . My Jenny if thou wilt be ruled by me , It shall not be long ere we wedded will be : For I have god Money , & amp ; House , & amp ; good Land , Which all shall be ready at Jenny's Command . Jenny come tie my , & amp ; c . Beside , on the Common I have god a Cow To give us some Milk , and bonny black You ; I likewise at Heam have a Dog and a Cat , Then prithee good Jenny come tie my Cravat . Jenny come tie my , & amp ; c . Your House , I believe , is not often repaired ; And as for your Land , it lies in the Churchyard : Y our Money , if any such thing you may have , With it keep you honest , & amp ; prove not a Knave . Jenny come tie my , & amp ; c . Your Cow on the Common that grazes you say , May wheadle another your will to obey : Then prithee make much of your dog & amp ; your Cat , For I am not willing to tie your Cravat . Jenny come tie my , & amp ; c . O Jenny , why art thou so hard of belief ? I fear thou art minded to kill me with grief : Before thee I'll open my Heart to the life , I tell thee I mean for to make thee my Wife . Jenny comy tie my , Jenny come tie my , Jenny come tie me bonny Cravat . I have tied it behind , and I have tied it before , I have tied it so often , I ' le tie it no more [ r ] e . Then do not thou flout me , but freely comply , Nothing shall be wanting for Jenny and I : Then give me my Jenny , thy heart & amp ; thy hand , For I will be ever at Jenny's command . Jenny come tie , & amp ; c . O Johnny ! I fear thou dost flatter me now , Or else I could love thee , I swear and I vow : But with fair delusions I may be undone , Therefore from thy Jenny good Johnny begone . Jenny come tie , & amp ; c . A Maid by her choice she may soon be destroyed , And left in the lurch , when she hath been enjoyed : But if you be honest , declare it in brief , And let me not languish in sorrow and grief . Jenny come tie , & amp ; c . My Jenny , then prithe take one word for all , I never will leave thee what ever befall : In Sickness and Health I will for thee provide And at the next K [ i ] rk , I will make thee my bride . Jenny come tie , & amp ; c . Then Johnny I love thee as dear as my Life , And I am contented for to be thy Wife : And we will be married to both our content , I hope we shall never have cause to repent . Jenny come tie my , Jenny come tie my , Jenny come tie my bonny Cravat . I have tied it behind , and I've tied it before , And now I will tie it a hundred times more . London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood , 