Faint Heart never wone fair Lady : OR , Good Advice to Bachelors How to Court and Obtain a Young Lass. To the Tune of , Lilli burlero . Licensed according to Order . Y Ou that a fair Maids heart would obtain , eagerly Court , and Ogle and Kiss ; Whining and Sighs are all but in vain , Courage does led the way unto Bliss : Touse her , tempt her , hap at a venture , though she cry , Fie Sir , pray you be gone ; Do but you try Sir , she'll sooner die Sir , than you shall leave her wishing alone . Win her with Fairings and sweetening Treats , Lasses are soonest overcome this way ; Ribbons and Rings will work most strange feats , and bring you into favour and play : Touse her , tempt her , hap at a venture , though she cry , Fie Sir , pray you be gone ; Do but you try Sir , she'll not deny Sir , any thing when you have her alone . W Alk with her out into the Fields ; merrily give her a Grass-green Gown ; Tickle her Fancy until she yields , else she'll esteem you a Cowardly Clown : Touse her , tempt her , hap at a venture , though she cry , Fie Sir , pray you be gone ; Do but you try Sir , she'll not deny Sir , any thing now you have her alone . Kiss her and play with her Snow-white Breasts , tell her a thousand wanton new Tales ; Such pretty sport no Maiden molests , for she knows well what her Lover ails : Touse her , tempt her , hap at a venture , though she cry , Fie Sir , pray you be gone ; Do but you try Sir , she'll not deny Sir , any thing now you have her alone . Tickle her Knees , and something that's higher , kissing and feeling go hand in hand ; No Flesh and Blood but what will take fire , though she may seem at first to withstand : Touse her , tempt her , hap at a venture , though she cry , Fie Sir , pray you be gone ; Further you try Sir , she'll not deny Sir , any thing now you have her alone . When the Dueworks they fairly are wone , enter the Fort , it now is your own ; Plunder and Storm it from Sun to Sun , Revel and Sport until weary grown : Fie Sir , why Sir , I'll sooner die Sir , now are exchanged for another Tone , Blushing and Smiling , and wantonly Toiling , are the soft Language of Lovers alone . FINIS . Printed and Sold by J. Millet , next door to the Flower-de-Luce in Little-Brittain . Faint Heart never wone fair Lady : OR , Good Advice to Bachelors How to Court and Obtain a Young Lass. To the Tune of , Lilli burlero . Licensed according to Order . Y Ou that a fair Maids heart would obtain , eagerly Court , and Ogle and Kiss ; Whining and Sighs are all but in vain , Courage does led the way unto Bliss : Touse her , tempt her , hap at a venture , though she cry , Fie Sir , pray you be gone ; Do but you try Sir , she'll sooner die Sir , than you shall leave her wishing alone . Win her with Fairings and sweetening Treats , Lasses are soonest overcome this way ; Ribbons and Rings will work most strange feats , and bring you into favour and play : Touse her , tempt her , hap at a venture , though she cry , Fie Sir , pray you be gone ; Do but you try Sir , she'll not deny Sir , any thing when you have her alone . W Alk with her out into the Fields ; merrily give her a Grass-green Gown ; Tickle her Fancy until she yields , else she'll esteem you a Cowardly Clown : Touse her , tempt her , hap at a venture , though she cry , Fie Sir , pray you be gone ; Do but you try Sir , she'll not deny Sir , any thing now you have her alone . Kiss her and play with her Snow-white Breasts , tell her a thousand wanton new Tales ; Such pretty sport no Maiden molests , for she knows well what her Lover ails : Touse her , tempt her , hap at a venture , though she cry , Fie Sir , pray you be gone ; Do but you try Sir , she'll not deny Sir , any thing now you have her alone . Tickle her Knees , and something that's higher , kissing and feeling go hand in hand ; No Flesh and Blood but what will take fire , though she may seem at first to withstand : Touse her , tempt her , hap at a venture , though she cry , Fie Sir , pray you be gone ; Further you try Sir , she'll not deny Sir , any thing now you have her alone . When the Dueworks they fairly are wone , enter the Fort , it now is your own ; Plunder and Storm it from Sun to Sun , Revel and Sport until weary grown : Fie Sir , why Sir , I'll sooner die Sir , now are exchanged for another Tone , Blushing and Smiling , and wantonly Toiling , are the soft Language of Lovers alone . FINIS . Printed and Sold by J. Millet , next door to the Flower-de-Luce in Little-Brittain . 