Trap , Or , The Young Lass : To the Tune of , Traps Delight : Or , I know what I know . I ( A Young Lass , ) have been courted by many , Of all sorts and trades , as ever was any : A spruce habberdasher did first speak me fair , But I would have nothing to do with small ware ; My thing is my own , and I'll keep it so still , Yet other young Lasses may do what they will . A Factor ( that lately come out of the Straights , And bragged of his Riches , and of his Sea-Freights ) Had a mind to a Swop , or Bargain with me , But I would not barter my Commodity : My thing is my own , etc [ A ] notable Captain ( I never saw the like ) would fain have been charging me with his half pike , But I put him by , from doing the feat , And then my brave Captain did make a retreat . My thing is my own , etc . A Sweet-scented Courtier did give me a Kiss , And promised me Mountains if I would be his , But I'll not believe him , for it is too true , Some Courtiers do promise , much more then they do : My thing is my own , etc A fine man of Law , did come out of the Strand , To plead his own cause with a Fee in his hand ; He made a brave motion , but that would not do For I did dismiss him , and Nonsuit him too : My thing is my own , etc . The Second Part , to the same Tune . N Ext came a young fellow , ( a Notable Spark ) With green bag & amp ; inkhorn ( a Justices Clark ) He pulled out his Warrant to make all appear , But I sent him away with a flay in his ear : My thing is my own , and I'll keep it so still , Let other young Lasses may do what they will . A Master of Music came with and intent , To give me a Lesson on my Instrument ; I thanked him for nothing , and bid him be gone , For my little Fiddle should not be played on : My thing is my own , etc Then came a French Doctor in with a good grace , And would have been feeling my Pulse i'th wrong place ; He talked of a Blister , and then away stole , But he would have given it me at the wrong hold : My thing is my own , etc And Usurer came , with abundance of Cash , But I had no mind to come under his lash ; He proffered me Jewels ; and great store of Gold , But I would not mortgage my little Freehold : My thing is my own , etc . And Old Fornicator full sixty and seav'n , That had not a hair left betwixt him & amp ; heaven ; Would fain have been fumbling one night in the dark But he had the same sauce as the Justices Clark : My thing is my own , etc . Then came a trim Barber ( a Notable Blade ) Who knew well enough what belonged to the trade ; He would have been kissing , and clipping of me , But I had no mind to such Shavers as he : My thing is my own , etc . A blunt Lieutenant surprised my Placket , And fiercely began to rifle , and sack it , I mustered my spirits up , and became bold , And forced my Lieutenant to quit his strong hold ; My thing is my own , etc . A crafty young Bumpkin , that was very rich , And used with his Bargains to go through stich ; Did tender a sum , but it would not avail , That I would admit him my Tenant in Tail : My thing is my own , etc . A fine dapper Taylor ( with's yard in his hand ) Did proffer his service to be at command ; He talked of a slit I had above my knee , But I'll have no Taylor stitch that up for me : My thing is my own , etc . A Gentleman that did talk much of his grounds , His horses , his setting-dogs , and his greyhouds , Put in for a course , and he used all his art , But he missed of his sport , for Puss would not start : My thing is my own , etc . A young Academic new come from the Schools , ( Who thinks other people all asses and fools ) Began to chop Logic , and gave me a Buss , But I put him quickly unto a Non plus : My thing is my own , etc . A fine man of Art would have taught me to dance , Who had been in Flanders , as well as in France ) A Jig Alamode , that I never learnt yet , But I had no mind to dance after his Kit : My thing is my own , etc . A pretty young Squire , new come to the Town , To empty his Pockets , and so to go down ; Did proffer a kindness , but I would have none , The same that he used to do to his Maid Jone : My thing is my own , etc . A brisk younger brother next entered the list , He came all in Querpo , and modishly kissed , He sweetly did sing , and neatly did trip it , But could not prevail to turn up my Tippet : My thing is my own , etc . Now here I could reckon a hundred and more , Beside all the Gamesters recited before ; That made their addresses in hope's of a snap , But as young as I was , I understood TRAP : My thing is my own , and I'll keep it so still , Until I be married , say men what they will . FINIS . With Allowance Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and Clarke , Trap , Or , The Young Lass : To the Tune of , Traps Delight : Or , I know what I know . I ( A Young Lass , ) have been courted by many , Of all sorts and trades , as ever was any : A spruce habberdasher did first speak me fair , But I would have nothing to do with small ware ; My thing is my own , and I'll keep it so still , Yet other young Lasses may do what they will . A Factor ( that lately come out of the Straights , And bragged of his Riches , and of his Sea-Freights ) Had a mind to a Swop , or Bargain with me , But I would not barter my Commodity : My thing is my own , etc [ A ] notable Captain ( I never saw the like ) would fain have been charging me with his half pike , But I put him by , from doing the feat , And then my brave Captain did make a retreat . My thing is my own , etc . A Sweet-scented Courtier did give me a Kiss , And promised me Mountains if I would be his , But I'll not believe him , for it is too true , Some Courtiers do promise , much more then they do : My thing is my own , etc A fine man of Law , did come out of the Strand , To plead his own cause with a Fee in his hand ; He made a brave motion , but that would not do For I did dismiss him , and Nonsuit him too : My thing is my own , etc . The Second Part , to the same Tune . N Ext came a young fellow , ( a Notable Spark ) With green bag & amp ; inkhorn ( a Justices Clark ) He pulled out his Warrant to make all appear , But I sent him away with a flay in his ear : My thing is my own , and I'll keep it so still , Let other young Lasses may do what they will . A Master of Music came with and intent , To give me a Lesson on my Instrument ; I thanked him for nothing , and bid him be gone , For my little Fiddle should not be played on : My thing is my own , etc Then came a French Doctor in with a good grace , And would have been feeling my Pulse i'th wrong place ; He talked of a Blister , and then away stole , But he would have given it me at the wrong hold : My thing is my own , etc And Usurer came , with abundance of Cash , But I had no mind to come under his lash ; He proffered me Jewels ; and great store of Gold , But I would not mortgage my little Freehold : My thing is my own , etc . And Old Fornicator full sixty and seav'n , That had not a hair left betwixt him & amp ; heaven ; Would fain have been fumbling one night in the dark But he had the same sauce as the Justices Clark : My thing is my own , etc . Then came a trim Barber ( a Notable Blade ) Who knew well enough what belonged to the trade ; He would have been kissing , and clipping of me , But I had no mind to such Shavers as he : My thing is my own , etc . A blunt Lieutenant surprised my Placket , And fiercely began to rifle , and sack it , I mustered my spirits up , and became bold , And forced my Lieutenant to quit his strong hold ; My thing is my own , etc . A crafty young Bumpkin , that was very rich , And used with his Bargains to go through stich ; Did tender a sum , but it would not avail , That I would admit him my Tenant in Tail : My thing is my own , etc . A fine dapper Taylor ( with's yard in his hand ) Did proffer his service to be at command ; He talked of a slit I had above my knee , But I'll have no Taylor stitch that up for me : My thing is my own , etc . A Gentleman that did talk much of his grounds , His horses , his setting-dogs , and his greyhouds , Put in for a course , and he used all his art , But he missed of his sport , for Puss would not start : My thing is my own , etc . A young Academic new come from the Schools , ( Who thinks other people all asses and fools ) Began to chop Logic , and gave me a Buss , But I put him quickly unto a Non plus : My thing is my own , etc . A fine man of Art would have taught me to dance , Who had been in Flanders , as well as in France ) A Jig Alamode , that I never learnt yet , But I had no mind to dance after his Kit : My thing is my own , etc . A pretty young Squire , new come to the Town , To empty his Pockets , and so to go down ; Did proffer a kindness , but I would have none , The same that he used to do to his Maid Jone : My thing is my own , etc . A brisk younger brother next entered the list , He came all in Querpo , and modishly kissed , He sweetly did sing , and neatly did trip it , But could not prevail to turn up my Tippet : My thing is my own , etc . Now here I could reckon a hundred and more , Beside all the Gamesters recited before ; That made their addresses in hope's of a snap , But as young as I was , I understood TRAP : My thing is my own , and I'll keep it so still , Until I be married , say men what they will . FINIS . With Allowance Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and Clarke , 