THE Jolly COACHMAN : OR , The hopeful Breed of BARNET and the other adjacent PLACES To the Tune of , Prithee sweet Joan , etc Licensed according to Order . HEard you not of Bellswager of old , famous for kissing Girls in the dark , Here is , good People , as I am told , just such another delicate Spark , He runs at all , both great and small , especially those that are neat and trim ; He followed the pleasure of Love out of measure , till Therty Young Girls were with Child by him . He was a brawny delicate Lad , one that was full of Love and Good will , And if there was a Girl to be had , he would ont fail to top with her still ; A Coachman he , was known to be , neor Barnet , and there did in pleasures swim ; The Girls they did love him , and prized none above him , till Therty of them , etc Oh! when he cuddeled them in his Arms , and their Snowy Bubbies he kissed , Speaking of Love's most innocent Charms , they had not strength , poor Girls , to resist , But yielded strait , young Joan , and Kate , in these sweet pleasures of Love they swim ; They all did admire what he did require , till Thirty of them , etc Some he would promise fairly to wed , others he'd tempt with Bodkins of Plate , There would be scarce a good Maiden-Head . but he would strive to purchase it strat ; All Barnet-Town , and up and down , the Lasses accounted him neat and trim : In pleasare they sported , as is is reported , tell Thirty of them , etc When the hight Fame of Fancy did b [ urn ; ] he had no need to suffer the smart . Every one of these in her turn , pleasured him still according to art , Sweet Mistress Prue , or pretty Sue , and many young Lasses both neat and trim ; His Chamber they entered , poor Creatures they ventured ; till thirty of them were with Child by him . As I am told , young Mistress Joan thought she had had him all to herself , So did each other , till it was known that he was such a slippery Olf ; The Damsels now , protest and vow , they'll tear this poor Choachman limb from limb , They're all in a passion and cruel vexation , b'cause thirty of them were with Child by him . Then the poor Girls began to consult , what with this S park was best to be done , Susan she said , He ought to be gelded , or else the World he'd soon overrun , No , no , quoth Nan , What spoil a Man I'll never yield to it , he's sweet and trim ; How could you abuse him ; I'll free excusim though seven times more were with Child by him Should we resolve to punish him thus , and to cut off such jewels of pride , Would not the World cry out against us ; Susan , I pray , take better advice ; In such a case , let Law take place , I am not for pulling him limb from limb , Nor am I so cruel to spoil such a jewel , though seven times more , etc Now while their Plot they studied to lay , Bridget and Joan in Labour did fallen , Five or six more the very nevt day , nay , and the rest are ready to call ; A fair young Breed he has indeed , of pretty young Bantlings sweet and trim Now each loving Mother , above any other they have a great kindness and love for him . Printed for J. Fillingham , near Golden . THE Jolly COACHMAN : OR , The hopeful Breed of BARNET and the other adjacent PLACES To the Tune of , Prithee sweet Joan , etc Licensed according to Order . HEard you not of Bellswager of old , famous for kissing Girls in the dark , Here is , good People , as I am told , just such another delicate Spark , He runs at all , both great and small , especially those that are neat and trim ; He followed the pleasure of Love out of measure , till Therty Young Girls were with Child by him . He was a brawny delicate Lad , one that was full of Love and Good will , And if there was a Girl to be had , he would ont fail to top with her still ; A Coachman he , was known to be , neor Barnet , and there did in pleasures swim ; The Girls they did love him , and prized none above him , till Therty of them , etc Oh! when he cuddeled them in his Arms , and their Snowy Bubbies he kissed , Speaking of Love's most innocent Charms , they had not strength , poor Girls , to resist , But yielded strait , young Joan , and Kate , in these sweet pleasures of Love they swim ; They all did admire what he did require , till Thirty of them , etc Some he would promise fairly to wed , others he'd tempt with Bodkins of Plate , There would be scarce a good Maiden-Head . but he would strive to purchase it strat ; All Barnet-Town , and up and down , the Lasses accounted him neat and trim : In pleasare they sported , as is is reported , tell Thirty of them , etc When the hight Fame of Fancy did b [ urn ; ] he had no need to suffer the smart . Every one of these in her turn , pleasured him still according to art , Sweet Mistress Prue , or pretty Sue , and many young Lasses both neat and trim ; His Chamber they entered , poor Creatures they ventured ; till thirty of them were with Child by him . As I am told , young Mistress Joan thought she had had him all to herself , So did each other , till it was known that he was such a slippery Olf ; The Damsels now , protest and vow , they'll tear this poor Choachman limb from limb , They're all in a passion and cruel vexation , b'cause thirty of them were with Child by him . Then the poor Girls began to consult , what with this S park was best to be done , Susan she said , He ought to be gelded , or else the World he'd soon overrun , No , no , quoth Nan , What spoil a Man I'll never yield to it , he's sweet and trim ; How could you abuse him ; I'll free excusim though seven times more were with Child by him Should we resolve to punish him thus , and to cut off such jewels of pride , Would not the World cry out against us ; Susan , I pray , take better advice ; In such a case , let Law take place , I am not for pulling him limb from limb , Nor am I so cruel to spoil such a jewel , though seven times more , etc Now while their Plot they studied to lay , Bridget and Joan in Labour did fallen , Five or six more the very nevt day , nay , and the rest are ready to call ; A fair young Breed he has indeed , of pretty young Bantlings sweet and trim Now each loving Mother , above any other they have a great kindness and love for him . Printed for J. Fillingham , near Golden . 