Cupids Golden Dart , Or ; A dainty Sonnet here is to be sold , The like whereof was never sung nor told : Of a brave Girl that had a bag of Gold , Which she delivered into her Sweethearts hold . And now they live together lovingly , In joy , in peace , and true tranquillity : At first they seemed to be at mortal strife , But in Conclusion were made Man and Wife . Tune is , Down in and Arbour devouted to Venus . W Hen Aurora in Azus was blushing , A nymph of Venus attending the train , Then Noble Mars with his Pike fell to pushing , all was to stop , and turn her again . That time bold Cupid with his Dart , Pierced a youngman unto the heart : Which made him sighs , lament , and cry , My love is gone , and I know not why . My Love is beautiful , gallant and stately , able to give a Man any content : She that hath sported with me very lately , is parted from me , which makes me repent : That ever such a spotted name , Should come unto so fair a Dame : This makes me sighs , etc . I that have clipped her , and oftentimes kissed her , and kindly dandled her on my knee , Though fickle Fortune frow , now I have missed her for I perceive she is angry with me . Else should she not in rash despite , Have robbed me of my hearts delight , She never bade me once good-boy , But went her way , etc I never gave my Love any occasion , whereby to hold me so much in disdain , Nor can she show me any good reason , why she my company thus should refrain : It only hardness of her heart , Which caused her so to depart , Her unkind dealing makes me cry , etc Had I been resolute , cross grained , or froward , as many Bachelors are in their ways , Had I been Prodigal , proud , or untoward , as many Impudents are now adais : Or had I chosen another Mate , Then had she had just cause to hate : No such ill qualities ever had I , Yet she is gone , I know not why . S Ince there's no remedy , farewell adieu love , in vain it is any longer to stay , Thou hast been false , but i'll seek out a truelove , with all the post haste and speed that I may ; Because though waste unkind to me , I never again will look on thee : The vow thou madest thou didst deny , And wentest away , I know not why . The Maids Loving Reply . P Rethee Love , Turtledove , once again mind me , do not so bid me adieu : Loyal and constant thou ever shalt find me , and am resolved to love no man but you : Cheer up thy spirits , and be not sad , I have that for thee , will make thee glad : Do not refuse my courtesy , I'll love thee dearly till I die . Of all other Youngmen I think thee most worthy , though I was absent from thee for a space , yet hold up thy head ; there's good money bid for thee , if thou'rt willing my love to embrace , Here's for thee a Bag of Gold , Take it and keep it fast in hold : So thou wilt wed me speedily , Then shall I love thee till I die . If I were worth a whole Ship-load of money ; I would bestow that great substance on thee And make thee master of it ever a penny , if thou wilt cast thy affection on me : And more than that , i'll undertake , All other creatures to forsake : If thou the truelove knot will tie , I'll love thee dearly till I die . I'll forsake father , and I'll forsake mother , if thou'lt be pleased to make me thy bride , I'll forsake Sister , and I'll forsake Brother , and all the Kindred that I have beside , The Proverb old allows it so , That Love will creep , where't cannot go : Let me enjoy thy company , For I must love thee until I die . When she these loving words had spoken . he stepped unto her and gave her a kiss , Saying , Receive this same as a love-token , and i'll reward thee much better than this ; He took the Gold , and married the Maid , The matter was not long delayed : And now they live most lovingly , Together in Felicity . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . Cupids Golden Dart , Or ; A dainty Sonnet here is to be sold , The like whereof was never sung nor told : Of a brave Girl that had a bag of Gold , Which she delivered into her Sweethearts hold . And now they live together lovingly , In joy , in peace , and true tranquillity : At first they seemed to be at mortal strife , But in Conclusion were made Man and Wife . Tune is , Down in and Arbour devouted to Venus . W Hen Aurora in Azus was blushing , A nymph of Venus attending the train , Then Noble Mars with his Pike fell to pushing , all was to stop , and turn her again . That time bold Cupid with his Dart , Pierced a youngman unto the heart : Which made him sighs , lament , and cry , My love is gone , and I know not why . My Love is beautiful , gallant and stately , able to give a Man any content : She that hath sported with me very lately , is parted from me , which makes me repent : That ever such a spotted name , Should come unto so fair a Dame : This makes me sighs , etc . I that have clipped her , and oftentimes kissed her , and kindly dandled her on my knee , Though fickle Fortune frow , now I have missed her for I perceive she is angry with me . Else should she not in rash despite , Have robbed me of my hearts delight , She never bade me once good-boy , But went her way , etc I never gave my Love any occasion , whereby to hold me so much in disdain , Nor can she show me any good reason , why she my company thus should refrain : It only hardness of her heart , Which caused her so to depart , Her unkind dealing makes me cry , etc Had I been resolute , cross grained , or froward , as many Bachelors are in their ways , Had I been Prodigal , proud , or untoward , as many Impudents are now adais : Or had I chosen another Mate , Then had she had just cause to hate : No such ill qualities ever had I , Yet she is gone , I know not why . S Ince there's no remedy , farewell adieu love , in vain it is any longer to stay , Thou hast been false , but i'll seek out a truelove , with all the post haste and speed that I may ; Because though waste unkind to me , I never again will look on thee : The vow thou madest thou didst deny , And wentest away , I know not why . The Maids Loving Reply . P Rethee Love , Turtledove , once again mind me , do not so bid me adieu : Loyal and constant thou ever shalt find me , and am resolved to love no man but you : Cheer up thy spirits , and be not sad , I have that for thee , will make thee glad : Do not refuse my courtesy , I'll love thee dearly till I die . Of all other Youngmen I think thee most worthy , though I was absent from thee for a space , yet hold up thy head ; there's good money bid for thee , if thou'rt willing my love to embrace , Here's for thee a Bag of Gold , Take it and keep it fast in hold : So thou wilt wed me speedily , Then shall I love thee till I die . If I were worth a whole Ship-load of money ; I would bestow that great substance on thee And make thee master of it ever a penny , if thou wilt cast thy affection on me : And more than that , i'll undertake , All other creatures to forsake : If thou the truelove knot will tie , I'll love thee dearly till I die . I'll forsake father , and I'll forsake mother , if thou'lt be pleased to make me thy bride , I'll forsake Sister , and I'll forsake Brother , and all the Kindred that I have beside , The Proverb old allows it so , That Love will creep , where't cannot go : Let me enjoy thy company , For I must love thee until I die . When she these loving words had spoken . he stepped unto her and gave her a kiss , Saying , Receive this same as a love-token , and i'll reward thee much better than this ; He took the Gold , and married the Maid , The matter was not long delayed : And now they live most lovingly , Together in Felicity . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . 