L oves V victory Obtanied : OR , A pleasant sportful joyful meeting , between a young man and his sweating , At first they met , and then they kissed , and afterwards did what they list : 'Twas all within a Garden green , where pretty sport was to be seen , Then listen to my Song a while , i'm sure here's that will make you smile . To the Tune of , True blue : Or , Would would would . W Alking in a pleasant Garden , in the prime time of the Spring , There I herd a proper maiden , to her sweetheart sweetly sing ; He fell closely to his sweating , and by no means would be said nay ; She seemed loath to yield unto him , and to him these words did say : With a would would would you will undo me , Oh so wild and rude you are , Yet kind heart I needs must love thee , because thou camest with me so far . Fair maid , quoth he , let me be doing , for with thee I mean to try , Thou shalt have a world of pleasure , of brave sport as well as I : I will hug thee , I will kiss thee , I will love thee till I die : But as he made suit unto her , she to him made this reply ; With a would , etc Her shoes were made of Spanish leather , her stockings were of finest silk ; Fitting for the Summer's weather , and her skin as white as milk : Her face was of a fair complexion . her eyes like glittering Stars did shine , Cupid moved the Lads affection , with his Lover to combine : She cried out , etc Prithee sweetheart do not dally , nor delay no time with me , Stand not fooling shilly , shally , but be courteous and agree : If I may obtain they favour , for to take the fruits of love , I will do my best endeavour , and will kind [ un ] to thee prove . Still she cried , etc Why then quoth he farewell for ever , if thou wilt not yield unto me , Since I have done my endeavour , now I take my leave of thee . Never more will I come near thee , but thy company will refrain , Because I see thou dost but jeer me , i'll not trouble thee again . With a would would would you will undo me , Oh so wild and rude you are , Yet I cannot choose but , etc W Hen she herd he would be joging and so leave her there alone Stay a while said she sweet Robin be not thou so quickly gone . Thou shalt have what thou desirest now of pleasure take thy fill , Try me as thy mind requirest and perform thy chiefest skill . Now sweetheart thou art welcome to me act thy part and do not spare , For I know no harm thou'lt do me , then what need have I to fear . Then he pulled out his golden Rapier , being in a merry vain , She began to mount and caper and bid him to the sport again : He set his foot against the wall , and she her back against a tree . He looked East , and she looked West to see what company was neigh . Sweetheart , etc Jupiter began to thunder , Venus blushed the same to see , Juno she did greatly wonder that such pretty sport should be . But when their joyful Jig was ended , and their merry tisk was done ; She his skill so much commended wishing it were fresh begun , Saying sweetheart thou'rt welcome to me please thy fancy do not spare , etc Then upon her back he blowed her , down upon a bank of flowers ; When that he had overthrowed her then she cried the game is ours : More then tweny times he kissed her , yet she said she felt no pain . Sometime he hit , sometime he missed yet she bid him come again , Saying sweetheart thou'rt welcome to me please thy fancy do not spare , etc All you fair Maids that hears my Sonnet I would have you think on this , And consider well upon it that you do nothing a miss : Kissing , playing , talking courting , these are things youngmen will do , Maidens may with them be sporting yet be fair and honest too . She said no more sir you'll undo me , Oh so wild and rude you are : Yet she said sweetheart I love thee because you come with me so far . FINI S . Printed for F. Coals , in Vine street , on Saffron hill near Hatton-garden . L oves V victory Obtanied : OR , A pleasant sportful joyful meeting , between a young man and his sweating , At first they met , and then they kissed , and afterwards did what they list : 'Twas all within a Garden green , where pretty sport was to be seen , Then listen to my Song a while , i'm sure here's that will make you smile . To the Tune of , True blue : Or , Would would would . W Alking in a pleasant Garden , in the prime time of the Spring , There I herd a proper maiden , to her sweetheart sweetly sing ; He fell closely to his sweating , and by no means would be said nay ; She seemed loath to yield unto him , and to him these words did say : With a would would would you will undo me , Oh so wild and rude you are , Yet kind heart I needs must love thee , because thou camest with me so far . Fair maid , quoth he , let me be doing , for with thee I mean to try , Thou shalt have a world of pleasure , of brave sport as well as I : I will hug thee , I will kiss thee , I will love thee till I die : But as he made suit unto her , she to him made this reply ; With a would , etc Her shoes were made of Spanish leather , her stockings were of finest silk ; Fitting for the Summer's weather , and her skin as white as milk : Her face was of a fair complexion . her eyes like glittering Stars did shine , Cupid moved the Lads affection , with his Lover to combine : She cried out , etc Prithee sweetheart do not dally , nor delay no time with me , Stand not fooling shilly , shally , but be courteous and agree : If I may obtain they favour , for to take the fruits of love , I will do my best endeavour , and will kind [ un ] to thee prove . Still she cried , etc Why then quoth he farewell for ever , if thou wilt not yield unto me , Since I have done my endeavour , now I take my leave of thee . Never more will I come near thee , but thy company will refrain , Because I see thou dost but jeer me , i'll not trouble thee again . With a would would would you will undo me , Oh so wild and rude you are , Yet I cannot choose but , etc W Hen she herd he would be joging and so leave her there alone Stay a while said she sweet Robin be not thou so quickly gone . Thou shalt have what thou desirest now of pleasure take thy fill , Try me as thy mind requirest and perform thy chiefest skill . Now sweetheart thou art welcome to me act thy part and do not spare , For I know no harm thou'lt do me , then what need have I to fear . Then he pulled out his golden Rapier , being in a merry vain , She began to mount and caper and bid him to the sport again : He set his foot against the wall , and she her back against a tree . He looked East , and she looked West to see what company was neigh . Sweetheart , etc Jupiter began to thunder , Venus blushed the same to see , Juno she did greatly wonder that such pretty sport should be . But when their joyful Jig was ended , and their merry tisk was done ; She his skill so much commended wishing it were fresh begun , Saying sweetheart thou'rt welcome to me please thy fancy do not spare , etc Then upon her back he blowed her , down upon a bank of flowers ; When that he had overthrowed her then she cried the game is ours : More then tweny times he kissed her , yet she said she felt no pain . Sometime he hit , sometime he missed yet she bid him come again , Saying sweetheart thou'rt welcome to me please thy fancy do not spare , etc All you fair Maids that hears my Sonnet I would have you think on this , And consider well upon it that you do nothing a miss : Kissing , playing , talking courting , these are things youngmen will do , Maidens may with them be sporting yet be fair and honest too . She said no more sir you'll undo me , Oh so wild and rude you are : Yet she said sweetheart I love thee because you come with me so far . FINI S . Printed for F. Coals , in Vine street , on Saffron hill near Hatton-garden . 