LAUGH and lie DOWN : OR , A DIALOGUE Between a young Gentleman and his Sweetheart , as they sat upon the Banks of the Kel - der ; a little above the Bridge of Brighouse , in Yorkshire , on March the First ; both being Inhabitants within the said Township . Tune of , As I was walking one snu shining day . A S I was a walking one eveing most clear , By the bank of a River I chanced for to hear , A young Man , and a Virgin of beauty and fame , But for fear to disgrace her , i'll not tell her name : This young Man did hand her along on the way , And unto the Virgin I herd him to say , I love thee my Jewel , the joys of my heart , From the foot , to the crown upmost lovely thou art . Then she answered him quickly , You do not me love , You sp [ e ] ak but in jest , only me for to prove : But what makes your hand to be fumbling here ? It makes me to shake and to tremble for f [ ear ] , That you should over come me , & amp ; make me submit To your will and pleasure ; but , alas ! I'm not fit : For want of possessions you will not me choose , But just for the present my body t'abuse . No , no my sweet Jewel , it shall not be so , For if thou fear that , then away will I go : And along the green meadows I think I must walk , Then let us part quickly , and cease all our talk ; Then farewell , adieu , for no longer I'll stay , Well what haste are you in ? she gently did say : I would not have Lovers to break in a rage , For before that should be I'll be your Foot-page . Then back with all haste he turned to her again , And began to salute her and kiss her amain ; But his hand played at all alike , but i'll not swear For all the King's ransom , what as they played there . But this I will say , yea , and swear it to boot , And boldly affirm it , if I be put to't , That they made a bargain to laugh and lie down , For a goodly black hood & amp ; a gallant Serge-gown . And then they fell to it with might & amp ; with main , And when they had done once they fell to it again , What liquour she had god , I cannot well say , But this I am sure she went reelining away . And as they were a walking thee Thresh did sing With a voice so delightful it would please a King , Cease , cease , said the young Man , the Air for the fill , For thou hast sung well , and I have not danced ill . And now with this Item , I intent to conclude , Because that my lines are both simple and rude , See that once of you Maids to bluch or look read With this Song , but the Parties on whom it was made . Licensed according to Order . Printed for J. Shooter . LAUGH and lie DOWN : OR , A DIALOGUE Between a young Gentleman and his Sweetheart , as they sat upon the Banks of the Kel - der ; a little above the Bridge of Brighouse , in Yorkshire , on March the First ; both being Inhabitants within the said Township . Tune of , As I was walking one snu shining day . A S I was a walking one eveing most clear , By the bank of a River I chanced for to hear , A young Man , and a Virgin of beauty and fame , But for fear to disgrace her , i'll not tell her name : This young Man did hand her along on the way , And unto the Virgin I herd him to say , I love thee my Jewel , the joys of my heart , From the foot , to the crown upmost lovely thou art . Then she answered him quickly , You do not me love , You sp [ e ] ak but in jest , only me for to prove : But what makes your hand to be fumbling here ? It makes me to shake and to tremble for f [ ear ] , That you should over come me , & amp ; make me submit To your will and pleasure ; but , alas ! I'm not fit : For want of possessions you will not me choose , But just for the present my body t'abuse . No , no my sweet Jewel , it shall not be so , For if thou fear that , then away will I go : And along the green meadows I think I must walk , Then let us part quickly , and cease all our talk ; Then farewell , adieu , for no longer I'll stay , Well what haste are you in ? she gently did say : I would not have Lovers to break in a rage , For before that should be I'll be your Foot-page . Then back with all haste he turned to her again , And began to salute her and kiss her amain ; But his hand played at all alike , but i'll not swear For all the King's ransom , what as they played there . But this I will say , yea , and swear it to boot , And boldly affirm it , if I be put to't , That they made a bargain to laugh and lie down , For a goodly black hood & amp ; a gallant Serge-gown . And then they fell to it with might & amp ; with main , And when they had done once they fell to it again , What liquour she had god , I cannot well say , But this I am sure she went reelining away . And as they were a walking thee Thresh did sing With a voice so delightful it would please a King , Cease , cease , said the young Man , the Air for the fill , For thou hast sung well , and I have not danced ill . And now with this Item , I intent to conclude , Because that my lines are both simple and rude , See that once of you Maids to bluch or look read With this Song , but the Parties on whom it was made . Licensed according to Order . Printed for J. Shooter . 