Cupid's Revenge : OR , And Account of a King who slighted all Women , at length was constrained to Mar - ry a Beggar , who proved a very fair and virtuous Queen . To the Tune of I often for my Jenny strove . Licensed according to Order . A King once Reigned beyond the Seas , as we in ancient Stories find , Who no fair Face could ever please , he cared not for Womenkind ; he despised the sweetest Beauty , and the greatest Fortune too , At length he Married to a Beggar , see what Cupid is Dart can do . The blinded Boy that shoots so trim , did to his Closet Window steal , And drew a Dart , and shot at him , and made him soon his Power feel : He that never cared for Women , but did Females ever hate , At length was smitten , wounded , sounded , for a Beggar at his Gate . For mark what happened on a day , as he looked from his Window high , He spied a Beggar all in grey , with two more in her Company ; She his Fancy soon inflamed , and his Heart was grieved soar ; What! must I have her , court her , crave her , I that never loved before . This noble Prince of high Renown , did to his Chamber straight repair , And on his Couch he laid him down , oppressed with Lovesick Grief and Care ; Never was Monarch so surprised , here I lie her Captive Slave , While I will too her , court her , woo her , she must heal the Wound she gave . Then to his Palace Gate he goes , the Beggars crave his Charity , A Purse of Gold to them he throws , with thankful Hearts away they high : But the King he called her to him , though she was but poor and mean , His hand did hold her , while he told her , she should be his stately Queen . At this she blushed scarlet read , and on this mighty King did gaze , Then strait again as pale as Led , alas ! she was in such a maze : Hand in hand they walked together , and the King did kindly say , That he'd respect her , strait they decked her in most sumptuous rich array . He did appoint the Wedding-day , and likewise then commanded strait The noble Lords and Ladies gay , upon his gracious Queen to wait : She appeared a splendid Beauty , all the Court did her adore , And in a Marriage with a Carriage , as if she had been a Queen before . Her Fame through all their Realms did Rin [ g ] although she came of Parents poor ; She by her Sovereign Lord the King , did bear one Son , and eke no more : All the Nobles were well pleased , and the Ladies frank and free , For her Behaviour always gave her Title to her Dignity . At length the King and Queen was laid together in a silent Tomb , Their Royal Son their Sceptre swayed , who Governed in his Father's Room : Long in Glory did he flourish , Wealth and Honour to increase , Still possessing such a Blessing , that he Lived and Reigned in Peace . Printed for P. Brookshy . J. Deacon . J. Blare . J. Back . Cupid's Revenge : OR , And Account of a King who slighted all Women , at length was constrained to Mar - ry a Beggar , who proved a very fair and virtuous Queen . To the Tune of I often for my Jenny strove . Licensed according to Order . A King once Reigned beyond the Seas , as we in ancient Stories find , Who no fair Face could ever please , he cared not for Womenkind ; he despised the sweetest Beauty , and the greatest Fortune too , At length he Married to a Beggar , see what Cupid is Dart can do . The blinded Boy that shoots so trim , did to his Closet Window steal , And drew a Dart , and shot at him , and made him soon his Power feel : He that never cared for Women , but did Females ever hate , At length was smitten , wounded , sounded , for a Beggar at his Gate . For mark what happened on a day , as he looked from his Window high , He spied a Beggar all in grey , with two more in her Company ; She his Fancy soon inflamed , and his Heart was grieved soar ; What! must I have her , court her , crave her , I that never loved before . This noble Prince of high Renown , did to his Chamber straight repair , And on his Couch he laid him down , oppressed with Lovesick Grief and Care ; Never was Monarch so surprised , here I lie her Captive Slave , While I will too her , court her , woo her , she must heal the Wound she gave . Then to his Palace Gate he goes , the Beggars crave his Charity , A Purse of Gold to them he throws , with thankful Hearts away they high : But the King he called her to him , though she was but poor and mean , His hand did hold her , while he told her , she should be his stately Queen . At this she blushed scarlet read , and on this mighty King did gaze , Then strait again as pale as Led , alas ! she was in such a maze : Hand in hand they walked together , and the King did kindly say , That he'd respect her , strait they decked her in most sumptuous rich array . He did appoint the Wedding-day , and likewise then commanded strait The noble Lords and Ladies gay , upon his gracious Queen to wait : She appeared a splendid Beauty , all the Court did her adore , And in a Marriage with a Carriage , as if she had been a Queen before . Her Fame through all their Realms did Rin [ g ] although she came of Parents poor ; She by her Sovereign Lord the King , did bear one Son , and eke no more : All the Nobles were well pleased , and the Ladies frank and free , For her Behaviour always gave her Title to her Dignity . At length the King and Queen was laid together in a silent Tomb , Their Royal Son their Sceptre swayed , who Governed in his Father's Room : Long in Glory did he flourish , Wealth and Honour to increase , Still possessing such a Blessing , that he Lived and Reigned in Peace . Printed for P. Brookshy . J. Deacon . J. Blare . J. Back . 