The Virtuous Maids Resolution , OR , The Two Honest Lovers . Showing what unconstant men there be , That use deceit and flattery ; They'll cog , dissemble , swear and Lie , A harmless Maidens Life to try ; To all such Lovers she'l be coy , And says , her freedom's all her joy . To a pleasant new tune , or , I am a poor and harmless maid . I N a melancholy passion I , was walking up a River side , A gallant Damsel I did spy , a Lute she had lay by her side , Which up she took , and did sing and play , That in her freedom was all her joy , Oh in my freedom's all my joy . I stepped aside , because i'de hear , the full conclusion of her song , Her music ravished so mine ear , as in the ground I lay along , Then did she most sweetly play , Oh in my freedom's all my joy . I am a young and harmless Maid , and some are pleased to style me fair , There's no man yet hath and ambush laid , To catch me but I broke the snares , What though they count me nice and coy , [ Y ] et in my freedom's all my joy . Most young men have alluring words , poor silly Maidens to betray , Such compliments they can afford , that we can hardly say them nay : But let them term me nice and coy , Oh in my freedoms all my joy . With Oaths and Protestations great , sometime they seek to try their skill When all the while they mean deceit for to obtain their wanton will : And seek their utmost to destroy Our utmost and our chiefest joy . With amorous words and speeches fair , they'll promise that they never will do , But of such youngsters i'll beware , for fear I afterwards should rue . What though they count me nice and coy Yet in my freedoms all my joy , Yet in my freedoms all my joy , A Lluring baits also they have , as silver bodkins , gloves , and rings With girdles , scarves , and jewels brave and many other costly things : But those silver hooks shall never destroy , For in my freedoms all my joy . Whatsoever they give , talk , or say , i'll never believe them ere the more , Their smoothing words shall not me betray , i'll stand to what I said before . Although they count me nice and coy , etc Yet I could quickly be in love , if I and honest man could find , That would once true and constant prove and not be wavering like the wind , A little time I will be coy , etc Here in this second part you'll find a husband pleasing to her mind , This virtuous Maid hath one obtained though long , at last her love was gained She says her husband she'l obey , A and in his love shall be her joy . And thus she did conclude her song , which having done , I up did rise , My heart was struck with love so strong her beauty dazzled both my eyes , My freedom them she did destroy , For in her love was all my joy . When she espied me where I was , she rose and would no longer stay , I stepped unto her then , because my heart sheb boar with her away . Fair M aid , said I , do not destroy , My freedom and my chiefest joy . She blushing then to me did say , I do desire no company , Fair Maid , said I , Oh say not nay , to him that means no flattery : You have my heart , Oh be not coy , In you is all my earthly joy . Sweetheart , said I , few words I use , but what I speak is from my heart , I scorn your virtue to abuse , then grant me love ever I depart : Your freedom I will not destroy , For in your love is all my joy . With that she took me by the hand , and led me up by the River side , If that you true and constant prove , quoth she , perhaps i'll be your bride . Then on her Lute did sing and play , Be constant and i'll be thy joy . I then made bold to crave a kiss , which modestly to me she gave , I took it for a heavenly bliss , her comely gesture was so brave ; I thought it long to see the day , Wherein I might my love enjoy . But to conclude we married were , I have obtained a virtuous wife , And at the last I brought to pass , what she to others had denied . Although at first she seemed coy , She calls me now her only joy . Young men and maids where ever you be that hear this song i'de with you learn A pattern of our civility , then Lovers true you may discern , For them that seek for to destroy , Your freedom , etc Virtue beyond all beauty goes , but he that gains them both is rare ; Only for wealth let no man choose , for constant love is void of care ; A vertutous wife will never destroy , Your freedom but will be your joy . FIN I S . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackeray and T. Passenger . The Virtuous Maids Resolution , OR , The Two Honest Lovers . Showing what unconstant men there be , That use deceit and flattery ; They'll cog , dissemble , swear and Lie , A harmless Maidens Life to try ; To all such Lovers she'l be coy , And says , her freedom's all her joy . To a pleasant new tune , or , I am a poor and harmless maid . I N a melancholy passion I , was walking up a River side , A gallant Damsel I did spy , a Lute she had lay by her side , Which up she took , and did sing and play , That in her freedom was all her joy , Oh in my freedom's all my joy . I stepped aside , because i'de hear , the full conclusion of her song , Her music ravished so mine ear , as in the ground I lay along , Then did she most sweetly play , Oh in my freedom's all my joy . I am a young and harmless Maid , and some are pleased to style me fair , There's no man yet hath and ambush laid , To catch me but I broke the snares , What though they count me nice and coy , [ Y ] et in my freedom's all my joy . Most young men have alluring words , poor silly Maidens to betray , Such compliments they can afford , that we can hardly say them nay : But let them term me nice and coy , Oh in my freedoms all my joy . With Oaths and Protestations great , sometime they seek to try their skill When all the while they mean deceit for to obtain their wanton will : And seek their utmost to destroy Our utmost and our chiefest joy . With amorous words and speeches fair , they'll promise that they never will do , But of such youngsters i'll beware , for fear I afterwards should rue . What though they count me nice and coy Yet in my freedoms all my joy , Yet in my freedoms all my joy , A Lluring baits also they have , as silver bodkins , gloves , and rings With girdles , scarves , and jewels brave and many other costly things : But those silver hooks shall never destroy , For in my freedoms all my joy . Whatsoever they give , talk , or say , i'll never believe them ere the more , Their smoothing words shall not me betray , i'll stand to what I said before . Although they count me nice and coy , etc Yet I could quickly be in love , if I and honest man could find , That would once true and constant prove and not be wavering like the wind , A little time I will be coy , etc Here in this second part you'll find a husband pleasing to her mind , This virtuous Maid hath one obtained though long , at last her love was gained She says her husband she'l obey , A and in his love shall be her joy . And thus she did conclude her song , which having done , I up did rise , My heart was struck with love so strong her beauty dazzled both my eyes , My freedom them she did destroy , For in her love was all my joy . When she espied me where I was , she rose and would no longer stay , I stepped unto her then , because my heart sheb boar with her away . Fair M aid , said I , do not destroy , My freedom and my chiefest joy . She blushing then to me did say , I do desire no company , Fair Maid , said I , Oh say not nay , to him that means no flattery : You have my heart , Oh be not coy , In you is all my earthly joy . Sweetheart , said I , few words I use , but what I speak is from my heart , I scorn your virtue to abuse , then grant me love ever I depart : Your freedom I will not destroy , For in your love is all my joy . With that she took me by the hand , and led me up by the River side , If that you true and constant prove , quoth she , perhaps i'll be your bride . Then on her Lute did sing and play , Be constant and i'll be thy joy . I then made bold to crave a kiss , which modestly to me she gave , I took it for a heavenly bliss , her comely gesture was so brave ; I thought it long to see the day , Wherein I might my love enjoy . But to conclude we married were , I have obtained a virtuous wife , And at the last I brought to pass , what she to others had denied . Although at first she seemed coy , She calls me now her only joy . Young men and maids where ever you be that hear this song i'de with you learn A pattern of our civility , then Lovers true you may discern , For them that seek for to destroy , Your freedom , etc Virtue beyond all beauty goes , but he that gains them both is rare ; Only for wealth let no man choose , for constant love is void of care ; A vertutous wife will never destroy , Your freedom but will be your joy . FIN I S . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackeray and T. Passenger . 