JOHN and BETTY : OR , The Virtue of Cherry-Stones . Some Lad and Lasses dwelled in Kent , To gather Cherrys lately went : And underneath the Cherry-Tree , They were as kind as kind could be . To the Tune of , I am a Maid and a very good Maid . N Owe the weather grows warm , let's laugh and be merry , My Betty we'll go and we'll taste of the Cherry : Then be not affrighted , for thus I will do , Thou shalt have the Cherrys and Cherry-stones too . O use me not roughly , but prithee be kind , I thought to these tricks thou hadst not been inclined ; And since thou to me dost thy mind now declare , We'll walk to the place , where the Cherry-trees are , No sooner they came to fit under the Boughs , But Betty she tarred him with breaking of Vows Which he formerly made , and as quickly forgotten ; But one Vow he had made , that brake he would not . And this was the Vow , he resolved to keep , That he would have a Maidenhead , ever he did sleep , Which when he informed her , she quickly was wone , And under the Cherrytree , there it was done . S Ome Lads and some Lasses , there then was so near , And these loving Creatures they did overhear ; And came to behold , that which when they did see , They were all set a gag , at the trade for to be . Then under the trees , each Lad took his Lass , And laid her down softly , upon the green Grass , Such work there was done , the like was never known , While Robert kissed Marget , then Thomas kissed Joan . And what followed these joys , you may easily guess , Their Bellies did swell , as they all did confess : Which brought their disgrace , for it quickly was known , Each Lass had a Child , but husband had none . Such sighing and groaning among them was then , They said they would never pick Cherrys again : Though the Cherrys they liked yet the stones more did please , And caused their Bellies to swell by degrees But when these youngmen , did this thing understand , They all fed together , quick out of the Land : And left these poor Damosels , at home to lament , Who of their past follies did sorely repent . You Maidens of Kent , take warning by us : And be not too forward to hug and to buss , Which are the forerunners of mischief indeed , And for such like Follies , our hearts now do bleed . And were we again , as we was heretofore , Or could sighs and tears , our Honour restore : Weed weep to the Deluge , and sighs to a Storm , But now we poor Souls , must be laughed to scorn . For one minutes pleasure must we pay so dear ? And what's done in secret , so plainly appear : We thought that at once we might venture at all , Or should have been so loath on our backs for to fallen . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wri [ ght , ] J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and TO . P.JOHN and BETTY : OR , The Virtue of Cherry-Stones . Some Lad and Lasses dwelled in Kent , To gather Cherrys lately went : And underneath the Cherry-Tree , They were as kind as kind could be . To the Tune of , I am a Maid and a very good Maid . N Owe the weather grows warm , let's laugh and be merry , My Betty we'll go and we'll taste of the Cherry : Then be not affrighted , for thus I will do , Thou shalt have the Cherrys and Cherry-stones too . O use me not roughly , but prithee be kind , I thought to these tricks thou hadst not been inclined ; And since thou to me dost thy mind now declare , We'll walk to the place , where the Cherry-trees are , No sooner they came to fit under the Boughs , But Betty she tarred him with breaking of Vows Which he formerly made , and as quickly forgotten ; But one Vow he had made , that brake he would not . And this was the Vow , he resolved to keep , That he would have a Maidenhead , ever he did sleep , Which when he informed her , she quickly was wone , And under the Cherrytree , there it was done . S Ome Lads and some Lasses , there then was so near , And these loving Creatures they did overhear ; And came to behold , that which when they did see , They were all set a gag , at the trade for to be . Then under the trees , each Lad took his Lass , And laid her down softly , upon the green Grass , Such work there was done , the like was never known , While Robert kissed Marget , then Thomas kissed Joan . And what followed these joys , you may easily guess , Their Bellies did swell , as they all did confess : Which brought their disgrace , for it quickly was known , Each Lass had a Child , but husband had none . Such sighing and groaning among them was then , They said they would never pick Cherrys again : Though the Cherrys they liked yet the stones more did please , And caused their Bellies to swell by degrees But when these youngmen , did this thing understand , They all fed together , quick out of the Land : And left these poor Damosels , at home to lament , Who of their past follies did sorely repent . You Maidens of Kent , take warning by us : And be not too forward to hug and to buss , Which are the forerunners of mischief indeed , And for such like Follies , our hearts now do bleed . And were we again , as we was heretofore , Or could sighs and tears , our Honour restore : Weed weep to the Deluge , and sighs to a Storm , But now we poor Souls , must be laughed to scorn . For one minutes pleasure must we pay so dear ? And what's done in secret , so plainly appear : We thought that at once we might venture at all , Or should have been so loath on our backs for to fallen . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wri [ ght , ] J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T.P. 