The Young-Man's Ramble ; Or , The Horse can Trot , and the Mare can Amble . Here's Clipping and Kissing , with store of Delights , with Friskings , and Frolic , as seldom is seen ; To sport all the day time , and play in the nights , where Youngmen and maiden did meet on a Green . To a gallant New Tune , called , Andrew and Maudlin . ANdrew , Maudlin , R ebecka , and Will , pretty peg with Joseph and M ary , Peter the Plummer and M isles of the Mill , Bess of the Buttery and Doll of the Dairy ; They went and gathered young Primroses , To make them sundry sorts of posies . William put on his Holiday jacket , Grissel put in her Russet Grey , Meg had a Ribbon hung down to her placket , and so they went gingling all the way : To solace their Lives and sweeten their labour , They met on a green with a pipe and a tabour . Frinkham Frankham is a fine dance , young Tib did trip it on her toes , And Joan came into the place by chance , whose cheeks were like the Crimson Rose They coupled themselves like birds of a feather , And footed it finely altogether . Jane began to justle with Thomas , Humphrey thought to find her there ; Yet Nelly forsooth did fail in her promise , be cause she did not like his ware . This a dainty thing to handle a Baby , And Joan in the dark is as good as my Lady Kester took Hester by the hand , come play us a tune thou trusty trout , A match quoth Roger and if it does stand , and so they jumbled round a bout : With salingers round , and the French Canaries That passed Jack pudding and all his fegaries . Ralph god Rachel about the middle , and Simon sucked up all the Eggs , philip did with play his Bagpipe and Fiddle , while jumping Joan did shake her Legs : Her apron was white and her petticoat read , And they were most sweetly brought to bed . The second Part , to the same Tune . PAul the Peddler is a boon blade , and the Broom-man is another , For they belong to the tribe of Gad , and learned this actium of their Mother : Tom Tinkers ware is special mettle , And Denis did smile like a firmery Kettle . Richards feather will never leave wagging , James and Nan into the Colehole are got , And simple Neck will never leave bragging , because his father is dead and rotten : When Jack from Marry her portion hath god , This need that makes the old wife trot . Robins nose will never leave drooping , hang up sorrow cast away care , And Cupid catched young Sarah naping , as Moss by chance did catch his Mare : Her apron is too short before , Which made poor Margery cry full soar . Old Smell smock Sam delights to vow , for love will creep where it cant go , Neds Nose will serve for a poor men Saw , and Kate did tread wupon his toe : Young men do love to be with Maids , And Gillian was like the Queen of Spaids , Clem the Carrier is come home , and brought to town good fish and mustard , pricsilla did dance a Jig with Tom , which made his buttocks quake like a Custard With cliping and kissing and kind embraces , The youngmen tumbled about with their Lasses . Jockey and Jenny with Arthur of Bradly , Roger of Coverly and his consort , Did trick and trim it wonderfully madly , and so they concluded and ended their sport : The Horse can trot and the Mare can amble . And so I end my Country Ramble . FINIS . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackery , and T. Passenger . The Young-Man's Ramble ; Or , The Horse can Trot , and the Mare can Amble . Here's Clipping and Kissing , with store of Delights , with Friskings , and Frolic , as seldom is seen ; To sport all the day time , and play in the nights , where Youngmen and maiden did meet on a Green . To a gallant New Tune , called , Andrew and Maudlin . ANdrew , Maudlin , R ebecka , and Will , pretty peg with Joseph and M ary , Peter the Plummer and M isles of the Mill , Bess of the Buttery and Doll of the Dairy ; They went and gathered young Primroses , To make them sundry sorts of posies . William put on his Holiday jacket , Grissel put in her Russet Grey , Meg had a Ribbon hung down to her placket , and so they went gingling all the way : To solace their Lives and sweeten their labour , They met on a green with a pipe and a tabour . Frinkham Frankham is a fine dance , young Tib did trip it on her toes , And Joan came into the place by chance , whose cheeks were like the Crimson Rose They coupled themselves like birds of a feather , And footed it finely altogether . Jane began to justle with Thomas , Humphrey thought to find her there ; Yet Nelly forsooth did fail in her promise , be cause she did not like his ware . This a dainty thing to handle a Baby , And Joan in the dark is as good as my Lady Kester took Hester by the hand , come play us a tune thou trusty trout , A match quoth Roger and if it does stand , and so they jumbled round a bout : With salingers round , and the French Canaries That passed Jack pudding and all his fegaries . Ralph god Rachel about the middle , and Simon sucked up all the Eggs , philip did with play his Bagpipe and Fiddle , while jumping Joan did shake her Legs : Her apron was white and her petticoat read , And they were most sweetly brought to bed . The second Part , to the same Tune . PAul the Peddler is a boon blade , and the Broom-man is another , For they belong to the tribe of Gad , and learned this actium of their Mother : Tom Tinkers ware is special mettle , And Denis did smile like a firmery Kettle . Richards feather will never leave wagging , James and Nan into the Colehole are got , And simple Neck will never leave bragging , because his father is dead and rotten : When Jack from Marry her portion hath god , This need that makes the old wife trot . Robins nose will never leave drooping , hang up sorrow cast away care , And Cupid catched young Sarah naping , as Moss by chance did catch his Mare : Her apron is too short before , Which made poor Margery cry full soar . Old Smell smock Sam delights to vow , for love will creep where it cant go , Neds Nose will serve for a poor men Saw , and Kate did tread wupon his toe : Young men do love to be with Maids , And Gillian was like the Queen of Spaids , Clem the Carrier is come home , and brought to town good fish and mustard , pricsilla did dance a Jig with Tom , which made his buttocks quake like a Custard With cliping and kissing and kind embraces , The youngmen tumbled about with their Lasses . Jockey and Jenny with Arthur of Bradly , Roger of Coverly and his consort , Did trick and trim it wonderfully madly , and so they concluded and ended their sport : The Horse can trot and the Mare can amble . And so I end my Country Ramble . FINIS . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackery , and T. Passenger . 