LOVES EMPIRE , OR , The Happy State of true Lovers . Being a most pleasant and Delightful New Play SONG . When Earth was made in the first age of Men , Love , that's now Art , moved all by nature then ; Simplicity in love was then their pride , No cunning Artifice they had to hide A generous passion , which did freely flow But now it's Gold that governs all below : More is the pity , yet we here may find , Virtue outdo it , and to Lovers kind . To a New Playhouse Tune ; Or , All hail to the pleasures of Love . A LL hail to the pleasures of Love , to joys that Lovers do find ; And hail to the Powers above , that still to our Laws have been kind : Oh! Beauty's and Empire , where we have more than ambition can lend us , In all the delights we live free , that Cupid or Venus can send us . No Faction disturbs our sweet peace , nor the blustering storms of the State , But stored with such blessed increase , as each moment for us do create : On Beds of sweet Roses we lie , while each charmed with 1000 delights , When blushing , the Nymph she does cry , Love , love now to pleasure invites . W Hen Nations are ruined by War , and the sword does dreadfully rage We dare bid defiance to fear , for no fear can our passion assuage : Love conquers the Tyrant when he does breath nothing but slaughter & amp ; death Through Armour swift beauty does flee , & amp ; soon cools the stout warriors fierce breath It makes him to yield what he wone , I , & amp ; throws down his Laurels so fair , As if he had nwly begun , while loves Empire of beauty does share A Court Love does hold in each Bower , where the Monarchs does cite to attend Who lay aside Glory and Power , and to charms of fair beauty do bend . The State-Polititions likewise , who the wheel of the Kingdom can turn , Here often do feel a surprise , when in favors of Love they do burn : There's none that is free from this pain , it's so pleasant each strive to envy , And do with they may in it remain , although it had power to destroy . In the Groves , pleasant Meads , & amp ; springs when the evening Due it does fallen , And the Lark her last leave she sings , to walk abroad Cupid does call : Then from our sweet repose we stray , for to view our Flocks & amp ; Herds so fair , While blushing like to the pride of May , my shepherdess looks beyond compare . O innocent Love is a treasure , & amp ; the greatest the powers they can give But Oh for to think of the Pleasure , and the joys that in love we receive : While panting on fair breasts we lie , embracing a beauty so bright , Who with a beam shot from her E [ you ] can chase away shades of Night [ . ] Those Coral Lips so fair to press , with softest touches , the which inclo [ se ] Orient Pearl , Oh such happiness from the fountain of love ever flows That none but who try d them can tell , it is the true spark of joys above , Where joyed love in bright Angels dwell and with it happy for ever prove . Then let each true love his treasure for Gold is dross when with it compared There's nought on earth with it can measure no , not the Spices Arabia shared : when blooming they their sweets send forth nor all that the Dream in't contains , there's nought but true love that is worth in it all the good on Earth remains . FINIS . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . LOVES EMPIRE , OR , The Happy State of true Lovers . Being a most pleasant and Delightful New Play SONG . When Earth was made in the first age of Men , Love , that's now Art , moved all by nature then ; Simplicity in love was then their pride , No cunning Artifice they had to hide A generous passion , which did freely flow But now it's Gold that governs all below : More is the pity , yet we here may find , Virtue outdo it , and to Lovers kind . To a New Playhouse Tune ; Or , All hail to the pleasures of Love . A LL hail to the pleasures of Love , to joys that Lovers do find ; And hail to the Powers above , that still to our Laws have been kind : Oh! Beauty's and Empire , where we have more than ambition can lend us , In all the delights we live free , that Cupid or Venus can send us . No Faction disturbs our sweet peace , nor the blustering storms of the State , But stored with such blessed increase , as each moment for us do create : On Beds of sweet Roses we lie , while each charmed with 1000 delights , When blushing , the Nymph she does cry , Love , love now to pleasure invites . W Hen Nations are ruined by War , and the sword does dreadfully rage We dare bid defiance to fear , for no fear can our passion assuage : Love conquers the Tyrant when he does breath nothing but slaughter & amp ; death Through Armour swift beauty does flee , & amp ; soon cools the stout warriors fierce breath It makes him to yield what he wone , I , & amp ; throws down his Laurels so fair , As if he had nwly begun , while loves Empire of beauty does share A Court Love does hold in each Bower , where the Monarchs does cite to attend Who lay aside Glory and Power , and to charms of fair beauty do bend . The State-Polititions likewise , who the wheel of the Kingdom can turn , Here often do feel a surprise , when in favors of Love they do burn : There's none that is free from this pain , it's so pleasant each strive to envy , And do with they may in it remain , although it had power to destroy . In the Groves , pleasant Meads , & amp ; springs when the evening Due it does fallen , And the Lark her last leave she sings , to walk abroad Cupid does call : Then from our sweet repose we stray , for to view our Flocks & amp ; Herds so fair , While blushing like to the pride of May , my shepherdess looks beyond compare . O innocent Love is a treasure , & amp ; the greatest the powers they can give But Oh for to think of the Pleasure , and the joys that in love we receive : While panting on fair breasts we lie , embracing a beauty so bright , Who with a beam shot from her E [ you ] can chase away shades of Night [ . ] Those Coral Lips so fair to press , with softest touches , the which inclo [ se ] Orient Pearl , Oh such happiness from the fountain of love ever flows That none but who try d them can tell , it is the true spark of joys above , Where joyed love in bright Angels dwell and with it happy for ever prove . Then let each true love his treasure for Gold is dross when with it compared There's nought on earth with it can measure no , not the Spices Arabia shared : when blooming they their sweets send forth nor all that the Dream in't contains , there's nought but true love that is worth in it all the good on Earth remains . FINIS . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 