The New Courtier . Or one that learned the trick from his Mother , To have a little of one and a little of tother . To and Excellent New Court Tune . I Prithee Moll , Be not so dull , but let us change embraces , I'll give thee Wine , And Sugar fine , Gloves , Ribbons , Hoods & amp ; Laces ; Then prithee be So free to me , as let me come and cover , Though I love a merry Glass , Yet I love a merry Lass , A little of ' tone with tother . I must confess I love to kiss as well as meat and clothing ; But if I may No further stray , a kiss is next to nothing : I'll show thee how Thy Dad does do when he does please thy Mother , When my appetite does burn , Kissing will not serve the turn , A little , etc I highly prize Thy slow black eyes , and lips that look so ruby , But he that sees No sights but these , is counted but a Booby . Then let us kiss , And try how it's , to make a Maid a Mother , A little of the Lip , And a little of the Hip , A little , etc I love a Hawk , I love a Hound , I love a gallant Gelding , I love to talk And to propound to Ladies that are yielding ; I love to bill , To kiss and feel , delight is my sworn brother , I love to run at ring , And the other pretty thing , A little of one with ' tother . I Love a life A Barried Wife , a Virgin , and a Widow ; And when I strike It's all alike , a Down-bed or a Meadow : If I can but Come quickly tooed , my flames I will not smother , I was got by a man , And I'll get one if I can , A little of one with tother . I cannot woo As some men do I am no whining Lover , I cannot stand With cap in hand , but turn them over and over : At In and In The losers win , then let us come and cover , Thou shalt have a throw at me , And i'll have a fling at thee ; A little , etc Then prithee Duck Let me but pluck the Rosebuds of thy virtue , And do not put My courage to't I swear I will not hurt you , All that I do Seduce thee to , is to be like thy mother , For ( without immodesty ) Thou mayest do't as well as she , A little , etc A little health , A little wealth , a little time of freedom , Some little friends , For little ends , and little cause to need'em . A little drink , A little Think , a little fit of the Mother , For when men begin to woo , They have little else to do ; A little of ' tone with ' tother . Printed for F. Coals , in Vine-street , near Hatton Garden . The New Courtier . Or one that learned the trick from his Mother , To have a little of one and a little of tother . To and Excellent New Court Tune . I Prithee Moll , Be not so dull , but let us change embraces , I'll give thee Wine , And Sugar fine , Gloves , Ribbons , Hoods & amp ; Laces ; Then prithee be So free to me , as let me come and cover , Though I love a merry Glass , Yet I love a merry Lass , A little of ' tone with tother . I must confess I love to kiss as well as meat and clothing ; But if I may No further stray , a kiss is next to nothing : I'll show thee how Thy Dad does do when he does please thy Mother , When my appetite does burn , Kissing will not serve the turn , A little , etc I highly prize Thy slow black eyes , and lips that look so ruby , But he that sees No sights but these , is counted but a Booby . Then let us kiss , And try how it's , to make a Maid a Mother , A little of the Lip , And a little of the Hip , A little , etc I love a Hawk , I love a Hound , I love a gallant Gelding , I love to talk And to propound to Ladies that are yielding ; I love to bill , To kiss and feel , delight is my sworn brother , I love to run at ring , And the other pretty thing , A little of one with ' tother . I Love a life A Barried Wife , a Virgin , and a Widow ; And when I strike It's all alike , a Down-bed or a Meadow : If I can but Come quickly tooed , my flames I will not smother , I was got by a man , And I'll get one if I can , A little of one with tother . I cannot woo As some men do I am no whining Lover , I cannot stand With cap in hand , but turn them over and over : At In and In The losers win , then let us come and cover , Thou shalt have a throw at me , And i'll have a fling at thee ; A little , etc Then prithee Duck Let me but pluck the Rosebuds of thy virtue , And do not put My courage to't I swear I will not hurt you , All that I do Seduce thee to , is to be like thy mother , For ( without immodesty ) Thou mayest do't as well as she , A little , etc A little health , A little wealth , a little time of freedom , Some little friends , For little ends , and little cause to need'em . A little drink , A little Think , a little fit of the Mother , For when men begin to woo , They have little else to do ; A little of ' tone with ' tother . Printed for F. Coals , in Vine-street , near Hatton Garden . 