The Maids Chastity that is troubled in mind , Against youngman's inconstancy , who proves unkind ; She gives warning to all Maidens that are in the row , To take heed of false youngmen wheresoever they go . To a pleasant New Tune . Y Ou young maids that would live chary And live single and not marry , Nor contract your selves to none , [ F ] or the Maid is best that lies alone . Cupid ; Cupid , thou hast done me wrong , I have been thy servant now too long ; My heart was never free from care , [ S ] ince I was entangled in thy snare . In thy snare I have been fetered , And often have my business letted , [ I ] n following after Venus train , But the Maid is best that lies alone . Young men they will cog and lie , Maidens they may weep and cry Truth and conscience they use none , But the maid is the best that lies alone . In this breast a heart I bore , It's none of mine I wish it were ; Once it was mine if I could have kept it , But now where it is , it's not respected . Now I hope to have my heart again , And keep it fast from Venus Chain , Lock it in this breast of my own But the maid is best that lies alone . When I have gained it safe again , Then I am free from all young men , And never like to make this moan , But live a single maid alone . Love is torment who can abide it , Who better knows then him that hath tried it , I count her but a mad woman still , That seeks to humour a young men will . Y Oung men they be much inclined , Only to know a maidens mind , Maids do not believe them if they swear , lest after they leave you in a snare . But try their hearts if that you can Before that you love any man ; Love is found and fickle still Then do not humour a young men will . If a Lover be humoured in his condition Then he does plead with a strong commission To get his intention if he can The Maid is the best that lies alone . For in lying alone there is no harm taken , And being of and inconstant Love forsaken , It's better then Gold or Silver store , If that she does never see him more . A maid that lives in and honest carriage Must be careful in her marriage Young men are so deceitful grown , The maid is the best that lies alone . True Lovers knot may soon be tied , And a maid too soon may be made a Bride , That is all in conclusion shown , But the maid is the best that lies alone . There is many things for to consider If a man and woman go together : If love be wanting between them twain They had better still to lie alone . When they come to a maid a wooing They make no conscience in their doing But use all the deceit they can But the maid is the best that lies alone . There are false young men in my mind Some proves cross & amp ; some proves kind I will not condemn them all for one , The maids are the best that lies alone . Therefore I advice you consider my Song , I write to maids I'll do them no wrong And still I do tell you every one , The maid is the best that lies alone . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , & amp ; T. Passenger . The Maids Chastity that is troubled in mind , Against youngman's inconstancy , who proves unkind ; She gives warning to all Maidens that are in the row , To take heed of false youngmen wheresoever they go . To a pleasant New Tune . Y Ou young maids that would live chary And live single and not marry , Nor contract your selves to none , [ F ] or the Maid is best that lies alone . Cupid ; Cupid , thou hast done me wrong , I have been thy servant now too long ; My heart was never free from care , [ S ] ince I was entangled in thy snare . In thy snare I have been fetered , And often have my business letted , [ I ] n following after Venus train , But the Maid is best that lies alone . Young men they will cog and lie , Maidens they may weep and cry Truth and conscience they use none , But the maid is the best that lies alone . In this breast a heart I bore , It's none of mine I wish it were ; Once it was mine if I could have kept it , But now where it is , it's not respected . Now I hope to have my heart again , And keep it fast from Venus Chain , Lock it in this breast of my own But the maid is best that lies alone . When I have gained it safe again , Then I am free from all young men , And never like to make this moan , But live a single maid alone . Love is torment who can abide it , Who better knows then him that hath tried it , I count her but a mad woman still , That seeks to humour a young men will . Y Oung men they be much inclined , Only to know a maidens mind , Maids do not believe them if they swear , lest after they leave you in a snare . But try their hearts if that you can Before that you love any man ; Love is found and fickle still Then do not humour a young men will . If a Lover be humoured in his condition Then he does plead with a strong commission To get his intention if he can The Maid is the best that lies alone . For in lying alone there is no harm taken , And being of and inconstant Love forsaken , It's better then Gold or Silver store , If that she does never see him more . A maid that lives in and honest carriage Must be careful in her marriage Young men are so deceitful grown , The maid is the best that lies alone . True Lovers knot may soon be tied , And a maid too soon may be made a Bride , That is all in conclusion shown , But the maid is the best that lies alone . There is many things for to consider If a man and woman go together : If love be wanting between them twain They had better still to lie alone . When they come to a maid a wooing They make no conscience in their doing But use all the deceit they can But the maid is the best that lies alone . There are false young men in my mind Some proves cross & amp ; some proves kind I will not condemn them all for one , The maids are the best that lies alone . Therefore I advice you consider my Song , I write to maids I'll do them no wrong And still I do tell you every one , The maid is the best that lies alone . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , & amp ; T. Passenger . 