The Happy Husbandman : OR , Country Innocence . To a pleasant new Court Tune . This may be Printed , R.P. M Y young Mary do's mind the Dairy , while I go a Howing , and Mowing each morn Then heigh the little Spinning-Wheel Merrily round do's Reel ; while I am singing amid the Corn : Cream and Kisses both are my Delight , And she gives me them , and the Joys of Night She's soft as the Air , As morning Fair , Is not such a maid a most pleasing Sighed ? While I whistle , she from the Thistle does gather Down , for to make us a Bed , And then my little Love does lie All the Night long and Die in the kind Arms of her noun , dear Ned ; There I taste of a delicate Spring , But I must not tell you , nor name the thing , To put you a Wishing , And think of Kissing , For Kisses cause sighs , and young men should sing . Sedge and Rushes , and tops of Bushes shall thatch our Roof , & amp ; shall strow all our Floar ; And then the pretty Nightingales Will fly from Groves and Dales to live with us , and we'll never be Poor : Little Lambkins when ever they die Will bequeathe new Blankets to thee and I , Our Quilts shall be Roses Which June disposes ; So warm and so sweet my young Love shall lie . Fountains pure , shall be thy Ewer , to sprinkle water upon thy fair Face ; And near the little Flock shall Play , All the long Summer's day ; gentle white Lambs will adorn the place . Then at night we'll high home to our Hive , And ( like Bees ) enjoy all the sweets alive : We'll taste all Love's Treasure , And enjoy that Pleasure , While others for Fame & amp ; for Greatness strive . No man's frowns are on the Downs , for truly there we most freely may sing , And kiss the pretty Nancies , While Changes and Chances amuse all the Great , and Disturbance bring . We will with our young Lambs go to Bed , And observe the Lives that our Father's led ; We'll mind not Ambition , Nor sow Sedition , And leave State-Affairs to the Statesman's Head. Oaten Reeds ( those humble Weeds ) shall be the Pipes , upon which we will play , And on the merry Mountain , Or else by a Fountain , we'll merrily pass the sweet Time away : Sure no mortal can blame us for this . And now mark the way of your London Miss , She master's your Breeches , And takes your Riches While we have more Joys by a harmless Kiss . No Youth her need Willow wear , no beauteous Maid will her Lover destroy ; The gentle little Lass will yield In the soft Daisy Field , freely our pleasures we here enjoy : No great Juno we boldly defy , With young Cloris Cheeks , or fair Celia is Eye , We let all those things alone , And enjoy our own , Every Night with our Beauty's lie . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Gol - den Ball in Pie-corner . The Happy Husbandman : OR , Country Innocence . To a pleasant new Court Tune . This may be Printed , R.P. M Y young Mary do's mind the Dairy , while I go a Howing , and Mowing each morn Then heigh the little Spinning-Wheel Merrily round do's Reel ; while I am singing amid the Corn : Cream and Kisses both are my Delight , And she gives me them , and the Joys of Night She's soft as the Air , As morning Fair , Is not such a maid a most pleasing Sighed ? While I whistle , she from the Thistle does gather Down , for to make us a Bed , And then my little Love does lie All the Night long and Die in the kind Arms of her noun , dear Ned ; There I taste of a delicate Spring , But I must not tell you , nor name the thing , To put you a Wishing , And think of Kissing , For Kisses cause sighs , and young men should sing . Sedge and Rushes , and tops of Bushes shall thatch our Roof , & amp ; shall strow all our Floar ; And then the pretty Nightingales Will fly from Groves and Dales to live with us , and we'll never be Poor : Little Lambkins when ever they die Will bequeathe new Blankets to thee and I , Our Quilts shall be Roses Which June disposes ; So warm and so sweet my young Love shall lie . Fountains pure , shall be thy Ewer , to sprinkle water upon thy fair Face ; And near the little Flock shall Play , All the long Summer's day ; gentle white Lambs will adorn the place . Then at night we'll high home to our Hive , And ( like Bees ) enjoy all the sweets alive : We'll taste all Love's Treasure , And enjoy that Pleasure , While others for Fame & amp ; for Greatness strive . No man's frowns are on the Downs , for truly there we most freely may sing , And kiss the pretty Nancies , While Changes and Chances amuse all the Great , and Disturbance bring . We will with our young Lambs go to Bed , And observe the Lives that our Father's led ; We'll mind not Ambition , Nor sow Sedition , And leave State-Affairs to the Statesman's Head. Oaten Reeds ( those humble Weeds ) shall be the Pipes , upon which we will play , And on the merry Mountain , Or else by a Fountain , we'll merrily pass the sweet Time away : Sure no mortal can blame us for this . And now mark the way of your London Miss , She master's your Breeches , And takes your Riches While we have more Joys by a harmless Kiss . No Youth her need Willow wear , no beauteous Maid will her Lover destroy ; The gentle little Lass will yield In the soft Daisy Field , freely our pleasures we here enjoy : No great Juno we boldly defy , With young Cloris Cheeks , or fair Celia is Eye , We let all those things alone , And enjoy our own , Every Night with our Beauty's lie . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Gol - den Ball in Pie-corner . 