The Two Constant Lovers ; Or , The Prentice obtained his Master Daughter By True Love and L oyalty . The Father thought to separate his Prentice from his Daughter ; But their affections was too great , then listen what comes after . To the Tune of , As I walked forth to take the Air , etc The Prentice . C Ome listen to me , my true Love , since that I have great cause to weep , For thinking of my own true Love , I neither night nor day can sleep . Neither neight nor day can sleep , dear heart but constantly do sighs and grieve ; Had I the World , with it I'de part , since I had rather die than live . But what if I was dead , Sweetheart , and far enough from thee was gone ; It might make you sighs , lament and grieve For I'm sure you could not hear my moan The Maids Answer to the Prentice . [ A ] way from me , found Prentice Boy , and do not now stand prating here ; You know I am your Master's joy , your time's not out above two year . The Prentice's Reply . Thou art my only joy , dear heart , and one that I do love so dear , My love to thee shall never depart , If I was yet to serve full seven year . If I had seven Year to serve , my Jo , and thou wertenberg at New-Castle upon Tine ; Upon my bore feet would I go , to see the true lover of mine . The Maids Answer . If that my Father did but know the love that you do bear to me ; Of a certain he will be your Foe , and that might sure your ruin be . But the old Man overheard them both , as it was his chance for to come by ; Saying you must be parted , yet I'm loath , to hear my Daughter sighs and cry . TO O London the Old Man sent the Maid , and there a while for to remain : And the Prentice at home must be stayed , till the Daughter did return again . The Prentices Letter to his Sweetheart at London . Now thou from me art gone , dear heart , I never can enjoy no ease ; Yet my love from thee shall not depart , and I will strive our friends to please . But I fear our friends will not be pleased , but will cast a disliking eye ; Yet my love to thee shall never cease , till all the brackish Seas be dry . Till all the Seas be dry , dear heart , and Stones do melt against the Sun ; My love from thee shall never depart , till these things are performed and done . The white Swan shall turn black , I say , the Mountains all removed shall be ; If my love from thee shall go astray , so long as life remains in me . The Maids Letter from London to the Prentice Now I am gone away from thee , yet I'll stay but a little while ; And I will come again to thee , if that it was five hundred Mile . If it was five hundred Miles , my Dear , which I think it is too far for thee , But if it was ten times as far , still I would do as much for thee . Dear heart , just like the Turtle-Dove which is sitting upon yonders Tree , And waiting for her own true Love , just even so do I for thee . O then this Youngman tore his hair , and bitterly he did lament : Because he could not enjoy his Dear , her absence caused his discontent . Her Father understanding then that Letters passed between them both : Sent for his Daughter home again , and was resolved to know the truth . Now welcome home , my Daughter dear , thrice welcome home art thee : Then bespoke the Prentice with good cheer ten thousand times welcome to me . Her Father hearing him say so , straightways he gave them his consent : And then they to the Church did go , and married was to their content . And now let this a Pattern be , unto all Young Men and Maids : Then hereafter you shall not see so many go to the Elizium Shades . FINIS . Printed for J. Blare . at the Looking-Glass , on London-Bridge . The Two Constant Lovers ; Or , The Prentice obtained his Master Daughter By True Love and L oyalty . The Father thought to separate his Prentice from his Daughter ; But their affections was too great , then listen what comes after . To the Tune of , As I walked forth to take the Air , etc The Prentice . C Ome listen to me , my true Love , since that I have great cause to weep , For thinking of my own true Love , I neither night nor day can sleep . Neither neight nor day can sleep , dear heart but constantly do sighs and grieve ; Had I the World , with it I'de part , since I had rather die than live . But what if I was dead , Sweetheart , and far enough from thee was gone ; It might make you sighs , lament and grieve For I'm sure you could not hear my moan The Maids Answer to the Prentice . [ A ] way from me , found Prentice Boy , and do not now stand prating here ; You know I am your Master's joy , your time's not out above two year . The Prentice's Reply . Thou art my only joy , dear heart , and one that I do love so dear , My love to thee shall never depart , If I was yet to serve full seven year . If I had seven Year to serve , my Jo , and thou wertenberg at New-Castle upon Tine ; Upon my bore feet would I go , to see the true lover of mine . The Maids Answer . If that my Father did but know the love that you do bear to me ; Of a certain he will be your Foe , and that might sure your ruin be . But the old Man overheard them both , as it was his chance for to come by ; Saying you must be parted , yet I'm loath , to hear my Daughter sighs and cry . TO O London the Old Man sent the Maid , and there a while for to remain : And the Prentice at home must be stayed , till the Daughter did return again . The Prentices Letter to his Sweetheart at London . Now thou from me art gone , dear heart , I never can enjoy no ease ; Yet my love from thee shall not depart , and I will strive our friends to please . But I fear our friends will not be pleased , but will cast a disliking eye ; Yet my love to thee shall never cease , till all the brackish Seas be dry . Till all the Seas be dry , dear heart , and Stones do melt against the Sun ; My love from thee shall never depart , till these things are performed and done . The white Swan shall turn black , I say , the Mountains all removed shall be ; If my love from thee shall go astray , so long as life remains in me . The Maids Letter from London to the Prentice Now I am gone away from thee , yet I'll stay but a little while ; And I will come again to thee , if that it was five hundred Mile . If it was five hundred Miles , my Dear , which I think it is too far for thee , But if it was ten times as far , still I would do as much for thee . Dear heart , just like the Turtle-Dove which is sitting upon yonders Tree , And waiting for her own true Love , just even so do I for thee . O then this Youngman tore his hair , and bitterly he did lament : Because he could not enjoy his Dear , her absence caused his discontent . Her Father understanding then that Letters passed between them both : Sent for his Daughter home again , and was resolved to know the truth . Now welcome home , my Daughter dear , thrice welcome home art thee : Then bespoke the Prentice with good cheer ten thousand times welcome to me . Her Father hearing him say so , straightways he gave them his consent : And then they to the Church did go , and married was to their content . And now let this a Pattern be , unto all Young Men and Maids : Then hereafter you shall not see so many go to the Elizium Shades . FINIS . Printed for J. Blare . at the Looking-Glass , on London-Bridge . 