The Resolute Gallant . Who bends his mind to nothing but be merry , And counts no Physic like to good Canary , Which hath infused such Judgement in all cases , He cures all kind of Maladies in Lasses . Tune of , A Blue coated Country serving Man. O F all the Towns that ever I see there's Godling is most pretty , And in my apprehension it's almost like to a City . Its Situation is most sweet , thought standing in a Valley , There is all sorts of Exercise , and a [ cun ] jous bowling Alley . There is Tobacco and good Ale and handsome Wenches plenty , It is a gallant Town I swear the rarest Town in twenty . There's Betty can no water drink , Betty can drink no water , She in her pate has this Conceit , that good Canary's better . You nasty whores go hang you all , you nasty whores go hang you , I have a Love my thoughts does move to come no more among you , Then comes to me my dearest dear and let's embrace each other , With your good will I'll try my skill to get one like the mother . Or like my self a wanton boy , who shall delight his senses , And love to be in Company with none but pretty wenches . Then freely take this my advice and leave the Trade of scorning , We'll clip and kiss no joys like this to hug from Night to morning . I have and Instrument complete if you'll be pleased to try it , It'll make you glad when you are sad , then prithee don't deny it . It virtue hath within its self which many maids hath cured , Who found relief to ease their grief , yet they no pain endured . But since you are so careful Sir to ease me of my sorrow , With thee I'll lie this trick to try all night until to morrow . For I have something in my breast which caused me to languish , Both night and day I fell away and felt great pain and Anguish . If you can ease me of my pain and prove so mighty skilful , Your Suit no more I will deny , no more I will be wilful . Then take and use me as you will for I am condescending , For on your Art my pained heart for cure is now depending . Then drink and let's be merry now with Ale that is the strongest , We'll laugh and swear we'll take no care nor think who shall live longest . He's happy that can take delight and love for to be merry , Then let's fit down & amp ; drink healths round , what's better than good Sherry . It's that which drowns all sorrow quite and recreates the senses , While we drink Sack no joys we lack , our pleasure then Commences . If Sack were once Prohibited 'twere good for the Physicians , They have great store of Patients then would lie in sad Conditions . But Sack routs out Distempers so , Physic need not be used , But yet excess the Brains oppress and men oft times abused . Drink Sack with moderation , there your Healths will be preserved , When too much drink your purses shrink you well enough are served . Printed for M Cole TO Vere J Wright J Clark , W Thackery , & amp ; TO Passenger [ . ] The Resolute Gallant . Who bends his mind to nothing but be merry , And counts no Physic like to good Canary , Which hath infused such Judgement in all cases , He cures all kind of Maladies in Lasses . Tune of , A Blue coated Country serving Man. O F all the Towns that ever I see there's Godling is most pretty , And in my apprehension it's almost like to a City . Its Situation is most sweet , thought standing in a Valley , There is all sorts of Exercise , and a [ cun ] jous bowling Alley . There is Tobacco and good Ale and handsome Wenches plenty , It is a gallant Town I swear the rarest Town in twenty . There's Betty can no water drink , Betty can drink no water , She in her pate has this Conceit , that good Canary's better . You nasty whores go hang you all , you nasty whores go hang you , I have a Love my thoughts does move to come no more among you , Then comes to me my dearest dear and let's embrace each other , With your good will I'll try my skill to get one like the mother . Or like my self a wanton boy , who shall delight his senses , And love to be in Company with none but pretty wenches . Then freely take this my advice and leave the Trade of scorning , We'll clip and kiss no joys like this to hug from Night to morning . I have and Instrument complete if you'll be pleased to try it , It'll make you glad when you are sad , then prithee don't deny it . It virtue hath within its self which many maids hath cured , Who found relief to ease their grief , yet they no pain endured . But since you are so careful Sir to ease me of my sorrow , With thee I'll lie this trick to try all night until to morrow . For I have something in my breast which caused me to languish , Both night and day I fell away and felt great pain and Anguish . If you can ease me of my pain and prove so mighty skilful , Your Suit no more I will deny , no more I will be wilful . Then take and use me as you will for I am condescending , For on your Art my pained heart for cure is now depending . Then drink and let's be merry now with Ale that is the strongest , We'll laugh and swear we'll take no care nor think who shall live longest . He's happy that can take delight and love for to be merry , Then let's fit down & amp ; drink healths round , what's better than good Sherry . It's that which drowns all sorrow quite and recreates the senses , While we drink Sack no joys we lack , our pleasure then Commences . If Sack were once Prohibited 'twere good for the Physicians , They have great store of Patients then would lie in sad Conditions . But Sack routs out Distempers so , Physic need not be used , But yet excess the Brains oppress and men oft times abused . Drink Sack with moderation , there your Healths will be preserved , When too much drink your purses shrink you well enough are served . Printed for M Cole TO Vere J Wright J Clark , W Thackery , & amp ; TO Passenger [ . ] 