And ANSWER to the Lovesick SERVING-MAN : OR , The comfortable Returns of the kind Lady , who being surprised by Cupid was compelled to Love . To the Tune of I often for my Jenny strove . Licensed according to Order . A Youthful Serving-Man of late , Bewailed his woeful wretched state , The Beauty of a Lady fair His yielding Heart did so ensnare , That he strightway called to Cupid For to bring his Golden Bow , To Wound this Lady who was ready Now to prove his Overthrow . Then being willing to obey , Kind Cupid made no more delay , But did resolve to take his flight , When as the silent sable Night Had conveyed her to her Lodging , Where he bent his Golden Bow , And did invade her , till he made he Love whither she would or no . For in a Vision , or a Dream , Her Father's Servingman did seem Before her Presence there to stand , While Cupid held him by the Hand , Saying , Lady you must love him , Therefore now some pity show ; Then don't deny him , nor defy him , For it must and shall be so . A Thousand thoughts ran in her head , As many Cupids round her Bed , Which did like armed Angels stand , With Golden Bows and Shafts in hand , Every one was pleading for him , And their Silver Shafts did show , Saying , Receive him , do not grieve him , For it must and shall be so . The youthful Lady did reply , What must I love , or must I die ? Tell me , is there no other way But this , to cast my self away , On my Father's meanest Servant ? Well , I find it must be so , I well approve him , needs must love him , Though it proves my Overthrow . I know my Father he will Frown , And Ladies too of high Renown , But yet I needs must love him still , Let all the World say what they will : My soft Heart is now inflamed , Love in every Vein does flow , I'll freely take him , never forsake him For it must and shall be so . What though my noble Father dear Disowns his Daughter utterly , I have Five Thousand Pounds a year , Of which no one can hinder me ; It's sufficient to Maintain us , Should my Father prove our Foe , My Love I ll Marry , long not tarry , For it must and shall be so . What though a Servingman he be , Whose Substance is but mean and small [ , ] His proper Person pleases me , True Love will make amends for all : It's beyond all Gold or Treasure , Him alone my Heart does crave , I will not tarry , but will Marry , And make him Lord of all I have . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare . J. Black . And ANSWER to the Lovesick SERVING-MAN : OR , The comfortable Returns of the kind Lady , who being surprised by Cupid was compelled to Love . To the Tune of I often for my Jenny strove . Licensed according to Order . A Youthful Serving-Man of late , Bewailed his woeful wretched state , The Beauty of a Lady fair His yielding Heart did so ensnare , That he strightway called to Cupid For to bring his Golden Bow , To Wound this Lady who was ready Now to prove his Overthrow . Then being willing to obey , Kind Cupid made no more delay , But did resolve to take his flight , When as the silent sable Night Had conveyed her to her Lodging , Where he bent his Golden Bow , And did invade her , till he made he Love whither she would or no . For in a Vision , or a Dream , Her Father's Servingman did seem Before her Presence there to stand , While Cupid held him by the Hand , Saying , Lady you must love him , Therefore now some pity show ; Then don't deny him , nor defy him , For it must and shall be so . A Thousand thoughts ran in her head , As many Cupids round her Bed , Which did like armed Angels stand , With Golden Bows and Shafts in hand , Every one was pleading for him , And their Silver Shafts did show , Saying , Receive him , do not grieve him , For it must and shall be so . The youthful Lady did reply , What must I love , or must I die ? Tell me , is there no other way But this , to cast my self away , On my Father's meanest Servant ? Well , I find it must be so , I well approve him , needs must love him , Though it proves my Overthrow . I know my Father he will Frown , And Ladies too of high Renown , But yet I needs must love him still , Let all the World say what they will : My soft Heart is now inflamed , Love in every Vein does flow , I'll freely take him , never forsake him For it must and shall be so . What though my noble Father dear Disowns his Daughter utterly , I have Five Thousand Pounds a year , Of which no one can hinder me ; It's sufficient to Maintain us , Should my Father prove our Foe , My Love I ll Marry , long not tarry , For it must and shall be so . What though a Servingman he be , Whose Substance is but mean and small [ , ] His proper Person pleases me , True Love will make amends for all : It's beyond all Gold or Treasure , Him alone my Heart does crave , I will not tarry , but will Marry , And make him Lord of all I have . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare . J. Black . 