The Rambling young Gallant Newly set up for himself . That Courts young Wenches night and day , And with them he can bravely Play ; And for his Sport they give him Money , They pay him well , and call him Honey : That he does bear the Bell away , among the Females every day ; They are brave Lasses I do swear , That will maintain a Man so rare . To the Tune of , Jenny come tie my bonny Cravat . By Robert Tippin . I Am a brisk Gallant , all this I can tell , I make use of my Wits , and I live very well ; I Court up young Wenches , and tell them a fair tale , And to give me Money they never do fail : There's never a Freeholder in England does dwell , That does live better than I do with my Girl . I hug them and kiss them both Evening and Morn , Mall is as good a Wench as ever was born ; She takes it so kindly , and thinks in no scorn , When I play with her Mousetrap & amp ; do her a good turn There's never , etc . Beside there is Dolly , she's as right as my Leg , Before I shall want she swears she will beg ; She gave me five Guinnies to come to her Bed , What need I to work more , or trouble my head ? There's never , etc There is Betty I swear , for all she looks so sour , When she sees my face she swears she has no power ; But we must into the Chamber for one half hour , Then she'l furnish my Pocket again with some Lower : There's never , etc . There is bonny Kate with her rolling eye , If I stay long away she is ready to cry ; And when I do come , she will lay all work by , And Clip me and Kiss me , and then who but I ? There's never , etc . There is whining Jane for all she looks so thin , Is as good as the rest for to play a fresh Game : And I must be brisk with her when I do begin , Then Money comes into my Pockets again : There's never a Freeholder in England does dwell , That does live better than I do with my Girl . The seoond part , to the same Tune . A Nd Sarah the Lace-maker , she is complete , She sets Meat before me as long as I'de eat , But before I do go I must needs do the Feat , And show my self loving , I am paid well for that : There's never , etc , And Bridget is as willing as any Girl in the Town , Let me come when I will , she will give me a Crown ; Then her Magpie is Wanton , and we must lie down , There's no clothes wears better then a new green gown There's never , etc . And little short Hannah must not be forgotten , She'l sport and she'l play with the thing you know what She'l hold up her Cunny-Ball and cling to the full , Then she'l give me Money , is not this a good Girl ? There's never , etc . And thus you may see what a Trade I have god , I have Money in my pocket , & amp ; brave clothes to my back I go like a Lord in a Coach every day , I need not fear wanting , my Girls they will pay : There's never , etc . The times they be hard , and I must use my Art , At every turn I must have a Sweetheart ; I pleasure their humours as right as a hair , Then I cannot want Money there is no great fear : There's never , etc . I had best to conclude , and not speak too long , Lest any young Maid should chance for to long ; But yet there is help enough to be found , Unless that youngmen they be high bound : There's never a Freeholder in England does dwell , That does live better then I do with my Girl . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the sign of the Rainbow , near St. Andrews Church in Holborn . The Rambling young Gallant Newly set up for himself . That Courts young Wenches night and day , And with them he can bravely Play ; And for his Sport they give him Money , They pay him well , and call him Honey : That he does bear the Bell away , among the Females every day ; They are brave Lasses I do swear , That will maintain a Man so rare . To the Tune of , Jenny come tie my bonny Cravat . By Robert Tippin . I Am a brisk Gallant , all this I can tell , I make use of my Wits , and I live very well ; I Court up young Wenches , and tell them a fair tale , And to give me Money they never do fail : There's never a Freeholder in England does dwell , That does live better than I do with my Girl . I hug them and kiss them both Evening and Morn , Mall is as good a Wench as ever was born ; She takes it so kindly , and thinks in no scorn , When I play with her Mousetrap & amp ; do her a good turn There's never , etc . Beside there is Dolly , she's as right as my Leg , Before I shall want she swears she will beg ; She gave me five Guinnies to come to her Bed , What need I to work more , or trouble my head ? There's never , etc There is Betty I swear , for all she looks so sour , When she sees my face she swears she has no power ; But we must into the Chamber for one half hour , Then she'l furnish my Pocket again with some Lower : There's never , etc . There is bonny Kate with her rolling eye , If I stay long away she is ready to cry ; And when I do come , she will lay all work by , And Clip me and Kiss me , and then who but I ? There's never , etc . There is whining Jane for all she looks so thin , Is as good as the rest for to play a fresh Game : And I must be brisk with her when I do begin , Then Money comes into my Pockets again : There's never a Freeholder in England does dwell , That does live better than I do with my Girl . The seoond part , to the same Tune . A Nd Sarah the Lace-maker , she is complete , She sets Meat before me as long as I'de eat , But before I do go I must needs do the Feat , And show my self loving , I am paid well for that : There's never , etc , And Bridget is as willing as any Girl in the Town , Let me come when I will , she will give me a Crown ; Then her Magpie is Wanton , and we must lie down , There's no clothes wears better then a new green gown There's never , etc . And little short Hannah must not be forgotten , She'l sport and she'l play with the thing you know what She'l hold up her Cunny-Ball and cling to the full , Then she'l give me Money , is not this a good Girl ? There's never , etc . And thus you may see what a Trade I have god , I have Money in my pocket , & amp ; brave clothes to my back I go like a Lord in a Coach every day , I need not fear wanting , my Girls they will pay : There's never , etc . The times they be hard , and I must use my Art , At every turn I must have a Sweetheart ; I pleasure their humours as right as a hair , Then I cannot want Money there is no great fear : There's never , etc . I had best to conclude , and not speak too long , Lest any young Maid should chance for to long ; But yet there is help enough to be found , Unless that youngmen they be high bound : There's never a Freeholder in England does dwell , That does live better then I do with my Girl . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the sign of the Rainbow , near St. Andrews Church in Holborn . 