The Description of a Town Miss . OR , A Looking-Glass for all Confident Ladies . A POEM , Describing all their Arts , Titilations , and Temptations which they set to ensnare Young Men , and unadvised Lovers . [ ? ] f these few Lines are well digested , no Man shall be seduced by a fair flattering woman . To the Tune of , Amarilli . Y Ou Limber Ladies that appear , in diverse kind of dresses , As if you meant to put your ware , in several sorts of messes : Your eyelids do expressly show , to every kind good fellow , What colours you do bear below , black , brown , white , read , or yellow . What is it that you would be at , you stare so much upon us ? You look , in brief , as keen as if , that you would overrun us : Your quaking hips and trembling lips , does perfectly relate it , So very well , that we can tell , [ ? ] y'r stark mad to be at it . What means you curling & amp ; your paint your powder , and your patches , Unless it be by kind constraint , to stow us under hatches : Your fancies frail you do intail , with many gay bravadoes : It's this makes many a Merchant sail , from Venice to Barbadoes . Brave consultations do appear , when Ladies are convening , What makes you steer , and wink & amp ; jear prey spread abroad your meaning : That we may thrust our judgements in and spend our approbation , Your single wit's not worth a pin , till mixed in Copulation . A and therefore speak your minds sweet souls discover your distresses , Your necks , and breasts , & amp ; rups , & amp ; rolls , does furnish us with guesses : Your Eyebrows & amp ; your shades of hair , so temptingly expressed is , That by this little show of hair , we guess what all the rest is . Open your mind , we shall be kind , and stiffly stand to serve you , If we have but a bit , you'll find we do not mean to starve you : With bit for bit , and chinck for chinck , we'll quench your Titillation , You feed on men-kinds meat and drink and have the same temptation . This active fire , and high desire , too fervently does cease you , That Hercules himself would tire , did he attempt to please you : He fitted fifty Girls a night , but at the last his face is , A Ne plus ultra there to write , for they were Nunquam Satis . With Cypress , and with fine Love-hoods you vail your splendant faces , Like pictures made to stir the blood , put into Crystal cases : Like Phoebus clouded in the Sky , or daylight when it's dawning , But pray let's try what you mean by your Stretching and your Yawning [ . ] We see the sallies of your blood , and spirits in commotion : We see the pretty Ebb and Flood , more active then the Ocean : Your stirring , capering , rolling eyes , where Cupid comes and dances , divulge , though we have dancing thighs that you have dancing fancies . At thirteen years young Ladies are contriving tricks to tempt you , Ay sixteen years come if you dare , you shall have Kisses plenty : At eighteen they are flush as May , well furnished to content you , At fifteen she would bucking be , but a Devil at One and Twenty . All those designs will never catch , for I think there is no man , That though sometime he get a snatch will surfeit upon woman : So long as we are coming on , you simper to deceive us , But when out dancing days are done , yowl wheel about and leave us . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . The Description of a Town Miss . OR , A Looking-Glass for all Confident Ladies . A POEM , Describing all their Arts , Titilations , and Temptations which they set to ensnare Young Men , and unadvised Lovers . [ ? ] f these few Lines are well digested , no Man shall be seduced by a fair flattering woman . To the Tune of , Amarilli . Y Ou Limber Ladies that appear , in diverse kind of dresses , As if you meant to put your ware , in several sorts of messes : Your eyelids do expressly show , to every kind good fellow , What colours you do bear below , black , brown , white , read , or yellow . What is it that you would be at , you stare so much upon us ? You look , in brief , as keen as if , that you would overrun us : Your quaking hips and trembling lips , does perfectly relate it , So very well , that we can tell , [ ? ] y'r stark mad to be at it . What means you curling & amp ; your paint your powder , and your patches , Unless it be by kind constraint , to stow us under hatches : Your fancies frail you do intail , with many gay bravadoes : It's this makes many a Merchant sail , from Venice to Barbadoes . Brave consultations do appear , when Ladies are convening , What makes you steer , and wink & amp ; jear prey spread abroad your meaning : That we may thrust our judgements in and spend our approbation , Your single wit's not worth a pin , till mixed in Copulation . A and therefore speak your minds sweet souls discover your distresses , Your necks , and breasts , & amp ; rups , & amp ; rolls , does furnish us with guesses : Your Eyebrows & amp ; your shades of hair , so temptingly expressed is , That by this little show of hair , we guess what all the rest is . Open your mind , we shall be kind , and stiffly stand to serve you , If we have but a bit , you'll find we do not mean to starve you : With bit for bit , and chinck for chinck , we'll quench your Titillation , You feed on men-kinds meat and drink and have the same temptation . This active fire , and high desire , too fervently does cease you , That Hercules himself would tire , did he attempt to please you : He fitted fifty Girls a night , but at the last his face is , A Ne plus ultra there to write , for they were Nunquam Satis . With Cypress , and with fine Love-hoods you vail your splendant faces , Like pictures made to stir the blood , put into Crystal cases : Like Phoebus clouded in the Sky , or daylight when it's dawning , But pray let's try what you mean by your Stretching and your Yawning [ . ] We see the sallies of your blood , and spirits in commotion : We see the pretty Ebb and Flood , more active then the Ocean : Your stirring , capering , rolling eyes , where Cupid comes and dances , divulge , though we have dancing thighs that you have dancing fancies . At thirteen years young Ladies are contriving tricks to tempt you , Ay sixteen years come if you dare , you shall have Kisses plenty : At eighteen they are flush as May , well furnished to content you , At fifteen she would bucking be , but a Devil at One and Twenty . All those designs will never catch , for I think there is no man , That though sometime he get a snatch will surfeit upon woman : So long as we are coming on , you simper to deceive us , But when out dancing days are done , yowl wheel about and leave us . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . 