Short and Sweet , Or , the happy and Agreeable Wooing of Oliver and Dorothy Wherein is discovered the plain and Easy way to a Marriage Estate , And how Maidens without difficulty may get Good Husbands . To the Tune of , the Gunfleet . This may be Printed , R. P. I them in Love says Noll , Indeed says Doll ; but prithee say with who , I fear says he ; come speak says she , why then it is with you : you Jest says Doll , Good faith says Noll , you do me wrong my Dolley , but men says she , to flattery be too much addicted Nolley . I vow says Noll , I Love thee Doll , but pray sir tell me where , at my heart say he , at your heart says she and do you Love me there . This true says Noll , But you say Doll , do Love another better ; who is't says he , why Nan says she , you tother day did treat her . Fie , fie ! says Noll , Why why ? says Doll , why Nan did come to me , and praised me right , that very Night , to her Sweetheart Humphery What then ? says Doll , why then says Noll , I Gave her a pint of wine Doll , what else ? says she , why Cakes , says he , and yet no Miss of mine Doll . But yet says Doll , My father Noll , does say you are poor of late ; how ! poor says he , yes poor says she , and must not be my mate , I have says Noll , What haste says Doll , why I have house and Land Doll , where is't says she , why it's says he , at the Lower end o't'h Strand Doll . What goods , says Doll , All sorts says Noll , that in a house are common , indeed says she , and fit says he for any honest woman , How ! how ! says Doll , Good faith says Noll , it's true , and they're my own , and a feather bed , with Curtains Read , for thee and I to lie on . Then it's says Doll , A Match says Noll , let Father and Mother chide , ' its done says he , it's done says she , and I will be thy Bride ; Let's Kiss says Noll , Content says Doll , and ther's another for you , when Wed we ? says he , to Morrow , says she , we will no Longer Tarry . Come , then says Noll , We'll go my Doll and see the House before , and then says he , what then says she , thouled find I am not poor . Agreed says Doll , And when ? says Noll , to Morrow we are Wedded : thy Parents shall , and Kindred all , then come and see us beded . And then says Noll , What then ? says Doll i'll make of thee a Mother , what Else ? says Doll why Love says Noll for ever one another ; The Lasses all , Both great and small , shall Envy what we do , while thou and I , loves force to try , and prove for ever true Printed for W. Thackeray , at the Angel in Duck-lane . Short and Sweet , Or , the happy and Agreeable Wooing of Oliver and Dorothy Wherein is discovered the plain and Easy way to a Marriage Estate , And how Maidens without difficulty may get Good Husbands . To the Tune of , the Gunfleet . This may be Printed , R. P. I them in Love says Noll , Indeed says Doll ; but prithee say with who , I fear says he ; come speak says she , why then it is with you : you Jest says Doll , Good faith says Noll , you do me wrong my Dolley , but men says she , to flattery be too much addicted Nolley . I vow says Noll , I Love thee Doll , but pray sir tell me where , at my heart say he , at your heart says she and do you Love me there . This true says Noll , But you say Doll , do Love another better ; who is't says he , why Nan says she , you tother day did treat her . Fie , fie ! says Noll , Why why ? says Doll , why Nan did come to me , and praised me right , that very Night , to her Sweetheart Humphery What then ? says Doll , why then says Noll , I Gave her a pint of wine Doll , what else ? says she , why Cakes , says he , and yet no Miss of mine Doll . But yet says Doll , My father Noll , does say you are poor of late ; how ! poor says he , yes poor says she , and must not be my mate , I have says Noll , What haste says Doll , why I have house and Land Doll , where is't says she , why it's says he , at the Lower end o't'h Strand Doll . What goods , says Doll , All sorts says Noll , that in a house are common , indeed says she , and fit says he for any honest woman , How ! how ! says Doll , Good faith says Noll , it's true , and they're my own , and a feather bed , with Curtains Read , for thee and I to lie on . Then it's says Doll , A Match says Noll , let Father and Mother chide , ' its done says he , it's done says she , and I will be thy Bride ; Let's Kiss says Noll , Content says Doll , and ther's another for you , when Wed we ? says he , to Morrow , says she , we will no Longer Tarry . Come , then says Noll , We'll go my Doll and see the House before , and then says he , what then says she , thouled find I am not poor . Agreed says Doll , And when ? says Noll , to Morrow we are Wedded : thy Parents shall , and Kindred all , then come and see us beded . And then says Noll , What then ? says Doll i'll make of thee a Mother , what Else ? says Doll why Love says Noll for ever one another ; The Lasses all , Both great and small , shall Envy what we do , while thou and I , loves force to try , and prove for ever true Printed for W. Thackeray , at the Angel in Duck-lane . 