The Slighted Virgin : OR , A Hue and Cry after Leynard the Taylor , Who is rubbed off with two Rings and three Pounds in Money , leaving his Love in the lurch , who in kindness had given him two of her Smo [ c ] ks to make Linings for his Breeches . To the Tune of , The Scotch Haymakers . C Ome you lusty Lovers and hear a pleasant Jest , Which in this merry Ditty , shall fiarly be expressed ; Pretty Lasses great and small , it is unto you I call , Trust not a Stranger , there is Danger , from their Vows they'll fallen , For by experience we find it true , A Taylor now of late bid him loyal Love adieu , And left her here behind , though she his Breeches lined With her old Smicket , he was wicked to be so unkind . He was nam Leynard , who courted this young Maid , She willingly consented because she liked the trade , Though he was not very Rich , yet her fingers they did itch For to be wedded , that when bedded , he might go through stich , Having a Booking that pleased her well ; But listen now I pray , while the naked truth I tell : He left this Lass behind , though she his Breeches lined With her old Smicket , he was wicked to be so unkind . O how he admired , his pretty charming fair , With solemn protestations he often did declare , That he loved he as his Life ; therefore now to end the strife , He vowed to take her , and to make her , his beloved Wife : She was well pleased to be a Bride , Thereofre the stiching Taylor , he was not long denied : Yet she was left behind , who had his Breeches lined With her old Smicket , waned he wicked to be so unkind ? When they had appointed the honourable day , On which they were to marry , he with a sighs did say , Love , my Breeches , should be lined , if I could some Linen find , The sweet young Creature , showed good nature , being more then kind , She fetched him two of her Smocks with speed , There with to line his Breeches , was this not love indeed : Yet he is gone , we find , though she his Breeches lined With her old Smicket , & amp ; c . He had go no Money , to buy a Wedding-ring , His Pockets being empty , this was a grievous thing ; Therefore loving Mistress Bride , she was willing to provide A stock of Money , for her honey , she his wants supplied , Before a Husband she'd longer lack , Her hoard of hidden Treasure , should fairly go to wrack ? Yet she is left behind , though she hsi Breeches lined With her old Smicket , & amp ; c . With two Rings she sent him , to fit her with a third , He promised that head please her , the Damsel took his word , Likewise Shillings full threescore , which was all she had in store , She gave the Taylor , who did fail her for she came no more ; Long she has waited for his return , And finding he si fled , the poor Creature she does mourn ; For she is left behind , though she his Breeches lined With her old Smicket , & amp ; c . Oh! yes , Oh! yes , if any tale or tidings bring Of Leynard , the poor Taylor , who went to buy the Ring , They shall rewarded be , it's not fit he should go free , With all her Treasure , Joy , and Pleasure he shall surely see , We'll pull his Cucummer courage down , He shall-not think to reign like a Ruffian in the Town : Though her he left behind , who hath his Breeches lined With her old Smicket , he was wicked to be so unkind . London : Printed for J. Blare at the Looking-glass on London-bridgeThe Slighted Virgin : OR , A Hue and Cry after Leynard the Taylor , Who is rubbed off with two Rings and three Pounds in Money , leaving his Love in the lurch , who in kindness had given him two of her Smo [ c ] ks to make Linings for his Breeches . To the Tune of , The Scotch Haymakers . C Ome you lusty Lovers and hear a pleasant Jest , Which in this merry Ditty , shall fiarly be expressed ; Pretty Lasses great and small , it is unto you I call , Trust not a Stranger , there is Danger , from their Vows they'll fallen , For by experience we find it true , A Taylor now of late bid him loyal Love adieu , And left her here behind , though she his Breeches lined With her old Smicket , he was wicked to be so unkind . He was nam Leynard , who courted this young Maid , She willingly consented because she liked the trade , Though he was not very Rich , yet her fingers they did itch For to be wedded , that when bedded , he might go through stich , Having a Booking that pleased her well ; But listen now I pray , while the naked truth I tell : He left this Lass behind , though she his Breeches lined With her old Smicket , he was wicked to be so unkind . O how he admired , his pretty charming fair , With solemn protestations he often did declare , That he loved he as his Life ; therefore now to end the strife , He vowed to take her , and to make her , his beloved Wife : She was well pleased to be a Bride , Thereofre the stiching Taylor , he was not long denied : Yet she was left behind , who had his Breeches lined With her old Smicket , waned he wicked to be so unkind ? When they had appointed the honourable day , On which they were to marry , he with a sighs did say , Love , my Breeches , should be lined , if I could some Linen find , The sweet young Creature , showed good nature , being more then kind , She fetched him two of her Smocks with speed , There with to line his Breeches , was this not love indeed : Yet he is gone , we find , though she his Breeches lined With her old Smicket , & amp ; c . He had go no Money , to buy a Wedding-ring , His Pockets being empty , this was a grievous thing ; Therefore loving Mistress Bride , she was willing to provide A stock of Money , for her honey , she his wants supplied , Before a Husband she'd longer lack , Her hoard of hidden Treasure , should fairly go to wrack ? Yet she is left behind , though she hsi Breeches lined With her old Smicket , & amp ; c . With two Rings she sent him , to fit her with a third , He promised that head please her , the Damsel took his word , Likewise Shillings full threescore , which was all she had in store , She gave the Taylor , who did fail her for she came no more ; Long she has waited for his return , And finding he si fled , the poor Creature she does mourn ; For she is left behind , though she his Breeches lined With her old Smicket , & amp ; c . Oh! yes , Oh! yes , if any tale or tidings bring Of Leynard , the poor Taylor , who went to buy the Ring , They shall rewarded be , it's not fit he should go free , With all her Treasure , Joy , and Pleasure he shall surely see , We'll pull his Cucummer courage down , He shall-not think to reign like a Ruffian in the Town : Though her he left behind , who hath his Breeches lined With her old Smicket , he was wicked to be so unkind . London : Printed for J. Blare at the Looking-glass on London-bridge 