The MAIDEN'S Melancholy Moan For the Loss of her VIRGINITY : Having been playing the wanton Wagtail with Nineteen or Twenty Bachelors , who could not certainly say which was the Father of her Child , to her great Grief and Sorrow . To the Tune of Liggan Water . Licensed according to Order . I Was a fair young Maid of late , But now unhappy is my Fate , For having lost my Maidenhead , My Sweethearts they are from me fled . My Fortune now I fear is spoiled , I being Six Months gone with Child , Which fills my Heart with grief and woe , For I do not the Father know . There many daily courted me Who was both loving kind and free , In giving Cakes and Kisses too , This did my pleasant Joys renew . Kind Robin me on his Knee , And did so kiss and cuddle me , That soon he did my Heart betray , No Lass alive could say him nay . Then after him near Twenty more , Who told me that they did adore My pretty little charming Eyes , Until they did obtain the Prize . But since I did begin to swell , Faith they bid me all farewell , Not one of them the Child will own , But leaves me sighing all alone . Their Trades and Callings I'll unfold , The first a Blacksmith brisk and bold , Who brought his Hammer in his hand , I fell for want of Strength to stand . Then being down , he thumped me so , That getting up , I scarce could go ; Yet this I took , and never cried , But now the pain lies in my side . A jolly Joyner tall and trim , He was the next man after him ; His Tools he brought one , two and three , And all to do a Job for me . Then smerking John the Baker's man , He promised me a Muff and Fan , If that I would but once be kind , Then strait I was to Love inclined , A nimble Taylor fine and brave , With Cap in hand did often crave A fine soft tender Kiss or two , What I gave more , I now may rue . Then with his Yard he measured me , To make my Gown and Mantua free ; But o ! the Knave has vexed me soar , He has made them both too short before . Then after him a Bricklayer came , Geud faith I have forgotten his Name , Such jolly Men there is but few , He did both Kiss and squeeze me too . I kindly set the Knave to work , But to me he proved a Shirk ; I had no cause to like his Tricks , He laid me Stones instead of Bricks . By many more I have been wronged , Of what of late to me belonged ; But it is gone and passed I see , And there is left no help for me . I to the Smith did go one day , And unto him did sighing say , Alas ! I am with Child by thee , But Robin would not credit me . His Answer was immediately , I prithee don't disputing stand , I own the Child , if that it be born with the Hammer in his hand . Thus was I served by all the rest , So that I solemnly protest , I am a Damsel here defiled , That has no Father for my Child . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . The MAIDEN'S Melancholy Moan For the Loss of her VIRGINITY : Having been playing the wanton Wagtail with Nineteen or Twenty Bachelors , who could not certainly say which was the Father of her Child , to her great Grief and Sorrow . To the Tune of Liggan Water . Licensed according to Order . I Was a fair young Maid of late , But now unhappy is my Fate , For having lost my Maidenhead , My Sweethearts they are from me fled . My Fortune now I fear is spoiled , I being Six Months gone with Child , Which fills my Heart with grief and woe , For I do not the Father know . There many daily courted me Who was both loving kind and free , In giving Cakes and Kisses too , This did my pleasant Joys renew . Kind Robin me on his Knee , And did so kiss and cuddle me , That soon he did my Heart betray , No Lass alive could say him nay . Then after him near Twenty more , Who told me that they did adore My pretty little charming Eyes , Until they did obtain the Prize . But since I did begin to swell , Faith they bid me all farewell , Not one of them the Child will own , But leaves me sighing all alone . Their Trades and Callings I'll unfold , The first a Blacksmith brisk and bold , Who brought his Hammer in his hand , I fell for want of Strength to stand . Then being down , he thumped me so , That getting up , I scarce could go ; Yet this I took , and never cried , But now the pain lies in my side . A jolly Joyner tall and trim , He was the next man after him ; His Tools he brought one , two and three , And all to do a Job for me . Then smerking John the Baker's man , He promised me a Muff and Fan , If that I would but once be kind , Then strait I was to Love inclined , A nimble Taylor fine and brave , With Cap in hand did often crave A fine soft tender Kiss or two , What I gave more , I now may rue . Then with his Yard he measured me , To make my Gown and Mantua free ; But o ! the Knave has vexed me soar , He has made them both too short before . Then after him a Bricklayer came , Geud faith I have forgotten his Name , Such jolly Men there is but few , He did both Kiss and squeeze me too . I kindly set the Knave to work , But to me he proved a Shirk ; I had no cause to like his Tricks , He laid me Stones instead of Bricks . By many more I have been wronged , Of what of late to me belonged ; But it is gone and passed I see , And there is left no help for me . I to the Smith did go one day , And unto him did sighing say , Alas ! I am with Child by thee , But Robin would not credit me . His Answer was immediately , I prithee don't disputing stand , I own the Child , if that it be born with the Hammer in his hand . Thus was I served by all the rest , So that I solemnly protest , I am a Damsel here defiled , That has no Father for my Child . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 