And Excellent New Play-House Song , Called , The Bonny Milk-Maid . To and Excellent New Tune much in Request . Y E Nymph's and Sylvian Gods , That loves Green Fields and Woods , When Spring newly blown , Her self does adorn With Flowers and blooming Buds , Come sing in the praise ( While Flocks do graze In yonder pleasant Vale ) Of those choose Their sleep so loose , And in cold Dews , With clouted shoes , Do carry the Milking Pail . The Goddess of the morn With blushes they adorn , And take the fresh Air , While Linnets prepare A Consort on each green Thorn : The Blackbird and Thrush , On every bush , And the charming Nightengale , In merry vain Their throats do strain , Go entertain The jolly Train That carry the Milking Pail . When cold bleak Winds do roar , And Flowers can spring no more , The Fields that were seen So Pleasant and Green , By Winter all Candid over , O how the Town Lass Looks with her white face , And her lips of deadly pale , But it is not so With those that go Through Frost and Snow , With cheeks that glow , To carry the Milking Pail . The Miss of courtly mould , Adorned with Pearl and Gold , With Washes and a Paint Her skin does so taint , She's weathered before she'd old , While she in commode Puts on a Cartload , And with cusheons plumps her tail , What joys are found In Russet Gown , Young , plump , and round , And sweet , and found , That carry the Milking Pail . The Girls of Venus Game , That ventures health and fame , In practising feats With colds and with heats , Make Lovers go blind and lame , If men were so Wise To valve the prize Of the Wares most fit for Sale , What store of Beaus , Would daubt their clothes , To save a Nose , By following thoss That carry the Milking Pail . The Country Lad is free From fears and Jealousy , When upon the Green He is often seen With his lass upon his Knee , With Kisses most sweet He does her so treat , And swears she'll never grow stale , While the London Lass , In every place , With her brazen face , Despises the Grace Of those with the Milking Pail . Printed for Charles Bates , at the Sun and Bible , near St. Sepulchres Church , in Pye-Corner . And Excellent New Play-House Song , Called , The Bonny Milk-Maid . To and Excellent New Tune much in Request . Y E Nymph's and Sylvian Gods , That loves Green Fields and Woods , When Spring newly blown , Her self does adorn With Flowers and blooming Buds , Come sing in the praise ( While Flocks do graze In yonder pleasant Vale ) Of those choose Their sleep so loose , And in cold Dews , With clouted shoes , Do carry the Milking Pail . The Goddess of the morn With blushes they adorn , And take the fresh Air , While Linnets prepare A Consort on each green Thorn : The Blackbird and Thrush , On every bush , And the charming Nightengale , In merry vain Their throats do strain , Go entertain The jolly Train That carry the Milking Pail . When cold bleak Winds do roar , And Flowers can spring no more , The Fields that were seen So Pleasant and Green , By Winter all Candid over , O how the Town Lass Looks with her white face , And her lips of deadly pale , But it is not so With those that go Through Frost and Snow , With cheeks that glow , To carry the Milking Pail . The Miss of courtly mould , Adorned with Pearl and Gold , With Washes and a Paint Her skin does so taint , She's weathered before she'd old , While she in commode Puts on a Cartload , And with cusheons plumps her tail , What joys are found In Russet Gown , Young , plump , and round , And sweet , and found , That carry the Milking Pail . The Girls of Venus Game , That ventures health and fame , In practising feats With colds and with heats , Make Lovers go blind and lame , If men were so Wise To valve the prize Of the Wares most fit for Sale , What store of Beaus , Would daubt their clothes , To save a Nose , By following thoss That carry the Milking Pail . The Country Lad is free From fears and Jealousy , When upon the Green He is often seen With his lass upon his Knee , With Kisses most sweet He does her so treat , And swears she'll never grow stale , While the London Lass , In every place , With her brazen face , Despises the Grace Of those with the Milking Pail . Printed for Charles Bates , at the Sun and Bible , near St. Sepulchres Church , in Pye-Corner . 