A Copy of VERSES OF A Baker and a Mealman : Giving and Account of their subtle Intrigues with their Mi - stresses , and how the Mealman god his Maid with Child . To the Tune of , The Scotch Haymakers . I N Blackman-street there dwelled Sir a Baker of renown , Skilled in the feats of Venus , and doing Girls oth' Town , But in time it so fell out , as he went to take a Bout , Says his Mistress , Prithee do not do me , Faith I will cry out : Long had he sewed for her Maidenhead in vain , But it was a hidden Treasure she ever would maintain ; Nor would she ever consent to her Pillory Gallant , But always cried , Sir be denied , your Suit I will not grant . But once upon a time Sir , god in a merry mood , He caught his Mistress Nanny , and thus again he wooed , O my dearest pretty , fair , now my Passion I declare , Pray don't deny , but let me try how I can use my Spear ; Dear Nanny be not Coy , but let me now enjoy , For why should you deny me that pretty , pretty Toy : I'll be constant , Love , and true , and kiss none else but you , Then prithee Nanny let me do thee , prithee Nanny do . With this she soon consented , and granted his Request , And she let him taken a Touch Sir , although it was in Jest ; Nor no more could she deny for to let the Baker try , But she turned up her dainty Cup , and bid him do and die ; He tuned his Quill , Sir , and soon began To play the finest Lesson that ever was played by Man : Then did he toil and sweat , her Maidenhead to get , And he gave a Guinea to his Nanny for surrendering it . But near this fruitful Baker , a Mealman too did dwell , Both Brothers in their Calling both ripe enough for Hell ; Come then listen to my Tale which I quickly mean to tell , This Mealman had a pretty Maid that in his house did dwell : Ever long so it happened , he taught her a Dance , Which some People do report to be Alamode de France ; But be it what it will , he handled so his Quill , That in little space the Babe of Grace did make her Belly swell . This sudden Metamorphose the pretty Maid did fear , And she said unto her Master , You've poisoned me I swear : Oh! Sir , see what you have done , for my Belly's like a Tun , This plaguy Bout has caused this Rout , o ! whither shall I run ? If this be your Dancing , I'll Dance no more , If I do , I'll give you leave , Sir , to call me a Whore : But o this plaguy Bout , my Guts will tumble out , Oh! Master , Master , this Disaster causes a fearful Rout. London : Printed for P. Pelcomb in Old-bedlam . A Copy of VERSES OF A Baker and a Mealman : Giving and Account of their subtle Intrigues with their Mi - stresses , and how the Mealman god his Maid with Child . To the Tune of , The Scotch Haymakers . I N Blackman-street there dwelled Sir a Baker of renown , Skilled in the feats of Venus , and doing Girls oth' Town , But in time it so fell out , as he went to take a Bout , Says his Mistress , Prithee do not do me , Faith I will cry out : Long had he sewed for her Maidenhead in vain , But it was a hidden Treasure she ever would maintain ; Nor would she ever consent to her Pillory Gallant , But always cried , Sir be denied , your Suit I will not grant . But once upon a time Sir , god in a merry mood , He caught his Mistress Nanny , and thus again he wooed , O my dearest pretty , fair , now my Passion I declare , Pray don't deny , but let me try how I can use my Spear ; Dear Nanny be not Coy , but let me now enjoy , For why should you deny me that pretty , pretty Toy : I'll be constant , Love , and true , and kiss none else but you , Then prithee Nanny let me do thee , prithee Nanny do . With this she soon consented , and granted his Request , And she let him taken a Touch Sir , although it was in Jest ; Nor no more could she deny for to let the Baker try , But she turned up her dainty Cup , and bid him do and die ; He tuned his Quill , Sir , and soon began To play the finest Lesson that ever was played by Man : Then did he toil and sweat , her Maidenhead to get , And he gave a Guinea to his Nanny for surrendering it . But near this fruitful Baker , a Mealman too did dwell , Both Brothers in their Calling both ripe enough for Hell ; Come then listen to my Tale which I quickly mean to tell , This Mealman had a pretty Maid that in his house did dwell : Ever long so it happened , he taught her a Dance , Which some People do report to be Alamode de France ; But be it what it will , he handled so his Quill , That in little space the Babe of Grace did make her Belly swell . This sudden Metamorphose the pretty Maid did fear , And she said unto her Master , You've poisoned me I swear : Oh! Sir , see what you have done , for my Belly's like a Tun , This plaguy Bout has caused this Rout , o ! whither shall I run ? If this be your Dancing , I'll Dance no more , If I do , I'll give you leave , Sir , to call me a Whore : But o this plaguy Bout , my Guts will tumble out , Oh! Master , Master , this Disaster causes a fearful Rout. London : Printed for P. Pelcomb in Old-bedlam . 