THE THREE Buxom Maids of Yoel : OR , The P [ l ] easant Entreague betwixt them and a Country Sive-maker , who left them a large Reckoning to pay for their Pissing in the Sive . To the Tune of , The Guinney wins her . Licensed according to Order . P ray listen to this Ditty , for it will make you merry , Three Lasses fair and pretty , was treated with canary , In Yoel by a loving Friend , Who , it seems , did cry , Old Sives to mend ; a jolly bonny Blade , and as he cried his trade , it was his chance to meet , these Lasses in the street , which he resolved to tread With wine , for they were buxom , brisk and fine . The first was mincing Sarah , the second buxom Betty , The third young modest Marry , all Lasses fair and pretty ; With him they at the Tavern went , For to spend the day in sweet content ; the Sive-maker and they , would frolic , sport and play , and call for liquour store , making the Tavern roar ; the Sive-maker he swore That he , would tickle them above the knee . Brisk Betty did not fear him , but bid him use his pleasure , And straight she sat down near him , and kissed her out of measure ; At which young Sarah seemed to frown , And her tears in sorrow trickled down , because he kissed her first , who was the very worst ; But pretty Girls , said he , let's lovingly agree , and do not press on me So fast , I'll serve you all alike at last . Quoth Marry , I admire your tender kind embraces , It hithtens our desire , when we are joining faces ; By true experience this I know , Therefore I declare before we go , the Sive-maker shall be , Both loving , kind and free . Sweet Lasses , he replied , nothing shall be denied , if with a flowing tide You'll fill , this Sive here with your water-mill . Bess knew it must be vented , she was not for denying , The rest likewise consented , their flood gates they let flying ; He held the Sive , they poured it in , Betty's engine played above his chin , and blinded both his eyes , he in a passion cries , I can't endure the smart , it cuts me to the heart ; with that he did depart Away , and left them all the shot to pay . They laughed to see him scour , and called for more canary , Then waiting there and hour , at length quoth modest Mary , I fear that he will come no more , Therefore let us call to [ oh ] now the score ; to this they straight agreed , the Drawer came with speed , and cried without delay , you must ten shillings pay , before you go your way , It's true , this made the Lasses all look ble [ w ] . Though joys they had been reaping , yet seeing they were worsted , Poor Girls , they feel a weeping , and wanted to be trusted ; The Drawer he began to rave , He would present satisfaction have they having then no stock , each Damsel pawned her smock , which was of dowlas fine , to pay for bred and wine , then went away at nine , And swore , they never piss in Sives no more [ re . ] London : Printed for J. Blare , at the sign of the Looking-glass on London-bridge . THE THREE Buxom Maids of Yoel : OR , The P [ l ] easant Entreague betwixt them and a Country Sive-maker , who left them a large Reckoning to pay for their Pissing in the Sive . To the Tune of , The Guinney wins her . Licensed according to Order . P ray listen to this Ditty , for it will make you merry , Three Lasses fair and pretty , was treated with canary , In Yoel by a loving Friend , Who , it seems , did cry , Old Sives to mend ; a jolly bonny Blade , and as he cried his trade , it was his chance to meet , these Lasses in the street , which he resolved to tread With wine , for they were buxom , brisk and fine . The first was mincing Sarah , the second buxom Betty , The third young modest Marry , all Lasses fair and pretty ; With him they at the Tavern went , For to spend the day in sweet content ; the Sive-maker and they , would frolic , sport and play , and call for liquour store , making the Tavern roar ; the Sive-maker he swore That he , would tickle them above the knee . Brisk Betty did not fear him , but bid him use his pleasure , And straight she sat down near him , and kissed her out of measure ; At which young Sarah seemed to frown , And her tears in sorrow trickled down , because he kissed her first , who was the very worst ; But pretty Girls , said he , let's lovingly agree , and do not press on me So fast , I'll serve you all alike at last . Quoth Marry , I admire your tender kind embraces , It hithtens our desire , when we are joining faces ; By true experience this I know , Therefore I declare before we go , the Sive-maker shall be , Both loving , kind and free . Sweet Lasses , he replied , nothing shall be denied , if with a flowing tide You'll fill , this Sive here with your water-mill . Bess knew it must be vented , she was not for denying , The rest likewise consented , their flood gates they let flying ; He held the Sive , they poured it in , Betty's engine played above his chin , and blinded both his eyes , he in a passion cries , I can't endure the smart , it cuts me to the heart ; with that he did depart Away , and left them all the shot to pay . They laughed to see him scour , and called for more canary , Then waiting there and hour , at length quoth modest Mary , I fear that he will come no more , Therefore let us call to [ oh ] now the score ; to this they straight agreed , the Drawer came with speed , and cried without delay , you must ten shillings pay , before you go your way , It's true , this made the Lasses all look ble [ w ] . Though joys they had been reaping , yet seeing they were worsted , Poor Girls , they feel a weeping , and wanted to be trusted ; The Drawer he began to rave , He would present satisfaction have they having then no stock , each Damsel pawned her smock , which was of dowlas fine , to pay for bred and wine , then went away at nine , And swore , they never piss in Sives no more [ re . ] London : Printed for J. Blare , at the sign of the Looking-glass on London-bridge . 