The Trappand Taylor : Or , A pretty Discovery , how a Taylor was cheated , and Married to a beggar-wench , taking her to be a Country Gentlewoman , she having good apparel , which and old Bawd had lent her , intending to use her as a necessary Instrument to pro - mote her trade . And may serve for a general warning to all the rest of that Finical Society . To the Tune of , The loving Lad , and coy Lass ; Or wanton Willy , etc J.P. C Ome hear a song , and a very fine Song , it's neither of Seamen nor Sailor : To tell you the truth this bonny young Youth was a finnikin vapouring Taylor . It was in the prime of Cucumber time when Tailors have very much leisure . This gallant so nimble did cast by his thimble and sport away time for his pleasure . A Beggar wench chanced to London to come , a Girl that had very good features , And begging about and old Bawd spied her out for why , we have store of such creatures . This cunning , old , crafty , and subtle piece ; she finding the Lass was willing , She took the wench in and washed her clean , and put her on very good Linen . She pulled off her rags , and gave her black-bags and made her as fine as may be , She looked so smug , she was not like Jug for she was as brisk as a Lady . She taught her the trade , to pass for a Maid , after she had been twenty times used ; And thus silly fools , are cheated like gulls , being baffled and basely abused . She used her art , and acted her part , as if she had been and old stander : She liked the trade , far better she said , than abroad in the Country to wander . Oft times as the door , like a crafty young whore she stood , for to tempt in her Cullies , When once they were in , she taught them to since , and dearly they paid for their follies . W Hilst she did frisk , this Taylor so brisk , it was his chance for to spy her , She ravished his heart before he would part , he hoped to enjoy his desire . For verily she , pretended to be a Country Gentleman's Daughter Come up the last Term , new fashions to learn but mark how she fitted him after . His trade he defies in hope of this prize , he now was a man worth regarding , He gave her rich gifts to purchase his drifts ; for he was in hope's of a bargain . By little and little she seemed to yield , being moved she said by his carriage , Provided that he would likewise agree to join with her in lawful marriage . He made no stay , but without delay , this couple was privately married , He thought by this plot a rich heir he had god but I think he had better a tarried . For when the Bawd found out their design , she vowed to have satisfaction : The Taylor she said , enough had not paid , so she presently entered and Actium . And then she did knap , the novice i'th trap to pay for his wives apparel : That she had her lent it made him repent , but it was but in vain for to quarrel . She stripped the fair Bride , he standing beside . like a man that would scorn to disown her , He ceased his brags when he saw his wiv's rags & amp ; wished that he never had known her . The rags they were known for to be her own to take them again she had reason : And since she did catch a blade that could patch he had botching work for a whole season . And thus the Taylor was finely trappand , he cursed , he swore , and he vapoured . It made him to stare , and tear off his hair , like a pig in a halter he capored . He skipped & amp ; he jumped , but sure he was mumpt as well as ever was any : A Beggar wench bride to lie by his side , might please him as well as a many . And now we will leave him to kiss up his wife for she's enough cool his courage , Let Tailors beware and have a great care how they join with such Beggars in Marriage But least that my song may be tedious & amp ; long , I'll end it with hey down derry For I put it in Rhyme , this Cucumber time that Tailors may laugh and be merry . FINIS . With Allowance . London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Pass - singer , and W. Whitwood . The Trappand Taylor : Or , A pretty Discovery , how a Taylor was cheated , and Married to a beggar-wench , taking her to be a Country Gentlewoman , she having good apparel , which and old Bawd had lent her , intending to use her as a necessary Instrument to pro - mote her trade . And may serve for a general warning to all the rest of that Finical Society . To the Tune of , The loving Lad , and coy Lass ; Or wanton Willy , etc J.P. C Ome hear a song , and a very fine Song , it's neither of Seamen nor Sailor : To tell you the truth this bonny young Youth was a finnikin vapouring Taylor . It was in the prime of Cucumber time when Tailors have very much leisure . This gallant so nimble did cast by his thimble and sport away time for his pleasure . A Beggar wench chanced to London to come , a Girl that had very good features , And begging about and old Bawd spied her out for why , we have store of such creatures . This cunning , old , crafty , and subtle piece ; she finding the Lass was willing , She took the wench in and washed her clean , and put her on very good Linen . She pulled off her rags , and gave her black-bags and made her as fine as may be , She looked so smug , she was not like Jug for she was as brisk as a Lady . She taught her the trade , to pass for a Maid , after she had been twenty times used ; And thus silly fools , are cheated like gulls , being baffled and basely abused . She used her art , and acted her part , as if she had been and old stander : She liked the trade , far better she said , than abroad in the Country to wander . Oft times as the door , like a crafty young whore she stood , for to tempt in her Cullies , When once they were in , she taught them to since , and dearly they paid for their follies . W Hilst she did frisk , this Taylor so brisk , it was his chance for to spy her , She ravished his heart before he would part , he hoped to enjoy his desire . For verily she , pretended to be a Country Gentleman's Daughter Come up the last Term , new fashions to learn but mark how she fitted him after . His trade he defies in hope of this prize , he now was a man worth regarding , He gave her rich gifts to purchase his drifts ; for he was in hope's of a bargain . By little and little she seemed to yield , being moved she said by his carriage , Provided that he would likewise agree to join with her in lawful marriage . He made no stay , but without delay , this couple was privately married , He thought by this plot a rich heir he had god but I think he had better a tarried . For when the Bawd found out their design , she vowed to have satisfaction : The Taylor she said , enough had not paid , so she presently entered and Actium . And then she did knap , the novice i'th trap to pay for his wives apparel : That she had her lent it made him repent , but it was but in vain for to quarrel . She stripped the fair Bride , he standing beside . like a man that would scorn to disown her , He ceased his brags when he saw his wiv's rags & amp ; wished that he never had known her . The rags they were known for to be her own to take them again she had reason : And since she did catch a blade that could patch he had botching work for a whole season . And thus the Taylor was finely trappand , he cursed , he swore , and he vapoured . It made him to stare , and tear off his hair , like a pig in a halter he capored . He skipped & amp ; he jumped , but sure he was mumpt as well as ever was any : A Beggar wench bride to lie by his side , might please him as well as a many . And now we will leave him to kiss up his wife for she's enough cool his courage , Let Tailors beware and have a great care how they join with such Beggars in Marriage But least that my song may be tedious & amp ; long , I'll end it with hey down derry For I put it in Rhyme , this Cucumber time that Tailors may laugh and be merry . FINIS . With Allowance . London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Pass - singer , and W. Whitwood . 