The Politic Beggerman . Who god the love of a pretty Maid , And on her Cittern sweetly played : At last she flung her Milkpail over the wall , And bid thee De'l take Milkpail , Maidenhead & amp ; all . Tune is , There was a Jovial Beggar . TO Here was a jovial Beggar-man , a begging he was bound , And he did seek his living in Country and in Town : With a long staff and a patched coat , he pranced along the pad , And by report of many a one , he was a proper Lad : His cheeks were like the crimson rose , his forehead smooth and high , And he was the bravest Beggerman , that ever I saw with eye . He came unto a Farmers gate , and for and Alms did crave ; The Maid did like the Beggerman , and good relief she gave : She took him by the Lily hand , and set him to the fire , Which was as well , as tongue could tell , or heart of man desire : His cheeks were like , etc A curious mess of Firmaty , for him she did provide ; With a lovely cup of nutbrown Ale , and Sugar-sops beside : when he thus found the Maidens love and god so good a prize , It made his instrument to move , and spirits for to rise : His cheeks were like , etc . Sweetheart give me some lodging , that I all night may stay , Or else give me my answer , that I may go that way : The Maid went to the Hay-mow , and fetched a bottle of Hay , And laid it behid the Parlor-door , on which the Beggar-man lay : His cheeks were like the crimson Rose , his forehead smooth and high ; And he was the bravest Beggerman , that ever I saw with eye . The second Part , to the same Tune . R Esolve me said the Maiden , if that you will or can , For I do verily believe , thou art a Gentleman : In truth then said the Beggar , my Parents they are poor , And I do seek my living , each day from door to door : His cheeks were like the crimson Rose , his forehead smooth and high , And he was the bravest Beggerman , that ever I saw with eye . It's pity said this Maiden fair , that such a lively Lad , Should be a Beggars only heir , a Fortune poor and bad : I wish that my condition were of the same degree , Then hand in hand i'de quickly weened , throughout the world with thee : His cheeks were like , etc When he perceived the Maidens mind , and that her heart was his , He did embrace her in his arms , and sweetly did her kiss , And with one free and joint consent , he pricked her master-vein , And liking well this lesson new , he struck it up again : His cheeks were like , etc In lovely sport and merriment , the night away they spent , In Venus game for their delight , and both their hearts content : The Beggerman was mettle proof , in shooting did not miss , And every time he touched the mark , she sweetly did him kiss : His cheeks were like , etc Betimes in the morning then , as soon as it was day , He left the Damosel fast asleep , and nimbly budged away : When he from her and hour was gone , the Damosel she did wake , And seeing the Beggerman not there , her heart began to ache : Her cheeks were like , etc Then did she sighs and wring her hands , the tears did trickling pour , For losing her Virginity , and virgins maiden flower : When twenty weeks were come & amp ; gone her heart was something sad , Because she found her self with Barn , and does not know the Dad : His cheeks were like , etc There is I see no remedy , for what is past and gone , And many a one that laughs at me , may do as I have done : Then did she take her Milkpail , and flung it over the wall , Oh the Devil go with my Milkpail , my Maidenhead and all : His cheeks were like , etc You Maidens fair , where ever you are , keep up your store and goods , for when that some have god their wills they'll leave you in the suds , Let no man tempt you nor entice , be not too found and coy , But soon agree to loyalty , your freedom to enjoy : His cheeks were like the crimson Rose , his forehead smooth and high , And he was the bravest Beggerman , that ever I saw with eye . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . The Politic Beggerman . Who god the love of a pretty Maid , And on her Cittern sweetly played : At last she flung her Milkpail over the wall , And bid thee De'l take Milkpail , Maidenhead & amp ; all . Tune is , There was a Jovial Beggar . TO Here was a jovial Beggar-man , a begging he was bound , And he did seek his living in Country and in Town : With a long staff and a patched coat , he pranced along the pad , And by report of many a one , he was a proper Lad : His cheeks were like the crimson rose , his forehead smooth and high , And he was the bravest Beggerman , that ever I saw with eye . He came unto a Farmers gate , and for and Alms did crave ; The Maid did like the Beggerman , and good relief she gave : She took him by the Lily hand , and set him to the fire , Which was as well , as tongue could tell , or heart of man desire : His cheeks were like , etc A curious mess of Firmaty , for him she did provide ; With a lovely cup of nutbrown Ale , and Sugar-sops beside : when he thus found the Maidens love and god so good a prize , It made his instrument to move , and spirits for to rise : His cheeks were like , etc . Sweetheart give me some lodging , that I all night may stay , Or else give me my answer , that I may go that way : The Maid went to the Hay-mow , and fetched a bottle of Hay , And laid it behid the Parlor-door , on which the Beggar-man lay : His cheeks were like the crimson Rose , his forehead smooth and high ; And he was the bravest Beggerman , that ever I saw with eye . The second Part , to the same Tune . R Esolve me said the Maiden , if that you will or can , For I do verily believe , thou art a Gentleman : In truth then said the Beggar , my Parents they are poor , And I do seek my living , each day from door to door : His cheeks were like the crimson Rose , his forehead smooth and high , And he was the bravest Beggerman , that ever I saw with eye . It's pity said this Maiden fair , that such a lively Lad , Should be a Beggars only heir , a Fortune poor and bad : I wish that my condition were of the same degree , Then hand in hand i'de quickly weened , throughout the world with thee : His cheeks were like , etc When he perceived the Maidens mind , and that her heart was his , He did embrace her in his arms , and sweetly did her kiss , And with one free and joint consent , he pricked her master-vein , And liking well this lesson new , he struck it up again : His cheeks were like , etc In lovely sport and merriment , the night away they spent , In Venus game for their delight , and both their hearts content : The Beggerman was mettle proof , in shooting did not miss , And every time he touched the mark , she sweetly did him kiss : His cheeks were like , etc Betimes in the morning then , as soon as it was day , He left the Damosel fast asleep , and nimbly budged away : When he from her and hour was gone , the Damosel she did wake , And seeing the Beggerman not there , her heart began to ache : Her cheeks were like , etc Then did she sighs and wring her hands , the tears did trickling pour , For losing her Virginity , and virgins maiden flower : When twenty weeks were come & amp ; gone her heart was something sad , Because she found her self with Barn , and does not know the Dad : His cheeks were like , etc There is I see no remedy , for what is past and gone , And many a one that laughs at me , may do as I have done : Then did she take her Milkpail , and flung it over the wall , Oh the Devil go with my Milkpail , my Maidenhead and all : His cheeks were like , etc You Maidens fair , where ever you are , keep up your store and goods , for when that some have god their wills they'll leave you in the suds , Let no man tempt you nor entice , be not too found and coy , But soon agree to loyalty , your freedom to enjoy : His cheeks were like the crimson Rose , his forehead smooth and high , And he was the bravest Beggerman , that ever I saw with eye . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . 