A Lamentable Ballad of a Combat lately Fought , near London , between Sir James Steward , and Sir George Wharton , Knights ; who were both slave at that time . To the Tune of , Down Plumpton - park , etc I TO grieves my heart to tell the woe that did near London late befall , On Martlemas - eve , Oh woe is me , I grieve the chance and ever shall , Of two right gallant Gentlemen , who very rashly fell at words , But to their quarrel could not fallen , till they fell both by their keen swords : The one Sir George Wharton called , the good Lord Wharton's son and heir , The other Sir James , a Scottish Knight , a man that a valiant heart did bear : Near to the court these Gallants stout , fell out as they in gaming were : And in their fury grew so hight , they hardly could from blows forbear . Nay , kind entreaties could not stay Sir James from striking in that place , For in the height and heat of blood , he struck young Wharton over the face ; What dost thou mean , said Wharton then , to strike in such unmanly sort ? That I will take [ it at thy hands ] , the tongue of man shall never report . Why , do thy worst , then said Sir James , and mark me , Wharton , what I say , There's never a Lord in England breathes , shall make me give and inch of way . This brag's too brave , stout Wharton said , let our brave English Lords alone , And talk with me that am your foe , for you shall find enough of one . Alas , Sir , said the Scottish Knight , thy blood and mind's too base for me , Thy oppositions are too bold , and will thy dire destruction be . Nay , said young Wharton , you mistake , my courage and valour equals thine , To makeed apparent cast thy glove , to ' ga [ g ] e to try , as I do mine . Ay , said Sir James , hast thou such spirit , I did not think within thy breast That such a haughty daring heart , as thou makest show of ever could rest : I interchange my glove with thee , take it and p [ oh ] int thy bed of death , The field , I mean , w [ h ] ere we must fight , and one for both lose life and breath . We'll meet near Waltham , said Sir George , to morrow that s [ h ] a [ l ] l be the day , We [ ' ] ll [ thither ] take a single man , and try who bears the b [ e ] ll away . TO [ h ] is done , [ tO ] oh [ g ] et [ h ] er hands they shook , and without any en [ vious ] sign , They went to Ludgate where they stayed and drank each ma [ n ] [ pint of wine . ] No kind of anger could be seen , no words of malice might bewray , But all was fair as calm as cool as love within their bosoms lay , Till parting time , and then indeed they showed some rancour of their heart , George , said Sir James , when next we meet , so found I know we shall not part . And so they parted both resolved to have their valour fully tried , The second Part shall briefly show , both how they met , and how they died . The Second PART . Y Oung Wharton was the first that came to the appointed place next day , Who presently spied Sir James coming as fast as he could post away ; And being met in manly sort , the Scotch Knight did to Wharton say , I do not like thy doublet George , it sits so well on thee to day : Hast thou no privy armour on , nor yet no privy coat of steel ? I never yet saw Lord in all my life become a doublet half so well . Now nay [ , ] now nay , stout Wharton said , Sir James Steward tO [ h ] at may not be , I'll not and armed man come hither , and thou a naked man truly . Our men shall strip our doublets , George , so shall we know whither of [ us ] lie , And then we'll to our weapons sharp , ourselves true Gallants for to try . Then they stripped off their doublets fair , standing up in their shirts of lawn [ . ] Follow my counsel , the Scotch - man said , and Wharton to thee I'll make known : Now follow my counsel , I'll follow thine , and we'll fight in our shirts , said he : Now nay , now nay , young Wharton said , Sir James Steward that may not be , Unless we were drunkards and quarrellers , that had no care of our fell , Not caring what we go about , or whither our souls go to heaven or hell . We'll first to God bequeathe our souls , then next our corpse to dust and clay : With that stout Wharton was the first took rapier and poniard there that day : Seven thrusts in turns these Gallants had , before own worser [ r ] open of blood was drawn , The Scottish Knight then speak valiantly , Stout Wharton still thou holdest thy own . With the next thrust that Wharton thrust , he ran him through the shoulder bone , The next was through the thick o'th thigh , thinking he had the Scotch Knight slave : Then Wharton said to the Scottish Knight , Are you a living man , tell me ? If there be a surgeon in England can , he shall cure your wounds right speedily . Now nay , now nay , the Scottish Kt. said , Sir George Wharton that may not be , The one of us shall the other kill , ever off this ground that we do flee . Then in amaze Sir George looked back , to see what company was nigh , They both had dangerous marks of death , yet neither would from th'other fly . But both through body wounded soar , with courage lusty strong and found , They made a deadly desperate close , and both fell dead unto the ground ; Our English Knight was the fi [ r ] st that fell , the Scotch Knight fell immediately , Who cried both to Jesus Christ , Receive our souls , Oh Lord , we die . God bless our noble King and Queen , and all the noble Progeny , That Britain still may live in one , in perfect love and unity : Thus to conclude , I make and end , wishing that quarrels still may cease , And that we still may live in [ love ] , in prosperous state , in joy and peace . [ London ... ] A Lamentable Ballad of a Combat lately Fought , near London , between Sir James Steward , and Sir George Wharton , Knights ; who were both slave at that time . To the Tune of , Down Plumpton - park , etc I TO grieves my heart to tell the woe that did near London late befall , On Martlemas - eve , Oh woe is me , I grieve the chance and ever shall , Of two right gallant Gentlemen , who very rashly fell at words , But to their quarrel could not fallen , till they fell both by their keen swords : The one Sir George Wharton called , the good Lord Wharton's son and heir , The other Sir James , a Scottish Knight , a man that a valiant heart did bear : Near to the court these Gallants stout , fell out as they in gaming were : And in their fury grew so hight , they hardly could from blows forbear . Nay , kind entreaties could not stay Sir James from striking in that place , For in the height and heat of blood , he struck young Wharton over the face ; What dost thou mean , said Wharton then , to strike in such unmanly sort ? That I will take [ it at thy hands ] , the tongue of man shall never report . Why , do thy worst , then said Sir James , and mark me , Wharton , what I say , There's never a Lord in England breathes , shall make me give and inch of way . This brag's too brave , stout Wharton said , let our brave English Lords alone , And talk with me that am your foe , for you shall find enough of one . Alas , Sir , said the Scottish Knight , thy blood and mind's too base for me , Thy oppositions are too bold , and will thy dire destruction be . Nay , said young Wharton , you mistake , my courage and valour equals thine , To makeed apparent cast thy glove , to ' ga [ g ] e to try , as I do mine . Ay , said Sir James , hast thou such spirit , I did not think within thy breast That such a haughty daring heart , as thou makest show of ever could rest : I interchange my glove with thee , take it and p [ oh ] int thy bed of death , The field , I mean , w [ h ] ere we must fight , and one for both lose life and breath . We'll meet near Waltham , said Sir George , to morrow that s [ h ] a [ l ] l be the day , We [ ' ] ll [ thither ] take a single man , and try who bears the b [ e ] ll away . TO [ h ] is done , [ tO ] oh [ g ] et [ h ] er hands they shook , and without any en [ vious ] sign , They went to Ludgate where they stayed and drank each ma [ n ] [ pint of wine . ] No kind of anger could be seen , no words of malice might bewray , But all was fair as calm as cool as love within their bosoms lay , Till parting time , and then indeed they showed some rancour of their heart , George , said Sir James , when next we meet , so found I know we shall not part . And so they parted both resolved to have their valour fully tried , The second Part shall briefly show , both how they met , and how they died . The Second PART . Y Oung Wharton was the first that came to the appointed place next day , Who presently spied Sir James coming as fast as he could post away ; And being met in manly sort , the Scotch Knight did to Wharton say , I do not like thy doublet George , it sits so well on thee to day : Hast thou no privy armour on , nor yet no privy coat of steel ? I never yet saw Lord in all my life become a doublet half so well . Now nay [ , ] now nay , stout Wharton said , Sir James Steward tO [ h ] at may not be , I'll not and armed man come hither , and thou a naked man truly . Our men shall strip our doublets , George , so shall we know whither of [ us ] lie , And then we'll to our weapons sharp , ourselves true Gallants for to try . Then they stripped off their doublets fair , standing up in their shirts of lawn [ . ] Follow my counsel , the Scotch - man said , and Wharton to thee I'll make known : Now follow my counsel , I'll follow thine , and we'll fight in our shirts , said he : Now nay , now nay , young Wharton said , Sir James Steward that may not be , Unless we were drunkards and quarrellers , that had no care of our fell , Not caring what we go about , or whither our souls go to heaven or hell . We'll first to God bequeathe our souls , then next our corpse to dust and clay : With that stout Wharton was the first took rapier and poniard there that day : Seven thrusts in turns these Gallants had , before own worser [ r ] open of blood was drawn , The Scottish Knight then speak valiantly , Stout Wharton still thou holdest thy own . With the next thrust that Wharton thrust , he ran him through the shoulder bone , The next was through the thick o'th thigh , thinking he had the Scotch Knight slave : Then Wharton said to the Scottish Knight , Are you a living man , tell me ? If there be a surgeon in England can , he shall cure your wounds right speedily . Now nay , now nay , the Scottish Kt. said , Sir George Wharton that may not be , The one of us shall the other kill , ever off this ground that we do flee . Then in amaze Sir George looked back , to see what company was nigh , They both had dangerous marks of death , yet neither would from th'other fly . But both through body wounded soar , with courage lusty strong and found , They made a deadly desperate close , and both fell dead unto the ground ; Our English Knight was the fi [ r ] st that fell , the Scotch Knight fell immediately , Who cried both to Jesus Christ , Receive our souls , Oh Lord , we die . God bless our noble King and Queen , and all the noble Progeny , That Britain still may live in one , in perfect love and unity : Thus to conclude , I make and end , wishing that quarrels still may cease , And that we still may live in [ love ] , in prosperous state , in joy and peace . [ London ... ] 