THE Innocent Maid Deceived by a Dissembling Bachelor : OR , The Mother's Advice to her Wanton Daughter . To a Pleasant New Tune . Licensed according to Order . Y Oung Men and Maids come listen a while in Country and in Town , Come listen a while , and you shall hear the fallen of my Renown : Once I was a Virgin most fair , as it full well is known , I went so Gay , you all may say , so long as I kept my own . At Weddings and at Banquetings , I was the chiefest Guest , Young Men to give me Gloves and Rings , did take it as a Grace : To Dance before Young Men and Maids , my Anguish it was shown , Till a Man by chance , took me to Dance , and cozened me of my own . But mark what follows after this , for still it's worse and worse ; For ever nine Months are gone and passed , I now must be a Nurse : I could no longer hide my shame , my Belly so big is grown , And my Apron so short , true's the report , good lack ! how I lost my own . My Mother came down so full of spite , get you out you Rake , be gone , Dost thou think we will harbour thee , so long as you lost your own : I vowed I swear , I loved him dear , the like was never known , Thus in the Barn , and upon the Corn , when first that I lost my own . Daughter . Good Mother , be not in a Rage , I vow I never once thought That he would prove so sly a Spark , but Wit's never good till bought : Quoth he to me , come let us Dance the best Jig ever was known ; And I , like a Fool , did follow his Rule , and thus 'twas I lost my own . Mother . Ah! truly , you have Danced it fair , go fetch that Slave , that Viper , I'll warrant you he's trip away , and you must pay the Piper : Find the Spark , or I'll make such a Row shall make you tremble and quake . I'll see you Dance , Caper and Prance , after another-guess rate . Daughter . Be but appeased , I've thought on a way , then vex your self no more , The Child in a Basket I will lay , at some Rich Bachelors door . No Daughter , said she , this will not do , when you lie in , Forsooth , Where's the Father ? then you'll rather die than tell the truth . Just now there's something comes in my head which will do best of all , Don't you remember your Sweetheart Ned , you may have him at a Call : Wheedle him on , before too far gone , come then , I'll help to dispatch ; With joint consent , away they both went , and soon did make up the Match . Now the Feud at and end , the Child a Dad has god , And ever two Months are gone and passed , I fear he'll smell the Plot : But if he does , I can but think , what a Hellish Rout he'll make , For all his Damning , Cursing and Raming , will never make amends , it's too late . FINIS . Printed for W. Thackeray , at the Angel in Duck-Lane , J. Millet , at the Angel in Little - Britain , and A. Milbourn , at the Stationers-Arms in the Little Old-Baily . THE Innocent Maid Deceived by a Dissembling Bachelor : OR , The Mother's Advice to her Wanton Daughter . To a Pleasant New Tune . Licensed according to Order . Y Oung Men and Maids come listen a while in Country and in Town , Come listen a while , and you shall hear the fallen of my Renown : Once I was a Virgin most fair , as it full well is known , I went so Gay , you all may say , so long as I kept my own . At Weddings and at Banquetings , I was the chiefest Guest , Young Men to give me Gloves and Rings , did take it as a Grace : To Dance before Young Men and Maids , my Anguish it was shown , Till a Man by chance , took me to Dance , and cozened me of my own . But mark what follows after this , for still it's worse and worse ; For ever nine Months are gone and passed , I now must be a Nurse : I could no longer hide my shame , my Belly so big is grown , And my Apron so short , true's the report , good lack ! how I lost my own . My Mother came down so full of spite , get you out you Rake , be gone , Dost thou think we will harbour thee , so long as you lost your own : I vowed I swear , I loved him dear , the like was never known , Thus in the Barn , and upon the Corn , when first that I lost my own . Daughter . Good Mother , be not in a Rage , I vow I never once thought That he would prove so sly a Spark , but Wit's never good till bought : Quoth he to me , come let us Dance the best Jig ever was known ; And I , like a Fool , did follow his Rule , and thus 'twas I lost my own . Mother . Ah! truly , you have Danced it fair , go fetch that Slave , that Viper , I'll warrant you he's trip away , and you must pay the Piper : Find the Spark , or I'll make such a Row shall make you tremble and quake . I'll see you Dance , Caper and Prance , after another-guess rate . Daughter . Be but appeased , I've thought on a way , then vex your self no more , The Child in a Basket I will lay , at some Rich Bachelors door . No Daughter , said she , this will not do , when you lie in , Forsooth , Where's the Father ? then you'll rather die than tell the truth . Just now there's something comes in my head which will do best of all , Don't you remember your Sweetheart Ned , you may have him at a Call : Wheedle him on , before too far gone , come then , I'll help to dispatch ; With joint consent , away they both went , and soon did make up the Match . Now the Feud at and end , the Child a Dad has god , And ever two Months are gone and passed , I fear he'll smell the Plot : But if he does , I can but think , what a Hellish Rout he'll make , For all his Damning , Cursing and Raming , will never make amends , it's too late . FINIS . Printed for W. Thackeray , at the Angel in Duck-Lane , J. Millet , at the Angel in Little - Britain , and A. Milbourn , at the Stationers-Arms in the Little Old-Baily . 