The Maiden's New Wish : BEING Her earnest desire to Marry a Lord , that she might ride in her gilded Coach , but at length contented her self with a Cobbler , rather than live longer a Maid . To the Tune of The Languishing Swain . Licensed according to Order . I Am a Lass of Beauty bright , Who do's in Pleasure take delight ; And if I might have to my mind , I would no grief nor crosses find . I would my youthful fancy please , Nay live , and likewise take my ease From worldly cares , and labour free , For work did never agree with me Beside , I wish to be a Wife , Yet not to led a careful Life , But in the streams of golden Joy , Where nothing might my Life annoy . I'll wear rich Cornets fine and grey , Nay Silks and Satins e'ry Day . Bedecked with Jewels , Diamonds , Pearl , Then shall I seem a taring Girl . I'ld have some Baron marry me , Or some great Lord of high Degree ; That I in gilded Coach might ride With Lackeys running by my side . And when I fit me down to Meat , I would have choice of Music sweet , To charm my Senses with the found : Let me be with those Blessings crowned . On sumptuous stately Beds of Down , Rocked in the Arms of high Renown I'ld pass away the silent Night , And reap the Pleasures of Delight . But see what straightways came to pass , While this fair youthful bonny Lass Was building Castles in the Air , A Cobbler did to her repair . My dear , if thou wilt be my Wife , We'll led a merry happy Life ; Though I have no Estate at all , We'll work together in a Stall . Be gone you poor mechanic Knave , Do you imagine that I'll have A Cobbler , void of common Sense , Pack up your Awls , and get you hence . Shall I spin Shop-thread in your Stall , And be at such a Rascal's Call ? I hope to have a noble Peer , And live in splendid Glory here . I prithee Joan , the Cobbler cried , Are you addicted so to Pride ? Why then , in troth , farewell , adieu , I hope to have as good as you . He turned about to go his way , She strait entreated him to stay , And said , why are you in such haste , What I have spoke was but in jest . Though I at mighty things did aim , Yet since in Love to me you came , I'll take a Cobbler now , she said , Rather than longer live a Maid . And thus they lovingly agreed , And likewise married were with speed ; Thus Maids we see mean Fortune's wed , Before they'll keep their Maidenhead . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . The Maiden's New Wish : BEING Her earnest desire to Marry a Lord , that she might ride in her gilded Coach , but at length contented her self with a Cobbler , rather than live longer a Maid . To the Tune of The Languishing Swain . Licensed according to Order . I Am a Lass of Beauty bright , Who do's in Pleasure take delight ; And if I might have to my mind , I would no grief nor crosses find . I would my youthful fancy please , Nay live , and likewise take my ease From worldly cares , and labour free , For work did never agree with me Beside , I wish to be a Wife , Yet not to led a careful Life , But in the streams of golden Joy , Where nothing might my Life annoy . I'll wear rich Cornets fine and grey , Nay Silks and Satins e'ry Day . Bedecked with Jewels , Diamonds , Pearl , Then shall I seem a taring Girl . I'ld have some Baron marry me , Or some great Lord of high Degree ; That I in gilded Coach might ride With Lackeys running by my side . And when I fit me down to Meat , I would have choice of Music sweet , To charm my Senses with the found : Let me be with those Blessings crowned . On sumptuous stately Beds of Down , Rocked in the Arms of high Renown I'ld pass away the silent Night , And reap the Pleasures of Delight . But see what straightways came to pass , While this fair youthful bonny Lass Was building Castles in the Air , A Cobbler did to her repair . My dear , if thou wilt be my Wife , We'll led a merry happy Life ; Though I have no Estate at all , We'll work together in a Stall . Be gone you poor mechanic Knave , Do you imagine that I'll have A Cobbler , void of common Sense , Pack up your Awls , and get you hence . Shall I spin Shop-thread in your Stall , And be at such a Rascal's Call ? I hope to have a noble Peer , And live in splendid Glory here . I prithee Joan , the Cobbler cried , Are you addicted so to Pride ? Why then , in troth , farewell , adieu , I hope to have as good as you . He turned about to go his way , She strait entreated him to stay , And said , why are you in such haste , What I have spoke was but in jest . Though I at mighty things did aim , Yet since in Love to me you came , I'll take a Cobbler now , she said , Rather than longer live a Maid . And thus they lovingly agreed , And likewise married were with speed ; Thus Maids we see mean Fortune's wed , Before they'll keep their Maidenhead . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 