The young Women and Maidens LAMENTATION : OR , Their bitter Sighs and Sorrow to hear the Old Women are pressed to go with the Army , while they themselves are slighted and dejected which are able to perform far better Service . Tune of I marry and thank you too . Licensed according to Order . W E Lasses of London Town in sorrowful sort appear , Because the Fates on us do's frown ; Old Women are Pressed we hear . To wait on the warlike Train , and March in the Van and Rear ; But Maids they will not entertain , Old Women are Pressed we hear . We would with our Maiden Skill , like Amazon Dams appear ; But we are unregarded still , Old Women are Pressed we hear . It's Reason they should allow , young Lasses to have a share ; But Kissing goes by Favour now , Old Women are Pressed we hear . We like the sweet tender Dove , could every Soldier Cheer ; Yet still they slight a Maiden's Love , Old Women are Pressed we hear . With Age they do grunt and groan , nay , tremble and quake for fear , Yet tell them this , it is all one , Old Women are Pressed we hear . I am sure a young Lass can Nurse a Soldier they need not fear ; But see the Case is altered thus , Old Women are Pressed we hear . Weed cuddle them in our Arms , and this will their Spirits cheer ; Yet notwithstanding all our Charms , Old Women are Pressed we hear . Our Sweethearts are marched away , the which we adore so dear , And we behind are forced to stay , Old Women are Pressed we hear . Weed kiss and embrace them too , and Love should like Fountains flow , But old Wives they can nothing do , Then why should not Virgins go ? Our Glory and Fame shall Ring , and baffle the proudest Foe , In getting Soldiers for the King , Then why should not Damsels go ? Y oung Heroes that will adorn , the Army in time we know , As being Soldiers bred and born , And why should not Damsels go ? To venture who would refuse ? there's Glory and Fame you know , And Teeming time we are loath to lose , And why should not Damsels go ? The Captains for Females good , may pity and kindness show ; Alas ! we are all Flesh and Blood , and have a great mind to go . For why should we stay behind , in sorrowful grief and woe ? I hope at length they'll be so kind , to suffer young Maids to go . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . The young Women and Maidens LAMENTATION : OR , Their bitter Sighs and Sorrow to hear the Old Women are pressed to go with the Army , while they themselves are slighted and dejected which are able to perform far better Service . Tune of I marry and thank you too . Licensed according to Order . W E Lasses of London Town in sorrowful sort appear , Because the Fates on us do's frown ; Old Women are Pressed we hear . To wait on the warlike Train , and March in the Van and Rear ; But Maids they will not entertain , Old Women are Pressed we hear . We would with our Maiden Skill , like Amazon Dams appear ; But we are unregarded still , Old Women are Pressed we hear . It's Reason they should allow , young Lasses to have a share ; But Kissing goes by Favour now , Old Women are Pressed we hear . We like the sweet tender Dove , could every Soldier Cheer ; Yet still they slight a Maiden's Love , Old Women are Pressed we hear . With Age they do grunt and groan , nay , tremble and quake for fear , Yet tell them this , it is all one , Old Women are Pressed we hear . I am sure a young Lass can Nurse a Soldier they need not fear ; But see the Case is altered thus , Old Women are Pressed we hear . Weed cuddle them in our Arms , and this will their Spirits cheer ; Yet notwithstanding all our Charms , Old Women are Pressed we hear . Our Sweethearts are marched away , the which we adore so dear , And we behind are forced to stay , Old Women are Pressed we hear . Weed kiss and embrace them too , and Love should like Fountains flow , But old Wives they can nothing do , Then why should not Virgins go ? Our Glory and Fame shall Ring , and baffle the proudest Foe , In getting Soldiers for the King , Then why should not Damsels go ? Y oung Heroes that will adorn , the Army in time we know , As being Soldiers bred and born , And why should not Damsels go ? To venture who would refuse ? there's Glory and Fame you know , And Teeming time we are loath to lose , And why should not Damsels go ? The Captains for Females good , may pity and kindness show ; Alas ! we are all Flesh and Blood , and have a great mind to go . For why should we stay behind , in sorrowful grief and woe ? I hope at length they'll be so kind , to suffer young Maids to go . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 