The Lovers Lamentation : Or , a New MOCK-SONG , On the Cruelty of Coy Lucinda . To the Tune of , Celia that I once was blessed . Licensed according to Order . P Itty here a Loyal swain , Who has just Reason to complain of my Jewel , who is Cruel , and does kill me with disdain , Here I write a dismal Story , How she blasted all my Glory . Here I write , etc Often did I speak her praise , And eke endeavoured still to raise Her Lost Honour , dote upon her , and did on her beauty Gaze , Yet she like a Codshead treats me , When at any time she meets me , Yet she , etc What sweet Sonnets have I made , With which I used to serenade , At the window , of Lucinda , but the proud Imperious Jade , With a Reeking Pisspot Crowned me , Which In Faith had almost drowned me , With a , etc I had newly doffed my Hat , Just as my Love presented that , So she smoked me , I and soaked me , like a fearful drowned Rat , Oh that wretched Piss-Pot-flinging , For that Night quite spoiled my singing , Oh that , etc Home I then retunred with speed , A Melancholy life to led , Often crying , and Replying , will she not my sorrows heed , She's a most ungrateful Creature , To her Love who used to treat her , she's a , etc It's well known that I have fed , My Dear with Plumbs and Biscuit Bred , L ikewise Honey , all costs money , e'ry tooth that's in her head , Lies me in above a tester , Since a week before last Easter , Lies , me , etc Tarts a Crown a Piece and more , Nay Chickens Capons Larks good store , Likewise Dishes of Choice Fish , she was never so fed before , Yet I find this young sin-breeder , Slights me though I thus did feed her , Yet , etc Since I did this fair one Court , I gave her Wine of e'ry sort , Rich Canary , Tent , and sherry , she has Pissed out many a Quart , Which has cost my Purse severely : Yet she now does slight me clearly Which , etc What Love Letters have I writ , At the great charge of Brain and wit , For to gain her , and obtain her , but she frowns and slights me yet , Never regarding my expenses , This quite Robs me of my senses , Never , etc In soft slumber there appears Whole Armed troops of slavish fears , Then my sleeping turns to weeping , a whole Pisspot full of Tears , Seeing how my wealth is wasted , While her Charms I never tasted . Seeing , etc Printed for P. Prooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . The Lovers Lamentation : Or , a New MOCK-SONG , On the Cruelty of Coy Lucinda . To the Tune of , Celia that I once was blessed . Licensed according to Order . P Itty here a Loyal swain , Who has just Reason to complain of my Jewel , who is Cruel , and does kill me with disdain , Here I write a dismal Story , How she blasted all my Glory . Here I write , etc Often did I speak her praise , And eke endeavoured still to raise Her Lost Honour , dote upon her , and did on her beauty Gaze , Yet she like a Codshead treats me , When at any time she meets me , Yet she , etc What sweet Sonnets have I made , With which I used to serenade , At the window , of Lucinda , but the proud Imperious Jade , With a Reeking Pisspot Crowned me , Which In Faith had almost drowned me , With a , etc I had newly doffed my Hat , Just as my Love presented that , So she smoked me , I and soaked me , like a fearful drowned Rat , Oh that wretched Piss-Pot-flinging , For that Night quite spoiled my singing , Oh that , etc Home I then retunred with speed , A Melancholy life to led , Often crying , and Replying , will she not my sorrows heed , She's a most ungrateful Creature , To her Love who used to treat her , she's a , etc It's well known that I have fed , My Dear with Plumbs and Biscuit Bred , L ikewise Honey , all costs money , e'ry tooth that's in her head , Lies me in above a tester , Since a week before last Easter , Lies , me , etc Tarts a Crown a Piece and more , Nay Chickens Capons Larks good store , Likewise Dishes of Choice Fish , she was never so fed before , Yet I find this young sin-breeder , Slights me though I thus did feed her , Yet , etc Since I did this fair one Court , I gave her Wine of e'ry sort , Rich Canary , Tent , and sherry , she has Pissed out many a Quart , Which has cost my Purse severely : Yet she now does slight me clearly Which , etc What Love Letters have I writ , At the great charge of Brain and wit , For to gain her , and obtain her , but she frowns and slights me yet , Never regarding my expenses , This quite Robs me of my senses , Never , etc In soft slumber there appears Whole Armed troops of slavish fears , Then my sleeping turns to weeping , a whole Pisspot full of Tears , Seeing how my wealth is wasted , While her Charms I never tasted . Seeing , etc Printed for P. Prooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 