THE KENTISH Maiden ; OR , The Fumbling Ale-draper Derided . Who gave a Handkerchief and Money for a Night's lodge - ing with a Lass whom at length he left in the lurch . Tune of , The Languishing Swain . Licensed according to Order . I Was a modest maid of Kent , Who never knew what kissing meant ; Until my master tempted me , With gifts for my virginity . Long was I courted ever i'd yield , And when at last he wone the field ; He gave me a lawn handkerchief fine Declaring that it should be mine . Likewise a golden guinea bright , That he might lie with me one night ; I granted his demands straightway What lass alive , could say him nay ? He was right generous and free , Bestowing such large gifts on me ; Yet I did such a conscience make , That I would not his guinea take . My conscience said , it was too much , To take for just one single touch ; And therefore when he laid it down , I took no more then one poor crown . The which he gave me then with speed , And thus we lovingly agreed , That he should have my maidenhead : I god new cording to my bed , For fear the old ones they should brake , Which would a sad distraction make , And cause a strange discovery , Of all my master's love to me . Clean sheets I likewise did provide , Nothing was wanting on my side : Yet when he to my lodging came , Alas ! he could not play the game . Our game was single rapier first ; Now when he came to give the thrust , A pass at me could not be made , He having such a limber blade . I bid him to his weapon stand , I craved no favour at his hand : Yet he was forced to sneak away , Before the morning break of day . Thus was my expectations crossed , And my dear master's labour lost : Which grieved my very heart full soar , Was ever maid so balked before ? One sorrow never comes alone , Soon after this my dame did own , The handkerchief which then I wore , Saying , That it was hers before . Then did she fly at me in brief , And told me I had played the thief . Your words I scorn , no thief am I , Nor shall you catch me in a lie . This handkerchief not long ago , My master did on me bestow , The night before with me he lay ; Now where's the harm of this I pray ? The mistress flew , and called her whore , And by the quoif , the maid she boar ; Must you forsooth , my partner be , Where there's not half enough for me . Dear mistress be not in a rage , You spoke the truth I dare engage : For though all night by me he lay , He could not one sweet lesson play . But strait in wrath replied her da [ me ] , You saucy slut you are to blame , In letting him lie in your bed ; Suppose he'd not your maidenhead . Forsooth , said she , had it been so , It might have proved my overthrow : But he can never hurt a maid , With such a feeble limber blade . Printed for J. Back , at the Black-boy on London Bridge . THE KENTISH Maiden ; OR , The Fumbling Ale-draper Derided . Who gave a Handkerchief and Money for a Night's lodge - ing with a Lass whom at length he left in the lurch . Tune of , The Languishing Swain . Licensed according to Order . I Was a modest maid of Kent , Who never knew what kissing meant ; Until my master tempted me , With gifts for my virginity . Long was I courted ever i'd yield , And when at last he wone the field ; He gave me a lawn handkerchief fine Declaring that it should be mine . Likewise a golden guinea bright , That he might lie with me one night ; I granted his demands straightway What lass alive , could say him nay ? He was right generous and free , Bestowing such large gifts on me ; Yet I did such a conscience make , That I would not his guinea take . My conscience said , it was too much , To take for just one single touch ; And therefore when he laid it down , I took no more then one poor crown . The which he gave me then with speed , And thus we lovingly agreed , That he should have my maidenhead : I god new cording to my bed , For fear the old ones they should brake , Which would a sad distraction make , And cause a strange discovery , Of all my master's love to me . Clean sheets I likewise did provide , Nothing was wanting on my side : Yet when he to my lodging came , Alas ! he could not play the game . Our game was single rapier first ; Now when he came to give the thrust , A pass at me could not be made , He having such a limber blade . I bid him to his weapon stand , I craved no favour at his hand : Yet he was forced to sneak away , Before the morning break of day . Thus was my expectations crossed , And my dear master's labour lost : Which grieved my very heart full soar , Was ever maid so balked before ? One sorrow never comes alone , Soon after this my dame did own , The handkerchief which then I wore , Saying , That it was hers before . Then did she fly at me in brief , And told me I had played the thief . Your words I scorn , no thief am I , Nor shall you catch me in a lie . This handkerchief not long ago , My master did on me bestow , The night before with me he lay ; Now where's the harm of this I pray ? The mistress flew , and called her whore , And by the quoif , the maid she boar ; Must you forsooth , my partner be , Where there's not half enough for me . Dear mistress be not in a rage , You spoke the truth I dare engage : For though all night by me he lay , He could not one sweet lesson play . But strait in wrath replied her da [ me ] , You saucy slut you are to blame , In letting him lie in your bed ; Suppose he'd not your maidenhead . Forsooth , said she , had it been so , It might have proved my overthrow : But he can never hurt a maid , With such a feeble limber blade . Printed for J. Back , at the Black-boy on London Bridge . 