NELL's humble Petition : OR , The Maidens kind and courteous Courtship to honest John the Joiner , whose Love she earnestly desired . To the Tune of I marry thank you too . Licensed according to order . TO Here was and Old Maid of late , who did in a Service dwell , It was not far from Billingsgate , her Name it was bouncing Nell . I solemnly do engage , if I have not lost my skill , That she is Forty years of Age , and yet is unmarried still . There was a young man hard by , the which was both tall and trim , And though he never her came nigh , yet she was in love with him . The maiden she often cried , O do not my Love refuse , I very fain would be your Bride , and you're the Man I choose . Why Nelly , he cried , thou art Old , thy wrinkled Brow I see , They Limbs is stiff , thy Blood is cold , thou art not a Wife for me . Why Johnny , I know it's truth , yet you may be happy still , For what I want to blooming Youth , is added in perfect Skill . My Love I'll to the impart , I know thou art and honest man , If you can't love me with all your Heart , yet love me as well as you can . Thy Charms I must needs adore , for thou hast a tempting Eye , Thy Skin is like the Tawny-Moor , and thy Nose it stands all awry . Why do you a Maid deride ? Why is your Affections cold ? A Fig for Beauty , John , she cried , I have a long Bag of Gold . And Cupid has kissed my Heart , and now I must have a man , And if you can't love me with all your Heart , yet love me as well as you can . I valve not Gold or Pearl , true Love makes amends for all , Give me a handsome youthful Girl , though she has no Coin at all . But Johnny , said she , you know , with Wealth you may happy be , It's Money make the Mare to go , then prithee be ruled by me . Alas ! I am loath to part with this pretty sweet smirking John , And if you can't love me with all your Heart , yet love me as well as you can . Whatever I now have spoke , in troth thou shalt find it true , I'll buy thee a new Suit and Cloak , a delicate Beaver too . Be not in the least afraid , to marry with Nelly , when I vow to keep a handsome Maid , to pleasure thee now and then . He then did his mind impart , and spoke like and honest man , If he could not love her with all his Heart , he'd love her as well as he can . NELL's humble Petition : OR , The Maidens kind and courteous Courtship to honest John the Joiner , whose Love she earnestly desired . To the Tune of I marry thank you too . Licensed according to order . TO Here was and Old Maid of late , who did in a Service dwell , It was not far from Billingsgate , her Name it was bouncing Nell . I solemnly do engage , if I have not lost my skill , That she is Forty years of Age , and yet is unmarried still . There was a young man hard by , the which was both tall and trim , And though he never her came nigh , yet she was in love with him . The maiden she often cried , O do not my Love refuse , I very fain would be your Bride , and you're the Man I choose . Why Nelly , he cried , thou art Old , thy wrinkled Brow I see , They Limbs is stiff , thy Blood is cold , thou art not a Wife for me . Why Johnny , I know it's truth , yet you may be happy still , For what I want to blooming Youth , is added in perfect Skill . My Love I'll to the impart , I know thou art and honest man , If you can't love me with all your Heart , yet love me as well as you can . Thy Charms I must needs adore , for thou hast a tempting Eye , Thy Skin is like the Tawny-Moor , and thy Nose it stands all awry . Why do you a Maid deride ? Why is your Affections cold ? A Fig for Beauty , John , she cried , I have a long Bag of Gold . And Cupid has kissed my Heart , and now I must have a man , And if you can't love me with all your Heart , yet love me as well as you can . I valve not Gold or Pearl , true Love makes amends for all , Give me a handsome youthful Girl , though she has no Coin at all . But Johnny , said she , you know , with Wealth you may happy be , It's Money make the Mare to go , then prithee be ruled by me . Alas ! I am loath to part with this pretty sweet smirking John , And if you can't love me with all your Heart , yet love me as well as you can . Whatever I now have spoke , in troth thou shalt find it true , I'll buy thee a new Suit and Cloak , a delicate Beaver too . Be not in the least afraid , to marry with Nelly , when I vow to keep a handsome Maid , to pleasure thee now and then . He then did his mind impart , and spoke like and honest man , If he could not love her with all his Heart , he'd love her as well as he can . 