And Answer to the Unconstant Shepherd : OR , Fair Cynthia's grief and care crowned with joy and happiness , by her Lover's Return . To and excellent New Tune . M Y Dear let nothing trouble thy Heart , for here I am returned again , In order to cure that killing Smart , of which thou so often didst complain . It's true I was banished from my Love , which was a Torment and Grief to me ; Yet now I will ever Loyal prove , so long as I have my Liberty . As I am thy true entire Friend , thy faithful and ever loving Swain ; There's no evil Tongue shall thee offend , so long as I do alive remain . In Kisses and sweet Embraces still , our Minutes we'll freely pass away , As void of the thoughts of any ill , as innocent Lambs that sport and play . Thy Wishes at length are come to pass , my Chamber and all I have is thine ; I never did see a sweeter Lass , thy Beauty has wone the Heart of mine . By wandering shady Groves about , expressing true Sorrow , Grief , and Care , Thy wandering Heart hath found me out , now I am thy Captive , charming Fair . It's true thou saidst thou sert'st Love as light as the Wind that blew from Tree to Tree , But thy former Wrongs I now will right , and we'll live in Love and Loyalty . Love dry up thy flowing Tears , he cried , and bid all thy Sorrows and Cares adieu ; Though Fortune a while did us divide , yet I'll Love none in the World but you . The whistling Winds did soon convey thy scornful Sighs , and Groans to me , And therefore I made no more delay , but readily came , my Love , to thee . And now in the Circuit of mine Arms , the former delights thou still shalt find ; For viewing thy Youthful pleasing Charms , young Phaeon he cannot prove unkind . I pitied thy bitter Sighs and Cries , and sorrowful Groans that filled my Ears ; My Senses was struck with a strange surprise , and straightways my Eyes did flow with Tears Such killing Torments I then did feel , which neither my Tongue nor Pen can tell ; No longer I could my Love conceal , to hear thee taking thy last Farewell . And now my sweet Cynthia and charming Fair , if thou wilt but pardon but what is past , Thy Phaeon do's solemnly declare , he'll love thee as long as Life shall last . Printed for Charles Bates next to the Crown - Tavern in West-smithfield . And Answer to the Unconstant Shepherd : OR , Fair Cynthia's grief and care crowned with joy and happiness , by her Lover's Return . To and excellent New Tune . M Y Dear let nothing trouble thy Heart , for here I am returned again , In order to cure that killing Smart , of which thou so often didst complain . It's true I was banished from my Love , which was a Torment and Grief to me ; Yet now I will ever Loyal prove , so long as I have my Liberty . As I am thy true entire Friend , thy faithful and ever loving Swain ; There's no evil Tongue shall thee offend , so long as I do alive remain . In Kisses and sweet Embraces still , our Minutes we'll freely pass away , As void of the thoughts of any ill , as innocent Lambs that sport and play . Thy Wishes at length are come to pass , my Chamber and all I have is thine ; I never did see a sweeter Lass , thy Beauty has wone the Heart of mine . By wandering shady Groves about , expressing true Sorrow , Grief , and Care , Thy wandering Heart hath found me out , now I am thy Captive , charming Fair . It's true thou saidst thou sert'st Love as light as the Wind that blew from Tree to Tree , But thy former Wrongs I now will right , and we'll live in Love and Loyalty . Love dry up thy flowing Tears , he cried , and bid all thy Sorrows and Cares adieu ; Though Fortune a while did us divide , yet I'll Love none in the World but you . The whistling Winds did soon convey thy scornful Sighs , and Groans to me , And therefore I made no more delay , but readily came , my Love , to thee . And now in the Circuit of mine Arms , the former delights thou still shalt find ; For viewing thy Youthful pleasing Charms , young Phaeon he cannot prove unkind . I pitied thy bitter Sighs and Cries , and sorrowful Groans that filled my Ears ; My Senses was struck with a strange surprise , and straightways my Eyes did flow with Tears Such killing Torments I then did feel , which neither my Tongue nor Pen can tell ; No longer I could my Love conceal , to hear thee taking thy last Farewell . And now my sweet Cynthia and charming Fair , if thou wilt but pardon but what is past , Thy Phaeon do's solemnly declare , he'll love thee as long as Life shall last . Printed for Charles Bates next to the Crown - Tavern in West-smithfield . 