Give me the Willow-Garland ; Or , The Maidens Former Fear [ , ] and Latter Comfort . At first she for a Husband made great moan , But at the last she found a loving one . To a dainty new Tune , called , Give me the Willow Garland . A S I walked forth in the merry month of June , To hear the Nightingale sing her best tune : I spied a young Maid , which sighed and said , My time I have wasted in vain , Much love I have spent , which makes me repent , On them that holds me in disdain : Take pity , quoth she , some gentle body , Give me the Willow-garland , for none will have me . I am in my conscience full sixteen years old , Yet still go unmarried , which makes my heart cold : there's many you see , that's younger than me , that suckles sweet babes at the breast that lives at their ease , and carries the Keys Of many fair Cupboard and Chest : Take pity , etc Some men will give handkerchiefs , some will give gloves , And some will give Bodkins , to purchase maids loves : but I like a friend my money did lend , And never did ask it again : And them that receives , in whom I believed , Have put me to sorrow and pain : Take pity , etc When William at first came a wooing me , Good Lord then how jocund and frolic was he ? he clipped me , he kissed me , he huged me in his arms , He promised to make me his wife : but he was mistaken , and I am forsaken , Which causes much sorrow & amp ; strife : Take pity , quoth she , some gentle body , Give me the w [ i ] l [ l ] [ owe ] - garland , for none will have me . TO He next that came to me , was smirking fine Thomas , And like sweet William , did make me a promise , but when this young Lad , his will of me had , He gave me a Judas-like kiss , so parted away , the truth this to say , I never saw him from that time to this Take pity , etc Then John the brave Gallant , with a Sword by his side , Came to me , and told me , he'd make me his bride : but in this brave youth , I found but small truth , Although he did vow and protest , to me to prove true , yet he bade me adieu , And proved quite as bad as the rest , Take pity , etc There was Richard and Robert , came both on one day , But they like the others soon vanish [ ' ] worser away : And since that time , while spring was in prime , I have had of suitors great plenty , I dare to be bold , if they were all told , That they were at least 3 & amp ; twenty : Take pity , etc Now seeing that fortune hath me so much crossed , That all my old Sweethearts are quite gone and lost , my self I'll commend to God Cupid my Friend , And to him will heartily pray , to send me a Love that constant will prove , And never to straggle away : Take pity , etc There's nothing at all that belongs to a man , But in a short warning well fit him I can : I have Silver and Gold which my Father never told , I have very good clothes to my back I have House and Land , and good goods at command , It's only a Husband I lack . Take pity , etc You see how my Visage , is grown pale and wan , You well may perceive it's for want of a man : My Pulses do beatrice , and my body does sweat , And my senses are all at great strife my belly does ache , and my heartstrings will break , If I cannot be made a wife . And therefore , quoth she , some gentle body , Make me a willow Garland , or else marry me . At last came a young man of courage most bold , Saying , sweet heart , I care not for Silver nor Gold : but if thou wilt prove like the Turtle-Dove , Right faithful and true to thy friend ; then will I be thine , and thou shalt be mine , And i'll love thee unto my lives end . Your Servant , quoth she , my Ture-Love , quoth he , Clap hands on the bargain , and so we'll agree . And now this young woman is eased of her pain , For she never after was known to complain ; He made her his wife , And she lives a brave life , Attired in garments most brave , And all things at will her mind to fulfil , At every command she'l now have , Her Husband is kind , they are both of a mind , According as Nature , and Love does them bind . Farewell now , quoth she , to the green Willow-tree , I have god a Husband that well pleases me . L. P Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . Give me the Willow-Garland ; Or , The Maidens Former Fear [ , ] and Latter Comfort . At first she for a Husband made great moan , But at the last she found a loving one . To a dainty new Tune , called , Give me the Willow Garland . A S I walked forth in the merry month of June , To hear the Nightingale sing her best tune : I spied a young Maid , which sighed and said , My time I have wasted in vain , Much love I have spent , which makes me repent , On them that holds me in disdain : Take pity , quoth she , some gentle body , Give me the Willow-garland , for none will have me . I am in my conscience full sixteen years old , Yet still go unmarried , which makes my heart cold : there's many you see , that's younger than me , that suckles sweet babes at the breast that lives at their ease , and carries the Keys Of many fair Cupboard and Chest : Take pity , etc Some men will give handkerchiefs , some will give gloves , And some will give Bodkins , to purchase maids loves : but I like a friend my money did lend , And never did ask it again : And them that receives , in whom I believed , Have put me to sorrow and pain : Take pity , etc When William at first came a wooing me , Good Lord then how jocund and frolic was he ? he clipped me , he kissed me , he huged me in his arms , He promised to make me his wife : but he was mistaken , and I am forsaken , Which causes much sorrow & amp ; strife : Take pity , quoth she , some gentle body , Give me the w [ i ] l [ l ] [ owe ] - garland , for none will have me . TO He next that came to me , was smirking fine Thomas , And like sweet William , did make me a promise , but when this young Lad , his will of me had , He gave me a Judas-like kiss , so parted away , the truth this to say , I never saw him from that time to this Take pity , etc Then John the brave Gallant , with a Sword by his side , Came to me , and told me , he'd make me his bride : but in this brave youth , I found but small truth , Although he did vow and protest , to me to prove true , yet he bade me adieu , And proved quite as bad as the rest , Take pity , etc There was Richard and Robert , came both on one day , But they like the others soon vanish [ ' ] worser away : And since that time , while spring was in prime , I have had of suitors great plenty , I dare to be bold , if they were all told , That they were at least 3 & amp ; twenty : Take pity , etc Now seeing that fortune hath me so much crossed , That all my old Sweethearts are quite gone and lost , my self I'll commend to God Cupid my Friend , And to him will heartily pray , to send me a Love that constant will prove , And never to straggle away : Take pity , etc There's nothing at all that belongs to a man , But in a short warning well fit him I can : I have Silver and Gold which my Father never told , I have very good clothes to my back I have House and Land , and good goods at command , It's only a Husband I lack . Take pity , etc You see how my Visage , is grown pale and wan , You well may perceive it's for want of a man : My Pulses do beatrice , and my body does sweat , And my senses are all at great strife my belly does ache , and my heartstrings will break , If I cannot be made a wife . And therefore , quoth she , some gentle body , Make me a willow Garland , or else marry me . At last came a young man of courage most bold , Saying , sweet heart , I care not for Silver nor Gold : but if thou wilt prove like the Turtle-Dove , Right faithful and true to thy friend ; then will I be thine , and thou shalt be mine , And i'll love thee unto my lives end . Your Servant , quoth she , my Ture-Love , quoth he , Clap hands on the bargain , and so we'll agree . And now this young woman is eased of her pain , For she never after was known to complain ; He made her his wife , And she lives a brave life , Attired in garments most brave , And all things at will her mind to fulfil , At every command she'l now have , Her Husband is kind , they are both of a mind , According as Nature , and Love does them bind . Farewell now , quoth she , to the green Willow-tree , I have god a Husband that well pleases me . L. P Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . 