LOVE AL-A-MODE , OR , The Modish-Mistris . In a Dialogue between the Lady Uriah and her Lovers , Strephon , Amintas , and Alexis , receive - ing all , and constant to none . Since it's the Mode of late , I long To make a Ballad of a Song ; And sure no subject is more fit , Then love and Women for a Wit . Women and Love are Nature's Crimes , The pleasing follies of the Times , They're double Tongues to single Palates , And since our Songs are turned to Ballads . To and Excellent , and familiar New Tune . Strephon. TO Ell me no more you love , unless you will grant my desire ; Every thing else will prove , but fuel unto my fire : It is not for kisses alone , thus long I have made my address , There's something else to be done , which you cannot choose but guess . Maid . I know what you would be at to soften your amorous fire , I love you ( dear ) and all that , and what would you more desire ? If kisses alone can suffice , here Strephon may reap his fill , If farther [ entertainment ] tO you prize [ ? ] A present then of pure gold , she drew out of her purse , With Strephon to have and hold , for better and eke for worse . My Strephon alone is my joy , I'll seal it him with a kiss , A pledge of my constancy , accept my dear Strephon this . Amintas . Then comes my Amintas in , she vowed him a welcome guest , To court her he did begin , and his passion he thus did express . I have kissed you , and clipped and all that , but still I must needs confess , There's something beside i'd be at [ ? ] Maid . AMintas my only joy , Amintas my only life , Strephon is but a Boy , i'll be my Amintas Wife : My dear thou dost love me , my dear , my Rogue thou dost not love , Come try me and do not fear , whatever thy heart does move . She sighed , and a pledge did make , a Compliment of her heart , To ear for his Mistress's sake , and with the same her heart : The present she vowed to demand , which formerly she gave , Strephon hath but my hand , Amintas my heart shall have . Alexis . Alexis came next in place , Amintas is out of door , Like Alexis in all her days , she never loved one before : He kissed her again , and again , but that's small happiness , Dear , something else does remain , which you cannot choose but guess . Maid . Alexis my heart does make , a liberal sacrifice , And for my Alexis sake , i'll scratch out Amintas's eyes : Alexis alone I will wed , the rest are but silly Jacks , [ ? ] [ ? ] A token then of her love , she fastened about his neck , No sooner he did remove , she was at Amintas's b [ e ] ck : For Alexis she wished for to live , for Amintas she vowed to die , To Strephon large proofs she did give , of her zeal and inconstancy . She vowed to each one alone , she loved him above the rest , For when the poor fool was gone , he thought himself happy and blessed : She calls while absent and Ass , then entertains a score , For when with a Pox they pass , she's for ten thousand more . Thus are found youths betrayed , of liberty and ease , By Widow , Wife or Maid , and most of all by these : They'll raise you the Devil of Pride , and when they have done their worst , They'll fetch him out of your hide , to quench the Devil of Lust . Youngmen be advised by by me , before you presume to Wed , Be not tempted by any she , that ever yet wore a head : For let her be what she wilt , she's so skilled in wantonness , [ ? ] [ ? ] LOVE AL-A-MODE , OR , The Modish-Mistris . In a Dialogue between the Lady Uriah and her Lovers , Strephon , Amintas , and Alexis , receive - ing all , and constant to none . Since it's the Mode of late , I long To make a Ballad of a Song ; And sure no subject is more fit , Then love and Women for a Wit . Women and Love are Nature's Crimes , The pleasing follies of the Times , They're double Tongues to single Palates , And since our Songs are turned to Ballads . To and Excellent , and familiar New Tune . Strephon. TO Ell me no more you love , unless you will grant my desire ; Every thing else will prove , but fuel unto my fire : It is not for kisses alone , thus long I have made my address , There's something else to be done , which you cannot choose but guess . Maid . I know what you would be at to soften your amorous fire , I love you ( dear ) and all that , and what would you more desire ? If kisses alone can suffice , here Strephon may reap his fill , If farther [ entertainment ] tO you prize [ ? ] A present then of pure gold , she drew out of her purse , With Strephon to have and hold , for better and eke for worse . My Strephon alone is my joy , I'll seal it him with a kiss , A pledge of my constancy , accept my dear Strephon this . Amintas . Then comes my Amintas in , she vowed him a welcome guest , To court her he did begin , and his passion he thus did express . I have kissed you , and clipped and all that , but still I must needs confess , There's something beside i'd be at [ ? ] Maid . AMintas my only joy , Amintas my only life , Strephon is but a Boy , i'll be my Amintas Wife : My dear thou dost love me , my dear , my Rogue thou dost not love , Come try me and do not fear , whatever thy heart does move . She sighed , and a pledge did make , a Compliment of her heart , To ear for his Mistress's sake , and with the same her heart : The present she vowed to demand , which formerly she gave , Strephon hath but my hand , Amintas my heart shall have . Alexis . Alexis came next in place , Amintas is out of door , Like Alexis in all her days , she never loved one before : He kissed her again , and again , but that's small happiness , Dear , something else does remain , which you cannot choose but guess . Maid . Alexis my heart does make , a liberal sacrifice , And for my Alexis sake , i'll scratch out Amintas's eyes : Alexis alone I will wed , the rest are but silly Jacks , [ ? ] [ ? ] A token then of her love , she fastened about his neck , No sooner he did remove , she was at Amintas's b [ e ] ck : For Alexis she wished for to live , for Amintas she vowed to die , To Strephon large proofs she did give , of her zeal and inconstancy . She vowed to each one alone , she loved him above the rest , For when the poor fool was gone , he thought himself happy and blessed : She calls while absent and Ass , then entertains a score , For when with a Pox they pass , she's for ten thousand more . Thus are found youths betrayed , of liberty and ease , By Widow , Wife or Maid , and most of all by these : They'll raise you the Devil of Pride , and when they have done their worst , They'll fetch him out of your hide , to quench the Devil of Lust . Youngmen be advised by by me , before you presume to Wed , Be not tempted by any she , that ever yet wore a head : For let her be what she wilt , she's so skilled in wantonness , [ ? ] [ ? ] 