The Forlorn Lover , DECLARING HOW A Lass gave her Lover three slips for a Tester , And Married another a Week before Easter . To a Pleasant new Tune . A Week before Easter , the days long and clear , So bright is the Sun and so cold is the air ; I went into the Forest , [ s ] ome flowers to find there , [ And ] worser the Forest would yield me no Posies . [ TO ] he Wheat and the Rye that grows so green , The Hedges and Trees in their several Coats , Small Birds do sing in their changeable notes , But there grows no Strawberries or Roses . I went in the Meadow some time for to spend , And to come back again , did fully intend : But as I came back I met with a friend , And love was the cause of my mourning . I loved a fair Lady this many a long day , And now to requite me , she married away ; Here she hath left me in sorrow to stay , But now I begin to consider . I Loved her dear , and I loved her well , I hated those people that spoke of her ill ; Many a one told me what she did say , But yet I would hardly believe them . But when I did hear my love asked in the Church , I went out of my seat , and sat in the porch : I found I should falsely be left in the lurch , And thought that my heart would have broken . But when I did see my Love to the Church go , With all her Bride-Maidens they made such a show ; I laughed in conceit , but my heart was full low , To see how highly she was regarded . But when I saw my love in the Church stand , Gold Ring on her Finger , well sealed with a hand : He had so seduced her with house and with Land , That nothing but Death can them sever . But when the Bride-Maidens were having her to Bed , I stepped in among them and kissed the Bride : I wished I might have been laid by her side , And by that means I god me a favour . When she was laid in bed , ( dressed up in white ) My eyes gushed with water , that drowned my sighed : I put off my Hat , and bid them goodnight , And adieu my fair sweating for ever . O dig me a Grave that is wide , large , and deep , With a root at my head , and another at my feet : There will I lie and take a long sleep , I'll bid her farewell for ever . She plighted her faith , to be my fair Bride , And now at last hath me falsely deprived ; I'll leave off my wrath , and with God be my guide , To save me from such another . I pity her case , much more then my own , That she should embrace and join hands in one : While I am her true love , and daily do groan , My sorrow I cannot smother . Though Marriage hath bound her , she is much to blame , And though he hath found her , her Husband I am ; Hereafter it'll wound her , that she put them to shame , When Conscience shall be her accuser . Two Husbands she hath by this wild miscarriage , The one by a Contract , the other by Marriage : She does her whole Family grossly disparage , But I will not plot to misuse her . Beware you youngmen , of Arts or of Trades , Choose warily when you meet with such Maids : You'd better live single alone in the Shades , Then to love such and abuser . P rinted for J. Clark . W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The Forlorn Lover , DECLARING HOW A Lass gave her Lover three slips for a Tester , And Married another a Week before Easter . To a Pleasant new Tune . A Week before Easter , the days long and clear , So bright is the Sun and so cold is the air ; I went into the Forest , [ s ] ome flowers to find there , [ And ] worser the Forest would yield me no Posies . [ TO ] he Wheat and the Rye that grows so green , The Hedges and Trees in their several Coats , Small Birds do sing in their changeable notes , But there grows no Strawberries or Roses . I went in the Meadow some time for to spend , And to come back again , did fully intend : But as I came back I met with a friend , And love was the cause of my mourning . I loved a fair Lady this many a long day , And now to requite me , she married away ; Here she hath left me in sorrow to stay , But now I begin to consider . I Loved her dear , and I loved her well , I hated those people that spoke of her ill ; Many a one told me what she did say , But yet I would hardly believe them . But when I did hear my love asked in the Church , I went out of my seat , and sat in the porch : I found I should falsely be left in the lurch , And thought that my heart would have broken . But when I did see my Love to the Church go , With all her Bride-Maidens they made such a show ; I laughed in conceit , but my heart was full low , To see how highly she was regarded . But when I saw my love in the Church stand , Gold Ring on her Finger , well sealed with a hand : He had so seduced her with house and with Land , That nothing but Death can them sever . But when the Bride-Maidens were having her to Bed , I stepped in among them and kissed the Bride : I wished I might have been laid by her side , And by that means I god me a favour . When she was laid in bed , ( dressed up in white ) My eyes gushed with water , that drowned my sighed : I put off my Hat , and bid them goodnight , And adieu my fair sweating for ever . O dig me a Grave that is wide , large , and deep , With a root at my head , and another at my feet : There will I lie and take a long sleep , I'll bid her farewell for ever . She plighted her faith , to be my fair Bride , And now at last hath me falsely deprived ; I'll leave off my wrath , and with God be my guide , To save me from such another . I pity her case , much more then my own , That she should embrace and join hands in one : While I am her true love , and daily do groan , My sorrow I cannot smother . Though Marriage hath bound her , she is much to blame , And though he hath found her , her Husband I am ; Hereafter it'll wound her , that she put them to shame , When Conscience shall be her accuser . Two Husbands she hath by this wild miscarriage , The one by a Contract , the other by Marriage : She does her whole Family grossly disparage , But I will not plot to misuse her . Beware you youngmen , of Arts or of Trades , Choose warily when you meet with such Maids : You'd better live single alone in the Shades , Then to love such and abuser . P rinted for J. Clark . W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 