Loves fierce desire , and hope's of Recovery . Or , A true and brief Description of two Resolved Lovers ; whose Ex - cellent wits , suitable minds , and faithful hearts one to another , shall heedfully be spoken of in this following new made paper of Verses . To a delightful new tune , Or , Fair Angel of England . N Owe the Tyrant hath stolen my dearest away ; And I am confined with Mopsa to stay : Yet let Celia remember how faithful i'll be , Neither distance nor absence shall terrify me . In Volumns of sighs , I will send to my Dear , And make my own heart correspond to my fear : Till the Soul of my life may be pleased to see , How delightful her safest return is to me . It cheers my sad heart to remember her love , Though malice hath caused this sudden remove : And my mind is resolved what ever ensue , Whither Sunshine or thunder , to be constant and true . If my Bark sail but safely through this rugged Sea , Though with contrary Wind , much tossed it be : In the Haven of rest , and long looked for content , I ' le chant forth melodious Songs of merriment . Till then i'll retreat to the Forest and mourn ; Acteon shall echo my Hound and my Horn . No Reynard shall escape me that runs on the way , But patience perforce I will make him to stay . My heart hath inquired of every Stone , What convoy the Heavens hath bequeathed to my moan : But for ought I can find , holy Angels are agreed , To rival my hope's , and to slacken her speed . TO Herefore i'll fit down , and bewail my sad Fate , Like the Turtle i'll mourn for the loss of my mate : All the world's greatest glories vexation to me , Till my Celia and I , in our loves may be free . Celia her sweet Reply to her faithful friend . TO High speeches dear friend I have well understood , And how in exile thou hast wandered at the wood But I am resolved thy sorrows to free , To make thee amends , i'll soon come unto thee . It's neither the Tiger , the Wolf , nor the Bear , Nor shall Nylus Crocodile put me in fear : I ' le swim through the Ocean upon my bore Breast , To find out my Darling , whom I do love best . And when I have found him , with double delight , I ' le comfort him kindly by day and by night : And i'll be more faithful then the Turtle Dove , Which never at all did prove false to her Love . The fierce Basilisks that kills with the eye , Shall not have the power once thee to come nigh : I ' le clip thee and hug thee so close in my arms , And i'll venture my life for to save thee from harms . My Lap for thy head love , a Pillow shall be , And while thou dost sleep , i'll kiss thee for joy , And no Venomous Creature shall my Love annoy . The Satyrs shall Pipe , and the Sire's shall sing , The wood-nymphs with music shall make the Groves ring : The Horn it shall found , and the Hounds make a noise , To recreate my Love with ten thousand rare joys . So now I am coming to hasten the deed , Pray Heaven and Gods Angels to be my good speed : If fortune me favour , and Seas quiet prove , I soon will arrive at the Port which I love . Now Celia is gone to find out her Dear , His Heart that was sad to comfort and cheer : No doubt but each other they will lovingly greet , When as they together do lovingly meet . L.P. FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thac - keray , and T. Passenger . Loves fierce desire , and hope's of Recovery . Or , A true and brief Description of two Resolved Lovers ; whose Ex - cellent wits , suitable minds , and faithful hearts one to another , shall heedfully be spoken of in this following new made paper of Verses . To a delightful new tune , Or , Fair Angel of England . N Owe the Tyrant hath stolen my dearest away ; And I am confined with Mopsa to stay : Yet let Celia remember how faithful i'll be , Neither distance nor absence shall terrify me . In Volumns of sighs , I will send to my Dear , And make my own heart correspond to my fear : Till the Soul of my life may be pleased to see , How delightful her safest return is to me . It cheers my sad heart to remember her love , Though malice hath caused this sudden remove : And my mind is resolved what ever ensue , Whither Sunshine or thunder , to be constant and true . If my Bark sail but safely through this rugged Sea , Though with contrary Wind , much tossed it be : In the Haven of rest , and long looked for content , I ' le chant forth melodious Songs of merriment . Till then i'll retreat to the Forest and mourn ; Acteon shall echo my Hound and my Horn . No Reynard shall escape me that runs on the way , But patience perforce I will make him to stay . My heart hath inquired of every Stone , What convoy the Heavens hath bequeathed to my moan : But for ought I can find , holy Angels are agreed , To rival my hope's , and to slacken her speed . TO Herefore i'll fit down , and bewail my sad Fate , Like the Turtle i'll mourn for the loss of my mate : All the world's greatest glories vexation to me , Till my Celia and I , in our loves may be free . Celia her sweet Reply to her faithful friend . TO High speeches dear friend I have well understood , And how in exile thou hast wandered at the wood But I am resolved thy sorrows to free , To make thee amends , i'll soon come unto thee . It's neither the Tiger , the Wolf , nor the Bear , Nor shall Nylus Crocodile put me in fear : I ' le swim through the Ocean upon my bore Breast , To find out my Darling , whom I do love best . And when I have found him , with double delight , I ' le comfort him kindly by day and by night : And i'll be more faithful then the Turtle Dove , Which never at all did prove false to her Love . The fierce Basilisks that kills with the eye , Shall not have the power once thee to come nigh : I ' le clip thee and hug thee so close in my arms , And i'll venture my life for to save thee from harms . My Lap for thy head love , a Pillow shall be , And while thou dost sleep , i'll kiss thee for joy , And no Venomous Creature shall my Love annoy . The Satyrs shall Pipe , and the Sire's shall sing , The wood-nymphs with music shall make the Groves ring : The Horn it shall found , and the Hounds make a noise , To recreate my Love with ten thousand rare joys . So now I am coming to hasten the deed , Pray Heaven and Gods Angels to be my good speed : If fortune me favour , and Seas quiet prove , I soon will arrive at the Port which I love . Now Celia is gone to find out her Dear , His Heart that was sad to comfort and cheer : No doubt but each other they will lovingly greet , When as they together do lovingly meet . L.P. FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thac - keray , and T. Passenger . 