Forsaken Lovers Resolution . Poor Silvia's much pretended friend , Against her Honour laid a Plot ; But when she would not give consent , His Passion then was soon forgotten . To the Tune of , Philander . A Dieu false men adieu , deceive poor maids no more , Not one in ten is true , which grieves poor Maids full soar : And I poor soul believed too soon , the flatteries of my dear , Who made me mourn , Left me forlorn , to part with many a tear . Now I too late lament , my found Credulity , Which caused my discontent , while I in flames did fry : But it shall never be said of me , for love I broke my heart , But i'll defy Those Darts that fly , and cause poor Lovers smart . Thy Quiver and thy Bow blind Cupid I do scorn , It shall no more be so that I shall be forlorn : Nor never will I man believe , while I enjoy my breath , Cringes , and Bows , And flattering vows , I hate far worse than death . I had been bravely fooled , had I gave my consent , By reason I was Schooled , his offers to prevent ; He aimed at my Virginity , I plainly did perceive , But for his sake , This vow I make , no man for to believe . The second part , to the same Tune . I kept my Virgins Fort , and stoutly did deny , His vigorous assault , and never would comply : For that had sure my ruin been , had I thereto agreed , I did espy His Treachery , and he could not proceed . Trust not the fairest Tongue , for youngmen will deceive , And Maidens that are young , are apt for to believe : But they too late do oft Lament , and can find no redress , Oh! then beware , And have a care , of such like simpleness . For when you are undone , the World will you deride , For so soon being wone , let reason be your guide : And never do a promise trust , for when their wills they gain , They'll laugh you see , Exceedingly , and will you quite disdain . It's sad to see a Soul , robbed of Virginity , How she will then condoule , for her simplicity : But those that can their plots find out full happy sure they are , Then Maidens all , Both great and small , of such like men beware . Ten thousand are beguiled , by false deceitful men , And when they are quite spoiled , there is not one in ten That will upon them pity take , but cry too kind they were , Though now forsook , They might have took of their repute more care . FINIS . Printed for M. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . Forsaken Lovers Resolution . Poor Silvia's much pretended friend , Against her Honour laid a Plot ; But when she would not give consent , His Passion then was soon forgotten . To the Tune of , Philander . A Dieu false men adieu , deceive poor maids no more , Not one in ten is true , which grieves poor Maids full soar : And I poor soul believed too soon , the flatteries of my dear , Who made me mourn , Left me forlorn , to part with many a tear . Now I too late lament , my found Credulity , Which caused my discontent , while I in flames did fry : But it shall never be said of me , for love I broke my heart , But i'll defy Those Darts that fly , and cause poor Lovers smart . Thy Quiver and thy Bow blind Cupid I do scorn , It shall no more be so that I shall be forlorn : Nor never will I man believe , while I enjoy my breath , Cringes , and Bows , And flattering vows , I hate far worse than death . I had been bravely fooled , had I gave my consent , By reason I was Schooled , his offers to prevent ; He aimed at my Virginity , I plainly did perceive , But for his sake , This vow I make , no man for to believe . The second part , to the same Tune . I kept my Virgins Fort , and stoutly did deny , His vigorous assault , and never would comply : For that had sure my ruin been , had I thereto agreed , I did espy His Treachery , and he could not proceed . Trust not the fairest Tongue , for youngmen will deceive , And Maidens that are young , are apt for to believe : But they too late do oft Lament , and can find no redress , Oh! then beware , And have a care , of such like simpleness . For when you are undone , the World will you deride , For so soon being wone , let reason be your guide : And never do a promise trust , for when their wills they gain , They'll laugh you see , Exceedingly , and will you quite disdain . It's sad to see a Soul , robbed of Virginity , How she will then condoule , for her simplicity : But those that can their plots find out full happy sure they are , Then Maidens all , Both great and small , of such like men beware . Ten thousand are beguiled , by false deceitful men , And when they are quite spoiled , there is not one in ten That will upon them pity take , but cry too kind they were , Though now forsook , They might have took of their repute more care . FINIS . Printed for M. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 