The Dying Lovers Reprieve : OR , The Reward of True Love . With sighs and tears her love he does desire , Since Cupid hath his senses set fire ; His torment and his pain to her he shows , With all his protestations and his vows : At last she yields to grant him some relief , And make him joyful after all his grief . Tune of , Digby's Farewell : Or , Give me the Lass , etc With Allowance . Ro. L'Estrange . F Airest and dearest to thee I am bound . For love and affection thy servant to be , Your skill I desire to heal up my wound , There's none in the world that can cure it but thee : Then dearest be pleased to do your endeavour , And i'll be your servant to wait on you ever : And thus you compel me unto you to cry , Grant me thy affection , or else I shall die . The ground of my troment to thee i'll impart , 'Twas Cupid with's Arrow that wounded my heart Which pains me and grieves me that I cannot rest , Wrings tears from my eyes , & amp ; sighs from my breast , Which makes me go mourning to think on my grief My heart it lies burning for want of relief . No hope's I have left to be eased of pain , Unless you requite me with true love again . Then dearest be pleased to hear my request , And ease a poor patient and set me at rest : For you're the Physician which can by your art , In this sad condition give ease to my heart : It's only your love that so much I desire , Since thy charming my senses does set me on fire : Then dearest release me out of all my pain , And strive to requite me with true love again . L Et me be so happy your love to embrace , Or why did you show me your beautiful face ? Why did you not cover your features so rare ? Which caused my heart to be caught in a snare : Then might I have lived in peace and content , & amp ; never have known what loves torments had meant , But now compel me unto you to cry , I prithee love tell me , shall I live or die ? Your love then restore me , grant what I crave , Or else to remove me from hence to the Grave : Except you release me , no joy I can find , Whereby it may ease me and settle my mind : For I am enthralled by your rolling eyes , And you are the object wherein the fault lies : Which makes me go mourning to think on my pain My hear lies a burning for cruel disdain . Although for my love you do prove so unkind , I cannot refrain but must utter my mind : I have been your servant a long time in vain , My love it was fervent , and does still remain , No hope's to remove it I find to my grief , Unless you in pity do grant my relief : Then do not deny me when as I do cry , Oh grant me your favour , or else I shall die . Therefore I beseech you to hear my complaint , And take some pity before I do faint : For I am cast down with one glance of your eye , And when you do frown , it's O then I could die A smile from your beauty does ravish my mind , Because I am pleased when as you seem kind : For then I do hope to find some relief , At the hand of my dear , who hath caused my grief . But when I consider you cast me aside , Oh then I do fear you will not be my Bride : But this I desire , and this I do crave , To have some requital for being your Slave : And so presume for to venture my Dove , To seal with a kiss the Indenture of love : Then make me no longer in vain for to cry , But now tell me whither I shall live or die . Kind Sir then ( she said ) since your love it is true , I will heal your wound , and be kind unto you : For well I have minded you sorrow and pain Which you have endured by my cruel disdain : But your fancy to please , I grant what you crave And your grief for to ease , my body you have , Then wipe off your tears and cast sorrows away , For now I will please thee by night and by day . These words so revived his sorrowful mind , He was overjoyed for to see her so kind : He straightway embraced her and gave her a kiss , To [ seal ] as a pledge of a true lovers bliss : And so from that instant united in love , With constant affection that never shall remove : And now they live happy in joy and content , And for what is past have no cause to repent . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The Dying Lovers Reprieve : OR , The Reward of True Love . With sighs and tears her love he does desire , Since Cupid hath his senses set fire ; His torment and his pain to her he shows , With all his protestations and his vows : At last she yields to grant him some relief , And make him joyful after all his grief . Tune of , Digby's Farewell : Or , Give me the Lass , etc With Allowance . Ro. L'Estrange . F Airest and dearest to thee I am bound . For love and affection thy servant to be , Your skill I desire to heal up my wound , There's none in the world that can cure it but thee : Then dearest be pleased to do your endeavour , And i'll be your servant to wait on you ever : And thus you compel me unto you to cry , Grant me thy affection , or else I shall die . The ground of my troment to thee i'll impart , 'Twas Cupid with's Arrow that wounded my heart Which pains me and grieves me that I cannot rest , Wrings tears from my eyes , & amp ; sighs from my breast , Which makes me go mourning to think on my grief My heart it lies burning for want of relief . No hope's I have left to be eased of pain , Unless you requite me with true love again . Then dearest be pleased to hear my request , And ease a poor patient and set me at rest : For you're the Physician which can by your art , In this sad condition give ease to my heart : It's only your love that so much I desire , Since thy charming my senses does set me on fire : Then dearest release me out of all my pain , And strive to requite me with true love again . L Et me be so happy your love to embrace , Or why did you show me your beautiful face ? Why did you not cover your features so rare ? Which caused my heart to be caught in a snare : Then might I have lived in peace and content , & amp ; never have known what loves torments had meant , But now compel me unto you to cry , I prithee love tell me , shall I live or die ? Your love then restore me , grant what I crave , Or else to remove me from hence to the Grave : Except you release me , no joy I can find , Whereby it may ease me and settle my mind : For I am enthralled by your rolling eyes , And you are the object wherein the fault lies : Which makes me go mourning to think on my pain My hear lies a burning for cruel disdain . Although for my love you do prove so unkind , I cannot refrain but must utter my mind : I have been your servant a long time in vain , My love it was fervent , and does still remain , No hope's to remove it I find to my grief , Unless you in pity do grant my relief : Then do not deny me when as I do cry , Oh grant me your favour , or else I shall die . Therefore I beseech you to hear my complaint , And take some pity before I do faint : For I am cast down with one glance of your eye , And when you do frown , it's O then I could die A smile from your beauty does ravish my mind , Because I am pleased when as you seem kind : For then I do hope to find some relief , At the hand of my dear , who hath caused my grief . But when I consider you cast me aside , Oh then I do fear you will not be my Bride : But this I desire , and this I do crave , To have some requital for being your Slave : And so presume for to venture my Dove , To seal with a kiss the Indenture of love : Then make me no longer in vain for to cry , But now tell me whither I shall live or die . Kind Sir then ( she said ) since your love it is true , I will heal your wound , and be kind unto you : For well I have minded you sorrow and pain Which you have endured by my cruel disdain : But your fancy to please , I grant what you crave And your grief for to ease , my body you have , Then wipe off your tears and cast sorrows away , For now I will please thee by night and by day . These words so revived his sorrowful mind , He was overjoyed for to see her so kind : He straightway embraced her and gave her a kiss , To [ seal ] as a pledge of a true lovers bliss : And so from that instant united in love , With constant affection that never shall remove : And now they live happy in joy and content , And for what is past have no cause to repent . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 