True love without deceit OR , The Country Girls Happiness . Where Love and Truth together meet , what pleasure do they find ! Beneath the Sun nothing more sweet to a True Lovers mind . Tune of , The Fair one let me in ; or , Heigh boys up go we . W E that are bonny Country girls enjoy our hearts delight ; We matter not the Lords , nor Earls , nor do admire the Knights : For Tom , and Dick , with George , & amp ; Will , do give us such content , As if our minds for to fulfil they were from Heaven sent . Though all the day abroad they keep , at night they home return , And in their Lovers Arms do sleep , who all the day did mourn ; And with sweet kisses do us please , yea ; give us such content , That we count Love a sweet Disease from Heaven for Lovers sent . When Susan does her Robin spy , Oh how her Heart does leap ! She hath him still within her eye , and in her heart does keep That face she does so much admire , which breeds her hearts content ; And then she cries , that pleasant Fire was for poor Lovers sent . Nell , Bess , and Jone , all love full well , and cannot it deny ; Their passion others do excel ; in Lovesick flames they fry , While Ned and loving Bartholomew their absence do lament : And Love unto this jovial Crew was sure from Heaven sent . Oh! that I could express the Charms that do these Lovers seize , When they betwixt each others Arms do lie in perfect ease : While e'ry sighs produceth Love , and gives their hearts content ; These pleasures surely from Above were for true Lovers sent . Then Ralph and Daniel by the Blow their passion do record ; To constancy they make a vow , all baseness is abhor [ ' ] worser : While Jane and Peg as constant prove ; and with a joint consent Cry out , that nothing can remove the joys for Lovers sent . But Margery at last comes in , for Hugh she does expect ; She vows that she could die for him , him she does so respect : And Hugh her kindness does repay , theres no Cause to lament ; They both long for the joyful day only for Lovers sent . How sweetly do those Souls embrace when they together meet ! A Barn seems like a Princely Palace , where they each other greet : The silent Meadows and the Groves both yield to them content ; And all , to animate their loves , was from the Heavens sent . In Constancy they take delight , as Lovers ought to do , In hearts and souls they do unite , this is most certain true : No Courtly Language they do use , nor flattering Compliment ; Each others faults they do excuse : This bliss for them was sent . Thus you may see the Country Lass , and eke the Country Lad , Will court and kiss upon the Grass , as if they both were mad : And nothing does there come amiss , their Pleasures to prevent ; This their delight to hug and kiss ; for them such joys were sent . Printed for J. Wright . J. Clark , W. Thackery and T. P assenger . True love without deceit OR , The Country Girls Happiness . Where Love and Truth together meet , what pleasure do they find ! Beneath the Sun nothing more sweet to a True Lovers mind . Tune of , The Fair one let me in ; or , Heigh boys up go we . W E that are bonny Country girls enjoy our hearts delight ; We matter not the Lords , nor Earls , nor do admire the Knights : For Tom , and Dick , with George , & amp ; Will , do give us such content , As if our minds for to fulfil they were from Heaven sent . Though all the day abroad they keep , at night they home return , And in their Lovers Arms do sleep , who all the day did mourn ; And with sweet kisses do us please , yea ; give us such content , That we count Love a sweet Disease from Heaven for Lovers sent . When Susan does her Robin spy , Oh how her Heart does leap ! She hath him still within her eye , and in her heart does keep That face she does so much admire , which breeds her hearts content ; And then she cries , that pleasant Fire was for poor Lovers sent . Nell , Bess , and Jone , all love full well , and cannot it deny ; Their passion others do excel ; in Lovesick flames they fry , While Ned and loving Bartholomew their absence do lament : And Love unto this jovial Crew was sure from Heaven sent . Oh! that I could express the Charms that do these Lovers seize , When they betwixt each others Arms do lie in perfect ease : While e'ry sighs produceth Love , and gives their hearts content ; These pleasures surely from Above were for true Lovers sent . Then Ralph and Daniel by the Blow their passion do record ; To constancy they make a vow , all baseness is abhor [ ' ] worser : While Jane and Peg as constant prove ; and with a joint consent Cry out , that nothing can remove the joys for Lovers sent . But Margery at last comes in , for Hugh she does expect ; She vows that she could die for him , him she does so respect : And Hugh her kindness does repay , theres no Cause to lament ; They both long for the joyful day only for Lovers sent . How sweetly do those Souls embrace when they together meet ! A Barn seems like a Princely Palace , where they each other greet : The silent Meadows and the Groves both yield to them content ; And all , to animate their loves , was from the Heavens sent . In Constancy they take delight , as Lovers ought to do , In hearts and souls they do unite , this is most certain true : No Courtly Language they do use , nor flattering Compliment ; Each others faults they do excuse : This bliss for them was sent . Thus you may see the Country Lass , and eke the Country Lad , Will court and kiss upon the Grass , as if they both were mad : And nothing does there come amiss , their Pleasures to prevent ; This their delight to hug and kiss ; for them such joys were sent . Printed for J. Wright . J. Clark , W. Thackery and T. P assenger . 