The Dreaming Virgins Conceited happiness . OR , The Innocent Maidens Hue and Cry After the Pleasures of Love . Here Beauty , Innocence and all , are met , As Diamonds are in Gold completely set . Here Love in Native Innocence we paint , Such Beauty raised , and Gold never yet made faint . Tune of , My Life and my Death . With Allowance . I Am a young Maiden so brisk and so gay , A Portion I have , and no longer would stay : There's something I long for , it's something thats fine For which I oft sighs , and wish it were mine . I dream ( it is true ) of much pleasure and ease , And ofter to dream so me better would please : But o ! when I awake I find all but a shade , And still I continue a languishing Maid . One night I did fancy young Cupid was nigh , And told me he'd brought me and Ocean of joy : When strait a young gallant approached in charms , And flew with all eagerness into my Arms , While saintly resistance I seemingly made , And coily I struggled as I would have fled , But a thousand soft pleasures methought bid me stay And I cou [ ' ] worser have wished to have slumbered all day . But these are faint things , I would further enjoy , The shade of a blessing does blessings destroy : It's strange that such youth and such beauty lies by That Rosebuds in prime so neglected should lie ; To dream is a pleasure , but if I guess right , Than dreaming , there yet is a further delight ; Earth Bird of the Air with its Mate does rejoice , And creatures of kind of their like so make choice . The Turtle with billing the Turtle does greet , And with their soft cooing their Loves do repeat ; The Redbreasts are joyful in pairs on each Bough , Each Lark on the wing does its loving mate know , The Lapwing is weeping when it is alone , And for her lost Mate does the Nightingale moan ; The Hind does her Heart with much kindness invite In Forests and Mountains to take his delight . TO Hen were there no pleasure united to be , How then would all these in their union agree ? Something that my innocence cannot yet scan Does raise a desire for to love the thing man : For oft I observe when I wishfully gaze , My heart it does beatrice with a blush in my face , I stand as entranced , and cannot remove Those eyes I have fixed on and object I love . Than thus for to view him there more is I guess , Or else after seeing I should love him less , All objects ( at first though they greatly may please ) By oft being viewed in their Lustre decrease : But this is not so , but my fancy does move The more I behold it , the more for to love : There's something within me does plead still his cause , And Nature informs me i'm bound by her laws , To love my own likeness , and pleasant to be , Why then should all things and not Mankind agree ? Let Parents preach on , for though rigid they prove , There is a Desire does prompt me to love ; What though I am young , I the longer shall know Those pleasures I dream of , if Love can bestow Those joys upon one whom his Laws would obey , And squander not idly pleasures away . If Cupid ever pitied a languishing Maid , If never true kindness true virtue betrayed , If innocent love that never learned to deceive , Can pleasure to Lovers that constant are give : If joys that I know not for me are in store , If Lovers in pleasure can never be poor , Then pity , you Powers , and let me be blessed With what I in Dreams and so often possessed . And all my endeavours shall still be to please In innocent Love for such pleasures as these : Arm , arm gentle Cupid , and let fly thy Dart With flame that is mildest to pierce some ones heart And guide him the way as successful to prove As I am to yield to the charms of Love : Make Fevers so equal to burn in our breast , That both may know Love , and in Loving be blessed . Printed for J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The Dreaming Virgins Conceited happiness . OR , The Innocent Maidens Hue and Cry After the Pleasures of Love . Here Beauty , Innocence and all , are met , As Diamonds are in Gold completely set . Here Love in Native Innocence we paint , Such Beauty raised , and Gold never yet made faint . Tune of , My Life and my Death . With Allowance . I Am a young Maiden so brisk and so gay , A Portion I have , and no longer would stay : There's something I long for , it's something thats fine For which I oft sighs , and wish it were mine . I dream ( it is true ) of much pleasure and ease , And ofter to dream so me better would please : But o ! when I awake I find all but a shade , And still I continue a languishing Maid . One night I did fancy young Cupid was nigh , And told me he'd brought me and Ocean of joy : When strait a young gallant approached in charms , And flew with all eagerness into my Arms , While saintly resistance I seemingly made , And coily I struggled as I would have fled , But a thousand soft pleasures methought bid me stay And I cou [ ' ] worser have wished to have slumbered all day . But these are faint things , I would further enjoy , The shade of a blessing does blessings destroy : It's strange that such youth and such beauty lies by That Rosebuds in prime so neglected should lie ; To dream is a pleasure , but if I guess right , Than dreaming , there yet is a further delight ; Earth Bird of the Air with its Mate does rejoice , And creatures of kind of their like so make choice . The Turtle with billing the Turtle does greet , And with their soft cooing their Loves do repeat ; The Redbreasts are joyful in pairs on each Bough , Each Lark on the wing does its loving mate know , The Lapwing is weeping when it is alone , And for her lost Mate does the Nightingale moan ; The Hind does her Heart with much kindness invite In Forests and Mountains to take his delight . TO Hen were there no pleasure united to be , How then would all these in their union agree ? Something that my innocence cannot yet scan Does raise a desire for to love the thing man : For oft I observe when I wishfully gaze , My heart it does beatrice with a blush in my face , I stand as entranced , and cannot remove Those eyes I have fixed on and object I love . Than thus for to view him there more is I guess , Or else after seeing I should love him less , All objects ( at first though they greatly may please ) By oft being viewed in their Lustre decrease : But this is not so , but my fancy does move The more I behold it , the more for to love : There's something within me does plead still his cause , And Nature informs me i'm bound by her laws , To love my own likeness , and pleasant to be , Why then should all things and not Mankind agree ? Let Parents preach on , for though rigid they prove , There is a Desire does prompt me to love ; What though I am young , I the longer shall know Those pleasures I dream of , if Love can bestow Those joys upon one whom his Laws would obey , And squander not idly pleasures away . If Cupid ever pitied a languishing Maid , If never true kindness true virtue betrayed , If innocent love that never learned to deceive , Can pleasure to Lovers that constant are give : If joys that I know not for me are in store , If Lovers in pleasure can never be poor , Then pity , you Powers , and let me be blessed With what I in Dreams and so often possessed . And all my endeavours shall still be to please In innocent Love for such pleasures as these : Arm , arm gentle Cupid , and let fly thy Dart With flame that is mildest to pierce some ones heart And guide him the way as successful to prove As I am to yield to the charms of Love : Make Fevers so equal to burn in our breast , That both may know Love , and in Loving be blessed . Printed for J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 