The Jovial Lass : OR DOLL and ROGER As Roger went the Land to Blow , he did Unlight by the way : And there he spied Doll Milking a Cow , and tooed they went I say . The Tune is , Robin Hood and the Stranger . A S Roger did rise in the morning betimes , with a heigh down , down and a down , and riding his Horse to the Blow , Down in a Meadow the good Horson spied , Doll milking of the Cow . He Lashed his Horse , and off he leaps , with a heigh , etc and into the Meadow he flies , which started the Cow ; poor Doll followed after , till she was wet up to the Thighs . pox take you , ( quod Doll ) for frighting my Cow with a heigh , etc don't you know the cold Dew's on the Grass , Though no stockings I have my smock it is wet , that the Tears run down my Arse . I am sorry ( quoth Roger ) that thou dost so weep with a heigh , etc if I have done thee any harm , I'll go naked my self and lend thee my Shirt to keep thy Body warm . Q Uoth Doll , dost think I thou tell thee a Lie , with a heigh , etc I prithee come hither and see , Doll falls on her nock , & amp ; pulls up her Smock , that Roger her Merking might see . Gods-bobs ( quoth Roger ) what's that so black , with a heigh , etc that lies between thy Thighs , O foolish Hodge , it is a fine to y , i'll not leave it for both thy eyes . Quoth Roger , why valuest it at such a high rate , with a heigh , etc I speak it for no disgrace I've a thin in my Breeches , sweet Doll how it itches that hath a more Comelier face . Then Roger put in a man like face , with a heigh , etc and feels Dolls Belly as soft as silk , Quoth Doll be doing or else i'll be going , for faith I shall spend my Milk : Be doing of what ( quoth foolish Roger ) with a heigh , etc I do not thee understand , Thou Horson fool give hither thy Tool , and i'll put it in with my hand . Then Roger did roundly unto his work fallen , with a heigh , etc he heaves he firks he strains , Oh Doll ( quoth he ) what tickleth this , and runneth down my Reins . O foolish Hodge it's Milk ( Quoth WORSER oll ) with a heigh , etc ' this pleasant it's good it's neat , O , I had rather stroke a Man , than draw at the Cows Teat . When the sport was done WORSER oll was nimble and brisk with a heigh , etc but Roger that Clownish Fool , Like a great Mome to his Mother wenthome . and swore he had lost his Tool . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger , The Jovial Lass : OR DOLL and ROGER As Roger went the Land to Blow , he did Unlight by the way : And there he spied Doll Milking a Cow , and tooed they went I say . The Tune is , Robin Hood and the Stranger . A S Roger did rise in the morning betimes , with a heigh down , down and a down , and riding his Horse to the Blow , Down in a Meadow the good Horson spied , Doll milking of the Cow . He Lashed his Horse , and off he leaps , with a heigh , etc and into the Meadow he flies , which started the Cow ; poor Doll followed after , till she was wet up to the Thighs . pox take you , ( quod Doll ) for frighting my Cow with a heigh , etc don't you know the cold Dew's on the Grass , Though no stockings I have my smock it is wet , that the Tears run down my Arse . I am sorry ( quoth Roger ) that thou dost so weep with a heigh , etc if I have done thee any harm , I'll go naked my self and lend thee my Shirt to keep thy Body warm . Q Uoth Doll , dost think I thou tell thee a Lie , with a heigh , etc I prithee come hither and see , Doll falls on her nock , & amp ; pulls up her Smock , that Roger her Merking might see . Gods-bobs ( quoth Roger ) what's that so black , with a heigh , etc that lies between thy Thighs , O foolish Hodge , it is a fine to y , i'll not leave it for both thy eyes . Quoth Roger , why valuest it at such a high rate , with a heigh , etc I speak it for no disgrace I've a thin in my Breeches , sweet Doll how it itches that hath a more Comelier face . Then Roger put in a man like face , with a heigh , etc and feels Dolls Belly as soft as silk , Quoth Doll be doing or else i'll be going , for faith I shall spend my Milk : Be doing of what ( quoth foolish Roger ) with a heigh , etc I do not thee understand , Thou Horson fool give hither thy Tool , and i'll put it in with my hand . Then Roger did roundly unto his work fallen , with a heigh , etc he heaves he firks he strains , Oh Doll ( quoth he ) what tickleth this , and runneth down my Reins . O foolish Hodge it's Milk ( Quoth WORSER oll ) with a heigh , etc ' this pleasant it's good it's neat , O , I had rather stroke a Man , than draw at the Cows Teat . When the sport was done WORSER oll was nimble and brisk with a heigh , etc but Roger that Clownish Fool , Like a great Mome to his Mother wenthome . and swore he had lost his Tool . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger , 