The Bugle-Bow : OR , A Merry Match of Shooting . A ll you that do love A rchery , I pray you now for to draw nigh , A and you shall hear before you go , The Shooting in the bugle-bow . The Tune is , My Husband is a carpenter : or , the Oh ill of care . U Pon a time it chanced so , abroad as I did walk , So secretly , they did not know , I hard two Lovers talk : The one a pretty handsome Youth , the other a proper Maid , After a salute , they did dispute , beset with cupid's aid . With Kisses and with Compliments , he did this Maiden greet , And courteously he did reply , Oh gallant Lady sweet . A match sweet Lady I would make , before from hence I go , If thou with me a part will take , to shoot in the Bugle-bow . Alas good sir you are deceived , no part with you i'll be , I am to young , and skill have none in any Archery . Nor never had in all my life , the truth of all is so , Nor dare I not for fear of strife , to shoot in the Bugle-bow . Lady , I pray you be content , plead not your tender age , The Birds do sing in merriment , though pined up in a Cage . My love to you , I vow is true , though none thereof do know , Do not deny , this courtesy , to shoot in the Bugle-bow . Good sir , I thank you for your love which you do bear to me ; But yet I further mean to prove , ever I a part will be : For why , much danger follow may , for ought that I do know , If I should yield to you this day , to shoot in the Bugle-bow . F Air Lady , I know no danger that can to it belong ; You know I am no stranger , then why should you fear wrong ? O yield I pray , make no delay , but now some favour show ; My part now take , for truelove sake , to shoot in the bugle-bow . But when this Damosel she did hear , her sweethearts kind reply , No longer she could then forbear his loving courtesy . Sweetheart , said she , a part i'll be , ere I from you do go ; I'll draw the string , and fear nothing to shoot in the bugle-bow . This Maid bent up her noble Bow , and strongly drew the String , Her Game it then so well did go , it made her for to sing . But yet the youngman played his part for he three for one did go , But lost the Game , yet never the worse to shoot in the bugle-bow . But when this Game it ended was , this Damsel did reply : Good sir , you see this Game is lost , you can it not deny . Therefore I say if you will play once more before you go , Your part isle take , and not forsake , to shoot in the bugle-bow . That Match sweetheart , it pleases me I will not it deny ; I see thy skill in Archery , thou willing art to try . Therefore let's to it once again . our Archery to show , Thy part i'll take , and not forsake to shoot in the bugle-bow . But when the game it ended was , together this couple went , Amends this Damosel for to make , it was his full intent : And he married her most willingly , for fear of further woe : His part she did take , and not forsake , to shoot in the bugle-bow . So to conclude you Maidens fair that now do hear this Song , These Lines I have dedicated here , I hope will do no wrong ; For they were write in merriment , as well you all may know , Of a Maid that willingly was bent , to shoot in the bugle-bow . Printed for F. Coals , TO Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . The Bugle-Bow : OR , A Merry Match of Shooting . A ll you that do love A rchery , I pray you now for to draw nigh , A and you shall hear before you go , The Shooting in the bugle-bow . The Tune is , My Husband is a carpenter : or , the Oh ill of care . U Pon a time it chanced so , abroad as I did walk , So secretly , they did not know , I hard two Lovers talk : The one a pretty handsome Youth , the other a proper Maid , After a salute , they did dispute , beset with cupid's aid . With Kisses and with Compliments , he did this Maiden greet , And courteously he did reply , Oh gallant Lady sweet . A match sweet Lady I would make , before from hence I go , If thou with me a part will take , to shoot in the Bugle-bow . Alas good sir you are deceived , no part with you i'll be , I am to young , and skill have none in any Archery . Nor never had in all my life , the truth of all is so , Nor dare I not for fear of strife , to shoot in the Bugle-bow . Lady , I pray you be content , plead not your tender age , The Birds do sing in merriment , though pined up in a Cage . My love to you , I vow is true , though none thereof do know , Do not deny , this courtesy , to shoot in the Bugle-bow . Good sir , I thank you for your love which you do bear to me ; But yet I further mean to prove , ever I a part will be : For why , much danger follow may , for ought that I do know , If I should yield to you this day , to shoot in the Bugle-bow . F Air Lady , I know no danger that can to it belong ; You know I am no stranger , then why should you fear wrong ? O yield I pray , make no delay , but now some favour show ; My part now take , for truelove sake , to shoot in the bugle-bow . But when this Damosel she did hear , her sweethearts kind reply , No longer she could then forbear his loving courtesy . Sweetheart , said she , a part i'll be , ere I from you do go ; I'll draw the string , and fear nothing to shoot in the bugle-bow . This Maid bent up her noble Bow , and strongly drew the String , Her Game it then so well did go , it made her for to sing . But yet the youngman played his part for he three for one did go , But lost the Game , yet never the worse to shoot in the bugle-bow . But when this Game it ended was , this Damsel did reply : Good sir , you see this Game is lost , you can it not deny . Therefore I say if you will play once more before you go , Your part isle take , and not forsake , to shoot in the bugle-bow . That Match sweetheart , it pleases me I will not it deny ; I see thy skill in Archery , thou willing art to try . Therefore let's to it once again . our Archery to show , Thy part i'll take , and not forsake to shoot in the bugle-bow . But when the game it ended was , together this couple went , Amends this Damosel for to make , it was his full intent : And he married her most willingly , for fear of further woe : His part she did take , and not forsake , to shoot in the bugle-bow . So to conclude you Maidens fair that now do hear this Song , These Lines I have dedicated here , I hope will do no wrong ; For they were write in merriment , as well you all may know , Of a Maid that willingly was bent , to shoot in the bugle-bow . Printed for F. Coals , TO Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . 