Crumbs of Comfort For the YOUNGEST SISTER . The youngest Sister in despair , At last did comfort find , Which banished all her grief and care , And eased her troubled mind , A kind young man did promise her That she should married be , She answered him again Kind Sir Thereto I'm wondrous free . To a pleasant new West country Tune . I Have a good old Father at home , and ancient man is he , But he has a mind , that ever he die , That I should married be . And since I herd of thy complaint , methought I pitied thee , To me thou seemest like a Saint , And thou shalt married be . The Roses and the Lilies fair cannot compare to thee , Then mine own Dear doe not despair , for thou shalt married be . I have been curious in mine eye , yet never could any see , That so much pleased my fantasy , And thou shalt married be . All night between my loving Arms , thou shalt have embraces free , And isle secure thee from all harms When thou shalt married be . And e wouldst thou have a pretty Babe ild quickly get it thee , Thy credit and my own to save , When we two married be . A Thousand joys isle promise more and all the world shall see , That none like thee I will adore , And thou shalt married be . What though thy Sister is bestowed let not that trouble thee , On her young men some years have blowd Thou young shalt married be . Thou hast no wrinkles in thy face and so i'm sure has she , It'll be and honour , no disgrace , That thou shouldst married be . And tell me now canst thou deny so kind a friend as me , That faith thou shalt no Maiden die , But thou shalt married be . If I walk through the Universe I can no fairer see , But every where I will rehearse That we will married be . I'll Crown thee with the joys of love , some Mortals never did see , And some shall with that live above , Like us to married be . Can Hymen any joys provide , my Dear for thee or me , Out of his thoughts they cannot slide , But thou shalt married be . No , no , torment thy self no more , nor fear loves cruelty , Thou art the girl that I adore , And thou shalt married be . Give me thy hand , take here my heart , and be from sorrow free , I know the worth of thy desert , And thou shalt married be . 'Twill be one day a blessed time and we from cares be free , When thou art married in thy prime That I may happy be . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden in Ball West-Smithfield . Crumbs of Comfort For the YOUNGEST SISTER . The youngest Sister in despair , At last did comfort find , Which banished all her grief and care , And eased her troubled mind , A kind young man did promise her That she should married be , She answered him again Kind Sir Thereto I'm wondrous free . To a pleasant new West country Tune . I Have a good old Father at home , and ancient man is he , But he has a mind , that ever he die , That I should married be . And since I herd of thy complaint , methought I pitied thee , To me thou seemest like a Saint , And thou shalt married be . The Roses and the Lilies fair cannot compare to thee , Then mine own Dear doe not despair , for thou shalt married be . I have been curious in mine eye , yet never could any see , That so much pleased my fantasy , And thou shalt married be . All night between my loving Arms , thou shalt have embraces free , And isle secure thee from all harms When thou shalt married be . And e wouldst thou have a pretty Babe ild quickly get it thee , Thy credit and my own to save , When we two married be . A Thousand joys isle promise more and all the world shall see , That none like thee I will adore , And thou shalt married be . What though thy Sister is bestowed let not that trouble thee , On her young men some years have blowd Thou young shalt married be . Thou hast no wrinkles in thy face and so i'm sure has she , It'll be and honour , no disgrace , That thou shouldst married be . And tell me now canst thou deny so kind a friend as me , That faith thou shalt no Maiden die , But thou shalt married be . If I walk through the Universe I can no fairer see , But every where I will rehearse That we will married be . I'll Crown thee with the joys of love , some Mortals never did see , And some shall with that live above , Like us to married be . Can Hymen any joys provide , my Dear for thee or me , Out of his thoughts they cannot slide , But thou shalt married be . No , no , torment thy self no more , nor fear loves cruelty , Thou art the girl that I adore , And thou shalt married be . Give me thy hand , take here my heart , and be from sorrow free , I know the worth of thy desert , And thou shalt married be . 'Twill be one day a blessed time and we from cares be free , When thou art married in thy prime That I may happy be . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden in Ball West-Smithfield . 