Daphne's Complaint For the absence of her Lover . The absence of her love she moans , With bitter sighs and grievous groans : And still the burden of her Song , Is , Oh my Love thou stayest too long . To a pleasant New Tune . W Hen I herd a Trumpet found , Down I laid upon the ground , And did listen to a found , Which made the Echoes to rebound , Mournfully she sung this Song , Oh my love , Oh my love , Oh my love , thou stayest too long . Underneath a Myrtle tree , All alone sat fair Daphne ; On her lap a Lute she laid , Whereupon she sweetly played . Mournfully she sung this Song , Oh my love , Oh my love , Oh my love , thou stayest too long . The Second Part , to the same tune . TO He will Bulld and savage Bear , Roaring came this voice to hear : When they herd fair Daphne's voice , Suddenly they ceased their noise . Mournfully she sung this Song , Oh my love , Oh my love , Oh my love , thou stayest too long . Out of the woods the nimble Deer , Tripping came this voice to hear : All about her they did throng , And did listen while she sung , Mournfully she sung this Song , Oh my love , Oh my love , Oh my love , thou stayest too long . Tigers , Wolves , and Lyons strong , Came to hear fair Dapne's song , And they all stood in amaze , When her voice she once did raise : Still she sung this mournful Song , Oh my love , Oh my love , Oh my love , thou stayest too long . With her voice , her Lute kept time , While she sung this doleful rhime , Then she looked , and long did wait , Still she thought her Love too late . Mournfully she sung this Song , Oh my love , Oh my love , Oh my love , thou stayest too long . On the grassy plain she sat , Soar bewailing her sad fate , Still expecting of her Dear , Wishing that he has been there : Mournfully she sung this Song , Oh my love , Oh my love , Oh my love , thou stayest too long . Sure thou hast forgotten me quite , Or hast found some new delight , That I here must fit alone , For thy absence making moan . Still she sung this mournful Song , Oh my love , Oh my love , Oh my love , thou stayest too long . Some disaster at this time , Hath befallen the Lover mine , That thou art so long me from , And so fills my heart with woe . Mournfully she sung this Song , Oh my love , Oh my love , Oh my love , thou stayest so long . Thus she did bewail her case , As she sat upon this place , While the savage Beasts so grim , Tamely stood to hear her sing , Mournfully she sung this Song , Oh my love , Oh my love , Oh my love , thou stayest too long . When her Lover came at last , At this sighed he was aghast , Then she bid him fear no harm , For these wild beasts , she would charm . Suddenly she changed her Song , Singing , Oh my love , Oh my love , Oh my love , thou hast stayed too long . Then they sweetly did embrace , In that flowery shady place , While the frighted beasts did skip , To the woods , and nimbly trip : Thus she sung melodiously , Oh my love , Oh my love , Oh my love , Welcome to me . Printed for R.B. and sold by F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . Daphne's Complaint For the absence of her Lover . The absence of her love she moans , With bitter sighs and grievous groans : And still the burden of her Song , Is , Oh my Love thou stayest too long . To a pleasant New Tune . W Hen I herd a Trumpet found , Down I laid upon the ground , And did listen to a found , Which made the Echoes to rebound , Mournfully she sung this Song , Oh my love , Oh my love , Oh my love , thou stayest too long . Underneath a Myrtle tree , All alone sat fair Daphne ; On her lap a Lute she laid , Whereupon she sweetly played . Mournfully she sung this Song , Oh my love , Oh my love , Oh my love , thou stayest too long . The Second Part , to the same tune . TO He will Bulld and savage Bear , Roaring came this voice to hear : When they herd fair Daphne's voice , Suddenly they ceased their noise . Mournfully she sung this Song , Oh my love , Oh my love , Oh my love , thou stayest too long . Out of the woods the nimble Deer , Tripping came this voice to hear : All about her they did throng , And did listen while she sung , Mournfully she sung this Song , Oh my love , Oh my love , Oh my love , thou stayest too long . Tigers , Wolves , and Lyons strong , Came to hear fair Dapne's song , And they all stood in amaze , When her voice she once did raise : Still she sung this mournful Song , Oh my love , Oh my love , Oh my love , thou stayest too long . With her voice , her Lute kept time , While she sung this doleful rhime , Then she looked , and long did wait , Still she thought her Love too late . Mournfully she sung this Song , Oh my love , Oh my love , Oh my love , thou stayest too long . On the grassy plain she sat , Soar bewailing her sad fate , Still expecting of her Dear , Wishing that he has been there : Mournfully she sung this Song , Oh my love , Oh my love , Oh my love , thou stayest too long . Sure thou hast forgotten me quite , Or hast found some new delight , That I here must fit alone , For thy absence making moan . Still she sung this mournful Song , Oh my love , Oh my love , Oh my love , thou stayest too long . Some disaster at this time , Hath befallen the Lover mine , That thou art so long me from , And so fills my heart with woe . Mournfully she sung this Song , Oh my love , Oh my love , Oh my love , thou stayest so long . Thus she did bewail her case , As she sat upon this place , While the savage Beasts so grim , Tamely stood to hear her sing , Mournfully she sung this Song , Oh my love , Oh my love , Oh my love , thou stayest too long . When her Lover came at last , At this sighed he was aghast , Then she bid him fear no harm , For these wild beasts , she would charm . Suddenly she changed her Song , Singing , Oh my love , Oh my love , Oh my love , thou hast stayed too long . Then they sweetly did embrace , In that flowery shady place , While the frighted beasts did skip , To the woods , and nimbly trip : Thus she sung melodiously , Oh my love , Oh my love , Oh my love , Welcome to me . Printed for R.B. and sold by F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . 