The Wandering Virgin ; Or , The Coy Lass well fitted , OR , the Answer to the wandering Maiden . Virgins whose coyness & amp ; disdain does prove The fatal ruin of cemented Love , Learn , and beware lest you like me cry out I'll find my Love , or search the world about . To the Tune of , Over Hills and high Mountains . Y Ou Virgins so ptetty hear what I relate , My case you may pity , take heed of my Fate : How I was forsaken you'll hear it throughout , But i'll travel the world over to find my Love out . Since I was the cause that he first did disdain , My overmuch coyness does make him refrain : But now I must blush that it comes so about , I would give all the world I could find my love out . Then straight my green Gown into breeches i'll make , And my long yellow Locks much shorter i'll take : I'll wander , i'll wander , i'll wander about And i'll search all the world for to find my Love out . I'll get me a switch and a sword by my side , A Horse , Boots and Spurs . and i'll get up and ride : I'll wander , i'll wander , i'll wander about , I'll search all the world for to find my Love out M y Love was a seemly and proper young youth , Though he did dissemble I took all for truth , So crafty in courtship I never did doubt But idem give all the World I could search my love out . His forehead was smooth and his locks they were curled And him I adored above all in the world : His Tongue went so smoothly in Courtship profound That I must have my Love though I search the world round . His Musical voice it did make me admire His courtship and carriage did set me on fire : I loved him so dearly which makes me cry out I find him , or wander the world all about . What fancy hath took him I much do admire That he should reject the Love he did require : And since he is gone I will wander about And i'll search all the world but i'll find my love out . My breath it grows short and my face pale and wan Which makes me admire the power of the Man : My heart it does tremble , which makes me to doubt I shall want of my Wits if I find him not out . Since Love I adore thee , why shouldst thou disdain The suit of the Lover , that's subject to pain ? Be kinder unto me , and ease all my doubt For i'll search all the world but i'll find my Love out . I'll travel the Deserts , where fancy me leads , Through Groves , Fields , & amp ; Forests through Fountains , and Meoes , To find out my dearest i'll gallop about And I'll range the wide world for to find my love out . I'll search over England , to see ifed contain ; If not , i'll turn Sailor , no search on the Main , The Ocean , so boundless , i'll travel about , I'll range the wide world , but i'll find my Love out . My Maidenhead-Jewell it still is my own ; But if he had asked me , be sure it had gone : Then Maids have a care , lest like me you cry out , I'll find him , or wander the world all about . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball , in Pye-Corner . The Wandering Virgin ; Or , The Coy Lass well fitted , OR , the Answer to the wandering Maiden . Virgins whose coyness & amp ; disdain does prove The fatal ruin of cemented Love , Learn , and beware lest you like me cry out I'll find my Love , or search the world about . To the Tune of , Over Hills and high Mountains . Y Ou Virgins so ptetty hear what I relate , My case you may pity , take heed of my Fate : How I was forsaken you'll hear it throughout , But i'll travel the world over to find my Love out . Since I was the cause that he first did disdain , My overmuch coyness does make him refrain : But now I must blush that it comes so about , I would give all the world I could find my love out . Then straight my green Gown into breeches i'll make , And my long yellow Locks much shorter i'll take : I'll wander , i'll wander , i'll wander about And i'll search all the world for to find my Love out . I'll get me a switch and a sword by my side , A Horse , Boots and Spurs . and i'll get up and ride : I'll wander , i'll wander , i'll wander about , I'll search all the world for to find my Love out M y Love was a seemly and proper young youth , Though he did dissemble I took all for truth , So crafty in courtship I never did doubt But idem give all the World I could search my love out . His forehead was smooth and his locks they were curled And him I adored above all in the world : His Tongue went so smoothly in Courtship profound That I must have my Love though I search the world round . His Musical voice it did make me admire His courtship and carriage did set me on fire : I loved him so dearly which makes me cry out I find him , or wander the world all about . What fancy hath took him I much do admire That he should reject the Love he did require : And since he is gone I will wander about And i'll search all the world but i'll find my love out . My breath it grows short and my face pale and wan Which makes me admire the power of the Man : My heart it does tremble , which makes me to doubt I shall want of my Wits if I find him not out . Since Love I adore thee , why shouldst thou disdain The suit of the Lover , that's subject to pain ? Be kinder unto me , and ease all my doubt For i'll search all the world but i'll find my Love out . I'll travel the Deserts , where fancy me leads , Through Groves , Fields , & amp ; Forests through Fountains , and Meoes , To find out my dearest i'll gallop about And I'll range the wide world for to find my love out . I'll search over England , to see ifed contain ; If not , i'll turn Sailor , no search on the Main , The Ocean , so boundless , i'll travel about , I'll range the wide world , but i'll find my Love out . My Maidenhead-Jewell it still is my own ; But if he had asked me , be sure it had gone : Then Maids have a care , lest like me you cry out , I'll find him , or wander the world all about . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball , in Pye-Corner . 