Chastities Conquest ; OR , No Trusting before Marriage . A New Song , You Virgins that your Fame and Honour prize , Learn here by saving both , how to be wise ; Secure your Treasure till you have secured The Purchaser , and then you are insured A thing that forehand-freeness never procured . To the Tune of , Canst thou not weave Bone-lace . This may be Printed . R P. C Anst thou not weave Bonelace ? yea by-Lady that I can , Canst thou not lisp with Grace ? yea as well as anyone , Canst thou not Carded and Spin ? yea by Lady that I can And do the other thing ? we I'se do what I can Come then , and be my sweet to Bed I'll carry thee No in geud faith not abit , unless you marry me . Marriage is not the mode , then I'se will make it so , Duce o'the common Road I'll never forsake it so Thou shalt in me possess all Joys that can be had Then give a consenting Kiss , then wed me first my Lad Let us but gang to the Priest so dear I tender thee ; Then kiss on , and do what you list faith I'se not hinder thee , We shall soon weary grow change will soon tyre you , Ah! do not tell me so since I admire you For when I touch thy Breasts thy charms so fire me Yet needless is a Priest , then come no nigher me , For when you tempt me to bed I'se no sick silly Fool , But if you'll buckle and wed , then kiss your Belly full . If as you say you Love make I'se your wedded Mate , And you shall freely have whatever you'd be at Will you not then my Joy without you're wedded strike No by my troth not I Such lovins I'se not like But wedded my Arms shall bless thy passion to the light And with a consenting kiss my Love to his Joys invite . Let's not kind minutes wast I'll led thee to my Bed , Where Loves delights we'll taste and so to morrow be wedded Geud Faith I'se not agree , I'se venture no such thing ' Troth your deceived in me and must begin again Come lay this Bashfulness by your blushes I will hide What harm is it it now to try If you're to mor'n my Bride . I'se never yield to that O don't desire me To do the Dee'l knows what who'd then admire me Well thou hast wone my Heart , thy Virtues fire me I'll wed and never part , as you require me Soft murmurs & amp ; Sighs shall prove what Joys you render me Oh kiss then and surfeit one Love faith I'se not angry be . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden ball in Pie-corner . Chastities Conquest ; OR , No Trusting before Marriage . A New Song , You Virgins that your Fame and Honour prize , Learn here by saving both , how to be wise ; Secure your Treasure till you have secured The Purchaser , and then you are insured A thing that forehand-freeness never procured . To the Tune of , Canst thou not weave Bonelace . This may be Printed . R P. C Anst thou not weave Bonelace ? yea by-Lady that I can , Canst thou not lisp with Grace ? yea as well as anyone , Canst thou not Carded and Spin ? yea by Lady that I can And do the other thing ? we I'se do what I can Come then , and be my sweet to Bed I'll carry thee No in geud faith not abit , unless you marry me . Marriage is not the mode , then I'se will make it so , Duce o'the common Road I'll never forsake it so Thou shalt in me possess all Joys that can be had Then give a consenting Kiss , then wed me first my Lad Let us but gang to the Priest so dear I tender thee ; Then kiss on , and do what you list faith I'se not hinder thee , We shall soon weary grow change will soon tyre you , Ah! do not tell me so since I admire you For when I touch thy Breasts thy charms so fire me Yet needless is a Priest , then come no nigher me , For when you tempt me to bed I'se no sick silly Fool , But if you'll buckle and wed , then kiss your Belly full . If as you say you Love make I'se your wedded Mate , And you shall freely have whatever you'd be at Will you not then my Joy without you're wedded strike No by my troth not I Such lovins I'se not like But wedded my Arms shall bless thy passion to the light And with a consenting kiss my Love to his Joys invite . Let's not kind minutes wast I'll led thee to my Bed , Where Loves delights we'll taste and so to morrow be wedded Geud Faith I'se not agree , I'se venture no such thing ' Troth your deceived in me and must begin again Come lay this Bashfulness by your blushes I will hide What harm is it it now to try If you're to mor'n my Bride . I'se never yield to that O don't desire me To do the Dee'l knows what who'd then admire me Well thou hast wone my Heart , thy Virtues fire me I'll wed and never part , as you require me Soft murmurs & amp ; Sighs shall prove what Joys you render me Oh kiss then and surfeit one Love faith I'se not angry be . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden ball in Pie-corner . 