Loves Power and Greatness , Or , The Charming Lovers Praise . Loves Mighty Accents founded Nature's frame , All that have being from Loves Fountain came ; That Universal good , Eternal joy , Which yields the world such Sacred harmony : Whose charming power , no power has to stay , Through Earth , through Air , through Sea it finds a way . To a New Playhouse Tune . She sick upon her Bed does lie , while he's at Sea S teering the Compass , away from her to flee ; But Cupid hits him with his Golden Dart , And makes him likewise for to feel loves smart . C And Life be a Blessing , That's worth our possessing ? Can life be a blessing if Love were away ? Ah no though our Love all night keeps us waking , and though he torment us with cares all the day ; Yet he sweetens , he sweetens , our pains in the taking theres and hour at the last , and hour to repay . In every possessing , So Heavenly a blessing , in every possessing the fruit of our pain ; Poor Lovers forget long ages of anguish , what ever they have suffered and done to obtain ; It's a pleasure , a pleasure , to sighs , and to languish , when we hope , when we hope , to be happy again . For Love is a blessing , That's worth our possessing ? great Love is that blessing for which we contend ; Encircled to pleasures , to charms that are lasting , how happy are Lovers that mutually bend : Oh to manage , to manage , their loves without wasting those Heavenly , Heavenly moments to spend . Is honour a blessing that's worth the possessing ? is Honour a blessing if Love be denied ? Ah no but most glorious where love is adorning ; honour shines brightest when love is applied It splendors , it splendors , like the rays of the morning all darting , all darting , from every side . The second part to the same Tune . When we by possessing , Create a new blessing , when we by possessing are Charmed with delight ; The ravishing pleasure of Beauty's surprising , to chase the dark shadows of care all the night : And to sallace , to sallace , till Phoebus uprising , does cheer us , does cheer us with the dazzling light Ambitions no blessing , Nor pomp worth possessing , ambition's no blessing but fruitless and vain ; Like a Ship on the Ocean the Billows dividing , till wracked by a Tempest , and sunk in the Main : But Beauty , bright beauty , Loves eternal abiding no dangers , no dangers , can ever restrain . O Loves the chief blessing , And worthy possessing , Oh love's the chief blessing , by love the great frame Of Nature was settled , the Universe founded , and all that have being from Loves bounties came In Paradise , Paradise , sweet Love it abounded , and from our first Parents descended by fame . To Love is a blessing , That's worth the professing . to Love is a blessing , where beauty's are kind Fame , honour , & amp ; greatness , with all their dependants as when Love , as when love , possesses the mind . Those Charms in possessing , Renew the great blessing , those Charms in possessing , continually breathes Fresh fancies of pleasure , for Love is still blooming and glorious delight to our Bosoms bequeathes : While we drink up , while we drink up nectar consuming the moments , the moments , like Laurel we wreathe Then Loves the great blessing , That's worthy possessing , then Loves the great blessing the glorious Love , Transcendant enjoyments most happy assigning whole ages of pleasure delightful most prove , The reward , the reward , of our toil without pining then let us , then let us , for ever thus move : then let us , then let us , for ever thus love . FINIS . London , Printed for Phillip Brooksby , at the Golden , Ball in West-smithfield , near the Hospital-gate . Loves Power and Greatness , Or , The Charming Lovers Praise . Loves Mighty Accents founded Nature's frame , All that have being from Loves Fountain came ; That Universal good , Eternal joy , Which yields the world such Sacred harmony : Whose charming power , no power has to stay , Through Earth , through Air , through Sea it finds a way . To a New Playhouse Tune . She sick upon her Bed does lie , while he's at Sea S teering the Compass , away from her to flee ; But Cupid hits him with his Golden Dart , And makes him likewise for to feel loves smart . C And Life be a Blessing , That's worth our possessing ? Can life be a blessing if Love were away ? Ah no though our Love all night keeps us waking , and though he torment us with cares all the day ; Yet he sweetens , he sweetens , our pains in the taking theres and hour at the last , and hour to repay . In every possessing , So Heavenly a blessing , in every possessing the fruit of our pain ; Poor Lovers forget long ages of anguish , what ever they have suffered and done to obtain ; It's a pleasure , a pleasure , to sighs , and to languish , when we hope , when we hope , to be happy again . For Love is a blessing , That's worth our possessing ? great Love is that blessing for which we contend ; Encircled to pleasures , to charms that are lasting , how happy are Lovers that mutually bend : Oh to manage , to manage , their loves without wasting those Heavenly , Heavenly moments to spend . Is honour a blessing that's worth the possessing ? is Honour a blessing if Love be denied ? Ah no but most glorious where love is adorning ; honour shines brightest when love is applied It splendors , it splendors , like the rays of the morning all darting , all darting , from every side . The second part to the same Tune . When we by possessing , Create a new blessing , when we by possessing are Charmed with delight ; The ravishing pleasure of Beauty's surprising , to chase the dark shadows of care all the night : And to sallace , to sallace , till Phoebus uprising , does cheer us , does cheer us with the dazzling light Ambitions no blessing , Nor pomp worth possessing , ambition's no blessing but fruitless and vain ; Like a Ship on the Ocean the Billows dividing , till wracked by a Tempest , and sunk in the Main : But Beauty , bright beauty , Loves eternal abiding no dangers , no dangers , can ever restrain . O Loves the chief blessing , And worthy possessing , Oh love's the chief blessing , by love the great frame Of Nature was settled , the Universe founded , and all that have being from Loves bounties came In Paradise , Paradise , sweet Love it abounded , and from our first Parents descended by fame . To Love is a blessing , That's worth the professing . to Love is a blessing , where beauty's are kind Fame , honour , & amp ; greatness , with all their dependants as when Love , as when love , possesses the mind . Those Charms in possessing , Renew the great blessing , those Charms in possessing , continually breathes Fresh fancies of pleasure , for Love is still blooming and glorious delight to our Bosoms bequeathes : While we drink up , while we drink up nectar consuming the moments , the moments , like Laurel we wreathe Then Loves the great blessing , That's worthy possessing , then Loves the great blessing the glorious Love , Transcendant enjoyments most happy assigning whole ages of pleasure delightful most prove , The reward , the reward , of our toil without pining then let us , then let us , for ever thus move : then let us , then let us , for ever thus love . FINIS . London , Printed for Phillip Brooksby , at the Golden , Ball in West-smithfield , near the Hospital-gate . 