The ranting Whores resolution ; Wherein you find that her only Treasure Consisteth in being a Lady of Pleasure . To the Tune of , General Monks March . O H ! fie upon care Why should we despair , Give me the Lad that will frolic , There is no disease , But music will please , If it were the stone or the cholic . The Lords that drinks Wine , Shall only be mine , He that calls for a Cup of Canary , That will tipple and sing , Kiss , caper , and spring , And calls for his Mab , and his Marry . Such Sinners as these My palate will please , For this is a Lad that will knock it , Provided he be Not Niggard to me , But carry good gilded in his pocket ; I care not from whence He gets his expense , Nor how he comes by his treasure , So I have the sweets When he and I meets , For I am a Lady of pleasure . I love a young Heir , Whose fortune is fair , And frolic in Fishstreet - dinners , Who boldly does call , And in private pays all , These Boys are the noble beginners , For what the old Father In long time did gather , He toaps it away without measure , He'll lie in my lap , Like a Bird in a trap , And call me his Lady of pleasure . The second Part. To the same Tune . H E wears gallant Clothes And studies new Oaths And gets pretty words from the players , He swaggers and Roars , He calls the next Oars , And cries here's a piece for your fair , Thus we in delight From morning till night , Do study to cast away treasure , At night in my arms I secure him from harms , For I am a Lady of pleasure . When this Gallant's broke , I've another be spoke , And he hath my protection , I call him my Love , My Jewel , my Dove , And swear by my reputation , That I never did know , What Love was till now , Though I have had men beyond measure With such tricks as these All Coxcombs I please , For I am a Lady of pleasure . When they are in Jail , They wretchedly rail And at me they cast all their curses , Let them laugh that win , I care not a pin , When I have confounded their purses , While they have disgraces , I know not their faces , When Warriors of Woodstreet make seizure But when they're whole men I'll know them again , For I am a Lady of pleasure . I live by the quick And not by the sick , Or such whose estate lies a bleeding , My waste must be bound ; By men that are found , For I am a Lass of high feeding , If once they grow poor , No Money , no Whore , And yet they shall wait on my leisure , I only fulfil , My fancy and will , Which shows me a Lady of pleasure . I laugh when they tell My stories of Hell I think there is no such Cavrn , If Heaven there be ( As some will tell me ) I am sure it must be in the Tavern , Where there is no wine , There is nothing divine ; We think of a grave at more leisure , Boy fill th'other glass For I am Lass That will be a Lady of pleasure . In freedom and joys I'll spend all my days , For there is no greater blessing , Than music and meat Good wine and the feat , And nothing to pay for the dressing , Let Sisters precise Go turn up their eyes , And speak words by line and by leisure , If death comes at last , And take me in haste , Then there lies a Lady of pleasure . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright , 1672. The ranting Whores resolution ; Wherein you find that her only Treasure Consisteth in being a Lady of Pleasure . To the Tune of , General Monks March . O H ! fie upon care Why should we despair , Give me the Lad that will frolic , There is no disease , But music will please , If it were the stone or the cholic . The Lords that drinks Wine , Shall only be mine , He that calls for a Cup of Canary , That will tipple and sing , Kiss , caper , and spring , And calls for his Mab , and his Marry . Such Sinners as these My palate will please , For this is a Lad that will knock it , Provided he be Not Niggard to me , But carry good gilded in his pocket ; I care not from whence He gets his expense , Nor how he comes by his treasure , So I have the sweets When he and I meets , For I am a Lady of pleasure . I love a young Heir , Whose fortune is fair , And frolic in Fishstreet - dinners , Who boldly does call , And in private pays all , These Boys are the noble beginners , For what the old Father In long time did gather , He toaps it away without measure , He'll lie in my lap , Like a Bird in a trap , And call me his Lady of pleasure . The second Part. To the same Tune . H E wears gallant Clothes And studies new Oaths And gets pretty words from the players , He swaggers and Roars , He calls the next Oars , And cries here's a piece for your fair , Thus we in delight From morning till night , Do study to cast away treasure , At night in my arms I secure him from harms , For I am a Lady of pleasure . When this Gallant's broke , I've another be spoke , And he hath my protection , I call him my Love , My Jewel , my Dove , And swear by my reputation , That I never did know , What Love was till now , Though I have had men beyond measure With such tricks as these All Coxcombs I please , For I am a Lady of pleasure . When they are in Jail , They wretchedly rail And at me they cast all their curses , Let them laugh that win , I care not a pin , When I have confounded their purses , While they have disgraces , I know not their faces , When Warriors of Woodstreet make seizure But when they're whole men I'll know them again , For I am a Lady of pleasure . I live by the quick And not by the sick , Or such whose estate lies a bleeding , My waste must be bound ; By men that are found , For I am a Lass of high feeding , If once they grow poor , No Money , no Whore , And yet they shall wait on my leisure , I only fulfil , My fancy and will , Which shows me a Lady of pleasure . I laugh when they tell My stories of Hell I think there is no such Cavrn , If Heaven there be ( As some will tell me ) I am sure it must be in the Tavern , Where there is no wine , There is nothing divine ; We think of a grave at more leisure , Boy fill th'other glass For I am Lass That will be a Lady of pleasure . In freedom and joys I'll spend all my days , For there is no greater blessing , Than music and meat Good wine and the feat , And nothing to pay for the dressing , Let Sisters precise Go turn up their eyes , And speak words by line and by leisure , If death comes at last , And take me in haste , Then there lies a Lady of pleasure . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright , 1672. 