The Fryer Well-fitted : OR , A pretty Jest that once befell , How a Maid put a Fryer to cool in the Well . To a Merry Tune . A S I lay musing all alone , fa , la , la . la , la , A pretty jest I thought upon , fa , la , la , la , la , Then listen a while , and I will you tell . Of a Fryer that loved a bonny Lass well fa , la , la , la , la , fa , la , la , lang-tre-down-dilly . He came to the Maid when she went to bed fa , la , etc Desiring to have her Maidenhead , fa , la , etc But she denied his desire And told him , that she feared Hell fire . fa , la , etc Tush ( quod the Fryer ) thou needest not doubt fa , la , etc If thou wertenberg in hell , I could sing thee out fa , la , etc Then ( quod the Maid ) thou shalt have thy request The Fryer was glad as a Fox in his nest fa , la , etc But one thing ( quoth she ) I do desire fa , la , etc Before you have what you require , fa , la , etc Before that you shall do the thing And Angel of money thou shalt me bring , fa , la , etc Tush , ( quoth the Fryer ) we shall agree fa , la , etc No money shall part my Love and me ; fa , la , etc Before that I will see thee lack ; I'll pawn my gray Gown from my back fa , la , etc The Maid bethought her of a wile , fa , la , etc How she the Fryer might beguile , fa , la , etc While she was gone the truth to tell , She hung a cloth before the well ; fa , la , la , la , la , fa , la , la , lang-tre-down dilly . TO He Fryer came as his covenant was fa , la , etc With money to his bonny Lass , fa , la , etc Good morrow fair Maid , good morrow , quod he Here is the money I promised thee . fa , la , la , la , la , fa , la , la , lang-tre-down-dilly . she thanked the man , & amp ; she took his money fa , la , etc Now let us go tooed , ( quod he ) sweet honey fa , la , etc O stay ( quod she ) some respite make , My Father comes he will me take fa , la , etc Alas ( quod the Fryer ) where shall I run , fa , la , etc To hide me till that he be gone , fa , la , etc Behind the cloth run thou ( quod she ) And there my Father cannot thee see , fa , la , etc Behind the cloth the Fryer crept , fa , la , etc And into the well on sudden he leapt , fa , la , etc Alas ( quoth he ) I am in the Well , No matter ( quod she ) if thou wertenberg in Hell ; fa , la , etc , Thou sayest thou couldst sing me out of Hell fa , la , etc Now prithee sing thy self out of the well fa , la , etc The Fryer sung on with a pitiful found O help me out , or I shall be drowned ; fa , la , etc I trow ( quoth she ) your courage is colled fa , la etc ( Quoth the Fryer ) I never was so fooled fa , la , etc I never was served so before , then take heed ( quod she ) thou comest there no more , fa , la , etc ( Quoth he ) for sweet Saint Francis sake fa , la , etc On his Disciple some pity take , fa , la , etc ( Quoth she ) Saint Francis never taught His Scholars , to tempt young Maids to nought ; fa , la , etc The Fryer did entreat her still , fa , la ; etc That she would help him out of the well fa , la , etc she herd him make such piteous moan , She helped him out and bid him be gone ; fa la , etc ( Quoth he ) shall I have my money again fa , la , etc Which thou from me hast beforehand taken fa , la , good sir ( said she ) there's no such matter I'll make you pay for fouling my water fa la , etc The Fryer went all along the street fa , la , etc Dropping wet , like a new-wash d sheep , fa , la , etc Both old and young commended the Maid That such a witty prank had played , fa , la , la , la , la , fa la , la , lang-tre-down-dilly . The Fryer Well-fitted : OR , A pretty Jest that once befell , How a Maid put a Fryer to cool in the Well . To a Merry Tune . A S I lay musing all alone , fa , la , la . la , la , A pretty jest I thought upon , fa , la , la , la , la , Then listen a while , and I will you tell . Of a Fryer that loved a bonny Lass well fa , la , la , la , la , fa , la , la , lang-tre-down-dilly . He came to the Maid when she went to bed fa , la , etc Desiring to have her Maidenhead , fa , la , etc But she denied his desire And told him , that she feared Hell fire . fa , la , etc Tush ( quod the Fryer ) thou needest not doubt fa , la , etc If thou wertenberg in hell , I could sing thee out fa , la , etc Then ( quod the Maid ) thou shalt have thy request The Fryer was glad as a Fox in his nest fa , la , etc But one thing ( quoth she ) I do desire fa , la , etc Before you have what you require , fa , la , etc Before that you shall do the thing And Angel of money thou shalt me bring , fa , la , etc Tush , ( quoth the Fryer ) we shall agree fa , la , etc No money shall part my Love and me ; fa , la , etc Before that I will see thee lack ; I'll pawn my gray Gown from my back fa , la , etc The Maid bethought her of a wile , fa , la , etc How she the Fryer might beguile , fa , la , etc While she was gone the truth to tell , She hung a cloth before the well ; fa , la , la , la , la , fa , la , la , lang-tre-down dilly . TO He Fryer came as his covenant was fa , la , etc With money to his bonny Lass , fa , la , etc Good morrow fair Maid , good morrow , quod he Here is the money I promised thee . fa , la , la , la , la , fa , la , la , lang-tre-down-dilly . she thanked the man , & amp ; she took his money fa , la , etc Now let us go tooed , ( quod he ) sweet honey fa , la , etc O stay ( quod she ) some respite make , My Father comes he will me take fa , la , etc Alas ( quod the Fryer ) where shall I run , fa , la , etc To hide me till that he be gone , fa , la , etc Behind the cloth run thou ( quod she ) And there my Father cannot thee see , fa , la , etc Behind the cloth the Fryer crept , fa , la , etc And into the well on sudden he leapt , fa , la , etc Alas ( quoth he ) I am in the Well , No matter ( quod she ) if thou wertenberg in Hell ; fa , la , etc , Thou sayest thou couldst sing me out of Hell fa , la , etc Now prithee sing thy self out of the well fa , la , etc The Fryer sung on with a pitiful found O help me out , or I shall be drowned ; fa , la , etc I trow ( quoth she ) your courage is colled fa , la etc ( Quoth the Fryer ) I never was so fooled fa , la , etc I never was served so before , then take heed ( quod she ) thou comest there no more , fa , la , etc ( Quoth he ) for sweet Saint Francis sake fa , la , etc On his Disciple some pity take , fa , la , etc ( Quoth she ) Saint Francis never taught His Scholars , to tempt young Maids to nought ; fa , la , etc The Fryer did entreat her still , fa , la ; etc That she would help him out of the well fa , la , etc she herd him make such piteous moan , She helped him out and bid him be gone ; fa la , etc ( Quoth he ) shall I have my money again fa , la , etc Which thou from me hast beforehand taken fa , la , good sir ( said she ) there's no such matter I'll make you pay for fouling my water fa la , etc The Fryer went all along the street fa , la , etc Dropping wet , like a new-wash d sheep , fa , la , etc Both old and young commended the Maid That such a witty prank had played , fa , la , la , la , la , fa la , la , lang-tre-down-dilly . 