Invincible LOVE . Who can withstand the power of Love , or his Charms disobey ? For struggling will their pains remove , The clean contrary way . Tune of , Moggies jealousy . M Y Dearest come hither to me , and i'll tell thee a piece of my mind , For all my delight is in thee ; and thou shalt apparently find , That my love it is perfect and true , and so it shall ever remain , For I must bid all comforts adieu , if my dearest my Suit should disdain . O how many sighs have I spent when I thought of my Love & amp ; my Dear ? In secret I used to lament , and I sometime did part with a tear : Oh! grant me one amorous smile , to ease me of sorrow and pain , For Death all my joys will beguile , if my etc My life I shall loose to be sure , if thou to my provest unkind ; O who can such torments endure , as Lovers rejected do find ? The torments I cannot express , nor the troubles wherein I remain , And my sorrows will never be less , if my etc Sometime a Dream gives me some ease , and I am , for a moment , content , With fancies my self I do please , but when I awake I lament ; Then I storm like a Lover stark mad , and I wish for my freedom in vain , No Cure there s for me to be had , if my dearest my Suit should disdain . O fair one ! now pity my case , 'twas thy beauty brought me in a snare ; For there is such charms in thy face , that all men that do not take care , Will surely their liberty loose , and be linked in Loves Fetters & amp ; Chain : Oh! do not my true love refuse , nor my kindness requite with disdain . The Maids kind Answer . I TO grieves me my Love for to hear thou dost make such a mournful complaint And my kindness thou need not to fear , I am forced to love thee by constraint : For my love unto thee is entire , and so it shall ever remain ; For I freely do grant thy desire , by no means I thy Suit will disdain . I ' le strive night and day for to please thee ; what can a poor Lover do more ? And of all thy pains I will ease thee , that my love have afflicted so soar : Then be thou contented my Dear , and banish thy sorrow and pain , Thou shalt have no cause for to fear , that thy Suit I will ever disdain . False Dreams shall no longer torment thee nor trouble my Love in his sleep , I ' le study my Love to content thee , in secret not more shalt thou werp : I do swear now by all that is good , I my self now am linked in Loves chain , And i'm now in and amorous mood , by no means I thy Suit will disdain . Oh! the charms of this conquering Love over Princes and Peasants do reign , And nothing their joys can remove ; what is there can lessen their pain , Except gentle smiles and sweet kisses do flow from their Lovers amain ? And this the true Highway to bliss is ; and this will quite banish disdain . Then Dearest let's haste to be married , our happiness for to complete , Methinks that too long we have tarried , come finish all I thee entreat , For I never shall have any quiet , nor ever be cured of my pain ; I love and I cannot deny it , what needest thou to fear my disdain ? Printed for J. Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackery , and T. Passenger . Invincible LOVE . Who can withstand the power of Love , or his Charms disobey ? For struggling will their pains remove , The clean contrary way . Tune of , Moggies jealousy . M Y Dearest come hither to me , and i'll tell thee a piece of my mind , For all my delight is in thee ; and thou shalt apparently find , That my love it is perfect and true , and so it shall ever remain , For I must bid all comforts adieu , if my dearest my Suit should disdain . O how many sighs have I spent when I thought of my Love & amp ; my Dear ? In secret I used to lament , and I sometime did part with a tear : Oh! grant me one amorous smile , to ease me of sorrow and pain , For Death all my joys will beguile , if my etc My life I shall loose to be sure , if thou to my provest unkind ; O who can such torments endure , as Lovers rejected do find ? The torments I cannot express , nor the troubles wherein I remain , And my sorrows will never be less , if my etc Sometime a Dream gives me some ease , and I am , for a moment , content , With fancies my self I do please , but when I awake I lament ; Then I storm like a Lover stark mad , and I wish for my freedom in vain , No Cure there s for me to be had , if my dearest my Suit should disdain . O fair one ! now pity my case , 'twas thy beauty brought me in a snare ; For there is such charms in thy face , that all men that do not take care , Will surely their liberty loose , and be linked in Loves Fetters & amp ; Chain : Oh! do not my true love refuse , nor my kindness requite with disdain . The Maids kind Answer . I TO grieves me my Love for to hear thou dost make such a mournful complaint And my kindness thou need not to fear , I am forced to love thee by constraint : For my love unto thee is entire , and so it shall ever remain ; For I freely do grant thy desire , by no means I thy Suit will disdain . I ' le strive night and day for to please thee ; what can a poor Lover do more ? And of all thy pains I will ease thee , that my love have afflicted so soar : Then be thou contented my Dear , and banish thy sorrow and pain , Thou shalt have no cause for to fear , that thy Suit I will ever disdain . False Dreams shall no longer torment thee nor trouble my Love in his sleep , I ' le study my Love to content thee , in secret not more shalt thou werp : I do swear now by all that is good , I my self now am linked in Loves chain , And i'm now in and amorous mood , by no means I thy Suit will disdain . Oh! the charms of this conquering Love over Princes and Peasants do reign , And nothing their joys can remove ; what is there can lessen their pain , Except gentle smiles and sweet kisses do flow from their Lovers amain ? And this the true Highway to bliss is ; and this will quite banish disdain . Then Dearest let's haste to be married , our happiness for to complete , Methinks that too long we have tarried , come finish all I thee entreat , For I never shall have any quiet , nor ever be cured of my pain ; I love and I cannot deny it , what needest thou to fear my disdain ? Printed for J. Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackery , and T. Passenger . 