The Witty Chamber-Maid ; OR , Dick the Weaver strangely Cheated . A Weaver seemingly was tossed , Vexed , tormented , strangely crossed ; Because the maid was Coy and shy , Till she at length her Wits did try ; He could no answer of her take , Nor his importunate Suit forsake : He quickly found the Effects thereof , With many a flouting jeer and scoff . To the Tune of , The Journey-m [ a ] n Shoemaker ; Or , Billy and M [ oh ] lly . TO Here was a Lass in London Town , she was both fair and witty , And as she passed up and down , was counted wondrous pretty : among the Lads that fell in love , a Weaver came to Woo her , He would not suffer her to rest , but night and day came to her . She called him Fool , and silly Tool , and bade him gang away Sir ; The foolish Ass Enamoured was , and needs with her would stay Sir : He called her pretty , sweet , and fair , he called her joy and honey ; To House and Land he was and Heir , and had both Goods and Money . My Father knew to Cart and Blow , my Mother for to Spin too ; My Grannum she did tell me how a pretty Maid to win too : Though you be coy , i'll call you joy , though you be proud and haughty ; Yet with my skill , I'll win your Will , for all you are so Lofty , The Maid began to be afraid , the Fool was come to vex her ; Upon the same she was resolved , that he should never have her : She bargained with the scrubbing Wench for to supply her place Sir ; Who took upon her all the Charge , the Weaver to Disgrace Sir . S He that was shy , did now come nigh , and feigned she did adore too ; 'Twas but a trick to cheat thee Dick , and make thee pay the Score too : for when you thought that you were brought unto the Virgins Bed a ; Esteeming 'twas your dearest Love , but found the Scullion Maid a. Being thus beguiled , the Damsel smiled , to think how she had served him ; She kept his sense in such dispense , that she had almost starved him : At last a dirty nasty Whore , did creep unto his side Sir , The Weavers heart was almost soar , to think what did betide Sir . It is , quoth Dick , a scurvy trick , but I will learn more Wit Oh ; I never will come near her more , nor pine away a whit Oh : Of a Chamber-Maid i'll be afraid , and careful of her trick too , And all the Neighbourhood shall know , and call me honest Dick too . Then Neighbours all , both great & amp ; small , that are of my Vocation , Let not your eyes , slight nor despise a Country Habitation : The City Maid , I am afraid , is grown so light of late Sir , She will you Horn , contemn and scorn , and after break your Pate Sir . You Maidens fair , that cumbered are with tedious Suits and Wooing , That meet with Lovers troublesome , who fain would be a doing : Learn but of me , and ridded be of all that do you trouble , Look to your hits , and try your Wits and then you may them bubble . You see how bravely Dick was mumpt , when he went to deceive me , I could not fancy him , I said . but Dick would not believe me : Yet he at last , did see and taste what 'twas to Lie and flatter , All that would gull us pretty Maids , get nothing by the matter - This may be Printed , R.P. FINIS Printed for C. Dennisson , at the Stationers-Arms within A ldgate . The Witty Chamber-Maid ; OR , Dick the Weaver strangely Cheated . A Weaver seemingly was tossed , Vexed , tormented , strangely crossed ; Because the maid was Coy and shy , Till she at length her Wits did try ; He could no answer of her take , Nor his importunate Suit forsake : He quickly found the Effects thereof , With many a flouting jeer and scoff . To the Tune of , The Journey-m [ a ] n Shoemaker ; Or , Billy and M [ oh ] lly . TO Here was a Lass in London Town , she was both fair and witty , And as she passed up and down , was counted wondrous pretty : among the Lads that fell in love , a Weaver came to Woo her , He would not suffer her to rest , but night and day came to her . She called him Fool , and silly Tool , and bade him gang away Sir ; The foolish Ass Enamoured was , and needs with her would stay Sir : He called her pretty , sweet , and fair , he called her joy and honey ; To House and Land he was and Heir , and had both Goods and Money . My Father knew to Cart and Blow , my Mother for to Spin too ; My Grannum she did tell me how a pretty Maid to win too : Though you be coy , i'll call you joy , though you be proud and haughty ; Yet with my skill , I'll win your Will , for all you are so Lofty , The Maid began to be afraid , the Fool was come to vex her ; Upon the same she was resolved , that he should never have her : She bargained with the scrubbing Wench for to supply her place Sir ; Who took upon her all the Charge , the Weaver to Disgrace Sir . S He that was shy , did now come nigh , and feigned she did adore too ; 'Twas but a trick to cheat thee Dick , and make thee pay the Score too : for when you thought that you were brought unto the Virgins Bed a ; Esteeming 'twas your dearest Love , but found the Scullion Maid a. Being thus beguiled , the Damsel smiled , to think how she had served him ; She kept his sense in such dispense , that she had almost starved him : At last a dirty nasty Whore , did creep unto his side Sir , The Weavers heart was almost soar , to think what did betide Sir . It is , quoth Dick , a scurvy trick , but I will learn more Wit Oh ; I never will come near her more , nor pine away a whit Oh : Of a Chamber-Maid i'll be afraid , and careful of her trick too , And all the Neighbourhood shall know , and call me honest Dick too . Then Neighbours all , both great & amp ; small , that are of my Vocation , Let not your eyes , slight nor despise a Country Habitation : The City Maid , I am afraid , is grown so light of late Sir , She will you Horn , contemn and scorn , and after break your Pate Sir . You Maidens fair , that cumbered are with tedious Suits and Wooing , That meet with Lovers troublesome , who fain would be a doing : Learn but of me , and ridded be of all that do you trouble , Look to your hits , and try your Wits and then you may them bubble . You see how bravely Dick was mumpt , when he went to deceive me , I could not fancy him , I said . but Dick would not believe me : Yet he at last , did see and taste what 'twas to Lie and flatter , All that would gull us pretty Maids , get nothing by the matter - This may be Printed , R.P. FINIS Printed for C. Dennisson , at the Stationers-Arms within A ldgate . 