The loving Lad , and the Coy Lass . Being a pleasant and witty Discourse between a young Man and a Maid . To a pleasant New Tune . Man. A Ll hail thou bright and bonny Lass , my joy and only sweating , Good Fortune now hath brought to pass , that we should have a meeting . That so I might behold thy face and speak my mind unto thee , And since here is a fitting place , I do intend to woo thee . For I long time have loved the well , but yet I ne , re did show it , Because indeed the truth to tell , I durst not let thee know it . For fear thou shouldst my love disdain , and so in coyness shun me , And not my person entertain , which would have quite undone me . But now I have more courage gained and am resolved to try thee , For my affection is unfeigned how canst thou then deny me . Maid I prithee Will be soft and sweet , methinks you are too hasty , Oh talk no more of wooing yet for fear your Master baste you . You are as yet a Prentice Will . then leave such found adventures , And think not of a wife until , y'ave served out your indentures . For why I think there's no time lost , but you may longer tarry Your age is twenty years at most , a little to young to marry . Then take my council if you please , and rest a while contented , Forbear such rash attempts as these , which oft times are repented , Man. Indeed I wish I able were , to follow your direction , But little dost thou know my Dear , the strength of my affection [ . ] The Second part , to the same Tune . F Or where true love the heart doh sway in any Loyal Lover He cannot brook one weeks delay , but must his mind discover . Love burns so hight within my breast that if I should conceal it , Besure 'twould never let me rest , until I did reveal it , Therefore sweet loving Mistress Jane , consider my condition , My heart with love is almost slave , O! prove a kind Physician . Maid . Fie , fie , thou art a flattering youth , I do not like thy carriage , Leave off such toys in good truth , they will thee quite disparage . Think it not strange that I am coy , or that I have denied thee . I never will affect a Boy , what ever does betide me , Herein I do thee not disgrace , but speak as does behove me For thou never hadst a Manlike face , therefore I cannot love thee . Man. O my Dear that's a killing word , I prithee henceforth forbear it , And let thy sweet lips some comfort afford speak kindly that I may hear it . I prize thee more than Gold or Pearl , thou art my only Jewel , Then prithee do not frown my Girl , why shouldst thou be so cruel . If thou continuest to deny , and thus in scorn to slight me , Then surely I for love must die , Oh! do not so requite me . But if thouled grant me love at last , and yield thy self unto me , My grief and sorrows which are past , no harm at all can do me . For in thy love I shall rejoice even as it will behove me , And thou shalt find ( my only choice ) how dearly I do love thee . Maid If that indeed your words be true , and you do so affect me , Grant this request and that will show , how much you do respect me , Live for my sake a single life , until seven years be ended , And then for to become your wife , I fully am intended . But if the same you do refuse , great cause I have to suspect you , Another mate you may go choose , for I will never affect you . Man My Dear that is a difficult task , and yet I tell the truly , Since thou art pleasant , d the same to ask I will perform it duly , Full seven years space for thy sweet sake a Bachelor I'll tarry , And eke all other Maids forsake with my Truelove to marry . Now give me leave to kiss thy hand , Maid my leave is quickly gained , Man. The sweetest Damosel in the Land , at last I have obtained . FINIS . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The loving Lad , and the Coy Lass . Being a pleasant and witty Discourse between a young Man and a Maid . To a pleasant New Tune . Man. A Ll hail thou bright and bonny Lass , my joy and only sweating , Good Fortune now hath brought to pass , that we should have a meeting . That so I might behold thy face and speak my mind unto thee , And since here is a fitting place , I do intend to woo thee . For I long time have loved the well , but yet I ne , re did show it , Because indeed the truth to tell , I durst not let thee know it . For fear thou shouldst my love disdain , and so in coyness shun me , And not my person entertain , which would have quite undone me . But now I have more courage gained and am resolved to try thee , For my affection is unfeigned how canst thou then deny me . Maid I prithee Will be soft and sweet , methinks you are too hasty , Oh talk no more of wooing yet for fear your Master baste you . You are as yet a Prentice Will . then leave such found adventures , And think not of a wife until , y'ave served out your indentures . For why I think there's no time lost , but you may longer tarry Your age is twenty years at most , a little to young to marry . Then take my council if you please , and rest a while contented , Forbear such rash attempts as these , which oft times are repented , Man. Indeed I wish I able were , to follow your direction , But little dost thou know my Dear , the strength of my affection [ . ] The Second part , to the same Tune . F Or where true love the heart doh sway in any Loyal Lover He cannot brook one weeks delay , but must his mind discover . Love burns so hight within my breast that if I should conceal it , Besure 'twould never let me rest , until I did reveal it , Therefore sweet loving Mistress Jane , consider my condition , My heart with love is almost slave , O! prove a kind Physician . Maid . Fie , fie , thou art a flattering youth , I do not like thy carriage , Leave off such toys in good truth , they will thee quite disparage . Think it not strange that I am coy , or that I have denied thee . I never will affect a Boy , what ever does betide me , Herein I do thee not disgrace , but speak as does behove me For thou never hadst a Manlike face , therefore I cannot love thee . Man. O my Dear that's a killing word , I prithee henceforth forbear it , And let thy sweet lips some comfort afford speak kindly that I may hear it . I prize thee more than Gold or Pearl , thou art my only Jewel , Then prithee do not frown my Girl , why shouldst thou be so cruel . If thou continuest to deny , and thus in scorn to slight me , Then surely I for love must die , Oh! do not so requite me . But if thouled grant me love at last , and yield thy self unto me , My grief and sorrows which are past , no harm at all can do me . For in thy love I shall rejoice even as it will behove me , And thou shalt find ( my only choice ) how dearly I do love thee . Maid If that indeed your words be true , and you do so affect me , Grant this request and that will show , how much you do respect me , Live for my sake a single life , until seven years be ended , And then for to become your wife , I fully am intended . But if the same you do refuse , great cause I have to suspect you , Another mate you may go choose , for I will never affect you . Man My Dear that is a difficult task , and yet I tell the truly , Since thou art pleasant , d the same to ask I will perform it duly , Full seven years space for thy sweet sake a Bachelor I'll tarry , And eke all other Maids forsake with my Truelove to marry . Now give me leave to kiss thy hand , Maid my leave is quickly gained , Man. The sweetest Damosel in the Land , at last I have obtained . FINIS . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 