The Spanish-Ladies Love . To a Pleasant New Tune . W Ill you hear a Spanish Lady , how she wooed and English man , Garments gay as rich as may be , bedekt with jewels had she on : Of a comely countenance and grace was she ; Both by Birth and Parentage , of high degree . As his Prisoner there he kept her , in his hands her life did lie ; Cupids bans did tie them faster , by the liking of and eye : In his courteous Company was all her joy ; To favour him in any thing , she was not coy . But at last there came commandment for to set all Ladies free , With their jewels still adorned , none to do them injury : Oh then said this Lady gay , full woe is me ; Oh let me still sustain this kind Captivity , Gallant Captain take some pity on a Woman in distress ; Leave me not within this City , for to die in heaviness : Thou hast set this present day my body free ; But my heart in Prison still remains with thee . How shouldst thou fair Lady love whom thou knowest thy Country Thy fair words make me suspect thee , Serpents lie where flowers grow All the harm I think on thee , most courteous Knight , God grant upon my head the same may fully light . Blessed be the time and season that thou came on Spanish ground , If you may our foes be termed , gentle foes we have you found : With our City you have wone our hearts each one ; Then to your Country bear away that is your own . The second part , to the same Tune . R Est you still most gallant Lady , rest you still and weep no more Of fair Flowers you have plenty , Spain does yield you wondrous store Spaniards frought with jealousy , we oft do find , But English-men throughout the world are counted kind . Leave me not unto a Spaniard , thou alone enjoyest my heart , I am lovely , young and tender , love is likewise my desert : Still to save thee day and night , my mind is pressed The Wife of every English man is counted blessed . It would be a shame fair Lady , for to bear a woman hence , English Soldiers never carry any such without offence : I will quickly change my self , if it be so , And like a Page will follow thee , where ever thou go . I have neither gold nor silver to maintain thee in this case , And to travel is great charges , as you know in every place : My Chains and jewels every one shall be thy own ; And eke and hundred pound in gold , that lies unknown . On the Seas are many dangers , many Storms do there arise , Which will be to Ladies dreadful , and force tears from watery eyes : Well in worth I shall endure extremity , For I could find in heart to loose my life for thee . Courteous Lady leave this folly , here comes all that breeds the strife I in England have already , a sweet woman to my wife : I will not falsify my vow , for gold nor gain , Nor yet for all the fairest Dams , that live in Spain . O how happy is that woman that enjoys so true a friend , Many happy days God send her , and of my suit i'll make and end ; On my knees I pardon crave , for my offence , Which love and true affection did first commence . Commend me to that gallant Lady , bear to her this Chain of Gold , With these Bracelets for a token , grieving that I was so bold : All my jewels in like sort , take thou with thee ; For they are fitting for thy wife , but not for me . I will spend my days in prayer , love and all her laws defy , In a Nunnery I will shrewed me , far from any company : But ever my prayer have and end , be sure of this , To pray for thee and for thy love , I will not miss . Thus farewell most gallant Lady , farewl to my hearts content , Count not Spanish Ladies wanton , though to thee my mind was ent [ b ] . Joy and true prosperity remain with thee , The like fallen unto thy share , most fair Lady FI N IS . Printed for J. Clark , W. TO Hackeray , and T. P assingerThe Spanish-Ladies Love . To a Pleasant New Tune . W Ill you hear a Spanish Lady , how she wooed and English man , Garments gay as rich as may be , bedekt with jewels had she on : Of a comely countenance and grace was she ; Both by Birth and Parentage , of high degree . As his Prisoner there he kept her , in his hands her life did lie ; Cupids bans did tie them faster , by the liking of and eye : In his courteous Company was all her joy ; To favour him in any thing , she was not coy . But at last there came commandment for to set all Ladies free , With their jewels still adorned , none to do them injury : Oh then said this Lady gay , full woe is me ; Oh let me still sustain this kind Captivity , Gallant Captain take some pity on a Woman in distress ; Leave me not within this City , for to die in heaviness : Thou hast set this present day my body free ; But my heart in Prison still remains with thee . How shouldst thou fair Lady love whom thou knowest thy Country Thy fair words make me suspect thee , Serpents lie where flowers grow All the harm I think on thee , most courteous Knight , God grant upon my head the same may fully light . Blessed be the time and season that thou came on Spanish ground , If you may our foes be termed , gentle foes we have you found : With our City you have wone our hearts each one ; Then to your Country bear away that is your own . The second part , to the same Tune . R Est you still most gallant Lady , rest you still and weep no more Of fair Flowers you have plenty , Spain does yield you wondrous store Spaniards frought with jealousy , we oft do find , But English-men throughout the world are counted kind . Leave me not unto a Spaniard , thou alone enjoyest my heart , I am lovely , young and tender , love is likewise my desert : Still to save thee day and night , my mind is pressed The Wife of every English man is counted blessed . It would be a shame fair Lady , for to bear a woman hence , English Soldiers never carry any such without offence : I will quickly change my self , if it be so , And like a Page will follow thee , where ever thou go . I have neither gold nor silver to maintain thee in this case , And to travel is great charges , as you know in every place : My Chains and jewels every one shall be thy own ; And eke and hundred pound in gold , that lies unknown . On the Seas are many dangers , many Storms do there arise , Which will be to Ladies dreadful , and force tears from watery eyes : Well in worth I shall endure extremity , For I could find in heart to loose my life for thee . Courteous Lady leave this folly , here comes all that breeds the strife I in England have already , a sweet woman to my wife : I will not falsify my vow , for gold nor gain , Nor yet for all the fairest Dams , that live in Spain . O how happy is that woman that enjoys so true a friend , Many happy days God send her , and of my suit i'll make and end ; On my knees I pardon crave , for my offence , Which love and true affection did first commence . Commend me to that gallant Lady , bear to her this Chain of Gold , With these Bracelets for a token , grieving that I was so bold : All my jewels in like sort , take thou with thee ; For they are fitting for thy wife , but not for me . I will spend my days in prayer , love and all her laws defy , In a Nunnery I will shrewed me , far from any company : But ever my prayer have and end , be sure of this , To pray for thee and for thy love , I will not miss . Thus farewell most gallant Lady , farewl to my hearts content , Count not Spanish Ladies wanton , though to thee my mind was ent [ b ] . Joy and true prosperity remain with thee , The like fallen unto thy share , most fair Lady FI N IS . Printed for J. Clark , W. TO Hackeray , and T. P assinger 