The Ladies Delight : OR , Narcissus his Love-Flower . A pleasant and delightful new Ditty , Made by a Lover , for Ladies so Witty ; When to Venus Sports they please to resort , To pull sweet Flowers , that yields the best sport . To the Tune of , Narcissus come kiss us , etc A S I was walking I cannot tell when , nor I cannot tell whither , I met with a crew of I cannot tell who , nor cannot tell what they were : But Virgins I think ; for they cried Narcissus come kiss us , and love us beside . They sang a fine Song of I cannot tell what , nor whither in Verse or in Prose : Nor know I their meaning although they all sat even as it were under my Nose : But ever and anon they all cried , Narcissus come kiss us , and love us beside : There came in a Lad from I cannot tell whence , with I cannot tell what in his hand ; It was a live thing that had little sense , but yet it could lustily stand : Then louder these Ladies they cried , Narcissus come kiss us , and love us beside . Some shaked it , some stroked it , some kissed it , it's said , it looked so lovely indeed ; All huged it as honey , and none were afraid , because of their bodily need : And louder these Ladies they cried , Narcissus come kiss us , and love us beside . The second Part , to the same Tune A TO length he did put in this pretty fine toy in I cannot tell where below , Into one of these Ladies ; but I cannot tell why , nor wherefore it should be so : But in the mean time they cried , Narcissus come kiss us , and love us beside . But when that these Ladies had sported all night and rifled Dame Nature's store , And raised themselves in Venus delight , that they could hardly do more : Y et louder these Ladies they cried , Narcissus come kiss us , and us beside . This Lad being tired , began to retreat , and hang down his head like a flower ; The Ladies the more did desire the feat , but alas 'twas out of his Power : Then louder and louder they cried , Narcissus come kiss us , and love us beside , When full forty weeks were almost expired , a pitti [ f ] ul story to tell , These Ladies did hate what most they desired , their Bellies began for to swell : Then with a woeful Tune they all cried Narcissus won't kiss us , nor love us beside . Lucina in pity then lent them her aid , to ease them of their sorrow ; But when that these Ladies were gently laid , they had the same mind to morrow : And dandling their Bantlings they cried , Narcissus shan't kiss us , and lie by our side . But as I was minding these pretty fine toys , how Venus with Cupid did play ; What pleasure those Ladies did take in their boys , did led my fancy astray ; To hear how they lulled them , and cried , Narcissus come kiss us , and love us beside . I then returned , I cannot tell how , nor what was in my mind ; Nor what else I herd , I know not I vow , nor saw , for Cupid is blind : But that these Ladies still cried Narcissus come kiss us , and love us beside , But now to conclude , I cannot tell what , nor when , nor how nor where ; Nor found I the Sense of their Song or their Chat , for Ladies are fickle as Air : Therefore I did laugh till they cried , Narcissus come kiss us , and love us beside . London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood , The Ladies Delight : OR , Narcissus his Love-Flower . A pleasant and delightful new Ditty , Made by a Lover , for Ladies so Witty ; When to Venus Sports they please to resort , To pull sweet Flowers , that yields the best sport . To the Tune of , Narcissus come kiss us , etc A S I was walking I cannot tell when , nor I cannot tell whither , I met with a crew of I cannot tell who , nor cannot tell what they were : But Virgins I think ; for they cried Narcissus come kiss us , and love us beside . They sang a fine Song of I cannot tell what , nor whither in Verse or in Prose : Nor know I their meaning although they all sat even as it were under my Nose : But ever and anon they all cried , Narcissus come kiss us , and love us beside : There came in a Lad from I cannot tell whence , with I cannot tell what in his hand ; It was a live thing that had little sense , but yet it could lustily stand : Then louder these Ladies they cried , Narcissus come kiss us , and love us beside . Some shaked it , some stroked it , some kissed it , it's said , it looked so lovely indeed ; All huged it as honey , and none were afraid , because of their bodily need : And louder these Ladies they cried , Narcissus come kiss us , and love us beside . The second Part , to the same Tune A TO length he did put in this pretty fine toy in I cannot tell where below , Into one of these Ladies ; but I cannot tell why , nor wherefore it should be so : But in the mean time they cried , Narcissus come kiss us , and love us beside . But when that these Ladies had sported all night and rifled Dame Nature's store , And raised themselves in Venus delight , that they could hardly do more : Y et louder these Ladies they cried , Narcissus come kiss us , and us beside . This Lad being tired , began to retreat , and hang down his head like a flower ; The Ladies the more did desire the feat , but alas 'twas out of his Power : Then louder and louder they cried , Narcissus come kiss us , and love us beside , When full forty weeks were almost expired , a pitti [ f ] ul story to tell , These Ladies did hate what most they desired , their Bellies began for to swell : Then with a woeful Tune they all cried Narcissus won't kiss us , nor love us beside . Lucina in pity then lent them her aid , to ease them of their sorrow ; But when that these Ladies were gently laid , they had the same mind to morrow : And dandling their Bantlings they cried , Narcissus shan't kiss us , and lie by our side . But as I was minding these pretty fine toys , how Venus with Cupid did play ; What pleasure those Ladies did take in their boys , did led my fancy astray ; To hear how they lulled them , and cried , Narcissus come kiss us , and love us beside . I then returned , I cannot tell how , nor what was in my mind ; Nor what else I herd , I know not I vow , nor saw , for Cupid is blind : But that these Ladies still cried Narcissus come kiss us , and love us beside , But now to conclude , I cannot tell what , nor when , nor how nor where ; Nor found I the Sense of their Song or their Chat , for Ladies are fickle as Air : Therefore I did laugh till they cried , Narcissus come kiss us , and love us beside . London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood , 