A Word in Season : OR , Now or Never . This never too late to be advised well Regard it then you Beauty's that excel Both in external and internal parts And do not triumph over Captive hearts : lest you ingrateful being left to time Bereft of Charms , be punished that black Crime . A pleasant new Tune , of Sweet use your time , etc S Weet use your time , abuse your time no longer , but be wise , Your Lovers now discover you , have Beauty to be prized : But if you're coy you'll loose the joy , so cursed will be the fate ; The Flower will fade , you'll die a Maid , and mourn your Chance too late . At Thirteen years , and Fourteen years , a Virgins Heart may range ; Betwixt Fifteen years and Fifty years you'll find a wondrous change . Then while in Tune , in May or June , let Love and Youth agree : For if you stay till Christmas day the Devil shall woo for [ the ] . For then Loves fire it will expire , and Beauty be no more ; You of each Charm Love will disarm , though now , it's true , you've store . O then be wise , and be not nice , lest coyness does undo you : Those Blushes hide that have defied the passion that pursue you . Away with folly , come be jolly , shame not your Creation , For we were made in love to trade , Love is our chief Vocation . Time is hasting , Beauty's wasting , grasp the happy moment ; Do not shun and be undone , rashly be not so bent . The blushing Rose , your Cheeks disclose and Lillies that are blooming , Though fragrant now to time must bow , which all things is consuming , Each windy blast does Beauty wast which gone your hope's are lost Then don't disdain a Lovers flame lest you at last are crossed . Proud Beauty's still do want their will when kind ones have content This fate does blind ambitious mind and makes it oft repent : Your Virgin-prime then use in time send bashful fear away Let not a blush destroy your wish but Loves loud call obey . lest the youth to tell you truth grows angry by delay , And you are forced to be divorced from pleasures many a day You are deceived if it's believed it's always in your power To be beloved , which many have proved in and unlucky hour . For cruelty makes passion die ambition is its grave Like wandering fires , it still retires while you your selves deceive , With hope's your chain does strong remain with which you linked our hearts But it does prove too weak for Love when scorned for its deserts . Open your eyes then and be wise if you would happy be If joys you'd taste that never waste let youth and Love agree This past dispute , age does not suit with Love , nor can it strive With due desire to rouse that fire which keeps the word alive . Then use your time pass not your prime but with enchanting smiles And killing eyes our heart surprise but taken in your toils , Be full as free to Love as we to make your bliss complete Then joys will flow which those never know who coily make retreat . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackery , and T. Passenger . A Word in Season : OR , Now or Never . This never too late to be advised well Regard it then you Beauty's that excel Both in external and internal parts And do not triumph over Captive hearts : lest you ingrateful being left to time Bereft of Charms , be punished that black Crime . A pleasant new Tune , of Sweet use your time , etc S Weet use your time , abuse your time no longer , but be wise , Your Lovers now discover you , have Beauty to be prized : But if you're coy you'll loose the joy , so cursed will be the fate ; The Flower will fade , you'll die a Maid , and mourn your Chance too late . At Thirteen years , and Fourteen years , a Virgins Heart may range ; Betwixt Fifteen years and Fifty years you'll find a wondrous change . Then while in Tune , in May or June , let Love and Youth agree : For if you stay till Christmas day the Devil shall woo for [ the ] . For then Loves fire it will expire , and Beauty be no more ; You of each Charm Love will disarm , though now , it's true , you've store . O then be wise , and be not nice , lest coyness does undo you : Those Blushes hide that have defied the passion that pursue you . Away with folly , come be jolly , shame not your Creation , For we were made in love to trade , Love is our chief Vocation . Time is hasting , Beauty's wasting , grasp the happy moment ; Do not shun and be undone , rashly be not so bent . The blushing Rose , your Cheeks disclose and Lillies that are blooming , Though fragrant now to time must bow , which all things is consuming , Each windy blast does Beauty wast which gone your hope's are lost Then don't disdain a Lovers flame lest you at last are crossed . Proud Beauty's still do want their will when kind ones have content This fate does blind ambitious mind and makes it oft repent : Your Virgin-prime then use in time send bashful fear away Let not a blush destroy your wish but Loves loud call obey . lest the youth to tell you truth grows angry by delay , And you are forced to be divorced from pleasures many a day You are deceived if it's believed it's always in your power To be beloved , which many have proved in and unlucky hour . For cruelty makes passion die ambition is its grave Like wandering fires , it still retires while you your selves deceive , With hope's your chain does strong remain with which you linked our hearts But it does prove too weak for Love when scorned for its deserts . Open your eyes then and be wise if you would happy be If joys you'd taste that never waste let youth and Love agree This past dispute , age does not suit with Love , nor can it strive With due desire to rouse that fire which keeps the word alive . Then use your time pass not your prime but with enchanting smiles And killing eyes our heart surprise but taken in your toils , Be full as free to Love as we to make your bliss complete Then joys will flow which those never know who coily make retreat . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackery , and T. Passenger . 