THE Coy Maids Repentance ; OR , The Old Maids Wish : Notwithstanding her often good Proffers in Marriage , and her present Resolution . Tune of , The Buff-Coat hath no Fellow . This may be Printed , R. P. W Hen I was Young and handsome too , I had of Suitors plenty , I tell the truth and do not lie , I had not less than twenty : But I was coy unto them all , which now full soar does grieve me , If the worst of them should come again , I'de marry you may believe me , I thought myself as fine a Lass as was in all the City ; My M [ a ] ntua and my Topknot on , me thought I looked pretty : My Night-trayl laced very fine , was put upon my Shoulders , I did conceit within my thoughs , I ravished the beholders . The Young Men they cou [ r ] ted me , I seemed to them coy , Yet for to go abroad with them , it was my only joy : Their gifts and treats so pleased me , and calling me their Jewel , It caused me sometime to think , I would no more be cruel . The next day came another man , and he began to Woo me ; Quoth he , let me have thy dear Love , or else it will undo me : But I seem coy as formerly , and said I would not marry ; O now if he could come again , I would no longer tarry . I do lament the time I lost , while I some Suitors had , The Devil take this Pride . said I , for sure that made me mad : For had I had and humble mind , I need not so long have tarried , But now my note will ever be , o when shall I be Married . But I may wish , and wish again , I would I had been wiser ; I'm now content to Wed with one , though he were a very Miser : To nurse him and to wait on him , I know it'll be but my Duty , Because I have o'reslipt my time , when I had Youth and Beauty . I did not think old Age would come , so fast and soon upon me , My hollow Eyes and wrinkled Brows , in faith does quite disgrace me : My Teeth fallen out , and mouth falls in , there's neither Will nor Harry , Nor Roger , nor Tom , nor Neck , nor Sam , will ever with me marry . I wish some Blindman would me Wed , I study would to please him , He could not see me day nor night , his Bags sometime I'de peep in : And I would surely store my self , with Clothing and with Money , I'de carry myself so well to him , he should call me his Dear Honey : What I shall say unto you now , I pray you well to mark , I should be as good unto the old Man , as a Lady in the dark ; He could not see my hollow Eyes , Nor yet no other Feature , I should seem as great a Beauty to him , as ever was any Creature . I have o'reslipt my Youthful time , and now have a mind to Marry , I could be content with any one , his Name that I might carry : For I am weary of my own , Young Maidens do so jeer me , Because I am not a wedded Wife , which very much does grieve me . Fair Maidens all be ruled by me , to Young Men be not slighting , Nor for your Love let none despair , lest they go forth to fighting : Use well your time , and while you may , a deserving Man go Marry , Else when you are old as I am now , you must for ever tarry . FINIS . Printed for W. Thackeray and T. Passenger . THE Coy Maids Repentance ; OR , The Old Maids Wish : Notwithstanding her often good Proffers in Marriage , and her present Resolution . Tune of , The Buff-Coat hath no Fellow . This may be Printed , R. P. W Hen I was Young and handsome too , I had of Suitors plenty , I tell the truth and do not lie , I had not less than twenty : But I was coy unto them all , which now full soar does grieve me , If the worst of them should come again , I'de marry you may believe me , I thought myself as fine a Lass as was in all the City ; My M [ a ] ntua and my Topknot on , me thought I looked pretty : My Night-trayl laced very fine , was put upon my Shoulders , I did conceit within my thoughs , I ravished the beholders . The Young Men they cou [ r ] ted me , I seemed to them coy , Yet for to go abroad with them , it was my only joy : Their gifts and treats so pleased me , and calling me their Jewel , It caused me sometime to think , I would no more be cruel . The next day came another man , and he began to Woo me ; Quoth he , let me have thy dear Love , or else it will undo me : But I seem coy as formerly , and said I would not marry ; O now if he could come again , I would no longer tarry . I do lament the time I lost , while I some Suitors had , The Devil take this Pride . said I , for sure that made me mad : For had I had and humble mind , I need not so long have tarried , But now my note will ever be , o when shall I be Married . But I may wish , and wish again , I would I had been wiser ; I'm now content to Wed with one , though he were a very Miser : To nurse him and to wait on him , I know it'll be but my Duty , Because I have o'reslipt my time , when I had Youth and Beauty . I did not think old Age would come , so fast and soon upon me , My hollow Eyes and wrinkled Brows , in faith does quite disgrace me : My Teeth fallen out , and mouth falls in , there's neither Will nor Harry , Nor Roger , nor Tom , nor Neck , nor Sam , will ever with me marry . I wish some Blindman would me Wed , I study would to please him , He could not see me day nor night , his Bags sometime I'de peep in : And I would surely store my self , with Clothing and with Money , I'de carry myself so well to him , he should call me his Dear Honey : What I shall say unto you now , I pray you well to mark , I should be as good unto the old Man , as a Lady in the dark ; He could not see my hollow Eyes , Nor yet no other Feature , I should seem as great a Beauty to him , as ever was any Creature . I have o'reslipt my Youthful time , and now have a mind to Marry , I could be content with any one , his Name that I might carry : For I am weary of my own , Young Maidens do so jeer me , Because I am not a wedded Wife , which very much does grieve me . Fair Maidens all be ruled by me , to Young Men be not slighting , Nor for your Love let none despair , lest they go forth to fighting : Use well your time , and while you may , a deserving Man go Marry , Else when you are old as I am now , you must for ever tarry . FINIS . Printed for W. Thackeray and T. Passenger . 