The Politic Maids Device ; OR , The Maids distrust in CUPID is play . Here Counsel is to all the rest , Of Maidens fair to choose the best , And let the worst of Youg-men stay a while , They are apt young maidens to beguile , But if Maidens will be ruled by she , She'l fit them in their own degree : And make them spend their breath and strength , He should be and honest man that gained a wench . The Tune is , What shall a Young woman do with and Old man . Or , Digby's Farewell . A LL Maidens come hither and harken a while , I'll sing you a song that will make you to smile , And be careful I say when you go to wed , What man you do marry , and who you bring to your bed : And be wise in your choosing great comfort you'll have , Or else you're undone if you match with a Knave ; Keep L iberty still M aids , and be more wise , Youngmen they are apt for to feed you with lies . There's many a young man when he comes to woo , Will tell you fair tales before you do go , And call you his honey his joy and his dear , When his heart is as false as and old rotten Pair : But be merry and wise , this counsel is brave , Or else you're undone if you match with a Knave , Keep liberty , etc There's many a youngman will swear and will lie , Has made many a maiden to weep and to cry , And brought them to sorrow all days of their life : She had very hard fortune to be such a men wife : Some men cannot afford their own w [ i ] ves a good word . Nor scarcely afford them vread to put in their head , Keep liberty , etc There's hardly a young maiden but once in her life , That has a desire for to be made a Wife If fortune be so that she meet with a Cheat , O then she's undone and her sorrows are great , All the days of her life then she must be a slave , But maidens be wise and take heed of a Knave , Keep liberty , etc But a man of good breeding or a man of good stock , If he come in good sadness will scorn for to mock , But these white-livered fellows their deceit is much m [ over ] To undo a maid and to make her a Whore : Oh these are the Blades that will cog lie and crave , But maidens be wise and take heed of a Knave , Keep liberty , etc Young men they will promise you what they will do , I cannot deny but some of them are true , But where is that man that a maiden can trust , For one that is true there is twenty unjust : A maid she may marry all this we do know , And's many times brought to great sorrow and woe , Keep liberty , etc There's many a good man has been brought to decay , You cannot deny this , true it's that I say , When a Husband delights more in a Whore , Then in his own wife , this thing goes very soar , Which troubles young maidens that now are unwed , When a woman does bring a Knave to her Bed. Keep liberty , etc Young maidens be careful , and mind what I say We must not blame all men for some going astray , There's many and honest man in the world to be had , You must choose where the best are there's no more to be [ ? ] If you marry a good husband and miss a foul Knave , You're Crowned with good fortune that will be brave , Keep liberty , etc Now in the Conclusion Maids be not precise , She's a Maiden her self that this song did devise Youngmen are so false that she could not forbear , But publish these verses for maids to take care : And be merry and wise , when your love he does crave , There's many a good woman undone by a Knave , Keep liberty still maids and be more wise , For youngmen are apt for to feed you with lies . FINIS Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . The Politic Maids Device ; OR , The Maids distrust in CUPID is play . Here Counsel is to all the rest , Of Maidens fair to choose the best , And let the worst of Youg-men stay a while , They are apt young maidens to beguile , But if Maidens will be ruled by she , She'l fit them in their own degree : And make them spend their breath and strength , He should be and honest man that gained a wench . The Tune is , What shall a Young woman do with and Old man . Or , Digby's Farewell . A LL Maidens come hither and harken a while , I'll sing you a song that will make you to smile , And be careful I say when you go to wed , What man you do marry , and who you bring to your bed : And be wise in your choosing great comfort you'll have , Or else you're undone if you match with a Knave ; Keep L iberty still M aids , and be more wise , Youngmen they are apt for to feed you with lies . There's many a young man when he comes to woo , Will tell you fair tales before you do go , And call you his honey his joy and his dear , When his heart is as false as and old rotten Pair : But be merry and wise , this counsel is brave , Or else you're undone if you match with a Knave , Keep liberty , etc There's many a youngman will swear and will lie , Has made many a maiden to weep and to cry , And brought them to sorrow all days of their life : She had very hard fortune to be such a men wife : Some men cannot afford their own w [ i ] ves a good word . Nor scarcely afford them vread to put in their head , Keep liberty , etc There's hardly a young maiden but once in her life , That has a desire for to be made a Wife If fortune be so that she meet with a Cheat , O then she's undone and her sorrows are great , All the days of her life then she must be a slave , But maidens be wise and take heed of a Knave , Keep liberty , etc But a man of good breeding or a man of good stock , If he come in good sadness will scorn for to mock , But these white-livered fellows their deceit is much m [ over ] To undo a maid and to make her a Whore : Oh these are the Blades that will cog lie and crave , But maidens be wise and take heed of a Knave , Keep liberty , etc Young men they will promise you what they will do , I cannot deny but some of them are true , But where is that man that a maiden can trust , For one that is true there is twenty unjust : A maid she may marry all this we do know , And's many times brought to great sorrow and woe , Keep liberty , etc There's many a good man has been brought to decay , You cannot deny this , true it's that I say , When a Husband delights more in a Whore , Then in his own wife , this thing goes very soar , Which troubles young maidens that now are unwed , When a woman does bring a Knave to her Bed. Keep liberty , etc Young maidens be careful , and mind what I say We must not blame all men for some going astray , There's many and honest man in the world to be had , You must choose where the best are there's no more to be [ ? ] If you marry a good husband and miss a foul Knave , You're Crowned with good fortune that will be brave , Keep liberty , etc Now in the Conclusion Maids be not precise , She's a Maiden her self that this song did devise Youngmen are so false that she could not forbear , But publish these verses for maids to take care : And be merry and wise , when your love he does crave , There's many a good woman undone by a Knave , Keep liberty still maids and be more wise , For youngmen are apt for to feed you with lies . FINIS Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . 