The KIND LADY , Or , The Loves of Stella and Adonis . A new Court song much in request . To a new tune . Or , Heigh boys up go we , the charming Nymph , or Jenny Gin . TO He night her blackest sables wore , all glooming were the Skies , And glittering Stars there were no more then those in Stella's Eyes : When at her Father's Gate I knocked , where I had often been , And shrouded only in her Smock , The fair one let me in . Fast locked within my close embrace she blushing lay ashamed ; Her swelling Breasts , and glowing face , and every touch inflamed My eager passion ; I obeyed , resolving the Fort to win , And her found heart was soon betrayed to yield , and let me in . Then , then , beyond expressing , immortal was the joy , I knew no greater Blessing , so happy then was I : And she , transported with delight , oft prayed me to come again . And kindly vowed that e'ry night she'd rise and let me in . But , ah ! at last she proved with Bearn , and sighing sat , and dull ; And I , who had as much concern , looked then just like a fool : Her lovely eyes with tears ran down , repenting her rash since , She sighed and cursed that fatal hour that ever she let me in . But who could cruelly deceive , or from such beauty part ? I loved her so I could not leave the Charmer for my heart ; But wedded , and concealed the Crime ; thus all was well again , And now she thanks the blessed time that ever she let me in . Such wanton youngsters seldom prove so true at heart as I , But when they gain a Damsels Love , too oft away they fly : Whilst I such Treachery abhor , for it's a deadly since , And now no cause she has to grieve that she did let me in . Those Rosie-blushes that did stain her Cheeks , do now grow pale , Her heart is now revived again , sighs did with me prevail : She grieved was , and I perplexed , but now rejoice again , And Stella now no more is vexed because she let me in . When young Adonis called to mind the tricks of wanton youth ; He cried , my Stella she was kind : this is the very truth . Qd. she , thou now hast god the knack a tender heart to win , Good Lodging thou shalt never lack , for I will let thee in . With fiery eyes he then beheld Stella , his hearts delight ; He vowed to love he was compelled by charms of beauty bright : A thousand times he did her kiss , and then she did begin , And said , there is no joy like this : I'm glad I have let thee in . Printed for J. Conyers at the first shop in Fetter-Lane near Holbourn . The KIND LADY , Or , The Loves of Stella and Adonis . A new Court song much in request . To a new tune . Or , Heigh boys up go we , the charming Nymph , or Jenny Gin . TO He night her blackest sables wore , all glooming were the Skies , And glittering Stars there were no more then those in Stella's Eyes : When at her Father's Gate I knocked , where I had often been , And shrouded only in her Smock , The fair one let me in . Fast locked within my close embrace she blushing lay ashamed ; Her swelling Breasts , and glowing face , and every touch inflamed My eager passion ; I obeyed , resolving the Fort to win , And her found heart was soon betrayed to yield , and let me in . Then , then , beyond expressing , immortal was the joy , I knew no greater Blessing , so happy then was I : And she , transported with delight , oft prayed me to come again . And kindly vowed that e'ry night she'd rise and let me in . But , ah ! at last she proved with Bearn , and sighing sat , and dull ; And I , who had as much concern , looked then just like a fool : Her lovely eyes with tears ran down , repenting her rash since , She sighed and cursed that fatal hour that ever she let me in . But who could cruelly deceive , or from such beauty part ? I loved her so I could not leave the Charmer for my heart ; But wedded , and concealed the Crime ; thus all was well again , And now she thanks the blessed time that ever she let me in . Such wanton youngsters seldom prove so true at heart as I , But when they gain a Damsels Love , too oft away they fly : Whilst I such Treachery abhor , for it's a deadly since , And now no cause she has to grieve that she did let me in . Those Rosie-blushes that did stain her Cheeks , do now grow pale , Her heart is now revived again , sighs did with me prevail : She grieved was , and I perplexed , but now rejoice again , And Stella now no more is vexed because she let me in . When young Adonis called to mind the tricks of wanton youth ; He cried , my Stella she was kind : this is the very truth . Qd. she , thou now hast god the knack a tender heart to win , Good Lodging thou shalt never lack , for I will let thee in . With fiery eyes he then beheld Stella , his hearts delight ; He vowed to love he was compelled by charms of beauty bright : A thousand times he did her kiss , and then she did begin , And said , there is no joy like this : I'm glad I have let thee in . Printed for J. Conyers at the first shop in Fetter-Lane near Holbourn . 