THE Maidens Vindication : Or , And Answer to Oh so Ungrateful a Creature . Shall I be silent , and not write again , When he against me does so much complain ? He calls me Cruel , and Ungrateful too , And sends his Lines abroad to public view . No , I to clear my self of such a crime Will answer him ( as his was writ ) in Rhime : The young-Men when they see't , it's false they'll cry , But if the Maids believe it , what care I . Tune of , O so ungrateful a Creature . H Owe can you call me ungrateful , or count me cruel to be , Since I was never unfaithful in any thing unto thee ? Nor did I ever abuse you , though I did not take your part ; If I did scornfully use you , 'twas no more than your desert . When your pretended Love-passion you thought to make me believe , And ( as it now is the fashion ) so my poor heart to deceive : If I had granted the pleasure , and let you tasted the bliss , You'd leave me robbed of my Treasure : Oh what a Traitor is this ! With many Vows you protested only your Will to obtain , Which if you had you confessed , you could never love me again : Then might I sighed and lamented when you to love had gave over , And too late I might have repented that I believed what you swore . Since I perceived your intention , I did your passion disdain , And told you all your invention to pursue it was in vain : When I gave you a denial , you turned your Love into Hate , And like a Lover disloyal , railed at me at a sad rate . Cause that you could not deceive me therefore you term me untrue ; But the loss never shall grieve me of such a Lover as you . Though in disdain you forsake me , wishing I may be forlorn , All your Wishes but make me laugh at your rigour and scorn . Fickle , unconstant , and roving you are by Nature I see ; Every fair Maid you are loving , vowing their true-Love to be , Till you have god your desire , and they do prove too too kind , Then you no longer admire , but change as oft as the Wind. Often with vows you have said it , that you can love none but me ; But now your words have betrayed it and all your false Treachery : Of those vows you are forgetful , paleface you now do me call ; Though there be many deceitful , you are the worst of them all . It's not your Hate that shall ever make me at all to despair ; Nor will your ill-language ever make me appear the less fair . If I can find out no Lover , but such as you my false friend , Then will I never be no other , but a Maid to my life's END . Printed for J ames Bissel at the Bible and Harp in West Smithfield . THE Maidens Vindication : Or , And Answer to Oh so Ungrateful a Creature . Shall I be silent , and not write again , When he against me does so much complain ? He calls me Cruel , and Ungrateful too , And sends his Lines abroad to public view . No , I to clear my self of such a crime Will answer him ( as his was writ ) in Rhime : The young-Men when they see't , it's false they'll cry , But if the Maids believe it , what care I . Tune of , O so ungrateful a Creature . H Owe can you call me ungrateful , or count me cruel to be , Since I was never unfaithful in any thing unto thee ? Nor did I ever abuse you , though I did not take your part ; If I did scornfully use you , 'twas no more than your desert . When your pretended Love-passion you thought to make me believe , And ( as it now is the fashion ) so my poor heart to deceive : If I had granted the pleasure , and let you tasted the bliss , You'd leave me robbed of my Treasure : Oh what a Traitor is this ! With many Vows you protested only your Will to obtain , Which if you had you confessed , you could never love me again : Then might I sighed and lamented when you to love had gave over , And too late I might have repented that I believed what you swore . Since I perceived your intention , I did your passion disdain , And told you all your invention to pursue it was in vain : When I gave you a denial , you turned your Love into Hate , And like a Lover disloyal , railed at me at a sad rate . Cause that you could not deceive me therefore you term me untrue ; But the loss never shall grieve me of such a Lover as you . Though in disdain you forsake me , wishing I may be forlorn , All your Wishes but make me laugh at your rigour and scorn . Fickle , unconstant , and roving you are by Nature I see ; Every fair Maid you are loving , vowing their true-Love to be , Till you have god your desire , and they do prove too too kind , Then you no longer admire , but change as oft as the Wind. Often with vows you have said it , that you can love none but me ; But now your words have betrayed it and all your false Treachery : Of those vows you are forgetful , paleface you now do me call ; Though there be many deceitful , you are the worst of them all . It's not your Hate that shall ever make me at all to despair ; Nor will your ill-language ever make me appear the less fair . If I can find out no Lover , but such as you my false friend , Then will I never be no other , but a Maid to my life's END . Printed for J ames Bissel at the Bible and Harp in West Smithfield . 