The Yeomans Delight : OR , His True and Entire Love to Pretty KATY , the Farmers Daughter . To and Excellent New Tune ; Or , To Bed to me , etc TO Here is a Lass whom I adore , and here I will set forth her fame , It's she that can my joys restore , and pretty Katy is her Name : For Katy , Katy , Katy Oh , the love I bear to Katy Oh , All the World shall never know , the love I bear to Katy Oh . O she is such a Beauty bright , both young and plump as any Do , Then in her praise I needs must write , her name is called Katy O ; For Katy , Katy , Katy Oh , the love I bear to Katy Oh , All the World shall never know , the love I bear to Katy Oh , With Land my Love I will endue , if that she will but kindness show , And will be Loyal , just and true , to this my pretty Katy Oh : For Katy , Katy , Katy Oh , the love I bear to Katy Oh , All the World shall never know , the love I bear to Katy Oh . When I behold her on the Green , such pretty actions she does show , And is as fair as any Queen , I am in love with Katy Oh : For Katy , Katy , Katy Oh , the love I bear to Katy Oh , All the World shall never know , the love I bear to Katy Oh . She is both virtuous , fair , and wise , in her a thousand Pleasures flow , There's nothing in the world I prize like pretty little Katy O ; For Katy , Katy , Katy Oh , the love I bear to Katy Oh , All the World shall never know , the love I bear to Katy Oh . I now no longer will delay , but to her Father mean to go , And understand what he will say , concerning pretty Katy Oh : For Katy , Katy , Katy Oh , the love I bear to Katy Oh , All the World shall never know , the love I bear to Katy Oh . Now when his kindness I have tried , and find he does not answer no , But yields that she shall be my Bride , then will I Marry Katy Oh : For Katy , Katy , Katy Oh , the love I bear to Katy Oh , All the World shall never know , the love I bear to Katty Oh . And then upon our Wedding-day , we'll Dance , and make a tearing show For Will the Piper he shall play , to please my pretty Katy Oh : For Katy , Katy , Katy Oh , the love I bear to Katy Oh , All the World shall never know , the love I bear to Katy Oh . When all our Guest is gone at night , in Bed my Love i'll pleasure show , I can't but think of the Delight , that I shall have with Katy Oh : For Katy , Katy , Katy Oh , the love I bear to Katy Oh , All the World shall never know , the love I bear to Katy Oh . Nay , when the silent night is past , next morning we abroad will go , To reap the pleasures of Content , with pretty little Katy Oh : For Katy , Katy , Katy Oh , the love I bear to Katy Oh , All the World shall never know , the love I bear to Katy Oh . This may be Printed , R , P. Printed for J. Back , at the Black-Boy on London-Bridge , near the Draw-B [ r ] i [ dg ] e ] , The Yeomans Delight : OR , His True and Entire Love to Pretty KATY , the Farmers Daughter . To and Excellent New Tune ; Or , To Bed to me , etc TO Here is a Lass whom I adore , and here I will set forth her fame , It's she that can my joys restore , and pretty Katy is her Name : For Katy , Katy , Katy Oh , the love I bear to Katy Oh , All the World shall never know , the love I bear to Katy Oh . O she is such a Beauty bright , both young and plump as any Do , Then in her praise I needs must write , her name is called Katy O ; For Katy , Katy , Katy Oh , the love I bear to Katy Oh , All the World shall never know , the love I bear to Katy Oh , With Land my Love I will endue , if that she will but kindness show , And will be Loyal , just and true , to this my pretty Katy Oh : For Katy , Katy , Katy Oh , the love I bear to Katy Oh , All the World shall never know , the love I bear to Katy Oh . When I behold her on the Green , such pretty actions she does show , And is as fair as any Queen , I am in love with Katy Oh : For Katy , Katy , Katy Oh , the love I bear to Katy Oh , All the World shall never know , the love I bear to Katy Oh . She is both virtuous , fair , and wise , in her a thousand Pleasures flow , There's nothing in the world I prize like pretty little Katy O ; For Katy , Katy , Katy Oh , the love I bear to Katy Oh , All the World shall never know , the love I bear to Katy Oh . I now no longer will delay , but to her Father mean to go , And understand what he will say , concerning pretty Katy Oh : For Katy , Katy , Katy Oh , the love I bear to Katy Oh , All the World shall never know , the love I bear to Katy Oh . Now when his kindness I have tried , and find he does not answer no , But yields that she shall be my Bride , then will I Marry Katy Oh : For Katy , Katy , Katy Oh , the love I bear to Katy Oh , All the World shall never know , the love I bear to Katty Oh . And then upon our Wedding-day , we'll Dance , and make a tearing show For Will the Piper he shall play , to please my pretty Katy Oh : For Katy , Katy , Katy Oh , the love I bear to Katy Oh , All the World shall never know , the love I bear to Katy Oh . When all our Guest is gone at night , in Bed my Love i'll pleasure show , I can't but think of the Delight , that I shall have with Katy Oh : For Katy , Katy , Katy Oh , the love I bear to Katy Oh , All the World shall never know , the love I bear to Katy Oh . Nay , when the silent night is past , next morning we abroad will go , To reap the pleasures of Content , with pretty little Katy Oh : For Katy , Katy , Katy Oh , the love I bear to Katy Oh , All the World shall never know , the love I bear to Katy Oh . This may be Printed , R , P. Printed for J. Back , at the Black-Boy on London-Bridge , near the Draw-B [ r ] i [ dg ] e ] , 