[ WORSER ] ICK the Plowman Turned Doctor . OR , The Lovesick Maiden Cured . Showing how a Country Maid in Kent fell in love with her Fellow-Servant Dick the Plowman , and how he Cured her Sick distemper . To the Tune of , Oh Mother Roger , etc This may be Printed , R. P. Y Ou Maidens all of London City , pray come nigh and lend and Ear , And th'event of this my ditty , to you all i'll make appear , It's such a one will make you smile , Make you smile . make you smile , Then pray Maidens stay a while , Some to heard would come a mile But your hope's i'll not beguile , Nor your expectation spoil . Near Rochester in Kent there lived a brave lass whose name was Bess , Such a prank you never did hear of , as to you I will express : It's such a one will make you smile , Make you smile , make you smile , Then pray Maidens stay a while , Some to heard would come a mile , But your hope's i'll not beguile , Nor your expectatoin spoil . Now this Maid was brisk and merry , and had all things at content , Hold ! I do forget to tell you , there was something that ill went : To be short Sir , this is it , This is it , this is it , That this Maid was very sick , Very , very , very Sick , Sick indeed , but pray for what , Oh! for something Dick has god . Dick the Plowman he was busy , and this Maid was shamed to ask , Yet she thought with prithee , prithee , for to win him at the last : Yet this was no perfect cure , Perfect cure , perfect cure , For her grief increased more , More then ever it did before : A and sick she was , but pray for what , Oh! for something Dick had god . One day when Dick was very jolly and as he was driving Blow , Then he spied her melancholy , ah ! says Dick , how do you now , Ah! quoth she , i'm very sick ; Very sick , very sick , Oh what shall I do my Dick , I am very , very sick , Sick , says Dick , I pray for what , Oh , for something you have god . And Dick it's you can only Cure me , prithee do't before I go ; Good now Richard , pray assure me , whither you will , aye or no : My dear Richard , don't deny , Neither from your promise fly ; For my grievous malady , You can cure immediately , Then pray now Richard give me that , I need not name it , you know what . Prithee Betty how should I know , what the thing is that you mean , Then he sighed and cried Hi-ho , such a Fool was never seen : I must languish here and die , Here and die , here and die , And can't have a Remedy , For my grievous malady , Was ever there so dull a sot , That knows not yet what he has god . When they had understood each other , Dick for joy did leave his Blow ; Gave his Whip unto his Brother , and he Swore he'd Cure her now , Then unto her straight he goes , And his skill to her he shows ; Brisk and blithe she then became , As any one upon the Plain : Now Maids you see what Dick can do , Then try if he can cure you too , FINIS . Printed for C. Dennisson , at the Stationers-Arms within Aldgate . [ WORSER ] ICK the Plowman Turned Doctor . OR , The Lovesick Maiden Cured . Showing how a Country Maid in Kent fell in love with her Fellow-Servant Dick the Plowman , and how he Cured her Sick distemper . To the Tune of , Oh Mother Roger , etc This may be Printed , R. P. Y Ou Maidens all of London City , pray come nigh and lend and Ear , And th'event of this my ditty , to you all i'll make appear , It's such a one will make you smile , Make you smile . make you smile , Then pray Maidens stay a while , Some to heard would come a mile But your hope's i'll not beguile , Nor your expectation spoil . Near Rochester in Kent there lived a brave lass whose name was Bess , Such a prank you never did hear of , as to you I will express : It's such a one will make you smile , Make you smile , make you smile , Then pray Maidens stay a while , Some to heard would come a mile , But your hope's i'll not beguile , Nor your expectatoin spoil . Now this Maid was brisk and merry , and had all things at content , Hold ! I do forget to tell you , there was something that ill went : To be short Sir , this is it , This is it , this is it , That this Maid was very sick , Very , very , very Sick , Sick indeed , but pray for what , Oh! for something Dick has god . Dick the Plowman he was busy , and this Maid was shamed to ask , Yet she thought with prithee , prithee , for to win him at the last : Yet this was no perfect cure , Perfect cure , perfect cure , For her grief increased more , More then ever it did before : A and sick she was , but pray for what , Oh! for something Dick had god . One day when Dick was very jolly and as he was driving Blow , Then he spied her melancholy , ah ! says Dick , how do you now , Ah! quoth she , i'm very sick ; Very sick , very sick , Oh what shall I do my Dick , I am very , very sick , Sick , says Dick , I pray for what , Oh , for something you have god . And Dick it's you can only Cure me , prithee do't before I go ; Good now Richard , pray assure me , whither you will , aye or no : My dear Richard , don't deny , Neither from your promise fly ; For my grievous malady , You can cure immediately , Then pray now Richard give me that , I need not name it , you know what . Prithee Betty how should I know , what the thing is that you mean , Then he sighed and cried Hi-ho , such a Fool was never seen : I must languish here and die , Here and die , here and die , And can't have a Remedy , For my grievous malady , Was ever there so dull a sot , That knows not yet what he has god . When they had understood each other , Dick for joy did leave his Blow ; Gave his Whip unto his Brother , and he Swore he'd Cure her now , Then unto her straight he goes , And his skill to her he shows ; Brisk and blithe she then became , As any one upon the Plain : Now Maids you see what Dick can do , Then try if he can cure you too , FINIS . Printed for C. Dennisson , at the Stationers-Arms within Aldgate . 