Jolly Ralph the Joiner , OR , Kind Kate the Cookmaid . Sweet Kate and Ralph secure and safe In folded Arms they lay , And spent the night in sweet delight , Till almost break of day . To and Excellent New tune of , WORSER aniel Cooper , Or , Tom the Taylor . B Risk Ralph of late he came to Kate , courageously he wooed her , He vowed he loved at such a rate , that he must needs intrude her : To let him in though late at night , when all was fast a sleeping , Then courting of his hearts delight , and thus began his greeting . Wast thou kind as thou art fair , then in my approbation , No creature could with the compare , the glory of the Nation : Sweet Katy do not slight me now , but quench Loves fiery Fuel , I do protest to thee and vow , thou art mine only Jewel . I prithee Ralph now fit thee still , and do not thus delude me , For should I yield unto thy will , O then thou wouldst exclude me : My Kate do not such things report , nor never once deny it , In town and court they love the sport , then prithee lets go try it , My Kate thy sweet obliging eyes , to me are such a blessing , My very senses do surprise , O that I was possessing Those pleasant joys the Girls & amp ; Boys that are of Venus Schooling . Quoth modest Kate how thou dost prate I can't abide such fooling . But yet he laid her on the Bed , and Ralph he lay down by her , He with delights her fancies fed , it was her hearts desire : Quoth Ralph I know thou lovest me well , thy arms did so embrace me , Quoth Kate I fear thoued kiss and tell , and that will quite disgrace me . O no my Kate I do protest , I never will declare it , I'll keep it safe within my breast , my dear thou needest not fear it : If ever I tell of such like things , let me be whipped with Nettles ; Let me be bound with fiddle strings and kicked to death with Cripples . Then R alph their pleasures did renew , and Kate did not refuse it , But said my Boy , and thank you too , but prithee don't abuse it : No by my faith quoth bonny Ralph , my dear thou needest not doubt it , I have a slight at this delight , when ever I go about it . And Ralph he then saluted her , his love he needs must show it , Said Kate I fear some great demur if any one should know it : I prithee Kate now who can know , since here is none that's near us , Quoth Kate , I prithee speak more low , for fear my Master hear us . When morning daylight did appear , Ralph could no longer tarry , But now attend and you shall hear how he did then miscarry : He vowed he'd never come there no more for down the stairs he tumbled , Against her Master's Chamber door , the fallen did make him jumble . Her Master jumped out of Bed , this noise did surely fright him , But Ralph god up , away he fled , he would not stand to fight him ; A wench that watched them all the night while Kate was in her Glory , And by this means I came to write the truth of all the Story . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Sign of the Angel , in Guiltspur-street without NewgateJolly Ralph the Joiner , OR , Kind Kate the Cookmaid . Sweet Kate and Ralph secure and safe In folded Arms they lay , And spent the night in sweet delight , Till almost break of day . To and Excellent New tune of , WORSER aniel Cooper , Or , Tom the Taylor . B Risk Ralph of late he came to Kate , courageously he wooed her , He vowed he loved at such a rate , that he must needs intrude her : To let him in though late at night , when all was fast a sleeping , Then courting of his hearts delight , and thus began his greeting . Wast thou kind as thou art fair , then in my approbation , No creature could with the compare , the glory of the Nation : Sweet Katy do not slight me now , but quench Loves fiery Fuel , I do protest to thee and vow , thou art mine only Jewel . I prithee Ralph now fit thee still , and do not thus delude me , For should I yield unto thy will , O then thou wouldst exclude me : My Kate do not such things report , nor never once deny it , In town and court they love the sport , then prithee lets go try it , My Kate thy sweet obliging eyes , to me are such a blessing , My very senses do surprise , O that I was possessing Those pleasant joys the Girls & amp ; Boys that are of Venus Schooling . Quoth modest Kate how thou dost prate I can't abide such fooling . But yet he laid her on the Bed , and Ralph he lay down by her , He with delights her fancies fed , it was her hearts desire : Quoth Ralph I know thou lovest me well , thy arms did so embrace me , Quoth Kate I fear thoued kiss and tell , and that will quite disgrace me . O no my Kate I do protest , I never will declare it , I'll keep it safe within my breast , my dear thou needest not fear it : If ever I tell of such like things , let me be whipped with Nettles ; Let me be bound with fiddle strings and kicked to death with Cripples . Then R alph their pleasures did renew , and Kate did not refuse it , But said my Boy , and thank you too , but prithee don't abuse it : No by my faith quoth bonny Ralph , my dear thou needest not doubt it , I have a slight at this delight , when ever I go about it . And Ralph he then saluted her , his love he needs must show it , Said Kate I fear some great demur if any one should know it : I prithee Kate now who can know , since here is none that's near us , Quoth Kate , I prithee speak more low , for fear my Master hear us . When morning daylight did appear , Ralph could no longer tarry , But now attend and you shall hear how he did then miscarry : He vowed he'd never come there no more for down the stairs he tumbled , Against her Master's Chamber door , the fallen did make him jumble . Her Master jumped out of Bed , this noise did surely fright him , But Ralph god up , away he fled , he would not stand to fight him ; A wench that watched them all the night while Kate was in her Glory , And by this means I came to write the truth of all the Story . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Sign of the Angel , in Guiltspur-street without Newgate 