And Excellent New SONG , Called , Rare News for the Female Sex. Or , Good Luck at last . To the Tune of , The Scotch H ay-makers . A S I of late was walking by a Country Bakers door I herd some women talking , near 17 or more , Then one among the rest , cried out , I do protest , Of all the news I ever herd I think this is the best , I longed to hear what this good news might be , She scarce could speak for laughing , but at the last quod she , Come maids be of good cheer , for joyful news I hear , Now every Lass that means to pass must all be punched this Year . O this is joyful news , said the Bakers daughter Nan , I lived have fifteen years , yet never any man , Would be so kind to me , to punch me well , said she , Or from the torment which I bear would ever set me free , For what's a greater plague than a heavy maidenhead And must I still endure it , I'ld rather sure be dead , Since this good news I hear , my heart is void of fear , Neither Friend nor Foe , shall say me no , for isle be punched this year . The farmers daughter Jone stood moulding of her bred , Said she , good neighbour Nancy no more words to be said You complain in 15 year of the torment which you [ bear ] , I'm almost 30 , is this not dirty , men should mock & amp ; jeer And ask us when we'll marry , alas how do we know , When they are pleased to call us , then we are free to go . And since this news I hear , I'll send to Dick , my dear , And once again I'll tell him plain , I must be punched this year The Tailors daughter Betty cried , it is a burning shame Though I am young & amp ; pretty my sorrow is the same , My father keeps 5 men , but what if he kept ten , Such silly fools with pointless tools , can never punch me then Unto some lusty farmer with speed I must Repair , And tell to him the cause of my sorrow , grief , and care , Then he with merry cheer , will banish all my fear , And I as well as other Maids shall be well punched this year . Then in came lusty Sarah , who lived at the Crown , Saying , I'm as brisk and airy as any Lass in town , My friends was at great charge in breeding me so large , To pass away my youthful day I think it doubt me urge I'm Punchable it's known , my Marygold is blown , Come soldier or come sailor , and take me for your own , Let mother draw the beer , and father in his chair , For isle no longer be their slave if i'm not punched this year . And then said aged Gillian , though I am old and weak , Yet Neighbours I am willing a word or two to speak , My [ beaut ] y is decam [ y ] ' d by living long a maid , [ And ] to led [ a ] pes in Hell at last indeed I am afraid , Accept of my petition , and let me have a share , I'm forced with submission my sorrow to declare , Then do not flout nor jear , for since this news I hear , My maiden head will strike me dead if i'm not punched this year . The Bakers daughter Nancy , and all the rest replied , What man alive can fancy to make of [ y ] ou a bride , A and therefore pray forbear your sorrow to declare , Yet if there's any rusty Punch that we can freely spare , We'll see what we can do , and be a Friend to you . I hope you will said she ; so my neighbours all adieu , And thereupon each one departed & amp ; went home , With joint consent to be content till punching time does come . But one there was among they that they did think too young And as they all went dancing , she likewise had her Song , What though you flout at me cause that I am young you see , For all you hunch , yet I'll be punched , that currant I may be . For I am thirteen it is well known , And why maint I , good Sirs , then be punched as well as Joan . I am resolved , I say , that I'll not lose a day , But straight to John my Father's man , & amp ; be punched as well as the [ y . ] Printed for P. Brooksby in Pye-Corner . And Excellent New SONG , Called , Rare News for the Female Sex. Or , Good Luck at last . To the Tune of , The Scotch H ay-makers . A S I of late was walking by a Country Bakers door I herd some women talking , near 17 or more , Then one among the rest , cried out , I do protest , Of all the news I ever herd I think this is the best , I longed to hear what this good news might be , She scarce could speak for laughing , but at the last quod she , Come maids be of good cheer , for joyful news I hear , Now every Lass that means to pass must all be punched this Year . O this is joyful news , said the Bakers daughter Nan , I lived have fifteen years , yet never any man , Would be so kind to me , to punch me well , said she , Or from the torment which I bear would ever set me free , For what's a greater plague than a heavy maidenhead And must I still endure it , I'ld rather sure be dead , Since this good news I hear , my heart is void of fear , Neither Friend nor Foe , shall say me no , for isle be punched this year . The farmers daughter Jone stood moulding of her bred , Said she , good neighbour Nancy no more words to be said You complain in 15 year of the torment which you [ bear ] , I'm almost 30 , is this not dirty , men should mock & amp ; jeer And ask us when we'll marry , alas how do we know , When they are pleased to call us , then we are free to go . And since this news I hear , I'll send to Dick , my dear , And once again I'll tell him plain , I must be punched this year The Tailors daughter Betty cried , it is a burning shame Though I am young & amp ; pretty my sorrow is the same , My father keeps 5 men , but what if he kept ten , Such silly fools with pointless tools , can never punch me then Unto some lusty farmer with speed I must Repair , And tell to him the cause of my sorrow , grief , and care , Then he with merry cheer , will banish all my fear , And I as well as other Maids shall be well punched this year . Then in came lusty Sarah , who lived at the Crown , Saying , I'm as brisk and airy as any Lass in town , My friends was at great charge in breeding me so large , To pass away my youthful day I think it doubt me urge I'm Punchable it's known , my Marygold is blown , Come soldier or come sailor , and take me for your own , Let mother draw the beer , and father in his chair , For isle no longer be their slave if i'm not punched this year . And then said aged Gillian , though I am old and weak , Yet Neighbours I am willing a word or two to speak , My [ beaut ] y is decam [ y ] ' d by living long a maid , [ And ] to led [ a ] pes in Hell at last indeed I am afraid , Accept of my petition , and let me have a share , I'm forced with submission my sorrow to declare , Then do not flout nor jear , for since this news I hear , My maiden head will strike me dead if i'm not punched this year . The Bakers daughter Nancy , and all the rest replied , What man alive can fancy to make of [ y ] ou a bride , A and therefore pray forbear your sorrow to declare , Yet if there's any rusty Punch that we can freely spare , We'll see what we can do , and be a Friend to you . I hope you will said she ; so my neighbours all adieu , And thereupon each one departed & amp ; went home , With joint consent to be content till punching time does come . But one there was among they that they did think too young And as they all went dancing , she likewise had her Song , What though you flout at me cause that I am young you see , For all you hunch , yet I'll be punched , that currant I may be . For I am thirteen it is well known , And why maint I , good Sirs , then be punched as well as Joan . I am resolved , I say , that I'll not lose a day , But straight to John my Father's man , & amp ; be punched as well as the [ y . ] Printed for P. Brooksby in Pye-Corner . 