The Bashfull-Maidens No , no , no , turned to I , I , I . OR , The Downright Wooing of Tom . and Doll . To a New Tune much in Fashion , Or , the Soldiers Departure . Licensed according to Order . W Hen the Kine had given a Pail full , and the Sheep came bleating home , Doll who knew it would be healthful , went a walking with young Tom . Hand in hand , sir , over the Land , sir , as they walked too and from , Tom . made Jolly Love to Dolly , but was answered , No , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no . Faith says Tom. the time is fitting , we shall never get the like ; You can never get from Knitting , while I'm Digging in the Dike : Now we're gone too , and alone too no one by to see , or know , Come , come , Dolly prithee shall I ? still she answered , No , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no . Fie upon you Men , quoth Dolly , in what snares you'd make us fallen , You'll get nothing but the folly , but I shall get the Devil and all ; Tom. with sobs , and some dry bobbs cried you're a fool to argue so ; Come , come , Dolly , shall I , shall I ? still she answered , No , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no . To the Tavern then he took her , Wine to Love's a friend confessed , By the hand he often took her and drank brimmers of the best ; Doll grew warm , and thought no harm , till after a brisk Pint or two ; To what he said , the silly Maid could hardly bring out , No , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no . She swore he was the pritiest fellow in the Country or the Town , And began to grow so mellow , on the Couch he laid her Down ; Tom. came to her , for to woo her , thinking this the time to try , Something passed so kind at last , her No was changed to , I , I , I , I , I , I , I , I , I , I . Closely then they joined their Faces , Lovers you know what I mean , Nor could she hinder his embraces , love was now too far god in ; Both now lying , panting , dying , calms succeed the stormy Joy , Tom would fain renewed again , and she consents with , I , I , I , I , I , I , I , I , I , I Tom you did me overpower in this pleasant shady Grove , But it was the sweetest hour as I ever enjoyed of Love ; Therefore ever , my endeavour , shall be Tommy to enjoy , Do but crave it , you shall have it granted with a I , I , I , I , I , I , I , I , I , I . The Bashfull-Maidens No , no , no , turned to I , I , I . OR , The Downright Wooing of Tom . and Doll . To a New Tune much in Fashion , Or , the Soldiers Departure . Licensed according to Order . W Hen the Kine had given a Pail full , and the Sheep came bleating home , Doll who knew it would be healthful , went a walking with young Tom . Hand in hand , sir , over the Land , sir , as they walked too and from , Tom . made Jolly Love to Dolly , but was answered , No , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no . Faith says Tom. the time is fitting , we shall never get the like ; You can never get from Knitting , while I'm Digging in the Dike : Now we're gone too , and alone too no one by to see , or know , Come , come , Dolly prithee shall I ? still she answered , No , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no . Fie upon you Men , quoth Dolly , in what snares you'd make us fallen , You'll get nothing but the folly , but I shall get the Devil and all ; Tom. with sobs , and some dry bobbs cried you're a fool to argue so ; Come , come , Dolly , shall I , shall I ? still she answered , No , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no . To the Tavern then he took her , Wine to Love's a friend confessed , By the hand he often took her and drank brimmers of the best ; Doll grew warm , and thought no harm , till after a brisk Pint or two ; To what he said , the silly Maid could hardly bring out , No , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no . She swore he was the pritiest fellow in the Country or the Town , And began to grow so mellow , on the Couch he laid her Down ; Tom. came to her , for to woo her , thinking this the time to try , Something passed so kind at last , her No was changed to , I , I , I , I , I , I , I , I , I , I . Closely then they joined their Faces , Lovers you know what I mean , Nor could she hinder his embraces , love was now too far god in ; Both now lying , panting , dying , calms succeed the stormy Joy , Tom would fain renewed again , and she consents with , I , I , I , I , I , I , I , I , I , I Tom you did me overpower in this pleasant shady Grove , But it was the sweetest hour as I ever enjoyed of Love ; Therefore ever , my endeavour , shall be Tommy to enjoy , Do but crave it , you shall have it granted with a I , I , I , I , I , I , I , I , I , I . 