The Despairing Maiden Revived By the Return of her Dearest Love . The dark and dismal clouds of Love , did overwhelm her mind , But at the last , the Clouds they passed , and now are both Combined . To the Tune of , The fair one let me in ; Or Busy Fame ; Or , Jenny Gin . A S I walked forth to take the air , one morning in the Spring , And for to view the Lilies fair , and to hear the small Birds sing : Near to a pleasant silent shade , as near as I could guess , I herd a fair and comely Maid , her mind she did express . O cruel and unconstant love , unfaithful and unkind , Yet I did never Loyal prove , thou didst it ever find : How canst thou then so cruel be , to leave me in despair , Since I have been so true to thee , Oh turn to me my dear . She rend her robes and Ornaments , and mournfully she said , In heart and Soul I do lament , a poor and harmless Maid : You pretty birds , that hear my words , full little do you know , While I relate my heart will break , with bitter grief and woe . Didst thou not solemnly protest , thou wouldst be ever kind , And with thy love I should be blessed , but now I can't it find : For now I see , thou art fled from me , my heart's suppressed with care , In tears she burst out bitterly , and tore her golden hair . O cruel death be not unkind , but ease me of those pains , My breath to thee I do resign , to shake off these my chains : For he is gone who was indeed the comfort of my life , For whom my very heart does bleed , Oh death come end the strife . She smote upon her Ivory breast , the fountains of her eyes , With tears , true sorrow did express , her sighs did pierce the Skies : Oh that I could but see his face , I willingly could die , And change with him one kind embrace in right Solemnity . No sooner had she thus declared , the subject of her mind , But her true love did straight appear , who had his heart enjoined : Who said i'll ever constant be , since thou dost loyal prove , I'll love none in the world but thee , thou art my Turtle-Dove . The Young-Mans Answer . I did withdraw my self a while , loves fancies for to try , But now thou shalt enjoy true smiles , with thee i'll live and die : And here's my hand with all my heart believe me this is true , Till death does come we'll never part , whatever does ensue . I'll range the world from side to side , for to express thy fame , With jewels I will deck my Bride , and raise thy glorious name : Had I ten Thousand pounds and more , thou shouldst enjoy it all , I set by thee such mighty store , thy beauty I extol . Then let us cast all grief aside , that joys may so abound . Thou art indeed my only Bride , with bliss thou shalt be crowned , And then they joined hand in hand , and kindly did embrace , As plainly I did understand , and did avoid the place . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . The Despairing Maiden Revived By the Return of her Dearest Love . The dark and dismal clouds of Love , did overwhelm her mind , But at the last , the Clouds they passed , and now are both Combined . To the Tune of , The fair one let me in ; Or Busy Fame ; Or , Jenny Gin . A S I walked forth to take the air , one morning in the Spring , And for to view the Lilies fair , and to hear the small Birds sing : Near to a pleasant silent shade , as near as I could guess , I herd a fair and comely Maid , her mind she did express . O cruel and unconstant love , unfaithful and unkind , Yet I did never Loyal prove , thou didst it ever find : How canst thou then so cruel be , to leave me in despair , Since I have been so true to thee , Oh turn to me my dear . She rend her robes and Ornaments , and mournfully she said , In heart and Soul I do lament , a poor and harmless Maid : You pretty birds , that hear my words , full little do you know , While I relate my heart will break , with bitter grief and woe . Didst thou not solemnly protest , thou wouldst be ever kind , And with thy love I should be blessed , but now I can't it find : For now I see , thou art fled from me , my heart's suppressed with care , In tears she burst out bitterly , and tore her golden hair . O cruel death be not unkind , but ease me of those pains , My breath to thee I do resign , to shake off these my chains : For he is gone who was indeed the comfort of my life , For whom my very heart does bleed , Oh death come end the strife . She smote upon her Ivory breast , the fountains of her eyes , With tears , true sorrow did express , her sighs did pierce the Skies : Oh that I could but see his face , I willingly could die , And change with him one kind embrace in right Solemnity . No sooner had she thus declared , the subject of her mind , But her true love did straight appear , who had his heart enjoined : Who said i'll ever constant be , since thou dost loyal prove , I'll love none in the world but thee , thou art my Turtle-Dove . The Young-Mans Answer . I did withdraw my self a while , loves fancies for to try , But now thou shalt enjoy true smiles , with thee i'll live and die : And here's my hand with all my heart believe me this is true , Till death does come we'll never part , whatever does ensue . I'll range the world from side to side , for to express thy fame , With jewels I will deck my Bride , and raise thy glorious name : Had I ten Thousand pounds and more , thou shouldst enjoy it all , I set by thee such mighty store , thy beauty I extol . Then let us cast all grief aside , that joys may so abound . Thou art indeed my only Bride , with bliss thou shalt be crowned , And then they joined hand in hand , and kindly did embrace , As plainly I did understand , and did avoid the place . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . 