The Maids new All-a-mode PINCUSHING , OR , Come stick a Pin here my LADS . To the Tune of , I am the Duke of Norfolk , I Am a maid of Flushing , and I have a Pincushing Although my Clothes are bore There came a Cook Ruffin , And he said it wanted Stuffing , And fain he would have stuck a Pin , there , there , there . This Pincushing a Witch is and breaks through leather Breeches And breaks through our buttons of brass in vain they stand as Centry To guard Dame Nature's Entry , For Pincushing makes Man , and Ass , and Ass , and Ass . The Miser chat thinks Money much sweeter then the Honey Says ( look ) what I have for thee here ) to see if I can ( win you ) I bring a lovely Guinea . Then hold up thy Pincushing my Dear , my Dear my Dear . The People in the Tower stick forty in and Hour Upon and old Pincushing there for Pence a piece the Rabble-Rout May stick they in and take they out . For Codpeice does never cry , forbear , forbear , forbear . B Ut mine is Cupids Pillow not fit for every Fellow , It's black as the feet of the Swan as woolly as the Peech is , And tender as the Beech is , And fit for the Service of a Man , a Man , a Man. The Miller and the Farrier The Plowman and the Carrier Did proffer me fine Toys with their Pin the Grocer Suger-Candy The Vinter Wine and Brandy , They all came to stuff my Pincushing , Cushing , Cushing . The Brewer and the Baker , the Fiddler and the Quaker , Resorted to my Pincushing they often would be billing , And feel if I were willing , To stick but a little small Pin , in , in , in , in . Sweet Sue may leave her Bobbing and Toy with bonny Robin I f she a good Pincushing have I tO wins the Heart of Arthur , Much better then the Garter . And makes him a lamentable Slave , a Slave , a Slave . I am resolved to Marry and will no longer tarry , But use my Pincushing Will , Let Cicely live and die a Maid Of leading Apes I am afraid , I must of Young Cupid have , my fill , my fill , my fill . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pye-Corner . The Maids new All-a-mode PINCUSHING , OR , Come stick a Pin here my LADS . To the Tune of , I am the Duke of Norfolk , I Am a maid of Flushing , and I have a Pincushing Although my Clothes are bore There came a Cook Ruffin , And he said it wanted Stuffing , And fain he would have stuck a Pin , there , there , there . This Pincushing a Witch is and breaks through leather Breeches And breaks through our buttons of brass in vain they stand as Centry To guard Dame Nature's Entry , For Pincushing makes Man , and Ass , and Ass , and Ass . The Miser chat thinks Money much sweeter then the Honey Says ( look ) what I have for thee here ) to see if I can ( win you ) I bring a lovely Guinea . Then hold up thy Pincushing my Dear , my Dear my Dear . The People in the Tower stick forty in and Hour Upon and old Pincushing there for Pence a piece the Rabble-Rout May stick they in and take they out . For Codpeice does never cry , forbear , forbear , forbear . B Ut mine is Cupids Pillow not fit for every Fellow , It's black as the feet of the Swan as woolly as the Peech is , And tender as the Beech is , And fit for the Service of a Man , a Man , a Man. The Miller and the Farrier The Plowman and the Carrier Did proffer me fine Toys with their Pin the Grocer Suger-Candy The Vinter Wine and Brandy , They all came to stuff my Pincushing , Cushing , Cushing . The Brewer and the Baker , the Fiddler and the Quaker , Resorted to my Pincushing they often would be billing , And feel if I were willing , To stick but a little small Pin , in , in , in , in . Sweet Sue may leave her Bobbing and Toy with bonny Robin I f she a good Pincushing have I tO wins the Heart of Arthur , Much better then the Garter . And makes him a lamentable Slave , a Slave , a Slave . I am resolved to Marry and will no longer tarry , But use my Pincushing Will , Let Cicely live and die a Maid Of leading Apes I am afraid , I must of Young Cupid have , my fill , my fill , my fill . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pye-Corner . 