Flora Happily Revived By Strephons Return : Strephon he was kind and Loyal , As we here may plainly see , Every Blessing she is possessing , Both in Love and Unity . To the Tune of , The Fair one let me in . W Hen Phoebus with her glittering Beams , had decked each Grove and shade , Fair Flora sitting by the Streams , and on her Lute she played : Her pleasant sounding Instrument , did Echo in the air , Which filled her heart with true content , but Strephon was not there . By Name she was framed so , each Nymph she did exceed , And from her features there did flow a thousand smiles indeed : But still she cries where is my love , where is my dearest dear ? The Sun hath guilded all the Grove but Strephon is not here . She missed her Strephon all the day , which filled her heart with fear , She trip unto the vail straightway , and cried where is my dear ? But none did answer her complaint , though she did much bewail , With grief her very heart did faint , her beauty waxed pale . Said she , thou hadst no legal cause , to leave thy Flora now , It is a breach of Cupids Law , in love to break your vow : And thus in vain she did complain , and spent the silent night , Quoth she , I fear my love is slave , my joy and hearts delight . Her passion overruled her mind , and drove her in despair , She left her pretty Lambs behind , and wandered far and near : She searched each grove & amp ; valley round but yet alas in vain , For Strephon was not to be found , which filled her heart with pain . Her senses they were stupified , she could not then forbear , But smiting on her breast she cried , and tore her lovely hair ; which hung down like threads of gold a pleasant Ornament , But Strephon grieved to behold , to see her thus lament . St [ r ] ephons happy return to his dearest Flora L Oh here my Flora , here's thy swain that does thy self adore , The truest and the happiest man , as ever lived before : Quoth he , sweet creature , surely I will not Disloyal be , But love my Flora till I die , my love is linked to thee . Thou art the glory of the shade , where thee thy Flocks does feed , A fair and virtuous comely Maid , no one can thee exceed ; I do protest , I am not blessed , without thy Company , Then prithee set thy heart at rest , i'll feed my flocks by thee . And live in perfect unity , and run out nature's raze , Till death we'll never parted be , but lovingly embrace : I'll wipe away those melting tears , which did disturb thy peace , And banish all suspicious fears , that joys might then increase . He kindly took her by the hand , her sen [ s ] es did revive , Said he , my Flora , understand , if I remain alive ; I'll crown thy days with true content , as thou shalt plainly see , Thou never shalt again lament , for Strephons company . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon at the Sign of the Angel , in Guilt-spur-street . Flora Happily Revived By Strephons Return : Strephon he was kind and Loyal , As we here may plainly see , Every Blessing she is possessing , Both in Love and Unity . To the Tune of , The Fair one let me in . W Hen Phoebus with her glittering Beams , had decked each Grove and shade , Fair Flora sitting by the Streams , and on her Lute she played : Her pleasant sounding Instrument , did Echo in the air , Which filled her heart with true content , but Strephon was not there . By Name she was framed so , each Nymph she did exceed , And from her features there did flow a thousand smiles indeed : But still she cries where is my love , where is my dearest dear ? The Sun hath guilded all the Grove but Strephon is not here . She missed her Strephon all the day , which filled her heart with fear , She trip unto the vail straightway , and cried where is my dear ? But none did answer her complaint , though she did much bewail , With grief her very heart did faint , her beauty waxed pale . Said she , thou hadst no legal cause , to leave thy Flora now , It is a breach of Cupids Law , in love to break your vow : And thus in vain she did complain , and spent the silent night , Quoth she , I fear my love is slave , my joy and hearts delight . Her passion overruled her mind , and drove her in despair , She left her pretty Lambs behind , and wandered far and near : She searched each grove & amp ; valley round but yet alas in vain , For Strephon was not to be found , which filled her heart with pain . Her senses they were stupified , she could not then forbear , But smiting on her breast she cried , and tore her lovely hair ; which hung down like threads of gold a pleasant Ornament , But Strephon grieved to behold , to see her thus lament . St [ r ] ephons happy return to his dearest Flora L Oh here my Flora , here's thy swain that does thy self adore , The truest and the happiest man , as ever lived before : Quoth he , sweet creature , surely I will not Disloyal be , But love my Flora till I die , my love is linked to thee . Thou art the glory of the shade , where thee thy Flocks does feed , A fair and virtuous comely Maid , no one can thee exceed ; I do protest , I am not blessed , without thy Company , Then prithee set thy heart at rest , i'll feed my flocks by thee . And live in perfect unity , and run out nature's raze , Till death we'll never parted be , but lovingly embrace : I'll wipe away those melting tears , which did disturb thy peace , And banish all suspicious fears , that joys might then increase . He kindly took her by the hand , her sen [ s ] es did revive , Said he , my Flora , understand , if I remain alive ; I'll crown thy days with true content , as thou shalt plainly see , Thou never shalt again lament , for Strephons company . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon at the Sign of the Angel , in Guilt-spur-street . 