THE Wanton Maidens Choice . No Landed Men nor Farmers are for she , She delights not in that Wealthy Company : No Tailors , Joiners , Gentle-Craft , or any , But a thumping Tinker that can pay her Cunny . Tune is , Heigh boys up go we : Or , Alas poor thing . I Am a Maid now in my prime , and fain I would be wed , But i'll not have a Ranting Blade , to bring him to my Bed : Then oft he will be out abroad , when he should be at home , Then I shall want what is my due and be forced to lie alone . Nor i'll not have a Freeholder , they ofttimes go astray . They'll have a Miss beside their Wife , and that is but foul play : they spend their strength so much abroad nothing can be done at home , But give me a Lad , if he can be had , that will do it at Night and Noon . Nor i'll not have a Farmer , that does wear a clouted Shoo , He is so weary all the day , with holding of the Blow He is no sooner god to Bed , but he is fast asleep , Such tricks as those they cannot choose , but will make a Woman weep . And if I should Marry a Tradesman , the case it may be bad , For now at hand , I'm at a stand , to have a lusty Lad : For if I should Marry and idle drone , and a Fumbler too beside , I should be in danger to hang my self , that ever I was a Bride . If I should have a Blacksmith , he has a fiery look , He often will be Drinking , he has a Spark lies in his Throat : And then at night he has no power , there's nothing to be god , God help that Woman I do say , that Weds a Drunken Sot. Nor I'll not have a Taylor , he is too light behind , He'l be too hard for me at Cabbidge , if he can any find : And so I may be famished while Cabbidge time does last , He'l have his share , he'l never care , whither I do eat or fast . If I should Wed one of the Gentle-craft I should have now and then a touch , But if he meet with a pretty Maid , and get her in his Clutch , He'd like the Soul , and stop the hold , and feel the bottom too , When I may lie at home poor fool , and have nothing for to do . Though the Joiner comes to me I swear , he is a cunning man , He'l get so far into my Gears , i'll be careful of the same : Yet to besure , and that is pure , if he lay a Maid down on her back , He'l have a care , and that is rare , she shall have what she does lack . But of all the men that here is named , a Mettal-Man for me , He shall be welcome day and night , into my Company : He has a Bag of Tools I swear , and bravely he can them use , I am made go to't , he needs must do't , I can him not refuse . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . THE Wanton Maidens Choice . No Landed Men nor Farmers are for she , She delights not in that Wealthy Company : No Tailors , Joiners , Gentle-Craft , or any , But a thumping Tinker that can pay her Cunny . Tune is , Heigh boys up go we : Or , Alas poor thing . I Am a Maid now in my prime , and fain I would be wed , But i'll not have a Ranting Blade , to bring him to my Bed : Then oft he will be out abroad , when he should be at home , Then I shall want what is my due and be forced to lie alone . Nor i'll not have a Freeholder , they ofttimes go astray . They'll have a Miss beside their Wife , and that is but foul play : they spend their strength so much abroad nothing can be done at home , But give me a Lad , if he can be had , that will do it at Night and Noon . Nor i'll not have a Farmer , that does wear a clouted Shoo , He is so weary all the day , with holding of the Blow He is no sooner god to Bed , but he is fast asleep , Such tricks as those they cannot choose , but will make a Woman weep . And if I should Marry a Tradesman , the case it may be bad , For now at hand , I'm at a stand , to have a lusty Lad : For if I should Marry and idle drone , and a Fumbler too beside , I should be in danger to hang my self , that ever I was a Bride . If I should have a Blacksmith , he has a fiery look , He often will be Drinking , he has a Spark lies in his Throat : And then at night he has no power , there's nothing to be god , God help that Woman I do say , that Weds a Drunken Sot. Nor I'll not have a Taylor , he is too light behind , He'l be too hard for me at Cabbidge , if he can any find : And so I may be famished while Cabbidge time does last , He'l have his share , he'l never care , whither I do eat or fast . If I should Wed one of the Gentle-craft I should have now and then a touch , But if he meet with a pretty Maid , and get her in his Clutch , He'd like the Soul , and stop the hold , and feel the bottom too , When I may lie at home poor fool , and have nothing for to do . Though the Joiner comes to me I swear , he is a cunning man , He'l get so far into my Gears , i'll be careful of the same : Yet to besure , and that is pure , if he lay a Maid down on her back , He'l have a care , and that is rare , she shall have what she does lack . But of all the men that here is named , a Mettal-Man for me , He shall be welcome day and night , into my Company : He has a Bag of Tools I swear , and bravely he can them use , I am made go to't , he needs must do't , I can him not refuse . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . 