Strephon and Cloris , OR , The Coy Shepherd and Kind Shepherdess He's fearful that his Flocks should go astray And from her kind embraces would away , But she with loving charms does him so fetter That for to stay he finds it much the better : When flock & amp ; herds , & amp ; all concerns do fail , Love must be satisfied , and will prevail . To a pleasant New P lay-house Tune , Or , Love will find out the way This may be Printed , R. P Behold dread Cupid , with his Golden Dart , A and bent Bow , does pierce each Shepherd's heart Witness here Strephon yields to Loves Essays , His Head being Crowned with never fading Bays . A H , Cloris awake , it is all abroad day , If you sleep any longer , our Flocks they will stray : Lie still my dear Shepherd , and do not rise yet , For it is a cold windy morning , and beside it is wet . My Cloris make haste ; for it is no such thing Our time we do waste , for the Lark is on Wing : Beside I do fancy I hear the young Lambs , Cry ba , ba , ba , ba , for the loss of their Dams . M Y Shepherd I come , though I'm all over sorrow But I swear i'll not love you , if you rise so to morrow ; For methinks it's unkind , thus early to rise , And not bid me good morrow , brings tears from my eyes . O hark my dear Cloris , before thou shalt weep , I'll stay to embrace thee , neglecting my sleep : My Flocks they may wander one hour two , or three , But if I lose thy favour , I ruined shall be . I joy my dear Shepherd , to hear thee say so , It eases my heart of much Sorrow and woe : And for thy reward I will give thee a kiss , And then thou shalt taste of a true Lovers bliss . But Cloris behold how bright Pheebus his beams , Invites us to go to the murmuring streams : I hear the brave Huntsman does follow the cry , And makes the Woods ring , yet how sluggish am I . The Hounds and the Huntsman may follow the Chase , While we enjoy pleasure in a far better place : Thou knowest my dear shepherd , there is no delight , Like Lovers enjoyment from morning till night . Alas my dear Cloris , what dost thou require , The care of my Flocks does abate my desire The Lambs are new , Yeaned and tender for prey And I fear the sly Wolf she should bear them away . My love do not fear it , the Wolf he is Fled , To take up his Lodging in his Mossy Bed ; Then let me embrace thee , while we do agree , And I promise to go , thou shalt after be free . Ah! Cloris , thy words are so powerful to me , That I could be willing to tarry with thee ; Therefore to content thee , one hour I will stay , But I vow by God C upid I will then go away . Now I have my wishes , dear Shepherd we'll part , Although thou dost carry away my poor heart ; I bless the great Gods that to Lovers are kind , To bring us together , such bliss for to find . Then farewell dear Cloris , till I see thee again , For now I will haste to my Flocks on the Plain ; Where I shall record thy true Love in such Rhimes , For Shepherd's to admire in succeeding times . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . Strephon and Cloris , OR , The Coy Shepherd and Kind Shepherdess He's fearful that his Flocks should go astray And from her kind embraces would away , But she with loving charms does him so fetter That for to stay he finds it much the better : When flock & amp ; herds , & amp ; all concerns do fail , Love must be satisfied , and will prevail . To a pleasant New P lay-house Tune , Or , Love will find out the way This may be Printed , R. P Behold dread Cupid , with his Golden Dart , A and bent Bow , does pierce each Shepherd's heart Witness here Strephon yields to Loves Essays , His Head being Crowned with never fading Bays . A H , Cloris awake , it is all abroad day , If you sleep any longer , our Flocks they will stray : Lie still my dear Shepherd , and do not rise yet , For it is a cold windy morning , and beside it is wet . My Cloris make haste ; for it is no such thing Our time we do waste , for the Lark is on Wing : Beside I do fancy I hear the young Lambs , Cry ba , ba , ba , ba , for the loss of their Dams . M Y Shepherd I come , though I'm all over sorrow But I swear i'll not love you , if you rise so to morrow ; For methinks it's unkind , thus early to rise , And not bid me good morrow , brings tears from my eyes . O hark my dear Cloris , before thou shalt weep , I'll stay to embrace thee , neglecting my sleep : My Flocks they may wander one hour two , or three , But if I lose thy favour , I ruined shall be . I joy my dear Shepherd , to hear thee say so , It eases my heart of much Sorrow and woe : And for thy reward I will give thee a kiss , And then thou shalt taste of a true Lovers bliss . But Cloris behold how bright Pheebus his beams , Invites us to go to the murmuring streams : I hear the brave Huntsman does follow the cry , And makes the Woods ring , yet how sluggish am I . The Hounds and the Huntsman may follow the Chase , While we enjoy pleasure in a far better place : Thou knowest my dear shepherd , there is no delight , Like Lovers enjoyment from morning till night . Alas my dear Cloris , what dost thou require , The care of my Flocks does abate my desire The Lambs are new , Yeaned and tender for prey And I fear the sly Wolf she should bear them away . My love do not fear it , the Wolf he is Fled , To take up his Lodging in his Mossy Bed ; Then let me embrace thee , while we do agree , And I promise to go , thou shalt after be free . Ah! Cloris , thy words are so powerful to me , That I could be willing to tarry with thee ; Therefore to content thee , one hour I will stay , But I vow by God C upid I will then go away . Now I have my wishes , dear Shepherd we'll part , Although thou dost carry away my poor heart ; I bless the great Gods that to Lovers are kind , To bring us together , such bliss for to find . Then farewell dear Cloris , till I see thee again , For now I will haste to my Flocks on the Plain ; Where I shall record thy true Love in such Rhimes , For Shepherd's to admire in succeeding times . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . 