The Charming ECCHO . The Shepherdess sat all alone , Close by the Riverside ; While her poor Dear with making moan , For Love had almost Died . To the Tune of , O love with unconfined Wings ; Or , Young Pheon . A S I was walking all alone , one evening fair and clear . And to my self did make my moan , when thinking on my dear : At last and Echo mocked me , as I along did go , And cried will she be kind to me ? The Echo cried not , no . Ah! fairest Nymph , said I , and bid the babbling Echo cease , Oh let me of my woe be rid , that comforts may increase : Your cruelty is death indeed , if once more you deny , Tell me indeed , now must I bleed , The Echo cried I , I My Chains I do not grudge , since you did put my Fetters on , Must I whose love is pure and true , be by my love undone ? I'll drag them all the world about , like I cars I will fly , Tell me , wilt thee , so cruel be ? The Echo cried I , I . Then farewell cruel Nymph , farewell , for evermore adieu , I that all others do excel , must perish now by you : If through the world a Pilgrimage , I for thy sake should go , Dear wouldst thou then love me again ? the Echo cried not , no . H Owe dearly have I loved thee , how constant have I been , To sleep without I dream of thee , I reckoned was no since : But yet your cruel last command , i'll instantly pursue , And then again , to raise my pain , The Echo cried doe , do . And ever as I walked I wept , for thee I daily prayed , And ever in my thoughts I kept , that beauteous lovely Maid : Why should I not enjoy my dear , whom I have loved so ; But presently with short reply , the Echo cried not , no . And from the other side o'th Brook , just by a spreading Oak , Not fearing I should be mistook , I guest the Echo spoke : As silent as the sable night , which me surprised so , I sighed again , Oh ease my pain , the Echo cried not , no . A Nymph that sat beneath the shade , and herd what I did speak , O Shepherd , then , aloud she cried , sighs seldom hearts do break : Your Shepherdess is kind enough , if you can think her so , Then cure said I , my malady , the E ccho cried not , no . Go faithless Shepherd once again , I now do set you free , Deliver but to me my Chain , i'll grant your Liberty : With that she slew her self , and then , the tears dropped from mine eye , O must I be , undone by thee ? the Echo cried I , I I knew that lovely noise , and yet , dare scarce upon her look , I to the Rivers brink did get , and straight jumped over the Brook : Am I that cruel Nymph , she said , that caused your Malady ? Like one half dead , I answered , with aching heart , I , I I closed her then within my arms , embracing her withal , Till from her eye the Crystal Charms upon my Cheek did fallen : O cruel eyes , said she , that do betray your Mistress so , And then said I , still must I die ? she kissing , cried no , no . FINIS Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . The Charming ECCHO . The Shepherdess sat all alone , Close by the Riverside ; While her poor Dear with making moan , For Love had almost Died . To the Tune of , O love with unconfined Wings ; Or , Young Pheon . A S I was walking all alone , one evening fair and clear . And to my self did make my moan , when thinking on my dear : At last and Echo mocked me , as I along did go , And cried will she be kind to me ? The Echo cried not , no . Ah! fairest Nymph , said I , and bid the babbling Echo cease , Oh let me of my woe be rid , that comforts may increase : Your cruelty is death indeed , if once more you deny , Tell me indeed , now must I bleed , The Echo cried I , I My Chains I do not grudge , since you did put my Fetters on , Must I whose love is pure and true , be by my love undone ? I'll drag them all the world about , like I cars I will fly , Tell me , wilt thee , so cruel be ? The Echo cried I , I . Then farewell cruel Nymph , farewell , for evermore adieu , I that all others do excel , must perish now by you : If through the world a Pilgrimage , I for thy sake should go , Dear wouldst thou then love me again ? the Echo cried not , no . H Owe dearly have I loved thee , how constant have I been , To sleep without I dream of thee , I reckoned was no since : But yet your cruel last command , i'll instantly pursue , And then again , to raise my pain , The Echo cried doe , do . And ever as I walked I wept , for thee I daily prayed , And ever in my thoughts I kept , that beauteous lovely Maid : Why should I not enjoy my dear , whom I have loved so ; But presently with short reply , the Echo cried not , no . And from the other side o'th Brook , just by a spreading Oak , Not fearing I should be mistook , I guest the Echo spoke : As silent as the sable night , which me surprised so , I sighed again , Oh ease my pain , the Echo cried not , no . A Nymph that sat beneath the shade , and herd what I did speak , O Shepherd , then , aloud she cried , sighs seldom hearts do break : Your Shepherdess is kind enough , if you can think her so , Then cure said I , my malady , the E ccho cried not , no . Go faithless Shepherd once again , I now do set you free , Deliver but to me my Chain , i'll grant your Liberty : With that she slew her self , and then , the tears dropped from mine eye , O must I be , undone by thee ? the Echo cried I , I I knew that lovely noise , and yet , dare scarce upon her look , I to the Rivers brink did get , and straight jumped over the Brook : Am I that cruel Nymph , she said , that caused your Malady ? Like one half dead , I answered , with aching heart , I , I I closed her then within my arms , embracing her withal , Till from her eye the Crystal Charms upon my Cheek did fallen : O cruel eyes , said she , that do betray your Mistress so , And then said I , still must I die ? she kissing , cried no , no . FINIS Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . 