Love and Constancy United : Or the Languishing Lady made Happy . A Pleasant new Song Of ALEXIS and AMINTA . To a pleasant new Tune , Or my Life and my death . This may be Printed . R. P. M Y Life and my Death lies both in your power , I never was wretched till this cruel hour , Sometime it is true , you tell me you Love , But alas ! it's too kind for me ever to prove , Could you guess with what pain my poor heart is oppressed I am sure my Alexis would soon make me blessed . Distractedly Jealous I do hourly rove , Thus sighing and musing it's all for my love ; No place can I find that will yield me relief , My Soul is for ever entangled in grief . But if the kind Stars let me see him , Oh then , I le forgive the Cruel author of all my past pain . It's strange his unkindness is such , when poor I , Contented could languish for him till I die , And think it a pleasure , to feel such sweet pain , If my thoughts could convince me he'd come but again , So hard there's no heart , but methinks it should yield , When beauty in tears does thus plead for the field . My Alexis return , then return and be kind , Since you among Virgins a faithful one find : What ever you demand you shall see I will do , You never you never shall find me untrue , Come rescue me then from the arms of pale Death , Or she who'd enjoy you must yield him her breath . How oft when I crowned you with Garlands , did you Swear you would for ever prove constant and true , And tenderly grasp my soft hand with a smile , And whispered a thousand soft things all the while , Which melted my Soul in a passion of love , To grant my dear shepherd what ever he would move . For if he returns not to give me relief , My Soul is for ever entangled in grief , Return then Alexis , return and be kind , Since a Virgin more faithful you never can find : Return and i'll make you the pride of the plain , But alas it's my fear that I wish all in vain . The fates Oh too cruel I fear will deny , Yet come what will come , I at last can but die , But stay , who approaches so manly and great , A Shepherd , it cannot be of a mean fate , Oh it's my dear Love , let me fly to that bliss , And greedily snatch from his lips a kind kiss . Alexis . Cease fairest Aminta to grieve any more , Behold thy Alexis that does the adore , Bends at your feet , and presents you a heart , Overcharged with such joys as he cannot impart : Your Constancy dearest Aminta I find , And henceforth Alexis will ever be kind . Aminta . O me ! I must chide you so strangely to prove , The passion of one that so kindly does love , Yet methinks when I gaze on your face 'twere a since , To let any pass on but love enter in : Conceiting I now all the World may outbrave , And nothing can want since Alexis I have . A lexis . No more my A minta but let's to the shade , And there make amends for the time we delayed , Let us Crown all our joys with the transport of Love , While ever for ever we constant will prove ; Forgetting passed pain , we will still live at ease , While Alexis shall strive his Aminta to pelase . FiNiS . You are desired to beware of a false Counterfeit ong in Im - itation of this true Copy , which is only Printed for C. Dennis - son at the S tationers-arms within A ldgate . Love and Constancy United : Or the Languishing Lady made Happy . A Pleasant new Song Of ALEXIS and AMINTA . To a pleasant new Tune , Or my Life and my death . This may be Printed . R. P. M Y Life and my Death lies both in your power , I never was wretched till this cruel hour , Sometime it is true , you tell me you Love , But alas ! it's too kind for me ever to prove , Could you guess with what pain my poor heart is oppressed I am sure my Alexis would soon make me blessed . Distractedly Jealous I do hourly rove , Thus sighing and musing it's all for my love ; No place can I find that will yield me relief , My Soul is for ever entangled in grief . But if the kind Stars let me see him , Oh then , I le forgive the Cruel author of all my past pain . It's strange his unkindness is such , when poor I , Contented could languish for him till I die , And think it a pleasure , to feel such sweet pain , If my thoughts could convince me he'd come but again , So hard there's no heart , but methinks it should yield , When beauty in tears does thus plead for the field . My Alexis return , then return and be kind , Since you among Virgins a faithful one find : What ever you demand you shall see I will do , You never you never shall find me untrue , Come rescue me then from the arms of pale Death , Or she who'd enjoy you must yield him her breath . How oft when I crowned you with Garlands , did you Swear you would for ever prove constant and true , And tenderly grasp my soft hand with a smile , And whispered a thousand soft things all the while , Which melted my Soul in a passion of love , To grant my dear shepherd what ever he would move . For if he returns not to give me relief , My Soul is for ever entangled in grief , Return then Alexis , return and be kind , Since a Virgin more faithful you never can find : Return and i'll make you the pride of the plain , But alas it's my fear that I wish all in vain . The fates Oh too cruel I fear will deny , Yet come what will come , I at last can but die , But stay , who approaches so manly and great , A Shepherd , it cannot be of a mean fate , Oh it's my dear Love , let me fly to that bliss , And greedily snatch from his lips a kind kiss . Alexis . Cease fairest Aminta to grieve any more , Behold thy Alexis that does the adore , Bends at your feet , and presents you a heart , Overcharged with such joys as he cannot impart : Your Constancy dearest Aminta I find , And henceforth Alexis will ever be kind . Aminta . O me ! I must chide you so strangely to prove , The passion of one that so kindly does love , Yet methinks when I gaze on your face 'twere a since , To let any pass on but love enter in : Conceiting I now all the World may outbrave , And nothing can want since Alexis I have . A lexis . No more my A minta but let's to the shade , And there make amends for the time we delayed , Let us Crown all our joys with the transport of Love , While ever for ever we constant will prove ; Forgetting passed pain , we will still live at ease , While Alexis shall strive his Aminta to pelase . FiNiS . You are desired to beware of a false Counterfeit ong in Im - itation of this true Copy , which is only Printed for C. Dennis - son at the S tationers-arms within A ldgate . 