Flora's lamentable passion , Crowned with unspeakable Joy and Comfort , Flora she did soar lament , her Spirit did decay ; Strephon filled her with content , and cast all Grief away . To the Tune of , Tender hearts of London City . FLoras in her Grove she lied , Sighing panting thus she cried , Strephon thou art fled from me ; Oh my Swain I may complain , for thou dost prove unkind I see . I was ever chaste and Loyal , Oh it is a grievous trial , that we should separated be : Cupits Dart , hath pierced my heart , alas my joys are fled from me . Here I fit in grief afflicted , By my love I am rejected , sorrows hath compassed me round ; Insulting Death , come stop my breath , and let not grief in me abound . The pretty little Lambs lamented , Seeming to be discontented , Hearing of her make this moan ; Quoth she my pain I can't contain , for all my joys are from me flown . He a thousand times hath kissed me . And as many times has blessed me , calling me his only joy ; But now I find he proves unkind , which does my comforts quite destroy . With sweet language thou didst woe me And with comforts didst endue me , yet thou proved'st most false I see ; Remember now thy former vow , which thou didst make in secrecy , I was never found and fickle , Down her Cheeks the tears did trickle , and her colour waxed pale , With complaint , her heart did faint , quoth she , I find my spirits fail . Strephons Answer to Flora's Complaint . In the midst of all her trouble , Strephon did her joys redouble , with a sweet obliging way ; He did her greet , quoth he my sweet , my Love is fixed from all decay . Floras I do dearly love thee , I esteem no one above thee , thou shalt have thy hearts delight ; Then here's my hand , do thou command and I will serve thee day and night . Though I seemed to be parted , Yet I am more loyal hearted , my Love is linked unto thee ; Take hand and heart , we'll never part , thou art my life and liberty . Floras I in heart adore thee , I prefer no one before thee , thou hast a sweet obliging Eye ; I'll never be cruel to my Jewel , but be faithful till I die . Do not think that I will slight thee . I endeavour to delight thee , nothing shall my love annoy ; I will nourish , and will cherish , my sweet Floras , my true joy . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur street without Newgate . Flora's lamentable passion , Crowned with unspeakable Joy and Comfort , Flora she did soar lament , her Spirit did decay ; Strephon filled her with content , and cast all Grief away . To the Tune of , Tender hearts of London City . FLoras in her Grove she lied , Sighing panting thus she cried , Strephon thou art fled from me ; Oh my Swain I may complain , for thou dost prove unkind I see . I was ever chaste and Loyal , Oh it is a grievous trial , that we should separated be : Cupits Dart , hath pierced my heart , alas my joys are fled from me . Here I fit in grief afflicted , By my love I am rejected , sorrows hath compassed me round ; Insulting Death , come stop my breath , and let not grief in me abound . The pretty little Lambs lamented , Seeming to be discontented , Hearing of her make this moan ; Quoth she my pain I can't contain , for all my joys are from me flown . He a thousand times hath kissed me . And as many times has blessed me , calling me his only joy ; But now I find he proves unkind , which does my comforts quite destroy . With sweet language thou didst woe me And with comforts didst endue me , yet thou proved'st most false I see ; Remember now thy former vow , which thou didst make in secrecy , I was never found and fickle , Down her Cheeks the tears did trickle , and her colour waxed pale , With complaint , her heart did faint , quoth she , I find my spirits fail . Strephons Answer to Flora's Complaint . In the midst of all her trouble , Strephon did her joys redouble , with a sweet obliging way ; He did her greet , quoth he my sweet , my Love is fixed from all decay . Floras I do dearly love thee , I esteem no one above thee , thou shalt have thy hearts delight ; Then here's my hand , do thou command and I will serve thee day and night . Though I seemed to be parted , Yet I am more loyal hearted , my Love is linked unto thee ; Take hand and heart , we'll never part , thou art my life and liberty . Floras I in heart adore thee , I prefer no one before thee , thou hast a sweet obliging Eye ; I'll never be cruel to my Jewel , but be faithful till I die . Do not think that I will slight thee . I endeavour to delight thee , nothing shall my love annoy ; I will nourish , and will cherish , my sweet Floras , my true joy . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur street without Newgate . 