The Necessitated Virgin , See here the Virgin in distress , Complains Youngmen are pitiless ; And she full fain would comfort find , To ease her sad perplexed mind . Tune of , What shall I do , shall I die for love , etc W Hat shall I do in this deep distress , is there no help to be had ? Young-Men are grown so pitiless , it'll make poor Maids run mad . I am full fifteen Years of age , my Fortune is so bad ; It puts me into such a Rage , it'll make me run quite mad . And had my Mother's fortune been like mine , so grievous sad , Then what a plighted had she been in , and like me , almost mad . Had I a Sweetheart at this time , some thundering whisking Lad ; To ease me now I'm in the Prime , 'twould save my running mad . But I am quite Unfortunate , worse luck no Girl ever had ; Year after Year to pine and wait , it'll surely make me mad . Come Rich or Poor ; come Old or Young , and make my heart full glad ; For now my passion is so strong , that I shall run stark mad . TO Oh see my Comrades Belly swell , it makes my heart full sad , And I I'm sure can kiss as well , would this not make one mad . Yea , some strange , old , and wrinkled things , good fortune they have had ; Yea , taste from whence all comfort springs , would this not make one mad ? And Doll the dirty Dairy-Maid , met with a brisk young Lad ; At pleasant sport with her he played , else she had run quite mad . And greesie Sue , the Cook-wench too , good fortune she hath had ; And Jone hath Sweethearts one or two , this , this will make me mad . I'm fair enough in my conceit , my Portion's not so bad ; But if I cannot quickly have't , i'm sure I shall run mad . When hand in hand I see a Girl go mincing with her Lad ; Then from mine eye there drops a pearl , and I am almost mad . In Dreams sometime my self I please , and make my heart full glad ; I wake , see no such things as these , this helps to make me mad . Beside i'm jeered by every one , because I no Love have had ; Which makes me sighs , lament and groan , and makes me worse than mad . I am almost possessed with fears , which makes me dull and sad ; That I shall loose my teaming years , and then I shall run mad . For in the world I think before such ill luck none ever had ; Now my condition I deplore , i'm ready to run mad . Some gentle young-Man come away , and ease my heart so sad ; I hourly for a Husband pray , for fear I should go mad . But if I cannot find relief with some young lusty Lad , I'll play the whore , and not the thief , and save my running mad . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Rain-Bow , i [ n ] Holborn , near Davids-Inn . The Necessitated Virgin , See here the Virgin in distress , Complains Youngmen are pitiless ; And she full fain would comfort find , To ease her sad perplexed mind . Tune of , What shall I do , shall I die for love , etc W Hat shall I do in this deep distress , is there no help to be had ? Young-Men are grown so pitiless , it'll make poor Maids run mad . I am full fifteen Years of age , my Fortune is so bad ; It puts me into such a Rage , it'll make me run quite mad . And had my Mother's fortune been like mine , so grievous sad , Then what a plighted had she been in , and like me , almost mad . Had I a Sweetheart at this time , some thundering whisking Lad ; To ease me now I'm in the Prime , 'twould save my running mad . But I am quite Unfortunate , worse luck no Girl ever had ; Year after Year to pine and wait , it'll surely make me mad . Come Rich or Poor ; come Old or Young , and make my heart full glad ; For now my passion is so strong , that I shall run stark mad . TO Oh see my Comrades Belly swell , it makes my heart full sad , And I I'm sure can kiss as well , would this not make one mad . Yea , some strange , old , and wrinkled things , good fortune they have had ; Yea , taste from whence all comfort springs , would this not make one mad ? And Doll the dirty Dairy-Maid , met with a brisk young Lad ; At pleasant sport with her he played , else she had run quite mad . And greesie Sue , the Cook-wench too , good fortune she hath had ; And Jone hath Sweethearts one or two , this , this will make me mad . I'm fair enough in my conceit , my Portion's not so bad ; But if I cannot quickly have't , i'm sure I shall run mad . When hand in hand I see a Girl go mincing with her Lad ; Then from mine eye there drops a pearl , and I am almost mad . In Dreams sometime my self I please , and make my heart full glad ; I wake , see no such things as these , this helps to make me mad . Beside i'm jeered by every one , because I no Love have had ; Which makes me sighs , lament and groan , and makes me worse than mad . I am almost possessed with fears , which makes me dull and sad ; That I shall loose my teaming years , and then I shall run mad . For in the world I think before such ill luck none ever had ; Now my condition I deplore , i'm ready to run mad . Some gentle young-Man come away , and ease my heart so sad ; I hourly for a Husband pray , for fear I should go mad . But if I cannot find relief with some young lusty Lad , I'll play the whore , and not the thief , and save my running mad . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Rain-Bow , i [ n ] Holborn , near Davids-Inn . 