ROBIN'S DELIGHT : OR , KATE the Dairy-Maids Happy Marriage . It does appear , he loved her dear , and she was kind and free ; And now they dwell , the truth to tell , in perfect Unity . Tune of , M y Life and my Death . This may be Printed . R. P. A S Robin was riding one day to a Fair , In his best Apparel , on Bob the Gray Mare , It was his good luck for to meet with young Kate , He vowed and resolved to make her his Mate ; For this very reason , my dearest he said , Because I know thou art a right Dairy-Maid . I now am grown Wealthy you may understand , My Father he's dead and has left me his Land , With good Corn and Cattle , Eleven Milch Cows , With Horses and Harrow , and two or three Blows ; All this shall be thine , as I often have said I'll Marry with none but a right Dairy-Maid [ . ] There's S usan and S arah , with Dolly , and Nan , And likewise young Jenny , all doe what they can , To gain my sweet favour , but this is in vain , For thee I will leave them to sighs and complain : There's Sarah and Susan , Lace-makers by Trade , But I will have none but a right Dairymaid . [ TO ] here is but few Young Men beloved like me , For when any Damsel shall happen to see My shape , limbs and person , both proper and tall , They cannot forbear , but in true love do fallen , And fain would enjoy me , but as I have said , I'll marry with none but a right Dairymaid . I was in the City of London last Week ; And there the young Damsels my favour did seek ; Each one did desire she might be my Bride , They talked of their Parents and P [ oh ] rtions beside ; Likewise in their Dress they were Richly Arrayed , But i'll marry none but a right Dairy-Maid . I prithee sweet Katy be loving and free , For I prize no Girl in the Nation like thee : That [ e ] n do not deny me , but grant my Req [ u ] est , For I will be Loyal to thee I protest : To make me a promise Love , be not afraid , For thou art my Jewel and sweet Dairymaid : Maid . I now have with patience herd all your Discourse , And therefore sweet Robin , I must upon force , Surrender my purest affection to you , As hoping to find thee both Loyal and true : I'll grant your desire , because you have said , You'll marry with none but a right Dairy-Maid . My Kate thou hast freed me from trouble and care , I'll set thee behind me , we'll both to the Fair ; Where Mirth and sweet pleasure will all the day flow Likewise a Rich Faring on thee i'll bestow : No longer let's tarry , time mayn't be delayed , We'll both to the Fair now my sweet Dairymaid . And there many hours they spent in delight , In feeding their Fancies from morning till night ; For Kate was the Creature whom he so adored , He gave her what ever the Fair would afford : Both Music and Dancing , the Pipers they played , While Robin embraced his sweet Dairymaid . Next day they appointed the Wedding should be , Then many young Couple came thither to see The Glory of Kate , when the Knot it was tied , And she did appear a most beautiful Bride : By marrying young Robin she's happily made , And in her Apparel as Richly Arrayed . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur stree [ tO ] . ROBIN'S DELIGHT : OR , KATE the Dairy-Maids Happy Marriage . It does appear , he loved her dear , and she was kind and free ; And now they dwell , the truth to tell , in perfect Unity . Tune of , M y Life and my Death . This may be Printed . R. P. A S Robin was riding one day to a Fair , In his best Apparel , on Bob the Gray Mare , It was his good luck for to meet with young Kate , He vowed and resolved to make her his Mate ; For this very reason , my dearest he said , Because I know thou art a right Dairy-Maid . I now am grown Wealthy you may understand , My Father he's dead and has left me his Land , With good Corn and Cattle , Eleven Milch Cows , With Horses and Harrow , and two or three Blows ; All this shall be thine , as I often have said I'll Marry with none but a right Dairy-Maid [ . ] There's S usan and S arah , with Dolly , and Nan , And likewise young Jenny , all doe what they can , To gain my sweet favour , but this is in vain , For thee I will leave them to sighs and complain : There's Sarah and Susan , Lace-makers by Trade , But I will have none but a right Dairymaid . [ TO ] here is but few Young Men beloved like me , For when any Damsel shall happen to see My shape , limbs and person , both proper and tall , They cannot forbear , but in true love do fallen , And fain would enjoy me , but as I have said , I'll marry with none but a right Dairymaid . I was in the City of London last Week ; And there the young Damsels my favour did seek ; Each one did desire she might be my Bride , They talked of their Parents and P [ oh ] rtions beside ; Likewise in their Dress they were Richly Arrayed , But i'll marry none but a right Dairy-Maid . I prithee sweet Katy be loving and free , For I prize no Girl in the Nation like thee : That [ e ] n do not deny me , but grant my Req [ u ] est , For I will be Loyal to thee I protest : To make me a promise Love , be not afraid , For thou art my Jewel and sweet Dairymaid : Maid . I now have with patience herd all your Discourse , And therefore sweet Robin , I must upon force , Surrender my purest affection to you , As hoping to find thee both Loyal and true : I'll grant your desire , because you have said , You'll marry with none but a right Dairy-Maid . My Kate thou hast freed me from trouble and care , I'll set thee behind me , we'll both to the Fair ; Where Mirth and sweet pleasure will all the day flow Likewise a Rich Faring on thee i'll bestow : No longer let's tarry , time mayn't be delayed , We'll both to the Fair now my sweet Dairymaid . And there many hours they spent in delight , In feeding their Fancies from morning till night ; For Kate was the Creature whom he so adored , He gave her what ever the Fair would afford : Both Music and Dancing , the Pipers they played , While Robin embraced his sweet Dairymaid . Next day they appointed the Wedding should be , Then many young Couple came thither to see The Glory of Kate , when the Knot it was tied , And she did appear a most beautiful Bride : By marrying young Robin she's happily made , And in her Apparel as Richly Arrayed . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur stree [ tO ] . 