Sport upon Sport : OR , The Man in the S ------ Maids where are your hearts become look you what here is . Being a true Relation of a Pleasant Fellow that in the attire of a Woman lay with several Maids , and god them with Child . To the Tune of , Daniel Cooper . A Lusty Lad there was of late , that did himself disguise Sir , Known by the Name of bonny K ate , this trick he did devise Sir : To lie with melting-Maids all night , but for a while did smother , The flame that soon grew fierce & amp ; bright , such force has Cupids Mother . A Gown and Petticoat he wore , and for a maid he passes , A tender Maid that never knew more , then raw-young Country Lasses : That singing fit and milk their Cows , whose pleasures are mee'r shadows , But he loved stroking soft brown brows , to milk the maids in meadows . Among the maids there was a Lass , that did the rest excel [ si ] r , Whose Beauty Lilies [ ? ] surpass , whose Blushes Roses [ tO ] ell Sir : She burned , but bashful shame and f [ ear ] did hinder her desire , Yet often sighed for her youn [ g ] [ worser ] ear and fanned young Cupids f [ ire . ] These two together lay in Bed , and talked of women's blisses , Talked of each others maidenheads , and talked of empty Kisses : Which fired the Youth that he began , himself for to discover , He told her that he was a man and was her only Lover . Thrice fairer then my self he said . since we have time and leisure , Be neither coy , nor be afraid , let me unlock thy Treasure : Thy breasts like lovely fruit do swell , and raise my passion higher , Thy beauty does so much excel , I burn with wanton fire . So fair a maid was born for Love , let not sweet time be wasted , From thy soft arms I'll not remove , till I the fruit have tasted : I will not let advantage slip , so near the brink of pleasure , I'll seize upon thy tempting Lip , and feast me without measure . At last the tender Nymph did yield , unto the youths desire , And conquering beauty god the Field , and cooled the Lovers fire : She cured him of a wanton wound , although she seemed unwilling , How sweet is Cupids pleasing wound , how sweet two Doves a Billing . Now quick Desire hath caught his prey , and feeds , yet never fills , The Courted Nymph does now obey , and gives him what he wills : The pleasures are too sweet to tell so sweet that Nan , and Nell sir , Came oft to drink a this same Well , and made their Bellies swell sir . The Cunning Rover lay all night , upon the panting P [ illow ] , And hit the black , and hit the white , like a brisk jolly fellow : What should their farther now be said , to make a song John Dory , In that he god their Maiden heads , and thus Concludes the story . Printed for C. Dennisson , at the Stationers-armes within Aldgate . 1685 . Sport upon Sport : OR , The Man in the S ------ Maids where are your hearts become look you what here is . Being a true Relation of a Pleasant Fellow that in the attire of a Woman lay with several Maids , and god them with Child . To the Tune of , Daniel Cooper . A Lusty Lad there was of late , that did himself disguise Sir , Known by the Name of bonny K ate , this trick he did devise Sir : To lie with melting-Maids all night , but for a while did smother , The flame that soon grew fierce & amp ; bright , such force has Cupids Mother . A Gown and Petticoat he wore , and for a maid he passes , A tender Maid that never knew more , then raw-young Country Lasses : That singing fit and milk their Cows , whose pleasures are mee'r shadows , But he loved stroking soft brown brows , to milk the maids in meadows . Among the maids there was a Lass , that did the rest excel [ si ] r , Whose Beauty Lilies [ ? ] surpass , whose Blushes Roses [ tO ] ell Sir : She burned , but bashful shame and f [ ear ] did hinder her desire , Yet often sighed for her youn [ g ] [ worser ] ear and fanned young Cupids f [ ire . ] These two together lay in Bed , and talked of women's blisses , Talked of each others maidenheads , and talked of empty Kisses : Which fired the Youth that he began , himself for to discover , He told her that he was a man and was her only Lover . Thrice fairer then my self he said . since we have time and leisure , Be neither coy , nor be afraid , let me unlock thy Treasure : Thy breasts like lovely fruit do swell , and raise my passion higher , Thy beauty does so much excel , I burn with wanton fire . So fair a maid was born for Love , let not sweet time be wasted , From thy soft arms I'll not remove , till I the fruit have tasted : I will not let advantage slip , so near the brink of pleasure , I'll seize upon thy tempting Lip , and feast me without measure . At last the tender Nymph did yield , unto the youths desire , And conquering beauty god the Field , and cooled the Lovers fire : She cured him of a wanton wound , although she seemed unwilling , How sweet is Cupids pleasing wound , how sweet two Doves a Billing . Now quick Desire hath caught his prey , and feeds , yet never fills , The Courted Nymph does now obey , and gives him what he wills : The pleasures are too sweet to tell so sweet that Nan , and Nell sir , Came oft to drink a this same Well , and made their Bellies swell sir . The Cunning Rover lay all night , upon the panting P [ illow ] , And hit the black , and hit the white , like a brisk jolly fellow : What should their farther now be said , to make a song John Dory , In that he god their Maiden heads , and thus Concludes the story . Printed for C. Dennisson , at the Stationers-armes within Aldgate . 1685 . 