A Pattern of LOVE . OR , The Faithful Lovers well met . Here's Love for Love you may behold , And true love better is than Gold : For if my Song you well do mind , Patterns of true love here you'll find . To the Tune of , The Cannons Roar . This may be Printed , R. P. C Ome and help me to complain , Ere my heart does break with pain , My love unkind does me disdain , which does increase my passion , His person it is so complete , All Females do delight to see't And stand amazed when him they meet , the flower of all the Nation . He is so rare in every part , So full of virtue and desert , That he did quickly win my heart , and made such alteration : That all my comforts soon were gone And him alone I doted on , Yea night and day I think upon the flower of all the Nation . Thus languishing in Bed all night , And thinking on my hearts delight , As if he had been in my sighed such was Loves operation ; I wrung my hands and tore my hair , And almost fell into despair , Because my dearest was not there , the flower of all the Nation . I often stretched forth my arms , And with a kind of seeming Charms , I strove to keep him from all harms , by Cupids strong persuasion ; Then in a moment I did cry , Oh come my Love , or else I die , Wanting thy precious company , I love best in the Nation , For while she made this grievous moan , For her beloved dearest one , He was hard by , to her unknown , and near her kept his station ; At last he blushing to her came , Which set the Damsel on a flame , Because she against him did Exclaim , she loved best in the Nation . Don't complain , my dearest dear , For I thy hearts delight ; am here , And come to banish all thy fear , then do no more torment thee ; For I will work both night and day , To keep my true love fine and gay , Then all the world will surely say , I strive for to content thee . Nothing shall be too dear for thee , If it for Gold may purchased be , For since thou hast made choice of me , thou needest not to repent thee ; Thy Beauty I most highly praise . I will be kind to thee always , And thou shalt see brave Golden days , let this my love , content thee . And wheresoever I do go , The world shall all thy Virtues know , And i'll set forth thy praises so , that nothing shall torment thee ; I'll write Encomiums on thy Name , And spread them on the Wings of fam [ e ] Then do no more thy true love blame , that strives for to content thee . I'll truly keep my Nuptial Vows , As Law and Reason both allows , And be so careful of my Spouse , that nothing shalt torment thee ; I'll feast mine eyes with thy dear sighed , And in thy company delight , Yea , never leave thee day nor night , my Dear let this content thee . Unto the Church straightway we'll go , And to the world will plainly show , The faithful love to thee I owe [ , ] then do not thou torment thee ; According to thy just Desert , I'll change with thee my lovesick heart , Till cruel death our loves shall part , my Dear let this content thee . Printed for J. Blare at the Looking-Glass on London-bridge . A Pattern of LOVE . OR , The Faithful Lovers well met . Here's Love for Love you may behold , And true love better is than Gold : For if my Song you well do mind , Patterns of true love here you'll find . To the Tune of , The Cannons Roar . This may be Printed , R. P. C Ome and help me to complain , Ere my heart does break with pain , My love unkind does me disdain , which does increase my passion , His person it is so complete , All Females do delight to see't And stand amazed when him they meet , the flower of all the Nation . He is so rare in every part , So full of virtue and desert , That he did quickly win my heart , and made such alteration : That all my comforts soon were gone And him alone I doted on , Yea night and day I think upon the flower of all the Nation . Thus languishing in Bed all night , And thinking on my hearts delight , As if he had been in my sighed such was Loves operation ; I wrung my hands and tore my hair , And almost fell into despair , Because my dearest was not there , the flower of all the Nation . I often stretched forth my arms , And with a kind of seeming Charms , I strove to keep him from all harms , by Cupids strong persuasion ; Then in a moment I did cry , Oh come my Love , or else I die , Wanting thy precious company , I love best in the Nation , For while she made this grievous moan , For her beloved dearest one , He was hard by , to her unknown , and near her kept his station ; At last he blushing to her came , Which set the Damsel on a flame , Because she against him did Exclaim , she loved best in the Nation . Don't complain , my dearest dear , For I thy hearts delight ; am here , And come to banish all thy fear , then do no more torment thee ; For I will work both night and day , To keep my true love fine and gay , Then all the world will surely say , I strive for to content thee . Nothing shall be too dear for thee , If it for Gold may purchased be , For since thou hast made choice of me , thou needest not to repent thee ; Thy Beauty I most highly praise . I will be kind to thee always , And thou shalt see brave Golden days , let this my love , content thee . And wheresoever I do go , The world shall all thy Virtues know , And i'll set forth thy praises so , that nothing shall torment thee ; I'll write Encomiums on thy Name , And spread them on the Wings of fam [ e ] Then do no more thy true love blame , that strives for to content thee . I'll truly keep my Nuptial Vows , As Law and Reason both allows , And be so careful of my Spouse , that nothing shalt torment thee ; I'll feast mine eyes with thy dear sighed , And in thy company delight , Yea , never leave thee day nor night , my Dear let this content thee . Unto the Church straightway we'll go , And to the world will plainly show , The faithful love to thee I owe [ , ] then do not thou torment thee ; According to thy just Desert , I'll change with thee my lovesick heart , Till cruel death our loves shall part , my Dear let this content thee . Printed for J. Blare at the Looking-Glass on London-bridge . 