The youngman's Resolution to the Maidens Request BEING A witty Dialogue between a Youngman and a maid . Wherein she asks him when he intends to Marry , And he resolves her how long he will tarry . To the Tune of , In summer time . A S I was walking under a Grove , within my self as I supposed ; My mind did often times remove , and by no means could be disclosed : At length by chance a friend I met , which caused me long time to tarry ; And then of me she did entreat to tell her when I meant to marry . Sweetheart , quoth I , if you would know , then mark these words and i'll reveal it ; Since in your heart you bear it so , and in your heart you do conceal it . She promised to make no words , but of such things she would be wary : And thus in brief I did begin to tell her when I meant to marry . When Shrovetide falls in Easter week , and Christmas in the midst of July , And Lawyers for no Fees will plead , and Tailors they deal just and truly : When all Deceits are quite put down , and Truth by all men is preferred , And Indigo dies Read and Brown , Oh then my Love and I'll be married . When Saffron grows on every Tree , and every stream flows Milk and Honey , And Sugar grows in Carret-fields , and Usurers refuse good Money ; When Countrymen for Judges sits , and Lammass falls in February , And Millers they their Tole forgets , Oh then my Love and I will marry . W Hen men & amp ; beasts i'th' Ocean flows , & amp ; fish in green fields are feeding , When Muscle-shells i'th' streets do grow , and Swans upon dry Rocks are breeding : When Cockle-shells are Diamond Rings , and Glass to Pearl may be compared , And Gold is made of the Gray-Goose wings , Oh then my Love and I'll be married . When Summer does not dry up Mire , and men on Earth do leave to flatter ; When Bakers they do use no Fire , and Brewers they do use no Water : When Mountains are by men removed and England into France is carried , And all Maids prove true to their Loves , Oh then my Love and I'll be married . When Hostesses do reckon true , and Dutch-men leave off drinking Brandy When Cats do bark , and Dogs do mew , and Brimstone's took for Sugarcandy : Or when that Whitsuntide does fallen within the Month of January ; And Cobblers works without and Awl , Oh then my Love and I will marry . When women know not how to scold , and maids of sweethearts never are thinking When men in the fire complain of cold , and ships on Salisbury Plain fear sinking : When Horse-coursers turn honest men , and London unto York is carried ; Or when you out of one can take ten , Oh then my Love and i'll be married . When Candlesticks do serve for Bells' , and frying-pans are used for Ladles , Or when in the Sea they dig for Wells and Pottage-pots they make for Cradles : When Maids forget to go a Maying , and a man on's back and Ox can carry ; Or when the Mice with the Cat be playing it's then my Love and I will marry . Good sir , since you have told me when you are resolved for to marry , I wish with all my heart till then that for a Wife you still might tarry ; For if all Youngmen were of your mind , and Maids not better were preferred , I think it would be when the Devil is blind that we and our Lovers should be married . FINIS J. S : Printed for Josiah Blare , at the Looking-glass on London-Bridge . The youngman's Resolution to the Maidens Request BEING A witty Dialogue between a Youngman and a maid . Wherein she asks him when he intends to Marry , And he resolves her how long he will tarry . To the Tune of , In summer time . A S I was walking under a Grove , within my self as I supposed ; My mind did often times remove , and by no means could be disclosed : At length by chance a friend I met , which caused me long time to tarry ; And then of me she did entreat to tell her when I meant to marry . Sweetheart , quoth I , if you would know , then mark these words and i'll reveal it ; Since in your heart you bear it so , and in your heart you do conceal it . She promised to make no words , but of such things she would be wary : And thus in brief I did begin to tell her when I meant to marry . When Shrovetide falls in Easter week , and Christmas in the midst of July , And Lawyers for no Fees will plead , and Tailors they deal just and truly : When all Deceits are quite put down , and Truth by all men is preferred , And Indigo dies Read and Brown , Oh then my Love and I'll be married . When Saffron grows on every Tree , and every stream flows Milk and Honey , And Sugar grows in Carret-fields , and Usurers refuse good Money ; When Countrymen for Judges sits , and Lammass falls in February , And Millers they their Tole forgets , Oh then my Love and I will marry . W Hen men & amp ; beasts i'th' Ocean flows , & amp ; fish in green fields are feeding , When Muscle-shells i'th' streets do grow , and Swans upon dry Rocks are breeding : When Cockle-shells are Diamond Rings , and Glass to Pearl may be compared , And Gold is made of the Gray-Goose wings , Oh then my Love and I'll be married . When Summer does not dry up Mire , and men on Earth do leave to flatter ; When Bakers they do use no Fire , and Brewers they do use no Water : When Mountains are by men removed and England into France is carried , And all Maids prove true to their Loves , Oh then my Love and I'll be married . When Hostesses do reckon true , and Dutch-men leave off drinking Brandy When Cats do bark , and Dogs do mew , and Brimstone's took for Sugarcandy : Or when that Whitsuntide does fallen within the Month of January ; And Cobblers works without and Awl , Oh then my Love and I will marry . When women know not how to scold , and maids of sweethearts never are thinking When men in the fire complain of cold , and ships on Salisbury Plain fear sinking : When Horse-coursers turn honest men , and London unto York is carried ; Or when you out of one can take ten , Oh then my Love and i'll be married . When Candlesticks do serve for Bells' , and frying-pans are used for Ladles , Or when in the Sea they dig for Wells and Pottage-pots they make for Cradles : When Maids forget to go a Maying , and a man on's back and Ox can carry ; Or when the Mice with the Cat be playing it's then my Love and I will marry . Good sir , since you have told me when you are resolved for to marry , I wish with all my heart till then that for a Wife you still might tarry ; For if all Youngmen were of your mind , and Maids not better were preferred , I think it would be when the Devil is blind that we and our Lovers should be married . FINIS J. S : Printed for Josiah Blare , at the Looking-glass on London-Bridge . 