The Knight and the Beggar-Wench . Which does a wanton prank unfold , In as merry a story as ever was told . The Tune is , The Kings Delight , or Turn Coat . I Met with a jovial Beggar , And into the Fields I led her , and I laid her upon the ground ; Her face did not invite me , Nor her smock did much delight me but I think the young whore was found ; With Ladies both fresh and gay I often did sport and play , yet a Beggar I'll take for varieties sake , She'l please as me as well as they . I have a good Wife , as fair , As ever drew English air her pleasure is past compare , Her cherry lips , cheeks , and eyes , Her belly , her breast , and thighs , might any but I suffice , With her I so often play And weary my time away That a fouler to me , Would be fairer than she , Variety wins the day , This Beggar I shall describe , Without any hope of bribe , was one of the maundring tribe She had a fine foot and leg , As nimble as Doe or Stag , and then she began to beg , So soon as my Horse she sees She fell down upon her knees , The whore had a sack That hung at her back Well furnished with Bred and Cheese . She struck me into a dump the jade was both young and plump , with a round and a ranting Rump ; Her feature had so much force , It raised in me remorse and drew me quite off my Horse , But when I began to woo She told me she would not do , Quoth I pretty Mort , Let me show you some sport She kissed me , and answered no . [ M Y Horse ] to a twig I tied , [ The be ] ggar-wench then [ rep ] lied , [ good Mast ] er get up and ride , [ Yes so ] I will straight ( thought I ) [ With ] that I drew something nigh [ sh ] e struggled and cried fie , fie , [ I am ] but a Beggar by breed , [ Queen ] oath I let me do this deed , For he that will scorn A Beggar-wench born May want a good turn at need . Then into her Arms I claps , Quoth she now I'm in your traps , what shall I do with my scraps ? Throw them in the bush said I , No , no , she did straight reply there's big , and Pudding and Pie We beg for better or worse , My blessings I will not curse , Why then quo I , Go run presently , And throw it ' thwart my horse . She then ( in a merry vein ) Did trip to me back again , to put me out of my pain , She dazzled so my sighed . That neither by day or night , I ever had such delight , So close to me now she clings , And flutters abroad her wings , but my bashful jade Ashamed of the trade Brake lose and away she flings . I rise and away ran I The Beggar wench then did cry , my big and my Pudding Pie I ran and I cursed and swore , Until I came to my door , but the Horse was god home before I bade the wench stay behind , And told her I would be kind , But when I came home , I looked like a Mome , I wished that I had been blind . My Wife and my neighbours all Did laugh , you might hear they bawl from Temple-Bar to White-hall , my sweet hearts provant was found Which lay in the wallet bound , and scattered about the ground , The sighed of my wife did daunt , and make my heart prick and pant Sir Thomas quoth she , ( And spoke merrily , Where god you this good provant , Thought I , it is best to bear up , Although of this venomous Cup I take but a sorrowful sup , In the twinkling of ones eyes , I thought of a thousand lies , but never a one would suffice ; I many things had in doubt , Yet could not well bring e'm about , As I went to begin The wench came in , And so came the story out . My Lady did laugh outright , As if she had much delight , But I found it not so at night , I gave the poor wench a piece , But wished she had been in Greece to tell such a tale as this My Madam does make it slight , But I have god nothing byed , for when she wants her wish it is thrown in my dish , I'ld better been hanged outright . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. [ pas ] The Knight and the Beggar-Wench . Which does a wanton prank unfold , In as merry a story as ever was told . The Tune is , The Kings Delight , or Turn Coat . I Met with a jovial Beggar , And into the Fields I led her , and I laid her upon the ground ; Her face did not invite me , Nor her smock did much delight me but I think the young whore was found ; With Ladies both fresh and gay I often did sport and play , yet a Beggar I'll take for varieties sake , She'l please as me as well as they . I have a good Wife , as fair , As ever drew English air her pleasure is past compare , Her cherry lips , cheeks , and eyes , Her belly , her breast , and thighs , might any but I suffice , With her I so often play And weary my time away That a fouler to me , Would be fairer than she , Variety wins the day , This Beggar I shall describe , Without any hope of bribe , was one of the maundring tribe She had a fine foot and leg , As nimble as Doe or Stag , and then she began to beg , So soon as my Horse she sees She fell down upon her knees , The whore had a sack That hung at her back Well furnished with Bred and Cheese . She struck me into a dump the jade was both young and plump , with a round and a ranting Rump ; Her feature had so much force , It raised in me remorse and drew me quite off my Horse , But when I began to woo She told me she would not do , Quoth I pretty Mort , Let me show you some sport She kissed me , and answered no . [ M Y Horse ] to a twig I tied , [ The be ] ggar-wench then [ rep ] lied , [ good Mast ] er get up and ride , [ Yes so ] I will straight ( thought I ) [ With ] that I drew something nigh [ sh ] e struggled and cried fie , fie , [ I am ] but a Beggar by breed , [ Queen ] oath I let me do this deed , For he that will scorn A Beggar-wench born May want a good turn at need . Then into her Arms I claps , Quoth she now I'm in your traps , what shall I do with my scraps ? Throw them in the bush said I , No , no , she did straight reply there's big , and Pudding and Pie We beg for better or worse , My blessings I will not curse , Why then quo I , Go run presently , And throw it ' thwart my horse . She then ( in a merry vein ) Did trip to me back again , to put me out of my pain , She dazzled so my sighed . That neither by day or night , I ever had such delight , So close to me now she clings , And flutters abroad her wings , but my bashful jade Ashamed of the trade Brake lose and away she flings . I rise and away ran I The Beggar wench then did cry , my big and my Pudding Pie I ran and I cursed and swore , Until I came to my door , but the Horse was god home before I bade the wench stay behind , And told her I would be kind , But when I came home , I looked like a Mome , I wished that I had been blind . My Wife and my neighbours all Did laugh , you might hear they bawl from Temple-Bar to White-hall , my sweet hearts provant was found Which lay in the wallet bound , and scattered about the ground , The sighed of my wife did daunt , and make my heart prick and pant Sir Thomas quoth she , ( And spoke merrily , Where god you this good provant , Thought I , it is best to bear up , Although of this venomous Cup I take but a sorrowful sup , In the twinkling of ones eyes , I thought of a thousand lies , but never a one would suffice ; I many things had in doubt , Yet could not well bring e'm about , As I went to begin The wench came in , And so came the story out . My Lady did laugh outright , As if she had much delight , But I found it not so at night , I gave the poor wench a piece , But wished she had been in Greece to tell such a tale as this My Madam does make it slight , But I have god nothing byed , for when she wants her wish it is thrown in my dish , I'ld better been hanged outright . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. [ pas ] 