The Maidens Complaint against Young-Mens Unkindness . Of Young-Mens falsehood she does much complain , Resolving never to love Man again : Experience tells her Men Love but for Fashion , Which makes her rail against them in such passion . To the Tune of , Cupids Courtesy . I Am so deep in Love , I cannot hide it , It breaks me of my rest , and of my quiet ; For when I see his face , it so inflames me , That I must love him still though the World blames me . O fie upon this love , it will undo me , I'll never love man again , should the Gods woo me : For if that once I can shake of this passion , I'll never love man again , but only for fashion . There's no belief in men , though they seem civil . For when they fit like Saints , they think most evil . Therefore be ruled by me , never trust no man . But if you needs must love , pray love a Woman . I wish blind Cupid had , been soundly sleeping , When like a Crafty Lad , he came so creeping : To wound my tender heart , and pierce my Marrow ; I felt his fatal Dart , to my great sorrow . Never poor Virgin was , in such a taking , I oft looked in my Glass , pleasure forsaking , My cheeks are pale and wan , my lips do tremble . Because I loved a Man that did dissemble . O What a simple Girl , I was for certain , For to love Lord or Earl , I will not harken : Not one in twenty Score , but is deceitful : Therefore i'll love no more , Men are ungrateful . It is their constant trade to cog and flatter , Or to delude a Maid , her sort to batter : But if they prate and lie , i'll not believe them , Such Love i'll never try , although it grieve ' em . They profess and pretend , much of affection , Until they make you bend , to loves subjection : Of your hearts craftily they will berieve you , Till a new face they spy , then they will leave you . Their words are all but wind , like Winter weather , Unconstant and unkind , light as a feather : I tell you short and plain , i'll not abide it , To love a man again , once having tried it . Blame me not though I be , somewhat in passion For now I plainly see , it is the Fashion For such falsehearted men , are grown so common , That when I love again i'll love a Woman . Why should a Woman dote on such a bubble ; That's good for nothing but to procure trouble : Every day I will pray : for to live single , That my affections may with no men mingle . Ladies take my advice you have rare features , Always be coy and nice , to such false creatures : No man will constant prove , no not my brothey , Then if you needs must love , love one another . Printed for J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. PassingerThe Maidens Complaint against Young-Mens Unkindness . Of Young-Mens falsehood she does much complain , Resolving never to love Man again : Experience tells her Men Love but for Fashion , Which makes her rail against them in such passion . To the Tune of , Cupids Courtesy . I Am so deep in Love , I cannot hide it , It breaks me of my rest , and of my quiet ; For when I see his face , it so inflames me , That I must love him still though the World blames me . O fie upon this love , it will undo me , I'll never love man again , should the Gods woo me : For if that once I can shake of this passion , I'll never love man again , but only for fashion . There's no belief in men , though they seem civil . For when they fit like Saints , they think most evil . Therefore be ruled by me , never trust no man . But if you needs must love , pray love a Woman . I wish blind Cupid had , been soundly sleeping , When like a Crafty Lad , he came so creeping : To wound my tender heart , and pierce my Marrow ; I felt his fatal Dart , to my great sorrow . Never poor Virgin was , in such a taking , I oft looked in my Glass , pleasure forsaking , My cheeks are pale and wan , my lips do tremble . Because I loved a Man that did dissemble . O What a simple Girl , I was for certain , For to love Lord or Earl , I will not harken : Not one in twenty Score , but is deceitful : Therefore i'll love no more , Men are ungrateful . It is their constant trade to cog and flatter , Or to delude a Maid , her sort to batter : But if they prate and lie , i'll not believe them , Such Love i'll never try , although it grieve ' em . They profess and pretend , much of affection , Until they make you bend , to loves subjection : Of your hearts craftily they will berieve you , Till a new face they spy , then they will leave you . Their words are all but wind , like Winter weather , Unconstant and unkind , light as a feather : I tell you short and plain , i'll not abide it , To love a man again , once having tried it . Blame me not though I be , somewhat in passion For now I plainly see , it is the Fashion For such falsehearted men , are grown so common , That when I love again i'll love a Woman . Why should a Woman dote on such a bubble ; That's good for nothing but to procure trouble : Every day I will pray : for to live single , That my affections may with no men mingle . Ladies take my advice you have rare features , Always be coy and nice , to such false creatures : No man will constant prove , no not my brothey , Then if you needs must love , love one another . Printed for J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger 