The faithful SHEPHERD . The shepherd vows for ever to be true And Flora bids all wavering thoughts adieu , They to each other doe their promise plighted And in each others company delight . Tune of , Hail to the myrtle shade . C Ome my dear hearts delight , let us joyfully welcome the spring , That Yearly does Lovers invite to hear the sweet Nightingale sing : We hand in hand will walk together & amp ; mind the green Trees how they bud , We now may expect Summer weather , and hear the sweet charms of the Wood . We'll walk forth into the green Forest and see the young Fawns how they skip , And every eight Furlongs we travel , I'll kiss thy most delicate Lip , Like Rubies they seem to my fancy , and Corals they clearly outvie , We'll gather up Herbs for a Tanzey , to feast my dear Lover and I . No Citizens ever shall exceed us , though in gallantry they do surpass , Our fancies with pleasure does feed us , and we never wear paint on the face ; But what good Dame Nature hath spared us therewith we are fully content , And for marriage our years have prepare [ ' ] worser us to be wedded it is our intent . But Flora methinks I have tarried a long and a tedious while , This surely high time to be married , come Flora , come lend me a smile , Yea , give me a promise and seal it with a wafer that grows on thy Lip , Though I have a wound thou canst heal it , and together we Nectar will sip , Well since thou art warmed with desire , isle tell thee my joy and my sweet , Methinks I do feel the same fire , we'll go and old Hymen we'll meet , Who , between us shall cause such a union no mischief shall ever divide , No Shepherd ever found such a true one as isle be when once I am tied . These words my dear Flora do win me , come let us make haste and away , Methinks there is something within me that tells me too long we do stay : O come let us go and be married , I long in thy Bosom to sleep , This motion must not be miscarried yet needs must make haste to my sheep , I'll go to thy flocks now my Dearest that I love above all other men , And prove to be what thou appearest , isle help thee to set up thy Pen ; And when my dear Shepherd is weary , thy hurdles I'll help to remove , Both night and day with thee isle tarry , and always make much of my Love . Was ever poor Shepherd so married as now I am like for to be , Ten thousands have surely miscarried , and never were so happy as we , The Fish that do swim in the Ocean such freedom could never enjoy , What cruelty could make a Motion this happiness now to destroy . Thus smiling together they passed , and triped over the flowery plain , No pleasure their comforts surpassed that loved , and were loved again : Methinks it is sweet to consider the joys these true Lovers did find , That vowed to be constant for ever , and of and unchangeable mind . Take pattern by us all you Lovers and learn to be constant and true , For he that himself once discovers to be false , must bid comforts adieu , For in day time he shall be tormented and Nightly perplexed with dreams , But he that would feign be contented , must doubtless appear what he seems . Printed for M. Coal , T. Vere J. Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackery , and T. Passenger . The faithful SHEPHERD . The shepherd vows for ever to be true And Flora bids all wavering thoughts adieu , They to each other doe their promise plighted And in each others company delight . Tune of , Hail to the myrtle shade . C Ome my dear hearts delight , let us joyfully welcome the spring , That Yearly does Lovers invite to hear the sweet Nightingale sing : We hand in hand will walk together & amp ; mind the green Trees how they bud , We now may expect Summer weather , and hear the sweet charms of the Wood . We'll walk forth into the green Forest and see the young Fawns how they skip , And every eight Furlongs we travel , I'll kiss thy most delicate Lip , Like Rubies they seem to my fancy , and Corals they clearly outvie , We'll gather up Herbs for a Tanzey , to feast my dear Lover and I . No Citizens ever shall exceed us , though in gallantry they do surpass , Our fancies with pleasure does feed us , and we never wear paint on the face ; But what good Dame Nature hath spared us therewith we are fully content , And for marriage our years have prepare [ ' ] worser us to be wedded it is our intent . But Flora methinks I have tarried a long and a tedious while , This surely high time to be married , come Flora , come lend me a smile , Yea , give me a promise and seal it with a wafer that grows on thy Lip , Though I have a wound thou canst heal it , and together we Nectar will sip , Well since thou art warmed with desire , isle tell thee my joy and my sweet , Methinks I do feel the same fire , we'll go and old Hymen we'll meet , Who , between us shall cause such a union no mischief shall ever divide , No Shepherd ever found such a true one as isle be when once I am tied . These words my dear Flora do win me , come let us make haste and away , Methinks there is something within me that tells me too long we do stay : O come let us go and be married , I long in thy Bosom to sleep , This motion must not be miscarried yet needs must make haste to my sheep , I'll go to thy flocks now my Dearest that I love above all other men , And prove to be what thou appearest , isle help thee to set up thy Pen ; And when my dear Shepherd is weary , thy hurdles I'll help to remove , Both night and day with thee isle tarry , and always make much of my Love . Was ever poor Shepherd so married as now I am like for to be , Ten thousands have surely miscarried , and never were so happy as we , The Fish that do swim in the Ocean such freedom could never enjoy , What cruelty could make a Motion this happiness now to destroy . Thus smiling together they passed , and triped over the flowery plain , No pleasure their comforts surpassed that loved , and were loved again : Methinks it is sweet to consider the joys these true Lovers did find , That vowed to be constant for ever , and of and unchangeable mind . Take pattern by us all you Lovers and learn to be constant and true , For he that himself once discovers to be false , must bid comforts adieu , For in day time he shall be tormented and Nightly perplexed with dreams , But he that would feign be contented , must doubtless appear what he seems . Printed for M. Coal , T. Vere J. Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackery , and T. Passenger . 