A Courtly New Ballad of the Princely Wooing of the fair maid of London , by King Edward , The Tune is , Bonny sweet Robin . F Air Angel of England thy beauty most bright , Is all my hearts pleasure , my joy and delight Then grant me fair Lady thy true love to be , that I may say welcome good fortune to me . The Turtle so chaste and true in her love , By gentle persuasions her fancy will move Then be not entreated fair Lady in vain , For nature requires what I should obtain . The Phoenix so famous that lives alone , Is vowed to chastity being but one , But be not my darling so chaste in desire , lest thou like the phoenix dost penance in fire . But alas gentle Lady I pity your state , In being resolved to live without Mate : For if of our courting the pleasure you knew , You would have a liking the same to ensue . Long time I have sued the same to obtain , Yet I am requited with scornful disdain , But if you will grant your good will unto me , You shall be advanced to princely degree . Promations and honour may often entice , The chastest that lives though never so nice What woman so worthy but could be content , To live in a palace where princes frequent ? Two brides young and princely to church I have led [ Tw ] oh Ladies now lately have decked my bed : Yet hath thy love taken more root in my heart , Then all there contentment's whereof I had part your gentle heart cannot men's hearts much abide , And women least angry when most they do chide : Then yield to me kindly & amp ; say that at length , Men they want mercy and poor women strength . I grant that fair Ladies may poor men resist And Princes may conquer & amp ; woe who they list , A King may command her to lie by his side , Whose feature deserveth to be a kings bride . In granting your love you shall purchase renown , Your head shall be crowned with Englands crown thy garments most gallant of gold shall be wrought if true love with treasure with the may be bought . Great Ladies of honour shall tend on thy train Most richly attired with Scarlet in grain : My chamber most Princely thy person shall keep where Virgins with Music shall rock thee a sleep . If any pleasures thy heart can invent , Command them sweet Lady thy mind to content , For Kings gallant courts where princes do dwell , Afford such sweet pastime as Ladies love well . Then be not resolved to die a true Maid , But print in thy bosom these words I have said , And grant a king favour your true love to be , That I may say welcome sweet Virgin to me The fair maid of Londons Answer to King Edvards wanton Love . Oh Wanton King Edward thy labour is vain , To follow the pleasure thou canst not attain , With getting thou losest and having dost want it , The which if thou purchased is spoiled if thou hast it But if thou obtainst it thou nothing hast wone , And I losing nothing yet quite am undone , But if of my jewel a King do deceive me , No K. can restore though a kingdom he give me . My colour is changed since thou seest me last My favour is vanished my beauty is past , The rosy read blushes that sat in my cheeks , To paleness is turned , which all men dislikes . I pass not for princes for love to protest , The name of a virgin contents me best , I have not deserved to lie by his side , Nor yet to be counted for K. Edwards Bride . The name of a Princess I never did crave , No such tipe of honour thy handmaid will have My breast shall not harbour so lofty a thought , Nor be with rich proffers to wantonness brought . If wild wanton Rosamand one of our sort , Had never frequented K. Henries fair Court ; Such heaps of deep sorrow she never had seen Nor tasted the rage of so jealous a Queen . All men have there freedom to show their intent , They win not a woman except she consent : Who then can impute to them any fault , Who still go upright until men do halt . This counted a kindness in men for to try , And virtue in women the same to deny : For women unconstant can never be proved Until by their betters therein they be moved . If women and modesty once do but sever , Then farewell good name and credit for ever , And Royal King Edward let me be exile , E [ ' ] re any man knows my body's defiled . No not my father's reverend tears , Too deep and impression within my heart bears , Nor shall his bright honour that blot by me have , To bring his grey hairs with grief to the grave . The heavens forbid that when I shall die , That any such since should upon me lie , If I have thus kept me from doing this since , My heart shall not yield with a prince to begin . Come rather with pity and weeep on my tomb Then for my birth curse my dear mother's womb That brought forth a blossom that stained the tree , With wanton desires to shame her and me . Leave me most noble king , tempt not in vain , My Milkwhite affection with lewdness to stain though England will give me no comforts at all , Yet England will give me a sad burial . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . A Courtly New Ballad of the Princely Wooing of the fair maid of London , by King Edward , The Tune is , Bonny sweet Robin . F Air Angel of England thy beauty most bright , Is all my hearts pleasure , my joy and delight Then grant me fair Lady thy true love to be , that I may say welcome good fortune to me . The Turtle so chaste and true in her love , By gentle persuasions her fancy will move Then be not entreated fair Lady in vain , For nature requires what I should obtain . The Phoenix so famous that lives alone , Is vowed to chastity being but one , But be not my darling so chaste in desire , lest thou like the phoenix dost penance in fire . But alas gentle Lady I pity your state , In being resolved to live without Mate : For if of our courting the pleasure you knew , You would have a liking the same to ensue . Long time I have sued the same to obtain , Yet I am requited with scornful disdain , But if you will grant your good will unto me , You shall be advanced to princely degree . Promations and honour may often entice , The chastest that lives though never so nice What woman so worthy but could be content , To live in a palace where princes frequent ? Two brides young and princely to church I have led [ Tw ] oh Ladies now lately have decked my bed : Yet hath thy love taken more root in my heart , Then all there contentment's whereof I had part your gentle heart cannot men's hearts much abide , And women least angry when most they do chide : Then yield to me kindly & amp ; say that at length , Men they want mercy and poor women strength . I grant that fair Ladies may poor men resist And Princes may conquer & amp ; woe who they list , A King may command her to lie by his side , Whose feature deserveth to be a kings bride . In granting your love you shall purchase renown , Your head shall be crowned with Englands crown thy garments most gallant of gold shall be wrought if true love with treasure with the may be bought . Great Ladies of honour shall tend on thy train Most richly attired with Scarlet in grain : My chamber most Princely thy person shall keep where Virgins with Music shall rock thee a sleep . If any pleasures thy heart can invent , Command them sweet Lady thy mind to content , For Kings gallant courts where princes do dwell , Afford such sweet pastime as Ladies love well . Then be not resolved to die a true Maid , But print in thy bosom these words I have said , And grant a king favour your true love to be , That I may say welcome sweet Virgin to me The fair maid of Londons Answer to King Edvards wanton Love . Oh Wanton King Edward thy labour is vain , To follow the pleasure thou canst not attain , With getting thou losest and having dost want it , The which if thou purchased is spoiled if thou hast it But if thou obtainst it thou nothing hast wone , And I losing nothing yet quite am undone , But if of my jewel a King do deceive me , No K. can restore though a kingdom he give me . My colour is changed since thou seest me last My favour is vanished my beauty is past , The rosy read blushes that sat in my cheeks , To paleness is turned , which all men dislikes . I pass not for princes for love to protest , The name of a virgin contents me best , I have not deserved to lie by his side , Nor yet to be counted for K. Edwards Bride . The name of a Princess I never did crave , No such tipe of honour thy handmaid will have My breast shall not harbour so lofty a thought , Nor be with rich proffers to wantonness brought . If wild wanton Rosamand one of our sort , Had never frequented K. Henries fair Court ; Such heaps of deep sorrow she never had seen Nor tasted the rage of so jealous a Queen . All men have there freedom to show their intent , They win not a woman except she consent : Who then can impute to them any fault , Who still go upright until men do halt . This counted a kindness in men for to try , And virtue in women the same to deny : For women unconstant can never be proved Until by their betters therein they be moved . If women and modesty once do but sever , Then farewell good name and credit for ever , And Royal King Edward let me be exile , E [ ' ] re any man knows my body's defiled . No not my father's reverend tears , Too deep and impression within my heart bears , Nor shall his bright honour that blot by me have , To bring his grey hairs with grief to the grave . The heavens forbid that when I shall die , That any such since should upon me lie , If I have thus kept me from doing this since , My heart shall not yield with a prince to begin . Come rather with pity and weeep on my tomb Then for my birth curse my dear mother's womb That brought forth a blossom that stained the tree , With wanton desires to shame her and me . Leave me most noble king , tempt not in vain , My Milkwhite affection with lewdness to stain though England will give me no comforts at all , Yet England will give me a sad burial . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 