Dirty Dolls Farewell . Being and account of a certain Woman , known by the Name of Dirty Doll , once li - ving near Horslydown in Southwark , who was in her Lifetime so notorious for se - veral misdemeanours , that it is said , The Devil about the 17th , or 18th . of August 1684. appeared to her , between whom there happened a terrible Combat , in which Dirty Doll was much bruised , so that one of her Arms was as black as a Coal , and her Thumb almost pinched off : She died on the 25th . of the same month , and was buried the 28th . Being accommodated to the Grave with whooting and hallowing , in a strange manner . Tune of , The Rich M erchant-man . C Ome listen to my Song , you that live far and near ; A Warning unto old and Young I hope it will appear . The like you will not hear search you the World about , Of one both void of grace and fear , that with the Devil fought . Make Conscience in your ways , and do to no man wrong , For cursed Cheats and false Deceits do never prosper long . Of one called Dirty Doll , who for this Worldly pelf , It's thought did much abuse her soul , and greatly wrong her self . But let none after this do actions so unjust : For certain and undoubted it's we must return to Dust. Make Conscience in your ways , and do to no man wrong , For cursed cheats and false deceits do never prosper long . She ran a wicked course , which proved her deadly shame , Not having in the least remorse , or sorrow for the same . Till at the last it seems the Devil did appear , And in and ugly Hellish shape did unto her draw near . Make Conscience in your ways , and do to no man wrong , For cursed cheats and false deceits do never prosper long . Amazed she was at first this dreadful sighed to see ; That he who is for ever cursed so near to her should be : A quarrel did arise , as many people say , And Doll was bruised and battered too extremely in the fray . Make Conscience in your ways , and do to no man wrong , For cursed cheats and false deceits do never prosper long . Most sadly she was beatrice , in a sad plighted was she , One Arm it was as black as jet , as many people see : So that at last she died a sinful Soul I fear , Not one doe give her a good word that I do come a near . Make Conscience etc But such a Funeral you never did hear nor see , For old and young , both great & amp ; small rejoiced seemed to be . O there goes Dirty Doll , aloud the people cried , Now she will grind the poor no more it's well for them she died . Make Conscience etc Extortion is a thing by Heaven is quite forbid ; And often does to ruin bring ; such sins will not lie hid : And those that pinch the poor , who of them stand in need , Will surely punished be therefore , for it's a wicked deed . Make Conscience etc Lord ! grant that we who here are left , and stay behind , May always live in godly fear , then may we comfort find ; And happy will it be for us another day , If we withal , both great and small do not unjustly play . Make Conscience in your ways , and do to no man wrong , For cursed cheats and false deceits do never prosper long . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackeray , T. Passenger . Dirty Dolls Farewell . Being and account of a certain Woman , known by the Name of Dirty Doll , once li - ving near Horslydown in Southwark , who was in her Lifetime so notorious for se - veral misdemeanours , that it is said , The Devil about the 17th , or 18th . of August 1684. appeared to her , between whom there happened a terrible Combat , in which Dirty Doll was much bruised , so that one of her Arms was as black as a Coal , and her Thumb almost pinched off : She died on the 25th . of the same month , and was buried the 28th . Being accommodated to the Grave with whooting and hallowing , in a strange manner . Tune of , The Rich M erchant-man . C Ome listen to my Song , you that live far and near ; A Warning unto old and Young I hope it will appear . The like you will not hear search you the World about , Of one both void of grace and fear , that with the Devil fought . Make Conscience in your ways , and do to no man wrong , For cursed Cheats and false Deceits do never prosper long . Of one called Dirty Doll , who for this Worldly pelf , It's thought did much abuse her soul , and greatly wrong her self . But let none after this do actions so unjust : For certain and undoubted it's we must return to Dust. Make Conscience in your ways , and do to no man wrong , For cursed cheats and false deceits do never prosper long . She ran a wicked course , which proved her deadly shame , Not having in the least remorse , or sorrow for the same . Till at the last it seems the Devil did appear , And in and ugly Hellish shape did unto her draw near . Make Conscience in your ways , and do to no man wrong , For cursed cheats and false deceits do never prosper long . Amazed she was at first this dreadful sighed to see ; That he who is for ever cursed so near to her should be : A quarrel did arise , as many people say , And Doll was bruised and battered too extremely in the fray . Make Conscience in your ways , and do to no man wrong , For cursed cheats and false deceits do never prosper long . Most sadly she was beatrice , in a sad plighted was she , One Arm it was as black as jet , as many people see : So that at last she died a sinful Soul I fear , Not one doe give her a good word that I do come a near . Make Conscience etc But such a Funeral you never did hear nor see , For old and young , both great & amp ; small rejoiced seemed to be . O there goes Dirty Doll , aloud the people cried , Now she will grind the poor no more it's well for them she died . Make Conscience etc Extortion is a thing by Heaven is quite forbid ; And often does to ruin bring ; such sins will not lie hid : And those that pinch the poor , who of them stand in need , Will surely punished be therefore , for it's a wicked deed . Make Conscience etc Lord ! grant that we who here are left , and stay behind , May always live in godly fear , then may we comfort find ; And happy will it be for us another day , If we withal , both great and small do not unjustly play . Make Conscience in your ways , and do to no man wrong , For cursed cheats and false deceits do never prosper long . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackeray , T. Passenger . 