Tom and Will . OR , The Shepars Sheepfold . Both doted on a beautiful Lass Both were alike respected ; Both thought themselves i'th better case , Both were at last neglected . To a pleasant new Country Tune , TOm & amp ; Will were Shepherd Swains , who loved and lived together ; When fair Pastora graved the Plains , alack why come we thither ? For though they fed two several Flocks , they had but one desire , Pastora's eyes , and locks , set both their hearts on fire . Tom came of honest gentle raze , by Father and by Mother , Will was noble , but alas , he was a younger Brother . Tom was toilsome , Will was sad , no [ Hunt's ] - Man , nor no [ Fouler . ] Tom was held the proper Lad , but Will the better Bowler . The scorching flames their heart did bear , then they could no longer smother Although they knew they Rivals were , they still loved one another . Tom would drink her health and swear , this Nation will not want her , Will could not take her by the ear , and with his voice inchant her . Tom keeps always in her sighed , and never forgotten his duty ; Will was witty and could write , some sonnets on her beauty . TO Hus did she handle Tom and Will , who both did dote upon her ; For graciously she used them still , and still preserved her honour . Yet she was so sweet a she , and of so sweet behaviour , That Tom thought he , & amp ; Will thought he , was chiefly in her favour . Pastora was a loving Lass , and of a comely feature , Divinely good and fair she was , and kind to every creature . Of favour she was provident , and yet not oversparing , She gave no less encouragement , yet kept them from despairing . Which of these two she loved best , or whither she loved either , This thought they'll find it to their cost , that she indeed loved neither . She dealt her favour equally ; they both were well contented , She kept them both from jealousy , not easily prevented . Taletelling fame hath made report , of fair Pastora's beauty , Pastora's sent for to the Court , there for to perform her duty . Unto the Court Pastora's gone ' it had been no Court without her , Our Queen among all her train had none not half so fair about her , Tom hung his Dog and threw away , his Sheep-crook and his Wallet , Will burst his Pipes , and cursed the day , that ever he made a Sonnet . Their ninepins & amp ; their bowls they break their joys are turned to fears ; It's time for me and end to make , let them go shake their ears . FINIS . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . Tom and Will . OR , The Shepars Sheepfold . Both doted on a beautiful Lass Both were alike respected ; Both thought themselves i'th better case , Both were at last neglected . To a pleasant new Country Tune , TOm & amp ; Will were Shepherd Swains , who loved and lived together ; When fair Pastora graved the Plains , alack why come we thither ? For though they fed two several Flocks , they had but one desire , Pastora's eyes , and locks , set both their hearts on fire . Tom came of honest gentle raze , by Father and by Mother , Will was noble , but alas , he was a younger Brother . Tom was toilsome , Will was sad , no [ Hunt's ] - Man , nor no [ Fouler . ] Tom was held the proper Lad , but Will the better Bowler . The scorching flames their heart did bear , then they could no longer smother Although they knew they Rivals were , they still loved one another . Tom would drink her health and swear , this Nation will not want her , Will could not take her by the ear , and with his voice inchant her . Tom keeps always in her sighed , and never forgotten his duty ; Will was witty and could write , some sonnets on her beauty . TO Hus did she handle Tom and Will , who both did dote upon her ; For graciously she used them still , and still preserved her honour . Yet she was so sweet a she , and of so sweet behaviour , That Tom thought he , & amp ; Will thought he , was chiefly in her favour . Pastora was a loving Lass , and of a comely feature , Divinely good and fair she was , and kind to every creature . Of favour she was provident , and yet not oversparing , She gave no less encouragement , yet kept them from despairing . Which of these two she loved best , or whither she loved either , This thought they'll find it to their cost , that she indeed loved neither . She dealt her favour equally ; they both were well contented , She kept them both from jealousy , not easily prevented . Taletelling fame hath made report , of fair Pastora's beauty , Pastora's sent for to the Court , there for to perform her duty . Unto the Court Pastora's gone ' it had been no Court without her , Our Queen among all her train had none not half so fair about her , Tom hung his Dog and threw away , his Sheep-crook and his Wallet , Will burst his Pipes , and cursed the day , that ever he made a Sonnet . Their ninepins & amp ; their bowls they break their joys are turned to fears ; It's time for me and end to make , let them go shake their ears . FINIS . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 