THE Bucksome Lass of Westminster , OR , Her kind proffer of two hundred pound , together with a Cargo of Coals from New-Castle , to any young - man , that would in kindness help her out at a dead lift . Tune of , if Love's a sweet Passion . Licensed according to Orde . Y Ou lusty young Bachelors pray now attend , Here is joyful good tidings which to you I send ; In the City of Westminster lives a fair Maid , Who has two hundred pound to her Portion ' is said : Any Young-Man may have it if he'll open her hold , But it lies at New-Castle , and all in Sea-Cole . She told a youngman whom she loved as her life , That she had a desire to be his sweet Wife , And entreated that he would be loving and kind , Then and excellent Fortune of her he should find , If he would be but willing to open her hold , He should have all her Money likewise her Sea-Cole . He fain would have fingered her Money , we find ; But to love her , alas ! he was no ways inclined , Though she often had kissed him , and called him her Dear , Yet the innocent Damsel was never the near ; He refused , it seems , for to open her hold , Though he might have her Money , and all her Sea-Cole . If any young Gallant her Love would obtain , For to languish and lie at her feet is in vain , Or to tell her you're wounded with Darts from her Eyes , Such a sort of found wooing she'll scorn and despise ; You must kiss her , and hug her , and open her hold , Then she'll give you her Money , and all her Sea-Cole . It seems she is beautiful charming and fair , And as plump as a Doe , with fine delicate Ware ; Should you search the whole City of Westminster round , A young Lass more delightful is not to be found ; Come away then some Gallant and open her hold , You may have all her money , likewise her Seacoal . She'll not have a Man that is aged and gray , That shall cause her , when married , to wander astray ; But she'll have a brisk Gallant , both brawny and stout , That at half and hours warning can yeck her about ; That can hug her , and kiss her , and open her hold , He shall have all her Money , likewise her Seacoal . Young Gallants why will you stand in your own light , When a beautiful Lass does so friendly invite , And entreat you to taste of those Amorous Charms , Which are now to be found in her soft melting Arms : Make no longer delaying , come open her hold , You shall have all her money , likewise her Seacoal . That man that will pity her sorrowful moan , Though he has not a Groat in the World of his own , He shall soon be invested with her happy store , Though it was above twenty or thirty times more , If he will be but willing to open her hold , He shall have all her money , likewise her Seacoal . Whoever comes to her may have the reward , Though a Tinker , nay , Cobbler , or Taylor , good Lord , So he has but the absolute parts of a Man , And will do his endeavour as much as he can , For to kiss her , and hug her , and open her hold , He shall have all her money , likewise her Seacoal . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . THE Bucksome Lass of Westminster , OR , Her kind proffer of two hundred pound , together with a Cargo of Coals from New-Castle , to any young - man , that would in kindness help her out at a dead lift . Tune of , if Love's a sweet Passion . Licensed according to Orde . Y Ou lusty young Bachelors pray now attend , Here is joyful good tidings which to you I send ; In the City of Westminster lives a fair Maid , Who has two hundred pound to her Portion ' is said : Any Young-Man may have it if he'll open her hold , But it lies at New-Castle , and all in Sea-Cole . She told a youngman whom she loved as her life , That she had a desire to be his sweet Wife , And entreated that he would be loving and kind , Then and excellent Fortune of her he should find , If he would be but willing to open her hold , He should have all her Money likewise her Sea-Cole . He fain would have fingered her Money , we find ; But to love her , alas ! he was no ways inclined , Though she often had kissed him , and called him her Dear , Yet the innocent Damsel was never the near ; He refused , it seems , for to open her hold , Though he might have her Money , and all her Sea-Cole . If any young Gallant her Love would obtain , For to languish and lie at her feet is in vain , Or to tell her you're wounded with Darts from her Eyes , Such a sort of found wooing she'll scorn and despise ; You must kiss her , and hug her , and open her hold , Then she'll give you her Money , and all her Sea-Cole . It seems she is beautiful charming and fair , And as plump as a Doe , with fine delicate Ware ; Should you search the whole City of Westminster round , A young Lass more delightful is not to be found ; Come away then some Gallant and open her hold , You may have all her money , likewise her Seacoal . She'll not have a Man that is aged and gray , That shall cause her , when married , to wander astray ; But she'll have a brisk Gallant , both brawny and stout , That at half and hours warning can yeck her about ; That can hug her , and kiss her , and open her hold , He shall have all her Money , likewise her Seacoal . Young Gallants why will you stand in your own light , When a beautiful Lass does so friendly invite , And entreat you to taste of those Amorous Charms , Which are now to be found in her soft melting Arms : Make no longer delaying , come open her hold , You shall have all her money , likewise her Seacoal . That man that will pity her sorrowful moan , Though he has not a Groat in the World of his own , He shall soon be invested with her happy store , Though it was above twenty or thirty times more , If he will be but willing to open her hold , He shall have all her money , likewise her Seacoal . Whoever comes to her may have the reward , Though a Tinker , nay , Cobbler , or Taylor , good Lord , So he has but the absolute parts of a Man , And will do his endeavour as much as he can , For to kiss her , and hug her , and open her hold , He shall have all her money , likewise her Seacoal . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 