[ ? The ] London Miss well fitted , OR , AND ANSWER To the Four-pence-Halfpenny Farthing . And now she perfectly does find that she is quite Forsaken ; Thus she is fitted in her kind , If I may not mistaken . To the Tune of , Four-pence-Half penny Farthing . This may be Printed , R. L. S. TO He London Miss was Ranting fine , with Jewels , Rings , and Lockit , She chused the Farmer of his Coin , and fairly picked his Pocket : Though she god money byed , she god money byed , now she repents her bargain , For he found her out , and he made a rout for his Four-pence-halfpenny-Fathing . The Farmer went upon the Scout , since he was clearly undone , Resolved he was to find her out , so up he came to London : Now she god nothing byed , she god nothing byed , since she repents her bargain , For he found her out , and he made a Rout for his four-pence-halfpenny-farthing . Beside the rest of all the Crew , the Cobbler and the Barber , They both came up to London too , which was her Winter harbour ; But she god nothing byed , she god nothing byed , now she repents her bargain , For they found her out , and they made a Rout for their four-pence-halfpenny-farthing . Last Tuesday night before 'twas dark , the Farmer he espied her A passing thorough Whestones-Park , but how he did deride her ! So she god nothing byed , she god nothing byed , now she repents her bargain , For he found her out , and he made a rout , for his four-pence-halfpenny farthing . The Cobbler unto the Barber then , with him did likewise seize her , For they were both undaunted Men , but this did much displease her : That s he god nothing byed , she god nothing byed , now she repents her bargain , For they found her out , and they made a rout for their four-pence-halfpenny-farthing . She seeing this , she cry [ ' ] worser for aid , her heart with grief was wounded , Then came the Sisters of her trade , thus they were soon surrounded ; But she god nothing byed , she god nothing byed , now she repents her bargain , For they found her out , and they made a rout for their four-pence-halfpenny-farthing . The Barber he did her Revile , with this discourse ensuing , The Whore hath shrewdly me beguiled , which proves my utter ruin : But she god nothing byed , she god nothing byed , now she repents her bargain , They standing up stout , and they made rout for their four-pence-halfpenny-farthing . The Bawd came out to know the cause , and after her , her Daughter , Said she , who durst oppose our Laws , we hold here by our Charter ? Now she god nothing byed , she god nothing byed , now she repents her bargain , For they standing up stout , and they made a rout for their four-pence-halfpenny-farthing . Now in the midst of all the Fray , to stop their disputation , The Miss was hurried quite away , to her Examination ; Where she god something byed , she god something byed , yet she repents her bargain , For they standing up stout , and they made a rout for their four-pence-halfpenny-farthing , A Carpenter came there to tell what slippery tricks she'd played , So she was sent to Old-Bridewell , where she was soundly paid ; So she god something byed , she god something byed , yet she repents her bargain , For now without doubt , she can't get out for four-pence-halfpenny-farthing . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Sign of the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , without Newgate . [ ? The ] London Miss well fitted , OR , AND ANSWER To the Four-pence-Halfpenny Farthing . And now she perfectly does find that she is quite Forsaken ; Thus she is fitted in her kind , If I may not mistaken . To the Tune of , Four-pence-Half penny Farthing . This may be Printed , R. L. S. TO He London Miss was Ranting fine , with Jewels , Rings , and Lockit , She chused the Farmer of his Coin , and fairly picked his Pocket : Though she god money byed , she god money byed , now she repents her bargain , For he found her out , and he made a rout for his Four-pence-halfpenny-Fathing . The Farmer went upon the Scout , since he was clearly undone , Resolved he was to find her out , so up he came to London : Now she god nothing byed , she god nothing byed , since she repents her bargain , For he found her out , and he made a Rout for his four-pence-halfpenny-farthing . Beside the rest of all the Crew , the Cobbler and the Barber , They both came up to London too , which was her Winter harbour ; But she god nothing byed , she god nothing byed , now she repents her bargain , For they found her out , and they made a Rout for their four-pence-halfpenny-farthing . Last Tuesday night before 'twas dark , the Farmer he espied her A passing thorough Whestones-Park , but how he did deride her ! So she god nothing byed , she god nothing byed , now she repents her bargain , For he found her out , and he made a rout , for his four-pence-halfpenny farthing . The Cobbler unto the Barber then , with him did likewise seize her , For they were both undaunted Men , but this did much displease her : That s he god nothing byed , she god nothing byed , now she repents her bargain , For they found her out , and they made a rout for their four-pence-halfpenny-farthing . She seeing this , she cry [ ' ] worser for aid , her heart with grief was wounded , Then came the Sisters of her trade , thus they were soon surrounded ; But she god nothing byed , she god nothing byed , now she repents her bargain , For they found her out , and they made a rout for their four-pence-halfpenny-farthing . The Barber he did her Revile , with this discourse ensuing , The Whore hath shrewdly me beguiled , which proves my utter ruin : But she god nothing byed , she god nothing byed , now she repents her bargain , They standing up stout , and they made rout for their four-pence-halfpenny-farthing . The Bawd came out to know the cause , and after her , her Daughter , Said she , who durst oppose our Laws , we hold here by our Charter ? Now she god nothing byed , she god nothing byed , now she repents her bargain , For they standing up stout , and they made a rout for their four-pence-halfpenny-farthing . Now in the midst of all the Fray , to stop their disputation , The Miss was hurried quite away , to her Examination ; Where she god something byed , she god something byed , yet she repents her bargain , For they standing up stout , and they made a rout for their four-pence-halfpenny-farthing , A Carpenter came there to tell what slippery tricks she'd played , So she was sent to Old-Bridewell , where she was soundly paid ; So she god something byed , she god something byed , yet she repents her bargain , For now without doubt , she can't get out for four-pence-halfpenny-farthing . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Sign of the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , without Newgate . 