The ANSWER to The London Lasses Folly : OR , The Newfound Father Discovered at the Camp . You Maidens that are kind and free . I plainly must confess ; Be careful of Virginity , it'll be your Happiness . Tune is , The Journeyman Shoemaker . This may be Printed , R. L. S. Y Ou Maidens wild , that were beguiled come listen to my Ditty , A story strange I will relate , was done in London City : I was a Damsel fair and free , or a wanton Miss more rather , I was beguiled , and god with-Child , but could not tell the Father . But when I found my Belly swell , Oh what a case was I in ? I then began for to provide some Clouts against Downlying : It troubled me exceedingly , I could by no means gather , Who me beguiled , and god the Child , but now I have found the Father . In this sad plighted , both day and night , my restless Brains were beating , Who it should be , that flattered me , and called me Love and Sweating : Sometime I thought a Carpenter , and then a Glover rather , But none of them did prove the Man , for now I have found the Father . Neither was it a Butcher bold , no Baker nor no Brewer , While I in this sad pickle lay , what pains did I endure ? No Servingman I thought it was , and then my mind would waver , But now I find , content in mind , for I have , etc So many Men I dealt withal , that I could not conjecture , Whither it were some Citizen , or some Debauched Hector ; A Soldier bold , did me enfold in Arms fast clutched together , He , I believe , did me deceive , and needs must be the Father . Then to the Camp straightway went I , to see if I could view him , But though he stood before my eye , alas ! I little knew him ; He looked on me , and blushed to see we two should meet together , My Belly great , he stroked straight , and said he was the Father . O then my Boy did leap for joy , and I was much contented , That had long time , for this my Crime , been woefully tormented ; And in mine eyes , he joy espies , that we were met together , Away went I immediately , and married my Child's Father . Now let false Man say what he can , I Lawfully am Married , If I could not have found him than , I grossly had miscarried ; I'll say no more , that Danger's over , and we well met together , Assuredly my Boy shall be a Soldier like his Father . He for his King and Country's right , shall be a Vindication , And manfully against them Fight , who would disturb the Nation ; Then let us sing , God bless the King , and Subject's all together , I am , you see , from sorrow free , my Child has god a Father . FINIS . Printed for C. Dennisson , at the Stationer [ s ] Arms within Aldgate . The ANSWER to The London Lasses Folly : OR , The Newfound Father Discovered at the Camp . You Maidens that are kind and free . I plainly must confess ; Be careful of Virginity , it'll be your Happiness . Tune is , The Journeyman Shoemaker . This may be Printed , R. L. S. Y Ou Maidens wild , that were beguiled come listen to my Ditty , A story strange I will relate , was done in London City : I was a Damsel fair and free , or a wanton Miss more rather , I was beguiled , and god with-Child , but could not tell the Father . But when I found my Belly swell , Oh what a case was I in ? I then began for to provide some Clouts against Downlying : It troubled me exceedingly , I could by no means gather , Who me beguiled , and god the Child , but now I have found the Father . In this sad plighted , both day and night , my restless Brains were beating , Who it should be , that flattered me , and called me Love and Sweating : Sometime I thought a Carpenter , and then a Glover rather , But none of them did prove the Man , for now I have found the Father . Neither was it a Butcher bold , no Baker nor no Brewer , While I in this sad pickle lay , what pains did I endure ? No Servingman I thought it was , and then my mind would waver , But now I find , content in mind , for I have , etc So many Men I dealt withal , that I could not conjecture , Whither it were some Citizen , or some Debauched Hector ; A Soldier bold , did me enfold in Arms fast clutched together , He , I believe , did me deceive , and needs must be the Father . Then to the Camp straightway went I , to see if I could view him , But though he stood before my eye , alas ! I little knew him ; He looked on me , and blushed to see we two should meet together , My Belly great , he stroked straight , and said he was the Father . O then my Boy did leap for joy , and I was much contented , That had long time , for this my Crime , been woefully tormented ; And in mine eyes , he joy espies , that we were met together , Away went I immediately , and married my Child's Father . Now let false Man say what he can , I Lawfully am Married , If I could not have found him than , I grossly had miscarried ; I'll say no more , that Danger's over , and we well met together , Assuredly my Boy shall be a Soldier like his Father . He for his King and Country's right , shall be a Vindication , And manfully against them Fight , who would disturb the Nation ; Then let us sing , God bless the King , and Subject's all together , I am , you see , from sorrow free , my Child has god a Father . FINIS . Printed for C. Dennisson , at the Stationer [ s ] Arms within Aldgate . 