The Sorrowful BRIDE ; OR , The London Lasses Lamentation for her Husbands Insufficiency . Tune of , Let Caesar Live long . I Have now been Married a Twelvemonth and more , And here is a sorrow which troubles me soar ; As having my Maidenhead now to this day : Is this not enough to make me run astray ? Alas ! I am almost a weary of Life , For to live a Maiden , though a Married Wife . My Husband is one of the most largest size , And what is the reason I cannot devise , That he should thus balk a young Woman , I vow , The sweet Joy and Pleasure he does not allow ; The which makes me almost a weary of Life , For to live a Maiden , though a Married Wife . He brought me much Riches of Silver and Gold , With Houses and Land too , the which was Freehold ; And gave me a Chain , with a rich Diamond Ring , But I am still wanting a far better thing : Which makes me , I tell you , quite weary of Life , For to live a Maiden , though a Married Wife . I Kiss him and hug him both morning and night , Which may be sufficient , I think , to invite A Huaband , methinks , to the passion of Love ; Yet nothing , I find , will his appetite move : The thoughts of these things makes me weary of Life , For to live a Maiden , though a Married Wife . I'm sure I am Youthful and Beautiful too , And yet notwithstanding he nothing will do , But lies like a Log or a Stone in my Bed , At which I have wished my self twenty times dead : For why I am utterly weary of Life , To live a young Maiden , and a Married Wife . Alas ! was he Aged , I could not expect The pleasure which he does thus daily neglect ; His Age is not now above Twenty-one years , Yet in pure affection he never appears : This makes me , I tell you , quite weary of Life , To live a young Maiden , yet a Married Wife . I take him each night in my Amorous Arms , In hope's to provoke him to Loves pleasing Charms ; But straight he falls into a slumber or sleep , And I the mean while do both sighs , sob and weep : Have I not just cause to be weary of Life , To live a young Maiden , yet a Married Wife . I feed him with Lamb-stones , nay Cock-broth and Cream In hope's that thereby he may most pleasant seem ; But yet notwithstanding this delicate Cheer , I tell you no Lie , I am never the near : It makes me Distracted and weary of Life , To live a young Maiden , yet a Married Wife . My Sister she married a Cock of the Game , And that was , I tell you , young Robin by name : Before she full seventeen Weeks had been wed , With a Son and Daughter she was brought to Bed But here I lie sighing , quite weary of Life , To live a young Maiden , etc . Now see what a lusty stout Fellow has done , When I'de a been thankful for one only Son ; But my earnest wishes I find are in vain , In sad sobs and sorrowful sighs I complain ; As being , I tell you , quite weary of Life , For I am a Maiden , yet a Married Wife . FINIS . Printed for R. Kell , at the White - [ Heart ] in West-Smithfield [ . ] The Sorrowful BRIDE ; OR , The London Lasses Lamentation for her Husbands Insufficiency . Tune of , Let Caesar Live long . I Have now been Married a Twelvemonth and more , And here is a sorrow which troubles me soar ; As having my Maidenhead now to this day : Is this not enough to make me run astray ? Alas ! I am almost a weary of Life , For to live a Maiden , though a Married Wife . My Husband is one of the most largest size , And what is the reason I cannot devise , That he should thus balk a young Woman , I vow , The sweet Joy and Pleasure he does not allow ; The which makes me almost a weary of Life , For to live a Maiden , though a Married Wife . He brought me much Riches of Silver and Gold , With Houses and Land too , the which was Freehold ; And gave me a Chain , with a rich Diamond Ring , But I am still wanting a far better thing : Which makes me , I tell you , quite weary of Life , For to live a Maiden , though a Married Wife . I Kiss him and hug him both morning and night , Which may be sufficient , I think , to invite A Huaband , methinks , to the passion of Love ; Yet nothing , I find , will his appetite move : The thoughts of these things makes me weary of Life , For to live a Maiden , though a Married Wife . I'm sure I am Youthful and Beautiful too , And yet notwithstanding he nothing will do , But lies like a Log or a Stone in my Bed , At which I have wished my self twenty times dead : For why I am utterly weary of Life , To live a young Maiden , and a Married Wife . Alas ! was he Aged , I could not expect The pleasure which he does thus daily neglect ; His Age is not now above Twenty-one years , Yet in pure affection he never appears : This makes me , I tell you , quite weary of Life , To live a young Maiden , yet a Married Wife . I take him each night in my Amorous Arms , In hope's to provoke him to Loves pleasing Charms ; But straight he falls into a slumber or sleep , And I the mean while do both sighs , sob and weep : Have I not just cause to be weary of Life , To live a young Maiden , yet a Married Wife . I feed him with Lamb-stones , nay Cock-broth and Cream In hope's that thereby he may most pleasant seem ; But yet notwithstanding this delicate Cheer , I tell you no Lie , I am never the near : It makes me Distracted and weary of Life , To live a young Maiden , yet a Married Wife . My Sister she married a Cock of the Game , And that was , I tell you , young Robin by name : Before she full seventeen Weeks had been wed , With a Son and Daughter she was brought to Bed But here I lie sighing , quite weary of Life , To live a young Maiden , etc . Now see what a lusty stout Fellow has done , When I'de a been thankful for one only Son ; But my earnest wishes I find are in vain , In sad sobs and sorrowful sighs I complain ; As being , I tell you , quite weary of Life , For I am a Maiden , yet a Married Wife . FINIS . Printed for R. Kell , at the White - [ Heart ] in West-Smithfield [ . ] 