The Frantic ' Squire : Whose passionate Love for a Young Lady caused his Distraction , and since the restoration , of his Senses , he , with his own hand , writ this Excellent new Ditty . To the Tune of Let Mary live long . MElpomene now assist a meek Lover , whose Tears will discover , How false to her Vow fair Cynthia hath been : While I sighs and complain She returned me disdain , and would not expel My languishing passion , My languishing passion , but bid me far [ ? ] From morning to night , I wandered distracted ah ! what have I acted Which made her delight to torture me so : Through the Shades did I post , Like a hovering Ghost bereft of rest ; With sad Lamentation , With sad Lamentation [ in ? ] My Riches I left , with dear Habitation , each Friend and Relation , Of Comforts bereft , Distracted I run ; That a place I might find That was free from mankind , ( fair women I mean ; ) Whose conquering Beauty , Whose conquering Beauty , too late I have seen . My Pillow I made on banks of green Rushes , near Brambles and Bushes , Where weeping I laid my sorrowful Head , As I closed my Eyes , The kind watery Skies , would weep to behold A Lover exposed A Lover exposed to sorrow and cold . I valued not Crowns , with Kingdoms of Treasure , and wealth out of measure , Or fortified Towns , for which they contend ; There was Cynthia my Love , Which I valued above and Emperor's Throne , Her amorous beauty , Her amorous beauty [ wa ] s Rich [ s ] [ ? ] To Bedlam bound , at length they conveyed me , And there having laid me Upon the hard Ground , I took my repose ; And my rich silken Bed , Where I once laid my Head , was turned to Straws Of this my Distraction , Of this my Distraction , was Cynthia the Cause ? My Senses once more , the hand of kind Heaven , in pity hath given , And now I'll adore no woman alive : Since my Heart is at ease , Let they frown if they please I scorn their disdain , They never shall make me , They never shall make me , a Captive again . FINIS . Licensed according to Order . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon J. Blare , J. Back . The Frantic ' Squire : Whose passionate Love for a Young Lady caused his Distraction , and since the restoration , of his Senses , he , with his own hand , writ this Excellent new Ditty . To the Tune of Let Mary live long . MElpomene now assist a meek Lover , whose Tears will discover , How false to her Vow fair Cynthia hath been : While I sighs and complain She returned me disdain , and would not expel My languishing passion , My languishing passion , but bid me far [ ? ] From morning to night , I wandered distracted ah ! what have I acted Which made her delight to torture me so : Through the Shades did I post , Like a hovering Ghost bereft of rest ; With sad Lamentation , With sad Lamentation [ in ? ] My Riches I left , with dear Habitation , each Friend and Relation , Of Comforts bereft , Distracted I run ; That a place I might find That was free from mankind , ( fair women I mean ; ) Whose conquering Beauty , Whose conquering Beauty , too late I have seen . My Pillow I made on banks of green Rushes , near Brambles and Bushes , Where weeping I laid my sorrowful Head , As I closed my Eyes , The kind watery Skies , would weep to behold A Lover exposed A Lover exposed to sorrow and cold . I valued not Crowns , with Kingdoms of Treasure , and wealth out of measure , Or fortified Towns , for which they contend ; There was Cynthia my Love , Which I valued above and Emperor's Throne , Her amorous beauty , Her amorous beauty [ wa ] s Rich [ s ] [ ? ] To Bedlam bound , at length they conveyed me , And there having laid me Upon the hard Ground , I took my repose ; And my rich silken Bed , Where I once laid my Head , was turned to Straws Of this my Distraction , Of this my Distraction , was Cynthia the Cause ? My Senses once more , the hand of kind Heaven , in pity hath given , And now I'll adore no woman alive : Since my Heart is at ease , Let they frown if they please I scorn their disdain , They never shall make me , They never shall make me , a Captive again . FINIS . Licensed according to Order . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon J. Blare , J. Back . 