The Languishing SWAIN made Happy : Or , The Kind Return of his Clorinda . To and Excellent New Tune . Licensed according to Order . H Appy's the Man that's free from Love , He'll range the Woods and shady Grove : Happy's the Man that's free from Love , He'll range the Woods and shady Grove ; He'll neither mind the great nor small , But a good Condition is best of all : He'll neither mind the great nor small , But a good Condition is best of all . My only care was how to keep : From cruel Wolves my harmless Sheep : My only care was how to keep From cruel Wolves my harmless Sheep : Although from Wolves my Sheep I kept , None could my Heart from Love protect : Although from Wolves my Sheep I kept , None could my Heart from Love protect . There's never a Nymph upon the Plain , That loved like me poor harmless Swain : There's never a Nymph upon the Plain , That loved like me poor harmless Swain : But this I find unto my cost , He that loved best must suffer most : But this I find unto my cost , He that loves best , must suffer most . WORSER Earest Clorinda , why so Coy ; Thou art my Life , my Love and Joy Dearest Clorinda , why so Coy , Thou art my Life , my Love and Joy : But this I find unto my cost , He that loves best , must suffer most . But this I find unto my cost , He that loves best , must suffer most . O then she smiled , and to him said , I know thou canst not hurt a Maid : Oh then she smiled , and to him said , I know thou canst not hurt a Maid : My coyness was but for to try Your Faithfulness and Constancy . Dearest Aminta now have done , ' TO is thou alone my heart has wone ; Dearest Aminta now have done , ' TO is thou alone my heart has wone : ' TO was but to try thy Constancy , But now we both shall happy be : ' TO was but to try thy Constancy , But now we both shalt happy be . My Love at first I did complain , Fearing that you would me disdain : My Love , at first I did complain ; Fearing that you would me disdain : But now , blessed be the Powers above , I do enjoy my Dearest Love : But now , blessed be the Powers above , I do enjoy my Dearest Love . Within this pleasing shady Grove , TO ogether we'll discourse of Love : Within this pleasing shady Grove , TO ogether , we'll Discourse of Love : And now we will enjoy the Bliss , Which is true Lovers Happiness : And now we will enjoy the Bliss , Which is true Lovers Happiness . FINIS . Printed for W. Thackeray , at the Angel in WORSER uck - Lane , J. Millet , at the Angel in Little B rit - tain , and A. Milbourn , at the Stationers-Arms in the Little Old-baily . The Languishing SWAIN made Happy : Or , The Kind Return of his Clorinda . To and Excellent New Tune . Licensed according to Order . H Appy's the Man that's free from Love , He'll range the Woods and shady Grove : Happy's the Man that's free from Love , He'll range the Woods and shady Grove ; He'll neither mind the great nor small , But a good Condition is best of all : He'll neither mind the great nor small , But a good Condition is best of all . My only care was how to keep : From cruel Wolves my harmless Sheep : My only care was how to keep From cruel Wolves my harmless Sheep : Although from Wolves my Sheep I kept , None could my Heart from Love protect : Although from Wolves my Sheep I kept , None could my Heart from Love protect . There's never a Nymph upon the Plain , That loved like me poor harmless Swain : There's never a Nymph upon the Plain , That loved like me poor harmless Swain : But this I find unto my cost , He that loved best must suffer most : But this I find unto my cost , He that loves best , must suffer most . WORSER Earest Clorinda , why so Coy ; Thou art my Life , my Love and Joy Dearest Clorinda , why so Coy , Thou art my Life , my Love and Joy : But this I find unto my cost , He that loves best , must suffer most . But this I find unto my cost , He that loves best , must suffer most . O then she smiled , and to him said , I know thou canst not hurt a Maid : Oh then she smiled , and to him said , I know thou canst not hurt a Maid : My coyness was but for to try Your Faithfulness and Constancy . Dearest Aminta now have done , ' TO is thou alone my heart has wone ; Dearest Aminta now have done , ' TO is thou alone my heart has wone : ' TO was but to try thy Constancy , But now we both shall happy be : ' TO was but to try thy Constancy , But now we both shalt happy be . My Love at first I did complain , Fearing that you would me disdain : My Love , at first I did complain ; Fearing that you would me disdain : But now , blessed be the Powers above , I do enjoy my Dearest Love : But now , blessed be the Powers above , I do enjoy my Dearest Love . Within this pleasing shady Grove , TO ogether we'll discourse of Love : Within this pleasing shady Grove , TO ogether , we'll Discourse of Love : And now we will enjoy the Bliss , Which is true Lovers Happiness : And now we will enjoy the Bliss , Which is true Lovers Happiness . FINIS . Printed for W. Thackeray , at the Angel in WORSER uck - Lane , J. Millet , at the Angel in Little B rit - tain , and A. Milbourn , at the Stationers-Arms in the Little Old-baily . 