A Market for young Men : OR , A Public Sale in sundry Places in and about London , where young beautiful Virgins and grazed Widows are to be sold for Clipped Money , at rea - sonable Rates . To the Tune of , And Orange , etc Y Ou single Men all whose Money is small , It'll be for your good if you come at my call ; For as I am told and Office they hold , Where pretty young Women and Maids will be sold For Clipped Money . The great Undertakers , are no Cuckold-makers , But yea and nays verily , innocent Quakers ; Full forty or more , through the City all over , Will fell you young Women and Lasses galore For Clipped Money . There is , I declare , the Charming and Fare , Dressed with her Toppings and powdered Hair , Which never was nought , but learnedly taught , These pretty sweet innocent Saints my be bought For Clipped Money . The Aged and Young , whose Lutes are well strung , Each having a delicate eloquent Tongue , To prattle and prate , like Ladies of State , Now these will be sold at a reasonable Rate For Clipped Money . At Maidenhead-court , I well can report , There's one which no Gallant ever entered her Fort , Dressed in a Nightrail , with a train to her tail , This Lady she will be exposed to sale For Clipped Money . Friend Thomas and Ben , has seven times ten , Fair beautiful Virgins that never knew Men , Scarce fourteen Years old , in Fringes of Gold [ ; ] Now these I must tell you are all to be sold For Clipped Money . Without Temple-bar , a beautiful Sar , Sweet Madam Mosella , who came from a far , With her white snowy Breast , most gallantly dressed , And she's to be sold now among all the rest For Clipped Money . A Squire's young Miss , that Darling of Bliss , Kicked off because she with a Coachmen did kiss ; She's come from Pellmell , and lies at the Bell , Where our Friend Richard he has her to fell For Clipped Money . Young Bachelors pray no longer delay , But sum up your Cash now and hasten away ; Here's delicate News , not far from the Muse , Friend Richard has forty , you may pick a choose For Clipped Money . The brown , or the black , or mackarel-back , Or if a buxom , brisk Damsel you lack , As plump as a Doe , both above and below , You may have what you can desire I know For Clipped Money . A Taylor of late , who wanted a Mate , Yet he must have one of a very low Rate ; All over the Town he beatrice the Price down At length the poor Taylor bought one for a Crown In Clipped Money . Though she was not the chief , let me tell you in brief , I declare she must needs be as cheap as Neck-beef : There is other young Blades now of several Trades , That are buying of beautiful Widows and Maids For Clipped Money . London : Printed for E. Tracy , on London-bridge . A Market for young Men : OR , A Public Sale in sundry Places in and about London , where young beautiful Virgins and grazed Widows are to be sold for Clipped Money , at rea - sonable Rates . To the Tune of , And Orange , etc Y Ou single Men all whose Money is small , It'll be for your good if you come at my call ; For as I am told and Office they hold , Where pretty young Women and Maids will be sold For Clipped Money . The great Undertakers , are no Cuckold-makers , But yea and nays verily , innocent Quakers ; Full forty or more , through the City all over , Will fell you young Women and Lasses galore For Clipped Money . There is , I declare , the Charming and Fare , Dressed with her Toppings and powdered Hair , Which never was nought , but learnedly taught , These pretty sweet innocent Saints my be bought For Clipped Money . The Aged and Young , whose Lutes are well strung , Each having a delicate eloquent Tongue , To prattle and prate , like Ladies of State , Now these will be sold at a reasonable Rate For Clipped Money . At Maidenhead-court , I well can report , There's one which no Gallant ever entered her Fort , Dressed in a Nightrail , with a train to her tail , This Lady she will be exposed to sale For Clipped Money . Friend Thomas and Ben , has seven times ten , Fair beautiful Virgins that never knew Men , Scarce fourteen Years old , in Fringes of Gold [ ; ] Now these I must tell you are all to be sold For Clipped Money . Without Temple-bar , a beautiful Sar , Sweet Madam Mosella , who came from a far , With her white snowy Breast , most gallantly dressed , And she's to be sold now among all the rest For Clipped Money . A Squire's young Miss , that Darling of Bliss , Kicked off because she with a Coachmen did kiss ; She's come from Pellmell , and lies at the Bell , Where our Friend Richard he has her to fell For Clipped Money . Young Bachelors pray no longer delay , But sum up your Cash now and hasten away ; Here's delicate News , not far from the Muse , Friend Richard has forty , you may pick a choose For Clipped Money . The brown , or the black , or mackarel-back , Or if a buxom , brisk Damsel you lack , As plump as a Doe , both above and below , You may have what you can desire I know For Clipped Money . A Taylor of late , who wanted a Mate , Yet he must have one of a very low Rate ; All over the Town he beatrice the Price down At length the poor Taylor bought one for a Crown In Clipped Money . Though she was not the chief , let me tell you in brief , I declare she must needs be as cheap as Neck-beef : There is other young Blades now of several Trades , That are buying of beautiful Widows and Maids For Clipped Money . London : Printed for E. Tracy , on London-bridge . 