The Country Cozen : Or The Crafty City Dame . Who invited a Gentleman to her House in Woman's apparel , whereby her Husband was deceived , he taking him for a she Country Cozen , and how he found out , and punished the Deceit . Tune of , Good Morrow Valentine . TO Here dwells a brave young wife in London City , She is beth eloquent , pregnant , and witty , She hath a curious hand to write a Letter , She loves her Husband well , but others better : and though she be ensnared with at least a dozen , the man whom she loves best she calls her cozen . The good man had a trick which his wife hated , For often times he would be jealous pated , For which the good wife vowed to be revenged , Though out of her own house she never ranged : But mark what happened betwixt her and her cozen , I think 'twas the prettiest trick done of a dozen . A secret Letter by wit she invented , And by a trusty Messenger sent it , To be delivered unto her Husband Sir , Who in the country lived , pray mark the end sir . This Letter it was sent unto her cozen , Who was the man she loved best of a dozen . Kind cozen then , quoth she , I am grown sickly , I pray make haste to me , come ease me quickly : You are the man I know must give me Physic , To rid me of my cold and cure my Phthisic ; But I would have you to consider sweet cozen , That my husband jealous is most of a dozen . B Ut for to blind his eyes , I do desire , That you would lay aside your men attire ; And quickly dress your self like a young woman , But of your coming let it be known to no man : Then welcome to me , you're most of a dozen , Thus ends my Letter , think on it sweet cozen . When he this Letter had seen and perused , Her courteous proffer he never refused , To act a woman's part he did his endeavour , And bought a brave new Gown , and a rich Beaver , New Apron , Hose , and Shoes he soon had chosen , Which was the counsel he had from his cozen . When as the Barber had trimmed him completely He showed himself like a woman dressed neatly , And towards London went as fast as may be , Where many took him for some country Lady , And coming to the house of his sweet cozen , She gave him kisses thirteen to the dozen . The good Wife being most skilful and cunning , Unto her husband with speed she was running , And having plotted against him all treason , She told him a lie sir , and showed him a reason : Husband , quoth she , this is my country cozen , I pray make much of her , she's best of a dozen . Then the good man began with words very finely , You're welcome to my house quoth he very kindly , And after compliments he courteously kissed her , More welcome to my house than my own Sister : You are the welcomest guest of a whole dozen , an't please you stay all night welcome sweet cozen . Then good cheer was sent for a supper provided , But mark how after this matter was guided , They having feasted , their chops very merry , The one to the other said , now I am weary ; I have come miles this day at least a dozen , Then let me go to bed my loving cozen . Then said the good wife I will not deny you , The Bed is ready , and I will lie by you , Pray husband give us leave to lie together , Only to talk a while one with another . Then quoth the good man for 2 nights in a dozen , I will allow you to lie with your cozen . When as this horned man had thus consented , These lovers went to bed safely contented , But judge what sport they had to hinder mourning They lay in bed till Sunrising next morning , And a sack-posset against they were risen , The good man ready had for's wife and cozen . This Posset being eaten , and breakfast ended , These Lovers for delight further intended , And to the tavern went with good discretion , And drank seven quarts of wine for recreation ; And coming home again in the night season , The good Wife lay again with her sweet cozen . But then the good man thought there was some treason , Plotted against his head in two nights season , He dreamed like Acteon he was transformed , And like unto a Buck his pate was horned , With a great noise of Hounds after him running , So that to hide his head he wanted cunning . When out of this drowsy dream he was awaken , He vowed he would be no further mistaken , But quickly out of his bed without much dodging , And coming to the bed in his wives lodging ; He took her napping in'th arms of her cozen , Which was the prettiest trick done of a dozen . When he had searched him & amp ; found him a man sir , Having in one hand a good holly wand Sir , He soundly beswingd him back , side , and bone sir , And threatened the next time he'd cut off his stones sir , Then naked out of doors he turned his cozen , This was the prettiest trick done of a dozen . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-ball , in West smithfield , near the Hospital-gate . The Country Cozen : Or The Crafty City Dame . Who invited a Gentleman to her House in Woman's apparel , whereby her Husband was deceived , he taking him for a she Country Cozen , and how he found out , and punished the Deceit . Tune of , Good Morrow Valentine . TO Here dwells a brave young wife in London City , She is beth eloquent , pregnant , and witty , She hath a curious hand to write a Letter , She loves her Husband well , but others better : and though she be ensnared with at least a dozen , the man whom she loves best she calls her cozen . The good man had a trick which his wife hated , For often times he would be jealous pated , For which the good wife vowed to be revenged , Though out of her own house she never ranged : But mark what happened betwixt her and her cozen , I think 'twas the prettiest trick done of a dozen . A secret Letter by wit she invented , And by a trusty Messenger sent it , To be delivered unto her Husband Sir , Who in the country lived , pray mark the end sir . This Letter it was sent unto her cozen , Who was the man she loved best of a dozen . Kind cozen then , quoth she , I am grown sickly , I pray make haste to me , come ease me quickly : You are the man I know must give me Physic , To rid me of my cold and cure my Phthisic ; But I would have you to consider sweet cozen , That my husband jealous is most of a dozen . B Ut for to blind his eyes , I do desire , That you would lay aside your men attire ; And quickly dress your self like a young woman , But of your coming let it be known to no man : Then welcome to me , you're most of a dozen , Thus ends my Letter , think on it sweet cozen . When he this Letter had seen and perused , Her courteous proffer he never refused , To act a woman's part he did his endeavour , And bought a brave new Gown , and a rich Beaver , New Apron , Hose , and Shoes he soon had chosen , Which was the counsel he had from his cozen . When as the Barber had trimmed him completely He showed himself like a woman dressed neatly , And towards London went as fast as may be , Where many took him for some country Lady , And coming to the house of his sweet cozen , She gave him kisses thirteen to the dozen . The good Wife being most skilful and cunning , Unto her husband with speed she was running , And having plotted against him all treason , She told him a lie sir , and showed him a reason : Husband , quoth she , this is my country cozen , I pray make much of her , she's best of a dozen . Then the good man began with words very finely , You're welcome to my house quoth he very kindly , And after compliments he courteously kissed her , More welcome to my house than my own Sister : You are the welcomest guest of a whole dozen , an't please you stay all night welcome sweet cozen . Then good cheer was sent for a supper provided , But mark how after this matter was guided , They having feasted , their chops very merry , The one to the other said , now I am weary ; I have come miles this day at least a dozen , Then let me go to bed my loving cozen . Then said the good wife I will not deny you , The Bed is ready , and I will lie by you , Pray husband give us leave to lie together , Only to talk a while one with another . Then quoth the good man for 2 nights in a dozen , I will allow you to lie with your cozen . When as this horned man had thus consented , These lovers went to bed safely contented , But judge what sport they had to hinder mourning They lay in bed till Sunrising next morning , And a sack-posset against they were risen , The good man ready had for's wife and cozen . This Posset being eaten , and breakfast ended , These Lovers for delight further intended , And to the tavern went with good discretion , And drank seven quarts of wine for recreation ; And coming home again in the night season , The good Wife lay again with her sweet cozen . But then the good man thought there was some treason , Plotted against his head in two nights season , He dreamed like Acteon he was transformed , And like unto a Buck his pate was horned , With a great noise of Hounds after him running , So that to hide his head he wanted cunning . When out of this drowsy dream he was awaken , He vowed he would be no further mistaken , But quickly out of his bed without much dodging , And coming to the bed in his wives lodging ; He took her napping in'th arms of her cozen , Which was the prettiest trick done of a dozen . When he had searched him & amp ; found him a man sir , Having in one hand a good holly wand Sir , He soundly beswingd him back , side , and bone sir , And threatened the next time he'd cut off his stones sir , Then naked out of doors he turned his cozen , This was the prettiest trick done of a dozen . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-ball , in West smithfield , near the Hospital-gate . 