The Honour of a London Prentice . Wherein is declared his matchless Manhood , and brave Adventures , done by him in Turkey , and by what means he Married the Kings daughter of the same Country . The Tune is , All you that are Good-Fellows . O F a worthy L ondon Prentice , my purpose is to speak , And tell his brave adventures done for his country sake , Seek all the world about , and you shall hardly find , A man in valour to exceed , a Prentice gallant mind , He was born in Cheshire , the chief of men was he , From thence brought up to London , a Prentice for to be . A Merchant on the Brigde , did like his service so , That for three years his Factor , to Turky he should go , And in that Famous Country , one year he had not been , Ever he by tilt maintained , the honour of his Queen , Elizabeth the Princess , he nobly did make known , TO be the Phoenix of the world , oh and none but she alone . In armour richly guilded , weell mounted on a steed , One score of Knights most hardy , one day he made to bleed : And brought them all to ground , who proudly did deny , Eizabeth to be the Pearl , of Princely Majesty . The King of that same Country , thereat began to frown , And wiled his Son there present to pull this Youngster down , Who at his Father's words , these boasting speeches said , Thou art a Traitor english boy , and hast the Traitor played . I am no boy nor traitor , thy speeches I defy , For which i'll be revenged , upon thee by and by . A London Prentice still , shall prove as good a man , As any of your Turkish Knights , do all the best you can . The second part , to the same Tune . A Nd there withal he gave him , a box upon the ear , Which broke his neck asunder , as plainly does appear , Now know proud Turk quoth he , I am no English Boy , That can with one small box o'th ear the Prince of Turks destroy . When as the King perceived , his son so strangely slave His soul was soar efflicted , with more then Mortal pain , And in revenge thereof , he swore that he should die , The cruelest death that ever man beheld with mortal eye . Two Lyons were prepared this prentice to devour , Near famished up with hunger , ten days within a Tower , To make them ear more fierce , and eager of their prey , To glut themselves with humane gore upon this dreadful day . [ TO ] he appointed time of torment , at length grew near at hand , Where all the noble Ladies and Barons of the Land Attended on the King , to see this prentice slave , And buried in the hungry maws , of these fierce Lyons twan . Then in his shirt of Cambrick , with silk most richly wrought , This worthy London Prentice , was from the prison brought , And to the Lyons given to staunch their hunger great , Which had not eat in ten days space not one small bit of meat . But God that knows all secrets , the matter so contrived , That by this young men valour they were of life deprived : For being faint for food , they scarcely could withstand , The noble force and fortitude , and courage of his hand . For when the hungry Lyons had cast on him their eyes , The Elements did thunder with the echo of their cries And running all amain , his body to devour , Into their throats he thrust his arms , with all his might and power . From thence by manly valour their hearts he tore in sunder And at the King he threw them , to all the peoples wonder , This have I done , quoth he , for lovely Englands sa [ k ] e , And for my country Maiden Queen , much more will undertake . But when the King perceived his wrothful lyons hearts , Afflicted with great terror , his rigor soon reverts : And turned all his hate into remorse and love , And said it was some Angel sent down from heaven above . No , no , I am no angel , the courteous young man said , But born in famous England , where Gods woe [ r ] worser is obeyed : A ssisted by the Heavens , who did me thus befriend , Or else they had most cruelly , brought here my life to end . The king in heart amazed , lift up his eyes to heaven , A and for his foul offences , did crave to be forgiven : Believing that no Land like England may be seen , No people better governed by virtue of a Queen , So taking up this young man , he pardoned him his life , A and gave his Daughter to him , to be his wedded wife , Where then they did remain , and live in quiet peace , In spending of their happy days in joy and love increase . Printed for W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The Honour of a London Prentice . Wherein is declared his matchless Manhood , and brave Adventures , done by him in Turkey , and by what means he Married the Kings daughter of the same Country . The Tune is , All you that are Good-Fellows . O F a worthy L ondon Prentice , my purpose is to speak , And tell his brave adventures done for his country sake , Seek all the world about , and you shall hardly find , A man in valour to exceed , a Prentice gallant mind , He was born in Cheshire , the chief of men was he , From thence brought up to London , a Prentice for to be . A Merchant on the Brigde , did like his service so , That for three years his Factor , to Turky he should go , And in that Famous Country , one year he had not been , Ever he by tilt maintained , the honour of his Queen , Elizabeth the Princess , he nobly did make known , TO be the Phoenix of the world , oh and none but she alone . In armour richly guilded , weell mounted on a steed , One score of Knights most hardy , one day he made to bleed : And brought them all to ground , who proudly did deny , Eizabeth to be the Pearl , of Princely Majesty . The King of that same Country , thereat began to frown , And wiled his Son there present to pull this Youngster down , Who at his Father's words , these boasting speeches said , Thou art a Traitor english boy , and hast the Traitor played . I am no boy nor traitor , thy speeches I defy , For which i'll be revenged , upon thee by and by . A London Prentice still , shall prove as good a man , As any of your Turkish Knights , do all the best you can . The second part , to the same Tune . A Nd there withal he gave him , a box upon the ear , Which broke his neck asunder , as plainly does appear , Now know proud Turk quoth he , I am no English Boy , That can with one small box o'th ear the Prince of Turks destroy . When as the King perceived , his son so strangely slave His soul was soar efflicted , with more then Mortal pain , And in revenge thereof , he swore that he should die , The cruelest death that ever man beheld with mortal eye . Two Lyons were prepared this prentice to devour , Near famished up with hunger , ten days within a Tower , To make them ear more fierce , and eager of their prey , To glut themselves with humane gore upon this dreadful day . [ TO ] he appointed time of torment , at length grew near at hand , Where all the noble Ladies and Barons of the Land Attended on the King , to see this prentice slave , And buried in the hungry maws , of these fierce Lyons twan . Then in his shirt of Cambrick , with silk most richly wrought , This worthy London Prentice , was from the prison brought , And to the Lyons given to staunch their hunger great , Which had not eat in ten days space not one small bit of meat . But God that knows all secrets , the matter so contrived , That by this young men valour they were of life deprived : For being faint for food , they scarcely could withstand , The noble force and fortitude , and courage of his hand . For when the hungry Lyons had cast on him their eyes , The Elements did thunder with the echo of their cries And running all amain , his body to devour , Into their throats he thrust his arms , with all his might and power . From thence by manly valour their hearts he tore in sunder And at the King he threw them , to all the peoples wonder , This have I done , quoth he , for lovely Englands sa [ k ] e , And for my country Maiden Queen , much more will undertake . But when the King perceived his wrothful lyons hearts , Afflicted with great terror , his rigor soon reverts : And turned all his hate into remorse and love , And said it was some Angel sent down from heaven above . No , no , I am no angel , the courteous young man said , But born in famous England , where Gods woe [ r ] worser is obeyed : A ssisted by the Heavens , who did me thus befriend , Or else they had most cruelly , brought here my life to end . The king in heart amazed , lift up his eyes to heaven , A and for his foul offences , did crave to be forgiven : Believing that no Land like England may be seen , No people better governed by virtue of a Queen , So taking up this young man , he pardoned him his life , A and gave his Daughter to him , to be his wedded wife , Where then they did remain , and live in quiet peace , In spending of their happy days in joy and love increase . Printed for W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 