The Contention , between a Countryman & amp ; a Citizen , For a beauteous London Lass , who at length is married to the Country Man. To the Tune of , O Mother Roger . This may be printed R. P. Country Man. TO Here is a Lass of L ondon City I must needs go and kiss and woe She is bonny , brisk and Witty , And I think won't say me No few words may I hope suffice , For she is as kind , as Wise , fair and lovely like the Skies Brighter then young Maudlins Eyes Sweet Cupid let her be my Wife And I'll love her as my Life . Citizen . Go prithee Ploughman , mind thy Ploughing , What hast thou to do with Love ? Scratch thy Head , and leave of Bowing , all thy cringing will not move , Rough , and Rude as Winds thou art , prithee go and mind thy Cart From fair London Town depart , I must win this Virgins Heart . ' This I must have her for my Wife For She Loves a London Life . Countryman . Though you do look more gay & amp ; gaudy I have Gold , and Guineys too And though I can't talk so Baudy I can kiss as well as you , Prithee mind the Park and Plays , Till thy little stock decays Pass away thy wanton Days , In the London modish ways , While I obtain her for my Wife , For she hates a London Life . Citizen . Come Prithee give thy Wooing over Mark ! the bristles of thy Beard , Downy Cheeks become a Lover , Yours would make a Maid afraid , But if you must have your fill , Kiss young Maudlin at the Mill , Kiss her till she does lie still And does yield to what you will : For I must have [ ? ] his for [ th ? ] my Wife , She does like a London Life . Countryman . Although you were fine Cloth & amp ; Beaver and I but Poor Felt and Frieze , Leather breeches will not leave her not for all beneath the Skies . Nor for any Fop in Town , Not for any Bullies Frown . not for Miss in Gaudy-Gown . Not for Girl of High Renown . For I will have her for my Wife , And will Love her as my Life . Citizen . Go find thee out some Farmers Daughter , she may stoop unto thy Lure , Though at this thy mouth does Water . She will never love thee i'm sure , Gathor Poppies in thy Corn go and wind some Cuckolds Horn , Here thou wilt be quite forlorn : she was for thy Betters born . It's I must have her for my Wife . For she loves a London Life . Countryman . I fear your Fortune will miscarry You built Castles in the Air , She with me resolves to marry Though indeed you look more Fair , While you Ramble in the Streets . think of Love , & amp ; Lovers Feats . For I will enjoy those sweets and take Measure of her Sheets , For I must have her for my Wife , And will love her all my Life . Citizen . Methinks some Tawny , brown faced Creature's [ e ] you might in some Village prove , What is From , or Face , or Feature , To a Clown that knows not Love , All my hope's are now allayed , Fortune , Fortune . ( O that Jade ) That blind slut I must upbraid . gives a Clown a Beauteou s Maid , Who will enjoy her for his Wife , Though she hate a Country Life . Country Man. You are mistaken ( my young Lover , ) she with me with me will be more b [ l ] est , Who would a Fair Maid give over ? till he was with her possessed Now the Marriage knot is Tied now I have her by my side , While ( my DONE ) you are denied and must now go seek a Bride . For I now have her for my Wife , And will Love her all my Life . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pye-Corner . The Contention , between a Countryman & amp ; a Citizen , For a beauteous London Lass , who at length is married to the Country Man. To the Tune of , O Mother Roger . This may be printed R. P. Country Man. TO Here is a Lass of L ondon City I must needs go and kiss and woe She is bonny , brisk and Witty , And I think won't say me No few words may I hope suffice , For she is as kind , as Wise , fair and lovely like the Skies Brighter then young Maudlins Eyes Sweet Cupid let her be my Wife And I'll love her as my Life . Citizen . Go prithee Ploughman , mind thy Ploughing , What hast thou to do with Love ? Scratch thy Head , and leave of Bowing , all thy cringing will not move , Rough , and Rude as Winds thou art , prithee go and mind thy Cart From fair London Town depart , I must win this Virgins Heart . ' This I must have her for my Wife For She Loves a London Life . Countryman . Though you do look more gay & amp ; gaudy I have Gold , and Guineys too And though I can't talk so Baudy I can kiss as well as you , Prithee mind the Park and Plays , Till thy little stock decays Pass away thy wanton Days , In the London modish ways , While I obtain her for my Wife , For she hates a London Life . Citizen . Come Prithee give thy Wooing over Mark ! the bristles of thy Beard , Downy Cheeks become a Lover , Yours would make a Maid afraid , But if you must have your fill , Kiss young Maudlin at the Mill , Kiss her till she does lie still And does yield to what you will : For I must have [ ? ] his for [ th ? ] my Wife , She does like a London Life . Countryman . Although you were fine Cloth & amp ; Beaver and I but Poor Felt and Frieze , Leather breeches will not leave her not for all beneath the Skies . Nor for any Fop in Town , Not for any Bullies Frown . not for Miss in Gaudy-Gown . Not for Girl of High Renown . For I will have her for my Wife , And will Love her as my Life . Citizen . Go find thee out some Farmers Daughter , she may stoop unto thy Lure , Though at this thy mouth does Water . She will never love thee i'm sure , Gathor Poppies in thy Corn go and wind some Cuckolds Horn , Here thou wilt be quite forlorn : she was for thy Betters born . It's I must have her for my Wife . For she loves a London Life . Countryman . I fear your Fortune will miscarry You built Castles in the Air , She with me resolves to marry Though indeed you look more Fair , While you Ramble in the Streets . think of Love , & amp ; Lovers Feats . For I will enjoy those sweets and take Measure of her Sheets , For I must have her for my Wife , And will love her all my Life . Citizen . Methinks some Tawny , brown faced Creature's [ e ] you might in some Village prove , What is From , or Face , or Feature , To a Clown that knows not Love , All my hope's are now allayed , Fortune , Fortune . ( O that Jade ) That blind slut I must upbraid . gives a Clown a Beauteou s Maid , Who will enjoy her for his Wife , Though she hate a Country Life . Country Man. You are mistaken ( my young Lover , ) she with me with me will be more b [ l ] est , Who would a Fair Maid give over ? till he was with her possessed Now the Marriage knot is Tied now I have her by my side , While ( my DONE ) you are denied and must now go seek a Bride . For I now have her for my Wife , And will Love her all my Life . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pye-Corner . 