The Country Clerk OR , Great Hope's soon Lost. To the Tune of , Moggies Jellousie , TO Here was and Attorney of Lincoln that had and a bonny young Clark , As ever made use of and Inkhorn and every way a true Spark . By all people counted most witty and known to have Wit at his Will , Exceeded by none of the City , and excellent was with his quill . And if he was proud who can blame him that did so well know his own Parts When all the whole Country did fame him and every where spread his Deserts , The Lawyers confessed him the rarest that ever of his time they did know : The Ladies proclaimed him the fairest and against it , ther'es none could say no . His Master to London did take him in eighty four Michaelmas Term , That he a Professiant might make him in all that the Laws did concern : And there he behaved him so rarely although in the Town he was Raw The Clark's all confessed him farely the wittiest that ever they saw . They led him abroad i the City and then went to show him a play He swore that the Ladies were pretty and the Men they were wondrous gay . But all his Art could not secure him the Women did act with such Grace The House and the Play so alluring , that he was quite found of each Face But walking himself out in London he met with a delicate Lass And there such , and Actium is soon done in any one Street that you pass The Lady pretended to stumble and caught him her self for to save Then into his Arms , she did tumble but humbly his Pardon did crave . O Madam quoth he never excuse it This accident Heaven designed , W hich if you deny you abuse it and Heaven & amp ; not you that was kind Dear Sir quoth she , if you'll believe me I'll swear I'm ashamed at my Heart , Dear Madam quoth he i'll forgive you If as yet you desire not to part . She sighed and from that the youth ventured to hand her a long as his one The very next Tavern they entered the Drawer soon showed them a Room . He called both for French W ine and Spanish for Sturgeon for Oil and Cavere And a Plate of Sugar and Reynish for nothing for her was to dear . What all this was for you may guess it how kindly that time was inclined , The Squire he does humbly confess it was Master of all he designed , Though nimbly he rifled the Pinnace yet she made as quick a dispatch : From one Fob she picked 20 Guinies from the other his Grandfathers Watch . And when she had done she so kissed him his thoughts of a second assault So pleased him that he never missed they nor ever suspected a Fault . She took up the Pisspot demurely and walked with it behind the door And slipped down the Stairs so securely that he never did see her no more . By this time the youngster did Rally his Courage for a fresh Amour : But if heeed a mind for to sally the Spark must go seek a fresh W hoar . But alack how his Heart fell a aching , how quickly his courage grew cold And in a most pitiful taking for the loss of his Watch and his Gold . Within a few days a good Surgeon his Appetite rather required , Then Claret Canary or Sturgin or the Lady so much he admired But he to the Country must Travel his Master a time did propose To soon to be cured of his Gravel so went down with a Pirle at his Nose . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pye-Corner . The Country Clerk OR , Great Hope's soon Lost. To the Tune of , Moggies Jellousie , TO Here was and Attorney of Lincoln that had and a bonny young Clark , As ever made use of and Inkhorn and every way a true Spark . By all people counted most witty and known to have Wit at his Will , Exceeded by none of the City , and excellent was with his quill . And if he was proud who can blame him that did so well know his own Parts When all the whole Country did fame him and every where spread his Deserts , The Lawyers confessed him the rarest that ever of his time they did know : The Ladies proclaimed him the fairest and against it , ther'es none could say no . His Master to London did take him in eighty four Michaelmas Term , That he a Professiant might make him in all that the Laws did concern : And there he behaved him so rarely although in the Town he was Raw The Clark's all confessed him farely the wittiest that ever they saw . They led him abroad i the City and then went to show him a play He swore that the Ladies were pretty and the Men they were wondrous gay . But all his Art could not secure him the Women did act with such Grace The House and the Play so alluring , that he was quite found of each Face But walking himself out in London he met with a delicate Lass And there such , and Actium is soon done in any one Street that you pass The Lady pretended to stumble and caught him her self for to save Then into his Arms , she did tumble but humbly his Pardon did crave . O Madam quoth he never excuse it This accident Heaven designed , W hich if you deny you abuse it and Heaven & amp ; not you that was kind Dear Sir quoth she , if you'll believe me I'll swear I'm ashamed at my Heart , Dear Madam quoth he i'll forgive you If as yet you desire not to part . She sighed and from that the youth ventured to hand her a long as his one The very next Tavern they entered the Drawer soon showed them a Room . He called both for French W ine and Spanish for Sturgeon for Oil and Cavere And a Plate of Sugar and Reynish for nothing for her was to dear . What all this was for you may guess it how kindly that time was inclined , The Squire he does humbly confess it was Master of all he designed , Though nimbly he rifled the Pinnace yet she made as quick a dispatch : From one Fob she picked 20 Guinies from the other his Grandfathers Watch . And when she had done she so kissed him his thoughts of a second assault So pleased him that he never missed they nor ever suspected a Fault . She took up the Pisspot demurely and walked with it behind the door And slipped down the Stairs so securely that he never did see her no more . By this time the youngster did Rally his Courage for a fresh Amour : But if heeed a mind for to sally the Spark must go seek a fresh W hoar . But alack how his Heart fell a aching , how quickly his courage grew cold And in a most pitiful taking for the loss of his Watch and his Gold . Within a few days a good Surgeon his Appetite rather required , Then Claret Canary or Sturgin or the Lady so much he admired But he to the Country must Travel his Master a time did propose To soon to be cured of his Gravel so went down with a Pirle at his Nose . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pye-Corner . 