The Fair MAID of Islington ; OR , The London Vinter Overreached . This is a pretty Fancy if you mind , He thought to fool her , since she was so kind ; But [ tO ] she was Crafty , and resolved to fit him , A and in the end it proved she did outwit him ; S he for her S eller made him pay her Rend , As by a wile , which made him to repent . Tune of , Sellengers Round ; Or , Caper and ferk it , etc With Allowance , TO Here was a fair maid at Islington , as I herd many tell , And she would to fair London go , fine Apples and Pears to fell : And as along the streets she flung , with her Basket on her arm , Her Pears to fell , you may know right well , this fair maid meant no harm . But as she trip along the street , her pleasant fruit to fell , A Vintner did with her meet , who liked this Maid full well : Quod he fair maid , what have you there in Basket decked brave , Fine Pears quod she , and if it please you , a taste Sir you shall have . The Vintner he took a taste , and liked it well , for why ? This Maid he thought of all the rest , most pleasing to his eye : Quoth he fair maid I have a suit , that you to me must grant , Which if I find you be so kind , nothing that you shall want . Thy Beauty does so please my eye , and dazzles so my sighed , That now of all my liberty , I am deprived quite : Then prithee now consent to me , and do not put me by , It is but one small courtisie , all night with you to lie . S IR if you lie with me one night , as you propound to me , I do expect that you should prove , both courteous , kind , and free : And for to tell you all in short , it will cost you five pound , A match , a match , the Vintner said , and so let this go round . When he had lain with her all night , her money she did crave , Oh stay quoth he the other night , and thy money thou shalt have : I connote stay , nor I will not stay , I needs must now begone , Why then thou mayest thy money go look for money I'll pay thee none . This maid she made no more ado , but to a Justice went , And unto him she made her moan , who did her case lament : She said she had a Seller let out , to a Vintner in the Town , And how that he , did then agree , five pound to pay her down . But now quoth she , the case is such , no rend that he will pay , Therefore your Worship I beseech , to send for him this day : Then straight the Justice for him sent , and asked the reason why , That he would pay this Maid no Rend to which he did reply . Although I hired a Seller of her ; and the possession was mine , I never put any thing into it , but one poor Pipe of Wine ; Therefore my bargain it was hard , as you may plainly see , I from my freedom was debar [ ' ] worser , then good Sir favour me . This fair Maid being ripe of wit , she straight replied again , There was two buts more at the door , why did you not roll them in : You had your freedom and your will , as is to you well known , Therefore I do desire still , for to receive my own . The Justice hearing of their case , did there give order straight , That he the money should pay down , she should no longer wait : Withal he told the Vintner plain , if he a Tenant be , He must expect to pay the same , for he could not fit rend free . But when her money she had god , she put it into her purse And clapped her hand on the Seller door , and said it was never the worse : Which caused the people all to laugh , to see this Vintner fine , Outwitted by a Country Girl , about his Pipe of Wine . Printed for J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The Fair MAID of Islington ; OR , The London Vinter Overreached . This is a pretty Fancy if you mind , He thought to fool her , since she was so kind ; But [ tO ] she was Crafty , and resolved to fit him , A and in the end it proved she did outwit him ; S he for her S eller made him pay her Rend , As by a wile , which made him to repent . Tune of , Sellengers Round ; Or , Caper and ferk it , etc With Allowance , TO Here was a fair maid at Islington , as I herd many tell , And she would to fair London go , fine Apples and Pears to fell : And as along the streets she flung , with her Basket on her arm , Her Pears to fell , you may know right well , this fair maid meant no harm . But as she trip along the street , her pleasant fruit to fell , A Vintner did with her meet , who liked this Maid full well : Quod he fair maid , what have you there in Basket decked brave , Fine Pears quod she , and if it please you , a taste Sir you shall have . The Vintner he took a taste , and liked it well , for why ? This Maid he thought of all the rest , most pleasing to his eye : Quoth he fair maid I have a suit , that you to me must grant , Which if I find you be so kind , nothing that you shall want . Thy Beauty does so please my eye , and dazzles so my sighed , That now of all my liberty , I am deprived quite : Then prithee now consent to me , and do not put me by , It is but one small courtisie , all night with you to lie . S IR if you lie with me one night , as you propound to me , I do expect that you should prove , both courteous , kind , and free : And for to tell you all in short , it will cost you five pound , A match , a match , the Vintner said , and so let this go round . When he had lain with her all night , her money she did crave , Oh stay quoth he the other night , and thy money thou shalt have : I connote stay , nor I will not stay , I needs must now begone , Why then thou mayest thy money go look for money I'll pay thee none . This maid she made no more ado , but to a Justice went , And unto him she made her moan , who did her case lament : She said she had a Seller let out , to a Vintner in the Town , And how that he , did then agree , five pound to pay her down . But now quoth she , the case is such , no rend that he will pay , Therefore your Worship I beseech , to send for him this day : Then straight the Justice for him sent , and asked the reason why , That he would pay this Maid no Rend to which he did reply . Although I hired a Seller of her ; and the possession was mine , I never put any thing into it , but one poor Pipe of Wine ; Therefore my bargain it was hard , as you may plainly see , I from my freedom was debar [ ' ] worser , then good Sir favour me . This fair Maid being ripe of wit , she straight replied again , There was two buts more at the door , why did you not roll them in : You had your freedom and your will , as is to you well known , Therefore I do desire still , for to receive my own . The Justice hearing of their case , did there give order straight , That he the money should pay down , she should no longer wait : Withal he told the Vintner plain , if he a Tenant be , He must expect to pay the same , for he could not fit rend free . But when her money she had god , she put it into her purse And clapped her hand on the Seller door , and said it was never the worse : Which caused the people all to laugh , to see this Vintner fine , Outwitted by a Country Girl , about his Pipe of Wine . Printed for J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 