The Country-Clowns Delight . Being a Pleasant new LOVE-SONG . OR , A Conference between Dick and his Sweet-Heart Betty in Richards Bed - Chamber in the Dark . To the Tune of the Country Farmer . TO Here was a youngman both handsome & amp ; rare , That courted a Maiden , both comely and fair , He threw by his Spade , his Sith , and his Flail , To drink with his dearest a Bottle of Ale : Quoth he , if thou wilt but yield to me , And let me but sweetly fugle with thee , I vow and protest what ever betide , I'll be thy Bridegroom , and thoused be my Bride . Love is a passion that nothing can quench , But hugging and kissing a bonny brisk Wench , The spangle's of love which shine in your eyes Enticeth my fancy ( that's fleshly ) to rise : Come then dear Betty and give me a kiss , Before I enter my pleasure and bliss , I'll give thee a toss in over in my Bed , And there I'll make bold with thy Maidenhead . The Maid she replied , pray be not in haste , You know that I'm honest , both modest and chaste , I smile , and I blush to hear you thus prate Of hugging , and kissing , and know not of what : You know I'm bonny , and buxom too And love to be kissed , as well as you , But pray you youngman first make me your bride Then freely , and frankly I'll lie by your side . Your fancy's but feeble , your knowledge is small Your wit and your craft is nothing at all ; Though Maids do intend with young men to play They'll sighs & amp ; they'll simper , they'll blush & amp ; say nay ; But he thats discreet will never inquire , If Love be hight like a flame of fire , If loving embraces once make me lovesick , There's no other medicine but my brave Dick . Dick gravely did answer I feel by thy thigh , Thoured modest , and chaste , as ever I lay by , And yet for all this be not in a huff , But grant me a little since thou hast enough ; I know by thy pulse that thy Maidenhead Is heavy , like a fedder of led , Yet I'll do my best , thy fancy to please , And cure thee by laughing of longing disease . Your Physic is good by Ladies it's loved , And is by experience daily approved : Yet it's predominant is to compel A lass that is loving , her Belly to swell ; I will not hazard to have the bold face , To fell my Name for a Job of disgrace , Foul water can quench the flame of a fire , Then call for a Whore , and drown your desire . Sweet Betty forbear , dear Dicky did say , Be not hard hearted , for with thee I'll play , I find you are fickle , unconstant in mind You change , and you hover , and turn like the [ W ] ind , But if your Maidenhead in your bones leap , Then you're a Cripple , and cannot escape , You burn me alive , the eyes of a lass , Resemble in heat a bright burning-glass . It is no hard matter to blow to a flame A Cock that by nature inclines to the Game : But Honey should I thy proffer deny , I'm guilty of Murder , if thou shouldst die : Come then dear Dicky and give me a kiss , And boldly presume to enter thy Bliss , The Valley of love affords more joys , Then Fields of Elizium , which are but toys . By M.H. FINIS . Printed for C. Dennisson , at the Stationers-Armes within Aldgate . The Country-Clowns Delight . Being a Pleasant new LOVE-SONG . OR , A Conference between Dick and his Sweet-Heart Betty in Richards Bed - Chamber in the Dark . To the Tune of the Country Farmer . TO Here was a youngman both handsome & amp ; rare , That courted a Maiden , both comely and fair , He threw by his Spade , his Sith , and his Flail , To drink with his dearest a Bottle of Ale : Quoth he , if thou wilt but yield to me , And let me but sweetly fugle with thee , I vow and protest what ever betide , I'll be thy Bridegroom , and thoused be my Bride . Love is a passion that nothing can quench , But hugging and kissing a bonny brisk Wench , The spangle's of love which shine in your eyes Enticeth my fancy ( that's fleshly ) to rise : Come then dear Betty and give me a kiss , Before I enter my pleasure and bliss , I'll give thee a toss in over in my Bed , And there I'll make bold with thy Maidenhead . The Maid she replied , pray be not in haste , You know that I'm honest , both modest and chaste , I smile , and I blush to hear you thus prate Of hugging , and kissing , and know not of what : You know I'm bonny , and buxom too And love to be kissed , as well as you , But pray you youngman first make me your bride Then freely , and frankly I'll lie by your side . Your fancy's but feeble , your knowledge is small Your wit and your craft is nothing at all ; Though Maids do intend with young men to play They'll sighs & amp ; they'll simper , they'll blush & amp ; say nay ; But he thats discreet will never inquire , If Love be hight like a flame of fire , If loving embraces once make me lovesick , There's no other medicine but my brave Dick . Dick gravely did answer I feel by thy thigh , Thoured modest , and chaste , as ever I lay by , And yet for all this be not in a huff , But grant me a little since thou hast enough ; I know by thy pulse that thy Maidenhead Is heavy , like a fedder of led , Yet I'll do my best , thy fancy to please , And cure thee by laughing of longing disease . Your Physic is good by Ladies it's loved , And is by experience daily approved : Yet it's predominant is to compel A lass that is loving , her Belly to swell ; I will not hazard to have the bold face , To fell my Name for a Job of disgrace , Foul water can quench the flame of a fire , Then call for a Whore , and drown your desire . Sweet Betty forbear , dear Dicky did say , Be not hard hearted , for with thee I'll play , I find you are fickle , unconstant in mind You change , and you hover , and turn like the [ W ] ind , But if your Maidenhead in your bones leap , Then you're a Cripple , and cannot escape , You burn me alive , the eyes of a lass , Resemble in heat a bright burning-glass . It is no hard matter to blow to a flame A Cock that by nature inclines to the Game : But Honey should I thy proffer deny , I'm guilty of Murder , if thou shouldst die : Come then dear Dicky and give me a kiss , And boldly presume to enter thy Bliss , The Valley of love affords more joys , Then Fields of Elizium , which are but toys . By M.H. FINIS . Printed for C. Dennisson , at the Stationers-Armes within Aldgate . 