News from Hide-Park . or , A very merry passage which happened betwixt a North-Country Gentleman , and a very Gawdy Gallant , Lady of Pleasure , whom he took up in the Park and conducted her ( in her own Coach ) home to her Lodgin . And what chanced there , If you'll venture attention the Song will declare . To the Tune of , The Crossed Couple . O Ne evening a little before it was dark sing tan tara tara tantivee ; I called for my Gelding and rid to Hide-park , on tan tara rara tantivee : It was in the merry month of May , When Meadows and fields were gaudy and gay , And Flowers appareled as bright as the day , I god upon my tantivee . The Park shon brighter then the skies , sing tan tara tara tantivee ; With jewels and Gold , and Ladies eyes , that sparkled and cried come see me : Of all parts of Englan worser Hide Park hath the name For Coaches and Horses and Persons of fame , It looked at first sighed a field full of Flame , which made me ride up tantivee . There hath not been such a sighed since Adam's , for Periwig , Ribbon , and Feather ; Hide-Park , may be termed the Market of Madams or Lady-fair choose you wheathers Their Gowns were a yard too-long for their legs They showed like the Rainbow cut into Rags A Garden of Flowers , or a navy of Flags , when they did all mingle together . Among all those Ladi [ e ] s I singled out one ; to prattle of Love and folly ; I found her not coy but jovial as Jone or Betty , or , Margret , or Molly : With Honours and Love , and stories of chances , My spirits did move and my blood she advances , With twenty Quonundrums , and fifty five fancies i'de fain have been at her Tantivee . We talked away time until it was dark , the place began to grow privee ; For the Gallants began to draw out of the Park , there Horses did Gallop tantivee : But finding my courage a little to come , I sent my bay Gelding away by my Groom , And proffered my service to wait on her home , in her Coach we went both Tantivee . I Offered and proffered , but found her straight laced she cried I shall never believe you , This arm full of Satin I bravely embraced , and fain would have been at Tantivee : Her Lodging was pleasant for scent and sighed She seemed like and Angel by Candlelight And like a bold Archer I aimed at the white Tantivee , TO antivee , TO antivee . With many denials she yielded at last , her Chamber being wondrous privee That I all night might have my repast to run at [ tO ] he ring Tantivee I put of my clothes and I tumbled to bed , She went in her Closet to dress up her head , But I peeped in the Keyhole to see what she did , which put me quite beside my TO antivee . She took off her Head-tire and showed her bald pate her cunning did very much grieve me , Thought I to my self if it were not [ tO ] oo late , I would home to my Lodging , believe me : Her hair being gone she seemed like a Hag. Her bald pate did show like and Ostriches Egg , This Lady ( thought I ) is as right as my Leg she hath been too much at Tantivee . The more I did peep the more I did spy , which did unto amazement drive me , She put up her finger and out dropped her eye , I prayed that some power would relieve me : But now my resolves never to trouble her , Or venture my Carcase with a blind Hobler , She looked with one eye just like Hewson the Cobbler When he used to ride TO antivee . I peeped and was still perplexed there with , thought I tho't be midnight i'll leave thee , She fetched a yawn and out fell her Teeth , this Quean had and intent to decieve me : She drew out her handkerchief as I suppose , To wipe her high Forehead and off dropped her Nose Which made me run quickly and put on my Hose tO h e Devils in my TO antivee . she washed all the Paint from her visage , and then looked just if you will believe me ? Like a Lancashire Witch of fourscore and ten , and as the Devil did drive me , I put on my clothes & amp ; cried Witches and whores , I tumbled down stairs broke open the doors , And down to my Country again to my Boars , next morning I rid TO antivee . you north country gallants that live pleasant lives let not Curiosity drive you , To leave the fresh air , & amp ; your own tenants wives for Satin will sadly deceive you : For my part I will no more be such a Meacock To deal with the plumes of a Hide Park Peacock But find out a Russet Coat wench and a [ Dr ] y cock . and there I will ride Tantivee . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . News from Hide-Park . or , A very merry passage which happened betwixt a North-Country Gentleman , and a very Gawdy Gallant , Lady of Pleasure , whom he took up in the Park and conducted her ( in her own Coach ) home to her Lodgin . And what chanced there , If you'll venture attention the Song will declare . To the Tune of , The Crossed Couple . O Ne evening a little before it was dark sing tan tara tara tantivee ; I called for my Gelding and rid to Hide-park , on tan tara rara tantivee : It was in the merry month of May , When Meadows and fields were gaudy and gay , And Flowers appareled as bright as the day , I god upon my tantivee . The Park shon brighter then the skies , sing tan tara tara tantivee ; With jewels and Gold , and Ladies eyes , that sparkled and cried come see me : Of all parts of Englan worser Hide Park hath the name For Coaches and Horses and Persons of fame , It looked at first sighed a field full of Flame , which made me ride up tantivee . There hath not been such a sighed since Adam's , for Periwig , Ribbon , and Feather ; Hide-Park , may be termed the Market of Madams or Lady-fair choose you wheathers Their Gowns were a yard too-long for their legs They showed like the Rainbow cut into Rags A Garden of Flowers , or a navy of Flags , when they did all mingle together . Among all those Ladi [ e ] s I singled out one ; to prattle of Love and folly ; I found her not coy but jovial as Jone or Betty , or , Margret , or Molly : With Honours and Love , and stories of chances , My spirits did move and my blood she advances , With twenty Quonundrums , and fifty five fancies i'de fain have been at her Tantivee . We talked away time until it was dark , the place began to grow privee ; For the Gallants began to draw out of the Park , there Horses did Gallop tantivee : But finding my courage a little to come , I sent my bay Gelding away by my Groom , And proffered my service to wait on her home , in her Coach we went both Tantivee . I Offered and proffered , but found her straight laced she cried I shall never believe you , This arm full of Satin I bravely embraced , and fain would have been at Tantivee : Her Lodging was pleasant for scent and sighed She seemed like and Angel by Candlelight And like a bold Archer I aimed at the white Tantivee , TO antivee , TO antivee . With many denials she yielded at last , her Chamber being wondrous privee That I all night might have my repast to run at [ tO ] he ring Tantivee I put of my clothes and I tumbled to bed , She went in her Closet to dress up her head , But I peeped in the Keyhole to see what she did , which put me quite beside my TO antivee . She took off her Head-tire and showed her bald pate her cunning did very much grieve me , Thought I to my self if it were not [ tO ] oo late , I would home to my Lodging , believe me : Her hair being gone she seemed like a Hag. Her bald pate did show like and Ostriches Egg , This Lady ( thought I ) is as right as my Leg she hath been too much at Tantivee . The more I did peep the more I did spy , which did unto amazement drive me , She put up her finger and out dropped her eye , I prayed that some power would relieve me : But now my resolves never to trouble her , Or venture my Carcase with a blind Hobler , She looked with one eye just like Hewson the Cobbler When he used to ride TO antivee . I peeped and was still perplexed there with , thought I tho't be midnight i'll leave thee , She fetched a yawn and out fell her Teeth , this Quean had and intent to decieve me : She drew out her handkerchief as I suppose , To wipe her high Forehead and off dropped her Nose Which made me run quickly and put on my Hose tO h e Devils in my TO antivee . she washed all the Paint from her visage , and then looked just if you will believe me ? Like a Lancashire Witch of fourscore and ten , and as the Devil did drive me , I put on my clothes & amp ; cried Witches and whores , I tumbled down stairs broke open the doors , And down to my Country again to my Boars , next morning I rid TO antivee . you north country gallants that live pleasant lives let not Curiosity drive you , To leave the fresh air , & amp ; your own tenants wives for Satin will sadly deceive you : For my part I will no more be such a Meacock To deal with the plumes of a Hide Park Peacock But find out a Russet Coat wench and a [ Dr ] y cock . and there I will ride Tantivee . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 