JOAN's Loving LETTER , CONTAINING Her Invitation of lusty ROGER : Or , LOYAL LOVE . Concluding with his Affectionate ANSWER . To the Tune of , If Love's a sweet Passion . TO Oh thee , loving Roger , this Letter I write , I would have you not fail to be with me this Night , A desire I have for to see thy sweet Face , And to give thee a Kiss and a tender Embrace : You may come without danger in safety ; for why , There is none at home , my dear Roger , but I . My Father and Mother are rid , I declare , With my Sister and Brother abroad to a Fair , And some three or four Days they in pleasure will spend , Therefore now is the time to delight thy dear Friend : Come away to my Father's , sweet jewel ; for why , There is no one at home , my dear Roger , but I . Stout Robin a Taster a day is allowed , For to wait upon them with his Bagpipes and Crowd , Yet I valve it not , though at home here I stay , For Faith , I could-soon be as merry as they , If I had but thy presence : Then , Dearest , comply , There is no one at home , loving Roger , but I . I think I'm as handsome as Bridget or Nell , And I hope shall endeavour to please you as well ; Though I han't so much Money to make a fair show , Yet a virtuous young Wife is a Jewel you know : Therefore let me enjoy thy sweet presence ; for why , There is no one at home , honest Roger , but I . I'll make thee a delicate Sullybub sweet , And beside , never doubt , I'll have something to eat ; A young Chicken or two for my Dear shall be dressed , Nay , and Custards with Cheesecakes and Cream of the best : To my loving desire I'ld have thee comply , There is no one at home , honest Roger , but I . What ever is mine thou shalt make it thy own , And I'm sure I have something , it's very well known ; A fat big in the stye , and a Cow in the stall , Love , a little is better than nothing at all : You may come now and see me , in safety ; for why , There is no one at home , honest Rogers , but I . My Gransier and Granny last Winter they died , When they left me these Cattle and something beside , I have sir Wood-Spoons with a Bole and a Tray ; Therefore now my dear love make no longer delay : You may come to our House , here in safety , for why , There is no one at home , honest Roger , but I . Roger's kind Answer . N Oh sooner stout Roger this Letter did read , But he put on his best leather Jacket with speed , And immediately saddled and mounted old Roan ; Thus in less then and hour he see his sweet Joan : And without longer Wooing , he thus did reply , I will never refuse such a proffer , not I . Ad-zugers , quoth he , What a Cow and a Calf , With a big , such a Potion would make a Man laugh : Love , before that thy Parents returns we will Wed , For I know thou'rt a Damsel that has been well breed : And for ever I'll love thee , my Dear , till I die , For so loving a proffer I cannot deny . The very next morning he Marred with Joan , And rejoiced that he had a young Wife of his own : When her Parents they came for to find a new Son , They were passified soon , it could not be undone : Now in Love , Peace and Pleasure togeth [ e ] r they live , Ay , and Joan she wants nothing that Roger can give . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guil-spur street . JOAN's Loving LETTER , CONTAINING Her Invitation of lusty ROGER : Or , LOYAL LOVE . Concluding with his Affectionate ANSWER . To the Tune of , If Love's a sweet Passion . TO Oh thee , loving Roger , this Letter I write , I would have you not fail to be with me this Night , A desire I have for to see thy sweet Face , And to give thee a Kiss and a tender Embrace : You may come without danger in safety ; for why , There is none at home , my dear Roger , but I . My Father and Mother are rid , I declare , With my Sister and Brother abroad to a Fair , And some three or four Days they in pleasure will spend , Therefore now is the time to delight thy dear Friend : Come away to my Father's , sweet jewel ; for why , There is no one at home , my dear Roger , but I . Stout Robin a Taster a day is allowed , For to wait upon them with his Bagpipes and Crowd , Yet I valve it not , though at home here I stay , For Faith , I could-soon be as merry as they , If I had but thy presence : Then , Dearest , comply , There is no one at home , loving Roger , but I . I think I'm as handsome as Bridget or Nell , And I hope shall endeavour to please you as well ; Though I han't so much Money to make a fair show , Yet a virtuous young Wife is a Jewel you know : Therefore let me enjoy thy sweet presence ; for why , There is no one at home , honest Roger , but I . I'll make thee a delicate Sullybub sweet , And beside , never doubt , I'll have something to eat ; A young Chicken or two for my Dear shall be dressed , Nay , and Custards with Cheesecakes and Cream of the best : To my loving desire I'ld have thee comply , There is no one at home , honest Roger , but I . What ever is mine thou shalt make it thy own , And I'm sure I have something , it's very well known ; A fat big in the stye , and a Cow in the stall , Love , a little is better than nothing at all : You may come now and see me , in safety ; for why , There is no one at home , honest Rogers , but I . My Gransier and Granny last Winter they died , When they left me these Cattle and something beside , I have sir Wood-Spoons with a Bole and a Tray ; Therefore now my dear love make no longer delay : You may come to our House , here in safety , for why , There is no one at home , honest Roger , but I . Roger's kind Answer . N Oh sooner stout Roger this Letter did read , But he put on his best leather Jacket with speed , And immediately saddled and mounted old Roan ; Thus in less then and hour he see his sweet Joan : And without longer Wooing , he thus did reply , I will never refuse such a proffer , not I . Ad-zugers , quoth he , What a Cow and a Calf , With a big , such a Potion would make a Man laugh : Love , before that thy Parents returns we will Wed , For I know thou'rt a Damsel that has been well breed : And for ever I'll love thee , my Dear , till I die , For so loving a proffer I cannot deny . The very next morning he Marred with Joan , And rejoiced that he had a young Wife of his own : When her Parents they came for to find a new Son , They were passified soon , it could not be undone : Now in Love , Peace and Pleasure togeth [ e ] r they live , Ay , and Joan she wants nothing that Roger can give . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guil-spur street . 