The Crafty MISS : Oh r , And Exciseman well fitted . Being a true Relation of and Exciseman , who lately in the County of Kent , had received the Sum of F our-score-pounds and lighting into the company of a Crafty Miss who gave him the Choose for it all ; and riding away with his Gelding , left in the stead a Mare which she had stole , for which Mare he was Arraigned , and narrowly escaped the severe penalty of the Law : Which may be a sufficient warning to all Excise-men far and near , to amend their lives , to hate a Miss , and love their Wives . To the Tune of , Moggies Jealousy . Entered according ot Order . TO Here was and Excise-Man so fine , road into the county of Kent , And there he received much coin , for that very purpose he went : He met with a jolly brave miss , her beauty as fair to behold , But she gave a Judas kiss , and showed him a trick for his Gold . She road on a bonny brave Mare , he rid on a Gelding also , He whispered a word in her ear , straightway to and Inn they did go , He was of a pretty condition , he called her the joy of his life , And then without any suspicion , they passed for Husband and wife . They set up the Mare and the Gelding , and called for a supper with speed , Their wine it was plentily filled in , and lovingly then they agreed : Oh then they were heartily merry , their joys did begin to obound , They drank up full brimmers of Sherry , and the glass it went merrily round . He had not the sighed of his folly , found love had so blinded his eyes , Oh then he was heartily jolly , he thought he had got a prize , Then while they most lovingly greeted , he thought he was certainly blessed . But never was Ezcise-man so cheated , Oh now comes the cream of the jest . He pulled out a Purse full of Gold , which he had received for Excise , And said to his Landlord , behold , keep this till the morning we rise ; His Miss she did call him her honey , and strait to Embracing they fallen , But her mind still run on the money , to give him the choose for it all , And while he was snoring and sleeping , she thought it no time to delay . But giving the Landlord a meeting , Oh thus unto him she did say , My husband he has not the power to rise although it be day , Yet he hath appointed and hour to pay all the money away . The time does begin to expire , then prithee now Saddle his Steed , And Landlord I do you desire , to fetch me the money with speed ; The Innkeeper he did believe it , and fetched her the fourscore pound , And she was as glad to receive it , she neither spared Horseflesh nor ground But when the Exciseman did waken , and found that his Miss she was fled , And seeking himself thus forsaken , while he had been sleeping in Bed , Oh then how he rapped and thundered , he was in a Choleric heat , His pockets was pilledged and plundered he found he had met with a cheat . The Landlord the Chamber did enter , and bowing himself to the ground , Sir , have you forgotten where you sent her ; to pay in the fourscore pound ? The Landlord no sooner had said it , but then he was daunted straightway , But yet for the sake of his credit , Oh never a word he would say . But then he was fretting and petting , he had never a penny of Coal , His Miss rid away with his gelding , and left him a Mare that was stole , For which they did soon apprehend him , in sorrow he did then complain , For they to a Prison did send him , where he did tell Sizes remain . And there he was ' reigned at the Bar , beside all the money he lost , Oh now you Excise-men beware , you see in your Courting your crossed , The Billit had like to been found , because he had called her his Wife , It cost him many a pound , and had like to have cost him his life . This was in Rochester City , the truth you may certainly find . The people afforded no pity , but said he was served in his kind , But now the Exciseman is sorry , that ever he met with this Made ; For sure he had learned her lurry , she lacked but a stock to her trade . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Sign of the Angel in Guilt-spur-Street . The Crafty MISS : Oh r , And Exciseman well fitted . Being a true Relation of and Exciseman , who lately in the County of Kent , had received the Sum of F our-score-pounds and lighting into the company of a Crafty Miss who gave him the Choose for it all ; and riding away with his Gelding , left in the stead a Mare which she had stole , for which Mare he was Arraigned , and narrowly escaped the severe penalty of the Law : Which may be a sufficient warning to all Excise-men far and near , to amend their lives , to hate a Miss , and love their Wives . To the Tune of , Moggies Jealousy . Entered according ot Order . TO Here was and Excise-Man so fine , road into the county of Kent , And there he received much coin , for that very purpose he went : He met with a jolly brave miss , her beauty as fair to behold , But she gave a Judas kiss , and showed him a trick for his Gold . She road on a bonny brave Mare , he rid on a Gelding also , He whispered a word in her ear , straightway to and Inn they did go , He was of a pretty condition , he called her the joy of his life , And then without any suspicion , they passed for Husband and wife . They set up the Mare and the Gelding , and called for a supper with speed , Their wine it was plentily filled in , and lovingly then they agreed : Oh then they were heartily merry , their joys did begin to obound , They drank up full brimmers of Sherry , and the glass it went merrily round . He had not the sighed of his folly , found love had so blinded his eyes , Oh then he was heartily jolly , he thought he had got a prize , Then while they most lovingly greeted , he thought he was certainly blessed . But never was Ezcise-man so cheated , Oh now comes the cream of the jest . He pulled out a Purse full of Gold , which he had received for Excise , And said to his Landlord , behold , keep this till the morning we rise ; His Miss she did call him her honey , and strait to Embracing they fallen , But her mind still run on the money , to give him the choose for it all , And while he was snoring and sleeping , she thought it no time to delay . But giving the Landlord a meeting , Oh thus unto him she did say , My husband he has not the power to rise although it be day , Yet he hath appointed and hour to pay all the money away . The time does begin to expire , then prithee now Saddle his Steed , And Landlord I do you desire , to fetch me the money with speed ; The Innkeeper he did believe it , and fetched her the fourscore pound , And she was as glad to receive it , she neither spared Horseflesh nor ground But when the Exciseman did waken , and found that his Miss she was fled , And seeking himself thus forsaken , while he had been sleeping in Bed , Oh then how he rapped and thundered , he was in a Choleric heat , His pockets was pilledged and plundered he found he had met with a cheat . The Landlord the Chamber did enter , and bowing himself to the ground , Sir , have you forgotten where you sent her ; to pay in the fourscore pound ? The Landlord no sooner had said it , but then he was daunted straightway , But yet for the sake of his credit , Oh never a word he would say . But then he was fretting and petting , he had never a penny of Coal , His Miss rid away with his gelding , and left him a Mare that was stole , For which they did soon apprehend him , in sorrow he did then complain , For they to a Prison did send him , where he did tell Sizes remain . And there he was ' reigned at the Bar , beside all the money he lost , Oh now you Excise-men beware , you see in your Courting your crossed , The Billit had like to been found , because he had called her his Wife , It cost him many a pound , and had like to have cost him his life . This was in Rochester City , the truth you may certainly find . The people afforded no pity , but said he was served in his kind , But now the Exciseman is sorry , that ever he met with this Made ; For sure he had learned her lurry , she lacked but a stock to her trade . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Sign of the Angel in Guilt-spur-Street . 