Loves Quintessence . Or , The Frolic on Hackney Marsh . A comely Nymph , upon a fragrant Plain , Implored one hours pastime of her Swain But he denied , until a piercing Dart Created Love in him and smote his heart . Then mutually they both embraced each other , And if their actions don't , no more I will discover . To the new Scotch Tune , or in January last . WORSER Own in a pleasant Valley by a River clear , The twentieth day of July in the prime of the year , As I was fishing all alone I herd a Virgin cry Be kind my dear Amphetus or in Love I die . She thought that none was near her but the Amorous Swain Therefore she lay down by him on the fragrant Plain But yet he could not understand which made her for to cry Be kind to me Amphetus or in Love I die . The second part to the same tune . Sweet Shepherd said the Damsel why so discontent Let mutual flames of Venus grief and care prevent That I like to a harmless Dove in blissful constancy May love my dear Amphetus until both shall die . In this distressed passion ravished with her love Desired that god Cupid would his fancy move And let her fold him in her arms or still she's forced to cry Be kind my dear Amphetus let not Nicee die . At length by her implorings came a sudden Dart Which sorely pierced Amphetus to his very heart A wounding Nymph then said the youth what ails thee for to cry I love my pretty Nicee and will till I die . Lets bless this happy minute which we do enjoy , And dedicate to Venus and her little boy These pleasures now which wel'e enjoy the effects of love to try For well I love fair Nicee and will till I die . Thou art the fairest creature in the Universe Therefore I thank my Aspects For this sweet converse I could here ever be confined with thee my fate to try Because I love fair Nicee and will till I die . Then having now discovered the sequel of his mind Unto the Nymph fair Nicee strait to her grew kind . And throwing over one leg they soon were in conjunction O cried out the fair Maid now I love thy Function . In this sweet amorous posture not long they did lie But out the youngster cried truce or else I die . If you will let me breath a fresh my vigor I will spend And give you future pleasure ere our mirth does end . Then rest my dear Amphetus thou hast played thy part For in this pleasant conflict hast thou won my heart . I thought things good in sympathy , but now I find it clear No knowledge like the practic part though sometime bought dear . But now yov'e had the fruition of my Maidenhead I hope my dear Amphetus Nicee you will wed . Then honestly replied the youth to marry's my intent And for to seal the bargain tooed again they went . I seeing of this frolic and night almost come With speed I left my fishing homeward for to run . And left this pretty loving couple , on the mowed grass , To write in Ballet method what there came to pass . Printed for J. Conyers at the Black Raven in Duck Lane . Loves Quintessence . Or , The Frolic on Hackney Marsh . A comely Nymph , upon a fragrant Plain , Implored one hours pastime of her Swain But he denied , until a piercing Dart Created Love in him and smote his heart . Then mutually they both embraced each other , And if their actions don't , no more I will discover . To the new Scotch Tune , or in January last . WORSER Own in a pleasant Valley by a River clear , The twentieth day of July in the prime of the year , As I was fishing all alone I herd a Virgin cry Be kind my dear Amphetus or in Love I die . She thought that none was near her but the Amorous Swain Therefore she lay down by him on the fragrant Plain But yet he could not understand which made her for to cry Be kind to me Amphetus or in Love I die . The second part to the same tune . Sweet Shepherd said the Damsel why so discontent Let mutual flames of Venus grief and care prevent That I like to a harmless Dove in blissful constancy May love my dear Amphetus until both shall die . In this distressed passion ravished with her love Desired that god Cupid would his fancy move And let her fold him in her arms or still she's forced to cry Be kind my dear Amphetus let not Nicee die . At length by her implorings came a sudden Dart Which sorely pierced Amphetus to his very heart A wounding Nymph then said the youth what ails thee for to cry I love my pretty Nicee and will till I die . Lets bless this happy minute which we do enjoy , And dedicate to Venus and her little boy These pleasures now which wel'e enjoy the effects of love to try For well I love fair Nicee and will till I die . Thou art the fairest creature in the Universe Therefore I thank my Aspects For this sweet converse I could here ever be confined with thee my fate to try Because I love fair Nicee and will till I die . Then having now discovered the sequel of his mind Unto the Nymph fair Nicee strait to her grew kind . And throwing over one leg they soon were in conjunction O cried out the fair Maid now I love thy Function . In this sweet amorous posture not long they did lie But out the youngster cried truce or else I die . If you will let me breath a fresh my vigor I will spend And give you future pleasure ere our mirth does end . Then rest my dear Amphetus thou hast played thy part For in this pleasant conflict hast thou won my heart . I thought things good in sympathy , but now I find it clear No knowledge like the practic part though sometime bought dear . But now yov'e had the fruition of my Maidenhead I hope my dear Amphetus Nicee you will wed . Then honestly replied the youth to marry's my intent And for to seal the bargain tooed again they went . I seeing of this frolic and night almost come With speed I left my fishing homeward for to run . And left this pretty loving couple , on the mowed grass , To write in Ballet method what there came to pass . Printed for J. Conyers at the Black Raven in Duck Lane . 