I'll never Love thee more being a true Love Song between a young Man and a Maid . To a new Tune called , Oh no , no , no not yet . M Y dear and only love take heed , how you your self dispose And let no wandering lovers feed , on such like looks as those , I'll marble wall thee round about , being built without a door , Where if thy heart but once break out Il never love thee more , Let not their oaths ( like Gollies shot ) make any breach at all , For smoothness of their cunning plots which way to scale the wall : For balls of wild fire loud consume , the shrine that I adore , But if such smoke about thee fume , I'll never love thee more . I know thy virtues are so strong , theyle suffer no surprise , Maintained by my love so long , at last the siege must rise , And leave the ruler in such health , and state it was before , But if thou prove a common wealth , I'll never etc Or if by fraud or by consent , my heart to ruin come , I'll never found Trumpet as I meant , nor march by found of Drum , But hold mine arms and Ensigns up , thy falsehood to deplore , And after such a common cup , I'll never . etc I'll do by thee as Nero did when Rome was set on fire , Not only all relief forbid , but backwards quite retire : And scorn to shed a tear to see , thy spirit grown so poor , But smiling sing thus unto thee , I'll never etc But if thou wilt continue true , Leander I will prove , As he to Hero I to you , will ( swimming ) drown for love Oh be not like to Cressida as now be lovers store , That I no cause may have to say , I'll never etc . If thou like Helena of Greece , wilt falsify thy word , Thy Jason for the golden Fleece like measure will afford , And choose some rare Penelope , with virtues to adore , That I may justly say to thee , I'll never etc But if thy heart like milk white snow will melt and mollify , Or as the Turtle true love show and for our parting die , Then shall our loves fast settled be upon no sandy shore , And I will say my dear to thee , I'll love thee evermore . A Young man walked once alone abroad to take the Air It was his chance to meet a maid of beauty passing fair , He asked her in secrecy , down by him for to fit , She answered him with modesty o no , no , no , not yet Forty Crowns I will give thee sweet heart in good read gold , To live with me and be my love say shall the bargain hold , She answered him most modestly and with a pregnant wit : A married wife I will not be , o not etc Gold and Silver are but dross , and soon will fade away , While virtue in a virgins breast , will have a longer stay , Then think me not to be so found , and of so little wit : To fell away my liberty , o no , etc Some of our sex you say are weak and easy to be won , But you shall find in all my way , your sugared words I'll shun I will not overtaken be , in any thing unfit Nor trust unto a tempting tongue o no etc O be not so unkind my dear , the young man then replied The tongue does tell what pain & amp ; grief we lovers do abide , If hand and heart but once agree , commanded is the wit Then say no more my dear to me , o no no , etc If I should trust thy words quoth she , where falsehood does remain , To call my Virgins freedom back , I think it be but vain : Therefore to choose a man to wed , requires the choicest wit , Then let me have a time to say , o no , etc The silver Moon shall shine by day the golden Sun by night Ere I leave ( quoth he ) the way , that leads me to delight For silence is a grant in love , and for a Maiden fit , Then say no more discourteously , o no , no , etc The young man and the maiden then became united friends , She liked of him and he of her , and so their woeing ends , And she the married life did choose , as it was reason fit , where neither of them answered more o no , no , no , not yet . London Printed for F. Coals . T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. [ Clarke ] I'll never Love thee more being a true Love Song between a young Man and a Maid . To a new Tune called , Oh no , no , no not yet . M Y dear and only love take heed , how you your self dispose And let no wandering lovers feed , on such like looks as those , I'll marble wall thee round about , being built without a door , Where if thy heart but once break out Il never love thee more , Let not their oaths ( like Gollies shot ) make any breach at all , For smoothness of their cunning plots which way to scale the wall : For balls of wild fire loud consume , the shrine that I adore , But if such smoke about thee fume , I'll never love thee more . I know thy virtues are so strong , theyle suffer no surprise , Maintained by my love so long , at last the siege must rise , And leave the ruler in such health , and state it was before , But if thou prove a common wealth , I'll never etc Or if by fraud or by consent , my heart to ruin come , I'll never found Trumpet as I meant , nor march by found of Drum , But hold mine arms and Ensigns up , thy falsehood to deplore , And after such a common cup , I'll never . etc I'll do by thee as Nero did when Rome was set on fire , Not only all relief forbid , but backwards quite retire : And scorn to shed a tear to see , thy spirit grown so poor , But smiling sing thus unto thee , I'll never etc But if thou wilt continue true , Leander I will prove , As he to Hero I to you , will ( swimming ) drown for love Oh be not like to Cressida as now be lovers store , That I no cause may have to say , I'll never etc . If thou like Helena of Greece , wilt falsify thy word , Thy Jason for the golden Fleece like measure will afford , And choose some rare Penelope , with virtues to adore , That I may justly say to thee , I'll never etc But if thy heart like milk white snow will melt and mollify , Or as the Turtle true love show and for our parting die , Then shall our loves fast settled be upon no sandy shore , And I will say my dear to thee , I'll love thee evermore . A Young man walked once alone abroad to take the Air It was his chance to meet a maid of beauty passing fair , He asked her in secrecy , down by him for to fit , She answered him with modesty o no , no , no , not yet Forty Crowns I will give thee sweet heart in good read gold , To live with me and be my love say shall the bargain hold , She answered him most modestly and with a pregnant wit : A married wife I will not be , o not etc Gold and Silver are but dross , and soon will fade away , While virtue in a virgins breast , will have a longer stay , Then think me not to be so found , and of so little wit : To fell away my liberty , o no , etc Some of our sex you say are weak and easy to be won , But you shall find in all my way , your sugared words I'll shun I will not overtaken be , in any thing unfit Nor trust unto a tempting tongue o no etc O be not so unkind my dear , the young man then replied The tongue does tell what pain & amp ; grief we lovers do abide , If hand and heart but once agree , commanded is the wit Then say no more my dear to me , o no no , etc If I should trust thy words quoth she , where falsehood does remain , To call my Virgins freedom back , I think it be but vain : Therefore to choose a man to wed , requires the choicest wit , Then let me have a time to say , o no , etc The silver Moon shall shine by day the golden Sun by night Ere I leave ( quoth he ) the way , that leads me to delight For silence is a grant in love , and for a Maiden fit , Then say no more discourteously , o no , no , etc The young man and the maiden then became united friends , She liked of him and he of her , and so their woeing ends , And she the married life did choose , as it was reason fit , where neither of them answered more o no , no , no , not yet . London Printed for F. Coals . T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. [ Clarke ] 