The Windsor GALLANT Courting the Country Farmers Daughter . To a New Tune played at the Court ; or , The Usurers Daughter This may be Printed , R. L. S. L Et my Fairest Virgin prove most kind to me , gentle Cupid most delightful is , No Swain shall be ever truer unto thee , fairest let me taste one tempting kiss : Beauty like sweet Venus should be kind to men , Prithee let me kiss thee once again . Love is not a Duel cruel and unkind , But most soft and sweet to Maidens mind : For pleasure in sweet Loving Lovers always find , Therefore tender Beauty's should be kind . Let no fine young Gallant think to conquer me , though you seem to be both young and fair , Such falce hearted Lovers Maids may daily see , though to us divinely men appear , We should not believe Loves soft and pleasing Tale , lest he should upon our hearts prevail . Cupid is a Duel cruel and unkind , Neither soft nor sweet to Maidens mind , For in Loves pleasures Torments lovers often find Therefore Beauty's never should be kind . Mark how Golden Flowers in their bloom & amp ; prime , sweetly to our eyes appear all gay , But must lose their beauty's in a little time , let not youth and beauty post away : Now while we have time let us advantage take , For Old Age young Cupid does forsake . L ove is not a Duel cruel and unkind , But most soft and sweet to Maidens mind ; For pleasure in sweet Loving Lovers always find Therefore tender Beauty's should be kind . Men are false as Dice , as vows they make in Wine maidens may not trust their hearts with these , For although they court with words most kind & amp ; fair yet like wind they fly away with ease : Nothing can be certain that you men relate , For where you pretend to Love you hate . Cupid is a Duel cruel and unkind , Neither soft nor sweet to Maidens mind , For in Loves pleasures , torments lovers often find Therefore Beauty's never should be kind , These are words become Old dull and frosty age , let us think of all true Lovers joys , Let us now our tender hearts to each engage , that we may have a young raze of Boys ; Beauty is a Banquet that young Love should feast , That Old crazy Time should never taste . Love is not a Duel cruel and unkind , But most soft and sweet to Maidens mind , For pleasure in sweet Loving Lovers always [ find ] Therefore tender Beauty's should be kind . Wisely I'll take warning and those pleasure fe [ are ] Cupid in Maids ruin takes delight , Therefore his sweet Banquet I must needs forb [ ear ] and not think upon the tempting night ; lest like some young Bird I fallen into the net , Which I wisely have avoided yet : Cupid is a Duel cruel and unkind , Neither soft nor sweet to Maidens mind , For in loves pleasures torments lovers often [ find ] Therefore B eauties never should be kind . If you fallen this in your Lovers tender arms , nothing can more soft and easy be , There i'll keep my dear secure and safe from would [ rm ] till we both the morning daylight see : These are harmless pleasures which the Swain [ ? ] pr [ ? ] And forsakes his Flock to feast with Love . Love is not a Duel cruel and unkind , But most soft and sweet to Maidens mind , For pleasure in sweet Loving Lovers always fi [ and ] Therefore tender Beauty's should be kind . Printed for C. Dennisson , at the Stationers-Arms within Aldgate . The Windsor GALLANT Courting the Country Farmers Daughter . To a New Tune played at the Court ; or , The Usurers Daughter This may be Printed , R. L. S. L Et my Fairest Virgin prove most kind to me , gentle Cupid most delightful is , No Swain shall be ever truer unto thee , fairest let me taste one tempting kiss : Beauty like sweet Venus should be kind to men , Prithee let me kiss thee once again . Love is not a Duel cruel and unkind , But most soft and sweet to Maidens mind : For pleasure in sweet Loving Lovers always find , Therefore tender Beauty's should be kind . Let no fine young Gallant think to conquer me , though you seem to be both young and fair , Such falce hearted Lovers Maids may daily see , though to us divinely men appear , We should not believe Loves soft and pleasing Tale , lest he should upon our hearts prevail . Cupid is a Duel cruel and unkind , Neither soft nor sweet to Maidens mind , For in Loves pleasures Torments lovers often find Therefore Beauty's never should be kind . Mark how Golden Flowers in their bloom & amp ; prime , sweetly to our eyes appear all gay , But must lose their beauty's in a little time , let not youth and beauty post away : Now while we have time let us advantage take , For Old Age young Cupid does forsake . L ove is not a Duel cruel and unkind , But most soft and sweet to Maidens mind ; For pleasure in sweet Loving Lovers always find Therefore tender Beauty's should be kind . Men are false as Dice , as vows they make in Wine maidens may not trust their hearts with these , For although they court with words most kind & amp ; fair yet like wind they fly away with ease : Nothing can be certain that you men relate , For where you pretend to Love you hate . Cupid is a Duel cruel and unkind , Neither soft nor sweet to Maidens mind , For in Loves pleasures , torments lovers often find Therefore Beauty's never should be kind , These are words become Old dull and frosty age , let us think of all true Lovers joys , Let us now our tender hearts to each engage , that we may have a young raze of Boys ; Beauty is a Banquet that young Love should feast , That Old crazy Time should never taste . Love is not a Duel cruel and unkind , But most soft and sweet to Maidens mind , For pleasure in sweet Loving Lovers always [ find ] Therefore tender Beauty's should be kind . Wisely I'll take warning and those pleasure fe [ are ] Cupid in Maids ruin takes delight , Therefore his sweet Banquet I must needs forb [ ear ] and not think upon the tempting night ; lest like some young Bird I fallen into the net , Which I wisely have avoided yet : Cupid is a Duel cruel and unkind , Neither soft nor sweet to Maidens mind , For in loves pleasures torments lovers often [ find ] Therefore B eauties never should be kind . If you fallen this in your Lovers tender arms , nothing can more soft and easy be , There i'll keep my dear secure and safe from would [ rm ] till we both the morning daylight see : These are harmless pleasures which the Swain [ ? ] pr [ ? ] And forsakes his Flock to feast with Love . Love is not a Duel cruel and unkind , But most soft and sweet to Maidens mind , For pleasure in sweet Loving Lovers always fi [ and ] Therefore tender Beauty's should be kind . Printed for C. Dennisson , at the Stationers-Arms within Aldgate . 