The Loving Shepherd : Or , Phaon is humble Petition to Beautiful Phillis , who readily answered his Request . To and Excellent New Tune much in Request . Licensed according to Order . W hen first on my Phillis I cast my eye , I wished to enjoy her or else to die , When first on my Phillis I cast my eye , I wished to enjoy her or else to die , But she was so cruel she would not give One token of love , that I might live , Phillis , said I , remove your disdain , And yield some relief to your restless Swain . O what Torments I endure both day and night , I never can enjoy her nor take delight ; Oh what Torments I endure both day and night , I never can enjoy her , nor take delight ; But then she cried out , Oh you gods be kind , The pleasures of love has possessed my mind ; Thus all the night long our pastime was sweet , Till at length our joys called us fast a sleep . W Hen from those soft slumbers we did awake , She bid me my sorrowful sighs forsake ; When from those soft slumbers we did awake , She bid me my sorrowful sighs forsake , Since she in a Vision of love beheld , Those innocent joys which her heart had filled So that she could no ways my suit deny , Fair Phillis was wounded as well as I . So soon as I found her to love incline , No joy in the world was so great as mine , So soon as I found her to love incline , No joy in the world was so great as mine , Instead of the frowns which had wounded me , I taken was then with and Ecstasy , Said I loving Phillis whom I adore , Grant me but thy favour I ask no more . For thou art my Jewel and only joy , Which can all my trouble and grief destroy , For thou art my Jewel and only joy , Which can all my trouble and grief destroy , And since thou are willing to grant me love , I tell thee by all the Powers above , There's none in the World I adore but thee , Fair Phillis my Amorous love , said he . Kind Phaon such passionate pains I feel , That I can no longer my love conceal , Kind Phaon such passionate flames I feel , That I can no longer my love conceal , The Conquering power of Cupid is dart , Will make me surrender my yielding heart , And thou shalt enjoy it my dear said she , For why I can give it to none but thee . But if after all you ungrateful prove To Phillis , your faithful and entire love , But if after all you ungrateful prove , To Phillis your faithful and entire love ; In slighting the Favours which I bestow , My eyes will like Rivers and Fountains flow , For true love it is a tormenting pain , When ever requited with [ s ] ad disdain . Fair Phillis by all the Powers Divine , For ever , for ever I will be that [ i ] ne , Fair Phillis be all the Powers Divine , For ever , for ever I will be thine ; In Bowers of Pleasure our days we'll spend , Fair Phillis my true and entire Friend , Young Cupids with garlands shall crown my dear Who does like the Goddess of Love appear . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back , The Loving Shepherd : Or , Phaon is humble Petition to Beautiful Phillis , who readily answered his Request . To and Excellent New Tune much in Request . Licensed according to Order . W hen first on my Phillis I cast my eye , I wished to enjoy her or else to die , When first on my Phillis I cast my eye , I wished to enjoy her or else to die , But she was so cruel she would not give One token of love , that I might live , Phillis , said I , remove your disdain , And yield some relief to your restless Swain . O what Torments I endure both day and night , I never can enjoy her nor take delight ; Oh what Torments I endure both day and night , I never can enjoy her , nor take delight ; But then she cried out , Oh you gods be kind , The pleasures of love has possessed my mind ; Thus all the night long our pastime was sweet , Till at length our joys called us fast a sleep . W Hen from those soft slumbers we did awake , She bid me my sorrowful sighs forsake ; When from those soft slumbers we did awake , She bid me my sorrowful sighs forsake , Since she in a Vision of love beheld , Those innocent joys which her heart had filled So that she could no ways my suit deny , Fair Phillis was wounded as well as I . So soon as I found her to love incline , No joy in the world was so great as mine , So soon as I found her to love incline , No joy in the world was so great as mine , Instead of the frowns which had wounded me , I taken was then with and Ecstasy , Said I loving Phillis whom I adore , Grant me but thy favour I ask no more . For thou art my Jewel and only joy , Which can all my trouble and grief destroy , For thou art my Jewel and only joy , Which can all my trouble and grief destroy , And since thou are willing to grant me love , I tell thee by all the Powers above , There's none in the World I adore but thee , Fair Phillis my Amorous love , said he . Kind Phaon such passionate pains I feel , That I can no longer my love conceal , Kind Phaon such passionate flames I feel , That I can no longer my love conceal , The Conquering power of Cupid is dart , Will make me surrender my yielding heart , And thou shalt enjoy it my dear said she , For why I can give it to none but thee . But if after all you ungrateful prove To Phillis , your faithful and entire love , But if after all you ungrateful prove , To Phillis your faithful and entire love ; In slighting the Favours which I bestow , My eyes will like Rivers and Fountains flow , For true love it is a tormenting pain , When ever requited with [ s ] ad disdain . Fair Phillis by all the Powers Divine , For ever , for ever I will be that [ i ] ne , Fair Phillis be all the Powers Divine , For ever , for ever I will be thine ; In Bowers of Pleasure our days we'll spend , Fair Phillis my true and entire Friend , Young Cupids with garlands shall crown my dear Who does like the Goddess of Love appear . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back , 