THE Kentish Yeoman : Containing , The Honest plain Wooing between a Young-Man of Maidstone , and Fair Sum - san of Ashford . Tune is , The Ring of Gold . Licensed according to Order . A Wealthy Yeoman's Son , fancied fair Susan , Thoughts in his mind did run , which he did muse on ; Cupid ( that crafty Lad ) taught him his duty , Though she no portion had , but youthful Beauty . Often he sighing said , my dearest jewel , You have a Conquest made , Oh be not cruel , But grant what I will crave , to ease my anguish , A bleeding Lover save , why should I languish ? The Damsel then replied , Sir , talk your pleasure , You may enjoy a Bride endowed with Treasure ; Gold , likewise Land good store for your Promotion , But I Alas ! am Poor , and have no Portion . Thou art not Poor my Dear , nature's perfection , Ten Thousand Charms appear in thy Complexion ; The which I prize above the Gold of Cresus , I wed purely for love , That Jove may bless us . I love thee as my life , dearest believe me , And thou shalt be my Wife , if thou'lt receive me Into thy favour , Love do not deny me , I will most constant prove , sweet Creature try me . Said she , Shall I believe your protestations , Then hand and heart receive , but your Relations I fear will frown on me when I come near them , My dearest love ( said he ) thou needest not fear them . If that my Parents ever scornfully slight thee , I'll take the greater care Love , to delight thee , Ever thou shalt suffer wrong , or grief attend thee , I'll rush into the throng , still to defend thee . Come let us plighted our troth , why should we tarry , Fear not my Parents wrath , but let us marry , They'll soon be reconciled , though they may chide me , Having no other child alive beside me . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . THE Kentish Yeoman : Containing , The Honest plain Wooing between a Young-Man of Maidstone , and Fair Sum - san of Ashford . Tune is , The Ring of Gold . Licensed according to Order . A Wealthy Yeoman's Son , fancied fair Susan , Thoughts in his mind did run , which he did muse on ; Cupid ( that crafty Lad ) taught him his duty , Though she no portion had , but youthful Beauty . Often he sighing said , my dearest jewel , You have a Conquest made , Oh be not cruel , But grant what I will crave , to ease my anguish , A bleeding Lover save , why should I languish ? The Damsel then replied , Sir , talk your pleasure , You may enjoy a Bride endowed with Treasure ; Gold , likewise Land good store for your Promotion , But I Alas ! am Poor , and have no Portion . Thou art not Poor my Dear , nature's perfection , Ten Thousand Charms appear in thy Complexion ; The which I prize above the Gold of Cresus , I wed purely for love , That Jove may bless us . I love thee as my life , dearest believe me , And thou shalt be my Wife , if thou'lt receive me Into thy favour , Love do not deny me , I will most constant prove , sweet Creature try me . Said she , Shall I believe your protestations , Then hand and heart receive , but your Relations I fear will frown on me when I come near them , My dearest love ( said he ) thou needest not fear them . If that my Parents ever scornfully slight thee , I'll take the greater care Love , to delight thee , Ever thou shalt suffer wrong , or grief attend thee , I'll rush into the throng , still to defend thee . Come let us plighted our troth , why should we tarry , Fear not my Parents wrath , but let us marry , They'll soon be reconciled , though they may chide me , Having no other child alive beside me . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 