A NEW SUMMONS TO GREEN-GOOSE-FAIR ; Or , The Young-Men and Maidens Joy and Mirth . The Damsels find Young-Men most Kind , no Charges will they spare , Give them Green-Geese , with Love and Peace , then Heigh for Green-Goose-Fair . To the Tune of , She god Money byed . This may be Printed , R. P. Y Oung Men and Maidens all arrow , both cheerful , brisk , and jolly , To Green-Goose - Fair I'de have you go ; with all my heart , quoth Dolly : And so said Janey , nay Will and Nanny , we having time and leisure , To Green-Goose-Fair we will repair , it is a place of pleasure . And as along the Fields they pass the young Men seldom misses , But on the Grass they give each Lass a Gown of Green , with Kisses : And though they tease they , it's known they please they , they love it out of measure , They all declare , that Green-Goose-Fair is still a place of pleasure . Brave Gallants they in Coaches Ride , because they won't be Weary , With sumptuous Ladies by their side , both lively , brisk , and Airy : In Hat and Feather , brave Gallants come thither , and freely spend their Treasure At Green-Goose-Fair , for they declare , it is a place of pleasure . Whole Loads of Damsels may be seen , all decked with Fragrant Flowers , The cart adorned with Boughs of Green , like Flora's pleasant Bowers : They all are jolly , Sue , Kate , and Dolly , they having time and leisure , Thus I declare , that Green-Goose-Fair , is still a place of pleasure . A S soon as they the Fair behold , Oh how they Skip and Caper , To see the Green Geese bought and sold , and Ralph does bounce and vapour : Upon his Jenny , he'l spend a Guinny , he value's not his Treasure , Thus I declare , that Green-Goose-Fair , is still a place of pleasure . The Fair is full of Feasting then , from one end to the other , And Maids are Treated by the Men , who can't their Passion smother : Then they to Courting , and frequent Sporting , with Kisses out of measure , So Green-Goose-Fair , the Maids declare , to be a place of pleasure . The Music tends upon them too , the Bag-Pipes and the Crowder , And then bespeaks the Jovial Crew , you Rascals play up louder : They trip and tumble , the Maids they jumble , and Kiss them out of measure , Thus Green-Goose-Fair , the Maids declare , to be the place of pleasure . Quoth Ralph , my Jone , this Golden Ring i'll give thee for a Faring , And if thou'lt have a better thing , thou knowest I am not sparing : Quoth Jone , I'll take it , and not forsake it , but hoard it as choice Treasure , Quoth she , i'll Swear , that Green-Goose-Fair , affords much joy and pleasure . The Maids was loath for to depart , they were too well befriended , They could have wished with all their heart , the Fair would not be ended Till Winter Season , for why , by reason , they find such joy and Treasure , They vow and Swear , that Green-Goose-Fair , affords most pleasing pleasure . The Day is spent with much Delight , and pleasing Recreations , In Droves they home return at Night , unto their habitations : Where they a Story , of all the Glory , they do relate at leisure , None can compare with Green-Goose-Fair , for Pastime , Mirth , and Pleasure . FINIS . Printed for C. Dennisson , within Aldgate . A NEW SUMMONS TO GREEN-GOOSE-FAIR ; Or , The Young-Men and Maidens Joy and Mirth . The Damsels find Young-Men most Kind , no Charges will they spare , Give them Green-Geese , with Love and Peace , then Heigh for Green-Goose-Fair . To the Tune of , She god Money byed . This may be Printed , R. P. Y Oung Men and Maidens all arrow , both cheerful , brisk , and jolly , To Green-Goose - Fair I'de have you go ; with all my heart , quoth Dolly : And so said Janey , nay Will and Nanny , we having time and leisure , To Green-Goose-Fair we will repair , it is a place of pleasure . And as along the Fields they pass the young Men seldom misses , But on the Grass they give each Lass a Gown of Green , with Kisses : And though they tease they , it's known they please they , they love it out of measure , They all declare , that Green-Goose-Fair is still a place of pleasure . Brave Gallants they in Coaches Ride , because they won't be Weary , With sumptuous Ladies by their side , both lively , brisk , and Airy : In Hat and Feather , brave Gallants come thither , and freely spend their Treasure At Green-Goose-Fair , for they declare , it is a place of pleasure . Whole Loads of Damsels may be seen , all decked with Fragrant Flowers , The cart adorned with Boughs of Green , like Flora's pleasant Bowers : They all are jolly , Sue , Kate , and Dolly , they having time and leisure , Thus I declare , that Green-Goose-Fair , is still a place of pleasure . A S soon as they the Fair behold , Oh how they Skip and Caper , To see the Green Geese bought and sold , and Ralph does bounce and vapour : Upon his Jenny , he'l spend a Guinny , he value's not his Treasure , Thus I declare , that Green-Goose-Fair , is still a place of pleasure . The Fair is full of Feasting then , from one end to the other , And Maids are Treated by the Men , who can't their Passion smother : Then they to Courting , and frequent Sporting , with Kisses out of measure , So Green-Goose-Fair , the Maids declare , to be a place of pleasure . The Music tends upon them too , the Bag-Pipes and the Crowder , And then bespeaks the Jovial Crew , you Rascals play up louder : They trip and tumble , the Maids they jumble , and Kiss them out of measure , Thus Green-Goose-Fair , the Maids declare , to be the place of pleasure . Quoth Ralph , my Jone , this Golden Ring i'll give thee for a Faring , And if thou'lt have a better thing , thou knowest I am not sparing : Quoth Jone , I'll take it , and not forsake it , but hoard it as choice Treasure , Quoth she , i'll Swear , that Green-Goose-Fair , affords much joy and pleasure . The Maids was loath for to depart , they were too well befriended , They could have wished with all their heart , the Fair would not be ended Till Winter Season , for why , by reason , they find such joy and Treasure , They vow and Swear , that Green-Goose-Fair , affords most pleasing pleasure . The Day is spent with much Delight , and pleasing Recreations , In Droves they home return at Night , unto their habitations : Where they a Story , of all the Glory , they do relate at leisure , None can compare with Green-Goose-Fair , for Pastime , Mirth , and Pleasure . FINIS . Printed for C. Dennisson , within Aldgate . 