THE Young Damsels Lamentation : OR , THEIR Dreadful Outcry against the late Punching , WHICH Has cracked above four hundred and fifty West-country Maidenheads . To the Tune of , The Scotch Haymakers . H Ere's a Lamentation that's spread abroad of late , Young Girls do sighs and wimper to see their wretched state ; Let me tell you now in brief , though the Punching-trade in chief , Was much admired , and desired now poor Girls with grief , Through Town and City they make sad moan , Young Susan , Nancy , Kate , Ginney , likewise Doll and Joan : Poor Girls they're almost wild , to see themselves defiled , This Punching , Punching , Oh this Punching , has their glory spoiled . Was it not a pleasure to e'ry handsome Maid , When first they herd the tidings , of this new Punching-trade & amp ; Of a truth it was we know , they with cheerful Hearts did go , Without delaying , begging , praying , for to Punch them so , As other Damsels had been before ; Nay , some would need's be Punched , full a dozen times or more : But now they're almost wild , to see themselves defied , This Punching , Punching , Oh this Punching , has their [ glory ] spoiled . Doll , went to the Miller when first she herd the news , Declaring with a smile , he must not the least refuse For to Punch her out of hand . He replied , I will not stand , For such a kindness , without shyness , straight he took in hand His Punch , and pleesed her passing well ; But now , alas ! she finds that her Womb begins to swell , Which makes her most wild , she can't be reconciled , This Punching , Punching , Oh this Punching , has her glory spoiled . We are told at Reading , Young Men were so unkind , That pretty youthful Lasses could not a Puncher find , Without ready Money down , some a guinney some a crown , Young mistress Nancy , for her fancy , fairly pawned her gown , Then to a Plowman a way she went , Who pleased her with his Punch , but too late she does repent : For she is almost wild , and can't be reconciled , This Punching , Punching O this Punching , has her glory spoiled . Then a Taylor's Daughter , young Genny , called by name , Full freighted with desire , to Roger strait she came , I am Punchable she cried , therefore will not be denied ; He being willing , for a shilling , readily complied , She gave it freely with all her heart , Because he should not fail for to play a Lovers part : But now she's almost wild , finding herself defiled , This punching , Punching , etc Many pretty Lasses might have a slender flaw , Before this Punching time , which they valued not a straw ; But with Punching them anew , they are cracked quite through and through That none will take them , but forsake them , ah ! what will they do ? Burmigem Money will pass as well , As one of these poor Girls , it is a dismal tale to tell : Now , now they're almost wild , finding themselves defiled , This Punching , Punching , etc In the Town of Plymouth , it seems there's sevenscore , At Exeter and Weymouth , there's twice as many more ; Nay , they have been double done , since this Punching-trade begun , The Girls did crave it , and would have it , Man nor Mother's Son , Could be at rest if a Punch he had They came from Town , to Town , just as if they had been mad : But now they're worst than wild , finding themselves with Child , This Punching , Punching , Oh this Punching , has their glory spoiled . London : Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Giltspur-street . THE Young Damsels Lamentation : OR , THEIR Dreadful Outcry against the late Punching , WHICH Has cracked above four hundred and fifty West-country Maidenheads . To the Tune of , The Scotch Haymakers . H Ere's a Lamentation that's spread abroad of late , Young Girls do sighs and wimper to see their wretched state ; Let me tell you now in brief , though the Punching-trade in chief , Was much admired , and desired now poor Girls with grief , Through Town and City they make sad moan , Young Susan , Nancy , Kate , Ginney , likewise Doll and Joan : Poor Girls they're almost wild , to see themselves defiled , This Punching , Punching , Oh this Punching , has their glory spoiled . Was it not a pleasure to e'ry handsome Maid , When first they herd the tidings , of this new Punching-trade & amp ; Of a truth it was we know , they with cheerful Hearts did go , Without delaying , begging , praying , for to Punch them so , As other Damsels had been before ; Nay , some would need's be Punched , full a dozen times or more : But now they're almost wild , to see themselves defied , This Punching , Punching , Oh this Punching , has their [ glory ] spoiled . Doll , went to the Miller when first she herd the news , Declaring with a smile , he must not the least refuse For to Punch her out of hand . He replied , I will not stand , For such a kindness , without shyness , straight he took in hand His Punch , and pleesed her passing well ; But now , alas ! she finds that her Womb begins to swell , Which makes her most wild , she can't be reconciled , This Punching , Punching , Oh this Punching , has her glory spoiled . We are told at Reading , Young Men were so unkind , That pretty youthful Lasses could not a Puncher find , Without ready Money down , some a guinney some a crown , Young mistress Nancy , for her fancy , fairly pawned her gown , Then to a Plowman a way she went , Who pleased her with his Punch , but too late she does repent : For she is almost wild , and can't be reconciled , This Punching , Punching O this Punching , has her glory spoiled . Then a Taylor's Daughter , young Genny , called by name , Full freighted with desire , to Roger strait she came , I am Punchable she cried , therefore will not be denied ; He being willing , for a shilling , readily complied , She gave it freely with all her heart , Because he should not fail for to play a Lovers part : But now she's almost wild , finding herself defiled , This punching , Punching , etc Many pretty Lasses might have a slender flaw , Before this Punching time , which they valued not a straw ; But with Punching them anew , they are cracked quite through and through That none will take them , but forsake them , ah ! what will they do ? Burmigem Money will pass as well , As one of these poor Girls , it is a dismal tale to tell : Now , now they're almost wild , finding themselves defiled , This Punching , Punching , etc In the Town of Plymouth , it seems there's sevenscore , At Exeter and Weymouth , there's twice as many more ; Nay , they have been double done , since this Punching-trade begun , The Girls did crave it , and would have it , Man nor Mother's Son , Could be at rest if a Punch he had They came from Town , to Town , just as if they had been mad : But now they're worst than wild , finding themselves with Child , This Punching , Punching , Oh this Punching , has their glory spoiled . London : Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Giltspur-street . 