The Combers Whistle OR , The Sport of the Spring . This story plain will make appear , What mettle-men the Combers are , And that they are no whit afraid , To entertain a pretty Maid ; The pleasant time in mirth they spent , Whereas he gave her good content . Tune of , The Carmans Whistle . With Allowance , Ro. L'Estrange . A LL in a pleasant Morning , in the Merry Month of May ; Walking the fragrant Meadows , where the Comber took his way : And viewing round about him , whereas he did remain ; At length he spied a fair Maid , upon the flowery Plain . So cheerful was her countenance , and lovely to behold , She seemed as if that Venus fair , was of the self same Mould . And many a smirk , and smile she gave , all in the Meadows green , I could compare her unto none , but unto Loves fair Queen . At length she turned her smiling into a lovesick song , Lamenting of her woeful chance , she stayed a Maid so long : There's many that are younger then I , that have been wed ; Yet still I fear that I shall die , and keep my Maidenhead . My Father's rich and wealthy , and hath no Child but I , But still I want a Husband , to keep me company : My years are young and tender , and I am fair and tall , Yet there is never a youngman , will comfort me at all . TO He blossoms of my beauty , I think may well invite , Some Bachelor of fortune good , to take me for his right ; For why I dare presume it , there's few does me excel , As it is manifest and plain , to all that know me well . How happy are those Virgins all , that in the City throng , For they have Sweethearts plenty , and never live single long ; Which makes me grieve so sadly , that yet I am not sped , For in plain terms , to tell you true , I long for to be wed . This Comber he stood listening , to hear her make such moan , His heart was sorely grieved , to see her all alone ; He quickly stepped unto her , and with a joyful cheer , Quoth he fair Maid I chanced , your mournful Song to hear . And now I'm come to ease you of all your grief and pain , For why , I well can please you , by Whistling of a strain ; Quoth she I long to hear it , so well that you can play , Then prithee go about it straight , because I hate delay . Then he pulled forth his Whistle and played a note or two ; The Maid she was so overjoyed , she knew not what to do : And well she was contented , with him to bear a part , A blessing said this Maiden fair , light on this Combers heart . Quoth she , I prithee tell me , where didst thou learn this game , It was a young brisk Journeyman that made it for his Dame . With which he oft did please her , as she to him did say , And charged him that he should not see , the Whistle made away . Then she did him desire one other Tune to play , Which made her so admire she thus to him did say : Of all the pleasant Music that ever I did know ; The Combers merry Whistle , shall for my money go . O when shall we two meet again , for pleasure and delight ? At any time or season , by day , or eke by night : Then count me very slothful , if that you send for me , When as I fail to meet my Dear : so take these Kisses three . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . The Combers Whistle OR , The Sport of the Spring . This story plain will make appear , What mettle-men the Combers are , And that they are no whit afraid , To entertain a pretty Maid ; The pleasant time in mirth they spent , Whereas he gave her good content . Tune of , The Carmans Whistle . With Allowance , Ro. L'Estrange . A LL in a pleasant Morning , in the Merry Month of May ; Walking the fragrant Meadows , where the Comber took his way : And viewing round about him , whereas he did remain ; At length he spied a fair Maid , upon the flowery Plain . So cheerful was her countenance , and lovely to behold , She seemed as if that Venus fair , was of the self same Mould . And many a smirk , and smile she gave , all in the Meadows green , I could compare her unto none , but unto Loves fair Queen . At length she turned her smiling into a lovesick song , Lamenting of her woeful chance , she stayed a Maid so long : There's many that are younger then I , that have been wed ; Yet still I fear that I shall die , and keep my Maidenhead . My Father's rich and wealthy , and hath no Child but I , But still I want a Husband , to keep me company : My years are young and tender , and I am fair and tall , Yet there is never a youngman , will comfort me at all . TO He blossoms of my beauty , I think may well invite , Some Bachelor of fortune good , to take me for his right ; For why I dare presume it , there's few does me excel , As it is manifest and plain , to all that know me well . How happy are those Virgins all , that in the City throng , For they have Sweethearts plenty , and never live single long ; Which makes me grieve so sadly , that yet I am not sped , For in plain terms , to tell you true , I long for to be wed . This Comber he stood listening , to hear her make such moan , His heart was sorely grieved , to see her all alone ; He quickly stepped unto her , and with a joyful cheer , Quoth he fair Maid I chanced , your mournful Song to hear . And now I'm come to ease you of all your grief and pain , For why , I well can please you , by Whistling of a strain ; Quoth she I long to hear it , so well that you can play , Then prithee go about it straight , because I hate delay . Then he pulled forth his Whistle and played a note or two ; The Maid she was so overjoyed , she knew not what to do : And well she was contented , with him to bear a part , A blessing said this Maiden fair , light on this Combers heart . Quoth she , I prithee tell me , where didst thou learn this game , It was a young brisk Journeyman that made it for his Dame . With which he oft did please her , as she to him did say , And charged him that he should not see , the Whistle made away . Then she did him desire one other Tune to play , Which made her so admire she thus to him did say : Of all the pleasant Music that ever I did know ; The Combers merry Whistle , shall for my money go . O when shall we two meet again , for pleasure and delight ? At any time or season , by day , or eke by night : Then count me very slothful , if that you send for me , When as I fail to meet my Dear : so take these Kisses three . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . 