The Country Lass , Who left her Spinning-Wheel for a more pleasant Employment . To the Tune of My Maid Marry . Licensed according to Order . S Weet faced Jenny received a Guinea , but she lost her Maidenhead just at that time , But the golden Guinea bright , Was so pleasant to her sighed , that she accounted the since no Crime ; Saying , Mother the Wanton I played , But for the same I have been well paid , I had Gold and Treasure beside the Pleasure , It's better for me than the Spinning-Trade . 'Twas a Squire that did admire , the Beautiful Charms of your Daughter , she cried And among the Cocks of Hay , There we did both sport and play , what he required I never denied Mother sure you will not be concerned That I my Money so soon have earned , I leave off this Spinning of Woollen and Linen , And follow the Trade I now have learned . Then her Mother above all other , straight told her she was a young Harlot indeed , Likewise in a Rage she said , You have lost your Maidenhead , who shall maintain your young Bastard Breed ? She replied to her Mother again , You have no reason for to complain , by my endeavour I labour ever , Myself Like a Lady here to maintain . I but Daughter you'll find hereafter , by young Men and Lasses you will be reviled , Thomas , Harry , Sue , and Nell , When they see your Belly swell , and you no Father have for your Child : Susan , Nancy , nay Bridget and Priss , They'll all cry out , you have done amiss ; It is not a Guinea , my Daughter Jenny , Can never repair such a Breach as this . I'll never fear it , who ever comes near it , shall give me the Money before they begin , Then I never shall be poor , But have Gold and Silver store , whoever loses I'm sure to win ; The young Squire will come every day , And for his Pastime will freely pay : my Spinning and Carding is not worth a Farthing , I'll fling both my Rock and my Reel away . Virgin Treasure I'll use at pleasure , why should not young Lasses make use of their own I have been tormented soar , Seventeen long years and more , while I was forced to lie alone , Now I'm beloved by the Squire in Town , Who is a Person of high Renown , therefore I'm a Lady methinks already , Although I am clothed in a Russet Gown . Won't it grieve you if he should leave you ? come tell me Dear Daughter her Mother replied . When your Coats too short are grown , You may lie and make your moan . Mother I pray now forbear to chide ; If at length I should happen to breed , I'll hasten to my old Love with speed , the Miller , young Harry , with him I'll marry , He'll serve for a Cloak in the time of need . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . The Country Lass , Who left her Spinning-Wheel for a more pleasant Employment . To the Tune of My Maid Marry . Licensed according to Order . S Weet faced Jenny received a Guinea , but she lost her Maidenhead just at that time , But the golden Guinea bright , Was so pleasant to her sighed , that she accounted the since no Crime ; Saying , Mother the Wanton I played , But for the same I have been well paid , I had Gold and Treasure beside the Pleasure , It's better for me than the Spinning-Trade . 'Twas a Squire that did admire , the Beautiful Charms of your Daughter , she cried And among the Cocks of Hay , There we did both sport and play , what he required I never denied Mother sure you will not be concerned That I my Money so soon have earned , I leave off this Spinning of Woollen and Linen , And follow the Trade I now have learned . Then her Mother above all other , straight told her she was a young Harlot indeed , Likewise in a Rage she said , You have lost your Maidenhead , who shall maintain your young Bastard Breed ? She replied to her Mother again , You have no reason for to complain , by my endeavour I labour ever , Myself Like a Lady here to maintain . I but Daughter you'll find hereafter , by young Men and Lasses you will be reviled , Thomas , Harry , Sue , and Nell , When they see your Belly swell , and you no Father have for your Child : Susan , Nancy , nay Bridget and Priss , They'll all cry out , you have done amiss ; It is not a Guinea , my Daughter Jenny , Can never repair such a Breach as this . I'll never fear it , who ever comes near it , shall give me the Money before they begin , Then I never shall be poor , But have Gold and Silver store , whoever loses I'm sure to win ; The young Squire will come every day , And for his Pastime will freely pay : my Spinning and Carding is not worth a Farthing , I'll fling both my Rock and my Reel away . Virgin Treasure I'll use at pleasure , why should not young Lasses make use of their own I have been tormented soar , Seventeen long years and more , while I was forced to lie alone , Now I'm beloved by the Squire in Town , Who is a Person of high Renown , therefore I'm a Lady methinks already , Although I am clothed in a Russet Gown . Won't it grieve you if he should leave you ? come tell me Dear Daughter her Mother replied . When your Coats too short are grown , You may lie and make your moan . Mother I pray now forbear to chide ; If at length I should happen to breed , I'll hasten to my old Love with speed , the Miller , young Harry , with him I'll marry , He'll serve for a Cloak in the time of need . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 