The two faithful Lovers , Or , A merry song in praise of Betty . Young men and maids I do intend To sing a song that's newly Penned ; And if you please to have it out , 'Twill please your fancies without doubt . By T.B. Tune of , the amorous Damsel of Bristol City . With Allowance . I N a May - Morning as I was walking I herd two Lovers together talking ; With words so sweet he spoke unto her , And thus he did begin to woo her : Said he , well met my deer [ s ] tO Betty , Thou art a Girl that is wondrous pretty ; If I could gain but your love and favour , I'ld be thy dearest Love for ever . Slight not Sweetheart this loving motion , A Hundred pound it is my Portion , But if we never enjoy one penny , Truelove is better than bags of Money . The Maids Answer . Good sir your words are kindly spoken , But hasty love is soonest broken ; It's good for you observe your doing , And be not yet too quick in wooing . If I should grant you my love to marry , Perhaps you'd wish you did longer tarry , And in one Year begin to flout me , And wish that you had gone without me . Some men do flout their Wives , it's certain And say they might had better fortune ; So thus they always frown and lower , And scarcely live one quiet hour . The men Answer . Sweetheart my love on thee is fixed , Both night and day I am perplexed ; Then prithee do not thou deny me , But come sweetheart and fit down by me . Doubt not sweetheart i'll never offend thee , My love is true which I pretend thee , I'll not forsake thee for Gold nor Money , Then do not slight me my dearest Honey . Betty blame me not for my speeches , I do not aim for Gold nor Riches , My heart is fixed without moving ; Sweet Betty be thou kind and loving . Grant but to me thy Love and Favour , Both day and night I hard will labour If that I have but health my honey Thou shalt not want for Meat nor Money . The maids Answer . Youngmen have such a way in wooing To vow and swear they'll still be loving ; Yet in one Year there is small regarding Which makes some Maids repent their bar-gai [ ning ] Yet if I thought your love was constant Which you pretend now at this instant , Methinks I cannot well deny thee Because with words you satisfy me . For what you said I do commend you , And in this cause I will befriend you ; Ask but the good will of my Father , And you and I will join together . The men Answer . O now thy words it does revive me , For I did fear thou wouldst deny me , While life does last isle never forsake thee , Since for my wife I mean to take thee . There is never a Maid in London City In my conceit is like my Betty , She is so handsome in her favour , I think my self a blessed to have her . So to conclude , I wish each Lover To prove so constant to each other As those two did , of whom i'm speaking , There need not be so much heart-breaking Printed for J. Wright . J. Clark . W. Thackery . and T. Passenger . The two faithful Lovers , Or , A merry song in praise of Betty . Young men and maids I do intend To sing a song that's newly Penned ; And if you please to have it out , 'Twill please your fancies without doubt . By T.B. Tune of , the amorous Damsel of Bristol City . With Allowance . I N a May - Morning as I was walking I herd two Lovers together talking ; With words so sweet he spoke unto her , And thus he did begin to woo her : Said he , well met my deer [ s ] tO Betty , Thou art a Girl that is wondrous pretty ; If I could gain but your love and favour , I'ld be thy dearest Love for ever . Slight not Sweetheart this loving motion , A Hundred pound it is my Portion , But if we never enjoy one penny , Truelove is better than bags of Money . The Maids Answer . Good sir your words are kindly spoken , But hasty love is soonest broken ; It's good for you observe your doing , And be not yet too quick in wooing . If I should grant you my love to marry , Perhaps you'd wish you did longer tarry , And in one Year begin to flout me , And wish that you had gone without me . Some men do flout their Wives , it's certain And say they might had better fortune ; So thus they always frown and lower , And scarcely live one quiet hour . The men Answer . Sweetheart my love on thee is fixed , Both night and day I am perplexed ; Then prithee do not thou deny me , But come sweetheart and fit down by me . Doubt not sweetheart i'll never offend thee , My love is true which I pretend thee , I'll not forsake thee for Gold nor Money , Then do not slight me my dearest Honey . Betty blame me not for my speeches , I do not aim for Gold nor Riches , My heart is fixed without moving ; Sweet Betty be thou kind and loving . Grant but to me thy Love and Favour , Both day and night I hard will labour If that I have but health my honey Thou shalt not want for Meat nor Money . The maids Answer . Youngmen have such a way in wooing To vow and swear they'll still be loving ; Yet in one Year there is small regarding Which makes some Maids repent their bar-gai [ ning ] Yet if I thought your love was constant Which you pretend now at this instant , Methinks I cannot well deny thee Because with words you satisfy me . For what you said I do commend you , And in this cause I will befriend you ; Ask but the good will of my Father , And you and I will join together . The men Answer . O now thy words it does revive me , For I did fear thou wouldst deny me , While life does last isle never forsake thee , Since for my wife I mean to take thee . There is never a Maid in London City In my conceit is like my Betty , She is so handsome in her favour , I think my self a blessed to have her . So to conclude , I wish each Lover To prove so constant to each other As those two did , of whom i'm speaking , There need not be so much heart-breaking Printed for J. Wright . J. Clark . W. Thackery . and T. Passenger . 