The FEMALE Ramblers . OR , The Three Buxom Lasses of Northampton-shire , Containing their pleasant Pastime at the Naggs-Head , together with many Intrigues that fol - lowed thereupon . Tune is , Let Cesar live long . Licensed according to Order . Y Ou Young-Men and Lasses I'ld have you take care , When you are returning from Market or Fair ; For fear you should stay at the Naggs-Head all night , To reap the found pleasures of wanton delight , And then send the Maids to the Doctors with speed , For Physic , lest any by sporting should breed , These Lasses were buxom and beautiful too , So long as they stayed with the Reveling Crew ; But yet after this upon All-Holland - Day , Poor Lasses they purged their sweet Beauty's away ; So that they lamented to see their sad Fate , And thus they repented a little too late . On last Christmas-Day as I here do profess , One of these young Maids in a delicate Dress , Came to a young Man and she gave him a smile , Now when she had been in his presence a while , She said , you may see I am delicate fine , Come kiss now , and hug me , I wish I was thine : This Damsel one day to the Town she would go , That her loving Gallant some kindness might show She sought him a while , but he could not be found , Yet still she kept hunting and searching all round , And said with a sighs and a sorrowful tear , If thou dost not come , I have no comfort here . Another young Damsel of this very Place , Did happen to be in a pitiful case , Her brawny Posteriors she chanced to let fly , Which run down her Stockings , and caused her to cry , Had ever poor Creature such fortune before , This woeful disaster does trouble me soar . At length some reflections by chance being spread , Concerning the wanton lewd lives they had led , To Northampton straight in a passion they go , To take forth a Warrant , in order to know Which was the most honest true Maid of the three , This was to be tried by a Justice Decree . Young Sarah was then in a passionate rage , And swore by her Maidenhead she would engage And honest men courage in short to pull down , And have all his Land for to buy her a Gown ; But straight he said to this young passionate Lass , He'd keep it when she had no Smock to her Arse . Fine delicate Mantua is these Damsels adore , With gay yellow Girdles , and twenty things more ; To make their sweet beauty most splendid appear , And yet these poor Lasses are never the near ; Alone without Husbands they're forced to lie , Which makes them right glad of a Touch by thee By . Young Lasses if you would your Credit maintain , Such idle lose Company strive to refrain ; It's true , I would have you be merry and wise , Lest you should your Maidenheads loose by surprise : For if that sweet Jewel should chance to be lost , You cannot regain it by infinite cost . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . The FEMALE Ramblers . OR , The Three Buxom Lasses of Northampton-shire , Containing their pleasant Pastime at the Naggs-Head , together with many Intrigues that fol - lowed thereupon . Tune is , Let Cesar live long . Licensed according to Order . Y Ou Young-Men and Lasses I'ld have you take care , When you are returning from Market or Fair ; For fear you should stay at the Naggs-Head all night , To reap the found pleasures of wanton delight , And then send the Maids to the Doctors with speed , For Physic , lest any by sporting should breed , These Lasses were buxom and beautiful too , So long as they stayed with the Reveling Crew ; But yet after this upon All-Holland - Day , Poor Lasses they purged their sweet Beauty's away ; So that they lamented to see their sad Fate , And thus they repented a little too late . On last Christmas-Day as I here do profess , One of these young Maids in a delicate Dress , Came to a young Man and she gave him a smile , Now when she had been in his presence a while , She said , you may see I am delicate fine , Come kiss now , and hug me , I wish I was thine : This Damsel one day to the Town she would go , That her loving Gallant some kindness might show She sought him a while , but he could not be found , Yet still she kept hunting and searching all round , And said with a sighs and a sorrowful tear , If thou dost not come , I have no comfort here . Another young Damsel of this very Place , Did happen to be in a pitiful case , Her brawny Posteriors she chanced to let fly , Which run down her Stockings , and caused her to cry , Had ever poor Creature such fortune before , This woeful disaster does trouble me soar . At length some reflections by chance being spread , Concerning the wanton lewd lives they had led , To Northampton straight in a passion they go , To take forth a Warrant , in order to know Which was the most honest true Maid of the three , This was to be tried by a Justice Decree . Young Sarah was then in a passionate rage , And swore by her Maidenhead she would engage And honest men courage in short to pull down , And have all his Land for to buy her a Gown ; But straight he said to this young passionate Lass , He'd keep it when she had no Smock to her Arse . Fine delicate Mantua is these Damsels adore , With gay yellow Girdles , and twenty things more ; To make their sweet beauty most splendid appear , And yet these poor Lasses are never the near ; Alone without Husbands they're forced to lie , Which makes them right glad of a Touch by thee By . Young Lasses if you would your Credit maintain , Such idle lose Company strive to refrain ; It's true , I would have you be merry and wise , Lest you should your Maidenheads loose by surprise : For if that sweet Jewel should chance to be lost , You cannot regain it by infinite cost . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 