The Bonny Lass of BRISTOL : Or , The Witty Wench of the WEST . [ S ] he many Suitors had who did Importune , [ B ] ut she in Ambush laid for a good Fortune ; And with Evasions shuffled off the rest , Until she found the Person she liked best : Who was much taken with her comely carriage , So by consent they freely joined in Marriage . To the Tune of , Sawny will never be my Love again . TO Here was a Lass her name was Nell , and she was brought up in Bristol Town ; And every Youngman liked her well , because she was of a lovely Brown : Of Courtship they were wondrous free , And every one cried Nelly is for me , But yet to the Bargain she would not agree , For Nelly was loath for to lie with a man . Her Father was of good Report , although not with much Riches b [ l ] est , He with good persons did Consort , and boar it out among the best : His Nelly was his only joy , For he was Father of never a Boy , To get her a portion he'l do what he can , But Nelly was loath for to lie with a man . A brisk young Gallant to her came , and Courted Nelly to be his Bride , It seems he was a Cock of the Game , for he was all to get up and Ride : He gave her Bracelets and fine things , He gave her Gloves , and he gave her Rings , And he wooed her to walk to the Silver Springs , But Nel [ l ] y was loath for to lie with a man . A spruce young Taylor came to Woo , and said her Beauty did him bewitch , But she with him had no mind to do , she told him he could not go through stitch : He cut such Capers in heat of Drink , To make the Coin in his pockets Chink . But she fancied he did of Cabbage stink : For Nelly was loath for to lie with a man . The Second part , To the same Tune . A late Disbanded Officer , came in with his Sword and periwig , And he like a cunning Sophister , asked Nell if she would with a soldier ligg : She told him she thought his means was short , And something else that should show her sport , And therefore he should not storm her Fort , for Nelly was loath for to lie with a man . The next that came was a Man of Law , a Pettifogger they did him call , But in his plea she found a Flaw , for she did hear that he had spent all : He bid her not disdain his suit , For at her Bar he could not be mute , He hoped ever long to have a Recruit , but Nelly was loath for to lie with a man . Then came a lusty Seaman bold , intending to Furl Nelly s Flagg , And in her Lap he flung good Gold , and of his Valour he much did brag : He showed her all his Wounds and scars , But those he had god Venus Wars , He kept to himself for fear of Jars , for Nelly was loath for to lie with a man . In came a man in a homely Weed , and he and Usurer seemed to be , He thought with Nelly that he might speed , because he had Gold and Silver free : But he was stricken well in Age , Which made fair Nelly to presage , That she with the Palsy would not engage : for Nelly was loath for lie with a man . A Farmers Son came next in place , who thought young Nelly s ground to Till , But his Behaviour did him disgrace , he could not work her to his Will : He told her of his Sheep and Cows , Of Horses , Oxen , and of Plows , And of what more , the Lord God knows : but Nelly was loath to lie with a man . A Doctor came to give Nelly a Pill , with Compliments he was prepared . But she like a cunning Gypsie still , securely stood upon the Guard : With many more too long to tell Who came to Court this Bonny Nell But she was for one that did Excel : but Nelly was loath to lie with a man . At length a Gallant of Renown , who was with Riches well possessed , He with her Beauty was smitten down , and thought to have her he should be blessed : She fancied him above all other , And with consent of Father and Mother , Shy yielded love which she could not smother For Nelly was willing to lie with a man . Now Nelly s made a Lady bright , and hath all things at her command , For she hath married a worthy Knight , with stately Buildings and good Land : You see she wanted not for Wit But every humour she could fit , Which made her a Fortune for to get Nelly was loath to lie with man . FINIS . P rinted for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. C [ lark ] W. Thackeray , and TO Passenger . The Bonny Lass of BRISTOL : Or , The Witty Wench of the WEST . [ S ] he many Suitors had who did Importune , [ B ] ut she in Ambush laid for a good Fortune ; And with Evasions shuffled off the rest , Until she found the Person she liked best : Who was much taken with her comely carriage , So by consent they freely joined in Marriage . To the Tune of , Sawny will never be my Love again . TO Here was a Lass her name was Nell , and she was brought up in Bristol Town ; And every Youngman liked her well , because she was of a lovely Brown : Of Courtship they were wondrous free , And every one cried Nelly is for me , But yet to the Bargain she would not agree , For Nelly was loath for to lie with a man . Her Father was of good Report , although not with much Riches b [ l ] est , He with good persons did Consort , and boar it out among the best : His Nelly was his only joy , For he was Father of never a Boy , To get her a portion he'l do what he can , But Nelly was loath for to lie with a man . A brisk young Gallant to her came , and Courted Nelly to be his Bride , It seems he was a Cock of the Game , for he was all to get up and Ride : He gave her Bracelets and fine things , He gave her Gloves , and he gave her Rings , And he wooed her to walk to the Silver Springs , But Nel [ l ] y was loath for to lie with a man . A spruce young Taylor came to Woo , and said her Beauty did him bewitch , But she with him had no mind to do , she told him he could not go through stitch : He cut such Capers in heat of Drink , To make the Coin in his pockets Chink . But she fancied he did of Cabbage stink : For Nelly was loath for to lie with a man . The Second part , To the same Tune . A late Disbanded Officer , came in with his Sword and periwig , And he like a cunning Sophister , asked Nell if she would with a soldier ligg : She told him she thought his means was short , And something else that should show her sport , And therefore he should not storm her Fort , for Nelly was loath for to lie with a man . The next that came was a Man of Law , a Pettifogger they did him call , But in his plea she found a Flaw , for she did hear that he had spent all : He bid her not disdain his suit , For at her Bar he could not be mute , He hoped ever long to have a Recruit , but Nelly was loath for to lie with a man . Then came a lusty Seaman bold , intending to Furl Nelly s Flagg , And in her Lap he flung good Gold , and of his Valour he much did brag : He showed her all his Wounds and scars , But those he had god Venus Wars , He kept to himself for fear of Jars , for Nelly was loath for to lie with a man . In came a man in a homely Weed , and he and Usurer seemed to be , He thought with Nelly that he might speed , because he had Gold and Silver free : But he was stricken well in Age , Which made fair Nelly to presage , That she with the Palsy would not engage : for Nelly was loath for lie with a man . A Farmers Son came next in place , who thought young Nelly s ground to Till , But his Behaviour did him disgrace , he could not work her to his Will : He told her of his Sheep and Cows , Of Horses , Oxen , and of Plows , And of what more , the Lord God knows : but Nelly was loath to lie with a man . A Doctor came to give Nelly a Pill , with Compliments he was prepared . But she like a cunning Gypsie still , securely stood upon the Guard : With many more too long to tell Who came to Court this Bonny Nell But she was for one that did Excel : but Nelly was loath to lie with a man . At length a Gallant of Renown , who was with Riches well possessed , He with her Beauty was smitten down , and thought to have her he should be blessed : She fancied him above all other , And with consent of Father and Mother , Shy yielded love which she could not smother For Nelly was willing to lie with a man . Now Nelly s made a Lady bright , and hath all things at her command , For she hath married a worthy Knight , with stately Buildings and good Land : You see she wanted not for Wit But every humour she could fit , Which made her a Fortune for to get Nelly was loath to lie with man . FINIS . P rinted for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. C [ lark ] W. Thackeray , and TO Passenger . 