The Buxom Lass of Bread-street ; OR , Lamentation for the Loss of her Maidenhead : Which was stolen from her by Twelve several Tradesmen . Toga - gether with her Resolution , after all , to marry her old Love . To the Tune of the City Rant . Licensed according to Order . I have been a Twelvemonth at London now neither made Widow nor Wife , Yet I cannot say , I am undone , for I have been done to the Life . A Fortnight after last Easter , I then lost my Virginity ; I Valve it not of a Taster , for it was a Torment to me . I spent all the Summer in pleasure , I being both wanton and wild , And kissed the Young men out of measure , at length they have god me with Child . I cannot tell who is the Father , no , if you would give me a Crown ; For as we did cuddle together , with many I'ld laugh and lie down . I think , I have more than a dozen young Bachelors , Tradesmen I mean ; Beside my old Friend Robin is Cousin , who gave me the Topknot of Green . The first I enjoyed was a Baker , who had a most delicate Brow ; The second was Tom the Shoemaker ; I could not deny them , I Vow . The third was stout Anthony Grissell , who was a brisk Carpenter bold , He came with his Mallet and Chisel , and would by no means be controlled The fourth was a Jovial Shopkeeper , who did many Favours afford ; The fifth was a black Chimney-sweeper ; the sixth was a Taylor , Good Lord ! A Seaman came next to my Harbour . and there he cast Anchor a while ; Next day came young Johnny the Barber , and begged for a kiss and a smile . The ninth was a Double Refiner , who follows most Excellent Rules The Tenth was young William the Joiner a Spark which can handle his Tools . The Eleventh he was a stout Sergeant , who marches with the Warlike Train ; The Twelfth was a skilful Chirurgeon , and he touched me in the right Vein . I sometime would seem to defy they , then straightway my Person they praise Now what flesh and blood could deny they when they had such sweet winning ways . I being concerned with so many my Sorrow and Grief is severe As fearing I shall not find any that will a kind Father appear . I'll go to them all with submission , and tell them of this my Disgrace So when they have herd my Condition perhaps they may pity my Case . But if that these Gallants won't pity a Damsel in Grief and Distress I have and old Love in the City to whom I will make my Address . Who gave me a Cornet and Tower and fain would have made me his Bride Yet I would both fret frown and lower , and all his kind proffers defied Yet now I will marry him rather than languish in Grief and Despair , I know that he will be a Father , in less than five Months , I declare . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back , The Buxom Lass of Bread-street ; OR , Lamentation for the Loss of her Maidenhead : Which was stolen from her by Twelve several Tradesmen . Toga - gether with her Resolution , after all , to marry her old Love . To the Tune of the City Rant . Licensed according to Order . I have been a Twelvemonth at London now neither made Widow nor Wife , Yet I cannot say , I am undone , for I have been done to the Life . A Fortnight after last Easter , I then lost my Virginity ; I Valve it not of a Taster , for it was a Torment to me . I spent all the Summer in pleasure , I being both wanton and wild , And kissed the Young men out of measure , at length they have god me with Child . I cannot tell who is the Father , no , if you would give me a Crown ; For as we did cuddle together , with many I'ld laugh and lie down . I think , I have more than a dozen young Bachelors , Tradesmen I mean ; Beside my old Friend Robin is Cousin , who gave me the Topknot of Green . The first I enjoyed was a Baker , who had a most delicate Brow ; The second was Tom the Shoemaker ; I could not deny them , I Vow . The third was stout Anthony Grissell , who was a brisk Carpenter bold , He came with his Mallet and Chisel , and would by no means be controlled The fourth was a Jovial Shopkeeper , who did many Favours afford ; The fifth was a black Chimney-sweeper ; the sixth was a Taylor , Good Lord ! A Seaman came next to my Harbour . and there he cast Anchor a while ; Next day came young Johnny the Barber , and begged for a kiss and a smile . The ninth was a Double Refiner , who follows most Excellent Rules The Tenth was young William the Joiner a Spark which can handle his Tools . The Eleventh he was a stout Sergeant , who marches with the Warlike Train ; The Twelfth was a skilful Chirurgeon , and he touched me in the right Vein . I sometime would seem to defy they , then straightway my Person they praise Now what flesh and blood could deny they when they had such sweet winning ways . I being concerned with so many my Sorrow and Grief is severe As fearing I shall not find any that will a kind Father appear . I'll go to them all with submission , and tell them of this my Disgrace So when they have herd my Condition perhaps they may pity my Case . But if that these Gallants won't pity a Damsel in Grief and Distress I have and old Love in the City to whom I will make my Address . Who gave me a Cornet and Tower and fain would have made me his Bride Yet I would both fret frown and lower , and all his kind proffers defied Yet now I will marry him rather than languish in Grief and Despair , I know that he will be a Father , in less than five Months , I declare . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back , 