THE Lass of LYNNs New Joy For finding a Father for her Child . Being a Third SONG of Marry and Thank you too : To the same Tune . Licensed according to Order . C Ome listen , and hear me tell the end of a Tale so true , The Lass that made her Belly Swell , with Marry and thank you too . With many hard Sobs and Throws , and Sorrow enough ( I wot ) She had wept Tears , the whole Town knows , would fill a whole Chamber-pot . For Pleasure with Pain she pays , her Belly and Shame to hide , So hard all day she Laced her Stays , as Pinched both her Back and Side . Oh! were not my Belly full , a husband I'ld have to Night ; There's George the Tapster at the Bull , I'm sure I'm his whole Delight . This day on his Knees he Swore , he Loved me above his Life , Were not my Pipkin Cracked before , I vow I would be his Wife . Her Mother that herd her , spoke , Oh take him at's word , said she ; A Husband , Child's , the only Cloak to cover a Great Belly . Her Mother she showed the way , and straight without more ado , She took him to the Church next day , and Married and thanked him too . But Oh! when he came to Bed , the saddest News now to tell you ; On a soft place his hand he laid , and found she'd a Rising Belly : At which he began to Roar , your Fancy it has been Itching ; Byth' Meat in your Pot , I find , you Whore , you've had a Cook in your Kitchen . O fie , my dear Love , said she , what puts you into this Dump ? For what though Round my Belly be , it is only Fat and Plump . Good Flesh it is all , you Chit , beside , the plain truth to tell , I've eat so much , the Sack-Posset has made my poor Belly Swell . Nay , then I've wronged thee , he cries , I beg thy sweet pardon fored ; I'll get thee a Boy before we rise , and so he fell to the Sport . No , the Boy it was god before , the Midwife soon wished him Joy ; But , Oh! ever full five Months were over , she brought him a lusty Boy . My Wife brought to Bed , says George , I hope she has but Miscarried ; A Boy ! says he , how can that be , when we are but five Months Married . Five Months ! has the Man last his Wits ? cries Midwife , what does the Fool say ? Five Months by Days , and five by Nights , sh'has gone her full time to a day . The Child's all your own , by my truth , the pretty Eyes do but see , Had it been spit out of your Mouth , more like you it could not be . Nay then , my kind Gossips all , says George , let us Merry make ; I'll Tap a Barrel of stout Ale , and send for a Groaning-Cake . The Gossips they Laughed and Smiled , and Mirth it went round all through ; She'd found a Father for her Child , High , Marry and thank him too . Printed and Sold by J. Millet , next door to the Flower-de-Luce in Little-Britain . THE Lass of LYNNs New Joy For finding a Father for her Child . Being a Third SONG of Marry and Thank you too : To the same Tune . Licensed according to Order . C Ome listen , and hear me tell the end of a Tale so true , The Lass that made her Belly Swell , with Marry and thank you too . With many hard Sobs and Throws , and Sorrow enough ( I wot ) She had wept Tears , the whole Town knows , would fill a whole Chamber-pot . For Pleasure with Pain she pays , her Belly and Shame to hide , So hard all day she Laced her Stays , as Pinched both her Back and Side . Oh! were not my Belly full , a husband I'ld have to Night ; There's George the Tapster at the Bull , I'm sure I'm his whole Delight . This day on his Knees he Swore , he Loved me above his Life , Were not my Pipkin Cracked before , I vow I would be his Wife . Her Mother that herd her , spoke , Oh take him at's word , said she ; A Husband , Child's , the only Cloak to cover a Great Belly . Her Mother she showed the way , and straight without more ado , She took him to the Church next day , and Married and thanked him too . But Oh! when he came to Bed , the saddest News now to tell you ; On a soft place his hand he laid , and found she'd a Rising Belly : At which he began to Roar , your Fancy it has been Itching ; Byth' Meat in your Pot , I find , you Whore , you've had a Cook in your Kitchen . O fie , my dear Love , said she , what puts you into this Dump ? For what though Round my Belly be , it is only Fat and Plump . Good Flesh it is all , you Chit , beside , the plain truth to tell , I've eat so much , the Sack-Posset has made my poor Belly Swell . Nay , then I've wronged thee , he cries , I beg thy sweet pardon fored ; I'll get thee a Boy before we rise , and so he fell to the Sport . No , the Boy it was god before , the Midwife soon wished him Joy ; But , Oh! ever full five Months were over , she brought him a lusty Boy . My Wife brought to Bed , says George , I hope she has but Miscarried ; A Boy ! says he , how can that be , when we are but five Months Married . Five Months ! has the Man last his Wits ? cries Midwife , what does the Fool say ? Five Months by Days , and five by Nights , sh'has gone her full time to a day . The Child's all your own , by my truth , the pretty Eyes do but see , Had it been spit out of your Mouth , more like you it could not be . Nay then , my kind Gossips all , says George , let us Merry make ; I'll Tap a Barrel of stout Ale , and send for a Groaning-Cake . The Gossips they Laughed and Smiled , and Mirth it went round all through ; She'd found a Father for her Child , High , Marry and thank him too . Printed and Sold by J. Millet , next door to the Flower-de-Luce in Little-Britain . 