THE Country Lasses good Fortune ; Who after Feasting King William and his Nobles , obtained the love of the Young-Men far and near ; and at length Married a Yeoman to her hearts content . To the Tune of , Let Cesar live Long . Licensed according to order . K King William was pleased at a Farmers to Dine On good Eggs and Bacon ; and instead of Wine , Stout nappy March Liquour did serve them that day , For which good King William the Damsel did pay : Ten Guinies he gave her it seems , for the same , Which Money did make her a Person of Fame . So soon as this Feasting was over , we hear , The honest young Bachelors both far and near , Came daily a Wooing , her Love to obtain , Some for pure Affection , and others for Gain : Her Fame through all Cities and Counties did ring , As having the Honour to wait on the King . 'Twas the luckiest Money that ever was known : The Age of this Damsel was Twenty and one ; Yet never had she a true Lover before , But now has the choice of full twenty and more : Her Fame through all Cities and Counties did ring , As having the Honour to wait on the King . For this very reason they came night and day , And each Man endeavoured to bear her away ; Nay Robert , young Richard , and Ralph at the Mill , Yet neither of these could obtain her Goodwill : Her Fame through all Cities and Counties did ring , As having the Honour to wait on the King . Udszookers , quoth Robin , I'll mount upon Roan , And if I can meet with this Damsel alone , I make no great question but she'll be my Bride But when he came there he was straightways denied Her Fame through all Counties and Cities did ring , As having the Honour to wait on the King . Although she had never a Love in her life , Yet now they came flocking to make her their Wife ; Each Country Plowman concluding , that he Shou [ l ] worser then be as Great as a Lord in Degree : Her Fame through all Counties and Cities did ring , As having the Honour to wait on the King . Young Roger he told his Old Mother one night , That whoever obtained her the King would requite Her honest poor Husband for that Loyal Feast , He'd make him a Knight or a Squire at least : Her Fame through all Counties and Cities did ring , As having the Honour to wait on the King . Why son , quoth the Mother , I'de have thee to go , See if she will have a poor Thresher or no ; And then if the King he should make thee a Lord , In troth I shall count it a special Reward : Her Fame through all Counties and Cities did ring , As having the Honour to wait on the King . Next morning he put on the best of his Clothes , His Hat , Shoes , and likewise his Hoilday Hose But yet notwithstanding he thus did appear , Poor Roger the Thresher was never the near ; Her Fame through all Counties and Cities did ring , As having the Honour , etc At length came a Yeoman his Love to reveal , Her heart from all others he straightways did steal And then did he Marry this Lass out of hand , And likewise endows her with Houses and Land : Her Fame through all Counties and Cities did ring , As having the Honour to wait on the King . FINIS . Printed for J. Millet , at the Angel in Little Brittain . THE Country Lasses good Fortune ; Who after Feasting King William and his Nobles , obtained the love of the Young-Men far and near ; and at length Married a Yeoman to her hearts content . To the Tune of , Let Cesar live Long . Licensed according to order . K King William was pleased at a Farmers to Dine On good Eggs and Bacon ; and instead of Wine , Stout nappy March Liquour did serve them that day , For which good King William the Damsel did pay : Ten Guinies he gave her it seems , for the same , Which Money did make her a Person of Fame . So soon as this Feasting was over , we hear , The honest young Bachelors both far and near , Came daily a Wooing , her Love to obtain , Some for pure Affection , and others for Gain : Her Fame through all Cities and Counties did ring , As having the Honour to wait on the King . 'Twas the luckiest Money that ever was known : The Age of this Damsel was Twenty and one ; Yet never had she a true Lover before , But now has the choice of full twenty and more : Her Fame through all Cities and Counties did ring , As having the Honour to wait on the King . For this very reason they came night and day , And each Man endeavoured to bear her away ; Nay Robert , young Richard , and Ralph at the Mill , Yet neither of these could obtain her Goodwill : Her Fame through all Cities and Counties did ring , As having the Honour to wait on the King . Udszookers , quoth Robin , I'll mount upon Roan , And if I can meet with this Damsel alone , I make no great question but she'll be my Bride But when he came there he was straightways denied Her Fame through all Counties and Cities did ring , As having the Honour to wait on the King . Although she had never a Love in her life , Yet now they came flocking to make her their Wife ; Each Country Plowman concluding , that he Shou [ l ] worser then be as Great as a Lord in Degree : Her Fame through all Counties and Cities did ring , As having the Honour to wait on the King . Young Roger he told his Old Mother one night , That whoever obtained her the King would requite Her honest poor Husband for that Loyal Feast , He'd make him a Knight or a Squire at least : Her Fame through all Counties and Cities did ring , As having the Honour to wait on the King . Why son , quoth the Mother , I'de have thee to go , See if she will have a poor Thresher or no ; And then if the King he should make thee a Lord , In troth I shall count it a special Reward : Her Fame through all Counties and Cities did ring , As having the Honour to wait on the King . Next morning he put on the best of his Clothes , His Hat , Shoes , and likewise his Hoilday Hose But yet notwithstanding he thus did appear , Poor Roger the Thresher was never the near ; Her Fame through all Counties and Cities did ring , As having the Honour , etc At length came a Yeoman his Love to reveal , Her heart from all others he straightways did steal And then did he Marry this Lass out of hand , And likewise endows her with Houses and Land : Her Fame through all Counties and Cities did ring , As having the Honour to wait on the King . FINIS . Printed for J. Millet , at the Angel in Little Brittain . 