THE Wanton Widows pleasant Mistake , Or , A Wooden Image turned to Flesh and Blood . To the Tune of , Let Ceasar Live long . A Buxom rich Widow had late laid in Grave Her Husband Old Simon , her true Drudge and slave But Oh the sad loss of beloved dear Mate . She lacks her dear Bedfellow , Oh her hard Fate , With many a-groan then , she sighed and she cried , She wants her Old Simon to lie by her side . To a Carver she goes then , resolved for to get her A Husband of Wood made , instead of better : The Carver and Image does presently make , Toth' life like Old Simon ; and for his dear sake , E'ry night in her Bed , whatsoever betide , This Wooden Old Simon shall lie by her side . With a Shirt on his Back , and a Cap on his Head , And warmed very well , laid anights in her Bed ; She kisses and [ b ] ills him , her Arms round him throws , And hugs him , but all to small purpose , she knows : Yet for dear Husbands sake , whatsoever betide , This Wooden Old Simon shall lie by her side . This jolly gay Widow had Suitors came to her , Who proffered with all the best words they could woo her To choose a new Husband to take off her Cares : A Husband ! ah no , she's all deaf to their Prayers : In vain they all Courted , the place was supplied , For her wood Old Simon still lay by her side . At length a brisk Spark , whose Estate run adrift , And wanted Rich Widow to give him a lift , By wheedling and bribing the Widows kind Maid , A subtle sly Plot strait between them was laid , One night in her Bed this brisk Gallant to hide , ' Stead of wooden Old Simon to lie by her side . Like Old Simon dressed , though not made of hard Wood , But a softer young Simon of sweet Flesh and Blood , Hid close betwixt the Sheets where he lies snug and still Till the widow ( who harmless poor thing dreamed no ill ) As brisk as a Girl , and as gay as a Bride , Trips nimbly to Bed , and lies close by his side . With a Reach and a Yawn , and a soft sighs or two , As a poor single Widow might very well do ; No sooner she felt her self all through warm , But stretching at last a kind Leg and and Arm ; With a plump heaving Breast , and a warm Cheek beside , She turned to her Simon that lay by her side . As she gave the kind Hug , likewise all on a sudden , She thought she touched something that did not fell wooden For something she felt which was all soft and warm , Nay , at last something stirred too ; but thinking no harm , She huged him still the closer , resolved to be tried , What had altered the wooden old Sim by her side . But o , to unriddle her Wonder ! her Arms Locked fast in Embraces , all Rapture and Charms ; Till melting , and dying , and twining , and pressing , She felt something sweet , so beyond all expressing , That never , Oh never , all Ravished she cried , So dear a kind Simon ever lay by my side . The Maid in the morning , but not till near Noon , For fear of disturbing her Mistress too soon , Came and knocked at the door , for to know of her Lady , What for Dinner she'd order to have her get ready ; What Baked , Boiled , or Roast , she'd have her provide , Against she rose from the Simon that lay by her side . Roast the big and the Goose , the brisk Widow replied Boyl a stout Leg of Mutton , with Turnips beside ; Get a dish of plump Parridge , with a good smothered Coney The best can be purchased for love or for money : With a Dish of sweet Custards and Cheesecakes beside , For me and my Dearest that lies by my side . Ay , Madam , your will shall be done , says the Maid , But only sweet Mistress , I'm sorely afraid , We have not at home god Wood enough here To make a quick Fire to dress this good Cheer : How , Hussey , cries Widow , want Fire for your turn ! Burn Old Simon , you Jade , take Old Simon and Burn. Old Simon was Burned then , and all this good Chee [ r ] Was Welcome too small for her Bedfellow dear ; A senseless Old Simon , that Wooden dull Tool ! A silly dry Image , no , Burn the Old Fool : With s sweeter soft Armful much better supplied , She has warm Flesh and Bones now to lie by her side . FINIS . Printed and Sold by J. Millet , at the Angel in Little-britain . THE Wanton Widows pleasant Mistake , Or , A Wooden Image turned to Flesh and Blood . To the Tune of , Let Ceasar Live long . A Buxom rich Widow had late laid in Grave Her Husband Old Simon , her true Drudge and slave But Oh the sad loss of beloved dear Mate . She lacks her dear Bedfellow , Oh her hard Fate , With many a-groan then , she sighed and she cried , She wants her Old Simon to lie by her side . To a Carver she goes then , resolved for to get her A Husband of Wood made , instead of better : The Carver and Image does presently make , Toth' life like Old Simon ; and for his dear sake , E'ry night in her Bed , whatsoever betide , This Wooden Old Simon shall lie by her side . With a Shirt on his Back , and a Cap on his Head , And warmed very well , laid anights in her Bed ; She kisses and [ b ] ills him , her Arms round him throws , And hugs him , but all to small purpose , she knows : Yet for dear Husbands sake , whatsoever betide , This Wooden Old Simon shall lie by her side . This jolly gay Widow had Suitors came to her , Who proffered with all the best words they could woo her To choose a new Husband to take off her Cares : A Husband ! ah no , she's all deaf to their Prayers : In vain they all Courted , the place was supplied , For her wood Old Simon still lay by her side . At length a brisk Spark , whose Estate run adrift , And wanted Rich Widow to give him a lift , By wheedling and bribing the Widows kind Maid , A subtle sly Plot strait between them was laid , One night in her Bed this brisk Gallant to hide , ' Stead of wooden Old Simon to lie by her side . Like Old Simon dressed , though not made of hard Wood , But a softer young Simon of sweet Flesh and Blood , Hid close betwixt the Sheets where he lies snug and still Till the widow ( who harmless poor thing dreamed no ill ) As brisk as a Girl , and as gay as a Bride , Trips nimbly to Bed , and lies close by his side . With a Reach and a Yawn , and a soft sighs or two , As a poor single Widow might very well do ; No sooner she felt her self all through warm , But stretching at last a kind Leg and and Arm ; With a plump heaving Breast , and a warm Cheek beside , She turned to her Simon that lay by her side . As she gave the kind Hug , likewise all on a sudden , She thought she touched something that did not fell wooden For something she felt which was all soft and warm , Nay , at last something stirred too ; but thinking no harm , She huged him still the closer , resolved to be tried , What had altered the wooden old Sim by her side . But o , to unriddle her Wonder ! her Arms Locked fast in Embraces , all Rapture and Charms ; Till melting , and dying , and twining , and pressing , She felt something sweet , so beyond all expressing , That never , Oh never , all Ravished she cried , So dear a kind Simon ever lay by my side . The Maid in the morning , but not till near Noon , For fear of disturbing her Mistress too soon , Came and knocked at the door , for to know of her Lady , What for Dinner she'd order to have her get ready ; What Baked , Boiled , or Roast , she'd have her provide , Against she rose from the Simon that lay by her side . Roast the big and the Goose , the brisk Widow replied Boyl a stout Leg of Mutton , with Turnips beside ; Get a dish of plump Parridge , with a good smothered Coney The best can be purchased for love or for money : With a Dish of sweet Custards and Cheesecakes beside , For me and my Dearest that lies by my side . Ay , Madam , your will shall be done , says the Maid , But only sweet Mistress , I'm sorely afraid , We have not at home god Wood enough here To make a quick Fire to dress this good Cheer : How , Hussey , cries Widow , want Fire for your turn ! Burn Old Simon , you Jade , take Old Simon and Burn. Old Simon was Burned then , and all this good Chee [ r ] Was Welcome too small for her Bedfellow dear ; A senseless Old Simon , that Wooden dull Tool ! A silly dry Image , no , Burn the Old Fool : With s sweeter soft Armful much better supplied , She has warm Flesh and Bones now to lie by her side . FINIS . Printed and Sold by J. Millet , at the Angel in Little-britain . 