Robin the Plowman's Courage ; OR , Harry the Millers miserable misfortune in Courting of young Kate , who declared he had lost his his Testicles , and therefore far unfit for Wedlock . Tune is , March Boys , March Boys , etc Licensed according to Order . S Tout Robin the Plowman loved young Kate , and so did the Miller of the Town , Each strove for to make this Lass their Mate , but she on the Miller still did frown ; And told him his Courtship was in vain , for why she resolved never to have him , He being a double Knave in grain , and thus stout Kate she did beslave him ; Out Knave , go Knave , come no more a near me , then broke his Noddle , with a Ladle , Think you ( said she ) that I'll ever marry thee , who has a Thief been from your Cradle . The Miller he then did quaking stand , declaring he loved her as his life , And prayed her that she would hold her hand , for why he would make her his lawful wife ; You sorrowful Slave she then replied , a Miller shall never be my master , Then on his Shoulders , Back and Side , she laid on blows both thick and faster ; He cried , sweet Kate why art thou so cruel , for to abuse and honest Miller , This was in vain , for she laid on amain , at length he swore that he would kill her . So soon as the Miller this had spoke , brave Robin the Plowman did appear , And gave him a lusty heavy stroke , you Villain ( quoth he what make you here ; You threaten the life of my sweet Kate , for which I will now have satisfaction ; Quoth he she has banged and broke my pate , for doting on her sweet complexion ; My love , my love has been true and loyal , I counted her my sweetest treasure , Bob of the Blow he did then knit his brow , and let him know of his high displeasure . Kate is not a Wife for you he cried , she will have and honest man I know , And therefore I mean thresh your hide , if from her presence you do not go ; My passionate fury you'll renew , these angry brows you see are bending , I'll give you another touch or two , if longer here you stand conteming , Plowmen , Plowmen , scorn a lowly miller so does young Kate my dearest sweating , This very club now your sides shall drub , pray tell me how you like my greeting . Thus Robin the Blow man fierce and hight , then up to the Miller streightways drew , Who told him in short I fear you not , I think I'm as good a man as you ; You lie like a Knave quoth honest Kate , remember the time that Bridget held , While Margery , Nancy , Jone , and Kate , did for your wicked Actions geld you , Therefore , therefore never stand contending , since I the truth have thus related , Where ever you go , you Rascal you know , you are by all young women hated . The Miller at this did blush for shame , and happy he was to sneak away , While Robin the Plowman he by Name , with conquering courage gained the day ; Sweet Katy his joy and hears delight , she every night and day does cheer him : But Harry the Miller women flight , not one of them will ever come near him : Near him , near him , never , never near him . no not in all this Land and Nation , Now for his life , he cannot get a wife , since Kate has this Proclamation . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . Robin the Plowman's Courage ; OR , Harry the Millers miserable misfortune in Courting of young Kate , who declared he had lost his his Testicles , and therefore far unfit for Wedlock . Tune is , March Boys , March Boys , etc Licensed according to Order . S Tout Robin the Plowman loved young Kate , and so did the Miller of the Town , Each strove for to make this Lass their Mate , but she on the Miller still did frown ; And told him his Courtship was in vain , for why she resolved never to have him , He being a double Knave in grain , and thus stout Kate she did beslave him ; Out Knave , go Knave , come no more a near me , then broke his Noddle , with a Ladle , Think you ( said she ) that I'll ever marry thee , who has a Thief been from your Cradle . The Miller he then did quaking stand , declaring he loved her as his life , And prayed her that she would hold her hand , for why he would make her his lawful wife ; You sorrowful Slave she then replied , a Miller shall never be my master , Then on his Shoulders , Back and Side , she laid on blows both thick and faster ; He cried , sweet Kate why art thou so cruel , for to abuse and honest Miller , This was in vain , for she laid on amain , at length he swore that he would kill her . So soon as the Miller this had spoke , brave Robin the Plowman did appear , And gave him a lusty heavy stroke , you Villain ( quoth he what make you here ; You threaten the life of my sweet Kate , for which I will now have satisfaction ; Quoth he she has banged and broke my pate , for doting on her sweet complexion ; My love , my love has been true and loyal , I counted her my sweetest treasure , Bob of the Blow he did then knit his brow , and let him know of his high displeasure . Kate is not a Wife for you he cried , she will have and honest man I know , And therefore I mean thresh your hide , if from her presence you do not go ; My passionate fury you'll renew , these angry brows you see are bending , I'll give you another touch or two , if longer here you stand conteming , Plowmen , Plowmen , scorn a lowly miller so does young Kate my dearest sweating , This very club now your sides shall drub , pray tell me how you like my greeting . Thus Robin the Blow man fierce and hight , then up to the Miller streightways drew , Who told him in short I fear you not , I think I'm as good a man as you ; You lie like a Knave quoth honest Kate , remember the time that Bridget held , While Margery , Nancy , Jone , and Kate , did for your wicked Actions geld you , Therefore , therefore never stand contending , since I the truth have thus related , Where ever you go , you Rascal you know , you are by all young women hated . The Miller at this did blush for shame , and happy he was to sneak away , While Robin the Plowman he by Name , with conquering courage gained the day ; Sweet Katy his joy and hears delight , she every night and day does cheer him : But Harry the Miller women flight , not one of them will ever come near him : Near him , near him , never , never near him . no not in all this Land and Nation , Now for his life , he cannot get a wife , since Kate has this Proclamation . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 