THE Maiden-WARRIER : OR , The Damsels Resolution to Fight in Field , by the side of Jockey her entire Love . To and Excellent New Tune . Licensed according to Order . V Aliant Jockey is marched away , To fight the Foe , with Great Mackay ; Leaving me poor Soul , alas ! forlorn , To curse the hour I ever was born : But I'll swear I'll follow-too , And dearest Jockey is Fate pursue , Near him be to Guard his precious Life , Never Scot had like a Loyal Wife : Swored I'll wear , I'll cut my Hair , Tann my Cheeks that once were thought so fair , In Soldiers Weed to him I'll speed , Never like a Trooper crossed the Tweed . Trumpet found a Victory , I'll kill my self the next Dundee ; Love and Rage , and Fate do's all agree , To do some Glorious thing by me : Great Bellona take my part , Fame and Glory steel my Heart , That for our bonny Scotland is geud , Some brave Actium may deserve my Blood : Nought shall appear of Female fear , Fighting by his side I love so dear ; All the World shall own , that never was known Sike a pretty Lass this thousand Year , Fow in Noble Armour bright ; I'll with Courageous Heart will fight ; Fear of Death shall never my Courage stain , King William is Rights I'll will Maintain : For the Glory of our Sex , I'll awe the Rebles will perplex , And let them find that Womenkind , Sometime venture with a Warlike mind : Age of Old , our Fame has told , Therefore I'll will never be controlled ; By Friend or Foe , I'll freely go , Never was a Trooper armed so . I'll a Helmet will put on , Like a right Valiant Warlike Man , Plataeae of Steel shall guard my Back and Breast , Carbines and Pistols I'll protest , In my hand I'll cock and prime , Now and for ever is the time : While I thus am mounted Cap-a-pee , Warlike Thunder shall my Music be , Let smoke arise and dim the Skies , While we do pursue the Warlike prize ; Laurels shall Crown with true Renown , The Victory in City , Court and Town . Mars the God of War shall led The Army , that will fight and bleed , Ever our Foe shall hope to win the day , Therefore let us march with speed away ; Hark! I'll hear the Trumpets found , We shall be awe with Conquest Crowned ; Let the Highland Rebels brag and boast , Death in Triumph shall ride through their Ho [ st ] Glory and Fame shall then Proclaim The Actions of a valiant Warlike Dame If Foes draw nigh , I scorn to fly , With my dearest Love I'll live and die . Jockey's Answer . H Ast thou such a valiant heart , To fight and take the Nations part , By the side of Jockey thy delight , For to put the Enemy to flight ? I thy Courage must commend , Yet like a true entire Friend , I would have thee stay at home , said he , For the Wars are most unfit for thee ; Moggy you are youthful and fair , Therefore canned thy tender Nature bear The Shrieks and Cries which fills the Skies , As the Enemy we do surprise . Love , said he , the loud Alarms In midst of night to Arms to Arms , Will it not affrighten thee , my dear , Should you such a sudden Alarm hear , And before the break of day , Many a valiant Soldier may , Lie in streams of reeking purple Gore , Thereofre Moggy whom I do adore , Should she be slave and I remain , It would fill my Heart with muckle pain , She did reply , happy am I If I in the Bed of Honour die . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . THE Maiden-WARRIER : OR , The Damsels Resolution to Fight in Field , by the side of Jockey her entire Love . To and Excellent New Tune . Licensed according to Order . V Aliant Jockey is marched away , To fight the Foe , with Great Mackay ; Leaving me poor Soul , alas ! forlorn , To curse the hour I ever was born : But I'll swear I'll follow-too , And dearest Jockey is Fate pursue , Near him be to Guard his precious Life , Never Scot had like a Loyal Wife : Swored I'll wear , I'll cut my Hair , Tann my Cheeks that once were thought so fair , In Soldiers Weed to him I'll speed , Never like a Trooper crossed the Tweed . Trumpet found a Victory , I'll kill my self the next Dundee ; Love and Rage , and Fate do's all agree , To do some Glorious thing by me : Great Bellona take my part , Fame and Glory steel my Heart , That for our bonny Scotland is geud , Some brave Actium may deserve my Blood : Nought shall appear of Female fear , Fighting by his side I love so dear ; All the World shall own , that never was known Sike a pretty Lass this thousand Year , Fow in Noble Armour bright ; I'll with Courageous Heart will fight ; Fear of Death shall never my Courage stain , King William is Rights I'll will Maintain : For the Glory of our Sex , I'll awe the Rebles will perplex , And let them find that Womenkind , Sometime venture with a Warlike mind : Age of Old , our Fame has told , Therefore I'll will never be controlled ; By Friend or Foe , I'll freely go , Never was a Trooper armed so . I'll a Helmet will put on , Like a right Valiant Warlike Man , Plataeae of Steel shall guard my Back and Breast , Carbines and Pistols I'll protest , In my hand I'll cock and prime , Now and for ever is the time : While I thus am mounted Cap-a-pee , Warlike Thunder shall my Music be , Let smoke arise and dim the Skies , While we do pursue the Warlike prize ; Laurels shall Crown with true Renown , The Victory in City , Court and Town . Mars the God of War shall led The Army , that will fight and bleed , Ever our Foe shall hope to win the day , Therefore let us march with speed away ; Hark! I'll hear the Trumpets found , We shall be awe with Conquest Crowned ; Let the Highland Rebels brag and boast , Death in Triumph shall ride through their Ho [ st ] Glory and Fame shall then Proclaim The Actions of a valiant Warlike Dame If Foes draw nigh , I scorn to fly , With my dearest Love I'll live and die . Jockey's Answer . H Ast thou such a valiant heart , To fight and take the Nations part , By the side of Jockey thy delight , For to put the Enemy to flight ? I thy Courage must commend , Yet like a true entire Friend , I would have thee stay at home , said he , For the Wars are most unfit for thee ; Moggy you are youthful and fair , Therefore canned thy tender Nature bear The Shrieks and Cries which fills the Skies , As the Enemy we do surprise . Love , said he , the loud Alarms In midst of night to Arms to Arms , Will it not affrighten thee , my dear , Should you such a sudden Alarm hear , And before the break of day , Many a valiant Soldier may , Lie in streams of reeking purple Gore , Thereofre Moggy whom I do adore , Should she be slave and I remain , It would fill my Heart with muckle pain , She did reply , happy am I If I in the Bed of Honour die . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 