The Lovesick Maid : Or , Cordelias lamentation for the absence of her Gerhard . To a Pleasant New Tune . B E gone Thou fatal fiery favour , now be gone , let Love alone , Let his Etherial flames possess my breast , His fires , From thy consuming heat no aid requires , for swift desires , Transports my passion to a throne of rest ; Where I , Who in the pride of health , did never feel such warmth to move ; By sickness tamed am so inflamed , I know no joys but love . And he That trifled many tedious hours away , my love to try , In little space had gained the grace , to have more power than I . Depart Thou scorching fury , quick from me depart , think not my heart , In thy dull flame shall be a sacrifice ; A Maid Dread Cupid now is on thy Altar laid by thee betrayed , A Rich oblation to restore thine eyes : But yet My fair acknowledgement will prove thou hast no c [ r ] aft , To bend thy Bow against thy foe , that aimed to catch the shaft : For if That at my breast thy arrows thou all at once let fly , She that receives a thousand sheaves , [ can ] do no more but die . No more You L earned physicians , tire your brains no more pray give me over , Mine is a cure , in Physic never read ; Although You skilful Doctors all the world does know , pray let me go . You may as well make practice on the Dead . But if My Gerrard dain to view me with the glory of his looks , I make no doubt to live without Physicians and their books . It's he That with his balmed Kisses can restore my latest breath ; That bliss is this , to gain a Kiss can save a maid from death ? To you That tell me of another world , I vow , and will allow Your Sacred Precepts , if you'll grant me this , That he Whom I esteem of next the Deity , may go with me , Without whose presence there can be no bliss , Go teach Your tenets of eternity , to those that aged be , And not persuade a love sick maid , there's any heaven but he . But stay Methinks and icy slumber hath possessed my frenzy brain ; Pray bid him die if you see I shall never wake again . The Young - M ans Answer : Or , his Dying B reath , Lamenting for his fair Cordelias Death . Delightful New Tune C ome on thou fatal messenger from her that's gone lest I alone Within that quenchless flame for ever fry ; The Lake Of love being kindled , wherein none can take rest , but wake , Where slumber hath no power to close the eye ; While I That by my fair Cordelia desire to take a sleep , With lids wide spread upon my bed am forced a watch to keep : A and she That waited many tedious hours , my constancy to try , Is now at rest , while I oppressed , fain would but cannot die . Dispatch Thou scorching fury , quickly now dispatch , by Death I watch . To be released from this tormenting flame ; The Dart Sent from dread Cupid , sticks fast in my heart , I wanting art , Had not the power for to resist the same Though she Who by her late acknowledgement , professed thou hadst no craft , Yet from thy bow thou madest her know what power lay in the shaft : Yut then Bhou sentest another arrow which me of hope's bereft , Most like a foe to wound me so , for whom no cure is left . Wherefore Did you Physicians give my mistress over ? had you no more Experience , but what you in books have read ? Or why ( You learned Doctors ) did you cease to try your skills , when I Might have revived her if she'd not been dead ? A and yet Suppose that I in Person had present been to view her ; Is there such grace in any face to work so great a cure ? But now I'm come too late to kiss her , which were it not in vain , A fter her death I'ld spend my breath to fetch her back again . Unto The fair Elizium thither will I go , whereas I know She is among those sacred ones preferred , Then I Shall be admitted for to come so nigh , pardon i'll cry For my long absence , wherein I have erred : A and since By her I was esteemed so much on earth being here , Hence for her sake no rest I'll take , till I have found her there . No more , But only I desire to hear my passing bell ; That Virgins may lament the day of Gerhards last farewell . Printed by and for A. M. and sold by the B ooksellers of London . The Lovesick Maid : Or , Cordelias lamentation for the absence of her Gerhard . To a Pleasant New Tune . B E gone Thou fatal fiery favour , now be gone , let Love alone , Let his Etherial flames possess my breast , His fires , From thy consuming heat no aid requires , for swift desires , Transports my passion to a throne of rest ; Where I , Who in the pride of health , did never feel such warmth to move ; By sickness tamed am so inflamed , I know no joys but love . And he That trifled many tedious hours away , my love to try , In little space had gained the grace , to have more power than I . Depart Thou scorching fury , quick from me depart , think not my heart , In thy dull flame shall be a sacrifice ; A Maid Dread Cupid now is on thy Altar laid by thee betrayed , A Rich oblation to restore thine eyes : But yet My fair acknowledgement will prove thou hast no c [ r ] aft , To bend thy Bow against thy foe , that aimed to catch the shaft : For if That at my breast thy arrows thou all at once let fly , She that receives a thousand sheaves , [ can ] do no more but die . No more You L earned physicians , tire your brains no more pray give me over , Mine is a cure , in Physic never read ; Although You skilful Doctors all the world does know , pray let me go . You may as well make practice on the Dead . But if My Gerrard dain to view me with the glory of his looks , I make no doubt to live without Physicians and their books . It's he That with his balmed Kisses can restore my latest breath ; That bliss is this , to gain a Kiss can save a maid from death ? To you That tell me of another world , I vow , and will allow Your Sacred Precepts , if you'll grant me this , That he Whom I esteem of next the Deity , may go with me , Without whose presence there can be no bliss , Go teach Your tenets of eternity , to those that aged be , And not persuade a love sick maid , there's any heaven but he . But stay Methinks and icy slumber hath possessed my frenzy brain ; Pray bid him die if you see I shall never wake again . The Young - M ans Answer : Or , his Dying B reath , Lamenting for his fair Cordelias Death . Delightful New Tune C ome on thou fatal messenger from her that's gone lest I alone Within that quenchless flame for ever fry ; The Lake Of love being kindled , wherein none can take rest , but wake , Where slumber hath no power to close the eye ; While I That by my fair Cordelia desire to take a sleep , With lids wide spread upon my bed am forced a watch to keep : A and she That waited many tedious hours , my constancy to try , Is now at rest , while I oppressed , fain would but cannot die . Dispatch Thou scorching fury , quickly now dispatch , by Death I watch . To be released from this tormenting flame ; The Dart Sent from dread Cupid , sticks fast in my heart , I wanting art , Had not the power for to resist the same Though she Who by her late acknowledgement , professed thou hadst no craft , Yet from thy bow thou madest her know what power lay in the shaft : Yut then Bhou sentest another arrow which me of hope's bereft , Most like a foe to wound me so , for whom no cure is left . Wherefore Did you Physicians give my mistress over ? had you no more Experience , but what you in books have read ? Or why ( You learned Doctors ) did you cease to try your skills , when I Might have revived her if she'd not been dead ? A and yet Suppose that I in Person had present been to view her ; Is there such grace in any face to work so great a cure ? But now I'm come too late to kiss her , which were it not in vain , A fter her death I'ld spend my breath to fetch her back again . Unto The fair Elizium thither will I go , whereas I know She is among those sacred ones preferred , Then I Shall be admitted for to come so nigh , pardon i'll cry For my long absence , wherein I have erred : A and since By her I was esteemed so much on earth being here , Hence for her sake no rest I'll take , till I have found her there . No more , But only I desire to hear my passing bell ; That Virgins may lament the day of Gerhards last farewell . Printed by and for A. M. and sold by the B ooksellers of London . 