The Tragedy of Phillis , Complaining of the Disloyal love of Amintas . To a New Court Tune . AMintas on a Summer's Day , to shun Apollo's Beams , Was driving of his Flock away , to take some cooling Streams : And through a Forest as they went , hard by a Rivers side , A voice which from a Grove was sent , invited him to bide . The voice well seemed for to bewray , some Malecontented mind , For ofttimes did he hear it say , ten thousand times unkind : The remnant of that raging moan , did all escape his ear , For every word brought forth a groan , and every groan a tear . And nearer when it did repair , both face and voice he knew , He saw that Phillis was come there , her plaints for to renew : Thus leaving her unto her plaints , and sorrow slaying groans , He herd her deadly discontents , thus all breakt forth at once . Amintas is thy Love to me of such a light account , That thou disdainest to lnok on me , or Love as thou was wont : Were those the Oaths that thou didst make , the Vows thou didst conceive , When I for thy contentment sake , my hearts delight did leave . How oft didst thou protest to me , the Heaven should turn to nought , The Sun should first obscured be , ever thou wouldst change thy thought . Then Heaven dissolve without delay , Sun show thy face no more , Amintas Love is lost for aye , and woe is me therefore . Well might I if I had been wise , foreseen what I now find , But too much Love did dull mine eyes , and made my judgement blind : But Oh alas ! the effect does prove , that it was plain deceit , For true and Undefiled Love , will never turn to hate . All thy behaviours were ( God knows ) too smooth and too discreet , Like Sugar which empoisoned grows , suspects because it's sweet ? Thine oaths and vows did promise more , then well thou couldst perform , Much like a Calm that comes before and unexpected Storm . God knows it would not grieve me much , for to be killed for thee , But o , too near it does me touch , that thou shouldst murder me : God knows I care not for the pain , can come for loss of breath , It's thy unkindness , cruel Swain , that grieves me to the death . Amintas tell me if thou may , if any fault of mine , Hath given thee cause for to betray mine hearts delight and thine : No , no , alas , it could not be , my love to thee was such , Unless that I if urged thee , in loving thee too much . But ah , alas , what do I gain , by this my found complaint , My dolour doubles my disdain , my grief thy joy augment : Although it yields no greater good , it oft does ease my mind , For to reproach the ingratitude , of him that is unkind . With that her hand , cold , wan , and pale , upon her breast she lays , And seeing that her breath did fail , she sighs and then she says , Amintas , and with that poor Maid , she sighed again full soar , But after that she never said , nor sighed , nor breathed no more . FINIS . The Complaint of the Shepherd Harpalus . To a New Tune . P OOR Harpalus oppressed with Love , sat by a Christial Brook , Thinking his sorrows to remove , oft times therein did look : And hearing how on pebble stones , the murmuring River ran , As if he had bequeathed his groans , unto it thus he began . Fair streams , quoth he , that pities me , and hears my matchless moan , If thou be going to the Sea , as I do now suppone : Attend my plaints passed all relief , which dolefully I breath , Acquaint the Sea-Nymphs with the grief , which still procures my death . Who sitting in the clifty Rocks , may in their Songs express , While as they comb their Golden Locks , poor Harpalus distress : And so perhaps some Passengers , that passes by the way , May stand and listen for to hear , them Sing this doleful lay . Poor Harpalus a Shepherd Swain , more rich in Youth then store , Loved fair Philenea hapless man , Philenea Oh therefore . Who still remorceless hearted Maid , took pleasure in his pain , And his good will poor soul repaid , with undeserved disdain . Never Shepherd Loved Shepherdess , more faithfully then he , Never Shepherd yet beloved less , of Shepherdess could be . How oft did he with dying looks , to her his woes impart , How oft his sighed did testify , the dolour of his heart . How oft from Valleys to the Hills , did he his grief rehearse , How often echoed they his ills , a back again alas . How oft on barks of staely pines , of Beech . of Holly green , Did he engage on mournful Lines , the grief he did sustain . Yet all his plaint could have no place , to change Philena's mind , The more his sorrows did increase , the more she proved unkind . The thought thereof hath wearied care , poor Harpalus did move , That overcome with high despair he lost both life and Love . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . The Tragedy of Phillis , Complaining of the Disloyal love of Amintas . To a New Court Tune . AMintas on a Summer's Day , to shun Apollo's Beams , Was driving of his Flock away , to take some cooling Streams : And through a Forest as they went , hard by a Rivers side , A voice which from a Grove was sent , invited him to bide . The voice well seemed for to bewray , some Malecontented mind , For ofttimes did he hear it say , ten thousand times unkind : The remnant of that raging moan , did all escape his ear , For every word brought forth a groan , and every groan a tear . And nearer when it did repair , both face and voice he knew , He saw that Phillis was come there , her plaints for to renew : Thus leaving her unto her plaints , and sorrow slaying groans , He herd her deadly discontents , thus all breakt forth at once . Amintas is thy Love to me of such a light account , That thou disdainest to lnok on me , or Love as thou was wont : Were those the Oaths that thou didst make , the Vows thou didst conceive , When I for thy contentment sake , my hearts delight did leave . How oft didst thou protest to me , the Heaven should turn to nought , The Sun should first obscured be , ever thou wouldst change thy thought . Then Heaven dissolve without delay , Sun show thy face no more , Amintas Love is lost for aye , and woe is me therefore . Well might I if I had been wise , foreseen what I now find , But too much Love did dull mine eyes , and made my judgement blind : But Oh alas ! the effect does prove , that it was plain deceit , For true and Undefiled Love , will never turn to hate . All thy behaviours were ( God knows ) too smooth and too discreet , Like Sugar which empoisoned grows , suspects because it's sweet ? Thine oaths and vows did promise more , then well thou couldst perform , Much like a Calm that comes before and unexpected Storm . God knows it would not grieve me much , for to be killed for thee , But o , too near it does me touch , that thou shouldst murder me : God knows I care not for the pain , can come for loss of breath , It's thy unkindness , cruel Swain , that grieves me to the death . Amintas tell me if thou may , if any fault of mine , Hath given thee cause for to betray mine hearts delight and thine : No , no , alas , it could not be , my love to thee was such , Unless that I if urged thee , in loving thee too much . But ah , alas , what do I gain , by this my found complaint , My dolour doubles my disdain , my grief thy joy augment : Although it yields no greater good , it oft does ease my mind , For to reproach the ingratitude , of him that is unkind . With that her hand , cold , wan , and pale , upon her breast she lays , And seeing that her breath did fail , she sighs and then she says , Amintas , and with that poor Maid , she sighed again full soar , But after that she never said , nor sighed , nor breathed no more . FINIS . The Complaint of the Shepherd Harpalus . To a New Tune . P OOR Harpalus oppressed with Love , sat by a Christial Brook , Thinking his sorrows to remove , oft times therein did look : And hearing how on pebble stones , the murmuring River ran , As if he had bequeathed his groans , unto it thus he began . Fair streams , quoth he , that pities me , and hears my matchless moan , If thou be going to the Sea , as I do now suppone : Attend my plaints passed all relief , which dolefully I breath , Acquaint the Sea-Nymphs with the grief , which still procures my death . Who sitting in the clifty Rocks , may in their Songs express , While as they comb their Golden Locks , poor Harpalus distress : And so perhaps some Passengers , that passes by the way , May stand and listen for to hear , them Sing this doleful lay . Poor Harpalus a Shepherd Swain , more rich in Youth then store , Loved fair Philenea hapless man , Philenea Oh therefore . Who still remorceless hearted Maid , took pleasure in his pain , And his good will poor soul repaid , with undeserved disdain . Never Shepherd Loved Shepherdess , more faithfully then he , Never Shepherd yet beloved less , of Shepherdess could be . How oft did he with dying looks , to her his woes impart , How oft his sighed did testify , the dolour of his heart . How oft from Valleys to the Hills , did he his grief rehearse , How often echoed they his ills , a back again alas . How oft on barks of staely pines , of Beech . of Holly green , Did he engage on mournful Lines , the grief he did sustain . Yet all his plaint could have no place , to change Philena's mind , The more his sorrows did increase , the more she proved unkind . The thought thereof hath wearied care , poor Harpalus did move , That overcome with high despair he lost both life and Love . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . 