And ANSWER to the Dairy Maids Tragedy : Or , The sad Overthrow of two West Country LOVERS , Wil - liam and Susan whose Death's are so much lamented ( by a worthy ' Squire ) who had the hard Fortune to behold this double Tragedy . To the Tune of , The Nightingale's Song . TO He Dairy-maid's Tragedy when I beheld , My Heart with sad sorrow and grief being filled ; I paid her a Tribute of passionate Tears , To see how she died in the prime of her Years . So soon as the breath from he body was fled , My thoughts a black Cloud hovered over my Head ; The Sky that before was right pleasant and clear , Did now in a Mantle of Mourning appear . It rained as if Heaven with pity did weep , To see a wronged Lover laid fast in a sleep , Who had been both loving , nay , loyal and kind . Yet forced to die , by the torment of mind . Behold e'ry Creater was heavy and sad , There was not a cherishing look to be had ; The Lambs blated forth a right sorrowful mourn , While the woody Queresters sung a sad tone . They cloaked their wings , & amp ; their heads they hung down , And Fortune came knitting her brows with a frown ; With Billy who followed behind her , that he , Might see the effects of his late pargury . Now when he came near were the Dairymaid lay , Whose cheeks they were pale , likewise colder then clay ; Then smiting his breast at the sudden surprise , While sorrowful tears trickle down from his eyes , Alas ! I have ruined a Lover , he cried , Who often I promised to make my own Bride ; But since I was cruel and fallse to my oath , I find it will now be the ruin of both . I took him immediately fast by the hand , And said by your words , I do well understand , That you are the Person that ruined this Maid , Her innocent heart with her life you betrayed . There never was Creater more constant than she , Free hearted and loving in every degree : Her favours on you , she did often bestow , And yet you have proved her sad overthrow . Quoth he , I confess that her kindness was more Then ever I deserved for she still had in store , Some good thing or other to treat her poor Will ; Yet I was ungrateful and slighted her still : How many sweet Sullebubs have I enjoyed ? She fed me with Custards until I was cloyed : Nay , nothing was wanting that she could procure . But as for young Nancy and Kate I am sure , They never would give me so much as a bit Of Pudding or Pey-crust , or ought that was fit , For any true Lover to relish or eat ; Those Damsels , alas ! I was forced to treat . But Susan , poor Susan , was kinder then so , But yet I have proved her invincible Foe ; Small reason I had for to prove so untrue , For none of them all was so kind as poor Sue . When we with young Lovers have gone to a Fair , If she has but known that my pockets was bore , Poor Creater she presently called me aside , Then into my hands she a tester would slide . But now she is dead and will give me no more ; I wish that my sorrowful sighs could restore Poor Susan to life ; but my wishes are vain , No sighs in the World can recall her again . She is clearly departed , her lips they are cold , The picture of Death in her face I behold ; My life is a burden , therefore let me die , For there is no Creater so wretched as I . Then straight he withdrew to the brink of a rock , And turning about he took leave of his flock ; Then threw himself headlong down into the Seas , Where under the billows he sunk by degrees . Where Neptune immediately made him a grave , And covered the same with a watery wave . Thus did I behold the destruction of both : O! Lovers hence forward be true to your oath . FINIS . Licensed according to Order . London : Printed for J. Deacon , at the And [ gel ] in Giltspur-street . And ANSWER to the Dairy Maids Tragedy : Or , The sad Overthrow of two West Country LOVERS , Wil - liam and Susan whose Death's are so much lamented ( by a worthy ' Squire ) who had the hard Fortune to behold this double Tragedy . To the Tune of , The Nightingale's Song . TO He Dairy-maid's Tragedy when I beheld , My Heart with sad sorrow and grief being filled ; I paid her a Tribute of passionate Tears , To see how she died in the prime of her Years . So soon as the breath from he body was fled , My thoughts a black Cloud hovered over my Head ; The Sky that before was right pleasant and clear , Did now in a Mantle of Mourning appear . It rained as if Heaven with pity did weep , To see a wronged Lover laid fast in a sleep , Who had been both loving , nay , loyal and kind . Yet forced to die , by the torment of mind . Behold e'ry Creater was heavy and sad , There was not a cherishing look to be had ; The Lambs blated forth a right sorrowful mourn , While the woody Queresters sung a sad tone . They cloaked their wings , & amp ; their heads they hung down , And Fortune came knitting her brows with a frown ; With Billy who followed behind her , that he , Might see the effects of his late pargury . Now when he came near were the Dairymaid lay , Whose cheeks they were pale , likewise colder then clay ; Then smiting his breast at the sudden surprise , While sorrowful tears trickle down from his eyes , Alas ! I have ruined a Lover , he cried , Who often I promised to make my own Bride ; But since I was cruel and fallse to my oath , I find it will now be the ruin of both . I took him immediately fast by the hand , And said by your words , I do well understand , That you are the Person that ruined this Maid , Her innocent heart with her life you betrayed . There never was Creater more constant than she , Free hearted and loving in every degree : Her favours on you , she did often bestow , And yet you have proved her sad overthrow . Quoth he , I confess that her kindness was more Then ever I deserved for she still had in store , Some good thing or other to treat her poor Will ; Yet I was ungrateful and slighted her still : How many sweet Sullebubs have I enjoyed ? She fed me with Custards until I was cloyed : Nay , nothing was wanting that she could procure . But as for young Nancy and Kate I am sure , They never would give me so much as a bit Of Pudding or Pey-crust , or ought that was fit , For any true Lover to relish or eat ; Those Damsels , alas ! I was forced to treat . But Susan , poor Susan , was kinder then so , But yet I have proved her invincible Foe ; Small reason I had for to prove so untrue , For none of them all was so kind as poor Sue . When we with young Lovers have gone to a Fair , If she has but known that my pockets was bore , Poor Creater she presently called me aside , Then into my hands she a tester would slide . But now she is dead and will give me no more ; I wish that my sorrowful sighs could restore Poor Susan to life ; but my wishes are vain , No sighs in the World can recall her again . She is clearly departed , her lips they are cold , The picture of Death in her face I behold ; My life is a burden , therefore let me die , For there is no Creater so wretched as I . Then straight he withdrew to the brink of a rock , And turning about he took leave of his flock ; Then threw himself headlong down into the Seas , Where under the billows he sunk by degrees . Where Neptune immediately made him a grave , And covered the same with a watery wave . Thus did I behold the destruction of both : O! Lovers hence forward be true to your oath . FINIS . Licensed according to Order . London : Printed for J. Deacon , at the And [ gel ] in Giltspur-street . 