THE Dairy Maid's TRAGEDY OR , The Forsaken Damosel Of Summersetshire's sorrowful Lamentation for the loss of her Love , who left her in Despair , till she languished to Death . To the Tune of , The Nightingale's Song . A s I through a Meadow one Morning did pass , there did I behold a young beautiful Lass , Whose age I'm persuaded was hardly fifteen ; and she on her head wore a garland of Green . Her lips was like Rubies , and as for her eyes , they sparkled like diamonds or stars in the Skies , And with her sweet voice , which was charming and clear , My Sonnet she sung for the loss of her Dear : Oh why was my Billy so false and unkind ? why does he appear like the whavering wind , To one that was loyal in e'ry degree ? o , why has he taken another for me ? The cunning deceit of his flattering Tongue , betrayed my poor innocent Heart being young , For every word that he spoke I believed , but now to my sorrow I find I'm deceived . While we in the Meadow was making of day , with pleasure we passed the sweet Minutes away ; He called me his Jewel , his joy and delight , but now he endeavours to ruin me quite . What can be the cause that he torters me so ? how can he delight in the sad overthrow Of Susan , whoever was true to her trust , I'm sorry that Billy should prove so unjust . While we in one Service together did live , he wanted for nothing , that Susan could give ; Good huming March tiple for him I'ld provide , And twenty good bits in a corner beside . When he through the Fields has been going to Blow , I made him sweet Sullebubs under the Cow ; Then then he could kiss me and call me his dear , but now after all , I am never the near . I often would feed him with Custards and Cream , o then how delightful and pleasant he'd seem . Then then I was cudled and pulled on his knee , what Man in the World was more loving than he ? Nay , this , and full twenty times more have I done , his hose I have mended , and cleaned his shun , His bans I have starched , and twenty things more , and yet he has god now another in store . I find that my favours are clearly forgotten , there's nothing but sorrow does fallen to my lot , Since he without reason have left me of late , instead of sweet Susan , he kisses young Kate . Sure never was Man so ungrateful as he ; but what shall I say he's a Tyrant to me , Who laughs at my ruin , and dismal despair , The garland of willow therefore I must ware . Though I at the present am strangely abhorred , perhaps he may meet with and equal reward ; For seldom or never unpunished they go , that seeks a poor innocent Love's overthrow . Since he is deceitful , no other I'll have , but wander about till I find out my grave , And there I'll lie down for to take my repose , while Death's icy Hands my poor Eyelids shall close . I'll never return to my Dairy again , this passionate sorrow , and torturing pain , Will soon put a perjod to all that I feel , Though now it is greater than I can conceal . When this she had uttered , she fainted away , then on the cold Earth in a slumber she lay ; I ran to revive her , but [ seemed ? ] it too late , she died for her Love , and submitted to Fate . FINIS . Licensed according to Order . LONDON : Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . THE Dairy Maid's TRAGEDY OR , The Forsaken Damosel Of Summersetshire's sorrowful Lamentation for the loss of her Love , who left her in Despair , till she languished to Death . To the Tune of , The Nightingale's Song . A s I through a Meadow one Morning did pass , there did I behold a young beautiful Lass , Whose age I'm persuaded was hardly fifteen ; and she on her head wore a garland of Green . Her lips was like Rubies , and as for her eyes , they sparkled like diamonds or stars in the Skies , And with her sweet voice , which was charming and clear , My Sonnet she sung for the loss of her Dear : Oh why was my Billy so false and unkind ? why does he appear like the whavering wind , To one that was loyal in e'ry degree ? o , why has he taken another for me ? The cunning deceit of his flattering Tongue , betrayed my poor innocent Heart being young , For every word that he spoke I believed , but now to my sorrow I find I'm deceived . While we in the Meadow was making of day , with pleasure we passed the sweet Minutes away ; He called me his Jewel , his joy and delight , but now he endeavours to ruin me quite . What can be the cause that he torters me so ? how can he delight in the sad overthrow Of Susan , whoever was true to her trust , I'm sorry that Billy should prove so unjust . While we in one Service together did live , he wanted for nothing , that Susan could give ; Good huming March tiple for him I'ld provide , And twenty good bits in a corner beside . When he through the Fields has been going to Blow , I made him sweet Sullebubs under the Cow ; Then then he could kiss me and call me his dear , but now after all , I am never the near . I often would feed him with Custards and Cream , o then how delightful and pleasant he'd seem . Then then I was cudled and pulled on his knee , what Man in the World was more loving than he ? Nay , this , and full twenty times more have I done , his hose I have mended , and cleaned his shun , His bans I have starched , and twenty things more , and yet he has god now another in store . I find that my favours are clearly forgotten , there's nothing but sorrow does fallen to my lot , Since he without reason have left me of late , instead of sweet Susan , he kisses young Kate . Sure never was Man so ungrateful as he ; but what shall I say he's a Tyrant to me , Who laughs at my ruin , and dismal despair , The garland of willow therefore I must ware . Though I at the present am strangely abhorred , perhaps he may meet with and equal reward ; For seldom or never unpunished they go , that seeks a poor innocent Love's overthrow . Since he is deceitful , no other I'll have , but wander about till I find out my grave , And there I'll lie down for to take my repose , while Death's icy Hands my poor Eyelids shall close . I'll never return to my Dairy again , this passionate sorrow , and torturing pain , Will soon put a perjod to all that I feel , Though now it is greater than I can conceal . When this she had uttered , she fainted away , then on the cold Earth in a slumber she lay ; I ran to revive her , but [ seemed ? ] it too late , she died for her Love , and submitted to Fate . FINIS . Licensed according to Order . LONDON : Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . 