THE London Lads Lamentation TO CUPID . OR , When shall I my True-Love have ? All youngmen must to Cupids power submit , Courage and Wisdom , Virtue too , & amp ; Wit : None can his mighty power & amp ; charms withstand He , like young Beauty , always will Command : And here young maidens easily may find , How apt youngmen are to be true & amp ; kind Such constancy in them could scarce be found Should me go search the Universe all round . To and Excellent New Tune , Sung at the COURT . This may be Printed , R. P. CLoes Face is Heaven to me , Like the Morning-Light we see ; And the Beauty of her Eye , Bright and lovely , like the Sky : Cloe , since my Heaven thou art , Ease and cure my wounded heart . Will young Love a Tyrant be ? Make me dote on Cruelty : Why does sullen Fate confine Me to one that is not mine ? Cloe , since my Heaven thou art , Ease and cure my wounded heart . Had I Loved as others do , Only for and hour or two , Then there had a Reason been , I should suffer for my since : Cloe , since my Heaven thou art , Ease and cure my wounded heart . Love ( thou knowest ) with what a flame , I adore young Cloes Name : Let me then thy pity find , Shoot a Dart and change her mind : Cloe , since my Heaven thou art , Ease and cure my wounded heart . All her Beauty's do entice , Though the Nymph be cold as Ice , Rosie-Lips and Lilly-Skin , All we gaze on , Charm and win : Cloe , since my Heaven thou art , Ease and cure my wounded heart . On her gentle Downy Breast , Let a sighing Lover rest , Twined within those tender Arms , Fettered by those pleasing Charms : Cloe , since my Heaven thou art , Ease and cure my wounded heart . Let my Love with joys be Crowned , You that with a Glance can Wound , With a Melting Kiss restore , Your young Love that sighed before : Cl [ oh ] e , since my Heaven thou art , Ease and cure my wounded heart . Thus you'll show your power and skill , Able both to Save and Kill , But to Kill has always been Held a most Notorious since : Cloe , since my Heaven thou art , Ease and cure my wounded heart . In sweet Groves we'll always dwell , With more joys than tongue can tell , There the Wanton then we'll play , Steal each others heart away : Cloe , since my Heaven thou art , Ease and cure my wounded heart : You I love ( by Jove ) I do , More then all things here below , With a Passion full as great , As ever Creature fancied yet : Cloe , since my Heaven thou art , Ease and cure my wounded heart . Bid the Miser leave his Over , . Bid the Wretched sighs no more : Bid the Old be Young again , Bid young Maids never think of Men : Cloe , since my Heaven thou are , Ease and cure my wounded heart : Love's not a thing of Chance , but Fate That makes me Love , that makes you hate Then if you be false or true , Love I must , and none but you : Cloe , since my Heaven thou art , Ease and cure my wounded heart . Printed for J. Back , at the Black-Boy on London-Bridge . THE London Lads Lamentation TO CUPID . OR , When shall I my True-Love have ? All youngmen must to Cupids power submit , Courage and Wisdom , Virtue too , & amp ; Wit : None can his mighty power & amp ; charms withstand He , like young Beauty , always will Command : And here young maidens easily may find , How apt youngmen are to be true & amp ; kind Such constancy in them could scarce be found Should me go search the Universe all round . To and Excellent New Tune , Sung at the COURT . This may be Printed , R. P. CLoes Face is Heaven to me , Like the Morning-Light we see ; And the Beauty of her Eye , Bright and lovely , like the Sky : Cloe , since my Heaven thou art , Ease and cure my wounded heart . Will young Love a Tyrant be ? Make me dote on Cruelty : Why does sullen Fate confine Me to one that is not mine ? Cloe , since my Heaven thou art , Ease and cure my wounded heart . Had I Loved as others do , Only for and hour or two , Then there had a Reason been , I should suffer for my since : Cloe , since my Heaven thou art , Ease and cure my wounded heart . Love ( thou knowest ) with what a flame , I adore young Cloes Name : Let me then thy pity find , Shoot a Dart and change her mind : Cloe , since my Heaven thou art , Ease and cure my wounded heart . All her Beauty's do entice , Though the Nymph be cold as Ice , Rosie-Lips and Lilly-Skin , All we gaze on , Charm and win : Cloe , since my Heaven thou art , Ease and cure my wounded heart . On her gentle Downy Breast , Let a sighing Lover rest , Twined within those tender Arms , Fettered by those pleasing Charms : Cloe , since my Heaven thou art , Ease and cure my wounded heart . Let my Love with joys be Crowned , You that with a Glance can Wound , With a Melting Kiss restore , Your young Love that sighed before : Cl [ oh ] e , since my Heaven thou art , Ease and cure my wounded heart . Thus you'll show your power and skill , Able both to Save and Kill , But to Kill has always been Held a most Notorious since : Cloe , since my Heaven thou art , Ease and cure my wounded heart . In sweet Groves we'll always dwell , With more joys than tongue can tell , There the Wanton then we'll play , Steal each others heart away : Cloe , since my Heaven thou art , Ease and cure my wounded heart : You I love ( by Jove ) I do , More then all things here below , With a Passion full as great , As ever Creature fancied yet : Cloe , since my Heaven thou art , Ease and cure my wounded heart . Bid the Miser leave his Over , . Bid the Wretched sighs no more : Bid the Old be Young again , Bid young Maids never think of Men : Cloe , since my Heaven thou are , Ease and cure my wounded heart : Love's not a thing of Chance , but Fate That makes me Love , that makes you hate Then if you be false or true , Love I must , and none but you : Cloe , since my Heaven thou art , Ease and cure my wounded heart . Printed for J. Back , at the Black-Boy on London-Bridge . 