The Suffolk Miracle OR A Relation of a young man who a Month after his death appeared to his sweetheart and carried her behind him Fourty miles in two hours time , and was never seen after but in the Grave . To the Tune of , My bleeding heart , etc A Wonder stranger never was known then what I now shall treat upon , In Suffolk there did lately dwell a Farmer rich and known full well . He had a Daughter fair and bright on whom he placed he chief delight , Her beauty was beyond compare she was both virtuous and fair . A young man there was living by who was so charmed with her eye , That he could never be at rest he was with love so much possessed . He made address to her , and she did grant him Love immediately , Which when her Father came to hear he parted her and her poor Dear . Forty miles distant was she sent unto his brother's with intent , That she should there so long remain till she had changed her mind again . Hereat this young man sadly grieved but knew not how to be relieved , He sighed and sobbed continually that his true love he could not see . She by no means could to him send who was her hearts espoused friend , He sighed she grieved but all in vain for she confined must still remain . He mourned so much that Doctors art could give no ease unto his heart Who was so strangely terrified that in short time for love he died . S He that from him was sent away knew nothing of his dying day But constant still she did remain to love the dead was then in vein . After he had in grave been laid a month or more unto this maid , He comes about middle of the night who joyed to see her hearts delight . Her Father's Horse which well she know her mother's hood and safeguard too , He brought with him to testify her parents order he came by . Which when her uncle understood he hoped it would be for her good , And gave consent to her straightway that with him she should come away . When she was god her love behind they passed as swift as any wind , That in two hours of little more he brought her to her Father's door . But as they did this great haste make he did complain his head did ache , Her Handcherchief she then took out and tied the same his head about . And unto him she thus did say thou art as cold as any clay , When we come home a fire we'll have but little dreamt he went to Grave . Soon were they at her Father's door and after she never see him more , I'll set the Horse up then he said and there he set this harmless maid . She knocked and strait a man he cried whose there , it's I , she then replied , Who wondered much her voice to hear and was possessed with dread and fear . Her Father he did tell , and then he stareed like and affrighted man , Down stairs he ran , and when he see her cried out my Child how camest thou here . prey Sir did you not send for me by such a messenger said she Which made his hair stare on his head , as knowing well that he was dead . Where is he then to her he said he's in the stable quoth the maid , Go in said he and go to bed i'll see the horse well littered . He stareed about and there could he no shape of any mankind see , But found his horse all on a sweat which made him in a deadly fret . His Daughter he said nothing too nor no one else though well they knew , That he was dead a month before for fear of grieving her full soar . Her father to his Father went who was deceased , with this intent To tell him what his daughter said so both came back unto this maid . They asked her and she still did say it he that then brought her away , Which when they herd they were amazed and on each others strangely gazed . A Handcherchief she said she tied about his head and that they tried , The Sexton they did speak unto that he the grave would then undo . Affrighted then they did behold his body turning into mould , And though he had a month been dead this kerchief was about his head . This thing unto her then they told and the whole truth they did unfold , She was thereat so terrified and grieved she quickly after died . Part not true love you Rich men then but if they be right honest men Your daughters love give them their way for force oft breeds their lives decay . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clark . W. Thackery and T. Passenger [ . ] The Suffolk Miracle OR A Relation of a young man who a Month after his death appeared to his sweetheart and carried her behind him Fourty miles in two hours time , and was never seen after but in the Grave . To the Tune of , My bleeding heart , etc A Wonder stranger never was known then what I now shall treat upon , In Suffolk there did lately dwell a Farmer rich and known full well . He had a Daughter fair and bright on whom he placed he chief delight , Her beauty was beyond compare she was both virtuous and fair . A young man there was living by who was so charmed with her eye , That he could never be at rest he was with love so much possessed . He made address to her , and she did grant him Love immediately , Which when her Father came to hear he parted her and her poor Dear . Forty miles distant was she sent unto his brother's with intent , That she should there so long remain till she had changed her mind again . Hereat this young man sadly grieved but knew not how to be relieved , He sighed and sobbed continually that his true love he could not see . She by no means could to him send who was her hearts espoused friend , He sighed she grieved but all in vain for she confined must still remain . He mourned so much that Doctors art could give no ease unto his heart Who was so strangely terrified that in short time for love he died . S He that from him was sent away knew nothing of his dying day But constant still she did remain to love the dead was then in vein . After he had in grave been laid a month or more unto this maid , He comes about middle of the night who joyed to see her hearts delight . Her Father's Horse which well she know her mother's hood and safeguard too , He brought with him to testify her parents order he came by . Which when her uncle understood he hoped it would be for her good , And gave consent to her straightway that with him she should come away . When she was god her love behind they passed as swift as any wind , That in two hours of little more he brought her to her Father's door . But as they did this great haste make he did complain his head did ache , Her Handcherchief she then took out and tied the same his head about . And unto him she thus did say thou art as cold as any clay , When we come home a fire we'll have but little dreamt he went to Grave . Soon were they at her Father's door and after she never see him more , I'll set the Horse up then he said and there he set this harmless maid . She knocked and strait a man he cried whose there , it's I , she then replied , Who wondered much her voice to hear and was possessed with dread and fear . Her Father he did tell , and then he stareed like and affrighted man , Down stairs he ran , and when he see her cried out my Child how camest thou here . prey Sir did you not send for me by such a messenger said she Which made his hair stare on his head , as knowing well that he was dead . Where is he then to her he said he's in the stable quoth the maid , Go in said he and go to bed i'll see the horse well littered . He stareed about and there could he no shape of any mankind see , But found his horse all on a sweat which made him in a deadly fret . His Daughter he said nothing too nor no one else though well they knew , That he was dead a month before for fear of grieving her full soar . Her father to his Father went who was deceased , with this intent To tell him what his daughter said so both came back unto this maid . They asked her and she still did say it he that then brought her away , Which when they herd they were amazed and on each others strangely gazed . A Handcherchief she said she tied about his head and that they tried , The Sexton they did speak unto that he the grave would then undo . Affrighted then they did behold his body turning into mould , And though he had a month been dead this kerchief was about his head . This thing unto her then they told and the whole truth they did unfold , She was thereat so terrified and grieved she quickly after died . Part not true love you Rich men then but if they be right honest men Your daughters love give them their way for force oft breeds their lives decay . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clark . W. Thackery and T. Passenger [ . ] 