The Young-Mans Labour lost : He with a fair Maid was in love , But she to him unkind did prove : As by this Ditty you shall hear , If Young men they will but draw near ; And Maidens too it does advice , To learn henceforth for to be wise . To the Tune of , The Jeering Young-Man . A S I passed by a Green-Wood side , A pretty Couple I espied , A Youngman and a dainty Lass , But mark what after came to pass : He thought her humours for to fit , But yet she was too ripe a wit ; She would not yield to his desire , As by this Story you shall hear . To Compliment he did begin , The Maids affection for to win , With speeches fair he did entreat , And often said his heart would break ; Quoth he , I am my Father's Heir , And have Threescore Pound a Year , I will maintain you gallantly , If thou wilt yield my Bride to be . Therefore I pray you be not coy , For thou shalt be my only joy ; If thou deniest thou wilt break my heart , For didst thou know the deadly smart Which I sustain both day and night For thee which art my hearts delight ; Therefore my dearest pity me , Or I shall die for love of thee . The M aid . G Ood Sir , I thank you for your love , Of your discourse I don't approve : For many now a days I see , Do bring themselves to poverty , By marrying while they are so young , But i'll not do my self-such wrong : Therefore forbear , thy suits in vain , I will not marry I tell thee plain . You say you have threescore pound a year What if thou hast I do not care , I knew those that had thre times more , And spent it all upon a Whore : And so may thou for what I know , For all you make so fair a show : Then be content and do not prate , For fear that I should break thy pate . Youngman . The youngman standing in amaze , And on the maid did strangely gaze : At last he made her this reply , And unto her these words did say : What ails thee for to be so cross , In troth I like thee worse and worse , Of all the Maids that ever I see , I never herd the like of thee . Sweetheart believe me or else choose , I'de have thee know I am none of those , That spend my means upon a Whore , Or run upon the Alewifes score : No I will better be adisved , It's good to be merry and wise : For friends I see are very scant , If that a man do come to want . Maid . My friend , quoth she , what have you said Is not half true I am afraid : I cannot think your so precise , One may see plainly by your eyes : Your hair is of the colour right , To cozen Maids is your delight : But thou shalt never prove false to me . Or I will never prove true to thee . Therefore forbear my company , And henceforth come not me nigh , For I am not resolved to wed , Nor yet to lose my Maidenhead : A single life is void of care , For married wives must pinch and spare Their charge for to maintain I see . Therefore a single Life for me . Man. Seeing thou provest so unkind , I am resolved to change my mind ; A hundred pound I have in store , And threescore pound a year and more : If I can find and honest Girl , I'll prize her more then Gold or Pearl And she shall live a Ladies life , After she's made my wedded wife . And so farewell thou scornful dame , In time thou mayest repent the same , That thou to me didst prove untrue , In time thou mayest have cause to rue : Before that I will marry thee , I will be hanged upon a Tree : Rather I will give my wealth and store , To one that begs from door to door . M aid . Farewell , begone , thou saucy Jack , With thy wealth and money prithee pack , My portion is and hundred pound , In Silver and good Gold so round : Beside my Mother she does cry , I shall have all when she does die : Then what need I care for thy wealth , Even as thou saidst go hang thy self . For I am resolved as I begun , To end and so conclude my Song , A single life I hold it best And theron still my mind is pressed , For Marriage brings sorrow and care , So in it I'll not fare my share : Since Young men are so fickle grown , I am resolved to hold my own . So Maids of you i'll take my leave , Let no false youngman you deceive : For many they are hard to trust , Scarce one in twenty proves just : I for my own part will advice , All Maids henceforth for to be wise : And have a care who you do wed , For fear you bring a Knave to bed . FINIS . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray . and T. Passenger . The Young-Mans Labour lost : He with a fair Maid was in love , But she to him unkind did prove : As by this Ditty you shall hear , If Young men they will but draw near ; And Maidens too it does advice , To learn henceforth for to be wise . To the Tune of , The Jeering Young-Man . A S I passed by a Green-Wood side , A pretty Couple I espied , A Youngman and a dainty Lass , But mark what after came to pass : He thought her humours for to fit , But yet she was too ripe a wit ; She would not yield to his desire , As by this Story you shall hear . To Compliment he did begin , The Maids affection for to win , With speeches fair he did entreat , And often said his heart would break ; Quoth he , I am my Father's Heir , And have Threescore Pound a Year , I will maintain you gallantly , If thou wilt yield my Bride to be . Therefore I pray you be not coy , For thou shalt be my only joy ; If thou deniest thou wilt break my heart , For didst thou know the deadly smart Which I sustain both day and night For thee which art my hearts delight ; Therefore my dearest pity me , Or I shall die for love of thee . The M aid . G Ood Sir , I thank you for your love , Of your discourse I don't approve : For many now a days I see , Do bring themselves to poverty , By marrying while they are so young , But i'll not do my self-such wrong : Therefore forbear , thy suits in vain , I will not marry I tell thee plain . You say you have threescore pound a year What if thou hast I do not care , I knew those that had thre times more , And spent it all upon a Whore : And so may thou for what I know , For all you make so fair a show : Then be content and do not prate , For fear that I should break thy pate . Youngman . The youngman standing in amaze , And on the maid did strangely gaze : At last he made her this reply , And unto her these words did say : What ails thee for to be so cross , In troth I like thee worse and worse , Of all the Maids that ever I see , I never herd the like of thee . Sweetheart believe me or else choose , I'de have thee know I am none of those , That spend my means upon a Whore , Or run upon the Alewifes score : No I will better be adisved , It's good to be merry and wise : For friends I see are very scant , If that a man do come to want . Maid . My friend , quoth she , what have you said Is not half true I am afraid : I cannot think your so precise , One may see plainly by your eyes : Your hair is of the colour right , To cozen Maids is your delight : But thou shalt never prove false to me . Or I will never prove true to thee . Therefore forbear my company , And henceforth come not me nigh , For I am not resolved to wed , Nor yet to lose my Maidenhead : A single life is void of care , For married wives must pinch and spare Their charge for to maintain I see . Therefore a single Life for me . Man. Seeing thou provest so unkind , I am resolved to change my mind ; A hundred pound I have in store , And threescore pound a year and more : If I can find and honest Girl , I'll prize her more then Gold or Pearl And she shall live a Ladies life , After she's made my wedded wife . And so farewell thou scornful dame , In time thou mayest repent the same , That thou to me didst prove untrue , In time thou mayest have cause to rue : Before that I will marry thee , I will be hanged upon a Tree : Rather I will give my wealth and store , To one that begs from door to door . M aid . Farewell , begone , thou saucy Jack , With thy wealth and money prithee pack , My portion is and hundred pound , In Silver and good Gold so round : Beside my Mother she does cry , I shall have all when she does die : Then what need I care for thy wealth , Even as thou saidst go hang thy self . For I am resolved as I begun , To end and so conclude my Song , A single life I hold it best And theron still my mind is pressed , For Marriage brings sorrow and care , So in it I'll not fare my share : Since Young men are so fickle grown , I am resolved to hold my own . So Maids of you i'll take my leave , Let no false youngman you deceive : For many they are hard to trust , Scarce one in twenty proves just : I for my own part will advice , All Maids henceforth for to be wise : And have a care who you do wed , For fear you bring a Knave to bed . FINIS . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray . and T. Passenger . 