The two faithful Lovers . To the Tune of , Franklin is fled away . F Arewel my hearts delight , Lady adieu , I must now take my flight , what ever ensue : My Country men I see , They cannot yet agree , Since it will no better be , England farewell . maid . O be not so unkind , heart love and joy , To leave me here beind , breeds my annoy , Oh have a patient heart , I'll help to bear the smart , Ever I from thee will part , my Turtle Dove . man . I'll leave thee Gold good store , thee to maintian , What canst thou wish for more , do not complain , Servants shall wait on thee , I'll give thee jewels three , That thou mayest think on me , when I am gone . maid . Your Gold I count but dross , when you are fled , Your absence is my loss , it'll strike me dead . Servants I will have none , When you are from me gone , I'de rather live alone , from company . man . I am resolved to go , Fortune to prove , Advice me what to do , my dearest love , For here I will not abide , What ever does me betide , Heavens now be my guide , and led the way . maid . Then let me with you go , heart love and joy . I will attend on you , and be your Boy , If you will go to Sea , I'll serve you night and day , For here I will not stay , if you go hence . Man. TO He Seas are dangerous strangers unkind , The Rocks are perilous so is the wind , My care is all for thee , As thou mayest plainly see , Dear heart go not with me , but stay behind . M aid . Though Seas do threaten death , my hearts delight , With thee i'll spend my breath , nought shall affright , With thee i'll live and die , In thy sweet company , Though dangers shall be nigh , both day and night . In men apparel now , to Sea she went . Because with him she'd be , her hearts content , She cut her lovely hair , And no mistrust there were , That she a Maiden fair was at that time . To Venice they were bound with full consent , With sorrows compassed round , away they went On and unhappy day , The Ship was cast away , Which wrought their lives decay , frien [ worser ] s discontent . The Ship being cast away , fortune so frowned He swam to land that day , but she was drowned Oh! his true love was drowned , And never after found , And he encompassed round , with grief and care . O cruel Seas ( quoth he ) and Rocks unkind , To part my love and me ; in love combined : Oh cast her on the shore , I may her death implore , And mourn for ever more , until I die . You Loyal Lovers all that hear this ditty , Sighs and lament her fallen , lets move you to pity . She lies now in the deep , In everlasting sleep , And left me hear to weep , in great distress Dear love I come , quoth he , heavens me guide , I long to be with thee , my only Bride In Venice he did die , And there his corpse does lie , And left his friends to cry , Oh hone , Oh hone . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The two faithful Lovers . To the Tune of , Franklin is fled away . F Arewel my hearts delight , Lady adieu , I must now take my flight , what ever ensue : My Country men I see , They cannot yet agree , Since it will no better be , England farewell . maid . O be not so unkind , heart love and joy , To leave me here beind , breeds my annoy , Oh have a patient heart , I'll help to bear the smart , Ever I from thee will part , my Turtle Dove . man . I'll leave thee Gold good store , thee to maintian , What canst thou wish for more , do not complain , Servants shall wait on thee , I'll give thee jewels three , That thou mayest think on me , when I am gone . maid . Your Gold I count but dross , when you are fled , Your absence is my loss , it'll strike me dead . Servants I will have none , When you are from me gone , I'de rather live alone , from company . man . I am resolved to go , Fortune to prove , Advice me what to do , my dearest love , For here I will not abide , What ever does me betide , Heavens now be my guide , and led the way . maid . Then let me with you go , heart love and joy . I will attend on you , and be your Boy , If you will go to Sea , I'll serve you night and day , For here I will not stay , if you go hence . Man. TO He Seas are dangerous strangers unkind , The Rocks are perilous so is the wind , My care is all for thee , As thou mayest plainly see , Dear heart go not with me , but stay behind . M aid . Though Seas do threaten death , my hearts delight , With thee i'll spend my breath , nought shall affright , With thee i'll live and die , In thy sweet company , Though dangers shall be nigh , both day and night . In men apparel now , to Sea she went . Because with him she'd be , her hearts content , She cut her lovely hair , And no mistrust there were , That she a Maiden fair was at that time . To Venice they were bound with full consent , With sorrows compassed round , away they went On and unhappy day , The Ship was cast away , Which wrought their lives decay , frien [ worser ] s discontent . The Ship being cast away , fortune so frowned He swam to land that day , but she was drowned Oh! his true love was drowned , And never after found , And he encompassed round , with grief and care . O cruel Seas ( quoth he ) and Rocks unkind , To part my love and me ; in love combined : Oh cast her on the shore , I may her death implore , And mourn for ever more , until I die . You Loyal Lovers all that hear this ditty , Sighs and lament her fallen , lets move you to pity . She lies now in the deep , In everlasting sleep , And left me hear to weep , in great distress Dear love I come , quoth he , heavens me guide , I long to be with thee , my only Bride In Venice he did die , And there his corpse does lie , And left his friends to cry , Oh hone , Oh hone . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 