Loves Downfall . Being a sad and true Relation of a young Lady , who fell in love with her Father's Sta - ble-Groom , but their loves being discovered , was disappointed by her one father , who would have matched her to a Knight but she for love of the Groom , fell into despair , and in the conclusion made her self away . Likewise how her death shortened her Fa - the days , and how her faithful friend the Groom ended his own life with a sharp weapon , being a warning for all parents not to match their children against their mind . To the Tune of , Flora farewell Or , True Love rewarded with Loyalty . WORSER Raw near young Maidens every one , unto these words I shall declare : I have for you a solid song , will grieve your hearts the same to hear . There was a Lady fair and bright , her Parents had no more but she , Who was beloved of Lord and Knight , as you after the same shall see . Her Father kept three Servingmen , that waited on him too and from : She loved the chiefest among them , which was the cause of all her woe . But yet her Parents nothing knew , though they kept her in private room : That ever her Love it was so true , or so set on the Stable-Groom . For on a time a Gallant Knight , that was of courage stout and free : In him her Father took delight , did come in hope's her love tobe . But because he was of mean estate , and the other a Knight of renown : She durst not once her mind relate , cause fearing of her father's frown . He talked , he walked , and did propound many questions unto she : But yet her heart was after found , none but the Stable-grooms to be . This gallant Knight her Parents love , and favour he did so obtain ; They sought all means her heart to move , to grant him love for love again . B Ut all their Words could not prevail , though they did urge her night & amp ; day , She thought from them away to stead , and to take a Voyage another way . But ere that she could bring to pass , by her Father's strict command , Her wedding-day appointed was , she should be married out of hand . But when this news she then did hear , and she by no means could it shun ; She wrung her hands , she tore her hair , like one was frantic she did run . They tidings to her father bring what was befallen unto she : Who wondered greatly at the thing , that such a change so soon should be . Then her Father to her came in haste , desiring her to tell him her mind , And he would ease her grief at last , a faithful friend she should him find . You have a Servingman ; quoth she , the which you keep at bed and board , The which hath gained my heart from me , I love him dearer then a Lord . Then straight her Father's wrath did rise , in a close room he locked her than : Her words so much he did disdain , he turned away his Servingman . But when she herd that heady news , her heart with sorrow it was slave : She vowed all company to refrain , until she saw her love again . Then straight a Letter she did write , and sealed the same with her own hand : Writ these words she did indite , and sent it him with strict command , How happy is the Country Girl , the which sits spinning at her Wheel : I would give all my Gold and Pearl , I felt no more then she does feel . Likewise thrice happy sure is she , that her true Loves presence can enjoy , Sure fortune will not favour me , but seeks my life for to destroy . Would I had been a Scullian-Maid , or a Servant of a low degree , Then need not I have been afraid , to a loved him that would love me , But all my wishes are in vain , this loathsome life I do annoy ; For I shall never see my Love again , nor yet his company enjoy . So farewell friends , and kindred all , yet I am bound to pray for you , Though you have brought me unto thrall ten thousand times i'll bid adieu . And farewell Love that could not gain , the flower affection of thy heart : I hope that we shall meet again , though for a while we feel the smart , Although they take my Love away , yet still they cannot hurt my soul : Sweet Jesus Christ to thee I pray , Oh Lord forgive my sins most foul . Then in her hand she took a Knife , saying farewell Love this is for thee : Which put a perjod to her life , and so she died most patiently . But when the Father he did hear , and this sad news to him did come : How he had lost his Daughter dear all for the love of the Stable-Groom . He pined and mourned himself away , and wished that hour had never been , Her true Love he himself did slay with a Weapon sharp and keen . Thus you have herd a pattern rare , for Lovers to take warning by , It's love brings many to despair , and so I end my Tragedy . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . Loves Downfall . Being a sad and true Relation of a young Lady , who fell in love with her Father's Sta - ble-Groom , but their loves being discovered , was disappointed by her one father , who would have matched her to a Knight but she for love of the Groom , fell into despair , and in the conclusion made her self away . Likewise how her death shortened her Fa - the days , and how her faithful friend the Groom ended his own life with a sharp weapon , being a warning for all parents not to match their children against their mind . To the Tune of , Flora farewell Or , True Love rewarded with Loyalty . WORSER Raw near young Maidens every one , unto these words I shall declare : I have for you a solid song , will grieve your hearts the same to hear . There was a Lady fair and bright , her Parents had no more but she , Who was beloved of Lord and Knight , as you after the same shall see . Her Father kept three Servingmen , that waited on him too and from : She loved the chiefest among them , which was the cause of all her woe . But yet her Parents nothing knew , though they kept her in private room : That ever her Love it was so true , or so set on the Stable-Groom . For on a time a Gallant Knight , that was of courage stout and free : In him her Father took delight , did come in hope's her love tobe . But because he was of mean estate , and the other a Knight of renown : She durst not once her mind relate , cause fearing of her father's frown . He talked , he walked , and did propound many questions unto she : But yet her heart was after found , none but the Stable-grooms to be . This gallant Knight her Parents love , and favour he did so obtain ; They sought all means her heart to move , to grant him love for love again . B Ut all their Words could not prevail , though they did urge her night & amp ; day , She thought from them away to stead , and to take a Voyage another way . But ere that she could bring to pass , by her Father's strict command , Her wedding-day appointed was , she should be married out of hand . But when this news she then did hear , and she by no means could it shun ; She wrung her hands , she tore her hair , like one was frantic she did run . They tidings to her father bring what was befallen unto she : Who wondered greatly at the thing , that such a change so soon should be . Then her Father to her came in haste , desiring her to tell him her mind , And he would ease her grief at last , a faithful friend she should him find . You have a Servingman ; quoth she , the which you keep at bed and board , The which hath gained my heart from me , I love him dearer then a Lord . Then straight her Father's wrath did rise , in a close room he locked her than : Her words so much he did disdain , he turned away his Servingman . But when she herd that heady news , her heart with sorrow it was slave : She vowed all company to refrain , until she saw her love again . Then straight a Letter she did write , and sealed the same with her own hand : Writ these words she did indite , and sent it him with strict command , How happy is the Country Girl , the which sits spinning at her Wheel : I would give all my Gold and Pearl , I felt no more then she does feel . Likewise thrice happy sure is she , that her true Loves presence can enjoy , Sure fortune will not favour me , but seeks my life for to destroy . Would I had been a Scullian-Maid , or a Servant of a low degree , Then need not I have been afraid , to a loved him that would love me , But all my wishes are in vain , this loathsome life I do annoy ; For I shall never see my Love again , nor yet his company enjoy . So farewell friends , and kindred all , yet I am bound to pray for you , Though you have brought me unto thrall ten thousand times i'll bid adieu . And farewell Love that could not gain , the flower affection of thy heart : I hope that we shall meet again , though for a while we feel the smart , Although they take my Love away , yet still they cannot hurt my soul : Sweet Jesus Christ to thee I pray , Oh Lord forgive my sins most foul . Then in her hand she took a Knife , saying farewell Love this is for thee : Which put a perjod to her life , and so she died most patiently . But when the Father he did hear , and this sad news to him did come : How he had lost his Daughter dear all for the love of the Stable-Groom . He pined and mourned himself away , and wished that hour had never been , Her true Love he himself did slay with a Weapon sharp and keen . Thus you have herd a pattern rare , for Lovers to take warning by , It's love brings many to despair , and so I end my Tragedy . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 