THE White-Chappel Maids Lamentation For the loss of their Sweethearts , upon the Soldiers Depar - ting to the Army to fight for the King . To the Tune of , Methinks the poor Town has been troubled too long . This may be Printed . June the 24 , 1685. R . L . S . W E Maids are undone , our sweethearts are flown , And gone to the Army to get them renown , To guard and preserve each County and Town , And fight for the safety of Kingdom and Crown , No Nation can show up such Youths as are here , Such Warlike brave Heros , such hearts void of fear . Our hearts are fire , and long till they come , To hear their sweet Fife , and to hear their loud Drum , To see our Delight , and our joy , and our life , Come home and Embrace his soft tender young Wife , No Nation can show as such Youths as are here , Such Warlike brave Heros , such hearts void of fear , Each Mistress is kind , and softer then Down , And fairer then Jilts in their Gold-flowered Go [ wn ] So soft are our Charms , and sweet our delight , They long all the day like a Bridegroom for Nigh [ tO ] No Nation can show us such Youths as are here , Such Warlike brave Heros , such hearts void of fear . Poor Cisly and Sue , and Bridget and Nell , Unpatiently wait for to hear their loves well : That John and sweet Thomas have got no harms , Will safely return to their Mistress's arms , No Nation can show us such Youths as are here , such Warlike , etc At parting I gave Sweet William a kiss , And bid him remember his Mistress by this , I gave him a present too large for to name , A present desired by the Cocks of the Game . No Nation can show such Youths as are here , such Warlike , etc It's Honour and Love that makes them to run , Amidst the sad dangers of Pikes and of Guns , Thus in every Field the Soldier gets fame , And get him a lasting eternal brave name . No Nation can show us such Youths as are here , Such Warlike , etc May Fortune prove kind , and may every one , With peace and with plenty return safely home , May all our kind wishes be crowned by Fate , That for their returning so earnestly wait , No Nation can show us such Youths as are here , Such Warlike , etc Thus every Lass new pleasures will find , And for to oblige them will always be kind , No Frowns nor denials shall ever cloud our face , Each Nymph like the Sun shall appear in full grace , No N ation can show us such Youths are here , Such Warlike brave Heros , such hearts void of fear . FINIS . Entered according to Order . Printed for C . Dennisson , at the Stationers - Arms within Aldgate . THE White-Chappel Maids Lamentation For the loss of their Sweethearts , upon the Soldiers Depar - ting to the Army to fight for the King . To the Tune of , Methinks the poor Town has been troubled too long . This may be Printed . June the 24 , 1685. R . L . S . W E Maids are undone , our sweethearts are flown , And gone to the Army to get them renown , To guard and preserve each County and Town , And fight for the safety of Kingdom and Crown , No Nation can show up such Youths as are here , Such Warlike brave Heros , such hearts void of fear . Our hearts are fire , and long till they come , To hear their sweet Fife , and to hear their loud Drum , To see our Delight , and our joy , and our life , Come home and Embrace his soft tender young Wife , No Nation can show as such Youths as are here , Such Warlike brave Heros , such hearts void of fear , Each Mistress is kind , and softer then Down , And fairer then Jilts in their Gold-flowered Go [ wn ] So soft are our Charms , and sweet our delight , They long all the day like a Bridegroom for Nigh [ tO ] No Nation can show us such Youths as are here , Such Warlike brave Heros , such hearts void of fear . Poor Cisly and Sue , and Bridget and Nell , Unpatiently wait for to hear their loves well : That John and sweet Thomas have got no harms , Will safely return to their Mistress's arms , No Nation can show us such Youths as are here , such Warlike , etc At parting I gave Sweet William a kiss , And bid him remember his Mistress by this , I gave him a present too large for to name , A present desired by the Cocks of the Game . No Nation can show such Youths as are here , such Warlike , etc It's Honour and Love that makes them to run , Amidst the sad dangers of Pikes and of Guns , Thus in every Field the Soldier gets fame , And get him a lasting eternal brave name . No Nation can show us such Youths as are here , Such Warlike , etc May Fortune prove kind , and may every one , With peace and with plenty return safely home , May all our kind wishes be crowned by Fate , That for their returning so earnestly wait , No Nation can show us such Youths as are here , Such Warlike , etc Thus every Lass new pleasures will find , And for to oblige them will always be kind , No Frowns nor denials shall ever cloud our face , Each Nymph like the Sun shall appear in full grace , No N ation can show us such Youths are here , Such Warlike brave Heros , such hearts void of fear . FINIS . Entered according to Order . Printed for C . Dennisson , at the Stationers - Arms within Aldgate . 