The Country MAIDENS Lamentation For the Loss of her TAYLOR : Who after pretence of a great deal of Love , ran away with her Clothes , and left her destitute both of Clothes and Sweetheart Maidens beware , who have not known The Tricks and Humours of the Town : For you will find that there are many , Who of a Maid will make a penny . Tune of , Ladies of London . This may be printed , R. P. TO Here came up a Lass from a Country Town , intending to live in the City ; In Steeple-Crown Hat , and a Paragon Gown who thought her self wondrous pretty : Her petticoat Serge , her stockings were green , her Smock was cut out of a sheet sir ; And under it something was not to be seen , but that here I dare not repeat sir . With joyful heart and a pretty full purse she came to this City of London ; Little expecting to meet with curse , by which she should quickly be undone : She had not been here a fortnight in Town , ever a Pricklouse began for to woo her , who quickly made bold for to rumple her gown and take up her Petticoat too sir . It was in the season of Cucumber time , when Tailors were sharp as their Needles , when ninety were scarce full as weighty as nine their bodies were grown so feeble . When their first progress was every day to their Chapel of ease in the Fields sir , There kneel down in clusters & amp ; heartily pray their stomachs may go to the Deal sir . But you shall hear how he served the wench , who thought he would never be fickle ; He soon made her belly as plump as a Tench , that her Gown it was grown too little : He bid her one day she should keep in her bed , and send him her Gown to be altered , And he would enlarge it , and fit her he said ; but now you shall hear how he faltered . But when he had god all her clothes in his hand he quit his Country baggage , And run from his lodging which was in the Strand thus cleverly rubbed with his cabbage , And left the poor wench in such a sad state , who hardly believed he would fail her , Till three or four days she had spent at this rate then cursed the sad Rogue of a Taylor . Therefore all Maidens you'd best have a care , when first you come up to the City , For Tailors and other such sharpers there are , will strive if they can to outwit you : And after they tell you you're pretty and fair , though with all protestations they woo you , If once you but let them come in for a share , you'll find they will quickly undo you . FINIS . Printed for R. K ell at the blue And - chor near Py-corner . The Country MAIDENS Lamentation For the Loss of her TAYLOR : Who after pretence of a great deal of Love , ran away with her Clothes , and left her destitute both of Clothes and Sweetheart Maidens beware , who have not known The Tricks and Humours of the Town : For you will find that there are many , Who of a Maid will make a penny . Tune of , Ladies of London . This may be printed , R. P. TO Here came up a Lass from a Country Town , intending to live in the City ; In Steeple-Crown Hat , and a Paragon Gown who thought her self wondrous pretty : Her petticoat Serge , her stockings were green , her Smock was cut out of a sheet sir ; And under it something was not to be seen , but that here I dare not repeat sir . With joyful heart and a pretty full purse she came to this City of London ; Little expecting to meet with curse , by which she should quickly be undone : She had not been here a fortnight in Town , ever a Pricklouse began for to woo her , who quickly made bold for to rumple her gown and take up her Petticoat too sir . It was in the season of Cucumber time , when Tailors were sharp as their Needles , when ninety were scarce full as weighty as nine their bodies were grown so feeble . When their first progress was every day to their Chapel of ease in the Fields sir , There kneel down in clusters & amp ; heartily pray their stomachs may go to the Deal sir . But you shall hear how he served the wench , who thought he would never be fickle ; He soon made her belly as plump as a Tench , that her Gown it was grown too little : He bid her one day she should keep in her bed , and send him her Gown to be altered , And he would enlarge it , and fit her he said ; but now you shall hear how he faltered . But when he had god all her clothes in his hand he quit his Country baggage , And run from his lodging which was in the Strand thus cleverly rubbed with his cabbage , And left the poor wench in such a sad state , who hardly believed he would fail her , Till three or four days she had spent at this rate then cursed the sad Rogue of a Taylor . Therefore all Maidens you'd best have a care , when first you come up to the City , For Tailors and other such sharpers there are , will strive if they can to outwit you : And after they tell you you're pretty and fair , though with all protestations they woo you , If once you but let them come in for a share , you'll find they will quickly undo you . FINIS . Printed for R. K ell at the blue And - chor near Py-corner . 