The Westminster Madams Lamentation For the breaking up of the CAMPAIGN at Hounslow-Heath , and the loss of their Pleasure they used to receive there . Together with Soldiers kind Answer , in Com - forting them , with hope's of meeting again the next Summer . To the Tune of , Oh Mother ! Roger , etc This may be Printed , R. P. TO He Army now returns to London , and farewell to the Campaign , Now ( alas ) I am quite undone , left to sighs and to complain : [ F ] ickle Fortune has me crossed , What a Lover have I lost ? What a Hero , brave and fine , [ L ] iked and loved this face of mine ! [ B ] ut yet I hope the next Campaign , to see these Soldiers once again . The Mirth we had I can't discover , ( every thing to please the mind ) [ N ] ot one discontented Lover , but all blithe and wondrous kind : [ W ] ell may Women then complain , Till they see such Men again , Till they see such Youth and Fire , ( Able to create Desire ) But I hope the next Campaign , to see these Soldiers once again . I liked the place beyond expressing , ( I never saw a Camp so fine ) Not a Maid in a Plain-Dressing , but might taste a Glass of Wine : Mirth and Bounty there was found , ( Flew like Light about the ground ) More then I can here relate , But those joys are out of Date , Yet still I hope the next Campaign , to see these Soldiers once again . I Mourn those Pleasures now are over , that those joys are fled and gone , That I must now lose my Lover , and in vain must make my moan : Oh! the Men that I have seen , All around that Glorious Green ; Oh! the Pleasures which that place , Did afford to every Face : Yet still I hope the next Campaign , to see these Soldiers once again . But joys are dreams , ( they last no longer yet we must to Fate submit , All the Beauty's of the Younger must decay and yield to it : In each Tavern , and each Street , I'll see now if I can meet This same Soldier brisk and fine , That has wone this heart of mine : And still hope the next Campaign , to see my Dearest once again . Fair joys betide thee ( Soldier ) ever , I am glad I have thee found , Let not Fortune now us sever , lest you leave me in a found : Welcome ( Dearest ) tell me when I shall Hounslow see again , That fair lovely pleasing sighed , Which abounded with Delight : Indeed I hope the next Compaign , to see the Soldiers once again , The Soldiers Answer . My fairest , Fortune now is Cruel , for I dare not now mind Love , Thy fair Face is Cupids Fuel , and those joys I long to prove : But we must be both content , Till the Winter is quite spent ; The fair Spring will bring Delight , Bring again that pleasing sighed ? And then ( my Love ) the next Campaign , you'll see the Soldiers all again . We will next Spring renew our pleasure but now Business calls away , I have ( now ) no time or leisure , and I dare not longer stay : But it may not be amiss , For to have a parting Kiss , Farewell now to my sweat Dear , You must not despair or fear : For still I hope the next Campaign , to see my Fairest once again . FINIS . Printed for J. Back , at the Black Boy on London-bridge . The Westminster Madams Lamentation For the breaking up of the CAMPAIGN at Hounslow-Heath , and the loss of their Pleasure they used to receive there . Together with Soldiers kind Answer , in Com - forting them , with hope's of meeting again the next Summer . To the Tune of , Oh Mother ! Roger , etc This may be Printed , R. P. TO He Army now returns to London , and farewell to the Campaign , Now ( alas ) I am quite undone , left to sighs and to complain : [ F ] ickle Fortune has me crossed , What a Lover have I lost ? What a Hero , brave and fine , [ L ] iked and loved this face of mine ! [ B ] ut yet I hope the next Campaign , to see these Soldiers once again . The Mirth we had I can't discover , ( every thing to please the mind ) [ N ] ot one discontented Lover , but all blithe and wondrous kind : [ W ] ell may Women then complain , Till they see such Men again , Till they see such Youth and Fire , ( Able to create Desire ) But I hope the next Campaign , to see these Soldiers once again . I liked the place beyond expressing , ( I never saw a Camp so fine ) Not a Maid in a Plain-Dressing , but might taste a Glass of Wine : Mirth and Bounty there was found , ( Flew like Light about the ground ) More then I can here relate , But those joys are out of Date , Yet still I hope the next Campaign , to see these Soldiers once again . I Mourn those Pleasures now are over , that those joys are fled and gone , That I must now lose my Lover , and in vain must make my moan : Oh! the Men that I have seen , All around that Glorious Green ; Oh! the Pleasures which that place , Did afford to every Face : Yet still I hope the next Campaign , to see these Soldiers once again . But joys are dreams , ( they last no longer yet we must to Fate submit , All the Beauty's of the Younger must decay and yield to it : In each Tavern , and each Street , I'll see now if I can meet This same Soldier brisk and fine , That has wone this heart of mine : And still hope the next Campaign , to see my Dearest once again . Fair joys betide thee ( Soldier ) ever , I am glad I have thee found , Let not Fortune now us sever , lest you leave me in a found : Welcome ( Dearest ) tell me when I shall Hounslow see again , That fair lovely pleasing sighed , Which abounded with Delight : Indeed I hope the next Compaign , to see the Soldiers once again , The Soldiers Answer . My fairest , Fortune now is Cruel , for I dare not now mind Love , Thy fair Face is Cupids Fuel , and those joys I long to prove : But we must be both content , Till the Winter is quite spent ; The fair Spring will bring Delight , Bring again that pleasing sighed ? And then ( my Love ) the next Campaign , you'll see the Soldiers all again . We will next Spring renew our pleasure but now Business calls away , I have ( now ) no time or leisure , and I dare not longer stay : But it may not be amiss , For to have a parting Kiss , Farewell now to my sweat Dear , You must not despair or fear : For still I hope the next Campaign , to see my Fairest once again . FINIS . Printed for J. Back , at the Black Boy on London-bridge . 