The Scotchmans Lamentation for the loss of his PACK . OR , A warning to all Scotch-Pedlers how they open their Packs in Bawdy Houses . To the Tune of , Without ever a penny of Money . This may be Prinsed . R. L. S. TO Here i was a brisk Scotchman as I do understand with a fa la la falero That lately did gang into fair England , with a fa la la falero , He traveled London Streets from place to plcae to u [ tO ] ter his Scotch-cloth and fell his Bonelace But at last he came off both with shame and disgrace with a fa la la falero , He no sooner was come to fair London Town with a fa la la la With his Pack at his back he walked up and , with a fa la la la At last a young Miss in gallant array called unto the Scotchmnn and did him to stay And make haste unto her without any delay with a fa la la la lero , Honest Scotchman come hither then she did cry with a fa la , etc For I am resolved some Scotch-cloth to buy with a fa la la la falero , If that you will afford a good Pennyworth said she Yes marry good Faith that will I said he Your bonny sweet Lass and I hope we shall agree with a fa la la . Then with her the Scotchman did gang it at door with a fa la etc . Not thinking he had been betrayed by a Whore with a fa la etc Then into a Room his Miss had him straightway where he opened his Pack without any delay , But before he came off he most dearly did pay with a fa la la etc And when she had taken what cloth she did lack with a fa la la la lero . The Scotchman he called for a bottle of Sack w i th a fa la la la la la lero . Bonny Lass a good Health to you I will drink with that she cast on him a Smile and a Wink But she made him pay dear enough for his drink With a fa la la la lero . Then he saluted her neatly and close by her sat with a fa la la la Only to obtain what she'd have him be at with a fa la la la , etc But before they had been together and hour a Pimp with his drawn Sword came in with great power And swore he would kill him or spoil him besure with a fa la la , etc What now you Scotch-Jockey what do you do here with a fa la la , etc You have made a Whore of my Wife I greatly do fear With a fa la , etc What makes you in this place with my Wife to be a Whore and a Rogue I plainly do see . With this Sword in my Hand both of you shall die With a fa la la , The Queen under a colour did cry out and roar with a fa la etc Dear Husband forgive me i'll do so no more with a fa la la , etc The Scotchman upon his Knees pardon did crave marry Sir take my Pack if my Life you will save For I am not willing to go to my grave with a fa la la , etc Upon this condition I will save thy Life . With a fa la la la , etc But let me never take you here again with my Wife , with a fa la la , etc A way then with Speed the poor Scotchman did go he there left his PACK and was glad he scaped so For his Heart it was filled with sorrow and Woe . with a fa la la la falero . Now to all my Country Scotch Bullies that are with a fa la la la la lero , Of going into Bawdy Houses have a great care with a fa la la la la lero , If everyone for it so dearly should pay You may all take your journey and with me run away For my PACK and Scotch - Cloth went all in one day with a fa la la la la falero . Printed for J . Conyers at the black Raven in Fetterlane next Holborn . The Scotchmans Lamentation for the loss of his PACK . OR , A warning to all Scotch-Pedlers how they open their Packs in Bawdy Houses . To the Tune of , Without ever a penny of Money . This may be Prinsed . R. L. S. TO Here i was a brisk Scotchman as I do understand with a fa la la falero That lately did gang into fair England , with a fa la la falero , He traveled London Streets from place to plcae to u [ tO ] ter his Scotch-cloth and fell his Bonelace But at last he came off both with shame and disgrace with a fa la la falero , He no sooner was come to fair London Town with a fa la la la With his Pack at his back he walked up and , with a fa la la la At last a young Miss in gallant array called unto the Scotchmnn and did him to stay And make haste unto her without any delay with a fa la la la lero , Honest Scotchman come hither then she did cry with a fa la , etc For I am resolved some Scotch-cloth to buy with a fa la la la falero , If that you will afford a good Pennyworth said she Yes marry good Faith that will I said he Your bonny sweet Lass and I hope we shall agree with a fa la la . Then with her the Scotchman did gang it at door with a fa la etc . Not thinking he had been betrayed by a Whore with a fa la etc Then into a Room his Miss had him straightway where he opened his Pack without any delay , But before he came off he most dearly did pay with a fa la la etc And when she had taken what cloth she did lack with a fa la la la lero . The Scotchman he called for a bottle of Sack w i th a fa la la la la la lero . Bonny Lass a good Health to you I will drink with that she cast on him a Smile and a Wink But she made him pay dear enough for his drink With a fa la la la lero . Then he saluted her neatly and close by her sat with a fa la la la Only to obtain what she'd have him be at with a fa la la la , etc But before they had been together and hour a Pimp with his drawn Sword came in with great power And swore he would kill him or spoil him besure with a fa la la , etc What now you Scotch-Jockey what do you do here with a fa la la , etc You have made a Whore of my Wife I greatly do fear With a fa la , etc What makes you in this place with my Wife to be a Whore and a Rogue I plainly do see . With this Sword in my Hand both of you shall die With a fa la la , The Queen under a colour did cry out and roar with a fa la etc Dear Husband forgive me i'll do so no more with a fa la la , etc The Scotchman upon his Knees pardon did crave marry Sir take my Pack if my Life you will save For I am not willing to go to my grave with a fa la la , etc Upon this condition I will save thy Life . With a fa la la la , etc But let me never take you here again with my Wife , with a fa la la , etc A way then with Speed the poor Scotchman did go he there left his PACK and was glad he scaped so For his Heart it was filled with sorrow and Woe . with a fa la la la falero . Now to all my Country Scotch Bullies that are with a fa la la la la lero , Of going into Bawdy Houses have a great care with a fa la la la la lero , If everyone for it so dearly should pay You may all take your journey and with me run away For my PACK and Scotch - Cloth went all in one day with a fa la la la la falero . Printed for J . Conyers at the black Raven in Fetterlane next Holborn . 