The Lovesick Maid ; Or , Cordelia's Lamentation for the Absence of her Gerheard . To a pleasant New Tune . B E gone Thou fatal fiery Fever , now be gone , let love alone ; Let his Etherial flames possess my breast , His fires , From thy consuming heat no aid requires , for swift desires Transports my passion to a Throne of rest : Where I , Who in the pride of health did never feel such warmth to move ; By sickness tamed , and so inflamed , I know no joys but love . And he That trifled many tedious hours , away my love to try , In little space had gained the grace , to have more power then I . Depart , Thou scorching fury , quick from me depart , think not my heart To thy dull flame shall be a Sacrifice , A Maid Dread Cupid now is on the Altar laid , by thee betrayed , A rich Oblation to restore thine eyes , But yet My fair acknowledgment will prove thou hadst no craft , To bend thy bow , against thy foe , that aimed to catch the shaft : For if That at my breast thy arrows thou all at once let fly , She that receives a thousand Sheaves , can do no more but die . No more You learned Physicians tyre your brains no more , pray give me over , Mine is a cure in Physic never read , Although You Skilful Doctors all the world do know , pray let me go You may as well make practice on the dead : But if , My Gerheard dain to view me , with the Glory of his looks , I make no doubt , to live without , Physicians and their books : It's he That with his balmed kisses can restore my latest breath , What bliss is this , to gain a kiss , can save a Maid from death , To you That tell me of another World , I vow , and will allow , Your sacred precepts if you'll grant me this : That he Whom I esteem of next the Deity , may go with me Without whose presence there can be no bliss : Go teach Your Tenets of Eternity , to those that aged be , And not persuade a Lovesick Maid , there's any Heaven but he . But stay Methinks and Icy slumber , hath possessed my frenzy brain ; Pray bid him die , if you see I , shall never wake again . The Young - M ans Answer : or his dying breath , Lamenting for his fair Cordelias Death . To a Delightful new Tune . C Ome on Thou fatal messenger from her that's gone left I alone Within that quenchless flame for ever fry , The lake , Of love being kindled , where in none can take , rest but awake , Where slumber hath no power to close the eye , While I That by my fair Cordelia , desires to take a sleep With lids wide spread upon my Bed , am forced a watch to keep , and she That waired many tedious hours , my constancy to try , Is now at rest , while I oppressed , fain would but cannot die . Dispatch Thou scorching fury , quickly now dispatch , by death I watch , To be released from this tormenting flame ; The Dart Sent from dread Cupid , sticks fast in my heart ; I wanting art Had not the power for to resist the same , Though she , Who by her late acknowledgment , professed thou hadst no craft , Yet from thy Bow , thou madest her know , what power lay in the shaft , But then Thou sentest and other Arrow , which me of hope's bereft , Most like a foe , to wound me so , [ for ] whom no cure is left . Wherefore Did you Physicians give my Mistress over had you no more Experience , but what you in books have read , Or why ( You learned Doctors ) did you cease to try , your skills , when I Might have revived her if she'd not been dead , And yet Suppose that I in person , had present been to view her , Is there such grace in any face , to work so great a cure ? But now I'm come too late to kiss her , which were it not in vain , After her death i'de spend my breath , to fetch her back again . Unto The fair Elizium thither will I go , whereas I know , She is amongst those sacred ones preferred , When I Shall be admitted for to come so nigh , pardon i'll cry . For my long absence , wherein I have erred , And since By her I was esteemed , so much on earth being here , Hence for her sake , no rest i'll take till I have found her there . No more But only I desire to hear my Passing-Bell , That Virgins may lament the day , of Gerherds last Farewell . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The Lovesick Maid ; Or , Cordelia's Lamentation for the Absence of her Gerheard . To a pleasant New Tune . B E gone Thou fatal fiery Fever , now be gone , let love alone ; Let his Etherial flames possess my breast , His fires , From thy consuming heat no aid requires , for swift desires Transports my passion to a Throne of rest : Where I , Who in the pride of health did never feel such warmth to move ; By sickness tamed , and so inflamed , I know no joys but love . And he That trifled many tedious hours , away my love to try , In little space had gained the grace , to have more power then I . Depart , Thou scorching fury , quick from me depart , think not my heart To thy dull flame shall be a Sacrifice , A Maid Dread Cupid now is on the Altar laid , by thee betrayed , A rich Oblation to restore thine eyes , But yet My fair acknowledgment will prove thou hadst no craft , To bend thy bow , against thy foe , that aimed to catch the shaft : For if That at my breast thy arrows thou all at once let fly , She that receives a thousand Sheaves , can do no more but die . No more You learned Physicians tyre your brains no more , pray give me over , Mine is a cure in Physic never read , Although You Skilful Doctors all the world do know , pray let me go You may as well make practice on the dead : But if , My Gerheard dain to view me , with the Glory of his looks , I make no doubt , to live without , Physicians and their books : It's he That with his balmed kisses can restore my latest breath , What bliss is this , to gain a kiss , can save a Maid from death , To you That tell me of another World , I vow , and will allow , Your sacred precepts if you'll grant me this : That he Whom I esteem of next the Deity , may go with me Without whose presence there can be no bliss : Go teach Your Tenets of Eternity , to those that aged be , And not persuade a Lovesick Maid , there's any Heaven but he . But stay Methinks and Icy slumber , hath possessed my frenzy brain ; Pray bid him die , if you see I , shall never wake again . The Young - M ans Answer : or his dying breath , Lamenting for his fair Cordelias Death . To a Delightful new Tune . C Ome on Thou fatal messenger from her that's gone left I alone Within that quenchless flame for ever fry , The lake , Of love being kindled , where in none can take , rest but awake , Where slumber hath no power to close the eye , While I That by my fair Cordelia , desires to take a sleep With lids wide spread upon my Bed , am forced a watch to keep , and she That waired many tedious hours , my constancy to try , Is now at rest , while I oppressed , fain would but cannot die . Dispatch Thou scorching fury , quickly now dispatch , by death I watch , To be released from this tormenting flame ; The Dart Sent from dread Cupid , sticks fast in my heart ; I wanting art Had not the power for to resist the same , Though she , Who by her late acknowledgment , professed thou hadst no craft , Yet from thy Bow , thou madest her know , what power lay in the shaft , But then Thou sentest and other Arrow , which me of hope's bereft , Most like a foe , to wound me so , [ for ] whom no cure is left . Wherefore Did you Physicians give my Mistress over had you no more Experience , but what you in books have read , Or why ( You learned Doctors ) did you cease to try , your skills , when I Might have revived her if she'd not been dead , And yet Suppose that I in person , had present been to view her , Is there such grace in any face , to work so great a cure ? But now I'm come too late to kiss her , which were it not in vain , After her death i'de spend my breath , to fetch her back again . Unto The fair Elizium thither will I go , whereas I know , She is amongst those sacred ones preferred , When I Shall be admitted for to come so nigh , pardon i'll cry . For my long absence , wherein I have erred , And since By her I was esteemed , so much on earth being here , Hence for her sake , no rest i'll take till I have found her there . No more But only I desire to hear my Passing-Bell , That Virgins may lament the day , of Gerherds last Farewell . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 