The Seven London Lasses Lamentations For the Loss of SIMON : OR , A brief Account of a Bloody Battle fought upon New-years-Day , for the sake of Simon their Love : wherein they tore their Coiffs , Dressings , Hoods , and Top-Nots , Gowns and [ P ] etticoats , striving who shall have him , Simon himself having a taste of their Fury , at length escaped out of their hands , resolved to come near them no more . To the Tune of , There is one black and sullen hour . This may be Printed , R. [ P ] . SImon the Salter , fine and trim , of lusty Limbs , and likewise fair , Seven young Maids that strove for him , whose Names in brief I will declare ; Susan and Sarah they did love him well , Next Joan and Kate , with Isabel , Next Joan and Kate , with Isabel ; And Nancy , likewise bouncing Nell ; And Nancy , likewise bouncing Nell . These Maidens then on New-Years Day , invited Simon to a Feast , They being Youthful , Fine and Gay , Simon himself was not the least : But lo how they to him for Kisses call , Till they did Simons Stomach stall ; Till they did , etc Alas ! what Man could please them all ? Alas ! what man , etc Sweet Charming humours they did from , so active was each loving Soul , And round about him they did swarm , like many Birds about and Owl : Some stroking of his Curling Locks did stand , While Susan set in Print his Band ; While Susan , etc And Kate she kissed and grasped his Hand ; And Kate , etc Simon alas ! with them was Teaz'd , at rest they would not let him be , For they was never better pleased , than when he hugged them on his Knee : With pleasing Sonnets they his Easrs did fill , And thus they used their chiefest skill , And thus , etc In hope's to gain his kind goodwill ; In hope's , etc Fair Isabels most pleasing Charms , did win his heart from all the rest , But when they see her in his Arms , lo how they were with grief oppressed : Ah , what have I done for him , then says Joan , Full ten times more then any one ; Full ten times , etc And yet he won't regard my moan ; And yet , etc Isabel he gave a kind Embrace , and in the presence of their view , These Maids was in a woeful case , because he did not hug them too : Young Kate and Joan they being in a rage , That nothing could their wrath assuage ; That nothing , etc Till they with Is'bel did engage ; Till they , etc Joan was resolved she would not fail , but took fair Is'bel by the Crown , Thus they tell to it Tooth and Nail , and by the Headgear pulled her down : Now Joan and Kate they being strong and stout , The Coiffs and Dressings flew about ; The Coiffs , etc And thus began the Revel Rout ; And thus , etc Nancy and Nell for Simons sake , began to pity Is'bels moan , I , and resolves her part to take , and straightways falls on Kate and Joan : And thus we see went on the loud Uproar , The Hoods and Top-Nots which they wore , The Hoods , etc With Gowns , were all in pieces tore ; With Gowns , etc Their Laces they did then consume , beside their flesh they did not spare , Their Fillets all bestrewed the Room , at length they seized on Simon there : Some god him by the Heels , some by the Head , And vowed they have him live or dead ; And vowed , etc This filled poor Simons heart with dread ; This filled , etc These Maidens thus did seize on him , each Lass was loath to lose her share , They almost tore him Limb from Limb , but a the length he did get clear : His very Legs and other Limbs they tore , So that poor Simon is so soar , So that , etc He vows he'l never come near them more ; He vows he'l never come near them more . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . The Seven London Lasses Lamentations For the Loss of SIMON : OR , A brief Account of a Bloody Battle fought upon New-years-Day , for the sake of Simon their Love : wherein they tore their Coiffs , Dressings , Hoods , and Top-Nots , Gowns and [ P ] etticoats , striving who shall have him , Simon himself having a taste of their Fury , at length escaped out of their hands , resolved to come near them no more . To the Tune of , There is one black and sullen hour . This may be Printed , R. [ P ] . SImon the Salter , fine and trim , of lusty Limbs , and likewise fair , Seven young Maids that strove for him , whose Names in brief I will declare ; Susan and Sarah they did love him well , Next Joan and Kate , with Isabel , Next Joan and Kate , with Isabel ; And Nancy , likewise bouncing Nell ; And Nancy , likewise bouncing Nell . These Maidens then on New-Years Day , invited Simon to a Feast , They being Youthful , Fine and Gay , Simon himself was not the least : But lo how they to him for Kisses call , Till they did Simons Stomach stall ; Till they did , etc Alas ! what Man could please them all ? Alas ! what man , etc Sweet Charming humours they did from , so active was each loving Soul , And round about him they did swarm , like many Birds about and Owl : Some stroking of his Curling Locks did stand , While Susan set in Print his Band ; While Susan , etc And Kate she kissed and grasped his Hand ; And Kate , etc Simon alas ! with them was Teaz'd , at rest they would not let him be , For they was never better pleased , than when he hugged them on his Knee : With pleasing Sonnets they his Easrs did fill , And thus they used their chiefest skill , And thus , etc In hope's to gain his kind goodwill ; In hope's , etc Fair Isabels most pleasing Charms , did win his heart from all the rest , But when they see her in his Arms , lo how they were with grief oppressed : Ah , what have I done for him , then says Joan , Full ten times more then any one ; Full ten times , etc And yet he won't regard my moan ; And yet , etc Isabel he gave a kind Embrace , and in the presence of their view , These Maids was in a woeful case , because he did not hug them too : Young Kate and Joan they being in a rage , That nothing could their wrath assuage ; That nothing , etc Till they with Is'bel did engage ; Till they , etc Joan was resolved she would not fail , but took fair Is'bel by the Crown , Thus they tell to it Tooth and Nail , and by the Headgear pulled her down : Now Joan and Kate they being strong and stout , The Coiffs and Dressings flew about ; The Coiffs , etc And thus began the Revel Rout ; And thus , etc Nancy and Nell for Simons sake , began to pity Is'bels moan , I , and resolves her part to take , and straightways falls on Kate and Joan : And thus we see went on the loud Uproar , The Hoods and Top-Nots which they wore , The Hoods , etc With Gowns , were all in pieces tore ; With Gowns , etc Their Laces they did then consume , beside their flesh they did not spare , Their Fillets all bestrewed the Room , at length they seized on Simon there : Some god him by the Heels , some by the Head , And vowed they have him live or dead ; And vowed , etc This filled poor Simons heart with dread ; This filled , etc These Maidens thus did seize on him , each Lass was loath to lose her share , They almost tore him Limb from Limb , but a the length he did get clear : His very Legs and other Limbs they tore , So that poor Simon is so soar , So that , etc He vows he'l never come near them more ; He vows he'l never come near them more . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . 