THE Country Damosels Lamentation For her LOVE . Or , The Youngman's Ingratitude ; together with the Old men Envy whom she slighted . To the Tune of The Country Farmer . TO Here was a young Damsel both bonny and brave , And she was full willing and Husband to have ; She did her endeavour as much as she might , To gain whom she loved , her joy and Delight ; For he was the Man whom her joys could restore , And therefore she gave him a Guinney and more , That he might go fetch out a License with speed , For she of a Husband did stand in great need . My Dearest , I now am unwilling to stay , Then why should we make any longer delay , True love is a Fire which burns in my breast , Without I never can take any rest ; Then pity a Maiden who is in despair , A and let me not languish in sorrow and care ; This Guinney I give thee , my Dearest said she , That thou mayest be willing to Marry with me . The Bells' they shall Ring , and the Pipers shall play A and we'll in much merriment spend the whole day ; A and when the long Day we have brought to and end , The Night in embraces we freely will spend ; Her Guinney he took , and away then he went , She little mistrusting his subtle intent ; But thought he was gone to provide what he should , But he never did it , and thus she was fooled . But when at the length she had found him unkind , She was in a passion , tormented in mind , She knew by his staying that all was not right , Next day she did ramble from morning till night To find out her love , whom her humours had crossed , But yet at the length all her labour was lost , Said she , never Maiden did meet with such wrong , My Lover is fled , and my Guinney is gone . N Owe while she in sorrow lamenting did lie , There was and old Fellow that lived hard by , Who fain would be courting this beautiful Maid , Then cock'd up his Hat , Sir , and to her he said , If thou wilt be willing to Marry with me , Instead of one Guinney , my Love shall have three ; In gallant apparel my Love shall appear , Thou shalt be my Darling , my Duck and my Dear . For though I am old , I am able , my Dear , To please my sweet Jenny , my Love do not fear ; And therefore , my Jewel , if thou'lt be my Bride , Thou shalt have a many fine Presents beside ; As fine as a Lady I will thee adorn , And make thee as happy as ever thou wertenberg born ; Although I am aged , yet do not me scorn , And make me , when married , drink out of the Horn . Quoth Jenny , this promise I never will make , For fear , after Marriage , the same I should brake ; If it be your fortune a Cuckold to be , Pray how can I hinder , or help it , said she ? Who am a young lass both jolly and gay , A and you and old Man that is feeble and grey ; Therefore I may happen to wander astray , If you cannot please me , sure somebody may . The old Man he would not give way to this thing , Therefore from this Damsel away he did fling ; She went to another that lived hard by , Come marry me quickly , this Maiden did cry ; Be gone , said the Man , and keep not such a life , I never intend for to make thee my Wife ; A and therefore your heart you may set it at ease , The Money I owe you , I'll pay when I please . From one to another she posted about , To get her a Husband , but still goes without ; With sorrow her heart it is ready to break , She knows not what course in the world she shall take The old Man he slights her as well as the rest , Therefore in much trouble and grief she's oppressed ; She often bewailing , and thus she does cry , Was ever poor Maiden so served as I . FINIS . By Gabriel Owens . Printed for J. Deacon , at Angel in Guilt-spur-street . THE Country Damosels Lamentation For her LOVE . Or , The Youngman's Ingratitude ; together with the Old men Envy whom she slighted . To the Tune of The Country Farmer . TO Here was a young Damsel both bonny and brave , And she was full willing and Husband to have ; She did her endeavour as much as she might , To gain whom she loved , her joy and Delight ; For he was the Man whom her joys could restore , And therefore she gave him a Guinney and more , That he might go fetch out a License with speed , For she of a Husband did stand in great need . My Dearest , I now am unwilling to stay , Then why should we make any longer delay , True love is a Fire which burns in my breast , Without I never can take any rest ; Then pity a Maiden who is in despair , A and let me not languish in sorrow and care ; This Guinney I give thee , my Dearest said she , That thou mayest be willing to Marry with me . The Bells' they shall Ring , and the Pipers shall play A and we'll in much merriment spend the whole day ; A and when the long Day we have brought to and end , The Night in embraces we freely will spend ; Her Guinney he took , and away then he went , She little mistrusting his subtle intent ; But thought he was gone to provide what he should , But he never did it , and thus she was fooled . But when at the length she had found him unkind , She was in a passion , tormented in mind , She knew by his staying that all was not right , Next day she did ramble from morning till night To find out her love , whom her humours had crossed , But yet at the length all her labour was lost , Said she , never Maiden did meet with such wrong , My Lover is fled , and my Guinney is gone . N Owe while she in sorrow lamenting did lie , There was and old Fellow that lived hard by , Who fain would be courting this beautiful Maid , Then cock'd up his Hat , Sir , and to her he said , If thou wilt be willing to Marry with me , Instead of one Guinney , my Love shall have three ; In gallant apparel my Love shall appear , Thou shalt be my Darling , my Duck and my Dear . For though I am old , I am able , my Dear , To please my sweet Jenny , my Love do not fear ; And therefore , my Jewel , if thou'lt be my Bride , Thou shalt have a many fine Presents beside ; As fine as a Lady I will thee adorn , And make thee as happy as ever thou wertenberg born ; Although I am aged , yet do not me scorn , And make me , when married , drink out of the Horn . Quoth Jenny , this promise I never will make , For fear , after Marriage , the same I should brake ; If it be your fortune a Cuckold to be , Pray how can I hinder , or help it , said she ? Who am a young lass both jolly and gay , A and you and old Man that is feeble and grey ; Therefore I may happen to wander astray , If you cannot please me , sure somebody may . The old Man he would not give way to this thing , Therefore from this Damsel away he did fling ; She went to another that lived hard by , Come marry me quickly , this Maiden did cry ; Be gone , said the Man , and keep not such a life , I never intend for to make thee my Wife ; A and therefore your heart you may set it at ease , The Money I owe you , I'll pay when I please . From one to another she posted about , To get her a Husband , but still goes without ; With sorrow her heart it is ready to break , She knows not what course in the world she shall take The old Man he slights her as well as the rest , Therefore in much trouble and grief she's oppressed ; She often bewailing , and thus she does cry , Was ever poor Maiden so served as I . FINIS . By Gabriel Owens . Printed for J. Deacon , at Angel in Guilt-spur-street . 