The True Lovers Cruel Tragedy ; Declaring the Misgortune of a Young Gentleman and his Lady that Killed themselves both for Love , under the borrowed Names of Mirtillus and Lucretia . It being a New Song Sung at the Kings Theatre . TO oh a Pleasant New Play House Tune . OR , Methinks the Poor Town has been Troubled too Long . L Et True Lovers all our Fortune's Rehearse , And strow their kind wishes upon our sad Hearse , The Lovely Mirtillus ( alas ) is no more , And Fairest Lucretia went to heaven before : The Nymph so Divine and the Shepherd so sweet , Lie peaceably sleeping in Death's winding-sheet . Lucretia the Young , the Lovely , and Fair , A Potion of Poison does sadly prepare , The Fatal sad Cup she takes in her hand , And with a Pale look , said thus Fate I command ; Upon the loud Name of Mirtillus she cried , Then closed up her Beauteous eyelids and died . But as Fair Lucretia lay on the ground , A Lovely sweet Virgin in Death's deepest found , To see his True Love Mirtillus then came , With hope's that he might her dear promise then claim ; He prays his fair Love to arise , but in vain , Not thinking the Lovely Lucretia was Slave . Arise up Fair Nymph from off the dull Earth , My Dearest Lucretia [ ? ] Thy True Love Mirtillus to thee often [ b ] oh [ w ? ] s . In hope's to obtain the blessed fruit of his vows . But soon he cried out , what alas do I see , Cold Death has destroyed my kind Mistress and me . Mirtillus then cried , in thy lovely arms , I'll sleep and embrace thee although in death's charms , Those Cypress sad wreaths that adorn all the dead , Shall Crown like a Garland thy true Lovers head , Ever Phebus this fatal sad evening shall see , unto the blessed shades I will hasten to thee . In Loves sweet Elizium we'll rest void of care , Where Lovers nor fate , nor ill fortune need fear , And in those fair Fields and delightful sweet Grove , We'll walk undisturbed , and enjoy what we Love ; No tempest of fortune can frown on our head , Such ease in those shades are reserved for the Dead . With that his Keen Sword he put to his breast , And cried Fair Lucretia with thee now I'll rest , The soul of Mirtillus a passage has found , Unto the blessed shades by a gentle sweet wound ; Though Lovers on earth are constrained to part , To gentle Elizium they only depart . There Lovers by our Example may see , What Bliss is reserved for true Constancy ; Mirtillus for Fair Lucretia thus died , Whom he upon earth could not have for a Bride ; Such historys seldom on Records are found , That youths & amp ; young maids for true love themselves wound . FINIS . This may be Printed , R. L. S. Printed for Charles Denisson , at the Sign of the Stationers - Arms within Aldgate . The True Lovers Cruel Tragedy ; Declaring the Misgortune of a Young Gentleman and his Lady that Killed themselves both for Love , under the borrowed Names of Mirtillus and Lucretia . It being a New Song Sung at the Kings Theatre . TO oh a Pleasant New Play House Tune . OR , Methinks the Poor Town has been Troubled too Long . L Et True Lovers all our Fortune's Rehearse , And strow their kind wishes upon our sad Hearse , The Lovely Mirtillus ( alas ) is no more , And Fairest Lucretia went to heaven before : The Nymph so Divine and the Shepherd so sweet , Lie peaceably sleeping in Death's winding-sheet . Lucretia the Young , the Lovely , and Fair , A Potion of Poison does sadly prepare , The Fatal sad Cup she takes in her hand , And with a Pale look , said thus Fate I command ; Upon the loud Name of Mirtillus she cried , Then closed up her Beauteous eyelids and died . But as Fair Lucretia lay on the ground , A Lovely sweet Virgin in Death's deepest found , To see his True Love Mirtillus then came , With hope's that he might her dear promise then claim ; He prays his fair Love to arise , but in vain , Not thinking the Lovely Lucretia was Slave . Arise up Fair Nymph from off the dull Earth , My Dearest Lucretia [ ? ] Thy True Love Mirtillus to thee often [ b ] oh [ w ? ] s . In hope's to obtain the blessed fruit of his vows . But soon he cried out , what alas do I see , Cold Death has destroyed my kind Mistress and me . Mirtillus then cried , in thy lovely arms , I'll sleep and embrace thee although in death's charms , Those Cypress sad wreaths that adorn all the dead , Shall Crown like a Garland thy true Lovers head , Ever Phebus this fatal sad evening shall see , unto the blessed shades I will hasten to thee . In Loves sweet Elizium we'll rest void of care , Where Lovers nor fate , nor ill fortune need fear , And in those fair Fields and delightful sweet Grove , We'll walk undisturbed , and enjoy what we Love ; No tempest of fortune can frown on our head , Such ease in those shades are reserved for the Dead . With that his Keen Sword he put to his breast , And cried Fair Lucretia with thee now I'll rest , The soul of Mirtillus a passage has found , Unto the blessed shades by a gentle sweet wound ; Though Lovers on earth are constrained to part , To gentle Elizium they only depart . There Lovers by our Example may see , What Bliss is reserved for true Constancy ; Mirtillus for Fair Lucretia thus died , Whom he upon earth could not have for a Bride ; Such historys seldom on Records are found , That youths & amp ; young maids for true love themselves wound . FINIS . This may be Printed , R. L. S. Printed for Charles Denisson , at the Sign of the Stationers - Arms within Aldgate . 