THE TRUE Lovers Lamentable Overthrow , OR , THE Damosels Last Farewell . Who lately Died with grief for the Loss of her Dearest Love . who was the joy of her Life . You Damsels all both far and near , Come to her Silent Tomb , And pay to her a Pearled Tear . As Flowers of Perfume . This may be printed , R. L. S. To the Tune of , Cruel Bloody Fate . Y Ou Parents all attend . see what of late befell , It is to you I send these Lines my last Farewell : My dismal state , I do relate , for why my love was pure , My Parents frowned , and gave a wound that none but Death can cure . Alas ! with very grief , my Tender Heart will break , Since I have no relief , nor none will pity take : In wooful plighted both day and night , this grief I do endure , I feel the swart of Cupids Dart , that none but Death can cure . The Damsel still replied my Dear , whom I adore , The Heavens be his Guide , I never shall see him more : TO he TO ears fell from her eyes her Love was perfect pure : Unhappy state my grief is great , there's none but death can cure He loved me as his life , as I did often find , But this began the strife , my friends was too unkind , I was contruied since hateful Gold their hearts did so allure , And do sustain such grief and pain , that none but death can cure . This grief none can remove , I now am in despair , TO he cruel pains of Love is more then I can bear : My Spirits fail I here bewail , the grief I here endure , No hope I have my life to save , there's none but death can cure . Her Parents standing by , and hearing her lament , Did willingly comply , and freely gave consent TO oh be his Bride what ere betide , and make the matter sure , Unhappy state , it's now too late , for none but death can cure . TO hey sent for him with speed , but when he did come there , His very heart did bleed , he tore his Locks of Hair : His passion great none can relate , his Love was likewise pure , Her heart was broke , the fatal stroke , of cruel death must cure , Her joys was fully flown , she found she could not live , Now all that was her own , to him she'd freely give : In token of her tender Love , and her affections pure . He wept to to see her destiny , that none but Death could cure . Her Life then could not save , her sorrows did excel , Her hand to him she gave , and said my love farewell : Now for thy sake , my heart will break , I cannot long endure , This cruel pain which I sustain , there's none but death can cure . What multitudes of tears , her dear beholders spent , Her sighs had filled their ears , and made their hearts relent : Sweet death said she , now set me free , my pains I can't endure , Then with his Dart he pierc [ ' ] worser her heart and made a perfect cure . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street without Newgate . THE TRUE Lovers Lamentable Overthrow , OR , THE Damosels Last Farewell . Who lately Died with grief for the Loss of her Dearest Love . who was the joy of her Life . You Damsels all both far and near , Come to her Silent Tomb , And pay to her a Pearled Tear . As Flowers of Perfume . This may be printed , R. L. S. To the Tune of , Cruel Bloody Fate . Y Ou Parents all attend . see what of late befell , It is to you I send these Lines my last Farewell : My dismal state , I do relate , for why my love was pure , My Parents frowned , and gave a wound that none but Death can cure . Alas ! with very grief , my Tender Heart will break , Since I have no relief , nor none will pity take : In wooful plighted both day and night , this grief I do endure , I feel the swart of Cupids Dart , that none but Death can cure . The Damsel still replied my Dear , whom I adore , The Heavens be his Guide , I never shall see him more : TO he TO ears fell from her eyes her Love was perfect pure : Unhappy state my grief is great , there's none but death can cure He loved me as his life , as I did often find , But this began the strife , my friends was too unkind , I was contruied since hateful Gold their hearts did so allure , And do sustain such grief and pain , that none but death can cure . This grief none can remove , I now am in despair , TO he cruel pains of Love is more then I can bear : My Spirits fail I here bewail , the grief I here endure , No hope I have my life to save , there's none but death can cure . Her Parents standing by , and hearing her lament , Did willingly comply , and freely gave consent TO oh be his Bride what ere betide , and make the matter sure , Unhappy state , it's now too late , for none but death can cure . TO hey sent for him with speed , but when he did come there , His very heart did bleed , he tore his Locks of Hair : His passion great none can relate , his Love was likewise pure , Her heart was broke , the fatal stroke , of cruel death must cure , Her joys was fully flown , she found she could not live , Now all that was her own , to him she'd freely give : In token of her tender Love , and her affections pure . He wept to to see her destiny , that none but Death could cure . Her Life then could not save , her sorrows did excel , Her hand to him she gave , and said my love farewell : Now for thy sake , my heart will break , I cannot long endure , This cruel pain which I sustain , there's none but death can cure . What multitudes of tears , her dear beholders spent , Her sighs had filled their ears , and made their hearts relent : Sweet death said she , now set me free , my pains I can't endure , Then with his Dart he pierc [ ' ] worser her heart and made a perfect cure . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street without Newgate . 