The Extremes of Love , OR , The Distressed Lovers : Being a dreadful account of two young people who were engaged in affection , till at last the young man proved deceitful , Which broke his Lovers tender heart , but when he herd this deplorable news , he supposed he still see her before his eyes , and rested not , till sighs and Tears did put a perjod to his life also : so that they were both buried in one Grave . To the Tune of , In Summer Time . Y Ou Lovers all both far and near , come listen to my mournful song , And I shall plainly make appear , how love procured my deadly wrong . I was a Virgin fair and free , in whom some youngmen took delight Love brought me in Captivity , and turned my day to darksome night . By flattering speeches I was wone , till my poor heart was set on fire , So I at last was quite undone , and now my life it will expire . A handsome Youth unto me came , who did to me unconstant prove , He said his heart was all on flame , and nothing could his mind remove . His faithless speeches I believed , and to his suit I did consent . But he at last hath me deceived and now too late I do repent . With watery eyes and killing throbs , I spend the long and ted [ i ] ous night , In nothing but heart-breaking sobs . and thoughts of him I take delight . B Ut it's too late I said before , to call my wishes back again , For he whom I in heart adore , my company does quite refrain . Such pangs I constantly endure , would wound each faithful lovers heart But am passed hope's of any cure , and must endure this deadly smart . Ah! cruel wretch to use me so , that prized thee far more dear than gold , Now thou hast wrought my overthrow , that in a trice thou wilt behold . Her vitals then began to fail , and stoop unto all-conquering Death , Her Rosy Cheeks then waxed pale , for then she lost her murmuring breath . But when these tidings to him came , who was the cause of all her grief , Against himself he did exclaim , and would by no means find relief . Inhumane wretch , quoth he , am I , accursed from the hour of birth , Who caused this creature for to die , that was the glory of the earth . Come quickly Death , and end my smart , for here I can no comfort find , Since I have broke her tender heart , that was so loving and so kind . See where she stands before mine eyes , and beckons me to come away ; All hope's of comfort I despise , and now must to my bed of clay . Could sighs or wishes , ought prevail , to bring my true love back again , Or could my prayers or tears avail , she should for ever here remain . But she'l not let me be at rest , till I come to my darksome tomb . With fears I still shall be oppressed , till with her I attain a room . With fearful countenance he spoke , and looked like a man half dead , So in a trice his heart was broke , and with her he was buried . Then mind these lines that here are writ , you true and faithful Lovers all , False dealing is a thing unfit , and oft procures a shameful fallen . You Maidens all be sure be wise , to flattering youngsters never trust , For if they can your hearts surprise , they'll prove deceitful and unjust . This may be Printed . R. L. S. Printed for J. Back , at the Black - Boy on London-Bridge . The Extremes of Love , OR , The Distressed Lovers : Being a dreadful account of two young people who were engaged in affection , till at last the young man proved deceitful , Which broke his Lovers tender heart , but when he herd this deplorable news , he supposed he still see her before his eyes , and rested not , till sighs and Tears did put a perjod to his life also : so that they were both buried in one Grave . To the Tune of , In Summer Time . Y Ou Lovers all both far and near , come listen to my mournful song , And I shall plainly make appear , how love procured my deadly wrong . I was a Virgin fair and free , in whom some youngmen took delight Love brought me in Captivity , and turned my day to darksome night . By flattering speeches I was wone , till my poor heart was set on fire , So I at last was quite undone , and now my life it will expire . A handsome Youth unto me came , who did to me unconstant prove , He said his heart was all on flame , and nothing could his mind remove . His faithless speeches I believed , and to his suit I did consent . But he at last hath me deceived and now too late I do repent . With watery eyes and killing throbs , I spend the long and ted [ i ] ous night , In nothing but heart-breaking sobs . and thoughts of him I take delight . B Ut it's too late I said before , to call my wishes back again , For he whom I in heart adore , my company does quite refrain . Such pangs I constantly endure , would wound each faithful lovers heart But am passed hope's of any cure , and must endure this deadly smart . Ah! cruel wretch to use me so , that prized thee far more dear than gold , Now thou hast wrought my overthrow , that in a trice thou wilt behold . Her vitals then began to fail , and stoop unto all-conquering Death , Her Rosy Cheeks then waxed pale , for then she lost her murmuring breath . But when these tidings to him came , who was the cause of all her grief , Against himself he did exclaim , and would by no means find relief . Inhumane wretch , quoth he , am I , accursed from the hour of birth , Who caused this creature for to die , that was the glory of the earth . Come quickly Death , and end my smart , for here I can no comfort find , Since I have broke her tender heart , that was so loving and so kind . See where she stands before mine eyes , and beckons me to come away ; All hope's of comfort I despise , and now must to my bed of clay . Could sighs or wishes , ought prevail , to bring my true love back again , Or could my prayers or tears avail , she should for ever here remain . But she'l not let me be at rest , till I come to my darksome tomb . With fears I still shall be oppressed , till with her I attain a room . With fearful countenance he spoke , and looked like a man half dead , So in a trice his heart was broke , and with her he was buried . Then mind these lines that here are writ , you true and faithful Lovers all , False dealing is a thing unfit , and oft procures a shameful fallen . You Maidens all be sure be wise , to flattering youngsters never trust , For if they can your hearts surprise , they'll prove deceitful and unjust . This may be Printed . R. L. S. Printed for J. Back , at the Black - Boy on London-Bridge . 