Pyramus and Thisbe : Or , Love's Masterpiece : Behold the downfall of two Lovers Dear , And to their Memories , let fallen a Tear , A sad mistake their Ruin did procure , When as they thought their FriendshiP should endure ; O Cruel Fate ! That Cut them off in Prime , And for Enjoyment , would afford no time . To the Tune of , Digby's Farewell . W Hen all hearts did yield unto Cupid as King , And dying for Mistress's was not strange thing , When Maids without coyness did candidly deal , And men loved with constancy , faith , and true Zeal : There liv , d a fair pare of true Lovers in Greece Who have still been accounted as Loves masterpiece . The Yough was called Pyramus , Thisbe the Maid : Their Love was immortal , and never decayed . But alas ! their affections were crossed by sad Fate : To wit , by the feud and immortal debate That had been fomented for many years space , Between both their Families , & amp ; their whole Raze . Which made the fair Cuple , though scorched with loves fire , Still smother their Flames & amp ; conceal their desire : They sighed still in private , and wept all alone ; And dared not discover a Tear or a Groan . They sighed all the Night , & amp ; they gazed all the Day : Thus weeping and gazing , and sighing away Their languishing Lives , which they spent all in Tears , In sighs , & amp ; in groans , & amp ; in amorous fears . And when the whole world was composed in a sleep , Their grief kept them waking to sighs & amp ; to weep . Thus wandering all night , to the stars they complain , Of hardship , of fate , of their torments , and pain . But when they no longer those pains could endure Their Love did begin for to seek out some Cure . And so they appointed one Night for to meet In some neighbouring Valley , and there for to greet : And thence fly away to some far distant Cave , To love at their leisure : contented to have The joys of each other ; and there let loves flame Burn quietly out without danger of blame . And so when that Phebus had run out his Raze , Fair Thisbe came first into the meeting place . Impatient she stood and expected her Dear ; She thought that each moment he stayed , was a year . TO hen under a Mulberry-tree down she lies , But scarce was lay down when she presently spies A grim and fierce Lion besmeared all with Blood , Came wandering down from the neighbou [ r ] ing wood Away run the Nymph to a Cave in a Fright . She fly's & amp ; her Mantle is lost in the flight : W hich the bloody Lion takes up in his Paws He tears it , & amp ; then with the Rags wipes his jaws . Soon after pooor Pyramus came for to find , His long wished for Thisbe : but fate prov [ ' ] worser unkind . For when divine joys he did hope for to have He found but a winding sheet , death , & amp ; cold Grave . For when that he saw his loves M antle all tore , Bedewed all with blood , & amp ; besmeared all with Goar : And then saw the Lion trot over the plain , He falsely concluded his Thisby was slave . O who can express the vast torment and smart , The pangs and the anguish & amp ; grief of his heart ? He made the Woods ring with his pitiful moans The Rocks & amp ; the Mountains did Echo his Groans . Alas : ( said Pyramus ) could she then find No help from the Gods ! are they so unkind ? Or else have they stole her away from our sighed , And so Rob [ ' ] worser the Earth to make Heaven more bright ? O tell me kind Sta [ r ] s ! come and tell me but where My Thisbe is gone , and I'll follow my dear . TO woe death-wounds already I bear in my breast , Once wounded by Love & amp ; by grief now oppressed . I'll weep out my life , & amp ; I'll sighs out my Soul : I'll groan for my Love till my Carcase grows cold . Her M antle I'll take for my sad Winding-sheet , In that mournful posture my Thisbe I'll meet . But a languishing death comes with too much delay : Great grief is impatient of so long a stay , I'll make greater haste to my Love : at which word The Youth stabbed himself to the heart with his S word . By this time fair Thisbe was come from he [ r ] Cave So pale that she ris like a Ghost from its Grave . For when she her Pyramus dying did see , She looked much more like to Carcase than he . You'd have thought that the Nymph would before him have died She fell on his body then mournfully cried Oh why my dear Pyrimus who so unkind ; Why run you away and leave Thisbe behind ? At Thisbies sweet Name the Youth lifts up his eyes : He looks , & amp ; he sighs , & amp ; then shuts them & amp ; dies : He gazed till he died then content with the sighed . Away to Elizium his Soul took its flight . And Thisbies did after it presently fly : She struggled , & amp ; strove , and made hast her to die . And such haste she made in over taking her dear She ne [ ' ] re stayed to complain nor sca [ r ] ce drop a Tear . Her tender , and gentle heart soon burst with grief [ ! ] And Death stole away her fa [ i ] r Soul like a TO hief . TO hen down her cold body she lay by her Love . Both pitied by all the kind Gods of the Grove . TO he amorous TO urtles and Nightingales sung Their Obs [ e ] quies : & amp ; in sad Notes their Knell sung . And each loving beast of the Wood left his Cave , And came for to make the dead Lovers a Grave . London Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . Pyramus and Thisbe : Or , Love's Masterpiece : Behold the downfall of two Lovers Dear , And to their Memories , let fallen a Tear , A sad mistake their Ruin did procure , When as they thought their FriendshiP should endure ; O Cruel Fate ! That Cut them off in Prime , And for Enjoyment , would afford no time . To the Tune of , Digby's Farewell . W Hen all hearts did yield unto Cupid as King , And dying for Mistress's was not strange thing , When Maids without coyness did candidly deal , And men loved with constancy , faith , and true Zeal : There liv , d a fair pare of true Lovers in Greece Who have still been accounted as Loves masterpiece . The Yough was called Pyramus , Thisbe the Maid : Their Love was immortal , and never decayed . But alas ! their affections were crossed by sad Fate : To wit , by the feud and immortal debate That had been fomented for many years space , Between both their Families , & amp ; their whole Raze . Which made the fair Cuple , though scorched with loves fire , Still smother their Flames & amp ; conceal their desire : They sighed still in private , and wept all alone ; And dared not discover a Tear or a Groan . They sighed all the Night , & amp ; they gazed all the Day : Thus weeping and gazing , and sighing away Their languishing Lives , which they spent all in Tears , In sighs , & amp ; in groans , & amp ; in amorous fears . And when the whole world was composed in a sleep , Their grief kept them waking to sighs & amp ; to weep . Thus wandering all night , to the stars they complain , Of hardship , of fate , of their torments , and pain . But when they no longer those pains could endure Their Love did begin for to seek out some Cure . And so they appointed one Night for to meet In some neighbouring Valley , and there for to greet : And thence fly away to some far distant Cave , To love at their leisure : contented to have The joys of each other ; and there let loves flame Burn quietly out without danger of blame . And so when that Phebus had run out his Raze , Fair Thisbe came first into the meeting place . Impatient she stood and expected her Dear ; She thought that each moment he stayed , was a year . TO hen under a Mulberry-tree down she lies , But scarce was lay down when she presently spies A grim and fierce Lion besmeared all with Blood , Came wandering down from the neighbou [ r ] ing wood Away run the Nymph to a Cave in a Fright . She fly's & amp ; her Mantle is lost in the flight : W hich the bloody Lion takes up in his Paws He tears it , & amp ; then with the Rags wipes his jaws . Soon after pooor Pyramus came for to find , His long wished for Thisbe : but fate prov [ ' ] worser unkind . For when divine joys he did hope for to have He found but a winding sheet , death , & amp ; cold Grave . For when that he saw his loves M antle all tore , Bedewed all with blood , & amp ; besmeared all with Goar : And then saw the Lion trot over the plain , He falsely concluded his Thisby was slave . O who can express the vast torment and smart , The pangs and the anguish & amp ; grief of his heart ? He made the Woods ring with his pitiful moans The Rocks & amp ; the Mountains did Echo his Groans . Alas : ( said Pyramus ) could she then find No help from the Gods ! are they so unkind ? Or else have they stole her away from our sighed , And so Rob [ ' ] worser the Earth to make Heaven more bright ? O tell me kind Sta [ r ] s ! come and tell me but where My Thisbe is gone , and I'll follow my dear . TO woe death-wounds already I bear in my breast , Once wounded by Love & amp ; by grief now oppressed . I'll weep out my life , & amp ; I'll sighs out my Soul : I'll groan for my Love till my Carcase grows cold . Her M antle I'll take for my sad Winding-sheet , In that mournful posture my Thisbe I'll meet . But a languishing death comes with too much delay : Great grief is impatient of so long a stay , I'll make greater haste to my Love : at which word The Youth stabbed himself to the heart with his S word . By this time fair Thisbe was come from he [ r ] Cave So pale that she ris like a Ghost from its Grave . For when she her Pyramus dying did see , She looked much more like to Carcase than he . You'd have thought that the Nymph would before him have died She fell on his body then mournfully cried Oh why my dear Pyrimus who so unkind ; Why run you away and leave Thisbe behind ? At Thisbies sweet Name the Youth lifts up his eyes : He looks , & amp ; he sighs , & amp ; then shuts them & amp ; dies : He gazed till he died then content with the sighed . Away to Elizium his Soul took its flight . And Thisbies did after it presently fly : She struggled , & amp ; strove , and made hast her to die . And such haste she made in over taking her dear She ne [ ' ] re stayed to complain nor sca [ r ] ce drop a Tear . Her tender , and gentle heart soon burst with grief [ ! ] And Death stole away her fa [ i ] r Soul like a TO hief . TO hen down her cold body she lay by her Love . Both pitied by all the kind Gods of the Grove . TO he amorous TO urtles and Nightingales sung Their Obs [ e ] quies : & amp ; in sad Notes their Knell sung . And each loving beast of the Wood left his Cave , And came for to make the dead Lovers a Grave . London Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . 