THE Brokenhearted Lovers Triumph . SHOWING , That though for Love their hearts were broke , They counted Love no heavy Yoke ; For after Death such joys they find , Brings Peace and quiet to the mind . The Tune is , Blind Cupids Power I set at nought [ . ] N Owe Cupid let me quickly die , these pains I can't endure , Let me enjoy his Company , who only can me Cure : If he deny , I'm sure to die , of this tormenting pain , Oh! give me ease of this disease , ten thousand have been slave . Into his heart send home thy Dart , and touch him to the Quick , Because that he so slighteth me , that am so deadly sick : Of this my smart let him take part , and Bleed as well as he , Then i'll Decease , and die in peace , to Elizium I will flee . There shall I meet with Souls so sweet , that died of my disease , Who while we walk to hear them talk , my fancy so will please : That could I then Revive again , I think I should deny , From thence to part , my broken heart , finds there such Company , While I relate my Riged state , then with me they will join , And one will say , fie , fie , away , no fate more worse then mine : And then say I , a Harmony of sighs we needs must have , Love was the thing that did us bring heartbroken to the Grave . None but Old Dotards , comes this place unto , The Reason is , Because they cannot Woo But we , poor Maidens ! when youngmen do come Think on no other joy , and so're undone ; Yet CUPID to make us , part of amends , Gives us the Pleasing Pain , and we are Friends . TO Hus will they do with sighs most sad , till such a blast does come , From every Breast , deprived of Rest , shakes our Elizium : and down drops tears , though our past fears we never shall meet again , It's our Delight in shades of Night , to hear our selves complain . Thus Prisoners we , confined be to such a pleasant Goal , When one grows sad we make her glad , to hear our Mournful Tale : We tell her how a broken Vow caused us to loose our Breath , Then she'l complain to us again , this brought me to my Death . Another she'l reply to me , cease , cease , and hear my tale , I had a wound was more profound , then what did you assail : And shed more tears in one two years , then ever your eyes could spend , With deadly smart I broke my heart , this was my fatal end . Thus Rivals we cannot agree , contend about our Pain , She that felt most thereof does boast , and counts it was her gain : As some dispute , and some are Mute , this place such Pleasure yields , We'll still abide , and here reside , in these Elizium Fields . This very shade for us was made where ever we'll remain , And will not go to live below , upon the Earth again : But those that finds such troubled minds as we before have known , Make haste make haste , and no time waste ; for here you will find none . Thus we possess such Happiness , the Earth cannot allow , It is our gain through Seas of pain , to come where we are now : You Men unkind , that think we find such torments when you slight us , It is our grief brings us Relief , and here we do delight us . But those that prove so false in Love , such pleasures never shall find , For when they die their Souls shall fly , where they shall be confined : And surely miss of such like bliss , as we do here enjoy , Because that they found out a way , poor Maidens to destroy . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . THE Brokenhearted Lovers Triumph . SHOWING , That though for Love their hearts were broke , They counted Love no heavy Yoke ; For after Death such joys they find , Brings Peace and quiet to the mind . The Tune is , Blind Cupids Power I set at nought [ . ] N Owe Cupid let me quickly die , these pains I can't endure , Let me enjoy his Company , who only can me Cure : If he deny , I'm sure to die , of this tormenting pain , Oh! give me ease of this disease , ten thousand have been slave . Into his heart send home thy Dart , and touch him to the Quick , Because that he so slighteth me , that am so deadly sick : Of this my smart let him take part , and Bleed as well as he , Then i'll Decease , and die in peace , to Elizium I will flee . There shall I meet with Souls so sweet , that died of my disease , Who while we walk to hear them talk , my fancy so will please : That could I then Revive again , I think I should deny , From thence to part , my broken heart , finds there such Company , While I relate my Riged state , then with me they will join , And one will say , fie , fie , away , no fate more worse then mine : And then say I , a Harmony of sighs we needs must have , Love was the thing that did us bring heartbroken to the Grave . None but Old Dotards , comes this place unto , The Reason is , Because they cannot Woo But we , poor Maidens ! when youngmen do come Think on no other joy , and so're undone ; Yet CUPID to make us , part of amends , Gives us the Pleasing Pain , and we are Friends . TO Hus will they do with sighs most sad , till such a blast does come , From every Breast , deprived of Rest , shakes our Elizium : and down drops tears , though our past fears we never shall meet again , It's our Delight in shades of Night , to hear our selves complain . Thus Prisoners we , confined be to such a pleasant Goal , When one grows sad we make her glad , to hear our Mournful Tale : We tell her how a broken Vow caused us to loose our Breath , Then she'l complain to us again , this brought me to my Death . Another she'l reply to me , cease , cease , and hear my tale , I had a wound was more profound , then what did you assail : And shed more tears in one two years , then ever your eyes could spend , With deadly smart I broke my heart , this was my fatal end . Thus Rivals we cannot agree , contend about our Pain , She that felt most thereof does boast , and counts it was her gain : As some dispute , and some are Mute , this place such Pleasure yields , We'll still abide , and here reside , in these Elizium Fields . This very shade for us was made where ever we'll remain , And will not go to live below , upon the Earth again : But those that finds such troubled minds as we before have known , Make haste make haste , and no time waste ; for here you will find none . Thus we possess such Happiness , the Earth cannot allow , It is our gain through Seas of pain , to come where we are now : You Men unkind , that think we find such torments when you slight us , It is our grief brings us Relief , and here we do delight us . But those that prove so false in Love , such pleasures never shall find , For when they die their Souls shall fly , where they shall be confined : And surely miss of such like bliss , as we do here enjoy , Because that they found out a way , poor Maidens to destroy . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 