The two Unfortunate Lovers ; Or , The Unhappy Marriage . Being a New Song of the Untimely Death's of the two Unhappy Lovers ; caused by her cruel Parents , in forcing her to Marry contrary to her Vows . When Parents they their Children Wed against their own Consent ; That is the cause by which is bred such fatal Discontent . To the Tune of , My Life and my Death . This may be Printed , R. P. O Where's my Rosinda ? shall I never more Behold that bright Beauty whom I did adore ; I wait at her Window both early and late , To see her as usual , but ah ! my hard Fate , Denys me that Bliss , which makes me to fear , That some sad mishap hath befallen my Dear . In this silent Grove my Rosinda and I , Did vow to each other to love constantly ; My heart is surprised , for sure I do see My dearest lamenting so near unto me : Oh tell me Rosinda , the cause of thy Tears , Thy absence hath filled my heart with sad fears . Alas ! my Almador , my heart is oppressed With sorrow , so much , that can scarce be expressed : My Friends hath enforced me my vows for to break , Which often to thee in this Grove I did make ; That I would never Marry with none but my Love , But now I am forced unconstant to prove . My Parents regardless of all my sad tears , Have caused me to Marry with one that in years Exceeded mine far , but his Riches was great , Which caused my Parents Almador to hate : Since that I did love you so dearly , that I Did hate the Old Miser , and him did deny . B Ut o , all in vain , since the Knot it is tied , Till Death does come ease me , and us shall divide ; For since that I cannot Almador enjoy , Kind Death will befriend me my Life to destory : Farewell then A [ l ] m [ a ] dor , my dearest so true , Rosinda must bid you for ever adieu , Oh! since that my hope's are by Fortune thus crossed , And I my Rosinda for ever have lost ; I'll range over the World , for my heart is oppressed , With sorrow so great , I can no where find rest : Farewell my Rosinda , these words then he spoke , Remember the vows that thy Marriage that broke . And then in a Ship that was ready to Sail , Aboard straight he went , for they had a fine Gale Of Wind and on Waves they so swiftly did glide , That soon they did Sail in the Ocean so wide : But Fortune that seemed at first for to smile , Did soon in a moment their hope's all beguile . A Storm did arise , and the Ship it was Staved , Almador was Drowned , there's none could be saved ; Except three poor Seamen i'the Long-Boat did get , And Rowed on the Sea till a Ship they did meet ; which brought them to England where they did relate The loss of their Ship , and Almadors sad fate . But when this sad News to Rosinda they bear , She beatrice her fair Breasts , and she tore her fine Hair Thus crying , Almador lies deep in the Sea , Oh would that Rosinda was Buried with thee : And thus in sad sorrow she still did complain , Since Almador is dead I my Life do disdain . Then taking a Dagger , she held out the same , And with a full stroke , at her heart she did aim : When life was departing , ah ! now cried she , I come my Almador , I come unto thee : Let this be a pattern of rare Constancy , Rosinda for love of Almador did Die . FINIS . Printed for C. Dennisson , at the Sign of the Stationers - Arms within Aldgate . The two Unfortunate Lovers ; Or , The Unhappy Marriage . Being a New Song of the Untimely Death's of the two Unhappy Lovers ; caused by her cruel Parents , in forcing her to Marry contrary to her Vows . When Parents they their Children Wed against their own Consent ; That is the cause by which is bred such fatal Discontent . To the Tune of , My Life and my Death . This may be Printed , R. P. O Where's my Rosinda ? shall I never more Behold that bright Beauty whom I did adore ; I wait at her Window both early and late , To see her as usual , but ah ! my hard Fate , Denys me that Bliss , which makes me to fear , That some sad mishap hath befallen my Dear . In this silent Grove my Rosinda and I , Did vow to each other to love constantly ; My heart is surprised , for sure I do see My dearest lamenting so near unto me : Oh tell me Rosinda , the cause of thy Tears , Thy absence hath filled my heart with sad fears . Alas ! my Almador , my heart is oppressed With sorrow , so much , that can scarce be expressed : My Friends hath enforced me my vows for to break , Which often to thee in this Grove I did make ; That I would never Marry with none but my Love , But now I am forced unconstant to prove . My Parents regardless of all my sad tears , Have caused me to Marry with one that in years Exceeded mine far , but his Riches was great , Which caused my Parents Almador to hate : Since that I did love you so dearly , that I Did hate the Old Miser , and him did deny . B Ut o , all in vain , since the Knot it is tied , Till Death does come ease me , and us shall divide ; For since that I cannot Almador enjoy , Kind Death will befriend me my Life to destory : Farewell then A [ l ] m [ a ] dor , my dearest so true , Rosinda must bid you for ever adieu , Oh! since that my hope's are by Fortune thus crossed , And I my Rosinda for ever have lost ; I'll range over the World , for my heart is oppressed , With sorrow so great , I can no where find rest : Farewell my Rosinda , these words then he spoke , Remember the vows that thy Marriage that broke . And then in a Ship that was ready to Sail , Aboard straight he went , for they had a fine Gale Of Wind and on Waves they so swiftly did glide , That soon they did Sail in the Ocean so wide : But Fortune that seemed at first for to smile , Did soon in a moment their hope's all beguile . A Storm did arise , and the Ship it was Staved , Almador was Drowned , there's none could be saved ; Except three poor Seamen i'the Long-Boat did get , And Rowed on the Sea till a Ship they did meet ; which brought them to England where they did relate The loss of their Ship , and Almadors sad fate . But when this sad News to Rosinda they bear , She beatrice her fair Breasts , and she tore her fine Hair Thus crying , Almador lies deep in the Sea , Oh would that Rosinda was Buried with thee : And thus in sad sorrow she still did complain , Since Almador is dead I my Life do disdain . Then taking a Dagger , she held out the same , And with a full stroke , at her heart she did aim : When life was departing , ah ! now cried she , I come my Almador , I come unto thee : Let this be a pattern of rare Constancy , Rosinda for love of Almador did Die . FINIS . Printed for C. Dennisson , at the Sign of the Stationers - Arms within Aldgate . 