The two Unfortunate Lovers : OR , THE Flintshire ' SQUIRE and Shropshire MAID's Misfortunes , as you shall find in this following Treatise . Tune of , The Ruined Virgin : or , Franklin is fled away . Licensed according to Order . I N Flintshire lived , we hear , a ' Squire young , Who wronged a Damsel dear , by his fair Tongue , The solemn Vows he made , Her yielding Heart betrayed , So that she soon was laid , low in the Grave . In her fair Beauty bright , he did pretend To place his whole delight , never did Friend Such Protestations make , That he would never break His Vows , but freely take her for his Bride . Set not your Love on me , kind Sir , she said , Who am of low Degree , a silly Maid , Unworthy of the place , Ladies you may embrace , Of a right noble Raze , therefore forbear . No Lady in the Land I love like thee , Though thousands at command , all's one to me , Thy Charms are manifold , Beyond the price of Gold ; Grant Love , and then , behold , I ask no more . Such honourable Love , who could deny , Thinking he'd loyal prove , she did reply , By all the Powers divine , My Heart I do resign , In Wedlock to be thine , while Life does last . So soon as she did yield , Joys to complete , Their loyal Love they sea [ r ] ' d with kisses sweet , Never to prove unkind , But bear a faithful Mind , But yet at last we find , ruined was she . Now when his Parents knew their true intent , They in a Passion grew , for to prevent Their league of Loyalty , The Lovers then did cry , Alas ! where shall we fly for refuge now ? The young Man then replied , To London go , Where thou shalt be my Bride , and likewise know That I will follow thee , In Love and Loyalty ; Thus they did both agree , like Lovers kind . Then to fair London - town , straight she was brought , Like one of high Renown with pleasure frought ; But her unhappy State , Proved most unfortunate , As I shall here relate , therefore attend . He never followed her as it appears , Though she had Traveled far , therefore her Tears , In multitudes did flow , So that in Grief and Woe , She cried , My Overthrow now is at hand . His coming not to Town , like a keen Dart , Straitways did cast her down , so that her Heart Soon was with Sorrow broke , Death gave the fatal Stroke As this last word she spoke , Dearest , farewell . In Saint Martins she died , near to White-hall , Where loyal Lovers cried to see her Fallen ; Her last lamenting Moan , To such a highth was grown , That any Heart of Stone needs must relent . London : Printed for J. Deacon , in Guiltspur-street . The two Unfortunate Lovers : OR , THE Flintshire ' SQUIRE and Shropshire MAID's Misfortunes , as you shall find in this following Treatise . Tune of , The Ruined Virgin : or , Franklin is fled away . Licensed according to Order . I N Flintshire lived , we hear , a ' Squire young , Who wronged a Damsel dear , by his fair Tongue , The solemn Vows he made , Her yielding Heart betrayed , So that she soon was laid , low in the Grave . In her fair Beauty bright , he did pretend To place his whole delight , never did Friend Such Protestations make , That he would never break His Vows , but freely take her for his Bride . Set not your Love on me , kind Sir , she said , Who am of low Degree , a silly Maid , Unworthy of the place , Ladies you may embrace , Of a right noble Raze , therefore forbear . No Lady in the Land I love like thee , Though thousands at command , all's one to me , Thy Charms are manifold , Beyond the price of Gold ; Grant Love , and then , behold , I ask no more . Such honourable Love , who could deny , Thinking he'd loyal prove , she did reply , By all the Powers divine , My Heart I do resign , In Wedlock to be thine , while Life does last . So soon as she did yield , Joys to complete , Their loyal Love they sea [ r ] ' d with kisses sweet , Never to prove unkind , But bear a faithful Mind , But yet at last we find , ruined was she . Now when his Parents knew their true intent , They in a Passion grew , for to prevent Their league of Loyalty , The Lovers then did cry , Alas ! where shall we fly for refuge now ? The young Man then replied , To London go , Where thou shalt be my Bride , and likewise know That I will follow thee , In Love and Loyalty ; Thus they did both agree , like Lovers kind . Then to fair London - town , straight she was brought , Like one of high Renown with pleasure frought ; But her unhappy State , Proved most unfortunate , As I shall here relate , therefore attend . He never followed her as it appears , Though she had Traveled far , therefore her Tears , In multitudes did flow , So that in Grief and Woe , She cried , My Overthrow now is at hand . His coming not to Town , like a keen Dart , Straitways did cast her down , so that her Heart Soon was with Sorrow broke , Death gave the fatal Stroke As this last word she spoke , Dearest , farewell . In Saint Martins she died , near to White-hall , Where loyal Lovers cried to see her Fallen ; Her last lamenting Moan , To such a highth was grown , That any Heart of Stone needs must relent . London : Printed for J. Deacon , in Guiltspur-street . 