The Despairing Shepherd's Advice to Rash Lovers : OR , A Caution against Flattery . Being a most pleasant and delightful New Play-Song . Kind Strephons love makes scornful Phillis fly , And look on him with a Disadainful Eye ; It's so with all young Virgins , when they prove Their youthful Suitors both admire and love ; Then Youths beware that when you love most dear , Let then the least love outwardly appear . Tune of , Hail to the Myrtle Shades . I N a Grove where fair Nymphs dwell , young Strephon the pride of the Plain ; His lovesick Story did tell , how the Nymph did his suit disdain : Ah cruel ! he cry [ ' ] worser away , found Cupid now torture no more ; You see I your Laws obey , though I all in vain do adore . Ah! Phillis is now unkind , and my love does requite with scorn , Ah! Phillis no more I find , thy cruel frowns must be born ; For the more I court , you fly , and crueler still you do grow ; And though poor Strephon should die , yet to him no kindness you'd show . Bear witness you Woods and Springs , you Rocks and you neighbouring Hills , And each pretty Bird that sings , that Phillis has Eyes which kill : When first I beheld her face , her charms did so powerful prove , That all my Manhood gave place , and I was constrained for to love . W Hich has caused my grief and woe , and many a shower of Tears ; To think how my Love did flow , and yet did get nothing but cares : For had I not proved so kind , and flattered her still with such praise ; I far more favour might find , and Venus had Crowned me with Bays . Then Shepherd's a warning take , beware how you flatter the proud ; lest that their conceits do make them vanish your hope's to a Cloud : For Women of their own motion , can boast and swell with ambition , And think that our Devotion for them is not half sufficient . For if we praise their features , and say that they're virtuous and fair ; Excelling Mortal Creatures , and beauteous beyond all compare : Then they will look with disdain , and think us unworthy to view ; Nor pity , though we complain , though all that we said was untrue . But if we prove coy , they'll be soon ready our favour to woo ; And unto our wish will agree , and what ever we'd have'um do : Had I not showed her such love , I never had been served at this rate ; But Cupid does cruel prove , pushing on the rash Lovers fate . But I , poor I must pine , because I can never redeem Those Moments that once were mine , in which I might gain her esteem : For women like wind do change , and when that their quarter they shift ; They through the whole compass range , and shipwreck our passion adrift . Then by sad Strephons complaint , beware how too far you do wade ; lest you do find a restraint , and then all your hope's will soon fade : Love is much like a Quicksand , on which if you stay but to pause , It will soon sink where you stand , and you to stick fast in will cause . The which by experience I tell , and echo to Woods my sad moan ; And here resolve for to dwell , because unkind Phillis is gone : For I'm passed Cure now I find , and Death he must ease me of grief ; Unless my Phillis prove kind , and bring me a speedy relief . FINIS . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thac - keray , and T. Passenger . The Despairing Shepherd's Advice to Rash Lovers : OR , A Caution against Flattery . Being a most pleasant and delightful New Play-Song . Kind Strephons love makes scornful Phillis fly , And look on him with a Disadainful Eye ; It's so with all young Virgins , when they prove Their youthful Suitors both admire and love ; Then Youths beware that when you love most dear , Let then the least love outwardly appear . Tune of , Hail to the Myrtle Shades . I N a Grove where fair Nymphs dwell , young Strephon the pride of the Plain ; His lovesick Story did tell , how the Nymph did his suit disdain : Ah cruel ! he cry [ ' ] worser away , found Cupid now torture no more ; You see I your Laws obey , though I all in vain do adore . Ah! Phillis is now unkind , and my love does requite with scorn , Ah! Phillis no more I find , thy cruel frowns must be born ; For the more I court , you fly , and crueler still you do grow ; And though poor Strephon should die , yet to him no kindness you'd show . Bear witness you Woods and Springs , you Rocks and you neighbouring Hills , And each pretty Bird that sings , that Phillis has Eyes which kill : When first I beheld her face , her charms did so powerful prove , That all my Manhood gave place , and I was constrained for to love . W Hich has caused my grief and woe , and many a shower of Tears ; To think how my Love did flow , and yet did get nothing but cares : For had I not proved so kind , and flattered her still with such praise ; I far more favour might find , and Venus had Crowned me with Bays . Then Shepherd's a warning take , beware how you flatter the proud ; lest that their conceits do make them vanish your hope's to a Cloud : For Women of their own motion , can boast and swell with ambition , And think that our Devotion for them is not half sufficient . For if we praise their features , and say that they're virtuous and fair ; Excelling Mortal Creatures , and beauteous beyond all compare : Then they will look with disdain , and think us unworthy to view ; Nor pity , though we complain , though all that we said was untrue . But if we prove coy , they'll be soon ready our favour to woo ; And unto our wish will agree , and what ever we'd have'um do : Had I not showed her such love , I never had been served at this rate ; But Cupid does cruel prove , pushing on the rash Lovers fate . But I , poor I must pine , because I can never redeem Those Moments that once were mine , in which I might gain her esteem : For women like wind do change , and when that their quarter they shift ; They through the whole compass range , and shipwreck our passion adrift . Then by sad Strephons complaint , beware how too far you do wade ; lest you do find a restraint , and then all your hope's will soon fade : Love is much like a Quicksand , on which if you stay but to pause , It will soon sink where you stand , and you to stick fast in will cause . The which by experience I tell , and echo to Woods my sad moan ; And here resolve for to dwell , because unkind Phillis is gone : For I'm passed Cure now I find , and Death he must ease me of grief ; Unless my Phillis prove kind , and bring me a speedy relief . FINIS . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thac - keray , and T. Passenger . 