THE Merchant's Son of Exeter : Showing how he Courted a Mercers Daughter whom he Pretended he dearly Loved , yet after faithful vows and solemn Engagements , he left her and Married with another , which was the cause of her Languishing to Death . Tune is , Oh How can I be merry or Glad . Licensed according to Order . SU san a Mercer's Daughter dear , all in the Town of Exeter , Her beautiful Charms did so appear , that many was soon in love with her . Among the rest that wood his maid , one was a Merchant's only Son , Who after in sorrow sighing said , Oh Love me or I to ruin run ? Pity thy Lover sad Complaint , and grant me here thy kind good will , For it's in thy power sweet charming Saint , this minute my Life to save or kill . The youthful Damsel straight replied , if thou wilt loyal prove to me , I tell thee whatever me betide , I will be as just and true to thee . Never doubt but I will constant prove , the youth immediately replied , With kisses we'll seal the bonds of Love , and soon thou shalt be my lawful Bride . A Ring of Gold to her he gave , and many solemn vows did make , Declaring the Seas should be his Grave , if ever he did his promise break . Now for a twelve months space or more , he seemed to love her as his life , Yet though he did thus her charms adore , she yet was not his Married Wife . Yet after all I pray behold , how false this Merchant's Son did prove , A Lady that had more store of Gold he Courted , and left his Loyal Love . Now when this Damsel came to hear , of this youngman's Disloyalty , She said with a sighs and melting tear , he cannot be sure so false to me ! But to her grief she found it true , when being left in deep despair , He Married within a day or two , and left his young beautiful Damsel fair . Now on her false Loves Wedding day , she to her Chamber straight did go . Where wringing her hands she sighing lay , while melting tears from her eyes did flow . No man said she more false on Earth , by Conscience it will soon be tried , While you are in your Joy and Mirth , remember your broken vows she cried ? His Life he desired me to save , I pitied then his wretched state , When I shall be dead and laid in Grave , It's well if he don't repent too late . Those many solemn vows one day , may be a torment to his mind , As knowing he did my life betray , sure never was Lover more unkind . Farewell you Loyal Lovers all , this day I bid you all adieu , Oh trust nor believe no man at all , for they will endeavour to ruin you . He wished the Sea might be his Grave , and that he never more might thrive , If ever he false to me did prove , so long as he should remain alive . Yet while he sails the Ocean Sea , let providence still be his Guide , For though he has thus been false to me , I do not desire revenge , she cried , Once more farewell my Parents dear , come Death and give the fatal stroke , For why should I longer languish here , with sorrow her tender heart she broke . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . THE Merchant's Son of Exeter : Showing how he Courted a Mercers Daughter whom he Pretended he dearly Loved , yet after faithful vows and solemn Engagements , he left her and Married with another , which was the cause of her Languishing to Death . Tune is , Oh How can I be merry or Glad . Licensed according to Order . SU san a Mercer's Daughter dear , all in the Town of Exeter , Her beautiful Charms did so appear , that many was soon in love with her . Among the rest that wood his maid , one was a Merchant's only Son , Who after in sorrow sighing said , Oh Love me or I to ruin run ? Pity thy Lover sad Complaint , and grant me here thy kind good will , For it's in thy power sweet charming Saint , this minute my Life to save or kill . The youthful Damsel straight replied , if thou wilt loyal prove to me , I tell thee whatever me betide , I will be as just and true to thee . Never doubt but I will constant prove , the youth immediately replied , With kisses we'll seal the bonds of Love , and soon thou shalt be my lawful Bride . A Ring of Gold to her he gave , and many solemn vows did make , Declaring the Seas should be his Grave , if ever he did his promise break . Now for a twelve months space or more , he seemed to love her as his life , Yet though he did thus her charms adore , she yet was not his Married Wife . Yet after all I pray behold , how false this Merchant's Son did prove , A Lady that had more store of Gold he Courted , and left his Loyal Love . Now when this Damsel came to hear , of this youngman's Disloyalty , She said with a sighs and melting tear , he cannot be sure so false to me ! But to her grief she found it true , when being left in deep despair , He Married within a day or two , and left his young beautiful Damsel fair . Now on her false Loves Wedding day , she to her Chamber straight did go . Where wringing her hands she sighing lay , while melting tears from her eyes did flow . No man said she more false on Earth , by Conscience it will soon be tried , While you are in your Joy and Mirth , remember your broken vows she cried ? His Life he desired me to save , I pitied then his wretched state , When I shall be dead and laid in Grave , It's well if he don't repent too late . Those many solemn vows one day , may be a torment to his mind , As knowing he did my life betray , sure never was Lover more unkind . Farewell you Loyal Lovers all , this day I bid you all adieu , Oh trust nor believe no man at all , for they will endeavour to ruin you . He wished the Sea might be his Grave , and that he never more might thrive , If ever he false to me did prove , so long as he should remain alive . Yet while he sails the Ocean Sea , let providence still be his Guide , For though he has thus been false to me , I do not desire revenge , she cried , Once more farewell my Parents dear , come Death and give the fatal stroke , For why should I longer languish here , with sorrow her tender heart she broke . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 