The Last Lamentation OF THE Languishing Squire : OR , Love Overcomes all Things . To the Tune of Billy and Molly : Or , Jockey ' s Jealousy . Licensed according to Order . A S I went forth to view the Spring , which Flora had Adorned , In gorgeous Raiment every thing , a Winter's rage out-scorned ; I cast mine Eye and did espy a Youth , that made great Clamour , And drawing nigh , I herd him cry , it's Omnia vincit Amor . Upon his Face he lay along , hard by a Crystal River , And mournfully his doleful Song , with sighs he did deliver ; Woe worth her face , her comely Grace , for which no man can shun her , Her splendid Rays cuts of my days , for Omnia vincit Amor . Her Crystal Eyes like Comets fair , bright Phoebus Beams outshining , Hath caught my Heart in Cupid is Snare , and makes me die with pining ; Found foolish Nature did not well , so curiously to frame her , Her Beauty fair makes me despair , cry Omnia vincit Amor . You Crystal Streams that sweetly glide , be Partners of my Mourning , You fragrant Fields and Meadows wide , condemn her for her scorning ; Let every Tree a Witness be , how justly I may blame her , You chanting Birds , note these my Words , it's Omnia vincit Amor . I sighs and languish for her sake , ten thousand Griefs are growing , My fainting Heart I find will break , while Dying Tears are flowing ; Here do I find her most unkind , therefore I needs must blame her , Her Beauty bright destroys me quite , it's Omnia vincit Amor . Love Conquers more than Sword or Shield or any Warlike Power ; Renowned Kings are forced to yield , no strong Defenced Tower Can ever withstand Love's armed Band , and now I here must name her , Fair Cynthia she hath ruined me , it's Omnia vincit Amor . Had she been kind as she is fair , she might have been admired , In every place without compare , who hath my Death conspired . This said , his breath began to fail , he could not speak but stammer , As sighted soar , and said no more , it's Omnia vincit Amor . Thus I perceived him near his Death , and ran in haste to save him , But quickly he resigned his Breath , so deep a Wound Love gave him ; Thus for his sake , this Vow In [ l ] l make , my Tongue shall still Defame her , Upon his Hearse , I'll write this Verse , it's Omnia vincit Amor . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J [ . ] Blare , J. Black . The Last Lamentation OF THE Languishing Squire : OR , Love Overcomes all Things . To the Tune of Billy and Molly : Or , Jockey ' s Jealousy . Licensed according to Order . A S I went forth to view the Spring , which Flora had Adorned , In gorgeous Raiment every thing , a Winter's rage out-scorned ; I cast mine Eye and did espy a Youth , that made great Clamour , And drawing nigh , I herd him cry , it's Omnia vincit Amor . Upon his Face he lay along , hard by a Crystal River , And mournfully his doleful Song , with sighs he did deliver ; Woe worth her face , her comely Grace , for which no man can shun her , Her splendid Rays cuts of my days , for Omnia vincit Amor . Her Crystal Eyes like Comets fair , bright Phoebus Beams outshining , Hath caught my Heart in Cupid is Snare , and makes me die with pining ; Found foolish Nature did not well , so curiously to frame her , Her Beauty fair makes me despair , cry Omnia vincit Amor . You Crystal Streams that sweetly glide , be Partners of my Mourning , You fragrant Fields and Meadows wide , condemn her for her scorning ; Let every Tree a Witness be , how justly I may blame her , You chanting Birds , note these my Words , it's Omnia vincit Amor . I sighs and languish for her sake , ten thousand Griefs are growing , My fainting Heart I find will break , while Dying Tears are flowing ; Here do I find her most unkind , therefore I needs must blame her , Her Beauty bright destroys me quite , it's Omnia vincit Amor . Love Conquers more than Sword or Shield or any Warlike Power ; Renowned Kings are forced to yield , no strong Defenced Tower Can ever withstand Love's armed Band , and now I here must name her , Fair Cynthia she hath ruined me , it's Omnia vincit Amor . Had she been kind as she is fair , she might have been admired , In every place without compare , who hath my Death conspired . This said , his breath began to fail , he could not speak but stammer , As sighted soar , and said no more , it's Omnia vincit Amor . Thus I perceived him near his Death , and ran in haste to save him , But quickly he resigned his Breath , so deep a Wound Love gave him ; Thus for his sake , this Vow In [ l ] l make , my Tongue shall still Defame her , Upon his Hearse , I'll write this Verse , it's Omnia vincit Amor . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J [ . ] Blare , J. Black . 