The Lamenting Shepherdess : OR , The Unkind Shepherd . See here the pattern of true love , Whose Constancy outvies the Dove ; And though forsaken , still she cries She will be constant till she dies . To the Tune of , Cloris Awake . A H ! my Cruel Shepherd , so false and unkind , To leave me forsaken , I find thou'rt inclined : But do thou prove false as a Shepherd can be : Yet while I have breath , I'll be constant to thee . No Riches nor Honour shall ever persuade , No hope's or Preferment my heart shall invade : But I'll be contented in my mean degree : And while I have breath , I'll be constant to thee . TO Hough many young Gallants did seem to admire What nature had lent me , and Love did desire : Yet all these great offers were slighted you see : And while I have breath , I'll be constant to thee . Yea , many kind Shepherd's have sighed out their moan : And vowed they loved Cloris , yea , Cloris alone : But Cloris did scorn them , and would not agree : Because while she had breath , she'd be constant to thee . Both gentle and simple have loved me in vain : They wooed me , and sued me , and yet do complain : Their loves are so fervent , no quiet can be : Because while I have breath , I'll be constant to thee . Then tell me dear Shepherd , what fault canst thou find : Or why to thy Cloris art thou so unkind ? Can nothing persuade thee more kinder to be ? Since while I have breath , I'll be constant to thee . Can my Prayers or my Tears with thee nothing prevail ? Or art thou not grieved to see me look pale ? Thou art the unkindest that Mortal ever see : Yet while I have baeath , i'll be constant to thee . Well , since it is so , that these pains I endure , And languish in Love , never hoping for Cure : I will beg of kind Death , that I may be set free : And while I have breath , i'll be constant to thee . That when thy unkindness procureth my doom , Some Poet shall write these sad Lines on my Tomb : Here lies the pattern of true Constancy , Who while she had breath , never changed could be . Although her false Shepherd would never be kind , No Riches or Honour could altar her mind : She vowed to her Death , that she constant would be : So farewell false Shepherd , so cruel to me . Printed for J. Wright [ , J ] Clarke [ , ] W. Thackeray [ , ] T. Passenger , and M. Coals . The Lamenting Shepherdess : OR , The Unkind Shepherd . See here the pattern of true love , Whose Constancy outvies the Dove ; And though forsaken , still she cries She will be constant till she dies . To the Tune of , Cloris Awake . A H ! my Cruel Shepherd , so false and unkind , To leave me forsaken , I find thou'rt inclined : But do thou prove false as a Shepherd can be : Yet while I have breath , I'll be constant to thee . No Riches nor Honour shall ever persuade , No hope's or Preferment my heart shall invade : But I'll be contented in my mean degree : And while I have breath , I'll be constant to thee . TO Hough many young Gallants did seem to admire What nature had lent me , and Love did desire : Yet all these great offers were slighted you see : And while I have breath , I'll be constant to thee . Yea , many kind Shepherd's have sighed out their moan : And vowed they loved Cloris , yea , Cloris alone : But Cloris did scorn them , and would not agree : Because while she had breath , she'd be constant to thee . Both gentle and simple have loved me in vain : They wooed me , and sued me , and yet do complain : Their loves are so fervent , no quiet can be : Because while I have breath , I'll be constant to thee . Then tell me dear Shepherd , what fault canst thou find : Or why to thy Cloris art thou so unkind ? Can nothing persuade thee more kinder to be ? Since while I have breath , I'll be constant to thee . Can my Prayers or my Tears with thee nothing prevail ? Or art thou not grieved to see me look pale ? Thou art the unkindest that Mortal ever see : Yet while I have baeath , i'll be constant to thee . Well , since it is so , that these pains I endure , And languish in Love , never hoping for Cure : I will beg of kind Death , that I may be set free : And while I have breath , i'll be constant to thee . That when thy unkindness procureth my doom , Some Poet shall write these sad Lines on my Tomb : Here lies the pattern of true Constancy , Who while she had breath , never changed could be . Although her false Shepherd would never be kind , No Riches or Honour could altar her mind : She vowed to her Death , that she constant would be : So farewell false Shepherd , so cruel to me . Printed for J. Wright [ , J ] Clarke [ , ] W. Thackeray [ , ] T. Passenger , and M. Coals . 