[ ? ] Perjured Steward's Cruelty : OR , THE Forsaken Maiden's Lamentation ; being a Relation of a young Steward of a Man of War , who after Contract of Marriage , and a Voyage to Cales , with his Sweetheart , treacherously forsook her ; with the Steward's sor - rowful Lamentation . To the Tune of , Russel ' s Farewell . I N Wapping there did dwelled of late , a Maiden fair and clear , But she was most unfortunate , as to you I'll declare ; For on a time it chanced so , that she engaged was Unto a Steward , brisk and gay , but mark what came to pass : A piece of Money then he broke , a Ring to her he gave , The Matrimony it was read , then she was made a Slave ; Unto his false deluding Tongue , she then did lend and Ear , When Vows he'd made that he'd grove true unto his only Dear . All in the Bay of Cales she dwelled , for two months space or more , Then he sailed up into the Straights , she came to English shore ; But he had bound her fast indeed , while he was on the Sea , Which makes me now set forth with speed his cruel Perjury . His piece of Money he did crave , in February last , Because the Captain he would please , his Steward to remain , Which makes me to lament and say , Farewell falsehearted Man. But mark what happened unto them , as they were homewards bound , For the false Oaths he'd made to her , the Carile-ship was drowned ; For in the Downs near Bradsin called , they were god safely in , But for the Steward's sake alone , God caused this to be done . He must expect wherever he goes , her Prayers for to have , Which is that he may never return , but always be a Slave , Until his Heart it does relent , and he her pardon crave , For being so unjust to her , whom he has made a Slave . The Ship is called the Content , which you have made your choice , Because the name of it sounds well , and you think to rejoice In it , but do not fancy so , for sure your Life will be Inthrawled soar with grief and woe , for all your Perjury . Go out of Harbour when you will , you shall not happy be , The roaring Seas shall you devour , for all your Perjury , Which you have done for luker sake to please your Master kind , But you'll repent when its too late , my Vision you will find . You must believe that in this World , I cannot long remain , And it is for your sake alone , that I do thus complain , Now in the blossom of my youth , pale Death is all I crave , But be assured my Ghost you'll see , when I am laid in Grave . His Sorrowful Answer . Dear Hannah , I confess indeed , I have been false to you , But it is through my Captain's means , that I did break my Vow ; He urged me both night and day , no rest then could I take , I yielded have unto his will , but now myself I hate . It was two Years ago when I your Face did first behold , And she appeared unto me , more glorious then Gold , Which glitters fine & amp ; tempts Men's hearts , as I with grief now tell , Oh cursed Gold that hath wrought this , and made me to rebel . When first on board our Ship he came , she was my chief delight , And in her favour for to get , I strove both day and night , With bent knees I kissed her hand , and fingers long and fine , And often did I sighs and wish that with her I might join . Then did I straight engage myself with Gold and Silver too , Witness I called at that time , I would be just and true : Oh wretched Man as hear I am , my Perjury I rue , But it was through my Captains's means , that I did prove untrue . When we god in the Town of Call [ e ] s , I would have married been , Unto a Chaplin I did speak , and then I bought a Ring ; With bent knees I did entreat that she would be my Bride , But all my labour was in vain , for still she me denied . She said that she never would wed , till England she did see , And if please God I did return , my wedded Wife she'd be ; But then I made the Proverb true , when she from me was gone , I changed my old Love for a new , my dear Hannah I mourn . Young Men , young Men wherever you be , come listen unto me , Before you never break your Vows , when you do go to Sea ; Be constant in your promises , lest afterwards you rue , As I here cry , My misery is great , what shall I do ? Printed for J. Blare on London-bridge . [ ? ] Perjured Steward's Cruelty : OR , THE Forsaken Maiden's Lamentation ; being a Relation of a young Steward of a Man of War , who after Contract of Marriage , and a Voyage to Cales , with his Sweetheart , treacherously forsook her ; with the Steward's sor - rowful Lamentation . To the Tune of , Russel ' s Farewell . I N Wapping there did dwelled of late , a Maiden fair and clear , But she was most unfortunate , as to you I'll declare ; For on a time it chanced so , that she engaged was Unto a Steward , brisk and gay , but mark what came to pass : A piece of Money then he broke , a Ring to her he gave , The Matrimony it was read , then she was made a Slave ; Unto his false deluding Tongue , she then did lend and Ear , When Vows he'd made that he'd grove true unto his only Dear . All in the Bay of Cales she dwelled , for two months space or more , Then he sailed up into the Straights , she came to English shore ; But he had bound her fast indeed , while he was on the Sea , Which makes me now set forth with speed his cruel Perjury . His piece of Money he did crave , in February last , Because the Captain he would please , his Steward to remain , Which makes me to lament and say , Farewell falsehearted Man. But mark what happened unto them , as they were homewards bound , For the false Oaths he'd made to her , the Carile-ship was drowned ; For in the Downs near Bradsin called , they were god safely in , But for the Steward's sake alone , God caused this to be done . He must expect wherever he goes , her Prayers for to have , Which is that he may never return , but always be a Slave , Until his Heart it does relent , and he her pardon crave , For being so unjust to her , whom he has made a Slave . The Ship is called the Content , which you have made your choice , Because the name of it sounds well , and you think to rejoice In it , but do not fancy so , for sure your Life will be Inthrawled soar with grief and woe , for all your Perjury . Go out of Harbour when you will , you shall not happy be , The roaring Seas shall you devour , for all your Perjury , Which you have done for luker sake to please your Master kind , But you'll repent when its too late , my Vision you will find . You must believe that in this World , I cannot long remain , And it is for your sake alone , that I do thus complain , Now in the blossom of my youth , pale Death is all I crave , But be assured my Ghost you'll see , when I am laid in Grave . His Sorrowful Answer . Dear Hannah , I confess indeed , I have been false to you , But it is through my Captain's means , that I did break my Vow ; He urged me both night and day , no rest then could I take , I yielded have unto his will , but now myself I hate . It was two Years ago when I your Face did first behold , And she appeared unto me , more glorious then Gold , Which glitters fine & amp ; tempts Men's hearts , as I with grief now tell , Oh cursed Gold that hath wrought this , and made me to rebel . When first on board our Ship he came , she was my chief delight , And in her favour for to get , I strove both day and night , With bent knees I kissed her hand , and fingers long and fine , And often did I sighs and wish that with her I might join . Then did I straight engage myself with Gold and Silver too , Witness I called at that time , I would be just and true : Oh wretched Man as hear I am , my Perjury I rue , But it was through my Captains's means , that I did prove untrue . When we god in the Town of Call [ e ] s , I would have married been , Unto a Chaplin I did speak , and then I bought a Ring ; With bent knees I did entreat that she would be my Bride , But all my labour was in vain , for still she me denied . She said that she never would wed , till England she did see , And if please God I did return , my wedded Wife she'd be ; But then I made the Proverb true , when she from me was gone , I changed my old Love for a new , my dear Hannah I mourn . Young Men , young Men wherever you be , come listen unto me , Before you never break your Vows , when you do go to Sea ; Be constant in your promises , lest afterwards you rue , As I here cry , My misery is great , what shall I do ? Printed for J. Blare on London-bridge . 