BEAUTIES CRUELTY : OR , THE Passionate Lover And Excellent New Play-Song , much in Request . To a New Playhouse Tune . TO Here is one black and sullen Hour , which Fate Decrees our Lives should know ; Else we should slight Almighty Power , wrapped with the Joys we find below ; It's past , dear Cynthia , now let Frowns be gone , a long long Penance I have done , a long long Penance I have done , For Crimes , to me , alas unknown , for Crimes , to me , alas unknown . In each soft Hour of silent Night , your Image in my Dream appears ; I grasp the Soul of my Delight , slumber in Joy , but waked in Tears : Ah , faithless Charming Saint , what will you do , let me not think I am by you , let me not think I am by you , Loved less , loved less , for being true , loved less , loved less , for being true . B efore dear Cynthia , I beheld thy charming face , my heart was free , From love , and knew not how to yield to any beauty but to thee : Bright as the Sun that in the East does rise , Did force me by a sweet surprise , did force me by a sweet surprise , To yield the conquest to your eyes . to yield the conquest to your eyes . One pleasing Smile , my charming fair , my Lovesick heart with joy to fill ; Thy piercing Frowns breeds my Despair , Oh! let those Eyes that Wound , not kill : Since by a Smile my heart you did Inspire , And created in it a Fire , and created , etc That never , never can Expire , that never , never can Expire . No longer then thus Tyrannise , but all your cruelty give over ; And not a heart to true despise , that will for ever you adore : Ah! Charming Nymph , grant love , for love again Do not by Frowns create my Pain ; do not by Frowns , etc Nor Torture me by your disdain : nor Torture , etc What is my Crime , dear Cynthia , that my punishment is so severe ? Tell me that I may Expiate my Crime , by a Repenting Tear ; Forbear by Cruelty to torture me , I offer you a Heart that's free , I offer you , etc From falce deceit and flattery ? from falce Deceit , etc O ! why you powers did you frame her heart so hard and face so fair ? Her face did first my heart inflame , her cruelty breeds my despair : Make her more kind , you powers then I crave That she my cure the wounds she gave , that she may cure the wounds she gave ; Or send me to my wished for Grave , Or send me to my wished for Grave . This may be printed , R. [ P ] . Printed for J. Deacon , in Guilt-spur-street . BEAUTIES CRUELTY : OR , THE Passionate Lover And Excellent New Play-Song , much in Request . To a New Playhouse Tune . TO Here is one black and sullen Hour , which Fate Decrees our Lives should know ; Else we should slight Almighty Power , wrapped with the Joys we find below ; It's past , dear Cynthia , now let Frowns be gone , a long long Penance I have done , a long long Penance I have done , For Crimes , to me , alas unknown , for Crimes , to me , alas unknown . In each soft Hour of silent Night , your Image in my Dream appears ; I grasp the Soul of my Delight , slumber in Joy , but waked in Tears : Ah , faithless Charming Saint , what will you do , let me not think I am by you , let me not think I am by you , Loved less , loved less , for being true , loved less , loved less , for being true . B efore dear Cynthia , I beheld thy charming face , my heart was free , From love , and knew not how to yield to any beauty but to thee : Bright as the Sun that in the East does rise , Did force me by a sweet surprise , did force me by a sweet surprise , To yield the conquest to your eyes . to yield the conquest to your eyes . One pleasing Smile , my charming fair , my Lovesick heart with joy to fill ; Thy piercing Frowns breeds my Despair , Oh! let those Eyes that Wound , not kill : Since by a Smile my heart you did Inspire , And created in it a Fire , and created , etc That never , never can Expire , that never , never can Expire . No longer then thus Tyrannise , but all your cruelty give over ; And not a heart to true despise , that will for ever you adore : Ah! Charming Nymph , grant love , for love again Do not by Frowns create my Pain ; do not by Frowns , etc Nor Torture me by your disdain : nor Torture , etc What is my Crime , dear Cynthia , that my punishment is so severe ? Tell me that I may Expiate my Crime , by a Repenting Tear ; Forbear by Cruelty to torture me , I offer you a Heart that's free , I offer you , etc From falce deceit and flattery ? from falce Deceit , etc O ! why you powers did you frame her heart so hard and face so fair ? Her face did first my heart inflame , her cruelty breeds my despair : Make her more kind , you powers then I crave That she my cure the wounds she gave , that she may cure the wounds she gave ; Or send me to my wished for Grave , Or send me to my wished for Grave . This may be printed , R. [ P ] . Printed for J. Deacon , in Guilt-spur-street . 