The Dying Shepherdess . While Coridon did her Forsake , who loved him as her soul , For him poor wretch , she moan did make , and sadly did Condole . To the Tune of , Ah Cloris full of harmless thoughts . A Las my Youthful Coridon , now prove unkind to me , He was the Man I doted on , yet slighted I must be , Oh who could think a tongue so fair , could mean so much deceit , And cause a Soul , thus to condole , beneath her pain to great . O that I never had him believed , who proved a mere trappan , Too long , too long , poor soul I grieved for this Falsehearted man : And should I sighs my self to be , to him all one 'twould be , For while I mourn , like one forlorn , he triumphs over me . False Man take heed lest you in time , are caught in Cupids Snare , And while you flourish in your prime , of such Deceits take care : For sometime Cupid is so just that he does those requite , And gives a wound , that is profound , to those who Maids do slight . But let it not to you seem strange , if once you feel his Dart , For though you love the world to range it is but your desert , For to be wounded to the Quick , that you feel such pain , As Maidens do , when such as you , their tender Loves disdain , The pains of Love there's none can tell but those who do them feel , No Doctors art can make them well , no Balsome can them heal , Yet one poor Kiss , can oft do more , then tongue can well express While we do find , false men unkind , and too too pittifless . In dying words I now Exclaim , of thy Unconstancy , By thee thy Faithful Love is slave , for thee I bleeding die : And when I am deceased and gone , thou surely wilt Lament , & amp ; grieve that thou didst break thy vow , and wilt too late Repent . While I in the Elizium shade , with many thousand more , That by false men have been betrayed , in ages heretofore : among our selves shall there rejoice : while we are left behind , and your heart bleeds , for your misdeeds there we shall comfort find . The torments then you will endure , will be just Punishment , Your wounds will not admit of Cure , in vain you will repent : But had you to your Loves been true , such pains you never had known , Oh why should we , continually , in torments fry alone . When on your Deathbeds you shall lie strange Visions will appear , Which shall amaze your wondering eye , strange sounds shall fill your ear , And when your actions too unjust , you then shall think upon , You'll sighs and say , Death come away , for helpless Coridon , And when you loose your sweetest breath , as once you know you must , You will avknowledge to grim death , that you have been unjust , And those that here art left behind , shall write upon your Tomb , Here lies one false Coridon , confined to this small room . FINIS . London , Printed for M. Coals , T. Vere , J [ . ] Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackaray , and T. Passenger . The Dying Shepherdess . While Coridon did her Forsake , who loved him as her soul , For him poor wretch , she moan did make , and sadly did Condole . To the Tune of , Ah Cloris full of harmless thoughts . A Las my Youthful Coridon , now prove unkind to me , He was the Man I doted on , yet slighted I must be , Oh who could think a tongue so fair , could mean so much deceit , And cause a Soul , thus to condole , beneath her pain to great . O that I never had him believed , who proved a mere trappan , Too long , too long , poor soul I grieved for this Falsehearted man : And should I sighs my self to be , to him all one 'twould be , For while I mourn , like one forlorn , he triumphs over me . False Man take heed lest you in time , are caught in Cupids Snare , And while you flourish in your prime , of such Deceits take care : For sometime Cupid is so just that he does those requite , And gives a wound , that is profound , to those who Maids do slight . But let it not to you seem strange , if once you feel his Dart , For though you love the world to range it is but your desert , For to be wounded to the Quick , that you feel such pain , As Maidens do , when such as you , their tender Loves disdain , The pains of Love there's none can tell but those who do them feel , No Doctors art can make them well , no Balsome can them heal , Yet one poor Kiss , can oft do more , then tongue can well express While we do find , false men unkind , and too too pittifless . In dying words I now Exclaim , of thy Unconstancy , By thee thy Faithful Love is slave , for thee I bleeding die : And when I am deceased and gone , thou surely wilt Lament , & amp ; grieve that thou didst break thy vow , and wilt too late Repent . While I in the Elizium shade , with many thousand more , That by false men have been betrayed , in ages heretofore : among our selves shall there rejoice : while we are left behind , and your heart bleeds , for your misdeeds there we shall comfort find . The torments then you will endure , will be just Punishment , Your wounds will not admit of Cure , in vain you will repent : But had you to your Loves been true , such pains you never had known , Oh why should we , continually , in torments fry alone . When on your Deathbeds you shall lie strange Visions will appear , Which shall amaze your wondering eye , strange sounds shall fill your ear , And when your actions too unjust , you then shall think upon , You'll sighs and say , Death come away , for helpless Coridon , And when you loose your sweetest breath , as once you know you must , You will avknowledge to grim death , that you have been unjust , And those that here art left behind , shall write upon your Tomb , Here lies one false Coridon , confined to this small room . FINIS . London , Printed for M. Coals , T. Vere , J [ . ] Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackaray , and T. Passenger . 