The Yorkshire Maids Faring : OR , The forsken Maids good Counsel . For she once had a Sweetheart was loving and kind ; But she unto him , was scornful in Mind : Now she counsels all Maidens to have a care . Lest they ( like to her ) be left in a Snare . Tune is , Come hither my own sweet Duck . A S I abroad did walk within a Meadow gay I herd a Damsel talk , and to her self did say , Though I forsaken be I never will despair , Another's as good for me , then farewell grief and care , Take heed you Maidens fair of young men's flattering moan , I pray you have a care love as you may let it alone . A Sweetheart late I had at first was wondrous kind , And he was as sweet a Lad as you can any find : In person proper and tall , as any you can spy But this was the worst of all , he was given to cog and lie . But now I will have a care , of such [ ? ] he is gone , I scorn for to despair , but love as I may let it alone , I must confess that once he doted on my face , With many a bitter groan , he oft did me embrace . With sighs and sobs he said that he would marry me , So he my heart betrayed , to love him faithfully , But now he has played the knave and from me he is gone , The thing that I desire to have is to love as I may let it alone . How should a Maiden trust such a false dissembling knave , Whose actions are unjust , poor Maidens to deceive With nimble wit and tongue they'll tell you a thousand lies , Nay I think I do not wrong if I say as stars in sky . Take heed you maidens fair , of youngman's flattering moan I wish you have a care , love as you may let it alone . F Or if they can prevail to have their full desire , Be sure they will not fail to kindle Venus fire . When you desire to have a joyful Wedding day Then like a dissembling knaves from you they'll fly away , Therefore take heed I pray be sure to keep your own You maidens all I say love as you may let it alone . This council which I give was from a maiden fair She warned me while I live of youngmen to beware For fear you be beguiled by a false dissemblinst tongue And after prove with child then he will from you run Therefore prey have a care be sure to keep your own I say you maidens fair love as you may let it alone . But yet I must confess there is some loyal men Would scorn for to transgress but love for love again , When any such you find that does most constant prove Then serve him in this kind and grant him love for love Till then pray have a care be sure to keep your own I say you maidens fair love as you may let it alone . You maidens great and small which hear this merry song I speak unto you all take heed you do no wrong But if your sweet hearts they do true and constant prove Then have a care I say you grant them love for love Till then pray think on this that is to keep your own Then you cannot do amiss love as you may let it alone . There is a proverb old which now runs in my mind It often hath been told to many Lovers kind . And now I tell you right , then mark what I shall say If will not when you might when you would shall have nay Look to it you maidens fair be sure to hold your own I pray you have care love as you may let it alone . For I my self of late have proved this proverb true Like one unfortunate I now the same do rue For when my love was real then I did prove untrue A and give him flat denial now sorrow is my endue . Take heed you maidens fair , etc Concluding thus I cry you maidens all farewell Beware of flattery , the true found of my knell Nor must you scornful be your sweethearts for to try , Lest you repent like me with tears and watery eye Yet pray you have a care be sure you hold your own Though I live in despair love as you may let it alone . FINIS . T.R. London Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . The Yorkshire Maids Faring : OR , The forsken Maids good Counsel . For she once had a Sweetheart was loving and kind ; But she unto him , was scornful in Mind : Now she counsels all Maidens to have a care . Lest they ( like to her ) be left in a Snare . Tune is , Come hither my own sweet Duck . A S I abroad did walk within a Meadow gay I herd a Damsel talk , and to her self did say , Though I forsaken be I never will despair , Another's as good for me , then farewell grief and care , Take heed you Maidens fair of young men's flattering moan , I pray you have a care love as you may let it alone . A Sweetheart late I had at first was wondrous kind , And he was as sweet a Lad as you can any find : In person proper and tall , as any you can spy But this was the worst of all , he was given to cog and lie . But now I will have a care , of such [ ? ] he is gone , I scorn for to despair , but love as I may let it alone , I must confess that once he doted on my face , With many a bitter groan , he oft did me embrace . With sighs and sobs he said that he would marry me , So he my heart betrayed , to love him faithfully , But now he has played the knave and from me he is gone , The thing that I desire to have is to love as I may let it alone . How should a Maiden trust such a false dissembling knave , Whose actions are unjust , poor Maidens to deceive With nimble wit and tongue they'll tell you a thousand lies , Nay I think I do not wrong if I say as stars in sky . Take heed you maidens fair , of youngman's flattering moan I wish you have a care , love as you may let it alone . F Or if they can prevail to have their full desire , Be sure they will not fail to kindle Venus fire . When you desire to have a joyful Wedding day Then like a dissembling knaves from you they'll fly away , Therefore take heed I pray be sure to keep your own You maidens all I say love as you may let it alone . This council which I give was from a maiden fair She warned me while I live of youngmen to beware For fear you be beguiled by a false dissemblinst tongue And after prove with child then he will from you run Therefore prey have a care be sure to keep your own I say you maidens fair love as you may let it alone . But yet I must confess there is some loyal men Would scorn for to transgress but love for love again , When any such you find that does most constant prove Then serve him in this kind and grant him love for love Till then pray have a care be sure to keep your own I say you maidens fair love as you may let it alone . You maidens great and small which hear this merry song I speak unto you all take heed you do no wrong But if your sweet hearts they do true and constant prove Then have a care I say you grant them love for love Till then pray think on this that is to keep your own Then you cannot do amiss love as you may let it alone . There is a proverb old which now runs in my mind It often hath been told to many Lovers kind . And now I tell you right , then mark what I shall say If will not when you might when you would shall have nay Look to it you maidens fair be sure to hold your own I pray you have care love as you may let it alone . For I my self of late have proved this proverb true Like one unfortunate I now the same do rue For when my love was real then I did prove untrue A and give him flat denial now sorrow is my endue . Take heed you maidens fair , etc Concluding thus I cry you maidens all farewell Beware of flattery , the true found of my knell Nor must you scornful be your sweethearts for to try , Lest you repent like me with tears and watery eye Yet pray you have a care be sure you hold your own Though I live in despair love as you may let it alone . FINIS . T.R. London Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . 