Death Triumphant . The Mighty Prince and Peasant too To Conquering Death must bow ; Great Hanniball and Scipio too , Alas what are they now . Tune of , Come here is a carousing Health , etc . I Lay one night upon my bed , oppressed with grief and pain , and careful thoughts came in my head how I should my self maintain ; And in a fret my Brains I beatrice , studying to care times along , At last thought I , I'll cast all by , and instead i'll make a song . Then mighty Jove assist me now , and M ercury draw near , But Cupid thou throw down thy Bow , for thou hast no business here : For cruel Mars he will divorce shortly betwixt my friends and I ; Then like a Swan if that I can I will sing before I die . For why should I be thus cast down and fret at Poverty ? The greatest King that wears a Crown was once as poor as I ; Dukes , Lords , & amp ; Earls , & amp ; beauteous girls , and Ladies that are now so gay , Were naked born , poor and forlorn , then I was as rich as they . Though now they are advanced high , and are in great estate , And I oppressed with Poverty , and am cast down by fate ; Yet a few years will end my cares , and so it will their wealths also ; For they must die as well as I whither they will or no . This by experience I have seen , and know it to be true , For never was there King or Queen Pope , Pagan , Turk , or Jew , That could withstand Death's heavy hand but it on them did fall ; Death cares no more for Rich than Poor , for he does smite down all . The high the low , the young , the old , the fair , the foul , and all , Must quickly turn unto the Mould when once grim death does call : Kings must obey as well as they that are needy and poor , For none's never missed , nor can resist this potent Conqueror . Samson the strong could not resist nor Solomon the wise ; Death Alexanders neck did arrest , and it pulled out Pompy is eyes ; And it has slave brave Tamberlain , and Scanderbag also ; And valiant Guy at last did die by this same potent foe . Great Hercules fought with his Club , and none could him outbrave ; Diogenes lived in a Tub , but both are now in Grave : And Hanibal was not of small account in Italy , For why ? the Alpes does show his walks yet he at last did die , Bold Hector was a Noble Prince , and so was Titus too , And so was Julius Caesar since , but see what Death can do : They in the Field made many yield , but now their Arms does rust ; For death their Crown has tumbled down and laid them in the Dust. Aeneus was a man of fame , he courage did not lack , He carried his father through the flan when foes Troy Town did sack : Yet he by Death was took from earth , for all his courage brave ; And there's no man living that can resist Death and the Grave . For it's appointed all must die , says the Apostle Paul , And after that the Judgments nigh , where every mortal shall And account give how he did live , and how his time he spent , And there's no man living that can his being there prevent . Then Liars that does cog and cheat , and Usurers that grind , And all that seeks for to defeat , and are to since inclined , Must thither come , both all and some , and their accounts up give , Of all their ways and all their days while they on earth did live . Then happy those that hath done well for they to Heaven shall go ; And wicked ones be turned to Hell , where nothing is but woe : And this will be as sure as we are living on the Earth ; Oh happy then will be those men that does provide for Death . And now my soul since it is so , that all things are so vain , Do not torment thy self with woe , although I live in pain , But learn to mend and God will send a maintenance on Earth ; And after this eternal bliss when I do meet with Death . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackery , and T. Passenger . Death Triumphant . The Mighty Prince and Peasant too To Conquering Death must bow ; Great Hanniball and Scipio too , Alas what are they now . Tune of , Come here is a carousing Health , etc . I Lay one night upon my bed , oppressed with grief and pain , and careful thoughts came in my head how I should my self maintain ; And in a fret my Brains I beatrice , studying to care times along , At last thought I , I'll cast all by , and instead i'll make a song . Then mighty Jove assist me now , and M ercury draw near , But Cupid thou throw down thy Bow , for thou hast no business here : For cruel Mars he will divorce shortly betwixt my friends and I ; Then like a Swan if that I can I will sing before I die . For why should I be thus cast down and fret at Poverty ? The greatest King that wears a Crown was once as poor as I ; Dukes , Lords , & amp ; Earls , & amp ; beauteous girls , and Ladies that are now so gay , Were naked born , poor and forlorn , then I was as rich as they . Though now they are advanced high , and are in great estate , And I oppressed with Poverty , and am cast down by fate ; Yet a few years will end my cares , and so it will their wealths also ; For they must die as well as I whither they will or no . This by experience I have seen , and know it to be true , For never was there King or Queen Pope , Pagan , Turk , or Jew , That could withstand Death's heavy hand but it on them did fall ; Death cares no more for Rich than Poor , for he does smite down all . The high the low , the young , the old , the fair , the foul , and all , Must quickly turn unto the Mould when once grim death does call : Kings must obey as well as they that are needy and poor , For none's never missed , nor can resist this potent Conqueror . Samson the strong could not resist nor Solomon the wise ; Death Alexanders neck did arrest , and it pulled out Pompy is eyes ; And it has slave brave Tamberlain , and Scanderbag also ; And valiant Guy at last did die by this same potent foe . Great Hercules fought with his Club , and none could him outbrave ; Diogenes lived in a Tub , but both are now in Grave : And Hanibal was not of small account in Italy , For why ? the Alpes does show his walks yet he at last did die , Bold Hector was a Noble Prince , and so was Titus too , And so was Julius Caesar since , but see what Death can do : They in the Field made many yield , but now their Arms does rust ; For death their Crown has tumbled down and laid them in the Dust. Aeneus was a man of fame , he courage did not lack , He carried his father through the flan when foes Troy Town did sack : Yet he by Death was took from earth , for all his courage brave ; And there's no man living that can resist Death and the Grave . For it's appointed all must die , says the Apostle Paul , And after that the Judgments nigh , where every mortal shall And account give how he did live , and how his time he spent , And there's no man living that can his being there prevent . Then Liars that does cog and cheat , and Usurers that grind , And all that seeks for to defeat , and are to since inclined , Must thither come , both all and some , and their accounts up give , Of all their ways and all their days while they on earth did live . Then happy those that hath done well for they to Heaven shall go ; And wicked ones be turned to Hell , where nothing is but woe : And this will be as sure as we are living on the Earth ; Oh happy then will be those men that does provide for Death . And now my soul since it is so , that all things are so vain , Do not torment thy self with woe , although I live in pain , But learn to mend and God will send a maintenance on Earth ; And after this eternal bliss when I do meet with Death . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackery , and T. Passenger . 