Time's Darling : Or , A Love worth liking : Being a fit Companion for all Men , abroad and at home , at bed and at board , that lacketh good Company . Tune of , If you love me tell me so ; Or ; Loves tide . Y Ou Lovers all where ever you be , Draw near and listen unto me , Here in this Song you may behold , That which I more esteem than Gold : No found delight , nor fictions strange , Shall make my constant heart to range ; Search through the world , & amp ; you shall find No love like a contented mind . Perhaps you'll ask where you may see One in these times content to be ? Or where that treasure may be found , Now in this Age on English ground ? Yet by experience I can tell , Where a contented mind does dwell : Read but these lines , and you shall find No love like a contented mind . If thou art Rich , then be content , Forget not thou from whom 'twas sent ; If God hath lent thee treasure store , Thou art but the Steward for the Poor , One day , be sure , thou must appear , To give account what thou didst hear : And when these lines thou true shalt find , No Wealth like a contented mind . If thine Estate be took from thee , And thou art brought to Poverty , By Crosses or Afflictions strong , Murmur nor grieve at any wrong ; It's God that hath a hand over all , To raise thee up , or let thee fallen : Perhaps the Lord would try to find , If thou hadst Jobs contented mind . If honours or preferments great , Shall raise thee up to Justice Seat . Or that by place or Dignity , A Judge of Causes thou must be , Think that Heavens Court of justice high Over all your Actions cast and eye ; That mighty Judge be sure can find , The secrets of your heart and mind . If that Gods Laws thou break , be sure , Or by oppression wrong the Poor , Or if of Men thou standest in fear , To do what they would have thee here ; Or let the mighty bear the sway , And turn the poor man's Cause away ; He that does this , be sure will find , A troubled discontented mind . I F otherwise thou seemest to be , A judge of Right and Equity , And will the poor men cause defend , As well as his that hath means to spend And right the wrongs of the Fatherless , Likewise the Widow in distress : A reward in Heaven thou then shalt find , And on earth a sweet contented mind . If thou art Rich , thou poor mayest be , If thou art poor , wealth mayest thou see , If thou to honour rise or fallen , Be sure thou be content withal : This World is subject still to change , Then let not thine affections range ; Nothing on earth be sure thou'lt find , Compared to a contented mind . If God hath sent thee Children store , And yet perhaps thou art but poor , Despair not , but contented be , He will provide for them and thee : To every mouth he bred will send , And still will stand the poor men friend ; Relief from him thou sure shalt find , If thou hast a contented mind . What if this World does frown on thee , For thy Faith and Fidelity ; Or that thou be'st in Prison cast , The Lord may bring thee out at last ? If not , thou hadst better there to die , Than from the true Religion fly ; Keep but thy Faith , and thou shalt find , In Prison a sweet contented mind . If that thy Conscience tells to thee Thy cause is just , be ruled by me ; Let not the Thrones of mighty Men Take thy good Conscience from thee then ; They of thy body shall have power , Be sure thy Soul they can't devour ; In a quiet conscience thou shalt find A continual feast to please thy mind . If that thou think a God there be , That rules the heaven and earth we see Then think he hath a hand over all , To raise men up , or let them fallen : All Rulers great by Sea and Land , Must stoop , if once he gives command ; He must protect you , else you'll find , A sad and discontented mind . Content is a jewel , and a Feast , Content is a rich and welcome Guest , Content is of such a high Renown , It's better than and earthly Crown : Content is of such a precious store That he that hath it need no more ; If you gain it ; you sure shall find No joys like a contented mind . But if Content you needs will gain , I'll tell you where it does remain ; Inquire where conscience keeps his Court And where Plain-dealing does resort ; Then truth will led you by the hand , And bring you where Content does stand : Embrace him then and you shall find No Wealth to a Contented mind . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . Time's Darling : Or , A Love worth liking : Being a fit Companion for all Men , abroad and at home , at bed and at board , that lacketh good Company . Tune of , If you love me tell me so ; Or ; Loves tide . Y Ou Lovers all where ever you be , Draw near and listen unto me , Here in this Song you may behold , That which I more esteem than Gold : No found delight , nor fictions strange , Shall make my constant heart to range ; Search through the world , & amp ; you shall find No love like a contented mind . Perhaps you'll ask where you may see One in these times content to be ? Or where that treasure may be found , Now in this Age on English ground ? Yet by experience I can tell , Where a contented mind does dwell : Read but these lines , and you shall find No love like a contented mind . If thou art Rich , then be content , Forget not thou from whom 'twas sent ; If God hath lent thee treasure store , Thou art but the Steward for the Poor , One day , be sure , thou must appear , To give account what thou didst hear : And when these lines thou true shalt find , No Wealth like a contented mind . If thine Estate be took from thee , And thou art brought to Poverty , By Crosses or Afflictions strong , Murmur nor grieve at any wrong ; It's God that hath a hand over all , To raise thee up , or let thee fallen : Perhaps the Lord would try to find , If thou hadst Jobs contented mind . If honours or preferments great , Shall raise thee up to Justice Seat . Or that by place or Dignity , A Judge of Causes thou must be , Think that Heavens Court of justice high Over all your Actions cast and eye ; That mighty Judge be sure can find , The secrets of your heart and mind . If that Gods Laws thou break , be sure , Or by oppression wrong the Poor , Or if of Men thou standest in fear , To do what they would have thee here ; Or let the mighty bear the sway , And turn the poor man's Cause away ; He that does this , be sure will find , A troubled discontented mind . I F otherwise thou seemest to be , A judge of Right and Equity , And will the poor men cause defend , As well as his that hath means to spend And right the wrongs of the Fatherless , Likewise the Widow in distress : A reward in Heaven thou then shalt find , And on earth a sweet contented mind . If thou art Rich , thou poor mayest be , If thou art poor , wealth mayest thou see , If thou to honour rise or fallen , Be sure thou be content withal : This World is subject still to change , Then let not thine affections range ; Nothing on earth be sure thou'lt find , Compared to a contented mind . If God hath sent thee Children store , And yet perhaps thou art but poor , Despair not , but contented be , He will provide for them and thee : To every mouth he bred will send , And still will stand the poor men friend ; Relief from him thou sure shalt find , If thou hast a contented mind . What if this World does frown on thee , For thy Faith and Fidelity ; Or that thou be'st in Prison cast , The Lord may bring thee out at last ? If not , thou hadst better there to die , Than from the true Religion fly ; Keep but thy Faith , and thou shalt find , In Prison a sweet contented mind . If that thy Conscience tells to thee Thy cause is just , be ruled by me ; Let not the Thrones of mighty Men Take thy good Conscience from thee then ; They of thy body shall have power , Be sure thy Soul they can't devour ; In a quiet conscience thou shalt find A continual feast to please thy mind . If that thou think a God there be , That rules the heaven and earth we see Then think he hath a hand over all , To raise men up , or let them fallen : All Rulers great by Sea and Land , Must stoop , if once he gives command ; He must protect you , else you'll find , A sad and discontented mind . Content is a jewel , and a Feast , Content is a rich and welcome Guest , Content is of such a high Renown , It's better than and earthly Crown : Content is of such a precious store That he that hath it need no more ; If you gain it ; you sure shall find No joys like a contented mind . But if Content you needs will gain , I'll tell you where it does remain ; Inquire where conscience keeps his Court And where Plain-dealing does resort ; Then truth will led you by the hand , And bring you where Content does stand : Embrace him then and you shall find No Wealth to a Contented mind . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 