Christ's Tears over JERUSALEM ; OR , Caveat for England to call to God for mercy , lest we be plagued for our Contempt and Wickedness . To the Tune of , The Merchant Man. W Hen Christ our Lord drew nigh unto Jerusalem , Foreseeing all the misery's , the which should fallen on them : And casting of his looks upon that beauteous town , Fer very grief the bitter tears from his fair eyes fell down . Repent fair England , now repent , repent while you have space ; And do not like Jerusalem , despise Gods proffered Grace . Alas Jerusalem , Jerusalem ( said he ) Which killed the Prophets of the lord when they were sent to thee : How oftentimes would I , have kept thee from all ill ? Even as the Hen her Chickens keep , but thou art stubborn still . O that thou hadst but known , at least in that thy day , The things which did concern thy peace , but now it's hid away : Yea from thy eyes it's hid , thou shalt not see the same , And for thy sorrows coming on , thy self do only blame . Therefore the days shall come , thy enemies shall rise , And trench thee on every side , regarding not thy cries , Thy strong and stately Towers , in wrath they shall confound , And make thy sumptuous buildings all lie equal with the ground . A Nd such shall be their rage , they shall not leave in thee , One stone upon another stone , which shall not spoiled be : Because thou knewest not , the seasonable day , Wherein the Lord did visit thee , to wash thy sins away . Thus Christ without the Town , did weep for their distress : While they within , triumph in since , and use all wickedness . No whit they would believe , the words which he did say , But enviously did practice still , to take his life away . He mourned and he wept full soar , to think upon the smart , While they full stout did go about , to pierce his tender heart , And for his pains they stripped him , and whipped him through the town , And with a wreathe of prickling thorns , his holy head did crown . They scoffed and laughed at him , they dashed him in the face , They called him gracious Lord and King , in flouting and disgrace , And throw his hands and feet , they nail him to the cross , Between two lewd and wicked thieves , but few lament his loss . They gave him for to drink , sharp Vinegar and gall , And with a Spear they pierced his side , till his heart blood did fallen : Yet patiently and mild , he suffered every thing , And prayed his father not to charge them with that grievous since . When they had dispatch , the living Lord of might , Full safely then they thought themselves from sorrow , care and strife : But within few years space , as Christ before had told , The mighty Emperor of Room , came thither with courage bold , And with a mighty Host , he did besiege them round , By Sword and Famine ever he went , he did them quite confound , Yea , Dogs and Cats they eat , Mice , Rats , and every thing , For want of food , their infants young , unto the Pot they bring . No pity could they find , at this their enemies hand , But fire , Sword , and cruel death , before them still did stand . Their famous City fair , he set upon a flame , He burned their Temple unto dust , that stood within the same . And those that scaped the sword , and fury of his hand , He made them slaves and bondslaves all , within a foreign Land : Thus fair Jerusalem , was cast unto the ground , For their great since and wickedness , the Lord did it confound . Awake England I say , rise from the sleep of since , Cast off thy great security , which thou hast lived in : Thy God hath often called , and offered thee his grace , His Messengers have shown his will , to thee in every place , Great wonders he hath shown , to thee by Sea and Land , And sent strange tokens in the air , to make thee understand : He is offended soar , at thy great wickedness , And that except thou dost repent , thy plagues shall be expressed . Remember how of late , the Spaniard he assailed , And how by Gods especial power they never a whit prevailed : And all was for to try , if thou wouldst sin forsake , And to and upright holy life , thy self at last betake , But soon thou didst forget his favour in the same , Which afterwards most grievously , his wrath did so inflame : That then he plagued thee , with Pestilence and death , Whereby in Country and in town , a number lost their breath . Yet wilt thou not forsake , thy wickedness and ill , But in thy pride and Covetousness , thou hast continued still : Provoke not God to wrath , with thy most loathsome since , But speedily to amend thy life , with Prayers now begin , And therefore now Oh England , at last for mercy cry , And grieve the Lord thy God no more through thy iniquity , Lest he forsake thee quite , and turn away his face , Because like to Jerusalem , thou didst despise his Grace : FINIS . P rinted for W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . Christ's Tears over JERUSALEM ; OR , Caveat for England to call to God for mercy , lest we be plagued for our Contempt and Wickedness . To the Tune of , The Merchant Man. W Hen Christ our Lord drew nigh unto Jerusalem , Foreseeing all the misery's , the which should fallen on them : And casting of his looks upon that beauteous town , Fer very grief the bitter tears from his fair eyes fell down . Repent fair England , now repent , repent while you have space ; And do not like Jerusalem , despise Gods proffered Grace . Alas Jerusalem , Jerusalem ( said he ) Which killed the Prophets of the lord when they were sent to thee : How oftentimes would I , have kept thee from all ill ? Even as the Hen her Chickens keep , but thou art stubborn still . O that thou hadst but known , at least in that thy day , The things which did concern thy peace , but now it's hid away : Yea from thy eyes it's hid , thou shalt not see the same , And for thy sorrows coming on , thy self do only blame . Therefore the days shall come , thy enemies shall rise , And trench thee on every side , regarding not thy cries , Thy strong and stately Towers , in wrath they shall confound , And make thy sumptuous buildings all lie equal with the ground . A Nd such shall be their rage , they shall not leave in thee , One stone upon another stone , which shall not spoiled be : Because thou knewest not , the seasonable day , Wherein the Lord did visit thee , to wash thy sins away . Thus Christ without the Town , did weep for their distress : While they within , triumph in since , and use all wickedness . No whit they would believe , the words which he did say , But enviously did practice still , to take his life away . He mourned and he wept full soar , to think upon the smart , While they full stout did go about , to pierce his tender heart , And for his pains they stripped him , and whipped him through the town , And with a wreathe of prickling thorns , his holy head did crown . They scoffed and laughed at him , they dashed him in the face , They called him gracious Lord and King , in flouting and disgrace , And throw his hands and feet , they nail him to the cross , Between two lewd and wicked thieves , but few lament his loss . They gave him for to drink , sharp Vinegar and gall , And with a Spear they pierced his side , till his heart blood did fallen : Yet patiently and mild , he suffered every thing , And prayed his father not to charge them with that grievous since . When they had dispatch , the living Lord of might , Full safely then they thought themselves from sorrow , care and strife : But within few years space , as Christ before had told , The mighty Emperor of Room , came thither with courage bold , And with a mighty Host , he did besiege them round , By Sword and Famine ever he went , he did them quite confound , Yea , Dogs and Cats they eat , Mice , Rats , and every thing , For want of food , their infants young , unto the Pot they bring . No pity could they find , at this their enemies hand , But fire , Sword , and cruel death , before them still did stand . Their famous City fair , he set upon a flame , He burned their Temple unto dust , that stood within the same . And those that scaped the sword , and fury of his hand , He made them slaves and bondslaves all , within a foreign Land : Thus fair Jerusalem , was cast unto the ground , For their great since and wickedness , the Lord did it confound . Awake England I say , rise from the sleep of since , Cast off thy great security , which thou hast lived in : Thy God hath often called , and offered thee his grace , His Messengers have shown his will , to thee in every place , Great wonders he hath shown , to thee by Sea and Land , And sent strange tokens in the air , to make thee understand : He is offended soar , at thy great wickedness , And that except thou dost repent , thy plagues shall be expressed . Remember how of late , the Spaniard he assailed , And how by Gods especial power they never a whit prevailed : And all was for to try , if thou wouldst sin forsake , And to and upright holy life , thy self at last betake , But soon thou didst forget his favour in the same , Which afterwards most grievously , his wrath did so inflame : That then he plagued thee , with Pestilence and death , Whereby in Country and in town , a number lost their breath . Yet wilt thou not forsake , thy wickedness and ill , But in thy pride and Covetousness , thou hast continued still : Provoke not God to wrath , with thy most loathsome since , But speedily to amend thy life , with Prayers now begin , And therefore now Oh England , at last for mercy cry , And grieve the Lord thy God no more through thy iniquity , Lest he forsake thee quite , and turn away his face , Because like to Jerusalem , thou didst despise his Grace : FINIS . P rinted for W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 