The Happy Lovers Pastime . S hewing how a Nymph and Shepherd vowed to love , As long as they had life and strength to move ; They count all pleasure else but a toy , To that of Love , it is the life of joy : They constant prove , in all things do agree , To Lovers all I wish the like may be . To a Pleasant new Tune , called : On the Bank of a Brook . O N the bank of a brook as I sat Fishing , hid in the Oziers that grew on the side , I overhead a Nymph and Shepherd wishing , no time nor fortune their love might divide ; To Cupid and Venus each offered a vow , For to love ever as they loved now . Oh! said the Shepherd , and sighed ! what a pleasure , is love concealed betwixt Lovers alone , Love must be secret , and like fairy treasure , when once discovered , it'll quickly be gone . So envy and jealousy where they do stay , Oh! too soon as , will make a delay . Then let us leave the World and care behind us , said the Nymph smiling , and gave me her hand All alone , all alone , where none can find us , in some far Desert we'll seek a new L [ a ] and : And there live from envy and jealousy free , And a whole world to each other we'll be . Up rose the Shepherd , and said that a blessing , more sweet no Lover could ever enjoy , Were I departing , these words then expressing , would fetch me to life , and sorrow destroy , Nay , add but a Kiss , and grim death will soon say , I will never take such a Lover away . TO Hen said the Nymph , if they have so inflamed , what would those doe which I do conceal They would far exceed what hath been yet nam , but hath not power them yet to reveal . For when I do think for to utter them plain , They back from my tongue do soon slip again . But shepherd i'll tell thee how long I've loved thee and where thou at first didst kindle my flame , 'Twas in the month of May that you first moved me , but with what charms I need not to name ; And 'twas near a River that run by a Grove , You tried to taste the pleasure of Love . But under a shady Tree Cupid did wound me , and in my kind breast he fixed his Dart , But o ! the time was too short when he crowned me , I wished that sweet minute might never depart . And I long to be crowned with the pleasure again , For all our long wishes to that is but vain . My dearest I hope I han't gained thy displeasure , for what my kind tongue hath uttered now , Oh! think , it's my love that burns without measure , making me keep to the words of my vow , But think what we promised loves Queen and her son 'Twas to love ever as when we begun . Fair nymph , said the youth , thou dost not offend me you banish my grief , and pleases my mind , I'll venture my life in fight to defend thee , and think i'm happy such honour to find . And if ever I prove disloyal to thee , Blind Cupid I wish to sacrifice me . But my dear do not ever once fear me , for I adore all thy beauty's divine , And that for the true love I do now bore thee , i'de make thee a Duchess were power but mine But since that such honour I cannot bestow , I'll give you such gifts you never did know . Now on thy Rosy lips i'll give thee sweet kisses , while my arms shall most loving embrace ; But if thou art disposed to have thy sweet wishes , then let us depart to some other place , Then said the fair Nymph , let us hast to a Grove , And there we'll enjoy the pleasure of Love . So then they kissed and embraced each other , but they resolved there no longer to stay ; They wished no misfortunes their joys might smother , and sung this as they passed one their way , My dear let us join both together and try , Which can love the most my dearest or I . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , & amp ; T. Passenger . The Happy Lovers Pastime . S hewing how a Nymph and Shepherd vowed to love , As long as they had life and strength to move ; They count all pleasure else but a toy , To that of Love , it is the life of joy : They constant prove , in all things do agree , To Lovers all I wish the like may be . To a Pleasant new Tune , called : On the Bank of a Brook . O N the bank of a brook as I sat Fishing , hid in the Oziers that grew on the side , I overhead a Nymph and Shepherd wishing , no time nor fortune their love might divide ; To Cupid and Venus each offered a vow , For to love ever as they loved now . Oh! said the Shepherd , and sighed ! what a pleasure , is love concealed betwixt Lovers alone , Love must be secret , and like fairy treasure , when once discovered , it'll quickly be gone . So envy and jealousy where they do stay , Oh! too soon as , will make a delay . Then let us leave the World and care behind us , said the Nymph smiling , and gave me her hand All alone , all alone , where none can find us , in some far Desert we'll seek a new L [ a ] and : And there live from envy and jealousy free , And a whole world to each other we'll be . Up rose the Shepherd , and said that a blessing , more sweet no Lover could ever enjoy , Were I departing , these words then expressing , would fetch me to life , and sorrow destroy , Nay , add but a Kiss , and grim death will soon say , I will never take such a Lover away . TO Hen said the Nymph , if they have so inflamed , what would those doe which I do conceal They would far exceed what hath been yet nam , but hath not power them yet to reveal . For when I do think for to utter them plain , They back from my tongue do soon slip again . But shepherd i'll tell thee how long I've loved thee and where thou at first didst kindle my flame , 'Twas in the month of May that you first moved me , but with what charms I need not to name ; And 'twas near a River that run by a Grove , You tried to taste the pleasure of Love . But under a shady Tree Cupid did wound me , and in my kind breast he fixed his Dart , But o ! the time was too short when he crowned me , I wished that sweet minute might never depart . And I long to be crowned with the pleasure again , For all our long wishes to that is but vain . My dearest I hope I han't gained thy displeasure , for what my kind tongue hath uttered now , Oh! think , it's my love that burns without measure , making me keep to the words of my vow , But think what we promised loves Queen and her son 'Twas to love ever as when we begun . Fair nymph , said the youth , thou dost not offend me you banish my grief , and pleases my mind , I'll venture my life in fight to defend thee , and think i'm happy such honour to find . And if ever I prove disloyal to thee , Blind Cupid I wish to sacrifice me . But my dear do not ever once fear me , for I adore all thy beauty's divine , And that for the true love I do now bore thee , i'de make thee a Duchess were power but mine But since that such honour I cannot bestow , I'll give you such gifts you never did know . Now on thy Rosy lips i'll give thee sweet kisses , while my arms shall most loving embrace ; But if thou art disposed to have thy sweet wishes , then let us depart to some other place , Then said the fair Nymph , let us hast to a Grove , And there we'll enjoy the pleasure of Love . So then they kissed and embraced each other , but they resolved there no longer to stay ; They wished no misfortunes their joys might smother , and sung this as they passed one their way , My dear let us join both together and try , Which can love the most my dearest or I . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , & amp ; T. Passenger . 