Loves Captivity and Liberty : Or , The two various united Lovers . Set forth in a Ditty , to invite All Lovers to the same delight . To and excellent new Tune , called , I'll go no more to the old Exchange . O Ft have I sworn I'll love no more , but when I think on thee , I have no power to give over thy Captive I must be : For so many sweets and graces dwells between thy lips and eyes , That whosoever looks on thee must needs be made a prize . Come gentle sweet , let our read lips meet , and haste unto the Ferry , That our Nuptial rite , may be with delight to make our senses merry . Sure thou hadst learned some cunning Art , made by the God of F ire , Which does not only catch the heart , but captive their desire : For I have laboured to be free , this long seven years and more , But whensoever I think on thee , I'm faster than before . Come gentle sweet , etc Thy glistering Comets are like charms and have enchanting spells , I snow no life but in thy arms , to live where Love now dwells , Thou art the keeper of my heart , and may to me restore , My love , my life , and liberty , as I have had before . Come gentle sweet , etc What though I love in servitude , constrained so by Love , Alcides beauty once subdued , as Daphne conquered Jove ; I know no Medicine for my wound , but thy approved Art , Whose perfect skill and gifts profound can heal my lovesick heart . Come gentle sweet , let our read lips meet , and haste unto the Ferry , That our Nuptial rite , may be with delight to make our senses merry . Then welcome sweet captivity , seeing there is no relief , Although I loose my liberty , I honour still the Thief , TO hough from thy looks I never can have a cure for my pain ; My comfort is , I once was loved and may be loved again ; Come gentle sweet , let our read lips meet , and haste unto the Ferry , That our Nuptial rite , may be with delight to make our senses merry . What sugared melody is this so pleasant in my ear , Delicious Music , Loves bliss , which I by chance to hear ? O it's the voice of my Truelove , complaining he's in thrall , TO high courteous suit I will approve , and make amends for all . Come gentle sweet , etc Oft has my love repulsed been , his constancy to try , With perfect eye I now have seen , your love and loyalty : As thou are captived in my breast , so thou has stolen from me , By Cupid is aid I do protest , my life and liberty . Come gentle sweet , etc TO hen see there's no obstructive thing our Loves to separate , As Birds do couple in the spring , so must we imitate ; M y care shall be to shroud thee still , I'll twine thee in mine arms , TO hat none thy dearest blood shall spill , to work two Lovers harms : Come gentle sweet , etc I'll be a Fortress to defend High Sweetheart from his F oe , In midst of troubles I'll attend , and through all sorrows go : Water and Fire never shall cause a timorous fear in me ; For I have sworn by Cupid is Laws , thy faithful Love to be : Come gentle sweet , etc Here is my life , my heart and hand , ingag'ed for thy sake , TO oh Love's first principles In l e stand ; and this fair promise make : W hilst I have breath , till dismal death I'll be bethroathed to thee , TO hat Lovers may , enjoy a day , of Peace and Unity . Come gentle sweet , let our read lips meet , and haste unto the Ferry , That our Nuptial rite , may be with delight to make our senses merry . Finis . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clark . Loves Captivity and Liberty : Or , The two various united Lovers . Set forth in a Ditty , to invite All Lovers to the same delight . To and excellent new Tune , called , I'll go no more to the old Exchange . O Ft have I sworn I'll love no more , but when I think on thee , I have no power to give over thy Captive I must be : For so many sweets and graces dwells between thy lips and eyes , That whosoever looks on thee must needs be made a prize . Come gentle sweet , let our read lips meet , and haste unto the Ferry , That our Nuptial rite , may be with delight to make our senses merry . Sure thou hadst learned some cunning Art , made by the God of F ire , Which does not only catch the heart , but captive their desire : For I have laboured to be free , this long seven years and more , But whensoever I think on thee , I'm faster than before . Come gentle sweet , etc Thy glistering Comets are like charms and have enchanting spells , I snow no life but in thy arms , to live where Love now dwells , Thou art the keeper of my heart , and may to me restore , My love , my life , and liberty , as I have had before . Come gentle sweet , etc What though I love in servitude , constrained so by Love , Alcides beauty once subdued , as Daphne conquered Jove ; I know no Medicine for my wound , but thy approved Art , Whose perfect skill and gifts profound can heal my lovesick heart . Come gentle sweet , let our read lips meet , and haste unto the Ferry , That our Nuptial rite , may be with delight to make our senses merry . Then welcome sweet captivity , seeing there is no relief , Although I loose my liberty , I honour still the Thief , TO hough from thy looks I never can have a cure for my pain ; My comfort is , I once was loved and may be loved again ; Come gentle sweet , let our read lips meet , and haste unto the Ferry , That our Nuptial rite , may be with delight to make our senses merry . What sugared melody is this so pleasant in my ear , Delicious Music , Loves bliss , which I by chance to hear ? O it's the voice of my Truelove , complaining he's in thrall , TO high courteous suit I will approve , and make amends for all . Come gentle sweet , etc Oft has my love repulsed been , his constancy to try , With perfect eye I now have seen , your love and loyalty : As thou are captived in my breast , so thou has stolen from me , By Cupid is aid I do protest , my life and liberty . Come gentle sweet , etc TO hen see there's no obstructive thing our Loves to separate , As Birds do couple in the spring , so must we imitate ; M y care shall be to shroud thee still , I'll twine thee in mine arms , TO hat none thy dearest blood shall spill , to work two Lovers harms : Come gentle sweet , etc I'll be a Fortress to defend High Sweetheart from his F oe , In midst of troubles I'll attend , and through all sorrows go : Water and Fire never shall cause a timorous fear in me ; For I have sworn by Cupid is Laws , thy faithful Love to be : Come gentle sweet , etc Here is my life , my heart and hand , ingag'ed for thy sake , TO oh Love's first principles In l e stand ; and this fair promise make : W hilst I have breath , till dismal death I'll be bethroathed to thee , TO hat Lovers may , enjoy a day , of Peace and Unity . Come gentle sweet , let our read lips meet , and haste unto the Ferry , That our Nuptial rite , may be with delight to make our senses merry . Finis . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clark . 