Hey ho , for a Husband . Or , the willing Maids wants made known . Full Fifteen years she hath remained a Maid , Which makes her grieve , that she so long hath stayed , To any trade she well can turn her hand , As by her speeches you may understand And to all sorts of humours can submit Being active , brisk , and of a nimble wit . Tune of , I'll warrant thee boy she's right , Or , a little o'th tone with tother . with Allowance , Ro. L'Estrange . Y Ou maidens that are fair and young Come listen unto my song ' Here in these Lines are plainly shown How I have suffered much wrong , Cause youngmen they be not loving to me Which makes me beside my wit , For fifteen years of age am I And have never a Suitor yet . This noun I am a buksome Lass As any lives in the Shire , If any young man will me embrace For to heighten his desire , I will love him still He shall have his [ fi ] ll Of joys which for Lovers are fit , For fifteen years of age am I And have never a Suitor yet . What if I should a Barber wed That can his Razor handle , While he does Trim , i'll wait on him , With Basin and with Candle , both day and night with rare delight I can his humours fit For fifteen years of age am I And have never a Suitor yet . If that a Weaver I should have A Loom I can provide him And if his Shuttle it be good I'll often stay beside him , if that he can work like a man To him I will submit , For fifteen years of age am I etc If I should be a Tailors wife I can him plainly show How that he shall go through stitch And make no more ado , to sew and patch none can me match I have so ripe a wit , Full fifteen etc If I should be a Millers Bride That wants a water-mill , I'll work enough for him provide That he may grind his fill , I still will strive always to thrive , And good store of Custom get For fifteen , etc If I should have a Shoemaker For him I can spin thread And be his loving partaker At board , and eke at bed if that he call for Last or Awl His humour I will hit For fifteen years , etc If that I be a Plowman's wife Good Land I have at will If that he be a husband good And can it bravely till , isle help him sow and eke to mow A great increase to get For fifteen years of age am I Suppose a Blacksmith I should have That Lusty is and strong Upon his Anvil he may beatrice And hammer it along , after his heat isle him entreat To a refreshing bit For fifteen years , etc If that a Baker I should have M y Husband for to be I'll undertake to learn his Trade And work as well as he , his Oven brave isle ready have That he his Batch may set For fifteen years , etc If I should have and Innkeeper We'll have a handsome sign , That may draw Custom to the house To fell our Beer and wine , hard shift ilea mke but money isle take Though forth my Rooms I let For fifteen years , etc And thus you see I willing am To yield to any Trade , Then why are youngmen so unkind To let me live a maid , there is but few will be so true Your humours for to fit , Though I am fifteen years of age And have never a Suitor yet . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. larrk . Hey ho , for a Husband . Or , the willing Maids wants made known . Full Fifteen years she hath remained a Maid , Which makes her grieve , that she so long hath stayed , To any trade she well can turn her hand , As by her speeches you may understand And to all sorts of humours can submit Being active , brisk , and of a nimble wit . Tune of , I'll warrant thee boy she's right , Or , a little o'th tone with tother . with Allowance , Ro. L'Estrange . Y Ou maidens that are fair and young Come listen unto my song ' Here in these Lines are plainly shown How I have suffered much wrong , Cause youngmen they be not loving to me Which makes me beside my wit , For fifteen years of age am I And have never a Suitor yet . This noun I am a buksome Lass As any lives in the Shire , If any young man will me embrace For to heighten his desire , I will love him still He shall have his [ fi ] ll Of joys which for Lovers are fit , For fifteen years of age am I And have never a Suitor yet . What if I should a Barber wed That can his Razor handle , While he does Trim , i'll wait on him , With Basin and with Candle , both day and night with rare delight I can his humours fit For fifteen years of age am I And have never a Suitor yet . If that a Weaver I should have A Loom I can provide him And if his Shuttle it be good I'll often stay beside him , if that he can work like a man To him I will submit , For fifteen years of age am I etc If I should be a Tailors wife I can him plainly show How that he shall go through stitch And make no more ado , to sew and patch none can me match I have so ripe a wit , Full fifteen etc If I should be a Millers Bride That wants a water-mill , I'll work enough for him provide That he may grind his fill , I still will strive always to thrive , And good store of Custom get For fifteen , etc If I should have a Shoemaker For him I can spin thread And be his loving partaker At board , and eke at bed if that he call for Last or Awl His humour I will hit For fifteen years , etc If that I be a Plowman's wife Good Land I have at will If that he be a husband good And can it bravely till , isle help him sow and eke to mow A great increase to get For fifteen years of age am I Suppose a Blacksmith I should have That Lusty is and strong Upon his Anvil he may beatrice And hammer it along , after his heat isle him entreat To a refreshing bit For fifteen years , etc If that a Baker I should have M y Husband for to be I'll undertake to learn his Trade And work as well as he , his Oven brave isle ready have That he his Batch may set For fifteen years , etc If I should have and Innkeeper We'll have a handsome sign , That may draw Custom to the house To fell our Beer and wine , hard shift ilea mke but money isle take Though forth my Rooms I let For fifteen years , etc And thus you see I willing am To yield to any Trade , Then why are youngmen so unkind To let me live a maid , there is but few will be so true Your humours for to fit , Though I am fifteen years of age And have never a Suitor yet . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. larrk . 