THE Old MISER Slighted : OR , The Young Lasses Resolution to Marry the Young Man that she Loves , and not be troubled with the Groans of Gouty Fornicator , for the Benefit of his Riches . To the Tune of I often for my Jenny strove . Licensed according to Order . M Y Mother duns me every day , to marry with a Miser then , Whose blood is Cold , and locks are Gray for Age , above Threescore and Ten : He hath Coffers crammed with Treasure , Yet I'll not be bought or sold ; A brisk young Gallant has a Talon , Which is better woth than Gold . He proffered me a Diamond Ring , a Watch with Ribbons , Gloves , & amp ; Fan ; To House and Home he would me bring , but ah ! he was and Aged Man : Therefore I could never love him , For he looked like Winter cold , A brisk young Gallant has a Talon , Which is better worth than Gold . With all he had he'd me endue , which was both Lands and Cattle store ; As likewise Pigs , Geese , Turkeys too , all feeding at his own Barn Door : Yet I valued not his Treasure , His Arms never should me enfold ; A brisk young Gallant has a Talon , Which is better worth than Gold . The old Man gets me on his Knee , and will sometime soft Kisses take , The which do's much discomfort me , to see his Aged Noddle shake , And his Hands with Palsy tremble , While he do's my Waste enfold : A brisk young Gallant has a Talon , Which is better worth than Gold . With Gout and Stone he lies in Bed , to groan out the long tedious Night , While my true Fancy should be fed , with that which is my chief Delight : What can be a greater Torment , To be in Choice thus Controlled ? A brisk young Gallant has a Talon , Which is better worth than Gold . prey what can be a greater Crime , than such like Matches to contrive ? I will not lose my Teeming time , for never a Doting Fool alive : I am Buxom , Brisk and Airy , Therefore will not be Controlled ; A brisk young Gallant has a Talon , Which is better worth than Gold . We find the Aged Snowy Head , is often filled with Jealousy , Therefore with no such one I'll Wed , although I might a Lady be : The young Man that's Brisk and Airy , I in him can Charms behold ; The choicest Blessing still possessing , True love is better worth than Gold . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . THE Old MISER Slighted : OR , The Young Lasses Resolution to Marry the Young Man that she Loves , and not be troubled with the Groans of Gouty Fornicator , for the Benefit of his Riches . To the Tune of I often for my Jenny strove . Licensed according to Order . M Y Mother duns me every day , to marry with a Miser then , Whose blood is Cold , and locks are Gray for Age , above Threescore and Ten : He hath Coffers crammed with Treasure , Yet I'll not be bought or sold ; A brisk young Gallant has a Talon , Which is better woth than Gold . He proffered me a Diamond Ring , a Watch with Ribbons , Gloves , & amp ; Fan ; To House and Home he would me bring , but ah ! he was and Aged Man : Therefore I could never love him , For he looked like Winter cold , A brisk young Gallant has a Talon , Which is better worth than Gold . With all he had he'd me endue , which was both Lands and Cattle store ; As likewise Pigs , Geese , Turkeys too , all feeding at his own Barn Door : Yet I valued not his Treasure , His Arms never should me enfold ; A brisk young Gallant has a Talon , Which is better worth than Gold . The old Man gets me on his Knee , and will sometime soft Kisses take , The which do's much discomfort me , to see his Aged Noddle shake , And his Hands with Palsy tremble , While he do's my Waste enfold : A brisk young Gallant has a Talon , Which is better worth than Gold . With Gout and Stone he lies in Bed , to groan out the long tedious Night , While my true Fancy should be fed , with that which is my chief Delight : What can be a greater Torment , To be in Choice thus Controlled ? A brisk young Gallant has a Talon , Which is better worth than Gold . prey what can be a greater Crime , than such like Matches to contrive ? I will not lose my Teeming time , for never a Doting Fool alive : I am Buxom , Brisk and Airy , Therefore will not be Controlled ; A brisk young Gallant has a Talon , Which is better worth than Gold . We find the Aged Snowy Head , is often filled with Jealousy , Therefore with no such one I'll Wed , although I might a Lady be : The young Man that's Brisk and Airy , I in him can Charms behold ; The choicest Blessing still possessing , True love is better worth than Gold . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 