The Maids Hue & amp ; Cry after a Husband , OR , The Damosels Complaint . Tune of , Two English Travelers . This may be printed , R. P. I F that there a bonny brisk Bachelor be , Oh! gentle sweet Cupid , convey him to me , And grant me a Man without any delay To court me , and love me by Night and by Day . I valve not whither he's black , brown , or fair : To get me a Husband is all my whole care : For all other things I wiil shift as I can , If I can but marry some bonny Youngman . The peevish nice Virgins admire a sweet face , And others for Riches will any embrace ; It's true , Gold and Beauty create much delight , But give me a man that can please me at night . [ If ? oh ] n [ such a man ca ] n be found , I'll give him my heart and five hundred good pound : The Portion is small , but i'll prove such a wife , He never shall repent him all days of his life . Now after so much by a Virgin is told , That for a good Husband will give all my Gold : Methinks some sweet William , or Thomas , or Ned , Should venture , and try me , and take me to bed . What were it for any of these pretty men To hug me and kiss me again and again ? I should think a young Maid were more sweet and divine Than all the delights of the juice of the Vine . There's scarce a young man but his Bottle will mind : But in a Wives Arms no pleasure can find ; When we talk of a Husband away they are gone , Resolved ( as they tell us ) to marry ------ with none . My Master's I think it's a very hard case That none but your Misses you ever embrace : Strange charms you can find in Coelias bright eye , But hang the dull Wife every Fopling does cry . To conclude all in short , i'll get if I can A Husband that shall be a lively brisk man : And if such a person would once come to me , I'ld strike up a bargain , and quickly agree . Printed for J. Conyers at the Raven in Fetter-lane . The Maids Hue & amp ; Cry after a Husband , OR , The Damosels Complaint . Tune of , Two English Travelers . This may be printed , R. P. I F that there a bonny brisk Bachelor be , Oh! gentle sweet Cupid , convey him to me , And grant me a Man without any delay To court me , and love me by Night and by Day . I valve not whither he's black , brown , or fair : To get me a Husband is all my whole care : For all other things I wiil shift as I can , If I can but marry some bonny Youngman . The peevish nice Virgins admire a sweet face , And others for Riches will any embrace ; It's true , Gold and Beauty create much delight , But give me a man that can please me at night . [ If ? oh ] n [ such a man ca ] n be found , I'll give him my heart and five hundred good pound : The Portion is small , but i'll prove such a wife , He never shall repent him all days of his life . Now after so much by a Virgin is told , That for a good Husband will give all my Gold : Methinks some sweet William , or Thomas , or Ned , Should venture , and try me , and take me to bed . What were it for any of these pretty men To hug me and kiss me again and again ? I should think a young Maid were more sweet and divine Than all the delights of the juice of the Vine . There's scarce a young man but his Bottle will mind : But in a Wives Arms no pleasure can find ; When we talk of a Husband away they are gone , Resolved ( as they tell us ) to marry ------ with none . My Master's I think it's a very hard case That none but your Misses you ever embrace : Strange charms you can find in Coelias bright eye , But hang the dull Wife every Fopling does cry . To conclude all in short , i'll get if I can A Husband that shall be a lively brisk man : And if such a person would once come to me , I'ld strike up a bargain , and quickly agree . Printed for J. Conyers at the Raven in Fetter-lane . 