The Devonshire Damsels FROLIC . BEING And Account of nine or ten fair Maidens ; who went one Evening lately , to wash themselves in a pleasant River , where they were discovered by seve - ral Young men being their familiar acquaintances who took a way their Gowns and Petticoats , with their Smocks and Wine with good Cheer ; lea - ving them a while in a most melancholy condition . To a Pleasant new Play-House Tune ; or , where's my Shepherd ? This may be Printed R. P. TOm & amp ; William with Ned and Ben , in all they were about nine or ten ; near a tickling River endeavour To see a most delicate sighed for Men , nine young Maidens they knew it full well ; Sarah , Susan with bonny Nell , and all those others whose names are not here intended to wash in a River clear . SImon gave out the first report the rest resolving to see the sport The Youngmen freely repairing declaring that this is the Humours of Venus Court In a Bower those Gallants remain seeing the Maidens trip over the plain They thought no Body did know their intent as merrily over the Fields they went . Nell a Bottle of Wine did bring with many a delicate dainty thing Their Fainting Spirits to nourish and cherish when they had been dabbling in the Spring They supposing no Creature did know to the River they merrily go , When they came thither and seeing none near then under the bushes they hid their cheer . Then they stripping of all their Clothes their Gowns their Petticoats Shoes & amp ; Hose . Their fine white smickits then stripping & amp ; skipping no Body seeing them they suppose Sarah entered the River so clear and bid them follow they need not fear For why the Water is warm they replied then into the River they sweetly glide Finely bathing themselves they lay Like pretty Fish they sport and play Then lets be merry said Nancy , I fancy , it's seldom that any one walks this way Thus those Females were all in a Quill and following on their Pastime still All naked and in a most dainty trim those Maidens like beautiful Swans did swim . While they followed on their Game out came sweet William & amp ; Tom by name . They took all their Clothing and left nothing Maids was they not Villains and much to blame Likewise taking their Bottle of Wine with all their delicate dainties fine Thus they were rifled of their store , was ever poor Maidens so served before . From the River those Maidens fair returned with sorrow and deep despair When they seeing , brooding concluding that somebody certainly had been there With all their Treasure away they run Alas said Nelle we are undone , Those Villains I wish were in the Stocks that took our Petticoats Gowns & amp ; Smocks . Then Sweet Sarah with modest Prue they all was in a most fearful Hue Every Maiden replying and crying they did not know what in the World to do But what laughing was there with the Men in bringing their Gowns and Smocks again The Maidens were modest & amp ; mighty mute and gave them fine curtsies & amp ; thanks to boot . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . The Devonshire Damsels FROLIC . BEING And Account of nine or ten fair Maidens ; who went one Evening lately , to wash themselves in a pleasant River , where they were discovered by seve - ral Young men being their familiar acquaintances who took a way their Gowns and Petticoats , with their Smocks and Wine with good Cheer ; lea - ving them a while in a most melancholy condition . To a Pleasant new Play-House Tune ; or , where's my Shepherd ? This may be Printed R. P. TOm & amp ; William with Ned and Ben , in all they were about nine or ten ; near a tickling River endeavour To see a most delicate sighed for Men , nine young Maidens they knew it full well ; Sarah , Susan with bonny Nell , and all those others whose names are not here intended to wash in a River clear . SImon gave out the first report the rest resolving to see the sport The Youngmen freely repairing declaring that this is the Humours of Venus Court In a Bower those Gallants remain seeing the Maidens trip over the plain They thought no Body did know their intent as merrily over the Fields they went . Nell a Bottle of Wine did bring with many a delicate dainty thing Their Fainting Spirits to nourish and cherish when they had been dabbling in the Spring They supposing no Creature did know to the River they merrily go , When they came thither and seeing none near then under the bushes they hid their cheer . Then they stripping of all their Clothes their Gowns their Petticoats Shoes & amp ; Hose . Their fine white smickits then stripping & amp ; skipping no Body seeing them they suppose Sarah entered the River so clear and bid them follow they need not fear For why the Water is warm they replied then into the River they sweetly glide Finely bathing themselves they lay Like pretty Fish they sport and play Then lets be merry said Nancy , I fancy , it's seldom that any one walks this way Thus those Females were all in a Quill and following on their Pastime still All naked and in a most dainty trim those Maidens like beautiful Swans did swim . While they followed on their Game out came sweet William & amp ; Tom by name . They took all their Clothing and left nothing Maids was they not Villains and much to blame Likewise taking their Bottle of Wine with all their delicate dainties fine Thus they were rifled of their store , was ever poor Maidens so served before . From the River those Maidens fair returned with sorrow and deep despair When they seeing , brooding concluding that somebody certainly had been there With all their Treasure away they run Alas said Nelle we are undone , Those Villains I wish were in the Stocks that took our Petticoats Gowns & amp ; Smocks . Then Sweet Sarah with modest Prue they all was in a most fearful Hue Every Maiden replying and crying they did not know what in the World to do But what laughing was there with the Men in bringing their Gowns and Smocks again The Maidens were modest & amp ; mighty mute and gave them fine curtsies & amp ; thanks to boot . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . 