The Swimming Lady Or , A Wanton Discovery , Being a true Relation of a gay Lady ( betrayed b y her Lover ) as she was stripping her self stark naked , and Swimming in a R iver near Oxford . Tune of , I'll never l [ oh ] we the more . TO He four and twentieth day of May , of all times in the Year ; A Virgin Lady bright and gay , did privately appear , Close by the Rivers side , which she did single out the rather , Cause she was sure she was secure , and had intent to both her . With glittering glance , her jealous eyes did slily look about , To see if any lurking Spies were hid to find her out : And being well resolved that none , could view her nakedness , She puts her Robes off one by one , and does her self undress . A purple Mantle ( fringed with Gold ) her Ivory hands unpin , It would have made a coward bold , or tempt a Saint to since : She turns away , and looks about , ( quoth she ) I hope I'm safe , And then a Rosy Petticoat , she presently put off . The snow white smock which she had on , transparently so decked her , It looked like a Cambrick Lawn , upon and Alabaster Picture : Through which your Eye might faintly spy her Belly and her back , Her Limbs were strait , and all was white but that which should be black . TO He part which she's ashamed to see , without a bashful blush , Appeared like curious Tiffany displayed upon a Bush : But that posterior extreme limb , she cannot look upon , Did like a twisted Cherry seem , before the white was gone . As when a Masquing Scene is drawn , and new lights do appear : When she put off her Smock of lawn , just such a sighed was there : The bright reflection of her eyes , on every limb was strowed As when the Radiant Sun does rise , and guild each neighbouring Cloud . Into a fluent Stream she leapt , which looked like liquid Glass , The Fish from all quarters crept to see what Angel 'twas : She did so like a Vision look , or fancy in a Dream , 'Twas thought the Sun the sky forsook , and dropped into the stream . Each Fish did wish him self a man , about her all were drawn , And at the sighed of her began to spread about their Spawn : She turned to swim upon her back and so displayed her Banner , If love had then in Heaven been , he would have dropped upon her . Thus was the Rivers Diamond head with Pearl and Saphir crowned , Her Legs did shove , her Arms did move her Body did rebound : She that did quaff the juice of joys , ( fair Venus Queen of Love ) With Mars did never in more ways of melting motions move . A Lad that long her love had been , and could obtain no grace , For all her prying , lay unseen , hid in a secret place : Who having been repulsed when he did often come to woo her . Pulled off his clothes and furiously did run and leap in to her . She shrieks , she strives , & amp ; down she dives , he brings her up again , He god her over upon the Shore , and then , and then , and then : As Adam did old Eve enjoy , you may guess what I mean , Because she all uncovered lay , he covered her again . With watery eyes she pants and cries , I am utterly undone ; If you'll not be wedded to me , ever the next Morning Sun : He answered I'll never stir out of thy sighed till then , We'll both clap hand in wedlock bans , Marry and too't again . Printed for J. right , J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The Swimming Lady Or , A Wanton Discovery , Being a true Relation of a gay Lady ( betrayed b y her Lover ) as she was stripping her self stark naked , and Swimming in a R iver near Oxford . Tune of , I'll never l [ oh ] we the more . TO He four and twentieth day of May , of all times in the Year ; A Virgin Lady bright and gay , did privately appear , Close by the Rivers side , which she did single out the rather , Cause she was sure she was secure , and had intent to both her . With glittering glance , her jealous eyes did slily look about , To see if any lurking Spies were hid to find her out : And being well resolved that none , could view her nakedness , She puts her Robes off one by one , and does her self undress . A purple Mantle ( fringed with Gold ) her Ivory hands unpin , It would have made a coward bold , or tempt a Saint to since : She turns away , and looks about , ( quoth she ) I hope I'm safe , And then a Rosy Petticoat , she presently put off . The snow white smock which she had on , transparently so decked her , It looked like a Cambrick Lawn , upon and Alabaster Picture : Through which your Eye might faintly spy her Belly and her back , Her Limbs were strait , and all was white but that which should be black . TO He part which she's ashamed to see , without a bashful blush , Appeared like curious Tiffany displayed upon a Bush : But that posterior extreme limb , she cannot look upon , Did like a twisted Cherry seem , before the white was gone . As when a Masquing Scene is drawn , and new lights do appear : When she put off her Smock of lawn , just such a sighed was there : The bright reflection of her eyes , on every limb was strowed As when the Radiant Sun does rise , and guild each neighbouring Cloud . Into a fluent Stream she leapt , which looked like liquid Glass , The Fish from all quarters crept to see what Angel 'twas : She did so like a Vision look , or fancy in a Dream , 'Twas thought the Sun the sky forsook , and dropped into the stream . Each Fish did wish him self a man , about her all were drawn , And at the sighed of her began to spread about their Spawn : She turned to swim upon her back and so displayed her Banner , If love had then in Heaven been , he would have dropped upon her . Thus was the Rivers Diamond head with Pearl and Saphir crowned , Her Legs did shove , her Arms did move her Body did rebound : She that did quaff the juice of joys , ( fair Venus Queen of Love ) With Mars did never in more ways of melting motions move . A Lad that long her love had been , and could obtain no grace , For all her prying , lay unseen , hid in a secret place : Who having been repulsed when he did often come to woo her . Pulled off his clothes and furiously did run and leap in to her . She shrieks , she strives , & amp ; down she dives , he brings her up again , He god her over upon the Shore , and then , and then , and then : As Adam did old Eve enjoy , you may guess what I mean , Because she all uncovered lay , he covered her again . With watery eyes she pants and cries , I am utterly undone ; If you'll not be wedded to me , ever the next Morning Sun : He answered I'll never stir out of thy sighed till then , We'll both clap hand in wedlock bans , Marry and too't again . Printed for J. right , J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 