Tom and Rogers Contract : Or what Devon - Farmers use to act . Two Farmers lately met in Devonshire , And so by chance they drank a pot of Beer ; And since it was within the Month of May , I will declare to you what they did say . Tune of , Heigh boys up go we . By Tobias Bowne . A S Tom met Roger upon the Road said he How dost thou do ? I am pretty well , and walking abroad , I hope the same by you . Pray have you took your morning's drink , if not come go with me , Here is good Ale just by I think , come let us go and see . Come , come , Roger let us go , we'll drink one pot or two , I , said tom , i'd have it so , i've something to say to you ; But first we'll drink a Flagon of Beer , and thou shalt know my mind ; My son shall have thy daughter dear , and then we two'l be Kind . Said Roger , what will you give your son , and he shall have my daughter ? I have two pots , he shall have one , beside what may come after ; He shall have to't a thumping Ladle that is both fresh and new , And more , he shall have our old Cradle , I think my Wife hath a Doe . Beside my Son can hold the Plough , and other things I can name ; He's able to go and milk the Cow , and if his Wife be lame : I think they two may live as brave as did their Mother or Father ; Come tell me what your daughter shall have , we'll marry them up together . Why then said Roger my daughter shall have a portion as good as thy son , I never yet was counted a Knave but always and honest man : I have a good old Kettle at home my Grandam did give to me ; A whitepot bag , and a twopenny broom , my Daughter shall have them all three . Beside i'll give her a lumping Calf , that came of our brown Cow , That's more than thee givest thy son by half , old tom , I speak it to thou : My daughter is so well brought up , she can both spin and zow , She hath of her own a drinking Cup ; that's more than thou dost know . When shall we marry them together old Roger , then said tom ? I'll tell my zon that thou art his Father , as soon as I come home . And that thy daughter must be his wife , and he must have no other ; Next time they meet i'll lay my life , they'll jumble it up together . When young tom met with his sweetheart , old Rogers daughter Joan ; Said he , we'll drink before we part , and with thee i'll go home ; We'll take a down thy father's dish , and box about the whey , So there we will both hug and kiss , we care not what folk say . Then tom he took Joan by the hand , as lovers use to do ; Said he , sweetheart come pin my band , fored does belong to you . Sweetheart i'll do it if I can , for I do love thee dear ; Methinks you be the handsomest man that is in Devonshire . But if you had but seen them both when they trip over the Green , A pretty couple of one growth , and both did look a squeen . I stood and looked them upon till they were out of sighed , If you had seen how their Buttocks had gone 'twould a made you laugh Outright . Printed for P. Brooksby in Py-corner . Tom and Rogers Contract : Or what Devon - Farmers use to act . Two Farmers lately met in Devonshire , And so by chance they drank a pot of Beer ; And since it was within the Month of May , I will declare to you what they did say . Tune of , Heigh boys up go we . By Tobias Bowne . A S Tom met Roger upon the Road said he How dost thou do ? I am pretty well , and walking abroad , I hope the same by you . Pray have you took your morning's drink , if not come go with me , Here is good Ale just by I think , come let us go and see . Come , come , Roger let us go , we'll drink one pot or two , I , said tom , i'd have it so , i've something to say to you ; But first we'll drink a Flagon of Beer , and thou shalt know my mind ; My son shall have thy daughter dear , and then we two'l be Kind . Said Roger , what will you give your son , and he shall have my daughter ? I have two pots , he shall have one , beside what may come after ; He shall have to't a thumping Ladle that is both fresh and new , And more , he shall have our old Cradle , I think my Wife hath a Doe . Beside my Son can hold the Plough , and other things I can name ; He's able to go and milk the Cow , and if his Wife be lame : I think they two may live as brave as did their Mother or Father ; Come tell me what your daughter shall have , we'll marry them up together . Why then said Roger my daughter shall have a portion as good as thy son , I never yet was counted a Knave but always and honest man : I have a good old Kettle at home my Grandam did give to me ; A whitepot bag , and a twopenny broom , my Daughter shall have them all three . Beside i'll give her a lumping Calf , that came of our brown Cow , That's more than thee givest thy son by half , old tom , I speak it to thou : My daughter is so well brought up , she can both spin and zow , She hath of her own a drinking Cup ; that's more than thou dost know . When shall we marry them together old Roger , then said tom ? I'll tell my zon that thou art his Father , as soon as I come home . And that thy daughter must be his wife , and he must have no other ; Next time they meet i'll lay my life , they'll jumble it up together . When young tom met with his sweetheart , old Rogers daughter Joan ; Said he , we'll drink before we part , and with thee i'll go home ; We'll take a down thy father's dish , and box about the whey , So there we will both hug and kiss , we care not what folk say . Then tom he took Joan by the hand , as lovers use to do ; Said he , sweetheart come pin my band , fored does belong to you . Sweetheart i'll do it if I can , for I do love thee dear ; Methinks you be the handsomest man that is in Devonshire . But if you had but seen them both when they trip over the Green , A pretty couple of one growth , and both did look a squeen . I stood and looked them upon till they were out of sighed , If you had seen how their Buttocks had gone 'twould a made you laugh Outright . Printed for P. Brooksby in Py-corner . 