THE Witty Maid of the West : OR , The Miller well thrashed by Robin the Plowman : For which Service he received a Sum of Money , which bought a Ring and paid for the Marriage be - betwixt him and his beloved Nancy . Tune of , Ladies of London . This may be Printed , R. P. WIlliam the Miller , who lived in the West , A lusty stout Lad , brisk and airy ; Now if you will but attend to the Jest , I think it will make you all merry : There was a Lass that used his Mill , Her Name it was pretty faced Nancy ; He would be kissing and courting her still , There's no one but she he could fancy . She was a beautiful Lass , I declare , And one that was wonderful witty ; There is not any with her can compare , In Country , Town or in City : Nancy she did the Miller beguile , She knew him a knave by his learing ; Pray now have patience , and listen a while , The Story is well worth your hearing . Often he fain would have been at the sport , if Nancy she would but be willing . And as the Maiden her self did report , he gave her full twenty good shilling ; She straight did yield , the case it was thus , the Lass was resolved to cheat him , The twenty Shillings she put in her purse , and said at the Mill she would meet him . Now for to study some joke she did aim , that she in her fancy might glory , Then to her true Love the Plowman she came , and told him the sum of the story : Robin replied , my counsel is this , we won't stand discoursing and arguing , I in a Sack will be carried as Grist , because you shall stand to your bargain . Nancy she laughed and was pleased at this thing , that she might go there without fear ; Robin to Mill in a Sack she did bring , the Miller rejoy [ c ] ' worser to see her ; Then did he take the load off from Roan for this Maidens Horse was so nam , And he supposing they then was alone , the Miller in love was inflamed . Straight he invited her into the Mill , for he had a mind to be at her , Though yet she would not submit to his will , but told him it was no such matter : Thus for a while his Patience was tried , be loving said he my sweet honey , Stand to your bargain he often replied , for you have received my money . When for his pleasures long time he had wooed , and she would not let him disgrace her ; William the Miller began to be rude , and straight he began to embrace her : Nancy cried out , some help I do lack , my Troth to another is plighted , Robin at this rushed out of the Sack , at which the poor Miller was frighted . For he in wroth to the Miller did run , stout bangs with a Cudgel he gave him ; Feeling his blows , he cried out I am undone , and Nancy did likewise beslave him : Robin , said he , my Shoulders do ache , I pray you no longer abuse me , Here's twenty shillings to drink for my sake , if you will be pleased to excuse me . Taking the money to Nancy he goes , abroad I for labour will send thee , Thrashing of Millers it is a good trade , my Dear for thy wit I commend thee , Since thou hast done so worthy a thing , I'll Marry and bring thee to bedding , This twenty shillings will buy thee a ring , the other will pay for our Wedding . FINIS . Printed for J. Back , at the Black Boy on Lon - don-Bridge , near the Draw-Bridge . THE Witty Maid of the West : OR , The Miller well thrashed by Robin the Plowman : For which Service he received a Sum of Money , which bought a Ring and paid for the Marriage be - betwixt him and his beloved Nancy . Tune of , Ladies of London . This may be Printed , R. P. WIlliam the Miller , who lived in the West , A lusty stout Lad , brisk and airy ; Now if you will but attend to the Jest , I think it will make you all merry : There was a Lass that used his Mill , Her Name it was pretty faced Nancy ; He would be kissing and courting her still , There's no one but she he could fancy . She was a beautiful Lass , I declare , And one that was wonderful witty ; There is not any with her can compare , In Country , Town or in City : Nancy she did the Miller beguile , She knew him a knave by his learing ; Pray now have patience , and listen a while , The Story is well worth your hearing . Often he fain would have been at the sport , if Nancy she would but be willing . And as the Maiden her self did report , he gave her full twenty good shilling ; She straight did yield , the case it was thus , the Lass was resolved to cheat him , The twenty Shillings she put in her purse , and said at the Mill she would meet him . Now for to study some joke she did aim , that she in her fancy might glory , Then to her true Love the Plowman she came , and told him the sum of the story : Robin replied , my counsel is this , we won't stand discoursing and arguing , I in a Sack will be carried as Grist , because you shall stand to your bargain . Nancy she laughed and was pleased at this thing , that she might go there without fear ; Robin to Mill in a Sack she did bring , the Miller rejoy [ c ] ' worser to see her ; Then did he take the load off from Roan for this Maidens Horse was so nam , And he supposing they then was alone , the Miller in love was inflamed . Straight he invited her into the Mill , for he had a mind to be at her , Though yet she would not submit to his will , but told him it was no such matter : Thus for a while his Patience was tried , be loving said he my sweet honey , Stand to your bargain he often replied , for you have received my money . When for his pleasures long time he had wooed , and she would not let him disgrace her ; William the Miller began to be rude , and straight he began to embrace her : Nancy cried out , some help I do lack , my Troth to another is plighted , Robin at this rushed out of the Sack , at which the poor Miller was frighted . For he in wroth to the Miller did run , stout bangs with a Cudgel he gave him ; Feeling his blows , he cried out I am undone , and Nancy did likewise beslave him : Robin , said he , my Shoulders do ache , I pray you no longer abuse me , Here's twenty shillings to drink for my sake , if you will be pleased to excuse me . Taking the money to Nancy he goes , abroad I for labour will send thee , Thrashing of Millers it is a good trade , my Dear for thy wit I commend thee , Since thou hast done so worthy a thing , I'll Marry and bring thee to bedding , This twenty shillings will buy thee a ring , the other will pay for our Wedding . FINIS . Printed for J. Back , at the Black Boy on Lon - don-Bridge , near the Draw-Bridge . 