THE Merry Wooing of Robin & amp ; Joan The West-Country Lovers . To the Tune of , The beginning of the World , Or , Sellingers Round , Or , Great Boob . O Mother chave been a Bachelor This twelve and twenty years , And Ize have often been a wooing : And yet cham never the near : Joan Gromball cheel would [ we ] none of me Ize look so like a Lowt : But I vaith cham as proper a Man as she Zhe needs be So stout . She Zaies if ize could dance and sing , As Thomas Miller con , Or cut a Cauper , as little Jack Taylor Oh how cheed love me then ; But zoft and fair , chil none of that , I vaith cham not So nimble The Tailors have nought to trouble his thoughts But his needle and his thimble . O Zon the art of lawful Age And a jolly tide Boy Ide have thee try her one again She can but say nay : Then Oh Gramarcy Mother Chill Zet a good Vaces of the matter Chill dress up my Self as fine as a Dog , And chill have a fresh bout at her . And first chill put on my Zunday Parrel , that laced about the Quarters ; With a pair of Buckram Slops And a Vlanting pair of Garters With my Sword tide vast to my Zide And my Grandfathers Dugen Dagger And a Peacocks Veather in my Cap , Then ah how I'm shall swagger . Nay take the Lockrum Napkin Son , To wipe thy snotty nose , This no matter for that chilll Snort is out And Vlurt it athwart my Clothes : Od's bodkins nay fie away I prithee Son do not so , Be mannerly Son till thou canst tell Whither sheel would thee or not . But Sirrah Mother hark a while , Whose that that comes so near : It's Joan Gromball , hold thy peace For fear that she do hear : Nay out be she chilll dress my words , In Such a Scholars Grace , But virst of all shall take my Hands , And lay them athwart her Vace . Good morrow my Honey my Sugar-Candy My little pretty Mouse , Cha hope's thy Vather and Mother be well At home at thine own House Ich am come Vart to show my mind Cham Zure , thou knowest my Arrant : Zum say Jug that I must would thee , Oh no good Sir , I warrant . You must ( Sir Clown ) is for the King , And not for such a mome , You might have said by your leave fair Maid And let your ( must ) alone . Ich am no more a Clown that vlat Cham in my Zunday Apparel Ich came for Love and I pray so taked Che hope's i will not quarrall . Joan. Robin dost thou love me so well , Robin . I vaith abomination , Why then you should have framed your words Into a finer fashion . Vine Vashions and Vine Speech s [ ? ] i [ ? ] , As Scholars Volks can Utter , Chat wrather speak but two words plain Than half a score and stutter . Robin . Chave Land , chave House , chave twa v [ ? ] Bea [ ? ] That's better then fine speeches , Joan. It's a sign that Fortune favours Fools , She let them have such Riches , Robin . Hark how she comes upon me now , I do wish it be a good Zine , Joan. He that will steal any wit from thee Had need to rise betime . I'm , Vaith I'm am no vool I'm Zay I'm think you Zud know better : Dost thou think I'm not know I pray , Good speech and manners better : It's sure you know not if you did You'd nee'r have been a Lover . Nay nay , my Dear , nay nay udzlid Why must not I discover . What long in secret i'se would kept And would would longer done it Had not my Passion been So heaped I'm had no more Room for it . And are you in Love as you Zay Yes Vaith and Troth I'm Zware it Then prithee Robin set the day And wees ee'n both be Married . Printed for J Conyers at the Raven in Duck-lain . THE Merry Wooing of Robin & amp ; Joan The West-Country Lovers . To the Tune of , The beginning of the World , Or , Sellingers Round , Or , Great Boob . O Mother chave been a Bachelor This twelve and twenty years , And Ize have often been a wooing : And yet cham never the near : Joan Gromball cheel would [ we ] none of me Ize look so like a Lowt : But I vaith cham as proper a Man as she Zhe needs be So stout . She Zaies if ize could dance and sing , As Thomas Miller con , Or cut a Cauper , as little Jack Taylor Oh how cheed love me then ; But zoft and fair , chil none of that , I vaith cham not So nimble The Tailors have nought to trouble his thoughts But his needle and his thimble . O Zon the art of lawful Age And a jolly tide Boy Ide have thee try her one again She can but say nay : Then Oh Gramarcy Mother Chill Zet a good Vaces of the matter Chill dress up my Self as fine as a Dog , And chill have a fresh bout at her . And first chill put on my Zunday Parrel , that laced about the Quarters ; With a pair of Buckram Slops And a Vlanting pair of Garters With my Sword tide vast to my Zide And my Grandfathers Dugen Dagger And a Peacocks Veather in my Cap , Then ah how I'm shall swagger . Nay take the Lockrum Napkin Son , To wipe thy snotty nose , This no matter for that chilll Snort is out And Vlurt it athwart my Clothes : Od's bodkins nay fie away I prithee Son do not so , Be mannerly Son till thou canst tell Whither sheel would thee or not . But Sirrah Mother hark a while , Whose that that comes so near : It's Joan Gromball , hold thy peace For fear that she do hear : Nay out be she chilll dress my words , In Such a Scholars Grace , But virst of all shall take my Hands , And lay them athwart her Vace . Good morrow my Honey my Sugar-Candy My little pretty Mouse , Cha hope's thy Vather and Mother be well At home at thine own House Ich am come Vart to show my mind Cham Zure , thou knowest my Arrant : Zum say Jug that I must would thee , Oh no good Sir , I warrant . You must ( Sir Clown ) is for the King , And not for such a mome , You might have said by your leave fair Maid And let your ( must ) alone . Ich am no more a Clown that vlat Cham in my Zunday Apparel Ich came for Love and I pray so taked Che hope's i will not quarrall . Joan. Robin dost thou love me so well , Robin . I vaith abomination , Why then you should have framed your words Into a finer fashion . Vine Vashions and Vine Speech s [ ? ] i [ ? ] , As Scholars Volks can Utter , Chat wrather speak but two words plain Than half a score and stutter . Robin . Chave Land , chave House , chave twa v [ ? ] Bea [ ? ] That's better then fine speeches , Joan. It's a sign that Fortune favours Fools , She let them have such Riches , Robin . Hark how she comes upon me now , I do wish it be a good Zine , Joan. He that will steal any wit from thee Had need to rise betime . I'm , Vaith I'm am no vool I'm Zay I'm think you Zud know better : Dost thou think I'm not know I pray , Good speech and manners better : It's sure you know not if you did You'd nee'r have been a Lover . Nay nay , my Dear , nay nay udzlid Why must not I discover . What long in secret i'se would kept And would would longer done it Had not my Passion been So heaped I'm had no more Room for it . And are you in Love as you Zay Yes Vaith and Troth I'm Zware it Then prithee Robin set the day And wees ee'n both be Married . Printed for J Conyers at the Raven in Duck-lain . 