The West-Country Lady : OR , THE True Pattern of Love and Loyalty : Being the Resolution of a Wealthy Lady in Cornwal , to Marry a Scholar for pure Love . Tune of , Merry and Glad . Licensed according to Order . Y Oung Lasses now of Beauty bright , I pray accept of my goodwill , A Lesson of Love this day I write , the which I would have you remember still . If Oaths and solemn Vows have passed of Constancy to any one , Oh keep them as long as life shall last , for they are the Pledges of Love alone . For Wealth do not your Conscience wrong , it is not to be bought and sold , You'll find by the sequel of this Song , that true Love is better than crowns of gold We find that Wealth swift wings can take , and never back return again , But true love , nor sorrow or grief can shake , it will like a Rock in a Storm remain . A Youthful Lady in the West , may all young Damsels pattern be , Though she many Hundreds a year possessed , she loved a poor Scholar of mean degree . When he her Beauty first beheld , her charming Graces dimmed his sighed , His heart with Raptures of Love was filled , she seemed like and Angel of beauty bright . Full loath he was to let her know , how he did her dear Charms adore , And what for her sake he did undergo , because she was wealthy and he but poor . At length he writ to her his mind , and said sweet Lady pardon me , In fetters of Love I lie confined , your Servant in sad Captivity . While at your feet I bleeding lie , O don't destroy me with disdain , Afford me thy favour sweet Saint , for why , true Love is a sad tormenting pain . These Lines sweet Lady , now receive , and think of what I do endure , My languishing life this day reprieve , it's in your own power to kill or cure . As she these melting Lines did read , with joy her eye lids straight run over , For this was right happy News indeed , because she had loved him long before . He was admitted to his Love , who hand and heart did freely give , With solemn vows she would constant prove while she had and hour and day to live . When her Relations came to know that she this solemn vow had made , To her in and angry mood they go , still crying , why will you your self degrade [ ? ] This vow is better broke than kept , you may have one of high degree ; With that the young Lady in sorrow wept would you have me guilty of Perjury ? Are you my Friend , that would persuade a Loyal Love to turn aside , Denying the solemn vows I made , and be a forsworn wretch she cried . What , shall I take your Counsel , no , might I be made a Monarchs Bride , I never would wrong my Conscience so , for all the wealth in the world she cried . My Love to him shall ever hold , his Person I shall still adore , Why should I be false for the sake of Gold , when I have enough of my own before . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . The West-Country Lady : OR , THE True Pattern of Love and Loyalty : Being the Resolution of a Wealthy Lady in Cornwal , to Marry a Scholar for pure Love . Tune of , Merry and Glad . Licensed according to Order . Y Oung Lasses now of Beauty bright , I pray accept of my goodwill , A Lesson of Love this day I write , the which I would have you remember still . If Oaths and solemn Vows have passed of Constancy to any one , Oh keep them as long as life shall last , for they are the Pledges of Love alone . For Wealth do not your Conscience wrong , it is not to be bought and sold , You'll find by the sequel of this Song , that true Love is better than crowns of gold We find that Wealth swift wings can take , and never back return again , But true love , nor sorrow or grief can shake , it will like a Rock in a Storm remain . A Youthful Lady in the West , may all young Damsels pattern be , Though she many Hundreds a year possessed , she loved a poor Scholar of mean degree . When he her Beauty first beheld , her charming Graces dimmed his sighed , His heart with Raptures of Love was filled , she seemed like and Angel of beauty bright . Full loath he was to let her know , how he did her dear Charms adore , And what for her sake he did undergo , because she was wealthy and he but poor . At length he writ to her his mind , and said sweet Lady pardon me , In fetters of Love I lie confined , your Servant in sad Captivity . While at your feet I bleeding lie , O don't destroy me with disdain , Afford me thy favour sweet Saint , for why , true Love is a sad tormenting pain . These Lines sweet Lady , now receive , and think of what I do endure , My languishing life this day reprieve , it's in your own power to kill or cure . As she these melting Lines did read , with joy her eye lids straight run over , For this was right happy News indeed , because she had loved him long before . He was admitted to his Love , who hand and heart did freely give , With solemn vows she would constant prove while she had and hour and day to live . When her Relations came to know that she this solemn vow had made , To her in and angry mood they go , still crying , why will you your self degrade [ ? ] This vow is better broke than kept , you may have one of high degree ; With that the young Lady in sorrow wept would you have me guilty of Perjury ? Are you my Friend , that would persuade a Loyal Love to turn aside , Denying the solemn vows I made , and be a forsworn wretch she cried . What , shall I take your Counsel , no , might I be made a Monarchs Bride , I never would wrong my Conscience so , for all the wealth in the world she cried . My Love to him shall ever hold , his Person I shall still adore , Why should I be false for the sake of Gold , when I have enough of my own before . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 