THE Merry MILK-MAID : Being , Her L onging-Desire after Matrimony : That she might be one of the Honourable Society of Gossips . To the Tune of , Tan Tivee , etc Licensed according to Order . A S I through a Meadow one mourning did pass , when Flowers and Blossoms were springing ; I happened to hear a young beautiful Lass , as she this new Ditty sat singing : Here's Beauty without any manner of Pride , I'ld give Forty shillings I might be a Bride , To have a kind Husband to lie by my side , it is a fine thing to be Married . Alas , I have used all manner of means , for tempting young Bachelors to me , For two or three Year I have been in the Teens , yet there is no Gallant will Woo me : My passion with Cupid is daily at strife , So that I am weary of a single Life , I wish that young Robin would make me his Wife . it is a fine thing to be Married . I now am a Servant and Drudge like a slave , exposed to all manner of Weather ; But had I a Husband it then would be brave , then we might both Cuddle together : The Charms of my Beauty would surely invite , My Husband to taste of the pleasant delight , In pleasure we'll spin out the long Winter's night : it is a fine thing to be Married . The Lass that is Married , her Husband and she , enjoys pleasant Charms out of measure , Yet I am not certain what sport it might be , but sure it is some sort of Pleasure . But ere it be long I m resolved to know , If any good Fellow some kindness will show , What causes this Itching , above and below : it is I dare swear to be Married . The good Man he dots on the charms of her Eyss , and daily endeavours to please her , Nay , every morning before he does rise , he'll hug her , nay , kiss her , and squeeze her : Now when she does find him thus Frolic and Free , In Love and Affection they both do agree , It makes her as blithe as a Bird in a Tree : it is a fine thing to be Married . Nay , when a young Woman is Breeding you know , the Husband with dainties will feed her : And as it to higher perfection does grow , abroad he will carefully led her : And then whatsoever she'll covet and crave , The honest good Man he endeavours to have , Whereby he her timorous Longing may save , it is a fine thing to be Married . And when the young Women do chance to Cry out , they straightways are called to their Labours , And then after this comes a Gossiping bout , to do as the rest of their Neighbours : They in their Apparel are Decked neat and fine , To prattle and likewise to tipple in Wine , Until all their Noses with Claret does shine : Oh , it's a fine thing to be Married . I hope in good time it will come to my turn , to be at that sweet Recreation ; All Persons must own it a weighty consern , it being for Multiplication : And therefore if now I could light of a Friend , On whom I might here for a Husband depend , I would not delay it a Week to and end : it is a fine thing to be Married . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J Blare , and J. Back . 1691. THE Merry MILK-MAID : Being , Her L onging-Desire after Matrimony : That she might be one of the Honourable Society of Gossips . To the Tune of , Tan Tivee , etc Licensed according to Order . A S I through a Meadow one mourning did pass , when Flowers and Blossoms were springing ; I happened to hear a young beautiful Lass , as she this new Ditty sat singing : Here's Beauty without any manner of Pride , I'ld give Forty shillings I might be a Bride , To have a kind Husband to lie by my side , it is a fine thing to be Married . Alas , I have used all manner of means , for tempting young Bachelors to me , For two or three Year I have been in the Teens , yet there is no Gallant will Woo me : My passion with Cupid is daily at strife , So that I am weary of a single Life , I wish that young Robin would make me his Wife . it is a fine thing to be Married . I now am a Servant and Drudge like a slave , exposed to all manner of Weather ; But had I a Husband it then would be brave , then we might both Cuddle together : The Charms of my Beauty would surely invite , My Husband to taste of the pleasant delight , In pleasure we'll spin out the long Winter's night : it is a fine thing to be Married . The Lass that is Married , her Husband and she , enjoys pleasant Charms out of measure , Yet I am not certain what sport it might be , but sure it is some sort of Pleasure . But ere it be long I m resolved to know , If any good Fellow some kindness will show , What causes this Itching , above and below : it is I dare swear to be Married . The good Man he dots on the charms of her Eyss , and daily endeavours to please her , Nay , every morning before he does rise , he'll hug her , nay , kiss her , and squeeze her : Now when she does find him thus Frolic and Free , In Love and Affection they both do agree , It makes her as blithe as a Bird in a Tree : it is a fine thing to be Married . Nay , when a young Woman is Breeding you know , the Husband with dainties will feed her : And as it to higher perfection does grow , abroad he will carefully led her : And then whatsoever she'll covet and crave , The honest good Man he endeavours to have , Whereby he her timorous Longing may save , it is a fine thing to be Married . And when the young Women do chance to Cry out , they straightways are called to their Labours , And then after this comes a Gossiping bout , to do as the rest of their Neighbours : They in their Apparel are Decked neat and fine , To prattle and likewise to tipple in Wine , Until all their Noses with Claret does shine : Oh , it's a fine thing to be Married . I hope in good time it will come to my turn , to be at that sweet Recreation ; All Persons must own it a weighty consern , it being for Multiplication : And therefore if now I could light of a Friend , On whom I might here for a Husband depend , I would not delay it a Week to and end : it is a fine thing to be Married . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J Blare , and J. Back . 1691. 