Coy JENNY , And Constant JEMMY : OR , True Love Rewarded with Kindness ; A Delightful and Pleasant New Song . Loves potent power no Mortal can withstand , Nor shun those shasts shot by God Cupids hand ; Jenny resists in vain , for Jemmy he Began the Onset , gained the Victory . Entered according to Order . TO Ell me Jenny tell me roundly , when you will your heart surrender , Faith and troth I love you soundly , it was I that was the first pretender : Never say nay , nor delay , here's my heart and hers my hand too ; All that's mine , shall be thine , body and goods at thy commend too . Ah , how many Maids , quoth Jenny , have you promised to be true to , [ ? ] e , I think the Devils in you , to kiss a body so as you do : What d'ye doe , let me go , I can't abide such foolish doing , Get you gone , naughty man , fie is this your way of Wooing . Prithee Jenny don't despise me , since I am thy faithful lover , I above the Indies prize thee , and my mind to thee discover , Take no care , for I swear , thou shalt be my only Jewel , Grant relief , to my grief , prithee dearest be not cruel . All your words cannot deceive me , for I know you do but flatter , When your will is gained yowl leave me , for to mince upon the matter : Therefore know , to your bow , I will never yield or bend to , For I find , words are wind , whatsoever you pretend to . O my heart will burst in sunder , if you do not grant some pity , Jenny is the world's great wonder , of the pregnant , wise and witty , O my dear , do not fear , for to you I will be loyal , If to me , you'll be free , and but put me to the trial . Well quoth Jenny you hove charmed me , with the power of your expression , And with love has strangely armed me , from which I can make no digression : And will grant what you want , if you will vouchsafe to marry , And if so , let us go , for I will no longer tarry . Dearest Jenny I consent to , this your fair and friendly offer , Which shall be to thy content to , since you make so kind a proffer : None alive shall deprive , me of my dear and only honey , I am thine , thou art mine , better far than Gold or money . Thus at length they both consented , nothing could these Lovers sever , And their friends were well consented , they resolved to love for ever : So they went , with intent , to the Kirk for to be married , Both did join , and combine vexed that they so long had [ tO ] arryed . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street . Coy JENNY , And Constant JEMMY : OR , True Love Rewarded with Kindness ; A Delightful and Pleasant New Song . Loves potent power no Mortal can withstand , Nor shun those shasts shot by God Cupids hand ; Jenny resists in vain , for Jemmy he Began the Onset , gained the Victory . Entered according to Order . TO Ell me Jenny tell me roundly , when you will your heart surrender , Faith and troth I love you soundly , it was I that was the first pretender : Never say nay , nor delay , here's my heart and hers my hand too ; All that's mine , shall be thine , body and goods at thy commend too . Ah , how many Maids , quoth Jenny , have you promised to be true to , [ ? ] e , I think the Devils in you , to kiss a body so as you do : What d'ye doe , let me go , I can't abide such foolish doing , Get you gone , naughty man , fie is this your way of Wooing . Prithee Jenny don't despise me , since I am thy faithful lover , I above the Indies prize thee , and my mind to thee discover , Take no care , for I swear , thou shalt be my only Jewel , Grant relief , to my grief , prithee dearest be not cruel . All your words cannot deceive me , for I know you do but flatter , When your will is gained yowl leave me , for to mince upon the matter : Therefore know , to your bow , I will never yield or bend to , For I find , words are wind , whatsoever you pretend to . O my heart will burst in sunder , if you do not grant some pity , Jenny is the world's great wonder , of the pregnant , wise and witty , O my dear , do not fear , for to you I will be loyal , If to me , you'll be free , and but put me to the trial . Well quoth Jenny you hove charmed me , with the power of your expression , And with love has strangely armed me , from which I can make no digression : And will grant what you want , if you will vouchsafe to marry , And if so , let us go , for I will no longer tarry . Dearest Jenny I consent to , this your fair and friendly offer , Which shall be to thy content to , since you make so kind a proffer : None alive shall deprive , me of my dear and only honey , I am thine , thou art mine , better far than Gold or money . Thus at length they both consented , nothing could these Lovers sever , And their friends were well consented , they resolved to love for ever : So they went , with intent , to the Kirk for to be married , Both did join , and combine vexed that they so long had [ tO ] arryed . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street . 