The second part oath Barkshire Damsel , Or , Virtue Rewarded . Being the Happy Wedding between the Gallant Esquire and the Barkshire Damsel . To the same Tune . Licensed according to Order . THE Gallant Esquire named before , After one Month had passed over , Did of his Wound begin to mend , Then for his Virgin he did send . She dreaded much yet did appear , Says he sweet Virgin do not fear The Wound you gave me late is well , But now a greater Wound I feel . And you can Cure it ever you part , Although it hath pierced through my heart , It's but consenting for to be Wedded fair Maid this day to me . The M aiden blushing thus did say , O do not scoff me now I pray , Good Sir , let not my Poverty , Be pastime for this Company . No Virgin I do know you're true , And Chastity I know's your due , Then give Consent fair Maid that I , May be thy Bridegroom presently . My Coach is ready at the Gate , And I the happy Minute wait , And wholly am at your Command , Then grant your heart and tender hand . The rosy Virgin then did give H er heart and hand while she should live , And said she faithful should be seen As any Duchess or a Queen . The Esquire then this Maid did kiss , And swore he had his only bliss , And bid each Servant hast away To bring the Tradesfolks that same day . When they did come , the Virgin then Was dressed as fine as any Queen , And then this loving Couple went For to be Wed to their content . The Country round with Joy did sing , The Bells' too for a week did ring . She Jointured in Estate most clear , In Lands Five Hundred Pounds a Year . And open House they daily keep , That all that comes may drink and eat , TO hus mirth does daily there abound , Nothing but Joy is to be found . Thus Maidens all you see the hap TO hat falls into a Virgins lap , Without you wed never once comply , To yield your chaste Virginity . Printed by and for A.M. 1697. The second part oath Barkshire Damsel , Or , Virtue Rewarded . Being the Happy Wedding between the Gallant Esquire and the Barkshire Damsel . To the same Tune . Licensed according to Order . THE Gallant Esquire named before , After one Month had passed over , Did of his Wound begin to mend , Then for his Virgin he did send . She dreaded much yet did appear , Says he sweet Virgin do not fear The Wound you gave me late is well , But now a greater Wound I feel . And you can Cure it ever you part , Although it hath pierced through my heart , It's but consenting for to be Wedded fair Maid this day to me . The M aiden blushing thus did say , O do not scoff me now I pray , Good Sir , let not my Poverty , Be pastime for this Company . No Virgin I do know you're true , And Chastity I know's your due , Then give Consent fair Maid that I , May be thy Bridegroom presently . My Coach is ready at the Gate , And I the happy Minute wait , And wholly am at your Command , Then grant your heart and tender hand . The rosy Virgin then did give H er heart and hand while she should live , And said she faithful should be seen As any Duchess or a Queen . The Esquire then this Maid did kiss , And swore he had his only bliss , And bid each Servant hast away To bring the Tradesfolks that same day . When they did come , the Virgin then Was dressed as fine as any Queen , And then this loving Couple went For to be Wed to their content . The Country round with Joy did sing , The Bells' too for a week did ring . She Jointured in Estate most clear , In Lands Five Hundred Pounds a Year . And open House they daily keep , That all that comes may drink and eat , TO hus mirth does daily there abound , Nothing but Joy is to be found . Thus Maidens all you see the hap TO hat falls into a Virgins lap , Without you wed never once comply , To yield your chaste Virginity . Printed by and for A.M. 1697. 