A New Song of M oggies Jealousy : OR , Jockies Vindication : Moggy from Jockey she needs would depart . Though Jockey he loved his Moggy at heart : Jockey he wondered at Moggies strange huff . But Moggy was Jealous and that was enough . Tune of , You London Lads be merry ; Or , wilt thou be wilful still my Joe , Entered according to Order . TO Here was and a bonny young Lad , was keeping of bonny win Sheep , There was and a bonny young Lass , was a wading the waters so deep Was wading the waters so deep , and a little above her knee , And still she cried bonny Lad , wilt thou come and mow with me ? Where art thou ganging my Moggy and where art thou ganging my Dove And wilt thou go from thy poor Jockey ; and so dearly that he does love ? I'se ganging to fair Edenborough to spir for a Lad that is true , And if I return not to morrow , then Jockey I'se bid thee adieu . How thinkest thou that I can endure to part with thee all a long night ? When I am not able thoured sure to have thee once out of my sighed : This a folly my Jockey to flatter , for I must gang where I do tell , Or offer to mince up the matter , so Jockey I'se bid the farewell . B Ut shall I gang with thee my fair one and shall I gang with thee my Joe ? And shall I be welcome my dear one , to gang with my Moggy or no ? We'll hand in hand trip to the house , that stands within ken of the Town : And there I will have a carouse , and for ever take leave of my Loon . But what have I done my Moggy , that thou art so willing to part , With poor unfortunate Jockey and break his too loving heart : I'll warrant his heart for a plack , he's mere a mon for to rue , For a thing that you cannot lack . and so Jockey I'se bid the adieu . Then must we part my jewel , and I never see thee no mere ? And canst thou be so cruel , to eyn that loves the so dear ? And have I not loved thee as Muckle , and have I not shown it as true , But I scorn to another to truckle , so Jockey i'se bid the adieu . Now Heaven preserve my good Women , ods bred she is jealous I trow , My Moggy these tyers are not common , thy heart has had muckle to do ; It's only a lovesick mistake , that ever can make me untrue , But the Parson amends he shall make , if you never will bid me adieu . How willingly I do believe thee , and tie thee once more to my heart , But if thou again does deceive me , forever , for ever we'll part : But i'se am in hope's that my Jockey , will never more prove so untrue , But ever be kind to his Moggy , not i'se never bid him adieu . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . A New Song of M oggies Jealousy : OR , Jockies Vindication : Moggy from Jockey she needs would depart . Though Jockey he loved his Moggy at heart : Jockey he wondered at Moggies strange huff . But Moggy was Jealous and that was enough . Tune of , You London Lads be merry ; Or , wilt thou be wilful still my Joe , Entered according to Order . TO Here was and a bonny young Lad , was keeping of bonny win Sheep , There was and a bonny young Lass , was a wading the waters so deep Was wading the waters so deep , and a little above her knee , And still she cried bonny Lad , wilt thou come and mow with me ? Where art thou ganging my Moggy and where art thou ganging my Dove And wilt thou go from thy poor Jockey ; and so dearly that he does love ? I'se ganging to fair Edenborough to spir for a Lad that is true , And if I return not to morrow , then Jockey I'se bid thee adieu . How thinkest thou that I can endure to part with thee all a long night ? When I am not able thoured sure to have thee once out of my sighed : This a folly my Jockey to flatter , for I must gang where I do tell , Or offer to mince up the matter , so Jockey I'se bid the farewell . B Ut shall I gang with thee my fair one and shall I gang with thee my Joe ? And shall I be welcome my dear one , to gang with my Moggy or no ? We'll hand in hand trip to the house , that stands within ken of the Town : And there I will have a carouse , and for ever take leave of my Loon . But what have I done my Moggy , that thou art so willing to part , With poor unfortunate Jockey and break his too loving heart : I'll warrant his heart for a plack , he's mere a mon for to rue , For a thing that you cannot lack . and so Jockey I'se bid the adieu . Then must we part my jewel , and I never see thee no mere ? And canst thou be so cruel , to eyn that loves the so dear ? And have I not loved thee as Muckle , and have I not shown it as true , But I scorn to another to truckle , so Jockey i'se bid the adieu . Now Heaven preserve my good Women , ods bred she is jealous I trow , My Moggy these tyers are not common , thy heart has had muckle to do ; It's only a lovesick mistake , that ever can make me untrue , But the Parson amends he shall make , if you never will bid me adieu . How willingly I do believe thee , and tie thee once more to my heart , But if thou again does deceive me , forever , for ever we'll part : But i'se am in hope's that my Jockey , will never more prove so untrue , But ever be kind to his Moggy , not i'se never bid him adieu . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . 