The Second Part of the new Scotch-Jigg : OR , JENNY'S Reply , To JOHNNY'S Cravat . The Case [ i ] s altered now ; Jenny Wooes Johnny To tie her Kirtle , and shee'l be his Honey ; Which Johnny took so kindly sitting by her , That for his heart , he could not well deny her , At length they did agree , so plain and pat , That he her Kirtle tied ; She his Cravat . Tune of , Jenny come tie my , etc A S Jenny sat under a Siccomore Tree She spied her love Johnny come over the Lee ; Oh welcome my Johnny ! now welcome my dear ! I prithee my honey , come fit thee down here . J ohnny come tie my , J ohnny come tie my , J ohnny come tie my Kirtle so gay . I've tied it so often , and tied in vain ; Yet if thou wilt love me , I'll tie it again . I prithee my Johnny , never doubt of my Love ; For I am constrained by Cupid above , To love thee as dear , as the blood in my heart ; Then [ worser ] oh not thou fear , that we ever will part . J ohnny come tie my , J ohnny come tie my , J ohnny come tie my Kirtle so gay . I've tied it so often , and tied in vain ; Yet if thou wilt love me , I'll tie it again . O Johnny , my honey , thou knowest it is true How scornful thou was when I did thee first woe , And when I begged of thee to tie my Cravat ; You said , that I wanted a bit for my Cat. J ohnny come tie my , J ohnny come tie my , J ohnny come tie my Kirtle so gay , I've tied it so often , and tied it vain ; Yet if thou wilt love me , I'll tie it again . My Johnny , I love thee as dear as my Life , And could be contented for to be thy Wife , Although I was fickle , and seemed to be Coy : Yet now I ' le be constant , my Love and my joy . J ohnny come tie my , J ohnny come tie my , J ohnny come tie my Kirtle so gay . I've tied it so often , and tied in vain ; Yet if thou wilt love me , I'll tie it again . B Ut Jenny , if that I thy Kirtle should tie , Come well me my Honey , and tell me no lie ; If thou wilt be willing my Love to requite , Oh Johnny I'll please thee by day , and by night . Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my Kirtle so gay , I've tied it so often , and tied it in vain ; Yet if thou wilt love me , I'll tie it again . I'll buy for my Love , a Cravat that is new , If thou wilt be constant , and ever be true ; And tied with a Ribbond of Popinjay green , The like in the Parish there shall not be seen . Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my Kirtle so gay . I've tied it so often , and tied it in vain ; Yet if thou wilt love me , I'll tie it again . But Johnny now tell me , if that I consent , Shall I never have any cause to repent ? To gain a bad Bargain , may make me to rue , Then prithee resolve to be faithful and true . Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my Kirtle so gay . I've tied it so often , and tied it in vain ; Yet if thou wilt love me , I'll tie it again . As true as the Steel I'm resolved to be ; And all that I have , is my Johnny , for thee ; Thou kens , that my Portion I have for to take , And how I have kept it so long for thy sake . Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my . Johnny come tie my Kirtle so gay . I've tied it so often , and tied it in avin ; Yet if thou wilt love me , I'll tie it again . My Jenny , I joy for to see thee so kind To tell thee my love , it rejoices my mind ; Thy looks are so Bonny and blithe , for to see : Of all the brave Lasses , my Jenny for me . Johnny come tie me , Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my Kirtle so gay . I've tied it so often , and tied it in vain . Yet if thou wilt love me , I'll tie it again ; Oh Johnny ! I sware by the Lace of my Gown , I love thee above the Lads in the Town : And for to gang with thee , what ever befall ; I'll leave both my Daddy , and Mammy , and all , Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my Kirtle so gay . I've tied it so often , and tied it in vain ; Year now if thou wilt love me , I'll tie it again . My Jenny , I'm willing the Kirtle to tie , Since thou art so loving , I cannot deny : And ever hearafter my own thou shalt be ; Then prithee my Honey , be loving to me . Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my Kirtle so gay . I've tied it so often , and tied it in vain ; But since dost thou love me , I'll tie it again . Now Johnny , since I ken what you would be at , I likewise am willing to tie thy Cravat : And by this same Kiss , I will ever be true ; My Johnny shall never have cause for to rue . Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my Kirtle so gay . I've tied it so often , and tied it in vain ; But now I will tie it again and again . London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whoditwo . The Second Part of the new Scotch-Jigg : OR , JENNY'S Reply , To JOHNNY'S Cravat . The Case [ i ] s altered now ; Jenny Wooes Johnny To tie her Kirtle , and shee'l be his Honey ; Which Johnny took so kindly sitting by her , That for his heart , he could not well deny her , At length they did agree , so plain and pat , That he her Kirtle tied ; She his Cravat . Tune of , Jenny come tie my , etc A S Jenny sat under a Siccomore Tree She spied her love Johnny come over the Lee ; Oh welcome my Johnny ! now welcome my dear ! I prithee my honey , come fit thee down here . J ohnny come tie my , J ohnny come tie my , J ohnny come tie my Kirtle so gay . I've tied it so often , and tied in vain ; Yet if thou wilt love me , I'll tie it again . I prithee my Johnny , never doubt of my Love ; For I am constrained by Cupid above , To love thee as dear , as the blood in my heart ; Then [ worser ] oh not thou fear , that we ever will part . J ohnny come tie my , J ohnny come tie my , J ohnny come tie my Kirtle so gay . I've tied it so often , and tied in vain ; Yet if thou wilt love me , I'll tie it again . O Johnny , my honey , thou knowest it is true How scornful thou was when I did thee first woe , And when I begged of thee to tie my Cravat ; You said , that I wanted a bit for my Cat. J ohnny come tie my , J ohnny come tie my , J ohnny come tie my Kirtle so gay , I've tied it so often , and tied it vain ; Yet if thou wilt love me , I'll tie it again . My Johnny , I love thee as dear as my Life , And could be contented for to be thy Wife , Although I was fickle , and seemed to be Coy : Yet now I ' le be constant , my Love and my joy . J ohnny come tie my , J ohnny come tie my , J ohnny come tie my Kirtle so gay . I've tied it so often , and tied in vain ; Yet if thou wilt love me , I'll tie it again . B Ut Jenny , if that I thy Kirtle should tie , Come well me my Honey , and tell me no lie ; If thou wilt be willing my Love to requite , Oh Johnny I'll please thee by day , and by night . Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my Kirtle so gay , I've tied it so often , and tied it in vain ; Yet if thou wilt love me , I'll tie it again . I'll buy for my Love , a Cravat that is new , If thou wilt be constant , and ever be true ; And tied with a Ribbond of Popinjay green , The like in the Parish there shall not be seen . Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my Kirtle so gay . I've tied it so often , and tied it in vain ; Yet if thou wilt love me , I'll tie it again . But Johnny now tell me , if that I consent , Shall I never have any cause to repent ? To gain a bad Bargain , may make me to rue , Then prithee resolve to be faithful and true . Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my Kirtle so gay . I've tied it so often , and tied it in vain ; Yet if thou wilt love me , I'll tie it again . As true as the Steel I'm resolved to be ; And all that I have , is my Johnny , for thee ; Thou kens , that my Portion I have for to take , And how I have kept it so long for thy sake . Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my . Johnny come tie my Kirtle so gay . I've tied it so often , and tied it in avin ; Yet if thou wilt love me , I'll tie it again . My Jenny , I joy for to see thee so kind To tell thee my love , it rejoices my mind ; Thy looks are so Bonny and blithe , for to see : Of all the brave Lasses , my Jenny for me . Johnny come tie me , Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my Kirtle so gay . I've tied it so often , and tied it in vain . Yet if thou wilt love me , I'll tie it again ; Oh Johnny ! I sware by the Lace of my Gown , I love thee above the Lads in the Town : And for to gang with thee , what ever befall ; I'll leave both my Daddy , and Mammy , and all , Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my Kirtle so gay . I've tied it so often , and tied it in vain ; Year now if thou wilt love me , I'll tie it again . My Jenny , I'm willing the Kirtle to tie , Since thou art so loving , I cannot deny : And ever hearafter my own thou shalt be ; Then prithee my Honey , be loving to me . Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my Kirtle so gay . I've tied it so often , and tied it in vain ; But since dost thou love me , I'll tie it again . Now Johnny , since I ken what you would be at , I likewise am willing to tie thy Cravat : And by this same Kiss , I will ever be true ; My Johnny shall never have cause for to rue . Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my , Johnny come tie my Kirtle so gay . I've tied it so often , and tied it in vain ; But now I will tie it again and again . London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whoditwo . 