The Unfortunate Forester , Or , Fair Elener's Tragedy . Showing how Lord Thomas , once a bold Forester , fell in love with the fair Lady Elener , but his Mother would not suffer him to Marry her , but told him of another that was far Rich - er : then the Lord Thomas not willing to be undutiful to his Mother , appoints his Wedding Day , and invites fair Elener to come to his Wedding : who contrary to her Mother know - ledge came , and having seen his Bride , she Stabbed her self , which Lord Thomas seeing , took the same Dagger and Killed himself . Tune is , Chevy Chase With Allowance . A Amongst the Foresters of old , one Thomas of great fame ; A Champion great , both stout and bold , Lord Thomas was his name . In shooting too his aim was good , the Kings Deer he did slay He did excel bold Robin Hood , and often wone the day . Lord Thomas as they did him call , with beauteous Elener , So deep in love did chance to fallen , he could love none but her . She also loved him as well , and no love there was lost ; But mark what afterwards beset , both in their loves were crossed . This Elener that was so fair , no portion had at all ; Lord Thomas if he come but near , would always on her call . Lord Thomas had a Mother who his love did understand , She made him swear he would nothing do unless she did command . He promised her he would obey , and harken to her voice ; Therefore desired her for to say where he should make his choice . O Son , quoth she , this Elener , is fair enough it's true ; And thou mayest chance to beg with her , such matches fit not you . I know a pretty black-browed Lass , though not so handsome quite ; [ S ] he her in wealth does far surpass which will give thee delight . Well Mother , since it is your will , Lord Thomas humbly said , I straight way will the same fulfil and Marry the Black-browed Maid . This thing did much his Mother please , and so she went away ; But Lord Thomas he could find no ease , by night , nor yet by day . He on the morrow mounts his steed , and to Elener did ride , His Lovesick heart with grief did bleed , to think what would betide . When to fair Elener he was come , he knocked hard at the gate ; The fearful Virgin being at home , asked who 'twas knocked so late . It's I fair Elener my dear , his voice she straightway knew : And as soon as ever she herd him there [ e ] the gates straight open flew . Lord Thomas uttered then his mind , and with great grief he cried , My Mother to me is unkind , and hath got me a new Bride . You to my Wedding I invite , and I must not be denied ; They crying kissed , then bid good night , and Lord Thomas away did ride . Fair Elener with grief and woe . was stricken almost dead , She to her Mother straight did go , and told her what he said . She asked her Mother leave to ride , to see if he had god , Instead of her , another bride , for she believed him not . Her Mother would not give her leave , that she should go to see , But she her M other did deceive , and slipped out privately . She clothed her servants all in green , and with her they all did ride , She did excel beauty's fair Queen , in all her glorious pride . When to Lord Thomas she was come , she asked to see his Bride , He took her into a private room , where both together cried . He bid her look at the window , for there she might be seen , Methinks quoth she , good sir , you know I am to her a Queen . Her self to M urder she was bent , and turning to a bed , A Dagger to her heart she sent . and straight way fell down dead . Lord Thomas seeing she was slave , the self same Dagger took ; H e vowed in Heaven her to obtain , then to his heart he strook . Let Parents therefore have a care , how that they do deny Their children's choice , lest that they share those lovers destiny . London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . The Unfortunate Forester , Or , Fair Elener's Tragedy . Showing how Lord Thomas , once a bold Forester , fell in love with the fair Lady Elener , but his Mother would not suffer him to Marry her , but told him of another that was far Rich - er : then the Lord Thomas not willing to be undutiful to his Mother , appoints his Wedding Day , and invites fair Elener to come to his Wedding : who contrary to her Mother know - ledge came , and having seen his Bride , she Stabbed her self , which Lord Thomas seeing , took the same Dagger and Killed himself . Tune is , Chevy Chase With Allowance . A Amongst the Foresters of old , one Thomas of great fame ; A Champion great , both stout and bold , Lord Thomas was his name . In shooting too his aim was good , the Kings Deer he did slay He did excel bold Robin Hood , and often wone the day . Lord Thomas as they did him call , with beauteous Elener , So deep in love did chance to fallen , he could love none but her . She also loved him as well , and no love there was lost ; But mark what afterwards beset , both in their loves were crossed . This Elener that was so fair , no portion had at all ; Lord Thomas if he come but near , would always on her call . Lord Thomas had a Mother who his love did understand , She made him swear he would nothing do unless she did command . He promised her he would obey , and harken to her voice ; Therefore desired her for to say where he should make his choice . O Son , quoth she , this Elener , is fair enough it's true ; And thou mayest chance to beg with her , such matches fit not you . I know a pretty black-browed Lass , though not so handsome quite ; [ S ] he her in wealth does far surpass which will give thee delight . Well Mother , since it is your will , Lord Thomas humbly said , I straight way will the same fulfil and Marry the Black-browed Maid . This thing did much his Mother please , and so she went away ; But Lord Thomas he could find no ease , by night , nor yet by day . He on the morrow mounts his steed , and to Elener did ride , His Lovesick heart with grief did bleed , to think what would betide . When to fair Elener he was come , he knocked hard at the gate ; The fearful Virgin being at home , asked who 'twas knocked so late . It's I fair Elener my dear , his voice she straightway knew : And as soon as ever she herd him there [ e ] the gates straight open flew . Lord Thomas uttered then his mind , and with great grief he cried , My Mother to me is unkind , and hath got me a new Bride . You to my Wedding I invite , and I must not be denied ; They crying kissed , then bid good night , and Lord Thomas away did ride . Fair Elener with grief and woe . was stricken almost dead , She to her Mother straight did go , and told her what he said . She asked her Mother leave to ride , to see if he had god , Instead of her , another bride , for she believed him not . Her Mother would not give her leave , that she should go to see , But she her M other did deceive , and slipped out privately . She clothed her servants all in green , and with her they all did ride , She did excel beauty's fair Queen , in all her glorious pride . When to Lord Thomas she was come , she asked to see his Bride , He took her into a private room , where both together cried . He bid her look at the window , for there she might be seen , Methinks quoth she , good sir , you know I am to her a Queen . Her self to M urder she was bent , and turning to a bed , A Dagger to her heart she sent . and straight way fell down dead . Lord Thomas seeing she was slave , the self same Dagger took ; H e vowed in Heaven her to obtain , then to his heart he strook . Let Parents therefore have a care , how that they do deny Their children's choice , lest that they share those lovers destiny . London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . 