The Young-Mans Complaint for The Loss of his Mistress . Youngmen you see my Fortune is such , I have lost my Love by loving her too much : My fortune's bad as other Young men's be , Read but these Lines , and you shall Plainly see I being bashful , she did me quite forgo , I have lost my dear Mistress by being too slow . To and Excellent New Tune , I have lost my dear Mistress , etc C Ome harken Apollo my pitiful groan , Of all loyal Lovers that is left here alone ; I'll fight for my true Love though Mars be my Foe , For I've lost my dear Mistress by being too Slow . How Lovers are often tormented in mind , When as their own sweethearts proves to them unkind Though many that hears me the same would forgo , I have lost my dear Mistress by being too Slow . I would I had never seen her , that I had never been , That I for her Love now sorrow have seen : But my heart it with sorrow my sense over go , That i've lost my dear Mistress by being too Slow . When as we were Children we loved most dear , But now of that Love I am never the near : My heart is so sad and oppressed with woe , That i've lost my dear Mistress by being too Slow . When unto years elder our Youth did it spring , Then to Complementing I stright did begin : Yet bashfulness daunted and shamed me so , That I lost my dear Mistress by being too Slow . Quoth I my dear Honey though I cannot woo , Yet slight me not for it for loving of you : Entirely I Love thee , the truth it is so , Then do not refuse me by being too Slow . At Fairs and at Markets you know it right well , That I in your Company still did excel : Neither cared I for Money nor time it is so , Then let me not lose you by being too Slow . But she gave me Denial and bid me be gone , For all I lamented and to her made moan , Saying , I would not have you any more to do so , For you have lost me plainly by being too Slow . TO Hough company together long time we have kept One another , my mind and my heart is set , Though one not so handsome as your self must go , Away with me , and leave you by being too slow . You are young and youthful , and maybe may have A mind on a woman , but do not deceive Your self any more , by neglecting it so , For you have lost me plainly by being too slow . I would have been married before now ever long , At fourteen in truth I could wished had been young , If thoued willing been then to Church with me go , You need not have lost me by being too slow . But you did neglect your time soar in that case , For a woman can tarry but while time does last , For at fourteen she's ripe , there is few but does know S oh you fooled your self then by being too slow . So adieu to you youngmen you hear how it is , And all the frail ways how my fortune I miss , But it shall be a warning unto me I trow , That i'll never loose more by being too slow . O Cupid thy Arrows are tipped with Gold , And it strikes me quite thorough when thee I behold , But like to Amintas , I made my moan so , When I lost my dear Mistress by being too slow . And like to Leander i'll mourn for my love , Though new lands & amp ; countries , & amp ; constant i'll prove I'll Drink and i'll Fuddle against who dares say no Since I've lost my dear Mistress , by being too Slow . You Goddesses assist my Fortune being such , For I have lost my Sweetheart by Loving too much : And it shall never fret me although it be so , That I have lost my Sweetheart by being too slow . Good Cupid assist me that now I may mend , And cause my heart strong to continue to the end : And go along with me I will bear thy Bow , S oh Cupid but hit them that they'll with me go . For Youngmen if that they stand , you must strike , Not one way in forty that more they will like : That they'll call you honey and with you will go , And love you most dearly for using them so . FINIS . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and M. Coals . The Young-Mans Complaint for The Loss of his Mistress . Youngmen you see my Fortune is such , I have lost my Love by loving her too much : My fortune's bad as other Young men's be , Read but these Lines , and you shall Plainly see I being bashful , she did me quite forgo , I have lost my dear Mistress by being too slow . To and Excellent New Tune , I have lost my dear Mistress , etc C Ome harken Apollo my pitiful groan , Of all loyal Lovers that is left here alone ; I'll fight for my true Love though Mars be my Foe , For I've lost my dear Mistress by being too Slow . How Lovers are often tormented in mind , When as their own sweethearts proves to them unkind Though many that hears me the same would forgo , I have lost my dear Mistress by being too Slow . I would I had never seen her , that I had never been , That I for her Love now sorrow have seen : But my heart it with sorrow my sense over go , That i've lost my dear Mistress by being too Slow . When as we were Children we loved most dear , But now of that Love I am never the near : My heart is so sad and oppressed with woe , That i've lost my dear Mistress by being too Slow . When unto years elder our Youth did it spring , Then to Complementing I stright did begin : Yet bashfulness daunted and shamed me so , That I lost my dear Mistress by being too Slow . Quoth I my dear Honey though I cannot woo , Yet slight me not for it for loving of you : Entirely I Love thee , the truth it is so , Then do not refuse me by being too Slow . At Fairs and at Markets you know it right well , That I in your Company still did excel : Neither cared I for Money nor time it is so , Then let me not lose you by being too Slow . But she gave me Denial and bid me be gone , For all I lamented and to her made moan , Saying , I would not have you any more to do so , For you have lost me plainly by being too Slow . TO Hough company together long time we have kept One another , my mind and my heart is set , Though one not so handsome as your self must go , Away with me , and leave you by being too slow . You are young and youthful , and maybe may have A mind on a woman , but do not deceive Your self any more , by neglecting it so , For you have lost me plainly by being too slow . I would have been married before now ever long , At fourteen in truth I could wished had been young , If thoued willing been then to Church with me go , You need not have lost me by being too slow . But you did neglect your time soar in that case , For a woman can tarry but while time does last , For at fourteen she's ripe , there is few but does know S oh you fooled your self then by being too slow . So adieu to you youngmen you hear how it is , And all the frail ways how my fortune I miss , But it shall be a warning unto me I trow , That i'll never loose more by being too slow . O Cupid thy Arrows are tipped with Gold , And it strikes me quite thorough when thee I behold , But like to Amintas , I made my moan so , When I lost my dear Mistress by being too slow . And like to Leander i'll mourn for my love , Though new lands & amp ; countries , & amp ; constant i'll prove I'll Drink and i'll Fuddle against who dares say no Since I've lost my dear Mistress , by being too Slow . You Goddesses assist my Fortune being such , For I have lost my Sweetheart by Loving too much : And it shall never fret me although it be so , That I have lost my Sweetheart by being too slow . Good Cupid assist me that now I may mend , And cause my heart strong to continue to the end : And go along with me I will bear thy Bow , S oh Cupid but hit them that they'll with me go . For Youngmen if that they stand , you must strike , Not one way in forty that more they will like : That they'll call you honey and with you will go , And love you most dearly for using them so . FINIS . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and M. Coals . 