Celias Kind Answer to Corydon's Complaint : Poor Corydons Complaint does Celia move , A little by degrees to yield to Love ; His melting words does make her heart relent And her unkindness she does much repent And now she is resolved at the last , To give him comfort for his Sorrows past . To the Tune of , Corydon's Complaint . With Allowance . O What's the matter with this Shepherd Swain , That in this manner he should so complain ; Some scornful Nymph that stole his heart , and locked it in her breast , And he poor Lover feels the smart , and is with grief oppressed ; That night nor day , as he does say , he now can take no rest . But yet his Mourning does so pierce my heart , That in his sorrows I must bear a part ; Alas it is my Coridon , I know him by his voice , That does for Coelia make this Moan , I am his only choice ; Therefore I will some comfort yield and make him to rejoice . The second part , to the same Tune . S Tay Jolly Shepherd , prithee turn again , Walk not so pensive for a Maids disdain : Although you do me fickle call , and wavering as the wind ; Cheer up thy heart , be sure I shall hereafter prove more kind ; And bring Relief for all thy grief , unto thy troubled mind . Then fit down by me in this Myrtle shade , And do not fly me since I am betrayed ; The Cyprian Boy , Dame Venus joy , hath pierced my poor heart , And now in all thy troubles I will bear the greatest part ; Because in Love , so lately I have learned the only Art. How it does grieve me that I was unkind , But now believe me I have changed my mind ; Disdain shall never touch my heart , nor lodge within my breast : All by the power of Cupids Dart as I before confessed ; My mind I freely will impart to thee whom I love best . Fainthearted Shepherd do not droop and die , But for the Celia , cease to mourn and cry ; Arcadia's coast could never boast of one more kind and true , My Coridon then I will prove for ever unto you ; Because it is no more but mere , true love should have its endue . Thou shalt not fail unto the Indian coast , For in such dangers my love might be lost And then what should poor Celia do , if Coridon were gone : But live in woe continually , and sighs , lament , and mourn ; And die with grief , without relief , when I am left alone . Call me not cruel , pirthee Love forbear , I'll be thy Jewel , and will love thee dear ; No Shepherd Swain upon the Plain shall take so much delight , As thou shalt from thy Celia find , by day and eke by night ; Because it is my only joy , to have thee in my sighed . Pardon my strangeness , and my found disdain , Since I am willing thy love to entertain : It was but for to try thy Love that I did seem so coy , But for to make a full amends my Love thou shalt enjoy ; And I will be thy dearest friend . to keep thee from annoy . Then banish sadness , and let us now embrace , Being met with gladness , in this pleasant place ; And let all Loyal Lovers that does hear of our welfare , Say Coridon and Celia , does live without compare ; Both being free from jealousy , and also void of care . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J , Wright , J. Clarke , T. Passenger , and W. ThackerayCelias Kind Answer to Corydon's Complaint : Poor Corydons Complaint does Celia move , A little by degrees to yield to Love ; His melting words does make her heart relent And her unkindness she does much repent And now she is resolved at the last , To give him comfort for his Sorrows past . To the Tune of , Corydon's Complaint . With Allowance . O What's the matter with this Shepherd Swain , That in this manner he should so complain ; Some scornful Nymph that stole his heart , and locked it in her breast , And he poor Lover feels the smart , and is with grief oppressed ; That night nor day , as he does say , he now can take no rest . But yet his Mourning does so pierce my heart , That in his sorrows I must bear a part ; Alas it is my Coridon , I know him by his voice , That does for Coelia make this Moan , I am his only choice ; Therefore I will some comfort yield and make him to rejoice . The second part , to the same Tune . S Tay Jolly Shepherd , prithee turn again , Walk not so pensive for a Maids disdain : Although you do me fickle call , and wavering as the wind ; Cheer up thy heart , be sure I shall hereafter prove more kind ; And bring Relief for all thy grief , unto thy troubled mind . Then fit down by me in this Myrtle shade , And do not fly me since I am betrayed ; The Cyprian Boy , Dame Venus joy , hath pierced my poor heart , And now in all thy troubles I will bear the greatest part ; Because in Love , so lately I have learned the only Art. How it does grieve me that I was unkind , But now believe me I have changed my mind ; Disdain shall never touch my heart , nor lodge within my breast : All by the power of Cupids Dart as I before confessed ; My mind I freely will impart to thee whom I love best . Fainthearted Shepherd do not droop and die , But for the Celia , cease to mourn and cry ; Arcadia's coast could never boast of one more kind and true , My Coridon then I will prove for ever unto you ; Because it is no more but mere , true love should have its endue . Thou shalt not fail unto the Indian coast , For in such dangers my love might be lost And then what should poor Celia do , if Coridon were gone : But live in woe continually , and sighs , lament , and mourn ; And die with grief , without relief , when I am left alone . Call me not cruel , pirthee Love forbear , I'll be thy Jewel , and will love thee dear ; No Shepherd Swain upon the Plain shall take so much delight , As thou shalt from thy Celia find , by day and eke by night ; Because it is my only joy , to have thee in my sighed . Pardon my strangeness , and my found disdain , Since I am willing thy love to entertain : It was but for to try thy Love that I did seem so coy , But for to make a full amends my Love thou shalt enjoy ; And I will be thy dearest friend . to keep thee from annoy . Then banish sadness , and let us now embrace , Being met with gladness , in this pleasant place ; And let all Loyal Lovers that does hear of our welfare , Say Coridon and Celia , does live without compare ; Both being free from jealousy , and also void of care . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J , Wright , J. Clarke , T. Passenger , and W. Thackeray 