A Good Wife , or None ; To a pleasant new Tune . TO He glazing Torch is soon burned out , the Diamonds light abides , The one in glory shines about , the other it's virtue hides : That spark ( if any ) shall be mine , that else gives light to none : For if to every one she shine : I had rather lie alone . The glowworm in the dark gives light , unto the view of many , The Moon she shows her self by night , and yields her self to any : But if my love should seem to me , of every one so known : She never more should shine on me , I had rather lie alone . I'll not consume and pine away , as other lovers do , For such as wandering walk astray and never will prove true : I'll set as light by any she , as she by me hath done : And fix my love and constancy , or else i'll lie alone . A willow-Garland for my head , I never mean to wear , I need no Pillow for my bed , I yet am bold of care ; A single life is without strife , and free from sighs and groan , For such contentment's of my life , i'll choose to lie alone . Once did I love the fairest love , that ever I did see , But she did most unconstant prove , and set no love by me ; And ever since my mind is such , to lend my love to none , Because I have been crossed so much , i'll ever lie alone . The beauty of the fairest flower , so pleasing to the eye , Does fade and wither in and hour , and no man sets thereby : So deals my fair with me , her joys in love are gone , Wherefore the wanton world shall see , i'll choose to lie alone . W Ell may we picture Cupid blind , which roving shot his dart , And made my Lover most unkind , to steal away my heart : Which cannot be restored again , it is so lovesick grown , For she hath killed it with disdain , therefore i'll lie alone . Within that face I once did see , two Diamond eyes , whose bright , And glistering beams so dazzled me that I was ravished quite : And struck so blind I could not see , the way that I had gone , But from found love i'm now set free , and choose to lie alone . This single life brings golden ease , no jealous thoughts offend , The wedded wights go where they please , and fear no changing friend : While married mates with musing mind , do sob , and sighs , and groan : Because their Turtles prove unkind , therefore i'll lie alone . What if the willow Garland be , appointed for my lot , Yet this content shall comfort me , false love is soon forgotten : A second love must make amends , now that the first is gone , For Croesus kind had choice of friends , else still had lain alone . For could I now but call my choice , out of Diana's train , Who would not hear the tempters voice , then I might love again : And choose some of more constant light then that which lately shone , My equal fancy to requite , or else i'll lie alone . For time and opportunity , will woe the coyest Dame , And overcome the chastest she , that bears the bravest name : Yea Man was made for woman's good , not idle like the drone , But for to heat and stir the blood , and not to lie alone . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . A Good Wife , or None ; To a pleasant new Tune . TO He glazing Torch is soon burned out , the Diamonds light abides , The one in glory shines about , the other it's virtue hides : That spark ( if any ) shall be mine , that else gives light to none : For if to every one she shine : I had rather lie alone . The glowworm in the dark gives light , unto the view of many , The Moon she shows her self by night , and yields her self to any : But if my love should seem to me , of every one so known : She never more should shine on me , I had rather lie alone . I'll not consume and pine away , as other lovers do , For such as wandering walk astray and never will prove true : I'll set as light by any she , as she by me hath done : And fix my love and constancy , or else i'll lie alone . A willow-Garland for my head , I never mean to wear , I need no Pillow for my bed , I yet am bold of care ; A single life is without strife , and free from sighs and groan , For such contentment's of my life , i'll choose to lie alone . Once did I love the fairest love , that ever I did see , But she did most unconstant prove , and set no love by me ; And ever since my mind is such , to lend my love to none , Because I have been crossed so much , i'll ever lie alone . The beauty of the fairest flower , so pleasing to the eye , Does fade and wither in and hour , and no man sets thereby : So deals my fair with me , her joys in love are gone , Wherefore the wanton world shall see , i'll choose to lie alone . W Ell may we picture Cupid blind , which roving shot his dart , And made my Lover most unkind , to steal away my heart : Which cannot be restored again , it is so lovesick grown , For she hath killed it with disdain , therefore i'll lie alone . Within that face I once did see , two Diamond eyes , whose bright , And glistering beams so dazzled me that I was ravished quite : And struck so blind I could not see , the way that I had gone , But from found love i'm now set free , and choose to lie alone . This single life brings golden ease , no jealous thoughts offend , The wedded wights go where they please , and fear no changing friend : While married mates with musing mind , do sob , and sighs , and groan : Because their Turtles prove unkind , therefore i'll lie alone . What if the willow Garland be , appointed for my lot , Yet this content shall comfort me , false love is soon forgotten : A second love must make amends , now that the first is gone , For Croesus kind had choice of friends , else still had lain alone . For could I now but call my choice , out of Diana's train , Who would not hear the tempters voice , then I might love again : And choose some of more constant light then that which lately shone , My equal fancy to requite , or else i'll lie alone . For time and opportunity , will woe the coyest Dame , And overcome the chastest she , that bears the bravest name : Yea Man was made for woman's good , not idle like the drone , But for to heat and stir the blood , and not to lie alone . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . 