THE Distasted Lovers Downfall , Or , the shepherd's dying Complaint , concerning the ingratitude of his Love . The Shepherd Corydon does seek Relief From cruel Daphnis who augments his grief TO une of , Cloris awake . W Hen Phoebus had run the three thirds of his course , His heat now decending , did draw back its force : Against a green Myrtle did Coridon lean , Where Flora had oF [ r ] ecast her Mantle of green , A sacred Spring there was , whose Silver Streams were Visited by West winds , and a heatful Ayr. Here wounded by Cupid , lamenting alone , TO [ h ] us to Woods and Mountains in vain made his moan . A Las ! cruel Daphnis , is this thy return ? For all those great kindnesses I have you born , Ungratefully ( Viperlike ) thust for to kill A Lovesick poor Shepherd , who never thought no ill . Despising our gifts , and our kisses dost slight , Esteeming me light , thou more light as a Wight , Not fit to embrace those once loved Amrs , When Concord united , and keep us from harms . 'Twas first thy great beauty that me did ensnare , My Eyes were entangled in this goldlike Hair : Those flattering Eyes , O those Orbs of the sighed , To court and to love thee did me first invite . Thy words which like chains did inchant my strong breast , My senses those Sairgants did quickly Arrest They my first Instructors , which Venus did move In a rustic Shepherd , and taught me to love More hard than the Oak ; more stiff than the Rocks ; More proud and more haughty than praised Peacocks : More deaf than the Sea ; more cruel than Fiends ; More swift in her flight than Clouds , or the Winds . Sure if thou didst know thy flight thou'dst relent , Curse all these delays , and seek my content . Instead of being courted , would court without shame , Not weighing the spots cast on thy good name . I have all those things which here are desired ; By Shepherd's my Oxen for fatness admired : I've Cows , I have Goats , which bring much sweet milk , And Sheep which gives Fleces thrice softer than silk . I always made mountains and woods to resound Thy Praises thy Virtues , not easily found : All things did partake of my happiness ; Shrill Nightingale and the Sky-Lark did me bless . Now fiery Phoebus withholds his bright rays , The birds now do cease for to chant their soft Lays Of play the young wanton Kids themselves bereave ; The Clouds pour forth tears , beholding my grief . Now word me deceive my spirits decay , I'm hasting to visit the Stidian Bay. Triumph not , Oh Cupid , in my dismal fate , Thou once could have eased me , but now this too late . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clrk , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . THE Distasted Lovers Downfall , Or , the shepherd's dying Complaint , concerning the ingratitude of his Love . The Shepherd Corydon does seek Relief From cruel Daphnis who augments his grief TO une of , Cloris awake . W Hen Phoebus had run the three thirds of his course , His heat now decending , did draw back its force : Against a green Myrtle did Coridon lean , Where Flora had oF [ r ] ecast her Mantle of green , A sacred Spring there was , whose Silver Streams were Visited by West winds , and a heatful Ayr. Here wounded by Cupid , lamenting alone , TO [ h ] us to Woods and Mountains in vain made his moan . A Las ! cruel Daphnis , is this thy return ? For all those great kindnesses I have you born , Ungratefully ( Viperlike ) thust for to kill A Lovesick poor Shepherd , who never thought no ill . Despising our gifts , and our kisses dost slight , Esteeming me light , thou more light as a Wight , Not fit to embrace those once loved Amrs , When Concord united , and keep us from harms . 'Twas first thy great beauty that me did ensnare , My Eyes were entangled in this goldlike Hair : Those flattering Eyes , O those Orbs of the sighed , To court and to love thee did me first invite . Thy words which like chains did inchant my strong breast , My senses those Sairgants did quickly Arrest They my first Instructors , which Venus did move In a rustic Shepherd , and taught me to love More hard than the Oak ; more stiff than the Rocks ; More proud and more haughty than praised Peacocks : More deaf than the Sea ; more cruel than Fiends ; More swift in her flight than Clouds , or the Winds . Sure if thou didst know thy flight thou'dst relent , Curse all these delays , and seek my content . Instead of being courted , would court without shame , Not weighing the spots cast on thy good name . I have all those things which here are desired ; By Shepherd's my Oxen for fatness admired : I've Cows , I have Goats , which bring much sweet milk , And Sheep which gives Fleces thrice softer than silk . I always made mountains and woods to resound Thy Praises thy Virtues , not easily found : All things did partake of my happiness ; Shrill Nightingale and the Sky-Lark did me bless . Now fiery Phoebus withholds his bright rays , The birds now do cease for to chant their soft Lays Of play the young wanton Kids themselves bereave ; The Clouds pour forth tears , beholding my grief . Now word me deceive my spirits decay , I'm hasting to visit the Stidian Bay. Triumph not , Oh Cupid , in my dismal fate , Thou once could have eased me , but now this too late . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clrk , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 