THE West-Country Squire : OR , The Beautiful Lasses Honour and Honestly Crowned with true Love , and lasting Happiness . Tune of , Liggan Water . Or , Nanny , Oh. Licensed according to Order . E Arly in the morning fair , near a pleasant shady Grove , I overheard two Lovers there discoursing of the terms of Love . The young Gallant brisk and gay , did both kiss and court his Dear , And to her would often say , I will not hurt thee , do not fear . Round about her slender Waste be his busy arms did throw ; While he thus the Lass embraced , he fain would have been diving low , More than once or twice he tried this fair Damsel to delude , Who most modestly replied , I pray , kind Sir , be not so rude . Dearest thy sweet Charming Eyes , and the graces of each brow , Does my Senses so surprise , that I must needs enjoy thee now . Never did I see before one so beautiful and fair , I your Charms will still adore , but still she cries out , Sir , forbear . My sweet Saint of beauty bright , be not froward , Nice or Coy , Grant me here my hearts delight , the Lovers blessing to enjoy . I'll deck thee with Orient Pearl , and in costly rich array , Sure the greatest Lord or Earl , his Lady never was more gay , Then my darling Saint shall be , if thou'lt let me lay thee low , For to enjoy my Liberty , but still she answered no , no , no . Sir , your words are all in vain , you your proffers may withhold ; For my Credit I'll not stain , for many thousand pounds in Gold . Here I prize the meanest Robe , when adorned with honesty , Beyond the Wealth of all the Globe , which purchased is by Infamy . S he that loves and honest life , will enjoy more comfort , sir , Being but a poor men Wife , than Harlot to and Emperor . Gold and silver is but dross , silly sinners to ensnare , Reputation is a loss , which all the world cannot repair . Then this Gallant straight replied , I thy person do adore . If thou'lt yield to be my Bride , I swear I'll never tempt thee more . What I said was but to try whither thou was found and free , S ince I prove thy honesty , my Dear thou art a Bride for me . Then he took her by the hand , they appoint the Wedding-day , S he has all things at command , and lives like any Lady gay . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . THE West-Country Squire : OR , The Beautiful Lasses Honour and Honestly Crowned with true Love , and lasting Happiness . Tune of , Liggan Water . Or , Nanny , Oh. Licensed according to Order . E Arly in the morning fair , near a pleasant shady Grove , I overheard two Lovers there discoursing of the terms of Love . The young Gallant brisk and gay , did both kiss and court his Dear , And to her would often say , I will not hurt thee , do not fear . Round about her slender Waste be his busy arms did throw ; While he thus the Lass embraced , he fain would have been diving low , More than once or twice he tried this fair Damsel to delude , Who most modestly replied , I pray , kind Sir , be not so rude . Dearest thy sweet Charming Eyes , and the graces of each brow , Does my Senses so surprise , that I must needs enjoy thee now . Never did I see before one so beautiful and fair , I your Charms will still adore , but still she cries out , Sir , forbear . My sweet Saint of beauty bright , be not froward , Nice or Coy , Grant me here my hearts delight , the Lovers blessing to enjoy . I'll deck thee with Orient Pearl , and in costly rich array , Sure the greatest Lord or Earl , his Lady never was more gay , Then my darling Saint shall be , if thou'lt let me lay thee low , For to enjoy my Liberty , but still she answered no , no , no . Sir , your words are all in vain , you your proffers may withhold ; For my Credit I'll not stain , for many thousand pounds in Gold . Here I prize the meanest Robe , when adorned with honesty , Beyond the Wealth of all the Globe , which purchased is by Infamy . S he that loves and honest life , will enjoy more comfort , sir , Being but a poor men Wife , than Harlot to and Emperor . Gold and silver is but dross , silly sinners to ensnare , Reputation is a loss , which all the world cannot repair . Then this Gallant straight replied , I thy person do adore . If thou'lt yield to be my Bride , I swear I'll never tempt thee more . What I said was but to try whither thou was found and free , S ince I prove thy honesty , my Dear thou art a Bride for me . Then he took her by the hand , they appoint the Wedding-day , S he has all things at command , and lives like any Lady gay . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . 