THE MAY-Morning Ramble ; OR , Robin and Kate , Will and Prue's Pleasant Pastime among the Woods and Groves . To the Tune of , I Marry and thank you too . Liscenced according to Order . K Ind Robin he met young Kate , and caused her a while to stay ; And said that she should be his Mate , to ramble and gather May . My Jewel I do invite , to ramble till Morning day ; For you know in the silent Night , we gather the sweetest May . There's William and his love Prue , are willing to take their way ; Along with us among the Due , to gather the sweetest May . She made him a Curtsy low , and eke with a smile did say ; With all my heart I'll freely go to gather the sweetest May . Then taking him by the hand , she to her true Love did say , Nothing can please a Maid beyond , a sprig of the sweetest May . Then they by a joint consent , did merrily trip away , And with a Resolution bent to gather the sweetest May . They came to a pleasant Grove , adorned with flowers gay , And Kate she called upon her love , to give her the sweetest May . Upon a fair Primrose Hill stout Robin his Love did lay , And likewise so did lusty Will , and gave them the sweetest May . These Lasses of Beauty bright , they both to their loves did say ; It is a Maidens chief delight , to gather the sweetest May . Then Robin began to rise , and fain would a sneaked away , But Kate she hugs him close , and cries some more of that pleasant May . She was in a transport hurled , and did to her Robin say , No greater pleasure in the World , then gathering sprigs of May . And Prue did her William hold , and often did sighs and say , I'ld rather have then Crowns of G [ old ] , this delicate Sprig of May . But Robin and Will repyed , Oh what will your Mother's say ; Tush , let them frown , nay scold and chide since we have the Sprigs of May . Alas , I can freely part with what you have gained this day : My Maidenhead with all my heart , for a delicate Sprig of May . Quoth Prudence , nay right or wrong , we'll Ramble another day ; Before a year I'm sure to Long for more of this pleasant May . The Sun did begin to rise , then homeward they took their way ; And Prue and Kate did highly prize the delicate Sprigs of May . printed for W. Thackeray , at the Angel in Ducklane ; J. Millet , at the Angel in Little - Brittain ; and A. Milbourn , at the Stationers-Arms in the Little Old-Bayly . Where all Country Chapmen and others , may be Furnished with all Sorts of Small Books and Ballads , at Reasonable Rates . THE MAY-Morning Ramble ; OR , Robin and Kate , Will and Prue's Pleasant Pastime among the Woods and Groves . To the Tune of , I Marry and thank you too . Liscenced according to Order . K Ind Robin he met young Kate , and caused her a while to stay ; And said that she should be his Mate , to ramble and gather May . My Jewel I do invite , to ramble till Morning day ; For you know in the silent Night , we gather the sweetest May . There's William and his love Prue , are willing to take their way ; Along with us among the Due , to gather the sweetest May . She made him a Curtsy low , and eke with a smile did say ; With all my heart I'll freely go to gather the sweetest May . Then taking him by the hand , she to her true Love did say , Nothing can please a Maid beyond , a sprig of the sweetest May . Then they by a joint consent , did merrily trip away , And with a Resolution bent to gather the sweetest May . They came to a pleasant Grove , adorned with flowers gay , And Kate she called upon her love , to give her the sweetest May . Upon a fair Primrose Hill stout Robin his Love did lay , And likewise so did lusty Will , and gave them the sweetest May . These Lasses of Beauty bright , they both to their loves did say ; It is a Maidens chief delight , to gather the sweetest May . Then Robin began to rise , and fain would a sneaked away , But Kate she hugs him close , and cries some more of that pleasant May . She was in a transport hurled , and did to her Robin say , No greater pleasure in the World , then gathering sprigs of May . And Prue did her William hold , and often did sighs and say , I'ld rather have then Crowns of G [ old ] , this delicate Sprig of May . But Robin and Will repyed , Oh what will your Mother's say ; Tush , let them frown , nay scold and chide since we have the Sprigs of May . Alas , I can freely part with what you have gained this day : My Maidenhead with all my heart , for a delicate Sprig of May . Quoth Prudence , nay right or wrong , we'll Ramble another day ; Before a year I'm sure to Long for more of this pleasant May . The Sun did begin to rise , then homeward they took their way ; And Prue and Kate did highly prize the delicate Sprigs of May . printed for W. Thackeray , at the Angel in Ducklane ; J. Millet , at the Angel in Little - Brittain ; and A. Milbourn , at the Stationers-Arms in the Little Old-Bayly . Where all Country Chapmen and others , may be Furnished with all Sorts of Small Books and Ballads , at Reasonable Rates . 