The Distressed Damsels : OR , A dolefully Ditty of a sorrowful Assembly of young Maidens that were met together near Thames-street , to bewail the Loss of their Loves which were lately pressed away to Sea. To the Tune of and Orange . Licensed according to Order . M Y sweet Sister Sue , ah ! what shall I do ? I fain would be married but know not to who ; For why , I protest , the young Men are Pressed , And my sweetheart Robin is gone with the rest For a Seaman . Then Susan replied there's many beside , That Fortune this Summer will surely divide ; Each sudden surprise will cause Lasses cries , While Tears they do trickle like Rain from the Skies , For our Sweethearts . There's Bess at the Bell you know her full well , A sorrowful story to me she did tell , That Thomas , her Dear , was Pressed she did hear , And then the poor Creature did tremble for fear He should leave her . In Thames-street of late , young pretty-faced Kate Had lost her dear Sweating , the Bricklayer her Mate ; He was Pressed away , but yet the next day They freed him , then Kate she did lovingly say . My sweet Johnny . In the open Street her John she did meet , And gave him a thousand soft Kisses so sweet , With stroking his Chin , she welcomed him in , For Joy she was fit to leap out of her Skin , For her Johnny . There's Doll at the Swan , her true love is gone , Poor Heart she with sorrow does sighs and take on ; Yet all is in vain , he is gone to the Main , She fears that he never will return home again , To embrace her . There's Bridget & amp ; Joan it's very well known , Of Fourteen young Sweethearts they have not left one But all Pressed on Board for to stand by the Sword , And this do's much Sorrow and Trouble afford , At the Parting . If Pressing goes on , there wont be a M an To please a young Lass , let her do what she can , For they will be scarce here in a short space , Then we shall be all in a sorrowful case , To be Married . Two Twelvemonths ago , sweet Sister you know The Bachelors then we could bring to our Bow ; Nay , at our Command , they stood Cap in Hand , But now they grow scarcy all over the Land , We must prize them . Young Nancy and Ned last week they were Wed , And within and Hour of going to Bed , Just in all their Pride he was Pressed from her side , Before he had dallied one Night with his Bride . Want it Pity ? To leave his delight , and Beauty so bright , Before he had ever enjoyed her one Night ; But what shall we say ? he was [ pre ] st away , Now you that have Husbands [ valu ] e them , I pray , They are Jewels . Last year I declare , young Maids was choice War [ e ] But now they grow wondered plenty I sware , All over the Town they walk up and down , I reckon you may have a Score for a Crown , By Midsummer . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . The Distressed Damsels : OR , A dolefully Ditty of a sorrowful Assembly of young Maidens that were met together near Thames-street , to bewail the Loss of their Loves which were lately pressed away to Sea. To the Tune of and Orange . Licensed according to Order . M Y sweet Sister Sue , ah ! what shall I do ? I fain would be married but know not to who ; For why , I protest , the young Men are Pressed , And my sweetheart Robin is gone with the rest For a Seaman . Then Susan replied there's many beside , That Fortune this Summer will surely divide ; Each sudden surprise will cause Lasses cries , While Tears they do trickle like Rain from the Skies , For our Sweethearts . There's Bess at the Bell you know her full well , A sorrowful story to me she did tell , That Thomas , her Dear , was Pressed she did hear , And then the poor Creature did tremble for fear He should leave her . In Thames-street of late , young pretty-faced Kate Had lost her dear Sweating , the Bricklayer her Mate ; He was Pressed away , but yet the next day They freed him , then Kate she did lovingly say . My sweet Johnny . In the open Street her John she did meet , And gave him a thousand soft Kisses so sweet , With stroking his Chin , she welcomed him in , For Joy she was fit to leap out of her Skin , For her Johnny . There's Doll at the Swan , her true love is gone , Poor Heart she with sorrow does sighs and take on ; Yet all is in vain , he is gone to the Main , She fears that he never will return home again , To embrace her . There's Bridget & amp ; Joan it's very well known , Of Fourteen young Sweethearts they have not left one But all Pressed on Board for to stand by the Sword , And this do's much Sorrow and Trouble afford , At the Parting . If Pressing goes on , there wont be a M an To please a young Lass , let her do what she can , For they will be scarce here in a short space , Then we shall be all in a sorrowful case , To be Married . Two Twelvemonths ago , sweet Sister you know The Bachelors then we could bring to our Bow ; Nay , at our Command , they stood Cap in Hand , But now they grow scarcy all over the Land , We must prize them . Young Nancy and Ned last week they were Wed , And within and Hour of going to Bed , Just in all their Pride he was Pressed from her side , Before he had dallied one Night with his Bride . Want it Pity ? To leave his delight , and Beauty so bright , Before he had ever enjoyed her one Night ; But what shall we say ? he was [ pre ] st away , Now you that have Husbands [ valu ] e them , I pray , They are Jewels . Last year I declare , young Maids was choice War [ e ] But now they grow wondered plenty I sware , All over the Town they walk up and down , I reckon you may have a Score for a Crown , By Midsummer . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 