NELLS Courtship : Or , A DIALOGUE Between Hasty NELL , AND Fainthearted JOHNNY . To the Tune of The Spinning-Wheel . Licensed according to Order . A S bonny Nell went to the Mill , She met young John whom she loved well , To whom she said , when wilt thou wed ? I'm weary of my Maidenhead : If you don't take me , my sweet John , In troth thou art no honest Man. Quoth John , what wouldst thou have me do ? Alas ! I have a Love for you , But there's one thing that hinders me From Marriage-state , as you shall see , Which make a young Man loath to wed , The times are hard , and trading's dead . TO Ell me not that , quoth honest Nell , You must such thought as these expel , I can no longer live a Maid , Consider this , my love , she said ; If you don't wed me , my sweet John , In troth thou art no honest Man. My love , said he , you must forbear , Alas ! my Head is full of Care , For why ? I nothing have at all , For to endow a wife withal ; Which makes me now forbear to wed , The times are hard , and trading's dead . Tush , foolish man , she then replied , I must and will be made a Bride , It is in vain to make your moan , I will no longer lie alone . If you don't wed me , my sweet John , In troth you are no honest Man. I prithee Nell be not in haste , I have no other love embraced , For whensoever I change my life , It's thou alone shalt be my wife ; But at the present I'll not wed . The times are hard and trading's dead . Quoth Nell , what though the Times are hard , this is a small Excuse , said she , Which I shall never once regard , if that I could but Married be ; Consider me , my sweet-faced John , Or else thou art no honest Man . Oh! sweet-faced Nell , I fear our Charge Will after Marriage soon grow large ; For shouldst thou prove with Child , quoth he , Alas ! what would become of me ; These are the things that I so dread , The times are hard and trading's dead . Quoth Nell , I never knew before , a man of such a mind as you ; Here I have Gold and Silver store , nay , House and Land and Cattle too : If you won't wed me , honest John , In troth thou art no honest Man. My father died not long ago , and left me twenty Mark a year , Now if you'll have me tell me so , O then , quoth John , Love never fear . Though times are hard and trading's dead , Thy wealth invites me for to wed . She bought him strait new Hose and Shoes , a broad-brimmed Hat , and Roast-meat Clothes , And then before the next day noon , these Lovers to the Parson goes : Though times are hard and trading's dead , Her Money made young Johnny wed . Printed for J. B lare at the Looking-Glas on London-bridge . NELLS Courtship : Or , A DIALOGUE Between Hasty NELL , AND Fainthearted JOHNNY . To the Tune of The Spinning-Wheel . Licensed according to Order . A S bonny Nell went to the Mill , She met young John whom she loved well , To whom she said , when wilt thou wed ? I'm weary of my Maidenhead : If you don't take me , my sweet John , In troth thou art no honest Man. Quoth John , what wouldst thou have me do ? Alas ! I have a Love for you , But there's one thing that hinders me From Marriage-state , as you shall see , Which make a young Man loath to wed , The times are hard , and trading's dead . TO Ell me not that , quoth honest Nell , You must such thought as these expel , I can no longer live a Maid , Consider this , my love , she said ; If you don't wed me , my sweet John , In troth thou art no honest Man. My love , said he , you must forbear , Alas ! my Head is full of Care , For why ? I nothing have at all , For to endow a wife withal ; Which makes me now forbear to wed , The times are hard , and trading's dead . Tush , foolish man , she then replied , I must and will be made a Bride , It is in vain to make your moan , I will no longer lie alone . If you don't wed me , my sweet John , In troth you are no honest Man. I prithee Nell be not in haste , I have no other love embraced , For whensoever I change my life , It's thou alone shalt be my wife ; But at the present I'll not wed . The times are hard and trading's dead . Quoth Nell , what though the Times are hard , this is a small Excuse , said she , Which I shall never once regard , if that I could but Married be ; Consider me , my sweet-faced John , Or else thou art no honest Man . Oh! sweet-faced Nell , I fear our Charge Will after Marriage soon grow large ; For shouldst thou prove with Child , quoth he , Alas ! what would become of me ; These are the things that I so dread , The times are hard and trading's dead . Quoth Nell , I never knew before , a man of such a mind as you ; Here I have Gold and Silver store , nay , House and Land and Cattle too : If you won't wed me , honest John , In troth thou art no honest Man. My father died not long ago , and left me twenty Mark a year , Now if you'll have me tell me so , O then , quoth John , Love never fear . Though times are hard and trading's dead , Thy wealth invites me for to wed . She bought him strait new Hose and Shoes , a broad-brimmed Hat , and Roast-meat Clothes , And then before the next day noon , these Lovers to the Parson goes : Though times are hard and trading's dead , Her Money made young Johnny wed . Printed for J. B lare at the Looking-Glas on London-bridge . 