Advice to the Ladies of LONDON , In the Choice of their Husbands . To and Excellent new Court Tune . This may be Printed , R. P. L Adies of London both wealthy and fair , whom every Town Fop is pursuing , Still of your Persons and Purses take care the greatest deceit lies in Wooing : From the first rank of the bonny brisk sparks their Vices I here will discover Down to the basest mechanic Degree that so you may choose out your Lover . First for the Courtier look to his Estate before he to far be proceeding , He of Court Favours and Places will prate , and settlements make of his Breeding : Nor wear the yoke of dull Country Clown , although they are fat in their Purses ; Brush you with Brissles and toping full Fowls make Love to their Dogs and their Horses . But above all , the rank Citizen hate ; the Court or the Country choose rather ; Would you have a Blockhead that gets and Estate by the Sins of the Cuckold his Father ? The sneaking Clown intreaging does mar , the Prentices huffing and ranting , Cit [ ? ] puts on his Sword , when without Temple-Bar and goes to Whitehall a Gallanting . Let no spruce Officer keep you in awe , the Sword is a thing Transitory ; Nor be blown up by the Lungs of the Law , a World has been cheated before you : Soon you will find your Captain grow bold and then it'll be hard to get from him , But if the Lawyer touch your Copyhold the Devil can never bring you from him . Fly like the Plague from the huffing brave Boys that Court you with many Bravadoes , Tyr'ing your senses with Bombast and Noise and Stories brought from the Barbadoes : And beside , ever the Doctor , that Fool , who seeking to mend your Condition , Tickles your Pulse , peeps in your Closestool , then sets up a famous Physician . Choose not a spark that has known the Town , who makes it his Practice to Bully , You'd better take up with a Country Clown he'l make and officious Cully ; You with a word may his Passion appease and make him a Cuckold at leisure ; Give him but money to live at his ease , you may follow Intrigues at your Pleasure . Neither admire much a Man that is wise , if ever you intend to deceive him , He cunning Plots and Intrigues will devise and trap you , ever you shall perceive him . Therefore beware that he never disclose your Tricks , if he do's he will slight you ; He'l keep a gay Mistress under your nose , if it be but on purpose to spite you . But if you'd thrive , and grow wealthy apace , then marry a doting old Sinner ; What if you view there Old Time in his Face , you will by that bargain be winner ; You may have lusty Gallants good store , if you can produce but the Guinea , And those young Coxcombs your Face will adore if this don't please , Old Neck is in you . LONDON : Printed for J. Back , at the Black Boy , near the Draw-Bridge on London-Bridge . Advice to the Ladies of LONDON , In the Choice of their Husbands . To and Excellent new Court Tune . This may be Printed , R. P. L Adies of London both wealthy and fair , whom every Town Fop is pursuing , Still of your Persons and Purses take care the greatest deceit lies in Wooing : From the first rank of the bonny brisk sparks their Vices I here will discover Down to the basest mechanic Degree that so you may choose out your Lover . First for the Courtier look to his Estate before he to far be proceeding , He of Court Favours and Places will prate , and settlements make of his Breeding : Nor wear the yoke of dull Country Clown , although they are fat in their Purses ; Brush you with Brissles and toping full Fowls make Love to their Dogs and their Horses . But above all , the rank Citizen hate ; the Court or the Country choose rather ; Would you have a Blockhead that gets and Estate by the Sins of the Cuckold his Father ? The sneaking Clown intreaging does mar , the Prentices huffing and ranting , Cit [ ? ] puts on his Sword , when without Temple-Bar and goes to Whitehall a Gallanting . Let no spruce Officer keep you in awe , the Sword is a thing Transitory ; Nor be blown up by the Lungs of the Law , a World has been cheated before you : Soon you will find your Captain grow bold and then it'll be hard to get from him , But if the Lawyer touch your Copyhold the Devil can never bring you from him . Fly like the Plague from the huffing brave Boys that Court you with many Bravadoes , Tyr'ing your senses with Bombast and Noise and Stories brought from the Barbadoes : And beside , ever the Doctor , that Fool , who seeking to mend your Condition , Tickles your Pulse , peeps in your Closestool , then sets up a famous Physician . Choose not a spark that has known the Town , who makes it his Practice to Bully , You'd better take up with a Country Clown he'l make and officious Cully ; You with a word may his Passion appease and make him a Cuckold at leisure ; Give him but money to live at his ease , you may follow Intrigues at your Pleasure . Neither admire much a Man that is wise , if ever you intend to deceive him , He cunning Plots and Intrigues will devise and trap you , ever you shall perceive him . Therefore beware that he never disclose your Tricks , if he do's he will slight you ; He'l keep a gay Mistress under your nose , if it be but on purpose to spite you . But if you'd thrive , and grow wealthy apace , then marry a doting old Sinner ; What if you view there Old Time in his Face , you will by that bargain be winner ; You may have lusty Gallants good store , if you can produce but the Guinea , And those young Coxcombs your Face will adore if this don't please , Old Neck is in you . LONDON : Printed for J. Back , at the Black Boy , near the Draw-Bridge on London-Bridge . 