A dainty new Dialogue between Henry and Elizabeth . Being the good Wives Vindication , and the bad Husbands Reformation . This new composed gallant Ditty , Is to be sung in Town and City : This Ballad is bold comprized and penn [ ' ] worser , To teach bad Husbands how their lives to mend : All you good Wives , the which bad Husbands have , For your own good , let me this favour crave ; One Penny on this Ditty to bestow , And carry it to your Husbands for to show ; It may in time make you twice overglad , When as you see him good that was so bad , The Tune is , The Tyrant . Bess . C Ome hither sweet Husband , and listen to me , Thou knowest I have always been faithful to thee : A Noble mind to thee , I ever did carry , Since first I come acquainted with my loving Harry : Moreover thou knowest , I loved of my Life , To keep thee alive , since thou madest me thy wife . Harry . Methinks Bess your tongue runs a little too large , That you should lay such bitter things to my charge : As to say that my life , you did preserve and save , Or else I had been dead , and so laid in my Grave : Pray tell me the reason , why you did say so , That people may hear it , before we do go . Bess. Then in the first place , I will tell thee my mind , To me and my Children , thou hast been unkind : And what should have served us , at home to maintain , Thou hast in the Alehouse wasted in vain : among merry fellows , and such as thou art , While I fit at home , with a sorrowful heart . Harry . Why this of a truth Bess , is far and near known , I never spent any men Goods , but mine own : Nor are they alive , that of me can say , That I have took from them one penny away : I never did stranger , nor Neighbour no wrong , With thought of my heart , or with word of my tongue . Bess. In spending thy own Goods , thou also spendest mine , Which has done much injury , to thee and mine : Thou [ hast ] p [ a ] wned our best Clothes , when thou money didst lack , The Cloak from thy shoulders , and the Gown from my back : Thou hast spent all thy money , thou gettest , in excess , In Dicing and Drinking , and foul Drunkenness . Harry . Indeed it is true , I have sometime been Drunk , among honest Good-fellows , but I never loved Punk : Though my Credit be cracked , and my Garments be poor , It came not with spending my means on a Whore : Therefore speak the best , and the worst that you can , I have been , and will be a true honest man . Bess. W Hen as in the Counter , for Debt thou didst lie , Thy friends all forsook thee , save only I : Thou knowest I took pains , and did every day strive , To comfort my Harry , and keep him alive : And now let the world judge , between you and me , If I was not faithful and honest to thee . Harry . Why now loving Wife , I am forced to confess , When I was in prison , in woe and distress : Thou didst work to maintain me , like a true hearted Wife , Thou wroughtest my Redemption , and saved my Life : And now demand of me what ever thou will , I'll do my endeavour , thy mind to fulfil . Bess . Then thus I would have thee , wherever you be , Remember your Children , and think upon me , Look well to thy business , take heed what you spend , And have a care how you , do borrow or lend : At no time be idle , but follow thy labour , And so thou shalt see , God will bless thy endeavour . Harry . Thy counsel is good Wife , a course I will take , All kind of good fellowship , quite to forsake : If I by chance peep in at the Alehouse door , When I have spent twopence , I will spend no more : I know that Alewives like Bees will suck Honey , But they shall henceforth have but little of my Money . Bess . Keep promise sweet Harry , and see to thy self , When poor men spend all , Alewives get the more wealth : But if all Good-fellows . will be ruled by me , Some Alewives should not go , so fine as they be : They should work for their Livings as other folks do , Both Knit , Sow , and Spin , and doe other things too . Harry . Indeed some proud Hostesses , wear Gay Gold Rings , Their Gowns laced with Silver , and other rare things : Which honest pain-takers do travel about , With the Knees of their breeches , and elbows worn out : But to conclude , Betty , to make thee amends , I'll be a good Husband , let's kiss and be friends . Printed for F. Coals , T. V [ e ] re , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and TO . Passi [ ng ] er . A dainty new Dialogue between Henry and Elizabeth . Being the good Wives Vindication , and the bad Husbands Reformation . This new composed gallant Ditty , Is to be sung in Town and City : This Ballad is bold comprized and penn [ ' ] worser , To teach bad Husbands how their lives to mend : All you good Wives , the which bad Husbands have , For your own good , let me this favour crave ; One Penny on this Ditty to bestow , And carry it to your Husbands for to show ; It may in time make you twice overglad , When as you see him good that was so bad , The Tune is , The Tyrant . Bess . C Ome hither sweet Husband , and listen to me , Thou knowest I have always been faithful to thee : A Noble mind to thee , I ever did carry , Since first I come acquainted with my loving Harry : Moreover thou knowest , I loved of my Life , To keep thee alive , since thou madest me thy wife . Harry . Methinks Bess your tongue runs a little too large , That you should lay such bitter things to my charge : As to say that my life , you did preserve and save , Or else I had been dead , and so laid in my Grave : Pray tell me the reason , why you did say so , That people may hear it , before we do go . Bess. Then in the first place , I will tell thee my mind , To me and my Children , thou hast been unkind : And what should have served us , at home to maintain , Thou hast in the Alehouse wasted in vain : among merry fellows , and such as thou art , While I fit at home , with a sorrowful heart . Harry . Why this of a truth Bess , is far and near known , I never spent any men Goods , but mine own : Nor are they alive , that of me can say , That I have took from them one penny away : I never did stranger , nor Neighbour no wrong , With thought of my heart , or with word of my tongue . Bess. In spending thy own Goods , thou also spendest mine , Which has done much injury , to thee and mine : Thou [ hast ] p [ a ] wned our best Clothes , when thou money didst lack , The Cloak from thy shoulders , and the Gown from my back : Thou hast spent all thy money , thou gettest , in excess , In Dicing and Drinking , and foul Drunkenness . Harry . Indeed it is true , I have sometime been Drunk , among honest Good-fellows , but I never loved Punk : Though my Credit be cracked , and my Garments be poor , It came not with spending my means on a Whore : Therefore speak the best , and the worst that you can , I have been , and will be a true honest man . Bess. W Hen as in the Counter , for Debt thou didst lie , Thy friends all forsook thee , save only I : Thou knowest I took pains , and did every day strive , To comfort my Harry , and keep him alive : And now let the world judge , between you and me , If I was not faithful and honest to thee . Harry . Why now loving Wife , I am forced to confess , When I was in prison , in woe and distress : Thou didst work to maintain me , like a true hearted Wife , Thou wroughtest my Redemption , and saved my Life : And now demand of me what ever thou will , I'll do my endeavour , thy mind to fulfil . Bess . Then thus I would have thee , wherever you be , Remember your Children , and think upon me , Look well to thy business , take heed what you spend , And have a care how you , do borrow or lend : At no time be idle , but follow thy labour , And so thou shalt see , God will bless thy endeavour . Harry . Thy counsel is good Wife , a course I will take , All kind of good fellowship , quite to forsake : If I by chance peep in at the Alehouse door , When I have spent twopence , I will spend no more : I know that Alewives like Bees will suck Honey , But they shall henceforth have but little of my Money . Bess . Keep promise sweet Harry , and see to thy self , When poor men spend all , Alewives get the more wealth : But if all Good-fellows . will be ruled by me , Some Alewives should not go , so fine as they be : They should work for their Livings as other folks do , Both Knit , Sow , and Spin , and doe other things too . Harry . Indeed some proud Hostesses , wear Gay Gold Rings , Their Gowns laced with Silver , and other rare things : Which honest pain-takers do travel about , With the Knees of their breeches , and elbows worn out : But to conclude , Betty , to make thee amends , I'll be a good Husband , let's kiss and be friends . Printed for F. Coals , T. V [ e ] re , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and TO . Passi [ ng ] er . 