A Constant Wife , and a Kind Wife , A Loving Wife , and a Fine Wife , Which gives content unto men life . To the Tune of , Locks and Bolts do hinder . Y Oung-men and Maids lend me your aids , to speak of my dear Sweating It shows how Fortune hath betrayed , and often spoiled our meeting : She likely was for to be rich , and I a man but meanly , Wherefore her friends at me do grutch , and use me most unkindly . Her constancy I will declare , wherein she proved loyal , But few that will with her compare , when they are put to trial , Her friends against her did contend , because she lent me favour , They said I quickly all would spend , if that I might but have her . They did convey her from my sighed , because she should exempt me , I could not find my hearts delight , which soar did discontent me : I traveled over craggy Rocks , over Mountains , Hills , and Valleys , But she was kept from me with locks , only through spite and malice . But Love that conquers Kings & amp ; Queen's , herein did show us favour , I brought to pass , and wrought the means , in what place I could have her : She had and Uncle did detain , and kept her person from me , Which I had very like to have slave , because he did so wrong me . I boldly came where she did dwell , and asked for my Sweating , They said of her they could not tell , which was to me sad greeting ; But presently she herd my voice , and called me at her Window , Oh I would come to thee my love , but Doors and Locks do hinder . Whereat amazed I did stand , to hear her make that answer , I drew my sword into my hand , and straight the House did enter : And then I made the Locks to fly , and Doors in pieces shatter , I vowed to have her company , and quickly I came at her . The second Part , to the same tune . H Er Uncle and some of his Men , did after present follow , Who said I never should out again , but in my blood should wallow ; But with some hurt done on both sides , I god my Sweetheart from them : Youngmen to get your selves such brides , fight for to overcome them . Then joined we hands , in Hymens bans , to love and live together , She loved me not for House or Lands , for I had none of either ; Her Love was pure , and does endure , and so shall mine for ever , Till death does us so much injure , to part us from each other . With hand and heart , I will impart , the praise of my dear Sweating , Now welcome joys , and farewell smart , blessed be the time of meeting : With my Sweetheart , and only Dear , in whom is all my pleasure , The like of her does not appear , she is so blessed a creature . O happy is that time and hour , that e'r I saw thy feature , Sure heavens bliss on me did shour , to send me such a Creature ; She is so pleasing to my Eye , the like was never any , She's virtuous . wise , and very kind , she far surpasses many . Her comely Feature may compare , with any in Town or City , For courtesy she is most rare , likewise she's full of pity : No virtue that can give content , in all that hear her praises , But God to her the same hath lent , whereby her Glory raises . Her golden Locks like threads of gold , her eyes like Stars do glister , Her Cheeks like Rose and Lily fold , she may be Venus Sister : She hath a dimple in her Chin , her neck shines like the Crystal . The like hath seldom times been seen , she seems so Celestial . Her Arms and Shoulders are complete her breast like Alabaster , Her Wast and Middle is so neat , there's none that can surpass her , Her Eloquents gives such content in all that hear her praises , That freely they'll give their consent , and yield her Earthly praises . Her Lily hands are at command , to do me any service , And quickly she will understand , a matter whatsoever it is : If I bid go she will not stay , to work me a displeasure . But presently she goes away , and is not this a treasure ? Her parts below i'll not descry , for they are very neat ones , A dainty Foot , a Leg , and Thigh , as can be made of flesh and bones : She is so perfect in her parts , that many were inflamed ; On her they wholly set their hearts , and at her fully aimed . Thus to conclude and end my Song , I wish well to the Female , Or else I should do them much wrong , and prove my self a telltale . Youngmen adieu , prove not untrue , unto your only Sweating ; Observe your time , you need not rue , nor curse the time of meeting . P rinted for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . A Constant Wife , and a Kind Wife , A Loving Wife , and a Fine Wife , Which gives content unto men life . To the Tune of , Locks and Bolts do hinder . Y Oung-men and Maids lend me your aids , to speak of my dear Sweating It shows how Fortune hath betrayed , and often spoiled our meeting : She likely was for to be rich , and I a man but meanly , Wherefore her friends at me do grutch , and use me most unkindly . Her constancy I will declare , wherein she proved loyal , But few that will with her compare , when they are put to trial , Her friends against her did contend , because she lent me favour , They said I quickly all would spend , if that I might but have her . They did convey her from my sighed , because she should exempt me , I could not find my hearts delight , which soar did discontent me : I traveled over craggy Rocks , over Mountains , Hills , and Valleys , But she was kept from me with locks , only through spite and malice . But Love that conquers Kings & amp ; Queen's , herein did show us favour , I brought to pass , and wrought the means , in what place I could have her : She had and Uncle did detain , and kept her person from me , Which I had very like to have slave , because he did so wrong me . I boldly came where she did dwell , and asked for my Sweating , They said of her they could not tell , which was to me sad greeting ; But presently she herd my voice , and called me at her Window , Oh I would come to thee my love , but Doors and Locks do hinder . Whereat amazed I did stand , to hear her make that answer , I drew my sword into my hand , and straight the House did enter : And then I made the Locks to fly , and Doors in pieces shatter , I vowed to have her company , and quickly I came at her . The second Part , to the same tune . H Er Uncle and some of his Men , did after present follow , Who said I never should out again , but in my blood should wallow ; But with some hurt done on both sides , I god my Sweetheart from them : Youngmen to get your selves such brides , fight for to overcome them . Then joined we hands , in Hymens bans , to love and live together , She loved me not for House or Lands , for I had none of either ; Her Love was pure , and does endure , and so shall mine for ever , Till death does us so much injure , to part us from each other . With hand and heart , I will impart , the praise of my dear Sweating , Now welcome joys , and farewell smart , blessed be the time of meeting : With my Sweetheart , and only Dear , in whom is all my pleasure , The like of her does not appear , she is so blessed a creature . O happy is that time and hour , that e'r I saw thy feature , Sure heavens bliss on me did shour , to send me such a Creature ; She is so pleasing to my Eye , the like was never any , She's virtuous . wise , and very kind , she far surpasses many . Her comely Feature may compare , with any in Town or City , For courtesy she is most rare , likewise she's full of pity : No virtue that can give content , in all that hear her praises , But God to her the same hath lent , whereby her Glory raises . Her golden Locks like threads of gold , her eyes like Stars do glister , Her Cheeks like Rose and Lily fold , she may be Venus Sister : She hath a dimple in her Chin , her neck shines like the Crystal . The like hath seldom times been seen , she seems so Celestial . Her Arms and Shoulders are complete her breast like Alabaster , Her Wast and Middle is so neat , there's none that can surpass her , Her Eloquents gives such content in all that hear her praises , That freely they'll give their consent , and yield her Earthly praises . Her Lily hands are at command , to do me any service , And quickly she will understand , a matter whatsoever it is : If I bid go she will not stay , to work me a displeasure . But presently she goes away , and is not this a treasure ? Her parts below i'll not descry , for they are very neat ones , A dainty Foot , a Leg , and Thigh , as can be made of flesh and bones : She is so perfect in her parts , that many were inflamed ; On her they wholly set their hearts , and at her fully aimed . Thus to conclude and end my Song , I wish well to the Female , Or else I should do them much wrong , and prove my self a telltale . Youngmen adieu , prove not untrue , unto your only Sweating ; Observe your time , you need not rue , nor curse the time of meeting . P rinted for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . 