Man's Filicity and Misery , Which is a good Wife and a bad ; Or , the best and the worst . Discoursed in a Dialogue between Edmund and David . The Tune is , I have for all good Wives a Song . Edmund . K Ind Cozen David prithee stay , Good news to thee I will bewray , Since last I saw thee I am married , Now things with me are better carried , I dare say that which no man can : I have the best Wife that ever had Man David . I am right joyful Cozen Ned To hear that thou so well hast sped , As thou mayest thy good fortune bless , I may curse mine unhappiness : My torments none on Earth can scan , I have the worst Wife that ever had man Edmund . My Wife for Beauty bears the name , From all the town from whence she came , For shape she might a Lady be , And so say all that ever her see Her middle I can easily span , She is the best Wife etc David . My wife so loathsome is to view She every morning makes me spew , For person she's scarce good enough To cry , maids would , you any kitchen stuff She shines like a Drippingpan , Oh she's the worst Wife , etc Edmund . My Wife is affable and meek , To please my fancy she does seek , My Humour she will never thwart , But do my will with all my heart , We use no worse words but Ned , & amp ; Nan She is the best , etc David . My wife is obstinate and froward , She's sullen , peevish and untoward : She's glad at heart when she can find , Occasion to molest my mind : She'l have her will do what I can , Oh she's the worst Wife , etc Edmund . My Wife is careful of her charge , She never romes abroad at Large , Her business she will never neglect , But bring all things to good effect , She's to her Babes a Pelican , She is the best Wife , etc David . M Y wife amongst her Gossips does gad , As though nothing to doe she had , The Children go undrest all the day Unless I put on their Array , I'm fain to make what shift I can : Oh she's the worst Wife , etc Edmund . My Wife for constant chastity , Is like Lucrece or Penelope : She is so weary in her carriage , That if a kiss would wrong her marriage , No man could get the favour than , She is the best , etc David . My wife is full of merry trix , She hath been nought with five or six ; If she can but get me out of door , Ever I come in she'l play the whore , She'l say though I cant others can , Oh she's the worst , [ etc ] Edmund . My wife so cleanly is and neat , She adds a sweetness to my meat , I eat when I no stomach have , Because this done as I do crave ; In sickness she is my best Physician , She is the best , etc David . My wife is such a beastly Slut , Unless it be and Egg or a Nut , I in the house dare nothing eat , For fear there's poison in the meat The Dogs do lick both Dish and Pan ; Oh she's the worst , etc Edmund . My wife will wear no yellow hose , No wench can make her swell i'th nose She knows that I to her am just , And in my faith she puts her trust ; She'l not be vexed say what I can She is the best , etc David . If I upon a Woman look , My Wife will swear upon a Book , That she is certainly my whore , Though I never saw the woman before She'l claw her eyes out if she can : Oh she's the worst , etc Edmund . My Wife will never follow me . Go where I will at home stays she , Though I from morn to night do room , She smiling bids me welcome home , This makes me haste home to my Nan , She is the best , etc David . If I unto the Alehouse go To drink a jug of Beer , or so , Though never so fast I thither high , My Wife is there as soon as I : If me and my friends she'l curse & amp ; ban O she's the worst , etc . Edmund . If any friends comes home to me , M y Wife gives entertainment free , But out of doors she will not stir , Unless I go along with her , She scrapes and saves what ever she can She is the best , etc David . M y Wife will at the Alehouse fit , And waste away both money and wit , Nay rather then she'l lack , She'l fell the Smock from of her back She'l steal from me all that she can : Oh she's the worst , etc . Edmund . Kind Cozen David I am very sorry To hear thee tell so bad a story M arriage and hanging now I see , Goes as they say by destiny , I would thou couldst say as I can : I have the best Wife that ever had Man. David . I thank you Cozen for your good will Long may your blessings continue still M y Cross I must with patience bear Till God or the Devil end my care And thus I end as I began , I have the worst Wife that ever had man , Author . You Wives who have herd this discourse Now show who is better & amp ; who is worse . The best will freely buy this Song , The worst will show she hath a tongue : The head's soon broken that is scaled , And Jades will kick if they be galled . P rinted for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. P [ assinger ] . Man's Filicity and Misery , Which is a good Wife and a bad ; Or , the best and the worst . Discoursed in a Dialogue between Edmund and David . The Tune is , I have for all good Wives a Song . Edmund . K Ind Cozen David prithee stay , Good news to thee I will bewray , Since last I saw thee I am married , Now things with me are better carried , I dare say that which no man can : I have the best Wife that ever had Man David . I am right joyful Cozen Ned To hear that thou so well hast sped , As thou mayest thy good fortune bless , I may curse mine unhappiness : My torments none on Earth can scan , I have the worst Wife that ever had man Edmund . My Wife for Beauty bears the name , From all the town from whence she came , For shape she might a Lady be , And so say all that ever her see Her middle I can easily span , She is the best Wife etc David . My wife so loathsome is to view She every morning makes me spew , For person she's scarce good enough To cry , maids would , you any kitchen stuff She shines like a Drippingpan , Oh she's the worst Wife , etc Edmund . My Wife is affable and meek , To please my fancy she does seek , My Humour she will never thwart , But do my will with all my heart , We use no worse words but Ned , & amp ; Nan She is the best , etc David . My wife is obstinate and froward , She's sullen , peevish and untoward : She's glad at heart when she can find , Occasion to molest my mind : She'l have her will do what I can , Oh she's the worst Wife , etc Edmund . My Wife is careful of her charge , She never romes abroad at Large , Her business she will never neglect , But bring all things to good effect , She's to her Babes a Pelican , She is the best Wife , etc David . M Y wife amongst her Gossips does gad , As though nothing to doe she had , The Children go undrest all the day Unless I put on their Array , I'm fain to make what shift I can : Oh she's the worst Wife , etc Edmund . My Wife for constant chastity , Is like Lucrece or Penelope : She is so weary in her carriage , That if a kiss would wrong her marriage , No man could get the favour than , She is the best , etc David . My wife is full of merry trix , She hath been nought with five or six ; If she can but get me out of door , Ever I come in she'l play the whore , She'l say though I cant others can , Oh she's the worst , [ etc ] Edmund . My wife so cleanly is and neat , She adds a sweetness to my meat , I eat when I no stomach have , Because this done as I do crave ; In sickness she is my best Physician , She is the best , etc David . My wife is such a beastly Slut , Unless it be and Egg or a Nut , I in the house dare nothing eat , For fear there's poison in the meat The Dogs do lick both Dish and Pan ; Oh she's the worst , etc Edmund . My wife will wear no yellow hose , No wench can make her swell i'th nose She knows that I to her am just , And in my faith she puts her trust ; She'l not be vexed say what I can She is the best , etc David . If I upon a Woman look , My Wife will swear upon a Book , That she is certainly my whore , Though I never saw the woman before She'l claw her eyes out if she can : Oh she's the worst , etc Edmund . My Wife will never follow me . Go where I will at home stays she , Though I from morn to night do room , She smiling bids me welcome home , This makes me haste home to my Nan , She is the best , etc David . If I unto the Alehouse go To drink a jug of Beer , or so , Though never so fast I thither high , My Wife is there as soon as I : If me and my friends she'l curse & amp ; ban O she's the worst , etc . Edmund . If any friends comes home to me , M y Wife gives entertainment free , But out of doors she will not stir , Unless I go along with her , She scrapes and saves what ever she can She is the best , etc David . M y Wife will at the Alehouse fit , And waste away both money and wit , Nay rather then she'l lack , She'l fell the Smock from of her back She'l steal from me all that she can : Oh she's the worst , etc . Edmund . Kind Cozen David I am very sorry To hear thee tell so bad a story M arriage and hanging now I see , Goes as they say by destiny , I would thou couldst say as I can : I have the best Wife that ever had Man. David . I thank you Cozen for your good will Long may your blessings continue still M y Cross I must with patience bear Till God or the Devil end my care And thus I end as I began , I have the worst Wife that ever had man , Author . You Wives who have herd this discourse Now show who is better & amp ; who is worse . The best will freely buy this Song , The worst will show she hath a tongue : The head's soon broken that is scaled , And Jades will kick if they be galled . P rinted for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. P [ assinger ] . 