ADVICE To Young Gentlemen ; OR , And Answer to the LADIES of LONDON , To the Tune of , The Ladies of London . This may be Printed , R. P. A Ll Jolly Blades that Inhabit the Town , And with the fair Sex are contriving , From the Gay Fop , to the honest bred Clown , be advised to resolve against Wiving ; Let not a prospect of Pleasure delude , where so many Plagues are attending , For it's the Nature of Wives to Obtrude , and Misery's heap without ending First , have a care of the Lady precise , who exclaims against Drinking and Roaring , That privately turns up the Whites of her Eyes and in public abominates Whoring : But if you Coach her a mile out of Town and quote her but Solomon ' s Vices ; With a slight trip you may tumble her down , though seeming she modestly nice is . Let no City-Girl your Freedom beguile , shee'l cheat you with modest behaviour , Who sits like a Rabbit trust up for to boil , and swears she's a Maid by her Saviour : But if you cunningly manage your Plot , you'll quickly be admitted under ; Her coy behaviour will soon be forgotten , shee'l breath out her Soul in a slumber . The Widow avoid where Policy lurks pretending to act by her Conscience That's black as the Devil and large as a Turk's shee'l tease you to Death with her Nonsense : But if you love her and long for a Bout , you never must stand mincing the matter , Brush her with Jollity briskly about , and down with your Britches and at her . Let not the Country wench that is coy , insinuate into your favour For when she knows what it is to enjoy she quickly will change her behaviour : Turn and insatiate Miss of the Town , to purchase Gallants shee'l endeavour ; Pawn from her Carcase her Paragon Gown to maintain the courteous Pleasure . But if your Vigor a Wife does require and will not admit of forbearing ; Any may serve for to quench your desire , ther's no Barrel the better Herring . When you have tied the true Lovers Knot it's one of the Curses depending To Father a brood you never half god , without any further contending . When the Wives brought a Bed , lest the Cuckold grow mad the Midwife she makes and Oration And cries the poor Infant is so like the Dad it's worthy of your Observation ; While the good Woman is pleased in her heart to hear them so Err in their chatting , Knowing her Husband and she was apart when Bully , the Boy was a getting . Now how to avoid so heavy a Curse , I do like a Brother advice you , Never to take her for better for worse , if you do , by my troth you're a Nisey , For you without may get her consent and never make half that Puther Then when she's false , or her Portion is spent you may change and make choice of another . LONDON . Printed for J. Back , at the Black Boy near the Draw-Bridge on London-Bridge . ADVICE To Young Gentlemen ; OR , And Answer to the LADIES of LONDON , To the Tune of , The Ladies of London . This may be Printed , R. P. A Ll Jolly Blades that Inhabit the Town , And with the fair Sex are contriving , From the Gay Fop , to the honest bred Clown , be advised to resolve against Wiving ; Let not a prospect of Pleasure delude , where so many Plagues are attending , For it's the Nature of Wives to Obtrude , and Misery's heap without ending First , have a care of the Lady precise , who exclaims against Drinking and Roaring , That privately turns up the Whites of her Eyes and in public abominates Whoring : But if you Coach her a mile out of Town and quote her but Solomon ' s Vices ; With a slight trip you may tumble her down , though seeming she modestly nice is . Let no City-Girl your Freedom beguile , shee'l cheat you with modest behaviour , Who sits like a Rabbit trust up for to boil , and swears she's a Maid by her Saviour : But if you cunningly manage your Plot , you'll quickly be admitted under ; Her coy behaviour will soon be forgotten , shee'l breath out her Soul in a slumber . The Widow avoid where Policy lurks pretending to act by her Conscience That's black as the Devil and large as a Turk's shee'l tease you to Death with her Nonsense : But if you love her and long for a Bout , you never must stand mincing the matter , Brush her with Jollity briskly about , and down with your Britches and at her . Let not the Country wench that is coy , insinuate into your favour For when she knows what it is to enjoy she quickly will change her behaviour : Turn and insatiate Miss of the Town , to purchase Gallants shee'l endeavour ; Pawn from her Carcase her Paragon Gown to maintain the courteous Pleasure . But if your Vigor a Wife does require and will not admit of forbearing ; Any may serve for to quench your desire , ther's no Barrel the better Herring . When you have tied the true Lovers Knot it's one of the Curses depending To Father a brood you never half god , without any further contending . When the Wives brought a Bed , lest the Cuckold grow mad the Midwife she makes and Oration And cries the poor Infant is so like the Dad it's worthy of your Observation ; While the good Woman is pleased in her heart to hear them so Err in their chatting , Knowing her Husband and she was apart when Bully , the Boy was a getting . Now how to avoid so heavy a Curse , I do like a Brother advice you , Never to take her for better for worse , if you do , by my troth you're a Nisey , For you without may get her consent and never make half that Puther Then when she's false , or her Portion is spent you may change and make choice of another . LONDON . Printed for J. Back , at the Black Boy near the Draw-Bridge on London-Bridge . 