THE Merry Maid of Shoreditch , Her Resolution and Good Counsel to all her Fellow Maids ; And says that she will never tie her self to a Crab-Tree so long as she has a whole Wood to Range in . The Tune is , I have a Mistress of my own : Or , Hold Buckle and Thong together . Y Ou young Maids all , where ever you be , I pray you now come hear this ditty , And I hope you will agree , you cannot say but it is pretty : I've lived a Maid these twenty years , and never was not Youngman's Debtor , Men are so full of Lies and jears , that a single Life it is the better . A Youngman will woo a pretty Maid , and Swear , and Lie , and say he'l have her , Until he hath her heart betrayed , to get his will and so to leave her : But young Maids you must be very wise , for youngmen they will you infetter , They strive to make of you a prize , but a single L ife it is the better . For while a Maid does keep unwedd , young men will give to her great honour , But if she chance to bring a Knave to her Bed , then he'l not care what does come on her : But get her Children year by year , and cross and vex , and strive to fret her , For a Married Wife's never out of care , a single Life it is the better . While a Maid lives a single life , she may fit and talk with any stranger , But after she is made a Wife if she do the like there is great danger ; So maids if you can be content , be not drawn into a youngman's fetter , lest afterwards you do repent , then to live single it is better . TO Here is many a Maid that hath been wed , both in Country , Town and City , To careless Husbands , I am afraid , which grieves their wives , the more's the pity Therefore young Maids let's have a care , and believe no lies that youngmen flatter , They spare no words they can devise , but a single Life it is the better . Youngmen will show great store of Love , and have young maids drink wine and sherry , And their hearts do within as rotten prove , to give you drink to overcome you : The Devil himself is not so false as some men be , I will not Flatter , To bring a maiden to their Bow , but a single Life it is the better . So Maidens that do live i'th row , you must be careful of this matter , I'de have you all for to do so , and believe no youngmen when they Flatter , Beside they sweeten you up so brave , with sugared kisses that will fetter , And another thing if you will it have , but a single Life it is more better . There's scarce a youngman that is in ten , that will prove Loyal to a Maiden , But will prate and lie , and clog and feign , as though his heart with Love was laden , But will dissemble more or less , for to stand him when he charged , And so undoes that silly Lass , and then her trouble is enlarged . Young Maidens all look tooed in time , when as you go for to Marry , Besure to choose and honest man , or else you'd better longer tarry ; For and honest man will never you wrong , but a Knave will be to you a fretter , It is quickly done , and long thought on , for to live single you had better . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Sign of the Angel in guilt - Spur-Street without Newgate . THE Merry Maid of Shoreditch , Her Resolution and Good Counsel to all her Fellow Maids ; And says that she will never tie her self to a Crab-Tree so long as she has a whole Wood to Range in . The Tune is , I have a Mistress of my own : Or , Hold Buckle and Thong together . Y Ou young Maids all , where ever you be , I pray you now come hear this ditty , And I hope you will agree , you cannot say but it is pretty : I've lived a Maid these twenty years , and never was not Youngman's Debtor , Men are so full of Lies and jears , that a single Life it is the better . A Youngman will woo a pretty Maid , and Swear , and Lie , and say he'l have her , Until he hath her heart betrayed , to get his will and so to leave her : But young Maids you must be very wise , for youngmen they will you infetter , They strive to make of you a prize , but a single L ife it is the better . For while a Maid does keep unwedd , young men will give to her great honour , But if she chance to bring a Knave to her Bed , then he'l not care what does come on her : But get her Children year by year , and cross and vex , and strive to fret her , For a Married Wife's never out of care , a single Life it is the better . While a Maid lives a single life , she may fit and talk with any stranger , But after she is made a Wife if she do the like there is great danger ; So maids if you can be content , be not drawn into a youngman's fetter , lest afterwards you do repent , then to live single it is better . TO Here is many a Maid that hath been wed , both in Country , Town and City , To careless Husbands , I am afraid , which grieves their wives , the more's the pity Therefore young Maids let's have a care , and believe no lies that youngmen flatter , They spare no words they can devise , but a single Life it is the better . Youngmen will show great store of Love , and have young maids drink wine and sherry , And their hearts do within as rotten prove , to give you drink to overcome you : The Devil himself is not so false as some men be , I will not Flatter , To bring a maiden to their Bow , but a single Life it is the better . So Maidens that do live i'th row , you must be careful of this matter , I'de have you all for to do so , and believe no youngmen when they Flatter , Beside they sweeten you up so brave , with sugared kisses that will fetter , And another thing if you will it have , but a single Life it is more better . There's scarce a youngman that is in ten , that will prove Loyal to a Maiden , But will prate and lie , and clog and feign , as though his heart with Love was laden , But will dissemble more or less , for to stand him when he charged , And so undoes that silly Lass , and then her trouble is enlarged . Young Maidens all look tooed in time , when as you go for to Marry , Besure to choose and honest man , or else you'd better longer tarry ; For and honest man will never you wrong , but a Knave will be to you a fretter , It is quickly done , and long thought on , for to live single you had better . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Sign of the Angel in guilt - Spur-Street without Newgate . 