The Countrymans care in choosing a Wife : OR , A young Bachelor hard to be pleased . A wife he'l have , yet will be sure to choose One that he loves , the rest he does refuse ; And many sorts of Maids , he by hath passed , Being all unfit for him ; until at last Upon a Farmers daughter he does pitch , That's a good Huswife , virtuous , neat , and Rich : Tune of , I'll have one I love , etc Or , The Yellow-haired Laddy . I Am a brisk Youngster , and fain would be Wed , And have a good Wife , for to please me in Bed : But I fear that in choosing , she should me beguile : Then i'll have one I love , though I live the less while . I'll not have a Girl that is bred at the Court , For fear she be given to wanton and sport : On every Gallant she's apt for to smile , Then i'll have , etc A Citizens Daughter I dare not to take , The steps of her Mother she'l never forsake : She'l make me look out , you may see them a mile , Then i'll have , etc No maker of Buttons , nor yet of Bonelace , Shall ever be my Love , though I die on the place : Although they do mince it , and simper and smile ; Yet i'll have one I love , though I live the less while . M Y Hostesses Daughter she must be denied , Because that I fear she hath often been tried : Be sure she would fit me , at Hedge , or at Style , But i'll have one I love , though I live the less while . She that hath much Suitors , and's loath to be wone ; And many a Youngman she perhaps hath undone : It is not her cunning that shall me beguile , For i'll have , etc A Wench that's imperious , and strives for to rule ; If that I should take her , you'd count me a Fool : She would make my Noddle as soar as a Bite , But i'll have , etc And she that is proud , and hath nought to begin , I would not for such a one , give a Sleeves Pin : As soon as a better , my Bed she'l defile , Then i'll have , etc I'll not have a Cook-Maid , for she is too black , And when she does sweat , her Smock sticks to her Back : She'l scold and she'l brawl you may hear her a mile : But i'll have , etc The Lass that is fair , to be sure she is proud , And she that is little , you know she is loud , Against a good Husband , they're apt to revile , Then i'll have , etc But now for to tell you the depth of my mind , A Rich Farmers Daughter , I have in the Wind , For her I will Ride , if it be forty mile , And i'll have , etc It's she is my Betty my Dear and delight , Who hath my affections , by day and by night : To her I will go , and i'll make her to smile , For i'll have my own Love , though I live the less while . Printed for P. Brooksby , in West-smithfield . The Countrymans care in choosing a Wife : OR , A young Bachelor hard to be pleased . A wife he'l have , yet will be sure to choose One that he loves , the rest he does refuse ; And many sorts of Maids , he by hath passed , Being all unfit for him ; until at last Upon a Farmers daughter he does pitch , That's a good Huswife , virtuous , neat , and Rich : Tune of , I'll have one I love , etc Or , The Yellow-haired Laddy . I Am a brisk Youngster , and fain would be Wed , And have a good Wife , for to please me in Bed : But I fear that in choosing , she should me beguile : Then i'll have one I love , though I live the less while . I'll not have a Girl that is bred at the Court , For fear she be given to wanton and sport : On every Gallant she's apt for to smile , Then i'll have , etc A Citizens Daughter I dare not to take , The steps of her Mother she'l never forsake : She'l make me look out , you may see them a mile , Then i'll have , etc No maker of Buttons , nor yet of Bonelace , Shall ever be my Love , though I die on the place : Although they do mince it , and simper and smile ; Yet i'll have one I love , though I live the less while . M Y Hostesses Daughter she must be denied , Because that I fear she hath often been tried : Be sure she would fit me , at Hedge , or at Style , But i'll have one I love , though I live the less while . She that hath much Suitors , and's loath to be wone ; And many a Youngman she perhaps hath undone : It is not her cunning that shall me beguile , For i'll have , etc A Wench that's imperious , and strives for to rule ; If that I should take her , you'd count me a Fool : She would make my Noddle as soar as a Bite , But i'll have , etc And she that is proud , and hath nought to begin , I would not for such a one , give a Sleeves Pin : As soon as a better , my Bed she'l defile , Then i'll have , etc I'll not have a Cook-Maid , for she is too black , And when she does sweat , her Smock sticks to her Back : She'l scold and she'l brawl you may hear her a mile : But i'll have , etc The Lass that is fair , to be sure she is proud , And she that is little , you know she is loud , Against a good Husband , they're apt to revile , Then i'll have , etc But now for to tell you the depth of my mind , A Rich Farmers Daughter , I have in the Wind , For her I will Ride , if it be forty mile , And i'll have , etc It's she is my Betty my Dear and delight , Who hath my affections , by day and by night : To her I will go , and i'll make her to smile , For i'll have my own Love , though I live the less while . Printed for P. Brooksby , in West-smithfield . 