Hold Buckle and Thong together , OR , A pretty New Dialogue Between a New Married Man and his Wife , Showing the beginning and end of their strife , He shows how well it befits her to consider , How to hold Buckle and Thong together . Tune of , She cannot keep her , etc A Youngman and a pretty Maid , lately were in Wedlock joined , Unto the Bride one day he said : ( as one that by Gate repined . ) Husband . My dear heart now we are Wed , it will behove us to consider , I must forecast in my head , how to hold buckle and Thong together . Wife . Sweet Love , quoth she , take thou no care I have a Portion to maintain thee , Do not thou of means despair , nor let foolish fancy pain thee . Eat , drink , and sleep , make frolic cheer , and take no thought for wind nor weather , I fifty pounds have by the year , to hold Bucle , etc Husband . O sweet Honey , be not thou of this careless disposition : This fit we should consider how , for hard times , to make Provision . Were thy Estate twelve times more , we have many friends come hither : Let's cast as I have said before , how to hold Buckle , etc Wife . Dear Husband now I find , where about your shoe does wring you , Fie upon this greedy mind , it will to endless trouble bring you , What if we have now and then , a friend or two that does come hither , Yet I do know both how and when , to hold Buckle , etc Husband . Prithee Wife , be thou not vexed , at my careful admonition : I have cause to be perplexed seeing thy free disposition ; All we may we must not spend , Fortune changes like the weather , All the care is in the end to bring Buckle , etc Wife : Husband , Husband , fie for shame , I will not disgrace my kindred ; At the house from whence I came , Strangers they were never hindered : And shall I so sparing be , when my dearest friends come hither , Still to yield account to thee , of holding Buckle , etc Husband . W Ife you are to male-part , I expect from your fair speeches , Wertenberg thou better then thou art , yet thou shalt not wear the breeches , What I said , I'll say once more , that it's fit we should consider , It'll be hard between us twain , to hold Buckle and Thong together , Wife . Well , well Husband , be content , do not halt before a Cripple : I for my part pay house-rent , and maintain household People , Yet shall I be curbed so , when I would go any whither , That out of doors I must not go , for holding Buckle , etc Husband . What was thine Wife , now is mine , therefore with it do not twit me , When in love we did Combine , and my humour well did fit me ; But now I find that with the wind , thy mind does waver like a feather , Therefore I'll put thee in mind , to keep Buckle , etc Wife . What inconstancy sweet Mate , hast thou ever found in my carriage ? Sure I was unfortunate , when I linked with thee in Marriage , That thou shouldst control me too , when I travel any whither , I as well as thee do know how to keep Buckle , etc Husband . Wife do not thou my words mistake , all this while I but chide thee , Though I wish thee to forsake what may cast my love beside thee : Give thy mind to thriftiness , reap times crop before it whither , So we may prevent distress , and hold Buckle and Thong together . Wife . Husband , pray what is't you mean , I not well understand you : From what things would you me wean , I in reason do demand you : Do I spend or wast your Money , upon Gallants that come hither , Show your cause if you have any , why we should not thrive together , Husband . Wife if thou dost mean to thrive , thou must rise in the morning early , And see the Maids their bucks to drive , and to winnow Oats and Barley : To the Dary thou must look , least Maids bring their sweet hearts thither If this frugal course be be took , we may hold Buckle , etc Wife . Fie , sweet heart , you shame your self , take the Distaff , Rock and Spindle Out upon't that wordly pelf , should such thoughts in men kindle , I a quot quean cannot abide , nor a jealous Miser neither , Yet let truth be rightly tried I'll keep both Buckle , etc Husband . Be not angry pretty Duck , nor much misconstrue my just saying , I am not tied to worldly muck nor much fear my state decaying Neither truly do I call thy name in question , yet consider , That it does behove us all to hold Buckle , etc Wife . Come , come Husband , it's in vain , thus have found toys to wrangle ; I to thee will true remain , no strange snares shall me entangle , Let a kiss conclude our strife , in spite of Fortune's clouded weather , Thou as Husband , I as Wife , will keep Buckle and Thong together , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . Hold Buckle and Thong together , OR , A pretty New Dialogue Between a New Married Man and his Wife , Showing the beginning and end of their strife , He shows how well it befits her to consider , How to hold Buckle and Thong together . Tune of , She cannot keep her , etc A Youngman and a pretty Maid , lately were in Wedlock joined , Unto the Bride one day he said : ( as one that by Gate repined . ) Husband . My dear heart now we are Wed , it will behove us to consider , I must forecast in my head , how to hold buckle and Thong together . Wife . Sweet Love , quoth she , take thou no care I have a Portion to maintain thee , Do not thou of means despair , nor let foolish fancy pain thee . Eat , drink , and sleep , make frolic cheer , and take no thought for wind nor weather , I fifty pounds have by the year , to hold Bucle , etc Husband . O sweet Honey , be not thou of this careless disposition : This fit we should consider how , for hard times , to make Provision . Were thy Estate twelve times more , we have many friends come hither : Let's cast as I have said before , how to hold Buckle , etc Wife . Dear Husband now I find , where about your shoe does wring you , Fie upon this greedy mind , it will to endless trouble bring you , What if we have now and then , a friend or two that does come hither , Yet I do know both how and when , to hold Buckle , etc Husband . Prithee Wife , be thou not vexed , at my careful admonition : I have cause to be perplexed seeing thy free disposition ; All we may we must not spend , Fortune changes like the weather , All the care is in the end to bring Buckle , etc Wife : Husband , Husband , fie for shame , I will not disgrace my kindred ; At the house from whence I came , Strangers they were never hindered : And shall I so sparing be , when my dearest friends come hither , Still to yield account to thee , of holding Buckle , etc Husband . W Ife you are to male-part , I expect from your fair speeches , Wertenberg thou better then thou art , yet thou shalt not wear the breeches , What I said , I'll say once more , that it's fit we should consider , It'll be hard between us twain , to hold Buckle and Thong together , Wife . Well , well Husband , be content , do not halt before a Cripple : I for my part pay house-rent , and maintain household People , Yet shall I be curbed so , when I would go any whither , That out of doors I must not go , for holding Buckle , etc Husband . What was thine Wife , now is mine , therefore with it do not twit me , When in love we did Combine , and my humour well did fit me ; But now I find that with the wind , thy mind does waver like a feather , Therefore I'll put thee in mind , to keep Buckle , etc Wife . What inconstancy sweet Mate , hast thou ever found in my carriage ? Sure I was unfortunate , when I linked with thee in Marriage , That thou shouldst control me too , when I travel any whither , I as well as thee do know how to keep Buckle , etc Husband . Wife do not thou my words mistake , all this while I but chide thee , Though I wish thee to forsake what may cast my love beside thee : Give thy mind to thriftiness , reap times crop before it whither , So we may prevent distress , and hold Buckle and Thong together . Wife . Husband , pray what is't you mean , I not well understand you : From what things would you me wean , I in reason do demand you : Do I spend or wast your Money , upon Gallants that come hither , Show your cause if you have any , why we should not thrive together , Husband . Wife if thou dost mean to thrive , thou must rise in the morning early , And see the Maids their bucks to drive , and to winnow Oats and Barley : To the Dary thou must look , least Maids bring their sweet hearts thither If this frugal course be be took , we may hold Buckle , etc Wife . Fie , sweet heart , you shame your self , take the Distaff , Rock and Spindle Out upon't that wordly pelf , should such thoughts in men kindle , I a quot quean cannot abide , nor a jealous Miser neither , Yet let truth be rightly tried I'll keep both Buckle , etc Husband . Be not angry pretty Duck , nor much misconstrue my just saying , I am not tied to worldly muck nor much fear my state decaying Neither truly do I call thy name in question , yet consider , That it does behove us all to hold Buckle , etc Wife . Come , come Husband , it's in vain , thus have found toys to wrangle ; I to thee will true remain , no strange snares shall me entangle , Let a kiss conclude our strife , in spite of Fortune's clouded weather , Thou as Husband , I as Wife , will keep Buckle and Thong together , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 