The Jolly Widower : OR , A Warning for BATCHELORS . Lest they marry with a Shrow , and so become impatient under the pain and punishment of a Hornified Headpiece . Now he that marrys with a shrow , believe me this is true , Over her Husband she will crow , ay , and cornute him too . To the Tune of , Caper and jerkit . Y Oung-Men and Bachelors , pray attend unto my doleful Tale , It is to you that these lines I send , in hope's they may prevail With you , to take a special care , when ever you mean to wed , For if that a Shrow , should over you crow , then , then all thy joys are fled . Alas ! by woeful experience now , I know this too be true , I am forced for to cringe and bow , and yet all will not do : For being married unto a Scold , my joys they are fully fled , Which makes me to cry so sorrowfully , I would I had never been wed . When I was single i'de rant and roar , and court the charming bowl , Both Silver and Gold I had good store , and none could me control : But now the case is altered quite , I now am to ruin led , The Horns that I wear , does make me despair I would I had never been wed . When Gallants do come for to court my wife , my patience then is tried , I dare not spoke nor look for my life , but glad to sneak aside , And forced to lie in some corner cold , that they may both go to bed , This I must endure , since there is no cure , I would I had never been wed . His Boots I am forced to clean and grease , against this blade does rise , It's true , I do it , in hope's to please , but this would not suffice , For if I do not liquour them well , she'l fling them at my head , My grief is so great , no tongue can relate , I would I had never been wed . She will be clothed in rich array , her Ribbons , Muff and Fan , And goes a Gossiping e'ry day , but I alas poor Man , Must drudge and toil in a threadbare coat , and glad of a crust of bred , But she has the best of delicates dressed , I would I had never been wed . She calls me up in the morning , then I must a fire make Against she rises at nine or ten , yet I no notice take : But bear it all , what ever may fallen it is but in vain to dread This sorrowful lot , a wife I have god , but would I had never been wed . She makes a fool and a perfect mome of me , alas , it's true , I wash the Dishes when I come home , and Scour the Irons too : Nay , wash the clouts and clean her shoes , before I must go to bed , Now this is the life , I led with a wife , I would I had never been wed . Against her humours I never reviled , though she did rant and reign , I often rocked another men child , though much against the grain : All this I must do , and ten times more , or else she will break my head , The three-legged stool , my courage must cool , I would I had never been wed . At length she sickened , and soon she died , this did my grief destroy , I never so much as sighed or cried , but leapt and jumped for joy : I bought her a Coffin large and long , to put her in now she is dead , She is gone to the grave , and I shall be brave , i'll have a care how I do wed . Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-glass , on London-Bridge . The Jolly Widower : OR , A Warning for BATCHELORS . Lest they marry with a Shrow , and so become impatient under the pain and punishment of a Hornified Headpiece . Now he that marrys with a shrow , believe me this is true , Over her Husband she will crow , ay , and cornute him too . To the Tune of , Caper and jerkit . Y Oung-Men and Bachelors , pray attend unto my doleful Tale , It is to you that these lines I send , in hope's they may prevail With you , to take a special care , when ever you mean to wed , For if that a Shrow , should over you crow , then , then all thy joys are fled . Alas ! by woeful experience now , I know this too be true , I am forced for to cringe and bow , and yet all will not do : For being married unto a Scold , my joys they are fully fled , Which makes me to cry so sorrowfully , I would I had never been wed . When I was single i'de rant and roar , and court the charming bowl , Both Silver and Gold I had good store , and none could me control : But now the case is altered quite , I now am to ruin led , The Horns that I wear , does make me despair I would I had never been wed . When Gallants do come for to court my wife , my patience then is tried , I dare not spoke nor look for my life , but glad to sneak aside , And forced to lie in some corner cold , that they may both go to bed , This I must endure , since there is no cure , I would I had never been wed . His Boots I am forced to clean and grease , against this blade does rise , It's true , I do it , in hope's to please , but this would not suffice , For if I do not liquour them well , she'l fling them at my head , My grief is so great , no tongue can relate , I would I had never been wed . She will be clothed in rich array , her Ribbons , Muff and Fan , And goes a Gossiping e'ry day , but I alas poor Man , Must drudge and toil in a threadbare coat , and glad of a crust of bred , But she has the best of delicates dressed , I would I had never been wed . She calls me up in the morning , then I must a fire make Against she rises at nine or ten , yet I no notice take : But bear it all , what ever may fallen it is but in vain to dread This sorrowful lot , a wife I have god , but would I had never been wed . She makes a fool and a perfect mome of me , alas , it's true , I wash the Dishes when I come home , and Scour the Irons too : Nay , wash the clouts and clean her shoes , before I must go to bed , Now this is the life , I led with a wife , I would I had never been wed . Against her humours I never reviled , though she did rant and reign , I often rocked another men child , though much against the grain : All this I must do , and ten times more , or else she will break my head , The three-legged stool , my courage must cool , I would I had never been wed . At length she sickened , and soon she died , this did my grief destroy , I never so much as sighed or cried , but leapt and jumped for joy : I bought her a Coffin large and long , to put her in now she is dead , She is gone to the grave , and I shall be brave , i'll have a care how I do wed . Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-glass , on London-Bridge . 