The Old men Advice to Bachelors , about the choice of their Wives . Tune of , O Mother ! Roger etc This may be printed . I F you would take a Wife for pleasure , here's instructions how to choose , Which will prove a real Treasure , and which you ought to refuse : Here are all the marks and lines , All Loves symptoms and Loves signs , If the hair upon her crown Be a sweet dark Nutmeg brown , It is a sweet and lasting hue , And that colour often true . among the many thousand faces that we see in London Town , Some have charms and some have graces and some faults , which may be known . If she have a forehead high , And a lovely sparkling eye , If her lips , when they are felt , Taste like Balm , and sweetly melt , She is a Lass that I approve , And a lass men ought to love . But if she have a Nose like fire , and a Tongue too with a twang , Prithee Chapman do not buy her , lest she bid thee go and hang , I f above such fire there show , Think what she has then below , Therefore that same danger shun , into fire let no man run , lest foolishly they come to harm , For fire can burn as well as warm . If thou perceive her Hair is yellow , let her not be thy delight , For she'l love each lusty fellow , and will conquer thee in fight : Such young Girls , like to some Mill , Though you give , yet crave they will : Such will waste thee to the bones , Or else they will grind the stones ; Therefore be sure avoid that lass , lest your ears hand like and Ass. If she be young and tender-hearted , and not skilled in Cupids Art , She by thee must not be thwarted , kindness gains a maidens heart : Choose that path where thou mayest say None before ever found the way ; What if it should be so strait That you should for Entrance wait ? The pleasure's greater than the toil , And men love so rich a spoil . If a proud woman you'll be wooing , you must learn to bear with all , If she be not passed her doing , pride ( you know ) will have a fallen : if she's tall it's odds , she's proud , if she's short she'l scold aloud ; if she's long she'l lazy be , And you two will never agree ; And if she be most wondrous fair , She's foolish , therefore have a care . I f she is rich she'l keep you under , domineer all day and night , Rattle Peals as loud as Thunder , that you shall have no delight , What you say shall nought avail , Flapped you'll be with Foxes tail , Fed with scolding maundring brath , Which to eat one would be loath . From such a piece of crabbed tree May fate deliver thee and me . But if she be adorned with graces and be one that's nobly born , Some say women with sweet faces will exalt men's heads with horn : You must father all be sure , And whatever she please endure ; You must be contented still , And let women have their will , The Proverb says so much you know , Therefore prithee let her go . If bravely dressed , she'l gad and wander , therefore choose some Country maid , That you may be her Commander , they are apt to be afraid : You may bend them to your bow , When a nice and dainty Doe Shall bring nought but noise and strife , And torment you all your life , Therefore be wise and have a care , And make choice of Country ware . Printed for J. Conyers a little above St. Andrews Church in Holbourn . The Old men Advice to Bachelors , about the choice of their Wives . Tune of , O Mother ! Roger etc This may be printed . I F you would take a Wife for pleasure , here's instructions how to choose , Which will prove a real Treasure , and which you ought to refuse : Here are all the marks and lines , All Loves symptoms and Loves signs , If the hair upon her crown Be a sweet dark Nutmeg brown , It is a sweet and lasting hue , And that colour often true . among the many thousand faces that we see in London Town , Some have charms and some have graces and some faults , which may be known . If she have a forehead high , And a lovely sparkling eye , If her lips , when they are felt , Taste like Balm , and sweetly melt , She is a Lass that I approve , And a lass men ought to love . But if she have a Nose like fire , and a Tongue too with a twang , Prithee Chapman do not buy her , lest she bid thee go and hang , I f above such fire there show , Think what she has then below , Therefore that same danger shun , into fire let no man run , lest foolishly they come to harm , For fire can burn as well as warm . If thou perceive her Hair is yellow , let her not be thy delight , For she'l love each lusty fellow , and will conquer thee in fight : Such young Girls , like to some Mill , Though you give , yet crave they will : Such will waste thee to the bones , Or else they will grind the stones ; Therefore be sure avoid that lass , lest your ears hand like and Ass. If she be young and tender-hearted , and not skilled in Cupids Art , She by thee must not be thwarted , kindness gains a maidens heart : Choose that path where thou mayest say None before ever found the way ; What if it should be so strait That you should for Entrance wait ? The pleasure's greater than the toil , And men love so rich a spoil . If a proud woman you'll be wooing , you must learn to bear with all , If she be not passed her doing , pride ( you know ) will have a fallen : if she's tall it's odds , she's proud , if she's short she'l scold aloud ; if she's long she'l lazy be , And you two will never agree ; And if she be most wondrous fair , She's foolish , therefore have a care . I f she is rich she'l keep you under , domineer all day and night , Rattle Peals as loud as Thunder , that you shall have no delight , What you say shall nought avail , Flapped you'll be with Foxes tail , Fed with scolding maundring brath , Which to eat one would be loath . From such a piece of crabbed tree May fate deliver thee and me . But if she be adorned with graces and be one that's nobly born , Some say women with sweet faces will exalt men's heads with horn : You must father all be sure , And whatever she please endure ; You must be contented still , And let women have their will , The Proverb says so much you know , Therefore prithee let her go . If bravely dressed , she'l gad and wander , therefore choose some Country maid , That you may be her Commander , they are apt to be afraid : You may bend them to your bow , When a nice and dainty Doe Shall bring nought but noise and strife , And torment you all your life , Therefore be wise and have a care , And make choice of Country ware . Printed for J. Conyers a little above St. Andrews Church in Holbourn . 