THE Wheel-Wrights Huy-and-Cry After his WIFE , who went away with a Cooper , who is now turned Trooper , Who Lived in DRURY-LANE . Tune , Let Cesar live long , Or the Female Drummer . HOw sad is my Fate how unhappy my Life , To be Cuckold and Plagued by a Turbulent Wife ; In and Amorous heat with a Cooper she's gone , Who will hoop her Tubb stoutly before he has done : There's no better Collation in both their Opinions , Then burned Clarret and Coneis well smothered with Onions 2. I'm a Man every Inch and a Wheelwright by Trade , By a Coopers assistance now a Cockcold am made : Now he has her , I hope he will carefully hoop her , For I'll warned him , her lake-hole finds work for the Cooper . There's no better Collation in both their Opinions , Then burned Clarret and Coneis well smothered with Onions . 3. I'll reward in a short time the Coopers desert , He knows I can soon put a spoke in his Cart ; If I ever should meet him , I'll belabour his Jerkin , Thus without my Consent , for hooping my Wives Ferkin : I'll make them repent and soon change their Opinions , Of their Clarret and Coneis well smothered with Onions . 4. My Wife though she's gone , I'll this Character give her , I'll warrant her , she tyrs both his Adge and his Driver ; She's a frail mortal Cask that will always want hooping , And her damned lacky-tap-hole each moment wants stopping : They'll Repent of their folly and change their Opinions , Of their Clarret and Coneis well smothered with Onions . 5 When Quarrels arise betwixt my Neighbours and I , Dip your Horns in burned Clarret they presently cry ; Then another he comes and drops out with his Jeer , Methinks Coneis and Onions are delicate cheer : Then they'll sing out the Chorus in all our Opinions , Burned Clarret's good Sauce for S tewed Rabbets and Onions 6. How unhappy was I thus to wed with a Jade , Who the joys of my Bed to another betrayed ; It's but just a reward should to Cuckcolds be given , We have right by our Horns to the pleasures of Heaven : Which is better by far in us Cuckcolds Opinions , Than burned Clarret and Coneis well smothered with Onions 7. To the weight of my Horns I am forced to stoop , I am now made a Cuckold as round as a hoop ; He is stupid who for his Wives fault ever Mourns , My head shall on Wheels run and not on my horns : Let them hoop and be damned with both their Opinions , Of burned Clarret and Coneis well smothered with Onions 8. This Lecherous Cooper some Satire hath god him , He'l leave no Tubb standing upon its own bottom ; I am sure he will quickly be tired with his Love , He will soon find her Ferkin will bottomless prove : They'll repent soon their folly and change their Opinions , There's so much for Clarret stewed Coneis and Onions . LONDON , Printed by J. W. in White-Friars Gateway , 1693. THE Wheel-Wrights Huy-and-Cry After his WIFE , who went away with a Cooper , who is now turned Trooper , Who Lived in DRURY-LANE . Tune , Let Cesar live long , Or the Female Drummer . HOw sad is my Fate how unhappy my Life , To be Cuckold and Plagued by a Turbulent Wife ; In and Amorous heat with a Cooper she's gone , Who will hoop her Tubb stoutly before he has done : There's no better Collation in both their Opinions , Then burned Clarret and Coneis well smothered with Onions 2. I'm a Man every Inch and a Wheelwright by Trade , By a Coopers assistance now a Cockcold am made : Now he has her , I hope he will carefully hoop her , For I'll warned him , her lake-hole finds work for the Cooper . There's no better Collation in both their Opinions , Then burned Clarret and Coneis well smothered with Onions . 3. I'll reward in a short time the Coopers desert , He knows I can soon put a spoke in his Cart ; If I ever should meet him , I'll belabour his Jerkin , Thus without my Consent , for hooping my Wives Ferkin : I'll make them repent and soon change their Opinions , Of their Clarret and Coneis well smothered with Onions . 4. My Wife though she's gone , I'll this Character give her , I'll warrant her , she tyrs both his Adge and his Driver ; She's a frail mortal Cask that will always want hooping , And her damned lacky-tap-hole each moment wants stopping : They'll Repent of their folly and change their Opinions , Of their Clarret and Coneis well smothered with Onions . 5 When Quarrels arise betwixt my Neighbours and I , Dip your Horns in burned Clarret they presently cry ; Then another he comes and drops out with his Jeer , Methinks Coneis and Onions are delicate cheer : Then they'll sing out the Chorus in all our Opinions , Burned Clarret's good Sauce for S tewed Rabbets and Onions 6. How unhappy was I thus to wed with a Jade , Who the joys of my Bed to another betrayed ; It's but just a reward should to Cuckcolds be given , We have right by our Horns to the pleasures of Heaven : Which is better by far in us Cuckcolds Opinions , Than burned Clarret and Coneis well smothered with Onions 7. To the weight of my Horns I am forced to stoop , I am now made a Cuckold as round as a hoop ; He is stupid who for his Wives fault ever Mourns , My head shall on Wheels run and not on my horns : Let them hoop and be damned with both their Opinions , Of burned Clarret and Coneis well smothered with Onions 8. This Lecherous Cooper some Satire hath god him , He'l leave no Tubb standing upon its own bottom ; I am sure he will quickly be tired with his Love , He will soon find her Ferkin will bottomless prove : They'll repent soon their folly and change their Opinions , There's so much for Clarret stewed Coneis and Onions . LONDON , Printed by J. W. in White-Friars Gateway , 1693. 