THE Wiltshire Wedding BETWIXT Daniel Do well and Doll the Dairy Maid . With the Consent of her Old Father Leather-Coat , and her dear and tender Mother Plod-well . To and Excellent North-Country Tune . This may be Printed , R. P. A LL in a misty morning , cloudy was the weather , I meeting with and Old Man , was clothed all in Leather : With never a Shirt unto his back , but Wool unto the Skin ; With how do you do , and how do you do , and how do you do again ? The Rustic was a Thresher , and on the way he hied ; And with a Leather Bottle fast buckled by his side : And with a Cap of Woolen , which covered Cheek and Chin , With how , etc I went a little further , and there I met a Maid , Was going then a Milking , a Milking Sir , she said : Then I began to Compliment , and she began to Sing ; With how , etc This Maid her name was Dolly , clothed in a Gown of grey ; I being something jolly , persuaded her to stay : Then straight I fell to Courting her in hope's her love to win ; With how do you do , and how do the do ; and how do you do again ? Then having time and leisure , I spent a vacant hour ; Telling of all my Treasure , while sitting in the Bower : With many kind Embraces I stroked her double Chin ; With how , etc I told her I would Marry , and she should be my Bride ; And long we would not tarry , with twenty things beside : I'll Blow & amp ; Sow , & amp ; Reap and Mow , while thou shalt fit and Spin ; With how , etc Did you not know my Father , the Damsel then replied ; His Jerkin was of Leather , a Bottle by his side ; Yes , I did meet him trudging , as fast as he could win ; With how , etc Kind Sir , I have a Mother , beside a Father still : Those Friends above all other you must ask their goodwill : For if I be undutiful , to them it is a since ; With how , etc Now there we left the Milkpail , and to her Mother went ; And when I was come thither , I asking her consent : And doffed my Hat and made a Leg , for why , she was within ; With how , etc My Husband is a Thresher , who is her Father dear ; He'l give with her his Blessing , kind Sir , you need not fear : He is of such good Nature , that he would never lin , With how , etc For by your Courteous carriage , you seem and honest Man , You may have her in Marriage , my Husband he anon Will bid you very welcome , though he be poor and thin , With how , etc Her Dad came home full weary , alas ! he could not choose ; Her Mother being Merry , she told him all the News : Then he was mighty jovial too , his Son did soon begin , With how , etc Her Parents being willing , all parties was agreed , Her Portion thirty Shilling , they Married then with speed : Then Will the Piper he did play while others Dance and Sing , With how , etc In pleasant Recreation they passed away the Night , And likewise by relation , with her he takes delight To walk abroad on Holidays , to visit kiff and kin , With how . etc Then lusty Ralph and Robin , with many Damsels gay , Did ride on Roan and Dobbin , to Celebrate the day : When being met together , their Caps they off did fling , With how do you do , and how do you do and how do you do again ? Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-Street . THE Wiltshire Wedding BETWIXT Daniel Do well and Doll the Dairy Maid . With the Consent of her Old Father Leather-Coat , and her dear and tender Mother Plod-well . To and Excellent North-Country Tune . This may be Printed , R. P. A LL in a misty morning , cloudy was the weather , I meeting with and Old Man , was clothed all in Leather : With never a Shirt unto his back , but Wool unto the Skin ; With how do you do , and how do you do , and how do you do again ? The Rustic was a Thresher , and on the way he hied ; And with a Leather Bottle fast buckled by his side : And with a Cap of Woolen , which covered Cheek and Chin , With how , etc I went a little further , and there I met a Maid , Was going then a Milking , a Milking Sir , she said : Then I began to Compliment , and she began to Sing ; With how , etc This Maid her name was Dolly , clothed in a Gown of grey ; I being something jolly , persuaded her to stay : Then straight I fell to Courting her in hope's her love to win ; With how do you do , and how do the do ; and how do you do again ? Then having time and leisure , I spent a vacant hour ; Telling of all my Treasure , while sitting in the Bower : With many kind Embraces I stroked her double Chin ; With how , etc I told her I would Marry , and she should be my Bride ; And long we would not tarry , with twenty things beside : I'll Blow & amp ; Sow , & amp ; Reap and Mow , while thou shalt fit and Spin ; With how , etc Did you not know my Father , the Damsel then replied ; His Jerkin was of Leather , a Bottle by his side ; Yes , I did meet him trudging , as fast as he could win ; With how , etc Kind Sir , I have a Mother , beside a Father still : Those Friends above all other you must ask their goodwill : For if I be undutiful , to them it is a since ; With how , etc Now there we left the Milkpail , and to her Mother went ; And when I was come thither , I asking her consent : And doffed my Hat and made a Leg , for why , she was within ; With how , etc My Husband is a Thresher , who is her Father dear ; He'l give with her his Blessing , kind Sir , you need not fear : He is of such good Nature , that he would never lin , With how , etc For by your Courteous carriage , you seem and honest Man , You may have her in Marriage , my Husband he anon Will bid you very welcome , though he be poor and thin , With how , etc Her Dad came home full weary , alas ! he could not choose ; Her Mother being Merry , she told him all the News : Then he was mighty jovial too , his Son did soon begin , With how , etc Her Parents being willing , all parties was agreed , Her Portion thirty Shilling , they Married then with speed : Then Will the Piper he did play while others Dance and Sing , With how , etc In pleasant Recreation they passed away the Night , And likewise by relation , with her he takes delight To walk abroad on Holidays , to visit kiff and kin , With how . etc Then lusty Ralph and Robin , with many Damsels gay , Did ride on Roan and Dobbin , to Celebrate the day : When being met together , their Caps they off did fling , With how do you do , and how do you do and how do you do again ? Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-Street . 