The upshot of a New Wedding . OR , The Merry Discourse between Randal and Mary . Their Wooing was cross , though their hearts they were true , They love one another dearly without more ado , But he put her tooed , to try what she was , But he could not get a touch till the Wedding was passed , But now the Wedding is past , and the business is done , They may strike up Tom Piper , for a Daughter or a Son. The Tune is , Tom Farthing . TO Here was a Youngman , a Youngman , He went to a Young-woman : His business it was great I swear , And of her he had a mighty care , And invited her to the Fair , Because he loves her , he loves her , So dearly that he'd love her . Thou art welcome now my love and dear , I am joyful that I have met thee here , I am constant to thee I do swear , I love thee , I love thee , Oh Marry I do love thee . But Marry , but Marry , I ask thee wilt thou have me ? And I will love thee to the end And be thy true and constant friend , And give thee such as God does send , Because that I do love thee , So dearly I do love thee . And Marry if thou be but kind , And let me try what I can find , It will do me good and please my mind , Because that I do love thee , do love thee , So dearly I do love thee . Why Randal , why Randal , It's time enough to handle , Oh when the Wedding Knot is tied , And I am made thy lawful Bride ; Then do thy worst I will abide , Because thou sayest thou lovest me , etc Because thou sayest , etc Till then thou must content thy mind , Thou must not try what thou canst find , I'll be kind to thee , but not so kind , For all thou sayest thou lovest me , etc For all thou sayest , etc O Marry , Oh Marry , I prithee once more hear me , I'll Marry thee thou needest not fear , And tell thee a Story in thy ear , Shall do thee good in all the Year , Because that I love thee , do love thee , Because , etc I'll give thee a Kiss , one two , or three , And make amends and Marry thee , What if I venture a little above thy knee , Because that I do love thee , do love thee , Because , etc Why Randal , why Randal , Oh hold thy tongue good Randal , I'll not be called a Whore with thee , Nor never a Man that Marries me , Till the Wedding's past I'll not agree , For all thou say't thou lovest me , etc For all , etc Till then I will not yield to thee , For all thou profferest fair to me , I'll keep thy hand below my Knee , For all thou sayest thou lovest me , etc For all thou sayest , etc O Randal , Oh Randal , Thoured a cunning Chapman Randal , I wonder were thou wentest to School , That would so fain make me a Fool , I'm sure thou canst not love me , etc I'm sure , etc A man's made to ask , as all men say , But a woman's made to say him nay , And not to destroy her self and go astray , That man can never love me , love me , That man , etc O Marry , Oh Marry , Thou hast pleased me now brave Marry , And honest Girl I am sure thou art , I'll Marry thee , we'll never part , I love , I love thee , So dearly I do love thee . And Marry if thou wilt agree , On Sunday next we'll Wedded be , With all my heart , good Sir , said she , Then I am bound to love thee , to love thee Then I , etc For Sunday it did come at last , Their friends came to thee Wedding feast , With her his Bride , and all were pleased , Now they love one another dearly , dearly Now they love one another dearly . FINIS . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The upshot of a New Wedding . OR , The Merry Discourse between Randal and Mary . Their Wooing was cross , though their hearts they were true , They love one another dearly without more ado , But he put her tooed , to try what she was , But he could not get a touch till the Wedding was passed , But now the Wedding is past , and the business is done , They may strike up Tom Piper , for a Daughter or a Son. The Tune is , Tom Farthing . TO Here was a Youngman , a Youngman , He went to a Young-woman : His business it was great I swear , And of her he had a mighty care , And invited her to the Fair , Because he loves her , he loves her , So dearly that he'd love her . Thou art welcome now my love and dear , I am joyful that I have met thee here , I am constant to thee I do swear , I love thee , I love thee , Oh Marry I do love thee . But Marry , but Marry , I ask thee wilt thou have me ? And I will love thee to the end And be thy true and constant friend , And give thee such as God does send , Because that I do love thee , So dearly I do love thee . And Marry if thou be but kind , And let me try what I can find , It will do me good and please my mind , Because that I do love thee , do love thee , So dearly I do love thee . Why Randal , why Randal , It's time enough to handle , Oh when the Wedding Knot is tied , And I am made thy lawful Bride ; Then do thy worst I will abide , Because thou sayest thou lovest me , etc Because thou sayest , etc Till then thou must content thy mind , Thou must not try what thou canst find , I'll be kind to thee , but not so kind , For all thou sayest thou lovest me , etc For all thou sayest , etc O Marry , Oh Marry , I prithee once more hear me , I'll Marry thee thou needest not fear , And tell thee a Story in thy ear , Shall do thee good in all the Year , Because that I love thee , do love thee , Because , etc I'll give thee a Kiss , one two , or three , And make amends and Marry thee , What if I venture a little above thy knee , Because that I do love thee , do love thee , Because , etc Why Randal , why Randal , Oh hold thy tongue good Randal , I'll not be called a Whore with thee , Nor never a Man that Marries me , Till the Wedding's past I'll not agree , For all thou say't thou lovest me , etc For all , etc Till then I will not yield to thee , For all thou profferest fair to me , I'll keep thy hand below my Knee , For all thou sayest thou lovest me , etc For all thou sayest , etc O Randal , Oh Randal , Thoured a cunning Chapman Randal , I wonder were thou wentest to School , That would so fain make me a Fool , I'm sure thou canst not love me , etc I'm sure , etc A man's made to ask , as all men say , But a woman's made to say him nay , And not to destroy her self and go astray , That man can never love me , love me , That man , etc O Marry , Oh Marry , Thou hast pleased me now brave Marry , And honest Girl I am sure thou art , I'll Marry thee , we'll never part , I love , I love thee , So dearly I do love thee . And Marry if thou wilt agree , On Sunday next we'll Wedded be , With all my heart , good Sir , said she , Then I am bound to love thee , to love thee Then I , etc For Sunday it did come at last , Their friends came to thee Wedding feast , With her his Bride , and all were pleased , Now they love one another dearly , dearly Now they love one another dearly . FINIS . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 