A Cuckold by Consent : Or , The Frolic Miller that enticed a Maid , are he did think , to lodge in his lawless Bed ; But she deceived him of his intent , And in her room his Wife to bed she sent . The Tune is , The Beds making F Riends will it please you to hear me tell Of a merry Jest that late befell , By as good a Miller as ever laid Stone , Yet was not contented with his own ? But he was deceived in the Dark , And took his own for another's mark . Upon a time it chanced so , A proper Maid to the Mill did go , To grind her Father a Bath of Corn , The Miller's heart with her did burn ; Yet he , etc And to obtain his purpose right , He caused the Maid to stay all Night , And said it would be almost Morn , Before that he could grinned her Corn : But he , etc So when the day was done and spent , Home to his house the Miller went ; He took the Maid with him along , To whom he thus did use his Tongue , Buo he , etc Sweetheart , quoth he , I tell thee now , That I have made a secret Vow , That I this night must Lie with thee , And thou shalt have thy Grist Tole-free . But he , etc At home I have a speciel Room , Where none but my chief guests do come ; Thy lodging there alone shall be , And I will come to bed thee . Yet he , etc Sweet Soul I prithee be content , With Maidens silence gives consent , It is no purpose to say no , For I have sworn it shall be so : But he , & amp ; Then to his wife the Miller said , I pray make much of this same Maid , And Lodge her in the Parlour below , For she is a good men child I know : But he was deceived in the Dark , And took his own for another's Mark . S Oh to the Mill again he went , But to return was his intent , For to perform what he had swore Unto the Maid not long before : Yet he , etc , Then shortly after he was gone , Unto his Wife the Maid made known : Quoth she , your Husband hath this night , Sworn to deprive you of your right : So he , etc Unto your Lodging let me go , And lie you in the Room below ; If in the Parlour bed you be , He'l lie with you and think it's me . S oh he , etc His Wife considering of the thing , To her own bed the Maid did bring , And for to have the thing you know , She laid her self in the Room below : S oh he , etc Then towards the mid-time of the night , The Miller came to the Chamber right , His Promise which he made , to keep , And he thought he found the Maid asleep : But he , etc For joy the Miller nothing said , But off with his Clothes and into bed : And colours in the dark being like , He at his work did briefly did strike : Yet he , etc His Wife speaks not a word at all , But took all kindly that did fallen , And that did prove so good a part , She thanked the Maid with all her heart : But he , etc The Miller out of bed again And to the Mill he went amain ; But in his mind he was almost wild For fear he had god the maid with child ; Yet he , etc He did devise to cause the mother , To Father the Bantling on another ; And pausing on the thing a while , His man he thought for to beguile : But he , etc With that he cast his wits about , To work the project passed all doubt , Then ( with all wisdom on this wise ) He told his man of a dainty prize : But he , etc Jack , quoth the Miller , by the Mass , I'll tell thee of a curios Lass , With a Cherry-Cheek and a dainty Chin , With snow white breasts and a Silken-skin But he , etc With nutbrown hair , and a forehead high , With Ruby lips and pleasant eye , With a pretty lisping , prating tongue , Soft hands and fingers small and long : But he , etc With a slender middle and a body straight , Both back and belly proportioned right , With and handsome leg and a dainty foot , And a finer thing if thou canst come to't . But he , etc Now Jack if thou wilt credet me , A sweeter wench thou never didst see , What wilt thou give me for my good will ; And thou shalt have belly bait thy fill ? But he , etc It is so , quod the Miller : then quoth his man Good master do the best you can , To bring it about , and for the same , I'll give unto you my old Ram : But he , etc A match , quod the Miller , the Ram is mine , And the Wench she shall be thine , And so the miller like and Ass , Sent him to his Wife in stead of the Lass : So he , etc When Jack did come where she did lie , Into the bed then Jack did high ; You know so well I need not name , What Jack would do unto his Dame But he , etc When Jack had finished up his game , Unto the Miller he went amain , He thanked his master , and to him swore , That he had never such sport before . But he , etc Betimes i'th morning the maid arose , And to the Miller straight she goes , Her horse she ready Saddled found , Beside her Corn was Tole-free ground . But he , etc The Miller then desired the maid , That she would remember the Parlour bed , Quoth she good Sir you are deceived , You kissed your wife all in my stead : And you , etc Alas , quoth the Miller , what shall I do ? For then our Jack hath been there too , And for this trick a vow I make , I ' le never trust maiden for thy sake , Be he was deceived in the dark , And took his own for another's mark . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , [ and T. Passenger . ] A Cuckold by Consent : Or , The Frolic Miller that enticed a Maid , are he did think , to lodge in his lawless Bed ; But she deceived him of his intent , And in her room his Wife to bed she sent . The Tune is , The Beds making F Riends will it please you to hear me tell Of a merry Jest that late befell , By as good a Miller as ever laid Stone , Yet was not contented with his own ? But he was deceived in the Dark , And took his own for another's mark . Upon a time it chanced so , A proper Maid to the Mill did go , To grind her Father a Bath of Corn , The Miller's heart with her did burn ; Yet he , etc And to obtain his purpose right , He caused the Maid to stay all Night , And said it would be almost Morn , Before that he could grinned her Corn : But he , etc So when the day was done and spent , Home to his house the Miller went ; He took the Maid with him along , To whom he thus did use his Tongue , Buo he , etc Sweetheart , quoth he , I tell thee now , That I have made a secret Vow , That I this night must Lie with thee , And thou shalt have thy Grist Tole-free . But he , etc At home I have a speciel Room , Where none but my chief guests do come ; Thy lodging there alone shall be , And I will come to bed thee . Yet he , etc Sweet Soul I prithee be content , With Maidens silence gives consent , It is no purpose to say no , For I have sworn it shall be so : But he , & amp ; Then to his wife the Miller said , I pray make much of this same Maid , And Lodge her in the Parlour below , For she is a good men child I know : But he was deceived in the Dark , And took his own for another's Mark . S Oh to the Mill again he went , But to return was his intent , For to perform what he had swore Unto the Maid not long before : Yet he , etc , Then shortly after he was gone , Unto his Wife the Maid made known : Quoth she , your Husband hath this night , Sworn to deprive you of your right : So he , etc Unto your Lodging let me go , And lie you in the Room below ; If in the Parlour bed you be , He'l lie with you and think it's me . S oh he , etc His Wife considering of the thing , To her own bed the Maid did bring , And for to have the thing you know , She laid her self in the Room below : S oh he , etc Then towards the mid-time of the night , The Miller came to the Chamber right , His Promise which he made , to keep , And he thought he found the Maid asleep : But he , etc For joy the Miller nothing said , But off with his Clothes and into bed : And colours in the dark being like , He at his work did briefly did strike : Yet he , etc His Wife speaks not a word at all , But took all kindly that did fallen , And that did prove so good a part , She thanked the Maid with all her heart : But he , etc The Miller out of bed again And to the Mill he went amain ; But in his mind he was almost wild For fear he had god the maid with child ; Yet he , etc He did devise to cause the mother , To Father the Bantling on another ; And pausing on the thing a while , His man he thought for to beguile : But he , etc With that he cast his wits about , To work the project passed all doubt , Then ( with all wisdom on this wise ) He told his man of a dainty prize : But he , etc Jack , quoth the Miller , by the Mass , I'll tell thee of a curios Lass , With a Cherry-Cheek and a dainty Chin , With snow white breasts and a Silken-skin But he , etc With nutbrown hair , and a forehead high , With Ruby lips and pleasant eye , With a pretty lisping , prating tongue , Soft hands and fingers small and long : But he , etc With a slender middle and a body straight , Both back and belly proportioned right , With and handsome leg and a dainty foot , And a finer thing if thou canst come to't . But he , etc Now Jack if thou wilt credet me , A sweeter wench thou never didst see , What wilt thou give me for my good will ; And thou shalt have belly bait thy fill ? But he , etc It is so , quod the Miller : then quoth his man Good master do the best you can , To bring it about , and for the same , I'll give unto you my old Ram : But he , etc A match , quod the Miller , the Ram is mine , And the Wench she shall be thine , And so the miller like and Ass , Sent him to his Wife in stead of the Lass : So he , etc When Jack did come where she did lie , Into the bed then Jack did high ; You know so well I need not name , What Jack would do unto his Dame But he , etc When Jack had finished up his game , Unto the Miller he went amain , He thanked his master , and to him swore , That he had never such sport before . But he , etc Betimes i'th morning the maid arose , And to the Miller straight she goes , Her horse she ready Saddled found , Beside her Corn was Tole-free ground . But he , etc The Miller then desired the maid , That she would remember the Parlour bed , Quoth she good Sir you are deceived , You kissed your wife all in my stead : And you , etc Alas , quoth the Miller , what shall I do ? For then our Jack hath been there too , And for this trick a vow I make , I ' le never trust maiden for thy sake , Be he was deceived in the dark , And took his own for another's mark . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , [ and T. Passenger . ] 