Poor Anthony's Complaint And Lamentation against his misery's of marriage , meeting with a scolding Wife . Tune of , Tom the Taylor , the Journeyman Shoemaker , or Billy and Molly . W As ever Man so vexed with a Wife in Suburbs or in City ? I live a discontented life , alas , the more's the pity : I must to bed now I am wed before I fill my belly , Or else I have a broken head , it's a hard case I tell you . When I would eat she calls me sot , and maundering Brath does bring me , So scalding , that is , scolding hight , the very steam does sting me ; Then you that live a single life I wish you to beware , For Marriage often breeds strife , and always brings care . A dismal Peal to me is rung , while I rock Bearn in the Cradle , Oh! bless me from her scolding tongue , and from her basting Ladle . O that I were a single man as I was heretofore sir , I would not kiss young Kate or Nan , nor never marry more sir . My wife does lug me by the ears if I but ask for Bacon , And flouts , and taunts , and scolds , & amp ; jeers , but she must have her Capon : She kicks me up and down the house , and roars as loud as Thunder , While I am silent as a Mouse , hold up my hands and wonder . A Bout the Room she often routs for to find fault and quarrel , Although I wash the shitten Clouts , and clean the Small-Beer Barrel : The tongue's and irons though I scour , and make her fire daily , Yet I have not one quiet hour she bums me like a Baily . I drudge and toil , and am her slave , and clean both Pots and Flagon , I cannot tell what she would have she is so like a Dragon ; She makes me weary of my life for I can get no quiet , The livelong day I live in strife , and scolding is my diet . She'l often rise from Spinning-wheel to make me dance the Borey , And makes me taste so oft Salt-Eele , I grow a mere John Dorey , She is a Chip of the old block , ( such Chips are but too common ) A sour piece of Crabtree stock , a brawling bawling woman . One night she went to take the pot , and all bepissed me sweetly , A Leaky Cullender she god , which made the bed feel seatly : My Dear ( quoth I ) you piss beside upon my Face and Pillow ; Peace Cuckold , peace , go sleep she cried , you are a lying fellow . I feel it's not quite to my thumb , it can be no such matter , Thus she pist on the bed and room , and soaked me in salt water , She forced me to rise at night , or else to lie in Pickle , For I was in a pissen plighted by this same Madam Fickle . By me let others warning take when they intend to marry , lest they ( like me ) repent too late , and quickly do miscarry . The married life is full of strife , and full of Horns I fear it ; Then prithee do not take a wife , but take a Glass of Claret . This may be Printed . Printed for J. Conyers at the Black Raven in Fetter-lane . Poor Anthony's Complaint And Lamentation against his misery's of marriage , meeting with a scolding Wife . Tune of , Tom the Taylor , the Journeyman Shoemaker , or Billy and Molly . W As ever Man so vexed with a Wife in Suburbs or in City ? I live a discontented life , alas , the more's the pity : I must to bed now I am wed before I fill my belly , Or else I have a broken head , it's a hard case I tell you . When I would eat she calls me sot , and maundering Brath does bring me , So scalding , that is , scolding hight , the very steam does sting me ; Then you that live a single life I wish you to beware , For Marriage often breeds strife , and always brings care . A dismal Peal to me is rung , while I rock Bearn in the Cradle , Oh! bless me from her scolding tongue , and from her basting Ladle . O that I were a single man as I was heretofore sir , I would not kiss young Kate or Nan , nor never marry more sir . My wife does lug me by the ears if I but ask for Bacon , And flouts , and taunts , and scolds , & amp ; jeers , but she must have her Capon : She kicks me up and down the house , and roars as loud as Thunder , While I am silent as a Mouse , hold up my hands and wonder . A Bout the Room she often routs for to find fault and quarrel , Although I wash the shitten Clouts , and clean the Small-Beer Barrel : The tongue's and irons though I scour , and make her fire daily , Yet I have not one quiet hour she bums me like a Baily . I drudge and toil , and am her slave , and clean both Pots and Flagon , I cannot tell what she would have she is so like a Dragon ; She makes me weary of my life for I can get no quiet , The livelong day I live in strife , and scolding is my diet . She'l often rise from Spinning-wheel to make me dance the Borey , And makes me taste so oft Salt-Eele , I grow a mere John Dorey , She is a Chip of the old block , ( such Chips are but too common ) A sour piece of Crabtree stock , a brawling bawling woman . One night she went to take the pot , and all bepissed me sweetly , A Leaky Cullender she god , which made the bed feel seatly : My Dear ( quoth I ) you piss beside upon my Face and Pillow ; Peace Cuckold , peace , go sleep she cried , you are a lying fellow . I feel it's not quite to my thumb , it can be no such matter , Thus she pist on the bed and room , and soaked me in salt water , She forced me to rise at night , or else to lie in Pickle , For I was in a pissen plighted by this same Madam Fickle . By me let others warning take when they intend to marry , lest they ( like me ) repent too late , and quickly do miscarry . The married life is full of strife , and full of Horns I fear it ; Then prithee do not take a wife , but take a Glass of Claret . This may be Printed . Printed for J. Conyers at the Black Raven in Fetter-lane . 