Dead and Alive . This Ditty out of Gloucestershire was sent , To London for to have it put in P RINT : Therefore draw near , and listen unto this , It does concern a man that did amiss , And so to shun the anger of his Wife , He thought with poison for to end his life : But in the stead of poison he drank Sack , For which his Wife did soundly pay his Back . To the Tune of Old-Flesh . TO Here was a Shaving Royster , as I herd many tell , I n Michaels Deans fair Forest , in Gloucestershire did dwell ; Some called him William Wiseman , but in that they were too blame : Some called him Leonard Lackwit , but that was not his name ; His name was Simple Simon , as it is well approved , And among his Friends and Kinsfolks he dearly was beloved ; He capored and he vapoured , and lived a merry life , But yet good man at all times he could not rule his Wife . His Wife she was a Woman , that loved a cup of Sack , And she would tipple soundly , behind her Husbands back A bottle she had got , that would hold two quarts , or more Well filled with Wine she hanged it behind her Chamber door ; And she told unto her Husband , that it was poison strong , And bade him not to touch it , for fear of doing wrong , If thou drink but one drop oned , ( quoth she ) it'll cost thy life ; Therefore in time take heed , and be ruled vy thy wife . This Simon's wife had plenty , of fatting Hogs and Pigs , With Geese , Ducks , Hens and Turkeys , that laid great store of Eggs ; Both Sheep , and such like Cattle , fine Ewes and pretty Lambs , Which up and down the Forest , did feed and suck their Dams , She put trust unto her Husband , to look unto them all , To keep them safe from danger ; now mark what did befall : He did his best endeavour , to shun all kind of strife , And yet through strange misfortune he could not please his wife . One morning she sent him , to field to keep her S heep , And charged him to be watchful , and take heed he did not sl [ e ] ep A piece of bred and butter , she gave him in his hand ; Whereby she made him promise to do as she did command : But see what happened to him , when he came to the field ; He fell a sleep while Foxes , three of his Lambs had killed : This bred a great Dissension , and raised a world of strife , Till Simon for his fault , had begged pardon of his Wife . A Nother day she sent him , her Ducks and Geese to tend , And charged him on her blessing , he would no more offend ; Her Goslings and her Chickings , with him she put in trust , Who took a stick and told them , so they were twenty just ; But a woeful chance befell to poor Simon before night , For seven of his best Chickens , were took prisoners by the Kite , This vexed him and it made him , half weary of his life , For he knew not what answee , to make unto his Wife . Next morning when that Simon was sent to milk the cow , Another strange mishap there was done him by the Sovus For while that he was driving the little Pigs away , The Sow came in the dairy-house , and swig up all the whey : The Cheese out of the Cheesefat . she did both tear and haul , And threw down the Cream pot and made and end of all : Wherewith she burst her belly . and so she lost her life , And poor Simon knew not what answer , to make unto his wife . When as his wife came in the dary-house , and saw what there was done , A strong and fierce encounter she presently begun ; She pulled him by the ears . and she wrung him by the Nose . And she kicked him on the belly , while the tears run down his hose , And she vowed to be revenged , before to morrow day , For all her brood of chickens , which the Kite had carried away : Poor Simon stood amazed , being weary of his Life , For he poor man was tired , with his unruly wife . For when that he perceived his Wife in such a rage , Not knowing how nor which way her fury to assuage ; He cunningly god from her , and to the chamber went , Thinking himself to poison ; for that was his intent ; So coming to the bottle , which I speak of before , He thought it to be poison , which hung behind the door ; He vowed to drink it all up and end his wretched Life , Rather than live in thraldom , with such a cursed Wife . So opening of a window which stood towards the south , He took the bottle of sack , and put it to his mouth ; Now will I drink this poison , ( quoth he ) with all my heart : So that the first draught he drank oned ; he swallowed near a quart ; The second time that he set the Bottle to his snout , He never left swigging , till he had sucked all out : Which done he fell down backward , like one bereft of life , Crying out , I now am poisoned , by means of my cursed Wife . ( Quoth he ) I feel the Poison , now run through every vein , It rumbles in my belly , and tickles in my brain ; It wambles in my stomach , and it mollifies my heart , It pierces through my members , and yet I feel no smart ; Would all that have cursed wives would example take hereby : For I die as sweet a death sure , as ever any man did die ; This better with such poison to end a wretched life , Then to live , and be tormented with such a wicked Wife . Now see what followed after , his wife by chance did walk , And coming by the window , she herd her Simon talk ; And thinking on her bottle , she up stairs did run , And came into the Chamber , to see what he had done ; When as she saw her Husband lie drunk upon his back , And the bottle lying by him ; but never a drop of sack I am poisoned I am poisoned , ( quoth he ) long of my wife , I hope I shall be at quiet , now I have lost my life . P ox take you are you poisoned , ( quoth she ) I now will strive , And do my best endeavour to make you run alive ; With that a quill of powder she blew up in his nose , Then like a man turned antic he presently arose : So down the stairs he run strait , into the open street , With hooping and hollowing , to all that he did meet : And with a loud voice cried out , I am raised from death to life , By virtue of a powder that was given me by my wife . Some folks that did behold him , were in a grievous fear , For seeing of a mad man , they durst not him come near : He leapt and he skipped , throw fair and throw foul , W hilst the people gazed on him , like pies upon and Owl : H is W ife she followed after , thorough thick and thorough thin , And with a basting Cudgel . she soundly banged his skin : And thus poor Simon cried out , I am raised from death to life , By virtue of a powder that was given me by my W ife . At last a friend of Simons which was to him some kin , By fair and kind persuasions , opened the door and let him in H e sent for Simons W ife and so made them both good friends , W ho kindly kissed each other , and to all discord ends : The Neighbours all rejoiced , to see them thus agreed , And like a loving Couple , to bed they went with speed : No doubt but Simple Simon , that night well pleased his W ife , For ever since that time he hath lived a quiet Life . Printed for J.C. W.T. and TO . P [ . ] Dead and Alive . This Ditty out of Gloucestershire was sent , To London for to have it put in P RINT : Therefore draw near , and listen unto this , It does concern a man that did amiss , And so to shun the anger of his Wife , He thought with poison for to end his life : But in the stead of poison he drank Sack , For which his Wife did soundly pay his Back . To the Tune of Old-Flesh . TO Here was a Shaving Royster , as I herd many tell , I n Michaels Deans fair Forest , in Gloucestershire did dwell ; Some called him William Wiseman , but in that they were too blame : Some called him Leonard Lackwit , but that was not his name ; His name was Simple Simon , as it is well approved , And among his Friends and Kinsfolks he dearly was beloved ; He capored and he vapoured , and lived a merry life , But yet good man at all times he could not rule his Wife . His Wife she was a Woman , that loved a cup of Sack , And she would tipple soundly , behind her Husbands back A bottle she had got , that would hold two quarts , or more Well filled with Wine she hanged it behind her Chamber door ; And she told unto her Husband , that it was poison strong , And bade him not to touch it , for fear of doing wrong , If thou drink but one drop oned , ( quoth she ) it'll cost thy life ; Therefore in time take heed , and be ruled vy thy wife . This Simon's wife had plenty , of fatting Hogs and Pigs , With Geese , Ducks , Hens and Turkeys , that laid great store of Eggs ; Both Sheep , and such like Cattle , fine Ewes and pretty Lambs , Which up and down the Forest , did feed and suck their Dams , She put trust unto her Husband , to look unto them all , To keep them safe from danger ; now mark what did befall : He did his best endeavour , to shun all kind of strife , And yet through strange misfortune he could not please his wife . One morning she sent him , to field to keep her S heep , And charged him to be watchful , and take heed he did not sl [ e ] ep A piece of bred and butter , she gave him in his hand ; Whereby she made him promise to do as she did command : But see what happened to him , when he came to the field ; He fell a sleep while Foxes , three of his Lambs had killed : This bred a great Dissension , and raised a world of strife , Till Simon for his fault , had begged pardon of his Wife . A Nother day she sent him , her Ducks and Geese to tend , And charged him on her blessing , he would no more offend ; Her Goslings and her Chickings , with him she put in trust , Who took a stick and told them , so they were twenty just ; But a woeful chance befell to poor Simon before night , For seven of his best Chickens , were took prisoners by the Kite , This vexed him and it made him , half weary of his life , For he knew not what answee , to make unto his Wife . Next morning when that Simon was sent to milk the cow , Another strange mishap there was done him by the Sovus For while that he was driving the little Pigs away , The Sow came in the dairy-house , and swig up all the whey : The Cheese out of the Cheesefat . she did both tear and haul , And threw down the Cream pot and made and end of all : Wherewith she burst her belly . and so she lost her life , And poor Simon knew not what answer , to make unto his wife . When as his wife came in the dary-house , and saw what there was done , A strong and fierce encounter she presently begun ; She pulled him by the ears . and she wrung him by the Nose . And she kicked him on the belly , while the tears run down his hose , And she vowed to be revenged , before to morrow day , For all her brood of chickens , which the Kite had carried away : Poor Simon stood amazed , being weary of his Life , For he poor man was tired , with his unruly wife . For when that he perceived his Wife in such a rage , Not knowing how nor which way her fury to assuage ; He cunningly god from her , and to the chamber went , Thinking himself to poison ; for that was his intent ; So coming to the bottle , which I speak of before , He thought it to be poison , which hung behind the door ; He vowed to drink it all up and end his wretched Life , Rather than live in thraldom , with such a cursed Wife . So opening of a window which stood towards the south , He took the bottle of sack , and put it to his mouth ; Now will I drink this poison , ( quoth he ) with all my heart : So that the first draught he drank oned ; he swallowed near a quart ; The second time that he set the Bottle to his snout , He never left swigging , till he had sucked all out : Which done he fell down backward , like one bereft of life , Crying out , I now am poisoned , by means of my cursed Wife . ( Quoth he ) I feel the Poison , now run through every vein , It rumbles in my belly , and tickles in my brain ; It wambles in my stomach , and it mollifies my heart , It pierces through my members , and yet I feel no smart ; Would all that have cursed wives would example take hereby : For I die as sweet a death sure , as ever any man did die ; This better with such poison to end a wretched life , Then to live , and be tormented with such a wicked Wife . Now see what followed after , his wife by chance did walk , And coming by the window , she herd her Simon talk ; And thinking on her bottle , she up stairs did run , And came into the Chamber , to see what he had done ; When as she saw her Husband lie drunk upon his back , And the bottle lying by him ; but never a drop of sack I am poisoned I am poisoned , ( quoth he ) long of my wife , I hope I shall be at quiet , now I have lost my life . P ox take you are you poisoned , ( quoth she ) I now will strive , And do my best endeavour to make you run alive ; With that a quill of powder she blew up in his nose , Then like a man turned antic he presently arose : So down the stairs he run strait , into the open street , With hooping and hollowing , to all that he did meet : And with a loud voice cried out , I am raised from death to life , By virtue of a powder that was given me by my wife . Some folks that did behold him , were in a grievous fear , For seeing of a mad man , they durst not him come near : He leapt and he skipped , throw fair and throw foul , W hilst the people gazed on him , like pies upon and Owl : H is W ife she followed after , thorough thick and thorough thin , And with a basting Cudgel . she soundly banged his skin : And thus poor Simon cried out , I am raised from death to life , By virtue of a powder that was given me by my W ife . At last a friend of Simons which was to him some kin , By fair and kind persuasions , opened the door and let him in H e sent for Simons W ife and so made them both good friends , W ho kindly kissed each other , and to all discord ends : The Neighbours all rejoiced , to see them thus agreed , And like a loving Couple , to bed they went with speed : No doubt but Simple Simon , that night well pleased his W ife , For ever since that time he hath lived a quiet Life . Printed for J.C. W.T. and TO . P [ . ] 