Mirth for Citizens : Or , A Comedy for the Country . Shewi [ n ] g , A young Farmer his unfortunate Marriage , His Wife is so churlish , so currish in Carriage ; He married her for beauty , for his own delight , Now he repents it both day and night . By Physognomy , adviseth young men that at Wenches skip , To be sure to look bef [ oh ] re that they lip ; To leap at a venture and catch a fallen , Raising the F [ oh ] re head , breaks Horns , and all . To the Tune of , Ragged , torn , and true . HE y boys my Father's dead , and what need I to fear , With gold and silver I am sped , and have fifty pound Land a year : Then why should I be single , I will not led the life ; My gold and silver does jingle , a wooing i'll go for a Wife . Sure thrice happy am I , if I obtain this bride , There's none can her come nigh , not in the whole World beside . A dainty fine Lass I know , as ever England bred ; Her skin is as white as snow , and her hair of a crimson read : She lives but in our Town , she is virtuous , chaste and wise . If I win her , my joys are crowned beside a matchless prize . Sure thrice happy am I , etc I'll get her Father's good will , and Mother's too beside : Then next I'll try my skill , to win this lovely bride : I'll hug her , and buss her , and kiss her , in her lies all my pride : As Cony-nuckle Dick served his sister , and tother thing too beside . Sure thriche happy am , etc She hath two hundred pound to her portion , and I a great deal of Land ; Thus shall I come quick to promotion , for love I take her by the hand : But when I went to be married , I was in the hight of my pride ; Brave gallants on horseback was carried , to accompany me and me bride . Sure thrice happy am I , that I have obtained this Bride , There's none can to her come nigh , not in the whole World beside . The Second part , to the same Tune . O we had a gallant brave wedding indeed and delicate dishes store , Those were welcome which were of our biding but little we minded the poor : Oh we had both Sack and Canary , and the music bravely did play , Oh then I drank Sack and Sherry , I thought it would never be day : Sure thrice happy am I [ , ] etc When I and my Bride was in bed , of my wedding day at night , My fancies with pleasures she fed , for I had my full delight : She showed me Venus School and with me she did not daddle , But I a Young puny fool , I quickly fell out of the saddle . sure thrice happy am I , etc But then on the morrow morn , Oh she laughed me to scorn : Oh she drank sack and canary in silver , and made me drink out of a horn , But when our wedding did cease , and our brave banquets were done , My joys did quickly decrease , and my sorrows soon after begun . sure thrice happy am I , etc She told me she would be Master , and all the whole household guidde , I told her it gave disaster , she said it should quickly be tried : Then against her I took a stick , thinking she durst not come nigh , With a cudgel my bones she did lick , that for pardon I quickly did cry : sure thrice happy am I , etc She's grown so devilish cursed , and in it she takes a pride , Makes nothing my head to burst , and bang my bones beside : She makes me go to blow , ditch Hedge , and thrash beside , And Jack come serve the Jow , to this slavery I am tide , Sure thrice happy were I , etc I do get up in a morn , and for her I make a fire , I'm a Cuckold and laughed to scorn , a holly Crab pays my hire : Then her clothes she gets on her , sugar-sops must ready be , And I forsooth wait on her , with bowing on my knee : Sure thrice happy etc As dinner she is so srout , that by her I must now stand , To wait with a Napkin on my arm , and a Trencher in my hand : Some desire I may them pledge , and she is so full of hate , If I kiss not my hand and make a leg , she lays me over the pate : Sure thrice happy am I , etc Another thing troubles my head , and grieves me worse then this , When her Comrade is with her in bed , I must reach her the pot to piss : I must draw her a cup of long tipple if it be a cold frosty night , Or she beats me as lame as a cripple . O the Bulls pizel does me fright . Sure thrice happy , etc She kicks me about the house . and puts me in bodily fears , I dare not say worser [ a ] n is the mouse but she pinches me through the ears She makes horns at me and does slight me and makes me a Jack-a nokes , She kicks me , she pricks me , she bites me Oh I feel her devilish strokes , sure thrice happy , etc I wish young men here after : be not to quick in wooing there wives , And beware of the Red-hair disaster , or repent it all days of their lives : Choose a wench of a dark brown hair , and one of a middle size , Coal black will fill thee with care , and lodge othres betwixt her thighs , Sure thrice happy am I , if I obtain this bride , There's none can her come nigh , In all the whole world beside . By Abraham Miles . The pretty bynames this young woman hath for her Husband . A Simple Simon , a Tom Nichols , Jack Adams , a Muddy-brained Cuckold , a Hopping Dick , a Nickuindigo the Devils Turnspit . Here fol - loweth his Potion of Diet , for several days of the week , of a Munday , if he riseth not betims in the morning , instead of Posset she comes up with a holly Crab , and pays him about in his Shirt ; on Tues - days she bangs his back with a good Cudgel , on Wednesdays she kicks his Breech , and lug's his Lug's , instead of feeding him with Beef and Souse ; on Thursdays , Frydays , and Saturdays , she pays his back with a Bulls Pizle , till he cries , Oh good Wife , I will never do so no more . Printed for Jo. Wright , J. Clarke W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . Mirth for Citizens : Or , A Comedy for the Country . Shewi [ n ] g , A young Farmer his unfortunate Marriage , His Wife is so churlish , so currish in Carriage ; He married her for beauty , for his own delight , Now he repents it both day and night . By Physognomy , adviseth young men that at Wenches skip , To be sure to look bef [ oh ] re that they lip ; To leap at a venture and catch a fallen , Raising the F [ oh ] re head , breaks Horns , and all . To the Tune of , Ragged , torn , and true . HE y boys my Father's dead , and what need I to fear , With gold and silver I am sped , and have fifty pound Land a year : Then why should I be single , I will not led the life ; My gold and silver does jingle , a wooing i'll go for a Wife . Sure thrice happy am I , if I obtain this bride , There's none can her come nigh , not in the whole World beside . A dainty fine Lass I know , as ever England bred ; Her skin is as white as snow , and her hair of a crimson read : She lives but in our Town , she is virtuous , chaste and wise . If I win her , my joys are crowned beside a matchless prize . Sure thrice happy am I , etc I'll get her Father's good will , and Mother's too beside : Then next I'll try my skill , to win this lovely bride : I'll hug her , and buss her , and kiss her , in her lies all my pride : As Cony-nuckle Dick served his sister , and tother thing too beside . Sure thriche happy am , etc She hath two hundred pound to her portion , and I a great deal of Land ; Thus shall I come quick to promotion , for love I take her by the hand : But when I went to be married , I was in the hight of my pride ; Brave gallants on horseback was carried , to accompany me and me bride . Sure thrice happy am I , that I have obtained this Bride , There's none can to her come nigh , not in the whole World beside . The Second part , to the same Tune . O we had a gallant brave wedding indeed and delicate dishes store , Those were welcome which were of our biding but little we minded the poor : Oh we had both Sack and Canary , and the music bravely did play , Oh then I drank Sack and Sherry , I thought it would never be day : Sure thrice happy am I [ , ] etc When I and my Bride was in bed , of my wedding day at night , My fancies with pleasures she fed , for I had my full delight : She showed me Venus School and with me she did not daddle , But I a Young puny fool , I quickly fell out of the saddle . sure thrice happy am I , etc But then on the morrow morn , Oh she laughed me to scorn : Oh she drank sack and canary in silver , and made me drink out of a horn , But when our wedding did cease , and our brave banquets were done , My joys did quickly decrease , and my sorrows soon after begun . sure thrice happy am I , etc She told me she would be Master , and all the whole household guidde , I told her it gave disaster , she said it should quickly be tried : Then against her I took a stick , thinking she durst not come nigh , With a cudgel my bones she did lick , that for pardon I quickly did cry : sure thrice happy am I , etc She's grown so devilish cursed , and in it she takes a pride , Makes nothing my head to burst , and bang my bones beside : She makes me go to blow , ditch Hedge , and thrash beside , And Jack come serve the Jow , to this slavery I am tide , Sure thrice happy were I , etc I do get up in a morn , and for her I make a fire , I'm a Cuckold and laughed to scorn , a holly Crab pays my hire : Then her clothes she gets on her , sugar-sops must ready be , And I forsooth wait on her , with bowing on my knee : Sure thrice happy etc As dinner she is so srout , that by her I must now stand , To wait with a Napkin on my arm , and a Trencher in my hand : Some desire I may them pledge , and she is so full of hate , If I kiss not my hand and make a leg , she lays me over the pate : Sure thrice happy am I , etc Another thing troubles my head , and grieves me worse then this , When her Comrade is with her in bed , I must reach her the pot to piss : I must draw her a cup of long tipple if it be a cold frosty night , Or she beats me as lame as a cripple . O the Bulls pizel does me fright . Sure thrice happy , etc She kicks me about the house . and puts me in bodily fears , I dare not say worser [ a ] n is the mouse but she pinches me through the ears She makes horns at me and does slight me and makes me a Jack-a nokes , She kicks me , she pricks me , she bites me Oh I feel her devilish strokes , sure thrice happy , etc I wish young men here after : be not to quick in wooing there wives , And beware of the Red-hair disaster , or repent it all days of their lives : Choose a wench of a dark brown hair , and one of a middle size , Coal black will fill thee with care , and lodge othres betwixt her thighs , Sure thrice happy am I , if I obtain this bride , There's none can her come nigh , In all the whole world beside . By Abraham Miles . The pretty bynames this young woman hath for her Husband . A Simple Simon , a Tom Nichols , Jack Adams , a Muddy-brained Cuckold , a Hopping Dick , a Nickuindigo the Devils Turnspit . Here fol - loweth his Potion of Diet , for several days of the week , of a Munday , if he riseth not betims in the morning , instead of Posset she comes up with a holly Crab , and pays him about in his Shirt ; on Tues - days she bangs his back with a good Cudgel , on Wednesdays she kicks his Breech , and lug's his Lug's , instead of feeding him with Beef and Souse ; on Thursdays , Frydays , and Saturdays , she pays his back with a Bulls Pizle , till he cries , Oh good Wife , I will never do so no more . Printed for Jo. Wright , J. Clarke W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 