Whose there Again : OR , The 6-penny Cuckold of Shoreditch his Policy . Poll [ i ] cy still , the proverb says ; beyond Strength it does go ; And if you mind , you'll surely find that it is even so . To the Tune of , Daniel Cooper . G Ood People all I pray give ear , and listen to my Ditty : A story true you now shall hear , was done near London City : A Drunken Sot , that loved the Pot , his folly did discover , My story mind , and you shall find , it was a lisping Glover . This Glover he loved Company , did often stay out late Sir , But did not think , while he did drink , his Wife would horn his Pate Sir ; And often she would lay the Key , so that he might get in Sir And not make her rise out of Bed but now the Game begins Sir . One night when he was tippling hard , a Neighbour came to see her , She bid him not to be afraid , her Husband was not near , By joint consent , then to't they went , the door full fast she locked , Her Husband he came presently , but the Key was in her Pocket . In sweet Embraces there they lay , he willing was to please her , Her husband fumbling long time lay , but could not find the Key Sir : This valiant man , his shoulder then , against the door he placed , And by his strength , god in at length , but they lay both amazed . Unto the Bedside then he went , and for her head he felt Sir , The Neighbour was in such a sweat , he ready was to melt sir ; Whose head is this , the Glover said , quoth she , it's my head truly , But another he felt presently , which made him grow unruly . Unto the Beds-feet then he goes , nought could his passion smother And felt two legs , two feet and toes , at last he felt another ; Two heads , quoth he , and three Legs too , sure thou art grown a Monster , His neighbour near , surprise with fear , his very heart did pant sir . The Glover felt for the Tinderbox , and for to strike a Light sir , As with the Flint the steel he knocks , i'th middle of the night sir : Pat , pat , went something on the floor , the Neighbour he was frighted , And naked stood behind the door , till the Candle it was lighted . The Glover of a courage bold , whose there , aloud he cried , His neighbour quaking stood i'th cold , but could not be espied ; Who's there again , quoth this stout man , but no body made answer . O then , quoth he , i'll surely see , who did so softly dance sir . Behind the door he then espies his near and loving Neighbour , What makes you here , the Glover cries , i'll pay you for your labour ; Neighbour to buy a pair of Gloves , was all that I intented , O then , quoth he , assuredly , you now shall be befriended . His hand he fitted presently , who then did ask the price sir , They're worth two shillings sir , quoth he , you cannot it deny sir ; But cause you are my Neighbour near , i'll take but eighteen pence sir , Pay me and then my Chamber clear , it's time to get you hence sir , He dressed himself , and away he went , for joy the Glover jumped , And to his wife aloud he cries , your Rogue I now have mumped ; Because he me a Cuckold made , to cheat him I was willing , And eighteen pence for Gloves he paid , that were not worth a shilling . The sixpenny Cuckold did rejoice , that he had c [ ? ] oused his Neighbour ; And said , though he a Cuckold was , he was paid well for his labour ; Though some do scoff , and some deride , and held it in dis [ worser ] ain so , If I catch him by my Bedside , i'se fell him Gloves again so . And you that have god wanton Wives , I pray of them be wary ; For they love pushing as their lives , and love a Man that's hairy ; For he can stoutly do the feat ; and his wantonness discover ; Like him that put this cunning Cheat upon this subtle Glover . Printed for J. Blare on London-Bridge . Whose there Again : OR , The 6-penny Cuckold of Shoreditch his Policy . Poll [ i ] cy still , the proverb says ; beyond Strength it does go ; And if you mind , you'll surely find that it is even so . To the Tune of , Daniel Cooper . G Ood People all I pray give ear , and listen to my Ditty : A story true you now shall hear , was done near London City : A Drunken Sot , that loved the Pot , his folly did discover , My story mind , and you shall find , it was a lisping Glover . This Glover he loved Company , did often stay out late Sir , But did not think , while he did drink , his Wife would horn his Pate Sir ; And often she would lay the Key , so that he might get in Sir And not make her rise out of Bed but now the Game begins Sir . One night when he was tippling hard , a Neighbour came to see her , She bid him not to be afraid , her Husband was not near , By joint consent , then to't they went , the door full fast she locked , Her Husband he came presently , but the Key was in her Pocket . In sweet Embraces there they lay , he willing was to please her , Her husband fumbling long time lay , but could not find the Key Sir : This valiant man , his shoulder then , against the door he placed , And by his strength , god in at length , but they lay both amazed . Unto the Bedside then he went , and for her head he felt Sir , The Neighbour was in such a sweat , he ready was to melt sir ; Whose head is this , the Glover said , quoth she , it's my head truly , But another he felt presently , which made him grow unruly . Unto the Beds-feet then he goes , nought could his passion smother And felt two legs , two feet and toes , at last he felt another ; Two heads , quoth he , and three Legs too , sure thou art grown a Monster , His neighbour near , surprise with fear , his very heart did pant sir . The Glover felt for the Tinderbox , and for to strike a Light sir , As with the Flint the steel he knocks , i'th middle of the night sir : Pat , pat , went something on the floor , the Neighbour he was frighted , And naked stood behind the door , till the Candle it was lighted . The Glover of a courage bold , whose there , aloud he cried , His neighbour quaking stood i'th cold , but could not be espied ; Who's there again , quoth this stout man , but no body made answer . O then , quoth he , i'll surely see , who did so softly dance sir . Behind the door he then espies his near and loving Neighbour , What makes you here , the Glover cries , i'll pay you for your labour ; Neighbour to buy a pair of Gloves , was all that I intented , O then , quoth he , assuredly , you now shall be befriended . His hand he fitted presently , who then did ask the price sir , They're worth two shillings sir , quoth he , you cannot it deny sir ; But cause you are my Neighbour near , i'll take but eighteen pence sir , Pay me and then my Chamber clear , it's time to get you hence sir , He dressed himself , and away he went , for joy the Glover jumped , And to his wife aloud he cries , your Rogue I now have mumped ; Because he me a Cuckold made , to cheat him I was willing , And eighteen pence for Gloves he paid , that were not worth a shilling . The sixpenny Cuckold did rejoice , that he had c [ ? ] oused his Neighbour ; And said , though he a Cuckold was , he was paid well for his labour ; Though some do scoff , and some deride , and held it in dis [ worser ] ain so , If I catch him by my Bedside , i'se fell him Gloves again so . And you that have god wanton Wives , I pray of them be wary ; For they love pushing as their lives , and love a Man that's hairy ; For he can stoutly do the feat ; and his wantonness discover ; Like him that put this cunning Cheat upon this subtle Glover . Printed for J. Blare on London-Bridge . 