Hey for Horn-Fair : OR , Room for Cuckolds , here comes a Company . To the Tune of , The Winchester Wedding . This may be Printed , R. L. S. A TO Charlton there was a Fair , where Lads and Lasses did meet , Young Johnny and Jenny came there , to Dance to the Fiddle so sweet ; Brisk Sue she led up a Dance , and called for Sellengers-round , And Nelly to Will did advance , and neatly trip over the Ground : Fair Frances with her fine Meen , and Dorothy gay as a Queen , With Fanny , and pretty-faced Nanny , the Glory of all the Green . The Wives from their Houses fled , and thither with joy did repair , Forsaking their Husbands dull Bed , to find out Gallants in Horn-Fair ; There Kisses with Glasses go round , upon the Maids Marmalet Cheek , And many sweet Pleasures were found , which vainly their Husbands did seek : Poor Jeremy Betty did call , and prayed her to keep her at home , But Billy was silly to Bawl , since Cuckolds must have their doom . The Lantern they vainly expose , and Honest Man there for to find , Their Light and their Labour they lose , for they'll with their Misses be kind : Although their Husbands them love their Wives they seldom do please , It's Kitty most kindly does prove , it's Christopher gives them their ease : Young Christopher must be their Mate , their Gallant again and again , Sweet Kissing must never be missing , no pleasures are like young Men . Close under the Hedges they lie , and there they sweet Furmity eat , And if their Old Husbands stand by , the Wives will put on them the Cheat ; When Roger had found our fair Nell , he takes her a little aside , But what he did there I shan't tell , with playing at Whoope-all hide : It's then the sweet pleasure begins , the Lover enjoys with the Lass , One Billing oft makes the Maid willing to dally upon the Grass . The Fairings they give on this Morn , obtain them a jolly Renown , All sorts and all sizes of HORNS , the Alamode Gifts of the Town , The Cups and the Watches they give to the Fine , and the Tatter's , and Torn , They without distinction receive , for there they buy nothing but Horn : Let the Cuckolds assemble all here , and for their Dooms patiently w [ ait ] , Here's Horns for the Brows of each Deer , guilded Horns for the Rich men Pate . And thence to fair Greenwich they came , to drink a sweet Bumper of Wine , To raise up the hearts of each Dame , and make them look briskly and fine ; It's Wine that does heighten Delight , and gives to Loves torments and ease . Like Love , can shorten the Night , and e'ry young Palate can please : There Claret created Desire within the soft Breast of each Dame , New kindled a Lovely bright fire , until that Aurora came . Let Husbands take care of their Wives , if that they are mindful of Fame , And though they live troublesome lives , let they keep in the Buxom young Dame : Their Treasure may quickly be lost , and cause them to mourn and complain , And when the Wife's tumbled and tossed , the sighs of a Husband are vain : When once the Thief finds his prey , he presently seizes the Game , And in the Night all Nymphs will play , though they live to repent the same . SIR , These are to warn you , now you are lawfully Summoned , that belong to the Henpecked Frigate , to come to Cuckolds - Point , not only Completed , Bifronted , and Fortified , but also with a Basket , Pick-Axe , and Shovel , on the Nineteenth of October , 1685. By Eight of the Clock in the Morning precisely , there to be ready with the rest of your Brothers , to march to the Gravel - Pits to dig Gravel to make a Foot-Path for your Wives to go to Horn - Fair ; and that Decency may be observed in such a numerous Assem - bly , you are hereby enjoined to respect Seniority , that the Anci - entest of the Tribe may have Precedency , which cannot be so well discernible by their Age , as by the Bred Palm of their H eads , hereof you are not to fallen under the Penalty of a Garret Correcti - on , and forfeiture of all your Goods and Chattels , Except your Master's Jointure . Thomas Can't-be-quiet Beadle . Pr in ted for C. Dennisson at the Stationers-Arms within Aldgate . Hey for Horn-Fair : OR , Room for Cuckolds , here comes a Company . To the Tune of , The Winchester Wedding . This may be Printed , R. L. S. A TO Charlton there was a Fair , where Lads and Lasses did meet , Young Johnny and Jenny came there , to Dance to the Fiddle so sweet ; Brisk Sue she led up a Dance , and called for Sellengers-round , And Nelly to Will did advance , and neatly trip over the Ground : Fair Frances with her fine Meen , and Dorothy gay as a Queen , With Fanny , and pretty-faced Nanny , the Glory of all the Green . The Wives from their Houses fled , and thither with joy did repair , Forsaking their Husbands dull Bed , to find out Gallants in Horn-Fair ; There Kisses with Glasses go round , upon the Maids Marmalet Cheek , And many sweet Pleasures were found , which vainly their Husbands did seek : Poor Jeremy Betty did call , and prayed her to keep her at home , But Billy was silly to Bawl , since Cuckolds must have their doom . The Lantern they vainly expose , and Honest Man there for to find , Their Light and their Labour they lose , for they'll with their Misses be kind : Although their Husbands them love their Wives they seldom do please , It's Kitty most kindly does prove , it's Christopher gives them their ease : Young Christopher must be their Mate , their Gallant again and again , Sweet Kissing must never be missing , no pleasures are like young Men . Close under the Hedges they lie , and there they sweet Furmity eat , And if their Old Husbands stand by , the Wives will put on them the Cheat ; When Roger had found our fair Nell , he takes her a little aside , But what he did there I shan't tell , with playing at Whoope-all hide : It's then the sweet pleasure begins , the Lover enjoys with the Lass , One Billing oft makes the Maid willing to dally upon the Grass . The Fairings they give on this Morn , obtain them a jolly Renown , All sorts and all sizes of HORNS , the Alamode Gifts of the Town , The Cups and the Watches they give to the Fine , and the Tatter's , and Torn , They without distinction receive , for there they buy nothing but Horn : Let the Cuckolds assemble all here , and for their Dooms patiently w [ ait ] , Here's Horns for the Brows of each Deer , guilded Horns for the Rich men Pate . And thence to fair Greenwich they came , to drink a sweet Bumper of Wine , To raise up the hearts of each Dame , and make them look briskly and fine ; It's Wine that does heighten Delight , and gives to Loves torments and ease . Like Love , can shorten the Night , and e'ry young Palate can please : There Claret created Desire within the soft Breast of each Dame , New kindled a Lovely bright fire , until that Aurora came . Let Husbands take care of their Wives , if that they are mindful of Fame , And though they live troublesome lives , let they keep in the Buxom young Dame : Their Treasure may quickly be lost , and cause them to mourn and complain , And when the Wife's tumbled and tossed , the sighs of a Husband are vain : When once the Thief finds his prey , he presently seizes the Game , And in the Night all Nymphs will play , though they live to repent the same . SIR , These are to warn you , now you are lawfully Summoned , that belong to the Henpecked Frigate , to come to Cuckolds - Point , not only Completed , Bifronted , and Fortified , but also with a Basket , Pick-Axe , and Shovel , on the Nineteenth of October , 1685. By Eight of the Clock in the Morning precisely , there to be ready with the rest of your Brothers , to march to the Gravel - Pits to dig Gravel to make a Foot-Path for your Wives to go to Horn - Fair ; and that Decency may be observed in such a numerous Assem - bly , you are hereby enjoined to respect Seniority , that the Anci - entest of the Tribe may have Precedency , which cannot be so well discernible by their Age , as by the Bred Palm of their H eads , hereof you are not to fallen under the Penalty of a Garret Correcti - on , and forfeiture of all your Goods and Chattels , Except your Master's Jointure . Thomas Can't-be-quiet Beadle . Pr in ted for C. Dennisson at the Stationers-Arms within Aldgate . 