The DYER Deceived ; OR , The Crafty WIVES Policy . She with her Friend some time did spend , yet by her Husband crossed ; Yet I admit , the Woman's Wit did bring her off at last . Tune of , The Two English Travellers . This may be Printed , R. P. A LL you that to merriment now are inclined , Attend to this story and here you shall find , A fancy that seldom is known in and Age , And yet it will please you , I dare to engage . There was and old Dyar that had a young Wife , Together they lived a quarrelsome life , Because he was Jealous , yet not without cause , For why a young Hatter had gained her applause . Her Husband he chanced to drink with a friend , Mean while his kind Wife for her gallant did send , Before half and hour in pleasure had passed , Her Husband returned and found the door fast . He knocked at the door and a racket he made , Alas , quoth the good Wife we both are betrayed , Quoth she here's my Husband [ tO ] he case it is bad , For if he should see thee he would be Horn-mad . The wit of a Woman did [ strait ] - ways invent , A place for to hide him to her hearts content , 'Twas in a Press Cupboard she bid him lie still , For he was as safe as a [ ? ] f in a Mill. She let in her Husband and gave him a kiss , But yet he mistrusting some [ e ] thing was amiss , He to the old Cupboard and a [ ? ] ent did make , And see him , but yet he no notice would take . He locked the Cupboard securing the Key , And vowed the Hatter confined should be , Then going a Ramble with two or three men , Quoth he , I will make thee to starve in thy Den , He told his companions then what he had done , And vowed to thrash him as sure as a Gun , They laughed at the humour yet little they said , And now you shall here what a project she played . Alas , now he meeting with very hard hap , Was ever poor H atter so catched in a trap , For though he was Youthful both gallant and stout , Yet he's in the Cupboard and cannot get out . None ever so close was in Prison for debt , Alas , he was then in a pitiful fret , The thoughts of confinement did grieve him so soar If he could get out he would come there no more . And she was likewise in a pitiful touse ; Then tried all the Keys that she had in the house , At length she found one that did open the door , And thus he obtained his freedom once more . Now this being done to her crony she said , I have a new project come into my head , In order to hide her expected disgrace , She locked up a great Mastiff-Dog in his place . Her Husband came home with his Neighbours at night , And faithfully promised to show them a sighed , It was his Wives Gallant he vowed by his faith , Which he had locked up in the Cupboard all day . Away to the Cupboard he went most devout , And when he unlocked it the Mastiff leapt out : His Neighbours in laughing and jokeing went an , And told him he knew not a Dog from a Man , Sweet Wife I would have thee to pardon me now , This great oversight , and I solemnly vow Who ever shall offend thee , I'll make them to quake , Dear Wife , thou mayest see how a Man may mistake Quoth she , thou hast caused much trouble and strife , By raising a Scandal upon thy sweet Wife ; But if you'll be wiser , I'll pardon you this , With that he embraced her , and gave her a Kiss . FINIS . Printed for J. Back at the Black-Boy , on Lon - don-Bridge . The DYER Deceived ; OR , The Crafty WIVES Policy . She with her Friend some time did spend , yet by her Husband crossed ; Yet I admit , the Woman's Wit did bring her off at last . Tune of , The Two English Travellers . This may be Printed , R. P. A LL you that to merriment now are inclined , Attend to this story and here you shall find , A fancy that seldom is known in and Age , And yet it will please you , I dare to engage . There was and old Dyar that had a young Wife , Together they lived a quarrelsome life , Because he was Jealous , yet not without cause , For why a young Hatter had gained her applause . Her Husband he chanced to drink with a friend , Mean while his kind Wife for her gallant did send , Before half and hour in pleasure had passed , Her Husband returned and found the door fast . He knocked at the door and a racket he made , Alas , quoth the good Wife we both are betrayed , Quoth she here's my Husband [ tO ] he case it is bad , For if he should see thee he would be Horn-mad . The wit of a Woman did [ strait ] - ways invent , A place for to hide him to her hearts content , 'Twas in a Press Cupboard she bid him lie still , For he was as safe as a [ ? ] f in a Mill. She let in her Husband and gave him a kiss , But yet he mistrusting some [ e ] thing was amiss , He to the old Cupboard and a [ ? ] ent did make , And see him , but yet he no notice would take . He locked the Cupboard securing the Key , And vowed the Hatter confined should be , Then going a Ramble with two or three men , Quoth he , I will make thee to starve in thy Den , He told his companions then what he had done , And vowed to thrash him as sure as a Gun , They laughed at the humour yet little they said , And now you shall here what a project she played . Alas , now he meeting with very hard hap , Was ever poor H atter so catched in a trap , For though he was Youthful both gallant and stout , Yet he's in the Cupboard and cannot get out . None ever so close was in Prison for debt , Alas , he was then in a pitiful fret , The thoughts of confinement did grieve him so soar If he could get out he would come there no more . And she was likewise in a pitiful touse ; Then tried all the Keys that she had in the house , At length she found one that did open the door , And thus he obtained his freedom once more . Now this being done to her crony she said , I have a new project come into my head , In order to hide her expected disgrace , She locked up a great Mastiff-Dog in his place . Her Husband came home with his Neighbours at night , And faithfully promised to show them a sighed , It was his Wives Gallant he vowed by his faith , Which he had locked up in the Cupboard all day . Away to the Cupboard he went most devout , And when he unlocked it the Mastiff leapt out : His Neighbours in laughing and jokeing went an , And told him he knew not a Dog from a Man , Sweet Wife I would have thee to pardon me now , This great oversight , and I solemnly vow Who ever shall offend thee , I'll make them to quake , Dear Wife , thou mayest see how a Man may mistake Quoth she , thou hast caused much trouble and strife , By raising a Scandal upon thy sweet Wife ; But if you'll be wiser , I'll pardon you this , With that he embraced her , and gave her a Kiss . FINIS . Printed for J. Back at the Black-Boy , on Lon - don-Bridge . 