The Victorious Wife : OR , The Henpeckt Husband . The Husband here is Subject made , and now the Wife bears sway : But since that she has god this Trade , she'll govern every day . To the Tune of , The Journeyman Shoemaker ; or , Billy and Molly . G Ood people stay and hark a while , and listen to my Ditty ; A story here I will relate was done in London City ; Of man and Wife , who did contend and had up various Speeches , But mark what fell out in the end , the soon fought for the Breeches . One night the man was full of Wine , that he began to hecter , And sadly he his Wife reviled , which cruelly did vex Her. Now she began to be afraid lest there should be a bawling ; But as it seems she's not dismayed , for down she knocked him sprawling . At this he swore and vowed revenge ever that he was much Older , Whereat she kicked him out of doors , and then did act the the Scolder ; At which he made a hideous Cry , as if they had been killing ; And up he got immediately , but could not stand for reeling . O then quoth he she's devilish cursed , and in it takes a pride Sir : And I must stand with Cap in hand , or else she'l tan my hide Sir : And that which plagues me worse than this I'm forced to make the Fire , And if I do the least amiss , a cudgel pays my Hire . Now the neighbours thronging came , and said they did not Flatter ; But very much they they did him blame , and cried it was no Matter : Quoth he I now the Horns have wone , I never was so abused ; Assuredly I'm quite undone the Devil was never so used . Forthwith to bed he then did go , where presently he dreamed , That he had found a heap of Gold , for so to him it seemed : But for to mark the place he would , and forthwith he did Crack Sir , And when he rise to seek his Gold ; a TO ---- rd there was Alack Sir . Now this did make him f [ rest ] [ ? ] cause he was so deceived Straight way he bounced about the [ room ? ] seeing himself betreaved ; And down he ran unto hid wife and foully fell upon her , He swore that he would end her life , if that she strove much longer . But his courage soon was cooled , for shhe trumped him roundly , And she did make the ladle walk about his bones most soundly , At last he on his knees did fallen , and granted her the better , And if she would forgive him all he'd ever be her debtor . Now youngmen all both great and small take heed how that you marry , For Women are deceitful ones , and apt for to miscarry : If once they do the victor win they'll play with you the Devil , Therefore in time be sure begin for to prevent that Evil. FINIS . TO his may be Printed , R.P. Printed for J. Blare at the Looking glass on London Bridge . The Victorious Wife : OR , The Henpeckt Husband . The Husband here is Subject made , and now the Wife bears sway : But since that she has god this Trade , she'll govern every day . To the Tune of , The Journeyman Shoemaker ; or , Billy and Molly . G Ood people stay and hark a while , and listen to my Ditty ; A story here I will relate was done in London City ; Of man and Wife , who did contend and had up various Speeches , But mark what fell out in the end , the soon fought for the Breeches . One night the man was full of Wine , that he began to hecter , And sadly he his Wife reviled , which cruelly did vex Her. Now she began to be afraid lest there should be a bawling ; But as it seems she's not dismayed , for down she knocked him sprawling . At this he swore and vowed revenge ever that he was much Older , Whereat she kicked him out of doors , and then did act the the Scolder ; At which he made a hideous Cry , as if they had been killing ; And up he got immediately , but could not stand for reeling . O then quoth he she's devilish cursed , and in it takes a pride Sir : And I must stand with Cap in hand , or else she'l tan my hide Sir : And that which plagues me worse than this I'm forced to make the Fire , And if I do the least amiss , a cudgel pays my Hire . Now the neighbours thronging came , and said they did not Flatter ; But very much they they did him blame , and cried it was no Matter : Quoth he I now the Horns have wone , I never was so abused ; Assuredly I'm quite undone the Devil was never so used . Forthwith to bed he then did go , where presently he dreamed , That he had found a heap of Gold , for so to him it seemed : But for to mark the place he would , and forthwith he did Crack Sir , And when he rise to seek his Gold ; a TO ---- rd there was Alack Sir . Now this did make him f [ rest ] [ ? ] cause he was so deceived Straight way he bounced about the [ room ? ] seeing himself betreaved ; And down he ran unto hid wife and foully fell upon her , He swore that he would end her life , if that she strove much longer . But his courage soon was cooled , for shhe trumped him roundly , And she did make the ladle walk about his bones most soundly , At last he on his knees did fallen , and granted her the better , And if she would forgive him all he'd ever be her debtor . Now youngmen all both great and small take heed how that you marry , For Women are deceitful ones , and apt for to miscarry : If once they do the victor win they'll play with you the Devil , Therefore in time be sure begin for to prevent that Evil. FINIS . TO his may be Printed , R.P. Printed for J. Blare at the Looking glass on London Bridge . 