[ THE ] Henpeckt CUCKOLD : OR , The Cross-grained Wife . To the Tune of , I met with a Country Lass , etc Licensed according to Order . I Married a Scolding Wife , which causes to me much woe , She leads me such a cross-grained life , it is but a Word and a Blow . I pleased her well at first , she nothing but Smiles did show , But now she's grown so plaguy Cursed , It is but a Word and a Blow . I Labour early and late , and all for to serve my Froe , But when I've done , she breaks my pate It is but a Word and a Blow . I study both night and day , to bring her to my Bow ; But all my Care is cast away , For it's but a Word and a Blow . Sometime I meet with a Friend , and to the Alehouse we go , But if I chance a Groat to spend , It is but a Word and a Blow . She makes me to Sweep the House , and Dishes to Wash also ; And every foot gives me a Douse , It is but a Word and a Blow . TO He Cradle she makes me Rock , while she does a Gadding go , And all my fare's a Bit and a Knock , It is but a Word and Blow . She'll Cuckold me to my face , and over me stand and Crow ; If I complain of this Disgrace , It is but a Word and a Blow . My Dearest , said I , one night , why do you so Cruel grow ? She straight began to Scratch and Bite It was but a Word and a Blow . Next day I took heart of Grace , and Angry began to grow ; But she gave me a slap o'th Face , It was but a Word and a Blow . I took up a Wooden Can , and thinking at her to throw , She knocked me down with Frying-pan It was a Word and a Blow . So let me do what I could , she never would better grow ; For she was of a Fighting Brood , It was but a Word and a Blow . This makes me weary of Life , I care not whither I go ; So I can live but from my Wife , That makes but a Word and a Blow . Let him that a Widow Wooes . or Courts a Maid for his Froe , Take her down in her Wedding-Shooes Else it's but a Word and Blow . FINIS . Printed and Sold by J. Millet , next door to the Flower-de-Luce , in Little-Brittain . [ THE ] Henpeckt CUCKOLD : OR , The Cross-grained Wife . To the Tune of , I met with a Country Lass , etc Licensed according to Order . I Married a Scolding Wife , which causes to me much woe , She leads me such a cross-grained life , it is but a Word and a Blow . I pleased her well at first , she nothing but Smiles did show , But now she's grown so plaguy Cursed , It is but a Word and a Blow . I Labour early and late , and all for to serve my Froe , But when I've done , she breaks my pate It is but a Word and a Blow . I study both night and day , to bring her to my Bow ; But all my Care is cast away , For it's but a Word and a Blow . Sometime I meet with a Friend , and to the Alehouse we go , But if I chance a Groat to spend , It is but a Word and a Blow . She makes me to Sweep the House , and Dishes to Wash also ; And every foot gives me a Douse , It is but a Word and a Blow . TO He Cradle she makes me Rock , while she does a Gadding go , And all my fare's a Bit and a Knock , It is but a Word and Blow . She'll Cuckold me to my face , and over me stand and Crow ; If I complain of this Disgrace , It is but a Word and a Blow . My Dearest , said I , one night , why do you so Cruel grow ? She straight began to Scratch and Bite It was but a Word and a Blow . Next day I took heart of Grace , and Angry began to grow ; But she gave me a slap o'th Face , It was but a Word and a Blow . I took up a Wooden Can , and thinking at her to throw , She knocked me down with Frying-pan It was a Word and a Blow . So let me do what I could , she never would better grow ; For she was of a Fighting Brood , It was but a Word and a Blow . This makes me weary of Life , I care not whither I go ; So I can live but from my Wife , That makes but a Word and a Blow . Let him that a Widow Wooes . or Courts a Maid for his Froe , Take her down in her Wedding-Shooes Else it's but a Word and Blow . FINIS . Printed and Sold by J. Millet , next door to the Flower-de-Luce , in Little-Brittain . 