The Catalogue of Contented Cuckolds : OR , A Loving Society of Confessing Brothers of the Forked Order , etc who being met together in a Tavern , declared each Man his Condition , resolving to be contented , and drowned Melancholy in a Glass of Necktar . To the Tune of , Found Boy , etc . Or , Love's a sweet Passion , etc . F Ull ten honest Tradesmen did happen to meet , In a Tavern , it seems , about Leaden-hall-street ; One a Brewer , a Baker , a Cook , and a Tailor ; With a Turner , a Goldsmith , a Merchant , a Sailor ; Nay , a Docter , a Surgeon which opens the vein : These was good honest Tradesmen , all Cuckolds in grain . My Wife , quoth the Brewer , is charming and fair , She will ramble abroad , but I never know where ; Yet at midnight sometime she returns with a Spark ; Nay , I sometime have found her at Put in the dark : Yet I swear by this Glass of rich sparkling Wine , I will now be contented , and never repine . The Baker , he cried , There is Robin my man , He will play with his Dame , let me do what I can ; Once I happened to catch him in Bed by her side , You'd a laughed to have seen how I liqured his hide : But I swear by this Glass of rich sparkling Wine , I will now be contented , and never repine . The Cook he cried out , I am none of the least , For when ever I go to a Dinner , or Feast , There is brawny young William , the Poulterer's Man , He will kiss my sweet Wife for a Sop in the Pan : Yet I swear by this Glass of rich sparkling Wine , I will now be contented , and never repine . The Tailor sat sighing and cratching his ears . Quoth he , I have been Cuckolded this three or four Years , By a Saylsman who gave my sweet wife her Silk-gown , When he comes up my stairs , I am forced to go down : It cannot be avoided , I'll swear by this Wine , But I'll now be contented , and never repine . In troth , quoth the Turner , it's my very Case , For when her Gallant comes I am forced to give place ; To my work straight I go where I labour and toil . And I leave him to turn up my wife the mean while ; But my pocket with Genea's of Gold he does line , Therefore I'll be contented , and never repine . O , then , said the Goldsmith pray hear my complaint , Sirs , I married a Quaker she seemed like a Saint , Yet a Horn to the World I have reason to blow , Oh the innocent Lamb has a dark way to go : Yet I swear by this Glass of rich sparkling Wine , I will now be contented , and never repine . The Merchant he cried , When I go to the Change , With a Master of Music my Lady will range , To the Tavern , and thereon her Lute he must play , She may dance , but I'm sure I the Music must pay : With my Treasure his pockets she often will line , Yet contented I'll be , it's in vain to repine . The Sailor cried , Brother's , hear me if you please , Three or four Years together I ploughed the rough Seas , In my absence my Wife has a daughter and a Son , And I found a great Panyer as big as a Tun : I cried out , My sweet Nancy in-faith this is fine ? Be contented , said she , this in vain to repine . Come , come , said the Docter , the best of us all Cannot be our Wives Keepers , they are subject to fallen ; Friends , by woeful Experience I speak it indeed , I have one that will help a kind Friend at his need : Yet I swear by this Glass of rich sparkling Wine , I will now be contented , never repine . The Surgeon he cried , Sirs , I'll tell you a Jest ; For I'm sure I am a Cuckold as well as the rest : Once I followed my Wife and her Spark to Horn-fair ; Where I took them both napping as Moss catched his Mars . He was letting her blood near the Leg and the Loin ; I was almost Horn-mad , I began to repine . Since we are ten Cuckolds here all on a row , We will drink each a Bottle , before we do go , For to drown Melancholy in Liquour of Life ; He's a Fool that will weep for the Sins of his Wife ; Let us tipple Canary , and never complain There is bet than we that Cuckolds in Grain . Printed for J.C. in Little-Britain . The Catalogue of Contented Cuckolds : OR , A Loving Society of Confessing Brothers of the Forked Order , etc who being met together in a Tavern , declared each Man his Condition , resolving to be contented , and drowned Melancholy in a Glass of Necktar . To the Tune of , Found Boy , etc . Or , Love's a sweet Passion , etc . F Ull ten honest Tradesmen did happen to meet , In a Tavern , it seems , about Leaden-hall-street ; One a Brewer , a Baker , a Cook , and a Tailor ; With a Turner , a Goldsmith , a Merchant , a Sailor ; Nay , a Docter , a Surgeon which opens the vein : These was good honest Tradesmen , all Cuckolds in grain . My Wife , quoth the Brewer , is charming and fair , She will ramble abroad , but I never know where ; Yet at midnight sometime she returns with a Spark ; Nay , I sometime have found her at Put in the dark : Yet I swear by this Glass of rich sparkling Wine , I will now be contented , and never repine . The Baker , he cried , There is Robin my man , He will play with his Dame , let me do what I can ; Once I happened to catch him in Bed by her side , You'd a laughed to have seen how I liqured his hide : But I swear by this Glass of rich sparkling Wine , I will now be contented , and never repine . The Cook he cried out , I am none of the least , For when ever I go to a Dinner , or Feast , There is brawny young William , the Poulterer's Man , He will kiss my sweet Wife for a Sop in the Pan : Yet I swear by this Glass of rich sparkling Wine , I will now be contented , and never repine . The Tailor sat sighing and cratching his ears . Quoth he , I have been Cuckolded this three or four Years , By a Saylsman who gave my sweet wife her Silk-gown , When he comes up my stairs , I am forced to go down : It cannot be avoided , I'll swear by this Wine , But I'll now be contented , and never repine . In troth , quoth the Turner , it's my very Case , For when her Gallant comes I am forced to give place ; To my work straight I go where I labour and toil . And I leave him to turn up my wife the mean while ; But my pocket with Genea's of Gold he does line , Therefore I'll be contented , and never repine . O , then , said the Goldsmith pray hear my complaint , Sirs , I married a Quaker she seemed like a Saint , Yet a Horn to the World I have reason to blow , Oh the innocent Lamb has a dark way to go : Yet I swear by this Glass of rich sparkling Wine , I will now be contented , and never repine . The Merchant he cried , When I go to the Change , With a Master of Music my Lady will range , To the Tavern , and thereon her Lute he must play , She may dance , but I'm sure I the Music must pay : With my Treasure his pockets she often will line , Yet contented I'll be , it's in vain to repine . The Sailor cried , Brother's , hear me if you please , Three or four Years together I ploughed the rough Seas , In my absence my Wife has a daughter and a Son , And I found a great Panyer as big as a Tun : I cried out , My sweet Nancy in-faith this is fine ? Be contented , said she , this in vain to repine . Come , come , said the Docter , the best of us all Cannot be our Wives Keepers , they are subject to fallen ; Friends , by woeful Experience I speak it indeed , I have one that will help a kind Friend at his need : Yet I swear by this Glass of rich sparkling Wine , I will now be contented , never repine . The Surgeon he cried , Sirs , I'll tell you a Jest ; For I'm sure I am a Cuckold as well as the rest : Once I followed my Wife and her Spark to Horn-fair ; Where I took them both napping as Moss catched his Mars . He was letting her blood near the Leg and the Loin ; I was almost Horn-mad , I began to repine . Since we are ten Cuckolds here all on a row , We will drink each a Bottle , before we do go , For to drown Melancholy in Liquour of Life ; He's a Fool that will weep for the Sins of his Wife ; Let us tipple Canary , and never complain There is bet than we that Cuckolds in Grain . Printed for J.C. in Little-Britain . 