THE Poor Contented Cuckold Being a Relation , Of a man that used sometime to stand , Pimp at the door holding it with his hand The while the Gallant did his Wife possess , In quiet he poor fool thinking no less , But that he all his money should obtain Being mistaken made him thus complain . Tune of , Cold and Raw . W As ever man so unfortunate , as to be a Cuckold and poor sir ; It's a curse which all do hate , yet I the same endure Sir : For I have a Whore to my Wife , and she a very proud one , That wearys me out of life , and makes me wish I had none . Other Cuckolds their be it's true , yet I can Scarcely believe they ; More for their Wives did ever doe , Then I have done already : Yet verily I go threadbare , although I was contented ; And that my Wife should be a Whore , truly I first consented . [ For ] sometime I Pimp did stand , while my wife did rant it ; And with her Hector in her hand , together did gallant it : Thus may you see what I have done , and how I was contented , To be Cuckolded by some , I never then Lamented . If I home did chance to come , and her Gallants were playing , With her then I must be gone , There was for me no staying : I must not stay to speak a word , but presently be packing , And not let my Voice be herd , for fear of a good Twacking . Oftimes at the Door I lay , while that they lay a Courting , lest some one should them betray , and spoil all their sporting : Yea more then this too have I done , to make my work the surer ; And finish what I had begun , I sometime was procurer . Thus have I done thinking that I , all her Gallants Coin Sir ; Should possess but verily , what she get's not mine Sir : She with her Trollops it does spend , and leaves me not a Farthing , Which makes me now complain in the end , seeing I have lost by the bargain . She's give me nought but Craved look [ s , ] if I her desire ; To give me some Money Zooks , I'de better near come nigh her ; For whatsoever does stand nigh , her she straight way takes it : And at my head strikes presently , endeavouring for to break it . Now Married Men my counsel take , mind what I say to you ; If that you full herd do rake , for to live yet prithee : Here consent your Wife shall be , made common unto any ; For then you'll never live happily , nor will they maintain you . Printed for James Bissel , at the Bible and Harp in West-Smithfield , 1689. THE Poor Contented Cuckold Being a Relation , Of a man that used sometime to stand , Pimp at the door holding it with his hand The while the Gallant did his Wife possess , In quiet he poor fool thinking no less , But that he all his money should obtain Being mistaken made him thus complain . Tune of , Cold and Raw . W As ever man so unfortunate , as to be a Cuckold and poor sir ; It's a curse which all do hate , yet I the same endure Sir : For I have a Whore to my Wife , and she a very proud one , That wearys me out of life , and makes me wish I had none . Other Cuckolds their be it's true , yet I can Scarcely believe they ; More for their Wives did ever doe , Then I have done already : Yet verily I go threadbare , although I was contented ; And that my Wife should be a Whore , truly I first consented . [ For ] sometime I Pimp did stand , while my wife did rant it ; And with her Hector in her hand , together did gallant it : Thus may you see what I have done , and how I was contented , To be Cuckolded by some , I never then Lamented . If I home did chance to come , and her Gallants were playing , With her then I must be gone , There was for me no staying : I must not stay to speak a word , but presently be packing , And not let my Voice be herd , for fear of a good Twacking . Oftimes at the Door I lay , while that they lay a Courting , lest some one should them betray , and spoil all their sporting : Yea more then this too have I done , to make my work the surer ; And finish what I had begun , I sometime was procurer . Thus have I done thinking that I , all her Gallants Coin Sir ; Should possess but verily , what she get's not mine Sir : She with her Trollops it does spend , and leaves me not a Farthing , Which makes me now complain in the end , seeing I have lost by the bargain . She's give me nought but Craved look [ s , ] if I her desire ; To give me some Money Zooks , I'de better near come nigh her ; For whatsoever does stand nigh , her she straight way takes it : And at my head strikes presently , endeavouring for to break it . Now Married Men my counsel take , mind what I say to you ; If that you full herd do rake , for to live yet prithee : Here consent your Wife shall be , made common unto any ; For then you'll never live happily , nor will they maintain you . Printed for James Bissel , at the Bible and Harp in West-Smithfield , 1689. 