The WIFES Answer TO THE Henpeckt Cuckolds Complaint . Showing the Reasons she had to Chastise him , and her Resolu - cion to continue her Discipline over him till he mend . To the Tune of , Marry and thank you too . Licensed according to Order . MY Cuckold tells Tales of me , a Changeling I think he'll grow ; But if he won't his Error see , I'll make him his Duty show . I'll teach him to prate about , and all our Secrets to show ; Next time I lay my hand o'th' Lout , I'll make him his Duty know . It's true , I Chastise the Fool , good Manners in him to show ; Yet though I him do often School , He'll never his Duty know . I'll make him to Worship me , he promised it once at Bow ; If he won't down upon his Knee , I'll make him his Duty know . I'll him at a distance keep , He shall not Familiar grow : When I do frown , he's best to creep , I'll make him his Duty know . A Husbands a Rampant thing , unless you do keep him low ; He'l like a Mad-Man fret and fling , and never his Duty know . One time a silk Cushion he took , and at me in jest did throw ; But I could not his kindness brook , I made him his Duty know . Come Sirrah , you Rogue , said I , how durst you to serve me so ? Your Sovereign Lady to defy , I'll make you your Duty know . I up with my valiant Fist , and gave him a thumping blow ; He looked as though he were bepissed , I made him his Duty know . When Married we were at first , he would neither Bake nor Brew : I bid him say so if he durst , Il'e teach him a Lesson new . He muttered and pouted then , The Widgeon looked wondrous blue : I made him feel my Paws again , And taught him a Lesson new . Sometime about House he'd sneak , his peeping I made him rue ; I was resolved this trick to break , and teach him a Lesson new . I catched him i'th Dairy one day and at him I briskly flew ; I turned his Cream to Curds and Whey And taught him a Lesson new . In short I reformed my Spark , and him to my Bow I drew ; For I did Bite as well as Bark , which taught him a Lesson new . I hope no more Tales he'l tell , if he does I declare for true ; I'll make him wish himself in Hell , I'll teach him a Lesson new . For , I'll get a lusty Rod , my words they shall be but few , But I will Jerk , and Firk his Cod , and make the Rogues Buttocks blew . Printed for J. Millet , next door to the Flower-deluce , in Little-Brittain . The WIFES Answer TO THE Henpeckt Cuckolds Complaint . Showing the Reasons she had to Chastise him , and her Resolu - cion to continue her Discipline over him till he mend . To the Tune of , Marry and thank you too . Licensed according to Order . MY Cuckold tells Tales of me , a Changeling I think he'll grow ; But if he won't his Error see , I'll make him his Duty show . I'll teach him to prate about , and all our Secrets to show ; Next time I lay my hand o'th' Lout , I'll make him his Duty know . It's true , I Chastise the Fool , good Manners in him to show ; Yet though I him do often School , He'll never his Duty know . I'll make him to Worship me , he promised it once at Bow ; If he won't down upon his Knee , I'll make him his Duty know . I'll him at a distance keep , He shall not Familiar grow : When I do frown , he's best to creep , I'll make him his Duty know . A Husbands a Rampant thing , unless you do keep him low ; He'l like a Mad-Man fret and fling , and never his Duty know . One time a silk Cushion he took , and at me in jest did throw ; But I could not his kindness brook , I made him his Duty know . Come Sirrah , you Rogue , said I , how durst you to serve me so ? Your Sovereign Lady to defy , I'll make you your Duty know . I up with my valiant Fist , and gave him a thumping blow ; He looked as though he were bepissed , I made him his Duty know . When Married we were at first , he would neither Bake nor Brew : I bid him say so if he durst , Il'e teach him a Lesson new . He muttered and pouted then , The Widgeon looked wondrous blue : I made him feel my Paws again , And taught him a Lesson new . Sometime about House he'd sneak , his peeping I made him rue ; I was resolved this trick to break , and teach him a Lesson new . I catched him i'th Dairy one day and at him I briskly flew ; I turned his Cream to Curds and Whey And taught him a Lesson new . In short I reformed my Spark , and him to my Bow I drew ; For I did Bite as well as Bark , which taught him a Lesson new . I hope no more Tales he'l tell , if he does I declare for true ; I'll make him wish himself in Hell , I'll teach him a Lesson new . For , I'll get a lusty Rod , my words they shall be but few , But I will Jerk , and Firk his Cod , and make the Rogues Buttocks blew . Printed for J. Millet , next door to the Flower-deluce , in Little-Brittain . 