The Cuckold's Complaint : OR , The Turbulent WIVES severe Cruelty . To the Tune of , I marry and thank you too . Licensed according to Order . I Married a Wife of late , which sinks my heart full low , She laid a Ladle over my Pate . a curse of a cruel Shrow . Before I'ld been Wed a Week her Cruelty she did show , And would not suffer me to speak , a Curse , etc I am forced to clean her Shoes before she abroad does go , Or else my person she'll abuse , a Curse of a cruel Shrow . I am forced to wash her Smock , and the Child's shitten Clouts also , Though I fit up till Twelve a Clock , a Curse of etc Her Gallant comes every day , and they to the Tavern go , But I poor heart must nothing say , a Curse of , etc Choice Dainties is all her Fare , while I with a hard Crust go ; With this and ten times more I bear , a Curse of a cruel Shrow . One night as I went to Bed , I happened to touch her Toe , She with the Pisspot broke my head , a Curse of a cruel Shrow . My Money she spends in Pride , while I in Rags do go , She Cudgels me if once I chide , curse of a cruel Shrow . Sometime I would her embrace , then straightway she'll fling and throw , And call me Cuckold to my Face , a Curse , etc My Gullet she often tares , and luggs my Ears also , [ A ] and kicks me headlong down the Stairs , a Curse , etc [ I ] wish I had never been Wed , [ s ] such Sorrows I undergo , [ All ? ] comfort now is from me fled , [ a ] Curse of a cruel Shrow . When I led a Single Life , I revealed from Town to Town , But since I am married to this cross wife [ e ] the world is turned upside down . I formerly with a Friend , could merrily melt a Crown , But now one Groat I dare not spend , the World , etc Rich Robes I was used to wear , but Fortune hath sent a frown , My head and heart is filled with care , the World is turned up side down . I formerly lived at ease , and kept both my Hawk and Hound , But now I have a Wife I cannot ple [ ase ] the World , etc There's nothing like Liberty , but here I am tied and bound Fast to the sour Apple-Tree , the World is turned upside down . Printed for P. Brooksby . J. Deacon . J. Blare . J. Back . The Cuckold's Complaint : OR , The Turbulent WIVES severe Cruelty . To the Tune of , I marry and thank you too . Licensed according to Order . I Married a Wife of late , which sinks my heart full low , She laid a Ladle over my Pate . a curse of a cruel Shrow . Before I'ld been Wed a Week her Cruelty she did show , And would not suffer me to speak , a Curse , etc I am forced to clean her Shoes before she abroad does go , Or else my person she'll abuse , a Curse of a cruel Shrow . I am forced to wash her Smock , and the Child's shitten Clouts also , Though I fit up till Twelve a Clock , a Curse of etc Her Gallant comes every day , and they to the Tavern go , But I poor heart must nothing say , a Curse of , etc Choice Dainties is all her Fare , while I with a hard Crust go ; With this and ten times more I bear , a Curse of a cruel Shrow . One night as I went to Bed , I happened to touch her Toe , She with the Pisspot broke my head , a Curse of a cruel Shrow . My Money she spends in Pride , while I in Rags do go , She Cudgels me if once I chide , curse of a cruel Shrow . Sometime I would her embrace , then straightway she'll fling and throw , And call me Cuckold to my Face , a Curse , etc My Gullet she often tares , and luggs my Ears also , [ A ] and kicks me headlong down the Stairs , a Curse , etc [ I ] wish I had never been Wed , [ s ] such Sorrows I undergo , [ All ? ] comfort now is from me fled , [ a ] Curse of a cruel Shrow . When I led a Single Life , I revealed from Town to Town , But since I am married to this cross wife [ e ] the world is turned upside down . I formerly with a Friend , could merrily melt a Crown , But now one Groat I dare not spend , the World , etc Rich Robes I was used to wear , but Fortune hath sent a frown , My head and heart is filled with care , the World is turned up side down . I formerly lived at ease , and kept both my Hawk and Hound , But now I have a Wife I cannot ple [ ase ] the World , etc There's nothing like Liberty , but here I am tied and bound Fast to the sour Apple-Tree , the World is turned upside down . Printed for P. Brooksby . J. Deacon . J. Blare . J. Back . 