My Wife will be my Master : Or , The Married-mans Complaint against [ him ] s unruly Wife . The Tune is , A Taylor is a man . A S I was walking forth of late , I herd a man complaining , With that I drew me near to him , to know the cause and meaning Of this his sorrow pain and grief , which bred him such disaster ; Alas , quoth he , what shall I do , my wife will be my master : But if ever I am a Widower , and another wife do marry , I mean to keep her poor and bore , and the purse I mean to carry . If I should give her forty pound , within her apron folding , No longer then she's telling ont , her tongue would never leave scolding As E sops Dog barked at the Moon thinking for to distaste her , So does my wife scold without cause , and strives to be my Master ; But if ever , etc Were I so strong as Hercules , or wiser then Apollo , Or had I I carus wings to fly , my wife would after follow . Or should I live as many years , as ever did King Nestor , Yet I do greatly stand in fear , my wife would be my Master . But if ever , etc I know no cause nor reason why , that she with me should jangle , I never gave her cause at all , to make her with me wrangle : I please her still in what I may , and do no jot distaste her , Yet she does strive both night and day , always to be my Master : But if ever I am a Widower , and another wife do marry , I mean to keep her poor and bore , and the purse I mean to carry . I Every morning make a fire , all which is done to ease her , I get a Nutmeg , make a toast , in hope therewith to please her : Of a Cup of nappy ale and spice , of which she is first taster , And yet this cros-grained quean will scold , and strive to be my master . But if ever , etc I wash the dishes , sweep the house , I dress her wholesome diet , I humour her in every thing , because I would be quiet : Of every several dish of meat , she'l surely be first taster , And I am glad to pick the bones , she is so much my master : But if ever , etc Sometime she'l fit while day gives light , in company with good fellows , In Taverns and in bowsing Kens , or in some pimping Alehouse ; And when she comes home drunk at night , though I do not distaste her , She'l fling , she'l throw , she'l scratch and bite , and strive to be my Master : But if ever , etc Her bed I make both soft and fine , and put on smock completely , Her shoes and stockings I pull off , and lay her down most neatly : I cover her and keep her warm for fear I should distaste her , I hug her kindly in my arms , yet still She'l be my Master , [ But if ] ever , etc And when I am with her in bed , she does not use me well sir , She'l wring my nose , and pull my ears , a pitiful case to tell sir : And when I am with her in bed , not meaning to molest her , She'l kick me out at the beds feet , and so become my master : But if ever , etc And thus you hear how cruelly my wife does still abuse me ; At bed at board at noon and night she always does misuse me : But if I were a lusty Man , and able for to baste her , Then would I surely use some means , that she should not be my master . But if I were , etc You Bachelors that sweethearts have , when as you are a Wooing , Be sure you look before you leap , for fear of your undoing , The after wit is not the best , and he that weds in haste sir , May like to me bewail his case : if his wife do prove his Master , But if ever , etc You Married Men that have good wives , I wish you deal well by them , For they more precious are then Gold , if once you come to try them : A good wife makes a husband glad , then let him not distaste her , But a scold will make a Man run mad ; if once she proves his Master , But if ever , etc [ Pr ] inte [ worser ] for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . My Wife will be my Master : Or , The Married-mans Complaint against [ him ] s unruly Wife . The Tune is , A Taylor is a man . A S I was walking forth of late , I herd a man complaining , With that I drew me near to him , to know the cause and meaning Of this his sorrow pain and grief , which bred him such disaster ; Alas , quoth he , what shall I do , my wife will be my master : But if ever I am a Widower , and another wife do marry , I mean to keep her poor and bore , and the purse I mean to carry . If I should give her forty pound , within her apron folding , No longer then she's telling ont , her tongue would never leave scolding As E sops Dog barked at the Moon thinking for to distaste her , So does my wife scold without cause , and strives to be my Master ; But if ever , etc Were I so strong as Hercules , or wiser then Apollo , Or had I I carus wings to fly , my wife would after follow . Or should I live as many years , as ever did King Nestor , Yet I do greatly stand in fear , my wife would be my Master . But if ever , etc I know no cause nor reason why , that she with me should jangle , I never gave her cause at all , to make her with me wrangle : I please her still in what I may , and do no jot distaste her , Yet she does strive both night and day , always to be my Master : But if ever I am a Widower , and another wife do marry , I mean to keep her poor and bore , and the purse I mean to carry . I Every morning make a fire , all which is done to ease her , I get a Nutmeg , make a toast , in hope therewith to please her : Of a Cup of nappy ale and spice , of which she is first taster , And yet this cros-grained quean will scold , and strive to be my master . But if ever , etc I wash the dishes , sweep the house , I dress her wholesome diet , I humour her in every thing , because I would be quiet : Of every several dish of meat , she'l surely be first taster , And I am glad to pick the bones , she is so much my master : But if ever , etc Sometime she'l fit while day gives light , in company with good fellows , In Taverns and in bowsing Kens , or in some pimping Alehouse ; And when she comes home drunk at night , though I do not distaste her , She'l fling , she'l throw , she'l scratch and bite , and strive to be my Master : But if ever , etc Her bed I make both soft and fine , and put on smock completely , Her shoes and stockings I pull off , and lay her down most neatly : I cover her and keep her warm for fear I should distaste her , I hug her kindly in my arms , yet still She'l be my Master , [ But if ] ever , etc And when I am with her in bed , she does not use me well sir , She'l wring my nose , and pull my ears , a pitiful case to tell sir : And when I am with her in bed , not meaning to molest her , She'l kick me out at the beds feet , and so become my master : But if ever , etc And thus you hear how cruelly my wife does still abuse me ; At bed at board at noon and night she always does misuse me : But if I were a lusty Man , and able for to baste her , Then would I surely use some means , that she should not be my master . But if I were , etc You Bachelors that sweethearts have , when as you are a Wooing , Be sure you look before you leap , for fear of your undoing , The after wit is not the best , and he that weds in haste sir , May like to me bewail his case : if his wife do prove his Master , But if ever , etc You Married Men that have good wives , I wish you deal well by them , For they more precious are then Gold , if once you come to try them : A good wife makes a husband glad , then let him not distaste her , But a scold will make a Man run mad ; if once she proves his Master , But if ever , etc [ Pr ] inte [ worser ] for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 