The Country Cuckold : OR , The Buxom Dams Frolic in a Field of RIE , with her Lusty Gallant . Tune of , Soldier's Departure . TO Here's and honest man of Labour ; has a fair young Buxom Wife , Who , it seems , a lusty Neighbour loved always as dear as life ; And they often would be sporting when her Husband was not by ; Like two wanton Lovers courting in another Neighbour's Rye . As the good man walked once early , being grieved and forlorn , There he see his sweet Wife fairly in the midst of all the Corn , And her Gallant lying by her ; then her Husband thus did cry , Oh sweet Wife , I do admire that you'll spoil my Neighbour's Rye ! I with Tears have often told you , that you should these ways forsake , Yet no words could ever withhold you , but those Rambles still you take , Here you both do roll and tumble , while the Corn is rank and high ; He that owns the field will grumble , If he see you spoil his Rye . You a Trespass have committed , as the World may plainly see , And I shall be finely fitted , should he take a Course with me : In the Corn you have caressed , this my Dear you canned deny , I for this may be arrested , because you spoil my Neighbour's Rye . Every morning Love you leave me , to enjoy your Gallant here ; This can now no less than grieve me , and does cost me many a Tear : Do but think on the Distraction which I undergo thereby , How shall I make satisfaction for your spoiling of this Rye ? Tell me , pray now , is it reason , that I should to ruin run , And be hurried to a Prison for the fault which you have done ? No , I never will undergo it , I'll first from your presence fly , Therefore if you love me show it , and don't spoil my Neighbour's Rye . Husband , it's the gentile fashion for to have a Friend in store , Yet pray be not in a passion , I never did the like before : Here my friend will never fail you , but most readily comply ; If need be to come and Bail you , for my spoiling of the Rye . Now I have my Bail provided , and with that pulled out his Knife , Ever I will be thus derided , Rascal I will have thy Life . Then her Friend with tears beheld him ; and did strait for Mercy cry , But he swore he strait would geld him , for his spoiling of the Rye . I'll deprive him of that Talon , which does wanton Women please ; Then the good Wife and her Gallant both upon there bent knees , He cried Neighbour , she sweet Honey , do not act such cruelty , Spare the Tools , and take this Money , for the spoiling of the Rye . Then he gave him forty Shilling , all the Coin he had in store , And the Good man he was willing , to excuse the Crime therefore ; Then her Friend this promise made him , and protested solemnly That if he would not degrade him , never more to spoil the Rye . Licensed according to Order . Printed for P. Brooksby . J. Deacon . J. Blare . J Back . The Country Cuckold : OR , The Buxom Dams Frolic in a Field of RIE , with her Lusty Gallant . Tune of , Soldier's Departure . TO Here's and honest man of Labour ; has a fair young Buxom Wife , Who , it seems , a lusty Neighbour loved always as dear as life ; And they often would be sporting when her Husband was not by ; Like two wanton Lovers courting in another Neighbour's Rye . As the good man walked once early , being grieved and forlorn , There he see his sweet Wife fairly in the midst of all the Corn , And her Gallant lying by her ; then her Husband thus did cry , Oh sweet Wife , I do admire that you'll spoil my Neighbour's Rye ! I with Tears have often told you , that you should these ways forsake , Yet no words could ever withhold you , but those Rambles still you take , Here you both do roll and tumble , while the Corn is rank and high ; He that owns the field will grumble , If he see you spoil his Rye . You a Trespass have committed , as the World may plainly see , And I shall be finely fitted , should he take a Course with me : In the Corn you have caressed , this my Dear you canned deny , I for this may be arrested , because you spoil my Neighbour's Rye . Every morning Love you leave me , to enjoy your Gallant here ; This can now no less than grieve me , and does cost me many a Tear : Do but think on the Distraction which I undergo thereby , How shall I make satisfaction for your spoiling of this Rye ? Tell me , pray now , is it reason , that I should to ruin run , And be hurried to a Prison for the fault which you have done ? No , I never will undergo it , I'll first from your presence fly , Therefore if you love me show it , and don't spoil my Neighbour's Rye . Husband , it's the gentile fashion for to have a Friend in store , Yet pray be not in a passion , I never did the like before : Here my friend will never fail you , but most readily comply ; If need be to come and Bail you , for my spoiling of the Rye . Now I have my Bail provided , and with that pulled out his Knife , Ever I will be thus derided , Rascal I will have thy Life . Then her Friend with tears beheld him ; and did strait for Mercy cry , But he swore he strait would geld him , for his spoiling of the Rye . I'll deprive him of that Talon , which does wanton Women please ; Then the good Wife and her Gallant both upon there bent knees , He cried Neighbour , she sweet Honey , do not act such cruelty , Spare the Tools , and take this Money , for the spoiling of the Rye . Then he gave him forty Shilling , all the Coin he had in store , And the Good man he was willing , to excuse the Crime therefore ; Then her Friend this promise made him , and protested solemnly That if he would not degrade him , never more to spoil the Rye . Licensed according to Order . Printed for P. Brooksby . J. Deacon . J. Blare . J Back . 