The Cockpit CUCKOLD : OR , A Wonton Match between his Wife and a ' Squire , WHO Fought his Cock against her Game Hen , in her Husband's Absence : Concluding with Jack's Punishment for speaking the Truth . To and excellent new Tune : Licensed according to Order . C Ome all loving People , pray listen a while , Here is a new Ditty will cause you to smile ; The truth of which passage there is none can deny ; For Gallants I scorn to be catched in a lie : There was a young Woman lived in a Cockpit , She cuckold her Husband as well she thought fit ; As honest a Man as lives under the Sun , For with a young ' Squire to Folly she run . Her Husband and she kept a sweet pretty Youth , A Lad who delighted in speaking the Truth , His Mistress in private he often had seen To toy with a ' Squire , who lived on the Green . The good Man , her Husband , he chanced to ride out , She sent for the ' Squire , young , gallant and stout , Whom she did conduct to her Chamber at night , To reap the sweet pleasures of wanton Delight . The Boy he went up to make her a Fire , And saw his young Mistress a Bed with the ' Squire ; He thought it uncivil , yet nothing he said ; But , Love , said her Gallant , we both are betrayed . Then out of the Bed the young ' Squire he run , And to this young little Boy thus he begun , Here is five pound or ten pound I promise to thee , If that thou wilt keep but this Counsel for me . Young Lad , if this passage should go any further , I here do assure you that there will be Murder ; If you this Account to your Master should give , This Sword shall destroy you as you live . The ' Squire not proving so good as his Word , The little Boy feared not the point of his Sword ; But unto his Master he carefully told , What he in the Chamber did chance to behold . Believe me , kind Master , and hear what I say , My Mistress all night with the ' Squire she lay ; And I the next morning beheld them in bed ; Now tell me , have you not a pain in your head ? The Man to his Wife in a passion did go , And said , My dear Love , have you served me so ? It is I must tell you a woeful Disgrace , The Boy calls me Cuckold unto my own face . And likewise my Neighbours they laugh at me too , And tell me , The ' Squire has dallied with you : This makes me horn-mad , and a weary of life , To think that I have such a wanton young Wife . Believe me , dear Husband , it is no such thing , This Boy to the Whipping-post , faith , you must bring ; For should you believe him before you would me , Why then I must tell you we n'er shall agree . To the Whipping-post then they brought him with speed . At every Lash his poor Back it did bleed ; And still as they lashed him aloud he did cry , The ' Squire all night with my Mistress did lie . With Lashes , my Back and poor Shoulders does swell , My Mistress is wanton , she knows very well ; And is it not pity , that I a poor Youth , This day should be punished for speaking the Truth ? My Mistress adores the young ' Squire I'm sure ; But as for my Master she cannot endure , In open Derision she laughs him to scorn , And now like a Cuckold let him wear the Horn . His Wife is excused that dishonoured his Bed , And grafted a large pair of Horns on his Head ; But I , his true Servant , am punished you see , Faith , this is the tricks of such Cuckolds as he . London , Printed for C. Bates , at the Sum and Bible in Pie-corner . The Cockpit CUCKOLD : OR , A Wonton Match between his Wife and a ' Squire , WHO Fought his Cock against her Game Hen , in her Husband's Absence : Concluding with Jack's Punishment for speaking the Truth . To and excellent new Tune : Licensed according to Order . C Ome all loving People , pray listen a while , Here is a new Ditty will cause you to smile ; The truth of which passage there is none can deny ; For Gallants I scorn to be catched in a lie : There was a young Woman lived in a Cockpit , She cuckold her Husband as well she thought fit ; As honest a Man as lives under the Sun , For with a young ' Squire to Folly she run . Her Husband and she kept a sweet pretty Youth , A Lad who delighted in speaking the Truth , His Mistress in private he often had seen To toy with a ' Squire , who lived on the Green . The good Man , her Husband , he chanced to ride out , She sent for the ' Squire , young , gallant and stout , Whom she did conduct to her Chamber at night , To reap the sweet pleasures of wanton Delight . The Boy he went up to make her a Fire , And saw his young Mistress a Bed with the ' Squire ; He thought it uncivil , yet nothing he said ; But , Love , said her Gallant , we both are betrayed . Then out of the Bed the young ' Squire he run , And to this young little Boy thus he begun , Here is five pound or ten pound I promise to thee , If that thou wilt keep but this Counsel for me . Young Lad , if this passage should go any further , I here do assure you that there will be Murder ; If you this Account to your Master should give , This Sword shall destroy you as you live . The ' Squire not proving so good as his Word , The little Boy feared not the point of his Sword ; But unto his Master he carefully told , What he in the Chamber did chance to behold . Believe me , kind Master , and hear what I say , My Mistress all night with the ' Squire she lay ; And I the next morning beheld them in bed ; Now tell me , have you not a pain in your head ? The Man to his Wife in a passion did go , And said , My dear Love , have you served me so ? It is I must tell you a woeful Disgrace , The Boy calls me Cuckold unto my own face . And likewise my Neighbours they laugh at me too , And tell me , The ' Squire has dallied with you : This makes me horn-mad , and a weary of life , To think that I have such a wanton young Wife . Believe me , dear Husband , it is no such thing , This Boy to the Whipping-post , faith , you must bring ; For should you believe him before you would me , Why then I must tell you we n'er shall agree . To the Whipping-post then they brought him with speed . At every Lash his poor Back it did bleed ; And still as they lashed him aloud he did cry , The ' Squire all night with my Mistress did lie . With Lashes , my Back and poor Shoulders does swell , My Mistress is wanton , she knows very well ; And is it not pity , that I a poor Youth , This day should be punished for speaking the Truth ? My Mistress adores the young ' Squire I'm sure ; But as for my Master she cannot endure , In open Derision she laughs him to scorn , And now like a Cuckold let him wear the Horn . His Wife is excused that dishonoured his Bed , And grafted a large pair of Horns on his Head ; But I , his true Servant , am punished you see , Faith , this is the tricks of such Cuckolds as he . London , Printed for C. Bates , at the Sum and Bible in Pie-corner . 