The Debtford Frolic ; OR , A Hue and Cry after the Shag-Breeches . Young Women all , both great and small , That handleth Pot or Pail , For some I hear , and greatly fear . Do oft play with their Tayl. Tune of , The fair One let me in . O Ne night when blustering winds blew and dusky was the Sky Though I was feeble weak and old , a watching then went I : But cruel fate did prove unkind . my grief did then begin ; And quite contrary to my mind , a stranger he god in . Two Keys unto my door I had , as I did think it fit . But now it makes me almost mad I had so little wit ; For when a watching I was gone ; my sorrow did begin ; A wanton and a lascivious man unknown to me god in . Into the bed straightway he went , and hugged my loving Wife , Who used to-give me hearts content , I loved her as my life , And grieve to think she should commit so foul and gross a since , And let him do what was not fit , when she had let him in . A S they in sweet embraces lay I chanced to return , And spoiled the Game which they did play , for which my wife did mourn She told me she was wondrous ill , and thus she did begin With shrieks & amp ; groans she made her moans cause she had let him in . I willing was to go to bed and off my breeches threw She told me she was almost dead , and knew not what to do : Dear love ( quoth she ) a Cordial get , my pains , my pains afresh begin : I little thought she was so nought to let another in . Away went I most willingly for my dear Spouses sake , A pair of breeches on put I which proved a mistake ; I to the Apothecaries went thinking her love to win A Cordial brave I asked to have , not thinking who god in . A Cordial was perpared for me then thus I did reply : At present I cannot pay thee , but yet assuredly To morrow I will come and pay : my Pocket I felt in , And there behold was store of Gold the youngster had brought in . The Apothecary he did view the Breeches I had on , And them he said full well he knew then him I stared upon How I by these Shag-Breeches came to pause then did begin At last thought I assuredly she let some Gallant in . Away went I most furiously this trick to think upon , But when I came with grief and shame the youngster he was gone I had his Watch and money too , and I the horns did win ; But I am mad and monstrous sad that she had let him in . Take warning , all both great and small in women never confide , For some pretend to their lives end they constant will abide Passed all relief unto my grief , I know they are prove to sin And when you're gone some other men sometime may happen in . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . The Debtford Frolic ; OR , A Hue and Cry after the Shag-Breeches . Young Women all , both great and small , That handleth Pot or Pail , For some I hear , and greatly fear . Do oft play with their Tayl. Tune of , The fair One let me in . O Ne night when blustering winds blew and dusky was the Sky Though I was feeble weak and old , a watching then went I : But cruel fate did prove unkind . my grief did then begin ; And quite contrary to my mind , a stranger he god in . Two Keys unto my door I had , as I did think it fit . But now it makes me almost mad I had so little wit ; For when a watching I was gone ; my sorrow did begin ; A wanton and a lascivious man unknown to me god in . Into the bed straightway he went , and hugged my loving Wife , Who used to-give me hearts content , I loved her as my life , And grieve to think she should commit so foul and gross a since , And let him do what was not fit , when she had let him in . A S they in sweet embraces lay I chanced to return , And spoiled the Game which they did play , for which my wife did mourn She told me she was wondrous ill , and thus she did begin With shrieks & amp ; groans she made her moans cause she had let him in . I willing was to go to bed and off my breeches threw She told me she was almost dead , and knew not what to do : Dear love ( quoth she ) a Cordial get , my pains , my pains afresh begin : I little thought she was so nought to let another in . Away went I most willingly for my dear Spouses sake , A pair of breeches on put I which proved a mistake ; I to the Apothecaries went thinking her love to win A Cordial brave I asked to have , not thinking who god in . A Cordial was perpared for me then thus I did reply : At present I cannot pay thee , but yet assuredly To morrow I will come and pay : my Pocket I felt in , And there behold was store of Gold the youngster had brought in . The Apothecary he did view the Breeches I had on , And them he said full well he knew then him I stared upon How I by these Shag-Breeches came to pause then did begin At last thought I assuredly she let some Gallant in . Away went I most furiously this trick to think upon , But when I came with grief and shame the youngster he was gone I had his Watch and money too , and I the horns did win ; But I am mad and monstrous sad that she had let him in . Take warning , all both great and small in women never confide , For some pretend to their lives end they constant will abide Passed all relief unto my grief , I know they are prove to sin And when you're gone some other men sometime may happen in . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . 