Courageous Anthony : OR , A Relation of a Dreadful Combat between Bonny Anthony , and his Wife . Together with Anthonys Valiant Conquest . To the Tune of The two English Travellers . Licensed according to Order . W As ever poor Man so perplexed with a Trull , As I Bonny Anthony , since I was Wed ? She never will let me have my Belly full , For ever I have Sup d , I must hasten to Bed. Or else she'll begin for to Scold and to Brawl , And calling me Wittal , nay Cuckold and all : Yet she with her Cronies must troul it about . While I in my Kennel must there snore it out . I once did go for to drink with a Friend , But she in a trice did fetch me away ; We two pence a piece , and no more did we spend , And yet it did prove a most terrible fray . She flew in my face and called me fool , Than Combed my head with a three legged stool ; And furnished my face with so many sad scratches , That for a whole month it was covered with patches . Yet every penny I god in the day , To keep her at quiet , I gave her at night , Or else she will license her Tongue that [ e ] n to play For two or three hours far worse then a spright . Then unto the Cupboard Peel-garlic must [ h ] you To seek for the Crusts that are mouldy & amp ; dry : Then steep them in skim-milk until they are wet , And commonly this is the Supper I get . Nay once in a quarter for mere fashions sake , She'll then give me leave to lie in her bed , But I must be sure to lie broad awake , Lest she in her humour knock me on the head . But as for the Bed which I lie on my self , It is full as soft as old Oaken shelf , The Ticks she did make it of course hempen hurds , And yet for all that I must give her good words . We usually pist in a Pan e'ry night , The Cullender happened to stand in the place , She put me into a most pitiful plighted , It run all about both my stomach and face . I told her sweet Wife you do Urine beside , She called me Coxcomb , and told me I lied How can it run over before it is come So near to the top as the length of my thum [ b ] A Cudgel of Holly I then did prepare , And lawful Correction to her I did give , Oh then she cried out , I prithee forbear , I never will my Husband offend while I live . I made her forsake all her Gossiping crew , And thus I have handsomely turned the chase , For now it is Husband pray how dost thou do , But before it was Cuckold and Rogue to my face . And thus I must tell you I conquered a Shrow And made her to buckle and bend to my bow , We formerly lived at much variance and strife , But now we enjoy a more peaceable life . Printed for J. Blare at the Looking-Glass on Londo [ n ] Bridge . Courageous Anthony : OR , A Relation of a Dreadful Combat between Bonny Anthony , and his Wife . Together with Anthonys Valiant Conquest . To the Tune of The two English Travellers . Licensed according to Order . W As ever poor Man so perplexed with a Trull , As I Bonny Anthony , since I was Wed ? She never will let me have my Belly full , For ever I have Sup d , I must hasten to Bed. Or else she'll begin for to Scold and to Brawl , And calling me Wittal , nay Cuckold and all : Yet she with her Cronies must troul it about . While I in my Kennel must there snore it out . I once did go for to drink with a Friend , But she in a trice did fetch me away ; We two pence a piece , and no more did we spend , And yet it did prove a most terrible fray . She flew in my face and called me fool , Than Combed my head with a three legged stool ; And furnished my face with so many sad scratches , That for a whole month it was covered with patches . Yet every penny I god in the day , To keep her at quiet , I gave her at night , Or else she will license her Tongue that [ e ] n to play For two or three hours far worse then a spright . Then unto the Cupboard Peel-garlic must [ h ] you To seek for the Crusts that are mouldy & amp ; dry : Then steep them in skim-milk until they are wet , And commonly this is the Supper I get . Nay once in a quarter for mere fashions sake , She'll then give me leave to lie in her bed , But I must be sure to lie broad awake , Lest she in her humour knock me on the head . But as for the Bed which I lie on my self , It is full as soft as old Oaken shelf , The Ticks she did make it of course hempen hurds , And yet for all that I must give her good words . We usually pist in a Pan e'ry night , The Cullender happened to stand in the place , She put me into a most pitiful plighted , It run all about both my stomach and face . I told her sweet Wife you do Urine beside , She called me Coxcomb , and told me I lied How can it run over before it is come So near to the top as the length of my thum [ b ] A Cudgel of Holly I then did prepare , And lawful Correction to her I did give , Oh then she cried out , I prithee forbear , I never will my Husband offend while I live . I made her forsake all her Gossiping crew , And thus I have handsomely turned the chase , For now it is Husband pray how dost thou do , But before it was Cuckold and Rogue to my face . And thus I must tell you I conquered a Shrow And made her to buckle and bend to my bow , We formerly lived at much variance and strife , But now we enjoy a more peaceable life . Printed for J. Blare at the Looking-Glass on Londo [ n ] Bridge . 