A New Ballad of the Soldier and Peggy : To a New Northern Tune . I TO was a brave soldier that long lived in wars , He would into England , to try his affairs ; A gallant young Creature enchanted his eye , It is for thy love peggy , I die , I die . She had a good Husband that loved her well , For Gold and for Silver none did her excel : Yet Peggy would listen unto the Soldiers cry , It is for thy love Peggy , I die , I die . O pretty Peggy let sorrows remove , And grant me a Kiss in token of love : Oh take thee a thousand , one is but a few , I'll leave my own Husband to travel with you . O pretty Peggy if thou wilt be mine , All the Gold that I get , it shall be thine : Father and Mother thou'st never see more , If thou wilt go over Sea with a Soldier . She took the Keys from her side , to her Chest she is gone , All the Gold that she hath , with her she hath taken : She left the Babe Motherless , and the bed bore , And she is gone over Sea , with a Soldier . As Pegg and the Soldier , went over the plain , He twinkled at her , and she smiled again : He courted her bravely , as young men should do , And after said peggy , I love none but you . As peggy went up the street , so went she down , All that did meet her , asked where she was bound ; She answered them quickly , she could not tell where , For she is gone over sea , with a Soldier . The Second Part , to the same Tune . Her husband came home , so late in the night , He asked for Peggy , his joy and delight : They answered him quickly , they could not tell where , For she was gone over Sea , with a Soldier . He saddled his horse , and rid to the shore , Thinking to take peggy , before she god over : He asked for peggy , but she was not there . For she was gone over Sea , with a Soldier . I pray you good Nurse , be good to my Child , And thou'st have thy money , at every months end : Thou'st never want money , Wine nor good cheer , Though Peggy be over Sea , with a Soldier . He cursed the Carpenter that made the Ship , And likewise the Plummer , for plumming so deep , He banned the wind , and the water so clear , That carried peg over Sea , with the Soldier . She had not been over Sea , passing months three , But she would come home again , if it might be : To speak with her husband the matter to clear , Cause she had been over Sea with a Soldier . This wanton young woman , is come home again , When all her money , and coin is gone : For she could no longer in Ireland stay , For she had no Gold , nor no money to pay . I pray you good Husband will you forgive me ? And all that's amiss , amended shall be : I'll live with my Husband , and Baby so dear , And I'll never go again , with a Soldier . Come hither sweet Peggy , thou art welcome to me , So all that's a miss , amended may be , I pray God forgive thy sins , and i'll forgive thee , If thou'lt live at home , with my Baby and me . All you good Wives , that hear this my song , Live at home with your Husbands and do them no wrong , For youth it is wanton , and will have a stain , And peggy is at home , with her Husband again . And thus of my song I will make and end , Praying for Gods favour , for women and men : Desiring them all in their Country to stay , And never to wander so vainly away . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . A New Ballad of the Soldier and Peggy : To a New Northern Tune . I TO was a brave soldier that long lived in wars , He would into England , to try his affairs ; A gallant young Creature enchanted his eye , It is for thy love peggy , I die , I die . She had a good Husband that loved her well , For Gold and for Silver none did her excel : Yet Peggy would listen unto the Soldiers cry , It is for thy love Peggy , I die , I die . O pretty Peggy let sorrows remove , And grant me a Kiss in token of love : Oh take thee a thousand , one is but a few , I'll leave my own Husband to travel with you . O pretty Peggy if thou wilt be mine , All the Gold that I get , it shall be thine : Father and Mother thou'st never see more , If thou wilt go over Sea with a Soldier . She took the Keys from her side , to her Chest she is gone , All the Gold that she hath , with her she hath taken : She left the Babe Motherless , and the bed bore , And she is gone over Sea , with a Soldier . As Pegg and the Soldier , went over the plain , He twinkled at her , and she smiled again : He courted her bravely , as young men should do , And after said peggy , I love none but you . As peggy went up the street , so went she down , All that did meet her , asked where she was bound ; She answered them quickly , she could not tell where , For she is gone over sea , with a Soldier . The Second Part , to the same Tune . Her husband came home , so late in the night , He asked for Peggy , his joy and delight : They answered him quickly , they could not tell where , For she was gone over Sea , with a Soldier . He saddled his horse , and rid to the shore , Thinking to take peggy , before she god over : He asked for peggy , but she was not there . For she was gone over Sea , with a Soldier . I pray you good Nurse , be good to my Child , And thou'st have thy money , at every months end : Thou'st never want money , Wine nor good cheer , Though Peggy be over Sea , with a Soldier . He cursed the Carpenter that made the Ship , And likewise the Plummer , for plumming so deep , He banned the wind , and the water so clear , That carried peg over Sea , with the Soldier . She had not been over Sea , passing months three , But she would come home again , if it might be : To speak with her husband the matter to clear , Cause she had been over Sea with a Soldier . This wanton young woman , is come home again , When all her money , and coin is gone : For she could no longer in Ireland stay , For she had no Gold , nor no money to pay . I pray you good Husband will you forgive me ? And all that's amiss , amended shall be : I'll live with my Husband , and Baby so dear , And I'll never go again , with a Soldier . Come hither sweet Peggy , thou art welcome to me , So all that's a miss , amended may be , I pray God forgive thy sins , and i'll forgive thee , If thou'lt live at home , with my Baby and me . All you good Wives , that hear this my song , Live at home with your Husbands and do them no wrong , For youth it is wanton , and will have a stain , And peggy is at home , with her Husband again . And thus of my song I will make and end , Praying for Gods favour , for women and men : Desiring them all in their Country to stay , And never to wander so vainly away . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 