The Invincible PRIDE of Women : OR , The London Tradesman's Lamentation , For the Prodigality of his Wife , vuhith does daily pillage his Purse . To the Tune of the Spinning-Wheel . Licensed according to Order . I Have a Wife , the more's my Care , who like a gaudy Peacock goes , In Topknots , Patches , Powdered Hair , beside she is the worst of shrews ; This fills my Heart with grief and care To think I must this burden bear . It is her forecast to Contrive , to rise about the hour of Noon , And if she's Trimmed and Rigged by five why this I count is very soon ; Then goes she to a Ball or Play To pass the pleasant night away . And when she home returns again , conducted by a Bully Spark , If that I in the least Complain , she does my words and actions mark ; And does likewise my Gullet tear , Then Roars like Thunder in the Air . I never had a Groat with her most solemnly I here declare , Yet she's as proud as Lucifer and cannot study what to wear In sumptuous Robes she still appears , While I am forced to hide my Ears . The lofty Topknots on her Crown , with which she sails abroad withal , Makes me with Care alas ! look down , as having now no hope at all , That ever I shall happy be In such a flaunting Wife as she . In debt with every Shop shop she runs for to appear in gaudy Pride , And when the Millener she duns , I then am forced my Head to hide Dear Friends , this proud imperious Wife She makes me weary of my Life . Sometime with words both kind and mild I let her know my wretched state , For which I streightways am Reviled : says she , I will appear more Great Than any Merchant's London Dame , Though thou art ruined for the same . It's true she is both fair and young and speaks Italian Greek and Dutch , Beside she hath the scolding Tongue , which is , in faith , a Tongue too much ; I dare not speak nor look awry , For fear of her severity . My worldly glory , joy and bliss , is turned to sorrow grief and care He that has such a Wife as this needs no more torment I declare ; To buy those Trinkets which they lack Both Stock and Credit goes to Rack . There's many more as well as I , in famous London - City fair Whose Wives with Prodigality does fill their Husbands Hearts with care : I pity those with all my Heart Since I with them do bear a Part. Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . The Invincible PRIDE of Women : OR , The London Tradesman's Lamentation , For the Prodigality of his Wife , vuhith does daily pillage his Purse . To the Tune of the Spinning-Wheel . Licensed according to Order . I Have a Wife , the more's my Care , who like a gaudy Peacock goes , In Topknots , Patches , Powdered Hair , beside she is the worst of shrews ; This fills my Heart with grief and care To think I must this burden bear . It is her forecast to Contrive , to rise about the hour of Noon , And if she's Trimmed and Rigged by five why this I count is very soon ; Then goes she to a Ball or Play To pass the pleasant night away . And when she home returns again , conducted by a Bully Spark , If that I in the least Complain , she does my words and actions mark ; And does likewise my Gullet tear , Then Roars like Thunder in the Air . I never had a Groat with her most solemnly I here declare , Yet she's as proud as Lucifer and cannot study what to wear In sumptuous Robes she still appears , While I am forced to hide my Ears . The lofty Topknots on her Crown , with which she sails abroad withal , Makes me with Care alas ! look down , as having now no hope at all , That ever I shall happy be In such a flaunting Wife as she . In debt with every Shop shop she runs for to appear in gaudy Pride , And when the Millener she duns , I then am forced my Head to hide Dear Friends , this proud imperious Wife She makes me weary of my Life . Sometime with words both kind and mild I let her know my wretched state , For which I streightways am Reviled : says she , I will appear more Great Than any Merchant's London Dame , Though thou art ruined for the same . It's true she is both fair and young and speaks Italian Greek and Dutch , Beside she hath the scolding Tongue , which is , in faith , a Tongue too much ; I dare not speak nor look awry , For fear of her severity . My worldly glory , joy and bliss , is turned to sorrow grief and care He that has such a Wife as this needs no more torment I declare ; To buy those Trinkets which they lack Both Stock and Credit goes to Rack . There's many more as well as I , in famous London - City fair Whose Wives with Prodigality does fill their Husbands Hearts with care : I pity those with all my Heart Since I with them do bear a Part. Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 