The Saylors departure from his dearest Love , Wishing that still ( to him ) she'd constant prove She ( in the second part ) does thus reply , Ever she'd from him depart , she'l choose to die . To a new Tune of , Adieu my pretty one . N Owe I am bound to the Seas , and from my love must part , May ought my dear displease , that lies so near my heart : Nor mourn my sweet for me , to perturpate thy mind , Since there no help can be , I must leave thee behind . Remember me on shore , as I the on the main , So keep my love in store , till I return again . Poor Saylors must endure , the storms of Boreas blast ; Of life no man is sure , while Seas raging last : But when the storms are over , that wind and tide serves well , We hast to kiss the shore , where our true Lovers dwell : Remember , etc When we are landed there , and come to greet our friends , Strange wonders we declare , how God us save defends : Then Love ( if thou please , pray still for my success , And prosperous Gale at Seas to shield us from distress , Remember , etc Our shipping shall be built , without the help of Tree , The hardest flint shall melt , ever I prove false to thee : And though I be enforced , to part thy company , My love bides indivorced , and shall do till I die . Remember , etc The fire shall freeze by kind , the Snow shall flaming burn , The rain shall turn to wind , or ever my love return : Youngmen and Maidens all , that live in England wide , To witness I you call , how firm my love shall bide : Remember , etc The Mountains high shall fallen , beneath the valleys deep , Ever I prove false at all , my promise so i'll keep : And if I hold not true , to thee my gentle Dove , Let not my eyes ever view , Earth , Air , or Heaven above : Remember , etc The Fish shall seem to fly , yea , Birds to fish turn , The Sea be ever dry , and fire cease to burn : When I prove false to thee , shall these things come to pass , But that will never be , no nor so never was : Remember , etc Let not deluding tongue , bereave me of my love , Nor ( sweet ) do me such wrong , lest it my death should prove : Thou seest I must away , our Ship lies under sail , And time for none will stay , God sends a happy Gale : Remember me on shore , as I thee on the main , So keep my Love in store , till I return again . Her Answer M Ust thou depart my dear , and leave me thus alone , It'll cost me many a tear , though to thee it be unknown : But be assured i'll pray , unto the powers Divine , To prosper thee the way , where fate shall now design : While I remember thee , and keep my love in store , Do thou the like to me , on Sea , or on the shore . O till thou dost return , from of the Ocean main , Full often I shall mourn , in a lamenting strain , And when fierce winds arise , or but contrary blow , My sighs and watery eyes , shall sympathise my woe : Then i'll remember , etc Each hour shall seem to me , in length ( at least ) a year , Till thy return again , my joys are filled with fear , For on the Sea I know , what sundry dangers be , Rock , Sands , and many a Foe , from which Lord keep thee free , Thus i'll remember , etc I would I might but sail , through surging seas with thee , My heart would never fail , while thou art near to me . Or that I could but hear , thy voice , I should be well , But thoused not be so near , to hear or see thy Nell : Yet i'll , etc Though loath we be to part , yet since it seems we must , To Sea bear thou my heart with whom it's put in trust : And thine with me let rest , till thou returnest again , And each be doubly blessed , by making one of twain : So i'll remember , etc Mean while , my only joy , i'll kiss thee lovingly ; Our hope's does time destroy , would I could him deny : But time will comfort bring , though we are at time crossed ; And Winter finds a Spring , restored what seemed lost : Yet i'll , etc Man. Farewell my love , farewell , ten thousands times adieu , My witty pretty Nell , till my return to you , Maid . Farewell to thee sweetheart , that now to Sea art gone , With that great grief I part , to Lovers best it's known : Yet i'll remember thee , etc FINIS . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and TO . P.The Saylors departure from his dearest Love , Wishing that still ( to him ) she'd constant prove She ( in the second part ) does thus reply , Ever she'd from him depart , she'l choose to die . To a new Tune of , Adieu my pretty one . N Owe I am bound to the Seas , and from my love must part , May ought my dear displease , that lies so near my heart : Nor mourn my sweet for me , to perturpate thy mind , Since there no help can be , I must leave thee behind . Remember me on shore , as I the on the main , So keep my love in store , till I return again . Poor Saylors must endure , the storms of Boreas blast ; Of life no man is sure , while Seas raging last : But when the storms are over , that wind and tide serves well , We hast to kiss the shore , where our true Lovers dwell : Remember , etc When we are landed there , and come to greet our friends , Strange wonders we declare , how God us save defends : Then Love ( if thou please , pray still for my success , And prosperous Gale at Seas to shield us from distress , Remember , etc Our shipping shall be built , without the help of Tree , The hardest flint shall melt , ever I prove false to thee : And though I be enforced , to part thy company , My love bides indivorced , and shall do till I die . Remember , etc The fire shall freeze by kind , the Snow shall flaming burn , The rain shall turn to wind , or ever my love return : Youngmen and Maidens all , that live in England wide , To witness I you call , how firm my love shall bide : Remember , etc The Mountains high shall fallen , beneath the valleys deep , Ever I prove false at all , my promise so i'll keep : And if I hold not true , to thee my gentle Dove , Let not my eyes ever view , Earth , Air , or Heaven above : Remember , etc The Fish shall seem to fly , yea , Birds to fish turn , The Sea be ever dry , and fire cease to burn : When I prove false to thee , shall these things come to pass , But that will never be , no nor so never was : Remember , etc Let not deluding tongue , bereave me of my love , Nor ( sweet ) do me such wrong , lest it my death should prove : Thou seest I must away , our Ship lies under sail , And time for none will stay , God sends a happy Gale : Remember me on shore , as I thee on the main , So keep my Love in store , till I return again . Her Answer M Ust thou depart my dear , and leave me thus alone , It'll cost me many a tear , though to thee it be unknown : But be assured i'll pray , unto the powers Divine , To prosper thee the way , where fate shall now design : While I remember thee , and keep my love in store , Do thou the like to me , on Sea , or on the shore . O till thou dost return , from of the Ocean main , Full often I shall mourn , in a lamenting strain , And when fierce winds arise , or but contrary blow , My sighs and watery eyes , shall sympathise my woe : Then i'll remember , etc Each hour shall seem to me , in length ( at least ) a year , Till thy return again , my joys are filled with fear , For on the Sea I know , what sundry dangers be , Rock , Sands , and many a Foe , from which Lord keep thee free , Thus i'll remember , etc I would I might but sail , through surging seas with thee , My heart would never fail , while thou art near to me . Or that I could but hear , thy voice , I should be well , But thoused not be so near , to hear or see thy Nell : Yet i'll , etc Though loath we be to part , yet since it seems we must , To Sea bear thou my heart with whom it's put in trust : And thine with me let rest , till thou returnest again , And each be doubly blessed , by making one of twain : So i'll remember , etc Mean while , my only joy , i'll kiss thee lovingly ; Our hope's does time destroy , would I could him deny : But time will comfort bring , though we are at time crossed ; And Winter finds a Spring , restored what seemed lost : Yet i'll , etc Man. Farewell my love , farewell , ten thousands times adieu , My witty pretty Nell , till my return to you , Maid . Farewell to thee sweetheart , that now to Sea art gone , With that great grief I part , to Lovers best it's known : Yet i'll remember thee , etc FINIS . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T.P. 