FAITHFUL JEMMY , and Constant SUSAN , Living near Reddriff . When Jemmy he , was bound to Sea , Susan she did complain ; Said he , my Dear , be of good cheer , while I return again ; To the Tune of , State and Ambition . J EMMY and SUSAN both loving and Loyal , and in their Embraces their joys did abound , Fortune divided them , this was a trial , sweet Susan with sorrow encompassed round : Now he was forced to leave his sweet Susan , and also commanded to hoist up their Sail , This was a grief to them both in conclusion , ah ! how she in sorrow then did bewail . Thus his sweet Susan , alas ! she lamented , she blaming the fate and her fortune unkind , Jemmy beholding , his heart then relented , he said , my dear creature , thou surely shalt find : Though for a time we must now be divided , my heart I will lodge and lay up in thy breast , If by the powers above we are guided , when I return my dear Love shall be blessed . I do desire to have Life no longer , then I do intend to prove true to my Dear , Though for a time we are parted asunder , yet I will be faithful , Love be of good cheer : Never was creature more fair and completer , then my loving Susan , the joy of my mind , Graced with Beauty in every feature , i'll be unchangeable , Love thou shalt find . O that my sighs and my tears were prevailing , my dear to enjoy thee , and all would be well ; But in thy absence all blessings are failing , sweet Jemmy it's thee that my grief can expel : Love do not leave me , sweet Jemmy reprieve me , now from those sad sighing , and sorrow and grief , Thou hast my heart , dear Jemmy believe me , then take some pity and yield me relief . My dearest Jemmy the Seas they have danger , when in raging Tempests the Billows do roar , I to those sorrows my love , am a stranger , and when thou art gone I shall never see thee more : I have five hundred pounds to my portion , in Silver and Gold , love all shall be thine ; Why shouldst thou hazard thy life on the Ocean , and leave me in sorrow here to repine ? Cease my sweet Susan , for I am engaged , with Noble Commanders to Sail on the Main , Love , let thy sorrows and tears be assuaged , dear be but contented , and do not complain : Let not my absence my Jewel so grieve thee , the pride of my heart , and the joy of my mind , Take here my Ring as a pledge I will leave thee , and I will be faithful , love thou shalt find . Then from her fair eyes how the tears they did trickle , like streams that flowed down from the fountain of love , Faithful and Loyal , and scorns to be fickle , her heart it was fixed and could not remove ; Susan in sorrow almost brokenhearted , the wind it did serve with a most pleasant gale , Then these two lovers , alas ! they were parted , for the goodly Ship was now under Sail . Now he is gone , may the Heavens protect him , from all the proud Waves of the Tempestuous Main , Keep them from danger , and always direct him , and send him in safety to England again : Here to complete our joys with a Blessing , in a true-lovers knot which can never be untied ; All that is mind , he shall then be possessing , and never depart till death us divide . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . FAITHFUL JEMMY , and Constant SUSAN , Living near Reddriff . When Jemmy he , was bound to Sea , Susan she did complain ; Said he , my Dear , be of good cheer , while I return again ; To the Tune of , State and Ambition . J EMMY and SUSAN both loving and Loyal , and in their Embraces their joys did abound , Fortune divided them , this was a trial , sweet Susan with sorrow encompassed round : Now he was forced to leave his sweet Susan , and also commanded to hoist up their Sail , This was a grief to them both in conclusion , ah ! how she in sorrow then did bewail . Thus his sweet Susan , alas ! she lamented , she blaming the fate and her fortune unkind , Jemmy beholding , his heart then relented , he said , my dear creature , thou surely shalt find : Though for a time we must now be divided , my heart I will lodge and lay up in thy breast , If by the powers above we are guided , when I return my dear Love shall be blessed . I do desire to have Life no longer , then I do intend to prove true to my Dear , Though for a time we are parted asunder , yet I will be faithful , Love be of good cheer : Never was creature more fair and completer , then my loving Susan , the joy of my mind , Graced with Beauty in every feature , i'll be unchangeable , Love thou shalt find . O that my sighs and my tears were prevailing , my dear to enjoy thee , and all would be well ; But in thy absence all blessings are failing , sweet Jemmy it's thee that my grief can expel : Love do not leave me , sweet Jemmy reprieve me , now from those sad sighing , and sorrow and grief , Thou hast my heart , dear Jemmy believe me , then take some pity and yield me relief . My dearest Jemmy the Seas they have danger , when in raging Tempests the Billows do roar , I to those sorrows my love , am a stranger , and when thou art gone I shall never see thee more : I have five hundred pounds to my portion , in Silver and Gold , love all shall be thine ; Why shouldst thou hazard thy life on the Ocean , and leave me in sorrow here to repine ? Cease my sweet Susan , for I am engaged , with Noble Commanders to Sail on the Main , Love , let thy sorrows and tears be assuaged , dear be but contented , and do not complain : Let not my absence my Jewel so grieve thee , the pride of my heart , and the joy of my mind , Take here my Ring as a pledge I will leave thee , and I will be faithful , love thou shalt find . Then from her fair eyes how the tears they did trickle , like streams that flowed down from the fountain of love , Faithful and Loyal , and scorns to be fickle , her heart it was fixed and could not remove ; Susan in sorrow almost brokenhearted , the wind it did serve with a most pleasant gale , Then these two lovers , alas ! they were parted , for the goodly Ship was now under Sail . Now he is gone , may the Heavens protect him , from all the proud Waves of the Tempestuous Main , Keep them from danger , and always direct him , and send him in safety to England again : Here to complete our joys with a Blessing , in a true-lovers knot which can never be untied ; All that is mind , he shall then be possessing , and never depart till death us divide . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . 