The Laundry-Maids Lamentation for the loss of her Seaman . The Seaman made a mighty show of Love , And vowed & amp ; swore that he would constant prove . He brought her presents from the Golden shore , And thus unlocked her Heart and Chamber-door : But when he'd gained his will he marched away , And left his Mistress with a Kid to play . Now she laments , and tears her flaxen Hair ; He's shipwrecked , and she's ready to despair . Tune of , Ah Jenny . This may be Printed . C Ome mourn with me fair Nymphs , come mourn my grief's beyond compare , My trusty Will will never return , he's deaf to Nannys Prayer : I cry , I mourn both night and day , to think of my Willy is Fate ; For his Return I always pray , but Prayers are all too late . Some Calenture has seized his breast , for i'm informed he's dead ; Some Shark his body has possessed , his soul to Heaven is fled : [ B ] ut yet I dream he comes to me with a gentle breeze of wind ; I think that he cries Helm a Lee , but it's a Dream I find . South-East by East , methinks he cries , and stiddy , stiddy now ; And now the Rudder silent lies that used the Sea to Plough ; Tom Tinker is Course I see him sail , i'm loaded then with joy ; But when I wake my senses fail , and all my hope's destroy . I often wish for some small Boat , that I might put to Sea ; That I unto my fate might float , and on the Billows play Till they had tossed me out of sighed , and all my sorrows drowned : But it's in vain , for such delight is no where to be found . S Sometimes I covet for to be some greasy Sea-Cooks Mate , And rub my fingers presently with Tar and Pitch ; in state Thus I to Wapping haste away , to Redriff and Blackwall ; But never a Ship that puts to Sea will Will y's Darling call . Then strait I to the Exchange do fly , and court the Captains there , But they're so huffish and so high , they never regard my Prayer . Now whither shall I run or go to find a brackish Grave ? I'll have no Tomb on Earth below , the Sea shall my Body have . My Kid and I alike shall die , The curled waves will be The only Grave for him and I that I desire to see : The storms shall toss us to and from upon his sandy shore , Our Lodgings we'll take up below , for there is room good store . Though he to me did prove unkind , i'll not be so to him ; I valve not the Tide nor Wind , nor where I sink or swim : Let Neptune is frothy bounds still swell , and mount up to the Sky , Or let them throw me down to Hell , so I may in pickle lie The Watery Region's my delight since there he lost his life , I'll be his Comrade soon this night , since I cannot be his Wife . I'll float from place to place each hour until I find him out ; No fish my body shall devour , but they shall cast me out . And when I find my Lover out , I softly will complain , And ask him why he went without his pretty little Swain , The little Kid that came with me ; and if he silent stands , I'll give him gentle Kisses three , and wring him by the hands . Printed for P. Brook [ s ] by at the golden ball in Py-Corner . The Laundry-Maids Lamentation for the loss of her Seaman . The Seaman made a mighty show of Love , And vowed & amp ; swore that he would constant prove . He brought her presents from the Golden shore , And thus unlocked her Heart and Chamber-door : But when he'd gained his will he marched away , And left his Mistress with a Kid to play . Now she laments , and tears her flaxen Hair ; He's shipwrecked , and she's ready to despair . Tune of , Ah Jenny . This may be Printed . C Ome mourn with me fair Nymphs , come mourn my grief's beyond compare , My trusty Will will never return , he's deaf to Nannys Prayer : I cry , I mourn both night and day , to think of my Willy is Fate ; For his Return I always pray , but Prayers are all too late . Some Calenture has seized his breast , for i'm informed he's dead ; Some Shark his body has possessed , his soul to Heaven is fled : [ B ] ut yet I dream he comes to me with a gentle breeze of wind ; I think that he cries Helm a Lee , but it's a Dream I find . South-East by East , methinks he cries , and stiddy , stiddy now ; And now the Rudder silent lies that used the Sea to Plough ; Tom Tinker is Course I see him sail , i'm loaded then with joy ; But when I wake my senses fail , and all my hope's destroy . I often wish for some small Boat , that I might put to Sea ; That I unto my fate might float , and on the Billows play Till they had tossed me out of sighed , and all my sorrows drowned : But it's in vain , for such delight is no where to be found . S Sometimes I covet for to be some greasy Sea-Cooks Mate , And rub my fingers presently with Tar and Pitch ; in state Thus I to Wapping haste away , to Redriff and Blackwall ; But never a Ship that puts to Sea will Will y's Darling call . Then strait I to the Exchange do fly , and court the Captains there , But they're so huffish and so high , they never regard my Prayer . Now whither shall I run or go to find a brackish Grave ? I'll have no Tomb on Earth below , the Sea shall my Body have . My Kid and I alike shall die , The curled waves will be The only Grave for him and I that I desire to see : The storms shall toss us to and from upon his sandy shore , Our Lodgings we'll take up below , for there is room good store . Though he to me did prove unkind , i'll not be so to him ; I valve not the Tide nor Wind , nor where I sink or swim : Let Neptune is frothy bounds still swell , and mount up to the Sky , Or let them throw me down to Hell , so I may in pickle lie The Watery Region's my delight since there he lost his life , I'll be his Comrade soon this night , since I cannot be his Wife . I'll float from place to place each hour until I find him out ; No fish my body shall devour , but they shall cast me out . And when I find my Lover out , I softly will complain , And ask him why he went without his pretty little Swain , The little Kid that came with me ; and if he silent stands , I'll give him gentle Kisses three , and wring him by the hands . Printed for P. Brook [ s ] by at the golden ball in Py-Corner . 