Voyage to Virginia : OR , The Valiant Soldiers Farewell to his Love ; Unto Virginia he's resolved to go , She begs of him , that he would not do so ; But her entreaties they are all in vain , For he must Blow the curled Ocean Main ; At length ( with sorrow ) he does take his leave , And leaves his dearest Love at home to grieve . To the Tune of , She's gone and left me Bird alone . [ M ] Y pretty Betty I now must leave thee , the Drums does summon me away , [ ? ] st confess it soar does grieve me , [ ? ] and with thee no longer stay : [ ? ] n we are parted , be thou true hearted , [ The ] u wilt not change thy mind I know , [ I ] n thee my favour , shall never waver , [ Though ] ugh I must to Virginia go . [ When ] n first I did behold thy feature , [ ? ] senses all were set on fire , [ ? ] beauty bright , and comely Stature , [ Wh ] ich caused me for to admire : [ ? ] fates prevent me , for to content thee , [ Wh ] ich fills my heart so full of woe ; [ Ca ] nnot tarry , with thee to marry , [ ? ] I must to Virginia go . Long time I have been true and constant , as thou thy self didst always find , I never proved false one instant , nor ever was to thee unkind : My dear believe me , and do not grieve me , since thou dost see it must be so , My fortune I , will now go try , for I must to Virginia go . Had I a thousand pounds to leave thee although it were in good read Gold , Not half sh much it now would grieve me , to speak the truth I may be bold : What ever thou requir'dst of me , thou never heardest me answer no ; Therefore content thee , do not prevent me , for I must to Virginia go . ' TO IS for Promotion and for Honour , that I must sail upon the Flood , I'll venture under Englands Banner , although I lose my dearest Blood : For unto danger I am no stranger . when stormy winds aloud do blow , I'll not forget thee , my dearest Betty , though I must to Virginia go . When Betty herd his Resolution , and that he was so fully bent , Her senses all were in Confusion , and thus with sorrow she did lament : Oh stay quoth she and do not venture , lest that you break my heart with woe , Leave not this City , but take some pity , and do not to Virginia go . I prithee dearest do not forsake me , thou knowest I love thee more than life : According to thy promise take me , and let me be thy wedded wife : Leave bloody wars , and wounds and scars , to them who love did never know , While I will ease thee , and strive to please thee then do not to Virginia go . But if thou be resolved to wander , and nothing can thy fancy turn , I'll march under the same Commander . and never stay at home to mourn : It's my desire , in men attire , thy Comrade to appear in show , And day and night , yield you delight , as you unto Virginia go . O no , quoth he , my dearest jewel , that may not be in any wise ; Upon the Seas are dangers cruel , and many storms do there arise : To stay at home then be contented , while I do fight against my Foe , And ease thy mourning till my returning for I must to Virginia go . Take here this ring which I do give thee my dearest , and do not complain , For with the same my heart I leave thee , until that I return again : I hope hereafter for to embrace thee , then suffer not those Tears to flow ; For when I am absent , I will be constant , although I do to Virginnia go . And so farewell my dearest Betty , a thousand times farewell my sweet ; I now afford thee Kisses plenty , for to remember till we meet : If cruel Death , of Life deprive us , i'll meet thee in the shades below , Where we together , shall be forever , although I do to Virginnia go . When Betty saw her Lover parted , she sencless for a time remained , Being so kind and tender-hearted , at length her Spirits she regained And then a thousand happy wishes , She after sent her Love to show ; Then home returned , & amp ; there she mourned , while he did to Virginnia go . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Pasinger , 1685. Voyage to Virginia : OR , The Valiant Soldiers Farewell to his Love ; Unto Virginia he's resolved to go , She begs of him , that he would not do so ; But her entreaties they are all in vain , For he must Blow the curled Ocean Main ; At length ( with sorrow ) he does take his leave , And leaves his dearest Love at home to grieve . To the Tune of , She's gone and left me Bird alone . [ M ] Y pretty Betty I now must leave thee , the Drums does summon me away , [ ? ] st confess it soar does grieve me , [ ? ] and with thee no longer stay : [ ? ] n we are parted , be thou true hearted , [ The ] u wilt not change thy mind I know , [ I ] n thee my favour , shall never waver , [ Though ] ugh I must to Virginia go . [ When ] n first I did behold thy feature , [ ? ] senses all were set on fire , [ ? ] beauty bright , and comely Stature , [ Wh ] ich caused me for to admire : [ ? ] fates prevent me , for to content thee , [ Wh ] ich fills my heart so full of woe ; [ Ca ] nnot tarry , with thee to marry , [ ? ] I must to Virginia go . Long time I have been true and constant , as thou thy self didst always find , I never proved false one instant , nor ever was to thee unkind : My dear believe me , and do not grieve me , since thou dost see it must be so , My fortune I , will now go try , for I must to Virginia go . Had I a thousand pounds to leave thee although it were in good read Gold , Not half sh much it now would grieve me , to speak the truth I may be bold : What ever thou requir'dst of me , thou never heardest me answer no ; Therefore content thee , do not prevent me , for I must to Virginia go . ' TO IS for Promotion and for Honour , that I must sail upon the Flood , I'll venture under Englands Banner , although I lose my dearest Blood : For unto danger I am no stranger . when stormy winds aloud do blow , I'll not forget thee , my dearest Betty , though I must to Virginia go . When Betty herd his Resolution , and that he was so fully bent , Her senses all were in Confusion , and thus with sorrow she did lament : Oh stay quoth she and do not venture , lest that you break my heart with woe , Leave not this City , but take some pity , and do not to Virginia go . I prithee dearest do not forsake me , thou knowest I love thee more than life : According to thy promise take me , and let me be thy wedded wife : Leave bloody wars , and wounds and scars , to them who love did never know , While I will ease thee , and strive to please thee then do not to Virginia go . But if thou be resolved to wander , and nothing can thy fancy turn , I'll march under the same Commander . and never stay at home to mourn : It's my desire , in men attire , thy Comrade to appear in show , And day and night , yield you delight , as you unto Virginia go . O no , quoth he , my dearest jewel , that may not be in any wise ; Upon the Seas are dangers cruel , and many storms do there arise : To stay at home then be contented , while I do fight against my Foe , And ease thy mourning till my returning for I must to Virginia go . Take here this ring which I do give thee my dearest , and do not complain , For with the same my heart I leave thee , until that I return again : I hope hereafter for to embrace thee , then suffer not those Tears to flow ; For when I am absent , I will be constant , although I do to Virginnia go . And so farewell my dearest Betty , a thousand times farewell my sweet ; I now afford thee Kisses plenty , for to remember till we meet : If cruel Death , of Life deprive us , i'll meet thee in the shades below , Where we together , shall be forever , although I do to Virginnia go . When Betty saw her Lover parted , she sencless for a time remained , Being so kind and tender-hearted , at length her Spirits she regained And then a thousand happy wishes , She after sent her Love to show ; Then home returned , & amp ; there she mourned , while he did to Virginnia go . Printed for J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Pasinger , 1685. 