The Merchantman and the Fiddlers wife : Discovering a pretty conceit how a Fiddler , in hope of gain ( and trusting too much to his Wives honesty ) was made a Cuckold by the Merchant ; and lost his Fiddle to boot . He laid his Fiddle to a Ship In hope for to be made But P eggy let the Merchant slip , And Robin he was betrayed . To a P leasant Northen TO une , by J. P. I TO was a Rich Merchant man , That had both ship and all , And he would cross the salt Seas , though his cunning it was but small . The Fiddler and his wife , they being near at hand , Would needs go sail along with him , from Dover unto Scotland . The Fiddlers wife looked brisk , which made the merchant smile He made no doubt to bring it about , the Fiddler to beguile , Is this thy wife the merchant , said , She looks like and honest Spouse , I that she is , the fiddler said , that ever trod on Shoes , Thy confidence , is very great , the merchant then did say , If thou a wager darest to bet , I'll tell thee what I will lay , I'll lay my Ship against thy Fiddle and all my venture too , So Peggy may gang along with me my Cabin for to view . If she continue one hour with me thy true and constant Wife , Then shalt thou have my Ship and be A Merchant all thy life . The Fiddler was content , he danc ' [ worser ] and leapt for joy , And twanged his Fiddle in merriment , For Peggy he thought was coy , TO Hen Peggy she went along , His Cabin for to view , And after her the Merchant Man Did follow we found it true . When they were once together , The Fiddler was afraid , For he crept near in piteous fear , And thus to Peggy he said , Hold out , sweet Peggy hold out For the space of two half hours , If thou hold out , I make no doubt But the ship and Goods are ours , Oh how can I hold out , he hath god me about the middle He's lusty and strong and hath laid me along O Robbin the hast lost thy Fiddle , If I have lost my Fiddle , Then am I man undone , My Fiddle whereon I so often played , Away I needs must run . O stay , the Merchant said , And thou shalt keep thy place , And thou shalt have thy Fiddle again , But P eggy shall carry the case , Poor Robbin hearing that He looked with a merry cheer , His Wife she was pleased and the Merchant was eased And jolly and brisk they were . The Fiddler he was mad , But valued it not a fig , That [ e ] n Peggy unto her Husband said , Kind Robbin play us a jig , Then he took up his fiddle , And merrily he did play , The Scottish jig , and the Hornpipe , And eke the Irish Heigh , It was but in vain to grieve , The deed it was done and passed , Poor Robbin was born to carry the horn , For Peggy could not be chaste . Then fiddlers all beware Your Wives are kind you see , And he that is made for the fiddling trade , Must never a Merchant be , For Peggy she knew right well although she was but a Woman That Gamesters Drink , and fiddlers wives , They are ever Free and Common FINIS . Printed for Fr. Coals , Tho. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger , The Merchantman and the Fiddlers wife : Discovering a pretty conceit how a Fiddler , in hope of gain ( and trusting too much to his Wives honesty ) was made a Cuckold by the Merchant ; and lost his Fiddle to boot . He laid his Fiddle to a Ship In hope for to be made But P eggy let the Merchant slip , And Robin he was betrayed . To a P leasant Northen TO une , by J. P. I TO was a Rich Merchant man , That had both ship and all , And he would cross the salt Seas , though his cunning it was but small . The Fiddler and his wife , they being near at hand , Would needs go sail along with him , from Dover unto Scotland . The Fiddlers wife looked brisk , which made the merchant smile He made no doubt to bring it about , the Fiddler to beguile , Is this thy wife the merchant , said , She looks like and honest Spouse , I that she is , the fiddler said , that ever trod on Shoes , Thy confidence , is very great , the merchant then did say , If thou a wager darest to bet , I'll tell thee what I will lay , I'll lay my Ship against thy Fiddle and all my venture too , So Peggy may gang along with me my Cabin for to view . If she continue one hour with me thy true and constant Wife , Then shalt thou have my Ship and be A Merchant all thy life . The Fiddler was content , he danc ' [ worser ] and leapt for joy , And twanged his Fiddle in merriment , For Peggy he thought was coy , TO Hen Peggy she went along , His Cabin for to view , And after her the Merchant Man Did follow we found it true . When they were once together , The Fiddler was afraid , For he crept near in piteous fear , And thus to Peggy he said , Hold out , sweet Peggy hold out For the space of two half hours , If thou hold out , I make no doubt But the ship and Goods are ours , Oh how can I hold out , he hath god me about the middle He's lusty and strong and hath laid me along O Robbin the hast lost thy Fiddle , If I have lost my Fiddle , Then am I man undone , My Fiddle whereon I so often played , Away I needs must run . O stay , the Merchant said , And thou shalt keep thy place , And thou shalt have thy Fiddle again , But P eggy shall carry the case , Poor Robbin hearing that He looked with a merry cheer , His Wife she was pleased and the Merchant was eased And jolly and brisk they were . The Fiddler he was mad , But valued it not a fig , That [ e ] n Peggy unto her Husband said , Kind Robbin play us a jig , Then he took up his fiddle , And merrily he did play , The Scottish jig , and the Hornpipe , And eke the Irish Heigh , It was but in vain to grieve , The deed it was done and passed , Poor Robbin was born to carry the horn , For Peggy could not be chaste . Then fiddlers all beware Your Wives are kind you see , And he that is made for the fiddling trade , Must never a Merchant be , For Peggy she knew right well although she was but a Woman That Gamesters Drink , and fiddlers wives , They are ever Free and Common FINIS . Printed for Fr. Coals , Tho. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger , 