The True Lovers Joy : OR , A Dialogue between a Seaman and his Love . The Maid implores the aid of Charons Boat , That to the gloomy shades her Soul might float , With sighs and groans , much weary and oppressed , At last he herd her moan , and gave her rest , From all past dangers , and from future harms , She safe arrived and anchored in his arms . To a new Tune much in Request . Maid H Ark Charon come away bring forth thy Boat and Oars , And carry me poor harmless Maid unto the Elizium Shores . Charon . Who Charon calls in haste , while I fit here in pain I carry none but pure and chaste such as ture Love hath slave . I am come dear soul I come , thy Face does so incharm me , Come in my Boat and take thy room no wind nor wave shall harm thee , Maid Now I am come in thy Boat , I am a Maid undone , Sighing my heart is almost broke for my Love he is from me gone . Thus as I pass the shades , i'll tell you a mournful tale , So full of sighs as we do pass shall serve us for a gale . And so beguiled the time , Il'e sing you a true Loves Song , Mind eyes shall flow a Sea of tears , to carry the Boat along , Oh H what's become of those hard hearts of a Virgins takes no pity , They're sailing to Virginia parts , where Neptune hath built a City . O Cupid hath wounded me , and hath pierced my tender heart , To call for one whom I loved so dear , who cares but little fored . Thus in the shades below , we'll wast the tedious hours No gust of winds , but sighs shall blow , the Boat with Charons Oars . His Answer . Stay gentle Charon stay and let thy Boat alone , Rob not the harmless Maid away that sits and makes her moan . For she that calls so fast , and sighs so at thy stay , A Virgin is as pure & amp ; chaste , as ever true Love did stay . She's no dear soul for thee , let not her face incharm thee , Though room within thy Boat there be her beauty there may harm thee . O fair one , if you go ; im'e more undone than you , My heart does equal sorrow know , and still my Love is true . The shades you must not pass , nor mournful stories tell Instead of sighing gales , alas ! a kiss will do as well . You'd better stay a shore , and sing us a true Loves Song , It is enough , we need no more to carry his Boat along . No heart so hard I know , but would gladly ease your pain , Else heart let him to Virginia go , and never return again . If Cupid hath wounded you , he had wounded me before , If you love as you say you do , I love you as much or more . In Beds of softest Down , we'll spend the short lived nights , No gust of Wind or sighs shall drown the current of our delights . Maid . Come gentle Charon come and me to shore remove , The wind despairing sighed did blow , shall waft me unto Love . How slow the Boatsman steers , if he no faster ply , My love to ride me of my fears , shall lend me his wings to fly , To thee dear Love I float , finding the just and true and bid to Charon and his Boat , eternally adieu . Make haste , make hast my Dear , for if thou longer stay , Through the floods without all fears my Arms shall make their way . Welcome my Love to shore I'll keep thee from all harms , And thou shall ride for evermore at Anchor in my arms . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden ball in Pye-Corner . The True Lovers Joy : OR , A Dialogue between a Seaman and his Love . The Maid implores the aid of Charons Boat , That to the gloomy shades her Soul might float , With sighs and groans , much weary and oppressed , At last he herd her moan , and gave her rest , From all past dangers , and from future harms , She safe arrived and anchored in his arms . To a new Tune much in Request . Maid H Ark Charon come away bring forth thy Boat and Oars , And carry me poor harmless Maid unto the Elizium Shores . Charon . Who Charon calls in haste , while I fit here in pain I carry none but pure and chaste such as ture Love hath slave . I am come dear soul I come , thy Face does so incharm me , Come in my Boat and take thy room no wind nor wave shall harm thee , Maid Now I am come in thy Boat , I am a Maid undone , Sighing my heart is almost broke for my Love he is from me gone . Thus as I pass the shades , i'll tell you a mournful tale , So full of sighs as we do pass shall serve us for a gale . And so beguiled the time , Il'e sing you a true Loves Song , Mind eyes shall flow a Sea of tears , to carry the Boat along , Oh H what's become of those hard hearts of a Virgins takes no pity , They're sailing to Virginia parts , where Neptune hath built a City . O Cupid hath wounded me , and hath pierced my tender heart , To call for one whom I loved so dear , who cares but little fored . Thus in the shades below , we'll wast the tedious hours No gust of winds , but sighs shall blow , the Boat with Charons Oars . His Answer . Stay gentle Charon stay and let thy Boat alone , Rob not the harmless Maid away that sits and makes her moan . For she that calls so fast , and sighs so at thy stay , A Virgin is as pure & amp ; chaste , as ever true Love did stay . She's no dear soul for thee , let not her face incharm thee , Though room within thy Boat there be her beauty there may harm thee . O fair one , if you go ; im'e more undone than you , My heart does equal sorrow know , and still my Love is true . The shades you must not pass , nor mournful stories tell Instead of sighing gales , alas ! a kiss will do as well . You'd better stay a shore , and sing us a true Loves Song , It is enough , we need no more to carry his Boat along . No heart so hard I know , but would gladly ease your pain , Else heart let him to Virginia go , and never return again . If Cupid hath wounded you , he had wounded me before , If you love as you say you do , I love you as much or more . In Beds of softest Down , we'll spend the short lived nights , No gust of Wind or sighs shall drown the current of our delights . Maid . Come gentle Charon come and me to shore remove , The wind despairing sighed did blow , shall waft me unto Love . How slow the Boatsman steers , if he no faster ply , My love to ride me of my fears , shall lend me his wings to fly , To thee dear Love I float , finding the just and true and bid to Charon and his Boat , eternally adieu . Make haste , make hast my Dear , for if thou longer stay , Through the floods without all fears my Arms shall make their way . Welcome my Love to shore I'll keep thee from all harms , And thou shall ride for evermore at Anchor in my arms . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden ball in Pye-Corner . 