The Water-Mans Delight ; Or , The Fair Maid . To you that will view , These lines that ensue , Which will declare The Watermans fare . How that by Cupid he was almost slave , How a Maids kindness revived him again ; How he courted and kissed , and god into bed , And she resigned to him her Maidenhead . To a rare new Tune ; called , The Watermans Delight . TO Here was a jovial Waterman , whom Cupid did command , To love a Damosel frank and free , that lived upon the Land : Near unto a pair of Stairs where ' that watermen did ply , My muse it there does plain declare , their true love and constancy . This Damsel she was complete , in person every way , Many a Blade on her did wait , every hour of the day : But certainly this waterman ( for truth as I herd tell ) Within her heart such root had taken , he did the rest excel . His Boat was ever ready still , when this fair maid did call , He did attend upon her will for his heart was bound in thrall : Her father he was very rich , the waterman complete , His very fingers they did itch , to do with her the feat . His modest mild behaviour , did so affect her mind , That he did gain her favour so , she was to him most kind : And up this fair Maid she rose and slipped on her clothes , And went unto the water side and called for the next Oars . O Here am I Madam , and took her by the hand , Pray carry me to London-Bridge , for there I mean to land : And as he rowed upon the Thames , he oft did view her face , While she with modest mild blushes her features much did grace . Madam ( said he ) I wonder much ; how maids can be so coy , To let their cruelty be such , youngmen for to destroy : Then he to her made soar complaints , of Cupids cruel spite , And sung to her with merry strains , the Watermans delight . My love she's pale and wan , my love she's frank and free , She lies all night within my arms , and all to pleasure me , My love she's like a Pelican , that sucks blood from her breast , And feeds her young ones every day as they lie in her nest , Madam ( said he ) if you please , to love a waterman , I will maintain you at your ease , and please you all I can , For of a truth you have my heart , within your snow-white breast , Then let me now of yours have part , to ease me that am oppressed . Waterman said she it's strange , the tale which you have told , Poor Maidens we sometime do range , like lambs in Cupids fold : And sure I know not what you mean , by Cupids cruelty ; Of whom did you the question ask , that did you the same deny . And when they came to London-Bridge , Waterman take your money , He laid one hand about her middle and called her his own honey , Then he gave her a kind salute and of her had a care , And unto the Tavern straight , he did conduct his fair , He called for Wine most jovially and lustily did drink ; He oft her kindly did salute , for she had store of chink : And when they saw their time , for a reckoning they call , This gallant she was very free , and frankly did pay it all . Said he , grant me thy good will , and also free consent , And I will use my utmost skill , to give thee sweet content : They agreed to go to bed , for truth as I hear say , And there he gained her Maidenhead , and made no more delay . Watermen both night and day , do work hard for to thrive , And now and then to sport and play ; withal they do contrive : When that time the truth does prove , i'll use my skill and art , And if her belly swells with love , i'll write a second part , Certainly this Waterman , did this fair Maid a pleasure , Gain friends consent if that he can , he shall have store of treasure Thus in brief have I rehearsed : the Water men delight , But of their names and dwelling-place I dare not yet to write . Printed for W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The Water-Mans Delight ; Or , The Fair Maid . To you that will view , These lines that ensue , Which will declare The Watermans fare . How that by Cupid he was almost slave , How a Maids kindness revived him again ; How he courted and kissed , and god into bed , And she resigned to him her Maidenhead . To a rare new Tune ; called , The Watermans Delight . TO Here was a jovial Waterman , whom Cupid did command , To love a Damosel frank and free , that lived upon the Land : Near unto a pair of Stairs where ' that watermen did ply , My muse it there does plain declare , their true love and constancy . This Damsel she was complete , in person every way , Many a Blade on her did wait , every hour of the day : But certainly this waterman ( for truth as I herd tell ) Within her heart such root had taken , he did the rest excel . His Boat was ever ready still , when this fair maid did call , He did attend upon her will for his heart was bound in thrall : Her father he was very rich , the waterman complete , His very fingers they did itch , to do with her the feat . His modest mild behaviour , did so affect her mind , That he did gain her favour so , she was to him most kind : And up this fair Maid she rose and slipped on her clothes , And went unto the water side and called for the next Oars . O Here am I Madam , and took her by the hand , Pray carry me to London-Bridge , for there I mean to land : And as he rowed upon the Thames , he oft did view her face , While she with modest mild blushes her features much did grace . Madam ( said he ) I wonder much ; how maids can be so coy , To let their cruelty be such , youngmen for to destroy : Then he to her made soar complaints , of Cupids cruel spite , And sung to her with merry strains , the Watermans delight . My love she's pale and wan , my love she's frank and free , She lies all night within my arms , and all to pleasure me , My love she's like a Pelican , that sucks blood from her breast , And feeds her young ones every day as they lie in her nest , Madam ( said he ) if you please , to love a waterman , I will maintain you at your ease , and please you all I can , For of a truth you have my heart , within your snow-white breast , Then let me now of yours have part , to ease me that am oppressed . Waterman said she it's strange , the tale which you have told , Poor Maidens we sometime do range , like lambs in Cupids fold : And sure I know not what you mean , by Cupids cruelty ; Of whom did you the question ask , that did you the same deny . And when they came to London-Bridge , Waterman take your money , He laid one hand about her middle and called her his own honey , Then he gave her a kind salute and of her had a care , And unto the Tavern straight , he did conduct his fair , He called for Wine most jovially and lustily did drink ; He oft her kindly did salute , for she had store of chink : And when they saw their time , for a reckoning they call , This gallant she was very free , and frankly did pay it all . Said he , grant me thy good will , and also free consent , And I will use my utmost skill , to give thee sweet content : They agreed to go to bed , for truth as I hear say , And there he gained her Maidenhead , and made no more delay . Watermen both night and day , do work hard for to thrive , And now and then to sport and play ; withal they do contrive : When that time the truth does prove , i'll use my skill and art , And if her belly swells with love , i'll write a second part , Certainly this Waterman , did this fair Maid a pleasure , Gain friends consent if that he can , he shall have store of treasure Thus in brief have I rehearsed : the Water men delight , But of their names and dwelling-place I dare not yet to write . Printed for W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 