The Wapping Lovers : Or , A Pattern for S eamen . Giving a true and perfect account of the Noble Loyal and Faithful Mariner , who being bound to Sea , took his farewell of his true Love in this sorrowful manner as you shall hear , and like - wise how unkindly she took his farewell , with he mournful lamentation for his departure . To the Tune of , The English Travelers . M Y Dearest is grieves me , my Tale for to tell , Because I do know , thou dost love me full well : But the Fates are unkind , and do call me again , For to leave thee behind , and to Sail on the Main . Forbear Oh my Dear , and do not say so , I will not stay here , if to Sea thou dost go : I now for my Voyage with speed will provide , And I'll be thy Mess-Mate , what ever betide . No , no ; my poor fair one , it cannot be so , The dangers on Sea , thou canst not undergo , When the winds they do blow , and the Billows do roar , Oh then thou wilt wish , for to be on the shore , It's in vain to dispute , for I fully am bent , And I vow I will do't ; for it is my intent : I'll cast out the Led , and i'll steer at the Helm , For fear that the Ship with my love overwhelm . It sorely does grieve me , I needs must confess , But while thou art safe , will my fears be the less ; Our Ship she may founder , or else run a ground , And then should I fear , my true Love should be drowned . That shall be my end , if I live on the shore , For when ever I hear I shall see thee no more , Into some deep river , with speed I will leap , And Swim to my true love , that lies in the deep , Perhaps false reports , thou at sometime dost hear , Which may my love startle , and fill thee with fear : For thousands were said , to be sunk in the Main , Who were safe alive , and came well home again . 'Twould be all one to me , were't a fable or true , For the very report , would me certainly rue : For I never shall enjoy , one poor minute of bliss , If once there comes news , never so litter amiss , Thy self do not frighten , with any such thing , It's not the first time , that at Sea I have been : But when Wapping-Old-Stairs , I again come to see , There's nothing but death , shall part thee and me . Thus with Tears in his eyes , away from her he went , Her hands she did wring , and sadly lament , But though for his absence , she sighed all in vain , He made her amends , at his coming again . Printed for C. Dennisson , at the Stationers Arms , within Aldergate . The Wapping Lovers : Or , A Pattern for S eamen . Giving a true and perfect account of the Noble Loyal and Faithful Mariner , who being bound to Sea , took his farewell of his true Love in this sorrowful manner as you shall hear , and like - wise how unkindly she took his farewell , with he mournful lamentation for his departure . To the Tune of , The English Travelers . M Y Dearest is grieves me , my Tale for to tell , Because I do know , thou dost love me full well : But the Fates are unkind , and do call me again , For to leave thee behind , and to Sail on the Main . Forbear Oh my Dear , and do not say so , I will not stay here , if to Sea thou dost go : I now for my Voyage with speed will provide , And I'll be thy Mess-Mate , what ever betide . No , no ; my poor fair one , it cannot be so , The dangers on Sea , thou canst not undergo , When the winds they do blow , and the Billows do roar , Oh then thou wilt wish , for to be on the shore , It's in vain to dispute , for I fully am bent , And I vow I will do't ; for it is my intent : I'll cast out the Led , and i'll steer at the Helm , For fear that the Ship with my love overwhelm . It sorely does grieve me , I needs must confess , But while thou art safe , will my fears be the less ; Our Ship she may founder , or else run a ground , And then should I fear , my true Love should be drowned . That shall be my end , if I live on the shore , For when ever I hear I shall see thee no more , Into some deep river , with speed I will leap , And Swim to my true love , that lies in the deep , Perhaps false reports , thou at sometime dost hear , Which may my love startle , and fill thee with fear : For thousands were said , to be sunk in the Main , Who were safe alive , and came well home again . 'Twould be all one to me , were't a fable or true , For the very report , would me certainly rue : For I never shall enjoy , one poor minute of bliss , If once there comes news , never so litter amiss , Thy self do not frighten , with any such thing , It's not the first time , that at Sea I have been : But when Wapping-Old-Stairs , I again come to see , There's nothing but death , shall part thee and me . Thus with Tears in his eyes , away from her he went , Her hands she did wring , and sadly lament , But though for his absence , she sighed all in vain , He made her amends , at his coming again . Printed for C. Dennisson , at the Stationers Arms , within Aldergate . 