The POPLAR-Feast : OR , A CAT-PASTY . Showing how some Maids of Poplar , baked a Cat in a Pasty , and invited several young Seamen to the eating of it , with their Merriment and pastime . A Cat well baked in a pan , Is a Dish for any man ; The Lasses of our town can tell , That Seamen love a Cat so well , TO hat rather then they mean to beatrice her , They will roast her well , and eat her . To the Tune of , The Two English Travellers . A LL you that love Pasty come hither to me , Here is the best Pasty that ever you see ; A dish for a Seaman it is without doubt , Excelling a Gudgeon , a Carp , or a Trout . For Rarities greater no Mortal can wish , Well Cooked and Baked , and put into a Dish ; If a man never wants no worse Victuals then this , I am certain they never can then so amiss . But to come to my story , i'll tell you no lie , Although I am tedious good people don't cry ; Have patience I pray you , you'll hearby and by , How neatly the Maidens new projects can try . In Poplar , of late , there was held a great Feast , The Maidens were jolly , to welcome there Guest ; Good cheer and good pastime , with great jollity , But Puss in her Majesty came by the Lee. These Maidens most carefully stripped off the Skin , And pulled out the Garbage & amp ; entrails within ; They cut off the head too , and thought it no since , That Puss had been better she never had been . They baked this Rabit so well in a pan , It seemed a dish for a right Gentleman ; But neighbours I pray you to tell me therefore , If you ever herd of a daintier Feast before . At night the brisk gallants came in for to sup , among their good cheer they their Pesty cut up ; And fed very heartily on what they had , But when they did know it , I thought they were mad When they had well eaten and dranken to boot , The maids to their pastime went merrily tooed ; They asked how they like their dainty fine fare , They wished it were better , for welcome they were . They answered with countenance brisk and complete , It is the best Coney that ever we eat ; Then here's to the founder and confounder both , So sip it up Simon , it's very good Broth Then much good may do you , the maidens did cry , I'll tell you the truth Sir , and tell you no lie ; The meat is well seasoned but yet for all that , Be assured it's nothing but our fat Cat. Then straight on the table they threw down the head , Whereby they concluded poor Pussy was dead ; Alas my poor Cat that did use to cry Mew , Although she was dead she did force them to spew . But they pretty well did recover the matter , And turned their fury into a great laughter : Resolved to requite it , with some pretty trick , And make the young Maidens and lasses as sick . They laughed and quaffed add turned it about At length they did make the poor maiden to pout ; The Maid she did frown too , and seemed so stout , They drank off the Liquour before they went out . prey Neighbors bemoan the hard hap of my Cat , Who never will be able to catch any Rat ; It cannot be helped , let's home to our house , For crying won't help it , good-buy Mistress Puss . FINIS . This may be Printed , R.P. Printed for C. Dennisson , at the Stationers-arms within Aldgate . The POPLAR-Feast : OR , A CAT-PASTY . Showing how some Maids of Poplar , baked a Cat in a Pasty , and invited several young Seamen to the eating of it , with their Merriment and pastime . A Cat well baked in a pan , Is a Dish for any man ; The Lasses of our town can tell , That Seamen love a Cat so well , TO hat rather then they mean to beatrice her , They will roast her well , and eat her . To the Tune of , The Two English Travellers . A LL you that love Pasty come hither to me , Here is the best Pasty that ever you see ; A dish for a Seaman it is without doubt , Excelling a Gudgeon , a Carp , or a Trout . For Rarities greater no Mortal can wish , Well Cooked and Baked , and put into a Dish ; If a man never wants no worse Victuals then this , I am certain they never can then so amiss . But to come to my story , i'll tell you no lie , Although I am tedious good people don't cry ; Have patience I pray you , you'll hearby and by , How neatly the Maidens new projects can try . In Poplar , of late , there was held a great Feast , The Maidens were jolly , to welcome there Guest ; Good cheer and good pastime , with great jollity , But Puss in her Majesty came by the Lee. These Maidens most carefully stripped off the Skin , And pulled out the Garbage & amp ; entrails within ; They cut off the head too , and thought it no since , That Puss had been better she never had been . They baked this Rabit so well in a pan , It seemed a dish for a right Gentleman ; But neighbours I pray you to tell me therefore , If you ever herd of a daintier Feast before . At night the brisk gallants came in for to sup , among their good cheer they their Pesty cut up ; And fed very heartily on what they had , But when they did know it , I thought they were mad When they had well eaten and dranken to boot , The maids to their pastime went merrily tooed ; They asked how they like their dainty fine fare , They wished it were better , for welcome they were . They answered with countenance brisk and complete , It is the best Coney that ever we eat ; Then here's to the founder and confounder both , So sip it up Simon , it's very good Broth Then much good may do you , the maidens did cry , I'll tell you the truth Sir , and tell you no lie ; The meat is well seasoned but yet for all that , Be assured it's nothing but our fat Cat. Then straight on the table they threw down the head , Whereby they concluded poor Pussy was dead ; Alas my poor Cat that did use to cry Mew , Although she was dead she did force them to spew . But they pretty well did recover the matter , And turned their fury into a great laughter : Resolved to requite it , with some pretty trick , And make the young Maidens and lasses as sick . They laughed and quaffed add turned it about At length they did make the poor maiden to pout ; The Maid she did frown too , and seemed so stout , They drank off the Liquour before they went out . prey Neighbors bemoan the hard hap of my Cat , Who never will be able to catch any Rat ; It cannot be helped , let's home to our house , For crying won't help it , good-buy Mistress Puss . FINIS . This may be Printed , R.P. Printed for C. Dennisson , at the Stationers-arms within Aldgate . 