THE Seamens Wives Vindication , OR , And Answer to the pretended Frolic , which was said to be by them over a Bowl of PUNCH . You writ that we drank Liquour free , but for your Writing so ; You are to blame , nay , blush for shame , Since it was nothing so . To the Tune of , Oh so Ungrateful a Creature . This may be Printed , R.P. W High does the Poets abuse us , we that are Seamens poor wives Have they not cause to excuse us , knowing our sorrowful lives ? We are , alas ! brokenhearted , as we can very well prove , What from our joys we are parted , those Loyal Husbands we love . You that declare we are jolly , do but abuse us we find , For we are most Melancholy , always tormented in mind : While that our Husbands are Sailing on the Tempestuous Seas , Here we are sighing , bewailing , nothing affords us ease . Here you have newly reported , that we are Girls of the Game , Who do delight to be Courted , are you not highly to blame ? Saying we often are Merry , Punch is the Liquour we praise , Though we are known to be weary of these our sorrowful days . H Owe could you say there was many wives that did drink , rant , & amp ; sing ; When I protest there's not any of us that practice this thing : Are we not forced to borrow , being left bore without Chink , It's in a Cup of cold sorrow , if we so often do Drink . Though we have little to nourish us while our Husbands are there , Merchant's in London they flourish , through their industrious care : They are the stay of the Nation , men of a undaunted Renown , Why should a false accusation , run the poor Seamens Wives down ? Saying , we followed our Liquour , with a great Gossiping Crew , Making our Tongues to run quicker then they had reason to do ? Thus they would blast all our Glory , by the soft Wits of their Brains , He that invented that Story , was but a Fool for his pains . We are so far from such pleasure , making of jol [ l ] y Punch-Bowls , That we lament out of measure , every Woman condoles ; When she in Bed should lie sleeping , if the high Winds they do roar , There she in sorrow is weeping , fearing to see him no more . They are to Dangers exposed , as we may very well guess , How can our Eyelids be closed , in such a time of Distress ? You that are free from that horror , having your Husbands secure , Little consider the horror , that we do daily endure . Though there is joy in our Meeting , when they come safe from the Main , Yet it's a sorrowful Greeting , when we are parted again : Land-men in a full Fruition , feeds on the fat of the Land , This is a happy Condition , having all things at command . Though we have not such a plenty , yet I can very well prove , That there is not one in twenty , but who her Husbands does love : You that have caused those Distractions writing a Story not true ; May be ashamed of your Actions , and thus I bid you adieu . Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . THE Seamens Wives Vindication , OR , And Answer to the pretended Frolic , which was said to be by them over a Bowl of PUNCH . You writ that we drank Liquour free , but for your Writing so ; You are to blame , nay , blush for shame , Since it was nothing so . To the Tune of , Oh so Ungrateful a Creature . This may be Printed , R.P. W High does the Poets abuse us , we that are Seamens poor wives Have they not cause to excuse us , knowing our sorrowful lives ? We are , alas ! brokenhearted , as we can very well prove , What from our joys we are parted , those Loyal Husbands we love . You that declare we are jolly , do but abuse us we find , For we are most Melancholy , always tormented in mind : While that our Husbands are Sailing on the Tempestuous Seas , Here we are sighing , bewailing , nothing affords us ease . Here you have newly reported , that we are Girls of the Game , Who do delight to be Courted , are you not highly to blame ? Saying we often are Merry , Punch is the Liquour we praise , Though we are known to be weary of these our sorrowful days . H Owe could you say there was many wives that did drink , rant , & amp ; sing ; When I protest there's not any of us that practice this thing : Are we not forced to borrow , being left bore without Chink , It's in a Cup of cold sorrow , if we so often do Drink . Though we have little to nourish us while our Husbands are there , Merchant's in London they flourish , through their industrious care : They are the stay of the Nation , men of a undaunted Renown , Why should a false accusation , run the poor Seamens Wives down ? Saying , we followed our Liquour , with a great Gossiping Crew , Making our Tongues to run quicker then they had reason to do ? Thus they would blast all our Glory , by the soft Wits of their Brains , He that invented that Story , was but a Fool for his pains . We are so far from such pleasure , making of jol [ l ] y Punch-Bowls , That we lament out of measure , every Woman condoles ; When she in Bed should lie sleeping , if the high Winds they do roar , There she in sorrow is weeping , fearing to see him no more . They are to Dangers exposed , as we may very well guess , How can our Eyelids be closed , in such a time of Distress ? You that are free from that horror , having your Husbands secure , Little consider the horror , that we do daily endure . Though there is joy in our Meeting , when they come safe from the Main , Yet it's a sorrowful Greeting , when we are parted again : Land-men in a full Fruition , feeds on the fat of the Land , This is a happy Condition , having all things at command . Though we have not such a plenty , yet I can very well prove , That there is not one in twenty , but who her Husbands does love : You that have caused those Distractions writing a Story not true ; May be ashamed of your Actions , and thus I bid you adieu . Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . 