THE She-Mariners Misfortune . Being and Account of a faithful Seaman , who going to take his farewell of his Sweetheart , she re - solved come Life , or come Death , to Sail with him ; and putting her self into men Appear - rel , went the Voyage with him , but by distress of weather , coming home were cast away , the constant Seaman having no other help , betook himself to swimming , and having god his Sweetheart upon his back , swam till he was almost tired , but was at last taken up by and Algerine , who carried them to Algiers , where being brought before the Governor , she confessed her self to be a Female , which so astonished the Governor , that he in requital of her constancy , set them both free , who are happily Arrived in England again . Tune , Doubting Virgin . A Seaman loved a Maiden pretty and esteemed her as his life , She was beauteous fair and witty whom he vowed should be his wife : He was minded , and designed for to leave the british shore And sail again unto the Main as he had often done before . So he kindly came unto her and his mind did thus express Dearest of my love be sure in thee is all my happiness . And yet must I immediately be forced to leave thee on the shore When I again , come from the Main I swear i'll never leave thee more . These his words her mind did trouble and did pierce her tender heart , Then her sorrows they grew double and increased her deadly smart : She replied , if she died to the Main with him she'd go Quoth he my Dear , I greatly fear hardship thou canst not undergo . I am loath for to forsake thee yet I constant will remain , And my faithful wife will make thee when I home return again : He did protest , he did not jest but yet she constantly did cry I do not fear , my only Dear for with thee I will live and die . I'm resolved in spite of danger that I will thy Mesmate be Through the world isle be a ranger for my Loves dear company : By joint consent , to Sea they went to satisfy her hearts desire This was not known , to any one for she was dressed in man's attire . To the Ocean then they Sailed little did the Captain know , That a female with him sailed and sometime in the Longboat Row . She did behave her self so brave that none could this her trick discern Industriously this damsel she did Navigation strive to learn . Do but mark how fickle Fortune did their comforts all destroy She does often prove uncertain and eclipse true Lovers joy : For blustering wind , too oft we find do work poor Seamans overthrow And so were they , all cast away great pity 'twas it should be so . In this distress these faithful Lovers both were like for to be lost Surging Seas did wash them over they on mighty Waves were tossed : In this distress , most pitiless care for his Love he did not lack With weary Limbs long time he swims while his true Love was on his back . But he at last was almost tired , past hope's of finding some relief Though Fortune smiles they oft desired for to ease them of their grief : And Algerine , at that same time did happen to come sailing by So strait way he , most earnestly aloud to them for help did cry . They took them up into their ship that they were Turks they quickly found . At first their hearts for joy did leap at last they were with sorrow drowned : For Algier then , they sailed again not knowing who they had for prize For none bewrayed , it was a Maid Whose Echo's then did pierce the skies . Before the Governor they came and then the truth she did reveal She freely did confess the same which long before she did conceal So presently , her constancy most mightily he did commend And back again , he over the Main did both these faithful Lovers send . Printed for J Blare at the Lookinglass upon London Bridge . THE She-Mariners Misfortune . Being and Account of a faithful Seaman , who going to take his farewell of his Sweetheart , she re - solved come Life , or come Death , to Sail with him ; and putting her self into men Appear - rel , went the Voyage with him , but by distress of weather , coming home were cast away , the constant Seaman having no other help , betook himself to swimming , and having god his Sweetheart upon his back , swam till he was almost tired , but was at last taken up by and Algerine , who carried them to Algiers , where being brought before the Governor , she confessed her self to be a Female , which so astonished the Governor , that he in requital of her constancy , set them both free , who are happily Arrived in England again . Tune , Doubting Virgin . A Seaman loved a Maiden pretty and esteemed her as his life , She was beauteous fair and witty whom he vowed should be his wife : He was minded , and designed for to leave the british shore And sail again unto the Main as he had often done before . So he kindly came unto her and his mind did thus express Dearest of my love be sure in thee is all my happiness . And yet must I immediately be forced to leave thee on the shore When I again , come from the Main I swear i'll never leave thee more . These his words her mind did trouble and did pierce her tender heart , Then her sorrows they grew double and increased her deadly smart : She replied , if she died to the Main with him she'd go Quoth he my Dear , I greatly fear hardship thou canst not undergo . I am loath for to forsake thee yet I constant will remain , And my faithful wife will make thee when I home return again : He did protest , he did not jest but yet she constantly did cry I do not fear , my only Dear for with thee I will live and die . I'm resolved in spite of danger that I will thy Mesmate be Through the world isle be a ranger for my Loves dear company : By joint consent , to Sea they went to satisfy her hearts desire This was not known , to any one for she was dressed in man's attire . To the Ocean then they Sailed little did the Captain know , That a female with him sailed and sometime in the Longboat Row . She did behave her self so brave that none could this her trick discern Industriously this damsel she did Navigation strive to learn . Do but mark how fickle Fortune did their comforts all destroy She does often prove uncertain and eclipse true Lovers joy : For blustering wind , too oft we find do work poor Seamans overthrow And so were they , all cast away great pity 'twas it should be so . In this distress these faithful Lovers both were like for to be lost Surging Seas did wash them over they on mighty Waves were tossed : In this distress , most pitiless care for his Love he did not lack With weary Limbs long time he swims while his true Love was on his back . But he at last was almost tired , past hope's of finding some relief Though Fortune smiles they oft desired for to ease them of their grief : And Algerine , at that same time did happen to come sailing by So strait way he , most earnestly aloud to them for help did cry . They took them up into their ship that they were Turks they quickly found . At first their hearts for joy did leap at last they were with sorrow drowned : For Algier then , they sailed again not knowing who they had for prize For none bewrayed , it was a Maid Whose Echo's then did pierce the skies . Before the Governor they came and then the truth she did reveal She freely did confess the same which long before she did conceal So presently , her constancy most mightily he did commend And back again , he over the Main did both these faithful Lovers send . Printed for J Blare at the Lookinglass upon London Bridge . 