The Seaman's joyful Return ; Being and Answer to the Seamans Doleful Farewell . Or , The Greenwich LOVERS Mournful DEPARTURE . To the Tune of , State and Ambition . Maid . W Ellcome my Dearest with joy now I see thee , thy course from fair Greenwich thou never shalt steer , Long did thy Absence torment me and grieve me , but now I'll enjoy my Delight and my Dear : No more the Cruel salt Billows shall sever , like Turtles we now will constant remain , My true love I now will embrace for ever , and marry him since I see him again . Man. My Fairest by fortune we will not be parted , since from the loud Winds and the Waves I am free , Thy love before was almost broken hearted , and bid the winds carry my sighs unto thee : But now those fears are past , of the Ocean , of Billows and Seas I need not complain , Since they have Enriched me to get promotion , to marry thee since I see thee again . Maid . Although with thy Dangers I was not acquainted , yet when the rude winds and the Billows did roar , My trembling Heart with the fear was quite daunted , and longed for to see my Love safe on the shore : Thy Tender heart sure thou didst leave behind thee , the fort of my Breast thou surely didst gain , And since thou hast wone me , thou true shalt find me , to marry thee , since I see thee again . Man. Few like my Love are so constant and loyal , that fight for her Seaman till he did return , To all young men's suits she did make a denial , for my only absence did sighs and did mourn : Now like my Bride thou shalt be attired , and now with my Dear I'll ever remain , My wishes will gain what they much desired , to marry thee since I see thee again . Maid . Thy words as they please me do sweetly persuade me , to marry thee now in my bloom and my prime , Cupid and Venus thy true love have made me , and tempt me no longer to hinder the time : Thus on true love kind Heaven gives a blessing , a blessing that lasts , does ever remain , A blessing so great , it's beyond expressing , to marry thee since I see again . Man. Now is the hour , and now is the minute , that Hymen us lovers will link and unite , Virgins all dream of the pleasure that in it , for love is more sweet then soft music by night , Soft are the sighs , and soft and the kisses , how soft is the Bed where Cupid hath lain , How pleasing the Arrow that never misses , I'll marry thee since I see thee again . Maid . Now to the Church came the Bride & amp ; the Bridegroom , to end and accomplish what they did desire , The Virgins strow flowers , the youths they make room their flame still increasing did brighter aspire : Not all the Heroes of London or Venice . shall altar our Loves , so true we'll remain , There shall be no jarring nor strife between us , marriage does cure loves grief and his pain . Man. In thy embraces there always is pleasure , so great is thy charms , and so soft is loves ground , Pleasing and pleasant is Virgins Rich Treasure , so soft is the Pillow , so sweet is the wound : Now I enjoy a sweet Banquet of kisses , and now thy true lover never will complain , Let wanton young men take delight in Misses , I will for ever Constant remain . Thus lived in plenty and peace these two lovers , enjoying a seeming sweet Heaven upon earth , No time a breath of their promise discovers , by night and by day ever love and gay mirth : Sweet were the Children that came from these Races , and long did their Parents prosper amain , And long did they live in their loved embraces , and long did their raze their virtues retain . FINIS . Printed for C. Dennisson , at the Stationers-armes within Aldgate . 1685. The Seaman's joyful Return ; Being and Answer to the Seamans Doleful Farewell . Or , The Greenwich LOVERS Mournful DEPARTURE . To the Tune of , State and Ambition . Maid . W Ellcome my Dearest with joy now I see thee , thy course from fair Greenwich thou never shalt steer , Long did thy Absence torment me and grieve me , but now I'll enjoy my Delight and my Dear : No more the Cruel salt Billows shall sever , like Turtles we now will constant remain , My true love I now will embrace for ever , and marry him since I see him again . Man. My Fairest by fortune we will not be parted , since from the loud Winds and the Waves I am free , Thy love before was almost broken hearted , and bid the winds carry my sighs unto thee : But now those fears are past , of the Ocean , of Billows and Seas I need not complain , Since they have Enriched me to get promotion , to marry thee since I see thee again . Maid . Although with thy Dangers I was not acquainted , yet when the rude winds and the Billows did roar , My trembling Heart with the fear was quite daunted , and longed for to see my Love safe on the shore : Thy Tender heart sure thou didst leave behind thee , the fort of my Breast thou surely didst gain , And since thou hast wone me , thou true shalt find me , to marry thee , since I see thee again . Man. Few like my Love are so constant and loyal , that fight for her Seaman till he did return , To all young men's suits she did make a denial , for my only absence did sighs and did mourn : Now like my Bride thou shalt be attired , and now with my Dear I'll ever remain , My wishes will gain what they much desired , to marry thee since I see thee again . Maid . Thy words as they please me do sweetly persuade me , to marry thee now in my bloom and my prime , Cupid and Venus thy true love have made me , and tempt me no longer to hinder the time : Thus on true love kind Heaven gives a blessing , a blessing that lasts , does ever remain , A blessing so great , it's beyond expressing , to marry thee since I see again . Man. Now is the hour , and now is the minute , that Hymen us lovers will link and unite , Virgins all dream of the pleasure that in it , for love is more sweet then soft music by night , Soft are the sighs , and soft and the kisses , how soft is the Bed where Cupid hath lain , How pleasing the Arrow that never misses , I'll marry thee since I see thee again . Maid . Now to the Church came the Bride & amp ; the Bridegroom , to end and accomplish what they did desire , The Virgins strow flowers , the youths they make room their flame still increasing did brighter aspire : Not all the Heroes of London or Venice . shall altar our Loves , so true we'll remain , There shall be no jarring nor strife between us , marriage does cure loves grief and his pain . Man. In thy embraces there always is pleasure , so great is thy charms , and so soft is loves ground , Pleasing and pleasant is Virgins Rich Treasure , so soft is the Pillow , so sweet is the wound : Now I enjoy a sweet Banquet of kisses , and now thy true lover never will complain , Let wanton young men take delight in Misses , I will for ever Constant remain . Thus lived in plenty and peace these two lovers , enjoying a seeming sweet Heaven upon earth , No time a breath of their promise discovers , by night and by day ever love and gay mirth : Sweet were the Children that came from these Races , and long did their Parents prosper amain , And long did they live in their loved embraces , and long did their raze their virtues retain . FINIS . Printed for C. Dennisson , at the Stationers-armes within Aldgate . 1685. 