The Seamans sorrowful Bride . See here the constant mournful Bride , In sorrow does complain , For fear her joy and hearts delight , Should never return again . To the Tune of , Ah Jenny Gin . M Y Love is on the Brackish Sea , and I am on this side , 'Twould break a poor young creatures heart that lately was a Bride : That lately was a joyful Bride , so pleasant to the eye , But Hollands Land does me withstand , and part my Love and I . The Love that I in heart have chosen , I am therewith content , The floating Sea shall dried be , before I will repent : But cruel Fate my joys arrest , it cannot helped be , While I do cry , most mournfully , fate parts my love and me . O gentle Neptune be so kind , to send him back again , He never will be out of my mind , that now hath crossed the Main : O hapless Bride , so soon to lose , the pleasure of thine eye , But riged fate , my bliss does hate , and parts my love and I . No sleep shall give my troubled mind , a comfortable hour , For while my love is on the main , fears do my joy devour : And e'ry blast that blows I fear , my Love should drowned lie , But it's a grief beyond relief , so love for thee i'll die . Oh! cruel fate too much unkind , why dost thou serve me so , Give ease to my distressed mind , and banish all my woe : For I will never be at rest , till I my love do see , Then gentle wind , be sure be kind , never part my love and me . You sturdy Rocks besure give way , and let my love sail by , For if he should be made your prey , in what a case were I : Or if the waves should cruel prove , which I never hope to spy , I should be lost , and strangely crossed , to part my Love and I . Blow wind and send a happy Gale , that he may home return , If thou but fill his prosperous Sail , I need no longer mourn , My happiness will be complete , when him I chance to see , Now I lament in discontent , since Fate parts him and me . You powerful Stars that Mortals rule , mind but my sad complaint , And send me home my Love again , that now am like to faint : I sighs , I pant , I waste away , no pleasures can I see , Since my delight , is out of sighed , and fate parts him and me . Now must I blame the cruel wind , That sent my love away , Oh fates , why were you so unkind , as not to let him stay : Just in the bud of all my joys , could you so cruel be , To banish hence , my Love , my Prince and part my Love and me . Is it in vain to sighs and mourn , unhappy then am I , Or now because I am forlorn , must I in sorrow die : No , no , I hope there's joys in store , that I may live to see , Though now oppressed , I may be blessed ; Heavens bless my Love and me . The Seamans Answer . L Eave off thy tears my only joy , since I am safe arrived , Let not this grief my Love destroy , nor be of hope's deprived ; For i'll embrace thee in my arms , and fill thee with such bliss , That Venus with her dallying charms envies our happiness . Though I upon the Seas was tossed , when absent to my dear . Fearing each moment to be lost , yet this my comfort were , That I should safe again return , which now I find is true , And since I in loves passion burn , I bid the Seas adieu . Now we will revel day and night , within each others arms , In thee shall be my chief delight , i'll shield thee from all harms : Kindly thy body i'll embrace , and ever constant be , No other joys shall ever take place , i'll live and die with thee . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street without Newgate . The Seamans sorrowful Bride . See here the constant mournful Bride , In sorrow does complain , For fear her joy and hearts delight , Should never return again . To the Tune of , Ah Jenny Gin . M Y Love is on the Brackish Sea , and I am on this side , 'Twould break a poor young creatures heart that lately was a Bride : That lately was a joyful Bride , so pleasant to the eye , But Hollands Land does me withstand , and part my Love and I . The Love that I in heart have chosen , I am therewith content , The floating Sea shall dried be , before I will repent : But cruel Fate my joys arrest , it cannot helped be , While I do cry , most mournfully , fate parts my love and me . O gentle Neptune be so kind , to send him back again , He never will be out of my mind , that now hath crossed the Main : O hapless Bride , so soon to lose , the pleasure of thine eye , But riged fate , my bliss does hate , and parts my love and I . No sleep shall give my troubled mind , a comfortable hour , For while my love is on the main , fears do my joy devour : And e'ry blast that blows I fear , my Love should drowned lie , But it's a grief beyond relief , so love for thee i'll die . Oh! cruel fate too much unkind , why dost thou serve me so , Give ease to my distressed mind , and banish all my woe : For I will never be at rest , till I my love do see , Then gentle wind , be sure be kind , never part my love and me . You sturdy Rocks besure give way , and let my love sail by , For if he should be made your prey , in what a case were I : Or if the waves should cruel prove , which I never hope to spy , I should be lost , and strangely crossed , to part my Love and I . Blow wind and send a happy Gale , that he may home return , If thou but fill his prosperous Sail , I need no longer mourn , My happiness will be complete , when him I chance to see , Now I lament in discontent , since Fate parts him and me . You powerful Stars that Mortals rule , mind but my sad complaint , And send me home my Love again , that now am like to faint : I sighs , I pant , I waste away , no pleasures can I see , Since my delight , is out of sighed , and fate parts him and me . Now must I blame the cruel wind , That sent my love away , Oh fates , why were you so unkind , as not to let him stay : Just in the bud of all my joys , could you so cruel be , To banish hence , my Love , my Prince and part my Love and me . Is it in vain to sighs and mourn , unhappy then am I , Or now because I am forlorn , must I in sorrow die : No , no , I hope there's joys in store , that I may live to see , Though now oppressed , I may be blessed ; Heavens bless my Love and me . The Seamans Answer . L Eave off thy tears my only joy , since I am safe arrived , Let not this grief my Love destroy , nor be of hope's deprived ; For i'll embrace thee in my arms , and fill thee with such bliss , That Venus with her dallying charms envies our happiness . Though I upon the Seas was tossed , when absent to my dear . Fearing each moment to be lost , yet this my comfort were , That I should safe again return , which now I find is true , And since I in loves passion burn , I bid the Seas adieu . Now we will revel day and night , within each others arms , In thee shall be my chief delight , i'll shield thee from all harms : Kindly thy body i'll embrace , and ever constant be , No other joys shall ever take place , i'll live and die with thee . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street without Newgate . 