The Constant Seaman And his Faithful Love . See here the Pattern of true Love , the life of constancy ; And ever they would disloyal prove , they both resolved to die . Tune of Philander . man . F Arewell my dearest Dear , for needs I must away , Then for me do not fear , not troubled be I pray ; While Fish swim in the Ocean Sea , I constant will remain , And none but thee My wife shall be , When I return again . maid . The dangers of the Seas torment my mind full soar ; Methinks it might thee please to live upon the shore : Thy company I more do prize than all the Indian store : Oh prithee stay , Go not away , lest thou return no more . man . One Voyage more my Dear , and then I will refrain , To travel i'll forswear , and quite forsake the Main : Thy Ivory breasts my Rocks shall be , thine eyes like stars shall shine , Ten thousand times I'll think on thee When I'm beyond the line . maid . The Voyage is so long , that I am soar afraid , And shall my self do wrong , by being thus delayed : What care I for the golden Mines , thou treasure art to me , Then let me find My truelove kind , As I am unto thee . man . When home I do return with Gold and Silver store , Thou shalt no longer mourn thy sorrow shall give over ; I'll kiss and hug thee in mine arms , and cool thy hight desire ; Thou shalt no more Complain so soar , Of Loves tormenting fire . maid . But I have herd some say full many a time to me , That some are cast away , and some do die at Sea ; If either of these should prove thy fate , then quite undone were I , For thy dear sake my heart would break , And I with grief should die . man . Forbear my only joy , torment thy self no more There's some at Sea do die and so there is on shore : The Heavenly power can us protect when we are out at Sea : Let the powers above Preserve my Love And go along with me . maid . But then then is the Turk our mortal Enemies Who up and down do lurk Christians to make their prize : If they should light upon my Love 'twould be the worst of all : For rather I Had thou shouldst die Than in their hands to fallen . man . My dearest doe not fear , we do go bravely maned When we that course do steer the Turks do understand : And if they come with us to fight as we sail on the Main I hope we shall Be prosperous all And send them back again . maid . Then farewell my delight since needs it must be so : Methinks that I could fight if I with thee might go : I'ld fight up to the knees in blood for to preserve my Dear My Love to save From watery Grave There's nothing I would fear . Printed for J. Coniers in Duck-Lane . The Constant Seaman And his Faithful Love . See here the Pattern of true Love , the life of constancy ; And ever they would disloyal prove , they both resolved to die . Tune of Philander . man . F Arewell my dearest Dear , for needs I must away , Then for me do not fear , not troubled be I pray ; While Fish swim in the Ocean Sea , I constant will remain , And none but thee My wife shall be , When I return again . maid . The dangers of the Seas torment my mind full soar ; Methinks it might thee please to live upon the shore : Thy company I more do prize than all the Indian store : Oh prithee stay , Go not away , lest thou return no more . man . One Voyage more my Dear , and then I will refrain , To travel i'll forswear , and quite forsake the Main : Thy Ivory breasts my Rocks shall be , thine eyes like stars shall shine , Ten thousand times I'll think on thee When I'm beyond the line . maid . The Voyage is so long , that I am soar afraid , And shall my self do wrong , by being thus delayed : What care I for the golden Mines , thou treasure art to me , Then let me find My truelove kind , As I am unto thee . man . When home I do return with Gold and Silver store , Thou shalt no longer mourn thy sorrow shall give over ; I'll kiss and hug thee in mine arms , and cool thy hight desire ; Thou shalt no more Complain so soar , Of Loves tormenting fire . maid . But I have herd some say full many a time to me , That some are cast away , and some do die at Sea ; If either of these should prove thy fate , then quite undone were I , For thy dear sake my heart would break , And I with grief should die . man . Forbear my only joy , torment thy self no more There's some at Sea do die and so there is on shore : The Heavenly power can us protect when we are out at Sea : Let the powers above Preserve my Love And go along with me . maid . But then then is the Turk our mortal Enemies Who up and down do lurk Christians to make their prize : If they should light upon my Love 'twould be the worst of all : For rather I Had thou shouldst die Than in their hands to fallen . man . My dearest doe not fear , we do go bravely maned When we that course do steer the Turks do understand : And if they come with us to fight as we sail on the Main I hope we shall Be prosperous all And send them back again . maid . Then farewell my delight since needs it must be so : Methinks that I could fight if I with thee might go : I'ld fight up to the knees in blood for to preserve my Dear My Love to save From watery Grave There's nothing I would fear . Printed for J. Coniers in Duck-Lane . 