The Seaman's Compass : OR A dainty new Ditty composed and pend , The deeds of brave Seamen to praise and commend It made by a Maid that to Gravesend did pass , Now mark and you quickly shall know how it was . To the Tune of , The Tyrant hath stolen . A S lately I traveled towards Gravesend , I herd a fair Damosel a Seaman commend ; And as in a Tilt-boat we passed along , In praise of brave Seamen she sung this new Song : Come Tradesmen or Merchant , whoever he be , There's none but a Seaman shall marry with me . A Seaman in promise , is faithful and just , Honest in carriage , and true to his trust , Kind in behaviour , and constant in love , Is firm in affection as the Turtle Dove , Valiant in actium in every degree , There's none , etc . The Seamen adventures their lives at the Seas , While Land-men on shore , takes pleasure and ease , The Seamen at all times , their business must ply , In Winter and Summer , in wet and in dry . From toil and pains taking , they seldom are free , There's none , etc Moreover i'de have you , for to understand That Seamen brings treasure and profit to Land Above and beneath ground for wealth they have sought , And when they have found it , to England it's brought , With hazard of lives by experience we see , Ther's none but a Seaman , shall marry with me . S Eamen from beyond Seas , bring Silver , and Gold , With Pearls and rich jewels , most rare to behold With Silks and rich Velvets , their credits to save , Or else you gay Ladies , could not go so brave , This makes my heart merry as merry may be There's none but a Seaman shall marry with me . The Seamen bring Spices , and sugar so fine Which serve the brave gallants , to drink with their wine With Lemmons and Oranges , all of the best , To relish their palates , when they make a Feast , Sweet Figs Prunes & amp ; Raisons , [ B ] y the [ ? ] brought home be , Theres none , etc To comfort poor people The Seamen do strive And brings in maintenance to keep them alive As raw silk and Cotton wool , to Carded and to spin : And so by their labours , their livings comes in Most men are beholding , to Seamen we see With none but a Seaman , I married will be , The Mercer's beholding we know well enough For Holland and Lawn Cambrick , and other gay stuff That's bought from beyond-seas by Seamen so bold The rarest that ever , men's eyes did behold , God prosper the Seamen where ever they be , There's none , etc The Merchant's themselves , are beholding also To honest Seamen , that on purpose do go , To bring them home profit from other strange Lands , Or else their side daughters , must work with their hands , The Nobles and Gentry in every degree Are also beholding , etc Thus for rich and poor men , the Seamen does good And sometime comes off with loss of much blood , If they were not a guard , and a defence for our Land Our Enemies soon will get the upper hand , And then a woeful case , straight should we be , There's none , etc To draw to Conclusion and so make and end , I hope that great Neptune , my love will befriend , And send him home safely , with health and with life , Then shall I with joyfulness , soon be his wife You Maids , Wives & amp ; Widows that Seamen's Loves be With hearts and voices , join prayers with me . God bless all brave Seamen from Quicksands & amp ; Rocks , From loss of their blood and from Enemies Knocks , From Lightning and Thunder , and tempests so strong , From Shipwreck and drowning , and all other wrong , And they that to these words , will not say Amen This pity that they should ever speak word again . L.P. Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere J. Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger , The Seaman's Compass : OR A dainty new Ditty composed and pend , The deeds of brave Seamen to praise and commend It made by a Maid that to Gravesend did pass , Now mark and you quickly shall know how it was . To the Tune of , The Tyrant hath stolen . A S lately I traveled towards Gravesend , I herd a fair Damosel a Seaman commend ; And as in a Tilt-boat we passed along , In praise of brave Seamen she sung this new Song : Come Tradesmen or Merchant , whoever he be , There's none but a Seaman shall marry with me . A Seaman in promise , is faithful and just , Honest in carriage , and true to his trust , Kind in behaviour , and constant in love , Is firm in affection as the Turtle Dove , Valiant in actium in every degree , There's none , etc . The Seamen adventures their lives at the Seas , While Land-men on shore , takes pleasure and ease , The Seamen at all times , their business must ply , In Winter and Summer , in wet and in dry . From toil and pains taking , they seldom are free , There's none , etc Moreover i'de have you , for to understand That Seamen brings treasure and profit to Land Above and beneath ground for wealth they have sought , And when they have found it , to England it's brought , With hazard of lives by experience we see , Ther's none but a Seaman , shall marry with me . S Eamen from beyond Seas , bring Silver , and Gold , With Pearls and rich jewels , most rare to behold With Silks and rich Velvets , their credits to save , Or else you gay Ladies , could not go so brave , This makes my heart merry as merry may be There's none but a Seaman shall marry with me . The Seamen bring Spices , and sugar so fine Which serve the brave gallants , to drink with their wine With Lemmons and Oranges , all of the best , To relish their palates , when they make a Feast , Sweet Figs Prunes & amp ; Raisons , [ B ] y the [ ? ] brought home be , Theres none , etc To comfort poor people The Seamen do strive And brings in maintenance to keep them alive As raw silk and Cotton wool , to Carded and to spin : And so by their labours , their livings comes in Most men are beholding , to Seamen we see With none but a Seaman , I married will be , The Mercer's beholding we know well enough For Holland and Lawn Cambrick , and other gay stuff That's bought from beyond-seas by Seamen so bold The rarest that ever , men's eyes did behold , God prosper the Seamen where ever they be , There's none , etc The Merchant's themselves , are beholding also To honest Seamen , that on purpose do go , To bring them home profit from other strange Lands , Or else their side daughters , must work with their hands , The Nobles and Gentry in every degree Are also beholding , etc Thus for rich and poor men , the Seamen does good And sometime comes off with loss of much blood , If they were not a guard , and a defence for our Land Our Enemies soon will get the upper hand , And then a woeful case , straight should we be , There's none , etc To draw to Conclusion and so make and end , I hope that great Neptune , my love will befriend , And send him home safely , with health and with life , Then shall I with joyfulness , soon be his wife You Maids , Wives & amp ; Widows that Seamen's Loves be With hearts and voices , join prayers with me . God bless all brave Seamen from Quicksands & amp ; Rocks , From loss of their blood and from Enemies Knocks , From Lightning and Thunder , and tempests so strong , From Shipwreck and drowning , and all other wrong , And they that to these words , will not say Amen This pity that they should ever speak word again . L.P. Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere J. Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger , 