The Praise of Saylors is here set forth . With the hard fortune's , which do befall them on the Seas , when the Landmen sleep in their Beds . To a pleasant new Tune . A S I lay musing in my bed full warm and well at ease , I thought upon the Lodgings hard , poor Sailors had at seas . They bide it out with hunger and cold , and many a bitter blast , And many times constrained they are , for to cut down their Mast. Their Victuals and their Ordinance , and ought else that they have , They throw it over board with speed , and seek their lives to save . when as the raging seas do foam , and lofty Winds do blow , The sailors they go to the top , when Landmen stay below . Our Master's Mate takes Helm in hand , his course he steers full well : When as the lofty winds do blow , and raging seas do swell . Our Master to his Compass goes , so well he plies his charge , He sends a Youth unto the Maid , for to unsling the Yard . The Bowson he's under the Deck , a man of courage bold , To'th top , to'th top my Lively lads , hold fast my hearts of Gold . The Pilot he stands on the Chain , with a line and led to found , To see how far and near they are from any dangerous ground . It is a testimonial good , we are not far from [ l ] and : TO [ h ] ere sits a Mermaid on the Rock , with Comb and glass in hand . Our Captain he is on the Poop , a man of might and power , And looks how raging Seas do gape , [ ? ] ough [ ? ] odies to devour . O Ur Royal Ship is run to Rack , that was so stout and trim : And some are put unto their shifts , either to sink or swim . Our ship that was before so good , and eke likewise so trim . Is now with raging Seas grown leaked and water fast comes in . The Quartermaster is a man , so well his charge plies he , He calls them to the Pump amain , to keep their leaked ship free . And many dangers likewise they do many times endure , When as they meet their Enemies that comes with might and power , And seek their lives likewise to take , their lives and eke their goods , The Sailors they likewise endure , upon the surging Floods . But when as they do come to land , and homeward do return , They are most good-fellows all , and scorn ever to mourn . And likewise they will call for Wine , and score it on the Post ; For sailors they are honest men , and love to pay their Host. For sailors they are honest men , and they do take great pains , When Land-men and rustling Lads , do rob them of their gains . Our sailors they work night and day , their manhood for to try , When landed men and rusling jacks , do in their Cabins lie . Therefore let all good minded men , give ear unto my song ; And say also as well as I , sailors deserve no wrong : This have I done for sailors sake , in token of goodwill , If ever I can do them good , I will be ready still . God bless them eke by Sea and Land , and also other Men , And as my song beginning had , so must it have and end . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray and T. Passenger . The Praise of Saylors is here set forth . With the hard fortune's , which do befall them on the Seas , when the Landmen sleep in their Beds . To a pleasant new Tune . A S I lay musing in my bed full warm and well at ease , I thought upon the Lodgings hard , poor Sailors had at seas . They bide it out with hunger and cold , and many a bitter blast , And many times constrained they are , for to cut down their Mast. Their Victuals and their Ordinance , and ought else that they have , They throw it over board with speed , and seek their lives to save . when as the raging seas do foam , and lofty Winds do blow , The sailors they go to the top , when Landmen stay below . Our Master's Mate takes Helm in hand , his course he steers full well : When as the lofty winds do blow , and raging seas do swell . Our Master to his Compass goes , so well he plies his charge , He sends a Youth unto the Maid , for to unsling the Yard . The Bowson he's under the Deck , a man of courage bold , To'th top , to'th top my Lively lads , hold fast my hearts of Gold . The Pilot he stands on the Chain , with a line and led to found , To see how far and near they are from any dangerous ground . It is a testimonial good , we are not far from [ l ] and : TO [ h ] ere sits a Mermaid on the Rock , with Comb and glass in hand . Our Captain he is on the Poop , a man of might and power , And looks how raging Seas do gape , [ ? ] ough [ ? ] odies to devour . O Ur Royal Ship is run to Rack , that was so stout and trim : And some are put unto their shifts , either to sink or swim . Our ship that was before so good , and eke likewise so trim . Is now with raging Seas grown leaked and water fast comes in . The Quartermaster is a man , so well his charge plies he , He calls them to the Pump amain , to keep their leaked ship free . And many dangers likewise they do many times endure , When as they meet their Enemies that comes with might and power , And seek their lives likewise to take , their lives and eke their goods , The Sailors they likewise endure , upon the surging Floods . But when as they do come to land , and homeward do return , They are most good-fellows all , and scorn ever to mourn . And likewise they will call for Wine , and score it on the Post ; For sailors they are honest men , and love to pay their Host. For sailors they are honest men , and they do take great pains , When Land-men and rustling Lads , do rob them of their gains . Our sailors they work night and day , their manhood for to try , When landed men and rusling jacks , do in their Cabins lie . Therefore let all good minded men , give ear unto my song ; And say also as well as I , sailors deserve no wrong : This have I done for sailors sake , in token of goodwill , If ever I can do them good , I will be ready still . God bless them eke by Sea and Land , and also other Men , And as my song beginning had , so must it have and end . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray and T. Passenger . 