The Benjamin's Lamentation for their sad Loss at Sea , by Storms and Tempests . [ ? ] a brief Narrative of one of his Majesties Ships , called the Benjamin , that was drove into Harbour at Plymouth , and received no small harm by this Tempest . To the Tune of , The poor Benjamin . C Aptain Chilver ' s gone to Sea , I Boys , Oh Boys , With all his Company , I , Captain Chilver ' s gone to Sea , With all his Company , In the brave Benjamin Oh . Thirty Guns this Ship did bear , I Boys , Oh Boys , They were bound for Venice fair , I , Thirty Guns this Ship did bear , And a hundred Men so clear , in the brave Benjamin , Oh . But by ill Storms at Sea , I boys , Oh boys , Which bred our misery , I , But by ill Storms at Sea , We were drove out o'th'way , in the brave Benjamin , Oh . We had more wind than we could bear I boys , Oh boys , Our Ship it would not steer , I , We had more wind than we could bear Our Masts and Sails did Tear , in the poor Benjamin O. The first that we had , I boys , Oh boys , It makes my heart so sad , I ; The first harm that we had We lost our Fore-Mast head , Oh the poor Benjamin O. The Seas aloud did Roar , I boys , Oh boys , We being far from Shore I , The Seas no favour shows , Unto friends nor foes , Oh the poor Benjamin Oh . TO HE next harm that we spied I boys , Oh boys , Then we to Heaven cried High , Down fell our Main-Mast head , Which struck our Senses dead , in the poor Benjamin Oh . Thus we with Seas were crossed , I boys , Oh boys , And on the Ocean tossed , High , Thus we with Seas was tossed , Many a brave Man was Lost , in the poor Benjamin Oh . The next harm that we had , I boys , Oh boys , We had cause to be sad , I , The next harm that we had , We lost four Men from the Yard , in the poor Benjamin Oh . Disabled as I name , I boys , Oh boys , We were drove on the Main , I , So the next harm we had , We lost our Rudders head , in the poor Benjamin O. Then we fell all to Prayer , I boys , Oh boys , The Lord our Lives would spare , I , Then we fell all to Prayer , And he at last did hear Us in the Benjamin Oh . Although we Sailed in Fear , I boys , Oh boys , The Lord our Ship did Steer , I , Our Prayers so Fervent were , That we had Passage clear , into brave Plimouth found Oh . We came in Plimouth found , I boys , Oh boys , Our hearts did then resound , I , When we came to Plimouth found , Our grief with joy was crowned , in the poor Benjamin Oh . When we came all on Shore , I boys , Oh boys , Every Man at his Door , High , When we came all on the Shore , Our grief we did Deplore , in the poor Benjamin Oh . You Gallant Young Men all , I Boys , Oh Boys , It's unto you I call , I , Likewise brave Seamen all , Lament the Loss and Fail Of the poor Benjamin Oh . Printed by and for Alex . Milbourn , at the Stationers-Arms in Green Arbor-Court , in the Little Old-BailyThe Benjamin's Lamentation for their sad Loss at Sea , by Storms and Tempests . [ ? ] a brief Narrative of one of his Majesties Ships , called the Benjamin , that was drove into Harbour at Plymouth , and received no small harm by this Tempest . To the Tune of , The poor Benjamin . C Aptain Chilver ' s gone to Sea , I Boys , Oh Boys , With all his Company , I , Captain Chilver ' s gone to Sea , With all his Company , In the brave Benjamin Oh . Thirty Guns this Ship did bear , I Boys , Oh Boys , They were bound for Venice fair , I , Thirty Guns this Ship did bear , And a hundred Men so clear , in the brave Benjamin , Oh . But by ill Storms at Sea , I boys , Oh boys , Which bred our misery , I , But by ill Storms at Sea , We were drove out o'th'way , in the brave Benjamin , Oh . We had more wind than we could bear I boys , Oh boys , Our Ship it would not steer , I , We had more wind than we could bear Our Masts and Sails did Tear , in the poor Benjamin O. The first that we had , I boys , Oh boys , It makes my heart so sad , I ; The first harm that we had We lost our Fore-Mast head , Oh the poor Benjamin O. The Seas aloud did Roar , I boys , Oh boys , We being far from Shore I , The Seas no favour shows , Unto friends nor foes , Oh the poor Benjamin Oh . TO HE next harm that we spied I boys , Oh boys , Then we to Heaven cried High , Down fell our Main-Mast head , Which struck our Senses dead , in the poor Benjamin Oh . Thus we with Seas were crossed , I boys , Oh boys , And on the Ocean tossed , High , Thus we with Seas was tossed , Many a brave Man was Lost , in the poor Benjamin Oh . The next harm that we had , I boys , Oh boys , We had cause to be sad , I , The next harm that we had , We lost four Men from the Yard , in the poor Benjamin Oh . Disabled as I name , I boys , Oh boys , We were drove on the Main , I , So the next harm we had , We lost our Rudders head , in the poor Benjamin O. Then we fell all to Prayer , I boys , Oh boys , The Lord our Lives would spare , I , Then we fell all to Prayer , And he at last did hear Us in the Benjamin Oh . Although we Sailed in Fear , I boys , Oh boys , The Lord our Ship did Steer , I , Our Prayers so Fervent were , That we had Passage clear , into brave Plimouth found Oh . We came in Plimouth found , I boys , Oh boys , Our hearts did then resound , I , When we came to Plimouth found , Our grief with joy was crowned , in the poor Benjamin Oh . When we came all on Shore , I boys , Oh boys , Every Man at his Door , High , When we came all on the Shore , Our grief we did Deplore , in the poor Benjamin Oh . You Gallant Young Men all , I Boys , Oh Boys , It's unto you I call , I , Likewise brave Seamen all , Lament the Loss and Fail Of the poor Benjamin Oh . Printed by and for Alex . Milbourn , at the Stationers-Arms in Green Arbor-Court , in the Little Old-Baily 