The Golden Voyage ; OR , The Prosperous Arrival of the James and Mary . Who having searched the Ocean for Treasure , finding the valve of Two Hundred Thousand Pounds in Gold and Silver , was joyfully received at the City of London . Tune of , Ladies of London . This may be printed , R . P L Isten a while , and I here will unfold what seems to promise promotion : There is great plenty of Silver and Gold now newly took out of the Ocean : Forty three years this Treasure has lain , since the Galion was staved asunder Among the Shoal and Rocks in the Main yet this may be now the World's wonder . It being seventeen Leagues from the Shore , it's wondered if you do mind it ; Many has searched for this Treasure before , but none had the Fortune to find it , Till the brave James and Mary of Fame , whom Fortune hath highly befriended ; She most successfully sailed on the Main , and was from all dangers defended . S He was informed where this Treasure did lie by some that had given information ; Therefore some Nobles did freely comply without any more disputation , To fit her forth , this favour they show , it being their free will and pleasure ; With a fair gale to the Ocean they go , where they find great plenty of Treasure . 'Twas in the midst of September they went forth in the brave James and the Marry ; All the Ships Crew with a Loyal consent they being both cheerful and airy ; And in short time they there did arrive , where they was with Rocks so surrounded , That they did hardly know how to contrive to keep themselves from being drowned . There they was forced some time for to loose , and lie at and Anchor together ; As for their Engine they then could not use , because of the turbulent weather : Yet at the last to diving they went , where Silver and Gold they received ; When in the water their breath was near spent they were by their Engine relieved . Six weeks together they worked in the cold , still diving in Nine Fathom water , Loading their Marry with Silver and Gold , then up to fair London they brought her ; Where they received her with delight , as you may observe by the Ditty , And they unloaded her Cargo in sighed of many brave men of the City . Carts heavy loaded came through the Town , on which the whole multitude gazed ; This to the Seamen hath purchased Renown , no question but they may be praised : Still far and near their Fame let it ring , and let them be highly commended , Since they did venture so hard in this thing , and was with a Blessing attended . But here is one thing we must not forget , while they were the Treasure possessing , On the great Rocks they might soon have been split , had not Heaven yielded a Blessing : Or while they searched the depth of the Main , to hazards they could be no strangers ; Yet men and boys came all safe home again , though they had gone through such dangers . Printed for J. Blare at the Looking-glass on London-Bridge . The Golden Voyage ; OR , The Prosperous Arrival of the James and Mary . Who having searched the Ocean for Treasure , finding the valve of Two Hundred Thousand Pounds in Gold and Silver , was joyfully received at the City of London . Tune of , Ladies of London . This may be printed , R . P L Isten a while , and I here will unfold what seems to promise promotion : There is great plenty of Silver and Gold now newly took out of the Ocean : Forty three years this Treasure has lain , since the Galion was staved asunder Among the Shoal and Rocks in the Main yet this may be now the World's wonder . It being seventeen Leagues from the Shore , it's wondered if you do mind it ; Many has searched for this Treasure before , but none had the Fortune to find it , Till the brave James and Mary of Fame , whom Fortune hath highly befriended ; She most successfully sailed on the Main , and was from all dangers defended . S He was informed where this Treasure did lie by some that had given information ; Therefore some Nobles did freely comply without any more disputation , To fit her forth , this favour they show , it being their free will and pleasure ; With a fair gale to the Ocean they go , where they find great plenty of Treasure . 'Twas in the midst of September they went forth in the brave James and the Marry ; All the Ships Crew with a Loyal consent they being both cheerful and airy ; And in short time they there did arrive , where they was with Rocks so surrounded , That they did hardly know how to contrive to keep themselves from being drowned . There they was forced some time for to loose , and lie at and Anchor together ; As for their Engine they then could not use , because of the turbulent weather : Yet at the last to diving they went , where Silver and Gold they received ; When in the water their breath was near spent they were by their Engine relieved . Six weeks together they worked in the cold , still diving in Nine Fathom water , Loading their Marry with Silver and Gold , then up to fair London they brought her ; Where they received her with delight , as you may observe by the Ditty , And they unloaded her Cargo in sighed of many brave men of the City . Carts heavy loaded came through the Town , on which the whole multitude gazed ; This to the Seamen hath purchased Renown , no question but they may be praised : Still far and near their Fame let it ring , and let them be highly commended , Since they did venture so hard in this thing , and was with a Blessing attended . But here is one thing we must not forget , while they were the Treasure possessing , On the great Rocks they might soon have been split , had not Heaven yielded a Blessing : Or while they searched the depth of the Main , to hazards they could be no strangers ; Yet men and boys came all safe home again , though they had gone through such dangers . Printed for J. Blare at the Looking-glass on London-Bridge . 