[ TO ] he CAESAR's Victory . IT BEING Account of a Ship so called , in her Voyage to the East Indies , Richly laden , was [ b ] eset with five Sail of Pirates : But the Caesar so rarely behaved herself , that she came off [ w ] ith Conquest , and put her Foes to flight , losing no more than One Man , and but Seven wounded , one of which was Francis Stevens a Waterman , who formerly plied at Puddle - Dock , who lost his Arm. Tune of , Cannons roar . This may be printed , R.P. A S we was sailing on the Main , Well jaded with great store of Gain , We was in danger to be taken , five Pirates ships appeared ; Who sailed up with Courage bold , As if they would not be controlled ; But we brave noble hearts of Gold , their Courage never feared . We soon did understand their will , And therefore used our chiefest skill Resolving there our blood to spill rather than loose our Caesar : We vowed she should not be their Prey , And therefore boys we showed them play ; It was upon the Sabbath day , no Pirates could appease her . The Master flourishing his sword , Did Comfort to us all afford ; Both Seamen , Soldiers then on board , true Courage to awaken ; Then with one Voice we all did cry , We are resolved to make them fly , Or in the Caesar we will die , rather than to be taken . B Efore the Fight we this did doe , Our Bred into the sea we threw , To make Room for the whole ships Crew , to fight and keep Foes under : This Truth can never be denied , We soon did quell their haughty Pride , By giving them a full Broadside , our Cannons roared like Thunder . Full five long hours there we fought , In the brave Caesar fierce and stout , At length we put them to the rout who aimed at our Treasure : we poured them in whole showers of Led , So that they tumbled down for dead , And in the Ocean made their bed , where they may lie their leisure . Their Admiral did want to be Aboard of Caesar , this we see , That they might have Rich Plunder free , the thing which they delight in . But yet there was not one that dare To come on board of Caesar there ; They knew their lives we would not spare so fierce we was for fighting . Good Fortune she our Courage Crowned Or else a board on us they found The sum of Fourscore Thousand pound , beside all other Lading : Could they but once have seen us fallen , Their booty then had not been small , Two Hundred Thousand pound in all ; this would have spoiled our Trading . I hope we gave them all their endue , Yet saved our Coin and Cargo too , Believe me , this is perfect true , it is no feigned story : For though our Foes were five to one , Yet we at last did make them run : And when we see our Work was done , to GOD we gave the Glory . Who did indeed our Rights maintain ; For in this skirmish on the Main Of us there was but one man slave , and seven others wounded : But those that sought our overthrow , They lost a many more we know . Thus Providence did Kindness show when we was so surrounded . Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . [ TO ] he CAESAR's Victory . IT BEING Account of a Ship so called , in her Voyage to the East Indies , Richly laden , was [ b ] eset with five Sail of Pirates : But the Caesar so rarely behaved herself , that she came off [ w ] ith Conquest , and put her Foes to flight , losing no more than One Man , and but Seven wounded , one of which was Francis Stevens a Waterman , who formerly plied at Puddle - Dock , who lost his Arm. Tune of , Cannons roar . This may be printed , R.P. A S we was sailing on the Main , Well jaded with great store of Gain , We was in danger to be taken , five Pirates ships appeared ; Who sailed up with Courage bold , As if they would not be controlled ; But we brave noble hearts of Gold , their Courage never feared . We soon did understand their will , And therefore used our chiefest skill Resolving there our blood to spill rather than loose our Caesar : We vowed she should not be their Prey , And therefore boys we showed them play ; It was upon the Sabbath day , no Pirates could appease her . The Master flourishing his sword , Did Comfort to us all afford ; Both Seamen , Soldiers then on board , true Courage to awaken ; Then with one Voice we all did cry , We are resolved to make them fly , Or in the Caesar we will die , rather than to be taken . B Efore the Fight we this did doe , Our Bred into the sea we threw , To make Room for the whole ships Crew , to fight and keep Foes under : This Truth can never be denied , We soon did quell their haughty Pride , By giving them a full Broadside , our Cannons roared like Thunder . Full five long hours there we fought , In the brave Caesar fierce and stout , At length we put them to the rout who aimed at our Treasure : we poured them in whole showers of Led , So that they tumbled down for dead , And in the Ocean made their bed , where they may lie their leisure . Their Admiral did want to be Aboard of Caesar , this we see , That they might have Rich Plunder free , the thing which they delight in . But yet there was not one that dare To come on board of Caesar there ; They knew their lives we would not spare so fierce we was for fighting . Good Fortune she our Courage Crowned Or else a board on us they found The sum of Fourscore Thousand pound , beside all other Lading : Could they but once have seen us fallen , Their booty then had not been small , Two Hundred Thousand pound in all ; this would have spoiled our Trading . I hope we gave them all their endue , Yet saved our Coin and Cargo too , Believe me , this is perfect true , it is no feigned story : For though our Foes were five to one , Yet we at last did make them run : And when we see our Work was done , to GOD we gave the Glory . Who did indeed our Rights maintain ; For in this skirmish on the Main Of us there was but one man slave , and seven others wounded : But those that sought our overthrow , They lost a many more we know . Thus Providence did Kindness show when we was so surrounded . Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . 