A Famous Sea-Fight between Captain Ward and the RAINBOW . Tune is , Captain Ward : S Trike up you lusty Gallants , with Music and found of Drum , For we have descried a Rower , upon the Sea is come , His name is Captain Ward , right well it does appear , There has not been such a Rower , found out this thousand year . For he hath sent unto the King , the sixth of January , Desiring that he might come in , with all his company . And if your King will let me come , till I my tale have told , I will bestow for my ransom , full thirty Tun of Gold . O nay , Oh nay , then says our King , Oh nay this may not be , To yield to such a Rower myself will not agree . He hath deceived the French-man , likewise the King of S pain , And how can he be true to me , that has been false to twain . With that our King provided , a Ship of worthy fame , Rainbow is she called , if you would know her Name . Now the gallant Rainbow , she Rows upon the Sea , Five hundred gallant Seamen , to bear her company . The Dutch-man and the Spaniard she made them for to fly , Also the bonny French man , as she met them on the Sea. When as that [ i ] s gallant Rainbow , did come where Ward did lie , Where is the Captain of this Ship ? this gallant Rainbow did cry , Oh that am I says Captain Ward , there's no man bids me lie , And if thou art the Kings fair Ship thou art welcome unto me . I'll tell thee what sa [ y ] s Rainbow , our King is in great grief , That thou sh [ oh ] uldst lie up [ oh ] n the Sea , and play the arrant thief . And will not let our Merchant's Ships , pa [ s ] s as they did before , Such tidings to our King is come , which grieves his heart full soar . With that this gallant Rainbow , she shot out of her pri [ worser ] e , Full fifty gallant brass pieces , charged on every side . Although [ u ] gh these gallant Shooters , prevail [ worser ] not a pin , Though they were br [ a ] ss on the out side yet Ward was was steel w [ ith ] in Shoot on , shoot on , says Captain Ward , your sport we [ l ] l pleases me , And he that first gives over , shall yield unto the Sea. I never wronged and English ship , but Turk and King of Spain , For and the jovial Dutch-man , as I met on the Main . If I had known your King , but one two years before , I would have saved brave Essex life , whose death did grieve me soar , Go tell the King of England , go tell him thus from me , If he reign King of all the Land , I will Reign King at Sea. With that the gallant Rainbow shot , and shot and shot in vain And left the Rowers Company , and returned home again . Our Royal King of England , your ship's returned again , For Wards ship is so strong , it never will be taken . O everlasting says our King , I have lost Jewels three , Which would have gone unto the seas , and brought proud Ward to me . The first was Lord Clifford , Earl of Cumberland , The second was the Lord M ountjoy , as you shall understand . The third was brave Essex , from field would never flee , Which would a gone unto the Seas , and brought proud Ward to me . Printed for J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . A Famous Sea-Fight between Captain Ward and the RAINBOW . Tune is , Captain Ward : S Trike up you lusty Gallants , with Music and found of Drum , For we have descried a Rower , upon the Sea is come , His name is Captain Ward , right well it does appear , There has not been such a Rower , found out this thousand year . For he hath sent unto the King , the sixth of January , Desiring that he might come in , with all his company . And if your King will let me come , till I my tale have told , I will bestow for my ransom , full thirty Tun of Gold . O nay , Oh nay , then says our King , Oh nay this may not be , To yield to such a Rower myself will not agree . He hath deceived the French-man , likewise the King of S pain , And how can he be true to me , that has been false to twain . With that our King provided , a Ship of worthy fame , Rainbow is she called , if you would know her Name . Now the gallant Rainbow , she Rows upon the Sea , Five hundred gallant Seamen , to bear her company . The Dutch-man and the Spaniard she made them for to fly , Also the bonny French man , as she met them on the Sea. When as that [ i ] s gallant Rainbow , did come where Ward did lie , Where is the Captain of this Ship ? this gallant Rainbow did cry , Oh that am I says Captain Ward , there's no man bids me lie , And if thou art the Kings fair Ship thou art welcome unto me . I'll tell thee what sa [ y ] s Rainbow , our King is in great grief , That thou sh [ oh ] uldst lie up [ oh ] n the Sea , and play the arrant thief . And will not let our Merchant's Ships , pa [ s ] s as they did before , Such tidings to our King is come , which grieves his heart full soar . With that this gallant Rainbow , she shot out of her pri [ worser ] e , Full fifty gallant brass pieces , charged on every side . Although [ u ] gh these gallant Shooters , prevail [ worser ] not a pin , Though they were br [ a ] ss on the out side yet Ward was was steel w [ ith ] in Shoot on , shoot on , says Captain Ward , your sport we [ l ] l pleases me , And he that first gives over , shall yield unto the Sea. I never wronged and English ship , but Turk and King of Spain , For and the jovial Dutch-man , as I met on the Main . If I had known your King , but one two years before , I would have saved brave Essex life , whose death did grieve me soar , Go tell the King of England , go tell him thus from me , If he reign King of all the Land , I will Reign King at Sea. With that the gallant Rainbow shot , and shot and shot in vain And left the Rowers Company , and returned home again . Our Royal King of England , your ship's returned again , For Wards ship is so strong , it never will be taken . O everlasting says our King , I have lost Jewels three , Which would have gone unto the seas , and brought proud Ward to me . The first was Lord Clifford , Earl of Cumberland , The second was the Lord M ountjoy , as you shall understand . The third was brave Essex , from field would never flee , Which would a gone unto the Seas , and brought proud Ward to me . Printed for J. Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 