The Honour of Bristol . Showing how the Angel Gabriel of Bristol , fought with three Ships , who boarded us many times , wherein we cleared our Decks , and killed five hundred of their Men , and wounded many more , and made them fly into Cales , where we lost but three men , to the Honour of the Angel Gabriel of Bristol . To the Tune of , Our Noble King in his Progress . A Ttend you and give ear a while , and you shall understand , Of a Battle fought upon the Seas , by a ship of brave command : The Fight it was so famous , that all men's heats did fill , And make them cry to Sea , with the Angel Gabriel . The lusty Ship of Bristol , sailed out adventurously , Against the Foes of England , their strength with them to try : Well Victualed , Riged , and maned and good Provision still , Which made them cry to Sea with the Angel Gabriel . The Captain famous Netheway , so was he called by name , The Master's name John Mines , a man of noted fame : The Gunner Thomas watson , a man of perfect skill , With other valiant hearts , I n the Angel Gabriel . They waving up and down the Seas , upon the Ocean Main ; It is not long ago , quoth they , since England fought with Spain , Would we with them might meet , our minds for to fulfil , We would play a noble bout , with our Angel Gabriel . TO Heigh had no sooner spoken , but straight appeared in sighed , Three lusty Spanish Vessels , of warlike force and might ; With bloody Resolution , they thought our men to spill , And vowed to make a Prize , of our Angel Gabriel . Then first came up their Admiral , themselves for to advance , In her she boar full forty eight pieces of Ordinance : The next that then came near us , was their Vice-Admiral , Which Shot most furiously at our A ngel Gabriel . Our gallant Ship had in her , full Forty Fighting men ; With twenty pieces of Ordinance , we played about them then : And with Powder , Shot , & amp ; Bullets , we did employ them still , And thus begain the Fight , with our A ngel Gabriel . Our Captain to our Master said , take courage Master bold , The Master to the Seaman said , stand fast my hearts of Gold : The Gunner unto all the rest , brave hearts be valiant still ; Let us fight in the defence of our Angel Gabriel . Then we gave them a Broadside , which shot their Mast asunder , And tore the Bost-spret of their Ship , which made the Spaniards wonder : And caused them to cry , with voices loud and shrill , Help , help , or else we sink by the Angel Gabriel . Yet desperately they Boarded us for all our valiant shot , Threescore of their best Fighting men upon our Decks was god . And then at their first entrance , full thirty we did kill . And thus we cleared our Decks of the Angel Gabriel . With that their three ships Boarded us again with might and main , But still our noble English-men , cried out a Fig for Spain , Though seven times they Boarded us at last we showed our skill , And made them feel the force of our Angel Gabriel . Seven hours this Fight continued , and many brave men lay Dead , With purple gore , and Spanish blood , the Sea was coloured read Five hundered of their men , we there outright did kill , And many more were maimed by the Angel Gabriel . They seeing of these bloody spoils , the rest made haste a way , For why they saw it was no boot , any longer for to stay , Then they fled into Cales , and there they must lie still , For they never more will dare to meet , our Angel Gabriel . We had within our English Ship [ , ] but only three men slave , And five men hurt , the which I hope , will soon be well again : At Bristol we were Landed , and let us praise God still , That thus hath blessed our men , and our Angel Gabriel . Now let me not forget to speak , of the Gift given by the Owner , Of the Angel Gabriel , that many years have known her , Two hundered pounds in coin & amp ; plate he gave with free good will , Unto them that bravely fought , in the Angel Gabriel . Printed for J Wright , J Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The Honour of Bristol . Showing how the Angel Gabriel of Bristol , fought with three Ships , who boarded us many times , wherein we cleared our Decks , and killed five hundred of their Men , and wounded many more , and made them fly into Cales , where we lost but three men , to the Honour of the Angel Gabriel of Bristol . To the Tune of , Our Noble King in his Progress . A Ttend you and give ear a while , and you shall understand , Of a Battle fought upon the Seas , by a ship of brave command : The Fight it was so famous , that all men's heats did fill , And make them cry to Sea , with the Angel Gabriel . The lusty Ship of Bristol , sailed out adventurously , Against the Foes of England , their strength with them to try : Well Victualed , Riged , and maned and good Provision still , Which made them cry to Sea with the Angel Gabriel . The Captain famous Netheway , so was he called by name , The Master's name John Mines , a man of noted fame : The Gunner Thomas watson , a man of perfect skill , With other valiant hearts , I n the Angel Gabriel . They waving up and down the Seas , upon the Ocean Main ; It is not long ago , quoth they , since England fought with Spain , Would we with them might meet , our minds for to fulfil , We would play a noble bout , with our Angel Gabriel . TO Heigh had no sooner spoken , but straight appeared in sighed , Three lusty Spanish Vessels , of warlike force and might ; With bloody Resolution , they thought our men to spill , And vowed to make a Prize , of our Angel Gabriel . Then first came up their Admiral , themselves for to advance , In her she boar full forty eight pieces of Ordinance : The next that then came near us , was their Vice-Admiral , Which Shot most furiously at our A ngel Gabriel . Our gallant Ship had in her , full Forty Fighting men ; With twenty pieces of Ordinance , we played about them then : And with Powder , Shot , & amp ; Bullets , we did employ them still , And thus begain the Fight , with our A ngel Gabriel . Our Captain to our Master said , take courage Master bold , The Master to the Seaman said , stand fast my hearts of Gold : The Gunner unto all the rest , brave hearts be valiant still ; Let us fight in the defence of our Angel Gabriel . Then we gave them a Broadside , which shot their Mast asunder , And tore the Bost-spret of their Ship , which made the Spaniards wonder : And caused them to cry , with voices loud and shrill , Help , help , or else we sink by the Angel Gabriel . Yet desperately they Boarded us for all our valiant shot , Threescore of their best Fighting men upon our Decks was god . And then at their first entrance , full thirty we did kill . And thus we cleared our Decks of the Angel Gabriel . With that their three ships Boarded us again with might and main , But still our noble English-men , cried out a Fig for Spain , Though seven times they Boarded us at last we showed our skill , And made them feel the force of our Angel Gabriel . Seven hours this Fight continued , and many brave men lay Dead , With purple gore , and Spanish blood , the Sea was coloured read Five hundered of their men , we there outright did kill , And many more were maimed by the Angel Gabriel . They seeing of these bloody spoils , the rest made haste a way , For why they saw it was no boot , any longer for to stay , Then they fled into Cales , and there they must lie still , For they never more will dare to meet , our Angel Gabriel . We had within our English Ship [ , ] but only three men slave , And five men hurt , the which I hope , will soon be well again : At Bristol we were Landed , and let us praise God still , That thus hath blessed our men , and our Angel Gabriel . Now let me not forget to speak , of the Gift given by the Owner , Of the Angel Gabriel , that many years have known her , Two hundered pounds in coin & amp ; plate he gave with free good will , Unto them that bravely fought , in the Angel Gabriel . Printed for J Wright , J Clark , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 