The Glorious Victory ; OR , The Triumphant Conquest Obtained over the French Fleet , by the brave Heroic English and Dutch Navy's ; to the Joy and Comfort of all Loyal Subject's . Tune of March Boys , etc Licensed according to Order . L ET Country , City , Court , and Town , now Echo with Heavenly shouts of joy ; The French we've beaten , the Day's our own , they cannot our Happiness now annoy ; Lost Honour resolving to renew , our Cannons we played like claps of Thunder ; And still as we fired through and through , their Men of War we tore in ' sunder ; ' Sunder , sunder , Boys we tore asunder , they from our Fury could not scour , We let them know , that a Foe should not go without a Badge of British Power . Stout Admiral Russel with the rest , brave [ n ] oble Commanders stout and bold , He gave them to know we wa'n't in Jest ; their Courage was never Chilled nor Cold : Like Grissel who stood to see fair play , and had not the Courage and Heart to venture ; We valiantly fought and wone the Day , and charged France with the highest Centre ; Centre , centre , bravely did we venture , and many of their Ships did fire , And while they flame , did proclaim Brittain ' s Fame ; the rest did by their light retire . With Fire we after them did Sale , resolving still to maintain the Fight ; With thundering shot like showers of Hale , we battered them till the gloomy Night ; Next day fell on afresh again , true English Courage is not wasted ; We battered and sunk them in the Main , where they a bitter Portion tasted , Tasted [ , ] tasted , and their Forces wasted , this is a dark and dismal story For them to bring to old Lewis their King , but we have blasted all their Glory . They threatened this Nation to invade , and did in our very Harbours ride , Till conquering Courage we displayed , by which we've baffled all their Pride ; Brave Boys we've given them the rout , some thousands are slave as well as wounded , Their shattered Vessels float about , and many in the deep lies drowned , Drowned , drowned , thus with sorrows Wounded , it is a sudden strange Disaster , For to relate to Lewis the Great , their most ambitious Tyrant Master . And Army of Teagues and Rapparees , together with Scotch and French also ; He thought to have Landed here with ease , but [ ? ] a cold North-East Wind did blow ; Which blasted the great Design in Hand , and now we have swinged them on the Ocean , [ ? ] [ ? ] ver will trespass on this Land , [ ? ] [ worser ] istraction , or Commotion ; Le [ wis , ] Lew [ is ] ; let him know , Great William will not be long ever he draws near him , With and Armed Host , which will rule the Roast ; thus will he have just Cause to fear him . In this great Design we find them crossed beside they are beaten on the Main , The best Men of War they have quite lost , and several thousand Seamen slave ; Instead of their being Lord of all , with Plots which their Friends had long been brewing Behold we have seen their present fallen , and may in time their utter ruin , Ruin , ruin , ' though these Plots are brewing , now may they wish they never come hither ; Our Jacobites here , and their huffing Mounsleue , may all hang down their Heads together . Printed for C. Bates , next to the Crown-Tavern in West-smithfield . The Glorious Victory ; OR , The Triumphant Conquest Obtained over the French Fleet , by the brave Heroic English and Dutch Navy's ; to the Joy and Comfort of all Loyal Subject's . Tune of March Boys , etc Licensed according to Order . L ET Country , City , Court , and Town , now Echo with Heavenly shouts of joy ; The French we've beaten , the Day's our own , they cannot our Happiness now annoy ; Lost Honour resolving to renew , our Cannons we played like claps of Thunder ; And still as we fired through and through , their Men of War we tore in ' sunder ; ' Sunder , sunder , Boys we tore asunder , they from our Fury could not scour , We let them know , that a Foe should not go without a Badge of British Power . Stout Admiral Russel with the rest , brave [ n ] oble Commanders stout and bold , He gave them to know we wa'n't in Jest ; their Courage was never Chilled nor Cold : Like Grissel who stood to see fair play , and had not the Courage and Heart to venture ; We valiantly fought and wone the Day , and charged France with the highest Centre ; Centre , centre , bravely did we venture , and many of their Ships did fire , And while they flame , did proclaim Brittain ' s Fame ; the rest did by their light retire . With Fire we after them did Sale , resolving still to maintain the Fight ; With thundering shot like showers of Hale , we battered them till the gloomy Night ; Next day fell on afresh again , true English Courage is not wasted ; We battered and sunk them in the Main , where they a bitter Portion tasted , Tasted [ , ] tasted , and their Forces wasted , this is a dark and dismal story For them to bring to old Lewis their King , but we have blasted all their Glory . They threatened this Nation to invade , and did in our very Harbours ride , Till conquering Courage we displayed , by which we've baffled all their Pride ; Brave Boys we've given them the rout , some thousands are slave as well as wounded , Their shattered Vessels float about , and many in the deep lies drowned , Drowned , drowned , thus with sorrows Wounded , it is a sudden strange Disaster , For to relate to Lewis the Great , their most ambitious Tyrant Master . And Army of Teagues and Rapparees , together with Scotch and French also ; He thought to have Landed here with ease , but [ ? ] a cold North-East Wind did blow ; Which blasted the great Design in Hand , and now we have swinged them on the Ocean , [ ? ] [ ? ] ver will trespass on this Land , [ ? ] [ worser ] istraction , or Commotion ; Le [ wis , ] Lew [ is ] ; let him know , Great William will not be long ever he draws near him , With and Armed Host , which will rule the Roast ; thus will he have just Cause to fear him . In this great Design we find them crossed beside they are beaten on the Main , The best Men of War they have quite lost , and several thousand Seamen slave ; Instead of their being Lord of all , with Plots which their Friends had long been brewing Behold we have seen their present fallen , and may in time their utter ruin , Ruin , ruin , ' though these Plots are brewing , now may they wish they never come hither ; Our Jacobites here , and their huffing Mounsleue , may all hang down their Heads together . Printed for C. Bates , next to the Crown-Tavern in West-smithfield . 