A New Ballad : GIVING A True Account of the late Victory obtained at Sea , by the English , over the French ; Showing , how they were burned and sunk , and drove against the Rocks of Jersey , where they were battered and consumed by the English and Dutch Squadrons : Giving also , A True Relation of the several Superior Officers which were Slave and Wounded on both sides , during this hight and bloody Engagement with the French , over whom the English , have obtained a final and entire Victore . To the Tune of Let Caesar live long . G Reat William ' s success does his Trophies advance , Whose Glories triumph over the power of France ; What a Conquest at Sea the brave Russel has wone Some sinking , some burning , while others do run : Thus Royal King William does the Victory gain , And rules with his Navy all over the Main . Our English Commanders such Courage have shown , The French that survive must their Bravery own , Our Fleet over France has and absolute sway , Now their brave Rising Sun we have set in the Sea : While Royal King William does the Victory gain , And rules with his Army all over the Main . Brave Hastings has lost the last drop of his blood , For his Family's Fame and his Country's good ; Rear-Admiral Carter whose Courage was tried Though his Leg was shot off , gave Command till he died ; Thus Royal King William , etc When Lewis of France to such Grandeur was grown , No Neighbouring Prince was secure of his own ; No sooner we met with his Fleet on the Seas , But we plucked down that Pride he endeavoured to raise [ , ] Thus Royal King William , etc Their Navy's salute , we so warmly embraced , Of our Valour and Strength we soon gave them a taste , A Broadside of Russel's made Tourvill retire , Whose Squadron soon perished betwixt Water and Fire : While Royal King William etc No more must the French of their Bravery boast , Or cruise with a Fleet on the English Coast ; Now the Jacobites hope's of Invasion are crossed Since their Transport small Vessels in the battle are lost : While Royal King William , etc The French must their hope's of a Conquest forsake Since Russel has proved as successful as Drake ; The French or the Spaniard we need not to fear They'll ever make a second Invasion here : While Royal King William does the Victory gain . And rules with his Navy all over the Main . Good Fortune Great William and Mary attend , May their Glories increase , and their Lives never end , That the Heavenly couple so happy may be , As to govern the French both by Land and by Sea ; By their daily successes our Nation may find , For the Welfare of England they both are designed . FINIS . Printed for J. Bissel , at the Hospital-Gate in West - smithfield . A New Ballad : GIVING A True Account of the late Victory obtained at Sea , by the English , over the French ; Showing , how they were burned and sunk , and drove against the Rocks of Jersey , where they were battered and consumed by the English and Dutch Squadrons : Giving also , A True Relation of the several Superior Officers which were Slave and Wounded on both sides , during this hight and bloody Engagement with the French , over whom the English , have obtained a final and entire Victore . To the Tune of Let Caesar live long . G Reat William ' s success does his Trophies advance , Whose Glories triumph over the power of France ; What a Conquest at Sea the brave Russel has wone Some sinking , some burning , while others do run : Thus Royal King William does the Victory gain , And rules with his Navy all over the Main . Our English Commanders such Courage have shown , The French that survive must their Bravery own , Our Fleet over France has and absolute sway , Now their brave Rising Sun we have set in the Sea : While Royal King William does the Victory gain , And rules with his Army all over the Main . Brave Hastings has lost the last drop of his blood , For his Family's Fame and his Country's good ; Rear-Admiral Carter whose Courage was tried Though his Leg was shot off , gave Command till he died ; Thus Royal King William , etc When Lewis of France to such Grandeur was grown , No Neighbouring Prince was secure of his own ; No sooner we met with his Fleet on the Seas , But we plucked down that Pride he endeavoured to raise [ , ] Thus Royal King William , etc Their Navy's salute , we so warmly embraced , Of our Valour and Strength we soon gave them a taste , A Broadside of Russel's made Tourvill retire , Whose Squadron soon perished betwixt Water and Fire : While Royal King William etc No more must the French of their Bravery boast , Or cruise with a Fleet on the English Coast ; Now the Jacobites hope's of Invasion are crossed Since their Transport small Vessels in the battle are lost : While Royal King William , etc The French must their hope's of a Conquest forsake Since Russel has proved as successful as Drake ; The French or the Spaniard we need not to fear They'll ever make a second Invasion here : While Royal King William does the Victory gain . And rules with his Navy all over the Main . Good Fortune Great William and Mary attend , May their Glories increase , and their Lives never end , That the Heavenly couple so happy may be , As to govern the French both by Land and by Sea ; By their daily successes our Nation may find , For the Welfare of England they both are designed . FINIS . Printed for J. Bissel , at the Hospital-Gate in West - smithfield . 