The Mother's Kindness , Conquered by her Daughters Vindication of Valiant and Renowned Seamen ; Concluding with the Mother's kind Acknowledgement . Tune is , The Spinning Wheel . Licensed according to Order . C Ome listen now dear Daughter Joan , unto thy Mother's precepts now , If ever you marry , take not one , who does the raging Ocean blow , Of such there is not one in ten , But what are careless roving men . A Sailor is a cunning Knave , who does all sorts of women Court , It is well known that they will have , a wife or friend at every Port : Oh marry not a Seaman then , For they are cunning crafty men . I'ld have thee take and honest man , who gets his Living on the Land , And then let him do what he can , his purse will be at thy command , Never marry with a Seaman then , Dear Daughter they are roving men . Dear Mother do not them revile , for they are valiant stout and brave , Strong Bulwarks to their native Isle , the Kingdom to support and save . Therefore I love them as my life , And fain would be a Seamans wife . For Landmen they are cross and grim , and most unpleasant to my view ; But Seamens they are brisk and tirm , and of a courteous Carriage too , TO herefore I love them as my life , And fain would be a Seamans wife . They blow the roaring Ocean wide in stormy weather , wind , and Rain , Though Billows foams on e'ry side , undaunted hearts they still maintain ; TO herefore I love them as my live , And hope to be a Seamans wife . Stout sailors venture far and near , over the raging roaring Seas , And hazard life and all that's dear , while Landmen lives at home at ease , TO herefore I love them as my life , And hope to be a Seamans wife . Pray do they not the Land Enrich , the Golden Fleet they home convey , Find Silks , nay Jewels , without which , Ladies could not appear so gay , TO herefore I love them as my life , And hope to be a Seamans wife . The Merchant's Trade would soon go down and many Callings more beside , If famous Seamen of Renown , left sailing the main Ocean wide , I love a Seaman as my Life , And would be glad to be his wife . Let them have blessings from above , I for their breeding them adore , Their very carriage gains them love , where ever ehey set their foot on shore , TO herefore I love them as my life , And hope to be a Seamans wife , Now Daughter dear , I needs must own , your Arguments has conquered me , They are Supporters to the Throne , and do defend our Liberty , TO hen love them now with all my soul , TO hy Will I never will control . FINIS Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Ba [ ck . ] The Mother's Kindness , Conquered by her Daughters Vindication of Valiant and Renowned Seamen ; Concluding with the Mother's kind Acknowledgement . Tune is , The Spinning Wheel . Licensed according to Order . C Ome listen now dear Daughter Joan , unto thy Mother's precepts now , If ever you marry , take not one , who does the raging Ocean blow , Of such there is not one in ten , But what are careless roving men . A Sailor is a cunning Knave , who does all sorts of women Court , It is well known that they will have , a wife or friend at every Port : Oh marry not a Seaman then , For they are cunning crafty men . I'ld have thee take and honest man , who gets his Living on the Land , And then let him do what he can , his purse will be at thy command , Never marry with a Seaman then , Dear Daughter they are roving men . Dear Mother do not them revile , for they are valiant stout and brave , Strong Bulwarks to their native Isle , the Kingdom to support and save . Therefore I love them as my life , And fain would be a Seamans wife . For Landmen they are cross and grim , and most unpleasant to my view ; But Seamens they are brisk and tirm , and of a courteous Carriage too , TO herefore I love them as my life , And fain would be a Seamans wife . They blow the roaring Ocean wide in stormy weather , wind , and Rain , Though Billows foams on e'ry side , undaunted hearts they still maintain ; TO herefore I love them as my live , And hope to be a Seamans wife . Stout sailors venture far and near , over the raging roaring Seas , And hazard life and all that's dear , while Landmen lives at home at ease , TO herefore I love them as my life , And hope to be a Seamans wife . Pray do they not the Land Enrich , the Golden Fleet they home convey , Find Silks , nay Jewels , without which , Ladies could not appear so gay , TO herefore I love them as my life , And hope to be a Seamans wife . The Merchant's Trade would soon go down and many Callings more beside , If famous Seamen of Renown , left sailing the main Ocean wide , I love a Seaman as my Life , And would be glad to be his wife . Let them have blessings from above , I for their breeding them adore , Their very carriage gains them love , where ever ehey set their foot on shore , TO herefore I love them as my life , And hope to be a Seamans wife , Now Daughter dear , I needs must own , your Arguments has conquered me , They are Supporters to the Throne , and do defend our Liberty , TO hen love them now with all my soul , TO hy Will I never will control . FINIS Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Ba [ ck . ] 