The Seamen and the Soldiers last Farewell to their Dearest Jewels . He must be gone the F ates have so decreed , To serve his King and Country in their need In fight against the F rench upon the Main , Yet he's in hope's to see his love again : He cheers her up , and bids she should not mourn , But wait with patience for his safe return . The TO une is , I am so deep in L ove , Or , Cupids Courtesy . F Arewel my dearest Dear , now I must leave thee , Thy sighed I must forbear , although it grieve me : From thy embraces Love , I shall be parted , Yet I will constant prove , and be true hearted . My fortune I will try upon the Ocean , And fight most valiantly to gain promotion : My dearest blood i'll spend , for this our Nation , My Country to defend , from foes invasion Princes of high renown are now engaged , To pull the courage down of foes enraged : Dukes , Lords , and Gentry high , all are preparing , Their valour for to try , no cost is sparing . Why should I grudge to fight under the Banners Of such approved Knights , and brave Commanders : My chance I mean to try , I scorn to hide me , I'll face the enemy , what ever betide me , When I am on the Seas , in hail and thunder , where storms do raise the waves , to all men's wonder : When Billows brush the sky and tempests threat me , Still on thy name i'll cry , i'll not forget thee . TO Ho the proud French Moun-siers do brag and bluster And call upon their Mates , forces to Muster : We'll make them for to know we can disturb them , Once again they must bow , England will curb thee . In the midst of skirmish hight , when blows are dealing , Fiery balls fly about , and Ships are reelling ; When Cannons are roaring , and Bullets are flying , He that will honour win , must not fear dying . My dearest doe not moan , let not grief move thee When I from thee was gone , still I will love thee : If fortune me befriend , thou mayest be certain . I'll often to thee send , after our parting . Thy love i'll think upon , in greatest danger : When I am from thee gone , I'll love no stranger : No flesh alive shall make me prove unconstant , I will wait for thy sake , till the last instant . This piece of gold i'll brake , love for a token , Which as a pledge we'll keep , of faith unbroken : When thou the same dost see , in my long absence : Then love remember me , though at a distance . Hark how the Drums do beatrice with Trumpets sounding , Soldiers in furious heat , foes would be wounding : From thy sweet company , although it grieves me , I must divided be and forced to leave thee . My Captain calls away , in haste they hurry , To march without delay , I may not tarry : Patiently thou must bear , love leave thy weeping , Farewell my dearest dear , till our next meeting . Printed for F. Coals [ , ] T. Vere [ , ] J. Wright [ , ] J. Clarke [ , ] W.T. and TO . P.The Seamen and the Soldiers last Farewell to their Dearest Jewels . He must be gone the F ates have so decreed , To serve his King and Country in their need In fight against the F rench upon the Main , Yet he's in hope's to see his love again : He cheers her up , and bids she should not mourn , But wait with patience for his safe return . The TO une is , I am so deep in L ove , Or , Cupids Courtesy . F Arewel my dearest Dear , now I must leave thee , Thy sighed I must forbear , although it grieve me : From thy embraces Love , I shall be parted , Yet I will constant prove , and be true hearted . My fortune I will try upon the Ocean , And fight most valiantly to gain promotion : My dearest blood i'll spend , for this our Nation , My Country to defend , from foes invasion Princes of high renown are now engaged , To pull the courage down of foes enraged : Dukes , Lords , and Gentry high , all are preparing , Their valour for to try , no cost is sparing . Why should I grudge to fight under the Banners Of such approved Knights , and brave Commanders : My chance I mean to try , I scorn to hide me , I'll face the enemy , what ever betide me , When I am on the Seas , in hail and thunder , where storms do raise the waves , to all men's wonder : When Billows brush the sky and tempests threat me , Still on thy name i'll cry , i'll not forget thee . TO Ho the proud French Moun-siers do brag and bluster And call upon their Mates , forces to Muster : We'll make them for to know we can disturb them , Once again they must bow , England will curb thee . In the midst of skirmish hight , when blows are dealing , Fiery balls fly about , and Ships are reelling ; When Cannons are roaring , and Bullets are flying , He that will honour win , must not fear dying . My dearest doe not moan , let not grief move thee When I from thee was gone , still I will love thee : If fortune me befriend , thou mayest be certain . I'll often to thee send , after our parting . Thy love i'll think upon , in greatest danger : When I am from thee gone , I'll love no stranger : No flesh alive shall make me prove unconstant , I will wait for thy sake , till the last instant . This piece of gold i'll brake , love for a token , Which as a pledge we'll keep , of faith unbroken : When thou the same dost see , in my long absence : Then love remember me , though at a distance . Hark how the Drums do beatrice with Trumpets sounding , Soldiers in furious heat , foes would be wounding : From thy sweet company , although it grieves me , I must divided be and forced to leave thee . My Captain calls away , in haste they hurry , To march without delay , I may not tarry : Patiently thou must bear , love leave thy weeping , Farewell my dearest dear , till our next meeting . Printed for F. Coals [ , ] T. Vere [ , ] J. Wright [ , ] J. Clarke [ , ] W.T. and T.P. 