The Seaman's Loyal Love : OR , THE Courageous DAMSELS Generous Spirit , In freely parting with her Love to enter on Board that he might Fight for K. WILLIAM and Q. MARY , and pull down the growing Pride of France . To the Tune of Billy and Molly . Licensed according to Order . I Am a Damsel which does part with my Love for a season , And yet am pleased to the Heart , since it's no more than reason , That he right valiantly should fight , upon the vast wide Ocean , For to maintain King William is Right , and raise his own promotion . My Love , with other Seamen bold , will raise great Britain is Glory ; They will not have the Land controlled by either French or Tory : We have a vast commanding Fleet , which is the whole World's wonder , And when the Enemy they meet , our Guns will roar like Thunder . Now when my Dear did go on Board , at first it seemed to grieve me ; Alas ! I could not well afford that he so soon should leave me , In him I placed my whole delight , and at this alteration , My very Life was taking flight , at this our separation . But when I had considered well our present growing Danger , And that the Roman do's rebel , likewise that perjured stranger , Proud Lewis , that insulting Foe , did threaten our undoing , I freely , freely , let him go , that France may come to ruin . No fears shall ever my mind amuse , I'll pray for his returning , To bring me home the joyful News of sinking , taking , Burning , Of most of all the Fleet of France , who never fought on the Ocean , But met with this unhappy Chance , Confusion still their Portion . Monsieur will find a bloody Touch , from the great English Navy , Joined with the most renowned Dutch , we'll make France cry Peccavi ; And make with Lewis such hight work , the which in short shall grieve him , And drive him to his Friend the Turk , I hope before they'll leave him , O that I was a Man of might , as a young tender Maiden , In this just Cause I'ld freely Fight , being with Courage laden : This Fan I'ld change for a sharp Sword , and lay aside all Courting ; For William , my great Sovereign Lord , I'ld venture Life and Fortune . A Board of a stout Man of War , I speak and don't dissemble , The Rights of Britain to restore , and make proud Lewis tremble : The Ocean Seas my mind would please it's valiant recreation , But my Love's there , whom I can spare to fight for King and Nation . A Blessing now attend the Fl [ e ] [ et ? ] and Sailors brisk and [ ? ] , Who will in short the Work comple [ et ? ] for William and Q. Marry . They on the Main will soon obtain the Conquest [ ? ] her great scepter , And the Admiral bring to White-Hall the French King's Crown and Sceptre [ . ] Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon . J. B [ l ] are . J. Back . The Seaman's Loyal Love : OR , THE Courageous DAMSELS Generous Spirit , In freely parting with her Love to enter on Board that he might Fight for K. WILLIAM and Q. MARY , and pull down the growing Pride of France . To the Tune of Billy and Molly . Licensed according to Order . I Am a Damsel which does part with my Love for a season , And yet am pleased to the Heart , since it's no more than reason , That he right valiantly should fight , upon the vast wide Ocean , For to maintain King William is Right , and raise his own promotion . My Love , with other Seamen bold , will raise great Britain is Glory ; They will not have the Land controlled by either French or Tory : We have a vast commanding Fleet , which is the whole World's wonder , And when the Enemy they meet , our Guns will roar like Thunder . Now when my Dear did go on Board , at first it seemed to grieve me ; Alas ! I could not well afford that he so soon should leave me , In him I placed my whole delight , and at this alteration , My very Life was taking flight , at this our separation . But when I had considered well our present growing Danger , And that the Roman do's rebel , likewise that perjured stranger , Proud Lewis , that insulting Foe , did threaten our undoing , I freely , freely , let him go , that France may come to ruin . No fears shall ever my mind amuse , I'll pray for his returning , To bring me home the joyful News of sinking , taking , Burning , Of most of all the Fleet of France , who never fought on the Ocean , But met with this unhappy Chance , Confusion still their Portion . Monsieur will find a bloody Touch , from the great English Navy , Joined with the most renowned Dutch , we'll make France cry Peccavi ; And make with Lewis such hight work , the which in short shall grieve him , And drive him to his Friend the Turk , I hope before they'll leave him , O that I was a Man of might , as a young tender Maiden , In this just Cause I'ld freely Fight , being with Courage laden : This Fan I'ld change for a sharp Sword , and lay aside all Courting ; For William , my great Sovereign Lord , I'ld venture Life and Fortune . A Board of a stout Man of War , I speak and don't dissemble , The Rights of Britain to restore , and make proud Lewis tremble : The Ocean Seas my mind would please it's valiant recreation , But my Love's there , whom I can spare to fight for King and Nation . A Blessing now attend the Fl [ e ] [ et ? ] and Sailors brisk and [ ? ] , Who will in short the Work comple [ et ? ] for William and Q. Marry . They on the Main will soon obtain the Conquest [ ? ] her great scepter , And the Admiral bring to White-Hall the French King's Crown and Sceptre [ . ] Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon . J. B [ l ] are . J. Back . 