London mourning in A [ s ] hes ; OR , Lamentable Narrative lively expressing the Ruin of that Royal City by fire which began in Pudding-lane on September the second , 1666 , at one of the clock in the morning being Sunday , and continuing until TO hursday night following , being the sixth day , with the great care the King , and the Duke of York took in their own Persons , day and night to quench it . The Tune , In sad and ashy weeds . O F Fire , Fire , Fire I sing , that have more cause to cry , In the Great Chamber of the King , ( a City mounted High ; ) Old London that , Hath stood in State , above six hundred years , In six days space , Woe and alas ! is burned and drowned in tears . The second of September in the middle time of night , In Pudding-lane it did begin , to burn and blaze out right ; Where all that gazed , Were so amazed , at such a furious flame , They knew not how , Or what to do that might expel the same . It swallowed Fishstreet hill , & amp ; straight it licked up Lombard-street , Down Canon-street in blazing State it flew with flaming feet ; Down to the Thames Whose shrinking streams . began to ebb away , As thinking that , The power of Fate had brought the latter day . Eurus the God of Eastern Gales was Vulcan's Bellows now , And did so fill the flagrant sails , that High-built Churches bow ; ; The Leads they bear , Drop's many a Tear , To see their Fabrics burn ; The sins of Men , Made Churches then , in Dust and Ashes mourn . The second part to the same Tune . W Ith hand & amp ; feet , in every street , they pack up Goods and fly , Pitch , Tarr , and Oil , increase the spoil old Fishstreet ' begins to fry ; ; The Fire does range , Up to the Change , and every King commands , But in despite , Of all its might , the stout old Founder stands . Out of the Shops the Goods are taken , and halled from every shelf , ( As in a Shipwreck ) every man does seek to save himself ; The Fire so hight , A strength hath god , No water can prevail ; And hundred Tun Were it poured on . would prove but like a Pail . The Crackling flames do fume and roar , as Billows do retire , The City , ( though upon the shore ) does seem a sea of fire ; Where Steeple Spires , Show in the Fires like Vessels sinking down . The open fields , More safety yields , and thither fly the Town . Up to the head of aged Pauls the flame does fluttering fly , Above a hunred thousand souls upon the ground do lie ; Sick souls and lame , All fly the flame . women with Child we know , Are forced to run , The fire to shun , have not a day to go . Cradles were rocked in every field , and Food was all their cry , Till the Kings bowels bred did yield and sent them a supply ; A Father He , Of his Country , Himself did sweetly show , Both day and night , With all His might , he sought to ease our woe . The King Himself in Person there , was , and the Duke of York , And likewise many a Noble Peer , assisted in the Work ; To quell the ire , Of this Wild fire , whose Army was so high , And did invade , So that it made , ten hundred thousand fly . From Sunday morn , till Thursday at night , it roared about the Town , There was no way to quell its might but to pull Houses down ; And so they did , As they were bid By Charles , His Great Command ; The Duke of York , Some say did work , with Bucket in his hand . At Temple-Church and Holborn-bridge , and Piecorner ' this stenched , The Water did the Fire besiege , at Aldersgate it quenched ; At Criplegate ( Though very late ) And eke at Coleman-street , At Basing-hall The Fire did fallen , we all were joyed to see't . Bishopsgate-street to Cornhill end , And Leaden-hall's secure , It to the Postern did extend , Fanchurch does still endure Clothworkers-Hall , Did ( ruined ) fallen , yet stopped the fires haste ; Mark-lane , Tower-dock , Did stand the shock , And all is quenched at last . Many of French and Dutch were stopped and also are confined , It's said that they their Fireballs dropped and this Plot was designed , By Them and Those That are our Foes , yet some think nothing so ; But that our God , With his flaming Rod , for since sends all this woe . Although the Fire be fully quenched yet if our sins remain , And that in them we still are drenched , the Fire will rage again ; Or what is worse , A heavier Curse , in Famine will appear ; Where shall we tread , When want of Bred , and Hunger draws near . If this do not reform out lives , A worse thing will succeed , Our kindred , children , and our wives , will die for want of Bred ; When Famine comes , It's not our Drums , Our Ships our Horse or Foot , That can defend , But if we mend , we never shall come to't . London , Printed by E. Crowch , for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . London mourning in A [ s ] hes ; OR , Lamentable Narrative lively expressing the Ruin of that Royal City by fire which began in Pudding-lane on September the second , 1666 , at one of the clock in the morning being Sunday , and continuing until TO hursday night following , being the sixth day , with the great care the King , and the Duke of York took in their own Persons , day and night to quench it . The Tune , In sad and ashy weeds . O F Fire , Fire , Fire I sing , that have more cause to cry , In the Great Chamber of the King , ( a City mounted High ; ) Old London that , Hath stood in State , above six hundred years , In six days space , Woe and alas ! is burned and drowned in tears . The second of September in the middle time of night , In Pudding-lane it did begin , to burn and blaze out right ; Where all that gazed , Were so amazed , at such a furious flame , They knew not how , Or what to do that might expel the same . It swallowed Fishstreet hill , & amp ; straight it licked up Lombard-street , Down Canon-street in blazing State it flew with flaming feet ; Down to the Thames Whose shrinking streams . began to ebb away , As thinking that , The power of Fate had brought the latter day . Eurus the God of Eastern Gales was Vulcan's Bellows now , And did so fill the flagrant sails , that High-built Churches bow ; ; The Leads they bear , Drop's many a Tear , To see their Fabrics burn ; The sins of Men , Made Churches then , in Dust and Ashes mourn . The second part to the same Tune . W Ith hand & amp ; feet , in every street , they pack up Goods and fly , Pitch , Tarr , and Oil , increase the spoil old Fishstreet ' begins to fry ; ; The Fire does range , Up to the Change , and every King commands , But in despite , Of all its might , the stout old Founder stands . Out of the Shops the Goods are taken , and halled from every shelf , ( As in a Shipwreck ) every man does seek to save himself ; The Fire so hight , A strength hath god , No water can prevail ; And hundred Tun Were it poured on . would prove but like a Pail . The Crackling flames do fume and roar , as Billows do retire , The City , ( though upon the shore ) does seem a sea of fire ; Where Steeple Spires , Show in the Fires like Vessels sinking down . The open fields , More safety yields , and thither fly the Town . Up to the head of aged Pauls the flame does fluttering fly , Above a hunred thousand souls upon the ground do lie ; Sick souls and lame , All fly the flame . women with Child we know , Are forced to run , The fire to shun , have not a day to go . Cradles were rocked in every field , and Food was all their cry , Till the Kings bowels bred did yield and sent them a supply ; A Father He , Of his Country , Himself did sweetly show , Both day and night , With all His might , he sought to ease our woe . The King Himself in Person there , was , and the Duke of York , And likewise many a Noble Peer , assisted in the Work ; To quell the ire , Of this Wild fire , whose Army was so high , And did invade , So that it made , ten hundred thousand fly . From Sunday morn , till Thursday at night , it roared about the Town , There was no way to quell its might but to pull Houses down ; And so they did , As they were bid By Charles , His Great Command ; The Duke of York , Some say did work , with Bucket in his hand . At Temple-Church and Holborn-bridge , and Piecorner ' this stenched , The Water did the Fire besiege , at Aldersgate it quenched ; At Criplegate ( Though very late ) And eke at Coleman-street , At Basing-hall The Fire did fallen , we all were joyed to see't . Bishopsgate-street to Cornhill end , And Leaden-hall's secure , It to the Postern did extend , Fanchurch does still endure Clothworkers-Hall , Did ( ruined ) fallen , yet stopped the fires haste ; Mark-lane , Tower-dock , Did stand the shock , And all is quenched at last . Many of French and Dutch were stopped and also are confined , It's said that they their Fireballs dropped and this Plot was designed , By Them and Those That are our Foes , yet some think nothing so ; But that our God , With his flaming Rod , for since sends all this woe . Although the Fire be fully quenched yet if our sins remain , And that in them we still are drenched , the Fire will rage again ; Or what is worse , A heavier Curse , in Famine will appear ; Where shall we tread , When want of Bred , and Hunger draws near . If this do not reform out lives , A worse thing will succeed , Our kindred , children , and our wives , will die for want of Bred ; When Famine comes , It's not our Drums , Our Ships our Horse or Foot , That can defend , But if we mend , we never shall come to't . London , Printed by E. Crowch , for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . 