The Seamens VICTORY : OR , Admiral Killegrew's Glorious Conquest over the French Fleet , in Straights , as they were coming from THOULON towards BREST . WITH The manner of Taking Three of their French Men of War , and sinking Two more ; although the French Admiral vainly boasted he would recover Breast on Paradise , yet he shamefully run from the English Fleet. To the Tune of The Spinning-wheel . Licensed according to Order . H Ere's joyful News came late from Sea , It's of a gallant Victory , Which over the French we did obtain , Upon the throbbing Ocean Main , As soon as ever they found our Rage , The Rogues was glad to disengage . The French Fleet sailing from Thoulon , As we by Letters understand , To join with those that lay at Breast , As some of them have since confessed : But our brave Fleet with them did meet , And made the Frenchmen soon retreat . Five Ships with others , did advance , Being the very Pride of France ; The Lewis , Dauphin , and the Sun , With others which were forced to run , As by this Ditty you shall hear , Brave English Boys the Coast did clear . The French at first did brag and boast , But we so wisely ruled the Roast , Under our Admiral Killegrew , That we engaged and beatrice them too : Declaring that we did not fear The haughty Rage of proud Mounsieur . Our Admiral boar up amain , Resolving that he would maintain A sharp and bloudly Fight , with those Who dare K. William ' s Crown oppose : Then Broadsides straight began to roar , Which laid the French in reeking Gore . Right valiant Seamen fierce and bold Courageous noble Hearts of Gold , All with a Resolution bent , Whole Showers of Shot to them they sent , By which the French in Hundreds fell , Our Guns did ring their Passing-bell . We poured our Shot on every side , It's bravely done , the Captains cried , Though sharp and bloody be the Fray , The French are beatrice , we have the day : True English Boys , 'twas bravely done , See how the Frenchmen run , they run . Now while we did maintain the Fight , Two French Ships there we sunk down right And likewise have we taken Three , This Crowned our Work with Victory ; The noble valiant Killegrew , After the rest do's still pursue . The French-men they did retreat , They were a shattered torn Fleet ; But if he shall them overtake , A Prize of all the rest he'll make ; Courageous Boys are sailed with him , Who freely ventures Life and Limb. Under the Admiral's Command , For to defend the Native Land : May Heaven prosper still and bless , Our valiant Soldiers good Success , Then we hereafter may advance To shake the very Crown of France . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare . J. Back . The Seamens VICTORY : OR , Admiral Killegrew's Glorious Conquest over the French Fleet , in Straights , as they were coming from THOULON towards BREST . WITH The manner of Taking Three of their French Men of War , and sinking Two more ; although the French Admiral vainly boasted he would recover Breast on Paradise , yet he shamefully run from the English Fleet. To the Tune of The Spinning-wheel . Licensed according to Order . H Ere's joyful News came late from Sea , It's of a gallant Victory , Which over the French we did obtain , Upon the throbbing Ocean Main , As soon as ever they found our Rage , The Rogues was glad to disengage . The French Fleet sailing from Thoulon , As we by Letters understand , To join with those that lay at Breast , As some of them have since confessed : But our brave Fleet with them did meet , And made the Frenchmen soon retreat . Five Ships with others , did advance , Being the very Pride of France ; The Lewis , Dauphin , and the Sun , With others which were forced to run , As by this Ditty you shall hear , Brave English Boys the Coast did clear . The French at first did brag and boast , But we so wisely ruled the Roast , Under our Admiral Killegrew , That we engaged and beatrice them too : Declaring that we did not fear The haughty Rage of proud Mounsieur . Our Admiral boar up amain , Resolving that he would maintain A sharp and bloudly Fight , with those Who dare K. William ' s Crown oppose : Then Broadsides straight began to roar , Which laid the French in reeking Gore . Right valiant Seamen fierce and bold Courageous noble Hearts of Gold , All with a Resolution bent , Whole Showers of Shot to them they sent , By which the French in Hundreds fell , Our Guns did ring their Passing-bell . We poured our Shot on every side , It's bravely done , the Captains cried , Though sharp and bloody be the Fray , The French are beatrice , we have the day : True English Boys , 'twas bravely done , See how the Frenchmen run , they run . Now while we did maintain the Fight , Two French Ships there we sunk down right And likewise have we taken Three , This Crowned our Work with Victory ; The noble valiant Killegrew , After the rest do's still pursue . The French-men they did retreat , They were a shattered torn Fleet ; But if he shall them overtake , A Prize of all the rest he'll make ; Courageous Boys are sailed with him , Who freely ventures Life and Limb. Under the Admiral's Command , For to defend the Native Land : May Heaven prosper still and bless , Our valiant Soldiers good Success , Then we hereafter may advance To shake the very Crown of France . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare . J. Back . 