The Royal Triumph : OR , The Unspeakable Joy of the three Kingdoms , for the Glorious Victory over the FRENCH , by the English and Dutch Fleets ; to the Joy and Comfort of all True Subject's . Tune is , Let the Soldiers Rejoice . Licensed according to Order . V Aliant Protestant Boys , Here's Millions of Joys , And Triumph now-bro --- ught from the Ocean ; For the French Mighty Fleet , Now is Shattered and Beat , And Destruction , Destruction , Boys , will be their portion . Here's the Jacobite Crew , Now believe me , it's true , Invited thee From --- nch to this Nation ; Who was crossing the Seas , With the Teague Rappa [ r ] ees , True Cut-Throats , true Cut-Throats , upon my Salvation . But , alas ! they did find , A true Protestant Wind , Which five Weeks or lon ---- her it lasted ; Till the most Royal Fleet , And the Dutch both complete , They with Thunder , with Thunder , this Project soon blasted . On the Nineteenth of May , The French Fleet made way , To make of our Cou ---- rage a Trial ; They supposed we'd never Fight , But they won't in the right , For we showed them , we showed them , we were true and Loyal . Our Admirals bold , With their brave hearts of Gold , They fell on like bram --- we Sons of Thunder ; And their Chain-Shot let fly , As the Fleet they drew nigh , Where they tore them , and rend them , and tore them asunder . Our Squadron True-Blew , Fought their way through and through , At length in Lob's Po --- und , Boys , we god they ; Where we gave the proud French , Such a Fiery Drench , That we sent them , we sent them , straight down to the bottom . Such a Slaughter we made , While the loud Cannons played , Which laid the poor Mo --- nsiers a bleeding ; Nay , their Chief Admiral , We did bitterly Maul , And have taught him , have taught him , I hope , better Breeding . Our brave Admiral , Being Stout DELLAVAL , Whose Actions all Me --- n may admire ; For the French Rising-Sun , Was not able to Run , Which with seven , with seven more Ships did he Fire . Valiant Rook Sailed staightway Where a French Squadron lay , Close among the Ro --- cks then for shelter ; But we fell on Gillore , And we Fired Twelve more , Thus we Fired and Burned the French Fleet helter-skelter . Being Sunk , Took , and Burned , There's not many returned , Was this not a woe --- full Disaster ? How they fared on our Coast , Let they Sail Home and boast , To Old Lewis , Old Lewis , their Fistula-Master . When he hears how they sped , It will strike him near Dead , Losing what he lo --- ng has been getting ; But we'll have him to know , That we'll still keep him low , He shall never , shall never , Boys , Conquer Great-Britain . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . The Royal Triumph : OR , The Unspeakable Joy of the three Kingdoms , for the Glorious Victory over the FRENCH , by the English and Dutch Fleets ; to the Joy and Comfort of all True Subject's . Tune is , Let the Soldiers Rejoice . Licensed according to Order . V Aliant Protestant Boys , Here's Millions of Joys , And Triumph now-bro --- ught from the Ocean ; For the French Mighty Fleet , Now is Shattered and Beat , And Destruction , Destruction , Boys , will be their portion . Here's the Jacobite Crew , Now believe me , it's true , Invited thee From --- nch to this Nation ; Who was crossing the Seas , With the Teague Rappa [ r ] ees , True Cut-Throats , true Cut-Throats , upon my Salvation . But , alas ! they did find , A true Protestant Wind , Which five Weeks or lon ---- her it lasted ; Till the most Royal Fleet , And the Dutch both complete , They with Thunder , with Thunder , this Project soon blasted . On the Nineteenth of May , The French Fleet made way , To make of our Cou ---- rage a Trial ; They supposed we'd never Fight , But they won't in the right , For we showed them , we showed them , we were true and Loyal . Our Admirals bold , With their brave hearts of Gold , They fell on like bram --- we Sons of Thunder ; And their Chain-Shot let fly , As the Fleet they drew nigh , Where they tore them , and rend them , and tore them asunder . Our Squadron True-Blew , Fought their way through and through , At length in Lob's Po --- und , Boys , we god they ; Where we gave the proud French , Such a Fiery Drench , That we sent them , we sent them , straight down to the bottom . Such a Slaughter we made , While the loud Cannons played , Which laid the poor Mo --- nsiers a bleeding ; Nay , their Chief Admiral , We did bitterly Maul , And have taught him , have taught him , I hope , better Breeding . Our brave Admiral , Being Stout DELLAVAL , Whose Actions all Me --- n may admire ; For the French Rising-Sun , Was not able to Run , Which with seven , with seven more Ships did he Fire . Valiant Rook Sailed staightway Where a French Squadron lay , Close among the Ro --- cks then for shelter ; But we fell on Gillore , And we Fired Twelve more , Thus we Fired and Burned the French Fleet helter-skelter . Being Sunk , Took , and Burned , There's not many returned , Was this not a woe --- full Disaster ? How they fared on our Coast , Let they Sail Home and boast , To Old Lewis , Old Lewis , their Fistula-Master . When he hears how they sped , It will strike him near Dead , Losing what he lo --- ng has been getting ; But we'll have him to know , That we'll still keep him low , He shall never , shall never , Boys , Conquer Great-Britain . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 