ENGLANDS Triumph Over the FRENCH . OR , English Men Lords of the Ocean , A New Song , upon the Great and Bloody Engagement between the Englis [ h ] [ in ] Conjunction with the Dutch , against the whole Mannal Forces of the French King ; E [ nga ] ged off the Coast of Sussex , July the First , 1690. To the Tune of , The Leggan Water . L icensed according to Order . S Ince the Frenchmem durst come over , To brave us on the English shore , The Thundering Cannons make them pay , And rue that ever they saw the day . In Smoke and Fire their Fortune's drowned , And Heaven their Plots does quite confound ; In vain the Tyrants seek to fright Our English Courage that dares fight . Lords of the Ocean we will be , In spite of L ewis Cruelty ; The Plague that so long vexed the World , Shall by our Thunder down be hurled . Ambition in the briny Wave , By English Valour has its grave ; In vain our Foes do Fight , in vain , When Heaven our Cause it does maintain . Bold Monsieur shall truckle under British and the Belgic Thunder ; The bloody Fight now makes them rue That ever near our Coast they drew . The Plots they thought to meet with here , Discovered ever their coming were ; And instead of Landing now , To Plunder us , and bring us low . Sword and Flames the Dastards find , And think devouring Seas too kind ; To save them from the louder Fire , That strives to pay them their due hire . For Battered by our Cannons they Seek to shift and run away : And down the Main Mast goes with speed , A Broadside next the Fates decreed To Sink the Glory of their Fleet , While here the Flaming Vessels meet The daring Frenchmen , and overthrow The Pride of our Insulting Foe . The Seas and Fire they do contend , Which first of all shall be their end : Blue Neptune in his watery Waves , Prepares them everlasting Graves . Blood the Ocean's face does die , While Bullets like to Hail do fly ; And they for Quarters cry in vain , It's now too late for to complain : No mercy to a Cruel Foe The English or the Dutch will show ; But What the Bullets will afford , In Compliments , when Board , and Board . The True Religion is the Stke , Which Tyrant Room now void would make : Our Lives for its protection are Accounted never , never dear . Then God Protect our Noble King , And all his Foes to ruin bring ; And as we now our Foes over come , So let us Triumph over Room . Printed for J. Millet , at the Angel in Little-Brittain , and A. Milbourn , at the Stationers Arms in the Little-Old-Bayley . ENGLANDS Triumph Over the FRENCH . OR , English Men Lords of the Ocean , A New Song , upon the Great and Bloody Engagement between the Englis [ h ] [ in ] Conjunction with the Dutch , against the whole Mannal Forces of the French King ; E [ nga ] ged off the Coast of Sussex , July the First , 1690. To the Tune of , The Leggan Water . L icensed according to Order . S Ince the Frenchmem durst come over , To brave us on the English shore , The Thundering Cannons make them pay , And rue that ever they saw the day . In Smoke and Fire their Fortune's drowned , And Heaven their Plots does quite confound ; In vain the Tyrants seek to fright Our English Courage that dares fight . Lords of the Ocean we will be , In spite of L ewis Cruelty ; The Plague that so long vexed the World , Shall by our Thunder down be hurled . Ambition in the briny Wave , By English Valour has its grave ; In vain our Foes do Fight , in vain , When Heaven our Cause it does maintain . Bold Monsieur shall truckle under British and the Belgic Thunder ; The bloody Fight now makes them rue That ever near our Coast they drew . The Plots they thought to meet with here , Discovered ever their coming were ; And instead of Landing now , To Plunder us , and bring us low . Sword and Flames the Dastards find , And think devouring Seas too kind ; To save them from the louder Fire , That strives to pay them their due hire . For Battered by our Cannons they Seek to shift and run away : And down the Main Mast goes with speed , A Broadside next the Fates decreed To Sink the Glory of their Fleet , While here the Flaming Vessels meet The daring Frenchmen , and overthrow The Pride of our Insulting Foe . The Seas and Fire they do contend , Which first of all shall be their end : Blue Neptune in his watery Waves , Prepares them everlasting Graves . Blood the Ocean's face does die , While Bullets like to Hail do fly ; And they for Quarters cry in vain , It's now too late for to complain : No mercy to a Cruel Foe The English or the Dutch will show ; But What the Bullets will afford , In Compliments , when Board , and Board . The True Religion is the Stke , Which Tyrant Room now void would make : Our Lives for its protection are Accounted never , never dear . Then God Protect our Noble King , And all his Foes to ruin bring ; And as we now our Foes over come , So let us Triumph over Room . Printed for J. Millet , at the Angel in Little-Brittain , and A. Milbourn , at the Stationers Arms in the Little-Old-Bayley . 