My Dog and I : We Write no Fights of Dutch or French , No courting of a handsome Wench , No Monsters , Wonders in the Air , No persons dying in despair ; Nor any anything under the Sky , But only of my Dog and I . Tune is , My Dog and I : Or , Bobbing Jone . Y Ou that are of the merry Throng , Give good attention to my Song , I'll give you weighty reasons why , It's made upon my Dog and I , My Dog and I , my Dog and I , It's made upon my Dog and I . I of no dogged nature am , But loving , gentle , kind and tame , And have no bigger Family , But only two , my Dog and I , My Dog , etc I lived at home , I lived at large , A simple life , and had no charge , And if a Wench I chanced to spy , Thither went my Dog and I , My Dog , etc I loved a maid her name was Nell , A bonny Lass , I loved her well , If you'd needs know the reason why , Because she loved my Dog and I . my Dog , etc My Dog and I have god a trick , To cure maids when they are sick : When the'r sick and like to die , Then thither goes my Dog and I . My Dog , etc But if the weather prove foul and wet , My Dog he shall not wet his feet ; But if the weather prove fair and dry , Then a whffiing goes my Dog and I . My Dog and I , my Dog and I , Then whiffing goes my Dog and I . I F any Maiden troubled be , With overgrown Virginity , I quickly can two Pills apply , Concealed by my Dog and I , My Dog and I , my Dog and I , Concealed by my Dog and I . If the greensickness have possessed , A dainty dapper Damsels breast , I'll cure her oned immediately , With nothing but my Dog and I , My Dog , etc If Women are in a distress , By reason of their Barrenness , I can a proper Probe apply , Best known unto my Dog and I , My dog , etc From fifteen until fifty I , Can give a woman remedy , But if they up to threescore fly , Their's no game for my Dog and I , My Dog , etc When Mars command , we did go , Unto the wars in forty two , We'll never fear in field to die , But out we'll go , my Dog and I , My Dog , etc There was a time when Rebel rout , did fear [ young ] Ropert and his Dog it's dangerous when 2 heads comply , Especially my Dog and I , my Dog , etc We night and day do take no rest , If we can hear of any feast , And where good fellows I espy , There go in my Dog and I . My Dog , etc My living lies in every Nook , My Dog is Caterer and Cook , For he at every Game can fly , No fellow to my Dog and I . My Dog , etc My dog to play the Pimp is taught , I fear it's many a gallants fault , Near Hatton wall such whores do lie , Are fitter for my Dog than I , My Dog , etc thus have we liv [ ' ] worser thus have we loved and faithful to each other proved , While many thieves are hanged on high No Law can touch my Dog and I , My Dog , etc If death do come as it may hap , My grave shall be under the Tap , With folded arms there we will lie , Cheek by Jowl my Dog and I , My Dog and I , My Dog and I . Cheek by Jowl my Dog and I , FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger [ . ] My Dog and I : We Write no Fights of Dutch or French , No courting of a handsome Wench , No Monsters , Wonders in the Air , No persons dying in despair ; Nor any anything under the Sky , But only of my Dog and I . Tune is , My Dog and I : Or , Bobbing Jone . Y Ou that are of the merry Throng , Give good attention to my Song , I'll give you weighty reasons why , It's made upon my Dog and I , My Dog and I , my Dog and I , It's made upon my Dog and I . I of no dogged nature am , But loving , gentle , kind and tame , And have no bigger Family , But only two , my Dog and I , My Dog , etc I lived at home , I lived at large , A simple life , and had no charge , And if a Wench I chanced to spy , Thither went my Dog and I , My Dog , etc I loved a maid her name was Nell , A bonny Lass , I loved her well , If you'd needs know the reason why , Because she loved my Dog and I . my Dog , etc My Dog and I have god a trick , To cure maids when they are sick : When the'r sick and like to die , Then thither goes my Dog and I . My Dog , etc But if the weather prove foul and wet , My Dog he shall not wet his feet ; But if the weather prove fair and dry , Then a whffiing goes my Dog and I . My Dog and I , my Dog and I , Then whiffing goes my Dog and I . I F any Maiden troubled be , With overgrown Virginity , I quickly can two Pills apply , Concealed by my Dog and I , My Dog and I , my Dog and I , Concealed by my Dog and I . If the greensickness have possessed , A dainty dapper Damsels breast , I'll cure her oned immediately , With nothing but my Dog and I , My Dog , etc If Women are in a distress , By reason of their Barrenness , I can a proper Probe apply , Best known unto my Dog and I , My dog , etc From fifteen until fifty I , Can give a woman remedy , But if they up to threescore fly , Their's no game for my Dog and I , My Dog , etc When Mars command , we did go , Unto the wars in forty two , We'll never fear in field to die , But out we'll go , my Dog and I , My Dog , etc There was a time when Rebel rout , did fear [ young ] Ropert and his Dog it's dangerous when 2 heads comply , Especially my Dog and I , my Dog , etc We night and day do take no rest , If we can hear of any feast , And where good fellows I espy , There go in my Dog and I . My Dog , etc My living lies in every Nook , My Dog is Caterer and Cook , For he at every Game can fly , No fellow to my Dog and I . My Dog , etc My dog to play the Pimp is taught , I fear it's many a gallants fault , Near Hatton wall such whores do lie , Are fitter for my Dog than I , My Dog , etc thus have we liv [ ' ] worser thus have we loved and faithful to each other proved , While many thieves are hanged on high No Law can touch my Dog and I , My Dog , etc If death do come as it may hap , My grave shall be under the Tap , With folded arms there we will lie , Cheek by Jowl my Dog and I , My Dog and I , My Dog and I . Cheek by Jowl my Dog and I , FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger [ . ] 