The Courageous Commander : OR , A Brief Relation of that most Noble adventure of Sir Cloudesly Shovel , In the Bay of Dublin , on Good-Fryday , in bringing the Pelican - Frigate out of their Harbour in Tri - umph and Victory . Tune of , Let Caesar live long . Licensed according to Order . N Owe noble brave Boys , let the sweet Trumpet found , While Seamen with Trophies of honour are Crowned ; For gracious King William they'll fight till they die , And scorn from the face of a Tory to fly ; Sir brave Cloudesly-Shovell sailed to Dublin - Bay ; And brought the brave Pellican-Frigat away . Old James and his Teagues they did stand and behold Our noble Commander courageous and bold , Who ventured just close to the banks of their shore , And laid the proud Enemy sprawling in gore : With Fire and Sword , Boys , we entered the Bay , And brought the brave Pellican-Frigat away . Our noble Commander first entered aboard On the Monmouth - Yacht , this did courage afford To all the brave Sailors of Protestant pride , Who vowed they would venture to die by his side ; Then crossing the Bar , they entered the Bay , And brought the brave Pellican-Frigat away . The Tory-Commander did fire amain , While we did salute him with Bullets again , Till twenty or more of his Rebels were killed , Now when he our valour and courage beheld , He straight cut his Cable to fly from the Fray , But we brought the brave Pelican Frigate away . The Protestants Goods they were sending for France , By us they were stopped , ay , and taken by chance ; Which made the poor French-men to swear , fret & amp ; frown To see our brave Seamen of fame and renown , With what resolution our Guns they did play , When we brought the brave Pellican-Frigat away . The Tories came down with their Foot and their Horse , And with their old Master lamented his loss And into the Water a Party did ride , Discharging their Pistols against our Ships sid [ e ] , But like Men of Courage our Guns we did p [ ray ] , And brought the brave Pellican-Frigat away . You damned English Dogs , one proud Monsieur did cry , But straight at his Horse we a Bullet let fly ; He was in a rage for to find such salutes , That straight he was forced to shake off his Jackboots ; Then after the Rebels our Guns we did play , And brought the brave Pellican-Frigat away . But here is one thing that is worthy of note , Two Protestant-Boys they did wade to our Boat ; We straight took them in , and their Lives we did save , And account of the fears of the Rebels they gave ; Our Streamers we spread , and our Flags did display , And brought the brave Pellican-Frigat away . This is but a Relish and taste of their Doom , Brave Boys we will down with the Bullworks of Room , The Rebels in France they may put their whole trust , While we all their Glory lay low in the dust : With Fire and Sword , Boys , we'll enter the Fray , King William is great Army shall carry the Day . FINIS . Printed for R. Kell , at the White Heart near Pye-Corner , i [ n ] West-Smithfield . The Courageous Commander : OR , A Brief Relation of that most Noble adventure of Sir Cloudesly Shovel , In the Bay of Dublin , on Good-Fryday , in bringing the Pelican - Frigate out of their Harbour in Tri - umph and Victory . Tune of , Let Caesar live long . Licensed according to Order . N Owe noble brave Boys , let the sweet Trumpet found , While Seamen with Trophies of honour are Crowned ; For gracious King William they'll fight till they die , And scorn from the face of a Tory to fly ; Sir brave Cloudesly-Shovell sailed to Dublin - Bay ; And brought the brave Pellican-Frigat away . Old James and his Teagues they did stand and behold Our noble Commander courageous and bold , Who ventured just close to the banks of their shore , And laid the proud Enemy sprawling in gore : With Fire and Sword , Boys , we entered the Bay , And brought the brave Pellican-Frigat away . Our noble Commander first entered aboard On the Monmouth - Yacht , this did courage afford To all the brave Sailors of Protestant pride , Who vowed they would venture to die by his side ; Then crossing the Bar , they entered the Bay , And brought the brave Pellican-Frigat away . The Tory-Commander did fire amain , While we did salute him with Bullets again , Till twenty or more of his Rebels were killed , Now when he our valour and courage beheld , He straight cut his Cable to fly from the Fray , But we brought the brave Pelican Frigate away . The Protestants Goods they were sending for France , By us they were stopped , ay , and taken by chance ; Which made the poor French-men to swear , fret & amp ; frown To see our brave Seamen of fame and renown , With what resolution our Guns they did play , When we brought the brave Pellican-Frigat away . The Tories came down with their Foot and their Horse , And with their old Master lamented his loss And into the Water a Party did ride , Discharging their Pistols against our Ships sid [ e ] , But like Men of Courage our Guns we did p [ ray ] , And brought the brave Pellican-Frigat away . You damned English Dogs , one proud Monsieur did cry , But straight at his Horse we a Bullet let fly ; He was in a rage for to find such salutes , That straight he was forced to shake off his Jackboots ; Then after the Rebels our Guns we did play , And brought the brave Pellican-Frigat away . But here is one thing that is worthy of note , Two Protestant-Boys they did wade to our Boat ; We straight took them in , and their Lives we did save , And account of the fears of the Rebels they gave ; Our Streamers we spread , and our Flags did display , And brought the brave Pellican-Frigat away . This is but a Relish and taste of their Doom , Brave Boys we will down with the Bullworks of Room , The Rebels in France they may put their whole trust , While we all their Glory lay low in the dust : With Fire and Sword , Boys , we'll enter the Fray , King William is great Army shall carry the Day . FINIS . Printed for R. Kell , at the White Heart near Pye-Corner , i [ n ] West-Smithfield . 