The Cobblers New Prophesy : OR , New News for ENGLAND . Wherein are Strange and Wondered things foretold , that will certainly come to pass Once or Never . Strange Fancies oft from the Unthinking flow , And Shepherd's oft by wandering , Fires foreknow ; Changes in Empire , Storms of State , fierce Wars , Civil Commotions , and Domestic Fars : If they , or Stargazers , can tell such things , Why may not we , when Ale to thought gives wings ? Astrologers allege it is their Trade , And why not ours , since Gentle-Craft gives aid ? To the Tune of , The Wandering Jew's Chronicle . A S I sat Singing in my Stall , At work with my pairing-knife and Awl , a Fancy in my Brain ; Which made me all my Work cast by , And thus begin to Prophesy , as you shall find most plain . The Times are hard and Money scant , The Poor ever long will Pine for want , unless they be Relieved ; While Children cry for lack of Bred , The Popish Crew are largely fed , which makes me much to grieve . While Mizers that do hoard up Bags If Times should turn , may walk in rags so Covetous inclined , They'll rather Pinch and scrape for more , Then give one Farthing to the Poor , so hardened are their minds . Young Heirs shall wish their Father dead That they their hoarded Gold may spread wherein they took Delight : The rusty Wealth when they are gone , Which many years had seen no Sun , shall vainly take its flight . The Taverns they will much frequent , And Ill god Treasure shall be spent , while Pope and Devil League : And Plotting Jesuits Combine , The Nation for to Undermine , and brood their Dark Intrigue . Yet something we must be content , Since we have god a Parliament , will find out Romes grand Cheat : And in a Rope , or without hope , Will send them packing to the Pope , and sift them from the Wheat . No more their Sham-Plots shall prevail , Their Malice all at last will fail , or else I am no Prophet : Their Murders and their Massacrees , Will not English Palates please , nor shall they so go off yet . Though Mother Celliers were let lose , Her Meal-tub tricks are out of use ; the Baldpate Priests and Friars , Shall Rant and Curse , and loudly swear , Instead of Matins , Mass , and Prayer , because the Conclave's Liars . And never shall have in Power , The Nations Wealth for to devour , nor to dispose of Places : But after all their treasure's spent , Some shall their Deeds in Hell repent , in spite of Popish Masses . Pride will much abound and Scorn , Though for them the Nation Mourn , and many a wanton Feat . Fears and Jealousies shall rise , And Rain and Snow overcast the Skies , while Great Ones Emulate . The weakest shall go to the Walls , And he lie on the Ground that falls , when't's hard for to recover : Long tales shall be by Moonlight told , And Beauty shall be bought for Gold , when Merits cannot move her . Old Fools shall dote , and wenches wed , In hope's to get their Maidenhead , which they ever Fifteen lost : At Land and Sea great Storms shall be , And France disturb the Nations free , which may much Bloodshed cost . Ten thousand pound to my old Awe [ l ] He from the Pope at last may fallen as did brave Englands Harry : And turn those Lubbers home to s [ eed , ] That do in Kingdoms Mischief breed , and make all people weary . But now with speed to work go I , To set them right that tread awry , lest I should pawn my Coat : For while that I did make this Song , For all you'll say it is not long , I might have earned a Groat . printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The Cobblers New Prophesy : OR , New News for ENGLAND . Wherein are Strange and Wondered things foretold , that will certainly come to pass Once or Never . Strange Fancies oft from the Unthinking flow , And Shepherd's oft by wandering , Fires foreknow ; Changes in Empire , Storms of State , fierce Wars , Civil Commotions , and Domestic Fars : If they , or Stargazers , can tell such things , Why may not we , when Ale to thought gives wings ? Astrologers allege it is their Trade , And why not ours , since Gentle-Craft gives aid ? To the Tune of , The Wandering Jew's Chronicle . A S I sat Singing in my Stall , At work with my pairing-knife and Awl , a Fancy in my Brain ; Which made me all my Work cast by , And thus begin to Prophesy , as you shall find most plain . The Times are hard and Money scant , The Poor ever long will Pine for want , unless they be Relieved ; While Children cry for lack of Bred , The Popish Crew are largely fed , which makes me much to grieve . While Mizers that do hoard up Bags If Times should turn , may walk in rags so Covetous inclined , They'll rather Pinch and scrape for more , Then give one Farthing to the Poor , so hardened are their minds . Young Heirs shall wish their Father dead That they their hoarded Gold may spread wherein they took Delight : The rusty Wealth when they are gone , Which many years had seen no Sun , shall vainly take its flight . The Taverns they will much frequent , And Ill god Treasure shall be spent , while Pope and Devil League : And Plotting Jesuits Combine , The Nation for to Undermine , and brood their Dark Intrigue . Yet something we must be content , Since we have god a Parliament , will find out Romes grand Cheat : And in a Rope , or without hope , Will send them packing to the Pope , and sift them from the Wheat . No more their Sham-Plots shall prevail , Their Malice all at last will fail , or else I am no Prophet : Their Murders and their Massacrees , Will not English Palates please , nor shall they so go off yet . Though Mother Celliers were let lose , Her Meal-tub tricks are out of use ; the Baldpate Priests and Friars , Shall Rant and Curse , and loudly swear , Instead of Matins , Mass , and Prayer , because the Conclave's Liars . And never shall have in Power , The Nations Wealth for to devour , nor to dispose of Places : But after all their treasure's spent , Some shall their Deeds in Hell repent , in spite of Popish Masses . Pride will much abound and Scorn , Though for them the Nation Mourn , and many a wanton Feat . Fears and Jealousies shall rise , And Rain and Snow overcast the Skies , while Great Ones Emulate . The weakest shall go to the Walls , And he lie on the Ground that falls , when't's hard for to recover : Long tales shall be by Moonlight told , And Beauty shall be bought for Gold , when Merits cannot move her . Old Fools shall dote , and wenches wed , In hope's to get their Maidenhead , which they ever Fifteen lost : At Land and Sea great Storms shall be , And France disturb the Nations free , which may much Bloodshed cost . Ten thousand pound to my old Awe [ l ] He from the Pope at last may fallen as did brave Englands Harry : And turn those Lubbers home to s [ eed , ] That do in Kingdoms Mischief breed , and make all people weary . But now with speed to work go I , To set them right that tread awry , lest I should pawn my Coat : For while that I did make this Song , For all you'll say it is not long , I might have earned a Groat . printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 