A [ Pleasant ] ant New Song , in Praise of a [ L ] eather Bottle . Showing how Glasses and Pots are laid aside , And Flaggons and Noginss they cannot abide , And let all-Wives do what they can , It's for the Praise and use of Man : And this you may very well be sure . The Leather-bottel will longest endure . And I wish in Heaven his Soul may awell , That first devised the Leather-Bottel . To the Tune of , The Bottle-makers Delight . God above that made all things , the Heaven , thy Earth and all therein , The Ships that on the Sea do Swim , to keep Enemies out that none comes in : And let them do all what they can it's for the use and praise of man ; And I wish in heaven his Soul may dwell , That first devised the Leather-Bottle . Then what do you say to these Cans of Wood in faith they err and cannot be good , For when a man he does them send to be filled with Ale , as he does intend , The Bearer falls by the way , and on the ground the Liquour does lay , And then the bearer begins to ban , and swers it is long of the Wooden Can : Then I wish , etc But had it been in the Leather Bottle , although he had fallen , yet all had been well : And I wish , etc Then what do you say to these Glasses fine , yes , they shall have no praise of mine , For when a Company they are set , for to be merry as we are met : Then if you chance to touch the Brim , down falls the Liquour and all therein : If your Table cloth be never so fine , there lies your Beer , Ale or Wine . It may be for a small abuse , a Youngman may his Service loose ? But had it been in the Leather Bottle and the stopple had been in , then all had been well , The second part , to the same tune . TO Hen what do you say to these black pots three ? true they shall have no praise of me , For when a man and his wife falls at strife , as many hath done in faith in their life ; They lay their hands on the Pot both , and loath they are to loose their Broth , The one tugs , the other hill , betwixt them both the Liquour does spill : But they shall answer another day , for casting their Liquour so vainly away , But had it been in the Leather Bottle , the one might have tugged the other held , And they might have tugged till their heart did ache , and yet this Liquour no harm would take . Then I wish , etc Then what do you say to the silver Flaggons fine ? true , they shall have no praise of mine ? For when a Lord he does them Send , to be filled with Wine , as he does intend : The man with the Flagon does run away , because it is silver most gallant and gay , Oh then the Lord begins to ban , and swears he hath lost both Flagon and man , There's never a Lords Servingman or Groom , but with his Leather Bottle may come : Then I wish , etc A Leather Bottle is good , far better then Glasses or Cans of Wood ; For when a man is at work in the Field , poor Glasses and Pots to comfort will yield : Then a good Leather Bottle standing him by , he may drink always when he is a dry , It will revive the spirits , and comfort the brain , wherefore let none this Bottle refrain : For I wish , etc Also the honest Sith-man too , he knew not very well what to do , But for his Bottle standing then near , that is filled with [ Good and Cold ] Beer ; At dinner he sits him down to eat , with good Cheese , and Bred and Meat , Then his Bottle he shakes [ it ] amain , and drinks , and sets it down again ; Saying , good Bottle stand my friend , and hold it out till this day does end : For I wish , etc Likewise the merry Haymakers they , when as they are turning their Hay , In Summer weather , when it is warm , a good Bottle full then will do them no harm And at Noontide they fit them down , to drink in their Bottles of Ale Nutbrown ; Then the Lads and the Lasses begins to tattle , what should we do but for this Bottle , They could not work if this Bottle were done , for the day is so hight with the heat of the Sun : Then I wish , etc Also the Loader , Lader , and the Pitcher . the Reaper , Hedger and the Ditcher : The Binder , and Raker and all about the Bottles ears do fallen , And if his Liquour be almost gone , his Bottle he will part to none . But saying my Bottle is but small , one drop I will not part withal , You must go drink at some Spring or Well , for I will keep my Leather-Bottel : Then I wish , etc Thus you may hear a Leather Bottle , when as it is filled with liquour full well Though the substance of it be small , yet the Name of a thing is all : There's never a Lord , Earl or Knight , but in a Bottle does take delight , For when he is Hunting of the Deer , he often does wish for a Bottle of Beer , Likewise the man that works at the Wood , a Bottle of Beer does oft do him good : Then I wish , etc Then when his Bottle it does grow old , and will good liquour no longer hold , Out of the side you may take a Clout , will mend your Shoes , when they are out , Else take it and hang it upon a Pin , it will serve to put many odd trifles in : As Linges , Aules , and Candle , ends , for young [ ? ] ers must have such things . Then I wish his Soul in heaven may dwell , That first devised the Leather Bottle . FINIS . J.W. Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . A [ Pleasant ] ant New Song , in Praise of a [ L ] eather Bottle . Showing how Glasses and Pots are laid aside , And Flaggons and Noginss they cannot abide , And let all-Wives do what they can , It's for the Praise and use of Man : And this you may very well be sure . The Leather-bottel will longest endure . And I wish in Heaven his Soul may awell , That first devised the Leather-Bottel . To the Tune of , The Bottle-makers Delight . God above that made all things , the Heaven , thy Earth and all therein , The Ships that on the Sea do Swim , to keep Enemies out that none comes in : And let them do all what they can it's for the use and praise of man ; And I wish in heaven his Soul may dwell , That first devised the Leather-Bottle . Then what do you say to these Cans of Wood in faith they err and cannot be good , For when a man he does them send to be filled with Ale , as he does intend , The Bearer falls by the way , and on the ground the Liquour does lay , And then the bearer begins to ban , and swers it is long of the Wooden Can : Then I wish , etc But had it been in the Leather Bottle , although he had fallen , yet all had been well : And I wish , etc Then what do you say to these Glasses fine , yes , they shall have no praise of mine , For when a Company they are set , for to be merry as we are met : Then if you chance to touch the Brim , down falls the Liquour and all therein : If your Table cloth be never so fine , there lies your Beer , Ale or Wine . It may be for a small abuse , a Youngman may his Service loose ? But had it been in the Leather Bottle and the stopple had been in , then all had been well , The second part , to the same tune . TO Hen what do you say to these black pots three ? true they shall have no praise of me , For when a man and his wife falls at strife , as many hath done in faith in their life ; They lay their hands on the Pot both , and loath they are to loose their Broth , The one tugs , the other hill , betwixt them both the Liquour does spill : But they shall answer another day , for casting their Liquour so vainly away , But had it been in the Leather Bottle , the one might have tugged the other held , And they might have tugged till their heart did ache , and yet this Liquour no harm would take . Then I wish , etc Then what do you say to the silver Flaggons fine ? true , they shall have no praise of mine ? For when a Lord he does them Send , to be filled with Wine , as he does intend : The man with the Flagon does run away , because it is silver most gallant and gay , Oh then the Lord begins to ban , and swears he hath lost both Flagon and man , There's never a Lords Servingman or Groom , but with his Leather Bottle may come : Then I wish , etc A Leather Bottle is good , far better then Glasses or Cans of Wood ; For when a man is at work in the Field , poor Glasses and Pots to comfort will yield : Then a good Leather Bottle standing him by , he may drink always when he is a dry , It will revive the spirits , and comfort the brain , wherefore let none this Bottle refrain : For I wish , etc Also the honest Sith-man too , he knew not very well what to do , But for his Bottle standing then near , that is filled with [ Good and Cold ] Beer ; At dinner he sits him down to eat , with good Cheese , and Bred and Meat , Then his Bottle he shakes [ it ] amain , and drinks , and sets it down again ; Saying , good Bottle stand my friend , and hold it out till this day does end : For I wish , etc Likewise the merry Haymakers they , when as they are turning their Hay , In Summer weather , when it is warm , a good Bottle full then will do them no harm And at Noontide they fit them down , to drink in their Bottles of Ale Nutbrown ; Then the Lads and the Lasses begins to tattle , what should we do but for this Bottle , They could not work if this Bottle were done , for the day is so hight with the heat of the Sun : Then I wish , etc Also the Loader , Lader , and the Pitcher . the Reaper , Hedger and the Ditcher : The Binder , and Raker and all about the Bottles ears do fallen , And if his Liquour be almost gone , his Bottle he will part to none . But saying my Bottle is but small , one drop I will not part withal , You must go drink at some Spring or Well , for I will keep my Leather-Bottel : Then I wish , etc Thus you may hear a Leather Bottle , when as it is filled with liquour full well Though the substance of it be small , yet the Name of a thing is all : There's never a Lord , Earl or Knight , but in a Bottle does take delight , For when he is Hunting of the Deer , he often does wish for a Bottle of Beer , Likewise the man that works at the Wood , a Bottle of Beer does oft do him good : Then I wish , etc Then when his Bottle it does grow old , and will good liquour no longer hold , Out of the side you may take a Clout , will mend your Shoes , when they are out , Else take it and hang it upon a Pin , it will serve to put many odd trifles in : As Linges , Aules , and Candle , ends , for young [ ? ] ers must have such things . Then I wish his Soul in heaven may dwell , That first devised the Leather Bottle . FINIS . J.W. Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 