The Careless Drunkards . Let Malt bear what price it will , to us all one it'll be , We are resolved our Gum [ ? ] s to swill , and live most Merrily . To the Tune of , The fair one let me in : Or , Jenny Gin , etc C Ome let us merry be , brave boys , let times go how they will , We'll sing and roar , and make a noise , we'll tipple and we'll swill : In merry Songs we take delight , and Music for to hear , We'll drink all day , and sing all night , though Malt be never so dear . The Miser that does hoard his Coin , and dotes upon his Pelf , His life's a plague to thine and mine , and he's a silly Elf That won't allow himself good things , his Misers heart to cheer , We'll drink and live like petty Kings , Though Malt , etc For Coin will in the Coffer rust , if long you let it lie , The rich and poor must turn to dust , for certain so must I : Therefore i'll take but little care , while I do sojourn here , My Coin in drink I will not spare , Though Maued , etc Then prithee Tapster nimble be , and wait upon your Guess , When brains once Elevated be , the Tongue the joys express : There's nothing then the heart can daunt nor dread the Soul with fear , Then let us not the Liquour want , Though Malt , etc We that are the Carousing Boys , and troule the Bowl about , The comfort of the world enjoys , which others go without : Our selves we surfeit in delight , it plainly does appear , We'll drink till we can't stand upright , Though Malt , etc Give me the Boy that bravely chants , and sings a merry Song , No comfort in his heart he wants , to him all joys belong : His company does give content to all that fit him near , He'l merry be till all is spent , Though Malt , etc When that is gone , he'l work for more , that's all that he does mind , He'l sing and laugh , and never give over , can he Companions find ? Perhaps he'l work a little hard , when Hollidays draw near From drinking he'l not be debarred , Though Malt , etc This is the life we mean to led , while here we do remain , Our Carcases we'll richly feed , it'll nourish heart and brain : Sometime we drink rich Spanish Wine and sometime Ale and Beer , We'll surely make our Noses shine , though Malt be never so dear . Drink is the thing supports our lives , and fills our hearts with ease , This makes us kind unto our Wives , while them we strive to please : It makes good blood run in our veins , and banishes all fear ; It puts good reason into brains , When Malt , etc This spoils the Doctors trade likewise , by which they get such Wealth , Most strangely this preserves the eyes , as it maintains the Health : A Lord that hath good store of Coin , at death is never the near , Then let us not at all repine , though Malt be never so dear . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . The Careless Drunkards . Let Malt bear what price it will , to us all one it'll be , We are resolved our Gum [ ? ] s to swill , and live most Merrily . To the Tune of , The fair one let me in : Or , Jenny Gin , etc C Ome let us merry be , brave boys , let times go how they will , We'll sing and roar , and make a noise , we'll tipple and we'll swill : In merry Songs we take delight , and Music for to hear , We'll drink all day , and sing all night , though Malt be never so dear . The Miser that does hoard his Coin , and dotes upon his Pelf , His life's a plague to thine and mine , and he's a silly Elf That won't allow himself good things , his Misers heart to cheer , We'll drink and live like petty Kings , Though Malt , etc For Coin will in the Coffer rust , if long you let it lie , The rich and poor must turn to dust , for certain so must I : Therefore i'll take but little care , while I do sojourn here , My Coin in drink I will not spare , Though Maued , etc Then prithee Tapster nimble be , and wait upon your Guess , When brains once Elevated be , the Tongue the joys express : There's nothing then the heart can daunt nor dread the Soul with fear , Then let us not the Liquour want , Though Malt , etc We that are the Carousing Boys , and troule the Bowl about , The comfort of the world enjoys , which others go without : Our selves we surfeit in delight , it plainly does appear , We'll drink till we can't stand upright , Though Malt , etc Give me the Boy that bravely chants , and sings a merry Song , No comfort in his heart he wants , to him all joys belong : His company does give content to all that fit him near , He'l merry be till all is spent , Though Malt , etc When that is gone , he'l work for more , that's all that he does mind , He'l sing and laugh , and never give over , can he Companions find ? Perhaps he'l work a little hard , when Hollidays draw near From drinking he'l not be debarred , Though Malt , etc This is the life we mean to led , while here we do remain , Our Carcases we'll richly feed , it'll nourish heart and brain : Sometime we drink rich Spanish Wine and sometime Ale and Beer , We'll surely make our Noses shine , though Malt be never so dear . Drink is the thing supports our lives , and fills our hearts with ease , This makes us kind unto our Wives , while them we strive to please : It makes good blood run in our veins , and banishes all fear ; It puts good reason into brains , When Malt , etc This spoils the Doctors trade likewise , by which they get such Wealth , Most strangely this preserves the eyes , as it maintains the Health : A Lord that hath good store of Coin , at death is never the near , Then let us not at all repine , though Malt be never so dear . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . 