THE Good Fellows Frolic , Or , Kent Street Clubb . Good people all come mind my merry tale , And you shall hear the virtue of good Ale , Whose charming power some men's humour hits , It robs them of their money & amp ; their wits : For he in time will surely money lack that minds his belly better than his back . Tune of , Heigh boys up go we , Seamans mournful bride , or the fair one let me in . H Ere is a crew of jovial Blades that loved the Nutbrown Ale : They in and Alehouse chanced to meet , and told a merry Tale : A bonny Seaman was the first , but newly come to Town ; And swore that he his guts could borst with Ale that was so brown . See how the jolly Carman he does the strong Liquour prize , He so long in the Alehouse sat that he drank out his eyes : And groping to get out of door ( Sot like ) he tumbled down , And there he like a madman swore he loved the Ale so brown . The nimble Weaver he came in , and swore he'd have a little , To drink good Ale it was no since , thought made him pawn his Shittle : Quoth he , I am a Gentleman , no lusty Countrey-Clown , But yet I love with all my heart , the Ale that is so brown . Then next the Blacksmith he came in , and said 'twas mighty hight ; He sitting down did thus begin , fair maid bring me a pot : Let it be of the very best , that none exceeds in Town ; I tell you true and do not jest , I love the Ale so brown . The pricklouse Taylor he came in ; whose Tongue did run so nimble , And said he would engage for drink his Bodkin and his Thimble : For though with long thin Jaws I look , I valve not a crown , So I can have my belly full of Ale that is so brown . The lusty Porter passing by with Basket on his back , He said that he was grievous dry , and needs would pawn his Sack : His angry wife he did not fear , he valued not her frown ; So he had that he loved so dear , I mean the Ale so brown . The next that came was one of them was of the Gentle Craft ; And when that he was wet within most heartily he laughed : Crispin was never so boon as he , though some Kinn to a Crown ; And there he sat most merrily with Ale that was so brown . But at the last a Barber he a mind had for to taste ; He called for a pint of drink , and said he was in haste : The drink so pleased , he tarried there till he had spent a crown ; 'Twas all the money he could spare for Ale that is so brown . A Broom-man as he passed by his mornings-draught did lack ; Because that he no money had he pawned his shirt from's back : And said that he without a shirt would cry Brooms up and down ; But yet , quoth he , I'll merry be with Ale that is so brown . But when all these together met o what discourse was there ! 'Twould make ones hair to stand and end to hear how they did swear One was a fool and puppy-dogg , the other was a clown ; And there they sat and swilled their gust with Ale that was so brown . The Landlady they did abuse , and called her nasty Whore ; Quoth she do you your reckoning pay , and get you out of door : Of them she could no money get , which caused her to frown ; But loath they were to leave behind the Ale that was so brown . Printed for J. Coniers in Duck-Lane . THE Good Fellows Frolic , Or , Kent Street Clubb . Good people all come mind my merry tale , And you shall hear the virtue of good Ale , Whose charming power some men's humour hits , It robs them of their money & amp ; their wits : For he in time will surely money lack that minds his belly better than his back . Tune of , Heigh boys up go we , Seamans mournful bride , or the fair one let me in . H Ere is a crew of jovial Blades that loved the Nutbrown Ale : They in and Alehouse chanced to meet , and told a merry Tale : A bonny Seaman was the first , but newly come to Town ; And swore that he his guts could borst with Ale that was so brown . See how the jolly Carman he does the strong Liquour prize , He so long in the Alehouse sat that he drank out his eyes : And groping to get out of door ( Sot like ) he tumbled down , And there he like a madman swore he loved the Ale so brown . The nimble Weaver he came in , and swore he'd have a little , To drink good Ale it was no since , thought made him pawn his Shittle : Quoth he , I am a Gentleman , no lusty Countrey-Clown , But yet I love with all my heart , the Ale that is so brown . Then next the Blacksmith he came in , and said 'twas mighty hight ; He sitting down did thus begin , fair maid bring me a pot : Let it be of the very best , that none exceeds in Town ; I tell you true and do not jest , I love the Ale so brown . The pricklouse Taylor he came in ; whose Tongue did run so nimble , And said he would engage for drink his Bodkin and his Thimble : For though with long thin Jaws I look , I valve not a crown , So I can have my belly full of Ale that is so brown . The lusty Porter passing by with Basket on his back , He said that he was grievous dry , and needs would pawn his Sack : His angry wife he did not fear , he valued not her frown ; So he had that he loved so dear , I mean the Ale so brown . The next that came was one of them was of the Gentle Craft ; And when that he was wet within most heartily he laughed : Crispin was never so boon as he , though some Kinn to a Crown ; And there he sat most merrily with Ale that was so brown . But at the last a Barber he a mind had for to taste ; He called for a pint of drink , and said he was in haste : The drink so pleased , he tarried there till he had spent a crown ; 'Twas all the money he could spare for Ale that is so brown . A Broom-man as he passed by his mornings-draught did lack ; Because that he no money had he pawned his shirt from's back : And said that he without a shirt would cry Brooms up and down ; But yet , quoth he , I'll merry be with Ale that is so brown . But when all these together met o what discourse was there ! 'Twould make ones hair to stand and end to hear how they did swear One was a fool and puppy-dogg , the other was a clown ; And there they sat and swilled their gust with Ale that was so brown . The Landlady they did abuse , and called her nasty Whore ; Quoth she do you your reckoning pay , and get you out of door : Of them she could no money get , which caused her to frown ; But loath they were to leave behind the Ale that was so brown . Printed for J. Coniers in Duck-Lane . 