Rural RECREATIONS : OR , The Young-Men and Maids Merriment at their Dancing round a Country MAY-POLE . To and Excellent new Tune . Licensed accorcing to Order . JO ne to the Maypole away let's run , The time is swift and will be gone . There go the Lasses away to the Green , Where there Beauty's may be seen . Nan , Doll , Kate and Moll , Brave Lasses have Lads to attend'em , Hodge , Neck , Tom , Dick , Brave Dancers , who can amend ' em . Did you not see the Lord of thee May Walk along in his rich Array ? There goes the Lass that is only his , See , how they meet , and how they Kiss ! Come Will , run Gill , Or dost thou list to lose thy labour ? Kit Crowd , scrape aloud , Tickle her Tom with a Pipe and a Tabor . Lately I went to a Masque at the Court , Where I see the Dances of every sort ; There they did Dance with time and measure , But none like the Country Dances for pleasure , There they did Dance , just as in France , Not like the English lofty manner : and every she , must furnished be With a feathered knack when she sweats for to fan her . But when we Dance , and do happen to sweat , Have a Napkin in hand for to wipe of the wet , And with our dories do Jig it about , Not like the Court that are often out . If the Tabor do Play , we thump it away , And turn and meet our Lasses to kiss they , nay , they will be , ready as we , That hardly at any time can miss ' em . Bridget as fair as the blushing Rose , With loving Roger freely goes . Lord of thee May he shall never be , For I can Dance as well as he : sweet Joan , it's well known , We have danced for many a wager , Bridget now , shall allow Joan the most expert , I engage her . Pipe and Fiddler , strike up amain , Let us have a cheerful strain : That the young Lasses may dance around , Who are with pleasant Garlands Crowned : Nan , Prue , smirking Sue , Oh how these Lasses did Jig it and Caper Said John , well done Nan , It is but in vain for Robin to Vapour . Uds-zook's , young Jone she does now outvie , The rest of all the Company : For this pleasant Dance which I have seen , I'll give her a fair Gown of Green . Pigs-nies , how I prize Every glance of thy amorous Beauty , sweet Face . we'll Embrace : It is no more than a true Lovers Duty . And if we hold on as we begin , Jone thee and I tO he Garland shall win , Nay , if thou livest till another Day , I'll make thee Lady of the May . Dance about , in and out , Turn and kiss , and then for a Greeting ; now Jone , we have done , Fare thee well till the next merry meeting . FINIS . Printed for W. Thackeray at the Sign of the And [ - ] gel in Duck-Lane . Rural RECREATIONS : OR , The Young-Men and Maids Merriment at their Dancing round a Country MAY-POLE . To and Excellent new Tune . Licensed accorcing to Order . JO ne to the Maypole away let's run , The time is swift and will be gone . There go the Lasses away to the Green , Where there Beauty's may be seen . Nan , Doll , Kate and Moll , Brave Lasses have Lads to attend'em , Hodge , Neck , Tom , Dick , Brave Dancers , who can amend ' em . Did you not see the Lord of thee May Walk along in his rich Array ? There goes the Lass that is only his , See , how they meet , and how they Kiss ! Come Will , run Gill , Or dost thou list to lose thy labour ? Kit Crowd , scrape aloud , Tickle her Tom with a Pipe and a Tabor . Lately I went to a Masque at the Court , Where I see the Dances of every sort ; There they did Dance with time and measure , But none like the Country Dances for pleasure , There they did Dance , just as in France , Not like the English lofty manner : and every she , must furnished be With a feathered knack when she sweats for to fan her . But when we Dance , and do happen to sweat , Have a Napkin in hand for to wipe of the wet , And with our dories do Jig it about , Not like the Court that are often out . If the Tabor do Play , we thump it away , And turn and meet our Lasses to kiss they , nay , they will be , ready as we , That hardly at any time can miss ' em . Bridget as fair as the blushing Rose , With loving Roger freely goes . Lord of thee May he shall never be , For I can Dance as well as he : sweet Joan , it's well known , We have danced for many a wager , Bridget now , shall allow Joan the most expert , I engage her . Pipe and Fiddler , strike up amain , Let us have a cheerful strain : That the young Lasses may dance around , Who are with pleasant Garlands Crowned : Nan , Prue , smirking Sue , Oh how these Lasses did Jig it and Caper Said John , well done Nan , It is but in vain for Robin to Vapour . Uds-zook's , young Jone she does now outvie , The rest of all the Company : For this pleasant Dance which I have seen , I'll give her a fair Gown of Green . Pigs-nies , how I prize Every glance of thy amorous Beauty , sweet Face . we'll Embrace : It is no more than a true Lovers Duty . And if we hold on as we begin , Jone thee and I tO he Garland shall win , Nay , if thou livest till another Day , I'll make thee Lady of the May . Dance about , in and out , Turn and kiss , and then for a Greeting ; now Jone , we have done , Fare thee well till the next merry meeting . FINIS . Printed for W. Thackeray at the Sign of the And [ - ] gel in Duck-Lane . 