Make use of Time ; OR , Time well made use of , redounds to the Parties content , That hath not his Goods unlawfully spent : But he that spends more than his need does require , Leaps out of the Frying-pan , into the fire . Tune is , Behold the Man with a Cann in his hand . M Ark well my good instructions , and counsel which I give , By which you may enjoy content , and comfort while you live . From Malice , Hatred , and poverty , I'de have you firmly freed : And for to keep your money still to help in time of need : For when the Summer's past and gone , then enters winter's cold : Provide you in your youthful days , to keep you when you're old . You see how diverse Prodigals profusely spend their means On Sharks , and Shabs and dirty Drabs , on Panders , Pimps , and Queans ; But when their Lands and Livings fail , and quite consumed their store , Their friends will prove their enemies and turn them out of door : For when the Summer's past and gone , then enters Winter's cold , etc Are there not many married men catched in their subtle snares ? While wife and children starve at home , and feed on grief and tears : They rant full high , and domineer divulging cursed Oaths , And sport so much until they spoil the fashion of their Nose . For when the summer's past and gone , then enters winter's cold : Provide you in your youthful days to keep you when you're old . TO He richest wines , and daintiest cheer they glut themselves withal , While diverse women and their Babes , drink water , cold and small , Goods go to wrack clothes from their back which is the Harlots gains ; But when your means is spent and gone , they'll hate you for your pains ; The summer time does pass away , then enters winter's cold : Provide you in your youthful days , to keep you when you're old . How many have been thrown in Gaol ? by their excessive rates , Where no release could be ay all , but Iron Bars and Grates : They want what they have spent in vain , but little bred to eat : And those that were professed friends did flatter with deceit . The Summer time does , etc A many servants wrong themselves and Master's in estate ; By which they come to poverty , and pine when it's too late . For if that money once grow scant your friends will quickly fail , And cares not if you hang or drown , or perish in a Gaol . The Summer time , etc And Children from their Parents dear , do cunningly contrive To cheat and gull them of their goods while yet they are alive : But such we see in misery , are quickly brought to thrall , And so the Proverb's verified , that pride will have a fallen : The summer time , etc But let me wish all married men that live such wicked lives : To leave off Harlots , and be good and loving to their wives No sweeter life betwixt man and wife : on earth , I'm sure can be , Than for to live in true content , Love , Peace and Unity . The summer time , etc Consider in your strength and health , that sickness will attend Then if you want this thing called wealth pray who will be your friend ? Your Limbs they may be strucken lame and you made blind and poor : And then be forced and alms to beg , each day from door to door : The summer time , etc But charity you see is cold and peoples hearts are hard : The Gates of those that freely gave , are strongly shut and barred : There are no open Courts or Halls , as was in former time , But whip and hell , by which you know , how dogs do sup and dine . The summer time , etc Remember how the painful be , for winter does provide : His Comb , his Honey and his Wax , and every thing beside : The pretty Ant lays up her store , her young to cloth and feed , By which we may example take , to save in time of need : The summer time , etc Make use of time , while you have time , and do no time delay ; For Time , nor Tide , for none at all , one minutes space will stay : But he that runs and even pace , with Time , ( I'm confident ) Will find the benefit of Time , unto his hearts content . The summer time does pass away then enters winter's cold ; Provide then in your youthful days , to keep you when you're old . FINIS . S.S. London . Printed for F Coles TO Vere and J Wright [ . ] Make use of Time ; OR , Time well made use of , redounds to the Parties content , That hath not his Goods unlawfully spent : But he that spends more than his need does require , Leaps out of the Frying-pan , into the fire . Tune is , Behold the Man with a Cann in his hand . M Ark well my good instructions , and counsel which I give , By which you may enjoy content , and comfort while you live . From Malice , Hatred , and poverty , I'de have you firmly freed : And for to keep your money still to help in time of need : For when the Summer's past and gone , then enters winter's cold : Provide you in your youthful days , to keep you when you're old . You see how diverse Prodigals profusely spend their means On Sharks , and Shabs and dirty Drabs , on Panders , Pimps , and Queans ; But when their Lands and Livings fail , and quite consumed their store , Their friends will prove their enemies and turn them out of door : For when the Summer's past and gone , then enters Winter's cold , etc Are there not many married men catched in their subtle snares ? While wife and children starve at home , and feed on grief and tears : They rant full high , and domineer divulging cursed Oaths , And sport so much until they spoil the fashion of their Nose . For when the summer's past and gone , then enters winter's cold : Provide you in your youthful days to keep you when you're old . TO He richest wines , and daintiest cheer they glut themselves withal , While diverse women and their Babes , drink water , cold and small , Goods go to wrack clothes from their back which is the Harlots gains ; But when your means is spent and gone , they'll hate you for your pains ; The summer time does pass away , then enters winter's cold : Provide you in your youthful days , to keep you when you're old . How many have been thrown in Gaol ? by their excessive rates , Where no release could be ay all , but Iron Bars and Grates : They want what they have spent in vain , but little bred to eat : And those that were professed friends did flatter with deceit . The Summer time does , etc A many servants wrong themselves and Master's in estate ; By which they come to poverty , and pine when it's too late . For if that money once grow scant your friends will quickly fail , And cares not if you hang or drown , or perish in a Gaol . The Summer time , etc And Children from their Parents dear , do cunningly contrive To cheat and gull them of their goods while yet they are alive : But such we see in misery , are quickly brought to thrall , And so the Proverb's verified , that pride will have a fallen : The summer time , etc But let me wish all married men that live such wicked lives : To leave off Harlots , and be good and loving to their wives No sweeter life betwixt man and wife : on earth , I'm sure can be , Than for to live in true content , Love , Peace and Unity . The summer time , etc Consider in your strength and health , that sickness will attend Then if you want this thing called wealth pray who will be your friend ? Your Limbs they may be strucken lame and you made blind and poor : And then be forced and alms to beg , each day from door to door : The summer time , etc But charity you see is cold and peoples hearts are hard : The Gates of those that freely gave , are strongly shut and barred : There are no open Courts or Halls , as was in former time , But whip and hell , by which you know , how dogs do sup and dine . The summer time , etc Remember how the painful be , for winter does provide : His Comb , his Honey and his Wax , and every thing beside : The pretty Ant lays up her store , her young to cloth and feed , By which we may example take , to save in time of need : The summer time , etc Make use of time , while you have time , and do no time delay ; For Time , nor Tide , for none at all , one minutes space will stay : But he that runs and even pace , with Time , ( I'm confident ) Will find the benefit of Time , unto his hearts content . The summer time does pass away then enters winter's cold ; Provide then in your youthful days , to keep you when you're old . FINIS . S.S. London . Printed for F Coles TO Vere and J Wright [ . ] 