The Loyal Subject ( as it is reason ) Drinks good Sack and is free from Treason . C Ome let's drink the time invites , Winter and cold weather , For to pass away long nights , and to keep good wits together ; Better far than Cards or Dice , Or Isaac's Balls that quaint Device , made up of Fan and Feather . Of grand Actions on the Seas , we will never be jealous , Give us Liquour that will please , and will make us braver fellows Than the bold Venetian Fleet , When the Turks and they do meet , within the Dardonellows . M [ oh ] homet was no Divine , but a senseless Widgeon , To forbid the use of Wine unto those of his Religion ; Fall-sickness was his shame , And his Throne shall have the blame , for all his whispering Pigeon . Valentia that famous Town , stood the French-mens wonder , [ ? ] er it employed to drown , [ ? ] to cut their Troops asunder ; Turene cast a helpless look , While the crafty Spaniards took , La-Ferta and his Plunder . Therefore Water we disdain , Mankinds adversary , Once it caused the world's whole frame in a Deluge to miscarry ; Nay the Enemies of Joy , Seek with Envy to destroy , and murder good Canary . Sack's the Princes surest Guard , if he would but try it , No Rebellion e'r was herd , where the Subject's soundly ply it , And three Constables at most , Are enough to quell and Host , that thus disturb our quiet . Drink about your full brim Bowls , see there be no shrinking , For to quench your thirsty So Projects are not thinking , ay we will devise How to make our colours rise , and Noses rich with drinking . The second part to the same Tune . C Ause the Rubies to appear in their Orient Lustre , Pottle Pots bring up the Rear , for our Forces we must muster . Senior Gallon leads the Van , He hath taken many a man , and drowns them on a Cluster . Sack it does inspire the Wit , though the Brain be muddy , Some that never knew nothing yet , by it's virtue falls to study ; He that tipples up good Sack , Finds found Marrow in the Back , that's wholesome for the Belly . All the faculties of Man , are enriched by this Treasure , He that first this Bowl began , let him give to all his measure : Sack is like AEtherial fire , Which does kindle new desire , to do a woman Pleasure . Sack does make the Spirit bold , it's like the Muses Nectar , Some that silent tongues did hold , now can speak a learned Lecture , By the slowing of the Tub , They can break Alcidds Club , and take the Crown from Hector , We never covet to be Rich , with Commerse or Trading , Nor have we not zealous Itch , though our quondom means is fading , But our Vessels & amp ; our Store , And Wits , is how to get more good Sack , and that's our lading . We that drink good Sack in Plate , to make us blithe and jolly , Never Plot against the State , to be punished for such folly , But the merry Glass and Pipe , Makes our Senses quick and ripe , and expels Melancholy . See the Sqibs , and hear the Bells' , the fifth day of November , The Preacher a sad Story tells , And with horror does remember , how some dry-braind traitors wrought Plots , that would to ruin brought , both King and every Member . We that drink , have no such thoughts blind and void of Reason . We take care to fill our Vaults , with good Wine at every season . And with many a cheerful Cup , We blow one another up , and that's our only Treason . London Printed by E. C. for F. Coals . T. Vere . and J. Wright . The Loyal Subject ( as it is reason ) Drinks good Sack and is free from Treason . C Ome let's drink the time invites , Winter and cold weather , For to pass away long nights , and to keep good wits together ; Better far than Cards or Dice , Or Isaac's Balls that quaint Device , made up of Fan and Feather . Of grand Actions on the Seas , we will never be jealous , Give us Liquour that will please , and will make us braver fellows Than the bold Venetian Fleet , When the Turks and they do meet , within the Dardonellows . M [ oh ] homet was no Divine , but a senseless Widgeon , To forbid the use of Wine unto those of his Religion ; Fall-sickness was his shame , And his Throne shall have the blame , for all his whispering Pigeon . Valentia that famous Town , stood the French-mens wonder , [ ? ] er it employed to drown , [ ? ] to cut their Troops asunder ; Turene cast a helpless look , While the crafty Spaniards took , La-Ferta and his Plunder . Therefore Water we disdain , Mankinds adversary , Once it caused the world's whole frame in a Deluge to miscarry ; Nay the Enemies of Joy , Seek with Envy to destroy , and murder good Canary . Sack's the Princes surest Guard , if he would but try it , No Rebellion e'r was herd , where the Subject's soundly ply it , And three Constables at most , Are enough to quell and Host , that thus disturb our quiet . Drink about your full brim Bowls , see there be no shrinking , For to quench your thirsty So Projects are not thinking , ay we will devise How to make our colours rise , and Noses rich with drinking . The second part to the same Tune . C Ause the Rubies to appear in their Orient Lustre , Pottle Pots bring up the Rear , for our Forces we must muster . Senior Gallon leads the Van , He hath taken many a man , and drowns them on a Cluster . Sack it does inspire the Wit , though the Brain be muddy , Some that never knew nothing yet , by it's virtue falls to study ; He that tipples up good Sack , Finds found Marrow in the Back , that's wholesome for the Belly . All the faculties of Man , are enriched by this Treasure , He that first this Bowl began , let him give to all his measure : Sack is like AEtherial fire , Which does kindle new desire , to do a woman Pleasure . Sack does make the Spirit bold , it's like the Muses Nectar , Some that silent tongues did hold , now can speak a learned Lecture , By the slowing of the Tub , They can break Alcidds Club , and take the Crown from Hector , We never covet to be Rich , with Commerse or Trading , Nor have we not zealous Itch , though our quondom means is fading , But our Vessels & amp ; our Store , And Wits , is how to get more good Sack , and that's our lading . We that drink good Sack in Plate , to make us blithe and jolly , Never Plot against the State , to be punished for such folly , But the merry Glass and Pipe , Makes our Senses quick and ripe , and expels Melancholy . See the Sqibs , and hear the Bells' , the fifth day of November , The Preacher a sad Story tells , And with horror does remember , how some dry-braind traitors wrought Plots , that would to ruin brought , both King and every Member . We that drink , have no such thoughts blind and void of Reason . We take care to fill our Vaults , with good Wine at every season . And with many a cheerful Cup , We blow one another up , and that's our only Treason . London Printed by E. C. for F. Coals . T. Vere . and J. Wright . 