The Prodigals Resolution OR My Father was Born before me . To a Pleasant New Tune . I Am a lusty lively Lad , now come to one and twenty , My Father left me all he had , both Gold and Silver plenty . Now he's in Grave , I will be brave , the Ladies shall adore me , I'll court and kiss , what hurt's in this , My Dad did so before me . My Father was a thrifty Sir , till Soul and body sundered , Some say he was a Usurer , for thirty in the hundred ; He scrapped , & amp ; scratched , she pinched & amp ; patched that in her belly boar me , But i'll le [ tO ] fly , a good cause why , M y Father was born before me . My Daddy had his Duty done , in getting so much treasure , I'll be as dutiful a Son , for spending it in pleasure : Five pounds a quart . shall cheer my heart such Necture will [ ? ] , When Ladies call , I'll have at all , M y Father was born before me . My Grandam lived at Washington , my Grandsir delved in Ditches , The Son of old John Thrashington , who [ ? ] e tan born leathern Breeches , [ Cered ] whither go you , whither go you , [ ? ] h [ ? ] even do now adore me , TO [ ? ] did see my Pedigree , Nor who was born before me . M Y grandsir strived & amp ; wived & amp ; thrived till he did Riches gather , And when he had much wealth achieved , Oh than he god my Father : Of happy memory cry I , that ever his Mother boar him , I had not been worth a penny , Had I been born before him . To Free-school Cambridge , & amp ; Grays-Inn my Grey-coat Grandsire put him , Till to forget ( he did begin ) the Leathern Breech that god him : One dealt in Straw , tother in Law , the one did Ditch and Delve it , My Father store of Satin wore , M y Grandsir Beggars Velvet , So get I wealth , what care I if my Grandsir were a Sawyer , My Father proved to be a chief , subtle and Learned Lawyer , By Cooks Reports and tricks in Court , he did with Treasure store me , That I may say , Heavens bless the day , M y Father was born before me . Some say of late , a Merchant that had got store of Riches : In's Drinking-room hung up his Hat , his staff and Leathern Breeches , His stockings gartered up with straws ever Providence did store him , His Son was Sheriff of London cause , His father was born before him . So many blades that rend in silk , and put on Scarlet clothing , are first did spring from Buttermilk , their Ancestors worth nothing : Old Adam , and our Grandam Eve , by digging and by spining , Did to all Kings and Princes give Their Radical beginning . My Father to get me estate , though selfish yet was slavish , I'll spend it at another rate , and be as lewdly lavish : From Madmen , Fools , & amp ; knaves he did litigiously receive it , If so he did Justice forbid , But I to such should leave it . At Play-houses , and Tennis-Court , I'll prove a noble Fellow , I'll court my Dories to the sport , of O brave Punchinello : I'll Dice and Drab , and Drink and stab , no Hector shall outroar me , If Teachers tell me tales of Hell , My Father is gone before me . Our aged Counsellors would have us live by Rule and Reason , Because they are marching to the Grave , and pleasures out of season , I'll learn to Dance the Mode of France , that Ladies may adore me , My thrifty Dad no pleasure had , TO hough he was born before me . I'll to the Court where Venus sport , does Revel it in plenty , I'll deal with all , both great and small , from twelve to five and twenty : In Play-houses i'll spend my days , for they're hung round with P [ la ] ckets , Ladies make room , behold I come , have at your KNOCKING jackets , Printdd for F . Coles , TO , Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The Prodigals Resolution OR My Father was Born before me . To a Pleasant New Tune . I Am a lusty lively Lad , now come to one and twenty , My Father left me all he had , both Gold and Silver plenty . Now he's in Grave , I will be brave , the Ladies shall adore me , I'll court and kiss , what hurt's in this , My Dad did so before me . My Father was a thrifty Sir , till Soul and body sundered , Some say he was a Usurer , for thirty in the hundred ; He scrapped , & amp ; scratched , she pinched & amp ; patched that in her belly boar me , But i'll le [ tO ] fly , a good cause why , M y Father was born before me . My Daddy had his Duty done , in getting so much treasure , I'll be as dutiful a Son , for spending it in pleasure : Five pounds a quart . shall cheer my heart such Necture will [ ? ] , When Ladies call , I'll have at all , M y Father was born before me . My Grandam lived at Washington , my Grandsir delved in Ditches , The Son of old John Thrashington , who [ ? ] e tan born leathern Breeches , [ Cered ] whither go you , whither go you , [ ? ] h [ ? ] even do now adore me , TO [ ? ] did see my Pedigree , Nor who was born before me . M Y grandsir strived & amp ; wived & amp ; thrived till he did Riches gather , And when he had much wealth achieved , Oh than he god my Father : Of happy memory cry I , that ever his Mother boar him , I had not been worth a penny , Had I been born before him . To Free-school Cambridge , & amp ; Grays-Inn my Grey-coat Grandsire put him , Till to forget ( he did begin ) the Leathern Breech that god him : One dealt in Straw , tother in Law , the one did Ditch and Delve it , My Father store of Satin wore , M y Grandsir Beggars Velvet , So get I wealth , what care I if my Grandsir were a Sawyer , My Father proved to be a chief , subtle and Learned Lawyer , By Cooks Reports and tricks in Court , he did with Treasure store me , That I may say , Heavens bless the day , M y Father was born before me . Some say of late , a Merchant that had got store of Riches : In's Drinking-room hung up his Hat , his staff and Leathern Breeches , His stockings gartered up with straws ever Providence did store him , His Son was Sheriff of London cause , His father was born before him . So many blades that rend in silk , and put on Scarlet clothing , are first did spring from Buttermilk , their Ancestors worth nothing : Old Adam , and our Grandam Eve , by digging and by spining , Did to all Kings and Princes give Their Radical beginning . My Father to get me estate , though selfish yet was slavish , I'll spend it at another rate , and be as lewdly lavish : From Madmen , Fools , & amp ; knaves he did litigiously receive it , If so he did Justice forbid , But I to such should leave it . At Play-houses , and Tennis-Court , I'll prove a noble Fellow , I'll court my Dories to the sport , of O brave Punchinello : I'll Dice and Drab , and Drink and stab , no Hector shall outroar me , If Teachers tell me tales of Hell , My Father is gone before me . Our aged Counsellors would have us live by Rule and Reason , Because they are marching to the Grave , and pleasures out of season , I'll learn to Dance the Mode of France , that Ladies may adore me , My thrifty Dad no pleasure had , TO hough he was born before me . I'll to the Court where Venus sport , does Revel it in plenty , I'll deal with all , both great and small , from twelve to five and twenty : In Play-houses i'll spend my days , for they're hung round with P [ la ] ckets , Ladies make room , behold I come , have at your KNOCKING jackets , Printdd for F . Coles , TO , Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 