The Extravagant Gallants Resolution OR , The Careful FATHE R and Prodigal SON . A pleasant new Song . The young Gallant left to a great Estate Resolves to spend it at a lavish Rate Profusely scattering up and down his Gold , Which should be his support when he is old . To the Tune of , She god Money byed or four pence half penny farthing , etc R Oom for a Blade that spares no Gold , to purchase Recreation Who two and twenty years has told and is in full Possession : But i'll the money spend but i'll the money spend it's i'll let fly the Treasure I'll the Money spend , i'll the Money spend for to procure my pleasure . In all my Gallantry I go The Lasses still adore me For which if you'd the reason know my Father was born before me 'Twas he the money god , 'twas he the money god 'twas he heaped up the Treasure , He the money god he the money god that shall procure my pleasure . Had I been born before my Dad I had not had a farthing But since he's left me all he had I'm gainer by the bargain . 'Twas he the money god : 'twas he the money god 'twas he was born before me He the Money god he the Money god , For which some Men adore me . A good Estate in House and Land : he purchased for me dearly ; He thrifty was and spared to spend drudged late and god up early , But i'll the money spend , but i'll the money spend it's isle let fly the Treasure I'll the money spend I'll the money spend For to procure my pleasure . My Grandsire too , in leather clad at Plough and Cart did ply it , He pinched and spared and all he had my Father did enjoy it : But i'll the money spend but i'll the money spend I'll soon let fly the Treasure I'll the Money spend , i'll the Money spend , for to procure my pleasure . My Grandame she did carded and spin and gathered wool from Hedges And all to make my Father fine , and put him to board . wages , For they the money god , for they the money god 'twas they heaped up the Treasure They the money god , they thee money god , which must procure my pleasure . To London then they sent him strait where he my Mother wedded Who god together and Estate by things wherein they traded ; But i'll the money spend , i'll the money spend it's i'll let fly the Treasue I'll the money spend , i'll the money spend , for to procure my pleasure . Happy for me that they did so for had they god no money , I had been wretched poor and low not worth a single penny 'Twas they the money god , 'twas they the money god 'twas they heaped up the Treasure , They thee money god , they thee money god , which I will spend at leisure . What pains and cunning tricks have gai'nd by care and much advizing , In beauty and in Wine isle spend in carding and in dicing , It's isle the money spend , it's i'll the money spend it's i'll let the fly the Treasure , I'll the money spend , i'll the money spend which shall increase my pleasure . At Play-houses and at Balls i'll be where I will court my Lasses My Gold and Silver shall be free To purchase still new faces There il'e the money spend there i'll the money spend there i'll let fly the Treasure I'll the money spend , i'll the money spend , for to procure my pleasure . In Hawking and in Hunting eke my time I will be spending And in all jovial places seek for such as there are tending There i'll the money spend , there i'll the money spend there i'll let fly the Treasure , I'll the money spend , i'll the money spend , For to procure my pleasure . For Recreation must be had , thought Gold and Silver buy it . There's nothing now shall make me sad no pleasure but il'e try it , For i'll the money spend , For i'll the money spend , it's i'll let fly the Treasure , I'll the Money spend , i'll the money spend , for to procure my pleasure . No matter for my Pedigree It's like a many more Sir , I am Gallant and will be it's Money Men adore Sir But ' isle the Money spend , but i'll the money spend It's i'll let fly the Treasure , I'll the Money spend , i'll the Money spend for to procure my pleasure . My Grandsire and my Father too longtime were Riches Raking , But then alas they little knew how soon i'd send it packing For they the Money god , for they the Money god , 'twas they heaped up the Treasure But i'll the Money spend , i'll the Money spend For to procure My pleasure . This may be Printed , R.L.S. Printed for J. Conyers , at the Black-Raven the first Shop in Fetter-laine end next Holbourn . The Extravagant Gallants Resolution OR , The Careful FATHE R and Prodigal SON . A pleasant new Song . The young Gallant left to a great Estate Resolves to spend it at a lavish Rate Profusely scattering up and down his Gold , Which should be his support when he is old . To the Tune of , She god Money byed or four pence half penny farthing , etc R Oom for a Blade that spares no Gold , to purchase Recreation Who two and twenty years has told and is in full Possession : But i'll the money spend but i'll the money spend it's i'll let fly the Treasure I'll the Money spend , i'll the Money spend for to procure my pleasure . In all my Gallantry I go The Lasses still adore me For which if you'd the reason know my Father was born before me 'Twas he the money god , 'twas he the money god 'twas he heaped up the Treasure , He the money god he the money god that shall procure my pleasure . Had I been born before my Dad I had not had a farthing But since he's left me all he had I'm gainer by the bargain . 'Twas he the money god : 'twas he the money god 'twas he was born before me He the Money god he the Money god , For which some Men adore me . A good Estate in House and Land : he purchased for me dearly ; He thrifty was and spared to spend drudged late and god up early , But i'll the money spend , but i'll the money spend it's isle let fly the Treasure I'll the money spend I'll the money spend For to procure my pleasure . My Grandsire too , in leather clad at Plough and Cart did ply it , He pinched and spared and all he had my Father did enjoy it : But i'll the money spend but i'll the money spend I'll soon let fly the Treasure I'll the Money spend , i'll the Money spend , for to procure my pleasure . My Grandame she did carded and spin and gathered wool from Hedges And all to make my Father fine , and put him to board . wages , For they the money god , for they the money god 'twas they heaped up the Treasure They the money god , they thee money god , which must procure my pleasure . To London then they sent him strait where he my Mother wedded Who god together and Estate by things wherein they traded ; But i'll the money spend , i'll the money spend it's i'll let fly the Treasue I'll the money spend , i'll the money spend , for to procure my pleasure . Happy for me that they did so for had they god no money , I had been wretched poor and low not worth a single penny 'Twas they the money god , 'twas they the money god 'twas they heaped up the Treasure , They thee money god , they thee money god , which I will spend at leisure . What pains and cunning tricks have gai'nd by care and much advizing , In beauty and in Wine isle spend in carding and in dicing , It's isle the money spend , it's i'll the money spend it's i'll let the fly the Treasure , I'll the money spend , i'll the money spend which shall increase my pleasure . At Play-houses and at Balls i'll be where I will court my Lasses My Gold and Silver shall be free To purchase still new faces There il'e the money spend there i'll the money spend there i'll let fly the Treasure I'll the money spend , i'll the money spend , for to procure my pleasure . In Hawking and in Hunting eke my time I will be spending And in all jovial places seek for such as there are tending There i'll the money spend , there i'll the money spend there i'll let fly the Treasure , I'll the money spend , i'll the money spend , For to procure my pleasure . For Recreation must be had , thought Gold and Silver buy it . There's nothing now shall make me sad no pleasure but il'e try it , For i'll the money spend , For i'll the money spend , it's i'll let fly the Treasure , I'll the Money spend , i'll the money spend , for to procure my pleasure . No matter for my Pedigree It's like a many more Sir , I am Gallant and will be it's Money Men adore Sir But ' isle the Money spend , but i'll the money spend It's i'll let fly the Treasure , I'll the Money spend , i'll the Money spend for to procure my pleasure . My Grandsire and my Father too longtime were Riches Raking , But then alas they little knew how soon i'd send it packing For they the Money god , for they the Money god , 'twas they heaped up the Treasure But i'll the Money spend , i'll the Money spend For to procure My pleasure . This may be Printed , R.L.S. Printed for J. Conyers , at the Black-Raven the first Shop in Fetter-laine end next Holbourn . 