No Money , no Friend . The Spendthrift he , when it's too late Laments his sad and Wretched state : And all good Men he does advice , That they would Merry be , and wise . The Tune is , All you that do do desire to play At Cards , to pass the time away . A LL you that freely spend your Coin , Come learn by this advice of mine ; That you no more so play the Fool , Nor Tipple in the Fuddling-School : For when that you have spent your store , Your Host will turn you out oed door . This by experience I do know , Who too too lately found it so : Five hundred pound was left to me , Which I consumed immediately : And when my Money was all gone , I like and Ass was looked upon . While I had Gold and Silver store , I thought the world did me adore : For then each false dissembling Cur , Would cry , your humble servant Sir : But now my Money is all spent , Too late , poor Fool I do lament . When I was in Prosperity , Each Tap-lech that I passed by : Would cringe and bow , and swear to be My Servant to Eternity : But now alas , my Money's gone , And Servants I have never a one . But now if to their House I go , Ever drink they draw , they'll surely know , If that my Pocket it will speak . Which is enough my heart to break : If not , then he who was my friend , Out of the door soon will me send . O what a dreadful thing is this , That I of all my Servants miss : And those who did me oft invite , To drink with them , now do me slight : But if again I Money get , I surely then shall have more wit . The Second Part , to the same Tune . Yet is not spending all the Crime , For idly then I spent my time , And rather then Companions lack , I'de pick up every Idle Jack : And he that would me Master call , Should me command , my Purse and all . The Hostis she would flatter then , And say I was a pretty Man : And this so tickled then mine ear , That I praise so oft did hear : Come hanged said I , gives tother Pot , And thus I feasted every Sot. At last I had no Money left , And then was I of joys bereft : My Host and Hostis they did frown , And said I was a Drunken Clown : So then was I di [ s ] pised by all , That me before did Master call . From street to street as I did pass , Folks cried , there goes a Drunken Ass , Who not long since had Money store , But now no Creature is more poor : For Pots and Pipes made him so low , That like a Beggar he does go . Then who would pity such a one , Who could not keep himself alone , If Wife and Children he had had , The case had then been far more sad : But he no pity does deserve , If for a bit of Bred be starve . This is the pity I do find , That when I had it was so kind , To him that said he was my friend , I'de give him Wine , and money lend : But now my self I have undone , My company all men do shun . Let this my case a warning be , That none may play the fool like me , A greater plague there cannot be , Then falling from Prosperity , Into a state so deadly low , Your nearest friends will not you know . Account your Money as your Friend , So shall you flourish to the end , But when you come of friends to borrow , It will but aggravate your sorrow : To see how they will slight you then , And say you are the worst of men . Your Pot-Companions will you slight , In w [ h ] om they once did take delight : And while your money it does last , With Oaths they'll tie their friendship fast But when that you have wasted all , Then from you will your Servants fallen . Such servants you may have good store , Who help to eat you out of Door : And by their drinking in Exc [ e ] ess , Will help to make you Moneyless , Then Youngmen warning take by me , That of my Money was too free . This does my Passion much provoke , To think when I am like to Choke , Those that I heretofore did feast , They will not mind me in the least : Nor make me drink , who once were proud To drink with me to be allowed . My Kindred and Relations near , Who once did vow that they loved me dear : Will know me not , but me despise , As loathsome to their scornful eyes : For without Money there's no Friend , And thus my Song in Woe does End. FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . No Money , no Friend . The Spendthrift he , when it's too late Laments his sad and Wretched state : And all good Men he does advice , That they would Merry be , and wise . The Tune is , All you that do do desire to play At Cards , to pass the time away . A LL you that freely spend your Coin , Come learn by this advice of mine ; That you no more so play the Fool , Nor Tipple in the Fuddling-School : For when that you have spent your store , Your Host will turn you out oed door . This by experience I do know , Who too too lately found it so : Five hundred pound was left to me , Which I consumed immediately : And when my Money was all gone , I like and Ass was looked upon . While I had Gold and Silver store , I thought the world did me adore : For then each false dissembling Cur , Would cry , your humble servant Sir : But now my Money is all spent , Too late , poor Fool I do lament . When I was in Prosperity , Each Tap-lech that I passed by : Would cringe and bow , and swear to be My Servant to Eternity : But now alas , my Money's gone , And Servants I have never a one . But now if to their House I go , Ever drink they draw , they'll surely know , If that my Pocket it will speak . Which is enough my heart to break : If not , then he who was my friend , Out of the door soon will me send . O what a dreadful thing is this , That I of all my Servants miss : And those who did me oft invite , To drink with them , now do me slight : But if again I Money get , I surely then shall have more wit . The Second Part , to the same Tune . Yet is not spending all the Crime , For idly then I spent my time , And rather then Companions lack , I'de pick up every Idle Jack : And he that would me Master call , Should me command , my Purse and all . The Hostis she would flatter then , And say I was a pretty Man : And this so tickled then mine ear , That I praise so oft did hear : Come hanged said I , gives tother Pot , And thus I feasted every Sot. At last I had no Money left , And then was I of joys bereft : My Host and Hostis they did frown , And said I was a Drunken Clown : So then was I di [ s ] pised by all , That me before did Master call . From street to street as I did pass , Folks cried , there goes a Drunken Ass , Who not long since had Money store , But now no Creature is more poor : For Pots and Pipes made him so low , That like a Beggar he does go . Then who would pity such a one , Who could not keep himself alone , If Wife and Children he had had , The case had then been far more sad : But he no pity does deserve , If for a bit of Bred be starve . This is the pity I do find , That when I had it was so kind , To him that said he was my friend , I'de give him Wine , and money lend : But now my self I have undone , My company all men do shun . Let this my case a warning be , That none may play the fool like me , A greater plague there cannot be , Then falling from Prosperity , Into a state so deadly low , Your nearest friends will not you know . Account your Money as your Friend , So shall you flourish to the end , But when you come of friends to borrow , It will but aggravate your sorrow : To see how they will slight you then , And say you are the worst of men . Your Pot-Companions will you slight , In w [ h ] om they once did take delight : And while your money it does last , With Oaths they'll tie their friendship fast But when that you have wasted all , Then from you will your Servants fallen . Such servants you may have good store , Who help to eat you out of Door : And by their drinking in Exc [ e ] ess , Will help to make you Moneyless , Then Youngmen warning take by me , That of my Money was too free . This does my Passion much provoke , To think when I am like to Choke , Those that I heretofore did feast , They will not mind me in the least : Nor make me drink , who once were proud To drink with me to be allowed . My Kindred and Relations near , Who once did vow that they loved me dear : Will know me not , but me despise , As loathsome to their scornful eyes : For without Money there's no Friend , And thus my Song in Woe does End. FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 