The Merry BEGGARS of Lincolns - Inn - Fields . OR , The Beggars Art to get Money . Showing all the Pranks and Tricks they use , to make people believe they are Poor . Also , How a Gentleman served two Beggars that stood on the Highway craving his Charity , whereby their Roguery was discovered . The Beggar all the day makes moan , at night is brisk and jolly ; And spends his gains upon good Beer , to drown his Melancholy . To the Tune of , A begging we will go . This may be Printed , R.P. TO Hree Beggars met together , that used Lincolns-Inn , To take off their good Liquour , and tell where they had been . And so merry we will be , we'll be , we'll be , And so merry we will be . Let's drink our Liquour Harry , although that we do beg , I've god good store of Silver and by my wooden Leg. And so , etc Good Master spare a farthing , it is my daily cry , Bur when I'm at the Alehouse , no man so great as I . And so , etc Pray cease thy tattle Harry , for I tie up my Leg , And get by my wry face Sir , good money when I beg . And so merry we will be , we'll be , we'll be , And so merry we will be . The Second Part , to the same Tune . Sometime my arm is wrapped up in a Linen clout , Sometime I use my Crutches as though I had the Gout . And so , etc Sometime I use my Pattens , and crawl upon all four , And when my Babes I mention ; I then do get the more . And so , etc My Wife she lies a dying , three infants like to starve ; And I am lame , and helpless , some pity I do crave . And so , etc We make such moan , and clutter , In Lincolns-Inn brave fields ; That every one that passes , some comfort to us yields . And so , etc Sometime we take our Crutches , and travel to White-Hall , There's no one can deny us , so manfully we bawl . And so , etc And then among the Coaches with weariness we groan , And getting store of Silver , then we go merry home . And so , etc Sometime we play the Seaman , our Ship is cast away , By which we get good money . our Hostess for to pay . And so , etc Sometime our eyes are blinded , and covered so by Art , The lame men they do guide us , we all do act our part . And so , etc When Harry went a begging and tied up his leg ; Most bitterly we did complain , and mournfully did beg . Now so , etc A Gentleman mistrusted , and took us to be Cheats , He drew his sword and scared us from all our cunning feats . Now so , etc I threw away my pattens to save my life so sweet ; And Harry cut his string too , and quickly found his feet . And so , etc We nobly did out run-him , for we were strong and stout , And though we lost our Crutches , we could go home without . And so , etc Then here's a Bumper Harry , it is not always so : There's no man can outface us , a begging we will go . And so , etc When we have spent our money , then we will work for more , And we will beg to Morrow , to pay our drunken Score . And so merry we will be , we'll be , we'll be , And so merry we will be . FINIS . Printed for C. Dennisson at the Stati - oners-Arms , within Aldgate . The Merry BEGGARS of Lincolns - Inn - Fields . OR , The Beggars Art to get Money . Showing all the Pranks and Tricks they use , to make people believe they are Poor . Also , How a Gentleman served two Beggars that stood on the Highway craving his Charity , whereby their Roguery was discovered . The Beggar all the day makes moan , at night is brisk and jolly ; And spends his gains upon good Beer , to drown his Melancholy . To the Tune of , A begging we will go . This may be Printed , R.P. TO Hree Beggars met together , that used Lincolns-Inn , To take off their good Liquour , and tell where they had been . And so merry we will be , we'll be , we'll be , And so merry we will be . Let's drink our Liquour Harry , although that we do beg , I've god good store of Silver and by my wooden Leg. And so , etc Good Master spare a farthing , it is my daily cry , Bur when I'm at the Alehouse , no man so great as I . And so , etc Pray cease thy tattle Harry , for I tie up my Leg , And get by my wry face Sir , good money when I beg . And so merry we will be , we'll be , we'll be , And so merry we will be . The Second Part , to the same Tune . Sometime my arm is wrapped up in a Linen clout , Sometime I use my Crutches as though I had the Gout . And so , etc Sometime I use my Pattens , and crawl upon all four , And when my Babes I mention ; I then do get the more . And so , etc My Wife she lies a dying , three infants like to starve ; And I am lame , and helpless , some pity I do crave . And so , etc We make such moan , and clutter , In Lincolns-Inn brave fields ; That every one that passes , some comfort to us yields . And so , etc Sometime we take our Crutches , and travel to White-Hall , There's no one can deny us , so manfully we bawl . And so , etc And then among the Coaches with weariness we groan , And getting store of Silver , then we go merry home . And so , etc Sometime we play the Seaman , our Ship is cast away , By which we get good money . our Hostess for to pay . And so , etc Sometime our eyes are blinded , and covered so by Art , The lame men they do guide us , we all do act our part . And so , etc When Harry went a begging and tied up his leg ; Most bitterly we did complain , and mournfully did beg . Now so , etc A Gentleman mistrusted , and took us to be Cheats , He drew his sword and scared us from all our cunning feats . Now so , etc I threw away my pattens to save my life so sweet ; And Harry cut his string too , and quickly found his feet . And so , etc We nobly did out run-him , for we were strong and stout , And though we lost our Crutches , we could go home without . And so , etc Then here's a Bumper Harry , it is not always so : There's no man can outface us , a begging we will go . And so , etc When we have spent our money , then we will work for more , And we will beg to Morrow , to pay our drunken Score . And so merry we will be , we'll be , we'll be , And so merry we will be . FINIS . Printed for C. Dennisson at the Stati - oners-Arms , within Aldgate . 