Money makes the Mare to go , OR , A n Excellent new Song of the subtle shirking Sharpers , As Mountebanks , Jugglers , Gamesters , and many others of the like faculty . To the Tune of Four-pence-half-penny Farthing . This may be Printed , R.P. TO Is Money makes the Mare to go , then who can live without it , The Rich Men make a taring show , but poor men they are flouted : Rich Men get money still , they get money still , when ever they get a bargain , The poor may pine , for want of coin , they valve them not a farthing . The Farmer he does drudge and toil , and so must all about him , He rides to market many a Mile , there's none can live without him : If he gets money byed , he gets money byed , he gets money by the bargain . Through think and thin , and wet to the skin , he matters it not a farthing . The Shopkeeper will cog and lie , believe him , you are undone , He'l vow such goods you cannot buy , of never a one in London : But he gets money byed , he gets money he gets money by'th bargain , Though he tells you a lie , with a reason why , and vows he gets never a farthing . The Mountebank upon his Stage , declares his skill in Physic . No Pill prepared in this our age , like his to cure the Phthisic : If he gets money byed , he gets money byed , he gets money by the bargain , For Twelvepence still , he'l fell you a Pill , is hardly worth a farthing . Beside there is a Perjured crew , for Money , if you'll crave it ; They'll swear the Crow is white or blue , or what yowl please to have it : If he gets money byed , he get's money byed he gets money by'th , bargain , Though falsely he swears , till he lose his ears , he valve's it not a farthing . The Juggler he will Yawl aloud , and make a thousand faces , Then after he hath called a Crowd he'll Spue up Ribbons and laces , When he gets money byed , he gets money byed , he gets money byt'h bargain , To show you a trick with his Balls and S tick , for every penny and farthing . Beside there is a Thieving crew , that Robs both late and early , At length to give the Deel his endue , Jack Catch he hangs them fairly : Thus he gets money byed , he gets money byed . he gets money by thee by the bargain , If they have no coal , they into the hold , he valves them not a farthing . The Gamester must not be forgotten , for he above all other Where ever it happens to his lot , he'll strive to Cheat his Brother , If he gets money byed , he gets money byed , he gets money by the bargain , He'l Ramble abroad to cheat and defraud , yet vallue's it not a farthing . The Buxom Lass she comes to town , when Guinneys may bewitch her ; It's ten to one ere she goes down , but she may crack her Pitcher ; Thus she gets money byed , she gets money b [ yed ] she gets money by the bargain , She often hath said , that her Maidenhead , she valued not a farthing . The force of money I have told , and now my Songs here ended , To whom those Ballads shall be sold , by them I am befriended Thus I get money byed , I get money byed . I get money by the bargain , Come every one that I may have done , their very well worth four farthings . Printed for . J. Deacon , at the Angel , in Guiltspur-street , without Newgate . Money makes the Mare to go , OR , A n Excellent new Song of the subtle shirking Sharpers , As Mountebanks , Jugglers , Gamesters , and many others of the like faculty . To the Tune of Four-pence-half-penny Farthing . This may be Printed , R.P. TO Is Money makes the Mare to go , then who can live without it , The Rich Men make a taring show , but poor men they are flouted : Rich Men get money still , they get money still , when ever they get a bargain , The poor may pine , for want of coin , they valve them not a farthing . The Farmer he does drudge and toil , and so must all about him , He rides to market many a Mile , there's none can live without him : If he gets money byed , he gets money byed , he gets money by the bargain . Through think and thin , and wet to the skin , he matters it not a farthing . The Shopkeeper will cog and lie , believe him , you are undone , He'l vow such goods you cannot buy , of never a one in London : But he gets money byed , he gets money he gets money by'th bargain , Though he tells you a lie , with a reason why , and vows he gets never a farthing . The Mountebank upon his Stage , declares his skill in Physic . No Pill prepared in this our age , like his to cure the Phthisic : If he gets money byed , he gets money byed , he gets money by the bargain , For Twelvepence still , he'l fell you a Pill , is hardly worth a farthing . Beside there is a Perjured crew , for Money , if you'll crave it ; They'll swear the Crow is white or blue , or what yowl please to have it : If he gets money byed , he get's money byed he gets money by'th , bargain , Though falsely he swears , till he lose his ears , he valve's it not a farthing . The Juggler he will Yawl aloud , and make a thousand faces , Then after he hath called a Crowd he'll Spue up Ribbons and laces , When he gets money byed , he gets money byed , he gets money byt'h bargain , To show you a trick with his Balls and S tick , for every penny and farthing . Beside there is a Thieving crew , that Robs both late and early , At length to give the Deel his endue , Jack Catch he hangs them fairly : Thus he gets money byed , he gets money byed . he gets money by thee by the bargain , If they have no coal , they into the hold , he valves them not a farthing . The Gamester must not be forgotten , for he above all other Where ever it happens to his lot , he'll strive to Cheat his Brother , If he gets money byed , he gets money byed , he gets money by the bargain , He'l Ramble abroad to cheat and defraud , yet vallue's it not a farthing . The Buxom Lass she comes to town , when Guinneys may bewitch her ; It's ten to one ere she goes down , but she may crack her Pitcher ; Thus she gets money byed , she gets money b [ yed ] she gets money by the bargain , She often hath said , that her Maidenhead , she valued not a farthing . The force of money I have told , and now my Songs here ended , To whom those Ballads shall be sold , by them I am befriended Thus I get money byed , I get money byed . I get money by the bargain , Come every one that I may have done , their very well worth four farthings . Printed for . J. Deacon , at the Angel , in Guiltspur-street , without Newgate . 