The BEGGARS Delight ; as it was SUNG at the THEATRE-ROYAL : C Ourtiers , Courtiers , think it no harm , that silly poor swains in love should be , For love lies hid in rags all torn , as well as in Gold and bravery : For the beggar he loves his Lass as dear , as he that hath thousands , thousands , thousands , He that has thousand pounds a year . State and Title are pitiful things , a lower state more happy does prove , Lords and Ladies and Princes and Kings , with the beggar hath equal joys in love , And my pretty brown Cloris upon the Hay , hath always as killing , killing , killing , Hath always as killing charms as they . A Lord will purchase a Maidenhead , which perhaps hath been lost some years before , [ A ] Beggar will pawn his Cloak and his trade , [ ? to love ] and live poor : Our eager embraces in Cool-shades , are always as pleasing , pleasing , pleasing , Then theirs that are dull in downy Beds . Our Cloris is free from patches and paint , complexion and features sweetly agree , Perfections which Ladies often do want , is always intailed on her pedigree : Sweet Cloris in her own careless hair , is always more taking , taking , taking , Then Ladies that Towers and Pendents do wear . A Duchess may fail created for sport , by using of art , and changing of things , Though she was the Idol and Goddess o'th Court , the joys & amp ; the pleasure of Don. Prince , or Kings Yet Cloris in her old Russet Gown , she's found , she's found , she's found , And free from the Plague and Pox of the Town . A Beggar as boon and brisk in the dark , as she that is painted read and white , And pleases her mate , though not such [ ? ] as lies by the side of a Lord or a Knight , And Cloris hath beauty to content , so long as she's wholesome , wholesome , wholesome ; She pleases as we don't repent . What though all the day she's attired in rags , yet once a week she changes her smock , And she that hath Gold or Siver in Bags , she can do no more that match a good Cock : She ; s willing and ready to show her art , and still with her kisses , kisses , kisses , She'l conquer the senses and the heart . All the night long we do hug and embrace , the greatest and rich can do no more , And when to the swain she joins her face , he thinketh what joys there's for him in store : By the taste of the blisses so happy's he , he cry's there's no beggar , beggar , beggar , Could so blessed or so fortunate be . The touch of her hand increases his flame , who conquered by charms a captive does lie And when he but thinks of his true loves name , he vows for her sake he freely would die , Then she revives him again with a kiss . he cries you undo me , undo me , undo me , Had ever poor soul such pleasure as this ? Then gallants never envy the poors delight , it's pleasure to love , and a plague to be free , Though some for our poverty do us slight , there's none alive more happy then we ; We will are content with what we enjoy , & amp ; once in a twelve month , twelve month , twelve month We are blessed with a Girl or a Boy . Content is a thing we strive to possess , and better it is then a Golden Mine , Since us with the same the Heavens do bless , what cause have we for to repine : No , we've enough our hearts to suffice , and he that does murmer , murmer , murmer , Will never be happy nor wise . FINIS . The BEGGARS Delight ; as it was SUNG at the THEATRE-ROYAL : C Ourtiers , Courtiers , think it no harm , that silly poor swains in love should be , For love lies hid in rags all torn , as well as in Gold and bravery : For the beggar he loves his Lass as dear , as he that hath thousands , thousands , thousands , He that has thousand pounds a year . State and Title are pitiful things , a lower state more happy does prove , Lords and Ladies and Princes and Kings , with the beggar hath equal joys in love , And my pretty brown Cloris upon the Hay , hath always as killing , killing , killing , Hath always as killing charms as they . A Lord will purchase a Maidenhead , which perhaps hath been lost some years before , [ A ] Beggar will pawn his Cloak and his trade , [ ? to love ] and live poor : Our eager embraces in Cool-shades , are always as pleasing , pleasing , pleasing , Then theirs that are dull in downy Beds . Our Cloris is free from patches and paint , complexion and features sweetly agree , Perfections which Ladies often do want , is always intailed on her pedigree : Sweet Cloris in her own careless hair , is always more taking , taking , taking , Then Ladies that Towers and Pendents do wear . A Duchess may fail created for sport , by using of art , and changing of things , Though she was the Idol and Goddess o'th Court , the joys & amp ; the pleasure of Don. Prince , or Kings Yet Cloris in her old Russet Gown , she's found , she's found , she's found , And free from the Plague and Pox of the Town . A Beggar as boon and brisk in the dark , as she that is painted read and white , And pleases her mate , though not such [ ? ] as lies by the side of a Lord or a Knight , And Cloris hath beauty to content , so long as she's wholesome , wholesome , wholesome ; She pleases as we don't repent . What though all the day she's attired in rags , yet once a week she changes her smock , And she that hath Gold or Siver in Bags , she can do no more that match a good Cock : She ; s willing and ready to show her art , and still with her kisses , kisses , kisses , She'l conquer the senses and the heart . All the night long we do hug and embrace , the greatest and rich can do no more , And when to the swain she joins her face , he thinketh what joys there's for him in store : By the taste of the blisses so happy's he , he cry's there's no beggar , beggar , beggar , Could so blessed or so fortunate be . The touch of her hand increases his flame , who conquered by charms a captive does lie And when he but thinks of his true loves name , he vows for her sake he freely would die , Then she revives him again with a kiss . he cries you undo me , undo me , undo me , Had ever poor soul such pleasure as this ? Then gallants never envy the poors delight , it's pleasure to love , and a plague to be free , Though some for our poverty do us slight , there's none alive more happy then we ; We will are content with what we enjoy , & amp ; once in a twelve month , twelve month , twelve month We are blessed with a Girl or a Boy . Content is a thing we strive to possess , and better it is then a Golden Mine , Since us with the same the Heavens do bless , what cause have we for to repine : No , we've enough our hearts to suffice , and he that does murmer , murmer , murmer , Will never be happy nor wise . FINIS . 