The Beggars Chorus , In the Jovial CREW . To a pleasant new Tune ' TO Here was a jovial Beggar , he had a Wooden Leg Lame from his Cradle , and forced for to beg : And a begging we will go , well go , we'll go , And a begging we will go . A Bag for my Oatmeal , another for my Rye ; A little Bottle by my side , to drink when I'm a dry , And a begging we will go , we'll go , we'll go , And a begging we will go . A bag for my wheat , and another for my Salt , A little pair of Crutches , to see how I can halt , And a begging , etc A bag for my Bred , another for my Cheese , A little Dog to follow me , to gather what I lose , And a begging , etc To Pimblico we'll go , where we shall merry be ; With every man a Can in's hand and a Wench upon his knee , And a begging , etc And when that we're disposed , we tumble on the Grass , With long patched Coats , for to hide a pretty lass , And a begging , etc Seven Years I served my old Master Wild , Seven years I begged while I was but a Child , And a begging , etc I had the pretty knack , to wheedle and to cry , By young and by old , Much pitied ever was I , And a , etc Fatherless and Motherless , Still was my Complaint , And none that ever saw me , but took me for a Saint , And a , etc I begged for my Master , and god him store of pelf , But Jove now be praised , I now beg for my self , And a begging , etc Within a hollow Tree I live , and pay no rend , Providence provides for me , and I am well content . And a begging , etc I fear no Plots against me , but live in open Cell , Why who would be a King when a beggar lives so well , And a begging we will go . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-ball in Pye-Corner . The Beggars Chorus , In the Jovial CREW . To a pleasant new Tune ' TO Here was a jovial Beggar , he had a Wooden Leg Lame from his Cradle , and forced for to beg : And a begging we will go , well go , we'll go , And a begging we will go . A Bag for my Oatmeal , another for my Rye ; A little Bottle by my side , to drink when I'm a dry , And a begging we will go , we'll go , we'll go , And a begging we will go . A bag for my wheat , and another for my Salt , A little pair of Crutches , to see how I can halt , And a begging , etc A bag for my Bred , another for my Cheese , A little Dog to follow me , to gather what I lose , And a begging , etc To Pimblico we'll go , where we shall merry be ; With every man a Can in's hand and a Wench upon his knee , And a begging , etc And when that we're disposed , we tumble on the Grass , With long patched Coats , for to hide a pretty lass , And a begging , etc Seven Years I served my old Master Wild , Seven years I begged while I was but a Child , And a begging , etc I had the pretty knack , to wheedle and to cry , By young and by old , Much pitied ever was I , And a , etc Fatherless and Motherless , Still was my Complaint , And none that ever saw me , but took me for a Saint , And a , etc I begged for my Master , and god him store of pelf , But Jove now be praised , I now beg for my self , And a begging , etc Within a hollow Tree I live , and pay no rend , Providence provides for me , and I am well content . And a begging , etc I fear no Plots against me , but live in open Cell , Why who would be a King when a beggar lives so well , And a begging we will go . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-ball in Pye-Corner . 