The BIRDS Harmony . The Sylvan woods seemed to complain of gross inconstancy , the Birds in vain Did warble forth their griefs to ease their minds , and all did Sympathise , though ease none finds . Tune , The delights of the bottle , etc A S I was walking in the shade which Summer's heat with leaves has made The Birds did seem for to lament . and did complain of grief and discontent ; But as they fled from Tree to Tree , they made such moan as sorely troubled me . Then came the Cookooe bold and stout , flying the Country round about , While other birds her young ones feed , and they for help of others stand in need , The Sire unkind no care does take , but leaves the young ones some strange shift to make . Then said the Blackbird as she fled , I had a Love but now she's dead , And now my love I dearly lack , which is the cause that I do go in black , And by my self I sadly mourn , like one forsaken , helpless , and forlorn . Then said the pretty Nightingale , attend and hear my mournful tale , While other Birds do sleep , I mourn , leaning my breast against some prickly thorn , And in the silent darksome night , to send forth mournful Notes I take delight . Then said the Sparrow from her Nest , I had a Love but 'twas in jest , And ever since for that same thing I made a promise I would never sing , Which I intend for my loves sake , that I will keep , and will by no means break . Then said the Lark upon the grass , once I did love a pretty Lass , But she'd not hear her true love sing , although she had a voice would please a King ; And since on high into the Air I fly , that none my warbling voice may hear , Then next poor Robin she expressed , what changed the colour of her breast Because her love he would not yield : she would desert the Grove and flowery field ? And near the Houses there complain in Winter Morn , how she did love in vain . The Swallow with the wings so long , complained that she received wrong , And being passed all kind of hope's of love , complained in strange confused Notes : No one can understand her tale , in such disorder she does brawl and rail . The Thresh also did make her moan , and says that kindness she found none , But love to be in silent holes , where none may hear how she her case condoules . Far from that [ ? ] [ ? ] ood she changed [ ? ] [ ? ] ood . The little Renn whose love unkind did cause those griefs to cease her mind : Which hindered her to grow or thrive , because her love no longer could survive ; This was the cause she was so small , her love being dead she could not thrive at all . Thus may you see how little Birds do grieve for love in mournful woods , Let men and women then be true and constant to each others , so that you In peace may live , and when you die , you then may boast of Truth and Loyalty . Let not your minds be discomposed when your poor eyes must needs be closed , But rather let your faithful mind be such as you from thence may comfort find Be kind , be true , that so you may find peace on Earth , comfort another day . Who so proves faithful , firm , and true , shall have no reason for to rue , But Triumph over grim faced death , when he shall come to stop his latest breath ; Young people all let this you move , for to be true and loyal in your love . LONDON Printed for M. Coals . T. Vere . J. Wright . [ ? ] Clark . W Thackery , and TO , Passenger . The BIRDS Harmony . The Sylvan woods seemed to complain of gross inconstancy , the Birds in vain Did warble forth their griefs to ease their minds , and all did Sympathise , though ease none finds . Tune , The delights of the bottle , etc A S I was walking in the shade which Summer's heat with leaves has made The Birds did seem for to lament . and did complain of grief and discontent ; But as they fled from Tree to Tree , they made such moan as sorely troubled me . Then came the Cookooe bold and stout , flying the Country round about , While other birds her young ones feed , and they for help of others stand in need , The Sire unkind no care does take , but leaves the young ones some strange shift to make . Then said the Blackbird as she fled , I had a Love but now she's dead , And now my love I dearly lack , which is the cause that I do go in black , And by my self I sadly mourn , like one forsaken , helpless , and forlorn . Then said the pretty Nightingale , attend and hear my mournful tale , While other Birds do sleep , I mourn , leaning my breast against some prickly thorn , And in the silent darksome night , to send forth mournful Notes I take delight . Then said the Sparrow from her Nest , I had a Love but 'twas in jest , And ever since for that same thing I made a promise I would never sing , Which I intend for my loves sake , that I will keep , and will by no means break . Then said the Lark upon the grass , once I did love a pretty Lass , But she'd not hear her true love sing , although she had a voice would please a King ; And since on high into the Air I fly , that none my warbling voice may hear , Then next poor Robin she expressed , what changed the colour of her breast Because her love he would not yield : she would desert the Grove and flowery field ? And near the Houses there complain in Winter Morn , how she did love in vain . The Swallow with the wings so long , complained that she received wrong , And being passed all kind of hope's of love , complained in strange confused Notes : No one can understand her tale , in such disorder she does brawl and rail . The Thresh also did make her moan , and says that kindness she found none , But love to be in silent holes , where none may hear how she her case condoules . Far from that [ ? ] [ ? ] ood she changed [ ? ] [ ? ] ood . The little Renn whose love unkind did cause those griefs to cease her mind : Which hindered her to grow or thrive , because her love no longer could survive ; This was the cause she was so small , her love being dead she could not thrive at all . Thus may you see how little Birds do grieve for love in mournful woods , Let men and women then be true and constant to each others , so that you In peace may live , and when you die , you then may boast of Truth and Loyalty . Let not your minds be discomposed when your poor eyes must needs be closed , But rather let your faithful mind be such as you from thence may comfort find Be kind , be true , that so you may find peace on Earth , comfort another day . Who so proves faithful , firm , and true , shall have no reason for to rue , But Triumph over grim faced death , when he shall come to stop his latest breath ; Young people all let this you move , for to be true and loyal in your love . LONDON Printed for M. Coals . T. Vere . J. Wright . [ ? ] Clark . W Thackery , and TO , Passenger . 