Jack Pudding's Fegary . There's many Men do play the Fool Because that Wit they want ; But Honest Jack does play the Fool Because Money it is scant . To the Tune of , I am a very good Maid , etc A LL you that Delight in pastimes most Rare , Come see what brave Sights , are at Bartholomew-Fair : Such Sights out of Smithfield , you never did see , The post to the Fair , and be ruled by me . For if with your Money , you easily part , It'll certainly vex every Vein of your Heart : To see for your Coin , how little you have , Jack Pudding is not so much Fool as a Knave . Large Speeches he makes , and if you him believe , To see how he Fools you , he laughs in his Sleeve : And when the Play's done , tell me if you can , Whither he be a Fool , or a politic Man. There's others beside , that for Money do wait , And a thousand strange things , they will put in your pate : But if you believe such praters as these , They'll tell you the Moon is made of Green Cheese . Some others there are , that have pretty Shows , Will seem as your Friends , but are secretly Foes : And will pocket the Silver , you god with great pain , By showing you Tricks of their Legerdemain . But beside what I speak of , beware of one Trick , Lest Diverse your Pockets do Cunningly pick : For certain it is , that many there are , That nothing else come for , to Bartholomew-Fair . Yet some that before have been certainly Bit , The pleasures of Smithfield , they cannot forget : But though for their Follies , they suffered so deep , Yet from this same Fair , they by no means can keep . For Gentle and Simple , to Smithfield do fly , To see Honest JACK , and to hear how he'l Lie : Yet JACK is Endued with gifts so profound , There's some that does work for him all the year round . He'l wash from his heart , all grief , care , and sorrow , And thinks there will be store of Fools the next morrow : But if in the Morning a Wet day appears , Then Jack is possessed with sorrows and fears . But the Fair on Jack Pudding don't wholly depend , For there you may meet with a Pockifyed Friend : That for a small piece , such a Faring will give , You'll never be rid of , as long as you live . You Lusty young Lads that do want to be Tamed , There's a place near to Smithfield , that must not be Named : And there you may find kind Lasses great store , For a small piece of Coin , you may have a great Whore . But now it is time almost to Conclude , I blame not the Civil , but those that are Rude : For many there be that do go to the Fair , Whose Virtues are great , and their Qualities rare . If all should be base that thither do go , I think there would be such a Damnable Show , That Holland , or France , or the Kingdom of Spain , Could hardly produce , such a Rabble again . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thac - keray , and T. Passenger . Jack Pudding's Fegary . There's many Men do play the Fool Because that Wit they want ; But Honest Jack does play the Fool Because Money it is scant . To the Tune of , I am a very good Maid , etc A LL you that Delight in pastimes most Rare , Come see what brave Sights , are at Bartholomew-Fair : Such Sights out of Smithfield , you never did see , The post to the Fair , and be ruled by me . For if with your Money , you easily part , It'll certainly vex every Vein of your Heart : To see for your Coin , how little you have , Jack Pudding is not so much Fool as a Knave . Large Speeches he makes , and if you him believe , To see how he Fools you , he laughs in his Sleeve : And when the Play's done , tell me if you can , Whither he be a Fool , or a politic Man. There's others beside , that for Money do wait , And a thousand strange things , they will put in your pate : But if you believe such praters as these , They'll tell you the Moon is made of Green Cheese . Some others there are , that have pretty Shows , Will seem as your Friends , but are secretly Foes : And will pocket the Silver , you god with great pain , By showing you Tricks of their Legerdemain . But beside what I speak of , beware of one Trick , Lest Diverse your Pockets do Cunningly pick : For certain it is , that many there are , That nothing else come for , to Bartholomew-Fair . Yet some that before have been certainly Bit , The pleasures of Smithfield , they cannot forget : But though for their Follies , they suffered so deep , Yet from this same Fair , they by no means can keep . For Gentle and Simple , to Smithfield do fly , To see Honest JACK , and to hear how he'l Lie : Yet JACK is Endued with gifts so profound , There's some that does work for him all the year round . He'l wash from his heart , all grief , care , and sorrow , And thinks there will be store of Fools the next morrow : But if in the Morning a Wet day appears , Then Jack is possessed with sorrows and fears . But the Fair on Jack Pudding don't wholly depend , For there you may meet with a Pockifyed Friend : That for a small piece , such a Faring will give , You'll never be rid of , as long as you live . You Lusty young Lads that do want to be Tamed , There's a place near to Smithfield , that must not be Named : And there you may find kind Lasses great store , For a small piece of Coin , you may have a great Whore . But now it is time almost to Conclude , I blame not the Civil , but those that are Rude : For many there be that do go to the Fair , Whose Virtues are great , and their Qualities rare . If all should be base that thither do go , I think there would be such a Damnable Show , That Holland , or France , or the Kingdom of Spain , Could hardly produce , such a Rabble again . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thac - keray , and T. Passenger . 