The Huntsman's Delight . Or , The Foresters Pleasure . The Dear are wounded but they are not slave Yet so they're wounded that they are or'etain And in their taking pity it is shown For why 'twas thought that some there was with Fawn . The Keepers swore great Oaths upon their lives They be as kind to them as men are to their Wives The pleasant sport this Ditty does declare Of the kind Huntsmen and the Fallow Dear Tune of among the leaves so green a. By J. M. C Ome all you young Maidens & amp ; lend and Ear Come listen a while and you shall hear , How the Keepers did sport with the fallow deer among the leaves so green a. Heigh down derry derry down Hey down down , ho down down , Heigh down ho down derry derry down among the leaves so green a , The Keepers they would an a Hunting go , And under their coats each carried his bow , And all for to shoot the bonny bonny Doe , among the leaves [ so green a ] , Heigh down derry derry down , Heigh down down ho down down , Heigh down ho down derry derry down among the leaves so green a. They spied five Does upon a hill , And to shoot at them was their good will But none of them they meant for to kill among the leaves so green a. Heigh down etc At the first Doe they shot and they missed The second doe they clipped and they kissed And they laid them down where no man wist among the leaves so green a. The one cried out unto the other I am served as my Father served my Mother All the fear of their taking this joy did smother among the Leaves so green a. Heigh down . etc The third Doe she made great moan Because that she was big with Fawn Which made her to go weeping home From among the Leaves so green a Hey down , etc The fourth Doe could no longer stay , But she must be gone her way For fear that the Keepers should her lay among the Leaves so green a , Heigh down , etc But soon after she did repent And to turn again she was fully bent To lie down and take her hearts content among the Leaves so green a , Heigh down , etc The fift Doe leapt over the style But the Keeper he caught her by the heel And there he did both kiss and feel among the leaves so green a , Heigh down , etc He pricked her straight with his dart But she cried out she felt no smart And therein lay the Keepers art , among the leaves so green a , Heigh down , etc These fair Does they leapt and they skipped Till leaping along at length they were trip No sooner they fell but the Keepers them clipped among the Leaves so green a Hey down , etc These bold Huntsmen were all agreed And by consent these fare Does did bleed But after that came often to feed among the leaves so green a , Heigh down , etc Great crouds came running over the Plain Expecting to see these fair Does slave But like fools as they came , they returned again From among the leaves so green a , Heigh down , etc If it be true as old wives say Take a Doe in the Month of May And a Foresters courage he soon will allay among the leaves so green a , Heigh down , etc These Huntsmen were so gently inclined They let them rise their courage to find But away they trip so sweet as the wind From among the leaves so green a , Heigh down derry derry down Hey down down ho down down Heigh down ho down derry derry down among the Leaves so green a. Printed for W. Thackery and T. Passenger . The Huntsman's Delight . Or , The Foresters Pleasure . The Dear are wounded but they are not slave Yet so they're wounded that they are or'etain And in their taking pity it is shown For why 'twas thought that some there was with Fawn . The Keepers swore great Oaths upon their lives They be as kind to them as men are to their Wives The pleasant sport this Ditty does declare Of the kind Huntsmen and the Fallow Dear Tune of among the leaves so green a. By J. M. C Ome all you young Maidens & amp ; lend and Ear Come listen a while and you shall hear , How the Keepers did sport with the fallow deer among the leaves so green a. Heigh down derry derry down Hey down down , ho down down , Heigh down ho down derry derry down among the leaves so green a , The Keepers they would an a Hunting go , And under their coats each carried his bow , And all for to shoot the bonny bonny Doe , among the leaves [ so green a ] , Heigh down derry derry down , Heigh down down ho down down , Heigh down ho down derry derry down among the leaves so green a. They spied five Does upon a hill , And to shoot at them was their good will But none of them they meant for to kill among the leaves so green a. Heigh down etc At the first Doe they shot and they missed The second doe they clipped and they kissed And they laid them down where no man wist among the leaves so green a. The one cried out unto the other I am served as my Father served my Mother All the fear of their taking this joy did smother among the Leaves so green a. Heigh down . etc The third Doe she made great moan Because that she was big with Fawn Which made her to go weeping home From among the Leaves so green a Hey down , etc The fourth Doe could no longer stay , But she must be gone her way For fear that the Keepers should her lay among the Leaves so green a , Heigh down , etc But soon after she did repent And to turn again she was fully bent To lie down and take her hearts content among the Leaves so green a , Heigh down , etc The fift Doe leapt over the style But the Keeper he caught her by the heel And there he did both kiss and feel among the leaves so green a , Heigh down , etc He pricked her straight with his dart But she cried out she felt no smart And therein lay the Keepers art , among the leaves so green a , Heigh down , etc These fair Does they leapt and they skipped Till leaping along at length they were trip No sooner they fell but the Keepers them clipped among the Leaves so green a Hey down , etc These bold Huntsmen were all agreed And by consent these fare Does did bleed But after that came often to feed among the leaves so green a , Heigh down , etc Great crouds came running over the Plain Expecting to see these fair Does slave But like fools as they came , they returned again From among the leaves so green a , Heigh down , etc If it be true as old wives say Take a Doe in the Month of May And a Foresters courage he soon will allay among the leaves so green a , Heigh down , etc These Huntsmen were so gently inclined They let them rise their courage to find But away they trip so sweet as the wind From among the leaves so green a , Heigh down derry derry down Hey down down ho down down Heigh down ho down derry derry down among the Leaves so green a. Printed for W. Thackery and T. Passenger . 