The Maidens Frolicsome Undertaking To Press Fourteen Tailors , With the Success of that Comical Adventure To the Tune of , And Orange . Licensed according to Order . L Ate near Temple-Bar , a Frolic we hear , Which many brisk Fellows did put in much fear Ten Lasses in the Strand , did take it in hand , In Seamens disguise , for to Press and Command Fourteen Tailors . Moll , Nelly , and Sue , with Nan , Kate , and Prue , Their Hangers put on , with the rest of the Crew , And so strait they went , about their intent , To Ferret them out of their Garrets , they meant , All the Tailors . But as they did go , along the back-Row , They met with a Snipper that well they did know ; Moll starts from the rest , and cries Friend you are pressed He let fallen his Cabbidge , and cried by his List , I'm a Taylor . A Taylor for Sea , he never can fit be , He's the ninth of a Man , then pray set me free , But this blind excuse , nor the price of his Goose , Did not then prevail , for , says Kate , there's much use For a Taylor . Though it's plain he's no Man , yet stitch well he can , There's need oned at Sea , then you Rascal come on , Then trembling full low , himself he did throw At their feet , and did beg that they pity would show To a Taylor . Pray pity my tears , and my Bodkin and Shears , With all the good Cabbidge I've stole many years ; Talk not of the Sea , I pray set me free , For when did you hear that to Fight did agree With a Taylor . But nothing availed , away he was hailed , Nor long of more Tailors this buxom Crew failed . Six more they did seize , at Small-beer and Cheese , For well out of Cowcumber-time that agrees With the Tailors . At sighed of this Crew , some fainted , some flew , The Room it was scented , but all would not do ; You Scoundrels , quoth Nell , dare you to rebel , Come along , and with that they to Cudgeling fell Of the Tailors . They cried out full soar , they had Children store , And Wives to maintain , but quoth Molly give over It's better be brave , then fit like a Slave , Crosslegged on a Shopboard ; but this sorrow gave To the Tailors . These once away sent , to the Garrets they went , And though they saw none , yet to search they were bent And feeling i the Shreads , they found out their beds In Hell then for fear were hidden the Heads Of the Tailors . Then out from the Rags , a Taylor each drags , Oh some by the Heels , and some by the Crags , And cried out away , you Rascals , to Sea , Fight for King and Queen , but this did not agree With the Tailors . Thus eight more they god , to make up the shot , Cries Sue , in the Chimney as yet we looked not ; This made them look there , when strid in the Bar , A cockhorse were riding three ( half dead with fear ) Of the Tailors . These being thus Pressed , they looked for the rest , And quickly they pulled they all out of their Nest ; Compelled them to go , with Kick and with blow , Some cried and some pist , and yet all would not do For the Tailors . They stood not to choose , nor none did refuse , Monsieur , Shon-a-Morgan , & amp ; Teague they did nooze , And more in the Trap , these Females did snap , Until they the Fourteen had fairly made up Of all Tailors . The Answer to the Frolicsome Maids who Pressed the TAYLORS ; or , The Tailors Resolution to be Revenged on these Petticoat Seamen , in Steal - ing more Cabbidge from Gowns , Petticoats , etc To the Tune of , And Orange . G Ood people you know , it's not long ago That six lusty Lasses did Frolicking go , Jone , Bridget , and Bess , all in Seamens Dress , Like sturdy Tarpaulins , they ventured to Press Fourteen Tailors . Now upon being told , those Pressmasters bold , Were only six Maids , none yet twenty years old , Their Hair off they tore , and bloodily swore , That never were Tradesmen so served before As poor Tailors . Cries Will to his Mate , I Frolicks do hate , That do serve us Tailors at such a bad rate ; Stout Jone did me take by the Collar , and shake , Then dragged me along as a Bear to a Stake , Though a Taylor . Then Tony Upright , cried , you ought to Fight , And forced all the Petticoat Train to a flight ; Had I had your place , the weak Female Raze Should never have bragged to have done such disgrace To us Tailors . Cries Will , if I'ld known , Ann , Bridget , and Jo [ ne ] The Petticoat-Press-masters soon should have flown For ending the strife , 'twas but calling my Wife She'd dont but for me , I never Boxed in my life I'm a Taylor . For some time we lay , confined night and day , Nor did they then pity us when we did pray ; Poor Shon-a-Morgan , Dick , Tom , Ralph and [ Ben ] Some fourteen or fifteen we counted stout Men , Of us Tailors . Thus cruelly used we were , and abused , For which great Affront they shall never be excus [ ' worser ] To plague them for all , a Caball we'll call , That shall have no mercy or pity at all , As they're Tailors . This once thus agreed , they come to proceed , And send out to Summon all Tailors with speed Their Case they did Note , and put it to Vote , What Silk or Stuff should be Snipe from a Counterfeit [ at ] By the Tailors . The Garments Maids wear , our harms shall rep [ air ] With secrecy acted , and provident care , Now each of you know , a Yard was our due , But for this Affront , we give leave to take Two As we're Tailors . Then to drench their Soul , the Tailors did [ troll ] In cherishing Cups , or a nappy brown Bowl , And choosing for Heed , Dick , Ralph , Will & amp ; Ned , Each calls for his Pot and a dozen of Bred , Like brisk Tailors . The Tailors thus met , and in Council set , It would have been strange had Old Neck spread [ ? ] Of all sorts besure , he had caught good store ; For some do affirm them three hundred or more , Each a Taylor . Then straight did begin , Welsh Shon-a-Morgan Hur cries , py St. Taffy , hur hold hur no since ; To sheat hur damed Shade , that durst hur degrade What hur steals is Cabidge , belongs to the Tr [ ade ] Of a Taylor . At last they agree , from Six to snip Three , That Frolicsome Lasses might punished be , Yet Taffy did Huff , Swears 'twas not enough , Hur means to steal four Yards of Silk or of Stu [ ff ] Like a Taylor . Printed for W. Thackeray , J. Millet , and A. Milbourn . The Maidens Frolicsome Undertaking To Press Fourteen Tailors , With the Success of that Comical Adventure To the Tune of , And Orange . Licensed according to Order . L Ate near Temple-Bar , a Frolic we hear , Which many brisk Fellows did put in much fear Ten Lasses in the Strand , did take it in hand , In Seamens disguise , for to Press and Command Fourteen Tailors . Moll , Nelly , and Sue , with Nan , Kate , and Prue , Their Hangers put on , with the rest of the Crew , And so strait they went , about their intent , To Ferret them out of their Garrets , they meant , All the Tailors . But as they did go , along the back-Row , They met with a Snipper that well they did know ; Moll starts from the rest , and cries Friend you are pressed He let fallen his Cabbidge , and cried by his List , I'm a Taylor . A Taylor for Sea , he never can fit be , He's the ninth of a Man , then pray set me free , But this blind excuse , nor the price of his Goose , Did not then prevail , for , says Kate , there's much use For a Taylor . Though it's plain he's no Man , yet stitch well he can , There's need oned at Sea , then you Rascal come on , Then trembling full low , himself he did throw At their feet , and did beg that they pity would show To a Taylor . Pray pity my tears , and my Bodkin and Shears , With all the good Cabbidge I've stole many years ; Talk not of the Sea , I pray set me free , For when did you hear that to Fight did agree With a Taylor . But nothing availed , away he was hailed , Nor long of more Tailors this buxom Crew failed . Six more they did seize , at Small-beer and Cheese , For well out of Cowcumber-time that agrees With the Tailors . At sighed of this Crew , some fainted , some flew , The Room it was scented , but all would not do ; You Scoundrels , quoth Nell , dare you to rebel , Come along , and with that they to Cudgeling fell Of the Tailors . They cried out full soar , they had Children store , And Wives to maintain , but quoth Molly give over It's better be brave , then fit like a Slave , Crosslegged on a Shopboard ; but this sorrow gave To the Tailors . These once away sent , to the Garrets they went , And though they saw none , yet to search they were bent And feeling i the Shreads , they found out their beds In Hell then for fear were hidden the Heads Of the Tailors . Then out from the Rags , a Taylor each drags , Oh some by the Heels , and some by the Crags , And cried out away , you Rascals , to Sea , Fight for King and Queen , but this did not agree With the Tailors . Thus eight more they god , to make up the shot , Cries Sue , in the Chimney as yet we looked not ; This made them look there , when strid in the Bar , A cockhorse were riding three ( half dead with fear ) Of the Tailors . These being thus Pressed , they looked for the rest , And quickly they pulled they all out of their Nest ; Compelled them to go , with Kick and with blow , Some cried and some pist , and yet all would not do For the Tailors . They stood not to choose , nor none did refuse , Monsieur , Shon-a-Morgan , & amp ; Teague they did nooze , And more in the Trap , these Females did snap , Until they the Fourteen had fairly made up Of all Tailors . The Answer to the Frolicsome Maids who Pressed the TAYLORS ; or , The Tailors Resolution to be Revenged on these Petticoat Seamen , in Steal - ing more Cabbidge from Gowns , Petticoats , etc To the Tune of , And Orange . G Ood people you know , it's not long ago That six lusty Lasses did Frolicking go , Jone , Bridget , and Bess , all in Seamens Dress , Like sturdy Tarpaulins , they ventured to Press Fourteen Tailors . Now upon being told , those Pressmasters bold , Were only six Maids , none yet twenty years old , Their Hair off they tore , and bloodily swore , That never were Tradesmen so served before As poor Tailors . Cries Will to his Mate , I Frolicks do hate , That do serve us Tailors at such a bad rate ; Stout Jone did me take by the Collar , and shake , Then dragged me along as a Bear to a Stake , Though a Taylor . Then Tony Upright , cried , you ought to Fight , And forced all the Petticoat Train to a flight ; Had I had your place , the weak Female Raze Should never have bragged to have done such disgrace To us Tailors . Cries Will , if I'ld known , Ann , Bridget , and Jo [ ne ] The Petticoat-Press-masters soon should have flown For ending the strife , 'twas but calling my Wife She'd dont but for me , I never Boxed in my life I'm a Taylor . For some time we lay , confined night and day , Nor did they then pity us when we did pray ; Poor Shon-a-Morgan , Dick , Tom , Ralph and [ Ben ] Some fourteen or fifteen we counted stout Men , Of us Tailors . Thus cruelly used we were , and abused , For which great Affront they shall never be excus [ ' worser ] To plague them for all , a Caball we'll call , That shall have no mercy or pity at all , As they're Tailors . This once thus agreed , they come to proceed , And send out to Summon all Tailors with speed Their Case they did Note , and put it to Vote , What Silk or Stuff should be Snipe from a Counterfeit [ at ] By the Tailors . The Garments Maids wear , our harms shall rep [ air ] With secrecy acted , and provident care , Now each of you know , a Yard was our due , But for this Affront , we give leave to take Two As we're Tailors . Then to drench their Soul , the Tailors did [ troll ] In cherishing Cups , or a nappy brown Bowl , And choosing for Heed , Dick , Ralph , Will & amp ; Ned , Each calls for his Pot and a dozen of Bred , Like brisk Tailors . The Tailors thus met , and in Council set , It would have been strange had Old Neck spread [ ? ] Of all sorts besure , he had caught good store ; For some do affirm them three hundred or more , Each a Taylor . Then straight did begin , Welsh Shon-a-Morgan Hur cries , py St. Taffy , hur hold hur no since ; To sheat hur damed Shade , that durst hur degrade What hur steals is Cabidge , belongs to the Tr [ ade ] Of a Taylor . At last they agree , from Six to snip Three , That Frolicsome Lasses might punished be , Yet Taffy did Huff , Swears 'twas not enough , Hur means to steal four Yards of Silk or of Stu [ ff ] Like a Taylor . Printed for W. Thackeray , J. Millet , and A. Milbourn . 