The Hunting of the Hare . With her last Will and Testament . As 'twas performed on Bamstead-Downs , By Conny-Catchers , and their Hounds . To a pleasant new Tune . O F all delights that Earth does yield , Give me a pack of hounds in the field , Whose Echo shall ( throughout the Sky ) Make Jove admire our Harmony ; And wish that he a Mortal were , To view the pastime we have here . I will tell you of a rare Scent , Where many a gallant Horse was spent , On Bamsted-Downs a Hare we found , Which led us all a smoking round ; Over Hedge and Ditch away she goes , Admiring her approaching foes . But when she found her strength to waste , She Parleyed with the Hounds at last ; Kind Hounds ( quoth she ) forbear to kill A harmless Hare that never thought ill ; And if your Master sport do crave , I'll led a Scent as he would have . Huntsman . Away , away , thou art alone , Make haste , I say , and get thee gone , We'll give thee Law for half a mile , To see if thou canst us beguile ; But then expect a thundering cry , Made by us and our Harmony . Hare . Now since you set my life to flight , I'll make black-Sloven turn to white , And Yorkshire-Gary that runs at all , I'll make him wish he were in Stall ; And Sorrel ( he ) that seems to fly , I'll make him supple ever he die . And Barnard-Boy , do what he can , Or Barons-Bay , that now and than Did interrupt me in the way , I'll make him neither jet nor play , Or constant Robin , though he lie At his advantage , what care I . Will . Hatton he hath done me wrong , He struck me as I ran along ; And with one pat made me so soar , That I ran reeling too and from : But if I die , his Master tell , That fool shall ring my Passing-Bell . Hounds . Alas , poor Hare , it is our Nature , To kill thee , and no other Creature ; For our Master wants a bit , And thou wilt well become the Spit , He'll eat thy flesh , we'll pick thy bone , This is thy doom , so get thee gone . Hare . Your Master may have better Cheer , For I am dry , and Butter's dear ; But if he please to make a Friend , He'd better give a Puddings-end , For , I being killed , he sport will lack , And I must hang on the Huntsman's back , Hounds . Alas , poor Hare , we pity thee , If with our nature 'twould agree , But all thy doubling shift , I fear , Will not prevail , thy Death's so near ; Then make thy Will ; it may be that May save thee , or I know not what . Hare . Then I bequeathe my Body free , Unto your Master's Courtesy ; And if he please my Life to grant , I'll be his Game , when sport is scant ; But if I die , each greedy Hound Divides my Entrails on the ground . Imprimis , I bequeathe my Head To him that a fair fool does wed , Who hath before her Maidenhead lost , I would not have the Proverb crossed Which I've herd amongst many quiblets , set the Harts-head ' ginst the goose-giblets . Item , I do give and bequeathe To men in Debt ( after my Death ) My subtle Scent , so that they may Beware of such as would betray Them to a miserable fate , By bloodhounds from the Counter-gate Item , I to a Turn-Coat give ( That he may more obscurely live ) My swift and sudden Doublens , which Will make him politic and rich : Though at the last , with many wounds , I wish him killed by his own Hounds . Item , I give into their hands , That purchase Deans and Chapters lands My wretched jealousies and fears , Mixed with the Salt of Orphans tears , That long vexations may persever To plague them and their heirs for ever Before I die , for life is scant , I would supply men's proper want , And therefore I bequeathe unto The Scrivener ( give the Devil his due ) That forgeth , swears , and then forswears ( To save his credit ) both my ears . I give to some Sequestered Man My Skin , to make a Jacket on ; And I bequeathe my feet to they That shortly mean to run away , When truth is speaker , falsehoods dumb , Foxes must fly , when Lyons come . To Fiddlers ( for all trades must live ) To serve for strings , my Guts I give ; For Gamesters that do play at Rut , And love the sport , I give my Skut . But last of all , in this sad dump , To Tower-Hill I bequeathe my Rump . Hounds . Was ever Hounds so basely crossed , Our Master's calls us home so fast , That we the scent have almost lost , And they themselves must rule the roast ? Therefore , kind Hare , we'll pardon you , Thanks , gentle Hounds , and so adieu . Hare . And since your Master hath pardoned me , I'll led you all to Banbury ; Where John Turner hath a large Room To entertain all Guests that come , To laugh and quaff in Wine and Beer , A full Carouse to your Galleer . Printed for W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The Hunting of the Hare . With her last Will and Testament . As 'twas performed on Bamstead-Downs , By Conny-Catchers , and their Hounds . To a pleasant new Tune . O F all delights that Earth does yield , Give me a pack of hounds in the field , Whose Echo shall ( throughout the Sky ) Make Jove admire our Harmony ; And wish that he a Mortal were , To view the pastime we have here . I will tell you of a rare Scent , Where many a gallant Horse was spent , On Bamsted-Downs a Hare we found , Which led us all a smoking round ; Over Hedge and Ditch away she goes , Admiring her approaching foes . But when she found her strength to waste , She Parleyed with the Hounds at last ; Kind Hounds ( quoth she ) forbear to kill A harmless Hare that never thought ill ; And if your Master sport do crave , I'll led a Scent as he would have . Huntsman . Away , away , thou art alone , Make haste , I say , and get thee gone , We'll give thee Law for half a mile , To see if thou canst us beguile ; But then expect a thundering cry , Made by us and our Harmony . Hare . Now since you set my life to flight , I'll make black-Sloven turn to white , And Yorkshire-Gary that runs at all , I'll make him wish he were in Stall ; And Sorrel ( he ) that seems to fly , I'll make him supple ever he die . And Barnard-Boy , do what he can , Or Barons-Bay , that now and than Did interrupt me in the way , I'll make him neither jet nor play , Or constant Robin , though he lie At his advantage , what care I . Will . Hatton he hath done me wrong , He struck me as I ran along ; And with one pat made me so soar , That I ran reeling too and from : But if I die , his Master tell , That fool shall ring my Passing-Bell . Hounds . Alas , poor Hare , it is our Nature , To kill thee , and no other Creature ; For our Master wants a bit , And thou wilt well become the Spit , He'll eat thy flesh , we'll pick thy bone , This is thy doom , so get thee gone . Hare . Your Master may have better Cheer , For I am dry , and Butter's dear ; But if he please to make a Friend , He'd better give a Puddings-end , For , I being killed , he sport will lack , And I must hang on the Huntsman's back , Hounds . Alas , poor Hare , we pity thee , If with our nature 'twould agree , But all thy doubling shift , I fear , Will not prevail , thy Death's so near ; Then make thy Will ; it may be that May save thee , or I know not what . Hare . Then I bequeathe my Body free , Unto your Master's Courtesy ; And if he please my Life to grant , I'll be his Game , when sport is scant ; But if I die , each greedy Hound Divides my Entrails on the ground . Imprimis , I bequeathe my Head To him that a fair fool does wed , Who hath before her Maidenhead lost , I would not have the Proverb crossed Which I've herd amongst many quiblets , set the Harts-head ' ginst the goose-giblets . Item , I do give and bequeathe To men in Debt ( after my Death ) My subtle Scent , so that they may Beware of such as would betray Them to a miserable fate , By bloodhounds from the Counter-gate Item , I to a Turn-Coat give ( That he may more obscurely live ) My swift and sudden Doublens , which Will make him politic and rich : Though at the last , with many wounds , I wish him killed by his own Hounds . Item , I give into their hands , That purchase Deans and Chapters lands My wretched jealousies and fears , Mixed with the Salt of Orphans tears , That long vexations may persever To plague them and their heirs for ever Before I die , for life is scant , I would supply men's proper want , And therefore I bequeathe unto The Scrivener ( give the Devil his due ) That forgeth , swears , and then forswears ( To save his credit ) both my ears . I give to some Sequestered Man My Skin , to make a Jacket on ; And I bequeathe my feet to they That shortly mean to run away , When truth is speaker , falsehoods dumb , Foxes must fly , when Lyons come . To Fiddlers ( for all trades must live ) To serve for strings , my Guts I give ; For Gamesters that do play at Rut , And love the sport , I give my Skut . But last of all , in this sad dump , To Tower-Hill I bequeathe my Rump . Hounds . Was ever Hounds so basely crossed , Our Master's calls us home so fast , That we the scent have almost lost , And they themselves must rule the roast ? Therefore , kind Hare , we'll pardon you , Thanks , gentle Hounds , and so adieu . Hare . And since your Master hath pardoned me , I'll led you all to Banbury ; Where John Turner hath a large Room To entertain all Guests that come , To laugh and quaff in Wine and Beer , A full Carouse to your Galleer . Printed for W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 