Downright Dick of the West . OR , The Plow-Mans Ramble to LONDON , To see my Lord-Mayor and the rest of the Vine Folk of the City , with what happened while he there re - maimed . To the Tune of , The Country Farmer . This may be Printed , R. P. I Pray now attend and give ear to the jest , A Countryman he came late from the West , For he had a mind to see my LORD-MAYOR , And other fine Folk which it seemed lived there : Then up to the City at length he did range , Where seeing brave gallants in rich golden fringe But he above all did admire and strange To zee the Fine folk at the Royal Exchange . The Countryman amazed did stand , And looking about with his Whip in his hand , Then came a fine fellow a DONE of the town , Aand called him Bumpkin and country Clown . And asked him how he dare to presume , To Lag here and Loiter , thus fill up the Room , among these gay Ladies in Silk and perfume , Begone and pack off , or the stocks is your doom . I pray who are you then the Plowman replied , That does now so scornfully here me deride , Fine fellow ( said he ) seeing you are unkind , In short I shall tell you a piece of my mind , I came now to see my Lord-Mayor his good grace , I fear not the angry frowns of your face , As long as I list I will stay in this place , Or on your gay Coat I will lay a long lace . For why said the Plowman , I care not a fig , For all your high words , and your looking so big , This gallant was then in a passion indeed , And thus in a fury began to proceed , As making a proffer to give him a Kick , The Plowman perceiving him just in the neck He told him his name it was resolute Dick , Then up with his lash and he gave him a lick . O then this fine Fellow began for to roar , Then presently came in twenty and more , Who asked the Plowman how dare he to do't , Since he was a Person of worthy repute : He first did abuse me in calling me clown , I could not forbear but I gave him a frown ; Why should those fine fellows run Husbandmen down , You can't live without us in city or Town . Nay plowman i'de have you well understand , That we have both Silver and gold at command Rich chains & amp ; choice jewels with dimonds & amp ; rings With plenty of spices and other fine things : Of many Rich Coffers we carry the Keys , We have such estates that we live at our ease , We eat & amp ; we drink & amp ; we walk where we please . Then what do you think of such fellows as these . For all your Rich Jewels you starving may die , If we do not bring in a daily supply , We blow and we Sow , and we harrow & amp ; Mow We have both the Milk and the honey you know , We never are without a good pudding or Souse Then what need you Londoners make such a touze , If we did not labour you could not keep house , You gallants would soon S - as small as a Mouse Both Linen and woollen what ever we will wear We have of our own by industrious care , We daily delight in much pleasure and mirth , And always receive the first fruits of the earth : To flout us I think you were something too bold , You'd starve if you fed upon Silver or Gold , We have corn , cattle and sheep in our fold , With rich beans and Bacon , eat hold belly hold . The Londoners presently laughing out right , For in his discourse they had taken delight , They said it was true and they did him commend And thus the whole quarrel was soon at and end : The Plowman they freely began to extall , He soon god the favour of great men and small , And thus their debate did immediately fallen , The Plowman in wit was too hard for them all . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon at the angel in Guiltspur street . Downright Dick of the West . OR , The Plow-Mans Ramble to LONDON , To see my Lord-Mayor and the rest of the Vine Folk of the City , with what happened while he there re - maimed . To the Tune of , The Country Farmer . This may be Printed , R. P. I Pray now attend and give ear to the jest , A Countryman he came late from the West , For he had a mind to see my LORD-MAYOR , And other fine Folk which it seemed lived there : Then up to the City at length he did range , Where seeing brave gallants in rich golden fringe But he above all did admire and strange To zee the Fine folk at the Royal Exchange . The Countryman amazed did stand , And looking about with his Whip in his hand , Then came a fine fellow a DONE of the town , Aand called him Bumpkin and country Clown . And asked him how he dare to presume , To Lag here and Loiter , thus fill up the Room , among these gay Ladies in Silk and perfume , Begone and pack off , or the stocks is your doom . I pray who are you then the Plowman replied , That does now so scornfully here me deride , Fine fellow ( said he ) seeing you are unkind , In short I shall tell you a piece of my mind , I came now to see my Lord-Mayor his good grace , I fear not the angry frowns of your face , As long as I list I will stay in this place , Or on your gay Coat I will lay a long lace . For why said the Plowman , I care not a fig , For all your high words , and your looking so big , This gallant was then in a passion indeed , And thus in a fury began to proceed , As making a proffer to give him a Kick , The Plowman perceiving him just in the neck He told him his name it was resolute Dick , Then up with his lash and he gave him a lick . O then this fine Fellow began for to roar , Then presently came in twenty and more , Who asked the Plowman how dare he to do't , Since he was a Person of worthy repute : He first did abuse me in calling me clown , I could not forbear but I gave him a frown ; Why should those fine fellows run Husbandmen down , You can't live without us in city or Town . Nay plowman i'de have you well understand , That we have both Silver and gold at command Rich chains & amp ; choice jewels with dimonds & amp ; rings With plenty of spices and other fine things : Of many Rich Coffers we carry the Keys , We have such estates that we live at our ease , We eat & amp ; we drink & amp ; we walk where we please . Then what do you think of such fellows as these . For all your Rich Jewels you starving may die , If we do not bring in a daily supply , We blow and we Sow , and we harrow & amp ; Mow We have both the Milk and the honey you know , We never are without a good pudding or Souse Then what need you Londoners make such a touze , If we did not labour you could not keep house , You gallants would soon S - as small as a Mouse Both Linen and woollen what ever we will wear We have of our own by industrious care , We daily delight in much pleasure and mirth , And always receive the first fruits of the earth : To flout us I think you were something too bold , You'd starve if you fed upon Silver or Gold , We have corn , cattle and sheep in our fold , With rich beans and Bacon , eat hold belly hold . The Londoners presently laughing out right , For in his discourse they had taken delight , They said it was true and they did him commend And thus the whole quarrel was soon at and end : The Plowman they freely began to extall , He soon god the favour of great men and small , And thus their debate did immediately fallen , The Plowman in wit was too hard for them all . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon at the angel in Guiltspur street . 