The Trappaned MAIDEN : OR , The Distressed Damsel . This Girl was cunningly trappaned , Sent to Virginny from England ; Where she does Hardship undergo , There is no Cure , it must be so : But if she lives to cross the Main , She vows she'll never go there again . Licensed and Entered according to Order . G Ive ear unto a Maid , That lately was betrayed , And sent into Virginny Oh : In brief I shall declare , What I have suffered there , When that I was weary , weary , weary , weary , O. When that first I came To this Land of Fame , Which is called Virginny , Oh ; The Axe and the Hoe Have wrought my Overthrow , When that , etc Five Years served I , Under Master Guy , In the Land of Virginny , Oh : Which made me for to know , Sorrow , Grief , and Woe ; When that , etc When my Dame says , Go , Then I must do so , In the Land of Virginny , Oh ; When she sits at Meat , Then I have none to eat , When that , etc The Clothes that I brought in , They are worn very thin , In the Land of Virginny , Oh ; Which makes me for to say , Alas , and Welladay , When that , etc Instead of Beds of Ease , To lie down when I please , In the Land of Virginny , Oh , Upon a Bed of Straw , I lay down full of Woe , When that I was weary weary , weary , weary , O. Then the Spider she Daily waits on me , In the Land of Virginny , Oh ; Round about my Bed , She spins her tender web , When that I am weary , weary , weary , weary , O. So soon as it is day , To work I must away , In the Land of Virginny , Oh ; Then my Dame she knocks With her Tinderbox , When that , etc I have played my part , Both at Blow and at Cart , In the Land of Virginny , Oh : Billats from the Wood , Upon my back they load , When that , etc Instead of drinking Beer , I drink the Water clear , In the Land of Virginny , Oh ; Which makes me pale and wan Do all that e'r I can , When that , etc If my Dame says , Go , I dare not say no , In the Land of Virginny , Oh : The Water from the Spring , Upon my head I bring , When that , etc When the Mill does stand , I'm ready at command , In the Land of Virginny , Oh : The Mortar for to make , Which made my heart to ache , When that , etc When the Child does cry , I must sing , By a by ; In the Land of Virginny , Oh : No rest that I can have , While I am here a Slave , When that , etc A thousand Woes beside , That I do here abide , In the Land of Virginny , Oh : In misery I spend My time that hath no end , When that , etc Then let Maids beware , All by my illfare , In the Land of Virgnny , Oh ; Be sure thou stay at home , For if you do here come , You will all be weary , etc But if it be my chance , Homeward to advance , From the Land of Virginny , Oh ; If that I once more , Land on English Shore , I'll no more be weary , weary , weary , weary O. Printed by and for W.O. and for A.M. and sold by C. Bates , in Pye-Corner . The Trappaned MAIDEN : OR , The Distressed Damsel . This Girl was cunningly trappaned , Sent to Virginny from England ; Where she does Hardship undergo , There is no Cure , it must be so : But if she lives to cross the Main , She vows she'll never go there again . Licensed and Entered according to Order . G Ive ear unto a Maid , That lately was betrayed , And sent into Virginny Oh : In brief I shall declare , What I have suffered there , When that I was weary , weary , weary , weary , O. When that first I came To this Land of Fame , Which is called Virginny , Oh ; The Axe and the Hoe Have wrought my Overthrow , When that , etc Five Years served I , Under Master Guy , In the Land of Virginny , Oh : Which made me for to know , Sorrow , Grief , and Woe ; When that , etc When my Dame says , Go , Then I must do so , In the Land of Virginny , Oh ; When she sits at Meat , Then I have none to eat , When that , etc The Clothes that I brought in , They are worn very thin , In the Land of Virginny , Oh ; Which makes me for to say , Alas , and Welladay , When that , etc Instead of Beds of Ease , To lie down when I please , In the Land of Virginny , Oh , Upon a Bed of Straw , I lay down full of Woe , When that I was weary weary , weary , weary , O. Then the Spider she Daily waits on me , In the Land of Virginny , Oh ; Round about my Bed , She spins her tender web , When that I am weary , weary , weary , weary , O. So soon as it is day , To work I must away , In the Land of Virginny , Oh ; Then my Dame she knocks With her Tinderbox , When that , etc I have played my part , Both at Blow and at Cart , In the Land of Virginny , Oh : Billats from the Wood , Upon my back they load , When that , etc Instead of drinking Beer , I drink the Water clear , In the Land of Virginny , Oh ; Which makes me pale and wan Do all that e'r I can , When that , etc If my Dame says , Go , I dare not say no , In the Land of Virginny , Oh : The Water from the Spring , Upon my head I bring , When that , etc When the Mill does stand , I'm ready at command , In the Land of Virginny , Oh : The Mortar for to make , Which made my heart to ache , When that , etc When the Child does cry , I must sing , By a by ; In the Land of Virginny , Oh : No rest that I can have , While I am here a Slave , When that , etc A thousand Woes beside , That I do here abide , In the Land of Virginny , Oh : In misery I spend My time that hath no end , When that , etc Then let Maids beware , All by my illfare , In the Land of Virgnny , Oh ; Be sure thou stay at home , For if you do here come , You will all be weary , etc But if it be my chance , Homeward to advance , From the Land of Virginny , Oh ; If that I once more , Land on English Shore , I'll no more be weary , weary , weary , weary O. Printed by and for W.O. and for A.M. and sold by C. Bates , in Pye-Corner . 