Courageous BETTY Of CHICK-LANE : Giving and Account of a fearful Battle between her and two thumping Tailors , whom she [ ? ] worser and lugged by the Ears till they were forced to Run to save their Lives : And Betty threatening to have them Pressed , they were forced to come to her , begging her Pardon upon their Knees . To the Tune of , Lilli-burlero . Licensed according to Order . B Oys let us sing the Glory and Fame , of a young Lass Courageous and stout , Mistress Betty this was her name , she with true Courage valiantly fought , With two thumping Lusty Tailors ; taking away their Bodkin and Shiers , But Betty was nimble and made them to tremble , so sweetly she lugged the Rogues by the Ears . One of these Tailors did her provoke , as she was passing through the street , Betty to him immediately spoke , faith with your Match you'll happen to meet : With these words she laid about her , and like a Lion straightway appears , The Tailors did tremble , but Betty was nimble , and sweetly she lugged the Rogues by the Ears . There was the Master Taylor , and Man , both to encounter Betty the Maid , But she so thick and fast did lay on , that they we'r never so gallantly paid : By the hair she likewise hauled them , tll they were almost drowned in tears , She banged they and bruised they , and bitterly used they , poor Tailors was never so lugged by the Ears . They would a fain god out of her Fist , but she did still supply them with blows , Till the poor Rogues their Breeches Bepissed , I and the Blood ran down from their Nose : Still their Heads she thumpt together saying you Rogues I'll pay your arrears , They cried Mistress Betty , have some kind of pity , but still she did hug the Rogues by the Ears . Master and Man did bitterly Roar , I and for Mercy often did Cry , But she did Thump and Thrash them the more , sure said the Tailors now we shall die : No you Rascals I'll not kill you , but am resolved to pay your Arrears , With that she did bruise them , and bitterly use them poor Tailors was never so lugged by the Ears . Then they god lose and both run away ; Betty in wrath did vow and protest , That she would send to them the next day , for the Kings Service they should be Pressed : Then they were again affrighted , this did create whole Troops of new fears , We'll send now for pity to good Mistress Betty , for Sea-Fights are worse then lugged by the Ears . These very Lines the Taylor did send , saying , sweet Betty Pardon us now , Though it is true , we once did offend , yet at your feet we'll willingly Bow , Now this day to beg your Pardon , that you may put us out of all fears , We'll never abuse you , but likewise excuse you , although you did lugg us both by the Ears . Now when the Lass had Pardoned them both , how the poor Rogues did Caper amain , Likewise they tied themselves by and Oath , that they would never offend her again : Likewise gave her a Colation , seeing she thus had banished their fears , They were not unwilling to spend twenty Shilling , although she had lugged them both by the Ears . After the Feast he said to his Man , this has been charges you understand , Therefore take all the care that you can , Easter and Whitson-Tide are at hand : For to Cabbidge , Silks , and Satins , do not forget to whet up your Shiers : Dear Master never fear it , we'll presently share it . and for time to come , take care of our Ears . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare and J. Back . Courageous BETTY Of CHICK-LANE : Giving and Account of a fearful Battle between her and two thumping Tailors , whom she [ ? ] worser and lugged by the Ears till they were forced to Run to save their Lives : And Betty threatening to have them Pressed , they were forced to come to her , begging her Pardon upon their Knees . To the Tune of , Lilli-burlero . Licensed according to Order . B Oys let us sing the Glory and Fame , of a young Lass Courageous and stout , Mistress Betty this was her name , she with true Courage valiantly fought , With two thumping Lusty Tailors ; taking away their Bodkin and Shiers , But Betty was nimble and made them to tremble , so sweetly she lugged the Rogues by the Ears . One of these Tailors did her provoke , as she was passing through the street , Betty to him immediately spoke , faith with your Match you'll happen to meet : With these words she laid about her , and like a Lion straightway appears , The Tailors did tremble , but Betty was nimble , and sweetly she lugged the Rogues by the Ears . There was the Master Taylor , and Man , both to encounter Betty the Maid , But she so thick and fast did lay on , that they we'r never so gallantly paid : By the hair she likewise hauled them , tll they were almost drowned in tears , She banged they and bruised they , and bitterly used they , poor Tailors was never so lugged by the Ears . They would a fain god out of her Fist , but she did still supply them with blows , Till the poor Rogues their Breeches Bepissed , I and the Blood ran down from their Nose : Still their Heads she thumpt together saying you Rogues I'll pay your arrears , They cried Mistress Betty , have some kind of pity , but still she did hug the Rogues by the Ears . Master and Man did bitterly Roar , I and for Mercy often did Cry , But she did Thump and Thrash them the more , sure said the Tailors now we shall die : No you Rascals I'll not kill you , but am resolved to pay your Arrears , With that she did bruise them , and bitterly use them poor Tailors was never so lugged by the Ears . Then they god lose and both run away ; Betty in wrath did vow and protest , That she would send to them the next day , for the Kings Service they should be Pressed : Then they were again affrighted , this did create whole Troops of new fears , We'll send now for pity to good Mistress Betty , for Sea-Fights are worse then lugged by the Ears . These very Lines the Taylor did send , saying , sweet Betty Pardon us now , Though it is true , we once did offend , yet at your feet we'll willingly Bow , Now this day to beg your Pardon , that you may put us out of all fears , We'll never abuse you , but likewise excuse you , although you did lugg us both by the Ears . Now when the Lass had Pardoned them both , how the poor Rogues did Caper amain , Likewise they tied themselves by and Oath , that they would never offend her again : Likewise gave her a Colation , seeing she thus had banished their fears , They were not unwilling to spend twenty Shilling , although she had lugged them both by the Ears . After the Feast he said to his Man , this has been charges you understand , Therefore take all the care that you can , Easter and Whitson-Tide are at hand : For to Cabbidge , Silks , and Satins , do not forget to whet up your Shiers : Dear Master never fear it , we'll presently share it . and for time to come , take care of our Ears . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare and J. Back . 