The Jolly PORTERS : OR , The Merry Lads of LONDON . Whose kind Advice to their Fellow-Brethren is , That they should love Mirth bet - ter than Money , and prize Strong Beer before Small . To the Tune of and Orange . Licensed according to Order . I Pray now attend to what I have penned , It is a new Ditty , the which here I send To my Friends I hope , true Boys that can tope , I mean the stout Yeomen of Ticket and Rope , Bonny Porters . Hugh , Morgan , and Rice , Ralph , William , and Price , It is to you all that I give my Advice , Beware of Small Beer , it'll hurt you I fear , Stout nappy Strong Liquour your Spirits will cheer , merry Porters . But if you drink Small , it'll ruin you all , You in a Consumption or Dropsy may fallen ; Take care what you do , my honest True Blue ; For when you are Dead , all the World's gone with you , Bonny Porters . If you come in Place , where strong Beer is scarce , I know you will be in a sorrowful case ; But if Beer you lack , make shift with good Sack , I know it is good for to strengthen the Back of a Porter . My Brother's never stand to buy House or Land , But when a good Shilling comes first to your hand , [ ? ] ure of the same , and follow the Game , Or else I must tell you , you are highly to blame , Bonny Porters , Be ruled by me , and then you shall see , You will be all merry , both frolic and free ; Dear Friends , for my part , I never do start , But always do love for to cheer up my Heart , like a Porter . I'll lay you a Crown , no Lord of Renown Dare do like my self , in Court , City , or Town One night I'll fit late , and spend my Estate , Come tell me what Noble dare spend at that rate like a Porter ? Now with a good Will , my Host wash and fill , For why should the Tankards and Flaggons stand still ? Your Friends don't offend , but pray now attend , There's more Money god , than we ever shall spend while we are Porters . Now we are well met , and merrily set , We reckon to drink our selves quite out of Debt ; As you fill in more , still rub out the Score , And then we may merrily sing , rant and roar , like brave Porters . Should I be chosen Sheriff I am apt to believe , I must upon force that great Office deceive , Because I wont Fine , since that Money thats [ ? ] ine ] Is hardly enough to buy Beer , Ale , and Wine for a Porter . High Honour I slight , I take more delight TO oh meet with and honest good Fellow at Night , Who takes off his Can , like a right honest Man , And tipples as long as he's able to stand , like a Porter . With Liquour we're Crowned , while Joys do's abound , And then the whole World it runs merrily round : We will not debate the high Matters of State , Nor trouble our Noddles with things at that rate , but be Porters . Printed for P. Brooksby , J , Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back [ . ] The Jolly PORTERS : OR , The Merry Lads of LONDON . Whose kind Advice to their Fellow-Brethren is , That they should love Mirth bet - ter than Money , and prize Strong Beer before Small . To the Tune of and Orange . Licensed according to Order . I Pray now attend to what I have penned , It is a new Ditty , the which here I send To my Friends I hope , true Boys that can tope , I mean the stout Yeomen of Ticket and Rope , Bonny Porters . Hugh , Morgan , and Rice , Ralph , William , and Price , It is to you all that I give my Advice , Beware of Small Beer , it'll hurt you I fear , Stout nappy Strong Liquour your Spirits will cheer , merry Porters . But if you drink Small , it'll ruin you all , You in a Consumption or Dropsy may fallen ; Take care what you do , my honest True Blue ; For when you are Dead , all the World's gone with you , Bonny Porters . If you come in Place , where strong Beer is scarce , I know you will be in a sorrowful case ; But if Beer you lack , make shift with good Sack , I know it is good for to strengthen the Back of a Porter . My Brother's never stand to buy House or Land , But when a good Shilling comes first to your hand , [ ? ] ure of the same , and follow the Game , Or else I must tell you , you are highly to blame , Bonny Porters , Be ruled by me , and then you shall see , You will be all merry , both frolic and free ; Dear Friends , for my part , I never do start , But always do love for to cheer up my Heart , like a Porter . I'll lay you a Crown , no Lord of Renown Dare do like my self , in Court , City , or Town One night I'll fit late , and spend my Estate , Come tell me what Noble dare spend at that rate like a Porter ? Now with a good Will , my Host wash and fill , For why should the Tankards and Flaggons stand still ? Your Friends don't offend , but pray now attend , There's more Money god , than we ever shall spend while we are Porters . Now we are well met , and merrily set , We reckon to drink our selves quite out of Debt ; As you fill in more , still rub out the Score , And then we may merrily sing , rant and roar , like brave Porters . Should I be chosen Sheriff I am apt to believe , I must upon force that great Office deceive , Because I wont Fine , since that Money thats [ ? ] ine ] Is hardly enough to buy Beer , Ale , and Wine for a Porter . High Honour I slight , I take more delight TO oh meet with and honest good Fellow at Night , Who takes off his Can , like a right honest Man , And tipples as long as he's able to stand , like a Porter . With Liquour we're Crowned , while Joys do's abound , And then the whole World it runs merrily round : We will not debate the high Matters of State , Nor trouble our Noddles with things at that rate , but be Porters . Printed for P. Brooksby , J , Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back [ . ] 