The Plowman's Prophesy : OR , The Countrymans Calculation . By this you may perceive when it will be , None will be covetous , but all men free ; When these things come to pass you'll find it plain , No covetousness in England will remain , But in the mean time I am of that mind , They all will happen when the Devil is blind . To the tune of , Cook Laurel , or , The Country Miss , etc With Allowance , Ro. L'Estrange . C Ome listen all you that to mirth are inclined , And freely i'll tell you a piece of my mind ; You'll find it as true , and as clear as the Sun , When covetousness out of England will run . When men beget women , and women get men , And men they do bring forth children again ; When Coventry steeple cracks Nuts with its Thumb , Then covetousness out of England will run . When Hares sits in the Highway to pick a men purse , And the Man in the Moon puts his Child out to Nurse , And when Shooing-horns learns to beatrice on a Drum , Then covetousness out of England will run . When Bears they wear Breeches of Silver and Gold , And go to the Barbers for to be polled ; And Monkeys do wait on them while they have done , Then covetousness out of England will run . When old-men grafted Appletrees in Elm-stocks , And Owls at Noonday do fly up in flocks , When Cuckows at Christmas among us do come , Then covetousness out of England will run . When Pauls - Church hath god Wings and Legs , And sits upon London - Stones for to lay Eggs ; And when Chickens and Capons of that breed do come Then covetousness out of England will run . When Lawyers are willing to plead without Fees , And Pancakes and Fritters do grow upon Trees ; When Misers their Money lend out by the Tun , Then covetousness out of England will run . When Tailors forget to throw Cabbage in hell , And shorten their bills , that all things may be well , And Cats they can speak that have always been dumb , Then covetousness out of England will run . When a Conjurer's frighted to see a black Cock , And wenching young blades , are afraid of the smock ; When coats of Grey Russet by Ladies are spun , Then covetousness out of England will run . W hen Millers refuse any tole for to take , And Maidens at Midsummer shiver and shake And cooks they want victuals as sure as a gun , Then covetousness out of England will run . When Ladies of pleasure turn honest and chaste , And scorn by their Gallants for to be embraced ; And when and Old Bawd is resolved to turn Nun , then Covetousness out of England will run . When Lads marry Madams , and women leave scolding And Neighbour to Neighbour shall not be beholding , And all is well ended that ever was begun , Then covetousness out of England will run . When Ships they are sailing on Sailsbury-plain , And Castles are floating upon the salt main ; And Milk-Maids at midnight do sleep in the Sun , Then covetousness out of E ngland will run . When Cullies by Wenches no more are trapand , And Dwarfs grow as high as the Maypole i'th S trand , When Gallants pay Debts without ever a don , Then Covetousness out of England will run . When Dogs do wear Doublets and vapour along , And Pick-pockets scorn to be seen in a throng , And meat to the Market alone it does come , Then covetuosness out of England will run . When Serpents in Essex shall fly in the air , And break through the Clouds like the Man and the mare , And tradesmen by trusting shall never be undone , Then covetousness out of England shall run . When men without money shall purchase estates , And boys play at Cudgels without broken pates , When Cripples at running great wagers have wone , Then covetousness out of England will run . When Tapsters and Vintners shall wipe out their scores , And to all good fellows set open their doors , And bid them come drink if it be a whole Tun , Then Covetousness out of England shall run . When Poets shall Hospitals built for the poor , And he that hath much shall desire no more . When the Cart to the Horses each morning shall come , Then covetousness out of England shall run . And when you do find all these things come to pass , Then do not you say the Plowman's and Ass ; But you may conclude he hath very well sung , When covetousness out of England is run . Printed for J. Blare at the Looking-Glass on London-Bridge . The Plowman's Prophesy : OR , The Countrymans Calculation . By this you may perceive when it will be , None will be covetous , but all men free ; When these things come to pass you'll find it plain , No covetousness in England will remain , But in the mean time I am of that mind , They all will happen when the Devil is blind . To the tune of , Cook Laurel , or , The Country Miss , etc With Allowance , Ro. L'Estrange . C Ome listen all you that to mirth are inclined , And freely i'll tell you a piece of my mind ; You'll find it as true , and as clear as the Sun , When covetousness out of England will run . When men beget women , and women get men , And men they do bring forth children again ; When Coventry steeple cracks Nuts with its Thumb , Then covetousness out of England will run . When Hares sits in the Highway to pick a men purse , And the Man in the Moon puts his Child out to Nurse , And when Shooing-horns learns to beatrice on a Drum , Then covetousness out of England will run . When Bears they wear Breeches of Silver and Gold , And go to the Barbers for to be polled ; And Monkeys do wait on them while they have done , Then covetousness out of England will run . When old-men grafted Appletrees in Elm-stocks , And Owls at Noonday do fly up in flocks , When Cuckows at Christmas among us do come , Then covetousness out of England will run . When Pauls - Church hath god Wings and Legs , And sits upon London - Stones for to lay Eggs ; And when Chickens and Capons of that breed do come Then covetousness out of England will run . When Lawyers are willing to plead without Fees , And Pancakes and Fritters do grow upon Trees ; When Misers their Money lend out by the Tun , Then covetousness out of England will run . When Tailors forget to throw Cabbage in hell , And shorten their bills , that all things may be well , And Cats they can speak that have always been dumb , Then covetousness out of England will run . When a Conjurer's frighted to see a black Cock , And wenching young blades , are afraid of the smock ; When coats of Grey Russet by Ladies are spun , Then covetousness out of England will run . W hen Millers refuse any tole for to take , And Maidens at Midsummer shiver and shake And cooks they want victuals as sure as a gun , Then covetousness out of England will run . When Ladies of pleasure turn honest and chaste , And scorn by their Gallants for to be embraced ; And when and Old Bawd is resolved to turn Nun , then Covetousness out of England will run . When Lads marry Madams , and women leave scolding And Neighbour to Neighbour shall not be beholding , And all is well ended that ever was begun , Then covetousness out of England will run . When Ships they are sailing on Sailsbury-plain , And Castles are floating upon the salt main ; And Milk-Maids at midnight do sleep in the Sun , Then covetousness out of E ngland will run . When Cullies by Wenches no more are trapand , And Dwarfs grow as high as the Maypole i'th S trand , When Gallants pay Debts without ever a don , Then Covetousness out of England will run . When Dogs do wear Doublets and vapour along , And Pick-pockets scorn to be seen in a throng , And meat to the Market alone it does come , Then covetuosness out of England will run . When Serpents in Essex shall fly in the air , And break through the Clouds like the Man and the mare , And tradesmen by trusting shall never be undone , Then covetousness out of England shall run . When men without money shall purchase estates , And boys play at Cudgels without broken pates , When Cripples at running great wagers have wone , Then covetousness out of England will run . When Tapsters and Vintners shall wipe out their scores , And to all good fellows set open their doors , And bid them come drink if it be a whole Tun , Then Covetousness out of England shall run . When Poets shall Hospitals built for the poor , And he that hath much shall desire no more . When the Cart to the Horses each morning shall come , Then covetousness out of England shall run . And when you do find all these things come to pass , Then do not you say the Plowman's and Ass ; But you may conclude he hath very well sung , When covetousness out of England is run . Printed for J. Blare at the Looking-Glass on London-Bridge . 