THE Surprised Lord & amp ; Lady ; OR , The Courageous West-Country Servingman . To the Tune of , I often for my Jenny strove . O F late we hear in Devonshire , Of a Renowned Noble Peer , Who with his youthful Lady gay , Into a Forest took his way , For delightful Recreation , among pleasant Flowers blown ; Being attended , and defended , by one Serving man alone . The little Birds did sweetly sing , Making the shady Groves to ring ; As on the tender Branches green , Those Woody Choiresters were seen : While their time they spent in pleasure suddenly they were surprised ; Six Men they counted , rarely mounted yet those Robbers were disguised . The Thieves with naked Sword in hand Straight bid the Lord and Lady stand , And without any more ado , Deliver Gold and Silver too : ' T'ent a time to stand and dally , therefore readily comply , To yield your Treasure , at our pleasure or else by the Sword you die . The frighted Lady full of grief , She [ trembled ] like and Aspen-Leaf , Hearing those Villains thus run down Her Loyal Lord of high Renown ; No Entreaties would appease them , for the Ruffians did reply , Give us your Treasure , at our pleasure , or else by the Sword you die . The Noble Lord he straight replied , What you demand shall by denied ; Here shall you win before you wear , My Gold and Silver , I declare : He no sooner this had spoken , but a Pistol forth he drew ; Then run up nigher , and gave Fire , slaying one , and wounding two . Likewise stout Will the Servingman , Courageously he did fallen on , And held the other three in play , This was a sharp and bloody Fray : The young Lord at length was wounded but when Will the same did see , For that Disaster of his Master , straight he vowed revenged he'd be . Their Shot and Powder being spent , They with their swords to fighting went , The which stout Will could handle well , He vowed his Anger to expel : Still their Passes he defended , giving one so deep a Wound , As he did reach him , this did fetch him , with a vengeance to the ground , Which when the other two beheld , They were with fear and wonder filled , And did endeavour straight to fly , But William warmly did supply This with his sharp trusty Weapon , which won't of the smallest size , Did pursue them , Cut and hew them , till he Conquered them likewise . He presently Disarmed the Crew , Of Sword , Carbines , and Pistols too Then brought them to a Justice bound , Who soon for them a Prison found : Then at Sizes must they answer for this black and horrid Crime , May many others of their Brother's , likewise taken be in time . Soon after this , the Noble Lord , He gave his Servant a Reward , Of fifty Guinnies , in his hand , Since he Courageously did stand In the midst of all the Danger with undaunted Courage then He well may glory in this Story , there's but few such Servingmen . Printed for R. Kell , at the White-Hart in West Smithfield , near Pye-Corner . THE Surprised Lord & amp ; Lady ; OR , The Courageous West-Country Servingman . To the Tune of , I often for my Jenny strove . O F late we hear in Devonshire , Of a Renowned Noble Peer , Who with his youthful Lady gay , Into a Forest took his way , For delightful Recreation , among pleasant Flowers blown ; Being attended , and defended , by one Serving man alone . The little Birds did sweetly sing , Making the shady Groves to ring ; As on the tender Branches green , Those Woody Choiresters were seen : While their time they spent in pleasure suddenly they were surprised ; Six Men they counted , rarely mounted yet those Robbers were disguised . The Thieves with naked Sword in hand Straight bid the Lord and Lady stand , And without any more ado , Deliver Gold and Silver too : ' T'ent a time to stand and dally , therefore readily comply , To yield your Treasure , at our pleasure or else by the Sword you die . The frighted Lady full of grief , She [ trembled ] like and Aspen-Leaf , Hearing those Villains thus run down Her Loyal Lord of high Renown ; No Entreaties would appease them , for the Ruffians did reply , Give us your Treasure , at our pleasure , or else by the Sword you die . The Noble Lord he straight replied , What you demand shall by denied ; Here shall you win before you wear , My Gold and Silver , I declare : He no sooner this had spoken , but a Pistol forth he drew ; Then run up nigher , and gave Fire , slaying one , and wounding two . Likewise stout Will the Servingman , Courageously he did fallen on , And held the other three in play , This was a sharp and bloody Fray : The young Lord at length was wounded but when Will the same did see , For that Disaster of his Master , straight he vowed revenged he'd be . Their Shot and Powder being spent , They with their swords to fighting went , The which stout Will could handle well , He vowed his Anger to expel : Still their Passes he defended , giving one so deep a Wound , As he did reach him , this did fetch him , with a vengeance to the ground , Which when the other two beheld , They were with fear and wonder filled , And did endeavour straight to fly , But William warmly did supply This with his sharp trusty Weapon , which won't of the smallest size , Did pursue them , Cut and hew them , till he Conquered them likewise . He presently Disarmed the Crew , Of Sword , Carbines , and Pistols too Then brought them to a Justice bound , Who soon for them a Prison found : Then at Sizes must they answer for this black and horrid Crime , May many others of their Brother's , likewise taken be in time . Soon after this , the Noble Lord , He gave his Servant a Reward , Of fifty Guinnies , in his hand , Since he Courageously did stand In the midst of all the Danger with undaunted Courage then He well may glory in this Story , there's but few such Servingmen . Printed for R. Kell , at the White-Hart in West Smithfield , near Pye-Corner . 