THE Broken VINTNER of London : With a Brief Account of his Flight into the Country to Choose His Creditors ; As also , what happened Between him and Roger the Plow-Man at and Inn , of - ter his First Days Journey . Tune of , Let Caeser live long . Licensed according to Order . A Vintner he from fair London would Ride , Down to Gloster City , in order to hide His head from the Merchant , to whom he did owe , Much Money for Claret , Canary also . And being unwilling the Merchant to pay , He Packed up his Awls Sir , and soon rid away . This Vintner was of the Jacobite Strain , And did not approve of a Protestant Reign , Because of the late Prohibition of Wine , Had caused his Trading of late to decline , Therefore he no longer his Tavern would hold , But went off with two Hundred Guinnies in Gold . He mounted a sumptuous Bay-Gelding , we hear , And did in most Gallant apparel appear , His Sword , Wig , and Bever so Rich and complete , That he was as great as a Lord in conceit , My Landlord , with Merchant , I leave both behind And pay them I will when the Devil is blind , He ambleed and galloped , two up and two down , At length when he came into a market Town , He took up his Inn and for Liquour did call , As likewise a Supper of Dainties withal : And as he was sitting he laboured to force , From Roger the Plow-Man , some pleasant discourse . What news have you here in these parts , my good friend ? Does not great Taxes your Landlords offend ? The which was not herd of in Jemmy's late Reign , Quoth Roger , there wont be I'm certain again , When once we have conquered proud huffing Monsieur , And therefore they pay with a merry good Cheer . The Taverner told him that Lewis was strong , And would send a Fleet , and and Army ere long , The which would this Kingdom with Vigour invade Till then we must never expect a good Trade , With that lusty Roger immediately cried , You Treacherous Rascal I'll Liquour your Hide . The Londoner then in a Passion did Rave , And cried you poor Bumpkin and pitiful Slave , For what you have spoken , this minute you Die , But Roger immediately made this Reply , I fear not your Rapier nor Passion to boot , With this very Club I'll your Noddle Salute . This Gallant was going his Rapier to draw , I faith Sir , Quoth Roger , I am for Club-Law , With that he gave him such a Crack on the Crown , Which made him almost like and Ox tumble down , And crying for mercy and Pity amain , Quoth Roger , you'll wish for the French here again . I never will talk at that rate any more , If this heavy Thrashing you'll please to give over , I'll pray for King William , Queen Marry also , And count the proud French a most Insolent Foe , And curse the whole Gang of the Jacobite Crew , If I may this minute find mercy from you . Quoth Roger , arise and stand up like a man , And here's a good Health to the King , a full Cann , And here is another I drink to the Queen , It's William and Mary , good Fellow , I mean , And here I will make you to pledge their good Health , Wishing them all Glory , true Honour and wealth . Nay this is not all , for before you do go , You now shall drink to the Confusion also , Of all the French Army , and likewise their Fleet , Or else you the end of my Cudgel shall eat , The Jacobite then took a Bumper in hand , And straight was obedient to Roger's Command , Good Fellow Quoth Roger , now this is well done , Take care that hereafter your Clack do not run , In prating too much of the Favour of France , lest you for the same on a Gibbit should Dance , In kindness to you I will drink tother Cann , And say that you met with a right Honest Man. Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . THE Broken VINTNER of London : With a Brief Account of his Flight into the Country to Choose His Creditors ; As also , what happened Between him and Roger the Plow-Man at and Inn , of - ter his First Days Journey . Tune of , Let Caeser live long . Licensed according to Order . A Vintner he from fair London would Ride , Down to Gloster City , in order to hide His head from the Merchant , to whom he did owe , Much Money for Claret , Canary also . And being unwilling the Merchant to pay , He Packed up his Awls Sir , and soon rid away . This Vintner was of the Jacobite Strain , And did not approve of a Protestant Reign , Because of the late Prohibition of Wine , Had caused his Trading of late to decline , Therefore he no longer his Tavern would hold , But went off with two Hundred Guinnies in Gold . He mounted a sumptuous Bay-Gelding , we hear , And did in most Gallant apparel appear , His Sword , Wig , and Bever so Rich and complete , That he was as great as a Lord in conceit , My Landlord , with Merchant , I leave both behind And pay them I will when the Devil is blind , He ambleed and galloped , two up and two down , At length when he came into a market Town , He took up his Inn and for Liquour did call , As likewise a Supper of Dainties withal : And as he was sitting he laboured to force , From Roger the Plow-Man , some pleasant discourse . What news have you here in these parts , my good friend ? Does not great Taxes your Landlords offend ? The which was not herd of in Jemmy's late Reign , Quoth Roger , there wont be I'm certain again , When once we have conquered proud huffing Monsieur , And therefore they pay with a merry good Cheer . The Taverner told him that Lewis was strong , And would send a Fleet , and and Army ere long , The which would this Kingdom with Vigour invade Till then we must never expect a good Trade , With that lusty Roger immediately cried , You Treacherous Rascal I'll Liquour your Hide . The Londoner then in a Passion did Rave , And cried you poor Bumpkin and pitiful Slave , For what you have spoken , this minute you Die , But Roger immediately made this Reply , I fear not your Rapier nor Passion to boot , With this very Club I'll your Noddle Salute . This Gallant was going his Rapier to draw , I faith Sir , Quoth Roger , I am for Club-Law , With that he gave him such a Crack on the Crown , Which made him almost like and Ox tumble down , And crying for mercy and Pity amain , Quoth Roger , you'll wish for the French here again . I never will talk at that rate any more , If this heavy Thrashing you'll please to give over , I'll pray for King William , Queen Marry also , And count the proud French a most Insolent Foe , And curse the whole Gang of the Jacobite Crew , If I may this minute find mercy from you . Quoth Roger , arise and stand up like a man , And here's a good Health to the King , a full Cann , And here is another I drink to the Queen , It's William and Mary , good Fellow , I mean , And here I will make you to pledge their good Health , Wishing them all Glory , true Honour and wealth . Nay this is not all , for before you do go , You now shall drink to the Confusion also , Of all the French Army , and likewise their Fleet , Or else you the end of my Cudgel shall eat , The Jacobite then took a Bumper in hand , And straight was obedient to Roger's Command , Good Fellow Quoth Roger , now this is well done , Take care that hereafter your Clack do not run , In prating too much of the Favour of France , lest you for the same on a Gibbit should Dance , In kindness to you I will drink tother Cann , And say that you met with a right Honest Man. Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 