THE Bloody Battle at Billingsgate , Beginning with a Scolding bout between two young Fish-women , Doll and Kate . To the Tune of , The ORANGE . O Ne morning of late , hard by Billingsgate , There Dolly she happened to meet with young Kate , They Quarreled and Fought , and made a sad Rout , And if you would know , Sirs , what it was about , I will tell you . Last Wednesday night , young Kate did invite The Husband of Dolly , her Joy and Delight , And merrily they , did Frolic and Play , A whole Winter's night , till the morning next day ; was it fitting ? Doll . You're Impudent grown , shall I lie alone , And you have delight , while his poor Wife has none ; You saivry young Sow , I will not allow Such doings , but here I will pummel you now , you bold Strumpet . Kate . Marry gap , Mistress Gill , my mind to fulfil , I'de have you to know he shall come when he will , And yet not by stealth , you impudent Elf , I have as much right to the Man as your self , he's no Husband . Doll . I'de have you know before I do go , That I can a Lawful Certificate show ; Thus I am his Wife , the joy of his life , But you have between us created much strife , you bold Strumpet . Kate . A Twelvemonth you Whored , then he did afford A Marriage , by leaping twice over a Sword , Your Shams I degrade , for Robin he said , That under a Hedge-Row that Writing he made ; hopeful Marriage . the pitiful Trull , I never did gull Like you , the poor Drummer , last Summer , at Hull And impudent Stock , went breaking his Lock , And stole the man's Shirt , for to make you a Smock . you bold Strumpet . Kate . Slut this is a Lie , she then did reply But here is one truth , which you cannot deny , You pitiful Punk , last week you were Drunk , Four men had you home , and they told me you stunk like a Pole-Cat . Kate . Are you not a shame , to all of your name ? All honest good people against you exclaim : You left your poor Brats , and went to the th [ r ? ] [ ? ] ats There lay with a Man for a bushel of Sprats , out upon you . Doll . I'll make you to smoke , for what you have spoke Since you do so often my patience provoke , What flesh can forbear ? beside I declare , Your Neighbours knows all well enough what you are Mistress Trinkets . Kate . She gave her a thrust , and said , do your worst , If you have much Money that does lie and rust , W [ h ] y then go to Law , I won't stand in awe ; With that down her Face she her Talents did claw , with a vengeance . The other she flew , and gave her her endue , First tore off her Hood , Quoif , and Filleting too : They fight and did Scold , and both kept their hold , At length in the Kennel together they rolled , like two fat Sovus . The Women and Men , soon parted they then , And bid them be Friendly and quiet again : Their words did prevail , together they Sail , And drank up two quarts of hight Brandy and Ale , in good Friendship . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . THE Bloody Battle at Billingsgate , Beginning with a Scolding bout between two young Fish-women , Doll and Kate . To the Tune of , The ORANGE . O Ne morning of late , hard by Billingsgate , There Dolly she happened to meet with young Kate , They Quarreled and Fought , and made a sad Rout , And if you would know , Sirs , what it was about , I will tell you . Last Wednesday night , young Kate did invite The Husband of Dolly , her Joy and Delight , And merrily they , did Frolic and Play , A whole Winter's night , till the morning next day ; was it fitting ? Doll . You're Impudent grown , shall I lie alone , And you have delight , while his poor Wife has none ; You saivry young Sow , I will not allow Such doings , but here I will pummel you now , you bold Strumpet . Kate . Marry gap , Mistress Gill , my mind to fulfil , I'de have you to know he shall come when he will , And yet not by stealth , you impudent Elf , I have as much right to the Man as your self , he's no Husband . Doll . I'de have you know before I do go , That I can a Lawful Certificate show ; Thus I am his Wife , the joy of his life , But you have between us created much strife , you bold Strumpet . Kate . A Twelvemonth you Whored , then he did afford A Marriage , by leaping twice over a Sword , Your Shams I degrade , for Robin he said , That under a Hedge-Row that Writing he made ; hopeful Marriage . the pitiful Trull , I never did gull Like you , the poor Drummer , last Summer , at Hull And impudent Stock , went breaking his Lock , And stole the man's Shirt , for to make you a Smock . you bold Strumpet . Kate . Slut this is a Lie , she then did reply But here is one truth , which you cannot deny , You pitiful Punk , last week you were Drunk , Four men had you home , and they told me you stunk like a Pole-Cat . Kate . Are you not a shame , to all of your name ? All honest good people against you exclaim : You left your poor Brats , and went to the th [ r ? ] [ ? ] ats There lay with a Man for a bushel of Sprats , out upon you . Doll . I'll make you to smoke , for what you have spoke Since you do so often my patience provoke , What flesh can forbear ? beside I declare , Your Neighbours knows all well enough what you are Mistress Trinkets . Kate . She gave her a thrust , and said , do your worst , If you have much Money that does lie and rust , W [ h ] y then go to Law , I won't stand in awe ; With that down her Face she her Talents did claw , with a vengeance . The other she flew , and gave her her endue , First tore off her Hood , Quoif , and Filleting too : They fight and did Scold , and both kept their hold , At length in the Kennel together they rolled , like two fat Sovus . The Women and Men , soon parted they then , And bid them be Friendly and quiet again : Their words did prevail , together they Sail , And drank up two quarts of hight Brandy and Ale , in good Friendship . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 