The Poor Man put to a Pinch : OR , A DECLARATION of these hard Times . The Times are bad , we all do see , Pray God mend it now , if it may be ; Both in Country and in Town , Trading is very soar gone down ; Which makes great Poverty to be , In City , and in Country : And there's little Money to be had , The Times are grown so very bad . To the Tune of , The Description of this Age , or , Aim not to high . P Oor people are overcharged soar with grief , And the Aged sort , alas ! they are the Chief ; And many others that has a Charge to maintain , God comfort those that has so little gain . For Trading's down , and there's little to be god , A Poor Man scarcely can get Meat to the Pot , Or Bred to serve his Children in their need ; To see them want , would make ones Heart to bleed . There are many Shopkeepers about the City , Has nothing to do ; Alas ! the more's the pity . What will this World come to ! Can any tell ? It is the Lord that can make all things well . There are many lusty people walks up and down , There's no Employment they can have in Town ; Which makes so many to be so void of Grace , That they fallen to Wickedness , and so do transgress . prey God again we may see these times to mend , And every one to be careful to the end ; It is our Sins that causeth all the same , Let us fear God , and praise his Holy Name . If a Poor Man has a Charge of Children small , If he has no work to relieve them therewithal , It is a Grief for Parents to endure , To see their Children starved with hunger soar . prey God that Trading may be good again , And every one that hears now , say Amen ; That Poor nor Rich may have cause for to complain , Let us serve God , and we shall see good Times again . But , Alas ! alas ! the Poor has all the smart , There's many are pinched to the very heart : Poor Peoples wants has been so very soar In many a place , I say among the Poor . But if Work and Trading do come in again , There will be some help for all sorts of Men : If Rich Men would but employ the Poor , I say , To Labour for their Living , to give them pay . But alas , these Times we see is nothing , so They have enough themselves , they feel not the Poor men Woe . The House-Mouse little understands the same , What the Field-Mouse endures in Cold and Rain . Remember what our Saviour Christ did tell , To Love one another , and all things will be well : But that thing is wanting in this Nation soar , Which makes such Misery among the Poor . But yet , good People , let us be content , And Praise the Lord that hath all things to us sent ; He in good time for us will take a care , When he is pleased we shall have better share . The Times again I hope will better be , among us all , we then may live to see : In the mean time let's have a special care , That by no means we fallen into despair . Now to all People that do's live but poor , God in his Goodness with increase their store : He evermore will stand the Poor Man's friend , If we but serve the Lord unto the end . Now at the last , let's ever mind that thing , For to fear God , and honour our good King ; That God may keep this Nation still in Peace , Then Trading and Plenty will with us increase . Printed for J. Conyers at the Black Raven a little above St. Andrews Church in Holborn . The Poor Man put to a Pinch : OR , A DECLARATION of these hard Times . The Times are bad , we all do see , Pray God mend it now , if it may be ; Both in Country and in Town , Trading is very soar gone down ; Which makes great Poverty to be , In City , and in Country : And there's little Money to be had , The Times are grown so very bad . To the Tune of , The Description of this Age , or , Aim not to high . P Oor people are overcharged soar with grief , And the Aged sort , alas ! they are the Chief ; And many others that has a Charge to maintain , God comfort those that has so little gain . For Trading's down , and there's little to be god , A Poor Man scarcely can get Meat to the Pot , Or Bred to serve his Children in their need ; To see them want , would make ones Heart to bleed . There are many Shopkeepers about the City , Has nothing to do ; Alas ! the more's the pity . What will this World come to ! Can any tell ? It is the Lord that can make all things well . There are many lusty people walks up and down , There's no Employment they can have in Town ; Which makes so many to be so void of Grace , That they fallen to Wickedness , and so do transgress . prey God again we may see these times to mend , And every one to be careful to the end ; It is our Sins that causeth all the same , Let us fear God , and praise his Holy Name . If a Poor Man has a Charge of Children small , If he has no work to relieve them therewithal , It is a Grief for Parents to endure , To see their Children starved with hunger soar . prey God that Trading may be good again , And every one that hears now , say Amen ; That Poor nor Rich may have cause for to complain , Let us serve God , and we shall see good Times again . But , Alas ! alas ! the Poor has all the smart , There's many are pinched to the very heart : Poor Peoples wants has been so very soar In many a place , I say among the Poor . But if Work and Trading do come in again , There will be some help for all sorts of Men : If Rich Men would but employ the Poor , I say , To Labour for their Living , to give them pay . But alas , these Times we see is nothing , so They have enough themselves , they feel not the Poor men Woe . The House-Mouse little understands the same , What the Field-Mouse endures in Cold and Rain . Remember what our Saviour Christ did tell , To Love one another , and all things will be well : But that thing is wanting in this Nation soar , Which makes such Misery among the Poor . But yet , good People , let us be content , And Praise the Lord that hath all things to us sent ; He in good time for us will take a care , When he is pleased we shall have better share . The Times again I hope will better be , among us all , we then may live to see : In the mean time let's have a special care , That by no means we fallen into despair . Now to all People that do's live but poor , God in his Goodness with increase their store : He evermore will stand the Poor Man's friend , If we but serve the Lord unto the end . Now at the last , let's ever mind that thing , For to fear God , and honour our good King ; That God may keep this Nation still in Peace , Then Trading and Plenty will with us increase . Printed for J. Conyers at the Black Raven a little above St. Andrews Church in Holborn . 