The Sorrowful Lamentation of The Pedlars , and Petty Chapmen , for the hardness of the times , and the decay of TO rode . To the Tune of , My Life and my Death . This may be Printed , R.P. TO He times are grown hard , more harder then stone , And therefore the Pedlars may well make their moan , Lament and complain that trading is dead , That all the sweet Golden fair Days now are fled , Then Maidens and Men , Come see what you lack , And buy the fine toys that I have in my pack . Come hither and view , here's choice and here's store Here's all things to please you , what would you have more , Here's Points to the Men , and Pins for the Maid , Then Open your Purses and be not afraid : Come Maidens , etc Let none at a Tester repent or repine , Come bring me your money and i'll make you fine , Young Billy shall look as spruce as the day , And pretty sweet Betty more finer then May : Then Maidens , etc To buy a new License , your money I crave , It's that which I want , and it's that which you have , Exchange then a Groat , for some pretty toy , Come buy this fine Whistle for your little boy , Come Maidens and Men , come see what you lack , Come buy my fine Toys that I have in my Pack . Here's Garters for Hose , and Cotten for shoes , And there's a Gilded Bodkin which none would refuse . This Bodkin let John give sweet Mistress Jane , And then of unkindness he shall not complain , Come Maidens , etc Come buy this fine Coif , this dressing or Hood . And let not your money come like drops of blood , The P edlar may well of Fortune complain , If he brings all his ware to the market in vain , Then M aidens , etc Here's Bandstrings for men , and there you have lace , Bonelace to adore the fair Virgins sweet face , What ever you like if you will but pay , as soon as you please you may take it away : Then M aidens , etc The World is so hard , that we find little trade Although we have all things to please Every Maid , Come pretty fair Maids then make no delay , But give me your handsel , and Pack me away . Come M aidens , etc Here's all things that's fine , and all things that's rare , All modish and neat , and all new London - Beware , Variety here you plainly may see , Then give me your Money , & amp ; we will agree Come Maidens , and M en , come see what you lack , Come buy these fine-Toyes that I have in my Pack . We travail all day through Dirt , and through Mire , To fetch you fine laces and what you desire ; No Pains we do spare , to bring you Choice Ware , As Gloves , and Perfumes , and sweet Powder for hair . Then Maidens , etc We have choice of Songs and merry books too , All Pleasant , & amp ; Witty , Delightful , & amp ; New , Which Every young swain may Whistle at Plough And Every fair Milk-Maid may sing to her Cow , Then Maidens , etc Since Trading's so dead we must needs complain , And therefore pray let us have some little Gain : If you will be free , we will you Supply With what you do want , therefore pray come and buy , The world is so hard , that although we take P ains , When we look in our Purses , we find little gains . Printed for J. Back , at the Black-boy on London-bridge . The Sorrowful Lamentation of The Pedlars , and Petty Chapmen , for the hardness of the times , and the decay of TO rode . To the Tune of , My Life and my Death . This may be Printed , R.P. TO He times are grown hard , more harder then stone , And therefore the Pedlars may well make their moan , Lament and complain that trading is dead , That all the sweet Golden fair Days now are fled , Then Maidens and Men , Come see what you lack , And buy the fine toys that I have in my pack . Come hither and view , here's choice and here's store Here's all things to please you , what would you have more , Here's Points to the Men , and Pins for the Maid , Then Open your Purses and be not afraid : Come Maidens , etc Let none at a Tester repent or repine , Come bring me your money and i'll make you fine , Young Billy shall look as spruce as the day , And pretty sweet Betty more finer then May : Then Maidens , etc To buy a new License , your money I crave , It's that which I want , and it's that which you have , Exchange then a Groat , for some pretty toy , Come buy this fine Whistle for your little boy , Come Maidens and Men , come see what you lack , Come buy my fine Toys that I have in my Pack . Here's Garters for Hose , and Cotten for shoes , And there's a Gilded Bodkin which none would refuse . This Bodkin let John give sweet Mistress Jane , And then of unkindness he shall not complain , Come Maidens , etc Come buy this fine Coif , this dressing or Hood . And let not your money come like drops of blood , The P edlar may well of Fortune complain , If he brings all his ware to the market in vain , Then M aidens , etc Here's Bandstrings for men , and there you have lace , Bonelace to adore the fair Virgins sweet face , What ever you like if you will but pay , as soon as you please you may take it away : Then M aidens , etc The World is so hard , that we find little trade Although we have all things to please Every Maid , Come pretty fair Maids then make no delay , But give me your handsel , and Pack me away . Come M aidens , etc Here's all things that's fine , and all things that's rare , All modish and neat , and all new London - Beware , Variety here you plainly may see , Then give me your Money , & amp ; we will agree Come Maidens , and M en , come see what you lack , Come buy these fine-Toyes that I have in my Pack . We travail all day through Dirt , and through Mire , To fetch you fine laces and what you desire ; No Pains we do spare , to bring you Choice Ware , As Gloves , and Perfumes , and sweet Powder for hair . Then Maidens , etc We have choice of Songs and merry books too , All Pleasant , & amp ; Witty , Delightful , & amp ; New , Which Every young swain may Whistle at Plough And Every fair Milk-Maid may sing to her Cow , Then Maidens , etc Since Trading's so dead we must needs complain , And therefore pray let us have some little Gain : If you will be free , we will you Supply With what you do want , therefore pray come and buy , The world is so hard , that although we take P ains , When we look in our Purses , we find little gains . Printed for J. Back , at the Black-boy on London-bridge . 