The Poets Dream : OR , The Great Outcry and Lamentable Complaint of the LAND against BAYLIFFS and their DOGS . Wherein is Expressed their Villainous Outrages to Poor Men . With a True De - scription of their Knavery and Debauched Actions ; Prescribed and Presented to the view of all People . To the Tune of , Sawny , etc A S I lay Slumbering in a Dream , methought the world most strangely went ; The Bailiffs on High Seats was seen , which caused the Poor's great Discontent : They plucked true Justice from the Throne , Erecting Laws was made of their own , And burdened the Poor till they made them groan , And that's the cause that the Land Complains . Their Meeting House was and Alewives Bench , [ axed ] in a Street that is termed Old ; Their Speaker was and a Play-house-Wench , both Whore , and Thief , and a Devilish Should : She'd Guzzel Brandy , Wine , or Ale , And then she'd at her Neighbours Rail , And send for the Bailiffs to have them to Jail , And that's the cause that the Land Complains . Methought a mighty Hunting-match , was made by Bailiffs and their Currs : Poor men was the Deer they strove to catch , the Houses placed in the Room of Furs : The Suburbs-Round it was their Park , The Bailiffs Yell , the Dogs did Bark , The Poor kept as close as Noah in the Ark ; And that's the cause that the Land Complains . Then Shepherd and his Dog wheeled up to the right , and thundered by a Cursed Lane , And there the Villains wrought their Spite , for by them once was a Poor Man slave : They Swear before they'll ever lack , They'll go to Hell a-Pick-a-Pack , And thus poor Debtors they go to rack , And that's the cause that the Land complains . There's Cursing Will and Dam - Jack , and Robin Turner's alive again ; And Paunchgut - Tom , ( a Hellish Pack ) with perjured Dick , and Bawdy - Ben : Which formerly on Earth did Dwell , And now they are returned from Hell , And does against our Laws Rebel , And that's the cause that the Land complains . When I awaked from my Dream , Methought the World turned upside down , And in great haste I Writ this Theam , for the Bayliffs-Dogs of our Town : Who for their prey each hour do wait , Like Death at every poor Man's Gate , And brings the Realm to a Dismal fate , And that's the cause that the Land complains . When Poor men are out of Employ , and have not a Farthing in the World ; The while their Wives and Children Cry , there's many are in a Prison hurled : Men are Enticed by the Bumms , Who swear they never will pay their Sums , Thus Poor in Flocks to the Jailor comes ; And that's the cause that the Land complains . The Tallyman , Curmudgeon keeps a Bailiff and his Dog to Bite ; If in their Books men ever Creeps , they quickly swear they'll have their Right : So soon as ever they do Backslide , The Torturing Jail they must abide , Then Toby and his Dog's Employed ; And that's the cause that the Land complains . When Rogues are at Old-Bayly Burned , and that their Pilfering Trades do fail ; From Thieves to Bayliffs-Dogs have turned , to plague and hurry the Poor to Jail : How like Kid-Nappers all the Day , In every Corner they Survey , And quaff whole Bowls when they get their Prey ; And that's the cause that the Land complains . Ten Groat's the Fees , and a Crown the Arrest , and three Round ooo is for a Writ beside ; Thus Laws are broken , and poor men Oppressed , such Racking Torments they must abide : And while the Prisoner sends for Bail , They Tope the Brandy , Beer , and Ale , And makes him pay , or they have him to Jail : And that's the cause that the Land complains . For Twenty Shillings , Ten , or Five , they'll put a man to a Cursed Charge ; Or run him to Jail they'll soon contrive , where other Bills are expressed at Large : The Jayl-Fees many are bound to Rue , The Garnish , Bed , and Turn-Key too , Expects and unexpected Endue ; And that's the cause that the Land Complains . Your Moor-field - Mobbs , and Whetston - Whores , has Bailiffs and their Dogs for Friends ; When Lustful Youth pays Venus Scores , those Sponging Pimps the House attends : If Cullies fight in a Drunken fit , Away goes Toby's Dog for a Writ , Thus many falls in the Bailiffs pit ; and that's the cause that the Land complains . ' This seldom a Bailiff or his Dog , is ever known for to go to Church ; As soon as they hear the Word of God , they leave the Parson in the lurch : They swear they'll come to Church no more , They lay their Sins to Adams Score , And jaunts to Moorfields to a Whore : And that's the cause that the Priest complains . Thus I conclude and end my Song , desiring that you would be content : There's Christian-Peers that may right our wrong , when Heaven yields up a Parliament : I hope true Reason will plead our cause , While they're erecting wholesome Laws , They'll keep us from the Crocodiles paws : And cease the Poor of the Lands complaints . FINIS . London , Printed for R. Smart in Salisbury-Court , 1679. The Poets Dream : OR , The Great Outcry and Lamentable Complaint of the LAND against BAYLIFFS and their DOGS . Wherein is Expressed their Villainous Outrages to Poor Men . With a True De - scription of their Knavery and Debauched Actions ; Prescribed and Presented to the view of all People . To the Tune of , Sawny , etc A S I lay Slumbering in a Dream , methought the world most strangely went ; The Bailiffs on High Seats was seen , which caused the Poor's great Discontent : They plucked true Justice from the Throne , Erecting Laws was made of their own , And burdened the Poor till they made them groan , And that's the cause that the Land Complains . Their Meeting House was and Alewives Bench , [ axed ] in a Street that is termed Old ; Their Speaker was and a Play-house-Wench , both Whore , and Thief , and a Devilish Should : She'd Guzzel Brandy , Wine , or Ale , And then she'd at her Neighbours Rail , And send for the Bailiffs to have them to Jail , And that's the cause that the Land Complains . Methought a mighty Hunting-match , was made by Bailiffs and their Currs : Poor men was the Deer they strove to catch , the Houses placed in the Room of Furs : The Suburbs-Round it was their Park , The Bailiffs Yell , the Dogs did Bark , The Poor kept as close as Noah in the Ark ; And that's the cause that the Land Complains . Then Shepherd and his Dog wheeled up to the right , and thundered by a Cursed Lane , And there the Villains wrought their Spite , for by them once was a Poor Man slave : They Swear before they'll ever lack , They'll go to Hell a-Pick-a-Pack , And thus poor Debtors they go to rack , And that's the cause that the Land complains . There's Cursing Will and Dam - Jack , and Robin Turner's alive again ; And Paunchgut - Tom , ( a Hellish Pack ) with perjured Dick , and Bawdy - Ben : Which formerly on Earth did Dwell , And now they are returned from Hell , And does against our Laws Rebel , And that's the cause that the Land complains . When I awaked from my Dream , Methought the World turned upside down , And in great haste I Writ this Theam , for the Bayliffs-Dogs of our Town : Who for their prey each hour do wait , Like Death at every poor Man's Gate , And brings the Realm to a Dismal fate , And that's the cause that the Land complains . When Poor men are out of Employ , and have not a Farthing in the World ; The while their Wives and Children Cry , there's many are in a Prison hurled : Men are Enticed by the Bumms , Who swear they never will pay their Sums , Thus Poor in Flocks to the Jailor comes ; And that's the cause that the Land complains . The Tallyman , Curmudgeon keeps a Bailiff and his Dog to Bite ; If in their Books men ever Creeps , they quickly swear they'll have their Right : So soon as ever they do Backslide , The Torturing Jail they must abide , Then Toby and his Dog's Employed ; And that's the cause that the Land complains . When Rogues are at Old-Bayly Burned , and that their Pilfering Trades do fail ; From Thieves to Bayliffs-Dogs have turned , to plague and hurry the Poor to Jail : How like Kid-Nappers all the Day , In every Corner they Survey , And quaff whole Bowls when they get their Prey ; And that's the cause that the Land complains . Ten Groat's the Fees , and a Crown the Arrest , and three Round ooo is for a Writ beside ; Thus Laws are broken , and poor men Oppressed , such Racking Torments they must abide : And while the Prisoner sends for Bail , They Tope the Brandy , Beer , and Ale , And makes him pay , or they have him to Jail : And that's the cause that the Land complains . For Twenty Shillings , Ten , or Five , they'll put a man to a Cursed Charge ; Or run him to Jail they'll soon contrive , where other Bills are expressed at Large : The Jayl-Fees many are bound to Rue , The Garnish , Bed , and Turn-Key too , Expects and unexpected Endue ; And that's the cause that the Land Complains . Your Moor-field - Mobbs , and Whetston - Whores , has Bailiffs and their Dogs for Friends ; When Lustful Youth pays Venus Scores , those Sponging Pimps the House attends : If Cullies fight in a Drunken fit , Away goes Toby's Dog for a Writ , Thus many falls in the Bailiffs pit ; and that's the cause that the Land complains . ' This seldom a Bailiff or his Dog , is ever known for to go to Church ; As soon as they hear the Word of God , they leave the Parson in the lurch : They swear they'll come to Church no more , They lay their Sins to Adams Score , And jaunts to Moorfields to a Whore : And that's the cause that the Priest complains . Thus I conclude and end my Song , desiring that you would be content : There's Christian-Peers that may right our wrong , when Heaven yields up a Parliament : I hope true Reason will plead our cause , While they're erecting wholesome Laws , They'll keep us from the Crocodiles paws : And cease the Poor of the Lands complaints . FINIS . London , Printed for R. Smart in Salisbury-Court , 1679. 