THE Tradesmen's Lamentation ; OR , A Discourse between WILL the Weaver , and RICHARD the Glover , concerning the Dullness of their Trades : Together with William ' s Cheerful hope's of seeing the Blessed Sun of Prosperity to shine once more upon this Land. To the Tune of , A Touch of the Times . A S William one morning was walking the street , With his Neighbour Richard he happened to meet ; Then taking each other fast hold by the Hand , They for a short time there disputing did stand : I prithee , quoth William , what News do you hear ? Faith , none that is good , as i'll make it appear ; Which makes my poor Visage look pitiful blue , For Trading is dead , I have nothing to do . I went to the Market to utter my Ware , But could take no Money when as I came there : Wherever I Travel the City about , All Men are unwilling their Coin to lay out : This troubles me soar , and I being poor , I have not so much as a Penny in store ; My Sorrows are many , as I tell to you , Trading being dead , I have nothing to do . Why Neighbour , quoth William , it is my own case , And other poor Tradesmen in every-place , Whose Family's large , and their substance but small , And none but their Care to maintain them withal : I well may relate , their sorrows are great , To think of their present deplorable state ; All Mirth is departed , and Troubles renew , For Trading is dead we have nothing to do . All over the Nation strange Stories are told , And one by the other is often Controlled : Some said that the Dutch-men are come to the shore , And others declared they would never come over : Thus we could scarce find , two Men of a mind , But what did both waver and turn with the Wind ; But here is one thing which we find is too true , All Trading is dead , there is nothing to do . Rich Misers now turns all their Silver to Gold , And those that have Houses do wish they were sold ; And therefore dear Neighbour , I heartily fear , We shall have but pitiful Trading this Year : But let Heaven Crown , this Land with renown , And pull all the Force of our Enemies down , For now at the present Care makes us look blue , For Trading is dead , we have nothing to do . While poor Men has scarce ever a penny to use , The Rich are in fear they their Treasure shall lose . Dame Fortune she hands forth her Favours to such , That some has too little , and others too much ; Yet out of their store , they'll not pity the poor ; But still will be having , and craving for more ; Out of poor Men's labours they something will screw We having but little or nothing do . Though now from our Foes a dark Cloud does appear , Ever long we may have our Element clear ; The Sun in much Glory and Splendour may shine , And every man eat the fruit of his own Vine : This cannot long last , our Foes we may blast ; For when all this Storm and the Tempest is past , Instead of bad Trading , we then shall have store , And flourish much better than ever before . Let's wait but with patience , we hope to subdue Those Troubles and Cares , with our Enemies too ; The Earth in abundance brings forth her increase , We want nothing here but the Blessing of peace : Therefore my dear Friend , our Lives let's amend , That Heaven unto this great Land may extend , Toe Blessing of peace all our Joys to restore , And flourish more better than ever before . Although our Trouble may seem to last long , Yet if God stands for us , who can do us wrong ? This Nation and People I hope he'll defend From all kind of Dangers unto the World's end ; Then now let us pray , for this happy day , Wherein all our troubles may vanish away ; The Joys of this Kingdom in peace to restore , To flourisn more better then ever before . This may be Printed . R. P. Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Guiltspur - street , without Newgate , 1688. THE Tradesmen's Lamentation ; OR , A Discourse between WILL the Weaver , and RICHARD the Glover , concerning the Dullness of their Trades : Together with William ' s Cheerful hope's of seeing the Blessed Sun of Prosperity to shine once more upon this Land. To the Tune of , A Touch of the Times . A S William one morning was walking the street , With his Neighbour Richard he happened to meet ; Then taking each other fast hold by the Hand , They for a short time there disputing did stand : I prithee , quoth William , what News do you hear ? Faith , none that is good , as i'll make it appear ; Which makes my poor Visage look pitiful blue , For Trading is dead , I have nothing to do . I went to the Market to utter my Ware , But could take no Money when as I came there : Wherever I Travel the City about , All Men are unwilling their Coin to lay out : This troubles me soar , and I being poor , I have not so much as a Penny in store ; My Sorrows are many , as I tell to you , Trading being dead , I have nothing to do . Why Neighbour , quoth William , it is my own case , And other poor Tradesmen in every-place , Whose Family's large , and their substance but small , And none but their Care to maintain them withal : I well may relate , their sorrows are great , To think of their present deplorable state ; All Mirth is departed , and Troubles renew , For Trading is dead we have nothing to do . All over the Nation strange Stories are told , And one by the other is often Controlled : Some said that the Dutch-men are come to the shore , And others declared they would never come over : Thus we could scarce find , two Men of a mind , But what did both waver and turn with the Wind ; But here is one thing which we find is too true , All Trading is dead , there is nothing to do . Rich Misers now turns all their Silver to Gold , And those that have Houses do wish they were sold ; And therefore dear Neighbour , I heartily fear , We shall have but pitiful Trading this Year : But let Heaven Crown , this Land with renown , And pull all the Force of our Enemies down , For now at the present Care makes us look blue , For Trading is dead , we have nothing to do . While poor Men has scarce ever a penny to use , The Rich are in fear they their Treasure shall lose . Dame Fortune she hands forth her Favours to such , That some has too little , and others too much ; Yet out of their store , they'll not pity the poor ; But still will be having , and craving for more ; Out of poor Men's labours they something will screw We having but little or nothing do . Though now from our Foes a dark Cloud does appear , Ever long we may have our Element clear ; The Sun in much Glory and Splendour may shine , And every man eat the fruit of his own Vine : This cannot long last , our Foes we may blast ; For when all this Storm and the Tempest is past , Instead of bad Trading , we then shall have store , And flourish much better than ever before . Let's wait but with patience , we hope to subdue Those Troubles and Cares , with our Enemies too ; The Earth in abundance brings forth her increase , We want nothing here but the Blessing of peace : Therefore my dear Friend , our Lives let's amend , That Heaven unto this great Land may extend , Toe Blessing of peace all our Joys to restore , And flourish more better than ever before . Although our Trouble may seem to last long , Yet if God stands for us , who can do us wrong ? This Nation and People I hope he'll defend From all kind of Dangers unto the World's end ; Then now let us pray , for this happy day , Wherein all our troubles may vanish away ; The Joys of this Kingdom in peace to restore , To flourisn more better then ever before . This may be Printed . R. P. Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Guiltspur - street , without Newgate , 1688. 