THE Despairing PRODIGAL : OR , The Happy Surprisal . To and Excellent New Tune , Sung at the Court , Called , The Boarding School . Y Oung men & amp ; Maids to these few lines give ear , And a Relation you shall hear , If the whole life of a young Gentleman , That in his tender -- years began , To practice all things , that deserved praise , And some years thus spent his days , He was a Darling and the only Child , Of a most [ tender ] -- Father mild , Who had designed him , for to study Law , Since he Excelled others he saw , Thus for a while he learned Authors tries , And his acquaintance did surprise . TO Oh his Inferiors , he was always kind , And of a sweet -- temper of mind , This made him soon honoured by great and small , And that he was loved of all , But by Acquaintance he mispent his time , Did Idly waste most of his Prime . Learning was left , Books were not minded more , Which he had admired so much before . His Chamber , which [ Conce ] , and his chief delight , He only haunted at twelve at Night , Sweet Serenades , Frolicks , and pleasures fine , These does Embrace and think Divine . Now for to Court he does resolve to try , And to admire every black eye , Every sweet Dimple in the Female Face , Every soft -- mould , and every Grace , No Ladies heart , but he could Charm and Win , And his Attempts now does begin . He had now learned , though the Ladies -- Fair , Have hearts as hard as the Flints are , Yet if it's true ( which is by Rumor said , ) These will soon break on a Down-Bed , Ladies , he thinks , sometime are Falling Stars , And take Delight , in Cupids Wars . He likes the Foe , with a sweet Virgins Fate , To [ fright ] the Fair-Head-Piece , with Lace , Up to the Knees in Silken -- Stockings -- soft , It's in these Wars he would fight oft , There's no great danger , in such Duels , sure Such Pleasing -- Wars , Maids may Endure . These Evil -- Courses reached his Father's Ears , Raised in his breast many sad fears , He sends for home this his beloved -- Son , Shows him his grief says he's undone , And does command now by his dying Breath , That he observe after his death . Never to part with this house , which you have , When you have laid me in my Grave , Nor open this Closed door which you see , Of which this same , here is the Key , Till you han't left one six penca for to pay , And so farewell , mind what I say . After a while he sold a fair -- Estate , And was reduced to a sad Fate , Credit he lacked , and now had Friends not more , And was become wretched and poor , At last he thought upon the Closet-Door , Which till this time was locked secure . Round there he looks with discontented eyes , And a sad Mottoe there he spies , With this Inscription , Now go hang your self , Writ in large Lines round every shelf , With a Huge Rope , and a Noose , fitted there , And for his fate , now does prepare . Now all the youths great Expectation's gone , Nothing but sighs and tears come on , Once he had hope's that he should Treasure find , But now complains fortune's -- unkind , At laste the Rope he does with Horror take , And does resolve to yield to fate , This to a false-Ceeling was fixed which fell , And round his head , money -- Pell -- mel , Bags of bright Gold and of pure Silver fine , Which sighed the Miser thinks Divine , Thus this same [ strange ] -- surprise , and all this strife Ended with Joy and a good -- life , FINIS . Licensed according to Order . Printed for J. Conyers at the Black Raven in Holbourn . THE Despairing PRODIGAL : OR , The Happy Surprisal . To and Excellent New Tune , Sung at the Court , Called , The Boarding School . Y Oung men & amp ; Maids to these few lines give ear , And a Relation you shall hear , If the whole life of a young Gentleman , That in his tender -- years began , To practice all things , that deserved praise , And some years thus spent his days , He was a Darling and the only Child , Of a most [ tender ] -- Father mild , Who had designed him , for to study Law , Since he Excelled others he saw , Thus for a while he learned Authors tries , And his acquaintance did surprise . TO Oh his Inferiors , he was always kind , And of a sweet -- temper of mind , This made him soon honoured by great and small , And that he was loved of all , But by Acquaintance he mispent his time , Did Idly waste most of his Prime . Learning was left , Books were not minded more , Which he had admired so much before . His Chamber , which [ Conce ] , and his chief delight , He only haunted at twelve at Night , Sweet Serenades , Frolicks , and pleasures fine , These does Embrace and think Divine . Now for to Court he does resolve to try , And to admire every black eye , Every sweet Dimple in the Female Face , Every soft -- mould , and every Grace , No Ladies heart , but he could Charm and Win , And his Attempts now does begin . He had now learned , though the Ladies -- Fair , Have hearts as hard as the Flints are , Yet if it's true ( which is by Rumor said , ) These will soon break on a Down-Bed , Ladies , he thinks , sometime are Falling Stars , And take Delight , in Cupids Wars . He likes the Foe , with a sweet Virgins Fate , To [ fright ] the Fair-Head-Piece , with Lace , Up to the Knees in Silken -- Stockings -- soft , It's in these Wars he would fight oft , There's no great danger , in such Duels , sure Such Pleasing -- Wars , Maids may Endure . These Evil -- Courses reached his Father's Ears , Raised in his breast many sad fears , He sends for home this his beloved -- Son , Shows him his grief says he's undone , And does command now by his dying Breath , That he observe after his death . Never to part with this house , which you have , When you have laid me in my Grave , Nor open this Closed door which you see , Of which this same , here is the Key , Till you han't left one six penca for to pay , And so farewell , mind what I say . After a while he sold a fair -- Estate , And was reduced to a sad Fate , Credit he lacked , and now had Friends not more , And was become wretched and poor , At last he thought upon the Closet-Door , Which till this time was locked secure . Round there he looks with discontented eyes , And a sad Mottoe there he spies , With this Inscription , Now go hang your self , Writ in large Lines round every shelf , With a Huge Rope , and a Noose , fitted there , And for his fate , now does prepare . Now all the youths great Expectation's gone , Nothing but sighs and tears come on , Once he had hope's that he should Treasure find , But now complains fortune's -- unkind , At laste the Rope he does with Horror take , And does resolve to yield to fate , This to a false-Ceeling was fixed which fell , And round his head , money -- Pell -- mel , Bags of bright Gold and of pure Silver fine , Which sighed the Miser thinks Divine , Thus this same [ strange ] -- surprise , and all this strife Ended with Joy and a good -- life , FINIS . Licensed according to Order . Printed for J. Conyers at the Black Raven in Holbourn . 