The Crafty Scotch Pedlar : OR , THE Downfall of TRADING , By that wondered Swarm of Caterpillars , who does not only Devour our Shopkeepers in City and Country , but likewise the poor of our Nation , by their false Dealing , etc Tune of , Marry live long . Licensed according to Order . H Ere is a new song , Good people pray mind it , No doubt but you'll find it , Who suffers the wrong by peddling Scots : [ In ] their packs they do bear [ A ] ll sorts of shop-ware , and trudge up and down , Which ruins good trading , Which ruins good trading , in City and Town . They first undersell , And yet by their greeting , Their shaming and cheating , A man might as well give still the full price , For in measure or weight They will sharp what they bait ; I'll bet you a crown Such rogues ruins trading , Such rogues ruins trading , in City and Town . Their very Scotch cloth , They cheat in their measure , And do it with pleasure , They come from the North , that nursery of knaves ; In your face they will smile And cheat you the while ; i'll bet you a crown They are the worst dealers , They are the worst dealers , in City and Town . Good Shopkeepers now Though trade be decaying Great taxes are paying , We then must allow they should have a trade , But each Scot with his pack , Cries , Maids what do you lack ? and range up and down , This ruins good trading , This ruins good trading , in City and Town . Though taxes are large , On honest householders , Maintaining of soldiers , Yet they are at no charge , it's very well known They can range too and from , And wherever they go run ever trade down , To ruin shopkeepers , To ruin shopkeepers , in City and Town . And insolent Scot , Will boast he'll fell cheaper , Then any shopkeeper , For he pays no lot , nor scot to the king , Nor maintaining of poor , And twenty things more , which shopkeepers do , That shows that the Scots are , That shows that the Scots are , a runagate Crew . In barns they lie , And scarce spend a tester , From Easter to Easter ; Bag-pudding or pie they'll beg were they fell ; And thus in the main , Though small is their gain , they will have their endue ; This shows that the Scots are , This shows that the Scots are , a beggarly Crew . There's not one in ten But know's how to shurck you , A capon or turkey , And some times a hen ; it's all one to him , A fat pig or a goose , Nay , turn the knave lose Much more he can do ; This shows that the Scots are , This shows that the Scots are , a pilfering Crew . I cannot deny , But the poor of our nation Would make lamentation , And want a supply , were peddling put down ; But the Scots are a crew Of the devil knows who , there never was more , They sworm from their nation , They swarm from their nation , to eat up our poor . If ought may be god , Without fraud or stealing , By honest plain dealing , Pray why should the Scot , that freedom enjoy ? Let the poor of our land Take their callings in hand their sorrow to cure , Their nearest related , Their nearest related , to us I am sure . Printed by E. M. for C. Bates next door to White-Heart-Tavern in West-Smithfield . The Crafty Scotch Pedlar : OR , THE Downfall of TRADING , By that wondered Swarm of Caterpillars , who does not only Devour our Shopkeepers in City and Country , but likewise the poor of our Nation , by their false Dealing , etc Tune of , Marry live long . Licensed according to Order . H Ere is a new song , Good people pray mind it , No doubt but you'll find it , Who suffers the wrong by peddling Scots : [ In ] their packs they do bear [ A ] ll sorts of shop-ware , and trudge up and down , Which ruins good trading , Which ruins good trading , in City and Town . They first undersell , And yet by their greeting , Their shaming and cheating , A man might as well give still the full price , For in measure or weight They will sharp what they bait ; I'll bet you a crown Such rogues ruins trading , Such rogues ruins trading , in City and Town . Their very Scotch cloth , They cheat in their measure , And do it with pleasure , They come from the North , that nursery of knaves ; In your face they will smile And cheat you the while ; i'll bet you a crown They are the worst dealers , They are the worst dealers , in City and Town . Good Shopkeepers now Though trade be decaying Great taxes are paying , We then must allow they should have a trade , But each Scot with his pack , Cries , Maids what do you lack ? and range up and down , This ruins good trading , This ruins good trading , in City and Town . Though taxes are large , On honest householders , Maintaining of soldiers , Yet they are at no charge , it's very well known They can range too and from , And wherever they go run ever trade down , To ruin shopkeepers , To ruin shopkeepers , in City and Town . And insolent Scot , Will boast he'll fell cheaper , Then any shopkeeper , For he pays no lot , nor scot to the king , Nor maintaining of poor , And twenty things more , which shopkeepers do , That shows that the Scots are , That shows that the Scots are , a runagate Crew . In barns they lie , And scarce spend a tester , From Easter to Easter ; Bag-pudding or pie they'll beg were they fell ; And thus in the main , Though small is their gain , they will have their endue ; This shows that the Scots are , This shows that the Scots are , a beggarly Crew . There's not one in ten But know's how to shurck you , A capon or turkey , And some times a hen ; it's all one to him , A fat pig or a goose , Nay , turn the knave lose Much more he can do ; This shows that the Scots are , This shows that the Scots are , a pilfering Crew . I cannot deny , But the poor of our nation Would make lamentation , And want a supply , were peddling put down ; But the Scots are a crew Of the devil knows who , there never was more , They sworm from their nation , They swarm from their nation , to eat up our poor . If ought may be god , Without fraud or stealing , By honest plain dealing , Pray why should the Scot , that freedom enjoy ? Let the poor of our land Take their callings in hand their sorrow to cure , Their nearest related , Their nearest related , to us I am sure . Printed by E. M. for C. Bates next door to White-Heart-Tavern in West-Smithfield . 