Private Occurrences , OR , The Transactions of the four Last Years , Written in Imitation of the Old Ballad of Hey brave Oliver , Ho brave Oliver , etc A Protestant Muse , yet a lover of Kings : On the Age , grown a little Satyrical , Sings , Of Papists , their Counsels , and other fine things , Sing heigh brave Popery , ho rare Popery , o fine Popery O , dainty popery , o . She hope's she offends not Englishman's patience ; Though Satyr's forbid on all such occasions , She's too good a Subject to Read Declarations . Sing heigh brave popery , etc If that saying be good , of Let him Laugh that Wins . Sure a Loser may smile without any offence : My Muse then is gamesome , and thus she begins ; With heigh brave popery , etc When Changed --- deceased , to his Kingdoms dismay , By and Appoplex , or else some other way ; Our Brother with Shouts was proclaimed the same day . Sing heigh brave popery , etc His first Royal promise was never to touch , Our Rights , not Religion , Privilege grutch But P et --- he said that he granted [ tO ] oo much . Sing heigh brave popery , etc Then Mon ------ came in with and Army of Fools : Betrayed by his Cuckold , and other dull Tools That painted the Turf of Green S edgmore with Gules . Sing heigh brave popery , etc That Victory got some think to our wrong : The Priests braid out joy in a Thank giving Song , And Teague with their Bald-pates were at it ding dung . Sing heigh brave popery , etc Then straight a strong Army was levied in haste , To hinder Rebellion ; a very good Jest ; For some [ K ] ogues will swear 'twas to murder the Test. Sing heigh brave popery , etc A politic Law which Recusants did doom ; That into our Senate , they never might come , But Equivalent since , was proposed in its room . Sing heigh brave popery , etc As if a true Friend should in Kindness demand A Tooth in my Head , which firmly does stand , To give fored another he had in his hand . Sing heigh brave popery , etc Then Term after Term , this great Matter was weighed , Old Judges turned out , and new Block ----- ds made : That Cook of Wise Littleton never did read . S ing heigh brave popery , etc The good Church of England with speed was run down , Whose Loyalty ever stood fast to the Crown And Presbyter John was made Mayor of the Town . S ing heigh brave popery , etc The Bishops Disgrace made the Clergy to sob : A prey to Old Pet ----- and president Bob ; And hurried to prison as if they did Rob. Sing heigh brave popery , etc Then into the World a dear P -------- of W ------- slipped ; 'Twas plain , for we hear a great Minister peeped . The bricklayer for prating dah liketed been whipped . Sing heigh brave Popery , etc Thus England Distresses more fierce than the plague , That during three Years , of no Quiet could brag , The brave Prince of Orange is come to the Hague . sing heigh brave popery , etc A strong Fleet and Army they hither are bent , We know well the cause that there is something in't , And we doubt not ever long we shall see it in print . sing heigh brave popery , etc Ah England , that never couldst valve thy peace , Had matters been now as in Elsabeths days , The Dutch had never ventured to fish in our Seas , Then curse of popery , pox of popery , plague of popery , O senseless popery , o . FINIS . Private Occurrences , OR , The Transactions of the four Last Years , Written in Imitation of the Old Ballad of Hey brave Oliver , Ho brave Oliver , etc A Protestant Muse , yet a lover of Kings : On the Age , grown a little Satyrical , Sings , Of Papists , their Counsels , and other fine things , Sing heigh brave Popery , ho rare Popery , o fine Popery O , dainty popery , o . She hope's she offends not Englishman's patience ; Though Satyr's forbid on all such occasions , She's too good a Subject to Read Declarations . Sing heigh brave popery , etc If that saying be good , of Let him Laugh that Wins . Sure a Loser may smile without any offence : My Muse then is gamesome , and thus she begins ; With heigh brave popery , etc When Changed --- deceased , to his Kingdoms dismay , By and Appoplex , or else some other way ; Our Brother with Shouts was proclaimed the same day . Sing heigh brave popery , etc His first Royal promise was never to touch , Our Rights , not Religion , Privilege grutch But P et --- he said that he granted [ tO ] oo much . Sing heigh brave popery , etc Then Mon ------ came in with and Army of Fools : Betrayed by his Cuckold , and other dull Tools That painted the Turf of Green S edgmore with Gules . Sing heigh brave popery , etc That Victory got some think to our wrong : The Priests braid out joy in a Thank giving Song , And Teague with their Bald-pates were at it ding dung . Sing heigh brave popery , etc Then straight a strong Army was levied in haste , To hinder Rebellion ; a very good Jest ; For some [ K ] ogues will swear 'twas to murder the Test. Sing heigh brave popery , etc A politic Law which Recusants did doom ; That into our Senate , they never might come , But Equivalent since , was proposed in its room . Sing heigh brave popery , etc As if a true Friend should in Kindness demand A Tooth in my Head , which firmly does stand , To give fored another he had in his hand . Sing heigh brave popery , etc Then Term after Term , this great Matter was weighed , Old Judges turned out , and new Block ----- ds made : That Cook of Wise Littleton never did read . S ing heigh brave popery , etc The good Church of England with speed was run down , Whose Loyalty ever stood fast to the Crown And Presbyter John was made Mayor of the Town . S ing heigh brave popery , etc The Bishops Disgrace made the Clergy to sob : A prey to Old Pet ----- and president Bob ; And hurried to prison as if they did Rob. Sing heigh brave popery , etc Then into the World a dear P -------- of W ------- slipped ; 'Twas plain , for we hear a great Minister peeped . The bricklayer for prating dah liketed been whipped . Sing heigh brave Popery , etc Thus England Distresses more fierce than the plague , That during three Years , of no Quiet could brag , The brave Prince of Orange is come to the Hague . sing heigh brave popery , etc A strong Fleet and Army they hither are bent , We know well the cause that there is something in't , And we doubt not ever long we shall see it in print . sing heigh brave popery , etc Ah England , that never couldst valve thy peace , Had matters been now as in Elsabeths days , The Dutch had never ventured to fish in our Seas , Then curse of popery , pox of popery , plague of popery , O senseless popery , o . FINIS . 