The Glory of the Gentle-Craft , Or , A Brief account of the Valiant SHOOMAKERS Who presented themselves to His Majesty King William of England , in order to serve him against his Enemies . Tune is , Touch of the Times . A LL you that the Gentle-Craft does profess , Your Courage and Valour I needs must express ; So many brave Spirits among you do Reign , Who freely will venture our Rights to maintain : And proffer their Service like Soldiers of sense , To fight in the Church and the Kingdoms defence ; In order to put all our Foes to the flight , Brave Shoemakers ever were willing to Fight . As soon as they hear but the Whispers of War , The Shoemakers they are the first that repair , To proffer their Service to fight for the King , And this to their Calling much credit does bring : They throw by their stirrups , their Awls and their Knives And like valiant Soldiers they'll venture their lives ; The wrongs of the Nation in order to right , brave Shoemakers always were ready to fight . In Ages of old we of Shoemakers Read , How gallantly they did in Weapons proceed ; Each Journeyman kept Quarterstaff , Sword and Spear And like a true Soldier would often appear : Your Courage not Calling could ever run down , They'll venture their Lives in defence of the Crown ; True Valour and Courage is all their Delight , Brave Shoemakers always were willing to Fight . Their Fame is Recorded for what they have done , And yet greater hazards they're willing to run , Because they know this it is in a good Cause , To fight for Religion , our Lives and our Laws ; They need not be Pressed who are willing to go , To fight for their King , and prove Romes overthrow , True valour and courage is all their delight , brave Shoemakers always were willing to fight . There's brave Crispianus the Son of a Prince , Became a Shoemaker and Soldier of sense , He fought like a valiant brave Hero in France , For which his great King then did strive to advance His lost decayed Honour then as a Reward , He gained the same by his conquering Sword ; And thus in all Ages our wrongs they would right , Brave Shoemakers always were ready to fight . They are not possessed with a Cowardly fear , Like those that endeavour to march in the rear , They proffer themselves in the front of the fray , And make no great question of winning the day ; With Courage they labour to Conquer Romes Train , That they may never trouble this Nation again ; Their Tools shall be turned to Armour so bright , brave Shoemakers ever were willing to fight . They see that poor Ireland lies in distress , Their Courage commands them their Lives to express , And therefore in hundreds together they meet , And tender their Service at King William's feet , All being resolved his Rights to maintain , To make him a happy and prosperous Reign ; A Protestant King is the Nations delight , And therefore brave Shoemakers willingly fight . To Conquer Tyrconnel is grand Cowardly crew , They proffer to raise up a thousand or two , Brave boys that will fear not the face of a Foe , But fight till they've laid all their Enemies low , In order to pull down Romes insolent pride , Their courage and valour has often been tried ; The Weapons of warfare has been their delight , brave Shoemakers ever were willing to fight . Licensed according to Order . Printed for J. Blare on London-Bridge . The Glory of the Gentle-Craft , Or , A Brief account of the Valiant SHOOMAKERS Who presented themselves to His Majesty King William of England , in order to serve him against his Enemies . Tune is , Touch of the Times . A LL you that the Gentle-Craft does profess , Your Courage and Valour I needs must express ; So many brave Spirits among you do Reign , Who freely will venture our Rights to maintain : And proffer their Service like Soldiers of sense , To fight in the Church and the Kingdoms defence ; In order to put all our Foes to the flight , Brave Shoemakers ever were willing to Fight . As soon as they hear but the Whispers of War , The Shoemakers they are the first that repair , To proffer their Service to fight for the King , And this to their Calling much credit does bring : They throw by their stirrups , their Awls and their Knives And like valiant Soldiers they'll venture their lives ; The wrongs of the Nation in order to right , brave Shoemakers always were ready to fight . In Ages of old we of Shoemakers Read , How gallantly they did in Weapons proceed ; Each Journeyman kept Quarterstaff , Sword and Spear And like a true Soldier would often appear : Your Courage not Calling could ever run down , They'll venture their Lives in defence of the Crown ; True Valour and Courage is all their Delight , Brave Shoemakers always were willing to Fight . Their Fame is Recorded for what they have done , And yet greater hazards they're willing to run , Because they know this it is in a good Cause , To fight for Religion , our Lives and our Laws ; They need not be Pressed who are willing to go , To fight for their King , and prove Romes overthrow , True valour and courage is all their delight , brave Shoemakers always were willing to fight . There's brave Crispianus the Son of a Prince , Became a Shoemaker and Soldier of sense , He fought like a valiant brave Hero in France , For which his great King then did strive to advance His lost decayed Honour then as a Reward , He gained the same by his conquering Sword ; And thus in all Ages our wrongs they would right , Brave Shoemakers always were ready to fight . They are not possessed with a Cowardly fear , Like those that endeavour to march in the rear , They proffer themselves in the front of the fray , And make no great question of winning the day ; With Courage they labour to Conquer Romes Train , That they may never trouble this Nation again ; Their Tools shall be turned to Armour so bright , brave Shoemakers ever were willing to fight . They see that poor Ireland lies in distress , Their Courage commands them their Lives to express , And therefore in hundreds together they meet , And tender their Service at King William's feet , All being resolved his Rights to maintain , To make him a happy and prosperous Reign ; A Protestant King is the Nations delight , And therefore brave Shoemakers willingly fight . To Conquer Tyrconnel is grand Cowardly crew , They proffer to raise up a thousand or two , Brave boys that will fear not the face of a Foe , But fight till they've laid all their Enemies low , In order to pull down Romes insolent pride , Their courage and valour has often been tried ; The Weapons of warfare has been their delight , brave Shoemakers ever were willing to fight . Licensed according to Order . Printed for J. Blare on London-Bridge . 