MONEY , MONEY , my Hearts ; See here what Money do's ! O Mighty Money ! He that has Money has but Evil's Root ; But he that has none has the Branches to boot . To the Tune of High Boys up go we . Or , Jenny Gin . Licensed according to Order . G Ood Folks look to your Purses , while I of Money sing , For it's the Curse of Curses , the want of it do's bring : But though you love your Money so , yet sometime for a Song , You'll let some of your Money go , or else I'm in the wrong . Money makes the Mare to go , it makes the Old Wife Trot ; Money is a Friend , a Foe , and what do's Money not ? Money ' s and Almighty thing , it makes the Rich to swagger , And makes the only differing betwixt a Prince and Beggar . Money makes the Prodigal unto the Usurer run , For he has god the Devil and all , and that's enough for one . It's Money do's the Lover spur when he would a Mistress catch ; It's not so much for love of her , it's Money makes the Match . Money makes the Lass to do what she never did before ; The Gallant with kind words do's woo , but it's Money makes the Whore . It's Money makes a Fop a Knight , and makes the Lady fine , Be she ugly , black as Night , Money will make her shine , Money is the Papist's Tool , the Protestant's likewise ; It'll make a Wise man of a Fool , it's his own Paradise . Oh! Money is a precious thing , from it all Comfort springs ; It'll out of Purgatory bring and pardon all your Sins . Money of it self do's vaunt , as Milk to Butter Churns ; For it a very Protestant unto a Papist turns . Money it do's Wonders work , to it the Powers belong , To make a Christian turn a Turk , and make the Right the Wrong . Money has made Towns to yield , which Arms could never do ; Money is Master of the Field , a King and General too : More powerful than he of France , that mighty Western Turk ; When his Arms cannot advance , then Money do's the Work . Money makes your Tradesmen cheat , the Soldiers kill and slay ; The Empirics with their Patients meet and Murder more than they . The Lawyer snaps at every Hook , halted with Money over . The Popish Priest's a spiritual Rook , still gaping after more . Money ' s a Justice of the Peace , and a Peacebreaker too , If you'll have Justice you must grease , or sometime it'll not do . It's a Peacebreaker eke I say , Love lasts while there is store ; But when all's gone , begins a Fray , and then it's Rogue and Whore . Money it is ( it's often spoke ) a wondrous Charm , no doubt ; I have a penny in my poke , to keep the Devil out ; If then , he dares not to appear , where any Coin do's dwell , And where there's none the Devil's there , and empty Pocket's Hell . Printed for P. Brooksby . J. Deacon . J. Blare . J. Back . MONEY , MONEY , my Hearts ; See here what Money do's ! O Mighty Money ! He that has Money has but Evil's Root ; But he that has none has the Branches to boot . To the Tune of High Boys up go we . Or , Jenny Gin . Licensed according to Order . G Ood Folks look to your Purses , while I of Money sing , For it's the Curse of Curses , the want of it do's bring : But though you love your Money so , yet sometime for a Song , You'll let some of your Money go , or else I'm in the wrong . Money makes the Mare to go , it makes the Old Wife Trot ; Money is a Friend , a Foe , and what do's Money not ? Money ' s and Almighty thing , it makes the Rich to swagger , And makes the only differing betwixt a Prince and Beggar . Money makes the Prodigal unto the Usurer run , For he has god the Devil and all , and that's enough for one . It's Money do's the Lover spur when he would a Mistress catch ; It's not so much for love of her , it's Money makes the Match . Money makes the Lass to do what she never did before ; The Gallant with kind words do's woo , but it's Money makes the Whore . It's Money makes a Fop a Knight , and makes the Lady fine , Be she ugly , black as Night , Money will make her shine , Money is the Papist's Tool , the Protestant's likewise ; It'll make a Wise man of a Fool , it's his own Paradise . Oh! Money is a precious thing , from it all Comfort springs ; It'll out of Purgatory bring and pardon all your Sins . Money of it self do's vaunt , as Milk to Butter Churns ; For it a very Protestant unto a Papist turns . Money it do's Wonders work , to it the Powers belong , To make a Christian turn a Turk , and make the Right the Wrong . Money has made Towns to yield , which Arms could never do ; Money is Master of the Field , a King and General too : More powerful than he of France , that mighty Western Turk ; When his Arms cannot advance , then Money do's the Work . Money makes your Tradesmen cheat , the Soldiers kill and slay ; The Empirics with their Patients meet and Murder more than they . The Lawyer snaps at every Hook , halted with Money over . The Popish Priest's a spiritual Rook , still gaping after more . Money ' s a Justice of the Peace , and a Peacebreaker too , If you'll have Justice you must grease , or sometime it'll not do . It's a Peacebreaker eke I say , Love lasts while there is store ; But when all's gone , begins a Fray , and then it's Rogue and Whore . Money it is ( it's often spoke ) a wondrous Charm , no doubt ; I have a penny in my poke , to keep the Devil out ; If then , he dares not to appear , where any Coin do's dwell , And where there's none the Devil's there , and empty Pocket's Hell . Printed for P. Brooksby . J. Deacon . J. Blare . J. Back . 