The Wretched Miser : OR , A brief Account of a covetous Farmer , who bringing a Load of Corn to Market , swore the Devil should have it before he would take the honest Market price ; which accordingly came to pass , as you shall find in these following Lines . To the Tune of , Oh Folly , desperate Folly , etc Licensed according to Order . Y Ou Farmers now both far and near , make conscience of what you do , A sad account I bring you here , Aa and yet it's no more than true : Farmer who had a great-plenty of Grain , And sold it the Devil for lucre of gain , For which he in sorrow at length did complain Oh Farmers , covetous Farmers , why would you pinch the Poor ? This Farmer to a Market went , and knowing that Corn did rise , His heart to cruelty was bent , that he would not hear the cries Of thousand distressed that lives in this Land Who scarce had a morsel of bred at command He for a high price was resolved to stand : Oh Farmers , covetous Farmers , why would you pinch the Poor ? And honest dealer to him came , and bid him a Market rate ; But this rich Farmer , void of shame , he fell in a passion straight ; Then setting his hand in a huff by his side , The Devil shall have all my Corn , he replied , Before I will ' bore you one Tester , he cried : Oh Farmers , covetous Farmers , why would you pinch the Poor ? The honest dealer went his way , to buy in another place ; Now on the self same Market-day , in less than and hours space , To him there did come and old Fellow in black , Who having and old nasty Gown on his back , He told him a vast stock of Corn he did lack : Oh Farmers , covetous Farmers , why would you pinch the poor ? The Corn the Farmer then did show , which tother did not dislike ; They to and Alehouse straight did go , where they did a Bargain strike For that in the Market , and thirty load more Which he had at home in a plentiful store ; He never had such a free Chapman before : Oh Farmers , covetous Farmers , why would you pinch the Poor ? Five pounds he in his hand did lay , the Bargain more firm to bind , Then pitching on a certain day , he Wagons and Teams would find : The Farmer replied , I will do what I can ; And thus did the Bargain go merrily on , Now this was the Devil in shape of a Man : Oh Farmers , covetous Farmers , why would you pinch the Poor ? This deed he had no sooner done , but straight he was grieved soar ; And in his thoughts it then did run what he had said just before ; Then fearing that he with the Devil had dealt In tears of sad sorrow the Farmer did melt , No tongue can express the sad torment he felt . O Farmers , etc Then for a pious Man he sent , who gave him his best advice , And bid him instantly repent that ever he made that price ; And since with the devil this bargain you made Against the time get your Corn ready , he said , To some other Friend let the Money be paid : Oh Farmers , etc A Conjurer he did employ , who did in the Barn stay , And when the hour did draw nigh , old Lucifer came straightway , With Wagons , which seemed to be drawn in the air , By frightful strange monstrous fiends that were there , Which terrible sighed did the Conjurer scare ; Oh Farmers , etc The Devil paid the Money down , then sweeped away all the Corn , Then gave the Trustee such a frown , that never since he was born , Had he been so scared with a wondered sighed : In horrid confusion they then took their flight , Strange Vermin destroyed as much more the next night : Oh Farmers , etc Let other Farmers warning take , oppression is bad , you see ; A Conscience here you ought to make , and be not so rash as he : It was a great mercy that this did suffice , He might have been torn in pieces likewise [ , ] This is a Deliverance which he may prize : Now Farmers , wealthy old Farmers , see that you love the Poor . FINIS . Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-Glass on London-Bridge . The Wretched Miser : OR , A brief Account of a covetous Farmer , who bringing a Load of Corn to Market , swore the Devil should have it before he would take the honest Market price ; which accordingly came to pass , as you shall find in these following Lines . To the Tune of , Oh Folly , desperate Folly , etc Licensed according to Order . Y Ou Farmers now both far and near , make conscience of what you do , A sad account I bring you here , Aa and yet it's no more than true : Farmer who had a great-plenty of Grain , And sold it the Devil for lucre of gain , For which he in sorrow at length did complain Oh Farmers , covetous Farmers , why would you pinch the Poor ? This Farmer to a Market went , and knowing that Corn did rise , His heart to cruelty was bent , that he would not hear the cries Of thousand distressed that lives in this Land Who scarce had a morsel of bred at command He for a high price was resolved to stand : Oh Farmers , covetous Farmers , why would you pinch the Poor ? And honest dealer to him came , and bid him a Market rate ; But this rich Farmer , void of shame , he fell in a passion straight ; Then setting his hand in a huff by his side , The Devil shall have all my Corn , he replied , Before I will ' bore you one Tester , he cried : Oh Farmers , covetous Farmers , why would you pinch the Poor ? The honest dealer went his way , to buy in another place ; Now on the self same Market-day , in less than and hours space , To him there did come and old Fellow in black , Who having and old nasty Gown on his back , He told him a vast stock of Corn he did lack : Oh Farmers , covetous Farmers , why would you pinch the poor ? The Corn the Farmer then did show , which tother did not dislike ; They to and Alehouse straight did go , where they did a Bargain strike For that in the Market , and thirty load more Which he had at home in a plentiful store ; He never had such a free Chapman before : Oh Farmers , covetous Farmers , why would you pinch the Poor ? Five pounds he in his hand did lay , the Bargain more firm to bind , Then pitching on a certain day , he Wagons and Teams would find : The Farmer replied , I will do what I can ; And thus did the Bargain go merrily on , Now this was the Devil in shape of a Man : Oh Farmers , covetous Farmers , why would you pinch the Poor ? This deed he had no sooner done , but straight he was grieved soar ; And in his thoughts it then did run what he had said just before ; Then fearing that he with the Devil had dealt In tears of sad sorrow the Farmer did melt , No tongue can express the sad torment he felt . O Farmers , etc Then for a pious Man he sent , who gave him his best advice , And bid him instantly repent that ever he made that price ; And since with the devil this bargain you made Against the time get your Corn ready , he said , To some other Friend let the Money be paid : Oh Farmers , etc A Conjurer he did employ , who did in the Barn stay , And when the hour did draw nigh , old Lucifer came straightway , With Wagons , which seemed to be drawn in the air , By frightful strange monstrous fiends that were there , Which terrible sighed did the Conjurer scare ; Oh Farmers , etc The Devil paid the Money down , then sweeped away all the Corn , Then gave the Trustee such a frown , that never since he was born , Had he been so scared with a wondered sighed : In horrid confusion they then took their flight , Strange Vermin destroyed as much more the next night : Oh Farmers , etc Let other Farmers warning take , oppression is bad , you see ; A Conscience here you ought to make , and be not so rash as he : It was a great mercy that this did suffice , He might have been torn in pieces likewise [ , ] This is a Deliverance which he may prize : Now Farmers , wealthy old Farmers , see that you love the Poor . FINIS . Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-Glass on London-Bridge . 