The New and True Touch of the Times : OR , No Jest like a True Jest . To and excellent new Tune . Licensed according to Order . TO He Poor of this Kingdom such Times never knew , For the Moneys' so bade they look pitiful blue , They do hang down their Heads , and do make a sad moan , Declaring such times before never was known ; If the Times don't amend we distracted shall run , For there thousands are ruined and clearly undone . For in Country and Town the Trading's so bad , There is little good Money these times to be had ; When some Money we have , we cannot lay it out , If that we do go the whole Town round about , This makes us to weep and make pitiful moan , For when we have god Money , as good we had none The poor Man that works a long Summer's day , Must take a small Shilling at night for his Pay ; Then he gives it his Wife some Meat for to buy , And away to the Butcher's the Woman do high ; But the Butcher replied , when the Money he see , The Grazier will not take such Money of me . Then strait to the Baker's this Woman may high , Some Bred for her Family thinking to buy ; When she shows him the Money the Baker will frown , And churlishly speak , saying , Set my Bred down ; Thus poor People , with Care , are encumbered here , For the Times they are hard , and all things are dear . There is many Shopkeepers in Country and Town , Through the badness of Money has laid their Trade down , And many Innkeepers left drawing of Beer , And Chapmen has left off their Trading this Year ; For there's none of them all but will tell unto you , But the Moneys' so bade they have nothing to do . There is many brave Gentlemen live in the West , That relieves the Poor as the Truth is expressed , They do let them have Money their Wants to supply , Or else in some places they may starve and die ; So these brave noble Men gained the Prayers of the Poor , Who relieved so many poor Souls at their door . God bless good King William , who took all this Care For to altar the Coin , which will be most rare ; It'll be satisfaction all over the Land , Although that the Trading is still at a stand : I hope in this Land Trade will flourish amain , Then God send King William from Flanders again . Then cheer up good People in Country and Town , And don't let your Courage at all be cast down , For Money will be plenty in short time you shall see , Then where will there be such a Kingdom as we ? When Money grows plenty , then that will be rare , Then the Times will be as good as ever they were . By Thomas Joy . London : Printed for Phil. Brooksby , at the Sign of the Golden-ball , in Pie-corner , near West-smithfield . The New and True Touch of the Times : OR , No Jest like a True Jest . To and excellent new Tune . Licensed according to Order . TO He Poor of this Kingdom such Times never knew , For the Moneys' so bade they look pitiful blue , They do hang down their Heads , and do make a sad moan , Declaring such times before never was known ; If the Times don't amend we distracted shall run , For there thousands are ruined and clearly undone . For in Country and Town the Trading's so bad , There is little good Money these times to be had ; When some Money we have , we cannot lay it out , If that we do go the whole Town round about , This makes us to weep and make pitiful moan , For when we have god Money , as good we had none The poor Man that works a long Summer's day , Must take a small Shilling at night for his Pay ; Then he gives it his Wife some Meat for to buy , And away to the Butcher's the Woman do high ; But the Butcher replied , when the Money he see , The Grazier will not take such Money of me . Then strait to the Baker's this Woman may high , Some Bred for her Family thinking to buy ; When she shows him the Money the Baker will frown , And churlishly speak , saying , Set my Bred down ; Thus poor People , with Care , are encumbered here , For the Times they are hard , and all things are dear . There is many Shopkeepers in Country and Town , Through the badness of Money has laid their Trade down , And many Innkeepers left drawing of Beer , And Chapmen has left off their Trading this Year ; For there's none of them all but will tell unto you , But the Moneys' so bade they have nothing to do . There is many brave Gentlemen live in the West , That relieves the Poor as the Truth is expressed , They do let them have Money their Wants to supply , Or else in some places they may starve and die ; So these brave noble Men gained the Prayers of the Poor , Who relieved so many poor Souls at their door . God bless good King William , who took all this Care For to altar the Coin , which will be most rare ; It'll be satisfaction all over the Land , Although that the Trading is still at a stand : I hope in this Land Trade will flourish amain , Then God send King William from Flanders again . Then cheer up good People in Country and Town , And don't let your Courage at all be cast down , For Money will be plenty in short time you shall see , Then where will there be such a Kingdom as we ? When Money grows plenty , then that will be rare , Then the Times will be as good as ever they were . By Thomas Joy . London : Printed for Phil. Brooksby , at the Sign of the Golden-ball , in Pie-corner , near West-smithfield . 