The Shopkeepers Complaint : Containing the loud Lamentation of many worthy Citizens for the Downfall of Trading . To the Tune of , Russels Farewell . A Las ! poor Brother Shopkeepers , what must we follow now ? Our Callings they are grown so low , to live we know not how : If Heaven do's not cast a Smile , we shall to Ruin fallen , And in a very little while , we must to Begging all . Housekeeping is no little charge , beside our Rends are dear , And that which does our grief enlarge small Takings do's appear ; The like before I never knew , which makes our comfort small , Alas , alas , what shall we do , we must a Begging all . Our Wives which did large Portions bring , a splended Life to led , They now a woeful Ditty siing , which makes our Hearts to bleed : For in their Shops they fit all day , while takings are but small And then at Night they sighing say , we must a Begging all . That little Trading that we have , it's ten to one we trust , While our Snoil-footed Customers , declares , that wait we must : While they proclaim their Penneries , as loud as they can ball , This sorrow do's our Senses seize , we must a Begging all . Our Creditors come raving first , and blames a long delay , They never consider how we trust , but Dun us every day ; They must have Money out of hand , thus they like Hectors ball : Our Callings surely cannot stand , we must a Begging all . There must be then no longer let , they will not be denied , For if we cannot pay the Debt , a Sergeant is employed : Then to the Compter must we go , where Comfort is but small ; Now Neighbour since the case is so , we must a Begging all . Among our many Griefs and Care , if on the Road we go , Our sinking Station to repair , why this brings grief and woe : Now what to do we cannot tell , since Trading thus does fallen , All Happy Days we bid farewell , we must a Begging all . The Glory of the Gold [ e ] n Age , has took its last Good-Night , While Grief and Sorrow mounts the Stage , and puts our Joy to flight : Against proud France let us contend , and give their Pride a fallen ; For if these times do never mend ; we must a Begging all . Great William our renowned King , with brave Commanders bold , Their Fame shall through fair Flanders Ring , like noble Hearts of Gold . And storm the Towns with loud Alarms , and roaring Cannon-Ball , Therefore let us away to Arms. and fight like Soldiers all . Why should we tarry here in Town , let's march with speed away , To purchase Honour and Renown , and in the bloody Fray : The Mighty Force of France shall yield , and soon for mercy call , For why our Swords shall reap the Field , we'll Fight like Soldiers all . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . The Shopkeepers Complaint : Containing the loud Lamentation of many worthy Citizens for the Downfall of Trading . To the Tune of , Russels Farewell . A Las ! poor Brother Shopkeepers , what must we follow now ? Our Callings they are grown so low , to live we know not how : If Heaven do's not cast a Smile , we shall to Ruin fallen , And in a very little while , we must to Begging all . Housekeeping is no little charge , beside our Rends are dear , And that which does our grief enlarge small Takings do's appear ; The like before I never knew , which makes our comfort small , Alas , alas , what shall we do , we must a Begging all . Our Wives which did large Portions bring , a splended Life to led , They now a woeful Ditty siing , which makes our Hearts to bleed : For in their Shops they fit all day , while takings are but small And then at Night they sighing say , we must a Begging all . That little Trading that we have , it's ten to one we trust , While our Snoil-footed Customers , declares , that wait we must : While they proclaim their Penneries , as loud as they can ball , This sorrow do's our Senses seize , we must a Begging all . Our Creditors come raving first , and blames a long delay , They never consider how we trust , but Dun us every day ; They must have Money out of hand , thus they like Hectors ball : Our Callings surely cannot stand , we must a Begging all . There must be then no longer let , they will not be denied , For if we cannot pay the Debt , a Sergeant is employed : Then to the Compter must we go , where Comfort is but small ; Now Neighbour since the case is so , we must a Begging all . Among our many Griefs and Care , if on the Road we go , Our sinking Station to repair , why this brings grief and woe : Now what to do we cannot tell , since Trading thus does fallen , All Happy Days we bid farewell , we must a Begging all . The Glory of the Gold [ e ] n Age , has took its last Good-Night , While Grief and Sorrow mounts the Stage , and puts our Joy to flight : Against proud France let us contend , and give their Pride a fallen ; For if these times do never mend ; we must a Begging all . Great William our renowned King , with brave Commanders bold , Their Fame shall through fair Flanders Ring , like noble Hearts of Gold . And storm the Towns with loud Alarms , and roaring Cannon-Ball , Therefore let us away to Arms. and fight like Soldiers all . Why should we tarry here in Town , let's march with speed away , To purchase Honour and Renown , and in the bloody Fray : The Mighty Force of France shall yield , and soon for mercy call , For why our Swords shall reap the Field , we'll Fight like Soldiers all . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 