Downright Honesty ; OR , A Discourse between two well-meaning Protestants , concerning those Pam - phlets lately dispersed , to the Abuse of the Learned Clergy , and other Ho - nest Men . To the Tune of , The Spinning . Wheel . G Ood-morrow , Neighbour , now I vow , since we so happily do meet , If time and leisure will allow , I in a Glass will freely Treat ; A pint or two I will bestow , If you will to the Tavern go . The other gave his free consent , and like two Friends they both appear , No longer did they Compliment , but to the Tavern straight they steer ; Where for the best of Wine they call , And then they to Discoursing fallen . Neighbour , I pray what News d'ye hear , as you the Town walk too and from ? Faith , Weather's cold , and Coals are dear , this is the truest News I know ; Which makes the Poor man full of care , Who does that heavy burden bear . What think you of those Pamphleteers , who does disperse Seditious News , To fill the Wise Judicious Ears , can any thing such Crimes excuse ? They seem like Persons fully bent , For to Affront the Government . I think no Sober Man can like those Mischiefs which such seem to brew , They at the very Root do strike , of Laws and pure Religion too ; As if they did delight to see Their Native Nations Misery : Strange Parables they do disperse , which freely pass from hand to hand , Which does forgotten things rehearse , to raise Commotions in the Land ; To give fair opportunity , To our most potent Enemy . Men are compared to Hawks and Owls , nay Buzzards , Ravens , Rooks and Pies , By those mischievous single Souls , whose bussness is inventing Lies : For Parables and Paradox , I think they will deserve the Stocks . Or the severer Whipping-Post , for Cuffing high Affairs of State ; Then see how these young Sparks will boast or how like Magpies they would prate Hereafter of those weighty things , I mean the Governments of Kings . The Learned Clergy , Grave and Wise , whom Europe never could excel ; Are now compared to Rooks and Pies , is this the way of doing well ? Let Men now other measures take , Lest God at length should us forsake . Let Protestants walk hand in hand , in perfect Love , in Unity , And like united Brother's , stand against the common Enemy : And then proud France can never wrong This Land to which we do belong . Here's a full Bumper to the King , which does in Holland now remain , May Angels Guard , and Heaven bring him to the Royal Throne again ; Where long he may the Sceptre sway , And Loyal Souls his Laws obey . FINIS . Printed for J. Bissel , at the Bible and Har [ p ] near the Hospital-gate , in West-Smithfield . Downright Honesty ; OR , A Discourse between two well-meaning Protestants , concerning those Pam - phlets lately dispersed , to the Abuse of the Learned Clergy , and other Ho - nest Men . To the Tune of , The Spinning . Wheel . G Ood-morrow , Neighbour , now I vow , since we so happily do meet , If time and leisure will allow , I in a Glass will freely Treat ; A pint or two I will bestow , If you will to the Tavern go . The other gave his free consent , and like two Friends they both appear , No longer did they Compliment , but to the Tavern straight they steer ; Where for the best of Wine they call , And then they to Discoursing fallen . Neighbour , I pray what News d'ye hear , as you the Town walk too and from ? Faith , Weather's cold , and Coals are dear , this is the truest News I know ; Which makes the Poor man full of care , Who does that heavy burden bear . What think you of those Pamphleteers , who does disperse Seditious News , To fill the Wise Judicious Ears , can any thing such Crimes excuse ? They seem like Persons fully bent , For to Affront the Government . I think no Sober Man can like those Mischiefs which such seem to brew , They at the very Root do strike , of Laws and pure Religion too ; As if they did delight to see Their Native Nations Misery : Strange Parables they do disperse , which freely pass from hand to hand , Which does forgotten things rehearse , to raise Commotions in the Land ; To give fair opportunity , To our most potent Enemy . Men are compared to Hawks and Owls , nay Buzzards , Ravens , Rooks and Pies , By those mischievous single Souls , whose bussness is inventing Lies : For Parables and Paradox , I think they will deserve the Stocks . Or the severer Whipping-Post , for Cuffing high Affairs of State ; Then see how these young Sparks will boast or how like Magpies they would prate Hereafter of those weighty things , I mean the Governments of Kings . The Learned Clergy , Grave and Wise , whom Europe never could excel ; Are now compared to Rooks and Pies , is this the way of doing well ? Let Men now other measures take , Lest God at length should us forsake . Let Protestants walk hand in hand , in perfect Love , in Unity , And like united Brother's , stand against the common Enemy : And then proud France can never wrong This Land to which we do belong . Here's a full Bumper to the King , which does in Holland now remain , May Angels Guard , and Heaven bring him to the Royal Throne again ; Where long he may the Sceptre sway , And Loyal Souls his Laws obey . FINIS . Printed for J. Bissel , at the Bible and Har [ p ] near the Hospital-gate , in West-Smithfield . 