THE Country Scholar's Folly : Or , the Young Dutch Woman of Westminster come off with Flying Colours . To the Tune of Folly , desperate Folly , etc I TO is reported in the East , a Scholar of late did dwell , Who on young Maids did love to feast , It pleased his humour well : But coming to London , he chanced to adore A pretty Dutch Frow , which did pay his old score , Now this was a plague , and the devil all over . O Scholar , Country Scholar , How do you like the Town . He came to a Dutch ordnary , where he the young frow beheld , And when her tempting charms he see , he was with a rapture filled : She was of the birth and the breed of the Dutch , He pulled out his money although 'twas not much For why , he was eager and mad for a touch . O Scholar , Country Scholar , Why would you play the fool ? Her country man a marriage read After the Dutch fashion too , This done , it's said they went to bed , without any more to do , He pitched on a subject was hard by the rump , Into her Concavity he straitways did jump , Where all the long night he her cushion did thump Oh Scholar , Country Scholar , Why would you play the fool ? He gave her money the next day , to make her both neat and trim , Silks , ribbons , laces rich and gay , in order to go with him Down into the country where did reside , For she was as sweet and as pleasant a bride , As [ ? ] [ y ] oung gallant did lie by the side . O Scholar , Country Scholar , Why would you play the fool ? He many solemn vows did make , when he did the money give , That he his love would never forsake , while he had a day to live : But yet , when his pocket began to be low , Why then from his vows he was willing to go , And likewise a scandal on her he did throw . O Scholar , Country Scholar , Why would you play the fool ? He having had his fill of her , he called for his coin again , Making a noise and strange demur , resolving he would Arraign This pretty sweet creature , his joy & amp ; delight Pretending she took it away by a flight , Which loss was sufficient to ruin him quite . O Scholar , Country Scholar , Why would you serve her so ? This pretty creature she was tried , for what she had never done , This was ill treating of a bride , but she has the conquest wone : For when in the court at the bar she appeared And that the wise jury the story had herd , The scholar was flouted , the woman was cleared Oh Scholar , Country Scholar , How did you like the Game ? In this you have not aged well , alas , you are much to blame , That such a man should kiss and tell , Oh that is a burning shame ; If you had been wise , you had let her alone , And then your grand folly had never been known But now far & amp ; near it is scattered and blown . O Scholar , delicate Scholar , Never do so no more . London , Printed for J. Bissel at the Bible and Harp , near the Hospital-gate in West-Smithfield . THE Country Scholar's Folly : Or , the Young Dutch Woman of Westminster come off with Flying Colours . To the Tune of Folly , desperate Folly , etc I TO is reported in the East , a Scholar of late did dwell , Who on young Maids did love to feast , It pleased his humour well : But coming to London , he chanced to adore A pretty Dutch Frow , which did pay his old score , Now this was a plague , and the devil all over . O Scholar , Country Scholar , How do you like the Town . He came to a Dutch ordnary , where he the young frow beheld , And when her tempting charms he see , he was with a rapture filled : She was of the birth and the breed of the Dutch , He pulled out his money although 'twas not much For why , he was eager and mad for a touch . O Scholar , Country Scholar , Why would you play the fool ? Her country man a marriage read After the Dutch fashion too , This done , it's said they went to bed , without any more to do , He pitched on a subject was hard by the rump , Into her Concavity he straitways did jump , Where all the long night he her cushion did thump Oh Scholar , Country Scholar , Why would you play the fool ? He gave her money the next day , to make her both neat and trim , Silks , ribbons , laces rich and gay , in order to go with him Down into the country where did reside , For she was as sweet and as pleasant a bride , As [ ? ] [ y ] oung gallant did lie by the side . O Scholar , Country Scholar , Why would you play the fool ? He many solemn vows did make , when he did the money give , That he his love would never forsake , while he had a day to live : But yet , when his pocket began to be low , Why then from his vows he was willing to go , And likewise a scandal on her he did throw . O Scholar , Country Scholar , Why would you play the fool ? He having had his fill of her , he called for his coin again , Making a noise and strange demur , resolving he would Arraign This pretty sweet creature , his joy & amp ; delight Pretending she took it away by a flight , Which loss was sufficient to ruin him quite . O Scholar , Country Scholar , Why would you serve her so ? This pretty creature she was tried , for what she had never done , This was ill treating of a bride , but she has the conquest wone : For when in the court at the bar she appeared And that the wise jury the story had herd , The scholar was flouted , the woman was cleared Oh Scholar , Country Scholar , How did you like the Game ? In this you have not aged well , alas , you are much to blame , That such a man should kiss and tell , Oh that is a burning shame ; If you had been wise , you had let her alone , And then your grand folly had never been known But now far & amp ; near it is scattered and blown . O Scholar , delicate Scholar , Never do so no more . London , Printed for J. Bissel at the Bible and Harp , near the Hospital-gate in West-Smithfield . 