The Jolly Gentleman's FROLIC : OR , The City Ramble . Being , And Account of a young Gallant , who Wagered to pass any of the Watches , without giving them and Answer ; but being stopped by the Constable at Cripple-gate , was sent to the Counter , afterwards had before my Lord Mayor , and was Cleared by the Intercession of my Lord Mayors Daughter . To a Pleasant New Tune . G Ive ear to a Frolicsome Ditty , of one that a Wager did lay He'd pass any Watch in the City , and never a Word he would say But , Dal , derra , rarra , etc The Constable spoke to his Watchmen , brave Boys , it is my Delight , And Order have for to catch Men , who Ramble too late in the Night . The Humour , etc The Streets do Echo , we hear , Boys , with Madmen coming along , My Staff is ready , never fear , Boys , we'll make they altar their Song . The Humour , etc Stand , stand , says the Bellman , the Constable now come before , And if a just Story you tell , Man , I'll Light you home to your own Door : The Humour , etc This is a very late Season , which surely no Honest Men keep , And therefore it's but just reason , that you in the Counter should sleep . The Humour , etc ( Sad . ) Take away this same Fellow , and him to the Counter convey , Although his Frolic is mellow , he something to Morrow will say . The Humour , etc ( Sad . ) Open the Gate , make no scorning , take Charge of your Prisoner there , And we will soon in the morning , appear before my Lord Mayor . The Humour , etc ( Sad . ) A Bottle of Claret I'll fill , Sire , some Pipes of Tobacco , beside , And if that it now be your will , Sir , a Bed for you soon we'll provide . The Humour , etc This Frolic soon Echoed the Prison , the Debtors his Garnish would have ; Without demanding the reason , whatever they required , he gave . The Humour , etc The Constable soon the next day , Sir , this Comical matter to clear , The Gentleman hurrys straightways , sir , before my Lord Mayor to appear . The Humour , etc My Lord , give ear to my Story , while I the truth do relate , The Gentleman standing before you , was seized by me at Cripple-gate . The Humour , etc ( S ad . ) I nothing could hear but his Singing , wherefore in the Counter he lay , And therefore this morning I bring him , to hear what your Lordship will say . The Humour , etc ( Sad . ) Come Friend , the Case does appear now , that you was in a Mad Fit , I hope that you may be clear now , since Sleep has restored you your Wit . The Humour , etc ( Sad . ) This Gentleman sure is Distracted , he's overheated his Brain , Since he thus silly has acted , to the Counter I'll send him again . The Humour , etc ( S a worser . ) A Prison sure it will tame him , and bring him soon to his Sense , There's nothing else can reclaim him , from this his notorious Offence . The Humour , etc ( Sad , ) Oh then bespoke my Lords Daughter , and for him did thus Intercede , Dear Father , you'll hear that hereafter , this is but a Wager , indeed . The Humour , etc Therefore be pleased , kind Father , to hear one word more of me , And show to me so much favour , this Gentleman may be set free . The Humour , etc Well , Daughter , I grant your Petition , the Gentleman home may repair , But yet it's upon this Condition , of paying my Officers there . The Humour , etc Come Sir , your Fees we require , you freed are now by the Court , And all that we do desire , you'll find out some other new Sport [ , ] The Humour , etc Thus seeing he might be Released , if he his Fees did but pay , He then was very well pleased , and so went Singing away . The Humour , etc Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . The Jolly Gentleman's FROLIC : OR , The City Ramble . Being , And Account of a young Gallant , who Wagered to pass any of the Watches , without giving them and Answer ; but being stopped by the Constable at Cripple-gate , was sent to the Counter , afterwards had before my Lord Mayor , and was Cleared by the Intercession of my Lord Mayors Daughter . To a Pleasant New Tune . G Ive ear to a Frolicsome Ditty , of one that a Wager did lay He'd pass any Watch in the City , and never a Word he would say But , Dal , derra , rarra , etc The Constable spoke to his Watchmen , brave Boys , it is my Delight , And Order have for to catch Men , who Ramble too late in the Night . The Humour , etc The Streets do Echo , we hear , Boys , with Madmen coming along , My Staff is ready , never fear , Boys , we'll make they altar their Song . The Humour , etc Stand , stand , says the Bellman , the Constable now come before , And if a just Story you tell , Man , I'll Light you home to your own Door : The Humour , etc This is a very late Season , which surely no Honest Men keep , And therefore it's but just reason , that you in the Counter should sleep . The Humour , etc ( Sad . ) Take away this same Fellow , and him to the Counter convey , Although his Frolic is mellow , he something to Morrow will say . The Humour , etc ( Sad . ) Open the Gate , make no scorning , take Charge of your Prisoner there , And we will soon in the morning , appear before my Lord Mayor . The Humour , etc ( Sad . ) A Bottle of Claret I'll fill , Sire , some Pipes of Tobacco , beside , And if that it now be your will , Sir , a Bed for you soon we'll provide . The Humour , etc This Frolic soon Echoed the Prison , the Debtors his Garnish would have ; Without demanding the reason , whatever they required , he gave . The Humour , etc The Constable soon the next day , Sir , this Comical matter to clear , The Gentleman hurrys straightways , sir , before my Lord Mayor to appear . The Humour , etc My Lord , give ear to my Story , while I the truth do relate , The Gentleman standing before you , was seized by me at Cripple-gate . The Humour , etc ( S ad . ) I nothing could hear but his Singing , wherefore in the Counter he lay , And therefore this morning I bring him , to hear what your Lordship will say . The Humour , etc ( Sad . ) Come Friend , the Case does appear now , that you was in a Mad Fit , I hope that you may be clear now , since Sleep has restored you your Wit . The Humour , etc ( Sad . ) This Gentleman sure is Distracted , he's overheated his Brain , Since he thus silly has acted , to the Counter I'll send him again . The Humour , etc ( S a worser . ) A Prison sure it will tame him , and bring him soon to his Sense , There's nothing else can reclaim him , from this his notorious Offence . The Humour , etc ( Sad , ) Oh then bespoke my Lords Daughter , and for him did thus Intercede , Dear Father , you'll hear that hereafter , this is but a Wager , indeed . The Humour , etc Therefore be pleased , kind Father , to hear one word more of me , And show to me so much favour , this Gentleman may be set free . The Humour , etc Well , Daughter , I grant your Petition , the Gentleman home may repair , But yet it's upon this Condition , of paying my Officers there . The Humour , etc Come Sir , your Fees we require , you freed are now by the Court , And all that we do desire , you'll find out some other new Sport [ , ] The Humour , etc Thus seeing he might be Released , if he his Fees did but pay , He then was very well pleased , and so went Singing away . The Humour , etc Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 