LONDONS PRAISE , OR , The Glory of the CITY . Showing the great Glory of the most Famous City in the whole World , called London : with a Descri - ption of my Lord Mayors show in what manner ; and how he is accompanied by the noble Court of Aldermen , and the City Companies , and in what pomp and state they are attended , first by wa - ter to Westminster , and as they return back by land through Cheap-side to Guild-Hall , the like not to be seen in any City in the whole world . Tune of , London is a brave Town , etc . O F all the Songs that ever was penned , there's none I ever saw , Old Englands Glory did commend , which keeps the world in awe : It's London that renowned place , of which I now shall sing ; All must submit to Sword and Mace , such terror they do bring : Then London is a brave Town , and a find City ; It's governed by a Scarlet-Gown , then mark you well my ditty . Guild-hall a stately structure is , like to a Palace brave , Those that offend and do amiss , their Sentence there must have . Justice with Sword and Balance stands , to weigh aright each case , The Rich with bribes cannot command , it's equity takes place ; Oh London is a brave , etc . Under our Gracious Lord the King , such Magistrates abound , That peace and comfort they do bring , to those in sorrows drowned : They punish Malefactors , and do the poor defend , But those that are ill actors , they unto Prison send . Sing London is a brave , etc My Lord Mayor in most noble state , does govern all the rest , The Aldermen associate , with splender not expressed . They govern well this City great , of wealth they know no end ; But daily fit in Justice seat , their Neighbours to defend : Sing London is a brave town , and a fine City , It's governed by Scarlet-gown , then mark you well my Ditty . TO He Officers fit under them , this City for to view , Such as are good substantial Men , to see if weights are true : To try if measures be'nt too small , it is their daily care ; The poor may have no wrong at all , nor that they cozened are : Sing London is a brave Town , and a fine City , etc . If Bakers bred do prove too light , believe me what I say , My Lord Mayor puts them in a fright , and takes their bred away , And gives it to the L ondon poor , that in the City dwell , Which makes the Baker vex full soar , when he wants bred to fell . sing London is a brave , etc The Alewives though they neck & amp ; froth , their Pots must hold a quart , The Swearers if they swear and Oath , their Purses must pay fored : All this to regulate men's ways , his Lordship does take care , The worled so wicked now adais , their studies to ensnare . but London is a brave , etc . It is not many Years ago , as History makes known , Since to the Crown a public foe , by a Lord Mayor was overthrown , Who singly fought with him in field , and bravely played his part , He quickly made his foe to yield , for he stuck him to the heart . Sing London is a brave , etc . The rest for fear did quickly fly , their Captain being dead , For had they stayed they all should die like him that was their head . The bloody Dagger since that day , i'th City Arms stands fair , That all that see't remember may , 'twas wone by a Lord Mayor . Sing London is a brave , etc . Unto themselves a Charter free , this wealthy City holds . All that have freedom there to be , the Chamberlain enrols . No Foreigner can set up there , their order are so strong , In Shop they must not fell no ware , lest they the Freemen wrong . Sing London is a brave , etc . A country Boy comes up to town , perhaps no clothes to his back : Nor to one creature there is known . yet he need never lack : If that he be but just and true , and have and honest face , And willing any work to do , he need not want a place . Sing London is a brave , etc . The glory of this City fair , you yearly may behold , For once a year they choose Lord Mayor , whose train does shine with gold . I'th morning as they go to Court , the Thames with wood is covered , Loud Music plays , Guns give report , the Sun with smoke is smothered . Sing London is a brave , etc . Then as he back returns by Land , to show brave Londons art , Pageants are framed by a curious hand , which joys the peoples heart . Accompanied unto Guild-hall , with stately Gallantry , He nobly entertains them all , with great Variety . sing London is a brave , etc . So every year they change Lord Mayor , to show their mutual Love , And that in power they equal are , and none the other above : Now God preserve our Royal King , and send the City plenty , This is the Poets offering , who hope's it will content you . Sing London is a brave town , and a fine City : It's governed by a Scarlet Gown , thus I conclude my ditty . Finis . Printed for J. Hose , over against staples-In [ ? ] in Holbourn , near Grays-Inn-lane . LONDONS PRAISE , OR , The Glory of the CITY . Showing the great Glory of the most Famous City in the whole World , called London : with a Descri - ption of my Lord Mayors show in what manner ; and how he is accompanied by the noble Court of Aldermen , and the City Companies , and in what pomp and state they are attended , first by wa - ter to Westminster , and as they return back by land through Cheap-side to Guild-Hall , the like not to be seen in any City in the whole world . Tune of , London is a brave Town , etc . O F all the Songs that ever was penned , there's none I ever saw , Old Englands Glory did commend , which keeps the world in awe : It's London that renowned place , of which I now shall sing ; All must submit to Sword and Mace , such terror they do bring : Then London is a brave Town , and a find City ; It's governed by a Scarlet-Gown , then mark you well my ditty . Guild-hall a stately structure is , like to a Palace brave , Those that offend and do amiss , their Sentence there must have . Justice with Sword and Balance stands , to weigh aright each case , The Rich with bribes cannot command , it's equity takes place ; Oh London is a brave , etc . Under our Gracious Lord the King , such Magistrates abound , That peace and comfort they do bring , to those in sorrows drowned : They punish Malefactors , and do the poor defend , But those that are ill actors , they unto Prison send . Sing London is a brave , etc My Lord Mayor in most noble state , does govern all the rest , The Aldermen associate , with splender not expressed . They govern well this City great , of wealth they know no end ; But daily fit in Justice seat , their Neighbours to defend : Sing London is a brave town , and a fine City , It's governed by Scarlet-gown , then mark you well my Ditty . TO He Officers fit under them , this City for to view , Such as are good substantial Men , to see if weights are true : To try if measures be'nt too small , it is their daily care ; The poor may have no wrong at all , nor that they cozened are : Sing London is a brave Town , and a fine City , etc . If Bakers bred do prove too light , believe me what I say , My Lord Mayor puts them in a fright , and takes their bred away , And gives it to the L ondon poor , that in the City dwell , Which makes the Baker vex full soar , when he wants bred to fell . sing London is a brave , etc The Alewives though they neck & amp ; froth , their Pots must hold a quart , The Swearers if they swear and Oath , their Purses must pay fored : All this to regulate men's ways , his Lordship does take care , The worled so wicked now adais , their studies to ensnare . but London is a brave , etc . It is not many Years ago , as History makes known , Since to the Crown a public foe , by a Lord Mayor was overthrown , Who singly fought with him in field , and bravely played his part , He quickly made his foe to yield , for he stuck him to the heart . Sing London is a brave , etc . The rest for fear did quickly fly , their Captain being dead , For had they stayed they all should die like him that was their head . The bloody Dagger since that day , i'th City Arms stands fair , That all that see't remember may , 'twas wone by a Lord Mayor . Sing London is a brave , etc . Unto themselves a Charter free , this wealthy City holds . All that have freedom there to be , the Chamberlain enrols . No Foreigner can set up there , their order are so strong , In Shop they must not fell no ware , lest they the Freemen wrong . Sing London is a brave , etc . A country Boy comes up to town , perhaps no clothes to his back : Nor to one creature there is known . yet he need never lack : If that he be but just and true , and have and honest face , And willing any work to do , he need not want a place . Sing London is a brave , etc . The glory of this City fair , you yearly may behold , For once a year they choose Lord Mayor , whose train does shine with gold . I'th morning as they go to Court , the Thames with wood is covered , Loud Music plays , Guns give report , the Sun with smoke is smothered . Sing London is a brave , etc . Then as he back returns by Land , to show brave Londons art , Pageants are framed by a curious hand , which joys the peoples heart . Accompanied unto Guild-hall , with stately Gallantry , He nobly entertains them all , with great Variety . sing London is a brave , etc . So every year they change Lord Mayor , to show their mutual Love , And that in power they equal are , and none the other above : Now God preserve our Royal King , and send the City plenty , This is the Poets offering , who hope's it will content you . Sing London is a brave town , and a fine City : It's governed by a Scarlet Gown , thus I conclude my ditty . Finis . Printed for J. Hose , over against staples-In [ ? ] in Holbourn , near Grays-Inn-lane . 