The Brewers Benefit , Who to pay the New Excise , pinches the poor of their Measure ; making others pay for what was laid upon themselves . To the Tune of , And Orange . Licensed according to Order . A Tax it is laid , on the Brewing Trade , By which many thousand good pounds must be paid ; But this I must say , the Brewers straightway Has shortened their Measures , and makes the poor pay The Excise , Sir . The Ale-Wives complain , in having small gain , And grumble and grutch at the loss they sustain : To salve up this soar , the Brewer therefore , Persuades they it'll hold but twelve months , & amp ; no more , Cunning Brewers . Yet this I must tell , one thing happens well , The Brewers that nappy stout Liquour did fell , The Thames being near , they void of all fear , By using less Malt brew the Liquour more clear , Honest Brewers . The Tailors , the Weavers , the Cobblers too , At this their hard usage do utterly rue ; For while that a Quart , of strong Ale was their part , A Pint must suffice now to nourish the Heart , Honest Brewers . The Prentices they , complain of foul play , And likewise the Maids , as they very well may ; Because no Christmas - Beer , will be given this Year , The Brewer will have their worst wishes , I fear , breaking Custom . Such a pudder and rout , is now made about , How this Three Shilling Tax it shall be made out ; Such inching and pinching , such cunning in thinking , How the poor may be cheated i'th' measure of drinking , by the Brewer . The Brewers they say , pair their Measures away , Or else fill them up to the middle with Clay : They huff and they puff , toss up Nose , and do snuff , If complain of their Liquours you have not enough , for your Money . And if you retort , they tell you in short , Because it is so you may thank the French fored , If Measures be tall , they must brew your Drink small , Or else we shalt never get the Devil and all , quoth the Brewer . I'll tell you a tale , which is not very stale , Of a Tide that came up to be brewed into Ale ; Not a Brewer in twenty , but smiled at this plenty , Yet feared by their Pumping the Thames should be empty , rare Brewers . When Barley was scanty , Molossus was plenty , Which Malt did supply , else their Chests had stood empty So if Hopps were dear now , and if Malt were so too , As not long since they were , then the Devil might brew [ , ] for the Brewers . But since prizes are low , as all men do know , You cannot but guess then what profit does grow By the brewing trade , which hundreds hath made So rich , that like Ladies their Wives go arrayed , wealthy Brewers . Another new way , they found out tother Day , To shorten their Gallons , and make the poor pay : It is such a trick , if not taken in the neck , For want of due measure it'll make the Folks sick , hollow bottoms . This Tax though 'twas laid , by Brewers to be paid , Most part oned is squeezed out of every trade : It's a delicate thing , and such profit does bring , One would swear that this Tax was never made for the King , but the brewer . FINIS . Printed for . J. Millet , in Little-britain . The Brewers Benefit , Who to pay the New Excise , pinches the poor of their Measure ; making others pay for what was laid upon themselves . To the Tune of , And Orange . Licensed according to Order . A Tax it is laid , on the Brewing Trade , By which many thousand good pounds must be paid ; But this I must say , the Brewers straightway Has shortened their Measures , and makes the poor pay The Excise , Sir . The Ale-Wives complain , in having small gain , And grumble and grutch at the loss they sustain : To salve up this soar , the Brewer therefore , Persuades they it'll hold but twelve months , & amp ; no more , Cunning Brewers . Yet this I must tell , one thing happens well , The Brewers that nappy stout Liquour did fell , The Thames being near , they void of all fear , By using less Malt brew the Liquour more clear , Honest Brewers . The Tailors , the Weavers , the Cobblers too , At this their hard usage do utterly rue ; For while that a Quart , of strong Ale was their part , A Pint must suffice now to nourish the Heart , Honest Brewers . The Prentices they , complain of foul play , And likewise the Maids , as they very well may ; Because no Christmas - Beer , will be given this Year , The Brewer will have their worst wishes , I fear , breaking Custom . Such a pudder and rout , is now made about , How this Three Shilling Tax it shall be made out ; Such inching and pinching , such cunning in thinking , How the poor may be cheated i'th' measure of drinking , by the Brewer . The Brewers they say , pair their Measures away , Or else fill them up to the middle with Clay : They huff and they puff , toss up Nose , and do snuff , If complain of their Liquours you have not enough , for your Money . And if you retort , they tell you in short , Because it is so you may thank the French fored , If Measures be tall , they must brew your Drink small , Or else we shalt never get the Devil and all , quoth the Brewer . I'll tell you a tale , which is not very stale , Of a Tide that came up to be brewed into Ale ; Not a Brewer in twenty , but smiled at this plenty , Yet feared by their Pumping the Thames should be empty , rare Brewers . When Barley was scanty , Molossus was plenty , Which Malt did supply , else their Chests had stood empty So if Hopps were dear now , and if Malt were so too , As not long since they were , then the Devil might brew [ , ] for the Brewers . But since prizes are low , as all men do know , You cannot but guess then what profit does grow By the brewing trade , which hundreds hath made So rich , that like Ladies their Wives go arrayed , wealthy Brewers . Another new way , they found out tother Day , To shorten their Gallons , and make the poor pay : It is such a trick , if not taken in the neck , For want of due measure it'll make the Folks sick , hollow bottoms . This Tax though 'twas laid , by Brewers to be paid , Most part oned is squeezed out of every trade : It's a delicate thing , and such profit does bring , One would swear that this Tax was never made for the King , but the brewer . FINIS . Printed for . J. Millet , in Little-britain . 