The Poor Folks Complaint : OR , A Hint of the Hard Times [ S ] etting forth the Miserable and distressed Condition of many Hundreds of the Poorer sort of People who are almost ready to starve in these Hard Times , when Firing , and all sorts of Provisions are so dear , etc Awake all you that hoard up Wealth in store , And hear the piteous Clamours of the Poor : Regard their Cries , and yield them some Relief , And God will be your Recompense in Chief . To the Tune of , Hold Buckle and Thong together : Or , All things be dear but poor Men's labour . Y Ou Rich Men that do live at ease , and Misers that do hoard up Treasure , Who without pity grind and squease poor helpless Creatures at your pleasure : Mark well this Subject now in hand , and then you may have cause to wonder , When once you come to understand the burden that the poor groans under . While you do surfeit with Excess , and with great plenty are rewarded . The Poor do languish in distress , and still their Cries are not regarded : To help them you are not inclined , at their Complaints you make a wonder ; But let it settle in your mind . the burden that poor Men lies under , Though you have much , you would have more and so the Poor they are neglect [ e ] worser : The Lord would sure increase your store , if that they were the more respected : But through the hardness of your hearts , they are in want , which is no wonder : This too well known throughout all parts , the burden that the poor lies under . About your doors poor Creatures flock , in hope's that they shall be relieved ; Where they perhaps receive a Mock , at which their hearts are sorely grieved : Which will in Judgement rise at last , when Heaven & amp ; Earth shall pass asunder ; You'll then repent of what is passed ; the burden that the poor lies under . ' TO Is known Provisions are so dear in every Place , I need not name they , That he that hath a Wife and Charge , works day and night for to maintain they , Yet will his Labour not suffice , his wages are so small and slender ; So that you scarcely can devise the burden that poor men lives under . When Children they do cry for Bred , and Parents have it not to give them , It makes their very hearts to bleed , because they can no ways relieve them : To see their tender Infants lie , just ready for to die for Hunger , It is enough to testify the burden that poor men lives under . I speak of such poor honest ones as will take pains in Town or City , For those that live like lazy Drones , I think that they deserve no pity : The Slothful he shall come to want , the Proverb says , and it's no wonder : But that is not what here is meant , the burden that poor men lies under . The sad Complaints that's daily made , among poor Tradesmen in the City , How they repine for want of Trade , and suffer much , the moors the pity . Good Fires they for Children want , and Food for to suffice their Hunger : Then judge , if money is so scant , the sorrows that poor men lies under . Likewise , poor people all about the Country , are much discontented : The Times are hard with them no doubt , and yet it cannot be prevented : Curmudgeons will not fell their Corn , though poor Men's cries about em thunder , To serve themseves , they do but scorn the burden that poor men lies under . It is a thousand pities that such things are suffered in this Nation , That Farmers to enrich themselves should starve the Poor in such a fashion . If Corn were sold at easy Rate , now there is plenty in each Chamber . Then it would very much abate the sorrows that the poor lies under . Then let each one that loves the Poor , think on the charitable Farmer , How that the Lord increased his store , for keeping of their Bowels warmer : With plenty he rewarded was of which he feared no men Plunder , Because in pity he did ease the burden that the poor laid under . Therefore let all good Men that hear this sad Complaint and mournful Ditty : Still strive to serve the Lord with fear , and to the Poor afford some pity : For our good God will recompense your Charity to all Men's wonder , If that you study to redress the burden that the poor lies under . London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . The Poor Folks Complaint : OR , A Hint of the Hard Times [ S ] etting forth the Miserable and distressed Condition of many Hundreds of the Poorer sort of People who are almost ready to starve in these Hard Times , when Firing , and all sorts of Provisions are so dear , etc Awake all you that hoard up Wealth in store , And hear the piteous Clamours of the Poor : Regard their Cries , and yield them some Relief , And God will be your Recompense in Chief . To the Tune of , Hold Buckle and Thong together : Or , All things be dear but poor Men's labour . Y Ou Rich Men that do live at ease , and Misers that do hoard up Treasure , Who without pity grind and squease poor helpless Creatures at your pleasure : Mark well this Subject now in hand , and then you may have cause to wonder , When once you come to understand the burden that the poor groans under . While you do surfeit with Excess , and with great plenty are rewarded . The Poor do languish in distress , and still their Cries are not regarded : To help them you are not inclined , at their Complaints you make a wonder ; But let it settle in your mind . the burden that poor Men lies under , Though you have much , you would have more and so the Poor they are neglect [ e ] worser : The Lord would sure increase your store , if that they were the more respected : But through the hardness of your hearts , they are in want , which is no wonder : This too well known throughout all parts , the burden that the poor lies under . About your doors poor Creatures flock , in hope's that they shall be relieved ; Where they perhaps receive a Mock , at which their hearts are sorely grieved : Which will in Judgement rise at last , when Heaven & amp ; Earth shall pass asunder ; You'll then repent of what is passed ; the burden that the poor lies under . ' TO Is known Provisions are so dear in every Place , I need not name they , That he that hath a Wife and Charge , works day and night for to maintain they , Yet will his Labour not suffice , his wages are so small and slender ; So that you scarcely can devise the burden that poor men lives under . When Children they do cry for Bred , and Parents have it not to give them , It makes their very hearts to bleed , because they can no ways relieve them : To see their tender Infants lie , just ready for to die for Hunger , It is enough to testify the burden that poor men lives under . I speak of such poor honest ones as will take pains in Town or City , For those that live like lazy Drones , I think that they deserve no pity : The Slothful he shall come to want , the Proverb says , and it's no wonder : But that is not what here is meant , the burden that poor men lies under . The sad Complaints that's daily made , among poor Tradesmen in the City , How they repine for want of Trade , and suffer much , the moors the pity . Good Fires they for Children want , and Food for to suffice their Hunger : Then judge , if money is so scant , the sorrows that poor men lies under . Likewise , poor people all about the Country , are much discontented : The Times are hard with them no doubt , and yet it cannot be prevented : Curmudgeons will not fell their Corn , though poor Men's cries about em thunder , To serve themseves , they do but scorn the burden that poor men lies under . It is a thousand pities that such things are suffered in this Nation , That Farmers to enrich themselves should starve the Poor in such a fashion . If Corn were sold at easy Rate , now there is plenty in each Chamber . Then it would very much abate the sorrows that the poor lies under . Then let each one that loves the Poor , think on the charitable Farmer , How that the Lord increased his store , for keeping of their Bowels warmer : With plenty he rewarded was of which he feared no men Plunder , Because in pity he did ease the burden that the poor laid under . Therefore let all good Men that hear this sad Complaint and mournful Ditty : Still strive to serve the Lord with fear , and to the Poor afford some pity : For our good God will recompense your Charity to all Men's wonder , If that you study to redress the burden that the poor lies under . London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . 