Jockies Lamentation , Whose Seditious Work , Was the loss of his Country and his Kirk . To a Stately New Scottish Tune . W Hen first the Scottish wars began The English-man did led the Van with Musket & amp ; Pike , The bonny blithe & amp ; cunning S cot Had laid a Plot , but we could not smell out the like . Although he could neither write nor Read Yet General Lashly passed the Tweed With his gay gang of Blew-caps tall Along we marched with our General New-castle we took all in a trice And thought for to make it our Paradise And then we were gallant and gay For why we took their Pillage away . Then straight to Plundering we did fallen Of great & amp ; small , for we were all most valiant that day And Jenny in her silken Gown The best in town from foot to Crown was bonny & amp ; gay . Our suits & amp ; our silks did make such a smother That hardly next day we knew one another For Jockey he was wondrous fine And Jenny in her silks did shine For there i'm did get me a Beaver then But now it is beatrice to a Cap again For a Redcoat god every rag That Jockey now & amp ; Jenny must bag . The English raised and Army straight With much state , & amp ; we did wait to charge them all . Then every valiant musket-man Put fire in pan that we began apace to fallen For when that the Powder was touched by the coal Then every man did pay for his pole For the Red-Coat the battle wone And Jockey fast to Scotland did run . And at Dunbar fight a weel & amp ; a near For there we were put to a much fear They took our Guns & amp ; silver all And hung up our silks in Westminster-hall . Full well I wot in Lancashire Our brothers dear , did plunder there both Rich and Poor . Which caused the fury of the North When we set forth to be in wroth and vex us soar , F or when that the Red-Coats had knocked us down The country people in every Town Did beatrice Jockey over the face And was not this a pitiful case ? They bid us remember our Plundering tricks And thumpt us & amp ; beatrice us , with cudgels & amp ; sticks But the deel burst my body & amp ; wem If ever i'm gang to England again . P Rince Rupert he at Marston-Moor , In time of yore , did bang us soar being forced to fly , Had it not been for English men To charge again the Battle then and victory Was bravely gained by our General But Lashly did run with his blue caps all At Hothoms Town appeared a sprite F or Jockey had rather eat than fight , Their legs they were weary with runing so fast And yet the bold Cavies were routed at last ; And Jockey never so frighted had been Who thought it secure to keep a whole skin . The godly Presbyterian That holy man , a war began in Scotland there Then Jockey gay , both Laird & amp ; Lad Like people mad , were very glad in Arms to appear , They made a new Covenant for to pull down The crosses that stood in every Town And the Rochet that the Bishop did bear And his white smock his chaplain did wear And now the good covenant's gone to wrack And quite out of date like and Old Almanac And all the crosses are our own loss For Jockeys gone home by weeping cross . The Red-coats all came over Fife With much strife , and ventured life our blood to tame , Brunt Island we , were forced to yield F or in the field great store were killed as i'm can name , At least five hundred Scots were slave Beside two thousand were Prisoners taken Which made the Gay Girls sighs & amp ; cry To see their sweethearts lying by : The High-landers having so much a Reach . Did find that the pellets did lite in their breech For the Red-coats did often let fly And Jockey for quarter did presently cry . Our Enemies to Starling-bridge ( Like a whirlegig , did dance a jig ) to fight our men , To England straight with much pride We crossed the Tweed and were agreed to charge again , At Worcester our Kirk & amp ; our King went to wrack And he that run foremost durst never look back , Our much Army had the Rout And there we were forced to wheel about The Silver before which from England we took Is now their own money i'm swear on a book , But since that England & amp ; Scotland were foes They keep up their silver & amp ; pay us with blows . The Lowlands all , & amp ; High lands too , And bonnet blew , i'm yield to you to be your own , F or Red-coats they with gun & amp ; sword , Makes every Lord , with one accord to cry , Oh hone , Our lives & amp ; our wives , our goods & amp ; lands Are in the limits of your own hands For Jockey must a servant be And Jenny live as poor as he : Our Horses , cattle Sheep and cows Our carts & amp ; Harrows , teams & amp ; blows We may not challenge for our own , For Jockey hath little & amp ; Jenny hath none . I must confess this holy firk Did only work , upon our Kirk , for silver and meat , Which made us come & amp ; bring our brood's , Venture our bloods for your own goods which proved a cheat , But see what covetousness does bring We have lost our Kirk and every thing , Then alack Sir , and well we may cry Our back Sir , and belly must die , We fought for treasure and for glory And there's and end of a Scottish Story Despised of all for silver & amp ; gold O the worst tale that ever was told . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . Jockies Lamentation , Whose Seditious Work , Was the loss of his Country and his Kirk . To a Stately New Scottish Tune . W Hen first the Scottish wars began The English-man did led the Van with Musket & amp ; Pike , The bonny blithe & amp ; cunning S cot Had laid a Plot , but we could not smell out the like . Although he could neither write nor Read Yet General Lashly passed the Tweed With his gay gang of Blew-caps tall Along we marched with our General New-castle we took all in a trice And thought for to make it our Paradise And then we were gallant and gay For why we took their Pillage away . Then straight to Plundering we did fallen Of great & amp ; small , for we were all most valiant that day And Jenny in her silken Gown The best in town from foot to Crown was bonny & amp ; gay . Our suits & amp ; our silks did make such a smother That hardly next day we knew one another For Jockey he was wondrous fine And Jenny in her silks did shine For there i'm did get me a Beaver then But now it is beatrice to a Cap again For a Redcoat god every rag That Jockey now & amp ; Jenny must bag . The English raised and Army straight With much state , & amp ; we did wait to charge them all . Then every valiant musket-man Put fire in pan that we began apace to fallen For when that the Powder was touched by the coal Then every man did pay for his pole For the Red-Coat the battle wone And Jockey fast to Scotland did run . And at Dunbar fight a weel & amp ; a near For there we were put to a much fear They took our Guns & amp ; silver all And hung up our silks in Westminster-hall . Full well I wot in Lancashire Our brothers dear , did plunder there both Rich and Poor . Which caused the fury of the North When we set forth to be in wroth and vex us soar , F or when that the Red-Coats had knocked us down The country people in every Town Did beatrice Jockey over the face And was not this a pitiful case ? They bid us remember our Plundering tricks And thumpt us & amp ; beatrice us , with cudgels & amp ; sticks But the deel burst my body & amp ; wem If ever i'm gang to England again . P Rince Rupert he at Marston-Moor , In time of yore , did bang us soar being forced to fly , Had it not been for English men To charge again the Battle then and victory Was bravely gained by our General But Lashly did run with his blue caps all At Hothoms Town appeared a sprite F or Jockey had rather eat than fight , Their legs they were weary with runing so fast And yet the bold Cavies were routed at last ; And Jockey never so frighted had been Who thought it secure to keep a whole skin . The godly Presbyterian That holy man , a war began in Scotland there Then Jockey gay , both Laird & amp ; Lad Like people mad , were very glad in Arms to appear , They made a new Covenant for to pull down The crosses that stood in every Town And the Rochet that the Bishop did bear And his white smock his chaplain did wear And now the good covenant's gone to wrack And quite out of date like and Old Almanac And all the crosses are our own loss For Jockeys gone home by weeping cross . The Red-coats all came over Fife With much strife , and ventured life our blood to tame , Brunt Island we , were forced to yield F or in the field great store were killed as i'm can name , At least five hundred Scots were slave Beside two thousand were Prisoners taken Which made the Gay Girls sighs & amp ; cry To see their sweethearts lying by : The High-landers having so much a Reach . Did find that the pellets did lite in their breech For the Red-coats did often let fly And Jockey for quarter did presently cry . Our Enemies to Starling-bridge ( Like a whirlegig , did dance a jig ) to fight our men , To England straight with much pride We crossed the Tweed and were agreed to charge again , At Worcester our Kirk & amp ; our King went to wrack And he that run foremost durst never look back , Our much Army had the Rout And there we were forced to wheel about The Silver before which from England we took Is now their own money i'm swear on a book , But since that England & amp ; Scotland were foes They keep up their silver & amp ; pay us with blows . The Lowlands all , & amp ; High lands too , And bonnet blew , i'm yield to you to be your own , F or Red-coats they with gun & amp ; sword , Makes every Lord , with one accord to cry , Oh hone , Our lives & amp ; our wives , our goods & amp ; lands Are in the limits of your own hands For Jockey must a servant be And Jenny live as poor as he : Our Horses , cattle Sheep and cows Our carts & amp ; Harrows , teams & amp ; blows We may not challenge for our own , For Jockey hath little & amp ; Jenny hath none . I must confess this holy firk Did only work , upon our Kirk , for silver and meat , Which made us come & amp ; bring our brood's , Venture our bloods for your own goods which proved a cheat , But see what covetousness does bring We have lost our Kirk and every thing , Then alack Sir , and well we may cry Our back Sir , and belly must die , We fought for treasure and for glory And there's and end of a Scottish Story Despised of all for silver & amp ; gold O the worst tale that ever was told . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 