The honest Tradesman's Honour Vindicated . OR , The Bragadocia quelled , As in this Ditty out is held , OR , A merry Dialogue between a Swash Blade And and Artist of London to vindicate trade : With merry jibes , jears and frumps , To drive melancholy men out of their dumps , Pend to make them merry when Melancholy does possess the brain . The tune is , General Monk was a Noble man , etc Gentleman . I Am a gallant Blade indeed , and gay Apparel wear , A fig for Trade and a crown for a Maid , and a fart for sorrow and care : I am a Jovial Gentleman I love Sport and Recreation , Though I have neither House nor Land , I keep my self in good fashion , Tradesman . Some Gentlemens care is a Lass in his lap whilst he at a Tradesman is flouting , Dol with a dishclout hath painted her face , and scorns with her hands to be working : She thought to be called high in name , no less than a Lady I wish . She decked her self in silk and in satin , yet she's but and ugly Puss . Gentleman . Alas good Sir when did you come from the Cities labouring trade , Look back again now towards home , and see what for you is made , Your wife for you has made a Crown , a gallant fair pair of Horns , While you are here in our Country with one that your Calling scorns . Tradesman . It comes into my memory sir now you talk of scorning , Do you remember the Oyster Wench you met with one M unday morning , When she was in her silver laced Gown o then you began to woe her , But when she cried Oysters in the town you scorned as much to know her . Gentleman . We Gentlemen live merry lives , you but Mecannicks are sir , Therefore to us you must make known when ever we do come sir ; You Tradesmen unto it are tIED , you must work hard for money , While merrily abroad we ride , to hunt the Fox and Coney . Tradesman . Now that you talk of hunting sir , one thing comes in my mind , You nothing have to do but hunt therefore it comes by kind , A hind I do remember well you lately had in chase , Her belly high begins to swell , and you absent the place . The second Part , to the same Tune . Gentleman . [ ? ] Tradesman at your work do moil , [ ? ] [ tO ] we to mirth incline sir : But we do scorn so much to toil , except it be at the wine Sir : Y ou tradesmen have great rends to pay for that we take no care , We rant and roar it night and day we spend and never spare . Tradesman . Now that you talk of Rends good sir , of Music and of wine . To pay your debts do not defer , to your Landlady so fine , Her Daughter Dol is in great fear , she shall not see your face , Y ou have left her to shed many a Tear and reap your sown disgrace . Gentleman . If into the Country we but ride , out ten miles from the City , No sooner have they our face spied , but this will be their Ditty , Y our worships welcome to the town , pray sir what will you have ? Thus are we known of every Clown , and of each Fool and Knave . Tradesman Sir now you talk of Fools and Knaves , of Country men and Clowns , And of true dealing honest men , that dwell in country Towns , Were't not for them full well I know , long we could not live hear , They toil to Blow , to Reap and Sow , to feed's with Bred , Beef , and Beer . Gentleman . Sir this I grant for to be true , that we by them are fed ; No company I ' le keep with you for I am better bred : Seest thou my Rapier by my side , A broad H at and long curled H air , My Breeches at the kneeds so wide that they would make four pair . Tradesman . Sir , if for your Rapier you had paid , your Cutler would not frown , Nor your Bever-maker have be [ en ] [ a ] fraid of your riding out of Town . Y our Taylor he lamenteth still , for a truth I herd it said Oft viewing of his long Bill , w hich you have left unpaid . Gentleman . Sir , for this present I will rest , and will no more contend , I do protest that man is blessed that is the Tradesman's friend , Y ou work and sing all care away , and drink A le , Beer , and Wine , Whilst Gentlemen do now and then with great Duke Hmmphrey Dine . Tradesman . Good God preserve our Royal King the Progeny defend , With the rest of the Royal Offspring from those that would contend : And God so bless the Parliament that they good Laws may make , Our future dangers to prevent , and thus my leave I take . London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . The honest Tradesman's Honour Vindicated . OR , The Bragadocia quelled , As in this Ditty out is held , OR , A merry Dialogue between a Swash Blade And and Artist of London to vindicate trade : With merry jibes , jears and frumps , To drive melancholy men out of their dumps , Pend to make them merry when Melancholy does possess the brain . The tune is , General Monk was a Noble man , etc Gentleman . I Am a gallant Blade indeed , and gay Apparel wear , A fig for Trade and a crown for a Maid , and a fart for sorrow and care : I am a Jovial Gentleman I love Sport and Recreation , Though I have neither House nor Land , I keep my self in good fashion , Tradesman . Some Gentlemens care is a Lass in his lap whilst he at a Tradesman is flouting , Dol with a dishclout hath painted her face , and scorns with her hands to be working : She thought to be called high in name , no less than a Lady I wish . She decked her self in silk and in satin , yet she's but and ugly Puss . Gentleman . Alas good Sir when did you come from the Cities labouring trade , Look back again now towards home , and see what for you is made , Your wife for you has made a Crown , a gallant fair pair of Horns , While you are here in our Country with one that your Calling scorns . Tradesman . It comes into my memory sir now you talk of scorning , Do you remember the Oyster Wench you met with one M unday morning , When she was in her silver laced Gown o then you began to woe her , But when she cried Oysters in the town you scorned as much to know her . Gentleman . We Gentlemen live merry lives , you but Mecannicks are sir , Therefore to us you must make known when ever we do come sir ; You Tradesmen unto it are tIED , you must work hard for money , While merrily abroad we ride , to hunt the Fox and Coney . Tradesman . Now that you talk of hunting sir , one thing comes in my mind , You nothing have to do but hunt therefore it comes by kind , A hind I do remember well you lately had in chase , Her belly high begins to swell , and you absent the place . The second Part , to the same Tune . Gentleman . [ ? ] Tradesman at your work do moil , [ ? ] [ tO ] we to mirth incline sir : But we do scorn so much to toil , except it be at the wine Sir : Y ou tradesmen have great rends to pay for that we take no care , We rant and roar it night and day we spend and never spare . Tradesman . Now that you talk of Rends good sir , of Music and of wine . To pay your debts do not defer , to your Landlady so fine , Her Daughter Dol is in great fear , she shall not see your face , Y ou have left her to shed many a Tear and reap your sown disgrace . Gentleman . If into the Country we but ride , out ten miles from the City , No sooner have they our face spied , but this will be their Ditty , Y our worships welcome to the town , pray sir what will you have ? Thus are we known of every Clown , and of each Fool and Knave . Tradesman Sir now you talk of Fools and Knaves , of Country men and Clowns , And of true dealing honest men , that dwell in country Towns , Were't not for them full well I know , long we could not live hear , They toil to Blow , to Reap and Sow , to feed's with Bred , Beef , and Beer . Gentleman . Sir this I grant for to be true , that we by them are fed ; No company I ' le keep with you for I am better bred : Seest thou my Rapier by my side , A broad H at and long curled H air , My Breeches at the kneeds so wide that they would make four pair . Tradesman . Sir , if for your Rapier you had paid , your Cutler would not frown , Nor your Bever-maker have be [ en ] [ a ] fraid of your riding out of Town . Y our Taylor he lamenteth still , for a truth I herd it said Oft viewing of his long Bill , w hich you have left unpaid . Gentleman . Sir , for this present I will rest , and will no more contend , I do protest that man is blessed that is the Tradesman's friend , Y ou work and sing all care away , and drink A le , Beer , and Wine , Whilst Gentlemen do now and then with great Duke Hmmphrey Dine . Tradesman . Good God preserve our Royal King the Progeny defend , With the rest of the Royal Offspring from those that would contend : And God so bless the Parliament that they good Laws may make , Our future dangers to prevent , and thus my leave I take . London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . 