A Groatsworth of Mirth for a PENNY , OR , Will the Barber well Fitted for Cheating the Millers jolly Daughter Joan of a Fat big . S hewing how he would have Pawned honest Joan , but she by good hap slipped away while he was dallying with another Girl , and called her F ather , who came with Dick and Henry , Will , Tom , Jack , Robin , honest Andre [ w ] , and Huffing Hugh , and all the rest of the Robustious Fellows , and Soundly beating the Cheat , they carried him away a P ick - P ack , and threw him into the Mill-pond ; with many other strange things which the Song will relate . Joan pulled off the Barbers Periwig , To show his Bald-Pate , Because he paid not for the Barrow-Pig , Which was Fat , Fat , Fat . To the Tune of , The Country Farmer . This may be P rinted , R.L.S. C Ome Gallants and welcome , partake of my cheer , For Juggy cries welcome , I pray you draw near : There is a fine Jest if you knew but the matter , The Shaver was fitted for wronging kind nature : For Joan was most briskly a ganging to fair , In her way she did meet with a Clipper of Hair : Who straightway demanded where goest thou my dear Then I'll tell you quoth Jug , if you please for to hear . My Father's the Miller of yonder Town , As brisk and old fellow as ever was known , And with his Roan Mare he does ride up and down , To bring all his Grist home to trusty Joan ; And now he hath sent me to yonder Fair , To see what a Market I'll make of my ware , I have Turnips , and Cabbidge , with a bag full of hair , And that is the reason you find me here . Then stay , quoth the Barber , and be not in haste , Hobs-bobbins , quoth Jug , I musthie full fast , It shall not be said for forty-pound , I will miss of my Linsey-woolsey gown : Which my father hath promised to give unto me , If I be but nimble to work handily : If not , then poor Juggy must come by the Lee , Then I will be jogging alone merrily . It's pity fair Maid , thou shouldst high thus alone , And rather then fail I will go with thee Joan , No , marry , quoth Juggy , there is no such need , I believe Mr. Barber you cannot make speed : But I tell you kind Sir , and [ I ] am not in jest , I will lose my Maiden head I do protest , Before the Old Soldier I at all will molest , Or anger my Father who loves me best . No anger at and [ ? ] , Then prithee sweet creature be ruled by me , For to tell you the truth , I'm in love with thy looks , And thy ruddy complexion is much in my books : Thy sparkling eyes and they Corral Lips , From which each true Lover his happiness sips , Thy slender waste and a pair of such Hips , Makes beauty it self for to suffer eclipse . I thank you kind Barber , I see you can scoff , Think not to dissemble and carry it off , Your jeering and fleering I quickly can find , But flattering tongues never stall altar my mind ; I'll be honest Jug , and trusty still , A Virgin that never did think any ill , Then bring all your custom to my Father's Mill , And Boy i'll be honest and true to thee still . But this did not agree with the Barbers work , His mind did still ruminate on the shurk , Perceiving the Lass had a big in her bag ; He showed her a trick like and unlucky wag : With perlavering speeches at last did persuade , And Conquered this harmless Maid , Straight into a Tavern this damsel he had , Where they sat and did drive a most wondered Trade . The big it was eat , and poor Juggy was beatrice , Oh! the Barber did kick her about like a cheat : Like a Knave as he was , he never paid for the treat , But now I am come to the cream of the Feat , Before that the Barber moved off from his seat , He was served iin his kind , and very complete , For there came in a Domsel so fine and so neat , That the Barber his business did strangely forget . While he tumbled and jumbled this Lady about , Cocks bobbing the Mil [ ? ] [ ? ] ghter god out , And straight to her father poor Juggy did run , And told him the misch [ ief ] [ ? ] rber had done ; Who vowed revenge or would never carry Sack , He swore he would cut out his tongue for a clack , And taking a bag he brought him a pickpack , Till he came to his Mill where he clawed off his Back Oh! Father , quoth Juggy , let's cripple the Loon , We'll dip him quoth Robin , by the light of the Moon : Quoth Dick , let us cut off his ears for a cheat , Let's grind him , quoth Harry , till he pay for the treat . They made no more bones oned but rifle and rig , They whipped him about till he danced them a jig , They [ tr ] ash him and duck him , then taking his Wigg , Jug swore it should serve to pay for the big . FINIS . Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-Glass onA Groatsworth of Mirth for a PENNY , OR , Will the Barber well Fitted for Cheating the Millers jolly Daughter Joan of a Fat big . S hewing how he would have Pawned honest Joan , but she by good hap slipped away while he was dallying with another Girl , and called her F ather , who came with Dick and Henry , Will , Tom , Jack , Robin , honest Andre [ w ] , and Huffing Hugh , and all the rest of the Robustious Fellows , and Soundly beating the Cheat , they carried him away a P ick - P ack , and threw him into the Mill-pond ; with many other strange things which the Song will relate . Joan pulled off the Barbers Periwig , To show his Bald-Pate , Because he paid not for the Barrow-Pig , Which was Fat , Fat , Fat . To the Tune of , The Country Farmer . This may be P rinted , R.L.S. C Ome Gallants and welcome , partake of my cheer , For Juggy cries welcome , I pray you draw near : There is a fine Jest if you knew but the matter , The Shaver was fitted for wronging kind nature : For Joan was most briskly a ganging to fair , In her way she did meet with a Clipper of Hair : Who straightway demanded where goest thou my dear Then I'll tell you quoth Jug , if you please for to hear . My Father's the Miller of yonder Town , As brisk and old fellow as ever was known , And with his Roan Mare he does ride up and down , To bring all his Grist home to trusty Joan ; And now he hath sent me to yonder Fair , To see what a Market I'll make of my ware , I have Turnips , and Cabbidge , with a bag full of hair , And that is the reason you find me here . Then stay , quoth the Barber , and be not in haste , Hobs-bobbins , quoth Jug , I musthie full fast , It shall not be said for forty-pound , I will miss of my Linsey-woolsey gown : Which my father hath promised to give unto me , If I be but nimble to work handily : If not , then poor Juggy must come by the Lee , Then I will be jogging alone merrily . It's pity fair Maid , thou shouldst high thus alone , And rather then fail I will go with thee Joan , No , marry , quoth Juggy , there is no such need , I believe Mr. Barber you cannot make speed : But I tell you kind Sir , and [ I ] am not in jest , I will lose my Maiden head I do protest , Before the Old Soldier I at all will molest , Or anger my Father who loves me best . No anger at and [ ? ] , Then prithee sweet creature be ruled by me , For to tell you the truth , I'm in love with thy looks , And thy ruddy complexion is much in my books : Thy sparkling eyes and they Corral Lips , From which each true Lover his happiness sips , Thy slender waste and a pair of such Hips , Makes beauty it self for to suffer eclipse . I thank you kind Barber , I see you can scoff , Think not to dissemble and carry it off , Your jeering and fleering I quickly can find , But flattering tongues never stall altar my mind ; I'll be honest Jug , and trusty still , A Virgin that never did think any ill , Then bring all your custom to my Father's Mill , And Boy i'll be honest and true to thee still . But this did not agree with the Barbers work , His mind did still ruminate on the shurk , Perceiving the Lass had a big in her bag ; He showed her a trick like and unlucky wag : With perlavering speeches at last did persuade , And Conquered this harmless Maid , Straight into a Tavern this damsel he had , Where they sat and did drive a most wondered Trade . The big it was eat , and poor Juggy was beatrice , Oh! the Barber did kick her about like a cheat : Like a Knave as he was , he never paid for the treat , But now I am come to the cream of the Feat , Before that the Barber moved off from his seat , He was served iin his kind , and very complete , For there came in a Domsel so fine and so neat , That the Barber his business did strangely forget . While he tumbled and jumbled this Lady about , Cocks bobbing the Mil [ ? ] [ ? ] ghter god out , And straight to her father poor Juggy did run , And told him the misch [ ief ] [ ? ] rber had done ; Who vowed revenge or would never carry Sack , He swore he would cut out his tongue for a clack , And taking a bag he brought him a pickpack , Till he came to his Mill where he clawed off his Back Oh! Father , quoth Juggy , let's cripple the Loon , We'll dip him quoth Robin , by the light of the Moon : Quoth Dick , let us cut off his ears for a cheat , Let's grind him , quoth Harry , till he pay for the treat . They made no more bones oned but rifle and rig , They whipped him about till he danced them a jig , They [ tr ] ash him and duck him , then taking his Wigg , Jug swore it should serve to pay for the big . FINIS . Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-Glass on 