The poor Peoples Complaint of the Unconscionable Brokers and Talley-Men . Extortioning Brokers gripe the poor , While sadly they complain , But if the Rich would kinder be , 'Twould ease them of their pain . Tune of , This is though cause that the Land complains , or , Sawny will never be my love again . W Ill you hear how the rich do oppress the poor Come listen a while unto this Song , And plainly to you now I will declare How the poor are the people that suffer wrong : The weakest to the wall do always go , That this is the truth you very well know ; And the more is the pity it should be so , For this is the cause that the Poor complain . First , Trading is bad we do too well find . and many have little or nothing to do ; [ ? ] one in a thousand to the poor will be kind , [ ? ] a great many people have found this true . But the rich shall find themselves great store , Who daily increase and grow more and more , But they never trouble their heads with the poor , And this is the cause that the poor complains . If a Weaver to Market with work he does go , He often is forced for to fell without gain , And prizes of late they are brought down so low That he who works hard little hath for his pain . And sometime he no work can fell , But this will not please his poor wife well ; Then strait he does hast where the Brokers dwell And this is the cause that the poor complains . The Second Part , to the same Tune . There he must surely extortion give , Or else there's no dealing with Brokers at all ; They may cry , without profit they cannot live , But woe to the man that in their hands fallen : 20 shillings-worth of work he must leave for ten And extortion must pay ever he hath it again : Oh! are not these a sort of unconscionable men ? Yea , this is the cause that the poor complains . Poor Tailors and others their cruelty know , And all sorts of Tradesmen that with them deal But this is the way for to keep them low , That this is the right I do reason appeal : Methinks the rich should kind be to those To whom they daily appear as Foes , And make them to pay still thorough the nose : Oh! this is the cause that the poor complains Do but mind how the Brokers estates do increase While the poor that deal with them daily decline , They keep noble houses and live at their ease , No Tradesmen in London do go more fine : But out of the poor their estates they do grind , As many by woeful expepience find , But they will be just when the Devil is blind , And this is the cause that the poor complains Poor people had need of these men to beware , & amp ; I wish that they could but some other way find Before they have brought themselves into a snare Let them strive what they can to themselves to be kind If their goods do lie there a year & amp ; a day The Brokers will certainly make them away , Or else to the worth the right owners must pay , And this is the cause that the poor complains . Some people do talk of a Lumbar-house , That now is intended erected to be , Then a Broker will shite full as small as a mouse If we do but live such a thing for to see : It will certainly be a great help for the poor , And pitiless Brokers shall flourish no more , Who so many Families have eat out of door , And this is the cause that the poor complains Extortion you know is a crime full great , Which these greedy Misers do daily use , And all honest people do certainly hate , While like wicked wretches their souls they abuse . But it's to be feared when they come for to die , & amp ; the messenger of death does begin to draw nigh Their Consciences then in their faces do fly , Since they're the cause that the poor complains But since it is so that the poor they will wrong , Let them know they must answer for it one day , For vengeance alone unto God does belong , And he without doubt will in Justice pay . Then Misers , & amp ; Usurers repent of your crime , And in gripping the poor do not spend your time , Use Honesty & amp ; Conscience while you are in your prime And then will poor people etc The Tally-men such strange Conscience use , And take double price for what they fell ; The best of their Customers they'll abuse ; I fear that this is the road to Hell : For if you go there a garment to buy , Their price it is great , but the reason why Is because the poor Customer dare not deny : And this is the cause that the poor complains . The poor man too often too late does repent , For if of his payments he does but fail , Then strait unto him a Bailiff is sent , And oft takes a poor man unto Goal . The Bailiff in a hold does lurk , While the dog looks out to find him work ; But the best of them all is as cruel as a shurk , And this is the cause that the poor complains . Printed for J. Conyers at the black Raven in Duck-lane . The poor Peoples Complaint of the Unconscionable Brokers and Talley-Men . Extortioning Brokers gripe the poor , While sadly they complain , But if the Rich would kinder be , 'Twould ease them of their pain . Tune of , This is though cause that the Land complains , or , Sawny will never be my love again . W Ill you hear how the rich do oppress the poor Come listen a while unto this Song , And plainly to you now I will declare How the poor are the people that suffer wrong : The weakest to the wall do always go , That this is the truth you very well know ; And the more is the pity it should be so , For this is the cause that the Poor complain . First , Trading is bad we do too well find . and many have little or nothing to do ; [ ? ] one in a thousand to the poor will be kind , [ ? ] a great many people have found this true . But the rich shall find themselves great store , Who daily increase and grow more and more , But they never trouble their heads with the poor , And this is the cause that the poor complains . If a Weaver to Market with work he does go , He often is forced for to fell without gain , And prizes of late they are brought down so low That he who works hard little hath for his pain . And sometime he no work can fell , But this will not please his poor wife well ; Then strait he does hast where the Brokers dwell And this is the cause that the poor complains . The Second Part , to the same Tune . There he must surely extortion give , Or else there's no dealing with Brokers at all ; They may cry , without profit they cannot live , But woe to the man that in their hands fallen : 20 shillings-worth of work he must leave for ten And extortion must pay ever he hath it again : Oh! are not these a sort of unconscionable men ? Yea , this is the cause that the poor complains . Poor Tailors and others their cruelty know , And all sorts of Tradesmen that with them deal But this is the way for to keep them low , That this is the right I do reason appeal : Methinks the rich should kind be to those To whom they daily appear as Foes , And make them to pay still thorough the nose : Oh! this is the cause that the poor complains Do but mind how the Brokers estates do increase While the poor that deal with them daily decline , They keep noble houses and live at their ease , No Tradesmen in London do go more fine : But out of the poor their estates they do grind , As many by woeful expepience find , But they will be just when the Devil is blind , And this is the cause that the poor complains Poor people had need of these men to beware , & amp ; I wish that they could but some other way find Before they have brought themselves into a snare Let them strive what they can to themselves to be kind If their goods do lie there a year & amp ; a day The Brokers will certainly make them away , Or else to the worth the right owners must pay , And this is the cause that the poor complains . Some people do talk of a Lumbar-house , That now is intended erected to be , Then a Broker will shite full as small as a mouse If we do but live such a thing for to see : It will certainly be a great help for the poor , And pitiless Brokers shall flourish no more , Who so many Families have eat out of door , And this is the cause that the poor complains Extortion you know is a crime full great , Which these greedy Misers do daily use , And all honest people do certainly hate , While like wicked wretches their souls they abuse . But it's to be feared when they come for to die , & amp ; the messenger of death does begin to draw nigh Their Consciences then in their faces do fly , Since they're the cause that the poor complains But since it is so that the poor they will wrong , Let them know they must answer for it one day , For vengeance alone unto God does belong , And he without doubt will in Justice pay . Then Misers , & amp ; Usurers repent of your crime , And in gripping the poor do not spend your time , Use Honesty & amp ; Conscience while you are in your prime And then will poor people etc The Tally-men such strange Conscience use , And take double price for what they fell ; The best of their Customers they'll abuse ; I fear that this is the road to Hell : For if you go there a garment to buy , Their price it is great , but the reason why Is because the poor Customer dare not deny : And this is the cause that the poor complains . The poor man too often too late does repent , For if of his payments he does but fail , Then strait unto him a Bailiff is sent , And oft takes a poor man unto Goal . The Bailiff in a hold does lurk , While the dog looks out to find him work ; But the best of them all is as cruel as a shurk , And this is the cause that the poor complains . Printed for J. Conyers at the black Raven in Duck-lane . 