Advice to the Maidens of LONDON : To Forsake Their Fantastical TOP-KNOTS ; Since they are become so Common with Billings-gate Women , and the Wenches that cries Kitchen-stuff : Together with the Wanton Misses of the Town . To the Tune of , You Ladies of London . This may be Printed , R. P. N Owe you young Females that follows the Mode , both beautiful , brown , black , and muddy ; You must expect for to Reap what you've Sowed , for making of Pride all your study : These very Lines I send to you now , concerning your Noddles adorning , Towers and Top-Knots we will not allow , and therefore take this for a warning . Do but consider the Women of Old , who flourished not in large Laces , Nor in your Glistering Silver and Gold , but with many more Modest Graces ; But now at length these things are forgotten , and Women are monstrous wicked , Susan and Joan they will have a Top-Knot , although they have never a Smicket . Every Dragel'-tayled Country Girl , when once she comes up to the City , If she can get but a Ribbon-Fallal , Oh then she is wondrous pretty : Thus Alamode they're willing to seem , when ever they go trooping together , Like a Fore-Horse of a Country Tram , decked up on their flourishing Feather . H Ere we may see what young Damsel will do , before they will want of their pleasure , Nancy and Nell of the Billings-gate Crew , they'll Mortgage their secret Treasure , For a Top-Knot besure they'll have one , to wear on their heads when they're ready , And as they trip it to Islington , you scarce can know Joan from my Lady . Kate the Cook-Maid is as fine as the rest , behind there is no one shall leave her , She'l have a Top-Knot to wear when she's dressed , or else it would certainly grieve her ; Her Kitchen-stuff she often will fell , to purchase that Ranting Attire , And when she wears it it please her well , to think how Youngmen her admire . But as for those that have Money to seek , and cannot tell where they shall find it , They their Top-Knots will take up by the week , and pay when the Devil is blinded ; What need they care if they have their Pride , the Alamode Fashions of London , Fine Hoods and Laces , with Top-Knots beside , without which , alas ! they are undone . Some Misses wear as much Ribbon a top , in this their most Gaudy Attire , As if their Head was a Milliners Shop , and she would have no one pass by her , But what should come and handle her Ware , and they having Money , she'd ease they , Being dressed up in their Top-Knot and Hair , she may be sufficient to please ' um . Seeing this Alamode wear of the Town , by Gillians is practised so common , It is high time that it now was laid down by every right Honest Woman ; If that you will but let them alone , Oh then I shall not be Offended , Jillian and Dolly will straightways be known from those that are better descended . FINIS . Printed for J. Blare , at the Sign of the Looking-Glass on London-Bridge . Advice to the Maidens of LONDON : To Forsake Their Fantastical TOP-KNOTS ; Since they are become so Common with Billings-gate Women , and the Wenches that cries Kitchen-stuff : Together with the Wanton Misses of the Town . To the Tune of , You Ladies of London . This may be Printed , R. P. N Owe you young Females that follows the Mode , both beautiful , brown , black , and muddy ; You must expect for to Reap what you've Sowed , for making of Pride all your study : These very Lines I send to you now , concerning your Noddles adorning , Towers and Top-Knots we will not allow , and therefore take this for a warning . Do but consider the Women of Old , who flourished not in large Laces , Nor in your Glistering Silver and Gold , but with many more Modest Graces ; But now at length these things are forgotten , and Women are monstrous wicked , Susan and Joan they will have a Top-Knot , although they have never a Smicket . Every Dragel'-tayled Country Girl , when once she comes up to the City , If she can get but a Ribbon-Fallal , Oh then she is wondrous pretty : Thus Alamode they're willing to seem , when ever they go trooping together , Like a Fore-Horse of a Country Tram , decked up on their flourishing Feather . H Ere we may see what young Damsel will do , before they will want of their pleasure , Nancy and Nell of the Billings-gate Crew , they'll Mortgage their secret Treasure , For a Top-Knot besure they'll have one , to wear on their heads when they're ready , And as they trip it to Islington , you scarce can know Joan from my Lady . Kate the Cook-Maid is as fine as the rest , behind there is no one shall leave her , She'l have a Top-Knot to wear when she's dressed , or else it would certainly grieve her ; Her Kitchen-stuff she often will fell , to purchase that Ranting Attire , And when she wears it it please her well , to think how Youngmen her admire . But as for those that have Money to seek , and cannot tell where they shall find it , They their Top-Knots will take up by the week , and pay when the Devil is blinded ; What need they care if they have their Pride , the Alamode Fashions of London , Fine Hoods and Laces , with Top-Knots beside , without which , alas ! they are undone . Some Misses wear as much Ribbon a top , in this their most Gaudy Attire , As if their Head was a Milliners Shop , and she would have no one pass by her , But what should come and handle her Ware , and they having Money , she'd ease they , Being dressed up in their Top-Knot and Hair , she may be sufficient to please ' um . Seeing this Alamode wear of the Town , by Gillians is practised so common , It is high time that it now was laid down by every right Honest Woman ; If that you will but let them alone , Oh then I shall not be Offended , Jillian and Dolly will straightways be known from those that are better descended . FINIS . Printed for J. Blare , at the Sign of the Looking-Glass on London-Bridge . 