THE DEVILS OAK : Or , H [ i ] s ram [ b ] le in a Tempestuous Night , where he happened to Discourse with men of several Callings , of his own Colour and Complexion . To a very pleasant new Tune . A Nd the Devil he was Weather-beat , and forced to take a Tree ; Because that the Tempest it was so great , his way he could not see : But under and Oak , instead of a Cloak , he stood to keep himself dry , And as he stood , a Fryer in his Hood , by chance came passing by . And the Devil he made the Fryer afraid , with that he crossed his Breast ; Then up the Devil started , the Fryer was faint-heart-ed , you may wink and choose the best : For I am the Fryer and thou art the Liar , therefore thou art my father : I am a Doctor of evil , and thou art the Devil , the worse I hold thee rather . A Collier and his Cart came by , which Coals he did use to carry , And as soon as the Devil he did him espy , he caused him a while to tarry , For why I do think , that with thee I must drink , and he called for a Glass of Claret , Now I find by thy smell , that thou camest from hell and I fear thou hast stole my Chariot . Then the next that came by was a Chimney-sweeper with Poles his Brooms and Shackles , What meanest , thou Man , the Devil , he said , that thou usest all those Tackles ? I prithee , gentle Blade , tell me thy Trade , thy face it is so besmeared , Hadst thou been so black and not tools at thy back , thou'dst have made me soar afraid . S [ IR ] , [ ? ] Chimney-sweeper , I do profess , although my Trade's but mean , It is for to sweep all dirty holes , and to keep foul Chimneys clean : Then go thou to hell , where the Devil he does dwell , and he will give thee a piece , God-a-mercy , old Dog , when I sheer my Hog , then thou shalt have the fleece . The next that came by was a Tawny-Moor , and the Devil did him see . And he lleered on his tawny skin crying friend art thou any Kin to me ? For sure your skin , does resemble our Kin , therefore let us walk together , And tell me how you do allow of this tempestuous weather , . Then the next that came by was a Gun Powder-man , which Coals and Brimstone sifted , That in three quarters of a Year , himself had hardly shifted : Then up the Devil rose , and snuffed his Nose , he could endure it no longer , Cried away with this fume , it's not fit for the room it will neither quench thirst , no , nor hunger . I prithee , gentle Blade , tell me thy Trade , as thou hast so strong a smell ? It is for to make Gunpowder , he said , for to blow the Devil out of Hell : And if I had him here , his joints would I tear , he should neither scratch , no , nor bite : I would plague the Devil , for all his evil , and make him leave walking by night . Then a Tinker worse than all the rest , although that he was not so black : By chance as he came passing by , with his Budget on his back : He cried , yonder is the Devils Tree , let us see who darest go thither , For it will sustain , from the Wind and the Rain , or any tempestuous weather . That shall be tried , the Devil then he cried , then up the Devil he did start : Then the Tinker threw his Staff about , and he made the Devil for to smart : There against a Gate , he did brake his Pate , and both his Horns he broke : And ever since that time , I will make up my Rhime it was called The Devils Oak . Printed for C. Bates , in West-smithfield . THE DEVILS OAK : Or , H [ i ] s ram [ b ] le in a Tempestuous Night , where he happened to Discourse with men of several Callings , of his own Colour and Complexion . To a very pleasant new Tune . A Nd the Devil he was Weather-beat , and forced to take a Tree ; Because that the Tempest it was so great , his way he could not see : But under and Oak , instead of a Cloak , he stood to keep himself dry , And as he stood , a Fryer in his Hood , by chance came passing by . And the Devil he made the Fryer afraid , with that he crossed his Breast ; Then up the Devil started , the Fryer was faint-heart-ed , you may wink and choose the best : For I am the Fryer and thou art the Liar , therefore thou art my father : I am a Doctor of evil , and thou art the Devil , the worse I hold thee rather . A Collier and his Cart came by , which Coals he did use to carry , And as soon as the Devil he did him espy , he caused him a while to tarry , For why I do think , that with thee I must drink , and he called for a Glass of Claret , Now I find by thy smell , that thou camest from hell and I fear thou hast stole my Chariot . Then the next that came by was a Chimney-sweeper with Poles his Brooms and Shackles , What meanest , thou Man , the Devil , he said , that thou usest all those Tackles ? I prithee , gentle Blade , tell me thy Trade , thy face it is so besmeared , Hadst thou been so black and not tools at thy back , thou'dst have made me soar afraid . S [ IR ] , [ ? ] Chimney-sweeper , I do profess , although my Trade's but mean , It is for to sweep all dirty holes , and to keep foul Chimneys clean : Then go thou to hell , where the Devil he does dwell , and he will give thee a piece , God-a-mercy , old Dog , when I sheer my Hog , then thou shalt have the fleece . The next that came by was a Tawny-Moor , and the Devil did him see . And he lleered on his tawny skin crying friend art thou any Kin to me ? For sure your skin , does resemble our Kin , therefore let us walk together , And tell me how you do allow of this tempestuous weather , . Then the next that came by was a Gun Powder-man , which Coals and Brimstone sifted , That in three quarters of a Year , himself had hardly shifted : Then up the Devil rose , and snuffed his Nose , he could endure it no longer , Cried away with this fume , it's not fit for the room it will neither quench thirst , no , nor hunger . I prithee , gentle Blade , tell me thy Trade , as thou hast so strong a smell ? It is for to make Gunpowder , he said , for to blow the Devil out of Hell : And if I had him here , his joints would I tear , he should neither scratch , no , nor bite : I would plague the Devil , for all his evil , and make him leave walking by night . Then a Tinker worse than all the rest , although that he was not so black : By chance as he came passing by , with his Budget on his back : He cried , yonder is the Devils Tree , let us see who darest go thither , For it will sustain , from the Wind and the Rain , or any tempestuous weather . That shall be tried , the Devil then he cried , then up the Devil he did start : Then the Tinker threw his Staff about , and he made the Devil for to smart : There against a Gate , he did brake his Pate , and both his Horns he broke : And ever since that time , I will make up my Rhime it was called The Devils Oak . Printed for C. Bates , in West-smithfield . 