A Warning and good Counsel to the WEAVERS . Tune of , The Country Farmer . Or , The Devonshire Damosels . This may be Printed , R.P. Y Ou Gentlemen all come listen a while , I'll sing you a jest that will make you to smile , How the Weavers in Norwalk is grown very poor , Some work Journeiwork , and some shut up the door , The wholesale Men breaks , and to London mkes way : For that the poor Weavers full dearly do pay , If they bite them again , they have learned them the way , Before they part with their stuffs , in their hands to have pay . I'de have all the Weavers be ruled by me , And unto my Ditty now soon to agree . And trust no more stuff then their trade will maintain , If they can'nt have their Money bring ware back again : That is the way for the Weavers to live , To have of their own and be able to give , If they trust any more they will themselves slave , For a sprat at a meal , and no more they must have . The spinners have vowed they will spin no more , The Wool-man has vowed he must shut up door , Let them think of me in these excellent charms , If they can't have mony-keep their stuff in their arms : The Women cry out both in City and town . Their trade won't afford them a new Mantua Gown , Also the poor Wool-men begin for to frown , The Weavers have pulled the spinnig trade down . There was some brave Weavers that had and Estate , And prodigal was as long as they have't , They jeered the poor Weavers that could not set up , Because they were good fellows and loved a Cup. They have pulled the Journeymens wages down , And sent in their stuffs so fast to next town , The Merchant's have broke that were of high renown , And the money for the Weavers is read out of town . The Weavers do say they will take up in time , And since they've drank small beer they'll go & amp ; drink wine , Good victuals to their Prentices allow , The Merchant's shall live with the sweat of their brow : And now they're resolved to leave trusting again , And leave all the Merchant's themselves to maintain . For if they get in debt they to London make way , And poor Weavers Prentices for it must pay . I'ld have all the Weavers both great and small , Take warning by me , and be ruled all , Now trading is dead , i'd have you hold your hand , And trust no more stuffs to go out of the Land : You have trusted so much you your selves have undone , Some Merchant's have spoiled you as sure as a Gun You have fed them so fat they are ready to burst , While poor weavers Prentices fit with a crust Now this is the thing I needs must declare , For trading is down both in Market and Fair , Not only with Weavers , but other Trades too , With their families they know not how for to do : The poor Husbandman he works day and night , For to Till his ground it is all his delight , With his Oxen and Horses he blows all the Land , So let us all pray for the good Husbandman . Now all you Weavers I bid you adieu , I hope I have penned no more [ r ] e then is true , If you had but these verses but two years before , You had kept the great wolf away from the door : You have your stuffs so far over the Sea , And for it full dearly you Weavers must pay , For to work again it is the best way And ere you part with your stuffs in your hands take pay . Printed for P. Brooksby , in Pye-Corner . A Warning and good Counsel to the WEAVERS . Tune of , The Country Farmer . Or , The Devonshire Damosels . This may be Printed , R.P. Y Ou Gentlemen all come listen a while , I'll sing you a jest that will make you to smile , How the Weavers in Norwalk is grown very poor , Some work Journeiwork , and some shut up the door , The wholesale Men breaks , and to London mkes way : For that the poor Weavers full dearly do pay , If they bite them again , they have learned them the way , Before they part with their stuffs , in their hands to have pay . I'de have all the Weavers be ruled by me , And unto my Ditty now soon to agree . And trust no more stuff then their trade will maintain , If they can'nt have their Money bring ware back again : That is the way for the Weavers to live , To have of their own and be able to give , If they trust any more they will themselves slave , For a sprat at a meal , and no more they must have . The spinners have vowed they will spin no more , The Wool-man has vowed he must shut up door , Let them think of me in these excellent charms , If they can't have mony-keep their stuff in their arms : The Women cry out both in City and town . Their trade won't afford them a new Mantua Gown , Also the poor Wool-men begin for to frown , The Weavers have pulled the spinnig trade down . There was some brave Weavers that had and Estate , And prodigal was as long as they have't , They jeered the poor Weavers that could not set up , Because they were good fellows and loved a Cup. They have pulled the Journeymens wages down , And sent in their stuffs so fast to next town , The Merchant's have broke that were of high renown , And the money for the Weavers is read out of town . The Weavers do say they will take up in time , And since they've drank small beer they'll go & amp ; drink wine , Good victuals to their Prentices allow , The Merchant's shall live with the sweat of their brow : And now they're resolved to leave trusting again , And leave all the Merchant's themselves to maintain . For if they get in debt they to London make way , And poor Weavers Prentices for it must pay . I'ld have all the Weavers both great and small , Take warning by me , and be ruled all , Now trading is dead , i'd have you hold your hand , And trust no more stuffs to go out of the Land : You have trusted so much you your selves have undone , Some Merchant's have spoiled you as sure as a Gun You have fed them so fat they are ready to burst , While poor weavers Prentices fit with a crust Now this is the thing I needs must declare , For trading is down both in Market and Fair , Not only with Weavers , but other Trades too , With their families they know not how for to do : The poor Husbandman he works day and night , For to Till his ground it is all his delight , With his Oxen and Horses he blows all the Land , So let us all pray for the good Husbandman . Now all you Weavers I bid you adieu , I hope I have penned no more [ r ] e then is true , If you had but these verses but two years before , You had kept the great wolf away from the door : You have your stuffs so far over the Sea , And for it full dearly you Weavers must pay , For to work again it is the best way And ere you part with your stuffs in your hands take pay . Printed for P. Brooksby , in Pye-Corner . 