The Country-Mans Calendar , Or , His Astrological-Predictions for the ensuing Year 1692. Being a brief Almanac without ever a Lie ; Writ in a new Method for Merriment sake , and may be Sung to the Tune of And Orange . Licensed according to Order . A Ttend and give ear , I'll make it appear , This is a New Almanac for the next Year ; Which I'de have you buy , good People , for why ? There is not so much as the smell of a Lie in the Twelve-Months . January : This Month may be cold , and therefore behold , All those that have plenty of Silver and Gold , If Garments you lack , buy them to your back , And see that you line them with Malago - Sack ; It will warm you . February . In this Month , I say , comes Valentine ' s-Day , When young Lads and Lasses together will play Tom gives his love Sue , gay Ribbons that's new , A Bodkin , with Kisses , and tother thing too , Which will please her . March . Saint Taffy this Year , in March will appear , Dressed in hur best Shacket , with Leek in hur Ear : Red-Herring and Sheese , such dainties as these , At every corner her Cousin her sees , Honest Shinkin . April . Now enters the Spring , the Cuckoo's on Wing , Who many and honest Man seeks to hear sing ; When Cuckoo he cries , if that thou art wise , Then tell the young impudent Cur that he lies , never fear him . May . In the Month of May , young Lambs they will play , And so will young Lasses , there's few will say nay , They'll ramble all night , with Men for delight , There's nothing like May - Due for clearing the sighed of young Lasses . June . In the Month of June , there will be a Moon , And in London - City each Day about Noon Some hundreds will Dine , and tipple good Wine , I find by the Planets that this is a sign of good living . July . Likewise in July , by Stars I descry , If there be no Rain it may chance to be dry : The weather , behold , not desperate cold , And many a Man he will bury a Scold , to his comfort . August . In August you'll find , some Husbands unkind , And won't let his Wife have a Garb to her mind : But then with a frown , she'll fling out of Town , And ever she returns back will Cuckold his Crown , for a Coxcomb . September . In this Month repair , to Bartholomew - Fair , And likewise to Southwark , then delicate Ware , As plump as a Doe , above and below , You may have for little or nothing , I know , in September . October . October indeed , will hasten with speed , Together whole troops of the Billingsgate - Breed , Where Morning and Night , like Tigers they'll fight Before they'll be wronged in the least of their right , in their Oysters . November . November also , by Planets I know , That Lawyers by shoals do to Westminster go : Yet mark what I say , the Counsellors they Without Gold or Silver will never get the day for their Clients . December . In this Month likewise , Roast-Beef & amp ; minc'd-Pies , They will be sufficient the Rich to suffice : This delicate Cheer , will be far and near , And Christmas will be in December this Year , I must tell you . This Almanac then , the Wonder of Men , Peruse it , and read it well over again : Good People , for why ? you cannot deny , But this , in plain terms , is without ever a Lie , therefore buy it . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . The Country-Mans Calendar , Or , His Astrological-Predictions for the ensuing Year 1692. Being a brief Almanac without ever a Lie ; Writ in a new Method for Merriment sake , and may be Sung to the Tune of And Orange . Licensed according to Order . A Ttend and give ear , I'll make it appear , This is a New Almanac for the next Year ; Which I'de have you buy , good People , for why ? There is not so much as the smell of a Lie in the Twelve-Months . January : This Month may be cold , and therefore behold , All those that have plenty of Silver and Gold , If Garments you lack , buy them to your back , And see that you line them with Malago - Sack ; It will warm you . February . In this Month , I say , comes Valentine ' s-Day , When young Lads and Lasses together will play Tom gives his love Sue , gay Ribbons that's new , A Bodkin , with Kisses , and tother thing too , Which will please her . March . Saint Taffy this Year , in March will appear , Dressed in hur best Shacket , with Leek in hur Ear : Red-Herring and Sheese , such dainties as these , At every corner her Cousin her sees , Honest Shinkin . April . Now enters the Spring , the Cuckoo's on Wing , Who many and honest Man seeks to hear sing ; When Cuckoo he cries , if that thou art wise , Then tell the young impudent Cur that he lies , never fear him . May . In the Month of May , young Lambs they will play , And so will young Lasses , there's few will say nay , They'll ramble all night , with Men for delight , There's nothing like May - Due for clearing the sighed of young Lasses . June . In the Month of June , there will be a Moon , And in London - City each Day about Noon Some hundreds will Dine , and tipple good Wine , I find by the Planets that this is a sign of good living . July . Likewise in July , by Stars I descry , If there be no Rain it may chance to be dry : The weather , behold , not desperate cold , And many a Man he will bury a Scold , to his comfort . August . In August you'll find , some Husbands unkind , And won't let his Wife have a Garb to her mind : But then with a frown , she'll fling out of Town , And ever she returns back will Cuckold his Crown , for a Coxcomb . September . In this Month repair , to Bartholomew - Fair , And likewise to Southwark , then delicate Ware , As plump as a Doe , above and below , You may have for little or nothing , I know , in September . October . October indeed , will hasten with speed , Together whole troops of the Billingsgate - Breed , Where Morning and Night , like Tigers they'll fight Before they'll be wronged in the least of their right , in their Oysters . November . November also , by Planets I know , That Lawyers by shoals do to Westminster go : Yet mark what I say , the Counsellors they Without Gold or Silver will never get the day for their Clients . December . In this Month likewise , Roast-Beef & amp ; minc'd-Pies , They will be sufficient the Rich to suffice : This delicate Cheer , will be far and near , And Christmas will be in December this Year , I must tell you . This Almanac then , the Wonder of Men , Peruse it , and read it well over again : Good People , for why ? you cannot deny , But this , in plain terms , is without ever a Lie , therefore buy it . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 