The Country Squire Deceived ; OR , The Welsh-man is Invention for a New Suit of Clothes . To the Tune of , Let Caesar live long . A Rich Country Squire , called up to the Town , Left a young Wife with-Child , just fit to lie down And seeing her jolly plump Belly swell fair , With the speedy sweet hope's of a young Son and Heir , He begged of his Lady to give him the Joy , Of sending up word when she brought him a Boy . And that to his hand the glad News might come safe , The Squire kept a Welshman , and honest true Taff ; To him at his parting , he swears all the Oaths , That he would give Taffy a new Suit of Clothes , If he'd come up to London to give him the Joy , That his Lady was safe brought to Bed of a Boy . Brought to Bed of a Boy ! Hdsplutter , cries Taff , If that gets her new Clothes , her warrant they safe : Fare her well then dear Master , to London go trudge it , And her will come after with News in her Budget : Let Welshman alone then for giving her Joy , Hers certain her Mistress shall bring her a Boy . His Master he scarce had been gone a whole week , But Crying-out Lady begins for to Squeak ; And finding her Pains and her Throws come so fast , They forced were to send for the Midwife at last ; But instead of a Son , to the damping her Joy , The poor squalling Brat proves a cleft-codded Boy . At this the poor Welshman storms , splutters , and raves , A Girl did her say ! her are all Foods and Knaves : It's a Boy , Splutter-a-nails , sure Taffy should know ; Would her lose her new Clothes ! cheating Rogues serve her so No , her knows better things , for to London with Joy , Will her gang to her Master with News of a Boy . To London he trots them , no Post could go faster And all in a Rapture , he finds out his Master ; O Master , her Mistress is brought to Bed safe . And what has God sent her ! O , Master , cries Taff , Her come up to London to bring her the Joy , That her Mistress has brought her a thumping brave Boy But Master , her Clothes : Aye Taffy , cries Squire , Call Draper and Taylor , and have thy desire : So with Needle and Thimble falls Pricklouse aboard , And strait Riggs up Taffy as fine as a Lord ; For nothing's too dear to pay for the Joy Of hearing dear Wife brought to Bed of a Boy . But when the Squire back to the Country does come , And welcomed by all the good People at home , In haste to dear Wife in the Straw does repair , To wish her all Joy of her young Son and Heir : Alas ! cries the Lady , my Honey and Joy , Poor Baby , it's only a cleft-codded Boy . A Girl , says the Squire ! O this lying Welsh Cur ! Have patience , cries Taff , her beseech her sweet Sir ; Her besworn it's a Boy still , no better nor worse , And let her be judged by her Midwife and Nurse , Let her take up her Tail , and look , my sweet Joy , If her tell her a Lie when her says it's a Boy . The Nurse turns the Breech of the Child up all bore , And cries , you Welsh Coxcomb , I prithee look there ; Has the Child been a Boy , you silly dull Block , In this very place here it should have a Cock ; For without a Cock here , that pretty sweet Toy , I defy the whole World for to make it a Boy . So hasty , cries Welsman God bless the sweet Biddy , Udsplut , would her have her a Cock there already ? What a pox , has her god neither Conscience nor Honour To have her so early have Cock put upon her ; No , wait but a little , I prithee sweet joy , I warrant her time enough still for a Boy . A Cock would her have ? a Cock did her say ? Yes , all in good season ; for let her but stay Till her grow to her fifteen or sixteen years prime , And if her han't god her a Cock by that time , E'ne take her and Hang her ; I warrant , poor Joy , By that time her neither will want Cock nor Boy . Printed for J. Millet , at the Angel in Little-Brittain . The Country Squire Deceived ; OR , The Welsh-man is Invention for a New Suit of Clothes . To the Tune of , Let Caesar live long . A Rich Country Squire , called up to the Town , Left a young Wife with-Child , just fit to lie down And seeing her jolly plump Belly swell fair , With the speedy sweet hope's of a young Son and Heir , He begged of his Lady to give him the Joy , Of sending up word when she brought him a Boy . And that to his hand the glad News might come safe , The Squire kept a Welshman , and honest true Taff ; To him at his parting , he swears all the Oaths , That he would give Taffy a new Suit of Clothes , If he'd come up to London to give him the Joy , That his Lady was safe brought to Bed of a Boy . Brought to Bed of a Boy ! Hdsplutter , cries Taff , If that gets her new Clothes , her warrant they safe : Fare her well then dear Master , to London go trudge it , And her will come after with News in her Budget : Let Welshman alone then for giving her Joy , Hers certain her Mistress shall bring her a Boy . His Master he scarce had been gone a whole week , But Crying-out Lady begins for to Squeak ; And finding her Pains and her Throws come so fast , They forced were to send for the Midwife at last ; But instead of a Son , to the damping her Joy , The poor squalling Brat proves a cleft-codded Boy . At this the poor Welshman storms , splutters , and raves , A Girl did her say ! her are all Foods and Knaves : It's a Boy , Splutter-a-nails , sure Taffy should know ; Would her lose her new Clothes ! cheating Rogues serve her so No , her knows better things , for to London with Joy , Will her gang to her Master with News of a Boy . To London he trots them , no Post could go faster And all in a Rapture , he finds out his Master ; O Master , her Mistress is brought to Bed safe . And what has God sent her ! O , Master , cries Taff , Her come up to London to bring her the Joy , That her Mistress has brought her a thumping brave Boy But Master , her Clothes : Aye Taffy , cries Squire , Call Draper and Taylor , and have thy desire : So with Needle and Thimble falls Pricklouse aboard , And strait Riggs up Taffy as fine as a Lord ; For nothing's too dear to pay for the Joy Of hearing dear Wife brought to Bed of a Boy . But when the Squire back to the Country does come , And welcomed by all the good People at home , In haste to dear Wife in the Straw does repair , To wish her all Joy of her young Son and Heir : Alas ! cries the Lady , my Honey and Joy , Poor Baby , it's only a cleft-codded Boy . A Girl , says the Squire ! O this lying Welsh Cur ! Have patience , cries Taff , her beseech her sweet Sir ; Her besworn it's a Boy still , no better nor worse , And let her be judged by her Midwife and Nurse , Let her take up her Tail , and look , my sweet Joy , If her tell her a Lie when her says it's a Boy . The Nurse turns the Breech of the Child up all bore , And cries , you Welsh Coxcomb , I prithee look there ; Has the Child been a Boy , you silly dull Block , In this very place here it should have a Cock ; For without a Cock here , that pretty sweet Toy , I defy the whole World for to make it a Boy . So hasty , cries Welsman God bless the sweet Biddy , Udsplut , would her have her a Cock there already ? What a pox , has her god neither Conscience nor Honour To have her so early have Cock put upon her ; No , wait but a little , I prithee sweet joy , I warrant her time enough still for a Boy . A Cock would her have ? a Cock did her say ? Yes , all in good season ; for let her but stay Till her grow to her fifteen or sixteen years prime , And if her han't god her a Cock by that time , E'ne take her and Hang her ; I warrant , poor Joy , By that time her neither will want Cock nor Boy . Printed for J. Millet , at the Angel in Little-Brittain . 