The London Ladies Vindication OF TOP-KNOTS : With the many Reasons that She shows for the Continuation of the same : As also proving Men to be as Proud as themselves . To the Tune of , Here I love , there I Love : Or , The two English Travellers . Licensed according to Order . Y Oung Women and Damsels that love to go fine , Come listen a while to this Ditty of mine ; In spite of all Poets , brave Girls , we will wear Our Towers and Topknots , with Powdered Hair . I am a young Woman it's very well known , And I am resolved to make use of my own , In spite of all Poets , brave Girls we will wear A Tower and Topknot , with Powdered Hair . They talk of a Calf which was seen in our dress , Yet let us take Courage , Girls , nevertheless In spite of those Rumours , we'll constantly wear Rich Towers with Topknots , and Powdered Hair . We are not such Fools to believe what they say , It's fit that young Women should go fine and gay , In spite of their Bugbears , brave Girls , let us wear Rich Towers and Topknots , with Powdered Hair . Were we to be Ruled by some sort of Men , We should go like Women of Fourscore and Ten , In spite of those Coxcombs , brave Girls we will wear Rich Towers and Topknots with Powdered Hair . Like Beautiful Angels we strive to appear , The Hearts of our Husbands in order to cheer ; Then what is the Reason that we may not wear Rich Towers and Topknots , with Powdered Hair ? If we are the Pleasure and Joy of their Life , Pray when can they take more delight in a Wife , Then at the same time when rich Garments they wear , With Towers and Topknots , etc We see the young Misses and Jilts of the Town , Have six Stories high , as they walk up and down : Then pray tell me why should not honest Wives wear Rich Towers and Topknots , etc If we an't as Fine and as Gaudy as they , Who knows but our Husbands might soon run astray ; Consider this Women , and still let us wear Our Towers and Topknots , etc It is but a Folly to tell us of Pride , While we have these Arguments still on our side ; As long as we live , we will flourishing wear Rich Towers and Topknots , etc Nay further I'll tell you the case it is thus , That all is not saved which is put in the Purse ; A Shopkeeper Lady she utters much Ware , When dressed in her Topknots , etc What Man would not have his Wife richly Att [ ire ] worser , When as he well knows it enlarges his Trade : Come , come , I must tell you , it's fit we should wear Rich Towers and Topknots , etc Sometime when our Husbands are out of the way , Pray tell me what Huffing young Gallants will stay , If that a fine Delicate Wife was not there ? Then Heigh for the Topknots and Powdered Hair . Some youngmen may flout us , yet mark what I say , There's no Woman living now Prouder than they ; Observe but the many Knick-Knacks which they wear , More costly than Topknots , or Powdered Hair . Their Wigg , Watch , and Rapiers we daily behold , And Embroidered Waistcoats of Silver and Gold ; Likewise , Turnup Stockings , they constantly wear , More costly than Topknots , or Powdered Hair . If Pride be a since and a folly , why then Han't we a far better Example from Men ? If Gaudy Apparel those Gallants do wear , We will have our Topknots and Powdered Hair . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . The London Ladies Vindication OF TOP-KNOTS : With the many Reasons that She shows for the Continuation of the same : As also proving Men to be as Proud as themselves . To the Tune of , Here I love , there I Love : Or , The two English Travellers . Licensed according to Order . Y Oung Women and Damsels that love to go fine , Come listen a while to this Ditty of mine ; In spite of all Poets , brave Girls , we will wear Our Towers and Topknots , with Powdered Hair . I am a young Woman it's very well known , And I am resolved to make use of my own , In spite of all Poets , brave Girls we will wear A Tower and Topknot , with Powdered Hair . They talk of a Calf which was seen in our dress , Yet let us take Courage , Girls , nevertheless In spite of those Rumours , we'll constantly wear Rich Towers with Topknots , and Powdered Hair . We are not such Fools to believe what they say , It's fit that young Women should go fine and gay , In spite of their Bugbears , brave Girls , let us wear Rich Towers and Topknots , with Powdered Hair . Were we to be Ruled by some sort of Men , We should go like Women of Fourscore and Ten , In spite of those Coxcombs , brave Girls we will wear Rich Towers and Topknots with Powdered Hair . Like Beautiful Angels we strive to appear , The Hearts of our Husbands in order to cheer ; Then what is the Reason that we may not wear Rich Towers and Topknots , with Powdered Hair ? If we are the Pleasure and Joy of their Life , Pray when can they take more delight in a Wife , Then at the same time when rich Garments they wear , With Towers and Topknots , etc We see the young Misses and Jilts of the Town , Have six Stories high , as they walk up and down : Then pray tell me why should not honest Wives wear Rich Towers and Topknots , etc If we an't as Fine and as Gaudy as they , Who knows but our Husbands might soon run astray ; Consider this Women , and still let us wear Our Towers and Topknots , etc It is but a Folly to tell us of Pride , While we have these Arguments still on our side ; As long as we live , we will flourishing wear Rich Towers and Topknots , etc Nay further I'll tell you the case it is thus , That all is not saved which is put in the Purse ; A Shopkeeper Lady she utters much Ware , When dressed in her Topknots , etc What Man would not have his Wife richly Att [ ire ] worser , When as he well knows it enlarges his Trade : Come , come , I must tell you , it's fit we should wear Rich Towers and Topknots , etc Sometime when our Husbands are out of the way , Pray tell me what Huffing young Gallants will stay , If that a fine Delicate Wife was not there ? Then Heigh for the Topknots and Powdered Hair . Some youngmen may flout us , yet mark what I say , There's no Woman living now Prouder than they ; Observe but the many Knick-Knacks which they wear , More costly than Topknots , or Powdered Hair . Their Wigg , Watch , and Rapiers we daily behold , And Embroidered Waistcoats of Silver and Gold ; Likewise , Turnup Stockings , they constantly wear , More costly than Topknots , or Powdered Hair . If Pride be a since and a folly , why then Han't we a far better Example from Men ? If Gaudy Apparel those Gallants do wear , We will have our Topknots and Powdered Hair . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 