Love's Mighty Conquest : or Beauty's Debate for Love and Liberty . A Pleasant New PLAY-SONG . Contending Beauty with much Ardor strove , Which was superior Liberty and Love ; A Chaste reservedness with melting Charms , That Lovers find in one another's Arms : Till mighty Love the Conquest gains at last , And his great Power by Liberty's surpassed . To a New Play-House Tune . LIBERTY . LIberty's the Soul of Living , Every Hours new Joys receiving , No sharp Pangs our Hearts are grieving , Liberty's the Soul of Living . Here are no false Men pursuing , Youth and Beauty to its Ruin ; Morning Sighs like Turtles Looing , Nor the bitter Sighs of Woeing . LOVE . In soft Dreams our Souls are wasted , All our solid Joys are blasted , Sweet Diana , ever I'm past it , Change your Laws and let me taste it ; But how vain are hope's or sorrows , Pensive Nights and sighing morrows , Loves a thing not designed for us , All our Quivers want their Arrows . LIBERTY . Freedom gives us all our Pleasure , Without that there is no Treasure , For by that our Joys we Measure , Count our happy days at Leisure , Sweet Diana do not fly me , Lustful Venus , come not nigh me , Liberty alone can please me , Love , found Love will but Disease me . LOVE . Love alone it is Contents me , Golden showers I'll scatter plenty , Joys that Chaste desire never sent me , Though it does sometime torment me , Without Love , what Creature living , Is there but must needs be grieving ; Nature made us in that Fashion , Who would then forgo her Passion . LIBERTY . Single Liberty is better , Then to wear blind Cupid is Fetter ; Than enslave us to a Creature , That unconstant is by Nature ; How our Freedom would we valve , Were we Chained unto a Galley ; Love has Chains , that full as strong are , And will last us , last us longer . LOVE , Without the softer Charms of Loving , Liberty is nothing moving , Which those Birds that still are Roving Through the gentle Air are Proving Though their ways with Winds they're taking Yet their Loves they're not forsaking , In their Freedom they are Billing , And to Love are ever Willing . LIBERTY . Softer Flames we own do move us , Like the gentle fire they prove us ; But they never , never love us , Never , never get above us . Liberty's alone Superior , Cupid cannot come no nearer , But to make us dart some glances , Has no Power to try our Fancies . LOVE . Mighty Love is more in Fashion , And does move the whole Creation , Nothing but a generous Passion , Keeps true joy within its Station , Without it , Pleasures are decaying , Then confess without delaying , That true Loves the greater Blessing , That on Earth is worth possessing . With Allowance . LONDON , Printed for Richard Butler in Rothwell in Yorkshire , and White-Lyon Court in Barbican . Love's Mighty Conquest : or Beauty's Debate for Love and Liberty . A Pleasant New PLAY-SONG . Contending Beauty with much Ardor strove , Which was superior Liberty and Love ; A Chaste reservedness with melting Charms , That Lovers find in one another's Arms : Till mighty Love the Conquest gains at last , And his great Power by Liberty's surpassed . To a New Play-House Tune . LIBERTY . LIberty's the Soul of Living , Every Hours new Joys receiving , No sharp Pangs our Hearts are grieving , Liberty's the Soul of Living . Here are no false Men pursuing , Youth and Beauty to its Ruin ; Morning Sighs like Turtles Looing , Nor the bitter Sighs of Woeing . LOVE . In soft Dreams our Souls are wasted , All our solid Joys are blasted , Sweet Diana , ever I'm past it , Change your Laws and let me taste it ; But how vain are hope's or sorrows , Pensive Nights and sighing morrows , Loves a thing not designed for us , All our Quivers want their Arrows . LIBERTY . Freedom gives us all our Pleasure , Without that there is no Treasure , For by that our Joys we Measure , Count our happy days at Leisure , Sweet Diana do not fly me , Lustful Venus , come not nigh me , Liberty alone can please me , Love , found Love will but Disease me . LOVE . Love alone it is Contents me , Golden showers I'll scatter plenty , Joys that Chaste desire never sent me , Though it does sometime torment me , Without Love , what Creature living , Is there but must needs be grieving ; Nature made us in that Fashion , Who would then forgo her Passion . LIBERTY . Single Liberty is better , Then to wear blind Cupid is Fetter ; Than enslave us to a Creature , That unconstant is by Nature ; How our Freedom would we valve , Were we Chained unto a Galley ; Love has Chains , that full as strong are , And will last us , last us longer . LOVE , Without the softer Charms of Loving , Liberty is nothing moving , Which those Birds that still are Roving Through the gentle Air are Proving Though their ways with Winds they're taking Yet their Loves they're not forsaking , In their Freedom they are Billing , And to Love are ever Willing . LIBERTY . Softer Flames we own do move us , Like the gentle fire they prove us ; But they never , never love us , Never , never get above us . Liberty's alone Superior , Cupid cannot come no nearer , But to make us dart some glances , Has no Power to try our Fancies . LOVE . Mighty Love is more in Fashion , And does move the whole Creation , Nothing but a generous Passion , Keeps true joy within its Station , Without it , Pleasures are decaying , Then confess without delaying , That true Loves the greater Blessing , That on Earth is worth possessing . With Allowance . LONDON , Printed for Richard Butler in Rothwell in Yorkshire , and White-Lyon Court in Barbican . 