[ ? ] Old men WISH . This Old-Man he does Wish for Wealth in vain But he thereby does not the Treasure gain ; For if with Wishes he the same could have , He would not mind nor think upon the Grave . To a Pleasant new Play-House Tune . I F I live to grow old , ( for I find I go down ) Let this be my fate , in a Country Town : Let me have a warm house , with a stone at the Gate , And a cleanly young Girl , to rub my bald Pate ; M ay I govern my passion , with and absolute sway , And grow wiser and better , as my strength wears away : Without Gout or Stone , by a gentle decay . In a country Town but a murmuring brook , TO he Ocean at distance , on which I may look . With a spacious plain , without hedge or style , And and easy Pad Nag to ride out a Mile : May I govern my passion , with and absolute sway , And grow wiser and better as my strength wears away : Without Gout or Stone , by a gentle decay . With a Pudding on Sunday , and stout humming Liquour , And remnants of Latin to puzzle the Vicar : With a hidden reserve of brisk Burgandy wine , To drink the Kings Health as oft as I dine . M ay I govern my passion , with and absolute sway , And grow wiser and better , as my strength wears away : Without Gout or Stone , by a gentle decay . With Plutarch and H orace , and one or two more Of the best wits that lived in the A ges before . With a dish of roast Mutton , not Venison nor Teal ; And clean ( though course ) Linen at every meal : M ay I govern my passion , etc And if I should have guess , I must add to my wish , On Frydays a mess , of good buttered Fish : For full well I do know , and the truth I reveal , I . had better doe so , then come short of a meal , May I govern my passion , etc With Breeches and jerkin , of good country grey , And live without working , now my strength does decay : With a Hogshead of Sherry , for to drink when I please With friends to be merry , and to live at my ease , May I govern my Passion , etc Without Mollestation , may I spend my last days In sweet recreation , and found forth the praise Of all those that are true to the King and his Laws . Since it be their endue , they shall have my applause , M ay I govern my passion , etc With a Country Scribe for to write my last will , But not of the tribe , that in choosing have skill , For my Easy pad Nagg , i'll bequeathe to DONE John , For he is and Archwag , and a jolly old man , May I govern my passion , etc With courage undaunted may I face my last day ; And when I am dead , may the better sort say , In the morning when sober , in the evening when mellow He's gone , and has left not behind him his fellow . For he governed his passion , with and absolute sway , And grew wiser and better as his strength wore away ; Without Gout or Stone , by a gentle decay , etc FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , in Guilt-spur-street . [ ? ] Old men WISH . This Old-Man he does Wish for Wealth in vain But he thereby does not the Treasure gain ; For if with Wishes he the same could have , He would not mind nor think upon the Grave . To a Pleasant new Play-House Tune . I F I live to grow old , ( for I find I go down ) Let this be my fate , in a Country Town : Let me have a warm house , with a stone at the Gate , And a cleanly young Girl , to rub my bald Pate ; M ay I govern my passion , with and absolute sway , And grow wiser and better , as my strength wears away : Without Gout or Stone , by a gentle decay . In a country Town but a murmuring brook , TO he Ocean at distance , on which I may look . With a spacious plain , without hedge or style , And and easy Pad Nag to ride out a Mile : May I govern my passion , with and absolute sway , And grow wiser and better as my strength wears away : Without Gout or Stone , by a gentle decay . With a Pudding on Sunday , and stout humming Liquour , And remnants of Latin to puzzle the Vicar : With a hidden reserve of brisk Burgandy wine , To drink the Kings Health as oft as I dine . M ay I govern my passion , with and absolute sway , And grow wiser and better , as my strength wears away : Without Gout or Stone , by a gentle decay . With Plutarch and H orace , and one or two more Of the best wits that lived in the A ges before . With a dish of roast Mutton , not Venison nor Teal ; And clean ( though course ) Linen at every meal : M ay I govern my passion , etc And if I should have guess , I must add to my wish , On Frydays a mess , of good buttered Fish : For full well I do know , and the truth I reveal , I . had better doe so , then come short of a meal , May I govern my passion , etc With Breeches and jerkin , of good country grey , And live without working , now my strength does decay : With a Hogshead of Sherry , for to drink when I please With friends to be merry , and to live at my ease , May I govern my Passion , etc Without Mollestation , may I spend my last days In sweet recreation , and found forth the praise Of all those that are true to the King and his Laws . Since it be their endue , they shall have my applause , M ay I govern my passion , etc With a Country Scribe for to write my last will , But not of the tribe , that in choosing have skill , For my Easy pad Nagg , i'll bequeathe to DONE John , For he is and Archwag , and a jolly old man , May I govern my passion , etc With courage undaunted may I face my last day ; And when I am dead , may the better sort say , In the morning when sober , in the evening when mellow He's gone , and has left not behind him his fellow . For he governed his passion , with and absolute sway , And grew wiser and better as his strength wore away ; Without Gout or Stone , by a gentle decay , etc FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , in Guilt-spur-street . 