[ THE ] Young-Man & amp ; Maidens Forecast ; SHOWING HOW They Reckoned their Chickens before they were Hatched . To the Tune of , The Country Farmer . Or , The Devonshire Damosels - This may be Printed , P. R. I LL tell you a Jest of a Provident Lass , Whose Providence proved her a Provident Ass ; She laid forth her store in such brittle Ware , That very small profit did fallen to her share ; Thirteen to the Dozen of Eggs she would buy , And set a Hen over them carefully ; As long as she went her footing she watched , She counted her Chickens before they were Hatched . Said she , if these Chickens five Capons do prove , Capons be Meat which Gentlemen love ; Those Chickens she would fell to buy a Sow-Pig , That it might have young ones ever it was big : Then with her Pigs she would have and Ewe , It may have Lambs not killed with the Due : And as she was thinking to buy her a Calf , Her Heels they flew from her a Yard and a half . Her Heels kissed the ground , and [ up ] [ f ] lew [ her ] Legs , Down came her Basket , and broke all her Eggs ; There lay her Pigs , her Chickens , her Lambs She could not have young ones except she had Dams Thus Fortune did frown by a fallen that she catched , Her Chickens proved Addle before they were Hatched : Attend but a while , and I'll briefly declare , Bad fortune did likewise fallen to the men share . And now the Man to the Market will go , To see what Dame Nature on him will bestow ; He bought him five Eggs , thinking to Thrive , And thus did the business finely contrive ? Said he , if these Eggs five Cocks they will frame , And most of them prove to be Cocks of the Game , So soon as their Spurs are long enough grown , Then I may ingross a Cock-Pit of my own . Then may I have Gallants of every sort , Both Lords , Knights , and Squires , and all to see spor [ tO ] If they Fight bravely these Gallants to please , I may come to get Means by the rearing of these : And when I have done , I'll get me a rich Wife , That I may live happy all days of my Life , And in the Church we will be loving matched , But count not your Chickens before they be Hatched . And when he came home he set his Eggs by , He could not get up the Roost was so high ; But fetching a Ladder that unhappy time , It was his hard luck with his Eggs for to Climb These Ladders prove fatal to many a Man , And are undone by them now and than ; So was this poor Man undone by a fallen , Down comes the Basket , Man , Eggs and all . There lay the poor Man with a fallen almost Lame , His Cock-Pits and Gallants , and Cocks of the Game The losing of this grieved him to the Life , Yet the grief it was more in the loss of his Wife : All you Young Men live virtuous Lives , And think to get Portions now by your Wives ; Take warning by me before you are Matched , Pray count not your Chickens before they be Hatched . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden Bull in Pye-Corner , near West-Smithfield . [ THE ] Young-Man & amp ; Maidens Forecast ; SHOWING HOW They Reckoned their Chickens before they were Hatched . To the Tune of , The Country Farmer . Or , The Devonshire Damosels - This may be Printed , P. R. I LL tell you a Jest of a Provident Lass , Whose Providence proved her a Provident Ass ; She laid forth her store in such brittle Ware , That very small profit did fallen to her share ; Thirteen to the Dozen of Eggs she would buy , And set a Hen over them carefully ; As long as she went her footing she watched , She counted her Chickens before they were Hatched . Said she , if these Chickens five Capons do prove , Capons be Meat which Gentlemen love ; Those Chickens she would fell to buy a Sow-Pig , That it might have young ones ever it was big : Then with her Pigs she would have and Ewe , It may have Lambs not killed with the Due : And as she was thinking to buy her a Calf , Her Heels they flew from her a Yard and a half . Her Heels kissed the ground , and [ up ] [ f ] lew [ her ] Legs , Down came her Basket , and broke all her Eggs ; There lay her Pigs , her Chickens , her Lambs She could not have young ones except she had Dams Thus Fortune did frown by a fallen that she catched , Her Chickens proved Addle before they were Hatched : Attend but a while , and I'll briefly declare , Bad fortune did likewise fallen to the men share . And now the Man to the Market will go , To see what Dame Nature on him will bestow ; He bought him five Eggs , thinking to Thrive , And thus did the business finely contrive ? Said he , if these Eggs five Cocks they will frame , And most of them prove to be Cocks of the Game , So soon as their Spurs are long enough grown , Then I may ingross a Cock-Pit of my own . Then may I have Gallants of every sort , Both Lords , Knights , and Squires , and all to see spor [ tO ] If they Fight bravely these Gallants to please , I may come to get Means by the rearing of these : And when I have done , I'll get me a rich Wife , That I may live happy all days of my Life , And in the Church we will be loving matched , But count not your Chickens before they be Hatched . And when he came home he set his Eggs by , He could not get up the Roost was so high ; But fetching a Ladder that unhappy time , It was his hard luck with his Eggs for to Climb These Ladders prove fatal to many a Man , And are undone by them now and than ; So was this poor Man undone by a fallen , Down comes the Basket , Man , Eggs and all . There lay the poor Man with a fallen almost Lame , His Cock-Pits and Gallants , and Cocks of the Game The losing of this grieved him to the Life , Yet the grief it was more in the loss of his Wife : All you Young Men live virtuous Lives , And think to get Portions now by your Wives ; Take warning by me before you are Matched , Pray count not your Chickens before they be Hatched . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden Bull in Pye-Corner , near West-Smithfield . 