The New Composed Medley ; OR , The true Virtue of the Hop-Sack . If ever this be seen by Men , Which I do here unfold . It will be in a Hop-Sack then As true as ever was told . TO oh the TO une of , With a Hop-Sack . This may be Printed , R.P. I Pray draw near , and you shall hear , a story which is known to be true , The knaves in White Friars will make it their case , to pay all their Creditors what is their endue , In a Hop-Sack . The London Misses they have said , they cannot endure the name of a Whore , Therefore they protest they will leave off their trade and never will follow that calling no more , In a Hop-Sack . Beside they make a sad complaint , and say that Pride too much does abound , Therefore they will leave off their powder and paint . and ever hereafter will modest be found , In a Hop-Sack . The Alewives they are loving still , for if a Man be willing to call , She'l draw him good Liquour as much as he will , without ever a penny of Money at all , In a Hop-Sack . The Miser he does hate his Gold , and is resolved to save no more , For if it be true ; now as I have been told . he'l fell all he has , and will give to the poor , In a Hop-Sack . Both Lords and Earls will go to Blow , that Ralph and Roger may live at their ease , And e'ry fair Lady will Milk the brown Cow , and Lawyers at Westminster plead without fees , In a Hop-Sack . The Landlords they act very fair , poor Men of them has no cause to complain , They having no reason at all to take care , to get up their rend for he'l gift them again , I n a Hop-Sack . The Poets now are grown so rich , as having got so much by their pen , They cannot be quiet , their fingers does itch , to built some new College for poor decayed men , In a Hop-Sack . Poor Men they now may live at rest , if this be true as I have been told , Bad Wives they will never their Husbands molest , theyl learn to live quiet and never will scold , In a Hop-Sack . There's no Man need in Jail abide , he may come out without paying of fees , The doors of the Prisons are opened wide , and every prisoner walks where he please , In a Hop-Sack . The Tailors now will steal no more , that practice they will clearly refrain , What ever they have Cabbidged they vow to restore , and bring it to every Master again , In a Hop-Sack . The Brokers now by joint consent , from gripping poor men they will refrain , And likewise forgive them the Money they lent , restoring them all their Apparel again , In a Hop-Sack . Some Men who has most handsome Wives , their reputation they often stain , But now their resolved to live better lives , and never to Cuckold their Husbands again , In a Hop-Sack . Now to conclude and make and end , I hope all you that hear me this day , Will buy of my Ballads which here I have penned , for every Sillable's true , by my faith . In a Hop-Sack . Printed for J. Deacon , in Guilt-spur-street . The New Composed Medley ; OR , The true Virtue of the Hop-Sack . If ever this be seen by Men , Which I do here unfold . It will be in a Hop-Sack then As true as ever was told . TO oh the TO une of , With a Hop-Sack . This may be Printed , R.P. I Pray draw near , and you shall hear , a story which is known to be true , The knaves in White Friars will make it their case , to pay all their Creditors what is their endue , In a Hop-Sack . The London Misses they have said , they cannot endure the name of a Whore , Therefore they protest they will leave off their trade and never will follow that calling no more , In a Hop-Sack . Beside they make a sad complaint , and say that Pride too much does abound , Therefore they will leave off their powder and paint . and ever hereafter will modest be found , In a Hop-Sack . The Alewives they are loving still , for if a Man be willing to call , She'l draw him good Liquour as much as he will , without ever a penny of Money at all , In a Hop-Sack . The Miser he does hate his Gold , and is resolved to save no more , For if it be true ; now as I have been told . he'l fell all he has , and will give to the poor , In a Hop-Sack . Both Lords and Earls will go to Blow , that Ralph and Roger may live at their ease , And e'ry fair Lady will Milk the brown Cow , and Lawyers at Westminster plead without fees , In a Hop-Sack . The Landlords they act very fair , poor Men of them has no cause to complain , They having no reason at all to take care , to get up their rend for he'l gift them again , I n a Hop-Sack . The Poets now are grown so rich , as having got so much by their pen , They cannot be quiet , their fingers does itch , to built some new College for poor decayed men , In a Hop-Sack . Poor Men they now may live at rest , if this be true as I have been told , Bad Wives they will never their Husbands molest , theyl learn to live quiet and never will scold , In a Hop-Sack . There's no Man need in Jail abide , he may come out without paying of fees , The doors of the Prisons are opened wide , and every prisoner walks where he please , In a Hop-Sack . The Tailors now will steal no more , that practice they will clearly refrain , What ever they have Cabbidged they vow to restore , and bring it to every Master again , In a Hop-Sack . The Brokers now by joint consent , from gripping poor men they will refrain , And likewise forgive them the Money they lent , restoring them all their Apparel again , In a Hop-Sack . Some Men who has most handsome Wives , their reputation they often stain , But now their resolved to live better lives , and never to Cuckold their Husbands again , In a Hop-Sack . Now to conclude and make and end , I hope all you that hear me this day , Will buy of my Ballads which here I have penned , for every Sillable's true , by my faith . In a Hop-Sack . Printed for J. Deacon , in Guilt-spur-street . 