The Women and Maidens Vindication OF TOP-KNOTS : At a Parliament Held by them near P imlico . Showing the great benefit they bring to thousands in City and Country , Charging Men to Affront them no more therewith , lest they incur their greatest displeasure . To a Pleasant [ a ] nt New Tune ; Or , The Ladies of London . This may be Printed , R. P. S Ince Women and Maidens have been abused , we think it's high time to break silence ; For wearing Top-Knots it is we're accused , but now we can do't with a License ; To the praise of our Sex , a Law it is made , which e'ry Female does empower . That None of us all need now be afraid , to wear a Top-Knot or a Tower . A Sessions was held never to Pimlico , where Ladies and other resorted , The Acts and Speeches of those that did go , you will find here true [ l ] y reported ; ' First thing they did , a Speaker they chosen , it was one well suited their Fancy , But they cast Lots least time they should loose , and it fell on Nimble-tongued Nancy . She was no sooner placed in the Chair , but made a most pithy Oration , Extolling Top-Knots and other Attire , that are worn in City and Nation : Said she ( indeed she spoke like a Saint ) young Maidens , and those that are grieved , Make no delay , but let's hear your Complaint , ' pon Honour you shall be relieved . 'Twas a brisk Lady first opened the case , it's said she belonged to the TO emple . Who expressed her self with a very good Grace , and showed how Men on them do trample : Madam Speaker , it's my greatest care , that some wholesome new Laws you'll provide ; Or TO op-Knots in quiet we never shall wear , as we trip it up along Cheapside . For Men of late are so very rude grown , at Noonday they plainly do show it , A Lady to them's no more than a Joan , incensed by the Lines of a Poet : Another stood up with a fierce look , said , Madam , you're right in your guesses , For he's a Villain , I'll swear on a Book , that hath made those Paper of Verses . The third that spoke was a Milliners Wife , who seemed to be in a great passion , And said she had rather lose her sweet life , then TO op-Knots should grow out of Fashion : A Weavers Wife the cause would maintain , for TO op-Knots she showed a great pity ; By Ribbons there's [ th ] ousands good livings gain , not only in Suburbs but City . Then Bridget , Marry , kind Nelly and Joan , with Sue and Doll unanimously , In all there was and hundred and one of Maids , which caused a very great cry : TO open Knots we'll have , and TO op-Knots we'll wear , since it hath occasioned so much good , Let Men speak against us now if they dare , we'll spend the dearest drop of our blood . The Clerk was ordered to write this Law down , before they made a Prorogation , That TO op-Knots be wore in City and Town , throughout the Kingdom and Nation : Therefore we strictly charge and Command , that Men no more show themselves such Sots , Or else they shall feel the weight of our hands , when ever they catch at our TO op-Knots . FINIS Printed for J. Gilbertson , at the Sun and Bible on London-Bridge . The Women and Maidens Vindication OF TOP-KNOTS : At a Parliament Held by them near P imlico . Showing the great benefit they bring to thousands in City and Country , Charging Men to Affront them no more therewith , lest they incur their greatest displeasure . To a Pleasant [ a ] nt New Tune ; Or , The Ladies of London . This may be Printed , R. P. S Ince Women and Maidens have been abused , we think it's high time to break silence ; For wearing Top-Knots it is we're accused , but now we can do't with a License ; To the praise of our Sex , a Law it is made , which e'ry Female does empower . That None of us all need now be afraid , to wear a Top-Knot or a Tower . A Sessions was held never to Pimlico , where Ladies and other resorted , The Acts and Speeches of those that did go , you will find here true [ l ] y reported ; ' First thing they did , a Speaker they chosen , it was one well suited their Fancy , But they cast Lots least time they should loose , and it fell on Nimble-tongued Nancy . She was no sooner placed in the Chair , but made a most pithy Oration , Extolling Top-Knots and other Attire , that are worn in City and Nation : Said she ( indeed she spoke like a Saint ) young Maidens , and those that are grieved , Make no delay , but let's hear your Complaint , ' pon Honour you shall be relieved . 'Twas a brisk Lady first opened the case , it's said she belonged to the TO emple . Who expressed her self with a very good Grace , and showed how Men on them do trample : Madam Speaker , it's my greatest care , that some wholesome new Laws you'll provide ; Or TO op-Knots in quiet we never shall wear , as we trip it up along Cheapside . For Men of late are so very rude grown , at Noonday they plainly do show it , A Lady to them's no more than a Joan , incensed by the Lines of a Poet : Another stood up with a fierce look , said , Madam , you're right in your guesses , For he's a Villain , I'll swear on a Book , that hath made those Paper of Verses . The third that spoke was a Milliners Wife , who seemed to be in a great passion , And said she had rather lose her sweet life , then TO op-Knots should grow out of Fashion : A Weavers Wife the cause would maintain , for TO op-Knots she showed a great pity ; By Ribbons there's [ th ] ousands good livings gain , not only in Suburbs but City . Then Bridget , Marry , kind Nelly and Joan , with Sue and Doll unanimously , In all there was and hundred and one of Maids , which caused a very great cry : TO open Knots we'll have , and TO op-Knots we'll wear , since it hath occasioned so much good , Let Men speak against us now if they dare , we'll spend the dearest drop of our blood . The Clerk was ordered to write this Law down , before they made a Prorogation , That TO op-Knots be wore in City and Town , throughout the Kingdom and Nation : Therefore we strictly charge and Command , that Men no more show themselves such Sots , Or else they shall feel the weight of our hands , when ever they catch at our TO op-Knots . FINIS Printed for J. Gilbertson , at the Sun and Bible on London-Bridge . 