And Excellent New SONG , Called ; The Charmin Regent's Wish . To a New Scotch Tune much in Request . Roy-al and Fair great Willy is dear Blessing , the Charming Regent of the Swains , Heavy with Care thus sadly Expressing Her Grief , sat Weeping on the Plain , why did my Fate ex - alt me too high , if fading State must de -- prive me of joy , while Willy is gone ; Ah how vainly shines the Sun , till Fates de -- cree the Winds and Sea , waft , waft Him to me . II Large are my Flocks , and flowery my Pasture , Worth Treasures vast of Silver and Gold , Where ravenous Wolves conspire to be Master's , Devour all my Lambs , and break down my Fold ; Willy while here , Secured me from Fear , All the wild Heard stood in awe of my Dear ; But poor helpless I , Mourning , Sighs , and hourly Cry , Let Fates decree The Winds and See , Waft Willy to me . III . Valiant and Wise , He now amongst the Princes Consults , and Acts for England ' s good , Noble and Bold his Foes he convinces , With Danger he's to be withstood , His Glory there , Increases my Fear , While to his Enemies he is so near , His Courage of Fire Makes me still wish and desire , That Fate decree The Wind and Sea , Waft , waft Him to me . IV. While he abroad does our Enemies vanquish , The ravenous Boars and Foxes of Fr [ anc ] e , Our homebred Wolves do hear it with anguish , And Scandals against his Fame advance ; They all profess , That England they Love , Yet wish them Success , whose fierce hatred we prove . But they'll be content , They're gross Folly to repent , When Fates decree The Wind and Sea , Waft , waft Him to me . V. Though Willy is Love to me is exceeding . Yet is his Love to Honour more . He cannot see brave Europe bleeding , But lends his Haven assisted Power ; Ireland has shown Some Wonders he has done , And now in Flanders new Laurels are wone , Then calm the my Breast , Free from Fear and Sorrow [ w ] r [ est ] e , Till Fates decree The Wind and Sea , Waft Willy to me . And Excellent New SONG , Called ; The Charmin Regent's Wish . To a New Scotch Tune much in Request . Roy-al and Fair great Willy is dear Blessing , the Charming Regent of the Swains , Heavy with Care thus sadly Expressing Her Grief , sat Weeping on the Plain , why did my Fate ex - alt me too high , if fading State must de -- prive me of joy , while Willy is gone ; Ah how vainly shines the Sun , till Fates de -- cree the Winds and Sea , waft , waft Him to me . II Large are my Flocks , and flowery my Pasture , Worth Treasures vast of Silver and Gold , Where ravenous Wolves conspire to be Master's , Devour all my Lambs , and break down my Fold ; Willy while here , Secured me from Fear , All the wild Heard stood in awe of my Dear ; But poor helpless I , Mourning , Sighs , and hourly Cry , Let Fates decree The Winds and See , Waft Willy to me . III . Valiant and Wise , He now amongst the Princes Consults , and Acts for England ' s good , Noble and Bold his Foes he convinces , With Danger he's to be withstood , His Glory there , Increases my Fear , While to his Enemies he is so near , His Courage of Fire Makes me still wish and desire , That Fate decree The Wind and Sea , Waft , waft Him to me . IV. While he abroad does our Enemies vanquish , The ravenous Boars and Foxes of Fr [ anc ] e , Our homebred Wolves do hear it with anguish , And Scandals against his Fame advance ; They all profess , That England they Love , Yet wish them Success , whose fierce hatred we prove . But they'll be content , They're gross Folly to repent , When Fates decree The Wind and Sea , Waft , waft Him to me . V. Though Willy is Love to me is exceeding . Yet is his Love to Honour more . He cannot see brave Europe bleeding , But lends his Haven assisted Power ; Ireland has shown Some Wonders he has done , And now in Flanders new Laurels are wone , Then calm the my Breast , Free from Fear and Sorrow [ w ] r [ est ] e , Till Fates decree The Wind and Sea , Waft Willy to me . 