The Forlorn LOVER : OR , And Hew and Cry after his Wandering Heart . My Heart is gone a stray , said he , For which I do Complain ; And they shall well rewarded be That brings it back again . To the Tune of , The Falsehearted Young Man . O Yes , Oh yes , Oh yes , I cry , Tell me you loving standersby , If you a wandering heart did see , Which lately took , which lately took it's flight from me ? While I was sleeping on my bed , Freed from the thoughts of fear or dread , My heart did wander quite away , I heartless am , I heartless am this very day . The marks I will describe to you , Such hearts you'll say there is but few , It's milder than the tender dove , And round the same , and round the same a chain of love : Just in the middle of this heart There sticks a fatal golden dart , From whence fresh streams of blood does flow . Pray did you meet , pray did you meet this heart , or no ? Since it departed from my breast I know it finds but little rest , But in a sad forlorn state It does remain , it does remain unfortunate . Cupid a fatal arrow sent And forced it from it's ellement , Or it had never gone I'm sure ; Great is the loss , great is the loss which I endure . And innocent pure heart was mine , Beloved of all the Muses nine , Who sings these mournful lines in grief , Fearing my heart , fearing my heart finds no relief . Search all the valleys , hills , and plains , And shady groves where Cupid reigns , To find my wounded bleeding heart , You'll know it by , you'll know it by the golden dart . If you by fortune find it there , Conduct it home to me with care , And you shall well rewarded be , For such like kind , for such like kind fidelity Perhaps my heart you may behold Among the lambs in Cupid is fold , Confined like a captive slave , If so , one boon , if so , one boon , of Cupid crave : Entreat him that he'd be so kind As not to keep my heart confined ; Tell him what grief I undergo , And how mine eyes , and how mine eyes like fountains flow . Who knows but he to comfort me May set my heart at liberty ; Which favour if I once obtain , My heart shall never , my heart shall never be lost again . Close in thy breast I'll lock it fast , And there as long as life shall last , I'll keep it close , no charms I'll view , Because I find , because I find what love can do . It conquers kings and noble pears , It makes the valiant soul shed tears , Wounding their hearts and courage too ; All this and more , all this and more found Love can do . LONDON : Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . The Forlorn LOVER : OR , And Hew and Cry after his Wandering Heart . My Heart is gone a stray , said he , For which I do Complain ; And they shall well rewarded be That brings it back again . To the Tune of , The Falsehearted Young Man . O Yes , Oh yes , Oh yes , I cry , Tell me you loving standersby , If you a wandering heart did see , Which lately took , which lately took it's flight from me ? While I was sleeping on my bed , Freed from the thoughts of fear or dread , My heart did wander quite away , I heartless am , I heartless am this very day . The marks I will describe to you , Such hearts you'll say there is but few , It's milder than the tender dove , And round the same , and round the same a chain of love : Just in the middle of this heart There sticks a fatal golden dart , From whence fresh streams of blood does flow . Pray did you meet , pray did you meet this heart , or no ? Since it departed from my breast I know it finds but little rest , But in a sad forlorn state It does remain , it does remain unfortunate . Cupid a fatal arrow sent And forced it from it's ellement , Or it had never gone I'm sure ; Great is the loss , great is the loss which I endure . And innocent pure heart was mine , Beloved of all the Muses nine , Who sings these mournful lines in grief , Fearing my heart , fearing my heart finds no relief . Search all the valleys , hills , and plains , And shady groves where Cupid reigns , To find my wounded bleeding heart , You'll know it by , you'll know it by the golden dart . If you by fortune find it there , Conduct it home to me with care , And you shall well rewarded be , For such like kind , for such like kind fidelity Perhaps my heart you may behold Among the lambs in Cupid is fold , Confined like a captive slave , If so , one boon , if so , one boon , of Cupid crave : Entreat him that he'd be so kind As not to keep my heart confined ; Tell him what grief I undergo , And how mine eyes , and how mine eyes like fountains flow . Who knows but he to comfort me May set my heart at liberty ; Which favour if I once obtain , My heart shall never , my heart shall never be lost again . Close in thy breast I'll lock it fast , And there as long as life shall last , I'll keep it close , no charms I'll view , Because I find , because I find what love can do . It conquers kings and noble pears , It makes the valiant soul shed tears , Wounding their hearts and courage too ; All this and more , all this and more found Love can do . LONDON : Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . 