The Kind Mistress , OR , A Good turn done at a time of need . To and Excellent new Tune . Licensed according to Order . AS I was walking along the Street , And a wondering what I could see , I met with a Lass that was handsome & amp ; neat as and honest loving woman should be . I asked her to go and drink , and a wondering what she would do , She answered me with a private wink , as and honest loving woman should do . I went and gave her a bottle of Sack , and a wondering , etc And she was ready to lie on her back , as and honest , etc Then I sat her upon the bed , and a wondering , etc She promised me her Maidenhead , as and honest , etc Then her Petticoats I up did lift and a wondering , etc And she her self pulled up her shift , as and honest , etc When the spot of Love I had spied , and a wondering , etc Come there if thou lovest me Lad she cried as and honest , etc Then I flung my Arms about her neck , and a wondering , etc She huged me as if I had been her Mate , as and honest , etc I gave her a kiss as I laid her down , and a wondering , etc . She gave me Kisses Two for One , as and honest , etc . When I had enjoyed my hearts deight and a wondering , etc . She begged me to stay with her all Night , as and honest , etc . To bed with her I went with speed , and a wondering , etc . She helped me still at a time of need , as and honest , etc . Then I good folks did what you know , and a wondering , etc . I ntroth she did the same thing too , as and honest , etc . The truth she then began to decare , and a wondering what she would do , She'd wed and old man but she wanted aneihr which no honest loving woman should do . Printed for Charles Barnet . The Kind Mistress , OR , A Good turn done at a time of need . To and Excellent new Tune . Licensed according to Order . AS I was walking along the Street , And a wondering what I could see , I met with a Lass that was handsome & amp ; neat as and honest loving woman should be . I asked her to go and drink , and a wondering what she would do , She answered me with a private wink , as and honest loving woman should do . I went and gave her a bottle of Sack , and a wondering , etc And she was ready to lie on her back , as and honest , etc Then I sat her upon the bed , and a wondering , etc She promised me her Maidenhead , as and honest , etc Then her Petticoats I up did lift and a wondering , etc And she her self pulled up her shift , as and honest , etc When the spot of Love I had spied , and a wondering , etc Come there if thou lovest me Lad she cried as and honest , etc Then I flung my Arms about her neck , and a wondering , etc She huged me as if I had been her Mate , as and honest , etc I gave her a kiss as I laid her down , and a wondering , etc . She gave me Kisses Two for One , as and honest , etc . When I had enjoyed my hearts deight and a wondering , etc . She begged me to stay with her all Night , as and honest , etc . To bed with her I went with speed , and a wondering , etc . She helped me still at a time of need , as and honest , etc . Then I good folks did what you know , and a wondering , etc . I ntroth she did the same thing too , as and honest , etc . The truth she then began to decare , and a wondering what she would do , She'd wed and old man but she wanted aneihr which no honest loving woman should do . Printed for Charles Barnet . 