THE Two Entire Lovers : OR , THE Young-Man and Maids care and grief crowned with joy and comfort . To and excellent New Air . I . I Loved you dearly once it's true , But now thanks Heaven I am free ; So as my Love was scorned by you , so yours is now by me : In vain do you expose your Charms , my Heart for to surprise , Which was the cause of all my Harms , but now I can withstand your Eyes . 2. My heart was ready for to break , and you'd not Comfort yield , And so faint , and dare not speak since you had wone the Field : You once so fickle was , I am now the same to thee ; Therefore thou art out of Mind , and now I am set free . 4. When first I did behold your Face , it did my heart invite ; I so found and foolish was , but now am altered quite . How can I thee adore , that proved so untrue , No , no , I never can love thee more , therefore Farewell to you . 4. Did I not oftentimes entreat thy Favour to obtain , And often bowed low to your Feet , yet this was all in vain : You delight to torture me , who was your Captive Slave , But thanks to Jove I now am free , and can your Frowns outbrave . 5. The Maids Reply . Forbear I pray your Cruelty , and do not me revile ; For what I said then unto thee , 'twas but to try a while , Whither you was false or true , I kept off for a time ; Unconstant I'll never be to you , Pray pardon me this Crime . 6. My Love let not thy Anger burn , salute thy Nymph I pray , And I a thousand will return , that Kindness to repay , In my Arms I'll thee receive , my True and Loyal Swain ; Thou never shalt have cause to grieve , nor in the least complain . 7. It's thou alone that hath my Heart , and my Affection too , And why should Loyal Lovers part , our Sorrows to renew : Thy Smiles my Grief will destroy , and I shall happy be , But if I canned my Love enjoy , O let me die ! said she . 8. The young Man's Heart did soon relent to hear the Moan she made , He like a Loyal Lover went , unto the Nymph , and said , By the mighty Powers above , I'll pardon what is past , And vow likewise to live in Love , as long as Life should last . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . THE Two Entire Lovers : OR , THE Young-Man and Maids care and grief crowned with joy and comfort . To and excellent New Air . I . I Loved you dearly once it's true , But now thanks Heaven I am free ; So as my Love was scorned by you , so yours is now by me : In vain do you expose your Charms , my Heart for to surprise , Which was the cause of all my Harms , but now I can withstand your Eyes . 2. My heart was ready for to break , and you'd not Comfort yield , And so faint , and dare not speak since you had wone the Field : You once so fickle was , I am now the same to thee ; Therefore thou art out of Mind , and now I am set free . 4. When first I did behold your Face , it did my heart invite ; I so found and foolish was , but now am altered quite . How can I thee adore , that proved so untrue , No , no , I never can love thee more , therefore Farewell to you . 4. Did I not oftentimes entreat thy Favour to obtain , And often bowed low to your Feet , yet this was all in vain : You delight to torture me , who was your Captive Slave , But thanks to Jove I now am free , and can your Frowns outbrave . 5. The Maids Reply . Forbear I pray your Cruelty , and do not me revile ; For what I said then unto thee , 'twas but to try a while , Whither you was false or true , I kept off for a time ; Unconstant I'll never be to you , Pray pardon me this Crime . 6. My Love let not thy Anger burn , salute thy Nymph I pray , And I a thousand will return , that Kindness to repay , In my Arms I'll thee receive , my True and Loyal Swain ; Thou never shalt have cause to grieve , nor in the least complain . 7. It's thou alone that hath my Heart , and my Affection too , And why should Loyal Lovers part , our Sorrows to renew : Thy Smiles my Grief will destroy , and I shall happy be , But if I canned my Love enjoy , O let me die ! said she . 8. The young Man's Heart did soon relent to hear the Moan she made , He like a Loyal Lover went , unto the Nymph , and said , By the mighty Powers above , I'll pardon what is past , And vow likewise to live in Love , as long as Life should last . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 