The Disdainful Damosel , Or , The Coy Lass served in her Kind . To the Tune of , I'm often for my Jenny strove , etc Licensed according to Order . I . NOw fifteen years are gone and passed , Bedded , Wedded , I never was ; Which makes me sighs and grieve , to see How Fortune is unkind to me : Oh! had I not then been so Coy , By this I might have had a Boy : When said my dear Billy , Philly , will you Go and Wedded be with me ? II But I , forsooth , must be so Nice , Fleering , jeering Paradise ; With's Cap in hand , and low Congee , He kindly comes to Salute me : Says he , you are my whole Delight , I'll pleasure thee both day and night : Then my dear Philly , Dilly , will you Go and Wedded be with me ? III . Thus often he expressed his mind , Proudly , shrewdly , in this kind , With Mouth twist up , and bent Brows ; What! do you think I'll you Espouse ? No , foolish Lout , be gone from me , Know , I disdain thy Company : No more cry , my Philly , Dilly , will you ; For I am not one for thee . IV. This put him into such a fume , Bouncing , flouncing o'th' Room ; Away he went with full Career , And swore he'd never more come here . On second thoughts this vexed me so , I'll vow I'll never more say No : Then come again Billy , Philly , Dilly , says she I'll go along with thee . V. Mother . Why Daughter , I did much rejoice , To see , you be , for a Choice Which pleasing may be to your Friends ; For such a one will make amends : But stay a while , I you exhort , For otherwise it'll do you hurt : Child , be not unruly , truly , you'll be Young enough at Twenty-three . VI . Daughter . O Heavens ! forget , I'm sure you can't , Mother , smother the Truth I shan't , Before Fifteen was hardly come , Your Maidenhead was not your own : Then why mayn't I as well as you , Now follow that Example too : Come then again Billy , Philly , Dilly , Says she I'll Wedded be with thee . VII . Mother . What , is your Maidenhead a Clog ? Doting , floating , my little Rogue ; Pish , mind no more such foolish Toys Wedlock's not for Girls and Boys : If you'll be Married , stay your time , Go mind your Book , and don't repine : Then be not unruly , truly , you'll be Young enough at Twenty-three . VIII . Daughter . Why , Mother , what mean you by this ? Phanny , Nanny , and Cozen Priss , Are Married all you can't deny , And none of these so Old as I : Tell me no more then of my Book , I'll Wedded be by Hook or Crook : Then come again Billy , Philly , Dilly Says she I'll Wedded be with thee . IX . But Billy he is grown as stout , Slights her , frights her with a Pout : When he was willing she was not , So he serves her quit for quot . Thus Maidens , may you see the Fate Of those that do repeat too late : Then be not like silly , Philly , Dilly , Left yours may be her Destiny . FINIS . Printed for W. Thackeray , at the Angel in Duck-Lane , J. Millet at the Angel in Little-Britain , and A. Milbourn , at the Stationers-Arms in the Little Old-Baily . The Disdainful Damosel , Or , The Coy Lass served in her Kind . To the Tune of , I'm often for my Jenny strove , etc Licensed according to Order . I . NOw fifteen years are gone and passed , Bedded , Wedded , I never was ; Which makes me sighs and grieve , to see How Fortune is unkind to me : Oh! had I not then been so Coy , By this I might have had a Boy : When said my dear Billy , Philly , will you Go and Wedded be with me ? II But I , forsooth , must be so Nice , Fleering , jeering Paradise ; With's Cap in hand , and low Congee , He kindly comes to Salute me : Says he , you are my whole Delight , I'll pleasure thee both day and night : Then my dear Philly , Dilly , will you Go and Wedded be with me ? III . Thus often he expressed his mind , Proudly , shrewdly , in this kind , With Mouth twist up , and bent Brows ; What! do you think I'll you Espouse ? No , foolish Lout , be gone from me , Know , I disdain thy Company : No more cry , my Philly , Dilly , will you ; For I am not one for thee . IV. This put him into such a fume , Bouncing , flouncing o'th' Room ; Away he went with full Career , And swore he'd never more come here . On second thoughts this vexed me so , I'll vow I'll never more say No : Then come again Billy , Philly , Dilly , says she I'll go along with thee . V. Mother . Why Daughter , I did much rejoice , To see , you be , for a Choice Which pleasing may be to your Friends ; For such a one will make amends : But stay a while , I you exhort , For otherwise it'll do you hurt : Child , be not unruly , truly , you'll be Young enough at Twenty-three . VI . Daughter . O Heavens ! forget , I'm sure you can't , Mother , smother the Truth I shan't , Before Fifteen was hardly come , Your Maidenhead was not your own : Then why mayn't I as well as you , Now follow that Example too : Come then again Billy , Philly , Dilly , Says she I'll Wedded be with thee . VII . Mother . What , is your Maidenhead a Clog ? Doting , floating , my little Rogue ; Pish , mind no more such foolish Toys Wedlock's not for Girls and Boys : If you'll be Married , stay your time , Go mind your Book , and don't repine : Then be not unruly , truly , you'll be Young enough at Twenty-three . VIII . Daughter . Why , Mother , what mean you by this ? Phanny , Nanny , and Cozen Priss , Are Married all you can't deny , And none of these so Old as I : Tell me no more then of my Book , I'll Wedded be by Hook or Crook : Then come again Billy , Philly , Dilly Says she I'll Wedded be with thee . IX . But Billy he is grown as stout , Slights her , frights her with a Pout : When he was willing she was not , So he serves her quit for quot . Thus Maidens , may you see the Fate Of those that do repeat too late : Then be not like silly , Philly , Dilly , Left yours may be her Destiny . FINIS . Printed for W. Thackeray , at the Angel in Duck-Lane , J. Millet at the Angel in Little-Britain , and A. Milbourn , at the Stationers-Arms in the Little Old-Baily . 