The Conquered Lady : OR , The Country Wooing between ROBIN , the rich Far - mer's Son , and Madam NELLY , a Nobleman's Daughter , as they met together by chance in the Town of Bath . Tune , The Milking-pale . YOung Nelly , my Heart's delight , Be loving , and do not slight The Proffer I make , For Modesty's sake , I'll honour thy Beauty bright ; For , Love , I profess , I can do no less , Thou hast my Favour wone , Ever since I see Thy Modesty ; Therefore agree , And fancy me , For I am a Farmer's Son. But I am a Lady gay ; It's very well known I may Have M [ e ] n of Renown , In City and Town ; Then , Robin , without delay , Court Bridget or Sue , Kate , Nancy or Prue , Their Love will soon be wone ; But don't you dare To speak me fair , As if I were At my last Prayer , To Marry a Farmer's Son. My Father has a Treasure store , Two Hundred a Year and more , With Seventy Cows , Carts , Harrows and Blows , His Age is above Threescore ; When ever he shall die , The verily I Shall have what he has wone ; Then all that's mine , Both Land and Kine , Shall so [ oh ] n be thine , I [ f ] thoued incline To Marry a Farmer's Son. A Fig for your Cows and Corn , Your proffered Love I scorn , It's known very well , I am Mistress Nell , And you're but a Bumkin born . Well , if it be so , Quoth he , I will go , I hope no harm is done : Farewell , Adieu , I hope to woo As good as you , And win her too , Though I am a Farmer's Son. Are you in such haste ? quoth she , Perhaps we may still agree ; For , Love , I protest I was but in jest , And therefore fit down by me , For thou art the Man , That verily can Perform what must be done , Both straight and tall , Large Limbs withal ; TO h erefore I shall Be at thy call , And Marry a Farmer's Son. Sweet Lady believe me now , I solemnly swear and vow , No Lords in their Lives Ever pleasured their Wives Like Fellows that drives the Blow , Our Labour and Pains New Vigour regains ; We don't to Harlots run , As Courtiers do , I never knew A City Beau , That could outdo A Country Farmer's Son. London : Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-glass on London-bridge . The Conquered Lady : OR , The Country Wooing between ROBIN , the rich Far - mer's Son , and Madam NELLY , a Nobleman's Daughter , as they met together by chance in the Town of Bath . Tune , The Milking-pale . YOung Nelly , my Heart's delight , Be loving , and do not slight The Proffer I make , For Modesty's sake , I'll honour thy Beauty bright ; For , Love , I profess , I can do no less , Thou hast my Favour wone , Ever since I see Thy Modesty ; Therefore agree , And fancy me , For I am a Farmer's Son. But I am a Lady gay ; It's very well known I may Have M [ e ] n of Renown , In City and Town ; Then , Robin , without delay , Court Bridget or Sue , Kate , Nancy or Prue , Their Love will soon be wone ; But don't you dare To speak me fair , As if I were At my last Prayer , To Marry a Farmer's Son. My Father has a Treasure store , Two Hundred a Year and more , With Seventy Cows , Carts , Harrows and Blows , His Age is above Threescore ; When ever he shall die , The verily I Shall have what he has wone ; Then all that's mine , Both Land and Kine , Shall so [ oh ] n be thine , I [ f ] thoued incline To Marry a Farmer's Son. A Fig for your Cows and Corn , Your proffered Love I scorn , It's known very well , I am Mistress Nell , And you're but a Bumkin born . Well , if it be so , Quoth he , I will go , I hope no harm is done : Farewell , Adieu , I hope to woo As good as you , And win her too , Though I am a Farmer's Son. Are you in such haste ? quoth she , Perhaps we may still agree ; For , Love , I protest I was but in jest , And therefore fit down by me , For thou art the Man , That verily can Perform what must be done , Both straight and tall , Large Limbs withal ; TO h erefore I shall Be at thy call , And Marry a Farmer's Son. Sweet Lady believe me now , I solemnly swear and vow , No Lords in their Lives Ever pleasured their Wives Like Fellows that drives the Blow , Our Labour and Pains New Vigour regains ; We don't to Harlots run , As Courtiers do , I never knew A City Beau , That could outdo A Country Farmer's Son. London : Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-glass on London-bridge . 