LOVING JOHN : OR , Yielding JOAN : Being a pleasant Song between two Country Lovers while they were making of Hay . To a pleasant new Tune . Licensed and Entered according to Order . PRithee sweet Joan let us have a kiss , let us enjoy ourselves while we may , Time and the place is as kind as you'd wish , let us go to it and make no delay ; O , never denys , but now be wise , and taste of those pleasures I've left in store , I'll kiss thee , I'll hug thee , I'll love thee , I'll smug thee , I'll do what I never have done before . No , sir , no , for you will do me harm , therefore excuse me if I deny , Should I do so , you'd get me with bearn , then , sir , for shame where should I fly ? O , no , no , no , I'll never do so , I'll keep my virginity till I'm wed ; Then pray sir leave me me , and do not deceive me , but let me alone , and no more be said . Prithee sweet Jean , take this in thy hand , then you may leave it , if you think fit ; This and myself , is at your command , prithee , sweet Joan , make use of it : Oh! never say no , but let it go , for nature will guide it where it should be ; Then prithee love take it , and do not forsake it , until all your senses about do flee . Pish , fie , naughty man , what do you mean ? I never thought you'd a served me so ; I have denied you as long as I can , but now I find that will not do , Then so , so , so , go , go , go , go , your charms has killed me , I'm slave , I'm slave ; Then farewell pretences , they're gone with my senses , I'm sure I shall never say no again . The wiser thee my amorous Joan , thou art my jewel and hea [ r ] t's delight , Longer thou shalt not languish alone , for I will visit thee e'ry night , Where in my arms , a thousand charms shall tickle thy fancy in e'ry vein , For tasting this pleasure , and joy out of measure , thou'lt never wish to be a maid again . Joh [ n ] ny you have a flattering tongue , for when you came with weapon in hand , What could I do ? alas , I was young , such a temptation who could withstand ? Though I denied , soon I complied , It's usual with lasses you know for why , They say nay and take it , we cannot forsake [ i ] tO , there's thousands have done it as well as I . Love , what a comfort worser [ i ] dst thou receive , for maidenheads are burdens you know , Cheer up , for this a folly to grieve , Since it is gone , Faith let it go , For why my dear , thou needest not fear but still I'll admire thy lovely brown ; Above any other , thou shalt be a mother , and here's a good health to the best in town . These pleasures of love I do adore , sweet Johnny thou hast done me no wrong , If I had but known but as much before , I'ld never a carried it half so long : No girl would miss , the charming bliss , nor any young lover the least deny ; They soon be for sporting , for kissing and courting , if ever they knew but as much as I . LONDON : Printed for C. Bates , at the White-hart in West-smithfield . LOVING JOHN : OR , Yielding JOAN : Being a pleasant Song between two Country Lovers while they were making of Hay . To a pleasant new Tune . Licensed and Entered according to Order . PRithee sweet Joan let us have a kiss , let us enjoy ourselves while we may , Time and the place is as kind as you'd wish , let us go to it and make no delay ; O , never denys , but now be wise , and taste of those pleasures I've left in store , I'll kiss thee , I'll hug thee , I'll love thee , I'll smug thee , I'll do what I never have done before . No , sir , no , for you will do me harm , therefore excuse me if I deny , Should I do so , you'd get me with bearn , then , sir , for shame where should I fly ? O , no , no , no , I'll never do so , I'll keep my virginity till I'm wed ; Then pray sir leave me me , and do not deceive me , but let me alone , and no more be said . Prithee sweet Jean , take this in thy hand , then you may leave it , if you think fit ; This and myself , is at your command , prithee , sweet Joan , make use of it : Oh! never say no , but let it go , for nature will guide it where it should be ; Then prithee love take it , and do not forsake it , until all your senses about do flee . Pish , fie , naughty man , what do you mean ? I never thought you'd a served me so ; I have denied you as long as I can , but now I find that will not do , Then so , so , so , go , go , go , go , your charms has killed me , I'm slave , I'm slave ; Then farewell pretences , they're gone with my senses , I'm sure I shall never say no again . The wiser thee my amorous Joan , thou art my jewel and hea [ r ] t's delight , Longer thou shalt not languish alone , for I will visit thee e'ry night , Where in my arms , a thousand charms shall tickle thy fancy in e'ry vein , For tasting this pleasure , and joy out of measure , thou'lt never wish to be a maid again . Joh [ n ] ny you have a flattering tongue , for when you came with weapon in hand , What could I do ? alas , I was young , such a temptation who could withstand ? Though I denied , soon I complied , It's usual with lasses you know for why , They say nay and take it , we cannot forsake [ i ] tO , there's thousands have done it as well as I . Love , what a comfort worser [ i ] dst thou receive , for maidenheads are burdens you know , Cheer up , for this a folly to grieve , Since it is gone , Faith let it go , For why my dear , thou needest not fear but still I'll admire thy lovely brown ; Above any other , thou shalt be a mother , and here's a good health to the best in town . These pleasures of love I do adore , sweet Johnny thou hast done me no wrong , If I had but known but as much before , I'ld never a carried it half so long : No girl would miss , the charming bliss , nor any young lover the least deny ; They soon be for sporting , for kissing and courting , if ever they knew but as much as I . LONDON : Printed for C. Bates , at the White-hart in West-smithfield . 