And excellent New Song , Called , NELLYS Constancy , OR , Her Unkind Lover : Who , after Contract of Marriage , leaves his first Mistress , for the sake of a better Fortune TO oh a pleasant New TO une : or , Languishing Swain . L icensed according to Order . I Loved you dearly , I loved you well , I loved you dearly , no Tongue can tell , You love another , you love not me , You care not for my Company . You love another , I'll tell you why , Because she has more Means than I . But Means will wast Love , and Means will fly , I n time thou mayest have no more than I . I f I had Gold Love , you should have part , B ut as I've none Love , thou hast my Heart , Thou hast my Heart Love , & amp ; free good Will , And in good troth I love thee still . How often has your Tongue this told , You loved not for Silver nor Gold ; And this to me you did impart , All you desired was my Heart . Your Tongue did so inchant my Mind , Till I for ever must be kind , Though you prove false , yet I am true , And own I am undone by you . What makes young Men be thus unkind , To gain Maids Loves , then change their mind , As here I find it to my Grief , He's stole my Heart , Stop Thief , stop Thief . My Heart you have , go where you will , And though you leave me I love you still , But had I sums of Gold in store , You'd Court me as you did before . It's Money is your chiefest aim , All Women else would be the same : Oh! what a World is't we live in , No true love can be found in Men . Although you do another take , And leave your first Love's Heart to break , I tO pleases me to die for Love , And do a faithful Virgin prove . Then my Advice is to each Maid , Be careful lest your Heart's betrayed : Believe not all young Men do say , They'll vow they'll Love , yet go their way . Like my dear love that Courted me , Who's wed another and gone to Sea , Yet I a Sailor Boys love still , And none but such shall gain my Will . Then call a Boat , Boys , unto the Ferry , For we are come , Boys , for to be merry , It shall never be said , Boys , when we are dead , But the jolly Sailors are rarely bred . Printed and Sold by Charles Barnet . And excellent New Song , Called , NELLYS Constancy , OR , Her Unkind Lover : Who , after Contract of Marriage , leaves his first Mistress , for the sake of a better Fortune TO oh a pleasant New TO une : or , Languishing Swain . L icensed according to Order . I Loved you dearly , I loved you well , I loved you dearly , no Tongue can tell , You love another , you love not me , You care not for my Company . You love another , I'll tell you why , Because she has more Means than I . But Means will wast Love , and Means will fly , I n time thou mayest have no more than I . I f I had Gold Love , you should have part , B ut as I've none Love , thou hast my Heart , Thou hast my Heart Love , & amp ; free good Will , And in good troth I love thee still . How often has your Tongue this told , You loved not for Silver nor Gold ; And this to me you did impart , All you desired was my Heart . Your Tongue did so inchant my Mind , Till I for ever must be kind , Though you prove false , yet I am true , And own I am undone by you . What makes young Men be thus unkind , To gain Maids Loves , then change their mind , As here I find it to my Grief , He's stole my Heart , Stop Thief , stop Thief . My Heart you have , go where you will , And though you leave me I love you still , But had I sums of Gold in store , You'd Court me as you did before . It's Money is your chiefest aim , All Women else would be the same : Oh! what a World is't we live in , No true love can be found in Men . Although you do another take , And leave your first Love's Heart to break , I tO pleases me to die for Love , And do a faithful Virgin prove . Then my Advice is to each Maid , Be careful lest your Heart's betrayed : Believe not all young Men do say , They'll vow they'll Love , yet go their way . Like my dear love that Courted me , Who's wed another and gone to Sea , Yet I a Sailor Boys love still , And none but such shall gain my Will . Then call a Boat , Boys , unto the Ferry , For we are come , Boys , for to be merry , It shall never be said , Boys , when we are dead , But the jolly Sailors are rarely bred . Printed and Sold by Charles Barnet . 