A DIALOGUE Between A Master and his Maid ; OR , Beautiful SUSAN willing , but loath , to ve [ nt ] ure to Kiss her Master lest her Mistress should Chide . Tune of , I Marry and thank you too . Licensed according to Order . COme hither my pretty Sue , fit down by thy Master's side , Said she these things I dare not do , my Mistress she will chide . Thou knowest she is not within , her Master he then replied , But Sue she said to him again , I fear that my Dame will chide . Dost think I would ever tell that we do in Love reside ; Quoth Sue if she the Plot should smell , my Mistress she will chide . I'll give thee a Golden Purse , which thou shalt wear by thy side , Sweet Master do not tempt me thus , my Mistress she will chide . Grant me but the Liberty , to handle thee like a Bride ; If this my Mistress she should see , I'm sure she would scold and chide . Nay likewise he said to her , he'd always be on her side , I know you will not hurt me , Sir but my Mistress she will chide . Thy skin is as white as snow , my Love I can never hide , Be kind to me , and don't say no , thy Mistress shall not chide . I'll give thee a gay Gold Ring . and deck thee with costly Pride , As fine as Flora in the Spring , thy Mistress shall not chide . Come hither into my Arms , young Cupid will be thy Guide ; Let me taste those tempting Charms , thy Mistress shall not chide . To love thee I am inclined , nothing I prize beside My Susan therefore be but kind , thy Mistress shall not chide . Love let us enjoy the bliss , but Susan she s [ oh ] on replied , Alas ! if I my Master kiss , my Mistress she will chide . I'll keep thee from care and strife , let me but lie by thy side ; Kind Sir I worser [ are ] not for my life , my Mistress she will chide . My Love thou art Charming fair , then let me not be denied ; Kind Sir quoth Sue , I pray forbear , my Mistress she will chide . He gave her a Crown in hand , she readily then complied : And did no more disputing stand , nor feared that her Dame should chide . Who hid her self all the while , and herd their discourse beside , At length she did them both Revile , and vowed she had cause to chide . The Wife she did rant and roar , and would not the Lass abide , But took and turned her out of Door , and vowed she had cause to chide . And did on her Husband frown , before he could slip aside , And with a Ladle cracked his Crown , and vowed she would more then chide . Printed for J. Bissel , at the Bible and Harp in West-smithfield . A DIALOGUE Between A Master and his Maid ; OR , Beautiful SUSAN willing , but loath , to ve [ nt ] ure to Kiss her Master lest her Mistress should Chide . Tune of , I Marry and thank you too . Licensed according to Order . COme hither my pretty Sue , fit down by thy Master's side , Said she these things I dare not do , my Mistress she will chide . Thou knowest she is not within , her Master he then replied , But Sue she said to him again , I fear that my Dame will chide . Dost think I would ever tell that we do in Love reside ; Quoth Sue if she the Plot should smell , my Mistress she will chide . I'll give thee a Golden Purse , which thou shalt wear by thy side , Sweet Master do not tempt me thus , my Mistress she will chide . Grant me but the Liberty , to handle thee like a Bride ; If this my Mistress she should see , I'm sure she would scold and chide . Nay likewise he said to her , he'd always be on her side , I know you will not hurt me , Sir but my Mistress she will chide . Thy skin is as white as snow , my Love I can never hide , Be kind to me , and don't say no , thy Mistress shall not chide . I'll give thee a gay Gold Ring . and deck thee with costly Pride , As fine as Flora in the Spring , thy Mistress shall not chide . Come hither into my Arms , young Cupid will be thy Guide ; Let me taste those tempting Charms , thy Mistress shall not chide . To love thee I am inclined , nothing I prize beside My Susan therefore be but kind , thy Mistress shall not chide . Love let us enjoy the bliss , but Susan she s [ oh ] on replied , Alas ! if I my Master kiss , my Mistress she will chide . I'll keep thee from care and strife , let me but lie by thy side ; Kind Sir I worser [ are ] not for my life , my Mistress she will chide . My Love thou art Charming fair , then let me not be denied ; Kind Sir quoth Sue , I pray forbear , my Mistress she will chide . He gave her a Crown in hand , she readily then complied : And did no more disputing stand , nor feared that her Dame should chide . Who hid her self all the while , and herd their discourse beside , At length she did them both Revile , and vowed she had cause to chide . The Wife she did rant and roar , and would not the Lass abide , But took and turned her out of Door , and vowed she had cause to chide . And did on her Husband frown , before he could slip aside , And with a Ladle cracked his Crown , and vowed she would more then chide . Printed for J. Bissel , at the Bible and Harp in West-smithfield . 