THE Lusty Lad of London : OR , The pleasant Wooing betwixt brawny Will a Wine - Cooper , and a wealthy Merchant's fair Widow . To the Tune of , A Soldier and a Sailor . COme listen to this Ditty , Not far from London - City , There lived a lusty Lover , Who happened to discover a Widow lined with Gold , a Widow , etc . Resolved he was to Woe her , And when he did come to her , He told her in his Breeces , There was the best of Riches , right pleasant to behold , right pleasant , etc . The Widow was offended , And straight her Brows she bent , Crying , You saucy Villain , I would not give a Shilling for all that ever you have , for all that , etc I am and honest Woman , Your Harlots lose and common M [ a ] y like of that expression ; I'll punish your transgression , you saucy , saucy Slave , you saucy , etc Swe [ e ] tO , Madam , be not froward , Why are you so untoward ? Resolved I am to Marry , And will no longer tarry , if you will be my Bride , if you will , etc . Why should I mince the matter ? Or stand to cog and flatter , That Riches out of measure , Will yield a Woman pleasure , yet I have Land beside , yet I have , etc . I doubt it's but a story , When thus you seem to glory , In such a double Potion ; If once you gain Promotion , perhaps abroad you'll run , perhaps abroad , etc To mincing Sue or Nancy , Placing your Love oh [ f ] Fancy , On wanton London Misses , While they enjoy your Kisses , poor I shall be undone , poor I shall , etc No , no thou needest not fear me , Be pleased now to hear me , I'll mind no other Beauty , But still perform my Duty to thee my lawful Wife , to thee , etc . And therefore Dearest try me , Do not the least deny me , I'll labour to delight thee , And for thy Love requite thee with a contented Life , with a , etc . When he had thus related , Her Anger was abated , Then she replied , My Jewel , I can't be coy and cruel , as many others can , as many , etc Thy Words are so prevailing , That now my former railing Is turned to Love's desire , Thy person I admire because thou are a Man , because thou , etc His Compliments were slender , Nor did he ever send her Rich Present to obtain her , Yet had the luck to gain her , with all her Riches too , with all , etc For by his down right dealing , He brought the cheese of Feeling Upon her , in a minute , She could not stand again in it : see what a Man can do , see what , etc . London : Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilspur-street . THE Lusty Lad of London : OR , The pleasant Wooing betwixt brawny Will a Wine - Cooper , and a wealthy Merchant's fair Widow . To the Tune of , A Soldier and a Sailor . COme listen to this Ditty , Not far from London - City , There lived a lusty Lover , Who happened to discover a Widow lined with Gold , a Widow , etc . Resolved he was to Woe her , And when he did come to her , He told her in his Breeces , There was the best of Riches , right pleasant to behold , right pleasant , etc . The Widow was offended , And straight her Brows she bent , Crying , You saucy Villain , I would not give a Shilling for all that ever you have , for all that , etc I am and honest Woman , Your Harlots lose and common M [ a ] y like of that expression ; I'll punish your transgression , you saucy , saucy Slave , you saucy , etc Swe [ e ] tO , Madam , be not froward , Why are you so untoward ? Resolved I am to Marry , And will no longer tarry , if you will be my Bride , if you will , etc . Why should I mince the matter ? Or stand to cog and flatter , That Riches out of measure , Will yield a Woman pleasure , yet I have Land beside , yet I have , etc . I doubt it's but a story , When thus you seem to glory , In such a double Potion ; If once you gain Promotion , perhaps abroad you'll run , perhaps abroad , etc To mincing Sue or Nancy , Placing your Love oh [ f ] Fancy , On wanton London Misses , While they enjoy your Kisses , poor I shall be undone , poor I shall , etc No , no thou needest not fear me , Be pleased now to hear me , I'll mind no other Beauty , But still perform my Duty to thee my lawful Wife , to thee , etc . And therefore Dearest try me , Do not the least deny me , I'll labour to delight thee , And for thy Love requite thee with a contented Life , with a , etc . When he had thus related , Her Anger was abated , Then she replied , My Jewel , I can't be coy and cruel , as many others can , as many , etc Thy Words are so prevailing , That now my former railing Is turned to Love's desire , Thy person I admire because thou are a Man , because thou , etc His Compliments were slender , Nor did he ever send her Rich Present to obtain her , Yet had the luck to gain her , with all her Riches too , with all , etc For by his down right dealing , He brought the cheese of Feeling Upon her , in a minute , She could not stand again in it : see what a Man can do , see what , etc . London : Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilspur-street . 