The LOVERS Pastime . OR , Sport upon Sport under a Haycock . Tune of , As I went to Tatnum upon a Market-Day . Licensed according to Order . Abroad as I was walking in a Summer's day , By a little and a little And a very very little , There I sped a Fair-Maid come a long the way ; For the space of a very little while , Oh! for the space of a very little while Fair Maid quoth he , what shall I give to thee , For to do a lettle and a little , And a very very little ; Fair maid quoth he , what shall I give to thee : For the space of a very little while , etc Twenty good pence kind Sir , said she , For to do a little and a little , And a very very little : Twenty good pence kind Sir said she , For the space of a very little while , etc Fair maid quoth he , will not one penny do , For to do a little and a little , And a very very little : Fair maid quoth he , will not one penny do , For the space of a very little while , etc . The maid she seemed angry , and then she went her way : by a little and a little , and a very very little ; The Maid she seemed angry , and then she went her way for the space of a very little while , etc . She had not walked over fields one or tween ; by a little and a little , and a very very little : but unto her Chapman she turned back again ; for the space of a very little while , etc Kind Sir , quoth she , if I do your one penny take , For to do a little and a little , and a very very little : It's only for my handsel sake , for the space of a very little while , etc Then house nor barn they could find none , for to do a little and a little , and a very very little , B ut into a Haycock there they went alone , for the space of a very little while , etc And then with one consent , they straight were both agreed , for to do a little and a little , and a very very little , For one penny at that time , forthwith to do the deed ; for the space of a very little while , etc This bargain being made , the Haycock was their B ed , for to do a little and a little , and a very very little , Where she for a penny parted with her Maidenhead in the space of a very little while , etc The gig it being ended , she being in the Vain , for to do a little and a little , and a very very little : She gave him back his penny , for to play the other strain , for the space of a very little while , etc Then straightway she went tooed , for to play it over a gain , to do a little and a little , and a very very little ; Quoth he , expect no more sweetheart , for why it is in vain for the space of a very little while , etc And then they straightway parted , & amp ; on their way they went after doing little and a little and a very very little : TO hey both being pleased and very well content , for the space of a very little while , Oh! for the space of a very little while . Printed for A. Milbourn in Green-Arbour - Court in the L ittle-Old-Baily . The LOVERS Pastime . OR , Sport upon Sport under a Haycock . Tune of , As I went to Tatnum upon a Market-Day . Licensed according to Order . Abroad as I was walking in a Summer's day , By a little and a little And a very very little , There I sped a Fair-Maid come a long the way ; For the space of a very little while , Oh! for the space of a very little while Fair Maid quoth he , what shall I give to thee , For to do a lettle and a little , And a very very little ; Fair maid quoth he , what shall I give to thee : For the space of a very little while , etc Twenty good pence kind Sir , said she , For to do a little and a little , And a very very little : Twenty good pence kind Sir said she , For the space of a very little while , etc Fair maid quoth he , will not one penny do , For to do a little and a little , And a very very little : Fair maid quoth he , will not one penny do , For the space of a very little while , etc . The maid she seemed angry , and then she went her way : by a little and a little , and a very very little ; The Maid she seemed angry , and then she went her way for the space of a very little while , etc . She had not walked over fields one or tween ; by a little and a little , and a very very little : but unto her Chapman she turned back again ; for the space of a very little while , etc Kind Sir , quoth she , if I do your one penny take , For to do a little and a little , and a very very little : It's only for my handsel sake , for the space of a very little while , etc Then house nor barn they could find none , for to do a little and a little , and a very very little , B ut into a Haycock there they went alone , for the space of a very little while , etc And then with one consent , they straight were both agreed , for to do a little and a little , and a very very little , For one penny at that time , forthwith to do the deed ; for the space of a very little while , etc This bargain being made , the Haycock was their B ed , for to do a little and a little , and a very very little , Where she for a penny parted with her Maidenhead in the space of a very little while , etc The gig it being ended , she being in the Vain , for to do a little and a little , and a very very little : She gave him back his penny , for to play the other strain , for the space of a very little while , etc Then straightway she went tooed , for to play it over a gain , to do a little and a little , and a very very little ; Quoth he , expect no more sweetheart , for why it is in vain for the space of a very little while , etc And then they straightway parted , & amp ; on their way they went after doing little and a little and a very very little : TO hey both being pleased and very well content , for the space of a very little while , Oh! for the space of a very little while . Printed for A. Milbourn in Green-Arbour - Court in the L ittle-Old-Baily . 