The Happy SHEPHERD : OR , The Charming Virgin . Being and Excellent New Song , Made by a Person of Quality . To and Excellent New Tune , much in Request at Court . Licensed according to Order . I . CHarming Jenny is Fair , and Gay , And Blithe as Nightingales in May ; And round her Eyelids young Cupids play : In her Face the sweet Spring is seen , The Violet , Rose , and Lily , And the Daffadilly , These are like young Billy is Queen ; And all the Swains do admire , and desire , And lay Garlands by her , And each burns with a pleasing Flame . II Balmy Kisses , each Night , Young Jenny gives me with Delight , And is a Lass most bonny , a Beauty bright : She has Eyes that are black and fine , Black as any Berry , With a Hey-down-Derry , Brisk as any sparkling Wine ; And without measure , we toy and take our pleasure And I search her Treasure , And I find her all over Divine . III . He that sees a sweet Beauty in her Bed , With Cheeks ( like Crimson ) Read , When on soft Pillows she lays her Head ; Straight must think on ten thousand Joys , Of sweet Maiden Kisses , And of Virgin-Blisses , And of little Bantling-Boys : It's so , for no Man , but loves a pretty Woman , ( If she be not Common ) Thus it's Beauty that all destroys . IV. In cool Bowers we'll Sport and play , And pass the time away , For Youth is sweet as the Sunshine day : Love's a Banquet that all does please , The Old Dads in the City , When they get a pretty Wench , will give her Golden Fees : Oh! how they Smug her , and Tug her , And will Kiss and Hug her , And bestir their Stumps , till the Lass agrees . V. Beauty none need fear , It's as tender as the Dove and Deer , And it's a Park for Lovers to Range in here : Here we feed on the Hill or Dale , Graze upon the Cheek , Till Rosie-Morning break , And stray all round the pleasant Vale : For Maids ( like wild-Birds ) are tamed with handling And with pleasant Dandling . Thus the Youth does at length prevail . VI . Let us Jenny , now , by thy Brow , Thy tempting bonny Brow , Let us Jenny , to Cupid Vow ; That as long as out Youth shall last , All our Joys we'll double , ( Kisses are no trouble ) But are Sweetmeats to the taste : We will discover , before that we give over , To each Fainting Lover , How our Days have in pleasure past . Printed for J. Millet , at the Angel in Little-Britain . 168 [ 9 ? ] The Happy SHEPHERD : OR , The Charming Virgin . Being and Excellent New Song , Made by a Person of Quality . To and Excellent New Tune , much in Request at Court . Licensed according to Order . I . CHarming Jenny is Fair , and Gay , And Blithe as Nightingales in May ; And round her Eyelids young Cupids play : In her Face the sweet Spring is seen , The Violet , Rose , and Lily , And the Daffadilly , These are like young Billy is Queen ; And all the Swains do admire , and desire , And lay Garlands by her , And each burns with a pleasing Flame . II Balmy Kisses , each Night , Young Jenny gives me with Delight , And is a Lass most bonny , a Beauty bright : She has Eyes that are black and fine , Black as any Berry , With a Hey-down-Derry , Brisk as any sparkling Wine ; And without measure , we toy and take our pleasure And I search her Treasure , And I find her all over Divine . III . He that sees a sweet Beauty in her Bed , With Cheeks ( like Crimson ) Read , When on soft Pillows she lays her Head ; Straight must think on ten thousand Joys , Of sweet Maiden Kisses , And of Virgin-Blisses , And of little Bantling-Boys : It's so , for no Man , but loves a pretty Woman , ( If she be not Common ) Thus it's Beauty that all destroys . IV. In cool Bowers we'll Sport and play , And pass the time away , For Youth is sweet as the Sunshine day : Love's a Banquet that all does please , The Old Dads in the City , When they get a pretty Wench , will give her Golden Fees : Oh! how they Smug her , and Tug her , And will Kiss and Hug her , And bestir their Stumps , till the Lass agrees . V. Beauty none need fear , It's as tender as the Dove and Deer , And it's a Park for Lovers to Range in here : Here we feed on the Hill or Dale , Graze upon the Cheek , Till Rosie-Morning break , And stray all round the pleasant Vale : For Maids ( like wild-Birds ) are tamed with handling And with pleasant Dandling . Thus the Youth does at length prevail . VI . Let us Jenny , now , by thy Brow , Thy tempting bonny Brow , Let us Jenny , to Cupid Vow ; That as long as out Youth shall last , All our Joys we'll double , ( Kisses are no trouble ) But are Sweetmeats to the taste : We will discover , before that we give over , To each Fainting Lover , How our Days have in pleasure past . Printed for J. Millet , at the Angel in Little-Britain . 168 [ 9 ? ] 