THE Young Squires Conquest : Oh R , The Virtuous Ladies Love Obtained . To and Excellent New Tune . Licensed according to Order . ( 1 ) BY all the Powers , I love you so , Nothing more dear to me below ; For when your Frowns I would forsake , Some Angel comes and calls me back ; Order my heart not so full of Ease , But you may break it when ever you please : For it is Noble , and would rather dare To die , then to Languish in Despair : Then do not strive thus my poor heart for to break But grant me Life , and lengthen my Days , That I may live for to set forth thy praise : Come my dear Soul , come my dear Soul , Let thee and I , thee and I , now for ever be United , United in Love ; For I am certain that it will be pleasing unto the Powers above . ( 2 ) Don't Swear by all the Powers you Love , lest you thereby should Perjured prove ; For some has said as much as this , Until they have obtained the Bliss ; Then with much Scorn and cruel Disdain , Such Lovers are left to Sighs and Complaint . But this I tell you shall never be my Fate , And therefore talk not at such a rate ; I won't , I declare , be catched in a Snare ; For my delight is freedom of Mind , it's far more pleasant than to be confined : Glory I can , Glory I can , Valve not Man , valve not Man , whose pleasing words can deceive , can deceive the Wise , If that they take not special Care , by their soft and Refined Lies . ( 3 ) Sweet Charming Saint my words are true , I needs must Love , yet none but you , And if I may thy favour Gain , Then like a Rock I will remain ; Loyal to what I here do pretend , Or let my Glory be soon at and end , For let me not live no longer then I Am willing to honour true Constancy ; Then Dearest try me , this promise I make , That if thou wouldst my blessings Restore , Then none but thee I ever will adore , Raptures of Love , Raptures of Love , Does me engage , so that I swear , I ever will be Loyal , Loyal Just and true , Against Control I do declare , I never was nor will be false to you . ( 4 ) If this be Loyal which you say , The Laws of Love I must obey ; No more resistance can I make , Both Hand and Heart here freely take , No one but thee my love shall enjoy , Though I denied thee I now am not Coy , But will afford thee those glances , my Dear , That shall make thy joys and blessings appear : Then at these sayings the Gallant Replied , Farewell my grief , for now I have found Sorrows are ended and blessings abound : Hear in my Arms , hear in my Arms , Saint let me find , now let me find , Those Fountains flow with pleasant streams of love , The which may crown our days with Joy , With many blessings from above . Printed for C. Dennisson , at the Stationers-Arms within Aldgate . 1689 [ . ] THE Young Squires Conquest : Oh R , The Virtuous Ladies Love Obtained . To and Excellent New Tune . Licensed according to Order . ( 1 ) BY all the Powers , I love you so , Nothing more dear to me below ; For when your Frowns I would forsake , Some Angel comes and calls me back ; Order my heart not so full of Ease , But you may break it when ever you please : For it is Noble , and would rather dare To die , then to Languish in Despair : Then do not strive thus my poor heart for to break But grant me Life , and lengthen my Days , That I may live for to set forth thy praise : Come my dear Soul , come my dear Soul , Let thee and I , thee and I , now for ever be United , United in Love ; For I am certain that it will be pleasing unto the Powers above . ( 2 ) Don't Swear by all the Powers you Love , lest you thereby should Perjured prove ; For some has said as much as this , Until they have obtained the Bliss ; Then with much Scorn and cruel Disdain , Such Lovers are left to Sighs and Complaint . But this I tell you shall never be my Fate , And therefore talk not at such a rate ; I won't , I declare , be catched in a Snare ; For my delight is freedom of Mind , it's far more pleasant than to be confined : Glory I can , Glory I can , Valve not Man , valve not Man , whose pleasing words can deceive , can deceive the Wise , If that they take not special Care , by their soft and Refined Lies . ( 3 ) Sweet Charming Saint my words are true , I needs must Love , yet none but you , And if I may thy favour Gain , Then like a Rock I will remain ; Loyal to what I here do pretend , Or let my Glory be soon at and end , For let me not live no longer then I Am willing to honour true Constancy ; Then Dearest try me , this promise I make , That if thou wouldst my blessings Restore , Then none but thee I ever will adore , Raptures of Love , Raptures of Love , Does me engage , so that I swear , I ever will be Loyal , Loyal Just and true , Against Control I do declare , I never was nor will be false to you . ( 4 ) If this be Loyal which you say , The Laws of Love I must obey ; No more resistance can I make , Both Hand and Heart here freely take , No one but thee my love shall enjoy , Though I denied thee I now am not Coy , But will afford thee those glances , my Dear , That shall make thy joys and blessings appear : Then at these sayings the Gallant Replied , Farewell my grief , for now I have found Sorrows are ended and blessings abound : Hear in my Arms , hear in my Arms , Saint let me find , now let me find , Those Fountains flow with pleasant streams of love , The which may crown our days with Joy , With many blessings from above . Printed for C. Dennisson , at the Stationers-Arms within Aldgate . 1689 [ . ] 