THE Monsieurs Misfortune : OR , The Shammer Shamm [ ' ] worser . To and Excellent New Tune . This may be Printed , R.P. MOnsieur Burgua is a brisk young Gallant , newly arrived here from France , He has a very pretty Tallant , much like a Whiggish confidence ; Many a Camp and many a Leager , has this Mighty Man gone through , Believed by most a great Intreager , But duce take me if ever I do . Sometime I walk in Covent-Garden , and look as great as John a Gaunt , Though in my Pocket never a Farthing yet none can think that I do want : My Garb and Meen will give me Credit , at each House for a Treat or two , I swear i'll pay , yet though I said it , A pox take me if ever I do . My Lodgings e'ry morning early are strong and formally Besieged With Duns , all which I promise fairly , and own my self to all obliged : Then look so great , yet so demurely , they think that all I say is true , And that i'll keep my word securely , but duce take me if ever I do . Then comes my Milliner and cringes , shows me of each New fashion some , Ribbons and Hatbands , Gloves and Fringes , at last she comes the gentle Dun : Sir , I'm afraid you have me forgotten , you said a Month and now it's two , What de you mean ? distrust me not , but pox take me if ever I do . Then come my Seamstress with fine Linen , fair , plump and juicy as any Grape , From some place where she had been sinning , sweating through her nasty Crape ; She I can deal with without Guinnies , a Night will wipe off one or two , She shall be paid by silly Ninnies , but duce take me if ever I do . Sometime I dress like a Commander , with Scarf and Crosslet round my Neck , Then strut and talk like Alexander , with great Banboo and Cordebeck : Then I declare the Turks next Summer shall see my face and fear me too ; This I can swear too at the Rummer , but pox take me if ever I do . The other day I met a Lady , and she invited me to Dine , She seemed as Complesant as may be , and did present the bottle Wine : Then came a Roaring Pimp , a Trap Sir , he swore I had Debauched his Wife , I lost my Wigg and Beaver-Hat Sir , and I was glad to save my Life . Dis be no good de Engolish Fashion , he swore he'd beatrice me blind , de'y see , Only for Courting Miss in pashon , te Div'la take they both for me : At last I god lose from his storming , begar me challenge Rouge Morblew , And said me fit him the next morning , but pox take me if ever I do . Thus Garbed like any Son of Croesus , perfumed Embroidered , patched and curled , Although my Nature's Captain Bessus , I pass a Champion of the World ; The brave and I do never assemble , I keep my own believing Crew , Thus while I talk I make them tremble , but duce take me if ever I do . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-ball in Pye-Corner [ . ] THE Monsieurs Misfortune : OR , The Shammer Shamm [ ' ] worser . To and Excellent New Tune . This may be Printed , R.P. MOnsieur Burgua is a brisk young Gallant , newly arrived here from France , He has a very pretty Tallant , much like a Whiggish confidence ; Many a Camp and many a Leager , has this Mighty Man gone through , Believed by most a great Intreager , But duce take me if ever I do . Sometime I walk in Covent-Garden , and look as great as John a Gaunt , Though in my Pocket never a Farthing yet none can think that I do want : My Garb and Meen will give me Credit , at each House for a Treat or two , I swear i'll pay , yet though I said it , A pox take me if ever I do . My Lodgings e'ry morning early are strong and formally Besieged With Duns , all which I promise fairly , and own my self to all obliged : Then look so great , yet so demurely , they think that all I say is true , And that i'll keep my word securely , but duce take me if ever I do . Then comes my Milliner and cringes , shows me of each New fashion some , Ribbons and Hatbands , Gloves and Fringes , at last she comes the gentle Dun : Sir , I'm afraid you have me forgotten , you said a Month and now it's two , What de you mean ? distrust me not , but pox take me if ever I do . Then come my Seamstress with fine Linen , fair , plump and juicy as any Grape , From some place where she had been sinning , sweating through her nasty Crape ; She I can deal with without Guinnies , a Night will wipe off one or two , She shall be paid by silly Ninnies , but duce take me if ever I do . Sometime I dress like a Commander , with Scarf and Crosslet round my Neck , Then strut and talk like Alexander , with great Banboo and Cordebeck : Then I declare the Turks next Summer shall see my face and fear me too ; This I can swear too at the Rummer , but pox take me if ever I do . The other day I met a Lady , and she invited me to Dine , She seemed as Complesant as may be , and did present the bottle Wine : Then came a Roaring Pimp , a Trap Sir , he swore I had Debauched his Wife , I lost my Wigg and Beaver-Hat Sir , and I was glad to save my Life . Dis be no good de Engolish Fashion , he swore he'd beatrice me blind , de'y see , Only for Courting Miss in pashon , te Div'la take they both for me : At last I god lose from his storming , begar me challenge Rouge Morblew , And said me fit him the next morning , but pox take me if ever I do . Thus Garbed like any Son of Croesus , perfumed Embroidered , patched and curled , Although my Nature's Captain Bessus , I pass a Champion of the World ; The brave and I do never assemble , I keep my own believing Crew , Thus while I talk I make them tremble , but duce take me if ever I do . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-ball in Pye-Corner [ . ] 