THE Crafty Maids Invention , Or her Council To all Young MAIDS How to choose good Husbanes , Or , A single life is best . To the Tune of , Heigh boys up go we . With Allowance . YOung Maidens all , to you I call , take counsel by this song , Or you may Chance to catch a fallen , if young men do you wrong , Be careful of your Maidenheads , these words they are confessed , How you bring young men to your bed [ s ] , For a single life is best . They'll flatter you with tempting words as sweet as Sugar-Candy , Then you must to the Alehouse go to drink Ale , Beer and Brandy , With dainty fine short Sugared Cakes , young Men will Maidens feast , Only to get their will of them , But a single life is best . Young men they are so cunning now that Maids had need be wise , believe not them when they do vow , they'll fill your ears with lies , When the Spirit moves them to do evil , great love they will profess , they'll swear and lie beyond the Devil , But a single life's the best . For Cupid with his golden Dart has many a Maid betrayed , And has wounded them unto the heart , all is not true that's said , But its hard for any Maiden here to know what Man's the best , But I wish young Maidens have a care , For a single , etc While a Maiden lives a single life it is a pleasant thing , She has no Coxcomb to obey , nor bawling brat to sing , Nor lullaby she needs to cry , but sleep and take her rest , But come day go day , God send Night , A single , etc But if a Maiden will be wed , be careful how they choose , And if he be and honest Man she needs not him refuse . But a down look Man , say what you can will be none of the best , He with his Wife will make great strife , Then a single , etc But a Caret Head and Caret Beard , they're bad for to be tried , His Wife can never go out of doors but he will bawl and chide , He is so jealous of his Wife he'l swear she does transgress , That Woman's weary of her Life , A single , etc A thin Faced Man's Conditions are as I will plainly show , They often strike their own dear Wife , no more but word and blow . A tallow Faced Man he's as bad , his Wife must take no rest , She's barely Clothed and hardly Fed , A single , etc Give me the Black and bonny Brown , they are the Men for me , There's hardly one in all the Town with Women disagree , They are also kind and loving to their Wives I do protest ; That Maid that catches one of those , Then a Married life is best . Now to conclude young Maidens all be not too quickly catched , But she that marries and honest man , she'l never repent her match , And honest man will love his Wife , a Knave makes her a Beast , Therefore young maidens have a care , For a single life is best . Printed by T. M. in White-Friers . 1689. THE Crafty Maids Invention , Or her Council To all Young MAIDS How to choose good Husbanes , Or , A single life is best . To the Tune of , Heigh boys up go we . With Allowance . YOung Maidens all , to you I call , take counsel by this song , Or you may Chance to catch a fallen , if young men do you wrong , Be careful of your Maidenheads , these words they are confessed , How you bring young men to your bed [ s ] , For a single life is best . They'll flatter you with tempting words as sweet as Sugar-Candy , Then you must to the Alehouse go to drink Ale , Beer and Brandy , With dainty fine short Sugared Cakes , young Men will Maidens feast , Only to get their will of them , But a single life is best . Young men they are so cunning now that Maids had need be wise , believe not them when they do vow , they'll fill your ears with lies , When the Spirit moves them to do evil , great love they will profess , they'll swear and lie beyond the Devil , But a single life's the best . For Cupid with his golden Dart has many a Maid betrayed , And has wounded them unto the heart , all is not true that's said , But its hard for any Maiden here to know what Man's the best , But I wish young Maidens have a care , For a single , etc While a Maiden lives a single life it is a pleasant thing , She has no Coxcomb to obey , nor bawling brat to sing , Nor lullaby she needs to cry , but sleep and take her rest , But come day go day , God send Night , A single , etc But if a Maiden will be wed , be careful how they choose , And if he be and honest Man she needs not him refuse . But a down look Man , say what you can will be none of the best , He with his Wife will make great strife , Then a single , etc But a Caret Head and Caret Beard , they're bad for to be tried , His Wife can never go out of doors but he will bawl and chide , He is so jealous of his Wife he'l swear she does transgress , That Woman's weary of her Life , A single , etc A thin Faced Man's Conditions are as I will plainly show , They often strike their own dear Wife , no more but word and blow . A tallow Faced Man he's as bad , his Wife must take no rest , She's barely Clothed and hardly Fed , A single , etc Give me the Black and bonny Brown , they are the Men for me , There's hardly one in all the Town with Women disagree , They are also kind and loving to their Wives I do protest ; That Maid that catches one of those , Then a Married life is best . Now to conclude young Maidens all be not too quickly catched , But she that marries and honest man , she'l never repent her match , And honest man will love his Wife , a Knave makes her a Beast , Therefore young maidens have a care , For a single life is best . Printed by T. M. in White-Friers . 1689. 