TO : AND ANSWER TO What shall I do to show how much I Love her : OR , Fair AURELIA is Courtly Invitation . To and excellent new Playhouse Tune . Licensed according to Order . I . WHence comes the Voice that makes this Lamentation ? Is it not from my kind Lover , said she ? I'll never cross him in his Expectation , there is no Monarch more welcome to me ; Here in my Arms I will freely receive him , there he shall taste of all pleasant delight : Fairest Aurelia she never will grieve him , since he admires her Beauty so bright . II Like a kind Lady I here do invite thee , knowing thou ever wast Loyal and True , In the sweet Raptures of Love I'll delight thee , and will each Morning your Pleasures renew ; Therefore this Minute lay hold on the Blessing , I'll make thee Lord of what ever is mine , Both hand and heart thou shalt still be possessing , to none but thee , I'll the Pleasure resign . III . We like Two tender Doves will be improving every moment , that Joy may abound ; Never was any more Constant and Loving ; therefore with Pleasure my Dear shall be Crowned : In thy fair Bower Ill freely lie by thee , where all the Pleasures of Love I'll make known ; For there is nothing I ever can deny thee , fairest Aurelia is ever thy own . IV. Then bid adieu to thy fearful Suspicion , that I would ever destroy thee with Grief , Since I have readily signed thy Petition , for to afford my kind Lover relief : With me thou now shalt be happy for ever , and all the Freedom of Pleasure enjoy ; Still to delight thee I'll use my endeavour , fairest Aurelia no longer is coy . V. Ladies I own are created for Pleasure , and in their Blossom most pleasant and sweet , Happy is he that enjoys such a Treasure , in this alone I thy Joys will complete : By night our Joys we may freely discover , from whence the Raptures of Love will appear , While little Cupids all round us shall hover , they will not envy thy Pleasure , my dear . VI . Farewell all Frowns , they shall never offend thee , but the sweet Joys of the World thou shalt reap , Both State and Glory shall ever attend thee , and the soft Music shall lull thee to sleep : Therefore thrice welcome my amorous Jewel , here I thy Sorrows and Grief will expel , She that is loving can never be cruel , this Virtue do's many others excel . VII . Then with soft Kisses and tender Embraces , like the kind Ivy together they twine , Her Cheeks adorned with sweet amorous Graces , did show her Beauty to be all Divine : Thy Charms , said he , does inflame my desire , still will I love thee , and never give over ; Fairest Aurelia I needs must admire , it's she alone does my Blessings restore . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . TO : AND ANSWER TO What shall I do to show how much I Love her : OR , Fair AURELIA is Courtly Invitation . To and excellent new Playhouse Tune . Licensed according to Order . I . WHence comes the Voice that makes this Lamentation ? Is it not from my kind Lover , said she ? I'll never cross him in his Expectation , there is no Monarch more welcome to me ; Here in my Arms I will freely receive him , there he shall taste of all pleasant delight : Fairest Aurelia she never will grieve him , since he admires her Beauty so bright . II Like a kind Lady I here do invite thee , knowing thou ever wast Loyal and True , In the sweet Raptures of Love I'll delight thee , and will each Morning your Pleasures renew ; Therefore this Minute lay hold on the Blessing , I'll make thee Lord of what ever is mine , Both hand and heart thou shalt still be possessing , to none but thee , I'll the Pleasure resign . III . We like Two tender Doves will be improving every moment , that Joy may abound ; Never was any more Constant and Loving ; therefore with Pleasure my Dear shall be Crowned : In thy fair Bower Ill freely lie by thee , where all the Pleasures of Love I'll make known ; For there is nothing I ever can deny thee , fairest Aurelia is ever thy own . IV. Then bid adieu to thy fearful Suspicion , that I would ever destroy thee with Grief , Since I have readily signed thy Petition , for to afford my kind Lover relief : With me thou now shalt be happy for ever , and all the Freedom of Pleasure enjoy ; Still to delight thee I'll use my endeavour , fairest Aurelia no longer is coy . V. Ladies I own are created for Pleasure , and in their Blossom most pleasant and sweet , Happy is he that enjoys such a Treasure , in this alone I thy Joys will complete : By night our Joys we may freely discover , from whence the Raptures of Love will appear , While little Cupids all round us shall hover , they will not envy thy Pleasure , my dear . VI . Farewell all Frowns , they shall never offend thee , but the sweet Joys of the World thou shalt reap , Both State and Glory shall ever attend thee , and the soft Music shall lull thee to sleep : Therefore thrice welcome my amorous Jewel , here I thy Sorrows and Grief will expel , She that is loving can never be cruel , this Virtue do's many others excel . VII . Then with soft Kisses and tender Embraces , like the kind Ivy together they twine , Her Cheeks adorned with sweet amorous Graces , did show her Beauty to be all Divine : Thy Charms , said he , does inflame my desire , still will I love thee , and never give over ; Fairest Aurelia I needs must admire , it's she alone does my Blessings restore . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 