THE Private ENCOUNTER BETWEEN TWO YOUNG LOVERS , Being Sung in the last new PLAY , called , The Married BEAU . O fie ! what mean I foolish Maid , In this remote and silent Shade , To meet with you alone : My Heart does with the Place combine , And both are more your Friends then mine , And both are more your Friends then mine . Oh! o ! o ! I shall , I shall , I shall be undone , Oh! o ! o ! o ! I shall be undone . A savage Beast I would not fear , Or should I meet with Villians here ; I to some Cave would run : But such enchanting Art you show , I cannot strive , I cannot go , I cannot strive , I cannot go ; Oh! o ! o ! I shall , I shall , I shall be undone , Oh! o ! o ! o ! I shall be undone . O fie , leave off this foolish Fear , For I am glad to meet you here , And I must you enjoy : This silent Grove , and pleasant Shade , Were for true Lovers Pastime made , Were for true Lovers Pastime made ; Then o ! then do not , do not , do not me deny , Oh! then , o ! then do not me deny . Your Beauty can wild Monsters tame , And likewise Villains Hearts inflame , That they will not annoy : Your Looks , Your Eyes have charmed me so , I have no power for to go , I have no power for to go , Come , come , come , I must , I must , I must thee enjoy , Come , come , come , I must thee enjoy . Ah! give your sweet Temptations over , I'll touch those dangerous Lips no more , What , must we yet fool on ? Ah! now I yield , ah ! now I fallen ; Ah! now I have no breath at all ; Ah! now I have no breath at all ; And now , now I am , I am , I am quite undone Ah! now , now , now , I am quite undone . ' This none but you I do adore , Nay , I must love you more and more , Although for Love I die : My Passion ever shall endure , My Love shall still be firm and pure , My Love shall still be firm and pure , And , and , and in thy , in thy Arms I'll lie , And , and , and in thy Arms I'll lie . LONDON : Printed for P. P. near West-smiohfield . THE Private ENCOUNTER BETWEEN TWO YOUNG LOVERS , Being Sung in the last new PLAY , called , The Married BEAU . O fie ! what mean I foolish Maid , In this remote and silent Shade , To meet with you alone : My Heart does with the Place combine , And both are more your Friends then mine , And both are more your Friends then mine . Oh! o ! o ! I shall , I shall , I shall be undone , Oh! o ! o ! o ! I shall be undone . A savage Beast I would not fear , Or should I meet with Villians here ; I to some Cave would run : But such enchanting Art you show , I cannot strive , I cannot go , I cannot strive , I cannot go ; Oh! o ! o ! I shall , I shall , I shall be undone , Oh! o ! o ! o ! I shall be undone . O fie , leave off this foolish Fear , For I am glad to meet you here , And I must you enjoy : This silent Grove , and pleasant Shade , Were for true Lovers Pastime made , Were for true Lovers Pastime made ; Then o ! then do not , do not , do not me deny , Oh! then , o ! then do not me deny . Your Beauty can wild Monsters tame , And likewise Villains Hearts inflame , That they will not annoy : Your Looks , Your Eyes have charmed me so , I have no power for to go , I have no power for to go , Come , come , come , I must , I must , I must thee enjoy , Come , come , come , I must thee enjoy . Ah! give your sweet Temptations over , I'll touch those dangerous Lips no more , What , must we yet fool on ? Ah! now I yield , ah ! now I fallen ; Ah! now I have no breath at all ; Ah! now I have no breath at all ; And now , now I am , I am , I am quite undone Ah! now , now , now , I am quite undone . ' This none but you I do adore , Nay , I must love you more and more , Although for Love I die : My Passion ever shall endure , My Love shall still be firm and pure , My Love shall still be firm and pure , And , and , and in thy , in thy Arms I'll lie , And , and , and in thy Arms I'll lie . LONDON : Printed for P. P. near West-smiohfield . 