And excellent new SONG , called , The CRAFTY MAID : OR , THE Batchellour Outwitted . BEING A Relation how a Bachelor was bawked , after he had given ten Shillings , and a blue pai [ r ] of Stockens , for a Maiden head . To the Tune of , Found Boy , etc COme lissen to me , and I will declare , A frolicsome Ditty of late I did hear , It's on a shopkeeper , and I'll tell you plain , He's a leatherseller , though I tell not his name : This young man is single , and wants to be wed , Which makes him lie restless all night in his bed . He agered with a maiden that lived hard by , For to give her ten shillings with him for to lie ; Whenever this maiden went out or came in , He still would be chucking her under the chin , And said , That's not all that I'll give unto you , But I'll give you ten shillings and stockens of blue . This maid was both cunning and crafty and wise , To cheat the shopkeeper she thus did devise , The day it seemed tedious , he longed for delight , That he might enjoy the fair maiden that night : But a brisk harnismaker disguised his face , And when it was night he went in the maid's place . Women's clothes he put on , and straight went his way To bed to the shopkeeper , as I herd say ; As soon as he entered into the room , The candle being out , he said , What are you come ? He straight gave ten shillings & amp ; then said , Prove true , And tomorrow I'll give you the stockens of blue . The bargain was so , not a word should be said , Betwixt the shopkeeper and this pretty maid ; So this silent couple to bed they did go , To those delights that young lovers should do ; But he was not content when he was in his bed , For fear that he should not get her maidenhead . Then straightway he whispered a word in her ear , And said , It is better to do't in a chair . The young man burst out of a laughter , and said , I pray Sir forbear , for I am not a maid . I'll try that , said he ; and he plucked up the smock , And instead of a pullet catched hold of a cock . Lord , how he was daunted at this strange surprise , What to say for himself he could no ways devise : His courage was cooled which before was so hight , And he was ashamed to appear in his shop : He desired the harnismaker for to go , And begged he would not let the neighbours to know : Here's half a crown more , therefore pray do not tell The thing that hath happened , nor where I do dwell . And now all you young men that led single lives , Part not with your money , but be well advised , For maids are deceitful , and will not prove true , Although you do promise them stockens of blue . LONDON : Printed for J. Science , in the Old-baily . And excellent new SONG , called , The CRAFTY MAID : OR , THE Batchellour Outwitted . BEING A Relation how a Bachelor was bawked , after he had given ten Shillings , and a blue pai [ r ] of Stockens , for a Maiden head . To the Tune of , Found Boy , etc COme lissen to me , and I will declare , A frolicsome Ditty of late I did hear , It's on a shopkeeper , and I'll tell you plain , He's a leatherseller , though I tell not his name : This young man is single , and wants to be wed , Which makes him lie restless all night in his bed . He agered with a maiden that lived hard by , For to give her ten shillings with him for to lie ; Whenever this maiden went out or came in , He still would be chucking her under the chin , And said , That's not all that I'll give unto you , But I'll give you ten shillings and stockens of blue . This maid was both cunning and crafty and wise , To cheat the shopkeeper she thus did devise , The day it seemed tedious , he longed for delight , That he might enjoy the fair maiden that night : But a brisk harnismaker disguised his face , And when it was night he went in the maid's place . Women's clothes he put on , and straight went his way To bed to the shopkeeper , as I herd say ; As soon as he entered into the room , The candle being out , he said , What are you come ? He straight gave ten shillings & amp ; then said , Prove true , And tomorrow I'll give you the stockens of blue . The bargain was so , not a word should be said , Betwixt the shopkeeper and this pretty maid ; So this silent couple to bed they did go , To those delights that young lovers should do ; But he was not content when he was in his bed , For fear that he should not get her maidenhead . Then straightway he whispered a word in her ear , And said , It is better to do't in a chair . The young man burst out of a laughter , and said , I pray Sir forbear , for I am not a maid . I'll try that , said he ; and he plucked up the smock , And instead of a pullet catched hold of a cock . Lord , how he was daunted at this strange surprise , What to say for himself he could no ways devise : His courage was cooled which before was so hight , And he was ashamed to appear in his shop : He desired the harnismaker for to go , And begged he would not let the neighbours to know : Here's half a crown more , therefore pray do not tell The thing that hath happened , nor where I do dwell . And now all you young men that led single lives , Part not with your money , but be well advised , For maids are deceitful , and will not prove true , Although you do promise them stockens of blue . LONDON : Printed for J. Science , in the Old-baily . 