THE Complaining Bridegroom : OR , ROGER's Repentance AFTER MARRIAGE . To and excellent new Tune . Licensed according to Order . ' It early one morning , the Cock had just crowed ; Sing heigh ding , hoe ding , langtridown derry ; My Holiday Clothes on , and Face new mowed , With a heigh down , hoe down , drink your brown Berry : The Sky was all painted , no Scarlet so read , For the Sun was just getting out of her bed , When Teresa and I when to Church to be sped , With a heigh ding , hoe ding , shall I come to Woo thee ? Hey ding , hoe ding , will you Buckle to me ? Ding , ding , ding , ding , ding , ding , derry , derry , derry , Ding , ding , ding , ding , ding , heigh langtudown derry . Her Face was as fair , as ifed had been in Print , Sing heigh ding , etc And her small Ferret eyes did lovingly Squint , With a heigh down , etc Yet her Mouth had been damaged with Comfits and Plumbs , And her Teeth that were useless for biting her Thumbs , Had late , like ill Tenants , forsaken her Gums , With a heigh ding , hoe ding , etc Her beautiful Face does like Tallow appear , Sing heigh ding , etc Her sweet Sparrow-mouth reaching from ear to ear , With a heigh down , etc With a delicate Snout like a young sucking big , With a Hump on her Back , which is fairly as big As a Pumpking , and sweetly she dances a Jig , With a heigh ding , hoe ding , etc But when Night came on , and we both were a bed , Sing heigh ding , etc Such strange things were done , there's no more to be said , With a heigh down , etc Next morning her head ran of mending her gown ; And mine was plagued how to pay Piper a crow , And so we rose up the same Fools we lay down , With heigh ding , hoe ding , etc To speak of the Portion that with her I met , Sing heigh ding , etc She had five Groats in Money , and ten Pound in debt , With a heigh ding , etc And therefore the Duns daily knocked at my door For her Topping and Smickets , bought two Years before , Yet if ever I pay it , I'm a Son of a Whore , With a heigh ding , hoe ding , etc I make no great doubt but she'll be a true Bride , Sing heigh ding , etc No Gallant will venture to lie by side , With hey down , etc For ofed in her Sleep she will send forth a smell , Which is able to Poison old Neck out of Hell ; In a Wife , I declare , I am fitted right well , With a heigh ding , hoe ding , etc We now have been Married two Months and a Day , Sing heigh ding , hoe ding , lantridown derry ; Yet since the first Night , faith , I never did play , With a heigh down , hoe down , drink your brown Berry ; It is but a folly to make a dispute , I would swop her , and give twenty Guinneys to boot , For one that is Buxom , who has a fine Lute , With a heigh ding , hoe ding , shall I come to Woo thee ? Hey ding , hoe ding , will you Buckle to me ? Ding , ding , ding , ding , ding , ding , derry , derry , derry , Ding , ding , ding , ding , ding , heigh langtudown derry . FINIS . LONDON : Printed for C. Cates , at the sign of the Bible and Sun , in Pey-corner . THE Complaining Bridegroom : OR , ROGER's Repentance AFTER MARRIAGE . To and excellent new Tune . Licensed according to Order . ' It early one morning , the Cock had just crowed ; Sing heigh ding , hoe ding , langtridown derry ; My Holiday Clothes on , and Face new mowed , With a heigh down , hoe down , drink your brown Berry : The Sky was all painted , no Scarlet so read , For the Sun was just getting out of her bed , When Teresa and I when to Church to be sped , With a heigh ding , hoe ding , shall I come to Woo thee ? Hey ding , hoe ding , will you Buckle to me ? Ding , ding , ding , ding , ding , ding , derry , derry , derry , Ding , ding , ding , ding , ding , heigh langtudown derry . Her Face was as fair , as ifed had been in Print , Sing heigh ding , etc And her small Ferret eyes did lovingly Squint , With a heigh down , etc Yet her Mouth had been damaged with Comfits and Plumbs , And her Teeth that were useless for biting her Thumbs , Had late , like ill Tenants , forsaken her Gums , With a heigh ding , hoe ding , etc Her beautiful Face does like Tallow appear , Sing heigh ding , etc Her sweet Sparrow-mouth reaching from ear to ear , With a heigh down , etc With a delicate Snout like a young sucking big , With a Hump on her Back , which is fairly as big As a Pumpking , and sweetly she dances a Jig , With a heigh ding , hoe ding , etc But when Night came on , and we both were a bed , Sing heigh ding , etc Such strange things were done , there's no more to be said , With a heigh down , etc Next morning her head ran of mending her gown ; And mine was plagued how to pay Piper a crow , And so we rose up the same Fools we lay down , With heigh ding , hoe ding , etc To speak of the Portion that with her I met , Sing heigh ding , etc She had five Groats in Money , and ten Pound in debt , With a heigh ding , etc And therefore the Duns daily knocked at my door For her Topping and Smickets , bought two Years before , Yet if ever I pay it , I'm a Son of a Whore , With a heigh ding , hoe ding , etc I make no great doubt but she'll be a true Bride , Sing heigh ding , etc No Gallant will venture to lie by side , With hey down , etc For ofed in her Sleep she will send forth a smell , Which is able to Poison old Neck out of Hell ; In a Wife , I declare , I am fitted right well , With a heigh ding , hoe ding , etc We now have been Married two Months and a Day , Sing heigh ding , hoe ding , lantridown derry ; Yet since the first Night , faith , I never did play , With a heigh down , hoe down , drink your brown Berry ; It is but a folly to make a dispute , I would swop her , and give twenty Guinneys to boot , For one that is Buxom , who has a fine Lute , With a heigh ding , hoe ding , shall I come to Woo thee ? Hey ding , hoe ding , will you Buckle to me ? Ding , ding , ding , ding , ding , ding , derry , derry , derry , Ding , ding , ding , ding , ding , heigh langtudown derry . FINIS . LONDON : Printed for C. Cates , at the sign of the Bible and Sun , in Pey-corner . 