The West-Country Wonder : OR , William the Servingman's good Fortune in the Mar - riage of and Ancient Lady , whom he god with Child when she was threescore and six or seven Years of Age , though she had never been with Child before , to the Joy of her , and the Admi - ration of others . Tune of , The Ginea wins her . Licensed according to Order . ATtend to this Relation , Which I in kindness bring you , The Wonder of the Nation , My loving Friends , I sing you ; The like was never known before , There's a Lady that exceeds Threescore , By six or seven Years , This of a Truth appears , That now this very day , She is with Child , and may Have two or three , they say , For Will , has proved himself a Man of Skill . This was and ancient Lady , Who had both Gold and Treasure , In Bags and Coffers ready , Yet wanted youthful Pleasure ; The Knight her Husband being dead , With her servant William she did wed , A proper man indeed , Who at time of need , Could please a Woman well ; And now the Truth to tell , He thousands does excel , For Will , has proved himself a Mon of Skill . Although near Sixty seven , She makes as fair a figure , Of one scarce twice eleven , Few Women being bigger ; And joyfully she does declare , That she hope's to have a Son and Heir , She having none before , Though six above Threescore ; Thus we may see in Truth , The sweet effects of youth , She had a Coultish-tooth , And Will , has proved himself a Man of Skill . Raising so sweet a flower , From such decays of Nature , It shows a manly Power , Of one that would not bait her And ace of what's a Woman's due ; Such a brawny Lad you never knew , Both Proper , Straight and Tall , And lusty Limbs withal , O , such a Man behold , If he was to be sold , He's worth his Weight in Gold . This Will , has proved h [ i ] mself a Man of Skill . When at the Lady's Table , He as Servant waited , She little thought him Able , To do what is related ; Yet when her Knight was laid in Grave , None alive but William would she have , She made him out of hand , The Lord of all her Land ; Which kindness to requite , He yields her the delight And pleasant joys of night , For Will , has proved himself a Man of Skill . His years is two and twenty , The Lady's thrice as many , Yet having Wealth in Plenty , He loves her best of any , And she likewise does him adore , Having never any Child before ; And since the deed is done , If it should prove a Son , We shall great Triumph see , For Lords of high Degree , Will at the Christening be , Since Will , has proved hims [ e ] lf a Man of Skill . London : Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-glass on London-bridge . The West-Country Wonder : OR , William the Servingman's good Fortune in the Mar - riage of and Ancient Lady , whom he god with Child when she was threescore and six or seven Years of Age , though she had never been with Child before , to the Joy of her , and the Admi - ration of others . Tune of , The Ginea wins her . Licensed according to Order . ATtend to this Relation , Which I in kindness bring you , The Wonder of the Nation , My loving Friends , I sing you ; The like was never known before , There's a Lady that exceeds Threescore , By six or seven Years , This of a Truth appears , That now this very day , She is with Child , and may Have two or three , they say , For Will , has proved himself a Man of Skill . This was and ancient Lady , Who had both Gold and Treasure , In Bags and Coffers ready , Yet wanted youthful Pleasure ; The Knight her Husband being dead , With her servant William she did wed , A proper man indeed , Who at time of need , Could please a Woman well ; And now the Truth to tell , He thousands does excel , For Will , has proved himself a Mon of Skill . Although near Sixty seven , She makes as fair a figure , Of one scarce twice eleven , Few Women being bigger ; And joyfully she does declare , That she hope's to have a Son and Heir , She having none before , Though six above Threescore ; Thus we may see in Truth , The sweet effects of youth , She had a Coultish-tooth , And Will , has proved himself a Man of Skill . Raising so sweet a flower , From such decays of Nature , It shows a manly Power , Of one that would not bait her And ace of what's a Woman's due ; Such a brawny Lad you never knew , Both Proper , Straight and Tall , And lusty Limbs withal , O , such a Man behold , If he was to be sold , He's worth his Weight in Gold . This Will , has proved h [ i ] mself a Man of Skill . When at the Lady's Table , He as Servant waited , She little thought him Able , To do what is related ; Yet when her Knight was laid in Grave , None alive but William would she have , She made him out of hand , The Lord of all her Land ; Which kindness to requite , He yields her the delight And pleasant joys of night , For Will , has proved himself a Man of Skill . His years is two and twenty , The Lady's thrice as many , Yet having Wealth in Plenty , He loves her best of any , And she likewise does him adore , Having never any Child before ; And since the deed is done , If it should prove a Son , We shall great Triumph see , For Lords of high Degree , Will at the Christening be , Since Will , has proved hims [ e ] lf a Man of Skill . London : Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-glass on London-bridge . 