The Unconstant Quaker : OR , Sweet SUSAN his Servant , Unworthily left in the Lurch , after he had Tickled her Fancy . Tune of , The Baffled Knight . Licensed according to Order . IN London - town we understand , There lived and old shoemaker Some says he was and honest man , Because that he was a quaker . And so he was as I may say , And innocent loving brother ; Yet little lambs you know will play , Whenever they meet each other . A handsome damsel lived with him , And [ s ] he was aloving sister ; Now when the light was something dim , In private he often kissed her . He on her snowy breast did lean , Saying , susan have some compassion : S [ he ] cried , Dear mast [ e ] r , what dost mean ? O this is a strange temptation . We here in private kiss and court , And I cannot once forgo [ i ] tO ; What will the wicked world report , If ever they come to know it ? Sweet Sue , I clasp thee in mine arms , Then do not deny thy master ; But let him taste those tempting charms , And fear not the least disaster . Thou knowest my mistress she is dead , Be willing therefore to marry ; Then thou mayest freely come to bed , Till then I would have the tarry . I'll marry thee , by yea , and nay , Next Fryday , I'll not decoy thee : But flesh is frail and cannot stay , This minute I must enjoy thee . Thou tellest me here a pleasant tale , In hope's to approach the centre ; But yet I fear in this thou'lt fail , Therefore I am loath to venture . By yea and nay , sweet sister Sue , I never will so decive thee ; Dost think I such a thing would do ? What , get thee with child , and leave thee Shall I thy virgin-treasure crop , And leave in sorrows breathing ? No , not for the shoes in my shop , I am not so much a heathen . Some that has a dark way to go , To women are most ungrateful ; But I live in the light you know , And cannot be so deceitful . Sweet Susan blushed scarlet read , His weedling did displease her ; Yet he conveyed her to his bed , And there he began to tease her . She did a while resistance make , And all to preserve her honour ; Yet he persuaded her to take , The weight of a man upon her . After full seven months delight , There happened a strange confusion ; She proved with child , he then did slight His p [ r ] itty sweet sister Susan . A wealthy match he god with speed , His riches he was for raising ; But Sue who was his friend at need , He turned her a broad a graising . London Printed by E.M. for J. Blare , at the Looking-glass on London-bridge . The Unconstant Quaker : OR , Sweet SUSAN his Servant , Unworthily left in the Lurch , after he had Tickled her Fancy . Tune of , The Baffled Knight . Licensed according to Order . IN London - town we understand , There lived and old shoemaker Some says he was and honest man , Because that he was a quaker . And so he was as I may say , And innocent loving brother ; Yet little lambs you know will play , Whenever they meet each other . A handsome damsel lived with him , And [ s ] he was aloving sister ; Now when the light was something dim , In private he often kissed her . He on her snowy breast did lean , Saying , susan have some compassion : S [ he ] cried , Dear mast [ e ] r , what dost mean ? O this is a strange temptation . We here in private kiss and court , And I cannot once forgo [ i ] tO ; What will the wicked world report , If ever they come to know it ? Sweet Sue , I clasp thee in mine arms , Then do not deny thy master ; But let him taste those tempting charms , And fear not the least disaster . Thou knowest my mistress she is dead , Be willing therefore to marry ; Then thou mayest freely come to bed , Till then I would have the tarry . I'll marry thee , by yea , and nay , Next Fryday , I'll not decoy thee : But flesh is frail and cannot stay , This minute I must enjoy thee . Thou tellest me here a pleasant tale , In hope's to approach the centre ; But yet I fear in this thou'lt fail , Therefore I am loath to venture . By yea and nay , sweet sister Sue , I never will so decive thee ; Dost think I such a thing would do ? What , get thee with child , and leave thee Shall I thy virgin-treasure crop , And leave in sorrows breathing ? No , not for the shoes in my shop , I am not so much a heathen . Some that has a dark way to go , To women are most ungrateful ; But I live in the light you know , And cannot be so deceitful . Sweet Susan blushed scarlet read , His weedling did displease her ; Yet he conveyed her to his bed , And there he began to tease her . She did a while resistance make , And all to preserve her honour ; Yet he persuaded her to take , The weight of a man upon her . After full seven months delight , There happened a strange confusion ; She proved with child , he then did slight His p [ r ] itty sweet sister Susan . A wealthy match he god with speed , His riches he was for raising ; But Sue who was his friend at need , He turned her a broad a graising . London Printed by E.M. for J. Blare , at the Looking-glass on London-bridge . 