TO : AND ANSWER TO I Marry and thank you too : OR , THE Lass of Lyn is sorrowful Lamentation for the Loss of her Maidenhead . To the same Tune . Licensed according to Order . I . I Am the young Lass of Lyn , who often said Thank you too ; My Belly's now almost to my Chin , I cannot tell what to do . II My being so free and kind , do's make my Heart to rue , The sad effects of this I find and cannot tell what to do . III . My Petticoats which I wore , and likewise my Aprons too , Alas ! they are all too short before , I cannot tell what to do . IV. Was ever young Maid so crossed , as I who thanked him too ; For why ? my Maidenhead is lost , I cannot tell what to do . V. In sorrowful sort I cried , and may now for ever rue , The Pain lies in my back and side , I cannot tell what to do . VI . Alas ! I was kind and mild , but now the same I rue , Having no Father for my Child , I cannot tell what to do . VII . I took but a Touch in jest , believe me this is true , Yet I have proved , I do protest , and cannot tell what to do . VIII . He craved my Virginity , and gave me his own in lieu ; In this I find I was too free , and cannot tell what to do . IX . Each Damsel will me degrade , and so will the young Men too , I'm neither Widow , Wife , nor Maid , I cannot tell what to do . X. A Cradle I must provide , a Chair , and a Possnet too ; Nay , likewise Twenty things beside , I cannot tell what to do . XI . When I was a Maiden fair , such Sorrows I never knew , But now my Heart is full of care , I cannot tell what to do . XII . O what will become of me ! my Belly's as Big as two ; It's with a Two-legged Tympany , I cannot tell what to do . XIII . You Lasses that hear my Moan , if you will your Joys renew , Be sure , while Married , lie alone , or else you at length may rue . XVII . I came of as good a Raze , as most is in Lyn is fair Town , And cost a great deal bringing up , but a little thing laid me down . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner , J. Deacon at the Angel in Gilt-spur-street , J. Blare at the Looking-glass on London-bridge , near the Church , J. Back at the Black Boy on London-bridge , near the Drawbridge . TO : AND ANSWER TO I Marry and thank you too : OR , THE Lass of Lyn is sorrowful Lamentation for the Loss of her Maidenhead . To the same Tune . Licensed according to Order . I . I Am the young Lass of Lyn , who often said Thank you too ; My Belly's now almost to my Chin , I cannot tell what to do . II My being so free and kind , do's make my Heart to rue , The sad effects of this I find and cannot tell what to do . III . My Petticoats which I wore , and likewise my Aprons too , Alas ! they are all too short before , I cannot tell what to do . IV. Was ever young Maid so crossed , as I who thanked him too ; For why ? my Maidenhead is lost , I cannot tell what to do . V. In sorrowful sort I cried , and may now for ever rue , The Pain lies in my back and side , I cannot tell what to do . VI . Alas ! I was kind and mild , but now the same I rue , Having no Father for my Child , I cannot tell what to do . VII . I took but a Touch in jest , believe me this is true , Yet I have proved , I do protest , and cannot tell what to do . VIII . He craved my Virginity , and gave me his own in lieu ; In this I find I was too free , and cannot tell what to do . IX . Each Damsel will me degrade , and so will the young Men too , I'm neither Widow , Wife , nor Maid , I cannot tell what to do . X. A Cradle I must provide , a Chair , and a Possnet too ; Nay , likewise Twenty things beside , I cannot tell what to do . XI . When I was a Maiden fair , such Sorrows I never knew , But now my Heart is full of care , I cannot tell what to do . XII . O what will become of me ! my Belly's as Big as two ; It's with a Two-legged Tympany , I cannot tell what to do . XIII . You Lasses that hear my Moan , if you will your Joys renew , Be sure , while Married , lie alone , or else you at length may rue . XVII . I came of as good a Raze , as most is in Lyn is fair Town , And cost a great deal bringing up , but a little thing laid me down . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner , J. Deacon at the Angel in Gilt-spur-street , J. Blare at the Looking-glass on London-bridge , near the Church , J. Back at the Black Boy on London-bridge , near the Drawbridge . 