TO : A n E xcellent new Song , Called , TheYoung-Mans Answer To the MAIDS Garden of TYME , Let no Young-maidens show their proud disdain , In slighting Lovers when they're not to blame , lest by their haughty Pride as I may tell , They slip their Youth , and so led Apes in Hell . To a pleasant New Tune . MAids that are fair and young , why should you thus complain , Against a Bachelors smooth tongue when Love is all their aim . I f we should curse or swear , or surly to you be , Oh then you justly might forbear a Youngman's company , You say a young man went into your Garden fine , And there unto your discontent he plucked up all your time . I blame him for the same , he might have spared some , Or for the time that he did take , plant others in the room . Come pretty Lass I pray let me your Garden view , And what fine flowers you do want , isle plant them over a new . And if you'll try me once , I doubt not but you'll say , I thank you heartily young man , pray come another day . And in your Garden fine a Fountain there does flow , With pretty bushes all around , that Fountain too does grow . Fair Maiden let me in , and then you need not fear , But I the bushes fine will trim , your Fountain too will clear . And if your time I take , isle give you in return , Coronations of the better sort . and Flowers of the Sun. A and for your Fountain too , thus further I can tell , I'll put in pretty Fish there , will please you wondrous well , A and in this Pond they'll breed , for to increase your store , and if you once but let me in , you'll never deny me more . at length the young Maid then consented to my mind , But said withal , her heart should break if I should prove unkind . When I came to the Garden-door , said she you'll me undo , and steal away my precious time , and leave me nought but Rue . No no , then I replied , my pretty Maid never fear , For now the Bargain is fast tied , isle stay from Year to Year . Your Fountain isle new stock , your Garden isle new plant ; There's nothing that is requisite , my pretty Maid shall want . Now maids be ruled by me , never use Youngmen unkind , But take the first that comes to hand , if he be to your mind . Printed by and for A. M. 1696. TO : A n E xcellent new Song , Called , TheYoung-Mans Answer To the MAIDS Garden of TYME , Let no Young-maidens show their proud disdain , In slighting Lovers when they're not to blame , lest by their haughty Pride as I may tell , They slip their Youth , and so led Apes in Hell . To a pleasant New Tune . MAids that are fair and young , why should you thus complain , Against a Bachelors smooth tongue when Love is all their aim . I f we should curse or swear , or surly to you be , Oh then you justly might forbear a Youngman's company , You say a young man went into your Garden fine , And there unto your discontent he plucked up all your time . I blame him for the same , he might have spared some , Or for the time that he did take , plant others in the room . Come pretty Lass I pray let me your Garden view , And what fine flowers you do want , isle plant them over a new . And if you'll try me once , I doubt not but you'll say , I thank you heartily young man , pray come another day . And in your Garden fine a Fountain there does flow , With pretty bushes all around , that Fountain too does grow . Fair Maiden let me in , and then you need not fear , But I the bushes fine will trim , your Fountain too will clear . And if your time I take , isle give you in return , Coronations of the better sort . and Flowers of the Sun. A and for your Fountain too , thus further I can tell , I'll put in pretty Fish there , will please you wondrous well , A and in this Pond they'll breed , for to increase your store , and if you once but let me in , you'll never deny me more . at length the young Maid then consented to my mind , But said withal , her heart should break if I should prove unkind . When I came to the Garden-door , said she you'll me undo , and steal away my precious time , and leave me nought but Rue . No no , then I replied , my pretty Maid never fear , For now the Bargain is fast tied , isle stay from Year to Year . Your Fountain isle new stock , your Garden isle new plant ; There's nothing that is requisite , my pretty Maid shall want . Now maids be ruled by me , never use Youngmen unkind , But take the first that comes to hand , if he be to your mind . Printed by and for A. M. 1696. 