TO : The Constant Lovers , OR , Billy is Invitation to his Sweetheart Joaney : Being a Courtship to Joan , for L ove and Favour . To a New Northern Tune . I often for my Joaney , etc I . I Often for my Joaney strove , Eyed her , Tried her , yet can't prove So lucky to find her Pity move ; Ize have no reward for Love , If you would but think on me , And now forsake your Cruelty , Ize for ever should be , could be , would be Joined with none but only thee . II When first I saw thy Lovely Charms , I Kissed thee , Wished thee in my Arms ; I often vowed and did protest , It's Joan alone that I love best . Ize have got twenty pounds , My Father's House and all his Grounds , And for ever , etc III . Your Eyes as black as any Slow , Brought me , Taught me , first to Woo ; Your Rosy Lips , and Dimple Chin , Bony Brow , and Forehead fine , Makes me wish to pass away With Joaney all the Night and Day . Ize for ever , etc IV. Ize fain convey thee to my Farm , Wed thee , Bed thee , keep the warm ; And fear not that thou'st shalt be poor , Ize have Cheese and Bacon store ; Malt and Corn to Grind at Mill , Of Curds and Cream you have your fill . Ize for ever , etc V. Close by a shady River side , Courting , Sporting , we's abide . Ize Rifle all the Flowery Field , Bring the store the Groves do yield ; To Crown my Joan with Much Pride , If she'll but yield to be my Bride . Ize for ever , etc VI . My House and Land , and Cart and Blow , Will be still be all for you ; Ize have beside , five Oxen Fat , With big and Goose for you to Eat ; And if Joaney be but kind , My Farm's a Kingdom to my mind . Ize for ever , etc VII . The pretty Lambs at Even Tide , Baying , playing , shall take Pride : To show the sport , the Nightingale Singing sweetly all the while , And all Night overflowed with Joys , The Lark shall tell us when to rise . Ize for ever , etc VIII . The Morning Dews and Odours Sweet , Swelling , smelling , shall thee Greet . The Trees their laden Boughs shall bend , Offer Fruits to thy Fair hand ; Meadows they shall wear their Green , That Gay by you they may be seen . Ize for ever , etc IX . My Love a Russet Gown shall have , Pleated , fitted , fine and brave , And when we's Married thou'st shall see A smiling Boy upon thy Knee : Youth and Beauty Time destroys , Ah! slight not then ; my Dear , these Joys . Ize for ever , etc X. But if you still do say me no , Wounded , drowned , in my woe : In shady Wood , or gloomy Cave , Killed by Grief , Ize find my Grave ; With Leaves the Birds shall cover me , And blame my Joaneys Cruelty , Since poor Billy Mained be , shan ; tO be , can't be Joined with thee , and only thee . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . TO : The Constant Lovers , OR , Billy is Invitation to his Sweetheart Joaney : Being a Courtship to Joan , for L ove and Favour . To a New Northern Tune . I often for my Joaney , etc I . I Often for my Joaney strove , Eyed her , Tried her , yet can't prove So lucky to find her Pity move ; Ize have no reward for Love , If you would but think on me , And now forsake your Cruelty , Ize for ever should be , could be , would be Joined with none but only thee . II When first I saw thy Lovely Charms , I Kissed thee , Wished thee in my Arms ; I often vowed and did protest , It's Joan alone that I love best . Ize have got twenty pounds , My Father's House and all his Grounds , And for ever , etc III . Your Eyes as black as any Slow , Brought me , Taught me , first to Woo ; Your Rosy Lips , and Dimple Chin , Bony Brow , and Forehead fine , Makes me wish to pass away With Joaney all the Night and Day . Ize for ever , etc IV. Ize fain convey thee to my Farm , Wed thee , Bed thee , keep the warm ; And fear not that thou'st shalt be poor , Ize have Cheese and Bacon store ; Malt and Corn to Grind at Mill , Of Curds and Cream you have your fill . Ize for ever , etc V. Close by a shady River side , Courting , Sporting , we's abide . Ize Rifle all the Flowery Field , Bring the store the Groves do yield ; To Crown my Joan with Much Pride , If she'll but yield to be my Bride . Ize for ever , etc VI . My House and Land , and Cart and Blow , Will be still be all for you ; Ize have beside , five Oxen Fat , With big and Goose for you to Eat ; And if Joaney be but kind , My Farm's a Kingdom to my mind . Ize for ever , etc VII . The pretty Lambs at Even Tide , Baying , playing , shall take Pride : To show the sport , the Nightingale Singing sweetly all the while , And all Night overflowed with Joys , The Lark shall tell us when to rise . Ize for ever , etc VIII . The Morning Dews and Odours Sweet , Swelling , smelling , shall thee Greet . The Trees their laden Boughs shall bend , Offer Fruits to thy Fair hand ; Meadows they shall wear their Green , That Gay by you they may be seen . Ize for ever , etc IX . My Love a Russet Gown shall have , Pleated , fitted , fine and brave , And when we's Married thou'st shall see A smiling Boy upon thy Knee : Youth and Beauty Time destroys , Ah! slight not then ; my Dear , these Joys . Ize for ever , etc X. But if you still do say me no , Wounded , drowned , in my woe : In shady Wood , or gloomy Cave , Killed by Grief , Ize find my Grave ; With Leaves the Birds shall cover me , And blame my Joaneys Cruelty , Since poor Billy Mained be , shan ; tO be , can't be Joined with thee , and only thee . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . 