TO : And Excellent New Scotch Song , Being lately Sung in a New Play , Called , A Wife for any Man. DE'el take the War that hurried Willy from me , who to love me just had swoarn , they made him Captain sure to undo me , waa is me he'll never return ; A thousand Loons abroad will Fight him , he from thousands never will run , day and night did I invite him to stay safe from Sword or Gun : I used alluring Graces , with muckle kind Embraces , now Sighing , then Crying , Tears drooping fallen , and had he my soft arms preferred to wars alarms , my love grows mad , without the Man of Gad , I fear in my fit I had granted all . Just at our parting how my hand a squeezed , and gave to me a gentle Kiss , And spoke so kind , in truth I was well pleased , for I found a joy in this , then I did beg him to quit his Commission ; lest he never return again : And then how wretched would be my condition , If Willy in the Wars were slave . I sighing oft did tell him , What dangers might befell him , In battle Guns rattle , thousands likewise fallen : and if my love should dee , What will become of me , Who here must stay lamenting every day , And if Willys killed , then adieu to all . How happy's she whose love is not for fighting , nor in the Wars obliged to be , but for to stay with her he takes delight in , If mine did so then happy me ; but my love runs thorough many dangers , all for Honour that empty name , Oh had he to Wars but been a stranger , Then my arms he'd never refrain , TO ho' I had store of beauty , s till he cried it his duty , To hasten for Flanders , and must be gone , But had he sweet Repose Preferred to bloody blows , He never would fly to Flanders for to die , And thus for to leave me lie alone . I washed and patched to make me look provoking , snares that they told me would catch the men And on my head a huge Commode sat cocking , which made me show as tall again : For a new Gown too I paid muckle money , which with golden flowers did shine ; My L ove well might think me gay and bonny , no Scotch Lass was ere so fine . My Petticoat I spotted , Fringe too with thread I knotted , Lace Shoes , silken Hose , gartered over knee , But o ! the fatal thought , TO oh Willy these are nought , Who rid to TO owns , and rifled with Dragoons , When he silly Loon might have plundered me . Printed by and for A. M. 1696 . TO : And Excellent New Scotch Song , Being lately Sung in a New Play , Called , A Wife for any Man. DE'el take the War that hurried Willy from me , who to love me just had swoarn , they made him Captain sure to undo me , waa is me he'll never return ; A thousand Loons abroad will Fight him , he from thousands never will run , day and night did I invite him to stay safe from Sword or Gun : I used alluring Graces , with muckle kind Embraces , now Sighing , then Crying , Tears drooping fallen , and had he my soft arms preferred to wars alarms , my love grows mad , without the Man of Gad , I fear in my fit I had granted all . Just at our parting how my hand a squeezed , and gave to me a gentle Kiss , And spoke so kind , in truth I was well pleased , for I found a joy in this , then I did beg him to quit his Commission ; lest he never return again : And then how wretched would be my condition , If Willy in the Wars were slave . I sighing oft did tell him , What dangers might befell him , In battle Guns rattle , thousands likewise fallen : and if my love should dee , What will become of me , Who here must stay lamenting every day , And if Willys killed , then adieu to all . How happy's she whose love is not for fighting , nor in the Wars obliged to be , but for to stay with her he takes delight in , If mine did so then happy me ; but my love runs thorough many dangers , all for Honour that empty name , Oh had he to Wars but been a stranger , Then my arms he'd never refrain , TO ho' I had store of beauty , s till he cried it his duty , To hasten for Flanders , and must be gone , But had he sweet Repose Preferred to bloody blows , He never would fly to Flanders for to die , And thus for to leave me lie alone . I washed and patched to make me look provoking , snares that they told me would catch the men And on my head a huge Commode sat cocking , which made me show as tall again : For a new Gown too I paid muckle money , which with golden flowers did shine ; My L ove well might think me gay and bonny , no Scotch Lass was ere so fine . My Petticoat I spotted , Fringe too with thread I knotted , Lace Shoes , silken Hose , gartered over knee , But o ! the fatal thought , TO oh Willy these are nought , Who rid to TO owns , and rifled with Dragoons , When he silly Loon might have plundered me . Printed by and for A. M. 1696 . 