The Goddesses Glory : OR , THE Loyal Lover Wounded By their splended Beauty . To the Tune of , Walking beneath the Shades . This may be Printed , R . P . I . WHen the soft winds did blow in the fair flourishing Spring , Where silver Streams did flow , and the sweet small Birds did sing : The Hills Enameled were , With fragrant Flowers fair , pleasant and gay : Through shades and groves I went , Then with a full intent to gather May . II A pleasant Flowery plain , at length I there did espy , Where a young Female Train , made a most sweet harmony ; On Lutes they played and sung , Which were most sweetly strung , all the long Day , The which did charm me so , That I forgotten to go to gather May . III . Clorona she was there , whom the young Swains do adore , And Floramella fair , with many youthful Nymphs more ; The one for Beauty bright , Cast such a splendid light , outshined the day , I asked who she might be , Straight it was told to me , the Queen of May . IV. There was none could compare with her among all the rest : The Tresses of her Hair shaded her white snowy Breast : Long did I stand and gaze , Words cannot speak her praise , being so gay ; Then I thought in my mind , That I should never fin [ worser ] more sweeter May , V. The Harmony they made , my yielding Fancy did more [ we ] So that I was betrayed in the sweet Raptures of love : Their Voices soft and sweet , Did with their Music meet , as they did play ; Thought I , I'de rather be , In their sweet Company , than gather May . VI . No man felt greater smart than I , in all the whole Earth , Being denied a part in their sweet innocent Mirth [ : ] The Nymph that wounded me , Would not to that agree , but said me nay ; Fair Flora was her name ; I wished I never had came to gather May . VII . They were Arrayed in white , with their fine Kerchers of Lawn ; But ever the gloomy Night , her fable Curtains had drawn , Homeward they did repair , And left me Wounded there , where I did stay , Being perplexed in mind , Knowing not where to find the Queen of May . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Gilt-Spur-Street , without Newgate . The Goddesses Glory : OR , THE Loyal Lover Wounded By their splended Beauty . To the Tune of , Walking beneath the Shades . This may be Printed , R . P . I . WHen the soft winds did blow in the fair flourishing Spring , Where silver Streams did flow , and the sweet small Birds did sing : The Hills Enameled were , With fragrant Flowers fair , pleasant and gay : Through shades and groves I went , Then with a full intent to gather May . II A pleasant Flowery plain , at length I there did espy , Where a young Female Train , made a most sweet harmony ; On Lutes they played and sung , Which were most sweetly strung , all the long Day , The which did charm me so , That I forgotten to go to gather May . III . Clorona she was there , whom the young Swains do adore , And Floramella fair , with many youthful Nymphs more ; The one for Beauty bright , Cast such a splendid light , outshined the day , I asked who she might be , Straight it was told to me , the Queen of May . IV. There was none could compare with her among all the rest : The Tresses of her Hair shaded her white snowy Breast : Long did I stand and gaze , Words cannot speak her praise , being so gay ; Then I thought in my mind , That I should never fin [ worser ] more sweeter May , V. The Harmony they made , my yielding Fancy did more [ we ] So that I was betrayed in the sweet Raptures of love : Their Voices soft and sweet , Did with their Music meet , as they did play ; Thought I , I'de rather be , In their sweet Company , than gather May . VI . No man felt greater smart than I , in all the whole Earth , Being denied a part in their sweet innocent Mirth [ : ] The Nymph that wounded me , Would not to that agree , but said me nay ; Fair Flora was her name ; I wished I never had came to gather May . VII . They were Arrayed in white , with their fine Kerchers of Lawn ; But ever the gloomy Night , her fable Curtains had drawn , Homeward they did repair , And left me Wounded there , where I did stay , Being perplexed in mind , Knowing not where to find the Queen of May . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Gilt-Spur-Street , without Newgate . 