TO : The Henpeckt Cuckold : Being his sorrowful Lamentation for the Cruelty of a Wanton Wife . TO une of , Guinea wins her . Licensed according to Order . YOung Gallants , that are single , be careful how you Marry , lest sighs with tears you mingle , when you like me miscarry : Unto the sour appletree I am bound , now farewell liberty , The grief I undergo , None but my self does know , She does the wanton play , I'm Cuckold night and day , Yet I must nothing say , Oh this Wife , she makes me weary of my life . I married her for beauty , and faith I think I'm fitted , She scorns to own her duty , am I not to be pitied ; A man of fourscore pounds a year , Yet kind Neighbours I am never the near , For if I meet a friend , I ha'ned a Groat to spend , but she'll in Taverns meet her Gallants , whom she'll treat , while I want food to eat , Oh this Wife , will make me weary of my life . Sometime I blow the fire , with and intent to ease her , Believe me I'm no liar , the Devil cannot please her , Perhaps something may fallen awry , Then she'll straightways make the bellows fly , or wring me by the ears , she'll not regard my tears , for being all alone , I dare not sighs or groan , nor say my soul's my own , Oh this Wife , will make me weary of my life . One morning she was rising , and I was waiting on her , A passion straight she flys in , for faults which I had done her , Because her slippers I forgotten , A [ tO ] my head she threw the chamber-pot , so dreadful was the blow , that blood began to flow , and I aloud did roar , but my tormenter swore , she'd give me ten times more , Oh this Wife , will make me weary of my life . There came a Linnen-Draper , one morning to embrace her , And I began to vapour , how I would scourge and lace her , He swore I should not them molest , And with that he locked me in a chest , where close confined I lay , while he and she did play , their sport they did renew , which made my heart to rue , such Queen's there is but few , Sure this Wife , will make me weary of my life . There's lusty Will the Plummer , likewise his brother Francis , A and brawny Dick the Drummer , see how each Villain Dances , Her Music gives them all content , As for me , alas , I do lament , The feathers which I wear , does to the world declare , that I am hornified , Old Neck would not be tied to such a cursed bride . Sure this Wife , will make me weary of my life . My Grief I cannot smuther , such is my sad disaster , I'll never have another shall be so much my master , If death would be so much my friend , A s to bring my troubles to and end , and take her to the Grave , it's all that I would have , so soon as she is dead I'll mourn in S ack and Read , and never more will wed , For this Wife , has made me weary of my life . Printed for J. Blare at the Looking-glass on London-Bridge . TO : The Henpeckt Cuckold : Being his sorrowful Lamentation for the Cruelty of a Wanton Wife . TO une of , Guinea wins her . Licensed according to Order . YOung Gallants , that are single , be careful how you Marry , lest sighs with tears you mingle , when you like me miscarry : Unto the sour appletree I am bound , now farewell liberty , The grief I undergo , None but my self does know , She does the wanton play , I'm Cuckold night and day , Yet I must nothing say , Oh this Wife , she makes me weary of my life . I married her for beauty , and faith I think I'm fitted , She scorns to own her duty , am I not to be pitied ; A man of fourscore pounds a year , Yet kind Neighbours I am never the near , For if I meet a friend , I ha'ned a Groat to spend , but she'll in Taverns meet her Gallants , whom she'll treat , while I want food to eat , Oh this Wife , will make me weary of my life . Sometime I blow the fire , with and intent to ease her , Believe me I'm no liar , the Devil cannot please her , Perhaps something may fallen awry , Then she'll straightways make the bellows fly , or wring me by the ears , she'll not regard my tears , for being all alone , I dare not sighs or groan , nor say my soul's my own , Oh this Wife , will make me weary of my life . One morning she was rising , and I was waiting on her , A passion straight she flys in , for faults which I had done her , Because her slippers I forgotten , A [ tO ] my head she threw the chamber-pot , so dreadful was the blow , that blood began to flow , and I aloud did roar , but my tormenter swore , she'd give me ten times more , Oh this Wife , will make me weary of my life . There came a Linnen-Draper , one morning to embrace her , And I began to vapour , how I would scourge and lace her , He swore I should not them molest , And with that he locked me in a chest , where close confined I lay , while he and she did play , their sport they did renew , which made my heart to rue , such Queen's there is but few , Sure this Wife , will make me weary of my life . There's lusty Will the Plummer , likewise his brother Francis , A and brawny Dick the Drummer , see how each Villain Dances , Her Music gives them all content , As for me , alas , I do lament , The feathers which I wear , does to the world declare , that I am hornified , Old Neck would not be tied to such a cursed bride . Sure this Wife , will make me weary of my life . My Grief I cannot smuther , such is my sad disaster , I'll never have another shall be so much my master , If death would be so much my friend , A s to bring my troubles to and end , and take her to the Grave , it's all that I would have , so soon as she is dead I'll mourn in S ack and Read , and never more will wed , For this Wife , has made me weary of my life . Printed for J. Blare at the Looking-glass on London-Bridge . 