TO : JOCKEY'S Jealousy : OR , His Rival chiefly Regarded by his Beloved Moggy . To and excellent New Tune . Licensed according to Order . I . I saw the Lass whom dear I loved long sighing and complaining , While me she slights and disapproves , another entertaining : Her hand and lips to him was free , no Favour she'd refuse him ; Judge how unkind she was to me , while she thus kindly used him . II His Hand her Milkwhite Bubbies pressed , a bliss worth King's desiring ; A Thousand times her Cheeks he kissed , her snowy Mounts admiring ; Then pleased to be his Charming Fair , she to such Passion moved him , She clapped his Cheeks , and curled his Hair , to show she well approved him . III . Ah cruel Moggy ! then I cried , will not my Passion move thee ? And if my Suit must be denied still give me leave to love thee , And then frown on , and still be Coy , your Constant Swain despising ; It is but just you should destroy what is not worth the prizing . IV. Thy charming Beauty do's appear like Phoebus in her Glory , Thy Voice is Music to my Ear , at every pleasant Story ; I evermore did take thy Part , and all thy wrongs have righted ; Yet now another has thy Heart , while I thy Love am slighted . V. The killing Torment which I feel is far beyond expressing ; First you my yielding Heart did steal , and then deny the Blessing ; So that I find unto my Cost no Creature more deceitful ; He that loves best must suffer most , because you are ungrateful . VI . Your Heart as hard as Marble grows , while you Embrace a Stranger ; My Life , and Fortune you expose unto the greatest Danger ; I strive to check the killing Pain , and all my Passion smother , But yet I find it is in vain , while Moggy loves another . VII . Unto the World I do declare I'ld love her , and defend her , Was she but half so kind as fair to Jockey her pretender , These Arms of mine should her enfold , no one shall never annoy her ; She's more to me than Crowns of Gold , if that I could Enjoy her . VIII . Moggy regard my wretched State , and hear my Love sick Ditty , Return , before it is too late , and let me find thy pity ; Now change a Rival for a Love , which never will deceive thee , But evermore will Loyal prove , and in my Arms receive thee . IX . But if you still will Tyrannise , and not regard you Duty , When I shall fallen a Sacrifice unto your killing Beauty , Then will your Sighs be all in vain , when I in Grave lie sleeping , You cannot call me back again , dear Moggy , then with weeping . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . TO : JOCKEY'S Jealousy : OR , His Rival chiefly Regarded by his Beloved Moggy . To and excellent New Tune . Licensed according to Order . I . I saw the Lass whom dear I loved long sighing and complaining , While me she slights and disapproves , another entertaining : Her hand and lips to him was free , no Favour she'd refuse him ; Judge how unkind she was to me , while she thus kindly used him . II His Hand her Milkwhite Bubbies pressed , a bliss worth King's desiring ; A Thousand times her Cheeks he kissed , her snowy Mounts admiring ; Then pleased to be his Charming Fair , she to such Passion moved him , She clapped his Cheeks , and curled his Hair , to show she well approved him . III . Ah cruel Moggy ! then I cried , will not my Passion move thee ? And if my Suit must be denied still give me leave to love thee , And then frown on , and still be Coy , your Constant Swain despising ; It is but just you should destroy what is not worth the prizing . IV. Thy charming Beauty do's appear like Phoebus in her Glory , Thy Voice is Music to my Ear , at every pleasant Story ; I evermore did take thy Part , and all thy wrongs have righted ; Yet now another has thy Heart , while I thy Love am slighted . V. The killing Torment which I feel is far beyond expressing ; First you my yielding Heart did steal , and then deny the Blessing ; So that I find unto my Cost no Creature more deceitful ; He that loves best must suffer most , because you are ungrateful . VI . Your Heart as hard as Marble grows , while you Embrace a Stranger ; My Life , and Fortune you expose unto the greatest Danger ; I strive to check the killing Pain , and all my Passion smother , But yet I find it is in vain , while Moggy loves another . VII . Unto the World I do declare I'ld love her , and defend her , Was she but half so kind as fair to Jockey her pretender , These Arms of mine should her enfold , no one shall never annoy her ; She's more to me than Crowns of Gold , if that I could Enjoy her . VIII . Moggy regard my wretched State , and hear my Love sick Ditty , Return , before it is too late , and let me find thy pity ; Now change a Rival for a Love , which never will deceive thee , But evermore will Loyal prove , and in my Arms receive thee . IX . But if you still will Tyrannise , and not regard you Duty , When I shall fallen a Sacrifice unto your killing Beauty , Then will your Sighs be all in vain , when I in Grave lie sleeping , You cannot call me back again , dear Moggy , then with weeping . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 