TO : The Cuckoldly Cook : OR , The Lusty Drawer hide in the Pastry-Cook's Oven , where he was found and fairly thrashed by the Cook , for making him a Cucklod while he was upon the watch with his Wive's Father . Tune of , The London Cuckold : or , Mother Roger . Licensed according to Order . COme listen to this pleasant ditty , which I shall in brief relate , It's of a Woman fair and pretty , and her kind and loving Mate ; Therefore now I pray behold , Such a jest is seldom told , As I'm sure you will confess , When I do the truth express ; While her kind , husband watched by night , Then she enjoyed her heart's delight . Her loving Friend he was a Drawer , living near that very place ; The very first time that he saw her , she appeared with such a grace , That he could not well forbear , But he must his mind declare ; She was kind and gave consent , So at length to bed they went ; Thus while her Husband watched by night , She there enjoyed her heart's delight . The Cook he was no common Watchman , as I needs must let you know , Nor yet his Brother any such Man , yet they to the watchhouse go , Merely for her Father's sake , One watch night with him they take ; Being Constable we hear , This rejoiced his Daughter dear ; For while her Husband watched by night , She had her love and heart's delight . The Drawer swore it was no treason , for to dally , sport and play , Quoth he , It is a proper season , we will lie till break of day ; Send your Servant now a side , I will to your chamber slide , Thou art welcome , Love , she cried , He was not the least denied ; Thus while the Cook did watch by night , His Wife enjoyed her heart's delight . Her Gallant kissed her out of measure , but yet what more I will not say , Now in the transport of their pleasure , swift Time took wings and flew away ; Towards daylight when it grew , The Cook and his Brother too , Left the Watch and home returned , As Persons clearly unconcerned ; The Cook not thinking , as he said , That he had been a Cuckold made . At the door he rapped like thunder , straight the Prentice let him in , Then the two Lovers flew asunder , frightful cares did soon begin ; Down the stairs the Drawer run , Being afraid of what was done , He into the oven crope ; Here I now am safe I hope . But yet the Cook he found him out , And likewise banged the Rogue about . Now when the Cook and his dear Brother , both did to the oven come , The first thing which they did discover , it was the Drawer's brawny bum , Are you here the Cook , he cried , Ever you go I'll thrash your hide : Out he pulled him by the tooes , Then he seasoned him with blows ; The proverb old was come to pass , The Cook he gave him sour sauce . He cried out e'ry bang he gave him , Sarrah you have Cuckold me ; Thus a while he did beslave him , and at length did set him free ; Loath he was to take his life , Then he told his loving Wife , He would pardon her , if so , She henceforth would wiser grow ; In sorrow on her knees she fell , He pardoned her , now all is well . London : Printed for J. Bissel , at the sign of the Bible and Harp in West-smithfield [ . ] TO : The Cuckoldly Cook : OR , The Lusty Drawer hide in the Pastry-Cook's Oven , where he was found and fairly thrashed by the Cook , for making him a Cucklod while he was upon the watch with his Wive's Father . Tune of , The London Cuckold : or , Mother Roger . Licensed according to Order . COme listen to this pleasant ditty , which I shall in brief relate , It's of a Woman fair and pretty , and her kind and loving Mate ; Therefore now I pray behold , Such a jest is seldom told , As I'm sure you will confess , When I do the truth express ; While her kind , husband watched by night , Then she enjoyed her heart's delight . Her loving Friend he was a Drawer , living near that very place ; The very first time that he saw her , she appeared with such a grace , That he could not well forbear , But he must his mind declare ; She was kind and gave consent , So at length to bed they went ; Thus while her Husband watched by night , She there enjoyed her heart's delight . The Cook he was no common Watchman , as I needs must let you know , Nor yet his Brother any such Man , yet they to the watchhouse go , Merely for her Father's sake , One watch night with him they take ; Being Constable we hear , This rejoiced his Daughter dear ; For while her Husband watched by night , She had her love and heart's delight . The Drawer swore it was no treason , for to dally , sport and play , Quoth he , It is a proper season , we will lie till break of day ; Send your Servant now a side , I will to your chamber slide , Thou art welcome , Love , she cried , He was not the least denied ; Thus while the Cook did watch by night , His Wife enjoyed her heart's delight . Her Gallant kissed her out of measure , but yet what more I will not say , Now in the transport of their pleasure , swift Time took wings and flew away ; Towards daylight when it grew , The Cook and his Brother too , Left the Watch and home returned , As Persons clearly unconcerned ; The Cook not thinking , as he said , That he had been a Cuckold made . At the door he rapped like thunder , straight the Prentice let him in , Then the two Lovers flew asunder , frightful cares did soon begin ; Down the stairs the Drawer run , Being afraid of what was done , He into the oven crope ; Here I now am safe I hope . But yet the Cook he found him out , And likewise banged the Rogue about . Now when the Cook and his dear Brother , both did to the oven come , The first thing which they did discover , it was the Drawer's brawny bum , Are you here the Cook , he cried , Ever you go I'll thrash your hide : Out he pulled him by the tooes , Then he seasoned him with blows ; The proverb old was come to pass , The Cook he gave him sour sauce . He cried out e'ry bang he gave him , Sarrah you have Cuckold me ; Thus a while he did beslave him , and at length did set him free ; Loath he was to take his life , Then he told his loving Wife , He would pardon her , if so , She henceforth would wiser grow ; In sorrow on her knees she fell , He pardoned her , now all is well . London : Printed for J. Bissel , at the sign of the Bible and Harp in West-smithfield [ . ] 