TO : COY MOGGY : OR , The Scotch Lass's Lamentation FOR THE Loss of her three LOVERS , Jemmy , Jockey and Sawny , Whom she lost by her Cruel FROWNS . To the Tune of , The bonny Grey-eyed Morn . Licensed according to Order . GId faith I'm was a blithe and bonny Lass , Before I'm over the twenty Years did pass , I'm then had much Suitors fine and gay , Who ganged with Moggy , e'ry Holiday To Edenborough - town , and feast me there ; But now they're gone , they're gone , I'm know not where : Such happy Days again I'm never shall see , Die now I'm must for Love ; ah ! wa is me . The first that courted me , when I'm was young , Ah! how my Heart does beatrice ? my trembling Tongue Can hardly utter what I'm have to say , 'Twas bonny Jemmy , in the Month of May , He gave me Sugarplumbs and Kisses sweet ; But I'm was stubborn , peevish , would not eat , Nor suffer him to pull me on his knee , But now he's gone , he's gone ; ah ! wa is me . Gid faith he was a Laird of much geer , With Sward and Bonnet how he did appear , Exceeding all the Highland Scottish Raze ; Sweet Sonnets could he sing , Dance with a grace , His Service unto me he would devote , Yet I'm not let him touch my Petticoat , When he attempted for to grasp my knee ; But now he's gone , he's gone ; ah ! wa is me . Next Jockey came , my Beauty to behold , And offe [ r ] ' d me a greater sum of Gold Then I'm in all my Days had ever seen , If I'm would let him , you know what I mean : Begone , said I , you cunn [ i ] ng crafty Loon ; Which hasty Words dropped from my Lips too soon : Unhappy Moggy I'm shall ever be , And die a Maid , a Maid ; ah ! wa is me . Then Sawny came and call [ ' ] worser me his Delight , Sayi [ n ] g , if he might lig with me all Night , Then in the Morning he would surely wed ; But loath I was to trust my Maidenhead : Wherefore I did resist him with the rest , And ever since , gid faith , I'm do protest , Not one of them my longing Eyes can see , I'm fear to die a Maid ; ah ! wa is me . My Mammy told me that I'm must be coy , For if unmarried Lovers might enjoy The Virgin-treasure , they would come no more ; This she experienced many Years before . I'm taking of a Mother's kind Advice , Jemmy and Jockey left me in a trice , And Sawny likewise did like Lightning flee : I fear to die a Maid ; ah ! wa is me . My Mammy I'm may happen to forgive , But never shall forget her while I'm live ; Her Counsel made my Lovers from me run , But what cares she her Dancing-days are done ; Wherefore my Mother she no pity shows , Yet I'm am her own Daughter and that she knows ; Nothing but much Sorrow can I'm see , My Lovers all are fled ; ah ! wa is me . I'm must acknowledge I'm was too severe , Poor Sawny told me , That I'm not fear But he would marry me , his pretty Bird ; I'm do believe I'm might have took his Word : How many Lasses daily do comply Before they married are ? And why not I ? A Man I'm have , ever it be long [ , ] she said , For , why should Moggy live and die a Maid ? London : Printed for J. Shooter . TO : COY MOGGY : OR , The Scotch Lass's Lamentation FOR THE Loss of her three LOVERS , Jemmy , Jockey and Sawny , Whom she lost by her Cruel FROWNS . To the Tune of , The bonny Grey-eyed Morn . Licensed according to Order . GId faith I'm was a blithe and bonny Lass , Before I'm over the twenty Years did pass , I'm then had much Suitors fine and gay , Who ganged with Moggy , e'ry Holiday To Edenborough - town , and feast me there ; But now they're gone , they're gone , I'm know not where : Such happy Days again I'm never shall see , Die now I'm must for Love ; ah ! wa is me . The first that courted me , when I'm was young , Ah! how my Heart does beatrice ? my trembling Tongue Can hardly utter what I'm have to say , 'Twas bonny Jemmy , in the Month of May , He gave me Sugarplumbs and Kisses sweet ; But I'm was stubborn , peevish , would not eat , Nor suffer him to pull me on his knee , But now he's gone , he's gone ; ah ! wa is me . Gid faith he was a Laird of much geer , With Sward and Bonnet how he did appear , Exceeding all the Highland Scottish Raze ; Sweet Sonnets could he sing , Dance with a grace , His Service unto me he would devote , Yet I'm not let him touch my Petticoat , When he attempted for to grasp my knee ; But now he's gone , he's gone ; ah ! wa is me . Next Jockey came , my Beauty to behold , And offe [ r ] ' d me a greater sum of Gold Then I'm in all my Days had ever seen , If I'm would let him , you know what I mean : Begone , said I , you cunn [ i ] ng crafty Loon ; Which hasty Words dropped from my Lips too soon : Unhappy Moggy I'm shall ever be , And die a Maid , a Maid ; ah ! wa is me . Then Sawny came and call [ ' ] worser me his Delight , Sayi [ n ] g , if he might lig with me all Night , Then in the Morning he would surely wed ; But loath I was to trust my Maidenhead : Wherefore I did resist him with the rest , And ever since , gid faith , I'm do protest , Not one of them my longing Eyes can see , I'm fear to die a Maid ; ah ! wa is me . My Mammy told me that I'm must be coy , For if unmarried Lovers might enjoy The Virgin-treasure , they would come no more ; This she experienced many Years before . I'm taking of a Mother's kind Advice , Jemmy and Jockey left me in a trice , And Sawny likewise did like Lightning flee : I fear to die a Maid ; ah ! wa is me . My Mammy I'm may happen to forgive , But never shall forget her while I'm live ; Her Counsel made my Lovers from me run , But what cares she her Dancing-days are done ; Wherefore my Mother she no pity shows , Yet I'm am her own Daughter and that she knows ; Nothing but much Sorrow can I'm see , My Lovers all are fled ; ah ! wa is me . I'm must acknowledge I'm was too severe , Poor Sawny told me , That I'm not fear But he would marry me , his pretty Bird ; I'm do believe I'm might have took his Word : How many Lasses daily do comply Before they married are ? And why not I ? A Man I'm have , ever it be long [ , ] she said , For , why should Moggy live and die a Maid ? London : Printed for J. Shooter . 