TO : JOCKIES Happy Meeting WITH Fair SILVIA in the GROVE . To the Tune of , Jenny my blithest Lass , etc Or , Silvia thou brightest , etc I . S Ilvia , thou bright and charming Maid , prithee let me now prevail and move Thy soft young Heart , and be not afraid , but give ear and listen to my love : So sweet a Face was made to Charm , let my Fairest fancy me . Nor by thy Eyes , nor by thy Brow , let thy Jockey any Coyness see . Choru [ s ] . In the Lovers Shady-Mirtle-Grove , All the Joys of Youth wee'll prove ; While Nightingales sing Songs of Love , such as might entice and charm great Jove . II A fair long-lasting Summer's Day , will to Jockey seem but short ; When every young , gay , Winged-Hour , flies away in such beguiling Sport . Blush not , nor let Jockey see Disdain , think upon the Tender Boy , Of all his Art , Youth , Love , and Charms , thus young Men with Maidens use to toy . Chorus . In the Lovers Shady , etc III . The young , sweet , beauteous , silken Flowers ( blew-veined Violets where we lean ) Can tell no Tales of Youth and Love , for ( my Fair ) they know not what we mean . And the young Maids like sweet Springing Flowers should be gathered in their prime ; For they soon loose both their Life and Leaves pine away and Die in little time . Chorus . In the Lovers Shady , etc IV. Silvia , then Dearest yield to me , to thy only true Love now , I am a young , brisk , and bonny Boy , gang along with me to yonder Bough : No noise or business shall there molest . like Elizium it'll appear , Where all the young , and happy rest , then my fairest Silvia never fear : Chorus . In the Lovers Shady , etc V. At this fair Silvia with Virgin fear , first grew pale , then by and by , A quick , bright , harmless , lovely Fire , flashed like Lightning from the beauteous sky Thus brisk young Jockey had learned and Art to enjoy what lovers wish , And at the last wone Silvia's heart , from which Nymph he often had a Kiss : Chorus . In the Lovers Shady , etc VI . Within each others twining Arms , thus these happy Lovers lay , In all the pleasing Charms of Love , till Aurora rising , brought the day : Silvia's young Frozen Virgin heart , by her Jockey thus was wone , And all her Coyness did melt away , like the Mountain Snow with midday Sun . Chorus . In the Lovers Shady Mirtle-Grove , all the Joys of Youth we'll prove , While Nightingales sing Songs of Love , such as might entice and charm great Jove . This may be Printed , R. P. Printed for C. Dennisson , at the Stationers-Armes within Aldgate . TO : JOCKIES Happy Meeting WITH Fair SILVIA in the GROVE . To the Tune of , Jenny my blithest Lass , etc Or , Silvia thou brightest , etc I . S Ilvia , thou bright and charming Maid , prithee let me now prevail and move Thy soft young Heart , and be not afraid , but give ear and listen to my love : So sweet a Face was made to Charm , let my Fairest fancy me . Nor by thy Eyes , nor by thy Brow , let thy Jockey any Coyness see . Choru [ s ] . In the Lovers Shady-Mirtle-Grove , All the Joys of Youth wee'll prove ; While Nightingales sing Songs of Love , such as might entice and charm great Jove . II A fair long-lasting Summer's Day , will to Jockey seem but short ; When every young , gay , Winged-Hour , flies away in such beguiling Sport . Blush not , nor let Jockey see Disdain , think upon the Tender Boy , Of all his Art , Youth , Love , and Charms , thus young Men with Maidens use to toy . Chorus . In the Lovers Shady , etc III . The young , sweet , beauteous , silken Flowers ( blew-veined Violets where we lean ) Can tell no Tales of Youth and Love , for ( my Fair ) they know not what we mean . And the young Maids like sweet Springing Flowers should be gathered in their prime ; For they soon loose both their Life and Leaves pine away and Die in little time . Chorus . In the Lovers Shady , etc IV. Silvia , then Dearest yield to me , to thy only true Love now , I am a young , brisk , and bonny Boy , gang along with me to yonder Bough : No noise or business shall there molest . like Elizium it'll appear , Where all the young , and happy rest , then my fairest Silvia never fear : Chorus . In the Lovers Shady , etc V. At this fair Silvia with Virgin fear , first grew pale , then by and by , A quick , bright , harmless , lovely Fire , flashed like Lightning from the beauteous sky Thus brisk young Jockey had learned and Art to enjoy what lovers wish , And at the last wone Silvia's heart , from which Nymph he often had a Kiss : Chorus . In the Lovers Shady , etc VI . Within each others twining Arms , thus these happy Lovers lay , In all the pleasing Charms of Love , till Aurora rising , brought the day : Silvia's young Frozen Virgin heart , by her Jockey thus was wone , And all her Coyness did melt away , like the Mountain Snow with midday Sun . Chorus . In the Lovers Shady Mirtle-Grove , all the Joys of Youth we'll prove , While Nightingales sing Songs of Love , such as might entice and charm great Jove . This may be Printed , R. P. Printed for C. Dennisson , at the Stationers-Armes within Aldgate . 