TO : SLIGHTED JOCKEY : OR , Coy Moggy's Unspeakable Cruelty . BEING And excellent Scoth Song much in Request . To a Pleasant new Tune . Licensed according to Order . COme sweet Lass , This bonny weather , Let's together ; Come sweet Lass Let's trip it on the Grass : Everywhere Poor Jockey seeks his Dear , And unless you appear , He sees no Beauty here . On our green The Loons are sporting , Piping , courting , On our green The blythest Lads are seen ; There all day Our Lasses dance and play , And every one is gay , But I when your away . How can I Have any pleasure , While my Treasure Is not by ? The rural harmony I'se not mind , But Captive like confined I'se lig in shades behind , Cause Moggy proves unkind : There is none That can delight me , If you slight me , All alone I'se ever make my moan ; Life's a pain Since by your coy disdain , Like and unhappy Swain , I sighs and weep in vain . I could be Right blithe and jolly , Melancholy N'er should be My fatal destiny , If I might But have my Love in sighed , Whose Angel-beauty bright Was ever my delight . Have I not , In Moggy is Dances , Seen those glances , Which was shot , And , like a Fouler , cot My poor Heart ; Yes , and I feel the smart Of Cupid is fatal dart , Since we have been apart Jemmy can With pretty Nancy Have his fany ; Jemmy can , Though not so blithe a Man , Have his will , Kiss and enjoy her still , While I on each green hill , Weep and lament my fill . I'll not wear The reath of willow , Floramilla Charming fair Shall ease me of my care ; Who can tell , But she may please as well ? No longer will I dwell In Love's tormenting cell . Moggey's Answer to Jockey . To the same Tune . J Ockey pray Forbear your passion , And vexation ; Lasses may With Loons be blithe and gay : N'ertheless The height of happiness My Jockey shall possess ; Then weep not to excess . On the green . In joy and pleasure , Out of measure , On the green My Jockey shall be seen Blessed with love , For I will ever prove Like to the turtledove , By all the Powers above . Printed J. Deacon , in Guilt-spur-street . TO : SLIGHTED JOCKEY : OR , Coy Moggy's Unspeakable Cruelty . BEING And excellent Scoth Song much in Request . To a Pleasant new Tune . Licensed according to Order . COme sweet Lass , This bonny weather , Let's together ; Come sweet Lass Let's trip it on the Grass : Everywhere Poor Jockey seeks his Dear , And unless you appear , He sees no Beauty here . On our green The Loons are sporting , Piping , courting , On our green The blythest Lads are seen ; There all day Our Lasses dance and play , And every one is gay , But I when your away . How can I Have any pleasure , While my Treasure Is not by ? The rural harmony I'se not mind , But Captive like confined I'se lig in shades behind , Cause Moggy proves unkind : There is none That can delight me , If you slight me , All alone I'se ever make my moan ; Life's a pain Since by your coy disdain , Like and unhappy Swain , I sighs and weep in vain . I could be Right blithe and jolly , Melancholy N'er should be My fatal destiny , If I might But have my Love in sighed , Whose Angel-beauty bright Was ever my delight . Have I not , In Moggy is Dances , Seen those glances , Which was shot , And , like a Fouler , cot My poor Heart ; Yes , and I feel the smart Of Cupid is fatal dart , Since we have been apart Jemmy can With pretty Nancy Have his fany ; Jemmy can , Though not so blithe a Man , Have his will , Kiss and enjoy her still , While I on each green hill , Weep and lament my fill . I'll not wear The reath of willow , Floramilla Charming fair Shall ease me of my care ; Who can tell , But she may please as well ? No longer will I dwell In Love's tormenting cell . Moggey's Answer to Jockey . To the same Tune . J Ockey pray Forbear your passion , And vexation ; Lasses may With Loons be blithe and gay : N'ertheless The height of happiness My Jockey shall possess ; Then weep not to excess . On the green . In joy and pleasure , Out of measure , On the green My Jockey shall be seen Blessed with love , For I will ever prove Like to the turtledove , By all the Powers above . Printed J. Deacon , in Guilt-spur-street . 