TO : Perjured BILLY : OR , THE Lamentable Overthrow of Fair PHILLIS , THE Maser's Daughter of Dorcester , who died for the Love of Billy , a Counsel lor.'s Clark in that Country . Tune of , Come sweet Lass , etc Licensed and Entered according to Order . IN the West A weeping Lover Here discover , In the West A Maid with beauty blessed , Charming clear , A Maser's Daughter dear ; But Billy two severe , He would not her come near . Though he swore He'd never leave her , Nor deceivee her , Though he swore Fair Phillis he'd adore , N'ertheless , With heart of heaviness , He left her in distress , Her sorrows to express . All in vain She strove , to smother , From her Mother , All in vain She strove to hide her pain , till she cried , I am disatisfyed , Let Friends and Parents chide , My grief I cannot hide . Unkind Love , Why art thou cruel , To thy Jewel ; Unkind Love , Like the unspotted dove , I will be In truth and loyalty , Though still you torture me , I love no one but thee . Once I thought My life a pleasure Out of measure ; Once I thought I never should be brought To despair ; But now I do declare , This sorrow , grief and care , Is more than I can bear . Pity me Your weeping Philly , Perjured Billy ; Pity me Whose life and liberty Lies at stake ; My fainting heart will break With sorrow for thy sake , If you no pity take . He never came , Though bound in duty , To this Beauty He never came ; Phillis the fair , by name , Weeping lay , Many a mournful day ; At length she died away , Love wrought her life's decay . When she died , Her discontented Friends lamented ; When she died Mourning they did provide For threescore Young Damsels , rich and poor , Who willow-garlands wore ; The like not seen before . London : Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-glass on the Bridge . TO : Perjured BILLY : OR , THE Lamentable Overthrow of Fair PHILLIS , THE Maser's Daughter of Dorcester , who died for the Love of Billy , a Counsel lor.'s Clark in that Country . Tune of , Come sweet Lass , etc Licensed and Entered according to Order . IN the West A weeping Lover Here discover , In the West A Maid with beauty blessed , Charming clear , A Maser's Daughter dear ; But Billy two severe , He would not her come near . Though he swore He'd never leave her , Nor deceivee her , Though he swore Fair Phillis he'd adore , N'ertheless , With heart of heaviness , He left her in distress , Her sorrows to express . All in vain She strove , to smother , From her Mother , All in vain She strove to hide her pain , till she cried , I am disatisfyed , Let Friends and Parents chide , My grief I cannot hide . Unkind Love , Why art thou cruel , To thy Jewel ; Unkind Love , Like the unspotted dove , I will be In truth and loyalty , Though still you torture me , I love no one but thee . Once I thought My life a pleasure Out of measure ; Once I thought I never should be brought To despair ; But now I do declare , This sorrow , grief and care , Is more than I can bear . Pity me Your weeping Philly , Perjured Billy ; Pity me Whose life and liberty Lies at stake ; My fainting heart will break With sorrow for thy sake , If you no pity take . He never came , Though bound in duty , To this Beauty He never came ; Phillis the fair , by name , Weeping lay , Many a mournful day ; At length she died away , Love wrought her life's decay . When she died , Her discontented Friends lamented ; When she died Mourning they did provide For threescore Young Damsels , rich and poor , Who willow-garlands wore ; The like not seen before . London : Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-glass on the Bridge . 