TO : And ANSWER TO THE Despairing LOVER : OR , The Servingman's sorrowful Lamentation for the Death of his Love , who rashly killed her - self on the Thirtieth of May , 1698 , with a Pistol-Bullet , near Town , in Oxfordshire . Tune of , The Ruined Virgin . Licensed and Entered according to Order . WHat dismal tidings do I hear , The sad destruction of my Dear ; She's gone , and I am left behind To weep , and can no comfort find , She set her love upon me so , That it has proved her overthrow ; And now her death ; I do lament In bitter tears of discontent . Why did I leave her in despair ! Why did I cause her grief and care ! Alas , alas , I am to blame , How shall I answer for the same ? No tongue is able to express , The grief of heart and heaviness , Which lies upon my Spirits here , Alas , my grief is too severe . What protestation did I make , That I would not my Dear forsake ; Yet ne'ertheless from her I stayed , And this has her dear life betrayed ? Alas ! alas ! My true Love Joan , She's gone and I am left alone , To tell the woeful tragedy , The product of her jealousy . Upon the thirtieth Day of May , It seems a loaded Pistol lay , Before her at a time of grief ; She shot herself to find relief : She reasoned with herself a while , In hope's thereby to reconcile Her passion , but , alas ! in vain , For in a minuite she was slave . The bullet pierced her bleeding heart , Death seized her strait in e'ry part ; While in her wreaking gore she lay ; It was a sad and dismal day . Would I that minute had been there , And herd her words of sad despair ; I would have stayed her cruel hand , As she with grief did weeping stand . But o , these wishes are in vain , She's gone , she's gone , my Dear is slave , And in the silent grave she lies , While I remain with weeping eyes . Oh! Why did cruel Fortune lay , That loaded Pistol in her way , To give the opportunity , To such despairing Souls as she ? When ever I lie me down to rest , I am so much with grief oppressed , That there I startle in my sleep , And wake , I can't forbear to weep . You loyal Lovers far and near , That shall this sad relation hear , Be not so rashly drawn aside , Lete Rason be your rule and guide . London : Printed for J. Shooter . TO : And ANSWER TO THE Despairing LOVER : OR , The Servingman's sorrowful Lamentation for the Death of his Love , who rashly killed her - self on the Thirtieth of May , 1698 , with a Pistol-Bullet , near Town , in Oxfordshire . Tune of , The Ruined Virgin . Licensed and Entered according to Order . WHat dismal tidings do I hear , The sad destruction of my Dear ; She's gone , and I am left behind To weep , and can no comfort find , She set her love upon me so , That it has proved her overthrow ; And now her death ; I do lament In bitter tears of discontent . Why did I leave her in despair ! Why did I cause her grief and care ! Alas , alas , I am to blame , How shall I answer for the same ? No tongue is able to express , The grief of heart and heaviness , Which lies upon my Spirits here , Alas , my grief is too severe . What protestation did I make , That I would not my Dear forsake ; Yet ne'ertheless from her I stayed , And this has her dear life betrayed ? Alas ! alas ! My true Love Joan , She's gone and I am left alone , To tell the woeful tragedy , The product of her jealousy . Upon the thirtieth Day of May , It seems a loaded Pistol lay , Before her at a time of grief ; She shot herself to find relief : She reasoned with herself a while , In hope's thereby to reconcile Her passion , but , alas ! in vain , For in a minuite she was slave . The bullet pierced her bleeding heart , Death seized her strait in e'ry part ; While in her wreaking gore she lay ; It was a sad and dismal day . Would I that minute had been there , And herd her words of sad despair ; I would have stayed her cruel hand , As she with grief did weeping stand . But o , these wishes are in vain , She's gone , she's gone , my Dear is slave , And in the silent grave she lies , While I remain with weeping eyes . Oh! Why did cruel Fortune lay , That loaded Pistol in her way , To give the opportunity , To such despairing Souls as she ? When ever I lie me down to rest , I am so much with grief oppressed , That there I startle in my sleep , And wake , I can't forbear to weep . You loyal Lovers far and near , That shall this sad relation hear , Be not so rashly drawn aside , Lete Rason be your rule and guide . London : Printed for J. Shooter . 