TO : The Repenting Maids , Sorrowful Lamentation ; FOR THE Loss of her True Love that shot himself in SOHO . To the Tune of , O , my dearest dear . COME pity pity me , all you that Lovers be for it's that caused Johnny is fate I have broke a Heart , Caused a Lovers smart ; But I now Repent alas to late I was too unkind , When he told his mind , And repaid his Love with proved disdain ; you young Lovers all , that has herd his fallen , Come and help me now for to complain . 'Twas my Pride indeed , made his Heart to Bleed , For his faithful Love I seemed to scorn : but with Grief each Day , I do sighs and say , I may wish I never had been Born . Maidens great and small , I write unto you all , That you may a Warning take by me , I have been too shy , made a young Man Die , Who did love me clear and tenderly . He was a Servingman , and many witness can , He was full of truth and honesty , and I a Servant-maid , often to him said , That alas he was too poor for me . In my beauty bright , I took too much delight , Hoping some Rich Miser for to Wed , but my folly I repent , and with Grief leament , Ever since my Faithful Lover's Dead . I am so oppressed , I can take no Rest , For methinks my love appears to me , pointing to his smart , caused by my Prowed Heart , B laming me for my sad Cruelty . As I walk the Street's , People as I meet , Stares upon me as I pass along , Telling all that Night , That it's only I Was the cause of all poor Johnny's wrong Since my love is Dead , Joy is from me fled , For he shot himself for love of me : I shall never find , one that is so kind , For few lovers are so true as he . Maidens , all draw near , To this Song give ear , For it's unto you these , Lines I send , Let not Pride of heart , cause a Lovers smart , Lest it bring them to a fatal end . LONDON , Printed by J.W. near Fleet-street . 1698. TO : The Repenting Maids , Sorrowful Lamentation ; FOR THE Loss of her True Love that shot himself in SOHO . To the Tune of , O , my dearest dear . COME pity pity me , all you that Lovers be for it's that caused Johnny is fate I have broke a Heart , Caused a Lovers smart ; But I now Repent alas to late I was too unkind , When he told his mind , And repaid his Love with proved disdain ; you young Lovers all , that has herd his fallen , Come and help me now for to complain . 'Twas my Pride indeed , made his Heart to Bleed , For his faithful Love I seemed to scorn : but with Grief each Day , I do sighs and say , I may wish I never had been Born . Maidens great and small , I write unto you all , That you may a Warning take by me , I have been too shy , made a young Man Die , Who did love me clear and tenderly . He was a Servingman , and many witness can , He was full of truth and honesty , and I a Servant-maid , often to him said , That alas he was too poor for me . In my beauty bright , I took too much delight , Hoping some Rich Miser for to Wed , but my folly I repent , and with Grief leament , Ever since my Faithful Lover's Dead . I am so oppressed , I can take no Rest , For methinks my love appears to me , pointing to his smart , caused by my Prowed Heart , B laming me for my sad Cruelty . As I walk the Street's , People as I meet , Stares upon me as I pass along , Telling all that Night , That it's only I Was the cause of all poor Johnny's wrong Since my love is Dead , Joy is from me fled , For he shot himself for love of me : I shall never find , one that is so kind , For few lovers are so true as he . Maidens , all draw near , To this Song give ear , For it's unto you these , Lines I send , Let not Pride of heart , cause a Lovers smart , Lest it bring them to a fatal end . LONDON , Printed by J.W. near Fleet-street . 1698. 