TO : THE CONSTANT LADY , AND Falls Hearted Squire , Being a Relation of a Knights Daughter near Woodstock in Oxford-shier , that died for Love of a Squire . To a New Tune . NEar Woodstock Town in Oxford shire As I Walked forth to take the Are , To view the fields and Meadows Round , Me thought's I heard a Mournful Found . Down by a Crystal River side , A gallant Bower I espied Where a fair L ady made great moan , With many a sighs and bitter Groan . Alas ! quoth she , my love's unkind , My sighed and Tear's he will not mind , But is so cruel unto me , Which Causes all my Misiry . My father is a worthy Knight , My Mother she a L ady bright , And I their child and only heir , Yet love his brought me to despair . A wealthy Esquire lives hard by , Who and my Beauty cast and Eye ; He courted me both day and night , For to be his Jewel and delight . To me these words he often said , Fair B eautious Lady , lovly maid , Oh! pity me I you Imploar , For it ' is you I do adore H e still did beg me to be kind , And ease his love Tormented mind , For if , says he you should deny , For love of you alas I die . These words did pierce my tender heart I soon did yeald to ease his Smart , And unto him made this reply , Dear Sir for me you shall not die . With that he flew unto my Aarmes , And swore I had a thousand Charms , He called me Angel , Saint , and he , Did sware for ever true to be . Soon after he had gained my Heart , He cruelly from me did part , And other Maid he does pursue , And to all his Vows has bid adieu . This he that makes me to Lament , He causes all my discontent , This he that causes my despair , This he's the cause of all my care . This Lady round the Meadow run , And gathered flowers where they sprung Of every sort she there did pull , Until she had her Apron full . There is a Flower she did say , This called hearts ease by night and day , I wish I could that Flower find , For to ease my heart and cure my mind . But o ! alas it is in vain , For me to sighs or to complain , Theres nothing now can ease my smart , For his disdain has broke my Heart , The Green it served me for a Bed , The Flowers Pillows for my Head , I laid me down and no more Spoke , But a lass for love my heart Broke . But when I found he Corpse was cold , I went to her falls Love and told . What unto this fair Maid befell , I am glad , quoth he , she is so well . O did she think I so found would be , That would fancy none but she , Man was not Made for one a lone , For I take delight to hear their moan . Oh! Cruel man I find thou art , Thus for to berak a Virgins Heart , In Abraham is Bosom may she Sleep , While they Tormented Soul shall weep : LONDON , Printed for R.B. near Fleet-Street . TO : THE CONSTANT LADY , AND Falls Hearted Squire , Being a Relation of a Knights Daughter near Woodstock in Oxford-shier , that died for Love of a Squire . To a New Tune . NEar Woodstock Town in Oxford shire As I Walked forth to take the Are , To view the fields and Meadows Round , Me thought's I heard a Mournful Found . Down by a Crystal River side , A gallant Bower I espied Where a fair L ady made great moan , With many a sighs and bitter Groan . Alas ! quoth she , my love's unkind , My sighed and Tear's he will not mind , But is so cruel unto me , Which Causes all my Misiry . My father is a worthy Knight , My Mother she a L ady bright , And I their child and only heir , Yet love his brought me to despair . A wealthy Esquire lives hard by , Who and my Beauty cast and Eye ; He courted me both day and night , For to be his Jewel and delight . To me these words he often said , Fair B eautious Lady , lovly maid , Oh! pity me I you Imploar , For it ' is you I do adore H e still did beg me to be kind , And ease his love Tormented mind , For if , says he you should deny , For love of you alas I die . These words did pierce my tender heart I soon did yeald to ease his Smart , And unto him made this reply , Dear Sir for me you shall not die . With that he flew unto my Aarmes , And swore I had a thousand Charms , He called me Angel , Saint , and he , Did sware for ever true to be . Soon after he had gained my Heart , He cruelly from me did part , And other Maid he does pursue , And to all his Vows has bid adieu . This he that makes me to Lament , He causes all my discontent , This he that causes my despair , This he's the cause of all my care . This Lady round the Meadow run , And gathered flowers where they sprung Of every sort she there did pull , Until she had her Apron full . There is a Flower she did say , This called hearts ease by night and day , I wish I could that Flower find , For to ease my heart and cure my mind . But o ! alas it is in vain , For me to sighs or to complain , Theres nothing now can ease my smart , For his disdain has broke my Heart , The Green it served me for a Bed , The Flowers Pillows for my Head , I laid me down and no more Spoke , But a lass for love my heart Broke . But when I found he Corpse was cold , I went to her falls Love and told . What unto this fair Maid befell , I am glad , quoth he , she is so well . O did she think I so found would be , That would fancy none but she , Man was not Made for one a lone , For I take delight to hear their moan . Oh! Cruel man I find thou art , Thus for to berak a Virgins Heart , In Abraham is Bosom may she Sleep , While they Tormented Soul shall weep : LONDON , Printed for R.B. near Fleet-Street . 