THE MAIDENS MOAN For the Loss of Her Unkind Lover . Tune , As May was in her youthful dress . Licensed , and Entered according to Order . ( 1. ) AS a Maid was walking in a Grove , She to Cupid did complain , Because her true Love was so unkind , And minded not her bitter pain ; While Love does torture in her Breast , Each Night I spend in misery , While Love regardeth not my Pain , And Cupid would not set me free . ( 2. ) And when the Sun from the Grove declined , Where true Lovers does abide , Then all their Secrets they relate To the twinkling stars that rules by night , But while in Love they do agree , Each Minute then we think a Day , But when the time I lost my Love , I thought my eyes would have dropped away . ( 3. ) All Charms of Love lay in my Heart , And Love , a sickly Appetite , Like one that hath a death-ful stroke , And in the World takes no delight ; But if that Cupid can confine , My Dear and I for to agree , Into the Woods then I will go , And there will end my misery . ( 4. ) Teach me , if that you then have Love , And help a Virgin in distress , I call unto the powers above , To send some sickness in his Breast , That he to me might but prove true , And he my Joys for to restore , Or else within the Grave I'll lie , And in this World be seen no more . ( 5. ) Come Death , come ease me of my smart , Because my Love hath proved unkind , Unto the Eleziums I will go , And leave my unkind Love behind ; Because that I have loved one , And he to me has proved untrue , Oh Death , come ease me of my smart , Unto the World I bid adieu . ( 6. ) With that her Penknife then she drew , As she sat by a silent Spring , And then the Nightingale appeared , And unto her did sweetly sing , This pretty Bird that comes now , Is witness of my fatal stroke , And unto Death she would have bowed , Had not then her True Love spoke . ( 7. ) O cease my Dear , don't yield to Death , Nor think upon the fatal stroke , For Arrows they have pierced my breast , And Cupid he these words hath spoke , That I the World should rainge about , Because I was unkind to thee , Therefore my Dear , pray pardon me , And I will live and die with thee . ( 8. ) With that he Embraced her in his Arms , Her Sorrows then were turned to joy , In love then they did both agree , And the little birds did sing for joy , That the Powers above might them befriend , And they might live in Loyalty ; Now in true Love may they abide , And so continue till they die . Printed for A. Milbourn in Green-Arbor-Court in the Little-Old-BailyTHE MAIDENS MOAN For the Loss of Her Unkind Lover . Tune , As May was in her youthful dress . Licensed , and Entered according to Order . ( 1. ) AS a Maid was walking in a Grove , She to Cupid did complain , Because her true Love was so unkind , And minded not her bitter pain ; While Love does torture in her Breast , Each Night I spend in misery , While Love regardeth not my Pain , And Cupid would not set me free . ( 2. ) And when the Sun from the Grove declined , Where true Lovers does abide , Then all their Secrets they relate To the twinkling stars that rules by night , But while in Love they do agree , Each Minute then we think a Day , But when the time I lost my Love , I thought my eyes would have dropped away . ( 3. ) All Charms of Love lay in my Heart , And Love , a sickly Appetite , Like one that hath a death-ful stroke , And in the World takes no delight ; But if that Cupid can confine , My Dear and I for to agree , Into the Woods then I will go , And there will end my misery . ( 4. ) Teach me , if that you then have Love , And help a Virgin in distress , I call unto the powers above , To send some sickness in his Breast , That he to me might but prove true , And he my Joys for to restore , Or else within the Grave I'll lie , And in this World be seen no more . ( 5. ) Come Death , come ease me of my smart , Because my Love hath proved unkind , Unto the Eleziums I will go , And leave my unkind Love behind ; Because that I have loved one , And he to me has proved untrue , Oh Death , come ease me of my smart , Unto the World I bid adieu . ( 6. ) With that her Penknife then she drew , As she sat by a silent Spring , And then the Nightingale appeared , And unto her did sweetly sing , This pretty Bird that comes now , Is witness of my fatal stroke , And unto Death she would have bowed , Had not then her True Love spoke . ( 7. ) O cease my Dear , don't yield to Death , Nor think upon the fatal stroke , For Arrows they have pierced my breast , And Cupid he these words hath spoke , That I the World should rainge about , Because I was unkind to thee , Therefore my Dear , pray pardon me , And I will live and die with thee . ( 8. ) With that he Embraced her in his Arms , Her Sorrows then were turned to joy , In love then they did both agree , And the little birds did sing for joy , That the Powers above might them befriend , And they might live in Loyalty ; Now in true Love may they abide , And so continue till they die . Printed for A. Milbourn in Green-Arbor-Court in the Little-Old-Baily 