The Deluded Lasses Lamentation , OR , The False Youth's Unkindness to his Beloved Mistress . To and Excellent New Tune . Licensed according to Order . 1. IS she gone , let her go , I do not care , Though she has a dainty thing , I had my share : She has more Land then I by one whole Acre , I have plowed in her Ground , who will may take her . 2. Did not you promise me when you lay by me , That you would Marry me , can you deny it ? If I did promise thee , 'twas but to try thee , Bring in your Witness , for now I defy thee . 3. Did not you swear by the Powers above , That you would Marry if I'de grant you love ? Of all fair Lasses I thought thee the bonniest , And would have married thee hadst thou kept honest 4. 'Twas your deluding Tongue made me Miscarry , Because you promised with me for to Marry : Had not you yielded so soon to lie by me , Then to have Married I had not denied thee . 5. I never lay with Man , except it were you , Not thinking you would have proved so untrue : If to lie by me thou then hadst refused , Then I thy person sure never had abused . 6. You with the Art of a vigorous Lover , Told me your pleasure and joys could discover ; But you false pleasure did last but a moment , And for that pleasure I suffer more Torment . 7. Sweet fair charming Beauty you then had in store , Had Virtue been added , there needed no more ; But if you had not been as willing as I , You had not yielded with me for to lie . 8. Your promise made me to let you lie by me , I thought you constant , and could not deny thee ; But had I known the intent of your passion , Thus for to grieve there had been no occasion . 9. Thou found and foolish Girl , leave thy lamenting , When thou are wiser then I'll be Relenting ; When thou again art a Virgin I'll Wed thee , And then with License I boldly may Bed thee . 10. You pleasure take to Rail at my Misfortune , While my poor heart does ache to think of parting ; But since that you are resolved to fly me , I hope no other Lass ever will lie by thee . 11. Farewell thou perjured Youth , false and deceitful , I never thought you would have proved so ungrateful First by deluding words thus to deceive me , Having obtained my ends , scornfully leave me . 12. Do but remember now when you came to me , Every solemn Vow made , to undo me ; By your alluring Charms I was invited , You for my present harms may be requited . 13. Being the worst of Men , first to Defile me , And this no sooner done , but straight Revile me ; From which I perfectly now do discover , You were no more at best , but a false Lover . 14. Let Lasses young and fair , that hears this Story , Of a false Love beware , blast not your Glory : For many Youngmen will strive to deceive you , And when they have their Will , straightway will leave you . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-Street , without Newgate . 1689. The Deluded Lasses Lamentation , OR , The False Youth's Unkindness to his Beloved Mistress . To and Excellent New Tune . Licensed according to Order . 1. IS she gone , let her go , I do not care , Though she has a dainty thing , I had my share : She has more Land then I by one whole Acre , I have plowed in her Ground , who will may take her . 2. Did not you promise me when you lay by me , That you would Marry me , can you deny it ? If I did promise thee , 'twas but to try thee , Bring in your Witness , for now I defy thee . 3. Did not you swear by the Powers above , That you would Marry if I'de grant you love ? Of all fair Lasses I thought thee the bonniest , And would have married thee hadst thou kept honest 4. 'Twas your deluding Tongue made me Miscarry , Because you promised with me for to Marry : Had not you yielded so soon to lie by me , Then to have Married I had not denied thee . 5. I never lay with Man , except it were you , Not thinking you would have proved so untrue : If to lie by me thou then hadst refused , Then I thy person sure never had abused . 6. You with the Art of a vigorous Lover , Told me your pleasure and joys could discover ; But you false pleasure did last but a moment , And for that pleasure I suffer more Torment . 7. Sweet fair charming Beauty you then had in store , Had Virtue been added , there needed no more ; But if you had not been as willing as I , You had not yielded with me for to lie . 8. Your promise made me to let you lie by me , I thought you constant , and could not deny thee ; But had I known the intent of your passion , Thus for to grieve there had been no occasion . 9. Thou found and foolish Girl , leave thy lamenting , When thou are wiser then I'll be Relenting ; When thou again art a Virgin I'll Wed thee , And then with License I boldly may Bed thee . 10. You pleasure take to Rail at my Misfortune , While my poor heart does ache to think of parting ; But since that you are resolved to fly me , I hope no other Lass ever will lie by thee . 11. Farewell thou perjured Youth , false and deceitful , I never thought you would have proved so ungrateful First by deluding words thus to deceive me , Having obtained my ends , scornfully leave me . 12. Do but remember now when you came to me , Every solemn Vow made , to undo me ; By your alluring Charms I was invited , You for my present harms may be requited . 13. Being the worst of Men , first to Defile me , And this no sooner done , but straight Revile me ; From which I perfectly now do discover , You were no more at best , but a false Lover . 14. Let Lasses young and fair , that hears this Story , Of a false Love beware , blast not your Glory : For many Youngmen will strive to deceive you , And when they have their Will , straightway will leave you . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-Street , without Newgate . 1689. 