TO : And Excellent New SONG , Called The Injured LADY : OR , The hard hearted Gentleman , Being a true Relation of a young Lady Two Miles from London , ( after Contract to a young Gentleman ) was dishonourably left , notwithstanding her great Fortune , which may be a warning to all Virgins . To a pleasant New Tune much in request at Court . 1 YOU pretty Maidens all I pray give Ear , Unto my downfall which I declare , Of Parentage I am Near to a Gentleman , As some now witness can the date of year . 2 At 14 years of Age with Grief I tell , Many a young Man fair Loved me well , I being childish young Believed a flattering Tongue And set my mind upon a rich young Man. 3 For Two Months space and more he Courted me Day by Day , Night by Night he sat with me , He'd let me take no rest , I must sleep on his Breast , And then my Love I set on this young Man. 4 He said if I'ld not yield with him to dwell , He would go hang himself what ere befell , He wrung and tore his Hair , And wickedly did Swear His Sword should end the care before us then . 5 Hearing him what he said grieved me so , I took him for my friend not for my Foe , Young Man said I forbear I pray let go they Hair , I'll ease you of your care and be your Bride . 6 He Leaped and Sung for Joy before me then , My Love and only Dear , Happiest of Men , He kindly me Embraced , And hung about my Wast , And then my Love I placed on this young Man 7 The appointed Day was set we were to Wed , But first he stole away my Maidenhead , My Parents did not know I Loved this young Man so , Which proved my overthrow , ruined me quite 8 When I with Child did prove , and him had told He called me Twenty Whores brazen and bold , I know you not said he , Therefore be gone from me This wrought my Misery , his Love was cold . 9 I was a ashamed to stay where I was known , But straight away I went from my own Home , I wandered up and down , From Seaport Town to Town , Till in Travel I fell down on the Highway . 10 Then taken up I was by Womenkind , Whose Friendship they did show , Nature did bind , Delivered then I were , Of Two fine Babies Fair , Which caused me much care , by warned buy [ ? ] London Printed and Sold by T. More . 1691. TO : And Excellent New SONG , Called The Injured LADY : OR , The hard hearted Gentleman , Being a true Relation of a young Lady Two Miles from London , ( after Contract to a young Gentleman ) was dishonourably left , notwithstanding her great Fortune , which may be a warning to all Virgins . To a pleasant New Tune much in request at Court . 1 YOU pretty Maidens all I pray give Ear , Unto my downfall which I declare , Of Parentage I am Near to a Gentleman , As some now witness can the date of year . 2 At 14 years of Age with Grief I tell , Many a young Man fair Loved me well , I being childish young Believed a flattering Tongue And set my mind upon a rich young Man. 3 For Two Months space and more he Courted me Day by Day , Night by Night he sat with me , He'd let me take no rest , I must sleep on his Breast , And then my Love I set on this young Man. 4 He said if I'ld not yield with him to dwell , He would go hang himself what ere befell , He wrung and tore his Hair , And wickedly did Swear His Sword should end the care before us then . 5 Hearing him what he said grieved me so , I took him for my friend not for my Foe , Young Man said I forbear I pray let go they Hair , I'll ease you of your care and be your Bride . 6 He Leaped and Sung for Joy before me then , My Love and only Dear , Happiest of Men , He kindly me Embraced , And hung about my Wast , And then my Love I placed on this young Man 7 The appointed Day was set we were to Wed , But first he stole away my Maidenhead , My Parents did not know I Loved this young Man so , Which proved my overthrow , ruined me quite 8 When I with Child did prove , and him had told He called me Twenty Whores brazen and bold , I know you not said he , Therefore be gone from me This wrought my Misery , his Love was cold . 9 I was a ashamed to stay where I was known , But straight away I went from my own Home , I wandered up and down , From Seaport Town to Town , Till in Travel I fell down on the Highway . 10 Then taken up I was by Womenkind , Whose Friendship they did show , Nature did bind , Delivered then I were , Of Two fine Babies Fair , Which caused me much care , by warned buy [ ? ] London Printed and Sold by T. More . 1691. 