TO : The Distracted Young MANS Answer TO His Injured Mistress . Showing the Cruelty of his Parents , in forcing him to marry another , because she had a better Fortune , which proved the R vine of the young Man and his former Mistress . Te the same Tune : or , The L anguishing Swain . IT's true , thou justly mayest complain , On they unfaithful perjured Swain , But yet at first I did design , To marry you , to marry you , In little time . I found you beautiful and fair , Delightful with a pleasing air ; Endowed with all the charms of love , And I believed , and I believed , You'd constant prove . My father told me over and over , Of one who riches had great store ; He said , If I did not agree , To court that lass , to court that lass , He'd own not me . I went as he did give command , Although you had my heart and hand ; The God above do know it's true , I always meant , I always meant ; To marry you . Our Parents straightways did agree , And said , That I must married be ; To her they lately wished me to . Then I replied , then I replied ; what shall I do ? My father said , To Church now go , A thousand pound this has I know ; For her you courted just before , She has not half , she has not half ; So much in store . I answered yea , she has my heart , Beside me vowed never to part ; Therefore dear father , do not make Me break this vow , me break this vow ; which I did take . He said , If I a thousand took , I should no more upon her look ; But straight he made me for to go To Church and wed , to Church and wed , I know not who . Although I have a rich young wife , I have no comfort of my life ; For she that had my heart before , Will keep the same , will keep the same . For evermore . I do implore the God above , To look upon my injured love , Who justly does complain on me , And help her in , and help her in Her misery . Then young men all a warning take , Never break those vows in love you make If she you love does prove but kind , Be not like me , be not like me ; TO oh change your mind Since I have proved thus untrue ; I bid unto the world adieu , For I no comfort now can have ; Then death come send , then death come send , Me to my grave . Printed by and for A . M.T : The Distracted Young MANS Answer TO His Injured Mistress . Showing the Cruelty of his Parents , in forcing him to marry another , because she had a better Fortune , which proved the R vine of the young Man and his former Mistress . Te the same Tune : or , The L anguishing Swain . IT's true , thou justly mayest complain , On they unfaithful perjured Swain , But yet at first I did design , To marry you , to marry you , In little time . I found you beautiful and fair , Delightful with a pleasing air ; Endowed with all the charms of love , And I believed , and I believed , You'd constant prove . My father told me over and over , Of one who riches had great store ; He said , If I did not agree , To court that lass , to court that lass , He'd own not me . I went as he did give command , Although you had my heart and hand ; The God above do know it's true , I always meant , I always meant ; To marry you . Our Parents straightways did agree , And said , That I must married be ; To her they lately wished me to . Then I replied , then I replied ; what shall I do ? My father said , To Church now go , A thousand pound this has I know ; For her you courted just before , She has not half , she has not half ; So much in store . I answered yea , she has my heart , Beside me vowed never to part ; Therefore dear father , do not make Me break this vow , me break this vow ; which I did take . He said , If I a thousand took , I should no more upon her look ; But straight he made me for to go To Church and wed , to Church and wed , I know not who . Although I have a rich young wife , I have no comfort of my life ; For she that had my heart before , Will keep the same , will keep the same . For evermore . I do implore the God above , To look upon my injured love , Who justly does complain on me , And help her in , and help her in Her misery . Then young men all a warning take , Never break those vows in love you make If she you love does prove but kind , Be not like me , be not like me ; TO oh change your mind Since I have proved thus untrue ; I bid unto the world adieu , For I no comfort now can have ; Then death come send , then death come send , Me to my grave . Printed by and for A.M. 