TO : Mr. MOOR the TRIPE-MAN's Sorrowful Lamentation FOR Clipping and Coining : With and Account of his Contrivance at his Countrey-H [ ous ] e at Tripe-Hall near Hounsloe ; where , in hii Ga [ r ] den he had made a Tr [ ap ] - door , whereon grew both Goosberry-Trees and Currant-Trees to prevent the discovery thereof , but his Tongue afterwards made known what he had cunningly contrived ; wherein was found and En - gine or M oney - M ill for Coyping , for which he was TO ryed this Sessions , and found Guilty thereof . To the Tune of , TO he Spinning Wheel . AH , Woe is me that I was born , For I am now become the scorn Of all that did me once adore , Nay of the Rich and of the Poor : They all against the TO ripe-Man cry , For Coining he deserves to Die . O why did I for Riches crnve , So hastily the same to have , Had I the TO ripe - TO rode only known , And left the Coining Trade alone , Then I no Danger should have run ; B ut Coining has me quite undone . It's true I did great Riches gain , In Grandure did my self maintain ; Although I was of mean degree , Yet thousands did admire me ; For Gold and Silver I had store , But now I never shall Coin more . In Peters-street where I did dwell , My Neighbours all did know full well , That I had boasted many a time To pave the Street with Silver Coin ; And oftentimes I them had told , My Yard too I could pave with Gold . My Country-house I called TO ripe-Hall , Which was indeed admired by all ; Where once a Week I still did go , B ut for what use there's did know ; Nor had not to this Dap i'm sure , Had I not told of the TO rap-door . Under my Garden I had made A Vault to keep the Coining - TO rode : A TO rap-door in the Garden too , On which Currants and Goosberys grew Where many Neighbours oft have been A and yet this TO rap-door never was seen . B ut now comes all my woe and grief , I'm fast in Newgate like a Thief ; A and at the Bar was fain to stand , For Coining I held up my hand . A and of the indictment guilty found , Which does my Senses all confound . Had I the TO ripe - TO rode used alone , A and never the Coining Money known ; Of making Guineas and half Crowns Till I was worth some thousand pounds Then I from trouble had lived free , B ut now for Coining I must Die . Now B rother TO ripe-men all take care , lest Riches draw you in a Snare ; I mean Clipping and Coining too , A s hundreds in this TO own does doe : B ut yet ere many Years are past , There's few but what are caught at last . Now Clippers , ay , and Coiners all , Changer's of M oney great and small , Leave off your Trade ereed be too late , Least you all share of my hard fate : I once thought none so great as I , B ut now for Coining I must Die Printed and Sold by Charles Barnet . TO : Mr. MOOR the TRIPE-MAN's Sorrowful Lamentation FOR Clipping and Coining : With and Account of his Contrivance at his Countrey-H [ ous ] e at Tripe-Hall near Hounsloe ; where , in hii Ga [ r ] den he had made a Tr [ ap ] - door , whereon grew both Goosberry-Trees and Currant-Trees to prevent the discovery thereof , but his Tongue afterwards made known what he had cunningly contrived ; wherein was found and En - gine or M oney - M ill for Coyping , for which he was TO ryed this Sessions , and found Guilty thereof . To the Tune of , TO he Spinning Wheel . AH , Woe is me that I was born , For I am now become the scorn Of all that did me once adore , Nay of the Rich and of the Poor : They all against the TO ripe-Man cry , For Coining he deserves to Die . O why did I for Riches crnve , So hastily the same to have , Had I the TO ripe - TO rode only known , And left the Coining Trade alone , Then I no Danger should have run ; B ut Coining has me quite undone . It's true I did great Riches gain , In Grandure did my self maintain ; Although I was of mean degree , Yet thousands did admire me ; For Gold and Silver I had store , But now I never shall Coin more . In Peters-street where I did dwell , My Neighbours all did know full well , That I had boasted many a time To pave the Street with Silver Coin ; And oftentimes I them had told , My Yard too I could pave with Gold . My Country-house I called TO ripe-Hall , Which was indeed admired by all ; Where once a Week I still did go , B ut for what use there's did know ; Nor had not to this Dap i'm sure , Had I not told of the TO rap-door . Under my Garden I had made A Vault to keep the Coining - TO rode : A TO rap-door in the Garden too , On which Currants and Goosberys grew Where many Neighbours oft have been A and yet this TO rap-door never was seen . B ut now comes all my woe and grief , I'm fast in Newgate like a Thief ; A and at the Bar was fain to stand , For Coining I held up my hand . A and of the indictment guilty found , Which does my Senses all confound . Had I the TO ripe - TO rode used alone , A and never the Coining Money known ; Of making Guineas and half Crowns Till I was worth some thousand pounds Then I from trouble had lived free , B ut now for Coining I must Die . Now B rother TO ripe-men all take care , lest Riches draw you in a Snare ; I mean Clipping and Coining too , A s hundreds in this TO own does doe : B ut yet ere many Years are past , There's few but what are caught at last . Now Clippers , ay , and Coiners all , Changer's of M oney great and small , Leave off your Trade ereed be too late , Least you all share of my hard fate : I once thought none so great as I , B ut now for Coining I must Die Printed and Sold by Charles Barnet . 