TO : The Leicestershire Tragedy : OR , THE Fatal Overthrow of two Unfortunate Lovers , CAUSED By SUSANNA is Breach of Promise . To the Tune of , The Jealous Lover : or , The Languishing Swain . YOung Lovers most discreet and wise , With bleeeding heart and melting eyes , A sad Relation here I write , Of one show beauty shined bright : Susana Lynard , was her name , To whom for Love young Gallants came , among the rest , a Yeoman's Son , Who at the length her favour wone . To her he brought a Ring of Gold , And said , My dearest Love behold , Receive this Token now from me , And let our hearts united be . If I am false to thee , my Dear , I wish that I may never here One day of Joy or Comfort find ; Then Dearest never change thy mind . The youthful Damsel then replied , If I refuse to be thy Bride , Or falsify the Vows of Love , Let me a just Example prove . Yet , notwithstanding what had passed , When a young Squire came at last , Who did to her new Courtship make , Her former Love she did forsake . Now when her loyal Lover knew , That she her Vows had bid adieu , He went to her in woeful case , But she'd not let him see her face . Then like a dart , it pierced his heart , He sighing said , And must we part ? O , most unconstano Wretch , he cried , Sure Justice would be satisfied . He waited till the Wedding-day , When meeting her , he thus did say , Though you shall with another wed , You are my own alive or dead . Your Love you shall not long enjoy , For since my Life you do destroy , When I have yielded up my breath , My Ghost shall haunt you after Death . This said , he left the Perjured Bride , And wandered to a River side , Where the next Morning he was found , Bathed in his Blood upon the ground . This Tidings to the Bride was brought , Whose false heart his destruction wrought , Her eyes did then like fountains run , Aloud she cry , ' worser , What have I done ! My Vows comes fresh into my mind , No Peace of Conscience can I find ; Alas , there's nothing left for me , But the Reward of Perjury . As she lamented night and day , His bleeding Ghost was herd to say , You shall not have and hour's rest , For I will still your Joys molest . The dreadful Visions of the Night , Did fair Susanna so affright , That she into a Fever fell , And dying , said , False World farewell . Young Men and Maids both far and near , That shall this sad Relation hear , See that you are not false in Love For there's a Righteous God above , Who will no doubt just Vengeance take Of those that does not Conscience make , When solemnly they Vow and Swear . Henceforth false Lovers then bewear . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , in Pie-corner . TO : The Leicestershire Tragedy : OR , THE Fatal Overthrow of two Unfortunate Lovers , CAUSED By SUSANNA is Breach of Promise . To the Tune of , The Jealous Lover : or , The Languishing Swain . YOung Lovers most discreet and wise , With bleeeding heart and melting eyes , A sad Relation here I write , Of one show beauty shined bright : Susana Lynard , was her name , To whom for Love young Gallants came , among the rest , a Yeoman's Son , Who at the length her favour wone . To her he brought a Ring of Gold , And said , My dearest Love behold , Receive this Token now from me , And let our hearts united be . If I am false to thee , my Dear , I wish that I may never here One day of Joy or Comfort find ; Then Dearest never change thy mind . The youthful Damsel then replied , If I refuse to be thy Bride , Or falsify the Vows of Love , Let me a just Example prove . Yet , notwithstanding what had passed , When a young Squire came at last , Who did to her new Courtship make , Her former Love she did forsake . Now when her loyal Lover knew , That she her Vows had bid adieu , He went to her in woeful case , But she'd not let him see her face . Then like a dart , it pierced his heart , He sighing said , And must we part ? O , most unconstano Wretch , he cried , Sure Justice would be satisfied . He waited till the Wedding-day , When meeting her , he thus did say , Though you shall with another wed , You are my own alive or dead . Your Love you shall not long enjoy , For since my Life you do destroy , When I have yielded up my breath , My Ghost shall haunt you after Death . This said , he left the Perjured Bride , And wandered to a River side , Where the next Morning he was found , Bathed in his Blood upon the ground . This Tidings to the Bride was brought , Whose false heart his destruction wrought , Her eyes did then like fountains run , Aloud she cry , ' worser , What have I done ! My Vows comes fresh into my mind , No Peace of Conscience can I find ; Alas , there's nothing left for me , But the Reward of Perjury . As she lamented night and day , His bleeding Ghost was herd to say , You shall not have and hour's rest , For I will still your Joys molest . The dreadful Visions of the Night , Did fair Susanna so affright , That she into a Fever fell , And dying , said , False World farewell . Young Men and Maids both far and near , That shall this sad Relation hear , See that you are not false in Love For there's a Righteous God above , Who will no doubt just Vengeance take Of those that does not Conscience make , When solemnly they Vow and Swear . Henceforth false Lovers then bewear . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , in Pie-corner . 