TO : Coy Celia's Cruelty ; OR , The Languishing Lovers Lamentation : BEING The last New Play-Song sung at the Theatre-Royal , in a New Play called Amphitrion . To and excellent New Play-House Tune . 1. CElia that I once was blessed , Is now the Torment of my Breast ; Since to cure me , you bereave me of the Pleasure , I possessed : Cruel Creature to deceive me , First to love , and then to leave me ; Cruel Creature , etc 2. Had you the Bliss refused to grant , I then had never known the want ; But possessing once the Blessing , is the Cause of my Complaint : Once possessing is but tasting , It's not Bliss that is not lasting . Once possessing , etc 3. Celia now is mine no more , But I'm hers , and must adore ; Nor to leave her will endeavour , Charms that Captived me before : No Unkindness can dissever , Love that's True is Love for ever . No Unkindness , etc 4. Such is mine , I do declare , Who dotes upon the charming Fair ; To requite me , she will slight me , Love I find a fatal Snare : Why was Celia made a Beauty , That can thus forget her Duty ? Why was Celia , etc 5. O ! What fatal killing Smart Do I sustain from Cupid is Dart ; Can my Jewel be so cruel , to wound her Loyal Lover's Heart , Oh! be kinder , do not kill me , Nor with so much Torment fill me . Oh! be kinder , etc 6. If you'll Triumph in Disdain , Love , rather than to live in pain : Let Death's Arrow pierce me throrow , It's a Pleasure to be slave : Better so , than lie and languish , For to feel this fatal Anguish . Better so , etc 7. If my Joys thou wilt restore , Then could I slight the Golden Oar , It's not Treasure , but sweet Pleasure , I so dearly do adore ; Therefore Celia don't deny me , I am Loyal but try me . Therefore Celia , etc 8. Sometime in a golden Dream , She does kind and loyal seem , When I waken , I'm forsaken , in a far and worse extreme : My poor Soul is then tormented , And my Sighs with Tears are vented . My poor Soul , etc 9. Though she may her Love disown , With a Heart more hard than stone , There's no Blessing worth possessing , like fair Celia's Charms alone ; For my mind can no ways waver , I will either die , or have her . For my mind , etc 10. Come you little Nymphs that wait , While I my Sorrows do relate ; She can cure , hasten to her , tell her of my wretched State ; If she grants not my desire , I next minute will expire . If she grants , etc Printed for Charles B ates next the Crown Tavern in West-smithfield . TO : Coy Celia's Cruelty ; OR , The Languishing Lovers Lamentation : BEING The last New Play-Song sung at the Theatre-Royal , in a New Play called Amphitrion . To and excellent New Play-House Tune . 1. CElia that I once was blessed , Is now the Torment of my Breast ; Since to cure me , you bereave me of the Pleasure , I possessed : Cruel Creature to deceive me , First to love , and then to leave me ; Cruel Creature , etc 2. Had you the Bliss refused to grant , I then had never known the want ; But possessing once the Blessing , is the Cause of my Complaint : Once possessing is but tasting , It's not Bliss that is not lasting . Once possessing , etc 3. Celia now is mine no more , But I'm hers , and must adore ; Nor to leave her will endeavour , Charms that Captived me before : No Unkindness can dissever , Love that's True is Love for ever . No Unkindness , etc 4. Such is mine , I do declare , Who dotes upon the charming Fair ; To requite me , she will slight me , Love I find a fatal Snare : Why was Celia made a Beauty , That can thus forget her Duty ? Why was Celia , etc 5. O ! What fatal killing Smart Do I sustain from Cupid is Dart ; Can my Jewel be so cruel , to wound her Loyal Lover's Heart , Oh! be kinder , do not kill me , Nor with so much Torment fill me . Oh! be kinder , etc 6. If you'll Triumph in Disdain , Love , rather than to live in pain : Let Death's Arrow pierce me throrow , It's a Pleasure to be slave : Better so , than lie and languish , For to feel this fatal Anguish . Better so , etc 7. If my Joys thou wilt restore , Then could I slight the Golden Oar , It's not Treasure , but sweet Pleasure , I so dearly do adore ; Therefore Celia don't deny me , I am Loyal but try me . Therefore Celia , etc 8. Sometime in a golden Dream , She does kind and loyal seem , When I waken , I'm forsaken , in a far and worse extreme : My poor Soul is then tormented , And my Sighs with Tears are vented . My poor Soul , etc 9. Though she may her Love disown , With a Heart more hard than stone , There's no Blessing worth possessing , like fair Celia's Charms alone ; For my mind can no ways waver , I will either die , or have her . For my mind , etc 10. Come you little Nymphs that wait , While I my Sorrows do relate ; She can cure , hasten to her , tell her of my wretched State ; If she grants not my desire , I next minute will expire . If she grants , etc Printed for Charles B ates next the Crown Tavern in West-smithfield . 