The Constant Lover's Lamentation ; OR , Faithful Hephestions Love to False Rosilia : Being a New Song much in Request at Court : To a New Tune . I Love you more and more each Day , fairest of Earthly Creatures ; In Temples I forget to Pray , by gazing on your features : When thy fair Face I do behold , I stand in Admiration ; O ! pity then , I you implore , I you implore , or you have no compassion . Heaven gave to Man , in Paradise , Blessings that were not common ; But all were trifles to the bliss of Soul-delighting Woman : I Love , what ever must be my doom , it's thee I'm still pursuing ; Then love me , or I am undone , I am undone , Oh! love or else I'm Ruined . My fair Rosilia be so kind , to ease me of this passion ; You never one more true shall find in all this Glorious Nation ; For you alone I will adore , o ! be not then so cruel , But kind to me , I beg once more , I beg once more , my fair and lovely jewel . When first I did you beauty see , I trembled to come near you ; I took you for some Deity , and so did greatly fear you : Then at your feet I strait did fallen , on purpose to adore you ; But when I found you were Mortal , You were Mortal , for Love I did implore you . I sighed in torment for a while , till I my passion told you ; But you soon after made me smile , when that you did behold me ; You said you liked your Lover well , and vowed you'd never leave me ; And pretty tales to me did tell , to me did tell , on purpose to deceive me . You said no man should win your heart , from me your dear Hephestion ; And that from me you'd never part , made many a protestation ; A thousand times you swore , and said , that you would never leave me ; But now I find , you cruel maid , You cruel Maid , that you did but deceive me . You gave your heart away from me , to one that do's not Love you ; But blame you for your Curelty , and often do's Reprove you : Return Rosilia , yet return , and I'll with joy Receive you , For if you longer stay , I Mourn , To Death I Mourn , Return then , and Reprieve me . But if that you no mercy have , but thus will still torment me ; When your Disdain has killed your Slave , too late you may Repent you : Perhaps when you have heard I'm dead , too late you'll call upon me , And for my sake some Tears will shed , some Tears will shed , to think you have undone me . Printed for C. Bates , next Door to the Crown-Tavern in West-Smithfield . The Constant Lover's Lamentation ; OR , Faithful Hephestions Love to False Rosilia : Being a New Song much in Request at Court : To a New Tune . I Love you more and more each Day , fairest of Earthly Creatures ; In Temples I forget to Pray , by gazing on your features : When thy fair Face I do behold , I stand in Admiration ; O ! pity then , I you implore , I you implore , or you have no compassion . Heaven gave to Man , in Paradise , Blessings that were not common ; But all were trifles to the bliss of Soul-delighting Woman : I Love , what ever must be my doom , it's thee I'm still pursuing ; Then love me , or I am undone , I am undone , Oh! love or else I'm Ruined . My fair Rosilia be so kind , to ease me of this passion ; You never one more true shall find in all this Glorious Nation ; For you alone I will adore , o ! be not then so cruel , But kind to me , I beg once more , I beg once more , my fair and lovely jewel . When first I did you beauty see , I trembled to come near you ; I took you for some Deity , and so did greatly fear you : Then at your feet I strait did fallen , on purpose to adore you ; But when I found you were Mortal , You were Mortal , for Love I did implore you . I sighed in torment for a while , till I my passion told you ; But you soon after made me smile , when that you did behold me ; You said you liked your Lover well , and vowed you'd never leave me ; And pretty tales to me did tell , to me did tell , on purpose to deceive me . You said no man should win your heart , from me your dear Hephestion ; And that from me you'd never part , made many a protestation ; A thousand times you swore , and said , that you would never leave me ; But now I find , you cruel maid , You cruel Maid , that you did but deceive me . You gave your heart away from me , to one that do's not Love you ; But blame you for your Curelty , and often do's Reprove you : Return Rosilia , yet return , and I'll with joy Receive you , For if you longer stay , I Mourn , To Death I Mourn , Return then , and Reprieve me . But if that you no mercy have , but thus will still torment me ; When your Disdain has killed your Slave , too late you may Repent you : Perhaps when you have heard I'm dead , too late you'll call upon me , And for my sake some Tears will shed , some Tears will shed , to think you have undone me . Printed for C. Bates , next Door to the Crown-Tavern in West-Smithfield . 