TO : Unconstant PEGGY : OR , Scotch JEMMY's sorrowful Lamentation for the Loss of his Love , who left him Languishing for her sake . To and Excellent New Scotch Tune . Licensend according to Order . I . BOnny Lad , prithee lay thy Pipe down , though blithe are thy Notes they have now no power , Since my joy my dear Peggy is gone , and banished quite from me , Love now no more : My good Friends that do ken my grief , with Songs and Stories , a Cure would find ; But alas ! they bring no Relief , For Peggy still runs in mind . II When I visit the Park or Play , they awe without Peggy a Desert seem , She's still in my sighed awe the Day and awe the long Night too she haunts my Dream : Sometime , fancying a Heaven of Charms , I wake , and robbed of my dear delight , Find she ligs in another Man's Arms , o ! then it's she kills me outright . III . On her I placed aw muckle joy , she being a bonny Lass , blithe and gay , Yet all my Wishes she does destroy , another hath stolent her heart away ; My sweet Peggy , dear Peggy , I'm cry , return to they Jemmy once again , And do not my proffered Love deny , for fear my poor Heart should break in ' twain . IV. She's not regard the moan I make , though passionate Letters to her send ; But does all solemn Vows forsake , and proves a Falsehearted deceitful Friend ; She was my joy , and my chief delight , I'm swear by all the Powers above , But all my joys have taken their flight , and Peggy will ruin her Love . V. Methinks I see her where she lies , on Jockey is soft Pillow and Downy Bed , He having gained the Golden Prize , while I have a Heart more heavy than Led ; The Torment which I now undergo , geud faith I can no longer conceal , Since she delights to torture me so , the Arrows of Cupid I feel . VI . The which has made so deep a Wound , that no one but she is able to Cure , Beside I lie a Captive Bound , in Languishing Fetters of Love secure ; I from these Chains shall never get Free , but must I fear , this Grief undergo , For I can love no Creature she though Peggy does torture me so . VII . I had the choice of Ladies fair , all born in the Town of bonny Dundee , Adorned in Gold and Silken hair , and they had a love and kindness for me : Yet I could these sweet Ladies forsake , Peggy alone ran still in my Mind , Resolved I was my Vows I'ld not break but Peggy has done it I find . VIII . There's none more false then Womenkind , whose beautiful Charms young Gallants adore , They in a moment change their mind , denying all Vows they had made before ; The Truth of this I find to my Cost , my Love she sleeps in another's Arms , And since I have thus her favour lost , I'll never more Dote on their Charms . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . TO : Unconstant PEGGY : OR , Scotch JEMMY's sorrowful Lamentation for the Loss of his Love , who left him Languishing for her sake . To and Excellent New Scotch Tune . Licensend according to Order . I . BOnny Lad , prithee lay thy Pipe down , though blithe are thy Notes they have now no power , Since my joy my dear Peggy is gone , and banished quite from me , Love now no more : My good Friends that do ken my grief , with Songs and Stories , a Cure would find ; But alas ! they bring no Relief , For Peggy still runs in mind . II When I visit the Park or Play , they awe without Peggy a Desert seem , She's still in my sighed awe the Day and awe the long Night too she haunts my Dream : Sometime , fancying a Heaven of Charms , I wake , and robbed of my dear delight , Find she ligs in another Man's Arms , o ! then it's she kills me outright . III . On her I placed aw muckle joy , she being a bonny Lass , blithe and gay , Yet all my Wishes she does destroy , another hath stolent her heart away ; My sweet Peggy , dear Peggy , I'm cry , return to they Jemmy once again , And do not my proffered Love deny , for fear my poor Heart should break in ' twain . IV. She's not regard the moan I make , though passionate Letters to her send ; But does all solemn Vows forsake , and proves a Falsehearted deceitful Friend ; She was my joy , and my chief delight , I'm swear by all the Powers above , But all my joys have taken their flight , and Peggy will ruin her Love . V. Methinks I see her where she lies , on Jockey is soft Pillow and Downy Bed , He having gained the Golden Prize , while I have a Heart more heavy than Led ; The Torment which I now undergo , geud faith I can no longer conceal , Since she delights to torture me so , the Arrows of Cupid I feel . VI . The which has made so deep a Wound , that no one but she is able to Cure , Beside I lie a Captive Bound , in Languishing Fetters of Love secure ; I from these Chains shall never get Free , but must I fear , this Grief undergo , For I can love no Creature she though Peggy does torture me so . VII . I had the choice of Ladies fair , all born in the Town of bonny Dundee , Adorned in Gold and Silken hair , and they had a love and kindness for me : Yet I could these sweet Ladies forsake , Peggy alone ran still in my Mind , Resolved I was my Vows I'ld not break but Peggy has done it I find . VIII . There's none more false then Womenkind , whose beautiful Charms young Gallants adore , They in a moment change their mind , denying all Vows they had made before ; The Truth of this I find to my Cost , my Love she sleeps in another's Arms , And since I have thus her favour lost , I'll never more Dote on their Charms . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 