TO : THE Dorsetshire Tragedy : OR , A Shepherd's Daughter's Death and Destruction by a false Steward , her Fellow-servant , and likewise end - ed his own Days in desperate Despair . To the Tune of , The Ruined Virgin . A Damsel with a Knight lived of late , She was a Beauty bright of low Estate , A Shepherd's Daughter dear , In famous Dorsetshire ; But Fortune proved severe as you shall find . While she in Service dwelled their Steward he Prete [ n ] dead that he felt Captivity , And Sorrow for her sake , Said he , Some pity take , Or else my Heart will break , Dearest , he cried , The charming Bliss , he cried , let me enjoy , For thou shalt be my Bride , Love , be not coy , Doubt not my loyalty , If I am false to thee , Let Vengeance follow me for mine Offence . From her found Arms she flung , and frowns did cast , Yet his deluding Tongue gained her at last , So that she proved with Child ; Then this young Damsel mild , Finding herself defiled , her Grief was great . Now when he understood her woeful case , He led her to a Wood , where for a space They wandered hand in hand , From loansome land to land , She could not understand what it did mean . To him she made her moan , with melting Eyes , As they was all alone , these was her Cries , Make me your lawful Wife , Or end my wretched Life : This said , he drew his Knife and wounded her . Down at his Feet she fell , and bleeding lay , Crying , False Love farewell , now , now this day , Here I am laid full low , Yet of a truth I know , You'll not unpunished go for thine Offence . There was no living Soul but you and I , That see this horrid , foul , black villainy ; Yet when I am at rest , Conscience shall you molest : She having this expressed , closed her Eyes , The Steward left her there covered with green , Close in a Thicket where she'd not be seen : As home his coast he steered , A frightful Voice he herd , Crying , You are not cleared of Murder so . Conscience continually flew in his Face , Likewise a dreadful Cry , in e'ry place , Followed him Night and Day , False Steward come away , And make no long delay , you must be Tried , When he laid down his Head to close his Eyes , He herd all round his Bed the wanted Cries , Which so disturbed his Rest , That he smote on his Breast , Crying , I am oppressed , where should I go . Sometime her bleeding Ghost in flames appeared Saying , You shall not boast that you are cleared , Who wrought my fatal Fallen , For Vengeance still I call , Alive or dead you shall have your reward . This Soul amazing grief he could not bear , And therefore to be brief , in said despair He took that very Knife , And cut the Thread of Life , That he might end the strife and follow her . He left these Lines behind , written in Bl [ oh ] od . Dearest , I proved unkind , therefore a flood Of Tears and wreaking Gore , Now , now , must waft me over To that eternal Shore were thou dost dwell . LONDON : Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-glass on London-bridge . TO : THE Dorsetshire Tragedy : OR , A Shepherd's Daughter's Death and Destruction by a false Steward , her Fellow-servant , and likewise end - ed his own Days in desperate Despair . To the Tune of , The Ruined Virgin . A Damsel with a Knight lived of late , She was a Beauty bright of low Estate , A Shepherd's Daughter dear , In famous Dorsetshire ; But Fortune proved severe as you shall find . While she in Service dwelled their Steward he Prete [ n ] dead that he felt Captivity , And Sorrow for her sake , Said he , Some pity take , Or else my Heart will break , Dearest , he cried , The charming Bliss , he cried , let me enjoy , For thou shalt be my Bride , Love , be not coy , Doubt not my loyalty , If I am false to thee , Let Vengeance follow me for mine Offence . From her found Arms she flung , and frowns did cast , Yet his deluding Tongue gained her at last , So that she proved with Child ; Then this young Damsel mild , Finding herself defiled , her Grief was great . Now when he understood her woeful case , He led her to a Wood , where for a space They wandered hand in hand , From loansome land to land , She could not understand what it did mean . To him she made her moan , with melting Eyes , As they was all alone , these was her Cries , Make me your lawful Wife , Or end my wretched Life : This said , he drew his Knife and wounded her . Down at his Feet she fell , and bleeding lay , Crying , False Love farewell , now , now this day , Here I am laid full low , Yet of a truth I know , You'll not unpunished go for thine Offence . There was no living Soul but you and I , That see this horrid , foul , black villainy ; Yet when I am at rest , Conscience shall you molest : She having this expressed , closed her Eyes , The Steward left her there covered with green , Close in a Thicket where she'd not be seen : As home his coast he steered , A frightful Voice he herd , Crying , You are not cleared of Murder so . Conscience continually flew in his Face , Likewise a dreadful Cry , in e'ry place , Followed him Night and Day , False Steward come away , And make no long delay , you must be Tried , When he laid down his Head to close his Eyes , He herd all round his Bed the wanted Cries , Which so disturbed his Rest , That he smote on his Breast , Crying , I am oppressed , where should I go . Sometime her bleeding Ghost in flames appeared Saying , You shall not boast that you are cleared , Who wrought my fatal Fallen , For Vengeance still I call , Alive or dead you shall have your reward . This Soul amazing grief he could not bear , And therefore to be brief , in said despair He took that very Knife , And cut the Thread of Life , That he might end the strife and follow her . He left these Lines behind , written in Bl [ oh ] od . Dearest , I proved unkind , therefore a flood Of Tears and wreaking Gore , Now , now , must waft me over To that eternal Shore were thou dost dwell . LONDON : Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-glass on London-bridge . 