TO : THE Forsaken Nymph's Complaint , For The Unkindness of her Strephon. To the Tune of , Celia that I once was blessed . Licensed according to Order . 1. S trephon vowed and swore to be , Ever constant unto me , But he sued me , to undo me , all he swore was perjury , Oh! you powers I implore you , Punish him I'll still a door you ? O ! you , etc 2. Free from Love , upon the Plains , I Once Triumphed over the Swains , Strephon spied me , then he eyed me , Studying how my Love to gain , Which he did , but now has left me , And of comfort quite bereft me , Wheih he , etc 3. I'ld wish all Nymph's for to beware , And of the Swains to have a care , Though they promise , to be honest , It's to draw you in a snare , And when most you Love they'll leave you , Though they sware they'll never deceive you . And when , etc 4. All they sware is perjur'ys , All they promise Horid Lies , For your Ruin and Undoing , Thousand Arts they will devise , When they sware they most a door you , It's but over you to glory . When they , etc 5. Wisely then preserve your heart From cruel cupids killing dart . For his Arrow , pierced me thorough , Made me feel this fatal smart , Strephon vowed he'd never leave me , But it sly for to deceive me , Strephon vowed , etc 6. And envious Nymph and sprightful Swain , That lived by me upon the Plain , To my Swain they did defame me , And dishonoured my name , Still contriving to undo me , Making Strephon False unto me , Still contriving , etc 7 A Thousand times he did pretend , To be my dear and faithful Friend , But when envy railed a gen me , He refused his aid to lend , Strephon helps to quite undo me , Since he proves unfaithful to me , Strephon helps , etc 8. Oh! Remember perjured Love , When beneath Myrtle Grove , We were seated you repeated , Vows to all the powers above , You would Love and never leave me , But unkindly you deceive me . You would , etc Printed for J. Bissel , at the Bible and Harp in West-Smithfield . TO : THE Forsaken Nymph's Complaint , For The Unkindness of her Strephon. To the Tune of , Celia that I once was blessed . Licensed according to Order . 1. S trephon vowed and swore to be , Ever constant unto me , But he sued me , to undo me , all he swore was perjury , Oh! you powers I implore you , Punish him I'll still a door you ? O ! you , etc 2. Free from Love , upon the Plains , I Once Triumphed over the Swains , Strephon spied me , then he eyed me , Studying how my Love to gain , Which he did , but now has left me , And of comfort quite bereft me , Wheih he , etc 3. I'ld wish all Nymph's for to beware , And of the Swains to have a care , Though they promise , to be honest , It's to draw you in a snare , And when most you Love they'll leave you , Though they sware they'll never deceive you . And when , etc 4. All they sware is perjur'ys , All they promise Horid Lies , For your Ruin and Undoing , Thousand Arts they will devise , When they sware they most a door you , It's but over you to glory . When they , etc 5. Wisely then preserve your heart From cruel cupids killing dart . For his Arrow , pierced me thorough , Made me feel this fatal smart , Strephon vowed he'd never leave me , But it sly for to deceive me , Strephon vowed , etc 6. And envious Nymph and sprightful Swain , That lived by me upon the Plain , To my Swain they did defame me , And dishonoured my name , Still contriving to undo me , Making Strephon False unto me , Still contriving , etc 7 A Thousand times he did pretend , To be my dear and faithful Friend , But when envy railed a gen me , He refused his aid to lend , Strephon helps to quite undo me , Since he proves unfaithful to me , Strephon helps , etc 8. Oh! Remember perjured Love , When beneath Myrtle Grove , We were seated you repeated , Vows to all the powers above , You would Love and never leave me , But unkindly you deceive me . You would , etc Printed for J. Bissel , at the Bible and Harp in West-Smithfield . 