TO : Cruel CELIA : OR , THE LOVER'S COMPLAINT . And Excellent new Song , to and new Tune . NO , no , poor sovereign heart , no change endeavour , Choose to sustain the smart , rather then leave her ; My ravished eyes behold such charms about her , I can die with her , but not live without her : One tender sighs from her , to see me languish , Will more then pay the price of my past anguish . Beware , o cruel fair ! how you smile on me , 'Twas a kind look of thine that has undone me . ( 2 ) Love has in store , for me one happy minuit , And she must end my pain , that did begin it ; Then so divine a bliss , and pleasures leaving , Ages will slide away without perceiving : Cupid shall guard the door , the more to please her , And keep out time and death , when they would seize her ; Time and death shall depart , and say , when flying , Love has found out away to live by dying . ( 3 ) Since none , none , but Caelia , can ever content me , It is none but you , that does torment me ; For I have suffered much to give you quiet , My heart's your sacrifice , can you deny it : One tender glance from you , first made me languish , And now the same would do to ease my anguish ; You are the only fair that I admire , And there is none but you that I desire . ( 4 ) Oh! my fair Caelia , what is the occasion , That you do use me in this cruel fashion ? First you pretend to love and never leave me , But I found presently you did deceive me ; Sometime you smile , but soon after frown on me , Betwixt your smiles and frowns you have undone me , Unless you pity take and do relieve me , And from my suffering you do reprieve me . ( 5 ) It was your beauty bright that did surprise me , Then do not me disdain I do advice you ; Cupid may take my part , and may torment you , Then for your cruelty you may repent you . Then do not triumph over one with vain glory , When that you know I so much do adore you , And will never leave you , do what you will to me , Though it's your cruelty that does undo me . Printed for C. Bates , next door to the Crown-Tavern near Duck-Lane-end , in West-Smithfield . TO : Cruel CELIA : OR , THE LOVER'S COMPLAINT . And Excellent new Song , to and new Tune . NO , no , poor sovereign heart , no change endeavour , Choose to sustain the smart , rather then leave her ; My ravished eyes behold such charms about her , I can die with her , but not live without her : One tender sighs from her , to see me languish , Will more then pay the price of my past anguish . Beware , o cruel fair ! how you smile on me , 'Twas a kind look of thine that has undone me . ( 2 ) Love has in store , for me one happy minuit , And she must end my pain , that did begin it ; Then so divine a bliss , and pleasures leaving , Ages will slide away without perceiving : Cupid shall guard the door , the more to please her , And keep out time and death , when they would seize her ; Time and death shall depart , and say , when flying , Love has found out away to live by dying . ( 3 ) Since none , none , but Caelia , can ever content me , It is none but you , that does torment me ; For I have suffered much to give you quiet , My heart's your sacrifice , can you deny it : One tender glance from you , first made me languish , And now the same would do to ease my anguish ; You are the only fair that I admire , And there is none but you that I desire . ( 4 ) Oh! my fair Caelia , what is the occasion , That you do use me in this cruel fashion ? First you pretend to love and never leave me , But I found presently you did deceive me ; Sometime you smile , but soon after frown on me , Betwixt your smiles and frowns you have undone me , Unless you pity take and do relieve me , And from my suffering you do reprieve me . ( 5 ) It was your beauty bright that did surprise me , Then do not me disdain I do advice you ; Cupid may take my part , and may torment you , Then for your cruelty you may repent you . Then do not triumph over one with vain glory , When that you know I so much do adore you , And will never leave you , do what you will to me , Though it's your cruelty that does undo me . Printed for C. Bates , next door to the Crown-Tavern near Duck-Lane-end , in West-Smithfield . 