TO : Love Overthrown . The Young Man's Misery ; And the MAIDS RUINE ; Being a true Relation , How a beautiful Herefordshire Damsel ( who coming to live in L ondon , and being greatly Beloved by her Master's Son ) was , by her Mistress , sold to Virginia : And of the great La - mentation her Disconsolate Lover makes for her . The Tune is , All happy times when free from Love , etc TO Here was a Maiden fair and clear , The which came out of Herefordshire , A Serving Maid now for to be , That fitted best to her degree . Her skin the Lily did invite , To try which was the better white ; Her cheeks were of Vermilion read , Like fragrant Beds of Roses spread . At length this fair Damsel came As Servant to live in the Strand , With a Tradesman of great renown , Whose wealth and riches did abound . This Tradesman had a youthful Son , Whose heart to love had not begun ; But pretty Betty was so fair , She soon did draw his heart in snare . He oftentimes did Betty try , But she always did him deny , Saying , Good Sir , it is in Vain , My honour you shall never stain . One Night he watching of his time , He unto Betty told his mind , How that he dearly did her love , And nothing sure could it remove . Therefore my dearest Dear ( quoth he ) If that thou wilt consent with me , On Sunday next , to end all strife , My Dearest thou shalt be my wife His mother chanced them to hear , Who hid her self in a Place near , She strait resolved in her mind , To frustrate her son's design Then in the morning she did say , Come Betty dress you speedily , For in the Country you must go With me for one day or two . And so away she did her bring , Unto a Captain of her Kin , Whose Ship that time lay in the Downs And he was for Virginia bound . And so away this Damsel's gone Unto Virginia , sailing on . O Heavens unto her prove kind , And grant she may some comfort find . But when her Mistress was come home , You are welcome mother , said her Son , B ut where is Betty now I pray , That she so long behind does stay . I understand my Son , quoth she , How great your love is to Betty ; B ut your Designs are all in vain , For Betty ' s sailing on the main . And now this Youngman's grown so sad , No sort of mirth can make him glad ; B ut oft in slumbering sleep does cry , Oh Betty , Betty , I must die . London , Printed and Sold by Charles B arnet . TO : Love Overthrown . The Young Man's Misery ; And the MAIDS RUINE ; Being a true Relation , How a beautiful Herefordshire Damsel ( who coming to live in L ondon , and being greatly Beloved by her Master's Son ) was , by her Mistress , sold to Virginia : And of the great La - mentation her Disconsolate Lover makes for her . The Tune is , All happy times when free from Love , etc TO Here was a Maiden fair and clear , The which came out of Herefordshire , A Serving Maid now for to be , That fitted best to her degree . Her skin the Lily did invite , To try which was the better white ; Her cheeks were of Vermilion read , Like fragrant Beds of Roses spread . At length this fair Damsel came As Servant to live in the Strand , With a Tradesman of great renown , Whose wealth and riches did abound . This Tradesman had a youthful Son , Whose heart to love had not begun ; But pretty Betty was so fair , She soon did draw his heart in snare . He oftentimes did Betty try , But she always did him deny , Saying , Good Sir , it is in Vain , My honour you shall never stain . One Night he watching of his time , He unto Betty told his mind , How that he dearly did her love , And nothing sure could it remove . Therefore my dearest Dear ( quoth he ) If that thou wilt consent with me , On Sunday next , to end all strife , My Dearest thou shalt be my wife His mother chanced them to hear , Who hid her self in a Place near , She strait resolved in her mind , To frustrate her son's design Then in the morning she did say , Come Betty dress you speedily , For in the Country you must go With me for one day or two . And so away she did her bring , Unto a Captain of her Kin , Whose Ship that time lay in the Downs And he was for Virginia bound . And so away this Damsel's gone Unto Virginia , sailing on . O Heavens unto her prove kind , And grant she may some comfort find . But when her Mistress was come home , You are welcome mother , said her Son , B ut where is Betty now I pray , That she so long behind does stay . I understand my Son , quoth she , How great your love is to Betty ; B ut your Designs are all in vain , For Betty ' s sailing on the main . And now this Youngman's grown so sad , No sort of mirth can make him glad ; B ut oft in slumbering sleep does cry , Oh Betty , Betty , I must die . London , Printed and Sold by Charles B arnet . 