TO : The Languishing Young Man : OR , The Lovesick Sail-man is sorrowful Lamentation for the Loss of his Beautiful Maria , who left him languishing at the Point of Despair . To the Tune of , If Love's a Sweet Passion , etc Licensed according to Order . I . O ! Why does my true Love so sadly disdain All the Gifts I afford her ? Yet sure it's in vain For to offer her any ; she's grown so unkind , That I'm least in her Fancy , and lest in her Mind , Who before was her Darling , yet now she does turn Her Affections to Hatred , which daily does burn . II Oh! Why do you Fates me so hardly regard , That a Smile from my true Love I cannot be spared ; But must like a poor languishing Swain be confined , For the loss of Maria , to torment my Mind With the fiery Arrows that Cupid does send , And the cold leaden Comforts I have from my Friend . III . Look down , O , fair Venus , thou Goddess of Love , And send Cupid , that he may these Arrows remove , With which I this present am wounded so soar , For the fear I shall see dear Maria no more . I'm sinking , I'm swooning , I'm fainting away , For the loss of Maria : Oh! what shall I say ? IV. Now the Sunshine is passed in the which I enjoyed The sweet sighed of Maria , both at home and abroad : But the Times are now changed ; in Visions I find I have none but Denyings , which torment my Mind : For Maria is gone , and she cannot be found By poor Willy ; which constantly is my Hearts Wound . V. Why was I so foolish , to settle my Love Or Affections on any ? since falsely they prove ? Above all , dear Maria , she has proved so untrue , That the Hour of Birth I am forced to rue . I'm wounded , I'm bleeding , I'm stuck to the Heart ; Come , my dearest Maria , ease me of this smart . VI . O ! What is the reason that you do me leave So despairing of Comforts ? I hardly believe That there ever was Swain that's more wounded than I , More unwilling to live , or more willing to die . O Maria ! Maria ! yield me some relief , And my Heart from this Thraldom thou then wilt reprieve . VII . Oh! Where are you Gods that are wonted to be Great help unto Mortals ? Why help you not me , Against this fierce , fiery , powerful Dart , Which is shot by fierce Cupid into my poor Heart . Oh! help me ! Oh! help me this moment ! I cry , Or else , for the loss of Maria , I die . VIII . Come here , O ! thou Charon , and make no delay , And bring here thy Ferry ; I no longer can stay : Make haste with me over unto the dark Grove Of Elizia , that there I may mourn for my Love ? Come quickly , come quickly ; Why dost thou delay , Every Moment's a Year , that I here have to stay . IX . Now unto Maria all Joy may God send , Though she's brought me with sorrow unto my last end : Let her Joy be increased , though she has bereaved quite Me of Freedom , of Comfort , of Joy and Delight . Let me die now : Why should I my Sorrow relate ? Since ill Fortune does frown on my desperate state . X. Adieu to my Kinsfolks , and Parents most dear ; Adieu to my Brother and Sister most near : Farewell you my Uncle , above all the rest , For of Parents and Kinsfolks , you have been the best Adieu to you all that my Moans now do hear , Be you witness , I die for the loss of my Dear . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Gilt-spur-street , without Newgate . TO : The Languishing Young Man : OR , The Lovesick Sail-man is sorrowful Lamentation for the Loss of his Beautiful Maria , who left him languishing at the Point of Despair . To the Tune of , If Love's a Sweet Passion , etc Licensed according to Order . I . O ! Why does my true Love so sadly disdain All the Gifts I afford her ? Yet sure it's in vain For to offer her any ; she's grown so unkind , That I'm least in her Fancy , and lest in her Mind , Who before was her Darling , yet now she does turn Her Affections to Hatred , which daily does burn . II Oh! Why do you Fates me so hardly regard , That a Smile from my true Love I cannot be spared ; But must like a poor languishing Swain be confined , For the loss of Maria , to torment my Mind With the fiery Arrows that Cupid does send , And the cold leaden Comforts I have from my Friend . III . Look down , O , fair Venus , thou Goddess of Love , And send Cupid , that he may these Arrows remove , With which I this present am wounded so soar , For the fear I shall see dear Maria no more . I'm sinking , I'm swooning , I'm fainting away , For the loss of Maria : Oh! what shall I say ? IV. Now the Sunshine is passed in the which I enjoyed The sweet sighed of Maria , both at home and abroad : But the Times are now changed ; in Visions I find I have none but Denyings , which torment my Mind : For Maria is gone , and she cannot be found By poor Willy ; which constantly is my Hearts Wound . V. Why was I so foolish , to settle my Love Or Affections on any ? since falsely they prove ? Above all , dear Maria , she has proved so untrue , That the Hour of Birth I am forced to rue . I'm wounded , I'm bleeding , I'm stuck to the Heart ; Come , my dearest Maria , ease me of this smart . VI . O ! What is the reason that you do me leave So despairing of Comforts ? I hardly believe That there ever was Swain that's more wounded than I , More unwilling to live , or more willing to die . O Maria ! Maria ! yield me some relief , And my Heart from this Thraldom thou then wilt reprieve . VII . Oh! Where are you Gods that are wonted to be Great help unto Mortals ? Why help you not me , Against this fierce , fiery , powerful Dart , Which is shot by fierce Cupid into my poor Heart . Oh! help me ! Oh! help me this moment ! I cry , Or else , for the loss of Maria , I die . VIII . Come here , O ! thou Charon , and make no delay , And bring here thy Ferry ; I no longer can stay : Make haste with me over unto the dark Grove Of Elizia , that there I may mourn for my Love ? Come quickly , come quickly ; Why dost thou delay , Every Moment's a Year , that I here have to stay . IX . Now unto Maria all Joy may God send , Though she's brought me with sorrow unto my last end : Let her Joy be increased , though she has bereaved quite Me of Freedom , of Comfort , of Joy and Delight . Let me die now : Why should I my Sorrow relate ? Since ill Fortune does frown on my desperate state . X. Adieu to my Kinsfolks , and Parents most dear ; Adieu to my Brother and Sister most near : Farewell you my Uncle , above all the rest , For of Parents and Kinsfolks , you have been the best Adieu to you all that my Moans now do hear , Be you witness , I die for the loss of my Dear . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Gilt-spur-street , without Newgate . 