TO : The Languishing Lass : Or , The Dying Words of a Forsaken Damosel . To the Tune of , I am so Sick of Love . Licensed according to Order . 1. I Walking to take the Air , one Evening near a Grove , There did I hear a Damsel fair , lamenting for her true L ove . 2. Alas ! I do languish here , and have not the least relief , My Lovesick fainting heart I fear , will certainly break with grief . 3. My Phaon is fled , I fear , and will not return again , My drooping Spirits now to cheer , true Love s a tormenting pain . 4. The Vows which he often made unto the Powers above , At length my innocent heart betrayed , so that I did yield to Love . 5. I never in Shades did meet this flattering Swain of mine , But he woudl oftentimes repeat , his Kisses with words Divine . 6. Young Phaon would sighing cry , the passion he did endure . That none but I , and only I , was able to Kill or Cure . 7. I pitied his wretched State , and did to his Charms agree , But I repent it now too late , no Lover so false as he . 8. How often did he reply , Love , do not your Swain destroy , And then he'd vow that none but I could ever his heart enjoy . 9. Although I his words believed , he proved but a mere Trappan , I find , alas ! I am deceived , no Creature more false than man . 10. I never was Found , she said , to any young Swain before , His Solemn Vows my heart betrayed , and so it has many more . 11. Such languishing pains I feel , which will be my overthrow , I am not able to reveal what I sorrow I undergo . 12. In passionate Flames I burn , there's nothing my heart can raise , To my young Lambs I'll never return , but here I will end my days . 13. My passion I cannot hide , nor sorrowful sighs refrain , I'de rather die than live , she said , true Love's a tormenting pain . 14. A Letter I'll write with speed , and lay it here by my side , Should he return he then may Read , 'twas for your sake she Died . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-Street . 1689. TO : The Languishing Lass : Or , The Dying Words of a Forsaken Damosel . To the Tune of , I am so Sick of Love . Licensed according to Order . 1. I Walking to take the Air , one Evening near a Grove , There did I hear a Damsel fair , lamenting for her true L ove . 2. Alas ! I do languish here , and have not the least relief , My Lovesick fainting heart I fear , will certainly break with grief . 3. My Phaon is fled , I fear , and will not return again , My drooping Spirits now to cheer , true Love s a tormenting pain . 4. The Vows which he often made unto the Powers above , At length my innocent heart betrayed , so that I did yield to Love . 5. I never in Shades did meet this flattering Swain of mine , But he woudl oftentimes repeat , his Kisses with words Divine . 6. Young Phaon would sighing cry , the passion he did endure . That none but I , and only I , was able to Kill or Cure . 7. I pitied his wretched State , and did to his Charms agree , But I repent it now too late , no Lover so false as he . 8. How often did he reply , Love , do not your Swain destroy , And then he'd vow that none but I could ever his heart enjoy . 9. Although I his words believed , he proved but a mere Trappan , I find , alas ! I am deceived , no Creature more false than man . 10. I never was Found , she said , to any young Swain before , His Solemn Vows my heart betrayed , and so it has many more . 11. Such languishing pains I feel , which will be my overthrow , I am not able to reveal what I sorrow I undergo . 12. In passionate Flames I burn , there's nothing my heart can raise , To my young Lambs I'll never return , but here I will end my days . 13. My passion I cannot hide , nor sorrowful sighs refrain , I'de rather die than live , she said , true Love's a tormenting pain . 14. A Letter I'll write with speed , and lay it here by my side , Should he return he then may Read , 'twas for your sake she Died . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-Street . 1689. 