The Lady's Tragedy , OR , The Languishing Lamentation of a London Merchant's Daughter ; who died for Love of a Linen Draper . To the Tune of , The Ring of Gold . Licensed according to Order . I . WHy is my love unkind ? why do's he leave me ? Why do's he change his mind , and strive to grieve me ? He hath some fair One found , this I discover , And therefore seeks to wound his Loyal Lover . II I called to mind the Vow which once he made me ; Can he forget it now and thus degrade me ? Yes like a Wretch he can and flatter many , There's no belief in Man , no not in any . III . They Serpentlike deceive young silly Women ; Who can there Oaths believe , since it is common For them to swear and lie when they are Brewing The grandest Villainy to prove our Ruin ? IV. When at my feet he fell , and did implore me , His sorrows to expel , seemed to adore me ; I out of mere good will bemoaned his Ditty , Kind Hearts must suffer still ; the more's the pity . V. While he sad sighs did fetch , just as if dying , His hand to me he'd stretch often replying , Your Rocky Heart of stone feels no relenting , Though for your sake alone I lie lamenting . VI . Down from his melting eyes Tears they were flowing , As he with feigned Cries said I am going To the Elizium Shade where Lovers wander , Whose lives have been betrayed , Hearts rend in sunder . VII . This said , My heart did bleed , and melt within me ; To him I ran with speed , his words did win me : Straightway I granted Love , and pledges gave him ; Rather than guilty prove , I'ld die to save him . VIII . Thus from his wretched state did I restore him ; But Oh unhappy Fate ! I fallen before him ; In Chains of Love I lie , loaded with anguish ; Now let me , let me die why should I languish ! IX . Why did I not , when born , my Breath surrender , Rather than bear the scorn of my pretender ! The torment which I feel this very hour , Alas ! I would conceal , but ha'ned the power . X. The News to him will go , how I Lamented ; Which he should never know , could I prevent it ? He that could cringe and bow first to enjoy me , Then strive and study how he might destroy me . XI . Farewell my Parents Dear , Father and Mother ; You'll lose your Darling dear , though you have no other ; Yet never weep for me , since I am going Where joys shall ever be like Fountains flowing . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . The Lady's Tragedy , OR , The Languishing Lamentation of a London Merchant's Daughter ; who died for Love of a Linen Draper . To the Tune of , The Ring of Gold . Licensed according to Order . I . WHy is my love unkind ? why do's he leave me ? Why do's he change his mind , and strive to grieve me ? He hath some fair One found , this I discover , And therefore seeks to wound his Loyal Lover . II I called to mind the Vow which once he made me ; Can he forget it now and thus degrade me ? Yes like a Wretch he can and flatter many , There's no belief in Man , no not in any . III . They Serpentlike deceive young silly Women ; Who can there Oaths believe , since it is common For them to swear and lie when they are Brewing The grandest Villainy to prove our Ruin ? IV. When at my feet he fell , and did implore me , His sorrows to expel , seemed to adore me ; I out of mere good will bemoaned his Ditty , Kind Hearts must suffer still ; the more's the pity . V. While he sad sighs did fetch , just as if dying , His hand to me he'd stretch often replying , Your Rocky Heart of stone feels no relenting , Though for your sake alone I lie lamenting . VI . Down from his melting eyes Tears they were flowing , As he with feigned Cries said I am going To the Elizium Shade where Lovers wander , Whose lives have been betrayed , Hearts rend in sunder . VII . This said , My heart did bleed , and melt within me ; To him I ran with speed , his words did win me : Straightway I granted Love , and pledges gave him ; Rather than guilty prove , I'ld die to save him . VIII . Thus from his wretched state did I restore him ; But Oh unhappy Fate ! I fallen before him ; In Chains of Love I lie , loaded with anguish ; Now let me , let me die why should I languish ! IX . Why did I not , when born , my Breath surrender , Rather than bear the scorn of my pretender ! The torment which I feel this very hour , Alas ! I would conceal , but ha'ned the power . X. The News to him will go , how I Lamented ; Which he should never know , could I prevent it ? He that could cringe and bow first to enjoy me , Then strive and study how he might destroy me . XI . Farewell my Parents Dear , Father and Mother ; You'll lose your Darling dear , though you have no other ; Yet never weep for me , since I am going Where joys shall ever be like Fountains flowing . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 