TO : Love in Despair : OR , THE Virgin's Lamentation for her Love , WHO Was unfortunately Drowned near the English - shore , on his Return from the West-Indies . To the Tune of , The Ruined Virgin . YOu loyal Lovers all help me to moan , Who am so deep in thrall and left alone , The unkind hand of Fate , Has robbed me of my Mate , In tears I will relate my Grief and Woe . Alas ! why was I born this day to see ? Since I am left forlorn , in Misery , In Tears my Life I'll spend , Because I've lost a Friend , Whose Love did me defend , from danger here . He was a Seaman bold , of Courage brave , That scorned to be controlled , or once to have His Heart with fear concealed , When Danger was revealed , He'd rather die then yield to any Foe . No Man in Battle more valiant could be , When Cannons did rattle on the raging Sea , His Life he would expose , To fight his Country's Foes , For he was none of those that feared to die . But Neptune proves unkind , by conquering the brave , As to my Grief I find , for in a Wave My dearest Love was drowned , He being homeward bound , This does my Senses wound with Grief and Care . When first this dismal News to me was told , My Heart began to muse and waxed cold , Wishing in Heart this thing , That I had died with him , Then had my Sorrows been all at and end . More Love and Constancy sure never was shown , Then had my dearest Joy , for whom I moan , When Dangers him oppress , These words he did express , My Dear kind Heavens bless for evermore . Then was my Love by the Waves overcome , And laid for to sleep in his watery Tomb ; No Passing-Bell was there , His Knell for to declare , Sea Nymphs and Fish were his mourning Guess . Thus love and constancy lies in the deep , For want of whose company I mourn and weep , Comfort I will have none , Since he is Dead and gone , But will remain alone till Death me take . In places where none frequent by the Seaside , My Love for to lament there I'll abide , That I may never forget , What Dangers him bereft , Who was my constant Mate until he Died . London : Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden-ball in Pie-corner . TO : Love in Despair : OR , THE Virgin's Lamentation for her Love , WHO Was unfortunately Drowned near the English - shore , on his Return from the West-Indies . To the Tune of , The Ruined Virgin . YOu loyal Lovers all help me to moan , Who am so deep in thrall and left alone , The unkind hand of Fate , Has robbed me of my Mate , In tears I will relate my Grief and Woe . Alas ! why was I born this day to see ? Since I am left forlorn , in Misery , In Tears my Life I'll spend , Because I've lost a Friend , Whose Love did me defend , from danger here . He was a Seaman bold , of Courage brave , That scorned to be controlled , or once to have His Heart with fear concealed , When Danger was revealed , He'd rather die then yield to any Foe . No Man in Battle more valiant could be , When Cannons did rattle on the raging Sea , His Life he would expose , To fight his Country's Foes , For he was none of those that feared to die . But Neptune proves unkind , by conquering the brave , As to my Grief I find , for in a Wave My dearest Love was drowned , He being homeward bound , This does my Senses wound with Grief and Care . When first this dismal News to me was told , My Heart began to muse and waxed cold , Wishing in Heart this thing , That I had died with him , Then had my Sorrows been all at and end . More Love and Constancy sure never was shown , Then had my dearest Joy , for whom I moan , When Dangers him oppress , These words he did express , My Dear kind Heavens bless for evermore . Then was my Love by the Waves overcome , And laid for to sleep in his watery Tomb ; No Passing-Bell was there , His Knell for to declare , Sea Nymphs and Fish were his mourning Guess . Thus love and constancy lies in the deep , For want of whose company I mourn and weep , Comfort I will have none , Since he is Dead and gone , But will remain alone till Death me take . In places where none frequent by the Seaside , My Love for to lament there I'll abide , That I may never forget , What Dangers him bereft , Who was my constant Mate until he Died . London : Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden-ball in Pie-corner . 