And Excellent New SONG ; Called , The Hardhearted Lady , OR , The young Man died for Love . Being a Relation of a young Lady that was Engaged to a Seaman , and Married another while he was a Shipboard . To and Excellent New Tune . With Allowance . FArewell unto all Joy and Pleasure , Since that my hope is all in vain ; Once , as I thought , I had a Treasure , But since I me come home this gone again : She whom I adore , affords me no relief , Therefore , sweet gentle Death , make haste , and ease my grief . I am with Sorrow so tormented , That I cannot endure my Pain ; Nor can I ever be contented , Since that my Caelia does disdain Me for my true Love , and all my hope's destroy , Therefore once more I bid adieu to all my Joy . Now in some Foreign Land I'll wander , Until I find some place of rest ; And I my Brains no more will ponder , What I may do to please her best : But I'll bid adieu to Caelia too unkind , Until that we each other in our Graves shall find . And when that I am once deceased , I shall for ever happy be : I from my Pain shall be released ; But then , alas ! poor Caelia , she , As long as she does live , can never happy be Her Conscience will accuse her , That she Martyred me . Then may she with she'd not been cruel , While I on Shipboard served the King , When I did prize her as a Jewel , She said Love was a foolish thing . Now may she lament in Sorrow , Grief , & amp ; Pain , And wish with all her heart I were alive again . But since that Life , when once departed , Can never more recovered be , Now may she fit down broken hearted , And may prepare to follow me Unto the other World , adne hardhearted Oen , Fair Maidens all take care your Sweethearts a'm . undone London , Printed and Sold by T. More . And Excellent New SONG ; Called , The Hardhearted Lady , OR , The young Man died for Love . Being a Relation of a young Lady that was Engaged to a Seaman , and Married another while he was a Shipboard . To and Excellent New Tune . With Allowance . FArewell unto all Joy and Pleasure , Since that my hope is all in vain ; Once , as I thought , I had a Treasure , But since I me come home this gone again : She whom I adore , affords me no relief , Therefore , sweet gentle Death , make haste , and ease my grief . I am with Sorrow so tormented , That I cannot endure my Pain ; Nor can I ever be contented , Since that my Caelia does disdain Me for my true Love , and all my hope's destroy , Therefore once more I bid adieu to all my Joy . Now in some Foreign Land I'll wander , Until I find some place of rest ; And I my Brains no more will ponder , What I may do to please her best : But I'll bid adieu to Caelia too unkind , Until that we each other in our Graves shall find . And when that I am once deceased , I shall for ever happy be : I from my Pain shall be released ; But then , alas ! poor Caelia , she , As long as she does live , can never happy be Her Conscience will accuse her , That she Martyred me . Then may she with she'd not been cruel , While I on Shipboard served the King , When I did prize her as a Jewel , She said Love was a foolish thing . Now may she lament in Sorrow , Grief , & amp ; Pain , And wish with all her heart I were alive again . But since that Life , when once departed , Can never more recovered be , Now may she fit down broken hearted , And may prepare to follow me Unto the other World , adne hardhearted Oen , Fair Maidens all take care your Sweethearts a'm . undone London , Printed and Sold by T. More . 