And ANSWER TO THE Cook-Maid's TRAGEDY : OR , THE Lamentation of Thomas the Coach [ - ] man , FOR MARY the Cook-Maid , in COVENT GARDEN , Who Poisoned herself in Despair for his sake . To the Tune of , If Love's a sweet Passion , etc ASsist me , you Muses , to make my sad moan , Who am left in a otion of sorrows alone , Where , alas ! I am Shipwrecked on Rocks of despair , For my passion I now am not able to bear : Not and hour nor minute of comfort I have , When I think how dear Mary was sent to the Grave . I see mine own folly , now , now it's too late , And lament for dear Mary is sad desperate state , Who was wounded , I know , by the Arrows of Love , When she took that strong Poison her grief to remove : In my conscience no comfort or quiet I have , When I think how dear Mary was sent to the Grave . Her fancy young Cupid was pleased to confine , That her heart could not wander , 'twas constantly mine ; Yet I needs must acknowledge I slighted her so , That it proved her ruin and sad overthrow : In my conscience no comfort or quiet I have , When I think how dear Mary was sent to the Grave . Whatever between us in private had passed , Was unknown to the World , therefore clearly at last , I endeavour to smother and stoutly deny ; Was there ever Youngman so ungrateful as I ? In my conscience no comfort or quiet I have , When I think how dear Mary was sent to the Grave . I did my endeavour the same to conceal , But I now sad passionate torment do feel , Which bereaves me of all the delights of the World ; With distracted confusion my thoughts they are hurled : In my conscience no comfort or quiet I have , When I think how dear Mary was sent to the Grave . Now , now she lies sleeping , poor Soul , in the dust , Who was never fainthearted , but loyal and just , While in sorrow her Thomas is left to complain ; But it is not my tears can recall her again : In my conscience no comfort or quiet I have , When I think how dear Mary was sent to the Grave . So soon as her presence she found I forsook , Straight a potion of poison , poor creature , she took , To release her kind heart from the torment she felt , When she found like a falsehearted lover I dealt : In my conscience no comfort or quiet I have , When I think how dear Mary was sent to the Grave . Wherever I wander she runs in my mind , And methinks that I hear her cry , Thomas unkind , Tell me , how could you flatter and innocent Maid ? Thus I fancy I hear how she does me upbraid : In my conscience no comfort or quiet I have , When I think how dear Mary was sent to the Grave . O that I was able her Life to restore , Then I'ld labour to honour and dearly adore My beloved dear innocent Marry , for why , Since she's dead , there's none so unhappy as I : But , alas ! all my sighs and sad tears are in vain , All the World cannot raise or recall her again . FINIS . Licensed according to Order . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Giltspur-street , without Newgate . And ANSWER TO THE Cook-Maid's TRAGEDY : OR , THE Lamentation of Thomas the Coach [ - ] man , FOR MARY the Cook-Maid , in COVENT GARDEN , Who Poisoned herself in Despair for his sake . To the Tune of , If Love's a sweet Passion , etc ASsist me , you Muses , to make my sad moan , Who am left in a otion of sorrows alone , Where , alas ! I am Shipwrecked on Rocks of despair , For my passion I now am not able to bear : Not and hour nor minute of comfort I have , When I think how dear Mary was sent to the Grave . I see mine own folly , now , now it's too late , And lament for dear Mary is sad desperate state , Who was wounded , I know , by the Arrows of Love , When she took that strong Poison her grief to remove : In my conscience no comfort or quiet I have , When I think how dear Mary was sent to the Grave . Her fancy young Cupid was pleased to confine , That her heart could not wander , 'twas constantly mine ; Yet I needs must acknowledge I slighted her so , That it proved her ruin and sad overthrow : In my conscience no comfort or quiet I have , When I think how dear Mary was sent to the Grave . Whatever between us in private had passed , Was unknown to the World , therefore clearly at last , I endeavour to smother and stoutly deny ; Was there ever Youngman so ungrateful as I ? In my conscience no comfort or quiet I have , When I think how dear Mary was sent to the Grave . I did my endeavour the same to conceal , But I now sad passionate torment do feel , Which bereaves me of all the delights of the World ; With distracted confusion my thoughts they are hurled : In my conscience no comfort or quiet I have , When I think how dear Mary was sent to the Grave . Now , now she lies sleeping , poor Soul , in the dust , Who was never fainthearted , but loyal and just , While in sorrow her Thomas is left to complain ; But it is not my tears can recall her again : In my conscience no comfort or quiet I have , When I think how dear Mary was sent to the Grave . So soon as her presence she found I forsook , Straight a potion of poison , poor creature , she took , To release her kind heart from the torment she felt , When she found like a falsehearted lover I dealt : In my conscience no comfort or quiet I have , When I think how dear Mary was sent to the Grave . Wherever I wander she runs in my mind , And methinks that I hear her cry , Thomas unkind , Tell me , how could you flatter and innocent Maid ? Thus I fancy I hear how she does me upbraid : In my conscience no comfort or quiet I have , When I think how dear Mary was sent to the Grave . O that I was able her Life to restore , Then I'ld labour to honour and dearly adore My beloved dear innocent Marry , for why , Since she's dead , there's none so unhappy as I : But , alas ! all my sighs and sad tears are in vain , All the World cannot raise or recall her again . FINIS . Licensed according to Order . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Giltspur-street , without Newgate . 