The Unkind Parents : OR , The Languishing Lamentation of two Loyal Lovers . To and Excellent New Tune . Licensed according to Order . ( 1. ) NOw fare thou well my Dearest Dear , and fare thou well a while , Although I go , I'll come again ; if I go ten thousand mile , Dear Love , if I go ten thousand mile . ( 2. ) Ten thousand miles is far , dear Love , for you to come to me , Yet I could go full ten times more , to have thy company , dear Love , to have thy , etc ( 3. ) Thou art my Joy and chief delight , Love , leave me not behind , If from my presence you take flight , then are you most unkind , dear Love , then are , etc ( 4. ) I cannot be unkind , my Dear , my heart is linked to thee ; But while on Shore I tarry here , thy Friends does frown on me , dear Love , thy Friends , etc ( 5. ) For they in Riches so abound , that I am held in scorn ; This gives my heart a fatal wound , which makes my life forlorn , dear Love , which makes , etc ( 6. ) O cruel Parents , most unkind , the cause of all my woe ; This parting to my grief I find , will prove my overthrow , dear Love , will prove , etc ( 7. ) If thou dost cross the roaring Seas , into a Foreign Land , My heart will never be at ease , destruction is at hand , dear Love , destruction , etc ( 8 ) Oh say not so , let patience guide thy heart , and don't complain ; For though I cross the Ocean wide , I may return again , dear Love , I may , etc ( 9. ) Thy Parents that are so unkind , who does our peace annoy , May then be of another mind , and Crown our days with Joy , dear Love , and Crown , etc ( 10. ) Maid . ) If thou shouldst languish in distress in Foreign parts alone ; Thy grief in Tears thou mightest express , and I not hear they moan , dear Love , and I , etc ( 11. ) If solemnly you do engage to range perpetually , I will in habit of a Page , go through the world with thee , dear Love , go through , etc ( 12. ) Ah! say not so my Charming Fair ; for why sweet Saint behold , Thy tender nature cannot bear the melting heat and cold , dear Love , the melting , etc ( 13. ) Although I may in Deserts range , my heart is linked fast ; Therefore my mind shall never change , so long as life does last , dear Love , so long , etc ( 14. ) Mountains and Rocks on wings shall fly , and roaring Billows burn . Ever I will act Disloyalty ; then wait for my return , dear Love . then wait , etc ( 15. ) Love , might I have a Lord or Earl , the chief Nobility , Who would deck me with Orient Pearl , I'ld slight them all for thee , dear Love , I'ld slight , etc ( 16. ) And even as the Turtle Dove sits Cooing on a Tree , For the return of his true Love , so will I wait for thee , dear Love , so will I wait for thee . Printed for C. Bates , next the Crown-Tavern in West-Smithfield . The Unkind Parents : OR , The Languishing Lamentation of two Loyal Lovers . To and Excellent New Tune . Licensed according to Order . ( 1. ) NOw fare thou well my Dearest Dear , and fare thou well a while , Although I go , I'll come again ; if I go ten thousand mile , Dear Love , if I go ten thousand mile . ( 2. ) Ten thousand miles is far , dear Love , for you to come to me , Yet I could go full ten times more , to have thy company , dear Love , to have thy , etc ( 3. ) Thou art my Joy and chief delight , Love , leave me not behind , If from my presence you take flight , then are you most unkind , dear Love , then are , etc ( 4. ) I cannot be unkind , my Dear , my heart is linked to thee ; But while on Shore I tarry here , thy Friends does frown on me , dear Love , thy Friends , etc ( 5. ) For they in Riches so abound , that I am held in scorn ; This gives my heart a fatal wound , which makes my life forlorn , dear Love , which makes , etc ( 6. ) O cruel Parents , most unkind , the cause of all my woe ; This parting to my grief I find , will prove my overthrow , dear Love , will prove , etc ( 7. ) If thou dost cross the roaring Seas , into a Foreign Land , My heart will never be at ease , destruction is at hand , dear Love , destruction , etc ( 8 ) Oh say not so , let patience guide thy heart , and don't complain ; For though I cross the Ocean wide , I may return again , dear Love , I may , etc ( 9. ) Thy Parents that are so unkind , who does our peace annoy , May then be of another mind , and Crown our days with Joy , dear Love , and Crown , etc ( 10. ) Maid . ) If thou shouldst languish in distress in Foreign parts alone ; Thy grief in Tears thou mightest express , and I not hear they moan , dear Love , and I , etc ( 11. ) If solemnly you do engage to range perpetually , I will in habit of a Page , go through the world with thee , dear Love , go through , etc ( 12. ) Ah! say not so my Charming Fair ; for why sweet Saint behold , Thy tender nature cannot bear the melting heat and cold , dear Love , the melting , etc ( 13. ) Although I may in Deserts range , my heart is linked fast ; Therefore my mind shall never change , so long as life does last , dear Love , so long , etc ( 14. ) Mountains and Rocks on wings shall fly , and roaring Billows burn . Ever I will act Disloyalty ; then wait for my return , dear Love . then wait , etc ( 15. ) Love , might I have a Lord or Earl , the chief Nobility , Who would deck me with Orient Pearl , I'ld slight them all for thee , dear Love , I'ld slight , etc ( 16. ) And even as the Turtle Dove sits Cooing on a Tree , For the return of his true Love , so will I wait for thee , dear Love , so will I wait for thee . Printed for C. Bates , next the Crown-Tavern in West-Smithfield . 