And Answer to the The Unfortunate Lady . Who Hanged her self in Despair : Containing her Lovers Lamentation for her Untimely Destiny ; Together with the Apparition of her Bleeding Ghost in his silent Chamber . To the Tune of , The L anguishing S wain . Licensed according to Order . I . WHat dismal tidings do I hear , The fatal ruin of my Dear , Who did her dearest Life destroy , When she might not her Love enjoy . II Which grieves me to the very Soul , In sorrow I her Death condole ; No peace nor comfort can I find , The thoughts of her runs in my mind . III . Each Night when ever I close mine Eyes , Methinks I hear her dismal Cries , [ Cr ] ying , my Love I died for thee ; And then her bleeding Ghost I see . IV. Then with a Voice both sharp and shrill , She does my silent Chamber fill , And with a sighs and bitter groan , She does express her piteous moan . V. Alas ! although I did appear Thus in the Chamber of my Dear , He never wronged his Lover , no , 'Twas Parents proved my overthrow . VI . I know the tender Turtle-Doves , Was never more constant to their Loves , Then thee and I has been , she cried , And yet , alas ! for Love I died . VII . I was to thee as dear as Life , My Friends has caused all the strife ; They fought for Wealth and Riches store , When Love had wone the Field before . VIII . Because thou didst not in Wealth abound , My near Relations on thee frowned , And I was posted straight from thee , And by that means have ruined me . IX . They sent me word that thou wertenberg Wed , Which tidings almost struck me dead ; Unto Despair I straight did run , Oh see what cursed Gold has done ! X. Then with a sighs and dismal groan , She straight departs , leaves me alone ; Where I in sorrow weeping lie , To think of Parents Cruelty . XI . Sure Friends was never more to blame , How could they such a Letter frame , That I another Choice had made ? By this her Life they soon betrayed . XII . She well might be amazed , that I Should guilty be of Perjury , And leave a loyal Love at last , When many solemn Vows had passed . XIII . She's gone , and I am left behind : Now since I can no Comfort find , Come Death and prove a Friend to me , Oh let me Die as well as she . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . And Answer to the The Unfortunate Lady . Who Hanged her self in Despair : Containing her Lovers Lamentation for her Untimely Destiny ; Together with the Apparition of her Bleeding Ghost in his silent Chamber . To the Tune of , The L anguishing S wain . Licensed according to Order . I . WHat dismal tidings do I hear , The fatal ruin of my Dear , Who did her dearest Life destroy , When she might not her Love enjoy . II Which grieves me to the very Soul , In sorrow I her Death condole ; No peace nor comfort can I find , The thoughts of her runs in my mind . III . Each Night when ever I close mine Eyes , Methinks I hear her dismal Cries , [ Cr ] ying , my Love I died for thee ; And then her bleeding Ghost I see . IV. Then with a Voice both sharp and shrill , She does my silent Chamber fill , And with a sighs and bitter groan , She does express her piteous moan . V. Alas ! although I did appear Thus in the Chamber of my Dear , He never wronged his Lover , no , 'Twas Parents proved my overthrow . VI . I know the tender Turtle-Doves , Was never more constant to their Loves , Then thee and I has been , she cried , And yet , alas ! for Love I died . VII . I was to thee as dear as Life , My Friends has caused all the strife ; They fought for Wealth and Riches store , When Love had wone the Field before . VIII . Because thou didst not in Wealth abound , My near Relations on thee frowned , And I was posted straight from thee , And by that means have ruined me . IX . They sent me word that thou wertenberg Wed , Which tidings almost struck me dead ; Unto Despair I straight did run , Oh see what cursed Gold has done ! X. Then with a sighs and dismal groan , She straight departs , leaves me alone ; Where I in sorrow weeping lie , To think of Parents Cruelty . XI . Sure Friends was never more to blame , How could they such a Letter frame , That I another Choice had made ? By this her Life they soon betrayed . XII . She well might be amazed , that I Should guilty be of Perjury , And leave a loyal Love at last , When many solemn Vows had passed . XIII . She's gone , and I am left behind : Now since I can no Comfort find , Come Death and prove a Friend to me , Oh let me Die as well as she . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 