And Answer to The Lady's Tragedy : OR , The Young Linnen-Draper's Languishing Lamentation , for the Merchant's Daughter , who lately Died for Love Licensed according to Order . To the Tune of The Ring of Gold . I . ALl joy I bid adieu , love , peace , and pleasure ; My torments do's renew , Grief out of measure Here do I undergo , for being cruel To she who loved me so , my sweetest jewel . II Her yielding Heart she broke when first I left her ; Death gave the fatal stroke , and soon bereft her Of all her grief and pain , sorrow and anguish ; But I alive remain to lie and languish . III . Still as I call to mind what Vows I made her , New torments do I find : I that betrayed her Into the Arms of Death , where she expires , Now must resign my Breath , it is required . IV. My Conscience tells me plain , how I offended ; The sighs are all in vain , her days are ended ; The Sorrows which I have , sets me a weeping , While in the silent Grave , my Love lies sleeping . V. With Tears she called me , as she lay dying , Blaming Disloyalty ; often replying Ungrateful Man alone , to love and leave me : This was her dying moan which words do's grieve me . VI . She granted Love to me , when I lamented ; Which done , her company , straight I absented : This cut her to the Heart , so that she sounded ; But now I feel the smart of Conscience wounded . VII . My sighs , and melting Tears are out of number ; Her bleeding Ghost appears , stilll as I slumber , Methinks I hear her say , as she does hover , Make haste , and come away falsehearted Lover . VIII . I Dream my Love I meet , as I lie sleeping , Wrapped in her Winding-sheet , bitterly weeping , As if her Heart she'd break , for being slighted ; At which I start and ' wake sorely affrighted . IX . Let me go where I will , yet am I daunted ; For why ? I fancy still , that I am haunted For my Disloyalty , grief is ensuing , Conscience accuses me of her sad ruin . X. None but sad grief and care am I possing ; Kind Death they Dart prepare , life is no blessing ; Since I no comfort have , let me expire , That in the silent Grave , I may lie by her . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . And Answer to The Lady's Tragedy : OR , The Young Linnen-Draper's Languishing Lamentation , for the Merchant's Daughter , who lately Died for Love Licensed according to Order . To the Tune of The Ring of Gold . I . ALl joy I bid adieu , love , peace , and pleasure ; My torments do's renew , Grief out of measure Here do I undergo , for being cruel To she who loved me so , my sweetest jewel . II Her yielding Heart she broke when first I left her ; Death gave the fatal stroke , and soon bereft her Of all her grief and pain , sorrow and anguish ; But I alive remain to lie and languish . III . Still as I call to mind what Vows I made her , New torments do I find : I that betrayed her Into the Arms of Death , where she expires , Now must resign my Breath , it is required . IV. My Conscience tells me plain , how I offended ; The sighs are all in vain , her days are ended ; The Sorrows which I have , sets me a weeping , While in the silent Grave , my Love lies sleeping . V. With Tears she called me , as she lay dying , Blaming Disloyalty ; often replying Ungrateful Man alone , to love and leave me : This was her dying moan which words do's grieve me . VI . She granted Love to me , when I lamented ; Which done , her company , straight I absented : This cut her to the Heart , so that she sounded ; But now I feel the smart of Conscience wounded . VII . My sighs , and melting Tears are out of number ; Her bleeding Ghost appears , stilll as I slumber , Methinks I hear her say , as she does hover , Make haste , and come away falsehearted Lover . VIII . I Dream my Love I meet , as I lie sleeping , Wrapped in her Winding-sheet , bitterly weeping , As if her Heart she'd break , for being slighted ; At which I start and ' wake sorely affrighted . IX . Let me go where I will , yet am I daunted ; For why ? I fancy still , that I am haunted For my Disloyalty , grief is ensuing , Conscience accuses me of her sad ruin . X. None but sad grief and care am I possing ; Kind Death they Dart prepare , life is no blessing ; Since I no comfort have , let me expire , That in the silent Grave , I may lie by her . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 