THE Scornful Damsels Overthrow , And The Young Maidens Frolic ; Showing how a Beautiful Damsel , in the City of London , was Courted by several young Men , whom she scornfully denied , disdaining their proffered Loves And how at last a young beautiful Maiden , in men Apparel did Woe her , and Wed her , and after the Wedding WORSER inner discovered her self : Which when the other Damsel beheld , she went out into the Fields , full of grief , and killed her self . Tune of , Oh B illy , B illy . A Youthful Damsel did in London dwell , most Beautiful , and Fair , was she , Whom many a brisk Young Man loved well , each striving her true Lover for to be . But she did cry , I'll not comply , No , no , not I , to your Request : Therefore begone , a Lover I'll have none , A Maiden-life I still account the best . And she , with great Disdain , them all denied , thinking her self too good for all , Still puffing up her self in her own pride , ( which in the end had a most Fatal fallen ) Glorying that she , from love be'ng free , Could Mistress be over every heart , That to her came , refusing , with disdain , Their love , causing they in great grief to part Which when a pretty maid did understand , this pleasant Frolic she begun , Her self attired like a Gentleman , she went to Court her as the rest had done , She seemed a sweet young Youth complete , So fine and neat , be'ng comely dressed , Did so ensnare the scornful Damsel fair , That her hard heart with love it was possessed . Then this supposed youthful Gentleman , Did closely woo this Damsel gay , Till at the last she could not him withstand , and full resolved no longer to say nay , For Cupids Dart , with cruel smart , Did wound her heart with gentle love , Which she , in truth , so fixed upon this youth , That none but death should ever it remove . Which to her Lover she did thus impart , saying , Kind sir , now you have wone My love , and stole away my gentle heart , if you prove false I'm ruined and undone . Then lovingly , he did reply , Contentedly now rest , said he , For I declare , and solemnly do swear , Your honour spoiled never shall be for me . The set day for their marriage being come , in splendour great they wedded were , A gallant train did wait upon them home , some of her former lovers being there , the Damsel she was blithe and free , not thinking she a Maid had wed , Now dinner done , the bride maids also gone , for to prepare and deck the bridal bed . But now comes the Brides sorrow , grief and woe the Damsel that this prank had played , B efore the Company from thence did go , her self discovered for to be a Maid , When this was shown she soon was known For to be one that lived hard by , Which when beheld , the brides heart was so filled With sorrow that she swooned instantly . Now when the truth of all she understood , she was so troubled in her mind , that she resolved to spill her dearest blood , for in this life no comfort could [ she find , ] F illed with Despair , and [ void of care , ] She did prepare this world to part , With this intent , into [ the field she went , ] And with a Dagger [ pierced her gentle heart . ] Printed for J. Bissel , at the Bible and Harp in West-Smithfield [ . ] THE Scornful Damsels Overthrow , And The Young Maidens Frolic ; Showing how a Beautiful Damsel , in the City of London , was Courted by several young Men , whom she scornfully denied , disdaining their proffered Loves And how at last a young beautiful Maiden , in men Apparel did Woe her , and Wed her , and after the Wedding WORSER inner discovered her self : Which when the other Damsel beheld , she went out into the Fields , full of grief , and killed her self . Tune of , Oh B illy , B illy . A Youthful Damsel did in London dwell , most Beautiful , and Fair , was she , Whom many a brisk Young Man loved well , each striving her true Lover for to be . But she did cry , I'll not comply , No , no , not I , to your Request : Therefore begone , a Lover I'll have none , A Maiden-life I still account the best . And she , with great Disdain , them all denied , thinking her self too good for all , Still puffing up her self in her own pride , ( which in the end had a most Fatal fallen ) Glorying that she , from love be'ng free , Could Mistress be over every heart , That to her came , refusing , with disdain , Their love , causing they in great grief to part Which when a pretty maid did understand , this pleasant Frolic she begun , Her self attired like a Gentleman , she went to Court her as the rest had done , She seemed a sweet young Youth complete , So fine and neat , be'ng comely dressed , Did so ensnare the scornful Damsel fair , That her hard heart with love it was possessed . Then this supposed youthful Gentleman , Did closely woo this Damsel gay , Till at the last she could not him withstand , and full resolved no longer to say nay , For Cupids Dart , with cruel smart , Did wound her heart with gentle love , Which she , in truth , so fixed upon this youth , That none but death should ever it remove . Which to her Lover she did thus impart , saying , Kind sir , now you have wone My love , and stole away my gentle heart , if you prove false I'm ruined and undone . Then lovingly , he did reply , Contentedly now rest , said he , For I declare , and solemnly do swear , Your honour spoiled never shall be for me . The set day for their marriage being come , in splendour great they wedded were , A gallant train did wait upon them home , some of her former lovers being there , the Damsel she was blithe and free , not thinking she a Maid had wed , Now dinner done , the bride maids also gone , for to prepare and deck the bridal bed . But now comes the Brides sorrow , grief and woe the Damsel that this prank had played , B efore the Company from thence did go , her self discovered for to be a Maid , When this was shown she soon was known For to be one that lived hard by , Which when beheld , the brides heart was so filled With sorrow that she swooned instantly . Now when the truth of all she understood , she was so troubled in her mind , that she resolved to spill her dearest blood , for in this life no comfort could [ she find , ] F illed with Despair , and [ void of care , ] She did prepare this world to part , With this intent , into [ the field she went , ] And with a Dagger [ pierced her gentle heart . ] Printed for J. Bissel , at the Bible and Harp in West-Smithfield [ . ] 