The broken Contract ; OR , The Perjured Maiden . Being A Relation of a young Maid in Kent , who had promised to Marry a young Merchant , went afterwards to Marry a Knight , and was struck Dumb as the Minister was Marrying of her . Tune of , All Happy Times . NEar unto Dover lived late , A Maiden most unfortunate , The only Child her Father had , She broke her vow and now is Dead . She was most beautiful and Fair , With Rosy Cheeks and cold black Hair , She had fine Shapes with comely meen , Her Age was not above Fifteen . A Merchant young which came on Shore , Did spy her at her Father's Door , He was amazed and gazing stood , But had not power to speak one word . He went unto a Tavern by , Sent for her Father presently , And said , kind Sir , it's in your Will , To save a young Man , or to Kill . What is it young Man you would have , Your Daughter for a Wife I crave , Get her consent , I'll give you mine , I thank you Sir , a thousand times . The Merchant to the Daughter went , And strove to get her free consent . At first she seemed most strange and shy , But his kind words made her comply . And when that he had wone her Heart , She freely did her Love impart , And vowed she'd have him out of hand , Rather than any Lord o'th' Land. When she agreed to Marry him , A thousand times he kissed her then ; They in each others Arms did lie , Vowing to Marry speedily . Valentines Day they pitched upon , For these two Lovers to make one ; The youth for London came straight way , To buy all things for the Wedding Day . He left with her great store of Gold , With Diamonds , Pearls , Riches untold , To be a pledge in his Exile , But mark what happened the mean while . While the young Merchant he was gone , A Knight with Coach and Six did come , With Footmen running by his side , This Knight did Court her for his Bride . The Maiden thought it brave indeed , To be a Lady all with speed ; The Merchant being out of sighed , She consented to have the Knight They fixed upon a Day with speed , Then went to Church for to be wed ; Then mark what Judgments fallen on some , When she would speak she was struck dum [ b . ] But when she to her self did come , She cried a loud , o I'm undone : Forgive me my dear Merchant now , O pray forgive my perjured Vow . She languished a day or two , And then this World she bid adieu . With this Advice to those unwed , To keep their Vows they promised . And when the Merchant did return , And herd his Love was dead and gone , He went on Board to sail the Main , And vowed he'd never return again Printed and Sold by T. More . The broken Contract ; OR , The Perjured Maiden . Being A Relation of a young Maid in Kent , who had promised to Marry a young Merchant , went afterwards to Marry a Knight , and was struck Dumb as the Minister was Marrying of her . Tune of , All Happy Times . NEar unto Dover lived late , A Maiden most unfortunate , The only Child her Father had , She broke her vow and now is Dead . She was most beautiful and Fair , With Rosy Cheeks and cold black Hair , She had fine Shapes with comely meen , Her Age was not above Fifteen . A Merchant young which came on Shore , Did spy her at her Father's Door , He was amazed and gazing stood , But had not power to speak one word . He went unto a Tavern by , Sent for her Father presently , And said , kind Sir , it's in your Will , To save a young Man , or to Kill . What is it young Man you would have , Your Daughter for a Wife I crave , Get her consent , I'll give you mine , I thank you Sir , a thousand times . The Merchant to the Daughter went , And strove to get her free consent . At first she seemed most strange and shy , But his kind words made her comply . And when that he had wone her Heart , She freely did her Love impart , And vowed she'd have him out of hand , Rather than any Lord o'th' Land. When she agreed to Marry him , A thousand times he kissed her then ; They in each others Arms did lie , Vowing to Marry speedily . Valentines Day they pitched upon , For these two Lovers to make one ; The youth for London came straight way , To buy all things for the Wedding Day . He left with her great store of Gold , With Diamonds , Pearls , Riches untold , To be a pledge in his Exile , But mark what happened the mean while . While the young Merchant he was gone , A Knight with Coach and Six did come , With Footmen running by his side , This Knight did Court her for his Bride . The Maiden thought it brave indeed , To be a Lady all with speed ; The Merchant being out of sighed , She consented to have the Knight They fixed upon a Day with speed , Then went to Church for to be wed ; Then mark what Judgments fallen on some , When she would speak she was struck dum [ b . ] But when she to her self did come , She cried a loud , o I'm undone : Forgive me my dear Merchant now , O pray forgive my perjured Vow . She languished a day or two , And then this World she bid adieu . With this Advice to those unwed , To keep their Vows they promised . And when the Merchant did return , And herd his Love was dead and gone , He went on Board to sail the Main , And vowed he'd never return again Printed and Sold by T. More . 