And excellent new song , CALLED , Billy's ANSWER TO Phillis's Complaint . To a Pleasant and Delightful New Tune . WHat dismal cruel News is this I hear . that Phillis to the S ea is gone , And full resolved never to come here , all long of me a false and perjured Man , I changed my mind , and proved unkind , As she did find , which made her go , Sail on the Main , never to return again , Which now does fill my heart with grief & amp ; woe . O why did I kind Phillis so much wrong , who freely gave her heart to me , Beside , she was most beautiful and young , ay , and a Pattern of true Chastity , Yet to my love I false did prove , Which made her move out of my sighed , But now my heart , since Phillis did depart , Will quickly from my body take its flight . But first I will on shipboard go with speed , and sail the Ocean round about , For Phillis now my very heart does bleed , I never shall rest until I find her out , friends unto you I bid adieu , To England too i'll never come more , Unless kind fate show me my hapy Mate . That we may both return to the English shore . Accordingly on shipboard Billy went to find his true Love once again , For without her he could have no content , but mind a storm rise near the Coast of Spain , As the ship did go , the wind did blow Her too and from , till she was sunk , But Billy he did swim upon the sea , By holding fast and empty chest or trunk . Another ship to Barsolona bound , as she was sailing on the sea . Billy upon a chest the seamen found , and took him up among their company , To the place before they went on shore , Where Bill once more his Love did find , Her pardon he did beg upon his knee , And hoped she would as formerly be kind . But Phillis straight did make him this reply . O you have been most false to me , You took my heart , but me you did deny , therefore I will believe no more of thee . This made him mad , then looking sad , He went to stab his perjured heart , But Phillis said , O hear and injured Maid , Ere you and I so cruelly do part . Then Phillis unto Billy thus did say , if I should take your word once more , I doubt when we to England come to stay , You'll Court another , as you did before , No no not I . Bill did reply , May Heaven deny me if I do , So here's my hand , my heart you do command , I cannot live without enjoying you . Then P hillis gave consent unto the bliss , and charged him to keep his Vow , And Billy gave to her a gentle kiss , saying I will always love as I do now , They did not stay , but straight away Come sailing they for fair England , And now in love do live like Turtle Dove , No Couple has more comfort in the Land Printed By and for A.M. 1696. And excellent new song , CALLED , Billy's ANSWER TO Phillis's Complaint . To a Pleasant and Delightful New Tune . WHat dismal cruel News is this I hear . that Phillis to the S ea is gone , And full resolved never to come here , all long of me a false and perjured Man , I changed my mind , and proved unkind , As she did find , which made her go , Sail on the Main , never to return again , Which now does fill my heart with grief & amp ; woe . O why did I kind Phillis so much wrong , who freely gave her heart to me , Beside , she was most beautiful and young , ay , and a Pattern of true Chastity , Yet to my love I false did prove , Which made her move out of my sighed , But now my heart , since Phillis did depart , Will quickly from my body take its flight . But first I will on shipboard go with speed , and sail the Ocean round about , For Phillis now my very heart does bleed , I never shall rest until I find her out , friends unto you I bid adieu , To England too i'll never come more , Unless kind fate show me my hapy Mate . That we may both return to the English shore . Accordingly on shipboard Billy went to find his true Love once again , For without her he could have no content , but mind a storm rise near the Coast of Spain , As the ship did go , the wind did blow Her too and from , till she was sunk , But Billy he did swim upon the sea , By holding fast and empty chest or trunk . Another ship to Barsolona bound , as she was sailing on the sea . Billy upon a chest the seamen found , and took him up among their company , To the place before they went on shore , Where Bill once more his Love did find , Her pardon he did beg upon his knee , And hoped she would as formerly be kind . But Phillis straight did make him this reply . O you have been most false to me , You took my heart , but me you did deny , therefore I will believe no more of thee . This made him mad , then looking sad , He went to stab his perjured heart , But Phillis said , O hear and injured Maid , Ere you and I so cruelly do part . Then Phillis unto Billy thus did say , if I should take your word once more , I doubt when we to England come to stay , You'll Court another , as you did before , No no not I . Bill did reply , May Heaven deny me if I do , So here's my hand , my heart you do command , I cannot live without enjoying you . Then P hillis gave consent unto the bliss , and charged him to keep his Vow , And Billy gave to her a gentle kiss , saying I will always love as I do now , They did not stay , but straight away Come sailing they for fair England , And now in love do live like Turtle Dove , No Couple has more comfort in the Land Printed By and for A.M. 1696. 