And Excellent N ew SONG , CALLE WORSER , The Injured PHILLIS , Oh r , her Complaint against Her Perjured LOVER , With Phillis's Resolution to leave ENGLAND . Since Billy to his Phillis is untrue , I bid to Billy and the World adieu . To a Pleasant and Delightful New TO une . O Billy , Billy , whither art thou fled , and left thy Phillis her to mourn , And grieve to think the vows that thou has made , thou now shouldst break with so much scorn , Cupid above , why did you move My heart to love by cruel Dart ? His lying Tongue has wronged me all along , his Perjury has brought on me this smart . This youthful , youthful Lad appeared to be ( When first I saw his lovely Face ) A Lover full of all Fidelity ; but o , the trouble and the sad disgrace Does fallen on me since I did see Such Cruelty my Love does give , Which makes me cry , I'ld sooner choose to die , than ere believe a man more while I live . Go perjured Man , and try if you can find throughout the world another she , That will to Billy every prove so kind , or ever a he that is so false as thee ; You called me Dear , and oft did swear None could compare for Beauty bright , Like your dear Phill this oft was swore by Will . how could you thus in Perjury delight ? But since this so false Lover now adieu , I hate the thoughts of man for thee , And now do think there is no Lover true , No , no such thing as love in man can be : This isle unfold as I am told , The Young , the old swear Constancy , A Maid they'll tell , there's none they love so well , yet straight they'll court the very next they see . But now I'll wander over the watery Main , and my false Love will see no more , But Travel unto Barbary or Spain , and never will Return to English shore : If Phillis die , then happy I , Since I shall lie within the Deep , While he forswear to wrong the harmless Fair , in the watery Waves lie fast asleep . Then Maidens , Maidens , pray be warned by me let no false Lovers you betray ; They'll swear and curse , yet flatter you may see if they have stole your tender hearts away : They'll cog and lie , and say they die , If you deny what they request , While all their Trade's to wrong a harmless maid and when they've done they count it but a jest . If you did feel the Torments that I bear , you never would think on Lovers , no , Therefore sweet Lasses do but lend and Ear , and mind the wracking pains I undergo : With dread and fear my heart does tear , I pull my hair , and have no rest , That moment when I think on perjured men , there's thousand Vipers knawing at my breast . Unconstant Love once more I bid adieu , may she that you get for a Bride , Have that Regard as Phillis had for you , is what is wished by her that's cast aside , But yet I know you will not go To the Shades below , but first you'll cry O she is gone , since Phillis I did wrong , I hate to live , but willingly would die . London : Printed by and for A.M. 1696. And Excellent N ew SONG , CALLE WORSER , The Injured PHILLIS , Oh r , her Complaint against Her Perjured LOVER , With Phillis's Resolution to leave ENGLAND . Since Billy to his Phillis is untrue , I bid to Billy and the World adieu . To a Pleasant and Delightful New TO une . O Billy , Billy , whither art thou fled , and left thy Phillis her to mourn , And grieve to think the vows that thou has made , thou now shouldst break with so much scorn , Cupid above , why did you move My heart to love by cruel Dart ? His lying Tongue has wronged me all along , his Perjury has brought on me this smart . This youthful , youthful Lad appeared to be ( When first I saw his lovely Face ) A Lover full of all Fidelity ; but o , the trouble and the sad disgrace Does fallen on me since I did see Such Cruelty my Love does give , Which makes me cry , I'ld sooner choose to die , than ere believe a man more while I live . Go perjured Man , and try if you can find throughout the world another she , That will to Billy every prove so kind , or ever a he that is so false as thee ; You called me Dear , and oft did swear None could compare for Beauty bright , Like your dear Phill this oft was swore by Will . how could you thus in Perjury delight ? But since this so false Lover now adieu , I hate the thoughts of man for thee , And now do think there is no Lover true , No , no such thing as love in man can be : This isle unfold as I am told , The Young , the old swear Constancy , A Maid they'll tell , there's none they love so well , yet straight they'll court the very next they see . But now I'll wander over the watery Main , and my false Love will see no more , But Travel unto Barbary or Spain , and never will Return to English shore : If Phillis die , then happy I , Since I shall lie within the Deep , While he forswear to wrong the harmless Fair , in the watery Waves lie fast asleep . Then Maidens , Maidens , pray be warned by me let no false Lovers you betray ; They'll swear and curse , yet flatter you may see if they have stole your tender hearts away : They'll cog and lie , and say they die , If you deny what they request , While all their Trade's to wrong a harmless maid and when they've done they count it but a jest . If you did feel the Torments that I bear , you never would think on Lovers , no , Therefore sweet Lasses do but lend and Ear , and mind the wracking pains I undergo : With dread and fear my heart does tear , I pull my hair , and have no rest , That moment when I think on perjured men , there's thousand Vipers knawing at my breast . Unconstant Love once more I bid adieu , may she that you get for a Bride , Have that Regard as Phillis had for you , is what is wished by her that's cast aside , But yet I know you will not go To the Shades below , but first you'll cry O she is gone , since Phillis I did wrong , I hate to live , but willingly would die . London : Printed by and for A.M. 1696. 