The Falsehearted Lover , WHO Lately courted a Damsel in Wood's-Close near St. John's-street , and after he had obtained her Love , left her and Married another , at which she broke her Heart with very Grief , and was buried in the Parish of St. James Clerkenwell , to the unspeakable Grief of her Relations . Tune of Celia , etc I . LOyal Lovers far and near , I'ld have you freely now give ear ; This new Ditty calls for pity , and a pearl lamenting Tear ; Constant sure there scarce are any , Love has killed and wounded many . Constant , etc II One among the rest we find , She was of late to Love inclined ; He that wooed her , did delude her , and at length did prove unkind : For another did he leave her , This did soon of Life bereave her . For another , etc III . Many solemn Vows he made , And eke with seeming passion said , Sweetest Jewel , be not cruel ; thus her Heart was soon betrayed : But he proved most deceitful , Never was Lover more ungrateful . B ut he proved , etc IV. She no sooner this did know , But straight her Eyes with Tears did flow , Often crying , and replying , it will prove my overthrow : Having married with another , I cannot my Passion smother . Having married , etc V. Has he proved so false says she , Then farewell Life and Liberty , Gold and Treasure , Joy and Pleasure ; what is all the World to me : Since my Dear , and chiefest Blessing , Now another is possessing . Since my Dear , etc V. To my Chamber will I take , In private there my moan I'll make : Death does seize me , Sighs will ease me , then my yielding Heart shall break : I this day with Love am wounded , And with Grief and Care surrounded . I this day , etc VII . O what scorching flames I feel , The which no mortal can conceal : In sad anguish , here I languish , with sad sighs I now reveal : What sad Torment I lie under , Ever my Heart will break in sunder . What sad , etc VIII . Through my Heart in every Vein , I feel a most Tormenting pain ; And desire , to Expire , Love thou provest my fatal bane For thy sake I here lie Dying , And my Soul is from me flying . For whose sake , etc IX . Conscience may awaken thee , When I am in the Grave , said she , With sad horror , grief , and sorrow ; knowing you have Murdered me : And my bleeding Ghost may hover , To affright a perjured Lover . And my bleeding , etc X. Farewell Friends , and Damsels all , Into the Hands of Death I fallen , Who will lay me , and convey me , where my Soul for ever shall Feel no more of Loves displeasure , But enjoy Celestial Treasure , Feel no more , etc Printed for C. Bates next the Crown Tavern in West-smithfield . The Falsehearted Lover , WHO Lately courted a Damsel in Wood's-Close near St. John's-street , and after he had obtained her Love , left her and Married another , at which she broke her Heart with very Grief , and was buried in the Parish of St. James Clerkenwell , to the unspeakable Grief of her Relations . Tune of Celia , etc I . LOyal Lovers far and near , I'ld have you freely now give ear ; This new Ditty calls for pity , and a pearl lamenting Tear ; Constant sure there scarce are any , Love has killed and wounded many . Constant , etc II One among the rest we find , She was of late to Love inclined ; He that wooed her , did delude her , and at length did prove unkind : For another did he leave her , This did soon of Life bereave her . For another , etc III . Many solemn Vows he made , And eke with seeming passion said , Sweetest Jewel , be not cruel ; thus her Heart was soon betrayed : But he proved most deceitful , Never was Lover more ungrateful . B ut he proved , etc IV. She no sooner this did know , But straight her Eyes with Tears did flow , Often crying , and replying , it will prove my overthrow : Having married with another , I cannot my Passion smother . Having married , etc V. Has he proved so false says she , Then farewell Life and Liberty , Gold and Treasure , Joy and Pleasure ; what is all the World to me : Since my Dear , and chiefest Blessing , Now another is possessing . Since my Dear , etc V. To my Chamber will I take , In private there my moan I'll make : Death does seize me , Sighs will ease me , then my yielding Heart shall break : I this day with Love am wounded , And with Grief and Care surrounded . I this day , etc VII . O what scorching flames I feel , The which no mortal can conceal : In sad anguish , here I languish , with sad sighs I now reveal : What sad Torment I lie under , Ever my Heart will break in sunder . What sad , etc VIII . Through my Heart in every Vein , I feel a most Tormenting pain ; And desire , to Expire , Love thou provest my fatal bane For thy sake I here lie Dying , And my Soul is from me flying . For whose sake , etc IX . Conscience may awaken thee , When I am in the Grave , said she , With sad horror , grief , and sorrow ; knowing you have Murdered me : And my bleeding Ghost may hover , To affright a perjured Lover . And my bleeding , etc X. Farewell Friends , and Damsels all , Into the Hands of Death I fallen , Who will lay me , and convey me , where my Soul for ever shall Feel no more of Loves displeasure , But enjoy Celestial Treasure , Feel no more , etc Printed for C. Bates next the Crown Tavern in West-smithfield . 