The Faithful Mariner : OR , A Copy of VERSES Writ by a Seaman on Board the Britania in the Straights , and directed to fair Isabel , his loyal Love , in the City of London . Tune of , The Falsehearted Young Man : or , The Languishing Swain . FAir Isabel of beauty bright , To thee in love these lines I write , Hoping thou art alive and well , As I am now , as I am now , Fair Isabel . On board the brave Britannia bold , I have the fortune to behold , The sweet delightful banks of Spain , While in the Straights , while in the Straights We do remain . The Spanish lords of high renown , And gentery come swarming down , To see the British royal Fleet , With swelling sails , with swelling sails , And streamers sweet . While we appeared in all our pride , The seas was never so beautified , With able men of war before , Along the straights , along the straights And Spanish - shore . We have no storms nor weather foul , To make the roaring billows roll , But pleasant breathing gentle gales , Enough to fill , enough to fill Our sweeling sails . Along the coast of Barbary , The Algerines they flocked to see Our warlike Fleet of royal fame , And stood amazed , and stood amazed To see the same . The longer they the Fleet beheld , The more they were with wonder filled ; As knowing we were Britains bold , And that the French , and that the French False tales had told . For Turvil made the Turk believe , That he no damage could receive ; For of a truth he did declare , That master's of , that master's of The seas they were . This will for truth no longer go , For Turvil fears great Russel so , That for Thoulon he steered away ; He han't forgotten , he han't forgotten The month of May . With Russel he is loath to deal , For fear a second warlike peal Should shake their whole foundation so , That it might prove , that it might prove Their overthrow . Once more my dear and tender dove , Fair Isabel , my loyal love , Except of these few lines I send , Who will remain , who will remain Your faithful friend . Tho we are separated now , I'll not forget that solemn vow , Made when I left my native land , To go on board , to go on board Under command . Then dearest do not grieve nor mourn , With patience wait my safe return ; And then we'll both united be , In lasting bonds , in lasting bonds , Of loyalty . The figure of a heart I send . And round the same these lines are penned : The cham [ i ] n lov [ e ] has linked it fast , So long as life , so long as l [ i ] fe And breath shall last . LONDON : Printed for J. Blare , on London-bridge . The Faithful Mariner : OR , A Copy of VERSES Writ by a Seaman on Board the Britania in the Straights , and directed to fair Isabel , his loyal Love , in the City of London . Tune of , The Falsehearted Young Man : or , The Languishing Swain . FAir Isabel of beauty bright , To thee in love these lines I write , Hoping thou art alive and well , As I am now , as I am now , Fair Isabel . On board the brave Britannia bold , I have the fortune to behold , The sweet delightful banks of Spain , While in the Straights , while in the Straights We do remain . The Spanish lords of high renown , And gentery come swarming down , To see the British royal Fleet , With swelling sails , with swelling sails , And streamers sweet . While we appeared in all our pride , The seas was never so beautified , With able men of war before , Along the straights , along the straights And Spanish - shore . We have no storms nor weather foul , To make the roaring billows roll , But pleasant breathing gentle gales , Enough to fill , enough to fill Our sweeling sails . Along the coast of Barbary , The Algerines they flocked to see Our warlike Fleet of royal fame , And stood amazed , and stood amazed To see the same . The longer they the Fleet beheld , The more they were with wonder filled ; As knowing we were Britains bold , And that the French , and that the French False tales had told . For Turvil made the Turk believe , That he no damage could receive ; For of a truth he did declare , That master's of , that master's of The seas they were . This will for truth no longer go , For Turvil fears great Russel so , That for Thoulon he steered away ; He han't forgotten , he han't forgotten The month of May . With Russel he is loath to deal , For fear a second warlike peal Should shake their whole foundation so , That it might prove , that it might prove Their overthrow . Once more my dear and tender dove , Fair Isabel , my loyal love , Except of these few lines I send , Who will remain , who will remain Your faithful friend . Tho we are separated now , I'll not forget that solemn vow , Made when I left my native land , To go on board , to go on board Under command . Then dearest do not grieve nor mourn , With patience wait my safe return ; And then we'll both united be , In lasting bonds , in lasting bonds , Of loyalty . The figure of a heart I send . And round the same these lines are penned : The cham [ i ] n lov [ e ] has linked it fast , So long as life , so long as l [ i ] fe And breath shall last . LONDON : Printed for J. Blare , on London-bridge . 