THE Scotch Lover's Complaint : OR , Jockey's Lamentation FOR His unkind Usage by his coy Lady , AT EPSOM-WELLS . To a new Tune , much in Request . Licensed according to Order . WAe's me ! what must I do ? Drinking water I may rue , Since my heart so muckle harm befell , Wounded by a bonny Lass at Epsom - well : I'm have been at Dalking Fair , Seeing the charming faces there : But awe Scotland now geud Faith defy Sike a lip to she , and a lovely rolling eye ; Jenny is skin was white , her fingers small ; Moggy she was slender . strait and tall , But my Love here bears away the bell from all : For her I sighs , for her I die in despair ; Never Man in Woman took such joy , Never Woman was to Man so coy : She'll not be my Honey , For my love nor money ; Welladay ! what torment must I bear ? When I'm came to Epsom - wells , Where this charming Beauty dwells , I'm began to cast my eyes around , Then I'm quickly did receive this fatal wound , From her straight there flew a dart , Which did pierce me to the heart ; Then to her I'm made my humble suit , With a most graceful carage and a sweet salute ; Then I'm whispered in my Lady's ear , I'm had house and land with muckle geer , But away she flew , and would not me come near , I'm followed her , with cap in hand , to obtain Favour , if so kind a thing might be , But she flew the swifter still from me ; Yet at length I'm seized her , Thinking to have pleased her , She returned a frown of high disdain . Bonny Lady , then I'm cried , Fit thee down by Jockey is side , Who has something more , my Dear , to say , Let us kiss and pass the pleasant time away , Underneath this bower green ; Thou art like a beauteous Queen , Scotland never bred the like of thee , Then as I am a Lord of muckle high degree , I'm will thee maintain in satins fine , Nay , thou shalt in gold and silver shine , Tell me , bonny Lady , wilt thou then be mine ? But she replied , I need not talk any more , For my proffers great the valued not , Nor would she embrace a Highland Scot : Oh! that killing story Blasted all my glory , Never did I'm feal such grief before . I'm god up and ganged away , Having nothing more to say , But I'm ever since have felt such grief , Which has carried me , alas ! beyond relief ; Had I stayed in Aberdene , I'm this Lady had not seen , Which is the cause of all my woe , And I fear will prove Jockey is final overthrow : Epsom - wells , this day , I bid adieu , Since my coming there I needs must rue , You have Beauty's fair but they are cruel too : Home I'm return with the torment I'm endure , Where I'm court young Jenny to be kind , For to ease the anguish of my mind ; She's better then a Beauty , That will not own her duty , Such a one my wounded heart may cure . London : Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Guiltspur-street , without Newgate . THE Scotch Lover's Complaint : OR , Jockey's Lamentation FOR His unkind Usage by his coy Lady , AT EPSOM-WELLS . To a new Tune , much in Request . Licensed according to Order . WAe's me ! what must I do ? Drinking water I may rue , Since my heart so muckle harm befell , Wounded by a bonny Lass at Epsom - well : I'm have been at Dalking Fair , Seeing the charming faces there : But awe Scotland now geud Faith defy Sike a lip to she , and a lovely rolling eye ; Jenny is skin was white , her fingers small ; Moggy she was slender . strait and tall , But my Love here bears away the bell from all : For her I sighs , for her I die in despair ; Never Man in Woman took such joy , Never Woman was to Man so coy : She'll not be my Honey , For my love nor money ; Welladay ! what torment must I bear ? When I'm came to Epsom - wells , Where this charming Beauty dwells , I'm began to cast my eyes around , Then I'm quickly did receive this fatal wound , From her straight there flew a dart , Which did pierce me to the heart ; Then to her I'm made my humble suit , With a most graceful carage and a sweet salute ; Then I'm whispered in my Lady's ear , I'm had house and land with muckle geer , But away she flew , and would not me come near , I'm followed her , with cap in hand , to obtain Favour , if so kind a thing might be , But she flew the swifter still from me ; Yet at length I'm seized her , Thinking to have pleased her , She returned a frown of high disdain . Bonny Lady , then I'm cried , Fit thee down by Jockey is side , Who has something more , my Dear , to say , Let us kiss and pass the pleasant time away , Underneath this bower green ; Thou art like a beauteous Queen , Scotland never bred the like of thee , Then as I am a Lord of muckle high degree , I'm will thee maintain in satins fine , Nay , thou shalt in gold and silver shine , Tell me , bonny Lady , wilt thou then be mine ? But she replied , I need not talk any more , For my proffers great the valued not , Nor would she embrace a Highland Scot : Oh! that killing story Blasted all my glory , Never did I'm feal such grief before . I'm god up and ganged away , Having nothing more to say , But I'm ever since have felt such grief , Which has carried me , alas ! beyond relief ; Had I stayed in Aberdene , I'm this Lady had not seen , Which is the cause of all my woe , And I fear will prove Jockey is final overthrow : Epsom - wells , this day , I bid adieu , Since my coming there I needs must rue , You have Beauty's fair but they are cruel too : Home I'm return with the torment I'm endure , Where I'm court young Jenny to be kind , For to ease the anguish of my mind ; She's better then a Beauty , That will not own her duty , Such a one my wounded heart may cure . London : Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Guiltspur-street , without Newgate . 