THE Unconstant SHEPHERD ; OR THE Forsaken Lasses Lamentation . To and Excellent New Tune , much in Request . I . O , how can I be merry or glad , or in my mind contented be ; when the bonny bonny Lad whom I love best is banished out of my company ? II Though he was banished , it was for my sake , and his true Love I still will remain ; He has caused me many a night for to wake , and adieu to my Love once again . III . I dare not come where my Love is , nor I dare not for to sport nor play ; For their evil evil tongues they run so glibe , I must take a Kiss and go my way . IV. Kissing is but a silly Fancy , it brings true Lovers into since ; Oh that I were , and I wish that I were , for to see my true Love once again . V. As I was a walking through the Hall , I spied the twinkling of my Loves Eyes , Oh that I were , and I wish that I were in the Chamber where my true Love lies . VI . Away found Fool , call home thy heart , and in thy mind contented be ; For thou spendest thy time , and gets no gain , by loving a Lover that loves not thee . VII . If I do spend my time in vain , O , it is no loss to none but me ; I'll set it as light as the wavering Wind , that daily blows from Tree to Tree . VIII . My Lover so lively , tall and young , I had not the power to say nay ; The words of his false deluding Tongue , did suddenly steal my heart away . IX . In Deserts I'll wander for his sake , for here I no peace nor Joy can find ; My innocent heart I fear will break , because he has proved so unkind . X. I cannot forget the pleasing Charms , which every day he did renew , When as I lay Clasped in his Arms , but now I must bid them all adieu . XI . I did the delights of Love allow , and stroked his Locks of Curled Hair ; Then is he not most Ungrateful now , to leave me in grief and deep despair ? XII . Some other young Nymph enjoys my Swain she which does indeed my Glory blast ; Yet though he should Kill me with disdain , I'll love him as long as Life shall last . XIII . I languish , and have not long to breathe , therefore I'll write my last Farewell ; To Phaon I here my heart bequeathe , with whom I did once in pleasure dwell . XIV . Unto the Elizium Shades I'll go , where hovering Spirits do remain ; Repeating their Killing griefs and woe , who by their hardhearted Loves was slave XV . Of my little Lambs I take my leave , and every Creature in the Grove , Young Phaon he won't my L ife reprieve , therefore , alas ! I die for L ove . FINIS . Printed for Charles Bates , next door to the Crown-Tavern , near Duck-Lane-end , in West-Smithfield . 1690. THE Unconstant SHEPHERD ; OR THE Forsaken Lasses Lamentation . To and Excellent New Tune , much in Request . I . O , how can I be merry or glad , or in my mind contented be ; when the bonny bonny Lad whom I love best is banished out of my company ? II Though he was banished , it was for my sake , and his true Love I still will remain ; He has caused me many a night for to wake , and adieu to my Love once again . III . I dare not come where my Love is , nor I dare not for to sport nor play ; For their evil evil tongues they run so glibe , I must take a Kiss and go my way . IV. Kissing is but a silly Fancy , it brings true Lovers into since ; Oh that I were , and I wish that I were , for to see my true Love once again . V. As I was a walking through the Hall , I spied the twinkling of my Loves Eyes , Oh that I were , and I wish that I were in the Chamber where my true Love lies . VI . Away found Fool , call home thy heart , and in thy mind contented be ; For thou spendest thy time , and gets no gain , by loving a Lover that loves not thee . VII . If I do spend my time in vain , O , it is no loss to none but me ; I'll set it as light as the wavering Wind , that daily blows from Tree to Tree . VIII . My Lover so lively , tall and young , I had not the power to say nay ; The words of his false deluding Tongue , did suddenly steal my heart away . IX . In Deserts I'll wander for his sake , for here I no peace nor Joy can find ; My innocent heart I fear will break , because he has proved so unkind . X. I cannot forget the pleasing Charms , which every day he did renew , When as I lay Clasped in his Arms , but now I must bid them all adieu . XI . I did the delights of Love allow , and stroked his Locks of Curled Hair ; Then is he not most Ungrateful now , to leave me in grief and deep despair ? XII . Some other young Nymph enjoys my Swain she which does indeed my Glory blast ; Yet though he should Kill me with disdain , I'll love him as long as Life shall last . XIII . I languish , and have not long to breathe , therefore I'll write my last Farewell ; To Phaon I here my heart bequeathe , with whom I did once in pleasure dwell . XIV . Unto the Elizium Shades I'll go , where hovering Spirits do remain ; Repeating their Killing griefs and woe , who by their hardhearted Loves was slave XV . Of my little Lambs I take my leave , and every Creature in the Grove , Young Phaon he won't my L ife reprieve , therefore , alas ! I die for L ove . FINIS . Printed for Charles Bates , next door to the Crown-Tavern , near Duck-Lane-end , in West-Smithfield . 1690. 