Buxom Joan of Lymas is Love to a jolly Sailer : OR , The Maiden's Choice : Being LOVE for LOVE again . To and excellent new Playhouse Tune . A Soldier and a Sailer , A Tinker and a Tailer , Had once a doubtful strife , Sir , To make a Maid a Wife , Sir , Whose name was buxom Joan . Whose name was buxom Joan , For now the time was ended , When she no more intended To lick her lips at Men , Sir , and gnaw the sheets in vain , Sir , And lie o'nights alone , And lie o'nights alone . The Soldier swore like thunder , He loved her more than plunder ; And showed her many a fear , Sir , Which he had brought from far , Sir , With fighting for her sake . With fighting , etc The Tailor thought to please her , With offering her his Measure : The Tinker too with mettle , Said he could mend her kettle , And stop up e'ry leak . And stop , etc But while those three were prating , The Sailer slyly waiting ; Thought if it came about , Sir , That they should all fallen out , Sir , He then might play his part . He then , etc And just even as he meant , Sir , To Loggerheads they went , Sir , And then he let fly at her , A shot betwixt wind and water , Which wone this fair Maid's heart . Which wone , etc The Soldier being frustrate , Like Boreas loudly blustered , And would have satisfaction , For such a treacherous actium , Done by the cunning Tar , Done by , etc But he aboard his Pinnace , Never feared the Bully's menace , But lustily he plied , Sir , Against both wind and tide , Sir , Like any Man of War , Like any , etc The Tailer boldly vows too , He'll serve him like a Louse too , And with his bloody shears , Sir , Will cut off both his ears , Sir , For stealing of his Love , For stealing , etc But he his end had compassed , And laughed at Bodkin's bombast ; Still pointing right his needle , He launched into the middle ; She tossed and heaved ; he drove , She tossed , etc Then , next , the Man of mettle Began to beatrice his Kettle , And swore , that ( with a pox ) he Would thump him and his doxy , If ever he came near , If ever , etc But still the merry Sailer , Defied Buff , Brass , and Tailer , While , in h [ i ] s jolly mood , her He managed with his rudder , And right his course did steer , And right , etc LONDON : Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-ball , in Pie-corner . Buxom Joan of Lymas is Love to a jolly Sailer : OR , The Maiden's Choice : Being LOVE for LOVE again . To and excellent new Playhouse Tune . A Soldier and a Sailer , A Tinker and a Tailer , Had once a doubtful strife , Sir , To make a Maid a Wife , Sir , Whose name was buxom Joan . Whose name was buxom Joan , For now the time was ended , When she no more intended To lick her lips at Men , Sir , and gnaw the sheets in vain , Sir , And lie o'nights alone , And lie o'nights alone . The Soldier swore like thunder , He loved her more than plunder ; And showed her many a fear , Sir , Which he had brought from far , Sir , With fighting for her sake . With fighting , etc The Tailor thought to please her , With offering her his Measure : The Tinker too with mettle , Said he could mend her kettle , And stop up e'ry leak . And stop , etc But while those three were prating , The Sailer slyly waiting ; Thought if it came about , Sir , That they should all fallen out , Sir , He then might play his part . He then , etc And just even as he meant , Sir , To Loggerheads they went , Sir , And then he let fly at her , A shot betwixt wind and water , Which wone this fair Maid's heart . Which wone , etc The Soldier being frustrate , Like Boreas loudly blustered , And would have satisfaction , For such a treacherous actium , Done by the cunning Tar , Done by , etc But he aboard his Pinnace , Never feared the Bully's menace , But lustily he plied , Sir , Against both wind and tide , Sir , Like any Man of War , Like any , etc The Tailer boldly vows too , He'll serve him like a Louse too , And with his bloody shears , Sir , Will cut off both his ears , Sir , For stealing of his Love , For stealing , etc But he his end had compassed , And laughed at Bodkin's bombast ; Still pointing right his needle , He launched into the middle ; She tossed and heaved ; he drove , She tossed , etc Then , next , the Man of mettle Began to beatrice his Kettle , And swore , that ( with a pox ) he Would thump him and his doxy , If ever he came near , If ever , etc But still the merry Sailer , Defied Buff , Brass , and Tailer , While , in h [ i ] s jolly mood , her He managed with his rudder , And right his course did steer , And right , etc LONDON : Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-ball , in Pie-corner . 