THE DOVER Lovers : OR , A pleasant Dialogue between Jonathan , a cou - ragious Seaman , and Susan his [ de ] are Mistress , a little before his Departure . To the Tune of , The little Girls Wish . Licensed according to Order . Seamen . FAre you well , adieu my Dear , For I must be gone this Year , Time draws on a kindly Spring , And I must go to serve the King ; Mounsieur now begins to move , And I must be gone , my Love ; When the warlike Season's over , I'll return , I'll return to the English - shore . Maid . But my Joy and Heart's delight , What if you be slave in Fight , For the thoughts of killing Gun , Makes me now distracted run ; Stay , then stay , I beg of thee , Venture not beyond the Sea , For there's thousands cross the Main , And never does , and never does return again . Seamen . Honour calls , I must away , Yet Love bids me for to stay ; Why should I then fear a Storm , When thy Beauty hath a Charm ? The Gods will guard me I don't fear , For the sake of thee , my Dear ; When the Battle once is done , To thy arms , to they arms , my Love , I'll come . Maid . Oh! the thoughts of dreadful Fight , Does disturb me Day and Night ; If you are resolved to go , Let me put on Man's Clothes too , And your Servant I will be , To fight against the Enemy , And when the Foes about you swarm , I will guard , I will guard you from all harm . Seaman . Thanks a thousand times , my Dear , For thy Love and for thy Care , Better thousands of us killed , Then one drop of thy Blood spilled ; Take this Ring and Jewel too , In token that I will be true ; Then they in each others arms Huged and kissed , huged and kissed a thousand charms . Maid . But my Dear , one word with thee Before that you do go to Sea : Be sure you careful are , said she , Of your health , and think on me When that you are parted hence ; The Gods above by thy Defence , To return thee safe to me , To live in Love , to live in Love and Unity . Seaman . If it please the Gods above To return me home , my Love , We in Marriage-bonds will sing , And get a Boy to serve the King ; In my arms I will thee keep , And never return unto the deep , And for thy sake I'll leave the Seas , And live with thee , and live with thee in Wealth and Ease . LONDON : Printed for Elias Lambert , in Hatten-garden . THE DOVER Lovers : OR , A pleasant Dialogue between Jonathan , a cou - ragious Seaman , and Susan his [ de ] are Mistress , a little before his Departure . To the Tune of , The little Girls Wish . Licensed according to Order . Seamen . FAre you well , adieu my Dear , For I must be gone this Year , Time draws on a kindly Spring , And I must go to serve the King ; Mounsieur now begins to move , And I must be gone , my Love ; When the warlike Season's over , I'll return , I'll return to the English - shore . Maid . But my Joy and Heart's delight , What if you be slave in Fight , For the thoughts of killing Gun , Makes me now distracted run ; Stay , then stay , I beg of thee , Venture not beyond the Sea , For there's thousands cross the Main , And never does , and never does return again . Seamen . Honour calls , I must away , Yet Love bids me for to stay ; Why should I then fear a Storm , When thy Beauty hath a Charm ? The Gods will guard me I don't fear , For the sake of thee , my Dear ; When the Battle once is done , To thy arms , to they arms , my Love , I'll come . Maid . Oh! the thoughts of dreadful Fight , Does disturb me Day and Night ; If you are resolved to go , Let me put on Man's Clothes too , And your Servant I will be , To fight against the Enemy , And when the Foes about you swarm , I will guard , I will guard you from all harm . Seaman . Thanks a thousand times , my Dear , For thy Love and for thy Care , Better thousands of us killed , Then one drop of thy Blood spilled ; Take this Ring and Jewel too , In token that I will be true ; Then they in each others arms Huged and kissed , huged and kissed a thousand charms . Maid . But my Dear , one word with thee Before that you do go to Sea : Be sure you careful are , said she , Of your health , and think on me When that you are parted hence ; The Gods above by thy Defence , To return thee safe to me , To live in Love , to live in Love and Unity . Seaman . If it please the Gods above To return me home , my Love , We in Marriage-bonds will sing , And get a Boy to serve the King ; In my arms I will thee keep , And never return unto the deep , And for thy sake I'll leave the Seas , And live with thee , and live with thee in Wealth and Ease . LONDON : Printed for Elias Lambert , in Hatten-garden . 