THE Undaunted Mariner ; OR , THE Stout Seaman's Valiant Resolution , IN A DIALOGUE Between Him and Nancy his Love , at his going on Board . To the Tune of the Intrigues of Love . Licensed according to Order FArewel my Dearest Nancy , for I this day must leave thee , There's none but thee I fancy , therefore I'll never deceive thee , But while I have a day to live , Love , a loyal heart to thee I'lle give Which is at thy Command , Whither by Sea or Land ; But on the Ocean wide My Courage must be be tried , For to subdue the pride Of France , Love , yet will I ever constant prove . Alas ! my dearest Jewel , must we indeed be parted ? If thou canst be so cruel , then I am broken hearted ; And therefore stay at home with me , Where there's love and sweet felicity , Ten thousand melting Charms Here in my folded Arms , My Jewel shall enjoy , No storm shall thee annoy , And therefore don't destroy Thy Love , by the loss of thy sweet Company . Make not this Lamentation , for I on Board will enter , Where to defend the Nation , my life I'll freely venture , Under Commanders brave and bold , Right Renowned Valiant Hearts of Gold , I am resolved to Fight , The Nations wrongs to right , Though Cannon Bullets fly , I'll venture Love , for why , There's better Men than I , That will go to face the proud Insulting Foe . Why talk you of Commanders , who Sails the Raging Ocean , Like Valiant Alexanders , they are seeking for Promotion , But what canst thou expect to gain , But the Hazard , Love , of being slave , Which life is more to me , Than all the world , said she ; Thy presence I adore , And therefore stay on shore , For when the Cannons roar , My Dear , will suffer with the rest I fear . Love tell me not of Dangers , when roaring Cannons rattle , Stout Seamen must be strangers , to fear in time of battle , I am a Sailor bred and born , And the fear of death therefore I scorn , If I at Home should stay , What would Commanders say , It never shall be said , That I a seaman bred , Will ever hide my head , I'll go , and it is in vain to answer no . My melting eyes are flowing , yet thou art void of pity , And are this day for going from famous London City , Well , since it will not better be , Here's a Diamond Ring I give to thee , Which as a token take , And beware it for my sake , Love likewise Night and Day , While thou dost from me stay , Continually I'll pray , Again in safety to forsake the Main Printed for J. Blare at the Looking-Glass on London Bridge . THE Undaunted Mariner ; OR , THE Stout Seaman's Valiant Resolution , IN A DIALOGUE Between Him and Nancy his Love , at his going on Board . To the Tune of the Intrigues of Love . Licensed according to Order FArewel my Dearest Nancy , for I this day must leave thee , There's none but thee I fancy , therefore I'll never deceive thee , But while I have a day to live , Love , a loyal heart to thee I'lle give Which is at thy Command , Whither by Sea or Land ; But on the Ocean wide My Courage must be be tried , For to subdue the pride Of France , Love , yet will I ever constant prove . Alas ! my dearest Jewel , must we indeed be parted ? If thou canst be so cruel , then I am broken hearted ; And therefore stay at home with me , Where there's love and sweet felicity , Ten thousand melting Charms Here in my folded Arms , My Jewel shall enjoy , No storm shall thee annoy , And therefore don't destroy Thy Love , by the loss of thy sweet Company . Make not this Lamentation , for I on Board will enter , Where to defend the Nation , my life I'll freely venture , Under Commanders brave and bold , Right Renowned Valiant Hearts of Gold , I am resolved to Fight , The Nations wrongs to right , Though Cannon Bullets fly , I'll venture Love , for why , There's better Men than I , That will go to face the proud Insulting Foe . Why talk you of Commanders , who Sails the Raging Ocean , Like Valiant Alexanders , they are seeking for Promotion , But what canst thou expect to gain , But the Hazard , Love , of being slave , Which life is more to me , Than all the world , said she ; Thy presence I adore , And therefore stay on shore , For when the Cannons roar , My Dear , will suffer with the rest I fear . Love tell me not of Dangers , when roaring Cannons rattle , Stout Seamen must be strangers , to fear in time of battle , I am a Sailor bred and born , And the fear of death therefore I scorn , If I at Home should stay , What would Commanders say , It never shall be said , That I a seaman bred , Will ever hide my head , I'll go , and it is in vain to answer no . My melting eyes are flowing , yet thou art void of pity , And are this day for going from famous London City , Well , since it will not better be , Here's a Diamond Ring I give to thee , Which as a token take , And beware it for my sake , Love likewise Night and Day , While thou dost from me stay , Continually I'll pray , Again in safety to forsake the Main Printed for J. Blare at the Looking-Glass on London Bridge . 