THE Passionate Maid of ROCHESTER : GIVING And Account of a Damsel who Poisoned herself for Love of a Ship-car - penter ; but repenting what she had done , with Oil , she expelled the Poison , and tO hen was Married to the Man she admired . To the Tune of , The Milking-pail . Licensed according to Order . YOu pretty young Lasses all , Come readily at my call , And as you draw near , Be pleased to give ear , For tell you the truth I shall , At Rochester there Did live , I declare , A pretty youthful Maid ; By all above , This tender Dove , She fell in Love , The Man did prove , A Ship-carpenter by Trade . Sweet Creature he often cried , Oh! let me not be denied , For as I protest , I am not in jest , I'll make thee my lawful Bride ; No Beauty before , I ever could adore , Then crown me with content ; This Carpenter , Thus courted her , And went so far , Till she cried , Sir , I readily give consent . When once he had gained her Heart , And Cupid had shot his Dart , His Vows he forgotten , And valued her not , With her he could freely part ; This troubled her so , That sorrow and woe Did wrack her grieved mind . Alas ! said she , How can he be So false to me ? Now , now , I see , The Carpenter's most unkind . In sorrow she weeping said , My innocent Heart's betrayed , False Lover , I find That you were designed To ruin a harmless Maid ; The violent Pain , In every Vein , No torment can excel ; This Poison strong , Shall end my wrong , I shall not long , Sing forth this Song , Ship-carpenter now farewell . When she had the Poison took , She did not the least brook : Now Death being near , She trembled for fear , And searched with a careful look ; Then in a short while , A Bottle of Oil , She found , that was set by , And close corked up ; Strait e'ry sup , Without a cup , She swallowed up , As being not free to die . The Poison she did expel ; Her Lover , the truth to tell , Came to her again , And Married her then , So every thing is well ; In Rochester they Are living this day , As I the truth have penned ; With him she blessed , Her Heart's at rest , For I protest , among the rest , The Bottle was her good Friend . London : Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-glass on London-bridge . THE Passionate Maid of ROCHESTER : GIVING And Account of a Damsel who Poisoned herself for Love of a Ship-car - penter ; but repenting what she had done , with Oil , she expelled the Poison , and tO hen was Married to the Man she admired . To the Tune of , The Milking-pail . Licensed according to Order . YOu pretty young Lasses all , Come readily at my call , And as you draw near , Be pleased to give ear , For tell you the truth I shall , At Rochester there Did live , I declare , A pretty youthful Maid ; By all above , This tender Dove , She fell in Love , The Man did prove , A Ship-carpenter by Trade . Sweet Creature he often cried , Oh! let me not be denied , For as I protest , I am not in jest , I'll make thee my lawful Bride ; No Beauty before , I ever could adore , Then crown me with content ; This Carpenter , Thus courted her , And went so far , Till she cried , Sir , I readily give consent . When once he had gained her Heart , And Cupid had shot his Dart , His Vows he forgotten , And valued her not , With her he could freely part ; This troubled her so , That sorrow and woe Did wrack her grieved mind . Alas ! said she , How can he be So false to me ? Now , now , I see , The Carpenter's most unkind . In sorrow she weeping said , My innocent Heart's betrayed , False Lover , I find That you were designed To ruin a harmless Maid ; The violent Pain , In every Vein , No torment can excel ; This Poison strong , Shall end my wrong , I shall not long , Sing forth this Song , Ship-carpenter now farewell . When she had the Poison took , She did not the least brook : Now Death being near , She trembled for fear , And searched with a careful look ; Then in a short while , A Bottle of Oil , She found , that was set by , And close corked up ; Strait e'ry sup , Without a cup , She swallowed up , As being not free to die . The Poison she did expel ; Her Lover , the truth to tell , Came to her again , And Married her then , So every thing is well ; In Rochester they Are living this day , As I the truth have penned ; With him she blessed , Her Heart's at rest , For I protest , among the rest , The Bottle was her good Friend . London : Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-glass on London-bridge . 