The Cruel LOVER : OR , The Falsehearted Sailor : Being a Relation of one Mary Shalford , near Ratcliff-cross , that was in Love with a Seaman , who had promised her Marriage , and the Wedding-day was ap - pointed , but he changed his Mind and forsook her ; whereupon she took grief to Heart and died the 2d Day of this Month. Tune of , The Maiden-Lottery , etc YOu Lovers that have been Falsehearted , pray listen to what I have penned , And then without fear a sorrowful tear , down , down from your Eyes it will send , To think of the torture and pain which injured Lasses sustain , When once they discover a flattering Lover to kill them with darts of Disdain ; As by this new Ditty the Truth will appear , A Seaman was cruel and false to his Dear . The innocent Maiden was Mary , near Ratcliff [ - c ] ross she did dwell , Whose treacherous Love her ruin did prove , there's many that know it right-well ; He courted her every day , at length without longer delay . He told her his ruin and utter undoing would follow if she said him nay : Thus like to a S [ a ] jut he would often appear , And yet he was cruel and false to his Dear . Poor Mary was loath to believe him , and therefore his suit she denied , Yet nevertheless he made his address , for nothing their Hearts could divide ; He swore by the Powers above she should be his innocent Dove He never would leave her , but scorned to disceive her , no other he ever would love : So honest and loyal he seemed to appear , And yet he was cruel and false to his Dear . She told him young Men were deceitful , and subject to flatter and lie , What ever they pretend they're false in the end , but straightways he made this reply , Thy Beauty has conquered my Heart , it bleeds with the wound of a Dart , Then prithee , sweet jewel , no longer be cruel , from thee , Love , I never will part : Thus faithful and loyal he seemed to appear , And yet he was cruel and false to his Dear . Poor creature , at length she consented , and granted the Seaman's request , Without more delay , appointing the day They both should be equally blessed ; So soon as her Heart she resigned , he changed like the wavering Wind , Her favours he slighted , thus was she requited , Oh! was he not more then unkind ? Her company then he would never come near , But showed himself cruel and false to his Dear . So soon as she found him deceitful , and that he was false to his Vow , She bitterly cried , and often replied , Farewell , Thou hast ruined me now ; My Heart being ready to break , no manner of rest can I take ; Too soon I discover a falsehearted Lover , now , now I must die for they sake : The Arrows of Cupid are sharp and severe , Since thou art deceitful and false to thy Dear . Oh! why did he seek my Destruction by treating of Love in disguise ? What reason had he to ruined me ? Then , then with her watery Eyes , She lay like a trembling Saint , and poured forth her dying Complaint ; Her violent Favour , near offered to leave her till her vital Spirits did faint : Then dying , she cried , Thou hast ruined me here , I shall pay for my Love , since I die for my Dear . FINIS . Licensed according to Order . LONDON : Printed for J. Blare , at the sign of the Looking - glass on London-bridge . The Cruel LOVER : OR , The Falsehearted Sailor : Being a Relation of one Mary Shalford , near Ratcliff-cross , that was in Love with a Seaman , who had promised her Marriage , and the Wedding-day was ap - pointed , but he changed his Mind and forsook her ; whereupon she took grief to Heart and died the 2d Day of this Month. Tune of , The Maiden-Lottery , etc YOu Lovers that have been Falsehearted , pray listen to what I have penned , And then without fear a sorrowful tear , down , down from your Eyes it will send , To think of the torture and pain which injured Lasses sustain , When once they discover a flattering Lover to kill them with darts of Disdain ; As by this new Ditty the Truth will appear , A Seaman was cruel and false to his Dear . The innocent Maiden was Mary , near Ratcliff [ - c ] ross she did dwell , Whose treacherous Love her ruin did prove , there's many that know it right-well ; He courted her every day , at length without longer delay . He told her his ruin and utter undoing would follow if she said him nay : Thus like to a S [ a ] jut he would often appear , And yet he was cruel and false to his Dear . Poor Mary was loath to believe him , and therefore his suit she denied , Yet nevertheless he made his address , for nothing their Hearts could divide ; He swore by the Powers above she should be his innocent Dove He never would leave her , but scorned to disceive her , no other he ever would love : So honest and loyal he seemed to appear , And yet he was cruel and false to his Dear . She told him young Men were deceitful , and subject to flatter and lie , What ever they pretend they're false in the end , but straightways he made this reply , Thy Beauty has conquered my Heart , it bleeds with the wound of a Dart , Then prithee , sweet jewel , no longer be cruel , from thee , Love , I never will part : Thus faithful and loyal he seemed to appear , And yet he was cruel and false to his Dear . Poor creature , at length she consented , and granted the Seaman's request , Without more delay , appointing the day They both should be equally blessed ; So soon as her Heart she resigned , he changed like the wavering Wind , Her favours he slighted , thus was she requited , Oh! was he not more then unkind ? Her company then he would never come near , But showed himself cruel and false to his Dear . So soon as she found him deceitful , and that he was false to his Vow , She bitterly cried , and often replied , Farewell , Thou hast ruined me now ; My Heart being ready to break , no manner of rest can I take ; Too soon I discover a falsehearted Lover , now , now I must die for they sake : The Arrows of Cupid are sharp and severe , Since thou art deceitful and false to thy Dear . Oh! why did he seek my Destruction by treating of Love in disguise ? What reason had he to ruined me ? Then , then with her watery Eyes , She lay like a trembling Saint , and poured forth her dying Complaint ; Her violent Favour , near offered to leave her till her vital Spirits did faint : Then dying , she cried , Thou hast ruined me here , I shall pay for my Love , since I die for my Dear . FINIS . Licensed according to Order . LONDON : Printed for J. Blare , at the sign of the Looking - glass on London-bridge . 