The Valiant Seaman's Courage : Who by the Order of The Right Honourable Admiral Russel . Did on the Tenth of May perform a brave Exploit on the French , Burning Thirty eight Sail of their Merchantmen , and taking a Man of War , to the great Honour of the English Nation . To the Tune of , Found Boy , etc Licensed according to Order . JOyful Tidings I bring , let us merrily Sing Till we make the whole Nation with Triumph to ring ; For our Admiral he , by his Conduct at Sea , Now has made the poor French-men to come by thee lee : This is but the beginning of what we intend For to show them before the brave Summer does end . A Detachment sent out , bravely scoured about , Till they put a whole Fleet of French Ships to the rout ; We were four or five Sail , who to Fight never fail , And the one carried fiery Flames in her Ta [ il ] : This is but the beginning of what we intend For to show them before the brave Summer does end . To these Merchant's of Fran [ c ] e , we did fairly advance , So good was our fortunate prosperous Chance , That we put them in fear , to the Shore they did steer , While we followed with thundering shot in the rear : This is but the beginning of what we intend For to show them before the brave Summer does end . Some was sailing for Breast , and St Malo is we gest , To fair Dunkirk with Stores and Provision the rest ; But their Voyage we stayed , and fierce Havoc we made , While our thundering Cannons against them we played : This is but the beginning of what we intend For to show them before this brave Summer does end . Quoth the frighted Mounsieur , To the Shore let us steer , Here is coming five Sail of the proud Englatier ; Now begar let us [ r ] un , from the noise of deir Gun , Or dey'll serve us , as they did our dear Rising-sun : Yet this is but a taste , Boys , of what we intend For give them before the brave Sum [ e ] r does end . As they fled in disgrace , still we mended our pace , And like true Sons of Thunder we followed the Chase ; Where in Harbour near Shore , thirty eight Sail or more , We did set all on fire , in Flames they did roar : This is but a beginning of what we intend For to show them before this brave Summer does end . When our Poject did take , such a Flame it did make , Just as if the Seas had been a fiery Lake ; All their charges and cost of their Cargo was lost : Now was ever poor French-men so plauge y Crossed ? This is but the beginning of what we intend For to show them before this brave Summer does end . It was on the tenth day of this sweet Month of May , When the valiant bold Britains did show them this play , And we make no great doubt , ever the Summer is out , For to give them a sharp and more vigorous rout : This is but a beginning of what we intend For to show them before the brave Summer does end . Boys , the work we'll complete , with a most Royal Fleet , For we valiant Tarpo [ l ] li [ n ] s do scorn to retreat ; Not a French-man we'll spare , let them come if they dare On the Ocean , brave Russel will fight with them fare : This is but a beginning of what he intends For to show them before the brave Summer it ends . FINIS . LONDON : Printed for C. Bates , at the White - Heart in West-Smithfield . The Valiant Seaman's Courage : Who by the Order of The Right Honourable Admiral Russel . Did on the Tenth of May perform a brave Exploit on the French , Burning Thirty eight Sail of their Merchantmen , and taking a Man of War , to the great Honour of the English Nation . To the Tune of , Found Boy , etc Licensed according to Order . JOyful Tidings I bring , let us merrily Sing Till we make the whole Nation with Triumph to ring ; For our Admiral he , by his Conduct at Sea , Now has made the poor French-men to come by thee lee : This is but the beginning of what we intend For to show them before the brave Summer does end . A Detachment sent out , bravely scoured about , Till they put a whole Fleet of French Ships to the rout ; We were four or five Sail , who to Fight never fail , And the one carried fiery Flames in her Ta [ il ] : This is but the beginning of what we intend For to show them before the brave Summer does end . To these Merchant's of Fran [ c ] e , we did fairly advance , So good was our fortunate prosperous Chance , That we put them in fear , to the Shore they did steer , While we followed with thundering shot in the rear : This is but the beginning of what we intend For to show them before the brave Summer does end . Some was sailing for Breast , and St Malo is we gest , To fair Dunkirk with Stores and Provision the rest ; But their Voyage we stayed , and fierce Havoc we made , While our thundering Cannons against them we played : This is but the beginning of what we intend For to show them before this brave Summer does end . Quoth the frighted Mounsieur , To the Shore let us steer , Here is coming five Sail of the proud Englatier ; Now begar let us [ r ] un , from the noise of deir Gun , Or dey'll serve us , as they did our dear Rising-sun : Yet this is but a taste , Boys , of what we intend For give them before the brave Sum [ e ] r does end . As they fled in disgrace , still we mended our pace , And like true Sons of Thunder we followed the Chase ; Where in Harbour near Shore , thirty eight Sail or more , We did set all on fire , in Flames they did roar : This is but a beginning of what we intend For to show them before this brave Summer does end . When our Poject did take , such a Flame it did make , Just as if the Seas had been a fiery Lake ; All their charges and cost of their Cargo was lost : Now was ever poor French-men so plauge y Crossed ? This is but the beginning of what we intend For to show them before this brave Summer does end . It was on the tenth day of this sweet Month of May , When the valiant bold Britains did show them this play , And we make no great doubt , ever the Summer is out , For to give them a sharp and more vigorous rout : This is but a beginning of what we intend For to show them before the brave Summer does end . Boys , the work we'll complete , with a most Royal Fleet , For we valiant Tarpo [ l ] li [ n ] s do scorn to retreat ; Not a French-man we'll spare , let them come if they dare On the Ocean , brave Russel will fight with them fare : This is but a beginning of what he intends For to show them before the brave Summer it ends . FINIS . LONDON : Printed for C. Bates , at the White - Heart in West-Smithfield . 