The Royal BALL : As it was performed in Masquerade by Two Seamen . Being the Subject's Hearty-Wish for the good success of the KING and Fleet. To and Excellent New Tune , Sung at Court . Licensed according to Order . ptitle : : end I . SInce all the World's in Arms , And full of loud Alarms ; Let Englands Subject's Sing The Praises of her KING , Who Conquers where he goes , And Triumphs over his Foes ; Then let us all Proclaim Great King Williams is lasting Fame II No Nation is so Blessed ; With such a Prince poss [ est , ] Whose Care does never cease , That we may live in Peace . How Happy might we be , Could Subjects but agree ? Then let us all Proclaim Great King William is lasting Fame . III . To him our Lives we owe , For him these we'll bestow : No Forreign-Force we'll fear , But Fight for England here . Proud France let us pull down , And shake that Tottering-Crown , And let us all Proclaim Great King William is lasting Fame . IV. Let SEAMEN in the Fleet , Make all the French retreat . Make Monsieur flee apace , And fear the English Face . Our Warlike-Lads know how To make the French-Men bow . Then let us all Proclaim Great King William is lasting Fame . V. Our NAVY on the Seas , ( While we are safe at ease ) In Bullets and in Flame , Will raise the English - Name . Our Valour France shall know , By their own overthrow . Then let us all Proclaim Great King William is lasting Fame . VI . How many were the Plots Of all the Papish-Sots , To Ruin great and small , To take our Lives , and all . Yet these we still enjoy , Which they sought to destroy . Then let us all Proclaim Great King William is lasting Fame . VII . The King does undertake Great Dangers for our sake : Himself in Person goes To Vanquish Englands Foes , That we may live all here , Securely , void of fear . Then let us all Proclaim Great King William is lasting Fame . VIII . Let Trumpets every where , To found his Praise , prepare . Let Subject's Valiant be , And Loyal , and agree : With one Consent and Voice , In him alone Rejoice ; And let us all Proclaim Great King William is lasting Fame . IX . Our Wishes let us send , That Heaven may him defend ; Our Armies too , and Fleet , That they the French defeat , That we may Praise and Sing The Triumphs of our KING : And may always proclaim Great King William's lasting-Fame pfoot : : start FINIS . pfoot : : end part : : end gfoot : : start Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . gfoot : : end gfoot : : start Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . gfoot : : endThe Royal BALL : As it was performed in Masquerade by Two Seamen . Being the Subject's Hearty-Wish for the good success of the KING and Fleet. To and Excellent New Tune , Sung at Court . Licensed according to Order . ptitle : : end I . SInce all the World's in Arms , And full of loud Alarms ; Let Englands Subject's Sing The Praises of her KING , Who Conquers where he goes , And Triumphs over his Foes ; Then let us all Proclaim Great King Williams is lasting Fame II No Nation is so Blessed ; With such a Prince poss [ est , ] Whose Care does never cease , That we may live in Peace . How Happy might we be , Could Subjects but agree ? Then let us all Proclaim Great King William is lasting Fame . III . To him our Lives we owe , For him these we'll bestow : No Forreign-Force we'll fear , But Fight for England here . Proud France let us pull down , And shake that Tottering-Crown , And let us all Proclaim Great King William is lasting Fame . IV. Let SEAMEN in the Fleet , Make all the French retreat . Make Monsieur flee apace , And fear the English Face . Our Warlike-Lads know how To make the French-Men bow . Then let us all Proclaim Great King William is lasting Fame . V. Our NAVY on the Seas , ( While we are safe at ease ) In Bullets and in Flame , Will raise the English - Name . Our Valour France shall know , By their own overthrow . Then let us all Proclaim Great King William is lasting Fame . VI . How many were the Plots Of all the Papish-Sots , To Ruin great and small , To take our Lives , and all . Yet these we still enjoy , Which they sought to destroy . Then let us all Proclaim Great King William is lasting Fame . VII . The King does undertake Great Dangers for our sake : Himself in Person goes To Vanquish Englands Foes , That we may live all here , Securely , void of fear . Then let us all Proclaim Great King William is lasting Fame . VIII . Let Trumpets every where , To found his Praise , prepare . Let Subject's Valiant be , And Loyal , and agree : With one Consent and Voice , In him alone Rejoice ; And let us all Proclaim Great King William is lasting Fame . IX . Our Wishes let us send , That Heaven may him defend ; Our Armies too , and Fleet , That they the French defeat , That we may Praise and Sing The Triumphs of our KING : And may always proclaim Great King William's lasting-Fame pfoot : : start FINIS . pfoot : : end part : : end gfoot : : start Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . gfoot : : end gfoot : : start Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . gfoot : : end 