THE Thankful Country Lass , OR , The Jolly Bachelor kindly entertained . Tune of , I am so sick of Love . Licensed according to Order . I . I met with a Country Lass , and thus I began to Woo , Shall I lay thee up in the Grass ? I marry , and thank you too . II And shall I embrace thee then , as Lovers are wont to do ? Her answer was to me again , I marry , etc III . Wilt thou give me leave , I said , to dally a while with you , And make a Mother of a Maid ? I marry , etc IV. In care I am loath to live , as Married men often do ; Yet wilt thou take what I can give , I marry , etc V. My dear , to enjoy the bliss , I crave but this boon of you , To give me leave to court and kiss , I marry , etc VI . Give me thy Virginity , and thou shalt have mine in lieu , You may have what you please of me , I marry , etc VII . But what if thy Belly swell , my dearest now tell me true , Wilt thou be free to take it well ? I marry , etc VIII . I'll get thee a Champion Boy , and will thy pleasures renew , If I thy charms may but enjoy , I marry , etc IX . My Jewel and hearts delight , if that thy Lodging I knew I'll come and lie with thee all night , I marry , etc X. I live in the Town of Lynn , next door to the Anchor blew , Come night or day , I'll let you in , I marry , etc XI . I never intend to wed , for fear my heart should rue , Yet shall I have thy Maidenhead , I marry , etc XII . She made not the least demur , while he did kiss and woo , But took what ever he proffered her , I marry , and thank you too . Printed for J. Bissel , at the Bible and Harp near the Hospital-gate in West-SmithfieldTHE Thankful Country Lass , OR , The Jolly Bachelor kindly entertained . Tune of , I am so sick of Love . Licensed according to Order . I . I met with a Country Lass , and thus I began to Woo , Shall I lay thee up in the Grass ? I marry , and thank you too . II And shall I embrace thee then , as Lovers are wont to do ? Her answer was to me again , I marry , etc III . Wilt thou give me leave , I said , to dally a while with you , And make a Mother of a Maid ? I marry , etc IV. In care I am loath to live , as Married men often do ; Yet wilt thou take what I can give , I marry , etc V. My dear , to enjoy the bliss , I crave but this boon of you , To give me leave to court and kiss , I marry , etc VI . Give me thy Virginity , and thou shalt have mine in lieu , You may have what you please of me , I marry , etc VII . But what if thy Belly swell , my dearest now tell me true , Wilt thou be free to take it well ? I marry , etc VIII . I'll get thee a Champion Boy , and will thy pleasures renew , If I thy charms may but enjoy , I marry , etc IX . My Jewel and hearts delight , if that thy Lodging I knew I'll come and lie with thee all night , I marry , etc X. I live in the Town of Lynn , next door to the Anchor blew , Come night or day , I'll let you in , I marry , etc XI . I never intend to wed , for fear my heart should rue , Yet shall I have thy Maidenhead , I marry , etc XII . She made not the least demur , while he did kiss and woo , But took what ever he proffered her , I marry , and thank you too . Printed for J. Bissel , at the Bible and Harp near the Hospital-gate in West-Smithfield 