THE Young Women's Complaint FOR Pressing the Old Ones , Showing their Willingness above the rest to serve the KING , the Soldiers , and to be P rest . Tune of , I marry and thank you too . Licensed according to Order .. Y Oung Women and Maidens all , come help me to make my Moan ; For such a decree is new come forth , the like oned was never known . prey where does the Justice lie , that we above all the rest ; Should unemployed and useless be , and Grandmothers must be Pressed . Since time it does backward run , and order loose it's course : When men the better part do shun , and willingly choose the worse . To People of Reason and Wit , I will on their Judgement rely ; Which is most convenient or fit , to Press and Old Woman or I . I think the Comparison's good , and unto most people is known ; That Plump and Jucy Grapes are Pressed , when Withered are let alone . If you to the Market go , to buy either Flesh or Fowl ; The Youngest always is your choice , and you do reject the Old. Then since of every kind , the Youngest proves the best ; Keep all the Matrons still at home , and then let the Young ones be Pressed . I know the brave Sons of Mars , if that they might have their mind : Would gladly choose the brisk young Lass , and leave the Old Granny behind . Beside above all the rest , this double advantage would spring : If the Young ones be but soundly Pressed , they'll get Soldiers to serve the King . And now to conclude my song , in the name of all the rest : Keep back the Old , and take the Young , for we long to be soundly Pressed . Printed for James Bissel , at the sign of the Bibl e and Harp near the Hospital Gate in West-Smithfield . THE Young Women's Complaint FOR Pressing the Old Ones , Showing their Willingness above the rest to serve the KING , the Soldiers , and to be P rest . Tune of , I marry and thank you too . Licensed according to Order .. Y Oung Women and Maidens all , come help me to make my Moan ; For such a decree is new come forth , the like oned was never known . prey where does the Justice lie , that we above all the rest ; Should unemployed and useless be , and Grandmothers must be Pressed . Since time it does backward run , and order loose it's course : When men the better part do shun , and willingly choose the worse . To People of Reason and Wit , I will on their Judgement rely ; Which is most convenient or fit , to Press and Old Woman or I . I think the Comparison's good , and unto most people is known ; That Plump and Jucy Grapes are Pressed , when Withered are let alone . If you to the Market go , to buy either Flesh or Fowl ; The Youngest always is your choice , and you do reject the Old. Then since of every kind , the Youngest proves the best ; Keep all the Matrons still at home , and then let the Young ones be Pressed . I know the brave Sons of Mars , if that they might have their mind : Would gladly choose the brisk young Lass , and leave the Old Granny behind . Beside above all the rest , this double advantage would spring : If the Young ones be but soundly Pressed , they'll get Soldiers to serve the King . And now to conclude my song , in the name of all the rest : Keep back the Old , and take the Young , for we long to be soundly Pressed . Printed for James Bissel , at the sign of the Bibl e and Harp near the Hospital Gate in West-Smithfield . 