The VOICE of FAME : OR , THE TAYLOR's GLORY : Giving and Historical Account of many Kings , Princes , Dukes , Lords , Bishops , Earls , Knights , and Gentlemen , etc , that have been of this Noble and Honourable Profession . Tune of , The Cloak . Licensed according to Order . Humbly dedicated to all the Lovers of this most Magnanimous and Ingenious Art. OF all the Professions that ever were named , The Tailors though slighted is much to be famed For various invention and antiquity ; No trade with the Tailors compared may be , For warmth , and distinction , and fashion he does , Provide for both Sexes with Silk , Stuff , and Cloth ; Then do not disdain him , or slight him , or flout him , Since ( if well considered ) you can't live without him : But let all due praises ( that can be ) be made , To honour and dignify the Taylor's trade . When Adam and Eve out of Eden were hurled , They were at that time King and Queen of the World ; Yet this Royal Couple were forced to play The Tailors , and put themselves in green array ; For modesty and for necessity's sake , They had Figs for the Belly , and Leaves for the Back ; And afterwards clothing with Sheepskins they made , Then judge if the Tailors was not the first Trade ; The oldest Profession , and they are but Raylors , Who scoff and deride Men that be Merchant Tailors . Some say that the Shoemakers trade do out go him , But I am persuaded it is much below him ; When he's at the bottom the Tayler's o'th'top , When the Shoemaker kneels the stout Tailor stands up , Embracing and lacing his Madam so fair , And decking her Body with Robes debonair ; There is no fault for so to be found with this Trade , Although there's small difference betwixt Mistress and Maid , And therefore in short , I do count them but Railers Who shall under valve the brave Merchant Tailors . If Princes and People stark naked should go , Who could their Grandure or Dignity know ; It would pretty modest fair Virgins perplex , Because Nakedness shows the distinction of Sex : And therefore the Tailor , to fortify Nature , By Art and Formalities , covers the Creature ; To every Person he gives a due dress , Which does in fit order their Callings express : Then let all your praises be properly made . To commend and dignify the Tayler's trade . With various Persons in habit he deals , And with outward Shapes inward Secrets conceals ; Distortion of Body , and foulness of Mind , That under good clothing you can't quickly find : A Wife in high habit hath often been seen , Though as rank as a Goat , yet as rich as a Queen ; Such power hath Apparel that covers the Skin , All embroidered without , and corrupted within , This falsehood does not in the Tailors Art lurk . But in the fowl Members that set him to work . Kings , Princes , Dukes , Marquesses , Earls , Viscounts , Lords , Have Royal Apparel from Tailors Shopboard ; Grave Bishops , and Judges , Knights , Gentlemen , Yeomen [ , ] With all the degrees of Men , Children , and Women [ ; ] All sorts and distinctions of Land-men and Sailors , Are robed , gowned , and coated , and tackled by Tailors [ ; ] In gallant apparel your Martial-man thunders , Good Clothes and good Courage too , daily do wonders [ ; ] He that hath poor habit and is out of fashion , Is slighted and seldom obtains estimation . Ten Kings of the brave Merchant-tailors are free , As twenty-two Princes and Dukes also be : Twenty seven Bishops right reverend and good , And forty seven Earls are of this Brotherhood , With seventy seven bold Barrons and Lords , As may be produced from our Ancient Records ; Then judge if the dignified Tailors have not Cause for Estimation , never to be forgotten . Since none of good fashion but Ranters and Railers , Will wrong the right worshipful Merchant-tailors . A Catalogue of the Nobility may be seen at Merchant-taylors-hall , in Thread-needle-street , London . LGNDON : Printed for C. Bates , at the Sun and Bible , in Pie-corner . The VOICE of FAME : OR , THE TAYLOR's GLORY : Giving and Historical Account of many Kings , Princes , Dukes , Lords , Bishops , Earls , Knights , and Gentlemen , etc , that have been of this Noble and Honourable Profession . Tune of , The Cloak . Licensed according to Order . Humbly dedicated to all the Lovers of this most Magnanimous and Ingenious Art. OF all the Professions that ever were named , The Tailors though slighted is much to be famed For various invention and antiquity ; No trade with the Tailors compared may be , For warmth , and distinction , and fashion he does , Provide for both Sexes with Silk , Stuff , and Cloth ; Then do not disdain him , or slight him , or flout him , Since ( if well considered ) you can't live without him : But let all due praises ( that can be ) be made , To honour and dignify the Taylor's trade . When Adam and Eve out of Eden were hurled , They were at that time King and Queen of the World ; Yet this Royal Couple were forced to play The Tailors , and put themselves in green array ; For modesty and for necessity's sake , They had Figs for the Belly , and Leaves for the Back ; And afterwards clothing with Sheepskins they made , Then judge if the Tailors was not the first Trade ; The oldest Profession , and they are but Raylors , Who scoff and deride Men that be Merchant Tailors . Some say that the Shoemakers trade do out go him , But I am persuaded it is much below him ; When he's at the bottom the Tayler's o'th'top , When the Shoemaker kneels the stout Tailor stands up , Embracing and lacing his Madam so fair , And decking her Body with Robes debonair ; There is no fault for so to be found with this Trade , Although there's small difference betwixt Mistress and Maid , And therefore in short , I do count them but Railers Who shall under valve the brave Merchant Tailors . If Princes and People stark naked should go , Who could their Grandure or Dignity know ; It would pretty modest fair Virgins perplex , Because Nakedness shows the distinction of Sex : And therefore the Tailor , to fortify Nature , By Art and Formalities , covers the Creature ; To every Person he gives a due dress , Which does in fit order their Callings express : Then let all your praises be properly made . To commend and dignify the Tayler's trade . With various Persons in habit he deals , And with outward Shapes inward Secrets conceals ; Distortion of Body , and foulness of Mind , That under good clothing you can't quickly find : A Wife in high habit hath often been seen , Though as rank as a Goat , yet as rich as a Queen ; Such power hath Apparel that covers the Skin , All embroidered without , and corrupted within , This falsehood does not in the Tailors Art lurk . But in the fowl Members that set him to work . Kings , Princes , Dukes , Marquesses , Earls , Viscounts , Lords , Have Royal Apparel from Tailors Shopboard ; Grave Bishops , and Judges , Knights , Gentlemen , Yeomen [ , ] With all the degrees of Men , Children , and Women [ ; ] All sorts and distinctions of Land-men and Sailors , Are robed , gowned , and coated , and tackled by Tailors [ ; ] In gallant apparel your Martial-man thunders , Good Clothes and good Courage too , daily do wonders [ ; ] He that hath poor habit and is out of fashion , Is slighted and seldom obtains estimation . Ten Kings of the brave Merchant-tailors are free , As twenty-two Princes and Dukes also be : Twenty seven Bishops right reverend and good , And forty seven Earls are of this Brotherhood , With seventy seven bold Barrons and Lords , As may be produced from our Ancient Records ; Then judge if the dignified Tailors have not Cause for Estimation , never to be forgotten . Since none of good fashion but Ranters and Railers , Will wrong the right worshipful Merchant-tailors . A Catalogue of the Nobility may be seen at Merchant-taylors-hall , in Thread-needle-street , London . LGNDON : Printed for C. Bates , at the Sun and Bible , in Pie-corner . 