THE Pretended Country Squire , WITH And Account of his Last WILL and TESTAMENT : Together with a whole Dicar of Legacies bequeathed to his Newfound Friends ; who at length , to their unspeakable Sorrow , are left in the Lurch . To the Tune of , Merry and Glad . Licensed according to Order . 1. COme listen , while I here unfold as strange a Prank as ever was known , Of one being Fifty-five years Old , who near Temple-Bar wandered all alone . 2. The Grave appearance of his Face , and Clothed in a dejected Weed , Straight caused a Baker near that place , to ask him of what he stood in need . 3. I lack a Lodging Sir , he cried , as being but a Stranger here : The Baker immediately replied , thou art welcome to me , kind Friend , never fear . 4. This kindness he could not deny , he never stood disputing long , 'Twas good to embrace a Friend , for why , his Pockets was but two Shillings strong . 5. Now while he was residing there , in hope's to live at a Splendid rate , He did to the Baker then declare , that he was a Man of a vast Estate . 6. Quoth he , I stand engaged this day , for full five hundred pounds , or more , The which I have sworn I'll never pay , although I have thousands lies by in store . 7. It's for this cause I do abscond , and come to London in this sort : The Baker of such a Guest grew found , believing his feigned and false Report . 8. At length this Spark fell Sick and weak , and they no Costs or Charges spare , For learned Physicians with speed they seek , the better to show their indulgent Care . 9. At their own Cost , they purchased free , what ever Art or Skill could name , Supposing their languishing Guest to be a Country Squire of worth and Fame . 10. The Baker in Sobs did sighs full soar , grieving for him with melting eyes , And being Collector of the Poor , he brought a kind Brother to weep likewise 11. With Sobs they did his Chamber fill , nothing but bitter sighs he hears , At which he resolved to make his Will , to gratify them for all their Tears . 12. He thus begins with Christian care , and gives them all to understand , A Cousin he means to make his Heir now of his head Manor , House and Land. 13. The honest Baker next he Willed , to have a branch of his Estate , In token of Love which he beheld , in Christianlike friendship from him of late . 14. The Bakers Wife , Son , Daughter dear , he many hundred pounds did leave , A Generous Soul he did appear , each reckoned they had not much cause to grieve 15. He left them Horses , House and Land , his tender love did so abound , So much as the Nurse , we understand , he left the sum of a hundred pound . 16. The Master would not let his Boy come near the Squire while Sick he lay , Lest he should a Legacy then enjoy , to set up a Bakehouse another day . 17. His Gifts , we see , were not a few , no Man was ever more kind than he ; Nay , he left them Rings and Mourning too , so Liberal was he in each degree . 18. For a Rich Coffin straight they go , his Splendid Glory they'll not blast ; Twelve pounds on the same they did bestow , but here comes the Devil of all at last . 19. This Sham-pretended Squires Love , was found ever he was laid in Grave . Since he and Impostor thus did prove , now never a Penny they're like to have . 20. His new Friends in a Rage did say , they never knew so vile a Cheat ; Therefore his Rich Coffin they took away , and hardly afford him a WInding-Sheet . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 1692 , THE Pretended Country Squire , WITH And Account of his Last WILL and TESTAMENT : Together with a whole Dicar of Legacies bequeathed to his Newfound Friends ; who at length , to their unspeakable Sorrow , are left in the Lurch . To the Tune of , Merry and Glad . Licensed according to Order . 1. COme listen , while I here unfold as strange a Prank as ever was known , Of one being Fifty-five years Old , who near Temple-Bar wandered all alone . 2. The Grave appearance of his Face , and Clothed in a dejected Weed , Straight caused a Baker near that place , to ask him of what he stood in need . 3. I lack a Lodging Sir , he cried , as being but a Stranger here : The Baker immediately replied , thou art welcome to me , kind Friend , never fear . 4. This kindness he could not deny , he never stood disputing long , 'Twas good to embrace a Friend , for why , his Pockets was but two Shillings strong . 5. Now while he was residing there , in hope's to live at a Splendid rate , He did to the Baker then declare , that he was a Man of a vast Estate . 6. Quoth he , I stand engaged this day , for full five hundred pounds , or more , The which I have sworn I'll never pay , although I have thousands lies by in store . 7. It's for this cause I do abscond , and come to London in this sort : The Baker of such a Guest grew found , believing his feigned and false Report . 8. At length this Spark fell Sick and weak , and they no Costs or Charges spare , For learned Physicians with speed they seek , the better to show their indulgent Care . 9. At their own Cost , they purchased free , what ever Art or Skill could name , Supposing their languishing Guest to be a Country Squire of worth and Fame . 10. The Baker in Sobs did sighs full soar , grieving for him with melting eyes , And being Collector of the Poor , he brought a kind Brother to weep likewise 11. With Sobs they did his Chamber fill , nothing but bitter sighs he hears , At which he resolved to make his Will , to gratify them for all their Tears . 12. He thus begins with Christian care , and gives them all to understand , A Cousin he means to make his Heir now of his head Manor , House and Land. 13. The honest Baker next he Willed , to have a branch of his Estate , In token of Love which he beheld , in Christianlike friendship from him of late . 14. The Bakers Wife , Son , Daughter dear , he many hundred pounds did leave , A Generous Soul he did appear , each reckoned they had not much cause to grieve 15. He left them Horses , House and Land , his tender love did so abound , So much as the Nurse , we understand , he left the sum of a hundred pound . 16. The Master would not let his Boy come near the Squire while Sick he lay , Lest he should a Legacy then enjoy , to set up a Bakehouse another day . 17. His Gifts , we see , were not a few , no Man was ever more kind than he ; Nay , he left them Rings and Mourning too , so Liberal was he in each degree . 18. For a Rich Coffin straight they go , his Splendid Glory they'll not blast ; Twelve pounds on the same they did bestow , but here comes the Devil of all at last . 19. This Sham-pretended Squires Love , was found ever he was laid in Grave . Since he and Impostor thus did prove , now never a Penny they're like to have . 20. His new Friends in a Rage did say , they never knew so vile a Cheat ; Therefore his Rich Coffin they took away , and hardly afford him a WInding-Sheet . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 1692 , 