( 1 ) A TRUE RELATION OF THE Dreadful Combat BETWEEN More of More-Hall , AND THE DRAGON of WANTLEY . 1. OLd Stories tell how Hercules A Dragon slew at Lerna , With Seven Heads and fourteen Eyes To see and well discerna ; But he had a Club This Dragon to drub , Or he had never don't , I warrant you But More of More-Hall , With nothing at all , He slew the Dragon of Wantley . 2. This Dragon had two furious Wings , Each one upon each Shoulder , With a sting in his Tail As long as a Flail , Which made him bolder and bolder [ . ] He had long Claws , And in his Jaws , Four and forty Teeth of Iron , With a Hide as Tough as any Buff , Which did him round Environ . 3. Have you not herd that the Trojan Horse , Held seventy men in his Belly ? This Dragon was not quite so big , But very near , I'll tell you , Devour did he , Poor Children Three , That could not with him grapple ; And at one Sup , He eat them up , As one should eat and Apple . 4. All sorts of Cattle this Dragon did eat , Some say he'd eat up Trees , And that the Forest sure he would Devour up by degrees . For Houses and Curches Were to him Gorse and Buirches : He eat all , and left none behind , But some Stones , dear Jack , Which he could not crack , Which on the Hills you will find . A 5. In ( 2 ) 5. In Yorkshire near fair Rotheram , The Place I know it well , Some two or three Miles , or thereabouts , I vow I cannot ell ; But there is a Hedge , Just on the Hill Edge , And Mathew is House hard by it : O there and then , Was this Dragon's Den , You could not choose but spy it . 6. Some say this Dragon was a Witch ; Some say he was the Devil , For from his Nose , a smoke arose , And with it burning Snivil , Which he cast off , When he did Cough , In a Well , that he did stand by , Which made it look , Just like a Brook , Running with burning Brandy . 7. Hard by a furious Knight there dwelled , Of whom all Towns did Ring ; For he could wrestle , play at Quarter-Staff , Kick , Cuff , Box , Huff , Call Son of a Whore : Do any kind of thing ; By the Tail , and the Main , With his hands twain , He swong a Horse till he was dead , And that which was stranger , He for very Anger , [ E ] at him all up but his Head. 8. These Children as I told being eat , Men , Women , Girls , and Boys , Sighing and sobbing , came to his Lodging , And made a hideous Noise . O save us all , More of More-Hall , Thou pearless Knight of these Woods ; Do but slay this Dragon , [ W ] e won't leave us a Rag on , We'll give thee all our Goods . 9. Tut , Tut , quoth he , no Goods I want , But I want , I want insooth , A fair Maid of Sixteen that's brisk , And smiles about the Mouth : Hair as black as a Sloe , Both above and below , With a Blush her Cheeks adorning ; To ' anoint me over Night , Ever I go to fight , And to dress me in the Morning . 10. This being done , he did engage To hew this Dragon down ; But first he went New Armour to Bespeak , at Sheffield Town , With Spikes all about , Not within , but without , Of Steel so sharp and strong , Both behind and before , Arms , Legs , all over , Some five or six Inches long . 11. Had you but seen him in this Dress , How fierce he looked , and big , You would have thought him for to be And Egyptian Porcu-Pig : He frighted all , Cats , Dogs , and all ; Each Cow , each Horse , and each Hog , For fear did flee , For they took him to be Some strange outlandish Hedgehogg . 12. To see this Fight , all People there Got upon Trees and Houses , On Churches some , and Chimneys too ; But they put on their Trowzes , Not to spoil their Hose . As soon as he rose , To make him strong and mighty , He drank by the Tail , Six pots of Ale , And a Quart of Aquavitae . ( 3 ) 13. It is not Strength that always wins , For Wit does Strength excel , Which made our cunning Champion Creep down into a Well , Where he did think This Dragon would drink , And so he did in Truth ; And as he stooped low , He rose up and cried boe , And hit him in the Mouth . 14. O , quoth the Dragon , pox take you come out , Thou that disturbest me in my Drink , And then he turned and shit at him , Good lack how he did stink : Beshrew thy Soul , Thy Body is foul , The Dung smells not like Balsome : Thou Son of a Whore , Thou stinkest so soar , Sure thy Diet it is unwholesome . 15. Our Politic Knight , on the other side Crept out upon the Brink , And gave the Dragon such a doust , He knew not what to think : By Cock , quoth he , Say you so , do you see , And then at him he let fly ; With Hand and with Foot , And so they went to't , And the Word it was , Heigh Boys heigh . 16. Your Word , quoth the Dragon , I don't understand Then to't they fell at all , Like two Wild Bears , so fierce I may Compare great things with small : Two Days and a Night , With this Dragon did fight , Our Champion on the Ground , Though their Strength it was great , Yet their Skill it was neat . They never had one Wound , 17. At length the hard Earth began for to quake , The Dragon gave him such a knock , Which made him to Reel , And strait way he thought To lift him as high as a Rock ; And thence let him fallen , But More of More-Hall , Like a Valiant Son of Mars ; As he came like a Lout , So he turned him about , And hit him a kick on the Arse . 18. O , quoth the Dragon , with a Sighs , And turned six times together , Sobbing , and tearing , cursing and swearing Out of his Throat of Leather . O , thou Raskal , More of More-Hall , Would I had seen you never , With the Thing at thy Foot , Thou hast pricked my Arse Gut ; O , I am quite undone for ever . 19. Murder , Murder , the Dragon cried , Alack , alack , for Grief , Had you but missed that Place , you could Have done me no Mischief ; Then his Head he shaked , Trembled , and Quackt , And down he laid , and cried ; First on one Knee , Then on back , tumbled he , So groaned , kicked , shit , and died . FINIS . LONDON , Printed for Randal Taylor , near Stationers Hall , 1685. ( 1 ) A TRUE RELATION OF THE Dreadful Combat BETWEEN More of More-Hall , AND THE DRAGON of WANTLEY . 1. OLd Stories tell how Hercules A Dragon slew at Lerna , With Seven Heads and fourteen Eyes To see and well discerna ; But he had a Club This Dragon to drub , Or he had never don't , I warrant you But More of More-Hall , With nothing at all , He slew the Dragon of Wantley . 2. This Dragon had two furious Wings , Each one upon each Shoulder , With a sting in his Tail As long as a Flail , Which made him bolder and bolder [ . ] He had long Claws , And in his Jaws , Four and forty Teeth of Iron , With a Hide as Tough as any Buff , Which did him round Environ . 3. Have you not herd that the Trojan Horse , Held seventy men in his Belly ? This Dragon was not quite so big , But very near , I'll tell you , Devour did he , Poor Children Three , That could not with him grapple ; And at one Sup , He eat them up , As one should eat and Apple . 4. All sorts of Cattle this Dragon did eat , Some say he'd eat up Trees , And that the Forest sure he would Devour up by degrees . For Houses and Curches Were to him Gorse and Buirches : He eat all , and left none behind , But some Stones , dear Jack , Which he could not crack , Which on the Hills you will find . A 5. In ( 2 ) 5. In Yorkshire near fair Rotheram , The Place I know it well , Some two or three Miles , or thereabouts , I vow I cannot ell ; But there is a Hedge , Just on the Hill Edge , And Mathew is House hard by it : O there and then , Was this Dragon's Den , You could not choose but spy it . 6. Some say this Dragon was a Witch ; Some say he was the Devil , For from his Nose , a smoke arose , And with it burning Snivil , Which he cast off , When he did Cough , In a Well , that he did stand by , Which made it look , Just like a Brook , Running with burning Brandy . 7. Hard by a furious Knight there dwelled , Of whom all Towns did Ring ; For he could wrestle , play at Quarter-Staff , Kick , Cuff , Box , Huff , Call Son of a Whore : Do any kind of thing ; By the Tail , and the Main , With his hands twain , He swong a Horse till he was dead , And that which was stranger , He for very Anger , [ E ] at him all up but his Head. 8. These Children as I told being eat , Men , Women , Girls , and Boys , Sighing and sobbing , came to his Lodging , And made a hideous Noise . O save us all , More of More-Hall , Thou pearless Knight of these Woods ; Do but slay this Dragon , [ W ] e won't leave us a Rag on , We'll give thee all our Goods . 9. Tut , Tut , quoth he , no Goods I want , But I want , I want insooth , A fair Maid of Sixteen that's brisk , And smiles about the Mouth : Hair as black as a Sloe , Both above and below , With a Blush her Cheeks adorning ; To ' anoint me over Night , Ever I go to fight , And to dress me in the Morning . 10. This being done , he did engage To hew this Dragon down ; But first he went New Armour to Bespeak , at Sheffield Town , With Spikes all about , Not within , but without , Of Steel so sharp and strong , Both behind and before , Arms , Legs , all over , Some five or six Inches long . 11. Had you but seen him in this Dress , How fierce he looked , and big , You would have thought him for to be And Egyptian Porcu-Pig : He frighted all , Cats , Dogs , and all ; Each Cow , each Horse , and each Hog , For fear did flee , For they took him to be Some strange outlandish Hedgehogg . 12. To see this Fight , all People there Got upon Trees and Houses , On Churches some , and Chimneys too ; But they put on their Trowzes , Not to spoil their Hose . As soon as he rose , To make him strong and mighty , He drank by the Tail , Six pots of Ale , And a Quart of Aquavitae . ( 3 ) 13. It is not Strength that always wins , For Wit does Strength excel , Which made our cunning Champion Creep down into a Well , Where he did think This Dragon would drink , And so he did in Truth ; And as he stooped low , He rose up and cried boe , And hit him in the Mouth . 14. O , quoth the Dragon , pox take you come out , Thou that disturbest me in my Drink , And then he turned and shit at him , Good lack how he did stink : Beshrew thy Soul , Thy Body is foul , The Dung smells not like Balsome : Thou Son of a Whore , Thou stinkest so soar , Sure thy Diet it is unwholesome . 15. Our Politic Knight , on the other side Crept out upon the Brink , And gave the Dragon such a doust , He knew not what to think : By Cock , quoth he , Say you so , do you see , And then at him he let fly ; With Hand and with Foot , And so they went to't , And the Word it was , Heigh Boys heigh . 16. Your Word , quoth the Dragon , I don't understand Then to't they fell at all , Like two Wild Bears , so fierce I may Compare great things with small : Two Days and a Night , With this Dragon did fight , Our Champion on the Ground , Though their Strength it was great , Yet their Skill it was neat . They never had one Wound , 17. At length the hard Earth began for to quake , The Dragon gave him such a knock , Which made him to Reel , And strait way he thought To lift him as high as a Rock ; And thence let him fallen , But More of More-Hall , Like a Valiant Son of Mars ; As he came like a Lout , So he turned him about , And hit him a kick on the Arse . 18. O , quoth the Dragon , with a Sighs , And turned six times together , Sobbing , and tearing , cursing and swearing Out of his Throat of Leather . O , thou Raskal , More of More-Hall , Would I had seen you never , With the Thing at thy Foot , Thou hast pricked my Arse Gut ; O , I am quite undone for ever . 19. Murder , Murder , the Dragon cried , Alack , alack , for Grief , Had you but missed that Place , you could Have done me no Mischief ; Then his Head he shaked , Trembled , and Quackt , And down he laid , and cried ; First on one Knee , Then on back , tumbled he , So groaned , kicked , shit , and died . FINIS . LONDON , Printed for Randal Taylor , near Stationers Hall , 1685. 