The Baker's Lamentation For the great Loss of TO he pretended Worshipful Esquire WICKHAM . Tune of The Old man's wish . Licensed according to Order . AH how I sighs ! and how I moan ! Now the good Squire Wickham is gone : I hope his Worship now is blessed , I wish his Soul eternal rest . He bequeathed Five hundred pound , The Devil knows where it's to be found : For which I hope his Worship's blessed , I wish his Soul eternal rest . To show his Money he did not grutch , He's kindly left my Wife as much : For which we hope his Worship's blessed . I wish his Soul eternal rest . But let's consider my dear honey , What we shall do with all our Money : For which I hope his Worship's blessed , And wish his Soul eternal rest . But that which pleases me much the rather , Is , that we shall have it altogether : For which I hope his Worship's blessed , And wish his Soul eternal rest . There's Betty who minded was by no man , Is turned by her Legacy Gentlewoman : For which she hope's his Worship's blessed , And wishes his Soul , etc The Church-Warden too , may pray for me , For helping him to his Legacy , Who begged his Worship might be blessed , And prayed for his Souls , etc Five hundred pound he has given more , To the good Church-Wardens in trust for the poor For which they hope his Worship's blessed , And wish his Soul , etc But all I fear the poor Old Wretches , Will never get it from out their clutches : But if the Poor are thus oppressed , His Worships Soul will never rest . When the Poor still walk with empty Pitcher , And find they're never a cross the richer , Thus when they handle their empty Purses , They'll change their Prayers all into Curses . Some say that we and Estate shall find , To pay us when the Devil is blind : For which we hope his Worship's blessed , And wish his Soul eternal rest . For now the Baker finds the Jest , He prays no more for's Worship's Rest , But swears , if living , he now would take him , And for his Worship's Bounty Bake him . The Church-Wardens too , it does so vex they , To think how the Parish will perplex they : Say rest the Bones of Squire Wickham , They presently answer , the Devil pick ' em . Since never was Squire so misused , And for his bounty so abused : His liberal Legacies does so mad they , They all could wish the Devil had him . Printed for J. Bissel near the Hospital - Gate , in West - Smithfield . The Baker's Lamentation For the great Loss of TO he pretended Worshipful Esquire WICKHAM . Tune of The Old man's wish . Licensed according to Order . AH how I sighs ! and how I moan ! Now the good Squire Wickham is gone : I hope his Worship now is blessed , I wish his Soul eternal rest . He bequeathed Five hundred pound , The Devil knows where it's to be found : For which I hope his Worship's blessed , I wish his Soul eternal rest . To show his Money he did not grutch , He's kindly left my Wife as much : For which we hope his Worship's blessed . I wish his Soul eternal rest . But let's consider my dear honey , What we shall do with all our Money : For which I hope his Worship's blessed , And wish his Soul eternal rest . But that which pleases me much the rather , Is , that we shall have it altogether : For which I hope his Worship's blessed , And wish his Soul eternal rest . There's Betty who minded was by no man , Is turned by her Legacy Gentlewoman : For which she hope's his Worship's blessed , And wishes his Soul , etc The Church-Warden too , may pray for me , For helping him to his Legacy , Who begged his Worship might be blessed , And prayed for his Souls , etc Five hundred pound he has given more , To the good Church-Wardens in trust for the poor For which they hope his Worship's blessed , And wish his Soul , etc But all I fear the poor Old Wretches , Will never get it from out their clutches : But if the Poor are thus oppressed , His Worships Soul will never rest . When the Poor still walk with empty Pitcher , And find they're never a cross the richer , Thus when they handle their empty Purses , They'll change their Prayers all into Curses . Some say that we and Estate shall find , To pay us when the Devil is blind : For which we hope his Worship's blessed , And wish his Soul eternal rest . For now the Baker finds the Jest , He prays no more for's Worship's Rest , But swears , if living , he now would take him , And for his Worship's Bounty Bake him . The Church-Wardens too , it does so vex they , To think how the Parish will perplex they : Say rest the Bones of Squire Wickham , They presently answer , the Devil pick ' em . Since never was Squire so misused , And for his bounty so abused : His liberal Legacies does so mad they , They all could wish the Devil had him . Printed for J. Bissel near the Hospital - Gate , in West - Smithfield . 