And Excellent New Scotch Song , Called , The Bonny Grey-Eyed Morn ; OR Jockey Roused With Love . To a Pleasant New Scotch Tune . Licensed according to Order . THe bonny Grey-eyed morn began to peep , when Jockey roused with love came blithely on And I who wishing lay deprived of sleep , abhorred the lazy hours that slow did run : But muckle were my joy when in my view I from the window spied my only dear , I took the wings of love and to him flew , for I had fancied all my Heaven was there . Upon my bosom Jockey laid his head , and sighing told me pretty tales of love , My yielding heart at every word he said , did flutter up and down and strangely move : He sighing kissed my hand , then vowed and swore that I had over his heart a Conquest gained , Then blushing begged that I would grant him more which he alas too soon too soon obtained . Not that I do repent I did comply , but this I needs must own , my yielding heart Was quickly overcome by Jockey's eye , which gives a deeper wound than Cupids dart , His Cheeks were cherry read , his Lips the same his tongue so many charms would still express , That every word he speak did raise new flame , and kindled kindled fire in my breast . My Jockey does a thousand ways beside express himself in tender love to me , With Arms about my waste he sighing cried , o give me thy consent or i'm must dee , then with a gentle kiss does beg again , that his poor wounded heart I would but cure , Not thinking that I felt his lovesick pain , for I alas was his was his before . But now I could no longer hide my pain , I let my dearest Jockey know my heart , O how he huged me in his arms again , and every kiss he gave did ease my smart ; then vowing over and over between each kiss , he constant would remain while life did last . Now tell me Lovers where's the harm of this , for to enjoy when that the Knots tied fast . London : Printed by and for A . M . 1697. And Excellent New Scotch Song , Called , The Bonny Grey-Eyed Morn ; OR Jockey Roused With Love . To a Pleasant New Scotch Tune . Licensed according to Order . THe bonny Grey-eyed morn began to peep , when Jockey roused with love came blithely on And I who wishing lay deprived of sleep , abhorred the lazy hours that slow did run : But muckle were my joy when in my view I from the window spied my only dear , I took the wings of love and to him flew , for I had fancied all my Heaven was there . Upon my bosom Jockey laid his head , and sighing told me pretty tales of love , My yielding heart at every word he said , did flutter up and down and strangely move : He sighing kissed my hand , then vowed and swore that I had over his heart a Conquest gained , Then blushing begged that I would grant him more which he alas too soon too soon obtained . Not that I do repent I did comply , but this I needs must own , my yielding heart Was quickly overcome by Jockey's eye , which gives a deeper wound than Cupids dart , His Cheeks were cherry read , his Lips the same his tongue so many charms would still express , That every word he speak did raise new flame , and kindled kindled fire in my breast . My Jockey does a thousand ways beside express himself in tender love to me , With Arms about my waste he sighing cried , o give me thy consent or i'm must dee , then with a gentle kiss does beg again , that his poor wounded heart I would but cure , Not thinking that I felt his lovesick pain , for I alas was his was his before . But now I could no longer hide my pain , I let my dearest Jockey know my heart , O how he huged me in his arms again , and every kiss he gave did ease my smart ; then vowing over and over between each kiss , he constant would remain while life did last . Now tell me Lovers where's the harm of this , for to enjoy when that the Knots tied fast . London : Printed by and for A . M . 1697. 