Capt. Johnsons Loves La - mentation , For the untimely death , of her dear Entire Friend : Who was Executed at Tyburn , On the 23th . of this instant December , 1690. To the Tune of Russel's Farewell . Licensed according to Order . 1. HEre to the world I do declare , I scarce can undergo My sorrow , being in despair , while eyes like fountains flow , Right Valiant Johnson he is dead , while I lament his fallen , Alas for being once misled , his Life hath paid for all . 2. Take hence my sumptuous rich array , and Jewels which I wore , This is to me a dismal day , none can my Joys restore , He's gone and I am left behind , for to lament his fallen , Though others was to blame I find , his Life hath paid for all . 3 , He was my Joy and chief delight , but Oh! the Hand of Fate Has blasted all my Glory quite , no Tongue can well relate , What killing Torments I endure , to see his dismal fallen , Who ere offended , he I'm sure has dearly paid for all . 4. Had but the youthful Lady loved him half so well as I , She would have been to pity moved , saving his Life , for why , A sweet Deportment at his death , was seen by great and small , And yielded up his dearest breath , His Life hath paid for all . 5. He that betrayed him to disgrace , a wretched state is in ; Such Villains dare not show their Face , where this brave soul hath been , At Flanders , where some thousands lay in streams of reaking gore ; He's gone and I may sighing say , I never shall see him more . 6. Alas ! his life was bought and sold , by a Familiar to , For filthy gain of cursed Gold , what will not some men do , Betray their very Bosom Friend , whom they seemed to adore , Alas ! his life is at and end , I never shall see him more . 7. Those that do truly love like me , I wish may happier prove ; And no such cruel destiny , may cross them in their love , I once thought to have happy proved , but now I must deplore The loss of him , I dearly loved , I never shall see him more . 8. My soul is filled with grief and care , no Comfort can I see , The sorrow's more than I can bore , would I had died for thee , Rather than live in torment hear , It grieves my heart full soar , Never was sorrow so severe , I never shall see thee more . Printed for Charles Bates next the Crown Tavern in West-Smithfield . Capt. Johnsons Loves La - mentation , For the untimely death , of her dear Entire Friend : Who was Executed at Tyburn , On the 23th . of this instant December , 1690. To the Tune of Russel's Farewell . Licensed according to Order . 1. HEre to the world I do declare , I scarce can undergo My sorrow , being in despair , while eyes like fountains flow , Right Valiant Johnson he is dead , while I lament his fallen , Alas for being once misled , his Life hath paid for all . 2. Take hence my sumptuous rich array , and Jewels which I wore , This is to me a dismal day , none can my Joys restore , He's gone and I am left behind , for to lament his fallen , Though others was to blame I find , his Life hath paid for all . 3 , He was my Joy and chief delight , but Oh! the Hand of Fate Has blasted all my Glory quite , no Tongue can well relate , What killing Torments I endure , to see his dismal fallen , Who ere offended , he I'm sure has dearly paid for all . 4. Had but the youthful Lady loved him half so well as I , She would have been to pity moved , saving his Life , for why , A sweet Deportment at his death , was seen by great and small , And yielded up his dearest breath , His Life hath paid for all . 5. He that betrayed him to disgrace , a wretched state is in ; Such Villains dare not show their Face , where this brave soul hath been , At Flanders , where some thousands lay in streams of reaking gore ; He's gone and I may sighing say , I never shall see him more . 6. Alas ! his life was bought and sold , by a Familiar to , For filthy gain of cursed Gold , what will not some men do , Betray their very Bosom Friend , whom they seemed to adore , Alas ! his life is at and end , I never shall see him more . 7. Those that do truly love like me , I wish may happier prove ; And no such cruel destiny , may cross them in their love , I once thought to have happy proved , but now I must deplore The loss of him , I dearly loved , I never shall see him more . 8. My soul is filled with grief and care , no Comfort can I see , The sorrow's more than I can bore , would I had died for thee , Rather than live in torment hear , It grieves my heart full soar , Never was sorrow so severe , I never shall see thee more . Printed for Charles Bates next the Crown Tavern in West-Smithfield . 