The Banished DUKE : OR , The Noble Polander is Wrongs redressed by the Death of his false Friend , who was the real Cause of his Exile . To the Tune of , The Ruined Virgin , etc PIty a noble Peer , famed for renown , Till Fortune proved severe , and run me down , In Poland was I born , And did that Court adorn , Till I became their scorn , through private speen . While Fortune favoured me , it is well known , My seat was next degree beneath the Throne , And was in e'ry thing , Next to my royal King , While thus my fame did ring , ruin appeared . I was in danger then , being so great , The eyes of envious Men , on me did wait , And laboured night and day , My fortune to betray , Being advanced , I lay fair for a strom . High Mountains often are by Thunder tore , And lofty Cedars fair those claps will lower , Though innocent and pure , Sharp storms they must endure , While Valleys are secure , because they're low . I never wronged Man , Woman , nor Child , As Poland witness can , though I'm exiled , Where I in tears alone , To Hills and Rocks of Stone , Make my lamenting moan both night and day . The truth I do report , Heavens be praised , While I remained in Court , many I raised , One whom I honoured so , Did prove my private Foe , And wrought my overthrow , for my Goodwill . The King's displeasure grew sharp and severe , When I the reason knew , I strove to clear Myself , but all in vain , No favour could I gain , My very heart in twain , I thought would break . Standing before the King and Nobles too , They charged me with a thing I never knew ; He whom I mentioned told , That I the Jewels sold , And had conveyed the Gold , the Lord knows where . This did astonish me , I stood amazed , At length with bent knee , my voice I raised , Saying , Most gracious King , If he full proof can brin , That I have done this thing , then let me die . Though I had much to say , myself to clear , Friendship I found decay , for they not hear How I was innocent , No , nor the least relent , But straight for banishment I was ordained . From my sweet Lady gay , and Children small , I was compelled away , though tears did fallen Like melting showers of Rain , Weeping was all in vain , They could no favour gain but I must go . Here in a barren Land , now I reside , Where nothing comes to hand , but what the tide Brings floating to the shore , When hunger grieves me soar , Never was Duke before ruined like me . Once was my Table spread with sumptuous Meat , Where I in pleasure fed , but now I eat Raw Fish black and foul , My sorrows I condole ; Did ever noble soul suffer like me . Lady thou little knowest my grief and care , Which is arrived almost to sad despair , Having no Bred to carve , But ready am to starve , This I did never deserve , though it's my doom . While he did thus lament and weep amain , The King , his Master , sent for him again , Because that private Foe , Which wrought his overthrow , Declared it was not so as he had said . Him to his Dignity he did restore , While the false Enemy suffered therefore : Let this forewarn them all , Who seeks another's fallen , It is well known they shall , meet with their doom . His Lady fair and bright , and Children sweet , Were crowned with new delight , when they did meet ; All tears was dried away , 'Twas a triumphant day , Both Lords and Ladies gay , said , Welcome home . Licensed according to Order . LONDON : Printed for J. Deacon at the Sign of the Angel in Guil-spur-street . The Banished DUKE : OR , The Noble Polander is Wrongs redressed by the Death of his false Friend , who was the real Cause of his Exile . To the Tune of , The Ruined Virgin , etc PIty a noble Peer , famed for renown , Till Fortune proved severe , and run me down , In Poland was I born , And did that Court adorn , Till I became their scorn , through private speen . While Fortune favoured me , it is well known , My seat was next degree beneath the Throne , And was in e'ry thing , Next to my royal King , While thus my fame did ring , ruin appeared . I was in danger then , being so great , The eyes of envious Men , on me did wait , And laboured night and day , My fortune to betray , Being advanced , I lay fair for a strom . High Mountains often are by Thunder tore , And lofty Cedars fair those claps will lower , Though innocent and pure , Sharp storms they must endure , While Valleys are secure , because they're low . I never wronged Man , Woman , nor Child , As Poland witness can , though I'm exiled , Where I in tears alone , To Hills and Rocks of Stone , Make my lamenting moan both night and day . The truth I do report , Heavens be praised , While I remained in Court , many I raised , One whom I honoured so , Did prove my private Foe , And wrought my overthrow , for my Goodwill . The King's displeasure grew sharp and severe , When I the reason knew , I strove to clear Myself , but all in vain , No favour could I gain , My very heart in twain , I thought would break . Standing before the King and Nobles too , They charged me with a thing I never knew ; He whom I mentioned told , That I the Jewels sold , And had conveyed the Gold , the Lord knows where . This did astonish me , I stood amazed , At length with bent knee , my voice I raised , Saying , Most gracious King , If he full proof can brin , That I have done this thing , then let me die . Though I had much to say , myself to clear , Friendship I found decay , for they not hear How I was innocent , No , nor the least relent , But straight for banishment I was ordained . From my sweet Lady gay , and Children small , I was compelled away , though tears did fallen Like melting showers of Rain , Weeping was all in vain , They could no favour gain but I must go . Here in a barren Land , now I reside , Where nothing comes to hand , but what the tide Brings floating to the shore , When hunger grieves me soar , Never was Duke before ruined like me . Once was my Table spread with sumptuous Meat , Where I in pleasure fed , but now I eat Raw Fish black and foul , My sorrows I condole ; Did ever noble soul suffer like me . Lady thou little knowest my grief and care , Which is arrived almost to sad despair , Having no Bred to carve , But ready am to starve , This I did never deserve , though it's my doom . While he did thus lament and weep amain , The King , his Master , sent for him again , Because that private Foe , Which wrought his overthrow , Declared it was not so as he had said . Him to his Dignity he did restore , While the false Enemy suffered therefore : Let this forewarn them all , Who seeks another's fallen , It is well known they shall , meet with their doom . His Lady fair and bright , and Children sweet , Were crowned with new delight , when they did meet ; All tears was dried away , 'Twas a triumphant day , Both Lords and Ladies gay , said , Welcome home . Licensed according to Order . LONDON : Printed for J. Deacon at the Sign of the Angel in Guil-spur-street . 