Capt. Johnsons last Farewell : Who was arraigned for being assisting in the stealing a young Heiress , for which he received Sentence of Death , and was accordingly Exe - cut at Tyburn , the 23th . of this instant December , 1690. To the Tune of Russel's Farewell . Licensed according to Order . 1. YOu noble Lords of high Degree , that see my dismal Doom , Have some regard to pity me , who now alas ! am come To die and ignominious Death , as well it does appear ; While I declare with my last Breath , the Laws are most severe . 2. In Scotland was I bred , and born of noble Parents there ; Good Education did adorn my Life , I do declare : No Crime did ever my Conscience stain , till I adventured here , Thus have I reason to complain , the Laws are most severe . 3. In Flanders I the French have faced , likewise in Ireland , Still eagerly pursued the Chase , with valiant heart and hand : Why was not I in Battle slave , rather than suffer here A Death which Mortals does disdain ; the Laws are most severe . 4. I did not hurt nor wrong intend , I solemnly protest ; But merely for to serve my Friend , I granted his Request , To free his Lady out of Thrall , his Joy and only Dear ; And now my Life must pay for all , the Laws are most severe . 5. I coming from my Native Land , in this unhappy time , Alas ! I did not understand the Nature of the Crime ; Therefore I soon did condescend , as it does well appear , And find therein I did offend , the Laws are most severe . 6. In the same Lodging where I lay , and lived at Bed and Board , My Landlord did my Life betray , for Fifty pounds Reward : Then being into Prison cast , although with Conscience clear , I was arraigned at the last , the Laws are most severe . 7. The Lady would not hear my moan , while dying Words I sent ; Her cruel Heart more hard than stone , could not the least relent ; But triumph in my wretched State , as I did often hear ; I fallen here by the hand of Fate , the Laws are most severe . 8. Will not my good and gracious King be merciful to me ? Is there not in his Breast a Spring of Princely Clemency ? No , not for me , alas ! I die , the hours drawing near ; To the last Minute I shall cry the Laws are most severe . 9. Farewell dear Countrymen , said he , and this tumultuous noise ; My Soul will soon transported be to more Celestial Joys ; Though in the Blossom of my Youth , pale Death I do not fear , For to the last I'll speak the Truth , the Laws are most severe . 10. Alas ! I have not long to live , and therefore now , said he , All that have wronged me I forgive , as God shall pardon me ; My Landlord and his subtle Wife , I do forgive them here , Farewell this transitory Life , the Laws are most severe . Printed for Charles Bates next the Crown Tavern in West-Smithfield . Capt. Johnsons last Farewell : Who was arraigned for being assisting in the stealing a young Heiress , for which he received Sentence of Death , and was accordingly Exe - cut at Tyburn , the 23th . of this instant December , 1690. To the Tune of Russel's Farewell . Licensed according to Order . 1. YOu noble Lords of high Degree , that see my dismal Doom , Have some regard to pity me , who now alas ! am come To die and ignominious Death , as well it does appear ; While I declare with my last Breath , the Laws are most severe . 2. In Scotland was I bred , and born of noble Parents there ; Good Education did adorn my Life , I do declare : No Crime did ever my Conscience stain , till I adventured here , Thus have I reason to complain , the Laws are most severe . 3. In Flanders I the French have faced , likewise in Ireland , Still eagerly pursued the Chase , with valiant heart and hand : Why was not I in Battle slave , rather than suffer here A Death which Mortals does disdain ; the Laws are most severe . 4. I did not hurt nor wrong intend , I solemnly protest ; But merely for to serve my Friend , I granted his Request , To free his Lady out of Thrall , his Joy and only Dear ; And now my Life must pay for all , the Laws are most severe . 5. I coming from my Native Land , in this unhappy time , Alas ! I did not understand the Nature of the Crime ; Therefore I soon did condescend , as it does well appear , And find therein I did offend , the Laws are most severe . 6. In the same Lodging where I lay , and lived at Bed and Board , My Landlord did my Life betray , for Fifty pounds Reward : Then being into Prison cast , although with Conscience clear , I was arraigned at the last , the Laws are most severe . 7. The Lady would not hear my moan , while dying Words I sent ; Her cruel Heart more hard than stone , could not the least relent ; But triumph in my wretched State , as I did often hear ; I fallen here by the hand of Fate , the Laws are most severe . 8. Will not my good and gracious King be merciful to me ? Is there not in his Breast a Spring of Princely Clemency ? No , not for me , alas ! I die , the hours drawing near ; To the last Minute I shall cry the Laws are most severe . 9. Farewell dear Countrymen , said he , and this tumultuous noise ; My Soul will soon transported be to more Celestial Joys ; Though in the Blossom of my Youth , pale Death I do not fear , For to the last I'll speak the Truth , the Laws are most severe . 10. Alas ! I have not long to live , and therefore now , said he , All that have wronged me I forgive , as God shall pardon me ; My Landlord and his subtle Wife , I do forgive them here , Farewell this transitory Life , the Laws are most severe . Printed for Charles Bates next the Crown Tavern in West-Smithfield . 