The Traitors Trouble ; OR , His sad Lamentation , In the Gaol of Newgate , under the Sense of Gilded and Condemnation before his Execution . Tune of Johnson ' s Farewell . Licensed according to Order . 1. ALas ! within these Prison Walls , I here lamenting lie , My melting Tears like showers fallen , being Condemned to die : I own I did the Laws offend , unto a high degree , Which brings my Glory to and end , yet none can pity me . 2. We did in Consultation meet , the Kingdom to betray ; But Providence did us defeat , and I alas ! must pay For this black Crime my dearest Breath ; no Friends I have , I see , Thousands may come to see my Death , yet none will pity me . 3. Alas ! by our malicious Spleen ; this Plot we did invent , First to Dethrone the King and Queen , then change the Government ; Which to the World I do declare , in my Extremity , My Grief is more than I can bear , yet none can pity me . 4. The French we reckoned to inform how the Affairs did go , That they might come in like a storm , in fine , to overthrow The Laws of this my Native Land ; now for this Villainy , A Traitor I condemned stand , no Soul can pity me . 5. The Royal Fleets , and Forts also , how they were fortified ; We did intend to let France know , that it might be their Guide : All this we did for cursed Room , and now at length I see , A shameful Death will be my Doom , yet none can pity me . 6. Over to France we being bound , then safe to be conveyed , In ready Cash one Hundred pound we to the Master paid : We streightways then did hoist up Sail , yet took immediately ; My wretched State I now bewail , yet who can pity me . 7. We under Hatches then did scout , when any Ship drew near ; At length the Captain found us out , which made us quake for fear , And Conscience in my Face did fly for my gross Villainy ; And now I lie condemned to die , yet who can pity me ? 8. I proffered then great Sums of Gold , to be set free at first , The Loyal Captain brave and bold , would not betray his Trust : Before the Counsel I was brought , to hear my Destiny , My own Destruction I have wrought , what Soul can pity me ! 9. Instead of sailing over to France , to Prison was I sent , Alas ! this most unhappy Chance , do's cause me to lament : Was ever Man so unfortunate , to plot for Popery ; I weep to see my wretched State , no Soul can pity me . 10. Before I die I here will own what Pranks I meant to play , The King and Queen first to Dethrone , and after that betray Religion , Laws , and all that's good , to bring in Popery ; To make the Kingdom swim in blood , what Soul will pity me ! Printed for Charles Bates next the Crown Tavern in West-Smithfield . The Traitors Trouble ; OR , His sad Lamentation , In the Gaol of Newgate , under the Sense of Gilded and Condemnation before his Execution . Tune of Johnson ' s Farewell . Licensed according to Order . 1. ALas ! within these Prison Walls , I here lamenting lie , My melting Tears like showers fallen , being Condemned to die : I own I did the Laws offend , unto a high degree , Which brings my Glory to and end , yet none can pity me . 2. We did in Consultation meet , the Kingdom to betray ; But Providence did us defeat , and I alas ! must pay For this black Crime my dearest Breath ; no Friends I have , I see , Thousands may come to see my Death , yet none will pity me . 3. Alas ! by our malicious Spleen ; this Plot we did invent , First to Dethrone the King and Queen , then change the Government ; Which to the World I do declare , in my Extremity , My Grief is more than I can bear , yet none can pity me . 4. The French we reckoned to inform how the Affairs did go , That they might come in like a storm , in fine , to overthrow The Laws of this my Native Land ; now for this Villainy , A Traitor I condemned stand , no Soul can pity me . 5. The Royal Fleets , and Forts also , how they were fortified ; We did intend to let France know , that it might be their Guide : All this we did for cursed Room , and now at length I see , A shameful Death will be my Doom , yet none can pity me . 6. Over to France we being bound , then safe to be conveyed , In ready Cash one Hundred pound we to the Master paid : We streightways then did hoist up Sail , yet took immediately ; My wretched State I now bewail , yet who can pity me . 7. We under Hatches then did scout , when any Ship drew near ; At length the Captain found us out , which made us quake for fear , And Conscience in my Face did fly for my gross Villainy ; And now I lie condemned to die , yet who can pity me ? 8. I proffered then great Sums of Gold , to be set free at first , The Loyal Captain brave and bold , would not betray his Trust : Before the Counsel I was brought , to hear my Destiny , My own Destruction I have wrought , what Soul can pity me ! 9. Instead of sailing over to France , to Prison was I sent , Alas ! this most unhappy Chance , do's cause me to lament : Was ever Man so unfortunate , to plot for Popery ; I weep to see my wretched State , no Soul can pity me . 10. Before I die I here will own what Pranks I meant to play , The King and Queen first to Dethrone , and after that betray Religion , Laws , and all that's good , to bring in Popery ; To make the Kingdom swim in blood , what Soul will pity me ! Printed for Charles Bates next the Crown Tavern in West-Smithfield . 