The Unnatural Husband : OR , THE Murderer Rewarded with Justice : Being the last Lamentation of Edmund Allen , who cruelly Poisoned his own Wife , under the pretence of more than usual Love , for which he was Arraigned and found Guilty , and accordingly Executed at Tyburn , on the 19th of July , 1695. To the Tune , Russel is Farewell , etc Licensed according to Order . IN sad lamenting sighs and tears , my hours slide away , And nothing else by Grief appears , before me now this day : A guilty Conscience tells me now , this Death's too good for me , Which Law and Justice does allow , since , Wife , I poisoned thee . Alas , the wicked Life I led , has brought me to this Death , Now with a heart of fear and dread , I must refine my Breath ; The hand of Justice , I declare , I come to punish me , [ ? ] or Love , I did thy Life ensnare , and straightways Poisoned thee . Was I not cruel to my Dear , when she was great with Child ? For of a truth it will appear , I having her reviled ; I threw her f rome a window high , which did her soar affright , And to complete my villainy , I Poisoned her outright . She was a kind and virtuous Wife , to her malicious Foe ; I weep to think I sought the Life , of her that loved me so : My heart was prove to wickedness , but now it seems to bleed , For to the World I do confess , I Poisoned her indeed . With many kicks and bruises too , I sought her life's decay , Now when I found that would not do , I took the other way : With seeming love to her I came , to work this base design , And there I Poisoned , to my shame , that loving Wife of mine . I married her with riches store , a virtuous Wife was she ; She was , I do declare therefore , too good a Wife for me , Who followed wanton Women then , which did my Dear annoy , But sure I was the worst of Men , who could her Life destroy . Lewd Harlots has my ruin been , proving my overthrow [ , ] But now the just reward of since , I am to undergo ; The which I eagerly pursued , for want of grace or fear ; Thus for the sake of Harlots lewd , I did destroy my Dear . A lawful Wife I did forsake , and was to harlots kind , Who like the gaudy painted Snake , has left a sting behind , Upon my very Conscience still , the wrath of God I fear , For that I did destroy and kill my kind and loving Dear . Let Men take warning now by me , repent of what is past , Shun wanton Harlots company , least ruin comes at last ; For I a sinful Life did led , which brings a Death severe , Yet I the same deserve indeed , that have destroyed my Dear . My dismal state I do condole , and well I may , for why , The guilt that lies upon my soul , makes me afraid to die : But Lord , let me thy smiles behold , thy favours I implore , For though my sins are manifold , thy Mercies Lord are more . Printed for J. Bissel , at the sign of the bible and harp in West-smithfield . The Unnatural Husband : OR , THE Murderer Rewarded with Justice : Being the last Lamentation of Edmund Allen , who cruelly Poisoned his own Wife , under the pretence of more than usual Love , for which he was Arraigned and found Guilty , and accordingly Executed at Tyburn , on the 19th of July , 1695. To the Tune , Russel is Farewell , etc Licensed according to Order . IN sad lamenting sighs and tears , my hours slide away , And nothing else by Grief appears , before me now this day : A guilty Conscience tells me now , this Death's too good for me , Which Law and Justice does allow , since , Wife , I poisoned thee . Alas , the wicked Life I led , has brought me to this Death , Now with a heart of fear and dread , I must refine my Breath ; The hand of Justice , I declare , I come to punish me , [ ? ] or Love , I did thy Life ensnare , and straightways Poisoned thee . Was I not cruel to my Dear , when she was great with Child ? For of a truth it will appear , I having her reviled ; I threw her f rome a window high , which did her soar affright , And to complete my villainy , I Poisoned her outright . She was a kind and virtuous Wife , to her malicious Foe ; I weep to think I sought the Life , of her that loved me so : My heart was prove to wickedness , but now it seems to bleed , For to the World I do confess , I Poisoned her indeed . With many kicks and bruises too , I sought her life's decay , Now when I found that would not do , I took the other way : With seeming love to her I came , to work this base design , And there I Poisoned , to my shame , that loving Wife of mine . I married her with riches store , a virtuous Wife was she ; She was , I do declare therefore , too good a Wife for me , Who followed wanton Women then , which did my Dear annoy , But sure I was the worst of Men , who could her Life destroy . Lewd Harlots has my ruin been , proving my overthrow [ , ] But now the just reward of since , I am to undergo ; The which I eagerly pursued , for want of grace or fear ; Thus for the sake of Harlots lewd , I did destroy my Dear . A lawful Wife I did forsake , and was to harlots kind , Who like the gaudy painted Snake , has left a sting behind , Upon my very Conscience still , the wrath of God I fear , For that I did destroy and kill my kind and loving Dear . Let Men take warning now by me , repent of what is past , Shun wanton Harlots company , least ruin comes at last ; For I a sinful Life did led , which brings a Death severe , Yet I the same deserve indeed , that have destroyed my Dear . My dismal state I do condole , and well I may , for why , The guilt that lies upon my soul , makes me afraid to die : But Lord , let me thy smiles behold , thy favours I implore , For though my sins are manifold , thy Mercies Lord are more . Printed for J. Bissel , at the sign of the bible and harp in West-smithfield . 