THE Penitent Robber , OR , The Woeful Lamentation OF Capt. James Whitney , Oh n the Morning of his Execution which was on the First of February , 1693. Tune of Russels last Farewell . Licensed according to Order . LEt honest Christians now attend , unto my dying moan , My life is almost at and end , therefore to you alone , I do address my self this day , in certain hope that you , Now at the last for me will pray , who bids the world adieu . For though a wicked life I led , yet now I come to die , I have a sense of fear and dread , of future misery , I having lived in wickedness with a Notorious Crew , Let me find mercy ne'ertheless , who bids the world adieu . I had of late a daring soul , with and undaunted brow . A Will that none could ever control , but where's that spirit now ? Death makes me tremble at his sighed , and does my grief renew , From hence my soul must take its flight , I bid the world adieu . A guilty conscience now I find , fills my poor soul with grief , And is a torment to my mind , for there is no Relief , I having run a wicked Raze , with a Notorious crew , Now at the Execution place , I bid the world adieu . I did upon the Ruins live of honest minded men , Their purse to me I ' d make them give , of Gold or Silver , when I met them on the Kings Highway , with my notorious crew , For which I here am brought to say , farewell , the world adieu . The rich or poor I valued not , no pity was there shown , I f Gold or Silver they had god , though never a groat their own , By violence I'ld take it strait , and kill their Horses too , Which Crimes I do Repent too late , the world I bid adieu . Sometime I'ld hear a Trades man cry , now am I ruined quite , At which I'ld laugh and thus reply , farewell your Pockets light : Thus did I Range and Rob the land , the which , too late , I rue , I on the Brink of Ruin stand , To bid the world adieu . Those that did sweat with pains and care and Traveled night and day , Weed likewise Rob , there's none we'd spare there all become our prey , I was the L eader , nay the Head , and Captain of the Crew , But that vain Glory now is fled , I bid the world adieu . I can no longer here conseal , my sorrow , grief and woe , What better Torments do I feel , alas ! my overthrow , Did come by my unlawful Trade , this day , what shall I do , I am a just Example made , The world I bid adieu . Here's Thousands come this day to see , the fatal fallen of pride , Oh that I might a warning be , to all the world beside , That they may never come to know , this grief and sorrow too , I from the world this day must go , And bid you all adieu . Printed for J. Bissel , and C. Bates . THE Penitent Robber , OR , The Woeful Lamentation OF Capt. James Whitney , Oh n the Morning of his Execution which was on the First of February , 1693. Tune of Russels last Farewell . Licensed according to Order . LEt honest Christians now attend , unto my dying moan , My life is almost at and end , therefore to you alone , I do address my self this day , in certain hope that you , Now at the last for me will pray , who bids the world adieu . For though a wicked life I led , yet now I come to die , I have a sense of fear and dread , of future misery , I having lived in wickedness with a Notorious Crew , Let me find mercy ne'ertheless , who bids the world adieu . I had of late a daring soul , with and undaunted brow . A Will that none could ever control , but where's that spirit now ? Death makes me tremble at his sighed , and does my grief renew , From hence my soul must take its flight , I bid the world adieu . A guilty conscience now I find , fills my poor soul with grief , And is a torment to my mind , for there is no Relief , I having run a wicked Raze , with a Notorious crew , Now at the Execution place , I bid the world adieu . I did upon the Ruins live of honest minded men , Their purse to me I ' d make them give , of Gold or Silver , when I met them on the Kings Highway , with my notorious crew , For which I here am brought to say , farewell , the world adieu . The rich or poor I valued not , no pity was there shown , I f Gold or Silver they had god , though never a groat their own , By violence I'ld take it strait , and kill their Horses too , Which Crimes I do Repent too late , the world I bid adieu . Sometime I'ld hear a Trades man cry , now am I ruined quite , At which I'ld laugh and thus reply , farewell your Pockets light : Thus did I Range and Rob the land , the which , too late , I rue , I on the Brink of Ruin stand , To bid the world adieu . Those that did sweat with pains and care and Traveled night and day , Weed likewise Rob , there's none we'd spare there all become our prey , I was the L eader , nay the Head , and Captain of the Crew , But that vain Glory now is fled , I bid the world adieu . I can no longer here conseal , my sorrow , grief and woe , What better Torments do I feel , alas ! my overthrow , Did come by my unlawful Trade , this day , what shall I do , I am a just Example made , The world I bid adieu . Here's Thousands come this day to see , the fatal fallen of pride , Oh that I might a warning be , to all the world beside , That they may never come to know , this grief and sorrow too , I from the world this day must go , And bid you all adieu . Printed for J. Bissel , and C. Bates . 