The Inhumane Butcher OF Leaden-Hall Market ; Being his Sorrowful Lamentation , for most Cruelly and Barborously Murdering his own Wife : On Wednesday last the 5th . of this Instant May , 1697. To the Tune of , Russels Farewell , etc O Wretched me George Feast by Name , that ever I was Born ; B y M urder thus to blast my Fame , and make my self Forlorn : And I to satisfy that Blood , deserve to loose my Life , For Killing in a furious mood , my Dear and Loving Wife . On Wednesday last the 5th . of May , I did to Market go ; To me it was a Fatal day as many now may know : Because reproved there I was , of my lose wicked Life ; I in most Cruel sort alas ! did Kill my Loving Wife . S he'd often strive for to Reprove my vild Extravagance ; S weet George , quoth she , in tender love , you by your Vile Expense : Will Ruin all that we now have , by this ill Course of Life , But now i've brought her to the Grave , and Killed my Loving Wife . I many Pounds have daily spent abusing of my time ; B ut now alas ! I do repent ( Oh Lord forgive my Crime ) That ever I did that wicked deed , bereaving her of Life ; Which makes my very heart now bleed , for Killing of my Wife . For as at stall she stood by me , before my Mother's face , And her Mother who there did see , this TO rajedy most base , Which makes my very Conscience start , that I with Bloody Knife Did stab her deep into the Heart , that was my Loving Wife . When as the Wound Received had she , she to my Mother said , Behold your S on has Killed me , and then she dropped down dead , Which done I knew not what to say , when she had lost her life , Upon a stall I then did lay , my dear and Loving Wife . I soon was seized for this Act of Bloody Villainy , And for my Horrid Heinous Fact , I do deserve to die , In Newgate now I lie confined , to answer for my life , How can I think to mercy find , now I have Killed my Wife . B ut now O Lord I do indeed , ( if it don't come too late ) Repent me of this bloody deed , which does in me create In me such Griefs and Horrors too , I curse my wretched life , TO hat ever I did my hands embrue , I'th' Blood of my sweet Wife . LONDON : Printed by and for E.C. 1697. The Inhumane Butcher OF Leaden-Hall Market ; Being his Sorrowful Lamentation , for most Cruelly and Barborously Murdering his own Wife : On Wednesday last the 5th . of this Instant May , 1697. To the Tune of , Russels Farewell , etc O Wretched me George Feast by Name , that ever I was Born ; B y M urder thus to blast my Fame , and make my self Forlorn : And I to satisfy that Blood , deserve to loose my Life , For Killing in a furious mood , my Dear and Loving Wife . On Wednesday last the 5th . of May , I did to Market go ; To me it was a Fatal day as many now may know : Because reproved there I was , of my lose wicked Life ; I in most Cruel sort alas ! did Kill my Loving Wife . S he'd often strive for to Reprove my vild Extravagance ; S weet George , quoth she , in tender love , you by your Vile Expense : Will Ruin all that we now have , by this ill Course of Life , But now i've brought her to the Grave , and Killed my Loving Wife . I many Pounds have daily spent abusing of my time ; B ut now alas ! I do repent ( Oh Lord forgive my Crime ) That ever I did that wicked deed , bereaving her of Life ; Which makes my very heart now bleed , for Killing of my Wife . For as at stall she stood by me , before my Mother's face , And her Mother who there did see , this TO rajedy most base , Which makes my very Conscience start , that I with Bloody Knife Did stab her deep into the Heart , that was my Loving Wife . When as the Wound Received had she , she to my Mother said , Behold your S on has Killed me , and then she dropped down dead , Which done I knew not what to say , when she had lost her life , Upon a stall I then did lay , my dear and Loving Wife . I soon was seized for this Act of Bloody Villainy , And for my Horrid Heinous Fact , I do deserve to die , In Newgate now I lie confined , to answer for my life , How can I think to mercy find , now I have Killed my Wife . B ut now O Lord I do indeed , ( if it don't come too late ) Repent me of this bloody deed , which does in me create In me such Griefs and Horrors too , I curse my wretched life , TO hat ever I did my hands embrue , I'th' Blood of my sweet Wife . LONDON : Printed by and for E.C. 1697. 