THAT E Sorrowful Lamentation , Oh F , Sr. John Fenwick's Lady , For the Fatal Condemnation , OF HER Loving Husband . The TO une of , the WORSER uke of M onmouth . NOw the fatal trial's ended ; Condemnation now is past , And with Sorrows he a [ tO ] tended , Has received his doom at last ; Oh! the dismal day is coming , Which will break my tender Heart , Life alas will be a burden ; When Sir John , and I do part . Oh! what torments , now poxsess me : What enraging pains I feel ; Oh! what Fearful thoughts molest me , Nothing can my anguish heal , Down my Cheeks , soft tears are flowing , trickling from my watery Eye , Since my dearest dear is going : For his great Offence to die . You that hear my tender passion , Out of pity shed a tear ; And deplore my Wretched station ; For alas , I lose my Dear : Many Years we Liv [ e ] worser together , Very L oving and Kind , Now he goes the L ord Knows whither , And will leave poor me behind . Oh! was ever wretches fortune , So deplorable as mine , Ah was ever Death so certain , As my Death Sir John , is thine : Now I rave and am peeplexed , Pity my unhappy state ; For my Heart within is vexed : For Sir John is untimely fate . the sad day of Execution , I most dismally do dread ; What distraction , and Confusion Fills ( alas ) my troubled head : O it rends my heart to pieces , When I think upon the that Day : Which will bereave me of my blesses , By taking of my Dear away . Curse on that unhappy minuet , W hen the Horrid Plot was L aid , And he that drew my Husband in't , May he be with death repaid : Death and Vengeance may pursue him , Bring him to a timeless Grave , Prove the wretches fatal Ruin , and no pity let him have . time can never cure my anguish ; time can never ease my smart , I shall ever lie and L anguish , till with grief I break my heart ; Gentle death come now and ease me ; O come close my W atry Eye , Nothing but your dart can please me , Since my dear Sir John must die . Now farewell all W orldly treasures , the sweet joys of humane L ife , Farewell all the Fading pleasure ; O I'm overwhelmed with grief , Down my cheeks soft tears are flowing , trickling from my watery Eye , Since my dearest dear is going , For his great Offence to die . Printed by and for N.D. 1697. THAT E Sorrowful Lamentation , Oh F , Sr. John Fenwick's Lady , For the Fatal Condemnation , OF HER Loving Husband . The TO une of , the WORSER uke of M onmouth . NOw the fatal trial's ended ; Condemnation now is past , And with Sorrows he a [ tO ] tended , Has received his doom at last ; Oh! the dismal day is coming , Which will break my tender Heart , Life alas will be a burden ; When Sir John , and I do part . Oh! what torments , now poxsess me : What enraging pains I feel ; Oh! what Fearful thoughts molest me , Nothing can my anguish heal , Down my Cheeks , soft tears are flowing , trickling from my watery Eye , Since my dearest dear is going : For his great Offence to die . You that hear my tender passion , Out of pity shed a tear ; And deplore my Wretched station ; For alas , I lose my Dear : Many Years we Liv [ e ] worser together , Very L oving and Kind , Now he goes the L ord Knows whither , And will leave poor me behind . Oh! was ever wretches fortune , So deplorable as mine , Ah was ever Death so certain , As my Death Sir John , is thine : Now I rave and am peeplexed , Pity my unhappy state ; For my Heart within is vexed : For Sir John is untimely fate . the sad day of Execution , I most dismally do dread ; What distraction , and Confusion Fills ( alas ) my troubled head : O it rends my heart to pieces , When I think upon the that Day : Which will bereave me of my blesses , By taking of my Dear away . Curse on that unhappy minuet , W hen the Horrid Plot was L aid , And he that drew my Husband in't , May he be with death repaid : Death and Vengeance may pursue him , Bring him to a timeless Grave , Prove the wretches fatal Ruin , and no pity let him have . time can never cure my anguish ; time can never ease my smart , I shall ever lie and L anguish , till with grief I break my heart ; Gentle death come now and ease me ; O come close my W atry Eye , Nothing but your dart can please me , Since my dear Sir John must die . Now farewell all W orldly treasures , the sweet joys of humane L ife , Farewell all the Fading pleasure ; O I'm overwhelmed with grief , Down my cheeks soft tears are flowing , trickling from my watery Eye , Since my dearest dear is going , For his great Offence to die . Printed by and for N.D. 1697. 