A LETTER , TO Satisfy all Persons that Whitney is not fled from NEWGATE , as it was falsely Reported , but is still remaining there ; and may be seen , or spoke with , from Morning till Night . To the Tune of Let Mary live long . Licensed according to Order . I . THere is a Report , new raised by the Rabble , and yet a mere Fable ; Both City and Court is filled with the News , That Witney is out of Gaol , Without giving of Bail ; it's false I declare , He lies still in Fetters , He lies still in Fetters , the more is his Care . II These Fetters and Chains , with which he is hampered , if he would have scampered , ' Twoud puzzle his Brains for to get them off ; Beside , there's a Crew Of the Devil knows who , which Guards him likewise , For fear of their losing For fear of their losing their wondered Prize . III . Their kindness to him , he well do's remember , the last of December Under Lock and Key they put him with care Where he still is confined , They were wondered kind , he needs must confess , That he cannot leave they , That he cannot leave ' em . although in Distress . IV. The Doors being barred too keep him from running , beside , they are cunning , For there's a strong Guard of Keepers likewise : Nay , if Sampson was there He could never get clear ; no , neither can he , It is not so easy , It is not so easy , from Newgate to flee . V. The Valiant and Stout , if once overpowered , appears like a Coward : There's no getting out for Whitney I find ; Iron Bars he can't break , Nor the Stony Walls shake , they're stronger than so , He there must continue , He there must continue , whither he will or no . VI . He studied which way how to run and leave they ; but who can deceive them , Their Fetters , and they a Giant would tame : Let him do what he can , He that never feared Man , not since he was Born , Do's now lie in Prison , Do's now lie in Prison , with Sorrow forlorn . VII . It's said he was fled , without disputation this ample Relation Was carried and spread by Friends of his own , Who'd be glad without doubt , If he could but get out , but wishes are vain , For in his new Quarters For in his new Quarters He still do's remain . VIII . The Truth to declare , and not to deceive you , if you'll not believe me , I'ld have you repair with speed to his Room , In the Goal of Newgate , Where both early or late , he's free for your sighed , He is to be spoke with He is to be spoke with From Morning till Night . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . A LETTER , TO Satisfy all Persons that Whitney is not fled from NEWGATE , as it was falsely Reported , but is still remaining there ; and may be seen , or spoke with , from Morning till Night . To the Tune of Let Mary live long . Licensed according to Order . I . THere is a Report , new raised by the Rabble , and yet a mere Fable ; Both City and Court is filled with the News , That Witney is out of Gaol , Without giving of Bail ; it's false I declare , He lies still in Fetters , He lies still in Fetters , the more is his Care . II These Fetters and Chains , with which he is hampered , if he would have scampered , ' Twoud puzzle his Brains for to get them off ; Beside , there's a Crew Of the Devil knows who , which Guards him likewise , For fear of their losing For fear of their losing their wondered Prize . III . Their kindness to him , he well do's remember , the last of December Under Lock and Key they put him with care Where he still is confined , They were wondered kind , he needs must confess , That he cannot leave they , That he cannot leave ' em . although in Distress . IV. The Doors being barred too keep him from running , beside , they are cunning , For there's a strong Guard of Keepers likewise : Nay , if Sampson was there He could never get clear ; no , neither can he , It is not so easy , It is not so easy , from Newgate to flee . V. The Valiant and Stout , if once overpowered , appears like a Coward : There's no getting out for Whitney I find ; Iron Bars he can't break , Nor the Stony Walls shake , they're stronger than so , He there must continue , He there must continue , whither he will or no . VI . He studied which way how to run and leave they ; but who can deceive them , Their Fetters , and they a Giant would tame : Let him do what he can , He that never feared Man , not since he was Born , Do's now lie in Prison , Do's now lie in Prison , with Sorrow forlorn . VII . It's said he was fled , without disputation this ample Relation Was carried and spread by Friends of his own , Who'd be glad without doubt , If he could but get out , but wishes are vain , For in his new Quarters For in his new Quarters He still do's remain . VIII . The Truth to declare , and not to deceive you , if you'll not believe me , I'ld have you repair with speed to his Room , In the Goal of Newgate , Where both early or late , he's free for your sighed , He is to be spoke with He is to be spoke with From Morning till Night . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 