The HANG-MAN's Lamentation : OR , THE Chancellors Farewell . To the Tune of , Oh Brave Chancellor . HAve at you blind Harpers ; for once let us try To Sing a poor Chancellor is sad Destiny : Bewailed by three Kingdoms , without one wet Eye . Then Farewell Jeff ------ s , Old Boy Jeff ------ s . Ever and Ever Farewell . With Popery and Slavery , he thrived Cock-a-hoop : But when Right , Law , and Gospel , began to look up , He god a Consumption , and Died of a Droop . Then F arewel , etc To Die neither Satan nor Beelzebub's Debtors ; Some say he's but gone to Visit his Betters ; And to take up a Lodging for Old Father Peters . Then Farewell , etc Yet , the Chancellor is Dead : And would you know why ? His Boys in the West , like Goblins stood by ; And with Bloody Pitchforks killed him dead in the Eye . Then Farewell , etc The Ghosts of his Martyrs , they made suth a stir there , That Great Russel is Ghost , and Cornish is Murder , Even Frighted his Soul to the Devil , and further . Then Farewell , etc The sad thought of Hemp pierced him thoro ' and thoro ' And to tell you the Truth in mere G rief and Sorrow , He even died to day , to escape Hanging to Morrow , Then Farewell , etc This Hector , that once could Roar , Swagger and Bristle , Our great Son of Thunder is gone out like a F izle ; And bids both the Sheriffs and Hangman go Whistle . Then Farewell , etc But to march off so sneaking , in troth was foul play , F or his good F riends of Holbourn , as all People say , Complain he has lost them a whole Holiday . Then Farewell , Jeff ------ s , Old Boy Jeff ------ s , Ever and Ever Farewell . LONDON : Printed in the Year , 1689The HANG-MAN's Lamentation : OR , THE Chancellors Farewell . To the Tune of , Oh Brave Chancellor . HAve at you blind Harpers ; for once let us try To Sing a poor Chancellor is sad Destiny : Bewailed by three Kingdoms , without one wet Eye . Then Farewell Jeff ------ s , Old Boy Jeff ------ s . Ever and Ever Farewell . With Popery and Slavery , he thrived Cock-a-hoop : But when Right , Law , and Gospel , began to look up , He god a Consumption , and Died of a Droop . Then F arewel , etc To Die neither Satan nor Beelzebub's Debtors ; Some say he's but gone to Visit his Betters ; And to take up a Lodging for Old Father Peters . Then Farewell , etc Yet , the Chancellor is Dead : And would you know why ? His Boys in the West , like Goblins stood by ; And with Bloody Pitchforks killed him dead in the Eye . Then Farewell , etc The Ghosts of his Martyrs , they made suth a stir there , That Great Russel is Ghost , and Cornish is Murder , Even Frighted his Soul to the Devil , and further . Then Farewell , etc The sad thought of Hemp pierced him thoro ' and thoro ' And to tell you the Truth in mere G rief and Sorrow , He even died to day , to escape Hanging to Morrow , Then Farewell , etc This Hector , that once could Roar , Swagger and Bristle , Our great Son of Thunder is gone out like a F izle ; And bids both the Sheriffs and Hangman go Whistle . Then Farewell , etc But to march off so sneaking , in troth was foul play , F or his good F riends of Holbourn , as all People say , Complain he has lost them a whole Holiday . Then Farewell , Jeff ------ s , Old Boy Jeff ------ s , Ever and Ever Farewell . LONDON : Printed in the Year , 1689 