The barbarous and bloody Son , WHO Shot his FATHER As he was going into the Church . This Murder being Committed by one Symmons , on the Body of his Father-in-Law , Mr. James Monevoir , a Master Weaver , by shooting him with a Pistol Charged with six Slugs , as he was going into a French Tabernacle in Spittle-Fields , on Sunday Morning the 12 th . of Ju - lie , about Ten of the Clock , and of his being taken and Committed , by Justice Bateman , unto Newgate for the same . Tune of , I love you dearly , etc O horrid is the Crime of blood , And Damnable if understood ; And yet this since so rife is grown , The like before was never known . As by this tragic act you'll see How bloody it appears to be ; A son the father for to kill , And suddenly his blood to spill . O horrid horrid sure to tell , For this must be contrived in Hell , Or no one else could do this Deed , To make a harmless Father bleed . Symmons , a Watchmaker by trade , Bout three years since married a Maid , Whose father lived at the Crown , A Weaver in the Artillery-ground . And with this Maiden it is told , He had a Portion all in Gold ; The Father for a year to come , Kept both the Daughter and the Son. Then went the daughter and the son Into the world to live alone ; But in a year or less was he Ruined by Debauchery . His Father set him up again In hope's his Lewdness he'd refrain ; But still all that his father gave , The Son would not one penny save . When that the Father slacked his hand , This Spendthrift would not stay on land But on the Seas straight went the Son , That and Gallows refuses none . But lately he returned on shore , And to his Father went for more : The father cried I cannot give ; The Son replied then you shant live . So straight a Pistol he did get , And with six Slugs he Charged it ; then waited a full hour and more to shoot his Father at the Church-door . On Sunday the twelfth of July , this wicked Son in wait did lie , to work his Father's overthrow , While he poor Man to Church did go , And just as his poor Father come , Straight cursed him did the wicked son , And swearing now I have you found , I will have your hearts blood and wounds . So Cockt the Pistol and let fly Into his Guts immediately ; Six Slugs which did his Bowels tear , While the Minister was at prayer . Murder being cried and noise of Gun Made people out of the Church run , they found the Murdered Father lie , the son with sword drawn standing by . they cried whats this that thou hast done ? whats that to you replies the son , But they secured him presently , And now in Newgate he does lie . Now Children love your Parents dear , Let no temptations you ensnare , to do as this vile wretch has done , A Father murdered by a son . London : Printed and Sold Charles Barnet . The barbarous and bloody Son , WHO Shot his FATHER As he was going into the Church . This Murder being Committed by one Symmons , on the Body of his Father-in-Law , Mr. James Monevoir , a Master Weaver , by shooting him with a Pistol Charged with six Slugs , as he was going into a French Tabernacle in Spittle-Fields , on Sunday Morning the 12 th . of Ju - lie , about Ten of the Clock , and of his being taken and Committed , by Justice Bateman , unto Newgate for the same . Tune of , I love you dearly , etc O horrid is the Crime of blood , And Damnable if understood ; And yet this since so rife is grown , The like before was never known . As by this tragic act you'll see How bloody it appears to be ; A son the father for to kill , And suddenly his blood to spill . O horrid horrid sure to tell , For this must be contrived in Hell , Or no one else could do this Deed , To make a harmless Father bleed . Symmons , a Watchmaker by trade , Bout three years since married a Maid , Whose father lived at the Crown , A Weaver in the Artillery-ground . And with this Maiden it is told , He had a Portion all in Gold ; The Father for a year to come , Kept both the Daughter and the Son. Then went the daughter and the son Into the world to live alone ; But in a year or less was he Ruined by Debauchery . His Father set him up again In hope's his Lewdness he'd refrain ; But still all that his father gave , The Son would not one penny save . When that the Father slacked his hand , This Spendthrift would not stay on land But on the Seas straight went the Son , That and Gallows refuses none . But lately he returned on shore , And to his Father went for more : The father cried I cannot give ; The Son replied then you shant live . So straight a Pistol he did get , And with six Slugs he Charged it ; then waited a full hour and more to shoot his Father at the Church-door . On Sunday the twelfth of July , this wicked Son in wait did lie , to work his Father's overthrow , While he poor Man to Church did go , And just as his poor Father come , Straight cursed him did the wicked son , And swearing now I have you found , I will have your hearts blood and wounds . So Cockt the Pistol and let fly Into his Guts immediately ; Six Slugs which did his Bowels tear , While the Minister was at prayer . Murder being cried and noise of Gun Made people out of the Church run , they found the Murdered Father lie , the son with sword drawn standing by . they cried whats this that thou hast done ? whats that to you replies the son , But they secured him presently , And now in Newgate he does lie . Now Children love your Parents dear , Let no temptations you ensnare , to do as this vile wretch has done , A Father murdered by a son . London : Printed and Sold Charles Barnet . 