The Midwife's Maid's Lamentation , In NEWGATE . Or her continual fear of the Devil tearing her alive out of the Bed every Night . To murder poor young Infants is a Crime , Was hardly ever herd since Herod ' s time . Till now by this same Midwife and her Maid , Who many years young Chi l dren have destroyed Tune of , Russel's Farewell . GOod People all I pray attend And give Ear to my Song , While these Distracted Lines are penned Concerning infants young , I was the Midwifes Maid its true , And acted in the deed , O what must my poor Soul now do , My very heart does bleed . I am in Newgate now confined For the great Villainy , Which my Mistress and I ofttimes did Act most Barbarously , To starve small Children was no crime , we constantly did think , We frequent did from time to time Let them want Meat and Drink . But now no comfort's to be found either by Day or Night , For these poor infants underground , does constant me affright , For when I once do go to sleep My mind's disturbed the more , My thinks the little Infants peep , and cries for Victuals soar . Which startles me ith dead oath Night , then straight I do awake , And then I'm in so great a fright it makes my heart to ache , For when to mind I once do call Our wicked Cruelty , Against those little Babes so small , No Soul will pity me . And for this Fact I now must die , for starving Children dear , O what a wicked Wretch was I the same not to declare , O that I had but once made known this deed of Cryelty , But now alas I am undone , No Soul will pity me . O let my wretched , wretched day to all a warning be , That they use no such evil ways , To cause their misery , But you that undertake to keep Small Chilldren while they live , O do not let them cry and weep , I n hunger Victuals give . Now to conclude my dismal doom , I hant one minutes rest , For every Night within my Room , strange fancies do possess , Sometime the Devil would me haw [ l ] out of the Bed I think , The Children in my Ears do bawl for Victuals and for Drink . London , Printed and Sold by L. More . The Midwife's Maid's Lamentation , In NEWGATE . Or her continual fear of the Devil tearing her alive out of the Bed every Night . To murder poor young Infants is a Crime , Was hardly ever herd since Herod ' s time . Till now by this same Midwife and her Maid , Who many years young Chi l dren have destroyed Tune of , Russel's Farewell . GOod People all I pray attend And give Ear to my Song , While these Distracted Lines are penned Concerning infants young , I was the Midwifes Maid its true , And acted in the deed , O what must my poor Soul now do , My very heart does bleed . I am in Newgate now confined For the great Villainy , Which my Mistress and I ofttimes did Act most Barbarously , To starve small Children was no crime , we constantly did think , We frequent did from time to time Let them want Meat and Drink . But now no comfort's to be found either by Day or Night , For these poor infants underground , does constant me affright , For when I once do go to sleep My mind's disturbed the more , My thinks the little Infants peep , and cries for Victuals soar . Which startles me ith dead oath Night , then straight I do awake , And then I'm in so great a fright it makes my heart to ache , For when to mind I once do call Our wicked Cruelty , Against those little Babes so small , No Soul will pity me . And for this Fact I now must die , for starving Children dear , O what a wicked Wretch was I the same not to declare , O that I had but once made known this deed of Cryelty , But now alas I am undone , No Soul will pity me . O let my wretched , wretched day to all a warning be , That they use no such evil ways , To cause their misery , But you that undertake to keep Small Chilldren while they live , O do not let them cry and weep , I n hunger Victuals give . Now to conclude my dismal doom , I hant one minutes rest , For every Night within my Room , strange fancies do possess , Sometime the Devil would me haw [ l ] out of the Bed I think , The Children in my Ears do bawl for Victuals and for Drink . London , Printed and Sold by L. More . 