A New Loyal SONG , upon King WILLIAMS Progress into IRELAND To a New Scotch Tune of , Valiant Jockey Marched away . With Allowance . N Owe our Mighty William Goes To Ireland to Subdue His Foes , With the Noble force of Englands Crown , To pluck the Ir i sh Rebels down ; Fame's loud Trumpet does Proclaim , The greatness of His Royal Fame ; Fearing Him , now into Bogs they run , His Justice , and His Rage to shun : None of His foes , dare His power oppose , Heaven such success on Him bestows ; Just is His Cause , to defend our Laws ; Blessings Crown Him wheresoever He goes . When great William , whom they dread , Shall meet them at His Armies Head , Fear will so possess each Rebels heart , That from their Standard they'll depart ; When His Mighty Sword they see , He'll soon obtain the Victory : There's no Rebel Teague that dare withstand The fury of His powerful Hand ; Priests then must fly , Hone Oh Hone they'll cry , And their Lord a second time deny ; To France they'll scowr from the Irish shore , And desert him as they did before . Rebels fly , and quit your Arms , King Williams Name your Camp Alarms ; Now your Priests , & amp ; good St. Patricks Cross , Will both be quickly at a loss ; Teague , Oh now prepare your Brogs , To Trot a cross your Irish Bogs Or at Royal Williams Footstool fallen , And for his Candid Mercy call ; He's so Brave , He'l a Rebel Save , Covets not a Traitors blood to have : Love and Mercy brings you the best of Kings , Shelter therefore under his Sacred Wings . Come you Valiant English Lads , Whose fame the Universe overspreads ; For the Glory of our Englands Crown , Lets pluck the Irish Rebels down : Found the Trumpets beatrice the Drums , Great William now He comes He comes ; All His foes must fly and quit the Field , Or else unto his Mercy Yield . Ireland now shall Obediance show , And to Great King Williams Sceptre bow ; Mounsieurs Valliant men must fly back again , Or his grand Assistance will be slave . Heaven bless our King and Queen , Who have our Nations safeguard been , Wheresoever They do Their Banner spread , May Larwels Crown Their Royal Head ; Bless our Prince wheresoever He goes , May He Subdue His Rebel foes ; And in Battle so Successful be , As always gain the Victory ; Long may He Reign , and His Power Maintain , In His Kingdoms , and upon the Main ; May He Live in Peace , & amp ; His Power Increase , And Reign Sovereign over the Land and Seas . Printed for J. Conyers at the Black-Raven in Holbourn . A New Loyal SONG , upon King WILLIAMS Progress into IRELAND To a New Scotch Tune of , Valiant Jockey Marched away . With Allowance . N Owe our Mighty William Goes To Ireland to Subdue His Foes , With the Noble force of Englands Crown , To pluck the Ir i sh Rebels down ; Fame's loud Trumpet does Proclaim , The greatness of His Royal Fame ; Fearing Him , now into Bogs they run , His Justice , and His Rage to shun : None of His foes , dare His power oppose , Heaven such success on Him bestows ; Just is His Cause , to defend our Laws ; Blessings Crown Him wheresoever He goes . When great William , whom they dread , Shall meet them at His Armies Head , Fear will so possess each Rebels heart , That from their Standard they'll depart ; When His Mighty Sword they see , He'll soon obtain the Victory : There's no Rebel Teague that dare withstand The fury of His powerful Hand ; Priests then must fly , Hone Oh Hone they'll cry , And their Lord a second time deny ; To France they'll scowr from the Irish shore , And desert him as they did before . Rebels fly , and quit your Arms , King Williams Name your Camp Alarms ; Now your Priests , & amp ; good St. Patricks Cross , Will both be quickly at a loss ; Teague , Oh now prepare your Brogs , To Trot a cross your Irish Bogs Or at Royal Williams Footstool fallen , And for his Candid Mercy call ; He's so Brave , He'l a Rebel Save , Covets not a Traitors blood to have : Love and Mercy brings you the best of Kings , Shelter therefore under his Sacred Wings . Come you Valiant English Lads , Whose fame the Universe overspreads ; For the Glory of our Englands Crown , Lets pluck the Irish Rebels down : Found the Trumpets beatrice the Drums , Great William now He comes He comes ; All His foes must fly and quit the Field , Or else unto his Mercy Yield . Ireland now shall Obediance show , And to Great King Williams Sceptre bow ; Mounsieurs Valliant men must fly back again , Or his grand Assistance will be slave . Heaven bless our King and Queen , Who have our Nations safeguard been , Wheresoever They do Their Banner spread , May Larwels Crown Their Royal Head ; Bless our Prince wheresoever He goes , May He Subdue His Rebel foes ; And in Battle so Successful be , As always gain the Victory ; Long may He Reign , and His Power Maintain , In His Kingdoms , and upon the Main ; May He Live in Peace , & amp ; His Power Increase , And Reign Sovereign over the Land and Seas . Printed for J. Conyers at the Black-Raven in Holbourn . 