Jockey and Jenney : OR , The SCOTCH COURTSHIP . To a pleasant new Scotch Tune , Sung in the Play of The Three Dukes of Dunstable . J ENNY gin you can Love , and are resolved to try me ; Silly Scruples remove , and do no longer deny me , By thy bonny Black Eyes , I sware none other can move me ; Therefore if you deny , you never never did love me . Jockey how can you mistake , that knows full well when you woo me , How my poor Heart do's ache , and throbs , as it would come through me How can you be my Friend , when as you are bent to my Ruin , All the Love you pretend , is only for my undoing . Who can tell with what Art this Canting nothing , called Honour , Charms my Jenny is soft heart , while Love and Jockey had wone her . It's a Toy in the head , and muckle woe there's about it ; Yet I'ld rather be dead , than live in scandal without it . But if you'll love me , and wed , and guard my Honour from harms too , Jockey I'll take to my Bed , and fold him close in my Arms too : Talk not of Wedding , fair Sweet , for I must have Charms that are softer , I'm of the Northernly breed , and never shall love thee well after . Except you will yield to wed , I cannot believe you love me , And all that you yet have said , dear Jockey , will never move me , You love not as you pretend , the Arguments still you are urging , Designs no more , in the end , but to betray a poor Virgin . Although you tickle my knees , my Maidenhead still I'll save it , On such foolish Terms as these , my J ockey , you never must have it ; But if you're willing to wed , I never will marry another , My J ockey shall come to my Bed , where we will pleasure each other . But if I should yield to your Will , I'm sure you would soon deceive me , Your evil Desires you'd fill , and after you quickly would leave me , And if I should chance to teem , by kissing and hugging together , And get a Bearn in my Wem , Oh where should I find out the Father . J enny you need not fear , I only desire to try you ; As true as poor Jockey is here , to marry he'll never deny you : I therefore I am willing to Bed , and if thou wilt gang tomorrow , Unto a geud Kirk , and be Wed , we'll both bid adieu to all Sorrow . Printed for J. Conyers at the Black Raven in Holborn . Jockey and Jenney : OR , The SCOTCH COURTSHIP . To a pleasant new Scotch Tune , Sung in the Play of The Three Dukes of Dunstable . J ENNY gin you can Love , and are resolved to try me ; Silly Scruples remove , and do no longer deny me , By thy bonny Black Eyes , I sware none other can move me ; Therefore if you deny , you never never did love me . Jockey how can you mistake , that knows full well when you woo me , How my poor Heart do's ache , and throbs , as it would come through me How can you be my Friend , when as you are bent to my Ruin , All the Love you pretend , is only for my undoing . Who can tell with what Art this Canting nothing , called Honour , Charms my Jenny is soft heart , while Love and Jockey had wone her . It's a Toy in the head , and muckle woe there's about it ; Yet I'ld rather be dead , than live in scandal without it . But if you'll love me , and wed , and guard my Honour from harms too , Jockey I'll take to my Bed , and fold him close in my Arms too : Talk not of Wedding , fair Sweet , for I must have Charms that are softer , I'm of the Northernly breed , and never shall love thee well after . Except you will yield to wed , I cannot believe you love me , And all that you yet have said , dear Jockey , will never move me , You love not as you pretend , the Arguments still you are urging , Designs no more , in the end , but to betray a poor Virgin . Although you tickle my knees , my Maidenhead still I'll save it , On such foolish Terms as these , my J ockey , you never must have it ; But if you're willing to wed , I never will marry another , My J ockey shall come to my Bed , where we will pleasure each other . But if I should yield to your Will , I'm sure you would soon deceive me , Your evil Desires you'd fill , and after you quickly would leave me , And if I should chance to teem , by kissing and hugging together , And get a Bearn in my Wem , Oh where should I find out the Father . J enny you need not fear , I only desire to try you ; As true as poor Jockey is here , to marry he'll never deny you : I therefore I am willing to Bed , and if thou wilt gang tomorrow , Unto a geud Kirk , and be Wed , we'll both bid adieu to all Sorrow . Printed for J. Conyers at the Black Raven in Holborn . 