[ And Answer ] [ TO ] [ The Baffled Knight : ] OR , The beautiful Lady's Second piece of Policy ; by which she preserved her Virginity , and left the brisk Knight in Pickle . To a pleasant New Tune . I . THE baffled Knight was by the Lass ingeniously outwitted ; And since that time , it came to pass , he was again well fitted . II As he was riding across a Plain , in Boots , Spurs , Hat and Feather , He met that Lady fair again ; they talked a while together . III . He said , Though you did serve me so , and cunningly decoy me ; Yet now , before you further go , I must and will enjoy thee . IV. 'Twas near a spacious Rivers side , where Rushes green were growing ; And Neptune is silver Streams did glide , four Fathom Waters flowing . V. The Lady blushed like Scarlet Read , And trembled at this Stranger ; How shall I guard my Maidenhead From this approaching Danger ? VI . With a lamenting Sighs , said she , To die I now am ready : Must this Dishonour fallen on me ? A most unhappy Lady ! VII . He from his Saddle did alight , in gaudy , rich Attire ; And cried , I am a Noble Knight , who does your Charms admire . VIII . He took the Lady by the Hand , who seemingly consented ; And would no more disputing stand , she had a Plot invented , IX . How she might baffle him again , with much Delight and Pleasure ; And eke unspotted still remain with her pure Virgin-Treasure . X. Look yonder , good Sir Knight , I pray ! Methinks I do discover , Well mounted on a dapple Gray , my true , entire Lover . XI . The Knight , he standing on the brink of the deep , f [ lowi ] ng River ; Thought she , Thou now shalt swim or sink , Choose which you fancy rather . XII . Against his Back the Lady run , The Waters strait he sounded : He cried out , Love ! What have you done ? Help ! Help ! or I am drowned ! XIII . Said she , Sir Knight , Farewell : Adieu : You see what comes of fooling : That is the fittest place for you , Whose Courage wanted cooling . XIV . Love , H elp me out , and I'll forgive this Fault which you've committed . No , No , says she , Sir , As I live , I think your finely fitted . XV . She rid home to her Father's H ouse , for speedy expedition ; While the old Knight was soaked like Souse ; in a sad wet Condition . XVI . When he came mounted to the Plain he was in rich Attire : Yet when he back returned again , he was all Muck and Mire . XVII . A solemn Vow he there did make , just as he came from swimming , H eed love no Lady , for her sake , nor any other Women . FI N IS . Printed for C. Bates , at the White-Hart in West-Smith - field , near Pye-Corner : Where all Country Chapmen may be furnished with all sorts of small Books , and Ballads . [ And Answer ] [ TO ] [ The Baffled Knight : ] OR , The beautiful Lady's Second piece of Policy ; by which she preserved her Virginity , and left the brisk Knight in Pickle . To a pleasant New Tune . I . THE baffled Knight was by the Lass ingeniously outwitted ; And since that time , it came to pass , he was again well fitted . II As he was riding across a Plain , in Boots , Spurs , Hat and Feather , He met that Lady fair again ; they talked a while together . III . He said , Though you did serve me so , and cunningly decoy me ; Yet now , before you further go , I must and will enjoy thee . IV. 'Twas near a spacious Rivers side , where Rushes green were growing ; And Neptune is silver Streams did glide , four Fathom Waters flowing . V. The Lady blushed like Scarlet Read , And trembled at this Stranger ; How shall I guard my Maidenhead From this approaching Danger ? VI . With a lamenting Sighs , said she , To die I now am ready : Must this Dishonour fallen on me ? A most unhappy Lady ! VII . He from his Saddle did alight , in gaudy , rich Attire ; And cried , I am a Noble Knight , who does your Charms admire . VIII . He took the Lady by the Hand , who seemingly consented ; And would no more disputing stand , she had a Plot invented , IX . How she might baffle him again , with much Delight and Pleasure ; And eke unspotted still remain with her pure Virgin-Treasure . X. Look yonder , good Sir Knight , I pray ! Methinks I do discover , Well mounted on a dapple Gray , my true , entire Lover . XI . The Knight , he standing on the brink of the deep , f [ lowi ] ng River ; Thought she , Thou now shalt swim or sink , Choose which you fancy rather . XII . Against his Back the Lady run , The Waters strait he sounded : He cried out , Love ! What have you done ? Help ! Help ! or I am drowned ! XIII . Said she , Sir Knight , Farewell : Adieu : You see what comes of fooling : That is the fittest place for you , Whose Courage wanted cooling . XIV . Love , H elp me out , and I'll forgive this Fault which you've committed . No , No , says she , Sir , As I live , I think your finely fitted . XV . She rid home to her Father's H ouse , for speedy expedition ; While the old Knight was soaked like Souse ; in a sad wet Condition . XVI . When he came mounted to the Plain he was in rich Attire : Yet when he back returned again , he was all Muck and Mire . XVII . A solemn Vow he there did make , just as he came from swimming , H eed love no Lady , for her sake , nor any other Women . FI N IS . Printed for C. Bates , at the White-Hart in West-Smith - field , near Pye-Corner : Where all Country Chapmen may be furnished with all sorts of small Books , and Ballads . 