The Royal Resolution : OR , His Majesty's taking leave of the Queen , at his De - parture from the Court for the Expedition of IRELAND . To the Tune of My sweet Corydon . Licensed according to Order . 1. FArewell Royal Queen , to the bloody Scene , of the Irish Wars I'll go ; Where the French I'll face , and the Rebels chase bringing their haughty Courage low ; With my Army of True Protestants , The which will advance to each fenced Town , Who in Armour bright , freely fight , to defend my Royal Crown . 2. In whose Company now I long to be , since the Season do's far advance , That I may subdue that Rebellious Crew , and check the growing Pride of France ; Therefore here I take my leave of thee , And I hope to free those whom France runs down . For in Armour bright will I fight , to defend my Royal Crown . 3. Can I here remain with a Courtly Train , and let Ireland bleeding lie , While True Subject's there languish in Despair ? o , Royal Lady , no not I . At the Head of my vast armed Band , Lady I'll Command Soldiers of Renown , And in Armour bright , etc 4. When I first come over from the Holland Shore , Life and Fortune here to expose , The Church to defend , therefore to the End , still will I Chase the Romish Foes ; For I doubt not but the Powers above , Will express their Love , to pull Popery down , While in Armour bright , etc 5. While I leave the Realm , at the Royal Helm , Thou my Lady shall placed be ; For to Rule and Reign , Justice to maintain , the Subject's Law and Liberty ; While I do return from Ireland , All's at thy Command , though the Roman frown ; There in Armour bright , etc 6. Never did I fear in Wars to appear , when the Cause has been just and good , But could freely go , to subdue the Foe , by whom Religion is withstood , If I live , proud France shall feel my Rage ; For when we engage , drive they from each Town , Where in Armour bright , etc 7. Brave Commanders bold , valiant Hearts of Gold , whose true Courage there's none can stain , Those will live or die , in the Company of the courageous warlike Train : When the French and Rebels they shall hear , I'm approaching near , soon they'll quit each Town , And in Armour bright , will we fight , to defend our Royal Crown . 8. Then the Queen replied , May the Heavens guide and guard thy Royal Person still , While those Enemies fallen a Sacrifice , who dare oppose thy Royal Will , May a Blessing wait upon the Sword of my Sovereign Lord , William of Renown , While in Armour bright thou dost fight , to defend our Royal Crown . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . The Royal Resolution : OR , His Majesty's taking leave of the Queen , at his De - parture from the Court for the Expedition of IRELAND . To the Tune of My sweet Corydon . Licensed according to Order . 1. FArewell Royal Queen , to the bloody Scene , of the Irish Wars I'll go ; Where the French I'll face , and the Rebels chase bringing their haughty Courage low ; With my Army of True Protestants , The which will advance to each fenced Town , Who in Armour bright , freely fight , to defend my Royal Crown . 2. In whose Company now I long to be , since the Season do's far advance , That I may subdue that Rebellious Crew , and check the growing Pride of France ; Therefore here I take my leave of thee , And I hope to free those whom France runs down . For in Armour bright will I fight , to defend my Royal Crown . 3. Can I here remain with a Courtly Train , and let Ireland bleeding lie , While True Subject's there languish in Despair ? o , Royal Lady , no not I . At the Head of my vast armed Band , Lady I'll Command Soldiers of Renown , And in Armour bright , etc 4. When I first come over from the Holland Shore , Life and Fortune here to expose , The Church to defend , therefore to the End , still will I Chase the Romish Foes ; For I doubt not but the Powers above , Will express their Love , to pull Popery down , While in Armour bright , etc 5. While I leave the Realm , at the Royal Helm , Thou my Lady shall placed be ; For to Rule and Reign , Justice to maintain , the Subject's Law and Liberty ; While I do return from Ireland , All's at thy Command , though the Roman frown ; There in Armour bright , etc 6. Never did I fear in Wars to appear , when the Cause has been just and good , But could freely go , to subdue the Foe , by whom Religion is withstood , If I live , proud France shall feel my Rage ; For when we engage , drive they from each Town , Where in Armour bright , etc 7. Brave Commanders bold , valiant Hearts of Gold , whose true Courage there's none can stain , Those will live or die , in the Company of the courageous warlike Train : When the French and Rebels they shall hear , I'm approaching near , soon they'll quit each Town , And in Armour bright , will we fight , to defend our Royal Crown . 8. Then the Queen replied , May the Heavens guide and guard thy Royal Person still , While those Enemies fallen a Sacrifice , who dare oppose thy Royal Will , May a Blessing wait upon the Sword of my Sovereign Lord , William of Renown , While in Armour bright thou dost fight , to defend our Royal Crown . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 