The Royal Salutation OF KING WILLIAM AND QUEEN MARY : When his Majesty took his Leave , in order to the Irish Expedition , till he return again , crowned with Peace , Victory , and Triumph : Which ought to be the earnest Prayer of all true Protestant Subject's . To the Tune of , The Italian WORSER utchess . King . TO Ireland I must quickly Go , For safety of the Nation ; The Irish-Rebels to over throw , That's base beyond Relation . Therefore , my Dear and only Life , With Courage , be Endued : I'll Sail Cross the Main , and come again , As soon as they're Subdued . Queen . With Mournful Sighs , the Queen replied , How can I be contented ? Who of your Presence am denied , Though nothing can prevent it , The hazards which you undergo , And danger of your dying , When you are gone , and I'm alone , Will set me still a crying . King . Sure Providence governeth all , And ruleth every Nation : Ther's none that can prevent a fallen , That comes by Ordination . Your Subject's they will stand by You , In spite of Insurrection , And Conquer those that are our Foes , And bring them to Subjection . Queen . I am one of the Female Kind , Whose Courage soon is daunted : Though I were of a Noble Mind , Your Wisdom will be wanted , If I had all the Gold of Spain , And all that Queen's can Merit , Renounce I could , and quickly would , Your Person to Inherit . King . I am as loath to part with you , Then Dearest be contented . I Conquer must the Popish-Crew , Which cannot be prevented , I have all hazards run , to save The Kingdom from Confusion ; And will , once more , their State restore , From Popish dark delusion : Queen . Conspiracy and Plots may rise , Which cannot be endured ; With Rumours , false Reports , and Lies , Which cannot well be cured : The Enemies of Church and State Will take their Recreation ; And bend their Wits , in digging Pits , To trap the English-Nation . King . The Government is in your hand ; Your Subject's will assist you , You have the Kingdom at command , No Rebel dares resist you . I'll go in Hast , with speed , return : Pray , therefore , rest well pleased : I shall not be , till I you see , Of all my troubles eased . Queen . With this , he took her in his Arms , And then , with Royal Wishes , They both , with grave Majestiek Charms , Thus sealed their Love with kisses . Like Orient Pearl her tears did drop : From Crystal eyes , sad hearted . Then in a while , without a Smile , This King and Queen were parted . LONDON , Printed By J.W. Near the Green-Dragon in Fleet-street . The Royal Salutation OF KING WILLIAM AND QUEEN MARY : When his Majesty took his Leave , in order to the Irish Expedition , till he return again , crowned with Peace , Victory , and Triumph : Which ought to be the earnest Prayer of all true Protestant Subject's . To the Tune of , The Italian WORSER utchess . King . TO Ireland I must quickly Go , For safety of the Nation ; The Irish-Rebels to over throw , That's base beyond Relation . Therefore , my Dear and only Life , With Courage , be Endued : I'll Sail Cross the Main , and come again , As soon as they're Subdued . Queen . With Mournful Sighs , the Queen replied , How can I be contented ? Who of your Presence am denied , Though nothing can prevent it , The hazards which you undergo , And danger of your dying , When you are gone , and I'm alone , Will set me still a crying . King . Sure Providence governeth all , And ruleth every Nation : Ther's none that can prevent a fallen , That comes by Ordination . Your Subject's they will stand by You , In spite of Insurrection , And Conquer those that are our Foes , And bring them to Subjection . Queen . I am one of the Female Kind , Whose Courage soon is daunted : Though I were of a Noble Mind , Your Wisdom will be wanted , If I had all the Gold of Spain , And all that Queen's can Merit , Renounce I could , and quickly would , Your Person to Inherit . King . I am as loath to part with you , Then Dearest be contented . I Conquer must the Popish-Crew , Which cannot be prevented , I have all hazards run , to save The Kingdom from Confusion ; And will , once more , their State restore , From Popish dark delusion : Queen . Conspiracy and Plots may rise , Which cannot be endured ; With Rumours , false Reports , and Lies , Which cannot well be cured : The Enemies of Church and State Will take their Recreation ; And bend their Wits , in digging Pits , To trap the English-Nation . King . The Government is in your hand ; Your Subject's will assist you , You have the Kingdom at command , No Rebel dares resist you . I'll go in Hast , with speed , return : Pray , therefore , rest well pleased : I shall not be , till I you see , Of all my troubles eased . Queen . With this , he took her in his Arms , And then , with Royal Wishes , They both , with grave Majestiek Charms , Thus sealed their Love with kisses . Like Orient Pearl her tears did drop : From Crystal eyes , sad hearted . Then in a while , without a Smile , This King and Queen were parted . LONDON , Printed By J.W. Near the Green-Dragon in Fleet-street . 