Englands Holiday , OR , The Nations Joy for the happy Coronation of , King WILLIAM , and his Royal Consort Queen MARY Tune , Let Caeser live long , Now now the Fights done , The Plowman's Health , Joy to the Bridegroom Or , My Life and my Death . C Ome all Loyal Subject's of every sort , And view the bright splendour of Englands brave Court ; See see , the great William like Phoebus does Shine , With his Royal Queen Marry whose looks are Divine : In joyful Huzzas let our Gladness be shown , For to day they are Crowned & amp ; Confirmed on the Throne . Our Homage with all due obedience let's pay , In praise and kind wishes let's spin out the day ; May our great Lord and Lady , all blessings obtain , And enjoy a long happy properous Reign : In joyful Huzzas let our gladness be shown , etc Our happy King William as splendid as Jove , Beneath his rich Canopy Nobly does move , His bright Princely glories are all so Divine , The graces of all the fine Train they out shine , In joyful Huzzas let our gladness be shown , etc Let Papists stand by , and with envy behold , A Protestant Prince all his graces unfold ; Let the Miter and Cross , stand in fear of his Hand , Who has Routed Idolatry out of the Land : In joyful Huzzas let our gladness be shown , etc Each Noble and Peers , their glory display , To add to the splendour of this happy day ; Bedect in their Robes , each so Nobly appears , The King like the Sun , and his Nobles like Stars . In joyful Huzzas let our gladness be shown , etc And the fair Train good Queen Marry both move , Far brighter than ever was the Goddess of Love ; Each look does dispose of so happy a grace , It's a blessing for those who can gaize on her Face : In joyful Huzzas let our Gladness be shown , Now our Protestant P rince is placed on the Throne . How happy and peaceful our Nation will be , Now we are from Romes evil strategems free ; The Cross shall no more in Old England be Raised , Nor Saints nor their Pictures , be prayed too or praised . In joyful Huzzas let our gladness be shown , That the Romish Idolatry now is plucked down . God bless our good King and defend him from care , His Crown may he ever in prosperity were ; His foes to subjection may he speedily bring , And on the three Natians be obeyed as a king . In joyful Huzzas let our gladness be shown , That so gracious a P rince is possessed on the Throne . May Heaven preserve from the power of Death , Queen Marry the flower of our Protestant faith , May she always be Youthful Bright Airy and Gay , Her Charms ever last and admit no delay : In joyful Huzzas let our gladness be shown , That so happy a Consort is placed on the throne . May Heaven bestow on this Royal good pair , A Noble young Prince who the Kingdom may heir ; His Father's blessed Virtues may he always Retain , And follow the examples and steps of his Reign . In joyful Huzzas let our gladness be shown , That so happy a pair , are now placed on the Throne Printed for J. Conyers at the Black Raven in HolbournEnglands Holiday , OR , The Nations Joy for the happy Coronation of , King WILLIAM , and his Royal Consort Queen MARY Tune , Let Caeser live long , Now now the Fights done , The Plowman's Health , Joy to the Bridegroom Or , My Life and my Death . C Ome all Loyal Subject's of every sort , And view the bright splendour of Englands brave Court ; See see , the great William like Phoebus does Shine , With his Royal Queen Marry whose looks are Divine : In joyful Huzzas let our Gladness be shown , For to day they are Crowned & amp ; Confirmed on the Throne . Our Homage with all due obedience let's pay , In praise and kind wishes let's spin out the day ; May our great Lord and Lady , all blessings obtain , And enjoy a long happy properous Reign : In joyful Huzzas let our gladness be shown , etc Our happy King William as splendid as Jove , Beneath his rich Canopy Nobly does move , His bright Princely glories are all so Divine , The graces of all the fine Train they out shine , In joyful Huzzas let our gladness be shown , etc Let Papists stand by , and with envy behold , A Protestant Prince all his graces unfold ; Let the Miter and Cross , stand in fear of his Hand , Who has Routed Idolatry out of the Land : In joyful Huzzas let our gladness be shown , etc Each Noble and Peers , their glory display , To add to the splendour of this happy day ; Bedect in their Robes , each so Nobly appears , The King like the Sun , and his Nobles like Stars . In joyful Huzzas let our gladness be shown , etc And the fair Train good Queen Marry both move , Far brighter than ever was the Goddess of Love ; Each look does dispose of so happy a grace , It's a blessing for those who can gaize on her Face : In joyful Huzzas let our Gladness be shown , Now our Protestant P rince is placed on the Throne . How happy and peaceful our Nation will be , Now we are from Romes evil strategems free ; The Cross shall no more in Old England be Raised , Nor Saints nor their Pictures , be prayed too or praised . In joyful Huzzas let our gladness be shown , That the Romish Idolatry now is plucked down . God bless our good King and defend him from care , His Crown may he ever in prosperity were ; His foes to subjection may he speedily bring , And on the three Natians be obeyed as a king . In joyful Huzzas let our gladness be shown , That so gracious a P rince is possessed on the Throne . May Heaven preserve from the power of Death , Queen Marry the flower of our Protestant faith , May she always be Youthful Bright Airy and Gay , Her Charms ever last and admit no delay : In joyful Huzzas let our gladness be shown , That so happy a Consort is placed on the throne . May Heaven bestow on this Royal good pair , A Noble young Prince who the Kingdom may heir ; His Father's blessed Virtues may he always Retain , And follow the examples and steps of his Reign . In joyful Huzzas let our gladness be shown , That so happy a pair , are now placed on the Throne Printed for J. Conyers at the Black Raven in Holbourn 