King WILLIAM's Delight OR , THE English welcome to IRELAND . Tune of , Papists all must be content , Ever long to sing this new Lament ; Licenced according to Order . 1. O! you jolly Lads of England fair , now we are come to Kiss your hand , You're welcome here , I vow and swear , you're welcome to our Irish Land. 2. Was ever Nation thus divided , as poor Ireland now forlorn ; But it's by K. William we must be guided , and we'll still exalt his Horn . 3. This noble Prince we'll ever own , our Royal Master for to be , He will us keep when we're a sleep , in safety both by Land and Sea. 4. Our God above who does him love , I hope ever long we all shall see : He shall his Noble Spirit move , and from our bondage set us free . 5. The Lord Montjoy that hollow Boy , after his Master he is gone ; But if he us cheat , we will him meet , and make the Irish cry Oh h ! one . 6. O come away you English L adds , we long to see you on our shores ; For these Irish Thieves , they steal our beeves , and takes our Sheep , and Cey by scores . 7. Now is these Teagues a ralleying , and most of them tied to the Sword : And stays but till their Irish King , do give these Broganeers the word . 8. Oh! sad experience it u [ s ] learns , and make us know these R ogues desire , In Murdering our Wives and Bearns , and setting of our Tents on Fire . 9. But now for shame of future blame , they say they'll Fight us in the Field ; O! come brave Boy let's gain a name , and let us neither stoop nor yield . 10. The South and West , they have conquered , their strength and Castles they secure : And to the N orth they will break forth , except some aid we can Procure . 11. Oh! you English Lads our hearts are soar , that so much time you did prolong , Much blood is spiled and many's Killed , and Teague has now fulfilled my song . 12. These Irish Boys who now enjoys , our Riches , Treasure , and our store : That never yet was these Dear-Joys , so Clothed with Riches heretofore . 13. Come Germont Roe will you not go , to get a Kiss of Jamey is Hand , For it is long since a Papist Prince , was King unto our Irish Land. 14. For Talbot ruled these Massacers : with God above does them Restrain , Or many of our British Boys , by Teague and R orry had been slave . King WILLIAM's Delight OR , THE English welcome to IRELAND . Tune of , Papists all must be content , Ever long to sing this new Lament ; Licenced according to Order . 1. O! you jolly Lads of England fair , now we are come to Kiss your hand , You're welcome here , I vow and swear , you're welcome to our Irish Land. 2. Was ever Nation thus divided , as poor Ireland now forlorn ; But it's by K. William we must be guided , and we'll still exalt his Horn . 3. This noble Prince we'll ever own , our Royal Master for to be , He will us keep when we're a sleep , in safety both by Land and Sea. 4. Our God above who does him love , I hope ever long we all shall see : He shall his Noble Spirit move , and from our bondage set us free . 5. The Lord Montjoy that hollow Boy , after his Master he is gone ; But if he us cheat , we will him meet , and make the Irish cry Oh h ! one . 6. O come away you English L adds , we long to see you on our shores ; For these Irish Thieves , they steal our beeves , and takes our Sheep , and Cey by scores . 7. Now is these Teagues a ralleying , and most of them tied to the Sword : And stays but till their Irish King , do give these Broganeers the word . 8. Oh! sad experience it u [ s ] learns , and make us know these R ogues desire , In Murdering our Wives and Bearns , and setting of our Tents on Fire . 9. But now for shame of future blame , they say they'll Fight us in the Field ; O! come brave Boy let's gain a name , and let us neither stoop nor yield . 10. The South and West , they have conquered , their strength and Castles they secure : And to the N orth they will break forth , except some aid we can Procure . 11. Oh! you English Lads our hearts are soar , that so much time you did prolong , Much blood is spiled and many's Killed , and Teague has now fulfilled my song . 12. These Irish Boys who now enjoys , our Riches , Treasure , and our store : That never yet was these Dear-Joys , so Clothed with Riches heretofore . 13. Come Germont Roe will you not go , to get a Kiss of Jamey is Hand , For it is long since a Papist Prince , was King unto our Irish Land. 14. For Talbot ruled these Massacers : with God above does them Restrain , Or many of our British Boys , by Teague and R orry had been slave . 