The Protestant Exhortation , Or , A Copy of Verses of the Courageous Christian Colonel WALKER , IN LONDONDERRY , To his Fellow-Besieged Soldiers . To the Tune of , The Glory of Londonderry ; Or , Nanny Oh . Licensed according to Order . I . MY true Christian hearts of Gold , Let us Fight with Courage bold ; Fearing not the mightiest Foe , For we in time shall lay them low . II I the Heavens will Implore , Pure Religion to restore ; Though we are Besieged thus , The Hand of Heaven Fights for us . III . I'll be Faithful , Just and True , First to God , and next to You ; Life and Fortune will expose , To overcome our Romish Foes . IV. It's for true Religion sake , That the Sword in hand I take , To preserve three Kingdoms free From French and Popish Tyranny . V. Often do I Pray and Preach , And as earnestly beseech Powers above , ifed be their Will , To bless our Undertaking still . VI . Now my Hands are taught to Fight , To maintain King William is right ; And the Protestant true Cause , Our Liberties , nay , Lives and Laws . VII . Many Sallies we have made , And the wretched Roman laid Wreeking in their purple Gore , And may in time some thousands more . VIII . From King William there will come , The true Pride of Christendom ; And when they're Arrived here , They will our drooping Spirits cheer . IX . Then my hearts , we'll take the Field , Where our strength shall be revealed , And in your sweet Company , My Life I'll venture live or die . X. Fight and prey shall be my Task , Now if any Person ask Why I so Courageous stand , It's to Redeem my Native Land. XI . Both the Teagues and French shall see Walker will Courageous be , And will venture Life and Breath , Not fearing of the stroke of Death . XII . Sirs , to Fight I'll never refuse , Having but a Life to lose ; And in presence of you all , I'll do my best , Boys , stand or fallen . XIII . It's not Lewis the French King , Ever shall these three Kingdoms bring Into Popish Slavery ; Brave Boys , we'll Fight for Liberty . FINIS . Printed in the Year , 1689 . The Protestant Exhortation , Or , A Copy of Verses of the Courageous Christian Colonel WALKER , IN LONDONDERRY , To his Fellow-Besieged Soldiers . To the Tune of , The Glory of Londonderry ; Or , Nanny Oh . Licensed according to Order . I . MY true Christian hearts of Gold , Let us Fight with Courage bold ; Fearing not the mightiest Foe , For we in time shall lay them low . II I the Heavens will Implore , Pure Religion to restore ; Though we are Besieged thus , The Hand of Heaven Fights for us . III . I'll be Faithful , Just and True , First to God , and next to You ; Life and Fortune will expose , To overcome our Romish Foes . IV. It's for true Religion sake , That the Sword in hand I take , To preserve three Kingdoms free From French and Popish Tyranny . V. Often do I Pray and Preach , And as earnestly beseech Powers above , ifed be their Will , To bless our Undertaking still . VI . Now my Hands are taught to Fight , To maintain King William is right ; And the Protestant true Cause , Our Liberties , nay , Lives and Laws . VII . Many Sallies we have made , And the wretched Roman laid Wreeking in their purple Gore , And may in time some thousands more . VIII . From King William there will come , The true Pride of Christendom ; And when they're Arrived here , They will our drooping Spirits cheer . IX . Then my hearts , we'll take the Field , Where our strength shall be revealed , And in your sweet Company , My Life I'll venture live or die . X. Fight and prey shall be my Task , Now if any Person ask Why I so Courageous stand , It's to Redeem my Native Land. XI . Both the Teagues and French shall see Walker will Courageous be , And will venture Life and Breath , Not fearing of the stroke of Death . XII . Sirs , to Fight I'll never refuse , Having but a Life to lose ; And in presence of you all , I'll do my best , Boys , stand or fallen . XIII . It's not Lewis the French King , Ever shall these three Kingdoms bring Into Popish Slavery ; Brave Boys , we'll Fight for Liberty . FINIS . Printed in the Year , 1689 . 