KING WILLIAM is Welcome Home : OR , The Subject's unspeakable Joy for his safe Arrival from Flanders to his King - dom of England . To the Tune of , The Evening Ramble . GReat William ' s returned in Triumph , with Trophies of Royal Renown ; His Enemies they begin to decay , he tramples their Insolence down ; This joyful good Tidings I bring , then welcome our conquering King , Now home to his People , let every Steeple with Bells' , therefore , merrily ring , Since he is returned in safety again , God grant him a l [ oh ] ng and a prosperous Reign . He has been defended from Danger by Providence , still to this day , The Powers above , of infinite Love , ordained him to Rule and bear sway ; And therefore no Lewis alive , although he should labour and strive , Shall ever have the power his Joys to devour , through Mercy he still does survive ; Returning in Triumph and Safety again , God grant him , etc Though Enemies raised a Rumour , that William our King was destroyed , To fill us with fear , and startle us here , his presence once more is enjoyed ; Then blessed be Providence still , our Enemies has not their will ; Since we are posessing so gracious a Blessing , brisk Bowls let us merrily fill , For joy of his happy returning again , God grant , etc prey when had the Kingdom of England , so valiant a Monarch before ? To Battle he goes , still facing his Foes , where Cannons like thunder does roar , While Lewis lies close at his case , who likes no such Battles as th [ e ] se ; King William to scourge them , and thoroughly purge them , he crosses the turbulent Seas ; In Triumph he now is returned again , God grant him a long and prosperous Reign . He shook the Foundation of Namur , and breaches made wide in the Walls , The Battlements high , still as they drew nigh , he beatrice down with battering Balls ; The French they were pleased to boast , that they would not flinch from their Post ; Yet sulfurious Fire did make them retire , our King was for ruling the roast , And now is returned in Triumph again , God grant him a long and a prosperous Reign . The French they surrendered the Castle , and 'twas upon that very morn , By date of the Year , as it does appear , that Lewis , their Master , was born ; Now since it so lukily fell , brave Boys , it does seem to foretell , Great William shall course them , until he does force them , to yield up all places as well . King William is return [ e ] worser , etc God grant him , etc While Guns are discharged from the Tower , Boys , push the Bowls merrily round , With wishes of Joy , his Foes to destroy , that flourishing Peace may abound ; Old Lewis of late he did maul , with thundering Powder and Ball ; Then Heaven defend him , and always attend him , who ventures his Life for us all . Now , now , he's returned , etc God grant him , etc He sways both a Sword and a Sceptre , like great Alexander of old , Then through Christendom , for Ages to come , his Deeds shall stand fairly enrolled ; For when was a Prince ever known , so freely to go from his Throne , Through Eire and Water , Battles of Slaughter but Valiant King William alone ? Now , now , he's returned in Triumph again , God grant him a long and a prosperous Reign . London : Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking glass on London bridge . KING WILLIAM is Welcome Home : OR , The Subject's unspeakable Joy for his safe Arrival from Flanders to his King - dom of England . To the Tune of , The Evening Ramble . GReat William ' s returned in Triumph , with Trophies of Royal Renown ; His Enemies they begin to decay , he tramples their Insolence down ; This joyful good Tidings I bring , then welcome our conquering King , Now home to his People , let every Steeple with Bells' , therefore , merrily ring , Since he is returned in safety again , God grant him a l [ oh ] ng and a prosperous Reign . He has been defended from Danger by Providence , still to this day , The Powers above , of infinite Love , ordained him to Rule and bear sway ; And therefore no Lewis alive , although he should labour and strive , Shall ever have the power his Joys to devour , through Mercy he still does survive ; Returning in Triumph and Safety again , God grant him , etc Though Enemies raised a Rumour , that William our King was destroyed , To fill us with fear , and startle us here , his presence once more is enjoyed ; Then blessed be Providence still , our Enemies has not their will ; Since we are posessing so gracious a Blessing , brisk Bowls let us merrily fill , For joy of his happy returning again , God grant , etc prey when had the Kingdom of England , so valiant a Monarch before ? To Battle he goes , still facing his Foes , where Cannons like thunder does roar , While Lewis lies close at his case , who likes no such Battles as th [ e ] se ; King William to scourge them , and thoroughly purge them , he crosses the turbulent Seas ; In Triumph he now is returned again , God grant him a long and prosperous Reign . He shook the Foundation of Namur , and breaches made wide in the Walls , The Battlements high , still as they drew nigh , he beatrice down with battering Balls ; The French they were pleased to boast , that they would not flinch from their Post ; Yet sulfurious Fire did make them retire , our King was for ruling the roast , And now is returned in Triumph again , God grant him a long and a prosperous Reign . The French they surrendered the Castle , and 'twas upon that very morn , By date of the Year , as it does appear , that Lewis , their Master , was born ; Now since it so lukily fell , brave Boys , it does seem to foretell , Great William shall course them , until he does force them , to yield up all places as well . King William is return [ e ] worser , etc God grant him , etc While Guns are discharged from the Tower , Boys , push the Bowls merrily round , With wishes of Joy , his Foes to destroy , that flourishing Peace may abound ; Old Lewis of late he did maul , with thundering Powder and Ball ; Then Heaven defend him , and always attend him , who ventures his Life for us all . Now , now , he's returned , etc God grant him , etc He sways both a Sword and a Sceptre , like great Alexander of old , Then through Christendom , for Ages to come , his Deeds shall stand fairly enrolled ; For when was a Prince ever known , so freely to go from his Throne , Through Eire and Water , Battles of Slaughter but Valiant King William alone ? Now , now , he's returned in Triumph again , God grant him a long and a prosperous Reign . London : Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking glass on London bridge . 