The Protestants Wish FOR King WILLIAM's Good Success in IRELAND . To the Tune of Young Jemmy . With Allowance . 1 BRave William is a Lad Of Warlike Loins Descended , We never in England had Our Laws so Just Defended , For since that He is come to the Crown , Fop Popery does rue , For bravely He'l maintain the Throne In spite o'th' Jesuits Crew . 2 Great William is the Top , And Chief among the Princes , No paltry sort of Fop To Jesuits pretences : A Heart and Soul so wondrous great , And such a Conquering Eye , That every honest Lad fears not In William's Cause to die . 3 Our King he is a Prince Of Noble Resolution , Whose powerful Influence Can order our Confusion ; But o ! he fights with such a grace No Force can him withstand , No God of War but must give place Where William leads the Van. 4 To William every Swain Does pay due Veneration , And Scotland does maintain His Title to the Nation . The Pride of all the Court he stands , The Patron of our Cause , The Joy and hope of all his Friends , The Terror of his Foes . 5 May Heaven which him did raise O'th' Protestant Profession , To his Immortal praise , Maintain him in his station ; That not pretending Bastard-bold In time to come may dare His Lawless Title to uphold By name of Popish Heir . 6 And now He's going again , In spite of all Pretenders ; To cross the Irish Main , And be the Faiths Defender : The Jesuits Tricks now all do fail , They show their Teeth in vain , Great William over the Main will fail , To fight them once again . 7 With Sword in Hand we'll go , And all with Resolution , To fight the Irish Foe , Or make them fly the Nation ; For when Great William he draws nigh , No longer they'll be seen , Unless Their Arms fling down and cry God bless the King and Queen . 8 But if they stand a Touch , Oh then our Guns shall Thunder ; Our Bullets we'll not grutch , We'll make the Irish wonder : What is't they mean by throwing Ball so thick as any Hail , While J -- s with open Mouth does call For a Ship that's under Sail . FINIS . London , Printed by T.M. 1690The Protestants Wish FOR King WILLIAM's Good Success in IRELAND . To the Tune of Young Jemmy . With Allowance . 1 BRave William is a Lad Of Warlike Loins Descended , We never in England had Our Laws so Just Defended , For since that He is come to the Crown , Fop Popery does rue , For bravely He'l maintain the Throne In spite o'th' Jesuits Crew . 2 Great William is the Top , And Chief among the Princes , No paltry sort of Fop To Jesuits pretences : A Heart and Soul so wondrous great , And such a Conquering Eye , That every honest Lad fears not In William's Cause to die . 3 Our King he is a Prince Of Noble Resolution , Whose powerful Influence Can order our Confusion ; But o ! he fights with such a grace No Force can him withstand , No God of War but must give place Where William leads the Van. 4 To William every Swain Does pay due Veneration , And Scotland does maintain His Title to the Nation . The Pride of all the Court he stands , The Patron of our Cause , The Joy and hope of all his Friends , The Terror of his Foes . 5 May Heaven which him did raise O'th' Protestant Profession , To his Immortal praise , Maintain him in his station ; That not pretending Bastard-bold In time to come may dare His Lawless Title to uphold By name of Popish Heir . 6 And now He's going again , In spite of all Pretenders ; To cross the Irish Main , And be the Faiths Defender : The Jesuits Tricks now all do fail , They show their Teeth in vain , Great William over the Main will fail , To fight them once again . 7 With Sword in Hand we'll go , And all with Resolution , To fight the Irish Foe , Or make them fly the Nation ; For when Great William he draws nigh , No longer they'll be seen , Unless Their Arms fling down and cry God bless the King and Queen . 8 But if they stand a Touch , Oh then our Guns shall Thunder ; Our Bullets we'll not grutch , We'll make the Irish wonder : What is't they mean by throwing Ball so thick as any Hail , While J -- s with open Mouth does call For a Ship that's under Sail . FINIS . London , Printed by T.M. 1690 