NEWS FROM LONDONDERRY In a PACKET of Advice from Room . It was sent over by the Pope , to the Earl of Tyrconnel ; late Commander of the Catholic Army : Containing many Wondered Lies , Damnable Cheats , and False Promises , to the Protestants of England . To the Tune of , The Beggar with the Wooden Leg . Licensed , and Entered according to Order . YOU Protestants of England , you greatly are to blame ; For slighting of your Mother Church , and bringing her to shame . But a Cursing we will go , will go , will go , and a Cursing we will go . We sent you over a Popish Queen , a Hocus Prince of Wales : But all our Projects seem to you , but Idle Tricks and Tales , But a Cursing we will go , will go , will go , and a Cursing we will go . But would the English Noblemen , with all their Gentry go , And stoop unto His Highness , and Kiss his Little Toe , Then a Blessing we would come , etc We'll send you over to England , both Relics , Pardons , Beads ; A Bushel of St. P eater is Teeth , and Twenty of his Heads . And a Blessing we will come , etc We'll Fell you sweet Indulgences , and by the Beatrice of Drum , We'll Pardon your Iniquities , past , present , and to come . And a Blessing we will come , etc Then you may Drink , and you may Swear , both M urder , Steal and Whore ; And the Devil is within the Rogue that can desire for more . And a Blessing we will come , etc And if your Friends have been detained in Purgatory long ; We'll set them free for Twenty pence , and save them by a Song , And a Singing we will go , etc We'll teach you Bestiality , to Pater Noster say . The use of Holy Water , and to Images to Pray , And a Conjuring we will come , etc We'll show you how you may exceed , all Herreticks , by odds ; And make of one small Loaf of Bred , a pound of Popish Gods , And a Lying we will come , etc But if you'll not do , what the Pope , so humbly does require , He'll come and plead his Interest , with Faggot and with Fire , And a Burning we will come , etc The Bonny Clabbor-Cut-Throats , That's cruel , and far worse , Will muster up and Army , of Bogtrotting Horse , And a Fighting we will come , etc Then every sweet and Dear Joy , with Patrick and with Teague , Will batter down the London - Walls , and level quite the Hague . And a Plundering we will go , etc Then take advice , and bow before His Holiness is Feet ; Both Hug and Kiss them with poor Lips Though Sweaty still they're Sweet . And a Kissing we will go , etc And quickly send a Post to Room , That Catholics may know , If any that are English men will stoop before his Toe , And a stooping they must go , must go , must go , and a stooping they must go . London . Printed for Jer. Wilkins , in White-Fryars near Fleet-street , 1689. NEWS FROM LONDONDERRY In a PACKET of Advice from Room . It was sent over by the Pope , to the Earl of Tyrconnel ; late Commander of the Catholic Army : Containing many Wondered Lies , Damnable Cheats , and False Promises , to the Protestants of England . To the Tune of , The Beggar with the Wooden Leg . Licensed , and Entered according to Order . YOU Protestants of England , you greatly are to blame ; For slighting of your Mother Church , and bringing her to shame . But a Cursing we will go , will go , will go , and a Cursing we will go . We sent you over a Popish Queen , a Hocus Prince of Wales : But all our Projects seem to you , but Idle Tricks and Tales , But a Cursing we will go , will go , will go , and a Cursing we will go . But would the English Noblemen , with all their Gentry go , And stoop unto His Highness , and Kiss his Little Toe , Then a Blessing we would come , etc We'll send you over to England , both Relics , Pardons , Beads ; A Bushel of St. P eater is Teeth , and Twenty of his Heads . And a Blessing we will come , etc We'll Fell you sweet Indulgences , and by the Beatrice of Drum , We'll Pardon your Iniquities , past , present , and to come . And a Blessing we will come , etc Then you may Drink , and you may Swear , both M urder , Steal and Whore ; And the Devil is within the Rogue that can desire for more . And a Blessing we will come , etc And if your Friends have been detained in Purgatory long ; We'll set them free for Twenty pence , and save them by a Song , And a Singing we will go , etc We'll teach you Bestiality , to Pater Noster say . The use of Holy Water , and to Images to Pray , And a Conjuring we will come , etc We'll show you how you may exceed , all Herreticks , by odds ; And make of one small Loaf of Bred , a pound of Popish Gods , And a Lying we will come , etc But if you'll not do , what the Pope , so humbly does require , He'll come and plead his Interest , with Faggot and with Fire , And a Burning we will come , etc The Bonny Clabbor-Cut-Throats , That's cruel , and far worse , Will muster up and Army , of Bogtrotting Horse , And a Fighting we will come , etc Then every sweet and Dear Joy , with Patrick and with Teague , Will batter down the London - Walls , and level quite the Hague . And a Plundering we will go , etc Then take advice , and bow before His Holiness is Feet ; Both Hug and Kiss them with poor Lips Though Sweaty still they're Sweet . And a Kissing we will go , etc And quickly send a Post to Room , That Catholics may know , If any that are English men will stoop before his Toe , And a stooping they must go , must go , must go , and a stooping they must go . London . Printed for Jer. Wilkins , in White-Fryars near Fleet-street , 1689. 