THE Boast of Great Britain ; OR , A SONG in praise of MARY present Queen of England , Scotland , France and Ireland , etc To the Tune of Good Health to Betty : Or , Queen Marys Lamentation . WE had a Roman Queen of late , That plagued these three Nations ; And ruined our Church and State , By Popish Conjurations : But , when she thought both of our Laws , And rights to have bereft us , She took her Heels , and Chariot-Wheels , And run away and left us . But now our Queen , of Royal Blood , The Phoenix of the Nation , She's neither light , nor vain , nor proud , But Fair to admiration : The Di'mond Sparkleth in her Eye , Her Cheeks are like two Roses , Her Lips are of a Scarlet Die , Which Ivory Teeth incloses . Her Skin is Alabaster White , Her Breasts are like Parnassus : But to describe her Person right , It greatly does surpass us . And yet those shadows , which we see , Are Beams of inward Beauty ; Which , with a grace , shine on her Face ; Engaging us to Duty . In Charity she does excel , All Queen's that were before her ; Which makes her Subject's love her well , And Princes to adore her : No vice does reign within her mind , She's wise , to admiration ; She's great and good , of Royal Blood , The boast of this brave Nation . A Protestant that's good and true , And hates the Name of Popery ; The Pope of Rome , with all his crew , And all their shams of Foppery : When Babels Whore did threaten us with The Floods of her delusion , She gave consent for to prevent The Kingdoms sad confusion . Now , with her Royal Orange King , She Reigns in great Promotion : She's good and just , in every thing ; And pious , in Devotion . Let all the Queen's of Christendom Take their Example by her : That they may reign , and likewise shine , In worth , to magnify her . She was not curious for a Crown , But lived well contented ; For we her , first , did importune , And her desires prevented : But now , on Spotless Wings of Fame , She mounts up to perfection ; Where envy's eye can never fly , Nor force her to defection . O may the Orange flourish well , To Thistle and Rose united ; That all the three may give a smell , And we may be delighted : The Harp may play , the Lyons Dance , The Lily be brought in subjection ; That we , with Health , may inherit our wealth , And live safe under protection . LONDON , Printed for J. C. at the Crown , betwixt the two Temple-Gates in Fleet-street . and by P.K. in the Old-Change . Licensed October 28 th . 1689 . THE Boast of Great Britain ; OR , A SONG in praise of MARY present Queen of England , Scotland , France and Ireland , etc To the Tune of Good Health to Betty : Or , Queen Marys Lamentation . WE had a Roman Queen of late , That plagued these three Nations ; And ruined our Church and State , By Popish Conjurations : But , when she thought both of our Laws , And rights to have bereft us , She took her Heels , and Chariot-Wheels , And run away and left us . But now our Queen , of Royal Blood , The Phoenix of the Nation , She's neither light , nor vain , nor proud , But Fair to admiration : The Di'mond Sparkleth in her Eye , Her Cheeks are like two Roses , Her Lips are of a Scarlet Die , Which Ivory Teeth incloses . Her Skin is Alabaster White , Her Breasts are like Parnassus : But to describe her Person right , It greatly does surpass us . And yet those shadows , which we see , Are Beams of inward Beauty ; Which , with a grace , shine on her Face ; Engaging us to Duty . In Charity she does excel , All Queen's that were before her ; Which makes her Subject's love her well , And Princes to adore her : No vice does reign within her mind , She's wise , to admiration ; She's great and good , of Royal Blood , The boast of this brave Nation . A Protestant that's good and true , And hates the Name of Popery ; The Pope of Rome , with all his crew , And all their shams of Foppery : When Babels Whore did threaten us with The Floods of her delusion , She gave consent for to prevent The Kingdoms sad confusion . Now , with her Royal Orange King , She Reigns in great Promotion : She's good and just , in every thing ; And pious , in Devotion . Let all the Queen's of Christendom Take their Example by her : That they may reign , and likewise shine , In worth , to magnify her . She was not curious for a Crown , But lived well contented ; For we her , first , did importune , And her desires prevented : But now , on Spotless Wings of Fame , She mounts up to perfection ; Where envy's eye can never fly , Nor force her to defection . O may the Orange flourish well , To Thistle and Rose united ; That all the three may give a smell , And we may be delighted : The Harp may play , the Lyons Dance , The Lily be brought in subjection ; That we , with Health , may inherit our wealth , And live safe under protection . LONDON , Printed for J. C. at the Crown , betwixt the two Temple-Gates in Fleet-street . and by P.K. in the Old-Change . Licensed October 28 th . 1689 . 