The Loyal WISH : Being a Congratulation of the Happy Return of His Majesty to England ; together with His Magnanimous Triumph over the Poor Teague-Landers . To a New Play-House Tune , called , L et the Soldiers rejoice . I . LEt our Subject's Rejoice With their hearts , and loud voice , And Carouze in a He-e-e-e-e-ealth to K. William , Who with his Army stout , Put poor Teague to the Rout , And so fairly , so fairly in Triumph did kill ' em . II Drums , Trumpets , and Guns Make a noise ; ( Dear Joy runs , ) And Welcome home E ---- ngland is Defender , Who went himself to Fight , Against the proud Jacobite , And so fiercely , so fiercely repelled that Pretender . III . Let us all the Night long Take delight in this Song , Of the praise of King Will-ll-ll-ll-lliam before us ; Let him look like and Ass , That won't Drink off his Glass , And unite , and unite , and unite in the Chorus . IV. All Hearts that well wish , Let they drink like a Fish , It's a Protestant He-e-e-e-ealth that goes round Boys , We'll drink off our Wealth , In his Majesty's Health , And the Devil , the Devil his Foes may confound Boys . V. Let the Rebels come in , And be true to our King , Who by Success and Cou-ou-ou-ou-ourage invites they , Those that will refuse While they may , let them choose , The dread Name , the dread Name of K. William shall fright they VI . Had King William been here , When we met with Mounsieur , Our Shipping they ne-ee-e-e'r been so rended , But now He is come ; Let us welcome him home , And we doubt not , we doubt not but all shall be mended . VII . Now poor Teague is undone , And put to the run , What need we fear Ja-a-a-a-cobites Landing ; Ever long we'll advance , Up to Bougra le France , And we'll teach him , we'll teach him to come here Commanding . VIII . Let us therefore with Joy , Sing Vive-le-Roy , Let the Bells' ring , and the Bo-o-o-onfires flame . Boys , We'll drink as we stand , With our Hats in our Hand , And we'll hollow , we'll hollow K. William is Great Fame Boys Printed for J. Millet at the Angel in L ittle-Brittain . A . Milbourn , at the Stationers-Arms ; in the Green - A rbour , in the L ittle Old-Baily . The Loyal WISH : Being a Congratulation of the Happy Return of His Majesty to England ; together with His Magnanimous Triumph over the Poor Teague-Landers . To a New Play-House Tune , called , L et the Soldiers rejoice . I . LEt our Subject's Rejoice With their hearts , and loud voice , And Carouze in a He-e-e-e-e-ealth to K. William , Who with his Army stout , Put poor Teague to the Rout , And so fairly , so fairly in Triumph did kill ' em . II Drums , Trumpets , and Guns Make a noise ; ( Dear Joy runs , ) And Welcome home E ---- ngland is Defender , Who went himself to Fight , Against the proud Jacobite , And so fiercely , so fiercely repelled that Pretender . III . Let us all the Night long Take delight in this Song , Of the praise of King Will-ll-ll-ll-lliam before us ; Let him look like and Ass , That won't Drink off his Glass , And unite , and unite , and unite in the Chorus . IV. All Hearts that well wish , Let they drink like a Fish , It's a Protestant He-e-e-e-ealth that goes round Boys , We'll drink off our Wealth , In his Majesty's Health , And the Devil , the Devil his Foes may confound Boys . V. Let the Rebels come in , And be true to our King , Who by Success and Cou-ou-ou-ou-ourage invites they , Those that will refuse While they may , let them choose , The dread Name , the dread Name of K. William shall fright they VI . Had King William been here , When we met with Mounsieur , Our Shipping they ne-ee-e-e'r been so rended , But now He is come ; Let us welcome him home , And we doubt not , we doubt not but all shall be mended . VII . Now poor Teague is undone , And put to the run , What need we fear Ja-a-a-a-cobites Landing ; Ever long we'll advance , Up to Bougra le France , And we'll teach him , we'll teach him to come here Commanding . VIII . Let us therefore with Joy , Sing Vive-le-Roy , Let the Bells' ring , and the Bo-o-o-onfires flame . Boys , We'll drink as we stand , With our Hats in our Hand , And we'll hollow , we'll hollow K. William is Great Fame Boys Printed for J. Millet at the Angel in L ittle-Brittain . A . Milbourn , at the Stationers-Arms ; in the Green - A rbour , in the L ittle Old-Baily . 