ENGLANDS Hope's , OR , Look to't TEAGUE BEING A Preparative beaten , against the French and Irish Rebels , etc To the Tune , I'm often for my Jeny strove , or , Lilli borlero . 1. FRench and Irish now beware , Stand our Forces if you dare : Our Fleet and Force by Sea and Land , Your Ships and Arms can never withstand . William Englands glorious King , Shall a downfall on you bring . French and Irish strive in vain , And Jemmy must to France again . 2. Schomberg and brave Solmes they be , F am'd for War and Victory : Shall on the sole account of fame , Half doe your business with their name . England is St G eorge shall outdo St. WORSER ennis , and St. Patrick too . Your hearts do now begin to faint , And each of you to Curse his Saint . 3. The Frenchman he does swear begar , St. WORSER ennis is no God of War : And Teague does at St. Patrick huff , And swears he is no Shaint in Buff. Tyrconnel he began the Dance , And 'twas followed soon by France . French and Irish strive in vain , And Jemmy must to F rance again . 4. Schomberg will such Music make you , To your heels you shall betake you : French and Irish all shall welter , Blood and Bogs , in helter skelter . Those that from you fled f [ or ] fear , And have aid and succour [ n ] ere . Will return unto your Cost , And win again what they [ have ] lost . 5. WORSER erry , in her Northern station , Now's the Glory of that Nation : Nought that bears the glorious name Of London , but must have a fame : Little WORSER erry is great renown , On her founder does redown . French and Irish strive in vain , For Jemmy must to France again . 6. Lewis would the Glory win Of restoring J ames again : Fain he would be a King-maker , But never of and English Acer : In his absence , let the Stallion Kiss and play with the Italion . Be successful in his whoring , Never , never , at restoring . 7. All your hope's in Rebel Brother , Highlander , Scot , or any other : All your joint designs shall be , Turned into mere ridiculee . Some of your old wise performers , Are become the only stormers . And rather then they would go down , Would Pope or Devil bring to Town . 8. The discontented Irish Rakes , Mad , that they have lost their stakes : F ain the lost Game would retrieve , And hide a Pope in either sleeve . But F renchman he must now be gone , And leave poor Teague to sing , Oh hone . French and Irish strive in vain , For Jemmy must to France again . Printed for J . C . ENGLANDS Hope's , OR , Look to't TEAGUE BEING A Preparative beaten , against the French and Irish Rebels , etc To the Tune , I'm often for my Jeny strove , or , Lilli borlero . 1. FRench and Irish now beware , Stand our Forces if you dare : Our Fleet and Force by Sea and Land , Your Ships and Arms can never withstand . William Englands glorious King , Shall a downfall on you bring . French and Irish strive in vain , And Jemmy must to France again . 2. Schomberg and brave Solmes they be , F am'd for War and Victory : Shall on the sole account of fame , Half doe your business with their name . England is St G eorge shall outdo St. WORSER ennis , and St. Patrick too . Your hearts do now begin to faint , And each of you to Curse his Saint . 3. The Frenchman he does swear begar , St. WORSER ennis is no God of War : And Teague does at St. Patrick huff , And swears he is no Shaint in Buff. Tyrconnel he began the Dance , And 'twas followed soon by France . French and Irish strive in vain , And Jemmy must to F rance again . 4. Schomberg will such Music make you , To your heels you shall betake you : French and Irish all shall welter , Blood and Bogs , in helter skelter . Those that from you fled f [ or ] fear , And have aid and succour [ n ] ere . Will return unto your Cost , And win again what they [ have ] lost . 5. WORSER erry , in her Northern station , Now's the Glory of that Nation : Nought that bears the glorious name Of London , but must have a fame : Little WORSER erry is great renown , On her founder does redown . French and Irish strive in vain , For Jemmy must to France again . 6. Lewis would the Glory win Of restoring J ames again : Fain he would be a King-maker , But never of and English Acer : In his absence , let the Stallion Kiss and play with the Italion . Be successful in his whoring , Never , never , at restoring . 7. All your hope's in Rebel Brother , Highlander , Scot , or any other : All your joint designs shall be , Turned into mere ridiculee . Some of your old wise performers , Are become the only stormers . And rather then they would go down , Would Pope or Devil bring to Town . 8. The discontented Irish Rakes , Mad , that they have lost their stakes : F ain the lost Game would retrieve , And hide a Pope in either sleeve . But F renchman he must now be gone , And leave poor Teague to sing , Oh hone . French and Irish strive in vain , For Jemmy must to France again . Printed for J . C . 