The Courtly Triumph , OR , King William ' s Welcome from the IRISH Wars . To the Tune of , Valiant Jockey . Licensed according to Order . I . LET us all rejoice amain , King William is returned again . From the Irish Wars with Victory , Where he made his greatest Foes to flee : Angels guards him to his Throne , Where we will all his Power own ; He that thus has ventured for our sake , Making the proud Enemies to quake . This being done , the Rebels run , Thus our gracious King the Glory wone ; His Royal Name does purchase Fame , While his Enemies are clothed with Shame . II In a Month or less , brave Boys , King William routed the Dear Joys ; And the bloody minded French we find , Who did fly like Chaff before the Wind ; For no sooner did they hear King William was approaching near , But from place to place they took their flight , Till at length they were defeated quite : Having subdued the Rebels rude , Now his Army may the Work conclude ; Our King therefore is sailed over From the Irish to the English Shore . III . Then the Seas was calm and fair , For to conduct our King with care , Still attended with soft pleasant Gales , The which filled his Royal swelling Sails ; Till at length he came to Land , Where many Loyal Souls did stand , Ready to receive his Majesty , Who maintains our Laws and Liberty , Shouting amain , Long live and Reign , Joyful to behold their King again ; Mirth did abound , even Healths went round , Till they made the Elements resound . IV. From the Noble to the Mean , True Joy on every Brow was seen , For his safe Arrival Home again , To behold his Queen and Courtly Train : Boys , the Bells' did sweetly Ring , To welcome Home our Gracious King ; As he passed through every Town , None but Roman Catholics could frown ; But honest Souls in flowing Bowls , Freely did express their Loyalty , Wishing true Peace soon may increase , That he many happy Years may see . V. Trophies Crowned his Royal Head , While Fame the joyful Tidings spread , From the British to the Holland Shore , Where their Cannons did like Thunder Roar , This glad Tidings to Proclaim , Of Thrice Renowned William's Name , Who has made the French and Rebels yield , While he rid in Triumph through the Field Proud France shall feel his Sword of Steel , Till they at His Feet for Mercy kneel ; With hardy Blows he treats his Foes , Till he Conquers all where ever he goes . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Bask . The Courtly Triumph , OR , King William ' s Welcome from the IRISH Wars . To the Tune of , Valiant Jockey . Licensed according to Order . I . LET us all rejoice amain , King William is returned again . From the Irish Wars with Victory , Where he made his greatest Foes to flee : Angels guards him to his Throne , Where we will all his Power own ; He that thus has ventured for our sake , Making the proud Enemies to quake . This being done , the Rebels run , Thus our gracious King the Glory wone ; His Royal Name does purchase Fame , While his Enemies are clothed with Shame . II In a Month or less , brave Boys , King William routed the Dear Joys ; And the bloody minded French we find , Who did fly like Chaff before the Wind ; For no sooner did they hear King William was approaching near , But from place to place they took their flight , Till at length they were defeated quite : Having subdued the Rebels rude , Now his Army may the Work conclude ; Our King therefore is sailed over From the Irish to the English Shore . III . Then the Seas was calm and fair , For to conduct our King with care , Still attended with soft pleasant Gales , The which filled his Royal swelling Sails ; Till at length he came to Land , Where many Loyal Souls did stand , Ready to receive his Majesty , Who maintains our Laws and Liberty , Shouting amain , Long live and Reign , Joyful to behold their King again ; Mirth did abound , even Healths went round , Till they made the Elements resound . IV. From the Noble to the Mean , True Joy on every Brow was seen , For his safe Arrival Home again , To behold his Queen and Courtly Train : Boys , the Bells' did sweetly Ring , To welcome Home our Gracious King ; As he passed through every Town , None but Roman Catholics could frown ; But honest Souls in flowing Bowls , Freely did express their Loyalty , Wishing true Peace soon may increase , That he many happy Years may see . V. Trophies Crowned his Royal Head , While Fame the joyful Tidings spread , From the British to the Holland Shore , Where their Cannons did like Thunder Roar , This glad Tidings to Proclaim , Of Thrice Renowned William's Name , Who has made the French and Rebels yield , While he rid in Triumph through the Field Proud France shall feel his Sword of Steel , Till they at His Feet for Mercy kneel ; With hardy Blows he treats his Foes , Till he Conquers all where ever he goes . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Bask . 