ROYAL Courage , OR , King WILLIAM is Happy Success in Ireland . Tune is , Let the Soldiers Rejoice . Licensed according to Order . I . LET the Soldiers rejoice , With a general Voice , And the Senate new Honours and Glory decree they , Who at his Army's Head , Struck the fell Monster dead , And so boldly , so boldly , so bravely did free ' em . II To Mars let they raise , And their Emperor's Praise , A Trophy of Fame of the Army's own making : To Maximinian too , Some honours are due , Who joined , who joined , in the brave Undertaking . III . With Flower's let they strow The Way as they go , Their Statues with Garlands of Roses adorning ; Who from Tyrannies Night , Drave the Mists from their sighed , And gave them , and gave them a glorious Morning . IV. Brave Boys of Renown , Whom Laurels shall Crown , For your valiant Exploits with your famous Commanders , Rejoice now and Sing , Drink Healths to the King , Whose Valour and Conduct exceeds Alexanders . V. With Sword in our Hand , We'll Courageously stand And oppose all Rebellers against Englands great Crown , Boys , All Europe shall see , Our true Loyalty , While we fight for to purchase Great William Renown , Boys , VI . The French are all fled , With De Lausun their Head , To the Tyrant their Master they now do advance too , With Boys stout and true , We them will pursue , And beatrice the proud Lewis and them out of France too VII . We'll banish all fear , From the Front to the Rear , Drums beating , Flags flying , and Cannons s [ hall ] thunder , French and Irish shall own , That King William alone , Deserves their Allegiance , and all the world's wonder . VIII . Great Limerick Town , We'll soon batter down , If they do not their Forts and their Castles surrender , For Providence we see , Crowns with Victory , The valiant King William Great Brittains Defender . IX . Let us stand to our Trust , Since our Cause it is Just , There is none but the French and the Pope will deny it , If they will not submit , As we shall think fit , We are ready with Sword and with Musquet to try it , X. If the Fleet does stand true , As we hope it will do , No occasion we have then at all to repine , Boys , The Rebels all runs , At these noise our Guns , Then drink the Kings Health in a Glass of good Wine , Boys . Printed by and for J. M illet , at the Angel in Little-Brittain . ROYAL Courage , OR , King WILLIAM is Happy Success in Ireland . Tune is , Let the Soldiers Rejoice . Licensed according to Order . I . LET the Soldiers rejoice , With a general Voice , And the Senate new Honours and Glory decree they , Who at his Army's Head , Struck the fell Monster dead , And so boldly , so boldly , so bravely did free ' em . II To Mars let they raise , And their Emperor's Praise , A Trophy of Fame of the Army's own making : To Maximinian too , Some honours are due , Who joined , who joined , in the brave Undertaking . III . With Flower's let they strow The Way as they go , Their Statues with Garlands of Roses adorning ; Who from Tyrannies Night , Drave the Mists from their sighed , And gave them , and gave them a glorious Morning . IV. Brave Boys of Renown , Whom Laurels shall Crown , For your valiant Exploits with your famous Commanders , Rejoice now and Sing , Drink Healths to the King , Whose Valour and Conduct exceeds Alexanders . V. With Sword in our Hand , We'll Courageously stand And oppose all Rebellers against Englands great Crown , Boys , All Europe shall see , Our true Loyalty , While we fight for to purchase Great William Renown , Boys , VI . The French are all fled , With De Lausun their Head , To the Tyrant their Master they now do advance too , With Boys stout and true , We them will pursue , And beatrice the proud Lewis and them out of France too VII . We'll banish all fear , From the Front to the Rear , Drums beating , Flags flying , and Cannons s [ hall ] thunder , French and Irish shall own , That King William alone , Deserves their Allegiance , and all the world's wonder . VIII . Great Limerick Town , We'll soon batter down , If they do not their Forts and their Castles surrender , For Providence we see , Crowns with Victory , The valiant King William Great Brittains Defender . IX . Let us stand to our Trust , Since our Cause it is Just , There is none but the French and the Pope will deny it , If they will not submit , As we shall think fit , We are ready with Sword and with Musquet to try it , X. If the Fleet does stand true , As we hope it will do , No occasion we have then at all to repine , Boys , The Rebels all runs , At these noise our Guns , Then drink the Kings Health in a Glass of good Wine , Boys . Printed by and for J. M illet , at the Angel in Little-Brittain . 