A NEW SONG On the DEATH of the Old POPE AND ON KING JAMES is ELECTION TO BE Pope of Rome . Tune of , Billy and Mally . With Allowance . TO : GOod People all , I pray give Ear , unto my real Story , It's News as true as ere you herd , and much for James is Glory . TO oh show that Rome is kind to Him , as he to Room before ; And that it's not Impossible to make a Man a Whore . Nor think that this a Riddle is , for it's Expounded soon ; Since Popes are Men , and Popes you know , are Whores of Babylon . And now Attend unto my News , which came by the last Post ; TO he Penny that you Spend for this , be sure will never be lost . You then that are so hight for James , your Found Attempts forbear ; For he has only lost TO hree Crowns , to Fit in Peter is Chair . And won't it be more Honour far , to be a Pope of Rome , TO hen Live in Exile all his Days , which else will be his Doom . Now you must know the Pope lies Sick , never likely to Recover , And Jemmy TO ransub --- puts in his Claim by TO reaty made at Dover . Where 'twas Agreed , that if the Pope should Die before his Brother , TO hat then the Cardinals should Choose His Highness for another . As Pudding-pat for Friars Mouth , it luckily falls out TO hat there's the Holy TO hrone now void for Jemmy the Devout . For this the Cardinals did meet , and Solemnly Agreed , TO oh send a Nuntio to King James to Post to Room with Speed . So great a Thing , the Conclave cried , was never seen at Room , A Crowned King in Peter is Chair , and Lord of Christendom . Therefore the Nuntio him besought to rise from Londonderry , And leave his Fumbling for a Town that was not worth a Cherry . Make haste to Room , where you will find the Conclave all your Friends , For your Great Loss , for their dear Sakes , to make you full Amends . Your Princely Babe , Loretto is Blessing , is Ripe for a Read Had , And for your Queen's Deserts , you ought to Canonise her Tw ---- tO . For their good Service then you may , to Places High Advance , Your Peters and your Dada both , and eke La Chaise in France ; For well you know you are not able with Schomberg for to deal ; And therefore what you want in Courage . supply in Works of Zeal . King Jemmy herd this Grave Proposal , and liked it wondrous we'll , Cuds Life , quo he , make me but P open , let Ireland go to the Dee'l . TO oh tell you TO ruth , I have no Faith in this same Irish Church , Which makes me fear that in the End , they'll leave me in the Lurch . Go Nuncio back , and tell my Friends , I'll come , as soon I may ; As soon as I can Ship my Gold , and safely get away ; For tell they , I shall bring along , the Devil and all in Cash , As having Gleaned the Teagues of all but a little Copper Trash . London , Printed for T.R. near Fleet-street . 168 [ 9 ] . A NEW SONG On the DEATH of the Old POPE AND ON KING JAMES is ELECTION TO BE Pope of Rome . Tune of , Billy and Mally . With Allowance . TO : GOod People all , I pray give Ear , unto my real Story , It's News as true as ere you herd , and much for James is Glory . TO oh show that Rome is kind to Him , as he to Room before ; And that it's not Impossible to make a Man a Whore . Nor think that this a Riddle is , for it's Expounded soon ; Since Popes are Men , and Popes you know , are Whores of Babylon . And now Attend unto my News , which came by the last Post ; TO he Penny that you Spend for this , be sure will never be lost . You then that are so hight for James , your Found Attempts forbear ; For he has only lost TO hree Crowns , to Fit in Peter is Chair . And won't it be more Honour far , to be a Pope of Rome , TO hen Live in Exile all his Days , which else will be his Doom . Now you must know the Pope lies Sick , never likely to Recover , And Jemmy TO ransub --- puts in his Claim by TO reaty made at Dover . Where 'twas Agreed , that if the Pope should Die before his Brother , TO hat then the Cardinals should Choose His Highness for another . As Pudding-pat for Friars Mouth , it luckily falls out TO hat there's the Holy TO hrone now void for Jemmy the Devout . For this the Cardinals did meet , and Solemnly Agreed , TO oh send a Nuntio to King James to Post to Room with Speed . So great a Thing , the Conclave cried , was never seen at Room , A Crowned King in Peter is Chair , and Lord of Christendom . Therefore the Nuntio him besought to rise from Londonderry , And leave his Fumbling for a Town that was not worth a Cherry . Make haste to Room , where you will find the Conclave all your Friends , For your Great Loss , for their dear Sakes , to make you full Amends . Your Princely Babe , Loretto is Blessing , is Ripe for a Read Had , And for your Queen's Deserts , you ought to Canonise her Tw ---- tO . For their good Service then you may , to Places High Advance , Your Peters and your Dada both , and eke La Chaise in France ; For well you know you are not able with Schomberg for to deal ; And therefore what you want in Courage . supply in Works of Zeal . King Jemmy herd this Grave Proposal , and liked it wondrous we'll , Cuds Life , quo he , make me but P open , let Ireland go to the Dee'l . TO oh tell you TO ruth , I have no Faith in this same Irish Church , Which makes me fear that in the End , they'll leave me in the Lurch . Go Nuncio back , and tell my Friends , I'll come , as soon I may ; As soon as I can Ship my Gold , and safely get away ; For tell they , I shall bring along , the Devil and all in Cash , As having Gleaned the Teagues of all but a little Copper Trash . London , Printed for T.R. near Fleet-street . 168 [ 9 ] . 