And ANSWER to the Mournful Monarch ; BEING , The Late Queen's Reply to her Sorrowful Kings Lamentation : TO ogether , with a Word of Comfort of the Assurance of continued Favours in the Court of France . Tune of , TO he R ing of Gold . Licensed according to Order . I . TEll me thou Mournful King , why dost thou blame me ? This does fresh sorrows bring , when as you name me TO oh be the cause alone , of this sad story ; TO his I will still disown , I strove for Glory . II As I will make appear by this Relation , A Learned Roman Peer in Consultation , Studied for our Renown , and did endeavour For to entail the Crown on Room for ever . III . We had no Papist Son to Reign hereafter ; Something was to be done then in this matter ; TO hough I was young and fair , my Lord was feeble ; TO oh get a Lawful Heir , thou wast not able . IV. TO herefore I did contrive a young Impostor , Which might our days survive , whom we did foster ; But Dukes , Lords , Earls beside would not believe us ; Among themselves they cried , none shall deceive us . V. In this my Royal Name why will you mention ? When I for lasting Fame wracked my Invention : It was to raise and Heir to be anointed ; TO his was my Royal Care , though disappointed . VI . Why are thou thus cast down ? this is a folly , Since thou hast lost the Crown , be brisk and Jolly ; TO hy Glory does advance still out of measure ; Here in the Court of France there's Joy and Pleasure . VII . Lewis le Grand , I know , he'll not forsake thee , But R oyal kindness show , and strives to make thee Greater than any one , let nothing grieve thee , Love , for my sake alone he'll never leave thee . VIII . I prize this present Court before Great Brittain , Where right renowned sport still is repeating : In streams of sweet delight , and Golden TO reasure ; I revel Day and Night here out of measure . IX . TO hen cast thy care away , safety admire ; While we no Sceptre sway , none will Conspire Against us day nor night , Subject nor Stranger ; TO his Crowns me with delight , seated from danger . FINIS . Printed for B.J. 1691 . And ANSWER to the Mournful Monarch ; BEING , The Late Queen's Reply to her Sorrowful Kings Lamentation : TO ogether , with a Word of Comfort of the Assurance of continued Favours in the Court of France . Tune of , TO he R ing of Gold . Licensed according to Order . I . TEll me thou Mournful King , why dost thou blame me ? This does fresh sorrows bring , when as you name me TO oh be the cause alone , of this sad story ; TO his I will still disown , I strove for Glory . II As I will make appear by this Relation , A Learned Roman Peer in Consultation , Studied for our Renown , and did endeavour For to entail the Crown on Room for ever . III . We had no Papist Son to Reign hereafter ; Something was to be done then in this matter ; TO hough I was young and fair , my Lord was feeble ; TO oh get a Lawful Heir , thou wast not able . IV. TO herefore I did contrive a young Impostor , Which might our days survive , whom we did foster ; But Dukes , Lords , Earls beside would not believe us ; Among themselves they cried , none shall deceive us . V. In this my Royal Name why will you mention ? When I for lasting Fame wracked my Invention : It was to raise and Heir to be anointed ; TO his was my Royal Care , though disappointed . VI . Why are thou thus cast down ? this is a folly , Since thou hast lost the Crown , be brisk and Jolly ; TO hy Glory does advance still out of measure ; Here in the Court of France there's Joy and Pleasure . VII . Lewis le Grand , I know , he'll not forsake thee , But R oyal kindness show , and strives to make thee Greater than any one , let nothing grieve thee , Love , for my sake alone he'll never leave thee . VIII . I prize this present Court before Great Brittain , Where right renowned sport still is repeating : In streams of sweet delight , and Golden TO reasure ; I revel Day and Night here out of measure . IX . TO hen cast thy care away , safety admire ; While we no Sceptre sway , none will Conspire Against us day nor night , Subject nor Stranger ; TO his Crowns me with delight , seated from danger . FINIS . Printed for B.J. 1691 . 