A KING and No KING : OR , King James's Wish . Being and Excellent New Copy of Verses , of the Never to be forgotten by his Unholiness the POPE , our late King James . Sent in a L etter to that Damned Cursed Whore of Babylon , who is a Harlot to Antichrist , Duchess of Hell , and Countess of Purgatory . Translated out of Irish into French , by the Pretended Prince of Wales , and Englished by his supposed Mother , The Italian Duchess . To the Tune of , Sawny will never be my Love again . MY Wretched Fate , I do declare , And of my Queen , with grief , complain , Who's brought me into such a Snare , I fear shall never be free again . I Wish I had never been Crowned King , How happy then should I have Lived , And Plenty I had of e'ry thing , Bad Counsel taken ; from those did give . I Wish I never Consented then [ , ] Poor M onmouth is Life to take away ; Nor in the West Destroyed those Men , Thus Bad Counsel I did Obey . I Wish I had not sent to the Tower Those Seven Bishops me Counsel gave ; But now at last I am out of Power , And you no more K. James shall have . I Wish I had been Ruled by them , And their good Counsel I had tain , But 'twas my Queen that Ruled then , Which causeth me thus to complain . A False Pretended Prince of Wales , Our Mother-Church bid us Contrive , And filled us up with Damned False Tales , That the Heretics all should loose their Lives . Then all our Rogueries did come out , And to and Orange it was sent ; And in my Nations it made a Rout , And all for a Free Parliament . Away I went for fear of the Worst , For well I knew what I had done ; My Conscience would my Friends not Trust , But with all speed to France must run . I Wish I had been true to those , That Counseled me always for good ; But I was led like a Bear by the Nose By Petres , and those cursed brood . I am a King , and yet am none , Which makes me out of my Wits , Cause I belonged to the Beast of Room ; Our cursed designs are all beshit . Trust not the Devil , nor the Pope , Nor Lewis the Great , with my false Bride , For if you do your Doom's a Rope , With other Tortures , what ever betide . Now I'll close up all with a Wish , That I the Popedom shortly gain ; There shall be no Popes but I their Saint , And then I shall have no cause to complain . FINIS . A KING and No KING : OR , King James's Wish . Being and Excellent New Copy of Verses , of the Never to be forgotten by his Unholiness the POPE , our late King James . Sent in a L etter to that Damned Cursed Whore of Babylon , who is a Harlot to Antichrist , Duchess of Hell , and Countess of Purgatory . Translated out of Irish into French , by the Pretended Prince of Wales , and Englished by his supposed Mother , The Italian Duchess . To the Tune of , Sawny will never be my Love again . MY Wretched Fate , I do declare , And of my Queen , with grief , complain , Who's brought me into such a Snare , I fear shall never be free again . I Wish I had never been Crowned King , How happy then should I have Lived , And Plenty I had of e'ry thing , Bad Counsel taken ; from those did give . I Wish I never Consented then [ , ] Poor M onmouth is Life to take away ; Nor in the West Destroyed those Men , Thus Bad Counsel I did Obey . I Wish I had not sent to the Tower Those Seven Bishops me Counsel gave ; But now at last I am out of Power , And you no more K. James shall have . I Wish I had been Ruled by them , And their good Counsel I had tain , But 'twas my Queen that Ruled then , Which causeth me thus to complain . A False Pretended Prince of Wales , Our Mother-Church bid us Contrive , And filled us up with Damned False Tales , That the Heretics all should loose their Lives . Then all our Rogueries did come out , And to and Orange it was sent ; And in my Nations it made a Rout , And all for a Free Parliament . Away I went for fear of the Worst , For well I knew what I had done ; My Conscience would my Friends not Trust , But with all speed to France must run . I Wish I had been true to those , That Counseled me always for good ; But I was led like a Bear by the Nose By Petres , and those cursed brood . I am a King , and yet am none , Which makes me out of my Wits , Cause I belonged to the Beast of Room ; Our cursed designs are all beshit . Trust not the Devil , nor the Pope , Nor Lewis the Great , with my false Bride , For if you do your Doom's a Rope , With other Tortures , what ever betide . Now I'll close up all with a Wish , That I the Popedom shortly gain ; There shall be no Popes but I their Saint , And then I shall have no cause to complain . FINIS . 