TEAGUE and MONSIEUR'S Lamentation One to another at LIMERICK , When hearing of King WILLIAM is coming , Mounsieur and all his Crew flies from thence . To the Tune of , Oh Hone , Oh Hone . I . POor Teague , what shall we do ? O Hone , Oh Hone , With all our Popish Crew , Oh Hone , Oh hone ; To Limerick we are fled , And all our hearts is sad , King William drives us mad , Oh hone , oh hone . 2. Our Master James is gone , Oh hone , Oh hone , And left us here alone , Oh hone , Oh hone ; What Courses should we take , King William makes us quake , We all do stink at stake , Oh hone , Oh hone . 3. When that he does come here , Oh hone , Oh hone , Begar me den do fear , Oh hone , Oh hone , When Cannon shot does play , We all shall run away , And fairly lose the day , Oh hone , Oh hone . 4. Morbleu , then let us go , Oh hone , Oh hone , To scape our Mortal Foe , Oh hone , Oh hone , Let's leave the Irish Joys , And run away , brave Boys , And let them take the prize , Oh hone , Oh hone . 5. Our Hellish Plots are crossed , Oh hone , Oh hone , Upon the English Coast , Oh hone , Oh hone , For England ' s up in Arms , To keep they from all harms , And all the Country swarms , Oh hone , Oh hone . 6. Say James shall come no more , Oh hone , Oh hone , Upon the English shore , Oh hone , Oh hone , They'll drive the Popish Host , From off the English Coast , King William rules the Rost , Oh hone , Oh hone . 7. Come let us not delay , Oh hone , Oh hone , Nor any longer stay , Oh hone , Oh hone , Let's hoist up Sail amain , And leave the Irish Train , And never return again , Oh hone , Oh hone . 8. Now Teague does fret and fume , Oh hone , Oh hone , To see his Friends consume , Oh hone , Oh hone , What shall we do , Dear Joy , Poor Teague begins to cry , they vil us all destroy , Oh hone , Oh hone . 9. De French-men all are fled , Oh hone , Oh hone , And left us almost dead , Oh hone , Oh hone , We are oppressed with Fear , Forsaken by Mounsieur , King William now draws near , Oh hone , Oh hone . 10. When to our Walls he comes , Oh hone , Oh hone , With Trumpets and with Drums , Oh hone , Oh hone , For to oppose his Train , Be Creest it'll be in vain , Poor Teague may then be slave , Oh hone , Oh hone . 11. Who escape to Boggs will run , Oh hone , Oh hone , His mighty Arm to shun , Oh hone , Oh hone , We must Obedience yield , Since we have lost the Field , And dread King William is Shield , Oh hone , Oh hone . 12. Then we will Quarter cry , Oh hone , Oh hone , And to his Majesty , Oh hone , Oh hone , Who bravely leads the Van , Surrender all we can , His Mercy to obtain , Oh hone , Oh hone . Printed for Ch. Bates , next the Crown Tavern in West-Smithfield . TEAGUE and MONSIEUR'S Lamentation One to another at LIMERICK , When hearing of King WILLIAM is coming , Mounsieur and all his Crew flies from thence . To the Tune of , Oh Hone , Oh Hone . I . POor Teague , what shall we do ? O Hone , Oh Hone , With all our Popish Crew , Oh Hone , Oh hone ; To Limerick we are fled , And all our hearts is sad , King William drives us mad , Oh hone , oh hone . 2. Our Master James is gone , Oh hone , Oh hone , And left us here alone , Oh hone , Oh hone ; What Courses should we take , King William makes us quake , We all do stink at stake , Oh hone , Oh hone . 3. When that he does come here , Oh hone , Oh hone , Begar me den do fear , Oh hone , Oh hone , When Cannon shot does play , We all shall run away , And fairly lose the day , Oh hone , Oh hone . 4. Morbleu , then let us go , Oh hone , Oh hone , To scape our Mortal Foe , Oh hone , Oh hone , Let's leave the Irish Joys , And run away , brave Boys , And let them take the prize , Oh hone , Oh hone . 5. Our Hellish Plots are crossed , Oh hone , Oh hone , Upon the English Coast , Oh hone , Oh hone , For England ' s up in Arms , To keep they from all harms , And all the Country swarms , Oh hone , Oh hone . 6. Say James shall come no more , Oh hone , Oh hone , Upon the English shore , Oh hone , Oh hone , They'll drive the Popish Host , From off the English Coast , King William rules the Rost , Oh hone , Oh hone . 7. Come let us not delay , Oh hone , Oh hone , Nor any longer stay , Oh hone , Oh hone , Let's hoist up Sail amain , And leave the Irish Train , And never return again , Oh hone , Oh hone . 8. Now Teague does fret and fume , Oh hone , Oh hone , To see his Friends consume , Oh hone , Oh hone , What shall we do , Dear Joy , Poor Teague begins to cry , they vil us all destroy , Oh hone , Oh hone . 9. De French-men all are fled , Oh hone , Oh hone , And left us almost dead , Oh hone , Oh hone , We are oppressed with Fear , Forsaken by Mounsieur , King William now draws near , Oh hone , Oh hone . 10. When to our Walls he comes , Oh hone , Oh hone , With Trumpets and with Drums , Oh hone , Oh hone , For to oppose his Train , Be Creest it'll be in vain , Poor Teague may then be slave , Oh hone , Oh hone . 11. Who escape to Boggs will run , Oh hone , Oh hone , His mighty Arm to shun , Oh hone , Oh hone , We must Obedience yield , Since we have lost the Field , And dread King William is Shield , Oh hone , Oh hone . 12. Then we will Quarter cry , Oh hone , Oh hone , And to his Majesty , Oh hone , Oh hone , Who bravely leads the Van , Surrender all we can , His Mercy to obtain , Oh hone , Oh hone . Printed for Ch. Bates , next the Crown Tavern in West-Smithfield . 