King WILLIAM Triumphant : OR THE Siege of DUNKIRK . Being the Downfall of FRANCE . Tune of , Let Marry Live long , etc Licensed according to Order . I . you Jacobite Crew , Against Willy Conspiring , And Jemmy admiring , Why look you so blue at Willy is Success ? He , he is the Man , Deny it who can , will our Grievance redress , And his undertakings , And his undertakings , kind Heaven does bless . II All Europe never knew A greater Commander , Than our Alexander : He France shall subdue , and tame the Monsieur ; His Reign's at and end , And cannot pretend to stop his Career ; For the French are still Running , The French are still Running , when he does appear . III . Now Savoy is brave Duke , With just Indignation , Has entered his Nation , With and undaunted look , like Caesar , overcomes ; He scorns the dull Cheat , To make himself Great , by Conquering with Sums , But loves open Storming , But loves open Storming , with Mortars and Bombs . IV. Our Landmen are gone , And Dunkirk is our own , Boys , Both Castle and Town , Boys , The English press on , and the Enemies flee ; No more shall they dare On Land to appear , than their Navy at Sea : The Name of Great William , The Name of Great William , their Terror shall be . V. Then come , let's advance , For we surely one day , Shall quaff off Burgundy , And each Man shall dance beneath his own Vine : The sprightly Champaign , Shall flow in each Vein , and our Faces shall shine Like Emeralds and Rubies , Like Emeralds and Rubies , while Lewis does pine . VI . Then , then to our King , A Health we'll be drinking , Without fear or shrinking , And next to our Queen , advance a full Bowl ; For under the Care , Of this Royal Pair , how happy's each Soul , The Honest and Loyal , The Honest and Loyal , no Fears can Control . Printed for P. Brooksby , J . Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 1692 . King WILLIAM Triumphant : OR THE Siege of DUNKIRK . Being the Downfall of FRANCE . Tune of , Let Marry Live long , etc Licensed according to Order . I . you Jacobite Crew , Against Willy Conspiring , And Jemmy admiring , Why look you so blue at Willy is Success ? He , he is the Man , Deny it who can , will our Grievance redress , And his undertakings , And his undertakings , kind Heaven does bless . II All Europe never knew A greater Commander , Than our Alexander : He France shall subdue , and tame the Monsieur ; His Reign's at and end , And cannot pretend to stop his Career ; For the French are still Running , The French are still Running , when he does appear . III . Now Savoy is brave Duke , With just Indignation , Has entered his Nation , With and undaunted look , like Caesar , overcomes ; He scorns the dull Cheat , To make himself Great , by Conquering with Sums , But loves open Storming , But loves open Storming , with Mortars and Bombs . IV. Our Landmen are gone , And Dunkirk is our own , Boys , Both Castle and Town , Boys , The English press on , and the Enemies flee ; No more shall they dare On Land to appear , than their Navy at Sea : The Name of Great William , The Name of Great William , their Terror shall be . V. Then come , let's advance , For we surely one day , Shall quaff off Burgundy , And each Man shall dance beneath his own Vine : The sprightly Champaign , Shall flow in each Vein , and our Faces shall shine Like Emeralds and Rubies , Like Emeralds and Rubies , while Lewis does pine . VI . Then , then to our King , A Health we'll be drinking , Without fear or shrinking , And next to our Queen , advance a full Bowl ; For under the Care , Of this Royal Pair , how happy's each Soul , The Honest and Loyal , The Honest and Loyal , no Fears can Control . Printed for P. Brooksby , J . Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 1692 . 