A New Copy of Verses : UPON King WILLIAMS Going To Flanders , and His Taking Leave of His Royal Consort Queen MARY : Tune , All Happy Times . TO Wars ( my Dear ) now must I go , To Conquer France my Kingdoms Foe The pride of Lewis I'll pull down , New Glories add to Englands Crown . I must go see the Bloody-day , When Canons Roar and Horses Nigh , When Bullets fly , and Swords do Clash , Through all these dangers will I pass . Until the Field of Battle it's wrowed , With Frenchmens Mangled Limbs and Blood , And Clouds of Smoke from Guns arise , Which shall in Mourning put the Skies . These and a Thousand dangers more , By stormy S eas , or on the Shore , In fatal Fights I'll stand my Chance , Old Englands Glory to Advance . My Sword shall never peaceful be , Till Englands Master of the Sea ; Nor will I sheath it's Conquering S teel , Till France its powerful stroke shall feel . May Heaven's Guard you in our Throne Which you must now Govern alone , May Angello keep you free from Cares , Farewell dear Soul I must to Wars . The Queen's Answer . MY Royal Lord may Angels Bless , All your endeavours with Success ; That Glorious Triumph may reward , The Actions of your Noble Sword . May every Battle bring Renown , And add new Trophies to your Crown , That all your Enemies may see , Your Deeds never want Prosperity . May haughty France it'r S ceptee bow , And all your Glorious Acts allow That Peace and Plenty then may fly , Through all the Kingdoms we enjoy . No Troubles shall attend your Throne , But Thoughts of hazards you must Run . Then hope's that you shall win the day , Shall put these trembling fears away . Heaven which gives you such Success , I hope will all your Actions Bless , And Guard you safe across the Main , And calmly bring you back again , When flaming Piles for joy shall burn , And Subject's bless your safe Return , While till thy Awful Throne and Me , Thrice haply Welcome shalt thou be . LONDON , Printed by J.W. in White-Friers near the Gate . 1693 . A New Copy of Verses : UPON King WILLIAMS Going To Flanders , and His Taking Leave of His Royal Consort Queen MARY : Tune , All Happy Times . TO Wars ( my Dear ) now must I go , To Conquer France my Kingdoms Foe The pride of Lewis I'll pull down , New Glories add to Englands Crown . I must go see the Bloody-day , When Canons Roar and Horses Nigh , When Bullets fly , and Swords do Clash , Through all these dangers will I pass . Until the Field of Battle it's wrowed , With Frenchmens Mangled Limbs and Blood , And Clouds of Smoke from Guns arise , Which shall in Mourning put the Skies . These and a Thousand dangers more , By stormy S eas , or on the Shore , In fatal Fights I'll stand my Chance , Old Englands Glory to Advance . My Sword shall never peaceful be , Till Englands Master of the Sea ; Nor will I sheath it's Conquering S teel , Till France its powerful stroke shall feel . May Heaven's Guard you in our Throne Which you must now Govern alone , May Angello keep you free from Cares , Farewell dear Soul I must to Wars . The Queen's Answer . MY Royal Lord may Angels Bless , All your endeavours with Success ; That Glorious Triumph may reward , The Actions of your Noble Sword . May every Battle bring Renown , And add new Trophies to your Crown , That all your Enemies may see , Your Deeds never want Prosperity . May haughty France it'r S ceptee bow , And all your Glorious Acts allow That Peace and Plenty then may fly , Through all the Kingdoms we enjoy . No Troubles shall attend your Throne , But Thoughts of hazards you must Run . Then hope's that you shall win the day , Shall put these trembling fears away . Heaven which gives you such Success , I hope will all your Actions Bless , And Guard you safe across the Main , And calmly bring you back again , When flaming Piles for joy shall burn , And Subject's bless your safe Return , While till thy Awful Throne and Me , Thrice haply Welcome shalt thou be . LONDON , Printed by J.W. in White-Friers near the Gate . 1693 . 