King WILLIAM'S Welcome to Holland : OR , His Conquering Armies Valiant Resolution Toga - there with the Loyal Subject's hearty Wish , for His good Success and safe Return . Tune of , March Boys , etc Licensed according to Order . I. BOys found the Trumpet , beatrice the Drum , the Summer is drawing on a main , King William ( the glory of Christendom ) is over in Flanders once again ; Whose Courage and Conduct is well known , his Enemies they may dread his Power , For he has and Army now of his own , which soon will make proud Lewis scour ; Found Boys , found Boys , Tan-ta-ra-ra-ra-ra , this is the Music sweet of Flanders , While our King , in the Flourishing Spring , does head his Troops and brave Commanders . II Kind Neptune he wafted him over in love , and Landed him safe at the Holland Hague , That like a Hero now he may prove , to Lewis of France a perpetual plague , The Cannons was roaring , and Bells' did ring , in token how dearly they adore him , All crying , Long live great William the King , and may he Conquer all before him ; Found Boys , found Boys , Tan-ta-ra-ra-ra-ra , this was the cry of chief Commanders , When he has Fought , put them all to the Rout , let him in Triumph Sail from Flanders . III . Stout Heroes of Fame , his glory proclaim , while he a Right Valiant Army does led , True Boys , that are bred to the Martial game , who never was fearful to Fight and Bleed , But up to the face of the Enemy ride , through Volleys of Shot , nay , smoke and fire , Still cutting and hewing on every side , until they make the Foes retire ; Found Boys , found Boys , Tan-ta-ra-ra-ra-ra , this is the cry of chief Commanders , King William he , let him gain Victory , and so return with Fame from Flanders . IV. While flourishing Colours we display , like English soldiers , with shouts of Joy , We'll enter the Battle and Bloody fray , the troops of the Enemy to destroy ; Nay Thundering Balls shall batter down , the Battlements high , and Palisades King William shall conquer and gain renown , in spite of France and their Bravadoes , Found Boys , found Boys , Tan-ta-ra-ra-ra-ra , this is the cry of chief Commanders , King William he , let him gain Victory , and so return with Fame from Flanders . V. Last S ummer the French-men durst not face , K. Williams great Army stout and bold , Lest they should return home with disgrace , for why , he had Noble hearts of Gold , Yet now he will have full five for one , stout Lads that will fight for fame & amp ; treasure L et Lewis beware , they shake his Throne , and let him know their high displeasure ; Found Boys , found Boys , Tan-ta-ra-ra-ra-ra , this is the cry of chief Commanders , King William he , let him gain Victory , and so Return with Fame from Flanders . VI . His Conquering Sword shall Tr [ iumph a ] gain , and L awrels his Royal Head shall Crown , While he does enjoy a flourishing Reign , the glory of France we'll trample down , Proud Lewis , brave boys , that Christian Turk , this S ummer we Reckon to bring under , Resolved we are to make sure work , and charge him home with Peals of thunder Found Boys , found Boys , Tan-ta-ra-ra-ra-ra , this is the cry of chief Commanders , King William he , let him gain Victory , and so Return with Fame from Flanders . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 1692 . King WILLIAM'S Welcome to Holland : OR , His Conquering Armies Valiant Resolution Toga - there with the Loyal Subject's hearty Wish , for His good Success and safe Return . Tune of , March Boys , etc Licensed according to Order . I. BOys found the Trumpet , beatrice the Drum , the Summer is drawing on a main , King William ( the glory of Christendom ) is over in Flanders once again ; Whose Courage and Conduct is well known , his Enemies they may dread his Power , For he has and Army now of his own , which soon will make proud Lewis scour ; Found Boys , found Boys , Tan-ta-ra-ra-ra-ra , this is the Music sweet of Flanders , While our King , in the Flourishing Spring , does head his Troops and brave Commanders . II Kind Neptune he wafted him over in love , and Landed him safe at the Holland Hague , That like a Hero now he may prove , to Lewis of France a perpetual plague , The Cannons was roaring , and Bells' did ring , in token how dearly they adore him , All crying , Long live great William the King , and may he Conquer all before him ; Found Boys , found Boys , Tan-ta-ra-ra-ra-ra , this was the cry of chief Commanders , When he has Fought , put them all to the Rout , let him in Triumph Sail from Flanders . III . Stout Heroes of Fame , his glory proclaim , while he a Right Valiant Army does led , True Boys , that are bred to the Martial game , who never was fearful to Fight and Bleed , But up to the face of the Enemy ride , through Volleys of Shot , nay , smoke and fire , Still cutting and hewing on every side , until they make the Foes retire ; Found Boys , found Boys , Tan-ta-ra-ra-ra-ra , this is the cry of chief Commanders , King William he , let him gain Victory , and so return with Fame from Flanders . IV. While flourishing Colours we display , like English soldiers , with shouts of Joy , We'll enter the Battle and Bloody fray , the troops of the Enemy to destroy ; Nay Thundering Balls shall batter down , the Battlements high , and Palisades King William shall conquer and gain renown , in spite of France and their Bravadoes , Found Boys , found Boys , Tan-ta-ra-ra-ra-ra , this is the cry of chief Commanders , King William he , let him gain Victory , and so return with Fame from Flanders . V. Last S ummer the French-men durst not face , K. Williams great Army stout and bold , Lest they should return home with disgrace , for why , he had Noble hearts of Gold , Yet now he will have full five for one , stout Lads that will fight for fame & amp ; treasure L et Lewis beware , they shake his Throne , and let him know their high displeasure ; Found Boys , found Boys , Tan-ta-ra-ra-ra-ra , this is the cry of chief Commanders , King William he , let him gain Victory , and so Return with Fame from Flanders . VI . His Conquering Sword shall Tr [ iumph a ] gain , and L awrels his Royal Head shall Crown , While he does enjoy a flourishing Reign , the glory of France we'll trample down , Proud Lewis , brave boys , that Christian Turk , this S ummer we Reckon to bring under , Resolved we are to make sure work , and charge him home with Peals of thunder Found Boys , found Boys , Tan-ta-ra-ra-ra-ra , this is the cry of chief Commanders , King William he , let him gain Victory , and so Return with Fame from Flanders . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 1692 . 