Glorious CONSOLATION After a Sharp and Temptatious AFLICTION ; Or , th [ e ] Religious Virgins Recovery . Printed for R. Kell , and R. Shuter , at the White - Heart in West-Smithfield , [ near Pye-Corner . 1692 ] ( 2 ) The Reasons for the two Doctrines are these . 1. The Righteous and Upright Men are Gods Chosen , whom the Lord will defend . 2. They are predestinated unto the A - doption of Sons by Jesus Christ . 3. They are made accepted in the Be - loved . 4. They have a through Redempti [ oh ] n by the Bl [ oh ] od of Jesus . 5. They have the abundance of the Riches of Gods grace , and in all , Spiri - tual Wisdom a [ n ] worser Prudence . 6. To these he hath revealed the Mystery of his Will , The secrets of the Lord are with those that fear him . 7. For such Christ hath purchased and prepared and Everlasting Inheritance . 8. And lastly are Sealed , and have set too their Seal by the holy S pirits witness , that God is true . Now to prosecute the Subject , that which Relates to the Person , and the oc - casion of the [ fallen ] [ ? ] ( 3 ) A Conference of Friends about this Afflicted Condition . S Ister , what manner of Conversation be - before this Trouble befell you ? Friends , I had a Zeal for performance of Duties and was , as I thought , a per - fect Observer oh [ f ] F orms according to the Letter ; but reading those Sacred words , of having a from of Godliness , and denying the Power thereof , this put me upon and enquiry what this power of Godliness was . At this rate of enquiry when poor heart do you think to be settled , and to mind that you must live by another day when you shall change your Condition . My Dear , your Discourse is good , as to the World and worldly wise , but as me you are but miserable Comforters . I must not conceal my better part ; Mar - tha was cumbered , I with Marry have chosen the better part . Swines husks would not satisfy a returned considering Prodigal . I and you are commanded to give all diligence to make our Calling [ ? ] ( 10 ) 10. The Holy Spirit blows where and when he pleases , let us therefore cherish all his motions , till grace attain to its per - fection ; to that end consider the uncertain continuance of Life , it's but a span long , we have a great work to do , Death is un - certain , he spares none , great , and final , poor , or rich , strong , or weak ; the Bells' call to us , the Graves , Bones , and Skulls show us what we must shortly be , Death puts another kind of face upon the things we now see ; since delightful , then dreadful , S atan now still , then a terrible accuser ; thoughts of Hell frightful , tO [ he ] eyes fail , the Tongue flatters , the Throat rattles , Friends fail , Hearts fail , Judgement is next , where [ S ] inners receive Sentence , and Believers a Glorious Inheritance ; [ S ] alva - cion is the reward of Perseverance . Thus Piety hath the Promise , and Faithfulness the Crown , which is the Portion wished of the Author to the Reader . FINIS . Glorious CONSOLATION After a Sharp and Temptatious AFLICTION ; Or , th [ e ] Religious Virgins Recovery . Printed for R. Kell , and R. Shuter , at the White - Heart in West-Smithfield , [ near Pye-Corner . 1692 ] ( 2 ) The Reasons for the two Doctrines are these . 1. The Righteous and Upright Men are Gods Chosen , whom the Lord will defend . 2. They are predestinated unto the A - doption of Sons by Jesus Christ . 3. They are made accepted in the Be - loved . 4. They have a through Redempti [ oh ] n by the Bl [ oh ] od of Jesus . 5. They have the abundance of the Riches of Gods grace , and in all , Spiri - tual Wisdom a [ n ] worser Prudence . 6. To these he hath revealed the Mystery of his Will , The secrets of the Lord are with those that fear him . 7. For such Christ hath purchased and prepared and Everlasting Inheritance . 8. And lastly are Sealed , and have set too their Seal by the holy S pirits witness , that God is true . Now to prosecute the Subject , that which Relates to the Person , and the oc - casion of the [ fallen ] [ ? ] ( 3 ) A Conference of Friends about this Afflicted Condition . S Ister , what manner of Conversation be - before this Trouble befell you ? Friends , I had a Zeal for performance of Duties and was , as I thought , a per - fect Observer oh [ f ] F orms according to the Letter ; but reading those Sacred words , of having a from of Godliness , and denying the Power thereof , this put me upon and enquiry what this power of Godliness was . At this rate of enquiry when poor heart do you think to be settled , and to mind that you must live by another day when you shall change your Condition . My Dear , your Discourse is good , as to the World and worldly wise , but as me you are but miserable Comforters . I must not conceal my better part ; Mar - tha was cumbered , I with Marry have chosen the better part . Swines husks would not satisfy a returned considering Prodigal . I and you are commanded to give all diligence to make our Calling [ ? ] ( 10 ) 10. The Holy Spirit blows where and when he pleases , let us therefore cherish all his motions , till grace attain to its per - fection ; to that end consider the uncertain continuance of Life , it's but a span long , we have a great work to do , Death is un - certain , he spares none , great , and final , poor , or rich , strong , or weak ; the Bells' call to us , the Graves , Bones , and Skulls show us what we must shortly be , Death puts another kind of face upon the things we now see ; since delightful , then dreadful , S atan now still , then a terrible accuser ; thoughts of Hell frightful , tO [ he ] eyes fail , the Tongue flatters , the Throat rattles , Friends fail , Hearts fail , Judgement is next , where [ S ] inners receive Sentence , and Believers a Glorious Inheritance ; [ S ] alva - cion is the reward of Perseverance . Thus Piety hath the Promise , and Faithfulness the Crown , which is the Portion wished of the Author to the Reader . FINIS . 