The Protestants Delight , Or And HEALTH To His Highness the P rince of Orange , and the rest of the R oyal Family . Tune of , Lilli Burlero . [ 1 ] COme all the Protestant Lads in the Land , now merry we'll be , and let none of us flinch ; See , I am charged with a bumper in hand , resolving and Health to our Protestant Prince , G od preserve the Prince of Orange , with a Huzza now drink off your Glass ; He that refuses , the Nation abuses , and shall have his Liquour flung into his Face . [ 2 ] When Popery had all the Nation over run , and set up their Idols all over the Land , 'Twas the brave Orange that trampled they down , and gave us our Rites again with his own hand , May kind Heaven bless him for it ; with a Huzza now take off your Glass ; He that refuses the Nation abuses , and shall have his Liquour flung into his face . [ 3 ] Now we've discharged , fill our glasses again , A Health to his Princess next Heir to the Crown , May she succeed , and long happily Reign , and raise up our Church , and pluck Popery down : May she happy be for ever ; with a Huzza now drink off your Glass , He that refuses , the Nation abuses , and shall have his Liquour flung into his Face . [ 3 ] Now to Prince George and Health we'll begin , who for our safety has given his aid To thrust out the Pope and let Protestants in , by which our Church is much happier made . May he be prosperous for ever , with a Huzza now drink off your Glass , He that refuses , the Nation abuses , and shall have his Liquour flung into his Face . [ 4 ] Fill up your glasses to the Princess Ann , may she all blessings for ever enjoy , And all the rest of the Protestant train , who for our good their assistance employ . May they all be blessed for ever , with a Huzza now drink off your glass , He that refuses , the Nation abuses , and shall have his Liquour flung into his face . [ 5 ] All the great souls who together now join , may they be happy by Sea and by Land , And he successful in every design , especially that they have taken in hand : Heavens bless their Undertaking , with a Huzza now drink off your Glass , He that refuses , our Nation abuses , and shall have his Liquour flung into his face . [ 6 ] Fill up your cups while good liquour it flows , prosperity to the good Protestant Church , And may we quickly discover her Foes , who now for their pains are all left in the lurch . May our Church stand firm for ever , with a Huzza now drink off your Glass , He that refuses , the Nation abuses , and shall have his liquour flung into his face . [ 7 ] May all the Nation in Union join , to serve his great Highness at every call , Whose care has quite ruined that evil design , which else without doubt would have ruined us all May he meet with no obstruction ; with a Huzza now drink off your Glass , He that refuses , the Nation abuses , and shall have his liquour flung into his Face . Printed for J . C.The Protestants Delight , Or And HEALTH To His Highness the P rince of Orange , and the rest of the R oyal Family . Tune of , Lilli Burlero . [ 1 ] COme all the Protestant Lads in the Land , now merry we'll be , and let none of us flinch ; See , I am charged with a bumper in hand , resolving and Health to our Protestant Prince , G od preserve the Prince of Orange , with a Huzza now drink off your Glass ; He that refuses , the Nation abuses , and shall have his Liquour flung into his Face . [ 2 ] When Popery had all the Nation over run , and set up their Idols all over the Land , 'Twas the brave Orange that trampled they down , and gave us our Rites again with his own hand , May kind Heaven bless him for it ; with a Huzza now take off your Glass ; He that refuses the Nation abuses , and shall have his Liquour flung into his face . [ 3 ] Now we've discharged , fill our glasses again , A Health to his Princess next Heir to the Crown , May she succeed , and long happily Reign , and raise up our Church , and pluck Popery down : May she happy be for ever ; with a Huzza now drink off your Glass , He that refuses , the Nation abuses , and shall have his Liquour flung into his Face . [ 3 ] Now to Prince George and Health we'll begin , who for our safety has given his aid To thrust out the Pope and let Protestants in , by which our Church is much happier made . May he be prosperous for ever , with a Huzza now drink off your Glass , He that refuses , the Nation abuses , and shall have his Liquour flung into his Face . [ 4 ] Fill up your glasses to the Princess Ann , may she all blessings for ever enjoy , And all the rest of the Protestant train , who for our good their assistance employ . May they all be blessed for ever , with a Huzza now drink off your glass , He that refuses , the Nation abuses , and shall have his Liquour flung into his face . [ 5 ] All the great souls who together now join , may they be happy by Sea and by Land , And he successful in every design , especially that they have taken in hand : Heavens bless their Undertaking , with a Huzza now drink off your Glass , He that refuses , our Nation abuses , and shall have his Liquour flung into his face . [ 6 ] Fill up your cups while good liquour it flows , prosperity to the good Protestant Church , And may we quickly discover her Foes , who now for their pains are all left in the lurch . May our Church stand firm for ever , with a Huzza now drink off your Glass , He that refuses , the Nation abuses , and shall have his liquour flung into his face . [ 7 ] May all the Nation in Union join , to serve his great Highness at every call , Whose care has quite ruined that evil design , which else without doubt would have ruined us all May he meet with no obstruction ; with a Huzza now drink off your Glass , He that refuses , the Nation abuses , and shall have his liquour flung into his Face . Printed for J.C. 