THE Loyal Bumper : or , England [ ' ] s Comfort . BEING A Health to King William and Queen Marry , and the Prince of Denmark . To and Excellent New TUNE . ( 1 ) HEre's a Health to the King whom the Crown does belong to , Confusion to those that true Kings would do wrong to : We'll here use no Name of and Old King or New King , But we'll Drink a Health , Boys , a Health to the true King . ( 2 ) Here's a Health to that Man that has wrong done to no Man , Be he English or Dutch-man , or Spaniard , or Roman : Here's a Health to those Children their Parents obey well , For the Disobedient we know will not Sway well . ( 3 ) Here's a Health to Just Men , from the Cott to the Throne , Boys , For Conscience will tell you , all should keep their own , Boys : Here's a Health to those Worthys that stand up for David , And shame take those Members their Head have outbraved . ( 4 ) Here's a Health to Queen Marry , true Joys light upon her , May her Life be attended with Glory and Honour : We'll here use no Name of and Old Queen or New Queen , But we'll Drink a Health , Boys , a Health to the true Queen . ( 5 ) Here's a Health to the Prince , Heaven send him long Life , And if ever he be Crowned , let him Reign without Strife : We here do not name him , whither Old Prince or New Prince , But we'll Drink a Health , B oys , a Health to the true Prince . ( 6 ) Here's a Health to those hearts that are Honest and Loyal , And those which are not so , may Heaven destroy all : We do not name any , whither Old hearts or New hearts , But we'll Drink a Health , Boys , a Health to all true hearts . ( 7 ) Here's a Health to the Clergy , true Sons of the Church , Who leave not their Prince nor Religion i'th' lurch : We here do not mention whither Old Church or New Church , But we'll Drink a Health to the Sons of the true Church . ( 8 ) Here's a Health to those Soldiers that'ill Fight for their Pay , That will stand by their Master , and not run away : Whither Lords , D. or E. so they Fight for their King , Boys , Or else let them Die all like Dogs in a String , Boys . ( 9 ) Once more to all these , let the Glass then go round , Preserve all the Loyal , and Traitors confound : Send Peace to Old England , and give Caesar his Endue , Boys , And then it'll be better for me and for you , Boys . FINIS . THE Loyal Bumper : or , England [ ' ] s Comfort . BEING A Health to King William and Queen Marry , and the Prince of Denmark . To and Excellent New TUNE . ( 1 ) HEre's a Health to the King whom the Crown does belong to , Confusion to those that true Kings would do wrong to : We'll here use no Name of and Old King or New King , But we'll Drink a Health , Boys , a Health to the true King . ( 2 ) Here's a Health to that Man that has wrong done to no Man , Be he English or Dutch-man , or Spaniard , or Roman : Here's a Health to those Children their Parents obey well , For the Disobedient we know will not Sway well . ( 3 ) Here's a Health to Just Men , from the Cott to the Throne , Boys , For Conscience will tell you , all should keep their own , Boys : Here's a Health to those Worthys that stand up for David , And shame take those Members their Head have outbraved . ( 4 ) Here's a Health to Queen Marry , true Joys light upon her , May her Life be attended with Glory and Honour : We'll here use no Name of and Old Queen or New Queen , But we'll Drink a Health , Boys , a Health to the true Queen . ( 5 ) Here's a Health to the Prince , Heaven send him long Life , And if ever he be Crowned , let him Reign without Strife : We here do not name him , whither Old Prince or New Prince , But we'll Drink a Health , B oys , a Health to the true Prince . ( 6 ) Here's a Health to those hearts that are Honest and Loyal , And those which are not so , may Heaven destroy all : We do not name any , whither Old hearts or New hearts , But we'll Drink a Health , Boys , a Health to all true hearts . ( 7 ) Here's a Health to the Clergy , true Sons of the Church , Who leave not their Prince nor Religion i'th' lurch : We here do not mention whither Old Church or New Church , But we'll Drink a Health to the Sons of the true Church . ( 8 ) Here's a Health to those Soldiers that'ill Fight for their Pay , That will stand by their Master , and not run away : Whither Lords , D. or E. so they Fight for their King , Boys , Or else let them Die all like Dogs in a String , Boys . ( 9 ) Once more to all these , let the Glass then go round , Preserve all the Loyal , and Traitors confound : Send Peace to Old England , and give Caesar his Endue , Boys , And then it'll be better for me and for you , Boys . FINIS . 