The Royal HEALTH , Three Glasses in and Hand ) To the King , to The Queen , To the Protestant Religion . Licensed , and Entered according to Order . To the Tune of , Come , Boys , Fill up a Bumper . To the King . COme Boys cast away sorrow , past cares in Oblivion drowned : The leisure from business we borrow , in Loyal Helath shall be crowned . To the King our Glorious Redeemer , thus we our duties pay ; Let us drink His Health in a brimmer , repeated over every day . Our Joys and our Glasses run quicker ; then welcome the God of the Vine , That kindly affords us such Liquour , for drinking and health Divine : Great WILLIAM that raised us and saved us , and revived our drooping hope ; From those would for ever have enslaved us , in spite both of Devil and Pope . To the Queen . To the Queen , whom Heaven has lent us , to render our Joys complete ; Such a Royal Pair never was sent us , the malice of Room to defeat : Wit , Honour , Religion , and Beauty , her Graces that smile so sweet , Shall teach us to pay Her our duty , and lay all our Souls at her Feet . TO he Pope and his Imps Infernal , and all their Tools are undone ; For Heaven the kind Guards eternal , has planted around the Throne : The Kingdom's god out of the Briers , and now we'll be bilked no more By Jesuits , Monks , and bald Friars , those Sons of the scarlet Whore . To the Protestant Religion . To the Church , whose Preservation , she owes to this Godlike pair , Shall flourish again in the Nation , and never more shall despair : Our Faith to our Faiths great Defender , that safety and glory shall owe ; That we our whole hearts will surrender , our joys and our bowls shall flow . Now Nuncio , Jeffrays , and Peters , prepare for a Tyburn-string ; The Nation has long been your debtors , and will pay of your scores with a Swing : Farewell to your long fly preambles , your Jesuits will not do ; Your Smithfield , your Faggots , and Shambles , and all the Bloodthirsty Crew . Printed for R. Hayhurst , in Little-Britain . The Royal HEALTH , Three Glasses in and Hand ) To the King , to The Queen , To the Protestant Religion . Licensed , and Entered according to Order . To the Tune of , Come , Boys , Fill up a Bumper . To the King . COme Boys cast away sorrow , past cares in Oblivion drowned : The leisure from business we borrow , in Loyal Helath shall be crowned . To the King our Glorious Redeemer , thus we our duties pay ; Let us drink His Health in a brimmer , repeated over every day . Our Joys and our Glasses run quicker ; then welcome the God of the Vine , That kindly affords us such Liquour , for drinking and health Divine : Great WILLIAM that raised us and saved us , and revived our drooping hope ; From those would for ever have enslaved us , in spite both of Devil and Pope . To the Queen . To the Queen , whom Heaven has lent us , to render our Joys complete ; Such a Royal Pair never was sent us , the malice of Room to defeat : Wit , Honour , Religion , and Beauty , her Graces that smile so sweet , Shall teach us to pay Her our duty , and lay all our Souls at her Feet . TO he Pope and his Imps Infernal , and all their Tools are undone ; For Heaven the kind Guards eternal , has planted around the Throne : The Kingdom's god out of the Briers , and now we'll be bilked no more By Jesuits , Monks , and bald Friars , those Sons of the scarlet Whore . To the Protestant Religion . To the Church , whose Preservation , she owes to this Godlike pair , Shall flourish again in the Nation , and never more shall despair : Our Faith to our Faiths great Defender , that safety and glory shall owe ; That we our whole hearts will surrender , our joys and our bowls shall flow . Now Nuncio , Jeffrays , and Peters , prepare for a Tyburn-string ; The Nation has long been your debtors , and will pay of your scores with a Swing : Farewell to your long fly preambles , your Jesuits will not do ; Your Smithfield , your Faggots , and Shambles , and all the Bloodthirsty Crew . Printed for R. Hayhurst , in Little-Britain . 