The New Loyal Health , OR , King WILLIAM's Welcome To England . To the Tune of , V aliant Jockey's marched away . Liscenced according to Order . I . LEt each jovial Heart rejoice , And merrily now strain his voice ; At each brisk flowing Bumper let him sing Thrice Welcome is our Noble King : For , this he , it's he The Nations hath set free , And ever will preserve our Liberty ; Then how can we express , Our great happiness , So truly blessed in a King are we . II No Force there was durst him oppose , But like so many scared Crows , They fled from him unto some other place , Of such mighty Conduct is his Grace : The Field thus wone , Ever the Fight begun , And nothing now remaining to be done , Our King's returned again , With is worthy Train , And is welcome home to every one . III . The Bonfires blaz'de , the Bells' did ring , Such Joy was then to see the King ; The Trumpets and the Drums Sweet music made , The Hotboy and the Flute in Consort played : While Mars the God of War In the from of a Star , Beheld the whole Transaction through the Air , And smiled at what was done In Honour to his Son The Valiant Northern Hero , every where . IV. Thus Boys , let the Glass go round , With your bent Knee , unto the ground ; The Mighty William is Health is meant hereby , Kind Heavens ever send him Victory : Cloth his Foes with shame ; And Crown Him with Fame , Who has gained and Everlasting Name : Come fill up my Bowl , I'll drinked with all my Soul , And every Loyal Heart will pledge the same . Printed for J. Bissel , at the Sign of the Bible and Harp in West-Smith-field . The New Loyal Health , OR , King WILLIAM's Welcome To England . To the Tune of , V aliant Jockey's marched away . Liscenced according to Order . I . LEt each jovial Heart rejoice , And merrily now strain his voice ; At each brisk flowing Bumper let him sing Thrice Welcome is our Noble King : For , this he , it's he The Nations hath set free , And ever will preserve our Liberty ; Then how can we express , Our great happiness , So truly blessed in a King are we . II No Force there was durst him oppose , But like so many scared Crows , They fled from him unto some other place , Of such mighty Conduct is his Grace : The Field thus wone , Ever the Fight begun , And nothing now remaining to be done , Our King's returned again , With is worthy Train , And is welcome home to every one . III . The Bonfires blaz'de , the Bells' did ring , Such Joy was then to see the King ; The Trumpets and the Drums Sweet music made , The Hotboy and the Flute in Consort played : While Mars the God of War In the from of a Star , Beheld the whole Transaction through the Air , And smiled at what was done In Honour to his Son The Valiant Northern Hero , every where . IV. Thus Boys , let the Glass go round , With your bent Knee , unto the ground ; The Mighty William is Health is meant hereby , Kind Heavens ever send him Victory : Cloth his Foes with shame ; And Crown Him with Fame , Who has gained and Everlasting Name : Come fill up my Bowl , I'll drinked with all my Soul , And every Loyal Heart will pledge the same . Printed for J. Bissel , at the Sign of the Bible and Harp in West-Smith-field . 