THE Midnight Wonder , OR , The Ringing of the Bells' . Tune of , Let Marry live long : With Allewance : GOod People attend , Without Disputation , Here is a Relation , The like was never Penned Before , I declare : Through the World you may range , Yet a Wonder more strange , You never will find ; And therefore I'ld have you , And therefore I'ld have you Now listen and mind . At Midnight you know , The Bells' they were Ringing , And sweet Voices Singing , Both lofty and low , Though late in the Night : But the Doors being fast , The poor Sexton at last Was forced to Rise ; This wondered ( a ) Ringing , This wondered Ringing , It did him surprise . Then taking his Keys , The Sexton did venture , The Church-doors to enter , Yet nothing he sees , But Ringing he herd , Till up Stairs he run , And there he found one , That frightened him so , He was almost senseless , He was almost senseless , And not able to go . O there did he gaze , His Senses and Reason Was lost for a Season ; He stood in a Maze , Alas , for a while ; For all in his sighed , TO here appeared one in White Put him to a stand , L ike one near Distracted , L ike one near Distracted , With Keys in his Hand . WORSER own Stairs did he go , TO he Bells' straightways ceasing , New wonders increasing , When walking below , The Sexton beheld , Two ( b ) Angels in sighed , Who there bid him write , Of what he had seen ; One was in ( c ) white Garment , One was in white Garment , The other in ( worser ) Green . Behold we are sent , To tell the People , Although in the Steeple , L ike Christians Repent , Before it's too late ; For , except you Reform , And invincible storm On the wicked will fallen : Remember this Message , Remember this Message , Repent one and all . There's Mercy in store , Upon their submission , With Tears of Contrition ; And therefore implore The Heavens above , Now to turn away All Judgement this day , Let Friendship remain , And then the three Kingdoms , And then the three Kingdoms , Shall flourish again . ( a ) The young Man Rung long - er than the Sexton gave leave . ( b ) Two young Men whose Names were Angels . ( c ) A young Man in Shirt and Drawers . ( d ) In a green Waistcoat , both Apprentices . London , Printed and S old by T. More . 1692. THE Midnight Wonder , OR , The Ringing of the Bells' . Tune of , Let Marry live long : With Allewance : GOod People attend , Without Disputation , Here is a Relation , The like was never Penned Before , I declare : Through the World you may range , Yet a Wonder more strange , You never will find ; And therefore I'ld have you , And therefore I'ld have you Now listen and mind . At Midnight you know , The Bells' they were Ringing , And sweet Voices Singing , Both lofty and low , Though late in the Night : But the Doors being fast , The poor Sexton at last Was forced to Rise ; This wondered ( a ) Ringing , This wondered Ringing , It did him surprise . Then taking his Keys , The Sexton did venture , The Church-doors to enter , Yet nothing he sees , But Ringing he herd , Till up Stairs he run , And there he found one , That frightened him so , He was almost senseless , He was almost senseless , And not able to go . O there did he gaze , His Senses and Reason Was lost for a Season ; He stood in a Maze , Alas , for a while ; For all in his sighed , TO here appeared one in White Put him to a stand , L ike one near Distracted , L ike one near Distracted , With Keys in his Hand . WORSER own Stairs did he go , TO he Bells' straightways ceasing , New wonders increasing , When walking below , The Sexton beheld , Two ( b ) Angels in sighed , Who there bid him write , Of what he had seen ; One was in ( c ) white Garment , One was in white Garment , The other in ( worser ) Green . Behold we are sent , To tell the People , Although in the Steeple , L ike Christians Repent , Before it's too late ; For , except you Reform , And invincible storm On the wicked will fallen : Remember this Message , Remember this Message , Repent one and all . There's Mercy in store , Upon their submission , With Tears of Contrition ; And therefore implore The Heavens above , Now to turn away All Judgement this day , Let Friendship remain , And then the three Kingdoms , And then the three Kingdoms , Shall flourish again . ( a ) The young Man Rung long - er than the Sexton gave leave . ( b ) Two young Men whose Names were Angels . ( c ) A young Man in Shirt and Drawers . ( d ) In a green Waistcoat , both Apprentices . London , Printed and S old by T. More . 1692. 