And ANSWER TO THE Poor Whore's Complaint , In a Letter , from a Bully Spark of the Town , to Mistress Nell , the common Crack of Fleet-street ; containing his Sorrow for her sad Complaint . To the Tune of , The Guinea wins her , etc AS I was ranging Nelly , Through famous London City , The Heart within my Belly , Did grieve and ache with Pity , For there I herd the Women sing , Till they made the very Streets to ring , That you were poor and bore , And had no Smock to wear : What Mistress Nell , thought I ! Sure this must be a lie , But strait they did reply , It was true , she having nothing scarce to do . You had a good beginning , And lived in seeming Glory , But now your lace and linning Is gone to Purgatory ; My meaning is the Broaker's claws ; Now I have considered what's the cause That you so Poor are made , It's ean for want of Trade ; The Bullies Hearts may ache , And their Foundations shake , When Cracks in Fleet-street brake ; For I know , it soon will prove their overthrow . Ah! Nell , there is too many , With Impudence attended , When there should not be any , But what from Cracks defended ; Yet here they come up e'ry week , From the very Devil's Arse-a-peak , Both East , West , North and South , And out of Nelly's Mouth They Eat the bred of Fame , And though from York they came , It is a burning shame This should be , when of the Trade they are not Free . But Nelly , with Submission , This might be regulated ; Then draw up your Petition To be incorporated ; The Parliament of Women , they In their wisdom may find out a way , By some new Female-Law , To keep the Cracks in awe , And make the number low , For now in Troops they go , Therefore , some Laws I know Must be made , or they will ruin quite the Trade . There ought to be no other , According to Discretion , But those whose tender Mother , Was of the same Profession ; But here's Doll , Bridget , Kat , and Prue , A ragged tribe of Deal knows who , Took up the Trade of late , And work at any rate ; They do at Corners ply , And as Men passes by , They have them in their eye , Ah! poor Nell , this clearly spoils thy living well . From Fleet-street to the Tower , In all the Nanny-housen , There's common Cracks a power , Full five and fifty Thousand , A now to overrun the Land ; Therefore let's endeavour out of hand , These Gillions to suppress , And make the number less , For if we don't subdue , This tattered ragged crew , It'll be the worse for you , Nell , I know , it's they that keeps the Prizes low . LONDON : Printed for J. Bissel , near the Hospital-gate in West-Smithfield . And ANSWER TO THE Poor Whore's Complaint , In a Letter , from a Bully Spark of the Town , to Mistress Nell , the common Crack of Fleet-street ; containing his Sorrow for her sad Complaint . To the Tune of , The Guinea wins her , etc AS I was ranging Nelly , Through famous London City , The Heart within my Belly , Did grieve and ache with Pity , For there I herd the Women sing , Till they made the very Streets to ring , That you were poor and bore , And had no Smock to wear : What Mistress Nell , thought I ! Sure this must be a lie , But strait they did reply , It was true , she having nothing scarce to do . You had a good beginning , And lived in seeming Glory , But now your lace and linning Is gone to Purgatory ; My meaning is the Broaker's claws ; Now I have considered what's the cause That you so Poor are made , It's ean for want of Trade ; The Bullies Hearts may ache , And their Foundations shake , When Cracks in Fleet-street brake ; For I know , it soon will prove their overthrow . Ah! Nell , there is too many , With Impudence attended , When there should not be any , But what from Cracks defended ; Yet here they come up e'ry week , From the very Devil's Arse-a-peak , Both East , West , North and South , And out of Nelly's Mouth They Eat the bred of Fame , And though from York they came , It is a burning shame This should be , when of the Trade they are not Free . But Nelly , with Submission , This might be regulated ; Then draw up your Petition To be incorporated ; The Parliament of Women , they In their wisdom may find out a way , By some new Female-Law , To keep the Cracks in awe , And make the number low , For now in Troops they go , Therefore , some Laws I know Must be made , or they will ruin quite the Trade . There ought to be no other , According to Discretion , But those whose tender Mother , Was of the same Profession ; But here's Doll , Bridget , Kat , and Prue , A ragged tribe of Deal knows who , Took up the Trade of late , And work at any rate ; They do at Corners ply , And as Men passes by , They have them in their eye , Ah! poor Nell , this clearly spoils thy living well . From Fleet-street to the Tower , In all the Nanny-housen , There's common Cracks a power , Full five and fifty Thousand , A now to overrun the Land ; Therefore let's endeavour out of hand , These Gillions to suppress , And make the number less , For if we don't subdue , This tattered ragged crew , It'll be the worse for you , Nell , I know , it's they that keeps the Prizes low . LONDON : Printed for J. Bissel , near the Hospital-gate in West-Smithfield . 