THE CANTER's Confession : OR , The Old Round-head Turned RANTER . To the Tune of , The Guinea wins her , etc GIve hear to my Confession , Which freely I am making , Friends I have some Dissension , Or else I am mistaken ; It's true my hoary Head is grey , Now indeed as very well it may , For why , in Forty one , I was a Zealot is Son. And ever since those days , Be't spoken to my praise , I turned ten thousand ways , And I still , can practice any thing that's ill . Sirs , of a restless Spirit , I ever was by Nature , Good worthy Men of Merit , I took delight to Satyr ; If they were of the weakest side . Then I'ld come in like a flowing Tide , And let them understand How far I boar command ; And then to cog and lie And flatter , who but I , My noble Standers-by ; I did Reign , much like a Villain then in grain . I thought by my Ambition , Myself and Alexander , And god a high Commission , To be a Field-Commander ; But once we having lost the day , Like a nimble Deer I run away , Full speed I think as most Light Horse or flying Post ; The Sword which then I wore , I threw away , and swore , I'ld never FIght no more , For my part ; I being frighted to the heart . I changed my Cloak of Scarlet , For one as black as Sable , And vowed , I'ld cuff Rome is Harlet As fierce as I was able . But not with Carnal Weapons , no , For the Preaching-Trade I straight did go ; Then , then , the Whore of Room From me received her Doom , As loud as I could baul , I told her she should fallen With Turk , nay , Pope and all ; Thus , kind Sir , I made my party good with her . But long this had not lasted , Are I was out of favour , My Glory being blasted , My Mind began to waver ; I for a Time was in the dumps , Till I had discovered what was Trumps , And then I played again , But clear another strain , Resolved I was to glide With pleasant Wind and Tide , And keep the strongest Side , This is true , What would you have a Brother do ? Now , now , I am a Quaker , A seeming serious Brother , A headstrong party-maker , My former Cant I'ld smother , But that I know the World has herd , How in various shaps I have appeared ; Yet like a Babe of Grace , I have a serious Face , Likewise the gift of Prayer , Beside , I do declare I can with Hectors Swear ; Thus am I , fit for all kind of Company . Printed for P . Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pie-corner . THE CANTER's Confession : OR , The Old Round-head Turned RANTER . To the Tune of , The Guinea wins her , etc GIve hear to my Confession , Which freely I am making , Friends I have some Dissension , Or else I am mistaken ; It's true my hoary Head is grey , Now indeed as very well it may , For why , in Forty one , I was a Zealot is Son. And ever since those days , Be't spoken to my praise , I turned ten thousand ways , And I still , can practice any thing that's ill . Sirs , of a restless Spirit , I ever was by Nature , Good worthy Men of Merit , I took delight to Satyr ; If they were of the weakest side . Then I'ld come in like a flowing Tide , And let them understand How far I boar command ; And then to cog and lie And flatter , who but I , My noble Standers-by ; I did Reign , much like a Villain then in grain . I thought by my Ambition , Myself and Alexander , And god a high Commission , To be a Field-Commander ; But once we having lost the day , Like a nimble Deer I run away , Full speed I think as most Light Horse or flying Post ; The Sword which then I wore , I threw away , and swore , I'ld never FIght no more , For my part ; I being frighted to the heart . I changed my Cloak of Scarlet , For one as black as Sable , And vowed , I'ld cuff Rome is Harlet As fierce as I was able . But not with Carnal Weapons , no , For the Preaching-Trade I straight did go ; Then , then , the Whore of Room From me received her Doom , As loud as I could baul , I told her she should fallen With Turk , nay , Pope and all ; Thus , kind Sir , I made my party good with her . But long this had not lasted , Are I was out of favour , My Glory being blasted , My Mind began to waver ; I for a Time was in the dumps , Till I had discovered what was Trumps , And then I played again , But clear another strain , Resolved I was to glide With pleasant Wind and Tide , And keep the strongest Side , This is true , What would you have a Brother do ? Now , now , I am a Quaker , A seeming serious Brother , A headstrong party-maker , My former Cant I'ld smother , But that I know the World has herd , How in various shaps I have appeared ; Yet like a Babe of Grace , I have a serious Face , Likewise the gift of Prayer , Beside , I do declare I can with Hectors Swear ; Thus am I , fit for all kind of Company . Printed for P . Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pie-corner . 