Old CAVALIER . To and Excellent New TUNE . Licensed according to Order . ( I ) HE that is a clear Cavalier , will not repine ; Though his Treasure grow , so very low , he cannot get Wine : Fortune is a Lass , She will embrace , and destroy ; Freeborn Loyalty , will ever be , Sing Vive le Roy : Virtue is her own Reward , and Fortune is a Whore ; There's none but Knaves and Rogues regard and does her power implore : He that is a Trusty Roger , and will serve his King ; If that he be a Ragged Soldier , he will skip and sing : But they that Fight for love , Does in way of Honour move ; While they that make sport of us May become short of us ; In-faith we'll flatter them , And will scatter them , When that Loyalty Waits on Royalty ; They that wait peaceably , May be successfully Crowned with Crowns at last . ( II ) Firmly let us then Be Honest Men , and stick to Fate ; We shall live to see , true Loyalty , valued at a high rate : He that bears a Sword , Or a Word , against the Throne , Or profanely prate , to wrong the State , hath no Title to his own . What though the painted Plumes and Players are the prosperous Men ; Yet we'll attend our own Affairs , when we come to't again : Treachery may be faced with light , or Leather lined with Fur ; A Cuckold may preferment get , it's Fortune de la Gur . But what is that to us , Since we are all Honest Men ? We'll Conquer and come again , Beatrice up the Drum again : Heigh ! for Cavaliers , Ho , for Cavaliers , Joy for Cavaliers , Pray for Cavaliers : Dub a dubb , dub a dub , Have at old Belzebub , Presbyter stinks for fear : Fanatics they shall down , And every Rebel-Clown , We'll Rally and to't again , Give them the Rout again : When they come again , Charge them home again , Fly like Light about , Face to the Right about , Tan tara rara Tan , This is the Life of and honest Old CAVALIER . Printed for C. Bates , next the Crown-Tavern in West-Smithfield . Old CAVALIER . To and Excellent New TUNE . Licensed according to Order . ( I ) HE that is a clear Cavalier , will not repine ; Though his Treasure grow , so very low , he cannot get Wine : Fortune is a Lass , She will embrace , and destroy ; Freeborn Loyalty , will ever be , Sing Vive le Roy : Virtue is her own Reward , and Fortune is a Whore ; There's none but Knaves and Rogues regard and does her power implore : He that is a Trusty Roger , and will serve his King ; If that he be a Ragged Soldier , he will skip and sing : But they that Fight for love , Does in way of Honour move ; While they that make sport of us May become short of us ; In-faith we'll flatter them , And will scatter them , When that Loyalty Waits on Royalty ; They that wait peaceably , May be successfully Crowned with Crowns at last . ( II ) Firmly let us then Be Honest Men , and stick to Fate ; We shall live to see , true Loyalty , valued at a high rate : He that bears a Sword , Or a Word , against the Throne , Or profanely prate , to wrong the State , hath no Title to his own . What though the painted Plumes and Players are the prosperous Men ; Yet we'll attend our own Affairs , when we come to't again : Treachery may be faced with light , or Leather lined with Fur ; A Cuckold may preferment get , it's Fortune de la Gur . But what is that to us , Since we are all Honest Men ? We'll Conquer and come again , Beatrice up the Drum again : Heigh ! for Cavaliers , Ho , for Cavaliers , Joy for Cavaliers , Pray for Cavaliers : Dub a dubb , dub a dub , Have at old Belzebub , Presbyter stinks for fear : Fanatics they shall down , And every Rebel-Clown , We'll Rally and to't again , Give them the Rout again : When they come again , Charge them home again , Fly like Light about , Face to the Right about , Tan tara rara Tan , This is the Life of and honest Old CAVALIER . Printed for C. Bates , next the Crown-Tavern in West-Smithfield . 