THE COMPLAINT OF All the She-Traders IN Rosemary-lane , Black-Mary's-Hole , Ratcliff , Dog-and-Bitch-Yard , Moor-fields , and Petticoat-lane , against the City Cheats , or the New Coffeehouses , about Charing - Cross , Westminster , Covent-garden , Fleet-street , and those parts of the Town . To the Tune of and Orange . A Curse of your Shams , you Coffee-house Dams , Who , instead of extinguishing , cherish men's Flames ; How finely you draw the poor Gentleman in , With your Devils Commander , Wine , to the since Fornication . Sobriety cloaks your Lust , with a Pox , While we deal more plainly , like honester Fokes , Although we can hardly keep open our Doors , For all we maintain the perfectest Whores In the Nation . When Miss is with Kid , that shame may be hid , For a Coffee-house for her strait Money is bid , Where Bantling comes out , and then she's as pure As a Girl of fifteen , that never played the Whore But in Fancy . At Night to the Star the Bullies repair , Where Robin has fixed a Planet more fair ; Whose Aspect alone portends more annoy Than the glittering Flames that devoured old Troy : Oh brave Nancy . Strait Nancy comes down in her flowered Satin Gown , And in scoring ten Shillings she cheats but a Crown , Too little ( alas ! ) to maintain the Jade's pride , And the lavish Expense of her Bully beside , I must tell you . Chocolat , Syder , Mum , flows all over the Room , Of which ( it's believed ) Madam Nancy drinks some ; But to Robin this Drinking is but a mere Task , For he swears he can't sleep without tother Flask In his Belly . The Flasks go round , and the Glasses are crowned , Till some fallen o'fighting , and then to the ground ; When Robin and Nancy the advantage do take Of picking their Pockets before they do wake , Of their Silver . If Gold was there , you boldly may swear , They god it by means not honest or fair ; For whatever they cram into Fob or to Gut , You may be all confident is nothing but What they Pilfer . Then from Rosemary-lane , we all do complain , From Black-mary's Hold , from Ratcliff again , From Dog-and-Bitch-Yard , and from famous Moor-fields , To the Sparks of this End of the Town , of the Ills We lie under . In time then appease our harsh Misery's , Or the cruel Affliction you Gallants will seize , Else we shall be forced e'r many a day To turn honest Women all ; which you will say , Is a Wonder . O Petticoat-lane ! that long didst maintain The Quack , that pretends to cure the Rein , How low art thou fallen from thy Trade in a trice , What before for a George , may now for a Sice Be procured . Then let us All a Council call , And cry out amain , A Hall ! a Hall ! For such damned Impositions were never before known , Since Damaris Page , here , and can be by none Here endured . Let's muster our Force , both our Foot and our Horse , Those who ride on Crutches and those who halt worse , And let us proclaim it Expulsion by law , To those who from our Assistance withdraw , Or lie Skulkers . For ' ti'ned worth our while to Buttock and File , And to Clap is both our own Pain and our Toil ; Then either offord us in Visits relief , Or some of the Traders may find to their grief , We'll turn Bulkers . Printed by J. Wallis , between the Two Gateways going into White-Friars . THE COMPLAINT OF All the She-Traders IN Rosemary-lane , Black-Mary's-Hole , Ratcliff , Dog-and-Bitch-Yard , Moor-fields , and Petticoat-lane , against the City Cheats , or the New Coffeehouses , about Charing - Cross , Westminster , Covent-garden , Fleet-street , and those parts of the Town . To the Tune of and Orange . A Curse of your Shams , you Coffee-house Dams , Who , instead of extinguishing , cherish men's Flames ; How finely you draw the poor Gentleman in , With your Devils Commander , Wine , to the since Fornication . Sobriety cloaks your Lust , with a Pox , While we deal more plainly , like honester Fokes , Although we can hardly keep open our Doors , For all we maintain the perfectest Whores In the Nation . When Miss is with Kid , that shame may be hid , For a Coffee-house for her strait Money is bid , Where Bantling comes out , and then she's as pure As a Girl of fifteen , that never played the Whore But in Fancy . At Night to the Star the Bullies repair , Where Robin has fixed a Planet more fair ; Whose Aspect alone portends more annoy Than the glittering Flames that devoured old Troy : Oh brave Nancy . Strait Nancy comes down in her flowered Satin Gown , And in scoring ten Shillings she cheats but a Crown , Too little ( alas ! ) to maintain the Jade's pride , And the lavish Expense of her Bully beside , I must tell you . Chocolat , Syder , Mum , flows all over the Room , Of which ( it's believed ) Madam Nancy drinks some ; But to Robin this Drinking is but a mere Task , For he swears he can't sleep without tother Flask In his Belly . The Flasks go round , and the Glasses are crowned , Till some fallen o'fighting , and then to the ground ; When Robin and Nancy the advantage do take Of picking their Pockets before they do wake , Of their Silver . If Gold was there , you boldly may swear , They god it by means not honest or fair ; For whatever they cram into Fob or to Gut , You may be all confident is nothing but What they Pilfer . Then from Rosemary-lane , we all do complain , From Black-mary's Hold , from Ratcliff again , From Dog-and-Bitch-Yard , and from famous Moor-fields , To the Sparks of this End of the Town , of the Ills We lie under . In time then appease our harsh Misery's , Or the cruel Affliction you Gallants will seize , Else we shall be forced e'r many a day To turn honest Women all ; which you will say , Is a Wonder . O Petticoat-lane ! that long didst maintain The Quack , that pretends to cure the Rein , How low art thou fallen from thy Trade in a trice , What before for a George , may now for a Sice Be procured . Then let us All a Council call , And cry out amain , A Hall ! a Hall ! For such damned Impositions were never before known , Since Damaris Page , here , and can be by none Here endured . Let's muster our Force , both our Foot and our Horse , Those who ride on Crutches and those who halt worse , And let us proclaim it Expulsion by law , To those who from our Assistance withdraw , Or lie Skulkers . For ' ti'ned worth our while to Buttock and File , And to Clap is both our own Pain and our Toil ; Then either offord us in Visits relief , Or some of the Traders may find to their grief , We'll turn Bulkers . Printed by J. Wallis , between the Two Gateways going into White-Friars . 