THE FEMALE DOCTRESS OR , Mother Midnights Cure FOR Barrenness in Women , BEING A True Relation of a Woman that pretended to Cure Womeo of Barrenness ; Especially in the Mint in Southwark . Licensed according to Order . Tune , In Cold Nights when Winter's Frozen . [ I ] ALL you Ladies that are Barren , If Old-age bened crept too far on ; In a Month or two it may be , You may if willing conceive with Baby : Take but the Measures which I shall here give you , I have Rare Medicines will nee'r deceive you , For I have studied Copulation . Above this Sixty Years in this Nation . [ 2 ] Young brisk Wives who never have Lain-in , Who of Wedlock are Complaining , And at Christenings tell your Neighbour , How sparing your Spouse is of his Labour : Let it proceed from what Causes soever , Suffer me but to use my Endeavor ; Take a Dose of my Elixir , And I am certain , it'll do the Trick Sir . [ 3 ] You in your Neighbours Houses , Swear the Fault to be your Spouses , If too weak well make him stronger , If he's too short we'll make him longer : Let him oh [ ? ] serve the Directions I'll give him , Of all Impediments I'll relieve him , To a Shilling I'll hold Twenty , Next merry Bout he does content you . [ 4 ] If your Husband's Old and Crazy , Or if Young , and grown too lazy , I'll renew their Strength or Beauty , And make them able to do their Duty [ ; ] Of their forbearance I quickly would ease you , They every Night should take pains to please you : My Receipt should I but show it , You would be satisfied I could do it . [ 5 ] Ladies who in Youth are Wedded , And in Innocence are Bedded ; I'll soon teach you if Occasion , To do the Business with Discretion , You at the End of Three Quarters Teem-all , With what will please you best , Male or Female , Take but my Elixir fairly , You shall do Trick a Track most rarely . [ 6 ] Barren Wives let me beseech you ; If you want or covet Issue , Make to me your Application , I'll assist you in Procreation , Im to be Head of , at Sign of the Stallion , Closely embracing his dear Mag-Mallion , Lest that these Directions fail you , In the Mint they better tell you . Printed by J. Wilkins , in White-FriersTHE FEMALE DOCTRESS OR , Mother Midnights Cure FOR Barrenness in Women , BEING A True Relation of a Woman that pretended to Cure Womeo of Barrenness ; Especially in the Mint in Southwark . Licensed according to Order . Tune , In Cold Nights when Winter's Frozen . [ I ] ALL you Ladies that are Barren , If Old-age bened crept too far on ; In a Month or two it may be , You may if willing conceive with Baby : Take but the Measures which I shall here give you , I have Rare Medicines will nee'r deceive you , For I have studied Copulation . Above this Sixty Years in this Nation . [ 2 ] Young brisk Wives who never have Lain-in , Who of Wedlock are Complaining , And at Christenings tell your Neighbour , How sparing your Spouse is of his Labour : Let it proceed from what Causes soever , Suffer me but to use my Endeavor ; Take a Dose of my Elixir , And I am certain , it'll do the Trick Sir . [ 3 ] You in your Neighbours Houses , Swear the Fault to be your Spouses , If too weak well make him stronger , If he's too short we'll make him longer : Let him oh [ ? ] serve the Directions I'll give him , Of all Impediments I'll relieve him , To a Shilling I'll hold Twenty , Next merry Bout he does content you . [ 4 ] If your Husband's Old and Crazy , Or if Young , and grown too lazy , I'll renew their Strength or Beauty , And make them able to do their Duty [ ; ] Of their forbearance I quickly would ease you , They every Night should take pains to please you : My Receipt should I but show it , You would be satisfied I could do it . [ 5 ] Ladies who in Youth are Wedded , And in Innocence are Bedded ; I'll soon teach you if Occasion , To do the Business with Discretion , You at the End of Three Quarters Teem-all , With what will please you best , Male or Female , Take but my Elixir fairly , You shall do Trick a Track most rarely . [ 6 ] Barren Wives let me beseech you ; If you want or covet Issue , Make to me your Application , I'll assist you in Procreation , Im to be Head of , at Sign of the Stallion , Closely embracing his dear Mag-Mallion , Lest that these Directions fail you , In the Mint they better tell you . Printed by J. Wilkins , in White-Friers 