THE Poor Whore's Lamentation : OR , The Fleet-street Crack's Complaint FOR Want of TRADING . To the Tune of , The Guinea wins her , etc Licensed according to Order . PRay hear my Lamentation young Gallants of the City , Without dissimulation Afford one grain of pity ; Unto a Lady of the Town , Clothed in a ragged tattered Gown , For Traiding's grown so dead , Upon my Maidenhead , That though abroad I stay , I do not yearn I say , Sometime a groat a day ; We are poor , the trade was never so before . I once did wear my Tower , Rich Silks and sumptuous Laces , They all were in my power , I god them by Embraces ; My Chain and Locket both of Gold , Which was most delightful to behold , And Sparks did me adore , I rolled in Guinneys store ; This was a living Trade , My Plumes I then displayed , And kept my Waiting-maid , But now , now , their Trade will not such State allow . They treated me with Nector , To gain a minute's pleasure , Yet over them I'ld hector And make them wait my leisure , I was the topping Crack of all , Noble Lords would at my Lodging call ; I went in rich Array , Much like a Lady gay , But now my Sleves of Lawn , And Smocks are all in pawn , My Cullies are withdrawn , I strange , strange at such a sad and dismal change . My price it was a Guinny , Not long before last Easter , But now there is so many , I'm glad to take a Taster , For why the Trade is spoiled of late There's little Nancy , Bridget , Prue and Kate , They'll play at you not what , For Twopence and a Pot ; And thus quite through the Town , The prizes are run down , We never get half-a-crown , Well paid , those Gillians has so spoiled the Trade . There's Bridget , Prue , and Nancy , They're found and foolish Nises , If they a Cully fancy , They'll never stand for prizes , Immediately on him they'll dote , But this makes them wear a Thread-bare-Coat ; And I among the rest , With sorrows am oppressed , To see it worse and worse , If it continues thus , I shall be bound to Curse , Them all , who first did let their Prizes fallen . I was as fair a Creature , As most was in the Nation , You never saw a sweeter , When in my Golden Station , My beauty is not much decayed , For if I had but a living Trade , I should be fine and gay , Then Gallants come away , My name is loving Nell , I do in Fleet-street dwell , And I shall use you well , Come amain , and raise my honour once again . LONDON : Printed for J. Bissel , near the Hospital in West Smithfield . THE Poor Whore's Lamentation : OR , The Fleet-street Crack's Complaint FOR Want of TRADING . To the Tune of , The Guinea wins her , etc Licensed according to Order . PRay hear my Lamentation young Gallants of the City , Without dissimulation Afford one grain of pity ; Unto a Lady of the Town , Clothed in a ragged tattered Gown , For Traiding's grown so dead , Upon my Maidenhead , That though abroad I stay , I do not yearn I say , Sometime a groat a day ; We are poor , the trade was never so before . I once did wear my Tower , Rich Silks and sumptuous Laces , They all were in my power , I god them by Embraces ; My Chain and Locket both of Gold , Which was most delightful to behold , And Sparks did me adore , I rolled in Guinneys store ; This was a living Trade , My Plumes I then displayed , And kept my Waiting-maid , But now , now , their Trade will not such State allow . They treated me with Nector , To gain a minute's pleasure , Yet over them I'ld hector And make them wait my leisure , I was the topping Crack of all , Noble Lords would at my Lodging call ; I went in rich Array , Much like a Lady gay , But now my Sleves of Lawn , And Smocks are all in pawn , My Cullies are withdrawn , I strange , strange at such a sad and dismal change . My price it was a Guinny , Not long before last Easter , But now there is so many , I'm glad to take a Taster , For why the Trade is spoiled of late There's little Nancy , Bridget , Prue and Kate , They'll play at you not what , For Twopence and a Pot ; And thus quite through the Town , The prizes are run down , We never get half-a-crown , Well paid , those Gillians has so spoiled the Trade . There's Bridget , Prue , and Nancy , They're found and foolish Nises , If they a Cully fancy , They'll never stand for prizes , Immediately on him they'll dote , But this makes them wear a Thread-bare-Coat ; And I among the rest , With sorrows am oppressed , To see it worse and worse , If it continues thus , I shall be bound to Curse , Them all , who first did let their Prizes fallen . I was as fair a Creature , As most was in the Nation , You never saw a sweeter , When in my Golden Station , My beauty is not much decayed , For if I had but a living Trade , I should be fine and gay , Then Gallants come away , My name is loving Nell , I do in Fleet-street dwell , And I shall use you well , Come amain , and raise my honour once again . LONDON : Printed for J. Bissel , near the Hospital in West Smithfield . 