A new SONG , called , The Richmond Recreation : OR , The Royal Dance of Delight . To and excellent new Playhouse Tune . STrike up drousy Guts-scrapers , Gallants be ready , each with his Lady ; Foot it about , till the night be run out ; Let no ones humour pall . Brisk Lads , now cut your Capers , Put your legs to't , and show you can do't ; Frisk , frisk it away , till break of day ; And high for Richmond Ball . Fortune-biters , Hags , Bum-fighters , Nymphs of the Woods , and stale City goods ; You Cherubins and Seraphins , You Caravans and Haradans , In order all advance : Twittenham Loobies , Tristleworth Boobies , Wits of the Town , and Beaus that have none ; You Jacobites as sharp as Pins , You Monsieurs , and you Shooterkins , I'll teach you all the Dance . Come fair Ladies , whose Beauty Is so admired , you are required To make your Choice . Oh! how sweet is the Voice That Sings so high and low ? Then come here all together , The black and brown , from every Town ; Then you will find , Love will be kind , And Joys will higher grow . Mind your Dancing , still advancing , Now with a grace , in each proper place , Move soft and sweet , advance , retreat , And never fear , the Music here , Mind still your own affairs : Battersy Misses with your soft kisses , Clapham likewise with languishing eyes , With us be free to bear a part , It'll please young Ladies to the heart , No Dance with this compairs . Brisk young Country Lasses , After their labour , with pipe and tabor , Will Dance around , while with Garlands they're crowned , Like pleasant Queen's of May , With Robin , Ralph , and Harry , Whom they adore . Now Gallants therefore Keep , keep to the sport , we at the Court Will be as blithe as they . Love and pleasure , time and leisure , Crowns with delight , the reveling night Of drollery , then let us be In such a mood , which may conclude The Dance with double joy : Every Beauty minding her duty , Keep time and then , young frolicsome Men , Your pleasant charms they will adore , And love you when the Dance is over ; But she is cursed that's coy . Cast off , Tom , behind Johnny , Do the same Nanny , eyes are upon you ; Trip in between little Dicky and Jane , And set in the second row : Then , then cast back you must too , And up the first row , nimbly thrust through ; Then , then turn about , to the left or you're out , And meet with your Love below . Pass , then cross , then Jacky is pretty Lass , Then turn her about , about and about ; And Jack if you can do so too , With Betty while the time is true , We'll all your ear commend ; Still there's more , to led all four , Two by Nancy stand , and give her your hand ; Then cast her quickly down below , And meet her in the second row ; The dance is at and end . London : Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilespur-street without Newgate . A new SONG , called , The Richmond Recreation : OR , The Royal Dance of Delight . To and excellent new Playhouse Tune . STrike up drousy Guts-scrapers , Gallants be ready , each with his Lady ; Foot it about , till the night be run out ; Let no ones humour pall . Brisk Lads , now cut your Capers , Put your legs to't , and show you can do't ; Frisk , frisk it away , till break of day ; And high for Richmond Ball . Fortune-biters , Hags , Bum-fighters , Nymphs of the Woods , and stale City goods ; You Cherubins and Seraphins , You Caravans and Haradans , In order all advance : Twittenham Loobies , Tristleworth Boobies , Wits of the Town , and Beaus that have none ; You Jacobites as sharp as Pins , You Monsieurs , and you Shooterkins , I'll teach you all the Dance . Come fair Ladies , whose Beauty Is so admired , you are required To make your Choice . Oh! how sweet is the Voice That Sings so high and low ? Then come here all together , The black and brown , from every Town ; Then you will find , Love will be kind , And Joys will higher grow . Mind your Dancing , still advancing , Now with a grace , in each proper place , Move soft and sweet , advance , retreat , And never fear , the Music here , Mind still your own affairs : Battersy Misses with your soft kisses , Clapham likewise with languishing eyes , With us be free to bear a part , It'll please young Ladies to the heart , No Dance with this compairs . Brisk young Country Lasses , After their labour , with pipe and tabor , Will Dance around , while with Garlands they're crowned , Like pleasant Queen's of May , With Robin , Ralph , and Harry , Whom they adore . Now Gallants therefore Keep , keep to the sport , we at the Court Will be as blithe as they . Love and pleasure , time and leisure , Crowns with delight , the reveling night Of drollery , then let us be In such a mood , which may conclude The Dance with double joy : Every Beauty minding her duty , Keep time and then , young frolicsome Men , Your pleasant charms they will adore , And love you when the Dance is over ; But she is cursed that's coy . Cast off , Tom , behind Johnny , Do the same Nanny , eyes are upon you ; Trip in between little Dicky and Jane , And set in the second row : Then , then cast back you must too , And up the first row , nimbly thrust through ; Then , then turn about , to the left or you're out , And meet with your Love below . Pass , then cross , then Jacky is pretty Lass , Then turn her about , about and about ; And Jack if you can do so too , With Betty while the time is true , We'll all your ear commend ; Still there's more , to led all four , Two by Nancy stand , and give her your hand ; Then cast her quickly down below , And meet her in the second row ; The dance is at and end . London : Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilespur-street without Newgate . 