A New made MEDLY Composed out of sundry SONGS , For Sport and Pastime for the most ingenious Lovers of Wit and Mirth . To the Tune of State and Ambition . Licensed according to Order . I. STate and Ambition , all Joy to great Caesar , Sawney shall never be my Colly my Cow ; All hail to the shades , all joy to the Bridegroom , and call upon Dobin with Him , je , ho . Remember you Whigs what was formerly done , and Jenny come tie my bonny Cravat ; If I live to grow Old , for I find I go down , for I cannot come every day to Woo . II Jove in his Throne was a Fumbler , Tom Farthing , and Jockey and Jenny together did lie ; O Mother Roger , Boys , fill us a Bumper , for why will you die , my poor Caelia , ah ! why ? Hark! how the thundering Cannons do roar , Ladies of London , both wealthy and fair , Charon mast haste , and Ferry me over , Lilli burlero , bellen a lah . III . Cloris awake , Four-pence-half-penny-farthing , give me the Lass that is true Country bred ; Like John of Gaunt , I walk in Covent-garden , I am a Maid , and a very good Maid . Two bonny Lads was Sawney and Jockey , the Delights of the Bottle , and Charms of good Wine Wading the Water so deep , my sweet Moggy , cold and raw , let it run in the right Line . IV. Old Obadiah sings Have Maria , sing Lulla-by-Baby , with a Dildo ; The Old Woman and her Cat sat by the Fire , now this is my Love , do you like her ho ? Old Charon thus preached to his Pupil Achilles , and under this Stone here lies Gabriel John : Happy was I at the sighed of fair Phillis , what should a young Woman do with and old Man. V. There's and old Father Petres with his Romish Creatures . there was and old Woman sold Pudding & amp ; Pies Cannons with Thunder shall fill them with wonder I once loved a Lass that had bright rolling eyes There's my Maid Marry she do's mind her Dairy , I took to my heels , and away I did run , And bids him prepare to be happy to morrow , alas ! I don't know the right end of a Gun. VI . My Life and Death do's lie both in your Power , and every Man to his Mind , Shrowsbury for me ; On a Bank of a Brook as I sat fishing , shall I die a Maid now , and never Married be . Uds bobs , Let Oliver now be forgotten , Jone is as good as my Lady in the dark : Cuckold's are Christians , Boys , all the World over , and here's a full Bumper to Robin John Clark . Printed for P. Brooksby , J , Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . A New made MEDLY Composed out of sundry SONGS , For Sport and Pastime for the most ingenious Lovers of Wit and Mirth . To the Tune of State and Ambition . Licensed according to Order . I. STate and Ambition , all Joy to great Caesar , Sawney shall never be my Colly my Cow ; All hail to the shades , all joy to the Bridegroom , and call upon Dobin with Him , je , ho . Remember you Whigs what was formerly done , and Jenny come tie my bonny Cravat ; If I live to grow Old , for I find I go down , for I cannot come every day to Woo . II Jove in his Throne was a Fumbler , Tom Farthing , and Jockey and Jenny together did lie ; O Mother Roger , Boys , fill us a Bumper , for why will you die , my poor Caelia , ah ! why ? Hark! how the thundering Cannons do roar , Ladies of London , both wealthy and fair , Charon mast haste , and Ferry me over , Lilli burlero , bellen a lah . III . Cloris awake , Four-pence-half-penny-farthing , give me the Lass that is true Country bred ; Like John of Gaunt , I walk in Covent-garden , I am a Maid , and a very good Maid . Two bonny Lads was Sawney and Jockey , the Delights of the Bottle , and Charms of good Wine Wading the Water so deep , my sweet Moggy , cold and raw , let it run in the right Line . IV. Old Obadiah sings Have Maria , sing Lulla-by-Baby , with a Dildo ; The Old Woman and her Cat sat by the Fire , now this is my Love , do you like her ho ? Old Charon thus preached to his Pupil Achilles , and under this Stone here lies Gabriel John : Happy was I at the sighed of fair Phillis , what should a young Woman do with and old Man. V. There's and old Father Petres with his Romish Creatures . there was and old Woman sold Pudding & amp ; Pies Cannons with Thunder shall fill them with wonder I once loved a Lass that had bright rolling eyes There's my Maid Marry she do's mind her Dairy , I took to my heels , and away I did run , And bids him prepare to be happy to morrow , alas ! I don't know the right end of a Gun. VI . My Life and Death do's lie both in your Power , and every Man to his Mind , Shrowsbury for me ; On a Bank of a Brook as I sat fishing , shall I die a Maid now , and never Married be . Uds bobs , Let Oliver now be forgotten , Jone is as good as my Lady in the dark : Cuckold's are Christians , Boys , all the World over , and here's a full Bumper to Robin John Clark . Printed for P. Brooksby , J , Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 