The Shoemaker's Triumph : BEING A Found in Praise of the Gentle-Craft , showing how Royal Princes , Sons of Kings , Lords , and great Commanders , have been Shoemakers of old , to the Honour of this ancient Trade ; as it was sung at a General Assembly of Shoemakers , on the 25th of Octob. 1695 , being St. Crispin . To the Tune of , The Evening Ramble , etc Written by RICHARD RIGBEY , a Brother of the Craft . I Sing in the Praise of Shooe-markers , whose Honour no Person can stain , In every Age they dare to Engage , and Victory still they did gain ; No Craft in the World can compare with Shoe-making , for I declare , Who reads but the Story , will set forth their Glory , commending them everywhere , As Persons of honoured Fame and Renown ; Then let not their Glory be trampled down . Sir Hugh was a Prince and a Lover , yet learned the Shoe-making Trade , Which yielded Relief , when Sorrow and Grief , in Travel , had made him dismayed ; When he of his Love was denied , he crossed the Ocean so wide , Returning soon after , then with a King's Daughter a Glorified Martyr he died . Thus Shoemakers have been true Men of Renown , Then let not their Glory for ever go down . There's Crispine , and brave Crispianus , both Brother's , and Sons to a King , In Sorrow and Woe , from Court they did go , when under a Shoemaker's Wing Protection and Safety they found , for 'Prentices straight they were bound ; Disguised like Strangers , from perilous Dangers , this Harbour of Safety they found : Thus Princes of honoured Fame and Renown , Hath Shoemakers been , that was Heirs to a Crown . Young Crispine he wone the fair Daughter of Great Maximinus , for who Admitted could be , but verily he , to draw on fair Ursula is Shoe , That honoured Lady of Fame , for when to the Palace he came He soon was admitted , the Shoes being fitted , this Royal Young Beautiful Dame Besought him for Marriage , though Heir to the Crown ; Thus Shoemakers have been brave Lords of Renown . His Brother went forth as a Soldier , well armed , to the Gallican Shore , Where thousands he killed ; they never beheld such conquering Courage before , The Work being speedily done , and the Enemy forced to run ; Their General Gallant , Courageous and Valiant , was likewise a Shoemaker's Son : Thus loaded with honoured Fame and Renown , Then let not brave Shoemakers Glory go down . Sir Simon , Lord-Mayor of fair London , he was a Shoemaker by Trade , Who , while he was Major , the Truth to declare , a Dinner of Fritters he made , Inviting the 'Prentices all , who readily came at his Call ; That Day they were merry , with Bowls of Canary , for he from his Word would not fallen : Thus good Simon Eyre , of Fame and Renown , He was a Shoemaker , and Lord of the Town . Thus Valiant and Noble Shoemakers the City and Court did Adorn ; For Deeds they have done , a Shoemaker's Son , I tell you , he is a Prince born ; There's no other Trade in the Land , had ever such Royal Command , For Honour and Glory , then read but the Story , then , then you will soon understand , That Shoemakers they have been famed for Renown , Then let not their Triumph and Honour go down . Printed for C. Bates , at the Sun and Bible in Pie-corner . The Shoemaker's Triumph : BEING A Found in Praise of the Gentle-Craft , showing how Royal Princes , Sons of Kings , Lords , and great Commanders , have been Shoemakers of old , to the Honour of this ancient Trade ; as it was sung at a General Assembly of Shoemakers , on the 25th of Octob. 1695 , being St. Crispin . To the Tune of , The Evening Ramble , etc Written by RICHARD RIGBEY , a Brother of the Craft . I Sing in the Praise of Shooe-markers , whose Honour no Person can stain , In every Age they dare to Engage , and Victory still they did gain ; No Craft in the World can compare with Shoe-making , for I declare , Who reads but the Story , will set forth their Glory , commending them everywhere , As Persons of honoured Fame and Renown ; Then let not their Glory be trampled down . Sir Hugh was a Prince and a Lover , yet learned the Shoe-making Trade , Which yielded Relief , when Sorrow and Grief , in Travel , had made him dismayed ; When he of his Love was denied , he crossed the Ocean so wide , Returning soon after , then with a King's Daughter a Glorified Martyr he died . Thus Shoemakers have been true Men of Renown , Then let not their Glory for ever go down . There's Crispine , and brave Crispianus , both Brother's , and Sons to a King , In Sorrow and Woe , from Court they did go , when under a Shoemaker's Wing Protection and Safety they found , for 'Prentices straight they were bound ; Disguised like Strangers , from perilous Dangers , this Harbour of Safety they found : Thus Princes of honoured Fame and Renown , Hath Shoemakers been , that was Heirs to a Crown . Young Crispine he wone the fair Daughter of Great Maximinus , for who Admitted could be , but verily he , to draw on fair Ursula is Shoe , That honoured Lady of Fame , for when to the Palace he came He soon was admitted , the Shoes being fitted , this Royal Young Beautiful Dame Besought him for Marriage , though Heir to the Crown ; Thus Shoemakers have been brave Lords of Renown . His Brother went forth as a Soldier , well armed , to the Gallican Shore , Where thousands he killed ; they never beheld such conquering Courage before , The Work being speedily done , and the Enemy forced to run ; Their General Gallant , Courageous and Valiant , was likewise a Shoemaker's Son : Thus loaded with honoured Fame and Renown , Then let not brave Shoemakers Glory go down . Sir Simon , Lord-Mayor of fair London , he was a Shoemaker by Trade , Who , while he was Major , the Truth to declare , a Dinner of Fritters he made , Inviting the 'Prentices all , who readily came at his Call ; That Day they were merry , with Bowls of Canary , for he from his Word would not fallen : Thus good Simon Eyre , of Fame and Renown , He was a Shoemaker , and Lord of the Town . Thus Valiant and Noble Shoemakers the City and Court did Adorn ; For Deeds they have done , a Shoemaker's Son , I tell you , he is a Prince born ; There's no other Trade in the Land , had ever such Royal Command , For Honour and Glory , then read but the Story , then , then you will soon understand , That Shoemakers they have been famed for Renown , Then let not their Triumph and Honour go down . Printed for C. Bates , at the Sun and Bible in Pie-corner . 