The JOVIAL Gallant : OR , The perfect Pleasure of a Private Life . To and Excellent New Tune , much in Request . I . AH ! how Happy's he , Who's from Business free , Can enjoy his Mistress , Bottle , and his Friend ; Not confined to State , Nor the Pride of Great , Only on himself ( not others ) does depend : Change can never Vex him , Faction never Perplex him , If the World goes well , a Bumper Crowns his Joy ; If it be not so , Then he takes off too , Till succeeding Glasses Thinking does destroy . II When his Noddle Reels , He to Celia steals , And with Pleasure , Unconfined , runs over the Night : In the Morning wakes , A pleasing Farewell takes , Ready for fresh Tippling , and to new Delight : When his Table's full , O then he huggs his Soul , And Drinking all their Healths , a Welcome does express When the Cloth's removed , Then by all approved . Comes the full Grace Cup , King Williams good Success . III . As the Health goes round , He with Joy is Crowned , Still he Celebrates the long and happy Day ; Being none of those , That the Laws oppose , But in Merriment does pass the time away : Never will he Prate Of Affairs of State In Countrouling of the Lawful Government : Those that sits at Helm , Let them Rule the Realm , But this means he Crowns his Joy with true Content . IV. In a flowing Bowl , Like and Honest Soul , Frequently he Drinks King Williams Royal Health ; And the Words are those , Down with all his Foes , While he Triumphs here in Honour , Peace , and Wealth : As it passes round , If there's any found That denies to Pledge this Noble Royal thing , He shall counted by , Full of Treachery , Not a Loyal Subject to our Gracious King . V. Though he Loves his Prince , He has so much Sense , Not to be concerned in High Affairs of State ; Since he knows full well , Those that does excel , Often have been known to prove Unfortunate : In a Private Life , Void of Care and Strife , All the Glories of the World we may enjoy , With a loving Friend , And our Treasure spend , Thus no Storm of State our Pleasure can't annoy . FINIS . Printed for C. Bates , next the Crown-Tavern at Duck-Lane-end , in West-Smithfield . The JOVIAL Gallant : OR , The perfect Pleasure of a Private Life . To and Excellent New Tune , much in Request . I . AH ! how Happy's he , Who's from Business free , Can enjoy his Mistress , Bottle , and his Friend ; Not confined to State , Nor the Pride of Great , Only on himself ( not others ) does depend : Change can never Vex him , Faction never Perplex him , If the World goes well , a Bumper Crowns his Joy ; If it be not so , Then he takes off too , Till succeeding Glasses Thinking does destroy . II When his Noddle Reels , He to Celia steals , And with Pleasure , Unconfined , runs over the Night : In the Morning wakes , A pleasing Farewell takes , Ready for fresh Tippling , and to new Delight : When his Table's full , O then he huggs his Soul , And Drinking all their Healths , a Welcome does express When the Cloth's removed , Then by all approved . Comes the full Grace Cup , King Williams good Success . III . As the Health goes round , He with Joy is Crowned , Still he Celebrates the long and happy Day ; Being none of those , That the Laws oppose , But in Merriment does pass the time away : Never will he Prate Of Affairs of State In Countrouling of the Lawful Government : Those that sits at Helm , Let them Rule the Realm , But this means he Crowns his Joy with true Content . IV. In a flowing Bowl , Like and Honest Soul , Frequently he Drinks King Williams Royal Health ; And the Words are those , Down with all his Foes , While he Triumphs here in Honour , Peace , and Wealth : As it passes round , If there's any found That denies to Pledge this Noble Royal thing , He shall counted by , Full of Treachery , Not a Loyal Subject to our Gracious King . V. Though he Loves his Prince , He has so much Sense , Not to be concerned in High Affairs of State ; Since he knows full well , Those that does excel , Often have been known to prove Unfortunate : In a Private Life , Void of Care and Strife , All the Glories of the World we may enjoy , With a loving Friend , And our Treasure spend , Thus no Storm of State our Pleasure can't annoy . FINIS . Printed for C. Bates , next the Crown-Tavern at Duck-Lane-end , in West-Smithfield . 