LONDON's New CRY : OR , THE Dumpling Woman's Delight , With and Account of the Miraculous Cures , wrought upon old and young Men and Women , by the Virtue of , The diddle , diddle Dumplings of London . To the Tune of , March Boys . Licensed and Entered according to Order . FRiends , I'm a Gentlewoman born , although by Misfortunes much decayed , Yet nevertheless , I do not scorn , to practice and honest thriving Trade ; I wander about in my fine Nightrail , through Southwark , and likewise London City , Wherever I go I never fail to sing this wonted pleasant Ditty : Dumplings , dumplings , diddle , diddle Dumplings ; Friends , I have god both large and little , Here in my Pot , they are hight ; Are they not ? I know my Calling to a tittle . I make them with Fat and Flower fine , nay Current , and likewise curious Plumbs ; Old Women if you have a mind to dine , they're delicate tender for your Gums : You never did eat the like before , and so you will say , if you're pleased to try them ; Wherever I go , I have sale good store , Young Women as well as Lasses buy them : Dumplings , dumplings , diddle , diddle Dumplings , etc Your Firmity , Rice-milk , and Grey-peas , and likewise your greasy Pudding-pies ; There's none of them can compare with these , good People , I scorn to tell you lies ; They'll quicken a Damsel that is dull , likewise they've a greater Operation , Girls , fill but your Bellies , bumping full , they'll comfort you to admiration : Dumplings , dumplings , diddle , diddle Dumplings , etc Whoever has tasted of the same will give me a due deserved Praise , Protesting , before abroad I came , they n'er eat the like in all their Days : Old Women with these are fat and fair , and Bachelors likewise know their Duty : Beside my Dumplings , I declare , will grace a Damsel's Cheeks with Beauty : Dumplings , dumplings , diddle , diddle Dumplings ; Friends , I have god both large and little , Here in my Pot , they are hight ; Are they not ? I know my Calling to a tittle . My Dumplings has strange Wonders wrought , kind Neighbours I'll make it well appear , Wherefore by the Gentry they are bought , wherever I travel far or near ; They're better , I tell you , then the Bath , in helping young Women to their Teeming ; I would not deceive you by my troath , sweet Wives , you know my modest meaning : Dumplings , dumplings , diddle , diddle Dumplings , etc A Woman not far from Charing-cross , who had been a dozen Years a Wife , Poor Soul , she was always at a loss , she'd n'er been with Child in all her LIfe ; But when she had eaten twice or thrice my delicate Dumplings , then soon after , She bred , nay brought forth in a trice , A champion Boy and curious Daughter Dumplings , dumplings , diddle , diddle Dumplings , etc A Man that was Threescore Years of Age , he married a Wife of Twenty Two , Alas ! he was often in a rage , because that the Trick he could not do ; But feeding upon my Dumplings still , although he was in so old a Station , Her fancy he often did fulfil and pleased his Wife to Admiration : Dumplings , dumplings , diddle , diddle Dumplings ; Friends , I have god both large and little , Here in my Pot , they are hight ; Are they not ? I know my calling to a tittle . London : Printed for J. Shooter . LONDON's New CRY : OR , THE Dumpling Woman's Delight , With and Account of the Miraculous Cures , wrought upon old and young Men and Women , by the Virtue of , The diddle , diddle Dumplings of London . To the Tune of , March Boys . Licensed and Entered according to Order . FRiends , I'm a Gentlewoman born , although by Misfortunes much decayed , Yet nevertheless , I do not scorn , to practice and honest thriving Trade ; I wander about in my fine Nightrail , through Southwark , and likewise London City , Wherever I go I never fail to sing this wonted pleasant Ditty : Dumplings , dumplings , diddle , diddle Dumplings ; Friends , I have god both large and little , Here in my Pot , they are hight ; Are they not ? I know my Calling to a tittle . I make them with Fat and Flower fine , nay Current , and likewise curious Plumbs ; Old Women if you have a mind to dine , they're delicate tender for your Gums : You never did eat the like before , and so you will say , if you're pleased to try them ; Wherever I go , I have sale good store , Young Women as well as Lasses buy them : Dumplings , dumplings , diddle , diddle Dumplings , etc Your Firmity , Rice-milk , and Grey-peas , and likewise your greasy Pudding-pies ; There's none of them can compare with these , good People , I scorn to tell you lies ; They'll quicken a Damsel that is dull , likewise they've a greater Operation , Girls , fill but your Bellies , bumping full , they'll comfort you to admiration : Dumplings , dumplings , diddle , diddle Dumplings , etc Whoever has tasted of the same will give me a due deserved Praise , Protesting , before abroad I came , they n'er eat the like in all their Days : Old Women with these are fat and fair , and Bachelors likewise know their Duty : Beside my Dumplings , I declare , will grace a Damsel's Cheeks with Beauty : Dumplings , dumplings , diddle , diddle Dumplings ; Friends , I have god both large and little , Here in my Pot , they are hight ; Are they not ? I know my Calling to a tittle . My Dumplings has strange Wonders wrought , kind Neighbours I'll make it well appear , Wherefore by the Gentry they are bought , wherever I travel far or near ; They're better , I tell you , then the Bath , in helping young Women to their Teeming ; I would not deceive you by my troath , sweet Wives , you know my modest meaning : Dumplings , dumplings , diddle , diddle Dumplings , etc A Woman not far from Charing-cross , who had been a dozen Years a Wife , Poor Soul , she was always at a loss , she'd n'er been with Child in all her LIfe ; But when she had eaten twice or thrice my delicate Dumplings , then soon after , She bred , nay brought forth in a trice , A champion Boy and curious Daughter Dumplings , dumplings , diddle , diddle Dumplings , etc A Man that was Threescore Years of Age , he married a Wife of Twenty Two , Alas ! he was often in a rage , because that the Trick he could not do ; But feeding upon my Dumplings still , although he was in so old a Station , Her fancy he often did fulfil and pleased his Wife to Admiration : Dumplings , dumplings , diddle , diddle Dumplings ; Friends , I have god both large and little , Here in my Pot , they are hight ; Are they not ? I know my calling to a tittle . London : Printed for J. Shooter . 