A COPY of Verses , Containing , A Catalogue of young Wenches , which will be exposed to Sale by Inch of Candle , at the Cuckold is Coffee-House in Cucumber - L ane , and at the Golden-Cabbage in Tailors - street . To the Tune of , The Forsaken Lover . Licensed according to Order . I . GAllants I-pray attend to this New Ditty ; Good News to you I send , young Lasses witty Will be exposed to Sale by Inch of Candle ; As neat from Head to Tale , as Man can handle . II The first is bonny Kate , a Broom-Man's Daughter , With whom a vast Estate will come hereafter ; It is , I'll swear a Lease , Ten Pounds per Annum , Which comes at the decease of and Old Grannum . III . The next a Beauty bright , which Men admire , Who will both Day and Night grant your desire ; She came , I do declare , last Week from Dover ; As sweet a Lass as ever Man laid Leg over . IV. Young Bridget fine and gay , fit for promotion , She has I'll tell you a White-Chappel Portion , Which is a Mark a year her Mother gave her ; Gallants I pray draw near , for you may have her . V. The next is Mistress Joan , that famous Flower , Who wears it is well known , a topping Tower ; With Sumptuous rich Array , like a fair Lady ; Young Gallants come away , she's ripe and ready . VI . Not far from Tunbolt-street , a Drovers Sister , She is young fair and sweet , thousands have kissed her ; View but her Charming Brow , never stand arg'ing , She is I'll swear and vow , a special bargain . VII . The next is Mistress Nell , a fair young Creature , Living near Clarken-well ; but you may meet her At the aforesaid place , with many other ; She is in right good Case to make a Mother . VIII . Would you enjoy a Wit ? come to this Auction , There's one that is right fit for a Concoction ; The most ingenious Mirth in her is carried , Only two at a Birth , and never Married . IX . Tell me what fault is this in a young Beauty , Can it be thought amiss , to learn their Duty ; Come she is fit for Game , before you buy her , Young Nancy is her Name , take her and try her . X. We have one strapping Maid , scarce one and twenty , Who by a Female Trade now lives in Plenty ; To change a single Life , young men don't fail her , She'll make a Buxom wife for some poor Taylor . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . A COPY of Verses , Containing , A Catalogue of young Wenches , which will be exposed to Sale by Inch of Candle , at the Cuckold is Coffee-House in Cucumber - L ane , and at the Golden-Cabbage in Tailors - street . To the Tune of , The Forsaken Lover . Licensed according to Order . I . GAllants I-pray attend to this New Ditty ; Good News to you I send , young Lasses witty Will be exposed to Sale by Inch of Candle ; As neat from Head to Tale , as Man can handle . II The first is bonny Kate , a Broom-Man's Daughter , With whom a vast Estate will come hereafter ; It is , I'll swear a Lease , Ten Pounds per Annum , Which comes at the decease of and Old Grannum . III . The next a Beauty bright , which Men admire , Who will both Day and Night grant your desire ; She came , I do declare , last Week from Dover ; As sweet a Lass as ever Man laid Leg over . IV. Young Bridget fine and gay , fit for promotion , She has I'll tell you a White-Chappel Portion , Which is a Mark a year her Mother gave her ; Gallants I pray draw near , for you may have her . V. The next is Mistress Joan , that famous Flower , Who wears it is well known , a topping Tower ; With Sumptuous rich Array , like a fair Lady ; Young Gallants come away , she's ripe and ready . VI . Not far from Tunbolt-street , a Drovers Sister , She is young fair and sweet , thousands have kissed her ; View but her Charming Brow , never stand arg'ing , She is I'll swear and vow , a special bargain . VII . The next is Mistress Nell , a fair young Creature , Living near Clarken-well ; but you may meet her At the aforesaid place , with many other ; She is in right good Case to make a Mother . VIII . Would you enjoy a Wit ? come to this Auction , There's one that is right fit for a Concoction ; The most ingenious Mirth in her is carried , Only two at a Birth , and never Married . IX . Tell me what fault is this in a young Beauty , Can it be thought amiss , to learn their Duty ; Come she is fit for Game , before you buy her , Young Nancy is her Name , take her and try her . X. We have one strapping Maid , scarce one and twenty , Who by a Female Trade now lives in Plenty ; To change a single Life , young men don't fail her , She'll make a Buxom wife for some poor Taylor . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 