THE Maiden LOTTERY : Containing Seventy Thousand Tickets ; each a Guinney ; the Prizes being Rich and Loving Husbands , from three Thousand to one Hundred a Year , which Lottery will begin to draw on next Valentine's Day . Then pretty Lasses venture now , Kind Fortune may her Smiles allow . To the Tune of , The Evening Ramble . Licensed according to Order . YOung Ladies that live in the City , sweet beautiful proper and tall , And Country Maids who dabbling wades , here's happy good News for you all : A Lottery now out of hand , erected will be in the Strand , Young Husbands with treasure , and wealth out of measure will fairly be at the cammand Of her that shall light of a fortunate Lot ; There's six of three thousand a Year to begotten . I tell you the Price of each Ticket , it is but a Guiney , I'll vow : Then hasten away , and make no delay , and fill up the Lottery now : If Gillian , that lodges in straw , shall have thee good fortune to draw A knight or a Squire , he'll never deny her , it's fair , and according to Law ; Then come pretty Lasses and purchase a Lot , There's ten of two thousand a Year to be god . The number is seventy Thousand , when all the whole Lot is complete ; Five Hundred of which , are Prizes most rich , believe me for this is no Cheat . There's Drapers and Tailors likewise , brave Men that you cannot despise : Come Briget and Jenny , and throw in your Guinney , a Husband's a delicate Prize : Then come pretty Lasses and purchase a Lot , There's ten of one Thousand a Year to be god . Suppose you should win for your Guiney , a Man of three thousand a Year , Would this not be brave ? what more would you have ? you soon might in Glory appear , In glittering Coach you may ride , with Lackeys to run by your side , For why should you spare it , faith , win Gold and ware it : now who would not be such a bride ? Then come pretty Lasses and purchase a Lot , There's sixty five hundreds a year to be god . Old Widows , and Maids above forty , shall not be admitted to draw ; There's five hundred and ten , as proper young Men , indeed , as your , eyes ever saw , Who scorns for one Guinney of Gold To lodge with a Woman that's old ; Young Maids are admitted , in hope's to be fitted , with Husbands courageous and bold : Then come pretty Lasses and purchase a Lot , There are wealthy kind Husbands now , now , to be god . Kind Men that are full of good Nature , the flaxen , the black , and the brown , Both lusty and stout , and fit to hold out , the prime and the top of the Town , So clever in every part , they'll please a young Girl to the heart ; Nay , kiss you , and squese you , and tenderly please you , for Love has a conquering dart , Then come pretty Lasses and purchase a Lot , There is wealthy kind Husbands now , now , to be god . Then never be fearful to venture but Girls bring your Guinneys away , Come merrily in , for we shall begin To draw upon Valennine's day : The Prizes are many and great , each Man with a worthy Estate ; Then come avua [ y ] Marry , Sib , Susan , and Sarah , Joan , Nancy , and pretty faced Kate , For now is the time , if you'll purchase a Lot , While wealthy kind Husbands they are to be god . among you I know there is many , Will miss of a capital Prize , Yet never the ess , no sorrow express , but dry up your watery eyes , Young Lasses it is but in vain , in sorrowful sighs to complain Then never be faint hearted , though luck be departed , for all cannot reckon to gain , Yet venture young Lasses , your Guinneys bring in , The Lucky will have the good fortune to win . LONDON : Printed for P. Brooskby , at the Golden-ball in Pie-corner . THE Maiden LOTTERY : Containing Seventy Thousand Tickets ; each a Guinney ; the Prizes being Rich and Loving Husbands , from three Thousand to one Hundred a Year , which Lottery will begin to draw on next Valentine's Day . Then pretty Lasses venture now , Kind Fortune may her Smiles allow . To the Tune of , The Evening Ramble . Licensed according to Order . YOung Ladies that live in the City , sweet beautiful proper and tall , And Country Maids who dabbling wades , here's happy good News for you all : A Lottery now out of hand , erected will be in the Strand , Young Husbands with treasure , and wealth out of measure will fairly be at the cammand Of her that shall light of a fortunate Lot ; There's six of three thousand a Year to begotten . I tell you the Price of each Ticket , it is but a Guiney , I'll vow : Then hasten away , and make no delay , and fill up the Lottery now : If Gillian , that lodges in straw , shall have thee good fortune to draw A knight or a Squire , he'll never deny her , it's fair , and according to Law ; Then come pretty Lasses and purchase a Lot , There's ten of two thousand a Year to be god . The number is seventy Thousand , when all the whole Lot is complete ; Five Hundred of which , are Prizes most rich , believe me for this is no Cheat . There's Drapers and Tailors likewise , brave Men that you cannot despise : Come Briget and Jenny , and throw in your Guinney , a Husband's a delicate Prize : Then come pretty Lasses and purchase a Lot , There's ten of one Thousand a Year to be god . Suppose you should win for your Guiney , a Man of three thousand a Year , Would this not be brave ? what more would you have ? you soon might in Glory appear , In glittering Coach you may ride , with Lackeys to run by your side , For why should you spare it , faith , win Gold and ware it : now who would not be such a bride ? Then come pretty Lasses and purchase a Lot , There's sixty five hundreds a year to be god . Old Widows , and Maids above forty , shall not be admitted to draw ; There's five hundred and ten , as proper young Men , indeed , as your , eyes ever saw , Who scorns for one Guinney of Gold To lodge with a Woman that's old ; Young Maids are admitted , in hope's to be fitted , with Husbands courageous and bold : Then come pretty Lasses and purchase a Lot , There are wealthy kind Husbands now , now , to be god . Kind Men that are full of good Nature , the flaxen , the black , and the brown , Both lusty and stout , and fit to hold out , the prime and the top of the Town , So clever in every part , they'll please a young Girl to the heart ; Nay , kiss you , and squese you , and tenderly please you , for Love has a conquering dart , Then come pretty Lasses and purchase a Lot , There is wealthy kind Husbands now , now , to be god . Then never be fearful to venture but Girls bring your Guinneys away , Come merrily in , for we shall begin To draw upon Valennine's day : The Prizes are many and great , each Man with a worthy Estate ; Then come avua [ y ] Marry , Sib , Susan , and Sarah , Joan , Nancy , and pretty faced Kate , For now is the time , if you'll purchase a Lot , While wealthy kind Husbands they are to be god . among you I know there is many , Will miss of a capital Prize , Yet never the ess , no sorrow express , but dry up your watery eyes , Young Lasses it is but in vain , in sorrowful sighs to complain Then never be faint hearted , though luck be departed , for all cannot reckon to gain , Yet venture young Lasses , your Guinneys bring in , The Lucky will have the good fortune to win . LONDON : Printed for P. Brooskby , at the Golden-ball in Pie-corner . 