ROGER IN AMAIZE OR , The Country men Ramble through Bartholomew - Fair . Tune of the Dutch Woman's Jig . I. ADzooks Ches went thee ' other day to London Town , In Smithfield such gaizing , Such Thrusting and Squeezing , was never known . A Zitty of Wood some Folk do call it Bartledom Fair , But Ches zure nought but Kings and Queen's live there . 2. In Gold and Zilver , Zilk and Velvet each was dressed , A Lord in his Zattin Was bussy preating , among the rest . But one in Blue Jacket come , which some doe Andrew call , Adsheart talked woundy wittily to them all . 3. At last Cotzooks he made such sport I laughed a loud The Rouge being flustered He flung me a Custard , amid the Crowed . The Folk well a laughing at me , then the Vezen zaid Be zure Ralph give it to Doll the Dary-Maid . 4. I zwallowed the affront , but stayed no longer there , I Thrust and I Scrambled Till further I Rambled into the Fair Where Trumpets and Bagepips , Kettledrums Fiddlers were all at work And the Cooks zung here's your delicate big and Pork . 5. I looked a round to zee the wonders of the Vair , Where Lads and Lasses With Pudding Bag Arses , so nimble were . Heels over Head , as round as a Wheel they turned about , Old Neck zure was in their Breeches without doubt . 6. Most woundly pleased , I up and down the Vair did rang , To zee the Vine Varies Play all their Vigaries , I vow 'twas strange . I asked them aloud what Country little Folk they were , A Cross Brat answered me , i were Cockhold shire . 7. I Thrust and Should along as well as ever I could , At last did I Grovel Into a dark Hovel , where Drink was sold . They brought me Cans which cost a penny a piece adheart I'm zure Twelve never could vil a Country Quart . 8. I went to draw her Purse to pay them for their Beer , The Devil a Penny Was left of my Money Che'l vow and swear . They Daft my Hat for a Groat then turned me out of doors , Adfwounds Ralph did ever zee such Rougs and Whores . LO [ NDO ] N , Printed by J. Wilkins , near the White-Friers Gate . ROGER IN AMAIZE OR , The Country men Ramble through Bartholomew - Fair . Tune of the Dutch Woman's Jig . I. ADzooks Ches went thee ' other day to London Town , In Smithfield such gaizing , Such Thrusting and Squeezing , was never known . A Zitty of Wood some Folk do call it Bartledom Fair , But Ches zure nought but Kings and Queen's live there . 2. In Gold and Zilver , Zilk and Velvet each was dressed , A Lord in his Zattin Was bussy preating , among the rest . But one in Blue Jacket come , which some doe Andrew call , Adsheart talked woundy wittily to them all . 3. At last Cotzooks he made such sport I laughed a loud The Rouge being flustered He flung me a Custard , amid the Crowed . The Folk well a laughing at me , then the Vezen zaid Be zure Ralph give it to Doll the Dary-Maid . 4. I zwallowed the affront , but stayed no longer there , I Thrust and I Scrambled Till further I Rambled into the Fair Where Trumpets and Bagepips , Kettledrums Fiddlers were all at work And the Cooks zung here's your delicate big and Pork . 5. I looked a round to zee the wonders of the Vair , Where Lads and Lasses With Pudding Bag Arses , so nimble were . Heels over Head , as round as a Wheel they turned about , Old Neck zure was in their Breeches without doubt . 6. Most woundly pleased , I up and down the Vair did rang , To zee the Vine Varies Play all their Vigaries , I vow 'twas strange . I asked them aloud what Country little Folk they were , A Cross Brat answered me , i were Cockhold shire . 7. I Thrust and Should along as well as ever I could , At last did I Grovel Into a dark Hovel , where Drink was sold . They brought me Cans which cost a penny a piece adheart I'm zure Twelve never could vil a Country Quart . 8. I went to draw her Purse to pay them for their Beer , The Devil a Penny Was left of my Money Che'l vow and swear . They Daft my Hat for a Groat then turned me out of doors , Adfwounds Ralph did ever zee such Rougs and Whores . LO [ NDO ] N , Printed by J. Wilkins , near the White-Friers Gate . 