A New Copy of Verses , Containing A Catalogue of Tailors Which will be exposed to Sale by Auction , at the Sign of the Six Cross Cucumbers and Cuckolds-Cap near Cabbage-Coart , the Sale beginning on Monday next by Nine in the Morning , and to continue till all be disposed of . To the Tune of And Orange . Licensed according to Order . Young lasses draw near , good news you shall hear , You now may Buy notable Husbands never fear , Kate , Nancy and Nell , we'll use you all well , We have about Seventeen Tailors to fell Now by Auction . You may understand there's Tom in the Strand , That has neither Silver nor Gold at Command , A Taylor by Trade , like Bully Arrayed , You may have a Pennyworth of this huffing Blade At the Auction . There's William beside , of dexterous Pride Whose Wife I must tell you last Whitsontide died A brawny brisk Lad , whose Colour is sad , For five or six Shillings he is to be had At the Auction . Near Exeter-street , a Taylor complete , A curious inventer of Fashions most neat , Courageous and Bold , scarce Thirty years Old , This Jolly brisk Taylor he is to be sold At the Auction . A Taylor precise , indifferent Wise , You'll find that he is of a middling size , Come Bridget and Bess , I vow and profess He is to be bought for a Tester or less At the Auction . Hard by Leaden-hall close under a Wall , A Taylor that sits in a Bulk or a Stall , A lover of Ale , whose Visage is Pale , Next Monday he will be exposed to Sale At the Auction . As I am alive not far from Queen-Hive , There dwells a young Taylor who now does con-trive To be mentioned here , for it does appear He brings along with him right delicate Gear At the Auction . There's Morgan and Will , welsh Thavid and Phill , Who lives in the middle of Cucumber-Hill , With Wit they are fraught , and yet for a Groat , These four bonny Tailors are now to be bought At the Auction . We have seven more , indifferent poor , Who han't yearned a penny this six weeks and more Some short , and some long , some feeble and strong You may have the seventeen for and old Song At the Auction . A Taylor all black , who happened to Crack The Cords of his Conscience , when Coin he did lack , Although he may huff , like Soldier in Buff , He is to be bought for a mere wooden Ruff , At the Auction . Near St. Clements-lane , stout Tom does remain , Of whom there's no woman alive can complain , He'll please and delight full sixteen a night , We fear that young Lasses for Thomas will fight . At the Auction . This Cucumber Crew begins to look blue , For why , they have little or nothing to do , Therefore a cast stock of Tailors do flock , And beg to be put in this new Catalogue For the Auction . The Tailors with Tears , they swear by their sheers , And wish if they lie they may lose all their Ears , Their Trade is so dead they scarce can get bred , And therefore by hundreds they now run a head To the Auction , Poor Robin he cried , and often replied , That ever since a week before last Whitsontide , No Cabbage God wot , had fell to his lot , For this very reason he swears he will trot To the Auction . Printed P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare and J Back . 1691. A New Copy of Verses , Containing A Catalogue of Tailors Which will be exposed to Sale by Auction , at the Sign of the Six Cross Cucumbers and Cuckolds-Cap near Cabbage-Coart , the Sale beginning on Monday next by Nine in the Morning , and to continue till all be disposed of . To the Tune of And Orange . Licensed according to Order . Young lasses draw near , good news you shall hear , You now may Buy notable Husbands never fear , Kate , Nancy and Nell , we'll use you all well , We have about Seventeen Tailors to fell Now by Auction . You may understand there's Tom in the Strand , That has neither Silver nor Gold at Command , A Taylor by Trade , like Bully Arrayed , You may have a Pennyworth of this huffing Blade At the Auction . There's William beside , of dexterous Pride Whose Wife I must tell you last Whitsontide died A brawny brisk Lad , whose Colour is sad , For five or six Shillings he is to be had At the Auction . Near Exeter-street , a Taylor complete , A curious inventer of Fashions most neat , Courageous and Bold , scarce Thirty years Old , This Jolly brisk Taylor he is to be sold At the Auction . A Taylor precise , indifferent Wise , You'll find that he is of a middling size , Come Bridget and Bess , I vow and profess He is to be bought for a Tester or less At the Auction . Hard by Leaden-hall close under a Wall , A Taylor that sits in a Bulk or a Stall , A lover of Ale , whose Visage is Pale , Next Monday he will be exposed to Sale At the Auction . As I am alive not far from Queen-Hive , There dwells a young Taylor who now does con-trive To be mentioned here , for it does appear He brings along with him right delicate Gear At the Auction . There's Morgan and Will , welsh Thavid and Phill , Who lives in the middle of Cucumber-Hill , With Wit they are fraught , and yet for a Groat , These four bonny Tailors are now to be bought At the Auction . We have seven more , indifferent poor , Who han't yearned a penny this six weeks and more Some short , and some long , some feeble and strong You may have the seventeen for and old Song At the Auction . A Taylor all black , who happened to Crack The Cords of his Conscience , when Coin he did lack , Although he may huff , like Soldier in Buff , He is to be bought for a mere wooden Ruff , At the Auction . Near St. Clements-lane , stout Tom does remain , Of whom there's no woman alive can complain , He'll please and delight full sixteen a night , We fear that young Lasses for Thomas will fight . At the Auction . This Cucumber Crew begins to look blue , For why , they have little or nothing to do , Therefore a cast stock of Tailors do flock , And beg to be put in this new Catalogue For the Auction . The Tailors with Tears , they swear by their sheers , And wish if they lie they may lose all their Ears , Their Trade is so dead they scarce can get bred , And therefore by hundreds they now run a head To the Auction , Poor Robin he cried , and often replied , That ever since a week before last Whitsontide , No Cabbage God wot , had fell to his lot , For this very reason he swears he will trot To the Auction . Printed P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare and J Back . 1691. 