The Royal Regulation : OR , THE King and Parliaments industrious Care in Regulating the State of the Coin of this Kingdom , for the Ease and Happiness of all loyal and loving Subject's . To the Tune of , The Evening Ramble , etc Licensed and Entered according to Order . YOu Merchant's , rich farmers and Graziers , and all other Dealers beside , Be pleased to draw near , good news you shall hear , so that you may be satisfied , The Money that's Clipped will go down , in Country , City and Town , The sweet Regulation quite through the Nation , appointed is now by the Crown : Coin-clippers are ruined we well understand , While we shall enjoy a sweet flourishing Land . That [ e ] re has been a dreadful Confusion , among loving Subject's of late , The Coin being base , it proved a disgrace to this our true Protestant State ; For Villains the were not afraid , but Burmigem Money they made , Which treacherous Actium , caused such a Distraction , it almost had ruined our Trade : But now it's redressed , as we well understand , It is the best Deed could be done in the Land . The King he was graciously pleased to call in the Money with care , Our Wrongs to redress , yet , nevertheless , such grumbling Subject's we are , That some was unwilling to wait , to see a rich flourishing State ; But this undertaking of new Money making , dear Friends , I must tell you is great : Yet when it's completed you will understand , It was the best Deed could be done in the Land . Consider the Crosses and Troubles , which every Man has been in , This many a day , and then you will say 'twas absolute time to begin ; The public Wrongs to redress , which did the whole Kingdom oppress ; Remember the Swearing , the raving and tearing , then , then you will surely confess , That the Regulation which now is in hand , Will be a great Comfort and Joy to the Land . When poor Men had taken their Wages , for which they had laboured with care , To Market they hey , Provision to buy , and may be when as they come there , Their Money for food would not pass , 'twas either Clipped , Burmige or Brass , Then have they lamented , and been discontented , for these was sharp Sorrows alas : The King he has taken this matter in and , It is the best Deed could be done in the Land . The Parliament they have invented , a method to mark the broad Coin , That Clippers no more , may spoil as before our Money so noble and fine ; Their Calling is quite at and end , for if they presume to offend , By covetous Clipping , nay , Filing and Snipping , it shall not pass to any Friend : This new Regulation I well understand To be the best Deed could be done in the Land . Now nothing but broad and milled Money , among us for currant shall go , Which delicate sighed , will fill with delight : the hearts of true Subject's I know , Which long has been vexed full soar , through our Native Kingdom all over ; But now ti is ended , we shall be offended with Burmigem Money no more : This new Regulation I well understand To be the best Deed could be done in the Land . Let none in the Nation be daunted , cheer up with a general joy Great William our King , in every thing , he studies our Griefs to destroy , His Soverant Love is well known , for as he looked down from the Throne , He see the whole Nation in sad Desolation , and pitied our sorrowful Moan : And therefore the cause he did soon take in hand To make us a happy and flourishing Land . London Printed for J . Blare , at the Looking-glass on London-bride . The Royal Regulation : OR , THE King and Parliaments industrious Care in Regulating the State of the Coin of this Kingdom , for the Ease and Happiness of all loyal and loving Subject's . To the Tune of , The Evening Ramble , etc Licensed and Entered according to Order . YOu Merchant's , rich farmers and Graziers , and all other Dealers beside , Be pleased to draw near , good news you shall hear , so that you may be satisfied , The Money that's Clipped will go down , in Country , City and Town , The sweet Regulation quite through the Nation , appointed is now by the Crown : Coin-clippers are ruined we well understand , While we shall enjoy a sweet flourishing Land . That [ e ] re has been a dreadful Confusion , among loving Subject's of late , The Coin being base , it proved a disgrace to this our true Protestant State ; For Villains the were not afraid , but Burmigem Money they made , Which treacherous Actium , caused such a Distraction , it almost had ruined our Trade : But now it's redressed , as we well understand , It is the best Deed could be done in the Land . The King he was graciously pleased to call in the Money with care , Our Wrongs to redress , yet , nevertheless , such grumbling Subject's we are , That some was unwilling to wait , to see a rich flourishing State ; But this undertaking of new Money making , dear Friends , I must tell you is great : Yet when it's completed you will understand , It was the best Deed could be done in the Land . Consider the Crosses and Troubles , which every Man has been in , This many a day , and then you will say 'twas absolute time to begin ; The public Wrongs to redress , which did the whole Kingdom oppress ; Remember the Swearing , the raving and tearing , then , then you will surely confess , That the Regulation which now is in hand , Will be a great Comfort and Joy to the Land . When poor Men had taken their Wages , for which they had laboured with care , To Market they hey , Provision to buy , and may be when as they come there , Their Money for food would not pass , 'twas either Clipped , Burmige or Brass , Then have they lamented , and been discontented , for these was sharp Sorrows alas : The King he has taken this matter in and , It is the best Deed could be done in the Land . The Parliament they have invented , a method to mark the broad Coin , That Clippers no more , may spoil as before our Money so noble and fine ; Their Calling is quite at and end , for if they presume to offend , By covetous Clipping , nay , Filing and Snipping , it shall not pass to any Friend : This new Regulation I well understand To be the best Deed could be done in the Land . Now nothing but broad and milled Money , among us for currant shall go , Which delicate sighed , will fill with delight : the hearts of true Subject's I know , Which long has been vexed full soar , through our Native Kingdom all over ; But now ti is ended , we shall be offended with Burmigem Money no more : This new Regulation I well understand To be the best Deed could be done in the Land . Let none in the Nation be daunted , cheer up with a general joy Great William our King , in every thing , he studies our Griefs to destroy , His Soverant Love is well known , for as he looked down from the Throne , He see the whole Nation in sad Desolation , and pitied our sorrowful Moan : And therefore the cause he did soon take in hand To make us a happy and flourishing Land . London Printed for J . Blare , at the Looking-glass on London-bride . 