The Jesuites Market , OR , A General Sale of Popish Relics , at the Savoy , upon the Priests breaking up their School and Chappel . Tune of , Old Simon the King . LAst Sunday I met by chance a man of upright Conversation ; His Name , if you'll know it was Prance , the Saviour once of the Nation : Says he , if you're willing to go , and lay out your Silver and Gold , I'll carry you to see a fine Show , where some Relics are to be sold . All you that have Money to spare , i [ ' ] that neck of time are come , We're ready for sale , and will use you well , Come buy my fine Relics of Room . Along with him I went , for Sixpence the man let me in , With heat I was almost spent , before the rare Show did begin : The Curtain the Show did discover , A Priest , who most piously bowed , And crossed himself over and over , then spoke to the penitent Crowd . All you , etc Here is St. James his Bottle , with the Pilgr i ms Habit he wore ; It holds at least a pottle , or else i'm the Son of a Wh ---- Here is a piece of the Bag which Judas the money did bear in ; By Age it is turned to a Rag , for all things are the worse for the wearing All you , etc Here is St. J osephs Coat , its plainness shows no pride ; He wore it , though not worth a Groat that day that he married his Bride . His Breeches beside here are , come buy the whole Suit if you please , Though they're but a plain Leather pair , here's a good pair of strings at the knees . All you , etc Here is likewise the Gall of a Saint , it's good against Fits of the Mother , Or any such persons as saint it will cure as well as the other : Here is Pope Joans good Prayer , which she to the Church has given , But say it three times in a year , and 'twil surely convey you to Heaven All you , etc Here is our Blessed Ladies old Shoe , it cures both Kibe and Corn ; Heretofore in old time it was new , though the Latchets a little are torn , Here's enough of the Fish and the Bred for to dine any hungry Sinner , That was left when Five Thousand were fed , which our Saviour invited to dinner . All you , etc Here is His Holiness Beard , which Heretics call Pope J oan ; It was his own Hair I dare swear , or else I am sure he had none : Its Virtue is known to be such , if it touch Head or Face , or elsewhere , It restores again Hair very much , though with Age or with Actium grown bore . All you , etc Here is likewise St. Christophers Boot , which he wore when he plied at the ferry And boar on his back his Lord over , for the poor man had never a Wherry . It will please such as use the Seas , for its parallel never was found ; If you buy it and once but try it , you'll never while you live be drowned . All you , etc Here's more , which we cannot show , which lie all concealed in this Hamper prey buy they before I go , for to morrow by Heaven i'll scamper , I surely am hanged if I stay , yet know not which way to be trudging ; Come buy all my Trinkets today , for at night I must seek a new lodging . All you , etc This is not a time to jest , now we're balked of our great expectation , Before I'll be hanged for a Priest , I le steal privately out of the Nation . Now could I but [ l ] ight on by chance some Vessel that would be so civil , To waft me safe over to France , so my Chapmen were all at the Devil . All you that have Money to spare , i'th neck of time are come , We're ready for sale , and will use you well , come buy my fine Relics of Room . London , printed for J. C . The Jesuites Market , OR , A General Sale of Popish Relics , at the Savoy , upon the Priests breaking up their School and Chappel . Tune of , Old Simon the King . LAst Sunday I met by chance a man of upright Conversation ; His Name , if you'll know it was Prance , the Saviour once of the Nation : Says he , if you're willing to go , and lay out your Silver and Gold , I'll carry you to see a fine Show , where some Relics are to be sold . All you that have Money to spare , i [ ' ] that neck of time are come , We're ready for sale , and will use you well , Come buy my fine Relics of Room . Along with him I went , for Sixpence the man let me in , With heat I was almost spent , before the rare Show did begin : The Curtain the Show did discover , A Priest , who most piously bowed , And crossed himself over and over , then spoke to the penitent Crowd . All you , etc Here is St. James his Bottle , with the Pilgr i ms Habit he wore ; It holds at least a pottle , or else i'm the Son of a Wh ---- Here is a piece of the Bag which Judas the money did bear in ; By Age it is turned to a Rag , for all things are the worse for the wearing All you , etc Here is St. J osephs Coat , its plainness shows no pride ; He wore it , though not worth a Groat that day that he married his Bride . His Breeches beside here are , come buy the whole Suit if you please , Though they're but a plain Leather pair , here's a good pair of strings at the knees . All you , etc Here is likewise the Gall of a Saint , it's good against Fits of the Mother , Or any such persons as saint it will cure as well as the other : Here is Pope Joans good Prayer , which she to the Church has given , But say it three times in a year , and 'twil surely convey you to Heaven All you , etc Here is our Blessed Ladies old Shoe , it cures both Kibe and Corn ; Heretofore in old time it was new , though the Latchets a little are torn , Here's enough of the Fish and the Bred for to dine any hungry Sinner , That was left when Five Thousand were fed , which our Saviour invited to dinner . All you , etc Here is His Holiness Beard , which Heretics call Pope J oan ; It was his own Hair I dare swear , or else I am sure he had none : Its Virtue is known to be such , if it touch Head or Face , or elsewhere , It restores again Hair very much , though with Age or with Actium grown bore . All you , etc Here is likewise St. Christophers Boot , which he wore when he plied at the ferry And boar on his back his Lord over , for the poor man had never a Wherry . It will please such as use the Seas , for its parallel never was found ; If you buy it and once but try it , you'll never while you live be drowned . All you , etc Here's more , which we cannot show , which lie all concealed in this Hamper prey buy they before I go , for to morrow by Heaven i'll scamper , I surely am hanged if I stay , yet know not which way to be trudging ; Come buy all my Trinkets today , for at night I must seek a new lodging . All you , etc This is not a time to jest , now we're balked of our great expectation , Before I'll be hanged for a Priest , I le steal privately out of the Nation . Now could I but [ l ] ight on by chance some Vessel that would be so civil , To waft me safe over to France , so my Chapmen were all at the Devil . All you that have Money to spare , i'th neck of time are come , We're ready for sale , and will use you well , come buy my fine Relics of Room . London , printed for J. C . 