The City Cheat discovered : OR , A New Coffe-house Song . Persuading all civil and sober Men not to frequent the Coffe-houses so much , whither in London , Wapping , Westminster , or Common-Garden . Licensed according to Order , Tune of Lilli-bulero . ( 1 ) THE Coffe-house Trade is the best in the Town ; Young sparks that have money they thither repair : The Affairs of the Nation they have written down , To blow up their Noddles as light as the Air . Stories , Stories , Lies and Stories ; There's nothing but Stories when they begin . Pox on your News Letters , they lie both and flatters ; They are but a Trap to wheedle Men in . ( 2 ) At Cough house chat , I herd a Dear Joy , Protest that King James was lately made Pope . Who the Isle of Great Britain would quickly destroy , And hang all the Heretics up in a Roap . Stories , Stories , impudent Stories , Such foolish Stories make my Brains full . In such senseless Stories a Jacobite glories , Though they all be but Tales of a Cock and a Bull . ( 3 ) Fireships and Frigattes , with Top masts and Sails , At Coffe-house-Bay they cast Anchor at Night ; The Mistress salutes them in nasty Night-rails , Come in handsome Women , I know you are right . Kissing , Kissing , nothing but Kissing ; Kissing and Billing is all that they do ; There's Kissing and Wooing , and something else doing . And this is the Ruin of Jack and Tom too . ( 4 ) Some honest Housekeepers , that never went astray , They go to the Coffe-house with good intent : But when they begin with sweet Madam to play , There's nothing their passion of Love can prevent . With painting and Patches , they make up the Matches ; With kissing and whincing , and tickling her Womb . And then comes the tugging , the jugging , the bugging , While the honest good Woman sits drooping at home . ( 5 ) To Tavern or Alehouse no sober Men come , But all to the Cough house now they most go . Yet Miss with her delicate Syder and Mum , Can pick all their Pockets before they well know . Yes Sir , pray Sir , do Sir , stay Sir ; What you call , that you shall , welcome Sir . Tho after his billing , he has not a Shililng , Which when he comes home makes a horrible Stir . ( 6 ) The Cook-wench that lately escaped the Cart , A Thornback Maid that lives by her Wits ; She slily has learned the Coffe-house Art ; And now , like a Madam , the Confidence sits . WORSER ear Miss , rare Miss , prithee Miss , fair Miss , That never has been troubled with the Scurvy nor Itch , With a bumbling and fumbling , with tumbling & amp ; jumbling [ , ] With a roaring Gold-watch , that hangs at her Britch . ( 7 ) My Dear and my Honey , pray lend me some money ; And thus with her Charms she bewitches the Fool. Sometime she wants Rings , with other such things And makes the poor fellow as blind as and Owl . Wheedling , Wheedling , nothing but wheedling ; Lying and wheedling all the Night over . But a Pox on her Placket , she pays off his Jacket , And makes him give Money for paying the Score . ( 8 ) Then honest good Fellows go , when are you dry , And join for a Pottle , your two pence a piece ; You'll have more Content at and Alehouse hard by , Then you'll have at the Sign of the Shepherd and Fleece . Roger , Roger , Richard and Roger , Drink off a Health to William our King . The Bastard King Lewis , that swears to undo us , He never to Subjection this Nation shall bring . Printed and Sold by J.W. between the Two Gateways going into White-Fryars , 1691The City Cheat discovered : OR , A New Coffe-house Song . Persuading all civil and sober Men not to frequent the Coffe-houses so much , whither in London , Wapping , Westminster , or Common-Garden . Licensed according to Order , Tune of Lilli-bulero . ( 1 ) THE Coffe-house Trade is the best in the Town ; Young sparks that have money they thither repair : The Affairs of the Nation they have written down , To blow up their Noddles as light as the Air . Stories , Stories , Lies and Stories ; There's nothing but Stories when they begin . Pox on your News Letters , they lie both and flatters ; They are but a Trap to wheedle Men in . ( 2 ) At Cough house chat , I herd a Dear Joy , Protest that King James was lately made Pope . Who the Isle of Great Britain would quickly destroy , And hang all the Heretics up in a Roap . Stories , Stories , impudent Stories , Such foolish Stories make my Brains full . In such senseless Stories a Jacobite glories , Though they all be but Tales of a Cock and a Bull . ( 3 ) Fireships and Frigattes , with Top masts and Sails , At Coffe-house-Bay they cast Anchor at Night ; The Mistress salutes them in nasty Night-rails , Come in handsome Women , I know you are right . Kissing , Kissing , nothing but Kissing ; Kissing and Billing is all that they do ; There's Kissing and Wooing , and something else doing . And this is the Ruin of Jack and Tom too . ( 4 ) Some honest Housekeepers , that never went astray , They go to the Coffe-house with good intent : But when they begin with sweet Madam to play , There's nothing their passion of Love can prevent . With painting and Patches , they make up the Matches ; With kissing and whincing , and tickling her Womb . And then comes the tugging , the jugging , the bugging , While the honest good Woman sits drooping at home . ( 5 ) To Tavern or Alehouse no sober Men come , But all to the Cough house now they most go . Yet Miss with her delicate Syder and Mum , Can pick all their Pockets before they well know . Yes Sir , pray Sir , do Sir , stay Sir ; What you call , that you shall , welcome Sir . Tho after his billing , he has not a Shililng , Which when he comes home makes a horrible Stir . ( 6 ) The Cook-wench that lately escaped the Cart , A Thornback Maid that lives by her Wits ; She slily has learned the Coffe-house Art ; And now , like a Madam , the Confidence sits . WORSER ear Miss , rare Miss , prithee Miss , fair Miss , That never has been troubled with the Scurvy nor Itch , With a bumbling and fumbling , with tumbling & amp ; jumbling [ , ] With a roaring Gold-watch , that hangs at her Britch . ( 7 ) My Dear and my Honey , pray lend me some money ; And thus with her Charms she bewitches the Fool. Sometime she wants Rings , with other such things And makes the poor fellow as blind as and Owl . Wheedling , Wheedling , nothing but wheedling ; Lying and wheedling all the Night over . But a Pox on her Placket , she pays off his Jacket , And makes him give Money for paying the Score . ( 8 ) Then honest good Fellows go , when are you dry , And join for a Pottle , your two pence a piece ; You'll have more Content at and Alehouse hard by , Then you'll have at the Sign of the Shepherd and Fleece . Roger , Roger , Richard and Roger , Drink off a Health to William our King . The Bastard King Lewis , that swears to undo us , He never to Subjection this Nation shall bring . Printed and Sold by J.W. between the Two Gateways going into White-Fryars , 1691 