King James's Lamentation UPON THE LANDING OF KING WILLIAM IN HOLLAND . you Kings and Princes , all draw nigh , And hear my Lamentation ! For none was ever so Cursed as I , Who Ruled this Warlike Nation : To Irish Bogs forc [ ' ] worser to Retreat , And quit the Crown of Britain ; Three Crowns of late , were mine by Fate , But now I [ ' ] we none to Sit-on . ( 2 ) Scarce had the Irish senseless Crew Received me in their Army ; But me , Brave William , do's pursue , And ev [ ' ] ry-where Alarm me . Then Coward Teague begins to faint , His Courage then to fail him ; And though the [ B ] oyne to help him join , Yet dares not there Assail him . ( 3 ) As his Victorious Arms advance , I hasten to the Vulture ; And from the Rav [ ' ] nous Bird of F [ r ] ance , Seek Succour or Sepulture : But such unfortunate Success Do's on each side attend me ; That Heaven , I doubt , will put to Rout , All those who dare befriend me . ( 4 ) It's true , last Year and English Friend Did help the Gallick Navy ; But now his Projects at and End , Of Help what prospect have I ? My Brother Louis now thinks much Of all his vast Expenses And if next Spring no Comfort bring , I shall be left defenceless ( 5 ) But never was less hope than now , Since William is gone to Holland ; Where He and Germane Princes vow To make me King of No-Land . Ah , it's a fatal Interview ! Their Aspects show my Ruin : Such Earthy Stars , [ p ] ortend more Wars , To perfect my undoing . ( 6 ) While on a Glorious Chair of State Great WILLIAM sits Adored ; I mourn to think on my hard Fate , Which makes me thus Abhorred . O Grief of Mind to be forlorn , And by my own Reproved ; While in each Heart He has a part Courted , Admired and Loved . ( 7 ) 'Twas my unblest Italian Queen , My Greatness that Confounded ; Her Father's poor Estate is seen , With Fourscore Miles surrounded : By hocus Pranks , and Lazy Priests , And Popish Conjurations ; She's pulled me down , I've left my Crown , And Three brave Warlike Nations . ( 8 ) The Bishops I sent to the Tower , And wou [ ' ] worser have no Denial ; I Hanged my Subject's by my Power , And brought they then to Trial . Poor Women I did Head and Hang , As Guilty of High-Treason : Thus ev [ ' ] ry Act was Popish Black , And destitute of Reason . ( 9 ) Then Kings and Potentates that be , Attend my Lamentation ; And take Example now by me , Be wise by my Relation : For Providence does rule all things , In Country , King , and People ; But great [ ' ] s the Fallen , and worst of all , That's from promotion's Steeple . LONDON , Printed by J.W. in White-Fryars , 1690. King James's Lamentation UPON THE LANDING OF KING WILLIAM IN HOLLAND . you Kings and Princes , all draw nigh , And hear my Lamentation ! For none was ever so Cursed as I , Who Ruled this Warlike Nation : To Irish Bogs forc [ ' ] worser to Retreat , And quit the Crown of Britain ; Three Crowns of late , were mine by Fate , But now I [ ' ] we none to Sit-on . ( 2 ) Scarce had the Irish senseless Crew Received me in their Army ; But me , Brave William , do's pursue , And ev [ ' ] ry-where Alarm me . Then Coward Teague begins to faint , His Courage then to fail him ; And though the [ B ] oyne to help him join , Yet dares not there Assail him . ( 3 ) As his Victorious Arms advance , I hasten to the Vulture ; And from the Rav [ ' ] nous Bird of F [ r ] ance , Seek Succour or Sepulture : But such unfortunate Success Do's on each side attend me ; That Heaven , I doubt , will put to Rout , All those who dare befriend me . ( 4 ) It's true , last Year and English Friend Did help the Gallick Navy ; But now his Projects at and End , Of Help what prospect have I ? My Brother Louis now thinks much Of all his vast Expenses And if next Spring no Comfort bring , I shall be left defenceless ( 5 ) But never was less hope than now , Since William is gone to Holland ; Where He and Germane Princes vow To make me King of No-Land . Ah , it's a fatal Interview ! Their Aspects show my Ruin : Such Earthy Stars , [ p ] ortend more Wars , To perfect my undoing . ( 6 ) While on a Glorious Chair of State Great WILLIAM sits Adored ; I mourn to think on my hard Fate , Which makes me thus Abhorred . O Grief of Mind to be forlorn , And by my own Reproved ; While in each Heart He has a part Courted , Admired and Loved . ( 7 ) 'Twas my unblest Italian Queen , My Greatness that Confounded ; Her Father's poor Estate is seen , With Fourscore Miles surrounded : By hocus Pranks , and Lazy Priests , And Popish Conjurations ; She's pulled me down , I've left my Crown , And Three brave Warlike Nations . ( 8 ) The Bishops I sent to the Tower , And wou [ ' ] worser have no Denial ; I Hanged my Subject's by my Power , And brought they then to Trial . Poor Women I did Head and Hang , As Guilty of High-Treason : Thus ev [ ' ] ry Act was Popish Black , And destitute of Reason . ( 9 ) Then Kings and Potentates that be , Attend my Lamentation ; And take Example now by me , Be wise by my Relation : For Providence does rule all things , In Country , King , and People ; But great [ ' ] s the Fallen , and worst of all , That's from promotion's Steeple . LONDON , Printed by J.W. in White-Fryars , 1690. 