Private Occurrences : OR , The Transactions of the four Last Years , Written in Imitation of the Old Ballad of Hey brave Oliver , Ho brave Oliver , etc 1. A Protestant Muse , yet a lover of Kings : On the Age , grown a little Satyrical , Sings , Of Papists , their Counsels , and other fine things . Sing heigh brave Popery , ho rare Popery , o fine Popery O dainty popery , o . 2. She hope's she offends no Englishman's patience ; The Satyr's forbid on all such occasions , She's too good a Subject to Read Declarations . Sing heigh brave popery , etc 3. If the saying be good , of Let him Laugh that Wins , Sure a Loser may smile without any offence : My Muse then is gamesome , and thus she begins ; With heigh brave popery , etc 4. When Changed ---- deceased , to his Kingdoms dismay , By and Appoplex , or else some other way ; Our Brother with Shouts was proclaimed the same day Sing heigh brave popery , etc 5. His first Royal promise was never to touch Odr Rights , nor Religion , nor Privilege grutch But Pet --- he said that he granted too much , Sing heigh brave popery , etc 6. Then Mon --- came in with and Army of Fools , Betrayed by his Cuckold , and other dull Tools That painted the Turf of Green Sedgmore with Gules . Sing heigh brave popery , etc 7. That Victory got , some think to our wrong : The Priests braid out Joy in a Thanksgiving Song , And Teague with their Bald-pates were at it dingdong . Sing heigh brave popery , etc 8. Then straight a strong Army was levied in haste , To hinder Rebellion ; a very good Jest ; For some Rogues will swear 'twas to murder the Test . Sing heigh brave popery , etc 9. A politic Law which Rescusants did doom ; That into out Senate they never might come , But Equivalent since , was proposed in its room . Sing heigh brave popery , etc 10. As if a true Friend should in Kindness demand A Tooth in my Head , which firmly does stand , To give fored another he had in his hand . Sing heigh brave popery , etc 11. Then Term after Term , this great Matter was weighed , Old Judges turned out , and new Block --- ds made : That Cook or Wise Letteron never did read . Sing heigh brave popery , etc 12. The good Church of England with speed was run down , Whose Loyalty ever stood fast to the Crown And Presbyter John was made Major of the Town . Sing heigh brave popery , etc 13. The Bishops Disgrace made the Clergy to sob : A prey to Old Pet --- and president Bod And hurried to prison as if they did Rob , Sing heigh brave popery , etc 14. Then into the world , a dear P --- of W --- slipped ; 'Twas plain , for we hear a great Minister peeped . The Bricklayer for prating had like t'a been whipped . Sing heigh brave popery , etc 15. Thus Englands Distresses more fierce than the plague , That during three Years , of no Quiet could brag . The brave Prince of Orange is come from the Hague . Sing heigh brave popery , etc 16. A strong Fleet and Army they hither are bent , We know well the cause that there is something in't , And we doubt not , ever long we shall see it in print . Sing heigh brave popery , etc 17. Ah England , that never couldst valve thy peace : Had matters been now as in Elsabeths day , The Dutch had never ventured to Fish in our Seas . Then curse of popery , pox oF popery , plague oF popery O senseless popery , o . FINISPrivate Occurrences : OR , The Transactions of the four Last Years , Written in Imitation of the Old Ballad of Hey brave Oliver , Ho brave Oliver , etc 1. A Protestant Muse , yet a lover of Kings : On the Age , grown a little Satyrical , Sings , Of Papists , their Counsels , and other fine things . Sing heigh brave Popery , ho rare Popery , o fine Popery O dainty popery , o . 2. She hope's she offends no Englishman's patience ; The Satyr's forbid on all such occasions , She's too good a Subject to Read Declarations . Sing heigh brave popery , etc 3. If the saying be good , of Let him Laugh that Wins , Sure a Loser may smile without any offence : My Muse then is gamesome , and thus she begins ; With heigh brave popery , etc 4. When Changed ---- deceased , to his Kingdoms dismay , By and Appoplex , or else some other way ; Our Brother with Shouts was proclaimed the same day Sing heigh brave popery , etc 5. His first Royal promise was never to touch Odr Rights , nor Religion , nor Privilege grutch But Pet --- he said that he granted too much , Sing heigh brave popery , etc 6. Then Mon --- came in with and Army of Fools , Betrayed by his Cuckold , and other dull Tools That painted the Turf of Green Sedgmore with Gules . Sing heigh brave popery , etc 7. That Victory got , some think to our wrong : The Priests braid out Joy in a Thanksgiving Song , And Teague with their Bald-pates were at it dingdong . Sing heigh brave popery , etc 8. Then straight a strong Army was levied in haste , To hinder Rebellion ; a very good Jest ; For some Rogues will swear 'twas to murder the Test . Sing heigh brave popery , etc 9. A politic Law which Rescusants did doom ; That into out Senate they never might come , But Equivalent since , was proposed in its room . Sing heigh brave popery , etc 10. As if a true Friend should in Kindness demand A Tooth in my Head , which firmly does stand , To give fored another he had in his hand . Sing heigh brave popery , etc 11. Then Term after Term , this great Matter was weighed , Old Judges turned out , and new Block --- ds made : That Cook or Wise Letteron never did read . Sing heigh brave popery , etc 12. The good Church of England with speed was run down , Whose Loyalty ever stood fast to the Crown And Presbyter John was made Major of the Town . Sing heigh brave popery , etc 13. The Bishops Disgrace made the Clergy to sob : A prey to Old Pet --- and president Bod And hurried to prison as if they did Rob , Sing heigh brave popery , etc 14. Then into the world , a dear P --- of W --- slipped ; 'Twas plain , for we hear a great Minister peeped . The Bricklayer for prating had like t'a been whipped . Sing heigh brave popery , etc 15. Thus Englands Distresses more fierce than the plague , That during three Years , of no Quiet could brag . The brave Prince of Orange is come from the Hague . Sing heigh brave popery , etc 16. A strong Fleet and Army they hither are bent , We know well the cause that there is something in't , And we doubt not , ever long we shall see it in print . Sing heigh brave popery , etc 17. Ah England , that never couldst valve thy peace : Had matters been now as in Elsabeths day , The Dutch had never ventured to Fish in our Seas . Then curse of popery , pox oF popery , plague oF popery O senseless popery , o . FINIS 