Protestant OBSERVATOR : OR , A Touch of the strange Turn of TIMES , From the Reign of Queen Marry in 1555 , to this present Year . To the Tune of A true Touch of the Times . Licensed according to Order . 1. NOW listen a while , while I here do relate The many strange Turnings in Matters of State , Since bloody Queen Marry and Bonner did Reign , Of whom the whole Kingdom had cause to complain : Those that would not Turn were adjudged to Burn , At which our blessed Sion in Ashes did Mourn ; Yet her noble Martyrs Religious and Loyal , Through Faith they did stand the sharp fiery Trial. 2. Soon after these Flames had proved Protestant's Doom , A hight burning Fever did Marry consume : Then Lady Elizabeth she was made Queen , Whose Piety soon changed the sharp bloody Scene ; In spite of the Jesuites Envy and Malice , She was conveyed from a Prison to a Palace ; From a Vail of Tears to a Sceptre and Crown , And quickly she tumbled Room is Wooden God's down . 3. A lasting Foundation she likewise did make , For Law and Religion , which Room cannot shake : She had been preserved by a powerful Hand , For to be a public Good to this Land : In her blessed Reign she did baffle proud Spain , And studied the Protestant Rights to maintain ; And after she had Reigned full Fourty four years , Her Death did occasion whole Showers of Tears . 4. Then peaceable James came next to the Throne , Whose Learning and Wisdom all Persons must own : Though Peace and Religion was all his Desire , Rome is Faction against his sweet Life did conspire : The Jesuites hight , may they never be forgotten , In that they contrived a damned Gunpowder Plot , To blow up the King , and his Great Parliament . But Heaven in Mercy their Plot did prevent . 5. Then after him Reigned Charles his Royal Son , Who through a whole Ocean of Sorrows did run , And then at the last , by most unhappy Fate , Was Murdered and Martyred at his Palace-Gate ; There like a meek Lamb he did patiently die , Whose innocent blood did for just vengeance cry ; His Foes that were formerly used to frown , In private their Tears then ran trickling down . 6. Then Oliver came with his fiery Nose , The Common Prayer Service he soon did oppose , And Bishops turned out , with great Persons of State , They were like Old Almanacs , quite out of Date : Then Tinkers and Tailors did fit at the Helm , And Colonels with Cobblers did Govern the Realm : Thus having quite turned out the Bishops and Peers , Then Canters and Ranters were hauled in by the Ear . 7. Then Cromwell went hence in a horrid Whirlwind , And left all his Cobblers , and Tinkers behind . Then K. Charles , who long had been kept from his own , With Peace , Joy , and Triumph Returned to his Throne Where many long years he did Flourish and Reign , And we had no Cause in the least to complain ; To Eighty and four he the Sceptre did sway , Then died with full Age , or else some other way . 8. Then the next was a Papist that came to the Crown . Whose Jesuites strove to run Protestants down , Great Monmouth then hearing what they did contrive , Unto this great Kingdom he soon did arrive , Resolving to stand for the Protestant's good , And Sealed the same with the Price of his Blood , For Malice and Envy was frequently rife , Alas ! he was merely betrayed of his Life . 9. The Protestant Laws must be next overthrown , To make some Ten thousands times worse of their own , And then was provided with great Cost and Care , A Project to bring forth a Catholic Heir : But o ! how the Friars did fret , swear and damn , Because Protestants would not believe the quere Sham : Great William at length with and Army came here , And sent them away with a Flay in their Ear . 10. Now gracious King William is placed on the Throne , His Power let every Protestant own , And pray that the Heavens will always afford A Blessing along with his Conquering Sword , Our Laws to Restore , down with Babylon is Whore , That she may never trouble this Kingdom no more : Then Blessings from Heaven will fallen like a Due , Upon our Great King , and His Parliament too . Protestant OBSERVATOR : OR , A Touch of the strange Turn of TIMES , From the Reign of Queen Marry in 1555 , to this present Year . To the Tune of A true Touch of the Times . Licensed according to Order . 1. NOW listen a while , while I here do relate The many strange Turnings in Matters of State , Since bloody Queen Marry and Bonner did Reign , Of whom the whole Kingdom had cause to complain : Those that would not Turn were adjudged to Burn , At which our blessed Sion in Ashes did Mourn ; Yet her noble Martyrs Religious and Loyal , Through Faith they did stand the sharp fiery Trial. 2. Soon after these Flames had proved Protestant's Doom , A hight burning Fever did Marry consume : Then Lady Elizabeth she was made Queen , Whose Piety soon changed the sharp bloody Scene ; In spite of the Jesuites Envy and Malice , She was conveyed from a Prison to a Palace ; From a Vail of Tears to a Sceptre and Crown , And quickly she tumbled Room is Wooden God's down . 3. A lasting Foundation she likewise did make , For Law and Religion , which Room cannot shake : She had been preserved by a powerful Hand , For to be a public Good to this Land : In her blessed Reign she did baffle proud Spain , And studied the Protestant Rights to maintain ; And after she had Reigned full Fourty four years , Her Death did occasion whole Showers of Tears . 4. Then peaceable James came next to the Throne , Whose Learning and Wisdom all Persons must own : Though Peace and Religion was all his Desire , Rome is Faction against his sweet Life did conspire : The Jesuites hight , may they never be forgotten , In that they contrived a damned Gunpowder Plot , To blow up the King , and his Great Parliament . But Heaven in Mercy their Plot did prevent . 5. Then after him Reigned Charles his Royal Son , Who through a whole Ocean of Sorrows did run , And then at the last , by most unhappy Fate , Was Murdered and Martyred at his Palace-Gate ; There like a meek Lamb he did patiently die , Whose innocent blood did for just vengeance cry ; His Foes that were formerly used to frown , In private their Tears then ran trickling down . 6. Then Oliver came with his fiery Nose , The Common Prayer Service he soon did oppose , And Bishops turned out , with great Persons of State , They were like Old Almanacs , quite out of Date : Then Tinkers and Tailors did fit at the Helm , And Colonels with Cobblers did Govern the Realm : Thus having quite turned out the Bishops and Peers , Then Canters and Ranters were hauled in by the Ear . 7. Then Cromwell went hence in a horrid Whirlwind , And left all his Cobblers , and Tinkers behind . Then K. Charles , who long had been kept from his own , With Peace , Joy , and Triumph Returned to his Throne Where many long years he did Flourish and Reign , And we had no Cause in the least to complain ; To Eighty and four he the Sceptre did sway , Then died with full Age , or else some other way . 8. Then the next was a Papist that came to the Crown . Whose Jesuites strove to run Protestants down , Great Monmouth then hearing what they did contrive , Unto this great Kingdom he soon did arrive , Resolving to stand for the Protestant's good , And Sealed the same with the Price of his Blood , For Malice and Envy was frequently rife , Alas ! he was merely betrayed of his Life . 9. The Protestant Laws must be next overthrown , To make some Ten thousands times worse of their own , And then was provided with great Cost and Care , A Project to bring forth a Catholic Heir : But o ! how the Friars did fret , swear and damn , Because Protestants would not believe the quere Sham : Great William at length with and Army came here , And sent them away with a Flay in their Ear . 10. Now gracious King William is placed on the Throne , His Power let every Protestant own , And pray that the Heavens will always afford A Blessing along with his Conquering Sword , Our Laws to Restore , down with Babylon is Whore , That she may never trouble this Kingdom no more : Then Blessings from Heaven will fallen like a Due , Upon our Great King , and His Parliament too . 