THE Brandy-Bottle PLOT ; BEING A farther Narrative of the late Brandy - P lot , happily Discovered by and Honest and Loyal Pewterer , living in Panton-Street , near the Hay - Market : In which was found , ( in a False Bottom ) several Letters and Pa - pers , Pernicious to the present Government . To the Tune of , Lilli Borlero , etc Licensed and Entered according to Order . I . I'LL sing you a Song , if you'll pay me but fored , of a Plot in a Brandy-Bottle was Hatched ; A Friend to the Papists sat hovering over it , and Celiers Meal-Tub the like did never match : Though blind as a Beetle , Yet found as a Kettle , And true to the Pope and the Devil her Tutor ; She sent Cook in Kitchen , The Fool that they pitch on , With a Forehead of Brass , for Bottles of Pewter . II Designed for to match Old Judas his Bag , these Bottles were both made spick and span-new And would you know what they held in their Crag ? the Bottoms were false , but the Roguery was true : With all the sly Knavery , For Popery and Slavery , They propped up their Cause by such Crutches as these The Plot is so plain , Sir , It will be your bane , Sir , The poor Brandy-bottles run Vinegar Lees. III . Some people will tell us they had a Design , for cheering the Heart of the Monsieur of France ; To fill these two Bottles with good Brandy-Wine , and hearten his Cause with a Dram of good Nants ; That he and Mac-Nero , His Old Friend and Hero , [ In ] B ogland might Reign without Conscience or Law ; But o ! now I think oned , 'Twas Teague was to Drink oned , [ A ] and the Liquour to fill them was good Usquebagh . IV. But some Wiser Heads than others , tell Tales , that this False-bottomed Plot was laid deeper yet ; Designed for a Present to the young Prince of Wales , for two Sucking-Bottles instead of a Teat : For they say that their meaning , Is now for to Wean him , Because the young Bantling begins for to Prattle ; But Old-Nick has showed us , The spite that he owed us , And robbed the Welsh Prince of a dear Sucking-Bottle . V. The Gun-Powder-Plot never better was laid , our False-bottomed Bottles , a Project so new ; Nor Faux's Dark-Lanthorn so neatly was made , we Plotted like him , and shall Die like him too : Had the good Man of Pewter , Been kind , and stood Neuter , We had managed our Business as round as a Gun ; But pox oF the Devil , The Dog was Uncivil , Was Honest and Loyal , and all is undone . VI . Against Church and State these Plotters did aim , but would you know how they come off in a word The Lady was Blind , and the Plot it was Lame , and so both together they fell in a TO --- worser . The Letters , Pox Rot they , Were found in the Bottom , The Devil played false , and his Servants did fail ; For Trusty Cook-Ruffin , Sent Sweating and Puffing , To Stew in's own Grease , is mewed up in a Jail . Printed for J. M. in Little-Britain , 16 [ 8 ] 9. THE Brandy-Bottle PLOT ; BEING A farther Narrative of the late Brandy - P lot , happily Discovered by and Honest and Loyal Pewterer , living in Panton-Street , near the Hay - Market : In which was found , ( in a False Bottom ) several Letters and Pa - pers , Pernicious to the present Government . To the Tune of , Lilli Borlero , etc Licensed and Entered according to Order . I . I'LL sing you a Song , if you'll pay me but fored , of a Plot in a Brandy-Bottle was Hatched ; A Friend to the Papists sat hovering over it , and Celiers Meal-Tub the like did never match : Though blind as a Beetle , Yet found as a Kettle , And true to the Pope and the Devil her Tutor ; She sent Cook in Kitchen , The Fool that they pitch on , With a Forehead of Brass , for Bottles of Pewter . II Designed for to match Old Judas his Bag , these Bottles were both made spick and span-new And would you know what they held in their Crag ? the Bottoms were false , but the Roguery was true : With all the sly Knavery , For Popery and Slavery , They propped up their Cause by such Crutches as these The Plot is so plain , Sir , It will be your bane , Sir , The poor Brandy-bottles run Vinegar Lees. III . Some people will tell us they had a Design , for cheering the Heart of the Monsieur of France ; To fill these two Bottles with good Brandy-Wine , and hearten his Cause with a Dram of good Nants ; That he and Mac-Nero , His Old Friend and Hero , [ In ] B ogland might Reign without Conscience or Law ; But o ! now I think oned , 'Twas Teague was to Drink oned , [ A ] and the Liquour to fill them was good Usquebagh . IV. But some Wiser Heads than others , tell Tales , that this False-bottomed Plot was laid deeper yet ; Designed for a Present to the young Prince of Wales , for two Sucking-Bottles instead of a Teat : For they say that their meaning , Is now for to Wean him , Because the young Bantling begins for to Prattle ; But Old-Nick has showed us , The spite that he owed us , And robbed the Welsh Prince of a dear Sucking-Bottle . V. The Gun-Powder-Plot never better was laid , our False-bottomed Bottles , a Project so new ; Nor Faux's Dark-Lanthorn so neatly was made , we Plotted like him , and shall Die like him too : Had the good Man of Pewter , Been kind , and stood Neuter , We had managed our Business as round as a Gun ; But pox oF the Devil , The Dog was Uncivil , Was Honest and Loyal , and all is undone . VI . Against Church and State these Plotters did aim , but would you know how they come off in a word The Lady was Blind , and the Plot it was Lame , and so both together they fell in a TO --- worser . The Letters , Pox Rot they , Were found in the Bottom , The Devil played false , and his Servants did fail ; For Trusty Cook-Ruffin , Sent Sweating and Puffing , To Stew in's own Grease , is mewed up in a Jail . Printed for J. M. in Little-Britain , 16 [ 8 ] 9. 