A Trimmer's Confession of Faith : Or , The True Principles of A Jack of Both-Sides . Tune of , Which no Body can deny . Licensed according to Order . I. PRay lend me your Ears , if you've any to spare , You that love Commonwealth , as you hate Common-Pray'r , Who can in a Breath Pray , Dissemble and Swear ; Which not Body can deny . II I'm sometime o'th' wrong side , and sometime the right ; To day I'm a Jack , and tomorrow a Mite : I for either King pray , but for neither dare fight ; Which not Body can deny . III . I'm sometime a Rebel , and sometime a Saint , I sometime can Swear , and at other times Cant ; There's nothing but Grace ( I thank God ) that I want ; Which not Body can deny . IV. Old Babylon is Whore I cannot endure her ; I'm a Sanctified Zealot , there's none can be purer : Forswearing I hate , like any Non-Juror ; Which not Body can deny . V. Of gracious King William I am a great lover , Yet I side with a Party that prays for another ; I drink the King's Health , take it one way or tother : Which no Body can deny . VI . Precisely I creep like a Snail to the Meeting ; Where Sighing I meet with such sorrowful Greeting , Makes me hate a long Prayer , and five hours Prating : Which no Body can deny . VII . And there I sing Psalms , as if never weary ; Yet I must confess , when I'm frolic and merry , More Music I find in a Boat to the Ferry : Which no Body can deny . VIII . I pledge every Health my Companions drink round ; I can say Heavens bless , or the Devil confound ; I can hold with the Hare , and run with the Hound ; Which not Body can deny . IX . I can pray for a Bishop , and curse and Arch-Deacon ; I can seem very sorry that Charleroy is taken ; I can any thing say , to save my own Bacon ; Which not Body can deny . X. Sometime for a good Common-welath I am wishing ; Oh Oliver ! Oliver ! give us thy Blessing ; For in troubled Waters I vow I love fishing ; Which not Body can deny . XI . The Times are so ticklish , I vow and profess , I know not which Party or Cause to embrace ; I'll be sure to side with those that are least in distress ; Which not Body can deny . XII . With the Jacks I rejoice that Savoy is defeated ; With the Whigs I seem pleased he's so bravely retreated Friends and Foes are by me both equally treated , Which no Body can deny . XIII . Each Party , we see , now are full of great hope , There's some for the Devil , and some for the Pope ; And I am for any thing , but for a Rope ; Which not Body can deny . London : Printed for James Thomlinson near East-Smithfield , 1694. A Trimmer's Confession of Faith : Or , The True Principles of A Jack of Both-Sides . Tune of , Which no Body can deny . Licensed according to Order . I. PRay lend me your Ears , if you've any to spare , You that love Commonwealth , as you hate Common-Pray'r , Who can in a Breath Pray , Dissemble and Swear ; Which not Body can deny . II I'm sometime o'th' wrong side , and sometime the right ; To day I'm a Jack , and tomorrow a Mite : I for either King pray , but for neither dare fight ; Which not Body can deny . III . I'm sometime a Rebel , and sometime a Saint , I sometime can Swear , and at other times Cant ; There's nothing but Grace ( I thank God ) that I want ; Which not Body can deny . IV. Old Babylon is Whore I cannot endure her ; I'm a Sanctified Zealot , there's none can be purer : Forswearing I hate , like any Non-Juror ; Which not Body can deny . V. Of gracious King William I am a great lover , Yet I side with a Party that prays for another ; I drink the King's Health , take it one way or tother : Which no Body can deny . VI . Precisely I creep like a Snail to the Meeting ; Where Sighing I meet with such sorrowful Greeting , Makes me hate a long Prayer , and five hours Prating : Which no Body can deny . VII . And there I sing Psalms , as if never weary ; Yet I must confess , when I'm frolic and merry , More Music I find in a Boat to the Ferry : Which no Body can deny . VIII . I pledge every Health my Companions drink round ; I can say Heavens bless , or the Devil confound ; I can hold with the Hare , and run with the Hound ; Which not Body can deny . IX . I can pray for a Bishop , and curse and Arch-Deacon ; I can seem very sorry that Charleroy is taken ; I can any thing say , to save my own Bacon ; Which not Body can deny . X. Sometime for a good Common-welath I am wishing ; Oh Oliver ! Oliver ! give us thy Blessing ; For in troubled Waters I vow I love fishing ; Which not Body can deny . XI . The Times are so ticklish , I vow and profess , I know not which Party or Cause to embrace ; I'll be sure to side with those that are least in distress ; Which not Body can deny . XII . With the Jacks I rejoice that Savoy is defeated ; With the Whigs I seem pleased he's so bravely retreated Friends and Foes are by me both equally treated , Which no Body can deny . XIII . Each Party , we see , now are full of great hope , There's some for the Devil , and some for the Pope ; And I am for any thing , but for a Rope ; Which not Body can deny . London : Printed for James Thomlinson near East-Smithfield , 1694. 