A New SONG OF AND ORANGE . To the Tune of , The PUDDING . GOod People come buy The Fruit that I cry , That now is in Season , though Winter is nigh ; It'll do you all good , And sweeten your Blood , I'm sure it will please when you've once understood it's and Orange . II It's Cordial Juice , Does much Vigour produce , I may well recommend it to every men use , Though some it quite chills , And with fear almost kills , Yet certain each Healthy Man benefit feels by and Orange . III . To make Claret go down , Sometime there is found A jolly good Health , to pass pleasantly round ; But yet , I'll protest , Without any Jest , No Flavour is better then that of the taste of and Orange . IV. Perhaps you may think To Peters they Stink , Because from our Neighbours they're brought over Sea Yet sure , it's presumed , They may be perfumed By ' that scent of good cloves , for they may be stuck in and Orange . V. If they'll Cure the Ails In England and Wales , Whose Meat to their Stomachs long have not agreed , Since we're subject to Cast , Let's better the taste , ( Still being careful lest it Curdle at last ) with and Orange . VI . Old Stories rehearse , In Prose and in Verse , How a Welsh child was found by loving of cheese Let Sympathy show , How others can Spew , When once they're brought to the hated View of and Orange . VII . Though the Mobile Bawl , Like the Devil and all , For Religion , Property , Justice and Laws ; Yet in very good sooth , I'll tell you the Truth , There nothing is better to stop a Man's Mouth then and Orange . VIII . We are certainly told , That by Adam of old , Himself and his Bearns for and Apple was sold ; And who knows but his Son , By Serpents undone , And many beside may at last lose their own for and Orange . FINIS . Printed for R.G. 1688. A New SONG OF AND ORANGE . To the Tune of , The PUDDING . GOod People come buy The Fruit that I cry , That now is in Season , though Winter is nigh ; It'll do you all good , And sweeten your Blood , I'm sure it will please when you've once understood it's and Orange . II It's Cordial Juice , Does much Vigour produce , I may well recommend it to every men use , Though some it quite chills , And with fear almost kills , Yet certain each Healthy Man benefit feels by and Orange . III . To make Claret go down , Sometime there is found A jolly good Health , to pass pleasantly round ; But yet , I'll protest , Without any Jest , No Flavour is better then that of the taste of and Orange . IV. Perhaps you may think To Peters they Stink , Because from our Neighbours they're brought over Sea Yet sure , it's presumed , They may be perfumed By ' that scent of good cloves , for they may be stuck in and Orange . V. If they'll Cure the Ails In England and Wales , Whose Meat to their Stomachs long have not agreed , Since we're subject to Cast , Let's better the taste , ( Still being careful lest it Curdle at last ) with and Orange . VI . Old Stories rehearse , In Prose and in Verse , How a Welsh child was found by loving of cheese Let Sympathy show , How others can Spew , When once they're brought to the hated View of and Orange . VII . Though the Mobile Bawl , Like the Devil and all , For Religion , Property , Justice and Laws ; Yet in very good sooth , I'll tell you the Truth , There nothing is better to stop a Man's Mouth then and Orange . VIII . We are certainly told , That by Adam of old , Himself and his Bearns for and Apple was sold ; And who knows but his Son , By Serpents undone , And many beside may at last lose their own for and Orange . FINIS . Printed for R.G. 1688. 