The Gazet in Metre ; OR THE RHYMING NEWSMONGER To the Tune of , Ever take Care of the Parson precise , Who cants out the Way to Salvation . With Allowance . I . SInce the whole World is so set upon News , And every Tom Farthing is a Statist ; Catching at Stories , of Turks and of Jews ; Of Protestant also , and of Papist ; Instead of a whining dull Ballad of Love , I'll give you a Gazet in Metre ; And that my Design you may better approve , I'll begin at the Chair of Saint Peter . II Letters from Room say , That since the Pope's dead , The Conclave do keep a great pother : They cannot conclude upon who shall be head , But each one opposes his Brother : For my part , I care not a pin for their Fude , Nor who is elected Successor ; But let they e'n bake as the matter they've brewed , They shall have a Northern Confessor . III . Ditto , informs us , That he that succeeds , Must shut the Pontifical Treasure ; The Eagle elsewhere must discover her Needs , His Holiness is not at leisure : The Sacred Exchequer is thriftily locked , No unhallowed Petition can enter ; Though Caesar had formerly Freedom to knock , Yet no man hereafter will venture . IV. Some say , it's because all the Money was sent , To assist the Imperial Forces ; And that the Pope's Nephews did give it a Vent , To maintain their extravagant Courses : Whither it be so , or whethered be not , I'm of and indifferent Temper ; But that which afflicts me most , is a Plot , Now hatching to ruin the Empire . V. Now let us pass to our other Advice , Which we have out of Holland and Flanders ; The Success of the Dutch against France , has its Ris [ e ] From the Conduct of English Commanders : Great Sirs , I congratulate you for the same , Your Fortune is always surprising ; Your Stories exceed all the Records of Fame , And go beyond Poets Devising . VI . Schomberg in Ireland has landed his Men , And the Navy to Chester ' s returned ; And in the next News it's a Hundred to Ten , But the Irish their Cities have burned : Or we shall hear of Ten thousand or more , By the Englishmen put to the Slaughter ; Beside the Destruction of many a Score , That were drowned in taking the Water . VII . Such mighty Success our brave Armies does Crown As cannot be matched in Story ; If thus we go on , we shall quickly pull down , The French , and eclipse all their Glory : Monsieur in the Navy must lore his Topsail , For by Sea they can never withstand us ; And their Armies by Land , in their Conduct will fail Though they are in Hope's to Disband us . LONDON , Printed for J . Wilkins in White-Friars , 1689. The Gazet in Metre ; OR THE RHYMING NEWSMONGER To the Tune of , Ever take Care of the Parson precise , Who cants out the Way to Salvation . With Allowance . I . SInce the whole World is so set upon News , And every Tom Farthing is a Statist ; Catching at Stories , of Turks and of Jews ; Of Protestant also , and of Papist ; Instead of a whining dull Ballad of Love , I'll give you a Gazet in Metre ; And that my Design you may better approve , I'll begin at the Chair of Saint Peter . II Letters from Room say , That since the Pope's dead , The Conclave do keep a great pother : They cannot conclude upon who shall be head , But each one opposes his Brother : For my part , I care not a pin for their Fude , Nor who is elected Successor ; But let they e'n bake as the matter they've brewed , They shall have a Northern Confessor . III . Ditto , informs us , That he that succeeds , Must shut the Pontifical Treasure ; The Eagle elsewhere must discover her Needs , His Holiness is not at leisure : The Sacred Exchequer is thriftily locked , No unhallowed Petition can enter ; Though Caesar had formerly Freedom to knock , Yet no man hereafter will venture . IV. Some say , it's because all the Money was sent , To assist the Imperial Forces ; And that the Pope's Nephews did give it a Vent , To maintain their extravagant Courses : Whither it be so , or whethered be not , I'm of and indifferent Temper ; But that which afflicts me most , is a Plot , Now hatching to ruin the Empire . V. Now let us pass to our other Advice , Which we have out of Holland and Flanders ; The Success of the Dutch against France , has its Ris [ e ] From the Conduct of English Commanders : Great Sirs , I congratulate you for the same , Your Fortune is always surprising ; Your Stories exceed all the Records of Fame , And go beyond Poets Devising . VI . Schomberg in Ireland has landed his Men , And the Navy to Chester ' s returned ; And in the next News it's a Hundred to Ten , But the Irish their Cities have burned : Or we shall hear of Ten thousand or more , By the Englishmen put to the Slaughter ; Beside the Destruction of many a Score , That were drowned in taking the Water . VII . Such mighty Success our brave Armies does Crown As cannot be matched in Story ; If thus we go on , we shall quickly pull down , The French , and eclipse all their Glory : Monsieur in the Navy must lore his Topsail , For by Sea they can never withstand us ; And their Armies by Land , in their Conduct will fail Though they are in Hope's to Disband us . LONDON , Printed for J . Wilkins in White-Friars , 1689. 