ROMES PLOTS against the Present Government discovered , OR THE Whore of Babylons Rich R obes Turned into a Torn-Placket . To the Tune , Jones Placket is Rend and Torn . Licensed according to Order . I . E Ngland must be Watchful now , The Roman busy are , They fain would Carry on their Show , And trap us in a snare ; But their Plot is still found out , their Treachery's all in vain , The Romish Whore , her Placket has tore , it's Rend and Torn in twain . II O how unhappy are these Tools , who rather far Agree , Then live like Lords , to die like Fools for their disloyalty ; But their Plot is still found out , their Treachery's all in vain , The Romish Whore , her Placket has Tore , it's Rend and Torn in twain . III . The black Designs of Romes and France , shall never Effectual be ; Our Nations Glory we'll Advance , and fix our Liberty ; For their Plot is still found out , their Treachery's all in vain , The Romish Whore , her Placket has tore , it's Rend and torn in twain . IV. They thought their brandy Bottle Plot , Was from discovery free , Their Traveling Shoes , and Pacquet B oat , Would all successful be , But their Plot is still found out , their Treacheries all in vain , The Romish whore , her placket has tore , it's Rend and torn in twain . V. Their evils never will prosperous be , against so good a Prince , Rebellious Rouges shall have ( you'll see ) a rope for recompense : For their Plot is still found out , their Treachery's all in vain , The Romish Whore , her placket has tore , it's Rend and torn in twain . VI . If Union was Established here , how happy should we be , No Pope nor Monsieur , need we fear , upon our Land or Sea , For their Plot is still found out , their Treachery's all in vain , The Romish Whore , her Placket has Tore , it's Rend and torn in twain . VII . You Plotters all you'd best beware ; now your design's undone , He's always in the safest sphere , who lets the state alone , For their Plot is still found out , their Treachery's all in vain , The Romish Whore , her Placket has tore , it's Rend and torn in twain . FINIS . Printed for R. Kell , at the White-Hart , in West-Smithfield , near Pye-Corner . ROMES PLOTS against the Present Government discovered , OR THE Whore of Babylons Rich R obes Turned into a Torn-Placket . To the Tune , Jones Placket is Rend and Torn . Licensed according to Order . I . E Ngland must be Watchful now , The Roman busy are , They fain would Carry on their Show , And trap us in a snare ; But their Plot is still found out , their Treachery's all in vain , The Romish Whore , her Placket has tore , it's Rend and Torn in twain . II O how unhappy are these Tools , who rather far Agree , Then live like Lords , to die like Fools for their disloyalty ; But their Plot is still found out , their Treachery's all in vain , The Romish Whore , her Placket has Tore , it's Rend and Torn in twain . III . The black Designs of Romes and France , shall never Effectual be ; Our Nations Glory we'll Advance , and fix our Liberty ; For their Plot is still found out , their Treachery's all in vain , The Romish Whore , her Placket has tore , it's Rend and torn in twain . IV. They thought their brandy Bottle Plot , Was from discovery free , Their Traveling Shoes , and Pacquet B oat , Would all successful be , But their Plot is still found out , their Treacheries all in vain , The Romish whore , her placket has tore , it's Rend and torn in twain . V. Their evils never will prosperous be , against so good a Prince , Rebellious Rouges shall have ( you'll see ) a rope for recompense : For their Plot is still found out , their Treachery's all in vain , The Romish Whore , her placket has tore , it's Rend and torn in twain . VI . If Union was Established here , how happy should we be , No Pope nor Monsieur , need we fear , upon our Land or Sea , For their Plot is still found out , their Treachery's all in vain , The Romish Whore , her Placket has Tore , it's Rend and torn in twain . VII . You Plotters all you'd best beware ; now your design's undone , He's always in the safest sphere , who lets the state alone , For their Plot is still found out , their Treachery's all in vain , The Romish Whore , her Placket has tore , it's Rend and torn in twain . FINIS . Printed for R. Kell , at the White-Hart , in West-Smithfield , near Pye-Corner . 