TO : City Justice , OR , True Equity Exposed . Being and Humble Petition to the King , of Eight Grandees of one Party , against Four of another . Faithfully turned into Verse dogril , by as real a Wellwisher to them , as they are to M onarchy . To the Tune of , Packingtons Pound . I . you Sages of London , of states high and low , I sing and Exploit late contrived in the City , And that you its Wit , and its Justice may know , I now have dispersed it , composed in a Ditty ; Eight Grandees of Power Against three , and one More , Complained to the King of some Fines that lay soar ; And framed a Petition , to heighten the Crime , Which wanting good Reason , I've put into Rhime . II The style began thus , Mighty Sir , you must know , In the year eighty three , we all guilty were found Of a damnable Riot , and no one knows how , Were saucily Fined above four thousand Pound : That by the vile power Of those three , and one More , We were all forced to pay the said Fine , or to scowr , And only for Acting like true English-men , Our Zeal for the Monarchy being most plain . III . But now since our happy and strange Revolution Those errors by Parliament all were dispersed , And at your Petitioners wise prosecution , That Judgement illegally given , was reversed ; That the Fine raised before , By those three , and one More , Your Majesty's liable now to restore ; But that all such Crimes you may rightly condemn , We hope Sir , to pay us , you'll take it from them . IV. For since that our Rights , and our Nations defending From Tyranny , was of your coming the cause , No other design of Subversion intending . But Relief of the Church , and establishing Laws , Which although have no power On these three , and one More , To make they refund , on a true Legal score ; Yet if you'll be pleased Sir to break one for us , We shan't , and we hope none will say it's unjust . V. We think it's unfit , you that came to protect it , Should your self in the least lie under the Law , But rather those Criminals should be rejected , That such bloody Fines from our Purses could draw , That the sum named before , Raised by three , and one More , Their substantial Estates should be pawned to res [ tore , ] That so into Parliament once it may come , Then your Majesty may be excused the Sum. VI . The PRAYER . We therefore most humbly beseech you Great Sir To except the said four in the next Act of Grace , The only chief reason who we ask it for . Is through a deep sentiment of our own Case , For the three , and one More , As I told you before , Won't refund it but by a Parliamentary power , Which if you'll be pleased to effest , in our way , As always we used , we will zealously Pray . FINIST : City Justice , OR , True Equity Exposed . Being and Humble Petition to the King , of Eight Grandees of one Party , against Four of another . Faithfully turned into Verse dogril , by as real a Wellwisher to them , as they are to M onarchy . To the Tune of , Packingtons Pound . I . you Sages of London , of states high and low , I sing and Exploit late contrived in the City , And that you its Wit , and its Justice may know , I now have dispersed it , composed in a Ditty ; Eight Grandees of Power Against three , and one More , Complained to the King of some Fines that lay soar ; And framed a Petition , to heighten the Crime , Which wanting good Reason , I've put into Rhime . II The style began thus , Mighty Sir , you must know , In the year eighty three , we all guilty were found Of a damnable Riot , and no one knows how , Were saucily Fined above four thousand Pound : That by the vile power Of those three , and one More , We were all forced to pay the said Fine , or to scowr , And only for Acting like true English-men , Our Zeal for the Monarchy being most plain . III . But now since our happy and strange Revolution Those errors by Parliament all were dispersed , And at your Petitioners wise prosecution , That Judgement illegally given , was reversed ; That the Fine raised before , By those three , and one More , Your Majesty's liable now to restore ; But that all such Crimes you may rightly condemn , We hope Sir , to pay us , you'll take it from them . IV. For since that our Rights , and our Nations defending From Tyranny , was of your coming the cause , No other design of Subversion intending . But Relief of the Church , and establishing Laws , Which although have no power On these three , and one More , To make they refund , on a true Legal score ; Yet if you'll be pleased Sir to break one for us , We shan't , and we hope none will say it's unjust . V. We think it's unfit , you that came to protect it , Should your self in the least lie under the Law , But rather those Criminals should be rejected , That such bloody Fines from our Purses could draw , That the sum named before , Raised by three , and one More , Their substantial Estates should be pawned to res [ tore , ] That so into Parliament once it may come , Then your Majesty may be excused the Sum. VI . The PRAYER . We therefore most humbly beseech you Great Sir To except the said four in the next Act of Grace , The only chief reason who we ask it for . Is through a deep sentiment of our own Case , For the three , and one More , As I told you before , Won't refund it but by a Parliamentary power , Which if you'll be pleased to effest , in our way , As always we used , we will zealously Pray . FINIS 