EPITHALAMIUM OR , A Wedding Song : ON The Supposed Marriage , of the Supposed Prince of Wales , to the Supposed Grand-Chil [ worser ] [ of ] the French King , the Supposed Son of Lewis the 13 th . as it was with the Consent of [ His ] Holiness ( or rather His Wickedness ) the Pope of Rome , Solemnized from Paris to Purge [ atory ] the Third of the last Greek Calends , 1689. To the Tune of , Lulla by baby , etc Licensed , and Entered according to Order . PRAY rub up your Ears , and I'll tell you a thing , The wonder of Subject's , the Wit of a King : Then give me attention to what I do Sing , Sing Tantara rara Boys hey , Boys heigh , sing Tantara rara Boys hey . The Young Prince of Wales he went over to France , To Fence and to Fiddle , and learn to Dance ; And there he did meet with a Mistress by chance : Sing Tantara rara Boys , etc He spied from his Cradle a Princess , that Cried , The Dophin is young Daughter with Swaddling Clouts tied : And fell in a Passion , as it he would have died . Sing Tantara rara Boys , etc The Prince to a minute , was half a year Old ; The Princess a quarter , but bucksome and bold , And both they were willing their Loves to unfold . Sing Tantara rara Boys , etc Young Innocent mumbled , and fumbled the Wench : And she made him answer , by Smiling in French : But he with his Rattle her passion did quench . Sing Tantara rara Boys , etc The Mazareen-King , the Most Christian Fox , That Europe Confounded , and Christendom Chokes : He herd of the Wooing , and swore by the POX . Sing Tantara rara Boys , etc Your Right to Three Kingdoms I dare to deny ; Then hopeful young Innocent , pray thee stand by : But Old Father Peters , he thus did reply . Sing Tantara rara Boys , etc The Prince of Wales is Right ( though now by mischance , He lives in your Kingdom , and backward does dance ) [ Is ] as good to England as yours was to France . Sing Tantara rara Boys , etc At last they agreed , and both Parties content : The day was appointed , mistakes to prevent ; And the Turk is Great Defender he gave his Consent . Sing Tantara rara Boys , etc Two Ladies of Honour the Parties did bear , The Bride in a Cradle , and him in a Chair ; But both in the Chapel , did Cry out for fear . Sing Tantara rara Boys , etc The Priest he made haste , and joined their Hands ; And thus secured them , in Wedlock Bans , Yet neither had Kingdom , nor People , nor Lands . Sing Tantara rara Boys , etc The Table was covered , the Dishes came in ; The Bride and the Bridegroom to cry did begin , For the poor Prince of Wales saw none of his Kin . Sing Tantara rara Boys , etc When Dinner was ended , to Dancing they went , And Lewis and Mally they Danced with consent ; A Jeg of sweet pleasure which gave them content . Sing Tantara rara Boys , etc The Popoe had a Daughter both Handsome and Fair , The only Brid's Maiden , that day , that was there , And she , of young Bastards had brought forth a pair . Sing Tantara rara Boys , etc The Princess was Pretty , and Royally Clad ; But still Young and Foolish , and hardly well Bred ; But the Prince he was eager to have her a Bed. Sing Tantara rara Boys , etc When both were a Bed , and the Candle put out , And the Bridegroom drew nearer he S ---- tO in his Clo [ ut , ] And the Wedding did end with a Stink and a Rout. Sing Tantara rara Boys , etc London , Printed for , and Sold by Jer. Wilkins , in White-Fryars near F leet-street . 1689. EPITHALAMIUM OR , A Wedding Song : ON The Supposed Marriage , of the Supposed Prince of Wales , to the Supposed Grand-Chil [ worser ] [ of ] the French King , the Supposed Son of Lewis the 13 th . as it was with the Consent of [ His ] Holiness ( or rather His Wickedness ) the Pope of Rome , Solemnized from Paris to Purge [ atory ] the Third of the last Greek Calends , 1689. To the Tune of , Lulla by baby , etc Licensed , and Entered according to Order . PRAY rub up your Ears , and I'll tell you a thing , The wonder of Subject's , the Wit of a King : Then give me attention to what I do Sing , Sing Tantara rara Boys hey , Boys heigh , sing Tantara rara Boys hey . The Young Prince of Wales he went over to France , To Fence and to Fiddle , and learn to Dance ; And there he did meet with a Mistress by chance : Sing Tantara rara Boys , etc He spied from his Cradle a Princess , that Cried , The Dophin is young Daughter with Swaddling Clouts tied : And fell in a Passion , as it he would have died . Sing Tantara rara Boys , etc The Prince to a minute , was half a year Old ; The Princess a quarter , but bucksome and bold , And both they were willing their Loves to unfold . Sing Tantara rara Boys , etc Young Innocent mumbled , and fumbled the Wench : And she made him answer , by Smiling in French : But he with his Rattle her passion did quench . Sing Tantara rara Boys , etc The Mazareen-King , the Most Christian Fox , That Europe Confounded , and Christendom Chokes : He herd of the Wooing , and swore by the POX . Sing Tantara rara Boys , etc Your Right to Three Kingdoms I dare to deny ; Then hopeful young Innocent , pray thee stand by : But Old Father Peters , he thus did reply . Sing Tantara rara Boys , etc The Prince of Wales is Right ( though now by mischance , He lives in your Kingdom , and backward does dance ) [ Is ] as good to England as yours was to France . Sing Tantara rara Boys , etc At last they agreed , and both Parties content : The day was appointed , mistakes to prevent ; And the Turk is Great Defender he gave his Consent . Sing Tantara rara Boys , etc Two Ladies of Honour the Parties did bear , The Bride in a Cradle , and him in a Chair ; But both in the Chapel , did Cry out for fear . Sing Tantara rara Boys , etc The Priest he made haste , and joined their Hands ; And thus secured them , in Wedlock Bans , Yet neither had Kingdom , nor People , nor Lands . Sing Tantara rara Boys , etc The Table was covered , the Dishes came in ; The Bride and the Bridegroom to cry did begin , For the poor Prince of Wales saw none of his Kin . Sing Tantara rara Boys , etc When Dinner was ended , to Dancing they went , And Lewis and Mally they Danced with consent ; A Jeg of sweet pleasure which gave them content . Sing Tantara rara Boys , etc The Popoe had a Daughter both Handsome and Fair , The only Brid's Maiden , that day , that was there , And she , of young Bastards had brought forth a pair . Sing Tantara rara Boys , etc The Princess was Pretty , and Royally Clad ; But still Young and Foolish , and hardly well Bred ; But the Prince he was eager to have her a Bed. Sing Tantara rara Boys , etc When both were a Bed , and the Candle put out , And the Bridegroom drew nearer he S ---- tO in his Clo [ ut , ] And the Wedding did end with a Stink and a Rout. Sing Tantara rara Boys , etc London , Printed for , and Sold by Jer. Wilkins , in White-Fryars near F leet-street . 1689. 