And Excellent new SONG Called , The Female DUEL : OR , The Victorious Williamite Lady , Who was challenged to Fight a Duel by a JACOBITE Lady . Tune of , If Love's a sweet Passion . IN Yokshire late happened a desperate fight Between a Jacobite lady and a Williamite , 'Twas fought with such courage no men could do more , Nor the like was never known between two women before ; For each met in the field with her sword by her side , Resolving the same should their quarrel decide . 'Twas after this manner the fray did begin , At a Knight's in Yorkshire at a merrymaking , There many fair ladies and gentlemen dined , When dinner was over then round went the wind , By that time each drank for their shear a whole quart , Then a bumper round ( for a health ) at a draught . Says the Jacobite lady , Drink a health to the King , Says the Williamite lady , That health I'll begin , In the field he's a monarch that's valiant and brave , And does venture his life these three kingdoms to save , Come madam , success to king William I say , And to all his brave forces by land and by sea . The Jacobite lady being put to a stand , Immediately struck glass and wine from her hand , And called her rebellious Heretic too , Then took up a bottle to give her a blow ; But some there did hinder her furious design , And fain would persuade her to friendship that time . But nothing her passion that time could assuage , She rise up in a fury , went away in a rage ; Next Morning she sent her a letter with speed ; When the Williamite Lady the same once did read , She found she was challenged , a sword she must bri [ ng , ] And fight her , for drinking a health to the king . The Williamite lady not daunted in mind , But answer did send , she would meet at the time : A suit of her brother's this lady put on , With a sword by her side too she marched along , To meet her bold challenger fairly to fight , For she said she'd not fear any she Jacobite . You are for king William , the Jacobite cried ; I am so , and will be while I live , she replied : Then you and I must have a trial of skill ; You see I'm prepared to kill , or be killed . Then bravely they thrust at each other I say , But the Jacoblte lady was forced to give way . Their glittering swords they did heartily push , Till the Jacobite lady fell into a bush . A man who did spy them came running in haste , And held , as he thought , a young man by the waste , Till the lady who fell , and lay bleeding , did cry , I am wounded , come help me , or else I shall die . Her hat and wigg falling off made them be known , Or else they had gone for two young men unknown ; But when I found out who these young women were , They begged I would not their strange quarrel declare ; And had not ones Brother came just as he did , This secret for me should for ever been hid . FINIS . Printed and sold by P. Pelcomb . And Excellent new SONG Called , The Female DUEL : OR , The Victorious Williamite Lady , Who was challenged to Fight a Duel by a JACOBITE Lady . Tune of , If Love's a sweet Passion . IN Yokshire late happened a desperate fight Between a Jacobite lady and a Williamite , 'Twas fought with such courage no men could do more , Nor the like was never known between two women before ; For each met in the field with her sword by her side , Resolving the same should their quarrel decide . 'Twas after this manner the fray did begin , At a Knight's in Yorkshire at a merrymaking , There many fair ladies and gentlemen dined , When dinner was over then round went the wind , By that time each drank for their shear a whole quart , Then a bumper round ( for a health ) at a draught . Says the Jacobite lady , Drink a health to the King , Says the Williamite lady , That health I'll begin , In the field he's a monarch that's valiant and brave , And does venture his life these three kingdoms to save , Come madam , success to king William I say , And to all his brave forces by land and by sea . The Jacobite lady being put to a stand , Immediately struck glass and wine from her hand , And called her rebellious Heretic too , Then took up a bottle to give her a blow ; But some there did hinder her furious design , And fain would persuade her to friendship that time . But nothing her passion that time could assuage , She rise up in a fury , went away in a rage ; Next Morning she sent her a letter with speed ; When the Williamite Lady the same once did read , She found she was challenged , a sword she must bri [ ng , ] And fight her , for drinking a health to the king . The Williamite lady not daunted in mind , But answer did send , she would meet at the time : A suit of her brother's this lady put on , With a sword by her side too she marched along , To meet her bold challenger fairly to fight , For she said she'd not fear any she Jacobite . You are for king William , the Jacobite cried ; I am so , and will be while I live , she replied : Then you and I must have a trial of skill ; You see I'm prepared to kill , or be killed . Then bravely they thrust at each other I say , But the Jacoblte lady was forced to give way . Their glittering swords they did heartily push , Till the Jacobite lady fell into a bush . A man who did spy them came running in haste , And held , as he thought , a young man by the waste , Till the lady who fell , and lay bleeding , did cry , I am wounded , come help me , or else I shall die . Her hat and wigg falling off made them be known , Or else they had gone for two young men unknown ; But when I found out who these young women were , They begged I would not their strange quarrel declare ; And had not ones Brother came just as he did , This secret for me should for ever been hid . FINIS . Printed and sold by P. Pelcomb . 