TO : The Valiant Damsel ; Giving and Account of a Maid at Westminster , who put her self in men Apparel , and Listed her self for a Soldier for the Wars of Flanders . Tune of , Let Marry live long . Licensed according to Order . GOod People attend , I bring a Relation . Of Girls in this Nation , Who fought to defend the Kingdom and Crown : In this present Reign , They fought on the Main , like strangers to fate , and now here's another , and now here's another was listed of late . At fair Ireland , In Soldier's Attire , A Woman did Fire , And valiantly stand at the Siege of Cork ; While the Shot did rebound , She received a Wound , yet feared not the foe ; And now here's another And now here's another for Flanders would go . A generous Maid , Both youthful and pretty , In Westminster City , Her self she arrayed , in Robes like a Youth , To a Captain she came , Where her sweet Maiden name she changed and concealed , Then listed for Flanders , Then listed for Flanders , to fight in the field . The Captain when he Did look on this Beauty , Contrary to Duty , Was troubled to see so pleasant a Youth To go out of this Land. Under Martial command , to face a proud foe ; But yet this young Stripling , But yet this young stripling resolved to go . My Parents are dead , Both Father and Mother , And therefore no other Thoughts runs in my head , but a Soldiers Life : If I happen to die , There is no one to cry for me , Sir , I know ; And therefore a Soldier , And therefore a Soldier to Flanders I'll go . Immediately then , The Youth being willing , Received a shilling , With other new men , thus listed was she . Lest they should change their mind , They were straitways confined from running away ; At length her dear Parents , At length her dear Parents , was told where she lay . Her mother strait went , Where she did behold her , The Damsel she told her , There's none should prevent her noble design : For in brisk Armour bright , She resolved to fight , and often replied : There's Captains and Coll'nels , There's Captains and Coll'nels to stand by our side . Dear Daughter forbear , You never shall merit , True fame by that Spirit , For I have took care to get your Discharge . When she found it was so , And that home she must go , her grief did excel . In Westminster City , In Westminster City this Damsel does dwell . Printed for C. Bates , next the Crown-Tavern , in West-SmithfieldT : The Valiant Damsel ; Giving and Account of a Maid at Westminster , who put her self in men Apparel , and Listed her self for a Soldier for the Wars of Flanders . Tune of , Let Marry live long . Licensed according to Order . GOod People attend , I bring a Relation . Of Girls in this Nation , Who fought to defend the Kingdom and Crown : In this present Reign , They fought on the Main , like strangers to fate , and now here's another , and now here's another was listed of late . At fair Ireland , In Soldier's Attire , A Woman did Fire , And valiantly stand at the Siege of Cork ; While the Shot did rebound , She received a Wound , yet feared not the foe ; And now here's another And now here's another for Flanders would go . A generous Maid , Both youthful and pretty , In Westminster City , Her self she arrayed , in Robes like a Youth , To a Captain she came , Where her sweet Maiden name she changed and concealed , Then listed for Flanders , Then listed for Flanders , to fight in the field . The Captain when he Did look on this Beauty , Contrary to Duty , Was troubled to see so pleasant a Youth To go out of this Land. Under Martial command , to face a proud foe ; But yet this young Stripling , But yet this young stripling resolved to go . My Parents are dead , Both Father and Mother , And therefore no other Thoughts runs in my head , but a Soldiers Life : If I happen to die , There is no one to cry for me , Sir , I know ; And therefore a Soldier , And therefore a Soldier to Flanders I'll go . Immediately then , The Youth being willing , Received a shilling , With other new men , thus listed was she . Lest they should change their mind , They were straitways confined from running away ; At length her dear Parents , At length her dear Parents , was told where she lay . Her mother strait went , Where she did behold her , The Damsel she told her , There's none should prevent her noble design : For in brisk Armour bright , She resolved to fight , and often replied : There's Captains and Coll'nels , There's Captains and Coll'nels to stand by our side . Dear Daughter forbear , You never shall merit , True fame by that Spirit , For I have took care to get your Discharge . When she found it was so , And that home she must go , her grief did excel . In Westminster City , In Westminster City this Damsel does dwell . Printed for C. Bates , next the Crown-Tavern , in West-Smithfield 