TO : A New Copy of Verses OF The WEAVERS LOYAL RESOLUTION . To the Tune of , Legon-Water . With Allowance . I . COME brave Boys lay by your Fears , Think no more of Want or Cares ; Come let's Pray for the King and Queen , For the Weaver was always Loyal seen . II Why should we like Madmen Pine At what the Parliament design , Their Acts to public Good Incline , Then let us for the Nations Welfare Joyn. III . The Weaver he never can want a Trade , Nor and Honest Way for to get his Bred ; Since the King wants Soldiers who can be More fit to Serve so Good a Prince then we . IV. Our Papist Forces shall never Boast , That they made us Mutiny to our Cost ; For the Loyal Weavers will submit To what the Parliament shall think fit . V. When all things fail , we'll March for France , And there we'll led Monsieur a Dance , We'll Plunder his Coffers when we come , And so make Amends for our Want at Home . VI . Maids shall still their Topknots wear , And in Silk Gowns , shall Gay appear ; Then Lasses now no more Repine , We'll Work at our Looms to make you Fine . VII . Each Pretty Lass , like Peacock dressed , With Silks may hide her Snowy Breast : Sweet Maids then wear what Money affords , For it's fine Feathers that makes fine Birds . VIII . Now fear no more a Steeple Crown , Nor find Fault with a Worsted Gown : The Bill which caused such Discontent , Is thrown quite out of the Parliament . IX . The Weaver at all times firmly stood , And would Work or Fight for his Country s Good ; And sure it shall never be said or seen , That he failed in his Love to the King and Queen . X. How Just is our Good Parliament , To Ruin our Trade , they not Consent ; Our Livelihoods they worser not destroy , But let us freely our Trades Enjoy . XI . Come Boys since we so happy are , Let's Drink a Health to the Royal Pair , Long may they Live , and Happy be , From Cares and every Misfortune free . XII . The Parliament let's not forget , Who all things in good order set ; May they United ever be , And Act with Justice and Prosperity . LONDON , Printed for , and Sold by J . Wilkins in White-Fryars , 1689T : A New Copy of Verses OF The WEAVERS LOYAL RESOLUTION . To the Tune of , Legon-Water . With Allowance . I . COME brave Boys lay by your Fears , Think no more of Want or Cares ; Come let's Pray for the King and Queen , For the Weaver was always Loyal seen . II Why should we like Madmen Pine At what the Parliament design , Their Acts to public Good Incline , Then let us for the Nations Welfare Joyn. III . The Weaver he never can want a Trade , Nor and Honest Way for to get his Bred ; Since the King wants Soldiers who can be More fit to Serve so Good a Prince then we . IV. Our Papist Forces shall never Boast , That they made us Mutiny to our Cost ; For the Loyal Weavers will submit To what the Parliament shall think fit . V. When all things fail , we'll March for France , And there we'll led Monsieur a Dance , We'll Plunder his Coffers when we come , And so make Amends for our Want at Home . VI . Maids shall still their Topknots wear , And in Silk Gowns , shall Gay appear ; Then Lasses now no more Repine , We'll Work at our Looms to make you Fine . VII . Each Pretty Lass , like Peacock dressed , With Silks may hide her Snowy Breast : Sweet Maids then wear what Money affords , For it's fine Feathers that makes fine Birds . VIII . Now fear no more a Steeple Crown , Nor find Fault with a Worsted Gown : The Bill which caused such Discontent , Is thrown quite out of the Parliament . IX . The Weaver at all times firmly stood , And would Work or Fight for his Country s Good ; And sure it shall never be said or seen , That he failed in his Love to the King and Queen . X. How Just is our Good Parliament , To Ruin our Trade , they not Consent ; Our Livelihoods they worser not destroy , But let us freely our Trades Enjoy . XI . Come Boys since we so happy are , Let's Drink a Health to the Royal Pair , Long may they Live , and Happy be , From Cares and every Misfortune free . XII . The Parliament let's not forget , Who all things in good order set ; May they United ever be , And Act with Justice and Prosperity . LONDON , Printed for , and Sold by J . Wilkins in White-Fryars , 1689 