TO : A Ready Cure for Uneasy Minds , FOR That their MONY will not Pass . To the Tune of , As I sat at my Spinning-Wheele . KInd Countrymen , Attention give , That you may all know how to live ; By swimming through this Trying-day , When few knows how to Lend or Pay The cause whereof , is this , alas ! Our Money from us will not pass . I know you are in great distress , And each Man troubled more or less ; But in my Muses you may find That which may ease your troubled mind ; Which now is vexed , for this alas , You Money have but it'll not pass . You all do know the very cause , Bad Men did violate our Laws ; So that our Coin in all Men's sighed , Became too little and too light ; And to our Rulers seemed , alas , Unfit a longer time to pass . To stop such fraud all means was used , But still our Money was abused ; Severity did not assuage That growing Mischief of our age ; And shall we now cry out alas , Because such Money will not pass . No not at all , but rather say , We hope to see a better Day ; Due course is took , Coin to defend , The Clippers gain is at end ; Which may make them cry out alas , Clipped Money will no longer pass . And for such Coin as is too light , We have a way to make it right , Of which he only give this hint , Lets cast it all into the Mint ; That we no longer cry alas , Our Money from us will not pass . If some shall say 'twil be great loss , There is no cure without some cross : To Purge our Humours that are ill , We all must take a bitter Pill ; Yet not too bitter , for alas , Where it's made good , it'll freely pass . Let every Man through out the land , But freely lend a helping hand , A lovely change we all should see , As fast as Money Coined [ can ] be ; And part with none but such alas As now lies by and will not pass . Then cease , o Man , for to complain , Count not the loss , but count [ the ] [ ga ] in ; One thing I see , which greatly [ by ] nds , We all shall have contented minds ; Which hath been wanting long alas , Because our Money would not pass . A second Branch , speaks good to all , Thereby our Markets soon will fallen ; Goods will be cheap of every kind , When Money runs to please each mind ; The rise whereof being this a las , We feared what now is come to pass . The Poor to labour will be willing , When they shall have a new Milled shilling : And every Man be in a way , To Buy , to Fell , to Lend , to Pay ; When Coin that now lies dead a las , Shall be revived and freely pass . Then mind once more what I did hint , And freely cast into the Mint , All Coin our Laws forbids to run , And do not think you are undone ; There is no other way alas , To make light Money freely pass . And if you do here to consent , You never will the same repent ; For why , your Children yet unbread , Will reap the Fruits when you are dead ; Not one of them will cry alas , We Money have but it'll not pass . And last of all , it'll be much pleasure When all our Coin is real Treasure : We shall not need to punch nor pounce , When every Crown weighs nigh and ounce ; To England , Honour , for alas , Such Coin throughout the World will pass . LONDON : Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-glass on London-Bridge . TO : A Ready Cure for Uneasy Minds , FOR That their MONY will not Pass . To the Tune of , As I sat at my Spinning-Wheele . KInd Countrymen , Attention give , That you may all know how to live ; By swimming through this Trying-day , When few knows how to Lend or Pay The cause whereof , is this , alas ! Our Money from us will not pass . I know you are in great distress , And each Man troubled more or less ; But in my Muses you may find That which may ease your troubled mind ; Which now is vexed , for this alas , You Money have but it'll not pass . You all do know the very cause , Bad Men did violate our Laws ; So that our Coin in all Men's sighed , Became too little and too light ; And to our Rulers seemed , alas , Unfit a longer time to pass . To stop such fraud all means was used , But still our Money was abused ; Severity did not assuage That growing Mischief of our age ; And shall we now cry out alas , Because such Money will not pass . No not at all , but rather say , We hope to see a better Day ; Due course is took , Coin to defend , The Clippers gain is at end ; Which may make them cry out alas , Clipped Money will no longer pass . And for such Coin as is too light , We have a way to make it right , Of which he only give this hint , Lets cast it all into the Mint ; That we no longer cry alas , Our Money from us will not pass . If some shall say 'twil be great loss , There is no cure without some cross : To Purge our Humours that are ill , We all must take a bitter Pill ; Yet not too bitter , for alas , Where it's made good , it'll freely pass . Let every Man through out the land , But freely lend a helping hand , A lovely change we all should see , As fast as Money Coined [ can ] be ; And part with none but such alas As now lies by and will not pass . Then cease , o Man , for to complain , Count not the loss , but count [ the ] [ ga ] in ; One thing I see , which greatly [ by ] nds , We all shall have contented minds ; Which hath been wanting long alas , Because our Money would not pass . A second Branch , speaks good to all , Thereby our Markets soon will fallen ; Goods will be cheap of every kind , When Money runs to please each mind ; The rise whereof being this a las , We feared what now is come to pass . The Poor to labour will be willing , When they shall have a new Milled shilling : And every Man be in a way , To Buy , to Fell , to Lend , to Pay ; When Coin that now lies dead a las , Shall be revived and freely pass . Then mind once more what I did hint , And freely cast into the Mint , All Coin our Laws forbids to run , And do not think you are undone ; There is no other way alas , To make light Money freely pass . And if you do here to consent , You never will the same repent ; For why , your Children yet unbread , Will reap the Fruits when you are dead ; Not one of them will cry alas , We Money have but it'll not pass . And last of all , it'll be much pleasure When all our Coin is real Treasure : We shall not need to punch nor pounce , When every Crown weighs nigh and ounce ; To England , Honour , for alas , Such Coin throughout the World will pass . LONDON : Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-glass on London-Bridge . 