TO : Great BRITTAIN's Joy for her most Gracious Majesty Queen ANN is being unanimously Proclaimed through England , Scot - land , and Ireland ; with the Loyalists Health . To the Tune of and Orange . Englishman . NOW England be Merry , and ever Rejoice , Since Heaven has made us so happy a Choice , To govern our Kingdom , and Curb our French Foes ; The F lower the luce shall stoop to the Rose , By a Stuart . Our brave English Boys will make the Dogs dance , To quell the exorbitant Power of F rance ; The Bug'rers will soon be compelled to own , They are but as Slaves to Britannia is Crown , By a Stuart . Welshman . Cod bless hur , Cod save hur , hur is a good Queen , The like since cood Betty hur never has seen , And now by Saint Tavy , cuts splutter a nails , Hur now is in hope's of a true Prince of Wales , From a Stuart . For hur excellent Majesty , who is so cood , Hur will willingly Fight , and loose hur Hearts blood , With Leek in hur Hat , hur will soon go to F rance , And with a read Herring make L ewis to dance , For a Stuart . Scotchman . Deel bleen me if I'm his Noddle don't cut , The old muckle Deel stop Hemp in his Gut , By my Sol the old pockyfyed L ewis le Grand Must expect to be kicked from his vassalized Land , By a Stuart . The Deel break my Craig , if I se'bate him and ace , Of thumping his Carcase and beating his Raze ; By bonny Saint Andrew we need not to fear , But that we shall maul them before the next Year , For a Stuart . Irishman . Dear Joy , I must tell you my Shalvashion , Most happy since Ann is made Queen is our Nashion , Which makes ush in good Usquebaugh , Oh , O , hone , Drink to the shuccess of the true English Throne , Of a Stuart . Her Majestish Grash , we will ever adore , And from our Shaint Patrick always implore That she may her Enemies Conquer , a gram , And make the F rench Tyrant the Shepter obey , Of a Stuart . French Hugonet . B egar she one Woman de very good Heart , To make te grand L ewis ambition for smart , One , tu , tre year she will tomb him down , All , have boys let trulily own , Our great Stuart . He fight the new Queen , Oh feuter diable , For what he not stand again England is able , On Monsieur let fallen , he one very bad man , Der Vine we will drink , and Sing Vive l' Ann . A fine Stuart . The Loyalists Health . To the Tune of let Caesar live long . Now for joy the blessed Ann by three Realms must be Crowned , A Health to her Glory by us shall go round , Long , long may she live , and over us Reign , So to her Success let's Drink all again , our B lood like our Wine does sparkle for Joy , And our Lives we will venture her Foes to Destroy . London , Printed by J. Read , in F leet-street . TO : Great BRITTAIN's Joy for her most Gracious Majesty Queen ANN is being unanimously Proclaimed through England , Scot - land , and Ireland ; with the Loyalists Health . To the Tune of and Orange . Englishman . NOW England be Merry , and ever Rejoice , Since Heaven has made us so happy a Choice , To govern our Kingdom , and Curb our French Foes ; The F lower the luce shall stoop to the Rose , By a Stuart . Our brave English Boys will make the Dogs dance , To quell the exorbitant Power of F rance ; The Bug'rers will soon be compelled to own , They are but as Slaves to Britannia is Crown , By a Stuart . Welshman . Cod bless hur , Cod save hur , hur is a good Queen , The like since cood Betty hur never has seen , And now by Saint Tavy , cuts splutter a nails , Hur now is in hope's of a true Prince of Wales , From a Stuart . For hur excellent Majesty , who is so cood , Hur will willingly Fight , and loose hur Hearts blood , With Leek in hur Hat , hur will soon go to F rance , And with a read Herring make L ewis to dance , For a Stuart . Scotchman . Deel bleen me if I'm his Noddle don't cut , The old muckle Deel stop Hemp in his Gut , By my Sol the old pockyfyed L ewis le Grand Must expect to be kicked from his vassalized Land , By a Stuart . The Deel break my Craig , if I se'bate him and ace , Of thumping his Carcase and beating his Raze ; By bonny Saint Andrew we need not to fear , But that we shall maul them before the next Year , For a Stuart . Irishman . Dear Joy , I must tell you my Shalvashion , Most happy since Ann is made Queen is our Nashion , Which makes ush in good Usquebaugh , Oh , O , hone , Drink to the shuccess of the true English Throne , Of a Stuart . Her Majestish Grash , we will ever adore , And from our Shaint Patrick always implore That she may her Enemies Conquer , a gram , And make the F rench Tyrant the Shepter obey , Of a Stuart . French Hugonet . B egar she one Woman de very good Heart , To make te grand L ewis ambition for smart , One , tu , tre year she will tomb him down , All , have boys let trulily own , Our great Stuart . He fight the new Queen , Oh feuter diable , For what he not stand again England is able , On Monsieur let fallen , he one very bad man , Der Vine we will drink , and Sing Vive l' Ann . A fine Stuart . The Loyalists Health . To the Tune of let Caesar live long . Now for joy the blessed Ann by three Realms must be Crowned , A Health to her Glory by us shall go round , Long , long may she live , and over us Reign , So to her Success let's Drink all again , our B lood like our Wine does sparkle for Joy , And our Lives we will venture her Foes to Destroy . London , Printed by J. Read , in F leet-street . 