TO : The Royal Court in Mourning , For the Death of our Gracious KING WILLIAM , Who left this Earthly Crown the 8th . of March 1701 , for one more glorious in Heaven , or Protestants Lamenation for the loss of so good and gracious a Prince , who was the De - fender of all good Protestants . Tune of , Aim not too high , Licensed according to Order . E Ngland , thy Sun have shined many years , But now thy Glorious Sun's beams disappear By darksome clouds thy sun is over spread , That valiant Prince great William now is dead , When as the Romish powers so did Reign , And many thousands thought they should be slan , this mighty Prince appointed by God's Hand , With great boldness came over to Englands land . And in short time this valiant prince of might , Did put his enemies unto their flght , And to great Englands , Joy this prince it's known , And his princess was settled on the thrown . And in few years his Queen by fatal death , Was forced to resign her vital breath , the which no doubt much like a fatal dart , Did wound this mighty monarch to the heart . In the next Place Death , he who Conquers all , Did force young Gloster at his feet to fallen , And now behold he who was Englands Joy , And great defender , death hath snached away . Leaving three Kingdoms now in tears to rue , Death thou hast done what Man could never do , this prince which thou hast taken from the throne Was the greatest Champion sure that ever was known . He never feared no mortal Man at all , A Second David sure we may him Call , By the Great mighty acts which he hath done , And for wisdom a second Soloman . From the first day that he enjoyed his Crown , Until that moment in which he laid it down , this good and gracious prince he all that while , Did give the Christian Churches leave to smile But now he is fallen by death's fatal hand , And we that are the natives of this Land , Are left in floods of tears with grief of soul , the loss of this good prince for to condole . Seeing his bright day is turned to darksome night And his dear Soul was forced to take her flight Lord let the Angels meet her by the way , And carry her safe into Eternal Joy . Seeing Death hath snatched him from his Earthl Throne Lord Jesus grant this Prince he may be one , That in the blessed Throne shall Crowned be , With Saints and Angels to Eternity . Seeing he is Dead to grieve it is in Vain , It's not our Tears can fetch him back again , England cheer up thy heart be not cast down , For there's another does enjoy his Crown . That wise and prudent Princess Lady ANN , Who was no doubt appointed by God's Hand . Brave England's Crown and Scepture for to sway And Heavens grant she may that same enjoy . In Peace with Joy and Pleasure many a Year , And grant while she remains among us here , She may up for the Church of England stand , And for the good of this our Native Land. Printed from J. Blare at the Looking-Glass on London-Bridg . TO : The Royal Court in Mourning , For the Death of our Gracious KING WILLIAM , Who left this Earthly Crown the 8th . of March 1701 , for one more glorious in Heaven , or Protestants Lamenation for the loss of so good and gracious a Prince , who was the De - fender of all good Protestants . Tune of , Aim not too high , Licensed according to Order . E Ngland , thy Sun have shined many years , But now thy Glorious Sun's beams disappear By darksome clouds thy sun is over spread , That valiant Prince great William now is dead , When as the Romish powers so did Reign , And many thousands thought they should be slan , this mighty Prince appointed by God's Hand , With great boldness came over to Englands land . And in short time this valiant prince of might , Did put his enemies unto their flght , And to great Englands , Joy this prince it's known , And his princess was settled on the thrown . And in few years his Queen by fatal death , Was forced to resign her vital breath , the which no doubt much like a fatal dart , Did wound this mighty monarch to the heart . In the next Place Death , he who Conquers all , Did force young Gloster at his feet to fallen , And now behold he who was Englands Joy , And great defender , death hath snached away . Leaving three Kingdoms now in tears to rue , Death thou hast done what Man could never do , this prince which thou hast taken from the throne Was the greatest Champion sure that ever was known . He never feared no mortal Man at all , A Second David sure we may him Call , By the Great mighty acts which he hath done , And for wisdom a second Soloman . From the first day that he enjoyed his Crown , Until that moment in which he laid it down , this good and gracious prince he all that while , Did give the Christian Churches leave to smile But now he is fallen by death's fatal hand , And we that are the natives of this Land , Are left in floods of tears with grief of soul , the loss of this good prince for to condole . Seeing his bright day is turned to darksome night And his dear Soul was forced to take her flight Lord let the Angels meet her by the way , And carry her safe into Eternal Joy . Seeing Death hath snatched him from his Earthl Throne Lord Jesus grant this Prince he may be one , That in the blessed Throne shall Crowned be , With Saints and Angels to Eternity . Seeing he is Dead to grieve it is in Vain , It's not our Tears can fetch him back again , England cheer up thy heart be not cast down , For there's another does enjoy his Crown . That wise and prudent Princess Lady ANN , Who was no doubt appointed by God's Hand . Brave England's Crown and Scepture for to sway And Heavens grant she may that same enjoy . In Peace with Joy and Pleasure many a Year , And grant while she remains among us here , She may up for the Church of England stand , And for the good of this our Native Land. Printed from J. Blare at the Looking-Glass on London-Bridg . 