The Unthankful Servant : OR , A Scolding Match between Two CRACKS of the TOWN , Margery Merrythought , and Nancy her Mistress , who taught her her Trade . As they happened to meet near the Piazza is in Covent-Garden . To the Tune of If Love's a sweet Passion . Licensed according to Order . I. WEll met , my dear Sister , you're grown very strange , For though every night through the City I range , I have never beheld you this six Weeks or more ; Have you such a full Trade at your Beldames own door , Without taking of pains for to walk too and from ? It is well for you M argery , if it be so . II Why Nancy what makes you discourse at this rate , It is very well known , that I never want a Mate ; I have Lawyers , young Merchant's , fine Sparks of the Town , That I need not go slaving , and trudge up and down , It's enough for such threadbare poor Housewives as you , To go cruising about for a Tester or two . III . You are but a Strumpet , your Friend to degrade , Pray remember last Winter I learned you your Trade ; And although you have had greater Fortune than I , Yet a Friend you have found me , you cannot deny ; When I took you with nothing both ragged and poor , Nay , and lent you the Topping & amp ; Gown which you wore . IV. But Mistress , quoth Margery , be not so hight , For the use of your Clothes , you had half what I god , Which amounted sometime to a Crown in a day ; Therefore I to my Grief did sufficiently pay For the use of your Topping , black Patches and Fans , And the best of my Work you took out of my hands . V. You are but a Hussy for telling me so , They were none but my Quarterly Cullies you know ; Honest Thomas the Barber , and Robin the Cook ; Not a penny or farthing of Money I took ; But I trusted till they did their Wages receive , And at this I was told , You did constantly grieve . VI . It's false : pray remember the Counsellor's Clark , Which I picked up my self near the Strand in the dark , Then I brought him home , thinking no harm I declare , I agreed for a Guinea , he liked my Ware : But you ogled him up to your Chamber above ; Thus I lost a good Booty , a Pox of your Love . VII . The reason of that I will presently clear , He had been my own Cully full three or four year ; He gives freely two Guineys , you bargained for one , Now I then understanding straight what you had done , I endeavoured to get him from you in a trice , I being resolved to keep up the Price . VIII . But how did you keep up the price , when you brought Home a Taylor , who gave you no more than a Groat ? It is very well known I never wrought at that rate , I would lie still a Month ever a penny I'ld bore Of a Guinea , and that shall be honestly paid , It is such Jilts as you that have run down the Trade . IX . You see my rich Topping both gaudy and gay , I am Coached from a Tavern , a Ball , or a Play ; While you here in a Tawdry Dress walk the street , And are glad of a 'Prentice , or whom you can meet ; I'll not spend my Breath on you , and therefore adieu It's a Scandal for me to stand talking to you . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . The Unthankful Servant : OR , A Scolding Match between Two CRACKS of the TOWN , Margery Merrythought , and Nancy her Mistress , who taught her her Trade . As they happened to meet near the Piazza is in Covent-Garden . To the Tune of If Love's a sweet Passion . Licensed according to Order . I. WEll met , my dear Sister , you're grown very strange , For though every night through the City I range , I have never beheld you this six Weeks or more ; Have you such a full Trade at your Beldames own door , Without taking of pains for to walk too and from ? It is well for you M argery , if it be so . II Why Nancy what makes you discourse at this rate , It is very well known , that I never want a Mate ; I have Lawyers , young Merchant's , fine Sparks of the Town , That I need not go slaving , and trudge up and down , It's enough for such threadbare poor Housewives as you , To go cruising about for a Tester or two . III . You are but a Strumpet , your Friend to degrade , Pray remember last Winter I learned you your Trade ; And although you have had greater Fortune than I , Yet a Friend you have found me , you cannot deny ; When I took you with nothing both ragged and poor , Nay , and lent you the Topping & amp ; Gown which you wore . IV. But Mistress , quoth Margery , be not so hight , For the use of your Clothes , you had half what I god , Which amounted sometime to a Crown in a day ; Therefore I to my Grief did sufficiently pay For the use of your Topping , black Patches and Fans , And the best of my Work you took out of my hands . V. You are but a Hussy for telling me so , They were none but my Quarterly Cullies you know ; Honest Thomas the Barber , and Robin the Cook ; Not a penny or farthing of Money I took ; But I trusted till they did their Wages receive , And at this I was told , You did constantly grieve . VI . It's false : pray remember the Counsellor's Clark , Which I picked up my self near the Strand in the dark , Then I brought him home , thinking no harm I declare , I agreed for a Guinea , he liked my Ware : But you ogled him up to your Chamber above ; Thus I lost a good Booty , a Pox of your Love . VII . The reason of that I will presently clear , He had been my own Cully full three or four year ; He gives freely two Guineys , you bargained for one , Now I then understanding straight what you had done , I endeavoured to get him from you in a trice , I being resolved to keep up the Price . VIII . But how did you keep up the price , when you brought Home a Taylor , who gave you no more than a Groat ? It is very well known I never wrought at that rate , I would lie still a Month ever a penny I'ld bore Of a Guinea , and that shall be honestly paid , It is such Jilts as you that have run down the Trade . IX . You see my rich Topping both gaudy and gay , I am Coached from a Tavern , a Ball , or a Play ; While you here in a Tawdry Dress walk the street , And are glad of a 'Prentice , or whom you can meet ; I'll not spend my Breath on you , and therefore adieu It's a Scandal for me to stand talking to you . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 