Age renewed by wedlock ; OR , The Old Woman's Commendations of Her young Husband . Tune , A Begging I will go , etc ( 1 ) COme all you Ancient Women Of Fourscore Years and Ten , But Marry with young Men And you'll all be young again : For a Lusty Bedfellow vigorous and strong , Will make and old Woman grow young . ( 2 ) Full fourscore Years and Seven I was Before I Wed , And was by Pains and Aiches , Compelled to keep my Bed : But a Youthful Bedfollow vigorous and strong , Has made and old Woman grow young . ( 3 ) He has a curious Correl As long as both my Thumbs , With two Bells' at the end oned With which he rubs my Gums : Thus a Youthful Bedfellow vigorous and strong , Will make and old Woman grow young . ( 4 ) Let every ancient Good-Wife Of such a Husband boast , He's brought me to my feeling Which I before had lost : Thus a Youthful Bedfellow vigorous and strong , Will make and old Woman grow young . ( 5 ) When they to Bed had put me That he might dig the further , I Begged my Friends assistance To lay me in right order : That my Youthful Bedfellow vigorous and strong , Might make and old Woman grow young . ( 6 ) I was a perfect Vergin For when he danced his Jig , Though I'm old enough to be a Sow Yet I squeeked like any Pigg : That my Youthful Bedfellow vigorous and strong , Might make and old Woman grow young . ( 7 ) I do do protest he Kisses Each Night like any wild , Insomuch that I know not But I may be with Child : For a Youthful Bedfellow vigorous and strong , Has made and old Woman grow young . ( 8 ) From Bedrid , Cough , and Dropsy , I now can go abraod , And am resolved to dress me In Tower and Commode : For a Youthful Bedfellow vigorous and strong , Has made and old Woman grow young . ( 9 ) My Husband is a Barbar His Washbals are admired , And I have god a Basin . Where he Ladders while he's tired : Thus a Youthful Bedfellow vigorous and strong , Has made and old Woman grow young . ( 10 ) Why therefore should old Women Be so despised by Men , Since by your kind assistance We can grow young again . For a Youthful Bedfellow vigorous and strong , Has made and old Woman grow young . LONDONT , Printed by J.W. in White-Friars Gateway , 1693. Age renewed by wedlock ; OR , The Old Woman's Commendations of Her young Husband . Tune , A Begging I will go , etc ( 1 ) COme all you Ancient Women Of Fourscore Years and Ten , But Marry with young Men And you'll all be young again : For a Lusty Bedfellow vigorous and strong , Will make and old Woman grow young . ( 2 ) Full fourscore Years and Seven I was Before I Wed , And was by Pains and Aiches , Compelled to keep my Bed : But a Youthful Bedfollow vigorous and strong , Has made and old Woman grow young . ( 3 ) He has a curious Correl As long as both my Thumbs , With two Bells' at the end oned With which he rubs my Gums : Thus a Youthful Bedfellow vigorous and strong , Will make and old Woman grow young . ( 4 ) Let every ancient Good-Wife Of such a Husband boast , He's brought me to my feeling Which I before had lost : Thus a Youthful Bedfellow vigorous and strong , Will make and old Woman grow young . ( 5 ) When they to Bed had put me That he might dig the further , I Begged my Friends assistance To lay me in right order : That my Youthful Bedfellow vigorous and strong , Might make and old Woman grow young . ( 6 ) I was a perfect Vergin For when he danced his Jig , Though I'm old enough to be a Sow Yet I squeeked like any Pigg : That my Youthful Bedfellow vigorous and strong , Might make and old Woman grow young . ( 7 ) I do do protest he Kisses Each Night like any wild , Insomuch that I know not But I may be with Child : For a Youthful Bedfellow vigorous and strong , Has made and old Woman grow young . ( 8 ) From Bedrid , Cough , and Dropsy , I now can go abraod , And am resolved to dress me In Tower and Commode : For a Youthful Bedfellow vigorous and strong , Has made and old Woman grow young . ( 9 ) My Husband is a Barbar His Washbals are admired , And I have god a Basin . Where he Ladders while he's tired : Thus a Youthful Bedfellow vigorous and strong , Has made and old Woman grow young . ( 10 ) Why therefore should old Women Be so despised by Men , Since by your kind assistance We can grow young again . For a Youthful Bedfellow vigorous and strong , Has made and old Woman grow young . LONDONT , Printed by J.W. in White-Friars Gateway , 1693. 