And Answer to The Unconstant Maiden CONTAINING The sorrowful Bride's bitter Tears and Passion for her Disloyalty to her first Love , whom she left , and married another after they were sure together , while he came to London . To the Tune of The Unconstant Maiden . Licensed according to Order . I . I Am a mournful Bride , almost distracted ; Kind Heavens be my Guide , how have I acted , Unto my Loyal Love , who did adore me , I did falsehearted prove , who can restore me ? II That pleasant sweet Delight , and double Blessing , TO he which both day and night I was possessing , Before I broke my Vow when my Love parted ; Conscience o ! tells me now , I was falsehearted . III . A sumptuous Ring of Gold my Jewel gave me , On which , dear Friends , behold , he did engrave me This Posy on the same , Think on the Giver ; Who will adore thy Name , Lady for ever . IV. This Ring I did receive , and Vows did make him , Who did that day believe , I'ld never forsake him . Long he was not in Town , ever I was married ; Fortune on me does frown , would I had tarried . V. Since I have wronged my Dear , Fortune ordained me No Peace or Quiet here , Conscience arraigns me For this Unconstancy sleeping and waking , I ready am to die my Heart is breaking . VI . At first I did pretend my Love did leave me , In this I did offend , if you'll believe me ; The Fault was mine alone , for he did love me , There was not any one he prized above me . VII . He that enjoys me now , here I assure him , Since I have broke my Vow , I can't endure him ; Tempted I was to Wed , True Love to sever , But now I loath his Bed , and shall for ever . VIII . Down from my melting eyes the Tears did trickle , Why did a found surprise make me thus fickle ? First , to oblige by Oath and Vows I'ld tarry , Yet straight did break them both , when I did Marry . IX . You Loyal Lovers all that hears this Story , Pity my woeful Fallen my blasted Glory ; I'll languish in despair robbed of all pleasure , My Grief is I declare , still out of measure . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . And Answer to The Unconstant Maiden CONTAINING The sorrowful Bride's bitter Tears and Passion for her Disloyalty to her first Love , whom she left , and married another after they were sure together , while he came to London . To the Tune of The Unconstant Maiden . Licensed according to Order . I . I Am a mournful Bride , almost distracted ; Kind Heavens be my Guide , how have I acted , Unto my Loyal Love , who did adore me , I did falsehearted prove , who can restore me ? II That pleasant sweet Delight , and double Blessing , TO he which both day and night I was possessing , Before I broke my Vow when my Love parted ; Conscience o ! tells me now , I was falsehearted . III . A sumptuous Ring of Gold my Jewel gave me , On which , dear Friends , behold , he did engrave me This Posy on the same , Think on the Giver ; Who will adore thy Name , Lady for ever . IV. This Ring I did receive , and Vows did make him , Who did that day believe , I'ld never forsake him . Long he was not in Town , ever I was married ; Fortune on me does frown , would I had tarried . V. Since I have wronged my Dear , Fortune ordained me No Peace or Quiet here , Conscience arraigns me For this Unconstancy sleeping and waking , I ready am to die my Heart is breaking . VI . At first I did pretend my Love did leave me , In this I did offend , if you'll believe me ; The Fault was mine alone , for he did love me , There was not any one he prized above me . VII . He that enjoys me now , here I assure him , Since I have broke my Vow , I can't endure him ; Tempted I was to Wed , True Love to sever , But now I loath his Bed , and shall for ever . VIII . Down from my melting eyes the Tears did trickle , Why did a found surprise make me thus fickle ? First , to oblige by Oath and Vows I'ld tarry , Yet straight did break them both , when I did Marry . IX . You Loyal Lovers all that hears this Story , Pity my woeful Fallen my blasted Glory ; I'll languish in despair robbed of all pleasure , My Grief is I declare , still out of measure . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 