Labour in Vain . OR , The Taylor no Man , Containing , the Lamentation of his Buxom Wife , for her hard Usage , and his Insufficiency . Tune of , Let Marry Live Long . Licensed according to Order . YOung Women I pray Be pleased to pity My sorrowful ditty , This Eighteen Months day I have been a Bride ; Yet I'll make it appear , I am never the near , I'm forced to complain , My Husband he Treats me , My Husband he Treats me , With Labour in vain . It's very well known , I am a sweet Beauty , If he did his duty , This sorrowful moan , I need never make ; But I'm made a mere fool By a fumbling tool , Which makes me complain , And weep when he Treats me , And weep when he Treats me , With Labour in vain . A Taylor good Lord , He is by profession , Who wanting discretion , He shall be obhorred By me I declare , For the Cabbidging Knave , Though I covet and crave , He lets me complain , And Treats me with nothing , And Treats me with nothing , But Labour in vain , In Cucumber time , I kept my self quiet , Concluding his Diet , Occasioned this Crime , I mean his neglect . But the Cucumbers cold I knew would not hold , So I would not complain , It's all one he Treats me , It's all one he Treats me , With Labour in vain . I feed him he knows With dainties at pleasure , That he in some measure Might readily close To give me content : I have made him Cock-broth , And yet by my troth No comfort I gain , He Treats me with nothing , He Treats me with nothing , But Labour in vain . Although I may strive To stifle my passion , My grief and vexation , What woman alive Would suffer this wrong , This a wonder each day , That I don't run astray , Some comfort to gain , So long as he Treats me , So long as he Treats me With Labour in vain . Well , had I but known , That when I was wedded , And lawfully bedded , That he like a stone , Or log , would have lain , I would never have been caught , But who would have thought He'd let me complain , And Treat me with nothing , And Treat me with nothing , But Labour in vain . With grief I'm oppressed Which I cannot smother , I'ld fain be a Mother As well as the rest , I'm Buxom and Young , But declare it I can , That a Taylor's no Man , He lets me complain , And Treats me with nothing , And Treats me with nothing But Labour in vain . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . Labour in Vain . OR , The Taylor no Man , Containing , the Lamentation of his Buxom Wife , for her hard Usage , and his Insufficiency . Tune of , Let Marry Live Long . Licensed according to Order . YOung Women I pray Be pleased to pity My sorrowful ditty , This Eighteen Months day I have been a Bride ; Yet I'll make it appear , I am never the near , I'm forced to complain , My Husband he Treats me , My Husband he Treats me , With Labour in vain . It's very well known , I am a sweet Beauty , If he did his duty , This sorrowful moan , I need never make ; But I'm made a mere fool By a fumbling tool , Which makes me complain , And weep when he Treats me , And weep when he Treats me , With Labour in vain . A Taylor good Lord , He is by profession , Who wanting discretion , He shall be obhorred By me I declare , For the Cabbidging Knave , Though I covet and crave , He lets me complain , And Treats me with nothing , And Treats me with nothing , But Labour in vain , In Cucumber time , I kept my self quiet , Concluding his Diet , Occasioned this Crime , I mean his neglect . But the Cucumbers cold I knew would not hold , So I would not complain , It's all one he Treats me , It's all one he Treats me , With Labour in vain . I feed him he knows With dainties at pleasure , That he in some measure Might readily close To give me content : I have made him Cock-broth , And yet by my troth No comfort I gain , He Treats me with nothing , He Treats me with nothing , But Labour in vain . Although I may strive To stifle my passion , My grief and vexation , What woman alive Would suffer this wrong , This a wonder each day , That I don't run astray , Some comfort to gain , So long as he Treats me , So long as he Treats me With Labour in vain . Well , had I but known , That when I was wedded , And lawfully bedded , That he like a stone , Or log , would have lain , I would never have been caught , But who would have thought He'd let me complain , And Treat me with nothing , And Treat me with nothing , But Labour in vain . With grief I'm oppressed Which I cannot smother , I'ld fain be a Mother As well as the rest , I'm Buxom and Young , But declare it I can , That a Taylor's no Man , He lets me complain , And Treats me with nothing , And Treats me with nothing But Labour in vain . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 