TO : And Excellent new Song , called , The FAIRY QUEEN , OR , THE Merry Companions . SIng , sing while we trip it , trip trip it , trip trip it upon the Green , Let no ill vapours rise or fallen , Let no ill vapours rise or fallen , No nothing , no nothing offend , Let nothing offend our Fairy Queen , Let nothing , let nothing , let nothing Let nothing offend our Fairy Queen . The Queen is a coming , come coming , Come coming with all her Train , Let's hand and dance a round for joy , Let's hand and dance a round for joy , While Music , while Music does found , While Music does found upon the Plain , While Music , while Music , while Music , While Music does found upon the Plain . Now let us be singing , sing singing , sing singing in praise oF the Queen , Her beauty does excel the World , Her beauty does excel the World , No Goddess , no Goddess so fair , No Goddess so fair is to be seen , No Goddess , no Goddess , no Goddess , No Goddess so fair is to be seen . All joy to the fair one , the fair one , The fair one our Gracious Queen , She is the chief of Love's delight , She is the chief of Love's delight , Let no one , let no one offend , Let no one offend her on the Green , Let no one , let no one , let no one , Let no one offend her on the Green . Come let us all follow , fol follow , fol Follow our Queen each way , Let it be to the Woods or Plain , Let it be to the Woods of Plain , We'll trip it , we'll trip it along , We'll trip it along till break of day , We'll trip it , we'll trip it , we'll trip it , We'll trip it along till break of day . LONDON : Printed for P. Pelcomb , in the Strand . TO : And Excellent new Song , called , The FAIRY QUEEN , OR , THE Merry Companions . SIng , sing while we trip it , trip trip it , trip trip it upon the Green , Let no ill vapours rise or fallen , Let no ill vapours rise or fallen , No nothing , no nothing offend , Let nothing offend our Fairy Queen , Let nothing , let nothing , let nothing Let nothing offend our Fairy Queen . The Queen is a coming , come coming , Come coming with all her Train , Let's hand and dance a round for joy , Let's hand and dance a round for joy , While Music , while Music does found , While Music does found upon the Plain , While Music , while Music , while Music , While Music does found upon the Plain . Now let us be singing , sing singing , sing singing in praise oF the Queen , Her beauty does excel the World , Her beauty does excel the World , No Goddess , no Goddess so fair , No Goddess so fair is to be seen , No Goddess , no Goddess , no Goddess , No Goddess so fair is to be seen . All joy to the fair one , the fair one , The fair one our Gracious Queen , She is the chief of Love's delight , She is the chief of Love's delight , Let no one , let no one offend , Let no one offend her on the Green , Let no one , let no one , let no one , Let no one offend her on the Green . Come let us all follow , fol follow , fol Follow our Queen each way , Let it be to the Woods or Plain , Let it be to the Woods of Plain , We'll trip it , we'll trip it along , We'll trip it along till break of day , We'll trip it , we'll trip it , we'll trip it , We'll trip it along till break of day . LONDON : Printed for P. Pelcomb , in the Strand . 