The Frolicsome Bricklayer OF Mile-End TOWN , Or the Old Leachers Lamentation for the Loss of his Gold . Tune , Let Cesar live long . 1. YOung Men shall be blamed for their lewdness no more , Since Old Men turn Leachers at Sixty and Four . A Rich Aged Bricklay'r paid well for his time , Who in Bawdyhouse was god betwixt two Whores at a time . Like a Tumbler he sported with his couple of Coneis , Till it cost him good store of broad pieces and Guineas 2. Though a Mason is near Kin to a Bricklayers Trade , Yet they made him pay dear for his Stones being laid . The Jocular Jilts with their Cully made sport , And told him his Trowel was inches too short . Like a Tumbler he dallied with his couple of Coneis , Till it cost him good store of broad pieces and Guineas . 3. By Venturing on Two , mighty Courage was shown , Since most that deal with them , are worsted by one . They pleased the Old Fool with their Canting and Jears , They told him he had nothing stood stiff but his Ears . They huged him , and charmed him , with the title of honey , Till they god all his Gold and the rest of his Money . 4. Sure the old Man had never been made such a fool , Had he kept within's Compass or walked by his Rule [ . ] For his dealing in Stews he is served a right Trick , He'd had never had this loss had he kept to his Brick . He must now drudge again like a Foolish old Tony. To Recover the loss of his Gold and his Money . 5. Like True Cunning Jilts they enticed him to Bed , His Breeches and Gold he laid under his Head. But when he began at the Old Game to play , The other to's Pockets soon found out the way , Thus they drilled by degrees every Cross of his Money's Full Forty broad Pieces and Fourscore good Guineas . 6. The old Man to please them took wondered pains , Till he Tired his feeble cold impotent Veins . Then drowsiness soon on his Eyelids did creep , And charmed the poor weary Old Leacher to sleep . Now , now , is the time for the Jilts who were Cronies , To arise and rub off with his Gold and his Money's . 7. They slipped out of Bed , and with silence god up , And carried off their Booty , as round as a hoop . When the old Man awaked and found all was gone , He cried out , Oh my Gold , good Lord , I'm undone . He called up old Beleam and Raved for his Moneys , But no tidings could have of broad pieces or Guineas . 8. He found 'twas to no purpose for to stay there , But homeward he went full of Envy and Care . Soon after he met with his Ladies again , Into Newgate he put them where now they remain . But has no manner of hope's to recover his Moneys . They will rather be flogged then return him his Guineas . London , Printed for A. Chambers in White-Friers near the Gateway . 1693. The Frolicsome Bricklayer OF Mile-End TOWN , Or the Old Leachers Lamentation for the Loss of his Gold . Tune , Let Cesar live long . 1. YOung Men shall be blamed for their lewdness no more , Since Old Men turn Leachers at Sixty and Four . A Rich Aged Bricklay'r paid well for his time , Who in Bawdyhouse was god betwixt two Whores at a time . Like a Tumbler he sported with his couple of Coneis , Till it cost him good store of broad pieces and Guineas 2. Though a Mason is near Kin to a Bricklayers Trade , Yet they made him pay dear for his Stones being laid . The Jocular Jilts with their Cully made sport , And told him his Trowel was inches too short . Like a Tumbler he dallied with his couple of Coneis , Till it cost him good store of broad pieces and Guineas . 3. By Venturing on Two , mighty Courage was shown , Since most that deal with them , are worsted by one . They pleased the Old Fool with their Canting and Jears , They told him he had nothing stood stiff but his Ears . They huged him , and charmed him , with the title of honey , Till they god all his Gold and the rest of his Money . 4. Sure the old Man had never been made such a fool , Had he kept within's Compass or walked by his Rule [ . ] For his dealing in Stews he is served a right Trick , He'd had never had this loss had he kept to his Brick . He must now drudge again like a Foolish old Tony. To Recover the loss of his Gold and his Money . 5. Like True Cunning Jilts they enticed him to Bed , His Breeches and Gold he laid under his Head. But when he began at the Old Game to play , The other to's Pockets soon found out the way , Thus they drilled by degrees every Cross of his Money's Full Forty broad Pieces and Fourscore good Guineas . 6. The old Man to please them took wondered pains , Till he Tired his feeble cold impotent Veins . Then drowsiness soon on his Eyelids did creep , And charmed the poor weary Old Leacher to sleep . Now , now , is the time for the Jilts who were Cronies , To arise and rub off with his Gold and his Money's . 7. They slipped out of Bed , and with silence god up , And carried off their Booty , as round as a hoop . When the old Man awaked and found all was gone , He cried out , Oh my Gold , good Lord , I'm undone . He called up old Beleam and Raved for his Moneys , But no tidings could have of broad pieces or Guineas . 8. He found 'twas to no purpose for to stay there , But homeward he went full of Envy and Care . Soon after he met with his Ladies again , Into Newgate he put them where now they remain . But has no manner of hope's to recover his Moneys . They will rather be flogged then return him his Guineas . London , Printed for A. Chambers in White-Friers near the Gateway . 1693. 