The Young Lovers Enquiry : OR , The Bachelors Question to Cupid . To and Excellent New Air , Sung at the Play-House . IF Love's a Sweet Passion , why does it Torment ? If a Bitter , Oh tell me , whence comes my Content ? Since I suffer with Pleasure , why should I Complain , Or grieve at my Fate , when I know it's in vain : Yet so pleasing the Pain is , so soft is the Dart , That at once it both Wounds me , and tickles my Heart . ( 2 ) I grasp her Hand gently , look languishing down , And by passionate silence I make my Love known ; But Oh! how I'm blessed when so kind she does prove , By some willing Mistake , to discover her Love ; When in striving to hide it , she reveals all her Flame , And our Eyes tell each other what neither can name . ( 3 ) How pleasant is Beauty ? how sweet are the Charms ? How delightful Embraces ? how peaceful her Arms ? Sure there's nothing so easy , as learning to Love , It's taught us on Earth , and by all things above ; And to Beauty's bright Standard all the Hero's must yield , For it's Beauty that Conquers and keeps the fair Field . ( 4 ) To Beauty's bright Sceptre thus all things do bow , And it's to her that we Court , and to her that we Woo ; It so strangely does Vanquish , and soften the mind , That we yield at first sighed , to a Beauty that's kind : It's a Treasure we dote on , and Dream on each night , And there's nothing but Beauty can breed such Delight . ( 5 ) As soon as the Morning's bright Rays I behold , ( Like a Bride decked with Roses , and Rubies , and Gold ) Straight I think on fair Celia , Divine and so sweet , And long for to see her , and sighs at her Feet : Every moment I'm absent , I languish and die , And I love by the sweetness and Beams of her Eye . ( 6 ) Then grant , Oh you Powers , that her I may find Always yielding to Love , and most Charmingly kind ; That at last by Entreaties , she may be my Bride , And I have the Honour to lie by her side : Oh! the Pleasures that Beauty's can give when they please , They can Wound and can Cure a poor Lover with ease , ( 7 ) I'll envy no Princes , but sweetly will live Rest contented with Pleasures that Celia can give ; From all Rivals and Fears , may we both ever live free , And for ever be Happy , and ever agree : Thus in Sweetness and in innocent Freedom we'll prove All the Joys that kind Heaven gives to those that do Love . Printed for C. Bates , next door to the Crown-Tavern near Duck-Lane-end , in West Smithfield . 1692. The Young Lovers Enquiry : OR , The Bachelors Question to Cupid . To and Excellent New Air , Sung at the Play-House . IF Love's a Sweet Passion , why does it Torment ? If a Bitter , Oh tell me , whence comes my Content ? Since I suffer with Pleasure , why should I Complain , Or grieve at my Fate , when I know it's in vain : Yet so pleasing the Pain is , so soft is the Dart , That at once it both Wounds me , and tickles my Heart . ( 2 ) I grasp her Hand gently , look languishing down , And by passionate silence I make my Love known ; But Oh! how I'm blessed when so kind she does prove , By some willing Mistake , to discover her Love ; When in striving to hide it , she reveals all her Flame , And our Eyes tell each other what neither can name . ( 3 ) How pleasant is Beauty ? how sweet are the Charms ? How delightful Embraces ? how peaceful her Arms ? Sure there's nothing so easy , as learning to Love , It's taught us on Earth , and by all things above ; And to Beauty's bright Standard all the Hero's must yield , For it's Beauty that Conquers and keeps the fair Field . ( 4 ) To Beauty's bright Sceptre thus all things do bow , And it's to her that we Court , and to her that we Woo ; It so strangely does Vanquish , and soften the mind , That we yield at first sighed , to a Beauty that's kind : It's a Treasure we dote on , and Dream on each night , And there's nothing but Beauty can breed such Delight . ( 5 ) As soon as the Morning's bright Rays I behold , ( Like a Bride decked with Roses , and Rubies , and Gold ) Straight I think on fair Celia , Divine and so sweet , And long for to see her , and sighs at her Feet : Every moment I'm absent , I languish and die , And I love by the sweetness and Beams of her Eye . ( 6 ) Then grant , Oh you Powers , that her I may find Always yielding to Love , and most Charmingly kind ; That at last by Entreaties , she may be my Bride , And I have the Honour to lie by her side : Oh! the Pleasures that Beauty's can give when they please , They can Wound and can Cure a poor Lover with ease , ( 7 ) I'll envy no Princes , but sweetly will live Rest contented with Pleasures that Celia can give ; From all Rivals and Fears , may we both ever live free , And for ever be Happy , and ever agree : Thus in Sweetness and in innocent Freedom we'll prove All the Joys that kind Heaven gives to those that do Love . Printed for C. Bates , next door to the Crown-Tavern near Duck-Lane-end , in West Smithfield . 1692. 