And ANSWER TO The Young Lover's Enquiry : CONTAINING The kind and tender Expressions of Beautiful CELIA to her beloved PHAON To and Excellent New Tune . TRue Love's a sweet Passion when crowned with Delight , Yet a Bitter , when Beauty's can scornfully slight The tender Embraces , and amorous Charms , Which are to be found in Love's languishing Arms : Denied of the Blessing , in Sorrow he cries , The Wound I received from the glance of her Eyes , ( 2 ) You grasped my hand , and looked languishing when I endeavoured to answer right coily again ; But I such a Passion that minute did feel , Which I then had no Power or Art to conceal ; The Arrows of CUPID I felt so severe , Which made me discover that Passion , my Dear . ( 3 ) The Freedom of Pleasure my Dear shall enjoy , Though my Beauty may conquer , it shall not destroy : In the Valleys of Pleasure together we'll live , Thou shalt never want what thy fair Celia can give : Therefore now my dear Phaeon , no longer complain , If thou'rt wounded by Beauty , I'll heal thee again . ( 4 ) You tell me that every Hero must bow To the Sceptre of Beauty , yet I cannot tell how This Assertion you make can be absolute true , When you see that fair Celia is conquered by you : Then in Love's Golden Empire thou shalt ever bear sway , And thy Celia will study and strive to obey . ( 5 ) If Rubies and Roses a Bride's Ornament , In a Dream or a Vision , can yield such Content , How much great [ r ] a Transport of Love wilt thou find , In the perfect inj [ oh ] ying a Beauty that's kind ? Therefore fly to my Arms l [ i ] ke the dear render Dove , Thou shalt feed on the Sweets of a Banquet of Love . ( 6 ) The Harvest of Pleasant [ u ] re my Phaon shall reap , While with tender soft kisses I lull thee to sleep ; Nay , and CUPIDS with Qui [ v ] ers shall guard u [ s ] by Night , While we ba [ tO ] he in the Streams of our Youthful Delight Not a Frown on the Brow of thy Love shall appear . For my Care shall be still to Delight thee , my Dear . ( 7 ) How pleasant and sweet is the Fountain of Love . Which is here to be prized and admired above All the Titles of Honour , nay Fame and Renown , For there's nothing but Crosses and Cares with a Crown : I can slight Crown [ s ] and Sceptres , and the bright Golden Over For to Honour the Man whom I dearly adore . Printed for C. Bates , at the White-Hart in West-Smithfield near Pye-Corner . 1693. And ANSWER TO The Young Lover's Enquiry : CONTAINING The kind and tender Expressions of Beautiful CELIA to her beloved PHAON To and Excellent New Tune . TRue Love's a sweet Passion when crowned with Delight , Yet a Bitter , when Beauty's can scornfully slight The tender Embraces , and amorous Charms , Which are to be found in Love's languishing Arms : Denied of the Blessing , in Sorrow he cries , The Wound I received from the glance of her Eyes , ( 2 ) You grasped my hand , and looked languishing when I endeavoured to answer right coily again ; But I such a Passion that minute did feel , Which I then had no Power or Art to conceal ; The Arrows of CUPID I felt so severe , Which made me discover that Passion , my Dear . ( 3 ) The Freedom of Pleasure my Dear shall enjoy , Though my Beauty may conquer , it shall not destroy : In the Valleys of Pleasure together we'll live , Thou shalt never want what thy fair Celia can give : Therefore now my dear Phaeon , no longer complain , If thou'rt wounded by Beauty , I'll heal thee again . ( 4 ) You tell me that every Hero must bow To the Sceptre of Beauty , yet I cannot tell how This Assertion you make can be absolute true , When you see that fair Celia is conquered by you : Then in Love's Golden Empire thou shalt ever bear sway , And thy Celia will study and strive to obey . ( 5 ) If Rubies and Roses a Bride's Ornament , In a Dream or a Vision , can yield such Content , How much great [ r ] a Transport of Love wilt thou find , In the perfect inj [ oh ] ying a Beauty that's kind ? Therefore fly to my Arms l [ i ] ke the dear render Dove , Thou shalt feed on the Sweets of a Banquet of Love . ( 6 ) The Harvest of Pleasant [ u ] re my Phaon shall reap , While with tender soft kisses I lull thee to sleep ; Nay , and CUPIDS with Qui [ v ] ers shall guard u [ s ] by Night , While we ba [ tO ] he in the Streams of our Youthful Delight Not a Frown on the Brow of thy Love shall appear . For my Care shall be still to Delight thee , my Dear . ( 7 ) How pleasant and sweet is the Fountain of Love . Which is here to be prized and admired above All the Titles of Honour , nay Fame and Renown , For there's nothing but Crosses and Cares with a Crown : I can slight Crown [ s ] and Sceptres , and the bright Golden Over For to Honour the Man whom I dearly adore . Printed for C. Bates , at the White-Hart in West-Smithfield near Pye-Corner . 1693. 