THE Third Part of the Baffled Knight : OR , The Witty Lady's new Intrigue , by which she left him fettered in his Boots . Where he lay all Night in her Father's Park , Cursing his woeful Misfortune . To the Tune of , The Baffled Knight . The baffled Knight was fooled once more , you'll find by this pleasant ditty , For she whose charms he did adore is wondered sharp and witty . Returning from her father's park , just close by a summer-bower , She chanced to meet her angry spark , who gave her a frowning lower . The thoughts of what she twice had done , did cause him to draw his rapier , And at the lady then he run , and thus he bagan to vapour : You chused me at your father's gate , then tumbled me into the river ; I seek for satisfaction straight ; shall I be a fool for ever ! He came with resolution bent that evening to enjoy her ; And if she did not give consent that minute he would destroy her . I pray sir Knight , and why so hight again a young silly woman ? Such crimes as these might be forgotten , for merry intrigues are common . What do you count it mirth , he cried , to tumble me in and leave me , What if I drowned there had died , a dangerous jest , believe me . Well , if I pardon you this day those injuries out of measure , It is because without delay I mean to enjoy the pleasure . Your suit , she said , is not denied , but think of your boots of leather , And let me pull them off , she cried , before we lie down together . He set him down upon the grass , and violets so sweet and tender ; Now by this means it came to pass , that she did his purpose hinder . For having pulled his boots halfway , she cried , I am now your betters ; You shall not make of me your prey fit there like a thief in fetters . Now finding she had served him so , he rise and began to grumble ; Yet he could neither stand nor go , but did like a cripple tumble . The boots stuck fast , and would not stir , his folly she soon did mention , And laughing said , I pray kind sir , how like you my new invention ? My laughing sir you must excuse , you are but a stingless-nettle ; You'd never a stood for boots or shoes , had you been a man of mettle . Farewell sir Knight , it's almost ten , I fear neither wind nor weather ; I'll send my father's servingmen to pull off your boots of leather . She laughed out right , as well she might with merry conceits of scorning , And left him there to fit all night until the approaching morning . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , withouut Newgate . THE Third Part of the Baffled Knight : OR , The Witty Lady's new Intrigue , by which she left him fettered in his Boots . Where he lay all Night in her Father's Park , Cursing his woeful Misfortune . To the Tune of , The Baffled Knight . The baffled Knight was fooled once more , you'll find by this pleasant ditty , For she whose charms he did adore is wondered sharp and witty . Returning from her father's park , just close by a summer-bower , She chanced to meet her angry spark , who gave her a frowning lower . The thoughts of what she twice had done , did cause him to draw his rapier , And at the lady then he run , and thus he bagan to vapour : You chused me at your father's gate , then tumbled me into the river ; I seek for satisfaction straight ; shall I be a fool for ever ! He came with resolution bent that evening to enjoy her ; And if she did not give consent that minute he would destroy her . I pray sir Knight , and why so hight again a young silly woman ? Such crimes as these might be forgotten , for merry intrigues are common . What do you count it mirth , he cried , to tumble me in and leave me , What if I drowned there had died , a dangerous jest , believe me . Well , if I pardon you this day those injuries out of measure , It is because without delay I mean to enjoy the pleasure . Your suit , she said , is not denied , but think of your boots of leather , And let me pull them off , she cried , before we lie down together . He set him down upon the grass , and violets so sweet and tender ; Now by this means it came to pass , that she did his purpose hinder . For having pulled his boots halfway , she cried , I am now your betters ; You shall not make of me your prey fit there like a thief in fetters . Now finding she had served him so , he rise and began to grumble ; Yet he could neither stand nor go , but did like a cripple tumble . The boots stuck fast , and would not stir , his folly she soon did mention , And laughing said , I pray kind sir , how like you my new invention ? My laughing sir you must excuse , you are but a stingless-nettle ; You'd never a stood for boots or shoes , had you been a man of mettle . Farewell sir Knight , it's almost ten , I fear neither wind nor weather ; I'll send my father's servingmen to pull off your boots of leather . She laughed out right , as well she might with merry conceits of scorning , And left him there to fit all night until the approaching morning . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , withouut Newgate . 