The Young Damsels Courage and Conquest : OR , The close Encounter between Country K ATE and a lusty Soldier of FLANDERS . Tune of March Boys , etc Licensed according to Order . ( 1 ) A Soldier from Flanders he Traveled of late , and here in the City of London did lie , And happened to meet with bonny brisk Kate , a Lass with a delicate ruling Eye : She chucked the Soldier under the Chin , she being youthful brisk and airy , And said if thou wilt my favour win , then come Boy , come Boy , let's be merry : Come Boy , come Boy , beatrice upon my Drum Boy , fain would I see how thou canst Tabor , Do what you can , honest John , like a Man , and I'll reward you for your labour . ( 2 ) I never could Tabor a Drum , I declare , though long I have Marched in Flanders in Spain , A Musket I still on my Shoulders did bear , when ever I followed the Warlike-Train : The Damsel immediately thus replied , if thou art a Soldier draw out thy Rapier , Thy Courage and Valour with me shall be tried , Draw then draw I'll make you caper : Draw Boy , draw Boy , ' teent against the Law Boy for if I do but once come near you : It's my delight , for to fight . though by night , come on , brave Soldier , I'll not fear you . ( 3 ) He drew out his Rapier and to her did run ; as soon as she saw it young Kate god a fallen , But yet there alas was no prejudice done , she still for a closer encounter did call : Just when he thought he had got the day , her courage & amp ; strength did still grow stronger , So that she still showed him delicate play , till he , till he could strive no longer : Longer , longer , not a Minute longer , thus was he conquered by a Beauty , She god the day , as they say , in the fray , and vowed that she'd make him know his Duty . ( 4 ) She turned to the Soldier and gave him a smile , and said was you ever so beaten before , I am not like those that will parley a while , but conquer without any Cannons that roar : At this the Soldier was straight in a rage , resolving his Forces again to rally , That he with young beautiful Kate might engage , in vain , in vain , it was to dally , Dally , dally , never would he dally , nor would he yield on no condition ; She held him tooed , he did shoot , the dispute held while he'd spent his Ammunition . ( 5 ) Now his Bandeliers being empty at last , so that he no longer could stand the Field , He would have been running but she held him fast so that he was forced to submit and yield : Though often he fought in the Field of Mars , where Cannons had roared like claps of thunder , At length by a Beautiful Country Lass , he was subdued and soon brought under : Under , under , yet it was no wonder , being no more that [ a ] n what is common : Those that have fought , many Enemies stout , at length have been conquered by a Woman . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . The Young Damsels Courage and Conquest : OR , The close Encounter between Country K ATE and a lusty Soldier of FLANDERS . Tune of March Boys , etc Licensed according to Order . ( 1 ) A Soldier from Flanders he Traveled of late , and here in the City of London did lie , And happened to meet with bonny brisk Kate , a Lass with a delicate ruling Eye : She chucked the Soldier under the Chin , she being youthful brisk and airy , And said if thou wilt my favour win , then come Boy , come Boy , let's be merry : Come Boy , come Boy , beatrice upon my Drum Boy , fain would I see how thou canst Tabor , Do what you can , honest John , like a Man , and I'll reward you for your labour . ( 2 ) I never could Tabor a Drum , I declare , though long I have Marched in Flanders in Spain , A Musket I still on my Shoulders did bear , when ever I followed the Warlike-Train : The Damsel immediately thus replied , if thou art a Soldier draw out thy Rapier , Thy Courage and Valour with me shall be tried , Draw then draw I'll make you caper : Draw Boy , draw Boy , ' teent against the Law Boy for if I do but once come near you : It's my delight , for to fight . though by night , come on , brave Soldier , I'll not fear you . ( 3 ) He drew out his Rapier and to her did run ; as soon as she saw it young Kate god a fallen , But yet there alas was no prejudice done , she still for a closer encounter did call : Just when he thought he had got the day , her courage & amp ; strength did still grow stronger , So that she still showed him delicate play , till he , till he could strive no longer : Longer , longer , not a Minute longer , thus was he conquered by a Beauty , She god the day , as they say , in the fray , and vowed that she'd make him know his Duty . ( 4 ) She turned to the Soldier and gave him a smile , and said was you ever so beaten before , I am not like those that will parley a while , but conquer without any Cannons that roar : At this the Soldier was straight in a rage , resolving his Forces again to rally , That he with young beautiful Kate might engage , in vain , in vain , it was to dally , Dally , dally , never would he dally , nor would he yield on no condition ; She held him tooed , he did shoot , the dispute held while he'd spent his Ammunition . ( 5 ) Now his Bandeliers being empty at last , so that he no longer could stand the Field , He would have been running but she held him fast so that he was forced to submit and yield : Though often he fought in the Field of Mars , where Cannons had roared like claps of thunder , At length by a Beautiful Country Lass , he was subdued and soon brought under : Under , under , yet it was no wonder , being no more that [ a ] n what is common : Those that have fought , many Enemies stout , at length have been conquered by a Woman . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , and J. Back . 