The Northampton-Shire Knight's DAUGHTER : CONTAINING Her Loyal Love and Constancy to her Father's Servingman , whom she admired . To the Tune of , The languishing Swain , etc Licensed according to Order . NEar to a Fountain all alone , A Damsel made lamenting moan , Unto herself she sighed and said , What must I live and die a Maid ? My Father is a worthy Knight , My Mother a gay Lady bright , And I have placed my Love so low , That it will prove my overthrow . For if my Dear , I maint enjoy , This Life of mine I will destroy ; For what is all the World , said she , If robbed of my felicity ? My Father's Servingman I love , His very sighed I prize above All Riches in the World beside ; Oh that I was his lawful Bride . For him I do such Torments feel , Which I no longer can conceal ; Therefore unto this Grave I make Sad Lamentation for his sake . I in a Dream received this Wound , And here I lie in Fetters bound ; But yet my Dearest does not know That I adore and love him so . Nay , if he understood my Mind , And was the like to Love inclined , Yet he to venture would be loath , For fear of my dear Father's wrath . I wish he was of high degree , Or I my self as poor as he ; Then , being in and equal state , We might not prove unfortunate . The Dairymaid and Shepherd-swain , Who trips over the rural Plain , In hight and cold , through wet and dry , Enjoys more Happiness than I . When they their Love and Liking place , They can with freedom's arms embrace ; But I am barred by Birth and State , And therefore most unfortunate . My Friends they have prepared for me , A Fortune of no mean degree , No less than a rich Barron-Knight , But he is not my Heart's delight . My Parents on my Dear will frown , I know they'll strive to run him down ; But let them all doe what they can , I'll never forsake my Servingman . If my dear Friends and Parents they Should strip me of my rich Array , Yet I in him can Joys behold , For Love is more to me than Gold . A most convenient Place I'll find , To let him understand my Mind , And if with me he will comply , With him I'll vow to live and die . My Friends may in a P [ ? ] And likewise [ ? ] Yet I [ ? ] will not fear , [ ? ] two thousand Pounds a Year . Of which they cannot hinder me , And I can well contented be , Having my Dear whom I adore , I'll never pine nor wish for more . Printed for C. Bates , at the White-Hart in West-Smithfield . The Northampton-Shire Knight's DAUGHTER : CONTAINING Her Loyal Love and Constancy to her Father's Servingman , whom she admired . To the Tune of , The languishing Swain , etc Licensed according to Order . NEar to a Fountain all alone , A Damsel made lamenting moan , Unto herself she sighed and said , What must I live and die a Maid ? My Father is a worthy Knight , My Mother a gay Lady bright , And I have placed my Love so low , That it will prove my overthrow . For if my Dear , I maint enjoy , This Life of mine I will destroy ; For what is all the World , said she , If robbed of my felicity ? My Father's Servingman I love , His very sighed I prize above All Riches in the World beside ; Oh that I was his lawful Bride . For him I do such Torments feel , Which I no longer can conceal ; Therefore unto this Grave I make Sad Lamentation for his sake . I in a Dream received this Wound , And here I lie in Fetters bound ; But yet my Dearest does not know That I adore and love him so . Nay , if he understood my Mind , And was the like to Love inclined , Yet he to venture would be loath , For fear of my dear Father's wrath . I wish he was of high degree , Or I my self as poor as he ; Then , being in and equal state , We might not prove unfortunate . The Dairymaid and Shepherd-swain , Who trips over the rural Plain , In hight and cold , through wet and dry , Enjoys more Happiness than I . When they their Love and Liking place , They can with freedom's arms embrace ; But I am barred by Birth and State , And therefore most unfortunate . My Friends they have prepared for me , A Fortune of no mean degree , No less than a rich Barron-Knight , But he is not my Heart's delight . My Parents on my Dear will frown , I know they'll strive to run him down ; But let them all doe what they can , I'll never forsake my Servingman . If my dear Friends and Parents they Should strip me of my rich Array , Yet I in him can Joys behold , For Love is more to me than Gold . A most convenient Place I'll find , To let him understand my Mind , And if with me he will comply , With him I'll vow to live and die . My Friends may in a P [ ? ] And likewise [ ? ] Yet I [ ? ] will not fear , [ ? ] two thousand Pounds a Year . Of which they cannot hinder me , And I can well contented be , Having my Dear whom I adore , I'll never pine nor wish for more . Printed for C. Bates , at the White-Hart in West-Smithfield . 