The Witty LASS of Lime-street : Containing her kind Advice to the Damosels of City and Con - try , in Preservation of their Virgin-rose ; with and Account how she served a Lawyer's Clark in St. James is Park . To the Tune of , The Bonny Milkmaid . Licensed according to Order . YOung Women and Lasses too , Pray listen to Mistress Prue , a Gentleman's Maid , and what I have said , Believe me you'll find it true ; the Sparks of the Town , that range up and down , Are often Virgins Foes ; when in their lap , bright gold they drap , yet no such Fop , should ever crop My delicate Virgin-rose . They commonly will pretend , To be your entire Friend , but when they shall find , one more to their mind , Their favours are at and end ; in sorrow and scorn , they leave you forlorn , With eyes that overflows ; then Damsels fair , I pray beware , when they come there , they will not spare Your delicate Virgin-rose . They'll flatter you with a kiss , For gaining the Lover's bliss , and when it is done , they'll eagerly run And find out another Miss ; both City and Court , do follow the sport , Decked up in gaudy Clothes ; they're so unjust , that Maids they worst , then never trust , but marry first , Before they have cropped your Rose . Beware of a tempting tongue , So pleasant and fairly hung , lest it should entice , your hearts in a trice , Oh come not the least among such Fellows , for fear grief brings up the rear , And does your faults expose ; with gall and rue , what ever you do , abhor the Crew that would pursue Your innocent Maiden rose . No honoured Lord or Knight , For guinea's of gold so bright , and though he would fain , should never obtain The pleasure of found delight ; I scorn to be great , at any such rate , A fig for gaudy clothes ; I do protest , I an't in jest , the very best , in velvet dressed Shall never defile my rose . One night in St. James is Park , I met with a Lawyer's Clark , and as we drew near , he called me his Dear ; But mind how I served the Spar [ k ] since he was so found , down into a pond , I shoved him with all his clothes on floods he waved , for help he craved , I run , he raved , and thus I saved My delicate Virgin-rose . London : Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-glass on London-bridgeThe Witty LASS of Lime-street : Containing her kind Advice to the Damosels of City and Con - try , in Preservation of their Virgin-rose ; with and Account how she served a Lawyer's Clark in St. James is Park . To the Tune of , The Bonny Milkmaid . Licensed according to Order . YOung Women and Lasses too , Pray listen to Mistress Prue , a Gentleman's Maid , and what I have said , Believe me you'll find it true ; the Sparks of the Town , that range up and down , Are often Virgins Foes ; when in their lap , bright gold they drap , yet no such Fop , should ever crop My delicate Virgin-rose . They commonly will pretend , To be your entire Friend , but when they shall find , one more to their mind , Their favours are at and end ; in sorrow and scorn , they leave you forlorn , With eyes that overflows ; then Damsels fair , I pray beware , when they come there , they will not spare Your delicate Virgin-rose . They'll flatter you with a kiss , For gaining the Lover's bliss , and when it is done , they'll eagerly run And find out another Miss ; both City and Court , do follow the sport , Decked up in gaudy Clothes ; they're so unjust , that Maids they worst , then never trust , but marry first , Before they have cropped your Rose . Beware of a tempting tongue , So pleasant and fairly hung , lest it should entice , your hearts in a trice , Oh come not the least among such Fellows , for fear grief brings up the rear , And does your faults expose ; with gall and rue , what ever you do , abhor the Crew that would pursue Your innocent Maiden rose . No honoured Lord or Knight , For guinea's of gold so bright , and though he would fain , should never obtain The pleasure of found delight ; I scorn to be great , at any such rate , A fig for gaudy clothes ; I do protest , I an't in jest , the very best , in velvet dressed Shall never defile my rose . One night in St. James is Park , I met with a Lawyer's Clark , and as we drew near , he called me his Dear ; But mind how I served the Spar [ k ] since he was so found , down into a pond , I shoved him with all his clothes on floods he waved , for help he craved , I run , he raved , and thus I saved My delicate Virgin-rose . London : Printed for J. Blare , at the Looking-glass on London-bridge 