And Excellent New SONG , E ntituled The Loyal Ladies Love To Her Phillander . To and Excellent New Court Tune . Licensed according to Order . I . BLind fortune begone thou false partial W - , Give me him that I love , & amp ; I'll covet no more , L et the Ladies of Honour be Proud , Nice and Coy , And for fear of their Fame be a fraid to enjoy , While I for my love will my Honour despise , For the Joy of my Heart , and delight of my eyes . II The Ladies at Court are Peevish and Coy , They envy at those that love and enjoy , Yet I at no other will ever repine , Were Phillander , Phillander for ever but mine : You Powers above it's you I implore , Give me him that I love , and I'll covet no more . III . When first I did see him 'twas at the Court , among all the Nobles of every sort , Yet in all that fair train there was none I did see , So comely , so lovely , so pleasant as he , He that very time my heart did surprise , For he only , he delighted my eyes . IV. But since that my dearest is gone from the Court , And unto a Cottage resolved to resort , I'll cast all my glory and splendid away , And after Phillander no longer will stay , Phillander my dear it's you I adore , Then give me your heart and I'll covet no more . V. For you wounded mine by the darts from your eyes , And it's for your sake that I others despise , It's only for you that I sighs and complain , Still in hope , still in hope your love to obtain , It's only for love that I do implore , Then give me but that and I'll covet no more . VI . Phillander is Noble , Prudent and Wise , Yet does from his heart earthly glory despise , And left Courtly Pleasure to live in a Cell , Where I with Phillander for ever could dwell , You know mighty Powers it's he I adore , Then give me but him and I'll beg for no more . VII . My dearest Phillander pity my pain , And let me no longer languish in vain , For if that you knew what it's I endure , Then sure you would presently study to Cure , Phillander my love I hourly cry , If you cruel prove poor Celia must die . Printed for J. Bissel at the Bible and Harp in West-Smithfield . And Excellent New SONG , E ntituled The Loyal Ladies Love To Her Phillander . To and Excellent New Court Tune . Licensed according to Order . I . BLind fortune begone thou false partial W - , Give me him that I love , & amp ; I'll covet no more , L et the Ladies of Honour be Proud , Nice and Coy , And for fear of their Fame be a fraid to enjoy , While I for my love will my Honour despise , For the Joy of my Heart , and delight of my eyes . II The Ladies at Court are Peevish and Coy , They envy at those that love and enjoy , Yet I at no other will ever repine , Were Phillander , Phillander for ever but mine : You Powers above it's you I implore , Give me him that I love , and I'll covet no more . III . When first I did see him 'twas at the Court , among all the Nobles of every sort , Yet in all that fair train there was none I did see , So comely , so lovely , so pleasant as he , He that very time my heart did surprise , For he only , he delighted my eyes . IV. But since that my dearest is gone from the Court , And unto a Cottage resolved to resort , I'll cast all my glory and splendid away , And after Phillander no longer will stay , Phillander my dear it's you I adore , Then give me your heart and I'll covet no more . V. For you wounded mine by the darts from your eyes , And it's for your sake that I others despise , It's only for you that I sighs and complain , Still in hope , still in hope your love to obtain , It's only for love that I do implore , Then give me but that and I'll covet no more . VI . Phillander is Noble , Prudent and Wise , Yet does from his heart earthly glory despise , And left Courtly Pleasure to live in a Cell , Where I with Phillander for ever could dwell , You know mighty Powers it's he I adore , Then give me but him and I'll beg for no more . VII . My dearest Phillander pity my pain , And let me no longer languish in vain , For if that you knew what it's I endure , Then sure you would presently study to Cure , Phillander my love I hourly cry , If you cruel prove poor Celia must die . Printed for J. Bissel at the Bible and Harp in West-Smithfield . 