A New SONG , Called , The Old men Wish : Or his desire , For the Ladies sake , To be Young again . To a New Playhouse Tune . With Allowance . IF I was Young , as now I am Old , You should not want for Silver nor Gold ; Silver nor Gold , nor tother Thing too , Oh that I were but Young for you . O that I were but Young again , Then I would chuck her under the Chin ; Under the Chin , and tother Thing too , O that I were but Young for you . If I was Young as heretofore . I'ld cuddle my Mistress over and over ; Over and Over , with tother thing too , O that I were but young as you . I wish I were not twenty above , My Mistress should not want for Love ; Want for Love , nor tother thing too , O that I were but young for you . If I were in my youthful days , My Mistress should not want for Plays ; Want for Plays , nor tother thing too , O that I were but young as you . O that I were a brisk young Man , Where I give One Kiss , I'ld give Ten ; I'ld give Ten , and tother thing too , O that I were but Young for you . Where I but in my younger years , To play with my Mistress I'ld not fear , To play at All Fours , and tother Thing too , O that I were but Young as you . When I was Young , I loved them all , The Black , the Brown , the Fair , the Tall : I loved them all , with tother Thing too , O that I were but Young for you . In my Youth I gave them fine things , With delicate Ribbons , and Gold Rings , I gave they Gold Rings , with tother Thing too O that I were put Young for you . Sometime at Masquerades and Balls We Jigged the Night away in Halls : We Jigged in Halls , and tother Thing too , O that I were but Young as you , Youth is the only time , by Jove , In which our Pleasures pass in Lova : Youth's happy in Love , and tother Thing too , O that I were but Young as you . Then you that are Young , make no delay , But merrily pass the time away Make no delay with tother thing too , O that I were but Young as you . You Ladies that are young and gay When Love is proffered , don't say Nay : Don't say Nay to tother thing too , O that I were as Young as you . I wish I were but Young once more , Then I would pay off my Mistress old score , I'ld pay of her score , and tother thing too , O that I were but Young as you . Printed for T. M. 1691. A New SONG , Called , The Old men Wish : Or his desire , For the Ladies sake , To be Young again . To a New Playhouse Tune . With Allowance . IF I was Young , as now I am Old , You should not want for Silver nor Gold ; Silver nor Gold , nor tother Thing too , Oh that I were but Young for you . O that I were but Young again , Then I would chuck her under the Chin ; Under the Chin , and tother Thing too , O that I were but Young for you . If I was Young as heretofore . I'ld cuddle my Mistress over and over ; Over and Over , with tother thing too , O that I were but young as you . I wish I were not twenty above , My Mistress should not want for Love ; Want for Love , nor tother thing too , O that I were but young for you . If I were in my youthful days , My Mistress should not want for Plays ; Want for Plays , nor tother thing too , O that I were but young as you . O that I were a brisk young Man , Where I give One Kiss , I'ld give Ten ; I'ld give Ten , and tother thing too , O that I were but Young for you . Where I but in my younger years , To play with my Mistress I'ld not fear , To play at All Fours , and tother Thing too , O that I were but Young as you . When I was Young , I loved them all , The Black , the Brown , the Fair , the Tall : I loved them all , with tother Thing too , O that I were but Young for you . In my Youth I gave them fine things , With delicate Ribbons , and Gold Rings , I gave they Gold Rings , with tother Thing too O that I were put Young for you . Sometime at Masquerades and Balls We Jigged the Night away in Halls : We Jigged in Halls , and tother Thing too , O that I were but Young as you , Youth is the only time , by Jove , In which our Pleasures pass in Lova : Youth's happy in Love , and tother Thing too , O that I were but Young as you . Then you that are Young , make no delay , But merrily pass the time away Make no delay with tother thing too , O that I were but Young as you . You Ladies that are young and gay When Love is proffered , don't say Nay : Don't say Nay to tother thing too , O that I were as Young as you . I wish I were but Young once more , Then I would pay off my Mistress old score , I'ld pay of her score , and tother thing too , O that I were but Young as you . Printed for T. M. 1691. 