THE Virgin's Complaint For want of a HUSBAND . To the Tune of , Robin Cushee . I'M a Lass both brisk and Fair , Sparkling Eye , and Coalblack Hair ; Fine laced Shoes and Top knots rare , Yet no Man comes to woo me . Come , come , come away ; Marry me without delay ; My Heart will break if long you stay , My Maidenhead will undo me . I have Twenty Pound in Gold , That as good as ever was told , And I'm but Fifteen Years old , Yet no Man comes to woo me , come , etc I am Plump , and I am Fat , I can talk , and I can chat , I have something , you know what , Yet no Man comes to woo me , come , etc I am neither Rich nor Poor , I was never Miss nor Whore , I had never my Plackets tore , Yet no Man comes to woo me , come , etc Tho I be pretty , Brisk and Fair , Grave as are the clouds of Air , I am now at my last Prayer , For no Man comes to woo me , come , etc Robin came upon the Sham , Told me many Lie and Flame , But away he went , and no more came , And no Man comes to woo me , come , etc Richard took me in the Neck , Told me that he was Lovesick , Yet did intend to do the Trick , But never came to woo me , come , etc I sometime laugh , and sometime S ing , Me in Favour for to bring , But a Taylor now or any thing , For no Man comes to woo me , come , etc Dolly , Molly , Susan , Bess , Pretty Maids in civil Dress , All Night do lie Succourless , For no Man comes to woo them , come , etc I protest , if you stay long , You will do us more than wrong , And thus I do conclude my Song , I n hope's of one to woo me , come , etc Come , come , come away ; Marry me without delay ; My Heart will break if long you stay , My Maidenhead will undo me . The Conquered VIRGIN . To the Tune of , Maggy's Bed so near . MY Phillis she is Read and White , Of all the Admiration ; The Object of my Hearts delight , And Phoenix of the Nation . The Di'mond sparkleth in her Eye , Her Lips are like two Roses , Her cheeks are like a Scarlet Sky , Where Cupid him reposes . I peeped in through her chamber-door , And saw her naked lying ; Her Skin was Alabaster pure , My Fancy fell a crying . But when she stooped to reach the Pot , She made my chops to water , I saw her charming Beauty-spot , And wished I had been at her . I sighed to see her panting lie , And softly stepped unto her , She blushed at me with half and Eye , But I began to woo her ; I kissed her mouth and rosy cheek , And brought her to a Trial , And then the Indies low did seek , And would have no denial . I shot the Gulf and passed the Line , Which never Man durst venture ; When my Degrees they were but Nine , A new found Land did enter . I stormed her Fort for half and hour , The Port she did Surrender ; Then I was more a Conqueror Than was Great Alezander . Printed for the Company of Chanters . THE Virgin's Complaint For want of a HUSBAND . To the Tune of , Robin Cushee . I'M a Lass both brisk and Fair , Sparkling Eye , and Coalblack Hair ; Fine laced Shoes and Top knots rare , Yet no Man comes to woo me . Come , come , come away ; Marry me without delay ; My Heart will break if long you stay , My Maidenhead will undo me . I have Twenty Pound in Gold , That as good as ever was told , And I'm but Fifteen Years old , Yet no Man comes to woo me , come , etc I am Plump , and I am Fat , I can talk , and I can chat , I have something , you know what , Yet no Man comes to woo me , come , etc I am neither Rich nor Poor , I was never Miss nor Whore , I had never my Plackets tore , Yet no Man comes to woo me , come , etc Tho I be pretty , Brisk and Fair , Grave as are the clouds of Air , I am now at my last Prayer , For no Man comes to woo me , come , etc Robin came upon the Sham , Told me many Lie and Flame , But away he went , and no more came , And no Man comes to woo me , come , etc Richard took me in the Neck , Told me that he was Lovesick , Yet did intend to do the Trick , But never came to woo me , come , etc I sometime laugh , and sometime S ing , Me in Favour for to bring , But a Taylor now or any thing , For no Man comes to woo me , come , etc Dolly , Molly , Susan , Bess , Pretty Maids in civil Dress , All Night do lie Succourless , For no Man comes to woo them , come , etc I protest , if you stay long , You will do us more than wrong , And thus I do conclude my Song , I n hope's of one to woo me , come , etc Come , come , come away ; Marry me without delay ; My Heart will break if long you stay , My Maidenhead will undo me . The Conquered VIRGIN . To the Tune of , Maggy's Bed so near . MY Phillis she is Read and White , Of all the Admiration ; The Object of my Hearts delight , And Phoenix of the Nation . The Di'mond sparkleth in her Eye , Her Lips are like two Roses , Her cheeks are like a Scarlet Sky , Where Cupid him reposes . I peeped in through her chamber-door , And saw her naked lying ; Her Skin was Alabaster pure , My Fancy fell a crying . But when she stooped to reach the Pot , She made my chops to water , I saw her charming Beauty-spot , And wished I had been at her . I sighed to see her panting lie , And softly stepped unto her , She blushed at me with half and Eye , But I began to woo her ; I kissed her mouth and rosy cheek , And brought her to a Trial , And then the Indies low did seek , And would have no denial . I shot the Gulf and passed the Line , Which never Man durst venture ; When my Degrees they were but Nine , A new found Land did enter . I stormed her Fort for half and hour , The Port she did Surrender ; Then I was more a Conqueror Than was Great Alezander . Printed for the Company of Chanters . 