The Helpless Maidens Call TO THE BATCHELLORS Sweet if thou Lovest me come away , come away , come away , Sweet if thou Lovest me come a -- way , and dearest thy as -- sistance lend , to stand a help -- less Maiden's Friend , or else I shall be forced to -- come a -- way , come away , or else I shall be forced to meet you . II Why do you Trifle fie upon't , Fie upon't , fie upon't , Why do you Trifle , fie upon't , What Men are they but lazy Drones That stay till Maidens make their Moans , Its pity but they should lose their ----- Fie upon't , fie upon't , It's pity but they should lose their Longing . III . I'm a right Woman up and down , Up and down , up and down , I'm a right Woman up and down , No Child is Fonder of a Gigg Then I to dance the Wedding Jig , So fain I'de try how I could ------- Up and down , up and down , So fain I'de try how I could caper . IV. Nor can it be too thick and long , Thick and long , thick and long , Nor can it be too thick and long , For if I am too young you fear , I can resolve you , look you here , Few Maids can show you so much -- Thick and long , thick and long , Few Maids can show you so much Favour . V. Come let us do then you know what , You know what , you know what , Come let us do then you know what , Why may I not endure the brunt , I know a younger Girl has don't , I'm sure I have as good a -- You know what , you know what , I'm sure I have as good a Courage . VI . So fain would I have that I love , That I love , that I love , So fain would I have that I love , For if by chance I should fallen sick , He would not fail me in the neck To give me proof of his good -- That I love , that I love , To give me proof of his good meaning . VII . Sweet if thou lovest me there again , There again , there again , Sweet if thou lovest me there again , Few Maids have met with so good luck As to encounter the first pluck , O this would tempt young Girls to -- there again , there again , Oh! this would tempt young Girls to Marry . Printed by T.M. 1691. The Helpless Maidens Call TO THE BATCHELLORS Sweet if thou Lovest me come away , come away , come away , Sweet if thou Lovest me come a -- way , and dearest thy as -- sistance lend , to stand a help -- less Maiden's Friend , or else I shall be forced to -- come a -- way , come away , or else I shall be forced to meet you . II Why do you Trifle fie upon't , Fie upon't , fie upon't , Why do you Trifle , fie upon't , What Men are they but lazy Drones That stay till Maidens make their Moans , Its pity but they should lose their ----- Fie upon't , fie upon't , It's pity but they should lose their Longing . III . I'm a right Woman up and down , Up and down , up and down , I'm a right Woman up and down , No Child is Fonder of a Gigg Then I to dance the Wedding Jig , So fain I'de try how I could ------- Up and down , up and down , So fain I'de try how I could caper . IV. Nor can it be too thick and long , Thick and long , thick and long , Nor can it be too thick and long , For if I am too young you fear , I can resolve you , look you here , Few Maids can show you so much -- Thick and long , thick and long , Few Maids can show you so much Favour . V. Come let us do then you know what , You know what , you know what , Come let us do then you know what , Why may I not endure the brunt , I know a younger Girl has don't , I'm sure I have as good a -- You know what , you know what , I'm sure I have as good a Courage . VI . So fain would I have that I love , That I love , that I love , So fain would I have that I love , For if by chance I should fallen sick , He would not fail me in the neck To give me proof of his good -- That I love , that I love , To give me proof of his good meaning . VII . Sweet if thou lovest me there again , There again , there again , Sweet if thou lovest me there again , Few Maids have met with so good luck As to encounter the first pluck , O this would tempt young Girls to -- there again , there again , Oh! this would tempt young Girls to Marry . Printed by T.M. 1691. 