A New SONG , Called The Batchellor's Answer TO THE Helpless Maiden . Love I am ready at your call , at your call , at your call , Love I am ready at your call , For I attend at your Command , and here is both my heart and hand , with something else I know will -- at your call , at your call , with something else I know will please you . II And I will be as quick as you , Quick as you , quick as you , And I will be as quick as you ; Though you complain of lazy Fools , You'll find me quite another Soul , See here's a good right working -- Quick as you , quick as you , See here's a good right working Servant . III . I know you well can dance a Jig , Dance a Jig , Dance a Jig , I know you well can dance a Jig ; For there is never a Girl alive , If that you were but once a Wife , Would be more ready for to -- Dance a Jig , dance a Jig , Would be more ready for to Caper . IV. And I am for a lovely brown , Lovely brown , lovely brown , And I am for a lovely brown , For I'm resolved to have a push , Though never so thick , I'll beatrice the Bush , I'll not be scared at a long -- Lovely brown , lovely brown , I'll not be scared at a long Figure . V. Now I am come , I would it were , Would it were , would it were , Now I am come , I would it were ; For you have wone me by those Eyes , That's brighter than the Stars i'th' Skies , With a pretty Mole between your -- Would it were , would it were , With a pretty Mole between your Eyebrows . VI . You need not want for young Men's Love , Young Men's Love , young Me'ns Love , You need not want for young Men's Love , For Maids Distempers we have Jelly Outdoes all Physic , I can tell you , If that you'll put it in your -- Young Men's Love , young Men's Love , If that you'll put it in your Closet . VII . Love thou shalt have it over and over , Over and over , over and over , Love thou shalt have it over and over , Which made us strive who should be first , And then we panted , heaved , and bussed What would Maids give for such good -- Over and over , over and over , What would Maids give for such good HusbandsA New SONG , Called The Batchellor's Answer TO THE Helpless Maiden . Love I am ready at your call , at your call , at your call , Love I am ready at your call , For I attend at your Command , and here is both my heart and hand , with something else I know will -- at your call , at your call , with something else I know will please you . II And I will be as quick as you , Quick as you , quick as you , And I will be as quick as you ; Though you complain of lazy Fools , You'll find me quite another Soul , See here's a good right working -- Quick as you , quick as you , See here's a good right working Servant . III . I know you well can dance a Jig , Dance a Jig , Dance a Jig , I know you well can dance a Jig ; For there is never a Girl alive , If that you were but once a Wife , Would be more ready for to -- Dance a Jig , dance a Jig , Would be more ready for to Caper . IV. And I am for a lovely brown , Lovely brown , lovely brown , And I am for a lovely brown , For I'm resolved to have a push , Though never so thick , I'll beatrice the Bush , I'll not be scared at a long -- Lovely brown , lovely brown , I'll not be scared at a long Figure . V. Now I am come , I would it were , Would it were , would it were , Now I am come , I would it were ; For you have wone me by those Eyes , That's brighter than the Stars i'th' Skies , With a pretty Mole between your -- Would it were , would it were , With a pretty Mole between your Eyebrows . VI . You need not want for young Men's Love , Young Men's Love , young Me'ns Love , You need not want for young Men's Love , For Maids Distempers we have Jelly Outdoes all Physic , I can tell you , If that you'll put it in your -- Young Men's Love , young Men's Love , If that you'll put it in your Closet . VII . Love thou shalt have it over and over , Over and over , over and over , Love thou shalt have it over and over , Which made us strive who should be first , And then we panted , heaved , and bussed What would Maids give for such good -- Over and over , over and over , What would Maids give for such good Husbands 