THE Kind Lad & amp ; Scornful Lass : OR , A Comical Dialogue between CORYDON and MOPSA . A New Song much in Request , To a New Tune . ptitle : : end I . NOw Mopsa now we are alone , I prithee be not coy , But kind unto your Corydon , that he may you enjoy : I'll hug you , kiss you , love you too , more than all the World beside , And if I find you to be true , you soon shall be my Bride ; Then prithee pull off this fine Geer , That we may go to Bed my Dear . II Do not rumple my Topknot , I'll not be kissed to day , I'll not be pulled nor hauled about , thus on a Holiday ; But if your Rudeness you won't leave no more words to be said , See this long Pin upon my Sleeve , I'll stick it to the head ; And if you rumple my Head-Geer , I'll give you a good Ferret of the Ear . III . What makes you be so peevish now , when that I do adore you , And prize you too , I swear and vow , be kinder I implore you ; Then Love and Hate , do what you will you are all over Charms ; I can't forbear to love you still , then come unto my Arms , And since that it is Holiday , Let us together go and play . IV. Come upon a Workday , when I've my Old Clothes on , I will not be so nice nor coy , nor stand so much upon ; Then hug and pull and do your best , yet I will gentle be ; Kiss hand and mouth , and feel my breast , and tickle too my knee ; I'll not be put out of my Robe , You shall not rumple my Commode . V. I have no time to come abroad , upon a Workday ; Then prithee Mopsa be not proud , but let us go and play : I long so much thy Lips to kiss , and fold you in my Arms ; Then don't deny me now the Bliss , but let us taste the Charms , And sweetly pass our time away , Then prithee make no more delay . VI . What is the matter Corydon , that you do thus intrude ? When I have god my best Clothes on , you should not be so rude : O fie , nay pish , what do you mean ? I'll sware I will not stay , Then get you gone , and come again upon another day , I will not be so finely dressed , Then hug and kiss , and do your best . part : : end Printed for C. Bates , next to the Crown Tavern in West-Smithfield . gfoot : : endTHE Kind Lad & amp ; Scornful Lass : OR , A Comical Dialogue between CORYDON and MOPSA . A New Song much in Request , To a New Tune . ptitle : : end I . NOw Mopsa now we are alone , I prithee be not coy , But kind unto your Corydon , that he may you enjoy : I'll hug you , kiss you , love you too , more than all the World beside , And if I find you to be true , you soon shall be my Bride ; Then prithee pull off this fine Geer , That we may go to Bed my Dear . II Do not rumple my Topknot , I'll not be kissed to day , I'll not be pulled nor hauled about , thus on a Holiday ; But if your Rudeness you won't leave no more words to be said , See this long Pin upon my Sleeve , I'll stick it to the head ; And if you rumple my Head-Geer , I'll give you a good Ferret of the Ear . III . What makes you be so peevish now , when that I do adore you , And prize you too , I swear and vow , be kinder I implore you ; Then Love and Hate , do what you will you are all over Charms ; I can't forbear to love you still , then come unto my Arms , And since that it is Holiday , Let us together go and play . IV. Come upon a Workday , when I've my Old Clothes on , I will not be so nice nor coy , nor stand so much upon ; Then hug and pull and do your best , yet I will gentle be ; Kiss hand and mouth , and feel my breast , and tickle too my knee ; I'll not be put out of my Robe , You shall not rumple my Commode . V. I have no time to come abroad , upon a Workday ; Then prithee Mopsa be not proud , but let us go and play : I long so much thy Lips to kiss , and fold you in my Arms ; Then don't deny me now the Bliss , but let us taste the Charms , And sweetly pass our time away , Then prithee make no more delay . VI . What is the matter Corydon , that you do thus intrude ? When I have god my best Clothes on , you should not be so rude : O fie , nay pish , what do you mean ? I'll sware I will not stay , Then get you gone , and come again upon another day , I will not be so finely dressed , Then hug and kiss , and do your best . part : : end Printed for C. Bates , next to the Crown Tavern in West-Smithfield . gfoot : : end 