[ The ] Frolicsome Wager : OR , THE Ranting Gallant's Ramble through the City , where being stopped by the Watch and Constable was sent to the Counter , brought before the Mayor , whose Daughter begged his Pardon . To the Tune of Legan Water . The Rant . BEhold ! what Noise is this I hear , Step forth , and eke your Staves prepare : They cry out straight , the Watch is here , With Courage they cry , Who comes there ? The Rant . The sturdy Watchmen straight did say , to knock you down I hope I'm able ; If that you don't my Words obey , then come before Mr. Constable . The Rant . Where have you been so late , my Friend ? or whither do you mean to go ? Don't you think you shall the Laws offend , for I resolve these things to know . The Rant . Do I fit in this Chair of state , and represent the way of King , To be affronted at this rate ? no , you another Tone shall sing . The Rant . Before you thus shall rant and rave , And think my Watch here to outbrave , I'll make your haughty Spirit bow , And send you to the Counter now . The Rant . Then coming to the Counter Gate , they knocked , and it was opened straight ; Then to the Turnkey did they say , He must lie here , till the next day . The Rant . You seem a Gentleman , they cried , Not fitting for the Common-side , Therefore we will with special care , A Room , with a warm Bed prepare . The Rant . Come bring a Flask of curious Wine , That which is rare and superfine ; Long Pipes , and good Tobacco too , Such Gentlemen there is but few . The Rant . The Prisoners came about him there , And did most solemnly declare , That he his Garnish then should pay , Before the Morning twilight day . The Rant . The Rant . The Constable next morning goes , Just as the Gentleman arose , And then before the good Lord-Mayor , They did with haste and speed repair . The Rant . Shall it like your Honour , now my Lord , I took this mad Man in my Ward , Last night , when he did rant and roar ; The like I never herd before . The Rant . I asked him then where he did live , But no Account at all he'd give , And therefore now I bring him here , Before your Lordship to appear . The Rant . And are you now no sober yet ? But like a Man beside his Wit ; If you continue in this strain , You to the Counter go again . The Rant . The Lord-Mayor's Daughter straight came in , And this Discourse she did begin : Pray Father listen now to me , And set the worthy Person free The Rant . This Man is quite beside his sense , And therefore will I send him hence , And to the Counter he shall go , To lie while he more sober grow . The Rant . prey Father be not so severe , I'm certain that in time you'll hear Some Wager ' is the Cause of this , And therefore take it not amiss . The Rant . She farther to her Father said , Some worthy Wager he hath laid ; Therefore to speak he does refuse , lest he thereby the same should loose . The Rant . He did no more disputing stand , But told the Gallant out of hand , That he must pay the Prison Fees , And then go ramble where you please . The Rant . Printed for Charles Bates next the Crown Tavern in West-smithfield . [ The ] Frolicsome Wager : OR , THE Ranting Gallant's Ramble through the City , where being stopped by the Watch and Constable was sent to the Counter , brought before the Mayor , whose Daughter begged his Pardon . To the Tune of Legan Water . The Rant . BEhold ! what Noise is this I hear , Step forth , and eke your Staves prepare : They cry out straight , the Watch is here , With Courage they cry , Who comes there ? The Rant . The sturdy Watchmen straight did say , to knock you down I hope I'm able ; If that you don't my Words obey , then come before Mr. Constable . The Rant . Where have you been so late , my Friend ? or whither do you mean to go ? Don't you think you shall the Laws offend , for I resolve these things to know . The Rant . Do I fit in this Chair of state , and represent the way of King , To be affronted at this rate ? no , you another Tone shall sing . The Rant . Before you thus shall rant and rave , And think my Watch here to outbrave , I'll make your haughty Spirit bow , And send you to the Counter now . The Rant . Then coming to the Counter Gate , they knocked , and it was opened straight ; Then to the Turnkey did they say , He must lie here , till the next day . The Rant . You seem a Gentleman , they cried , Not fitting for the Common-side , Therefore we will with special care , A Room , with a warm Bed prepare . The Rant . Come bring a Flask of curious Wine , That which is rare and superfine ; Long Pipes , and good Tobacco too , Such Gentlemen there is but few . The Rant . The Prisoners came about him there , And did most solemnly declare , That he his Garnish then should pay , Before the Morning twilight day . The Rant . The Rant . The Constable next morning goes , Just as the Gentleman arose , And then before the good Lord-Mayor , They did with haste and speed repair . The Rant . Shall it like your Honour , now my Lord , I took this mad Man in my Ward , Last night , when he did rant and roar ; The like I never herd before . The Rant . I asked him then where he did live , But no Account at all he'd give , And therefore now I bring him here , Before your Lordship to appear . The Rant . And are you now no sober yet ? But like a Man beside his Wit ; If you continue in this strain , You to the Counter go again . The Rant . The Lord-Mayor's Daughter straight came in , And this Discourse she did begin : Pray Father listen now to me , And set the worthy Person free The Rant . This Man is quite beside his sense , And therefore will I send him hence , And to the Counter he shall go , To lie while he more sober grow . The Rant . prey Father be not so severe , I'm certain that in time you'll hear Some Wager ' is the Cause of this , And therefore take it not amiss . The Rant . She farther to her Father said , Some worthy Wager he hath laid ; Therefore to speak he does refuse , lest he thereby the same should loose . The Rant . He did no more disputing stand , But told the Gallant out of hand , That he must pay the Prison Fees , And then go ramble where you please . The Rant . Printed for Charles Bates next the Crown Tavern in West-smithfield . 