The Indifferent LOVER , OR , The Roving Bachelor . To a Pleasant new Tune , Sung in the last new Comedy , called Amphytrion . FOr Iris I sighs and hourly Die , but not for a Lip nor a languishing Eye ; She's fickle and false and there we agree , Oh! these are the Virtues that captivate me : We neither believe what either can say , and neither believing , we neither betray . ( 2 ) It's civil to swear and say things of Course , We mean not the taking for better for worse , When present we love , when absent agree , I think not of Iris nor Iris of me ; The Legend of Love , no Couple can find , So easy to part , and so easily joined . ( 3 ) I like not that Lover who'll whimpering stand , And wait a whole day to kiss Celias fair hand , No Beauty i'th' Town , though ten times as fair , Can ever , can ever with Celia Compare : How happy am I , who hourly find , Those fair as his Celia , as Iris kind . ( 4 ) I am still in the Fashion , or Mode-a-la - France , I think not upon her , unless by a chance , Iris when present I fancy the best , When absent I praise her no more than the rest : Iris and Phillis to me are all one ; So soon I can love , and as soon can have done . ( 5 ) I can love for and hour , fair Celia and then , I am Cloyed of the Bliss , and Love Iris again , Till tyered of Happiness I do depart , Go the next way and give Phillis my Heart : Till Cleo appears , whose delicate Eye , For and hour or two makes me languishing lie . ( 6 ) I love all I see when just in the fit , Yet can in a Moment my Mistress forget , Now Languish , now Love , now sighs and complain Now love her , now hate her , and love her again . I admire the Charms in Celias fair face , Till Phillis appears to take up her place . ( 7 ) But of all the Beauty's were ever admired , Whose Company many found Fops have desired , Whose every Charm in their Faces so takes , That several Coxcombs have died for their sakes ; I never see any whose faces could Charm , So much by their Smiles or Frowns for to harm . ( 8 ) If Iris Loves me , then I can Love her , If she loves me not , then I can prefer Another before her ; Or her before another , For I can Love one as well as the other ; My passion to all alike I'll discover , And always remain and indifferent Lover . FINIS . Printed for Ch. Bates , near Duck-Lane-end , in West-Smithfield . The Indifferent LOVER , OR , The Roving Bachelor . To a Pleasant new Tune , Sung in the last new Comedy , called Amphytrion . FOr Iris I sighs and hourly Die , but not for a Lip nor a languishing Eye ; She's fickle and false and there we agree , Oh! these are the Virtues that captivate me : We neither believe what either can say , and neither believing , we neither betray . ( 2 ) It's civil to swear and say things of Course , We mean not the taking for better for worse , When present we love , when absent agree , I think not of Iris nor Iris of me ; The Legend of Love , no Couple can find , So easy to part , and so easily joined . ( 3 ) I like not that Lover who'll whimpering stand , And wait a whole day to kiss Celias fair hand , No Beauty i'th' Town , though ten times as fair , Can ever , can ever with Celia Compare : How happy am I , who hourly find , Those fair as his Celia , as Iris kind . ( 4 ) I am still in the Fashion , or Mode-a-la - France , I think not upon her , unless by a chance , Iris when present I fancy the best , When absent I praise her no more than the rest : Iris and Phillis to me are all one ; So soon I can love , and as soon can have done . ( 5 ) I can love for and hour , fair Celia and then , I am Cloyed of the Bliss , and Love Iris again , Till tyered of Happiness I do depart , Go the next way and give Phillis my Heart : Till Cleo appears , whose delicate Eye , For and hour or two makes me languishing lie . ( 6 ) I love all I see when just in the fit , Yet can in a Moment my Mistress forget , Now Languish , now Love , now sighs and complain Now love her , now hate her , and love her again . I admire the Charms in Celias fair face , Till Phillis appears to take up her place . ( 7 ) But of all the Beauty's were ever admired , Whose Company many found Fops have desired , Whose every Charm in their Faces so takes , That several Coxcombs have died for their sakes ; I never see any whose faces could Charm , So much by their Smiles or Frowns for to harm . ( 8 ) If Iris Loves me , then I can Love her , If she loves me not , then I can prefer Another before her ; Or her before another , For I can Love one as well as the other ; My passion to all alike I'll discover , And always remain and indifferent Lover . FINIS . Printed for Ch. Bates , near Duck-Lane-end , in West-Smithfield . 