And excellent new Medley . To to tune of the Spanish Pavin . When Philomel begins to sing , the grass grows green & flowers spring , Me thinks it is a pleasant thing , to walk on Primrose hill , Maids have you any Connie-skins To fell for Laces or great Pins The Pope will pardon venial sins : Saint Peter , Fresh fish and news grew quickly stale : Some say good wine can never want sale , But God send poor folks Beer & Ale , enough until they die Most people now are full of pride . The Boy said no but yet he lyde : His Aunt did to the Cuck-stoole ride for scolding . Within our Town fair Susan dwells : Sure Meg is poyson'd , for she swells , My friend pull off your b [ u ] zzards bells' , and let the haggard fly Take heed you play not at Tray-trip . Short heals forsooth will quickly slip . The beadle makes folk with his whip , dance naked . Come tapster tell us whats to pay , Jane frowned and cried good Sir away . She took his kindness , yet said nay , as Maidens use to do , The man shall have his Mare again , When all false knaves prove honest men . Our Sisly shall be Sainted then , true Roger . The Butcher with his masty Dog At Rumford you may buy a Hog , I faith Raph Goose hath god a clog , his wench is great with child . In Pillory put the Bakers head , For making of such little bred , Good conscience now a days is dead , Pierce plowman . The Cutpurse and his Company Thieves find receivers presently : Shun Brokers , Bawds , and Usury , for fear of afcer-claps . Lord , what a wicked world is this The stone lets Kate she cannot piss : Come hither sweet and take a kiss in kindness . In Bath a wanton wife did dwell , She had two buckets to a well , Would not a dog for anger swell , to see a pudding creep : The Horseleech is become a Smith , When halters fail then take a With : They say and old man hath no pith , Round Robin . Simon does suck up all the Eggs , Franke never drinks without Nutmegs , And pretty Parnell shows her legs , as slender as my waste . When fair Jerusalem did stand , The match is made give me thy hand , Maulkin must have a Cambrick band blew starched . The Cuckoo sung hard by the door , Gyll brawled like a butter whore . Cause her buckeheaded Husband swore the Miller was a knave . Good Poets leave of making plays Let players seek for Soldiers pays I do not like the drunken frays , in Smithfield . Now Roisters spurs do jingle brave , John Sexton played the errand knave . To dig a Coarse out of the Grave . and steal the sheep away . The wandering Prince of stately Troy Green sleeves were wont to be my joy , He is a blind and paltry boy god Cupid . Come hither friend and give good ear , A leg of mutton stuffed is rare , Take heed you do not steal my Mare , it is so hight it burns . Behold the trial of true love , He took a scrich-Owle for a Dove : This man is like ere long to prove a Monster . This merry when kind Maltmen me No Cowards fight but in the street , Me thinks this wench smells very sweet , of Musk , or somewhat else . There was a man did play at Maw , The whilst his wife made him a daw , Your Case is all [ tO ] ered in the law , quoth ployden . The Weaver will no shuttle shoot , Go bid the Cobbler mend my boot He is a fool will go afoot and let his Horse stand still . Did John a Nokes and John a Stile , Many and honest man beguiles . But all the world is full of wiles and knavery . Of treason and of Traitors spite The house is haunted with a spirit , Now Nan will rise about midnight , and walk to Richards house . You Courtly states and gall [ l ] ants all , Climb not too high for fear you fallen : If one please not another shall , King pipping . Diana and her Darlings deer , The Dutchmen ply the double Beer : Boys rings the bells & make good cheer when Kempe returns from Room , Oh man what means thy heavy look Is Will not in his Mistress Book , Sir Rouland for a refuge took Horne-Castle Rich people have the world at will Trades fade , but Lawyers flourish still , Jacke would be married unto Gyll : but care will kill a Cat. Are you there Sirrah with your Bears , A Barbers shop with nitty hairs . Doll , Phillis hath lost both her ears , for cozening . Who list to led a soldiers life : Tom would eat meat but wants a knife , The Tinker swore that Tib his wife , would play at uptailes all Believe my word without and and Oath The Tailor stole some of her cloth : When George lay sick & Joane made him broth with Hemlock . The Patron gelded the parsonage , And Esau sold his heritage , Now Leonard lackwit is fool age , to be his Father's heir . Ther's many scratch before it itch , Saul did ask counsel of a Witch . Friend , you may have a Bacon flitch at Dunmow . King David played on a Welch Harp , This thread will never make good warp At wise men's words each fool will carp and shoot their witless bolts . Jone like a Ram wore horns and wool . Knew you my Hostis of the Bull , Spure Curio once was made a gull in Shoreditch The blackamoors are blabber lipt , At yarmouth are the Herrings shipped , And at Bride-well the beggars whipped , a man may live and learn , Grief in my heart does stop my tongue , The poor man still must put up wrong , Your way lies there then walk along , to Witham There lies a Lass that I love well , The Broker hath gay clothes to fell , Which from the Hangmans budget fell , are you no further you In Summer times when Pears be ripe , Who would give sixpence for a Tripe , Play Lad or else lend me thy Pipe and Taber . Saint Nicholas Clerks will take a purse , Young children now can swear and curse I hope ye like me never the worse , for finding fault therewith . The servant is the Master's mate . When gossips meet , ther's too much prate Poor Lazarus lies at Dives gate half starved , Make haste to Sea , and hoist up sails The hogs were served with milking pales From filth [ y ] sluts , and from all Joayles , good Lord deliver us all . I scorn to ride a raw boned Jade , Fetch me a Mattock and a Spade , A Gravesend Toste will soon be made , Saint Dennis , But for to finish up my Song , The Alewife did the brewer wrong , One day of sorrow seems as long as ten days do of mirth , My Medley now is at and end , Have you no Bowls or Trays to mend This hard to find so true a friend as Damon . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcocke . FINIS . And excellent new Medley . To to tune of the Spanish Pavin . When Philomel begins to sing , the grass grows green & flowers spring , Me thinks it is a pleasant thing , to walk on Primrose hill , Maids have you any Connie-skins To fell for Laces or great Pins The Pope will pardon venial sins : Saint Peter , Fresh fish and news grew quickly stale : Some say good wine can never want sale , But God send poor folks Beer & Ale , enough until they die Most people now are full of pride . The Boy said no but yet he lyde : His Aunt did to the Cuck-stoole ride for scolding . Within our Town fair Susan dwells : Sure Meg is poyson'd , for she swells , My friend pull off your b [ u ] zzards bells' , and let the haggard fly Take heed you play not at Tray-trip . Short heals forsooth will quickly slip . The beadle makes folk with his whip , dance naked . Come tapster tell us whats to pay , Jane frowned and cried good Sir away . She took his kindness , yet said nay , as Maidens use to do , The man shall have his Mare again , When all false knaves prove honest men . Our Sisly shall be Sainted then , true Roger . The Butcher with his masty Dog At Rumford you may buy a Hog , I faith Raph Goose hath god a clog , his wench is great with child . In Pillory put the Bakers head , For making of such little bred , Good conscience now a days is dead , Pierce plowman . The Cutpurse and his Company Thieves find receivers presently : Shun Brokers , Bawds , and Usury , for fear of afcer-claps . Lord , what a wicked world is this The stone lets Kate she cannot piss : Come hither sweet and take a kiss in kindness . In Bath a wanton wife did dwell , She had two buckets to a well , Would not a dog for anger swell , to see a pudding creep : The Horseleech is become a Smith , When halters fail then take a With : They say and old man hath no pith , Round Robin . Simon does suck up all the Eggs , Franke never drinks without Nutmegs , And pretty Parnell shows her legs , as slender as my waste . When fair Jerusalem did stand , The match is made give me thy hand , Maulkin must have a Cambrick band blew starched . The Cuckoo sung hard by the door , Gyll brawled like a butter whore . Cause her buckeheaded Husband swore the Miller was a knave . Good Poets leave of making plays Let players seek for Soldiers pays I do not like the drunken frays , in Smithfield . Now Roisters spurs do jingle brave , John Sexton played the errand knave . To dig a Coarse out of the Grave . and steal the sheep away . The wandering Prince of stately Troy Green sleeves were wont to be my joy , He is a blind and paltry boy god Cupid . Come hither friend and give good ear , A leg of mutton stuffed is rare , Take heed you do not steal my Mare , it is so hight it burns . Behold the trial of true love , He took a scrich-Owle for a Dove : This man is like ere long to prove a Monster . This merry when kind Maltmen me No Cowards fight but in the street , Me thinks this wench smells very sweet , of Musk , or somewhat else . There was a man did play at Maw , The whilst his wife made him a daw , Your Case is all [ tO ] ered in the law , quoth ployden . The Weaver will no shuttle shoot , Go bid the Cobbler mend my boot He is a fool will go afoot and let his Horse stand still . Did John a Nokes and John a Stile , Many and honest man beguiles . But all the world is full of wiles and knavery . Of treason and of Traitors spite The house is haunted with a spirit , Now Nan will rise about midnight , and walk to Richards house . You Courtly states and gall [ l ] ants all , Climb not too high for fear you fallen : If one please not another shall , King pipping . Diana and her Darlings deer , The Dutchmen ply the double Beer : Boys rings the bells & make good cheer when Kempe returns from Room , Oh man what means thy heavy look Is Will not in his Mistress Book , Sir Rouland for a refuge took Horne-Castle Rich people have the world at will Trades fade , but Lawyers flourish still , Jacke would be married unto Gyll : but care will kill a Cat. Are you there Sirrah with your Bears , A Barbers shop with nitty hairs . Doll , Phillis hath lost both her ears , for cozening . Who list to led a soldiers life : Tom would eat meat but wants a knife , The Tinker swore that Tib his wife , would play at uptailes all Believe my word without and and Oath The Tailor stole some of her cloth : When George lay sick & Joane made him broth with Hemlock . The Patron gelded the parsonage , And Esau sold his heritage , Now Leonard lackwit is fool age , to be his Father's heir . Ther's many scratch before it itch , Saul did ask counsel of a Witch . Friend , you may have a Bacon flitch at Dunmow . King David played on a Welch Harp , This thread will never make good warp At wise men's words each fool will carp and shoot their witless bolts . Jone like a Ram wore horns and wool . Knew you my Hostis of the Bull , Spure Curio once was made a gull in Shoreditch The blackamoors are blabber lipt , At yarmouth are the Herrings shipped , And at Bride-well the beggars whipped , a man may live and learn , Grief in my heart does stop my tongue , The poor man still must put up wrong , Your way lies there then walk along , to Witham There lies a Lass that I love well , The Broker hath gay clothes to fell , Which from the Hangmans budget fell , are you no further you In Summer times when Pears be ripe , Who would give sixpence for a Tripe , Play Lad or else lend me thy Pipe and Taber . Saint Nicholas Clerks will take a purse , Young children now can swear and curse I hope ye like me never the worse , for finding fault therewith . The servant is the Master's mate . When gossips meet , ther's too much prate Poor Lazarus lies at Dives gate half starved , Make haste to Sea , and hoist up sails The hogs were served with milking pales From filth [ y ] sluts , and from all Joayles , good Lord deliver us all . I scorn to ride a raw boned Jade , Fetch me a Mattock and a Spade , A Gravesend Toste will soon be made , Saint Dennis , But for to finish up my Song , The Alewife did the brewer wrong , One day of sorrow seems as long as ten days do of mirth , My Medley now is at and end , Have you no Bowls or Trays to mend This hard to find so true a friend as Damon . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcocke . FINIS . And excellent new Medley . To to tune of the Spanish Pavin . When Philomel begins to sing , the grass grows green & flowers spring , Me thinks it is a pleasant thing , to walk on Primrose hill , Maids have you any Connie-skins To fell for Laces or great Pins The Pope will pardon venial sins : Saint Peter , Fresh fish and news grew quickly stale : Some say good wine can never want sale , But God send poor folks Beer & Ale , enough until they die Most people now are full of pride . The Boy said no but yet he lyde : His Aunt did to the Cuck-stoole ride for scolding . Within our Town fair Susan dwells : Sure Meg is poyson'd , for she swells , My friend pull off your b [ u ] zzards bells' , and let the haggard fly Take heed you play not at Tray-trip . Short heals forsooth will quickly slip . The beadle makes folk with his whip , dance naked . Come tapster tell us whats to pay , Jane frowned and cried good Sir away . She took his kindness , yet said nay , as Maidens use to do , The man shall have his Mare again , When all false knaves prove honest men . Our Sisly shall be Sainted then , true Roger . The Butcher with his masty Dog At Rumford you may buy a Hog , I faith Raph Goose hath god a clog , his wench is great with child . In Pillory put the Bakers head , For making of such little bred , Good conscience now a days is dead , Pierce plowman . The Cutpurse and his Company Thieves find receivers presently : Shun Brokers , Bawds , and Usury , for fear of afcer-claps . Lord , what a wicked world is this The stone lets Kate she cannot piss : Come hither sweet and take a kiss in kindness . In Bath a wanton wife did dwell , She had two buckets to a well , Would not a dog for anger swell , to see a pudding creep : The Horseleech is become a Smith , When halters fail then take a With : They say and old man hath no pith , Round Robin . Simon does suck up all the Eggs , Franke never drinks without Nutmegs , And pretty Parnell shows her legs , as slender as my waste . When fair Jerusalem did stand , The match is made give me thy hand , Maulkin must have a Cambrick band blew starched . The Cuckoo sung hard by the door , Gyll brawled like a butter whore . Cause her buckeheaded Husband swore the Miller was a knave . Good Poets leave of making plays Let players seek for Soldiers pays I do not like the drunken frays , in Smithfield . Now Roisters spurs do jingle brave , John Sexton played the errand knave . To dig a Coarse out of the Grave . and steal the sheep away . The wandering Prince of stately Troy Green sleeves were wont to be my joy , He is a blind and paltry boy god Cupid . Come hither friend and give good ear , A leg of mutton stuffed is rare , Take heed you do not steal my Mare , it is so hight it burns . Behold the trial of true love , He took a scrich-Owle for a Dove : This man is like ere long to prove a Monster . This merry when kind Maltmen me No Cowards fight but in the street , Me thinks this wench smells very sweet , of Musk , or somewhat else . There was a man did play at Maw , The whilst his wife made him a daw , Your Case is all [ tO ] ered in the law , quoth ployden . The Weaver will no shuttle shoot , Go bid the Cobbler mend my boot He is a fool will go afoot and let his Horse stand still . Did John a Nokes and John a Stile , Many and honest man beguiles . But all the world is full of wiles and knavery . Of treason and of Traitors spite The house is haunted with a spirit , Now Nan will rise about midnight , and walk to Richards house . You Courtly states and gall [ l ] ants all , Climb not too high for fear you fallen : If one please not another shall , King pipping . Diana and her Darlings deer , The Dutchmen ply the double Beer : Boys rings the bells & make good cheer when Kempe returns from Room , Oh man what means thy heavy look Is Will not in his Mistress Book , Sir Rouland for a refuge took Horne-Castle Rich people have the world at will Trades fade , but Lawyers flourish still , Jacke would be married unto Gyll : but care will kill a Cat. Are you there Sirrah with your Bears , A Barbers shop with nitty hairs . Doll , Phillis hath lost both her ears , for cozening . Who list to led a soldiers life : Tom would eat meat but wants a knife , The Tinker swore that Tib his wife , would play at uptailes all Believe my word without and and Oath The Tailor stole some of her cloth : When George lay sick & Joane made him broth with Hemlock . The Patron gelded the parsonage , And Esau sold his heritage , Now Leonard lackwit is fool age , to be his Father's heir . Ther's many scratch before it itch , Saul did ask counsel of a Witch . Friend , you may have a Bacon flitch at Dunmow . King David played on a Welch Harp , This thread will never make good warp At wise men's words each fool will carp and shoot their witless bolts . Jone like a Ram wore horns and wool . Knew you my Hostis of the Bull , Spure Curio once was made a gull in Shoreditch The blackamoors are blabber lipt , At yarmouth are the Herrings shipped , And at Bride-well the beggars whipped , a man may live and learn , Grief in my heart does stop my tongue , The poor man still must put up wrong , Your way lies there then walk along , to Witham There lies a Lass that I love well , The Broker hath gay clothes to fell , Which from the Hangmans budget fell , are you no further you In Summer times when Pears be ripe , Who would give sixpence for a Tripe , Play Lad or else lend me thy Pipe and Taber . Saint Nicholas Clerks will take a purse , Young children now can swear and curse I hope ye like me never the worse , for finding fault therewith . The servant is the Master's mate . When gossips meet , ther's too much prate Poor Lazarus lies at Dives gate half starved , Make haste to Sea , and hoist up sails The hogs were served with milking pales From filth [ y ] sluts , and from all Joayles , good Lord deliver us all . I scorn to ride a raw boned Jade , Fetch me a Mattock and a Spade , A Gravesend Toste will soon be made , Saint Dennis , But for to finish up my Song , The Alewife did the brewer wrong , One day of sorrow seems as long as ten days do of mirth , My Medley now is at and end , Have you no Bowls or Trays to mend This hard to find so true a friend as Damon . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcocke . FINIS . And excellent new Medley . To to tune of the Spanish Pavin . When Philomel begins to sing , the grass grows green & flowers spring , Me thinks it is a pleasant thing , to walk on Primrose hill , Maids have you any Connie-skins To fell for Laces or great Pins The Pope will pardon venial sins : Saint Peter , Fresh fish and news grew quickly stale : Some say good wine can never want sale , But God send poor folks Beer & Ale , enough until they die Most people now are full of pride . The Boy said no but yet he lyde : His Aunt did to the Cuck-stoole ride for scolding . Within our Town fair Susan dwells : Sure Meg is poyson'd , for she swells , My friend pull off your b [ u ] zzards bells' , and let the haggard fly Take heed you play not at Tray-trip . Short heals forsooth will quickly slip . The beadle makes folk with his whip , dance naked . Come tapster tell us whats to pay , Jane frowned and cried good Sir away . She took his kindness , yet said nay , as Maidens use to do , The man shall have his Mare again , When all false knaves prove honest men . Our Sisly shall be Sainted then , true Roger . The Butcher with his masty Dog At Rumford you may buy a Hog , I faith Raph Goose hath god a clog , his wench is great with child . In Pillory put the Bakers head , For making of such little bred , Good conscience now a days is dead , Pierce plowman . The Cutpurse and his Company Thieves find receivers presently : Shun Brokers , Bawds , and Usury , for fear of afcer-claps . Lord , what a wicked world is this The stone lets Kate she cannot piss : Come hither sweet and take a kiss in kindness . In Bath a wanton wife did dwell , She had two buckets to a well , Would not a dog for anger swell , to see a pudding creep : The Horseleech is become a Smith , When halters fail then take a With : They say and old man hath no pith , Round Robin . Simon does suck up all the Eggs , Franke never drinks without Nutmegs , And pretty Parnell shows her legs , as slender as my waste . When fair Jerusalem did stand , The match is made give me thy hand , Maulkin must have a Cambrick band blew starched . The Cuckoo sung hard by the door , Gyll brawled like a butter whore . Cause her buckeheaded Husband swore the Miller was a knave . Good Poets leave of making plays Let players seek for Soldiers pays I do not like the drunken frays , in Smithfield . Now Roisters spurs do jingle brave , John Sexton played the errand knave . To dig a Coarse out of the Grave . and steal the sheep away . The wandering Prince of stately Troy Green sleeves were wont to be my joy , He is a blind and paltry boy god Cupid . Come hither friend and give good ear , A leg of mutton stuffed is rare , Take heed you do not steal my Mare , it is so hight it burns . Behold the trial of true love , He took a scrich-Owle for a Dove : This man is like ere long to prove a Monster . This merry when kind Maltmen me No Cowards fight but in the street , Me thinks this wench smells very sweet , of Musk , or somewhat else . There was a man did play at Maw , The whilst his wife made him a daw , Your Case is all [ tO ] ered in the law , quoth ployden . The Weaver will no shuttle shoot , Go bid the Cobbler mend my boot He is a fool will go afoot and let his Horse stand still . Did John a Nokes and John a Stile , Many and honest man beguiles . But all the world is full of wiles and knavery . Of treason and of Traitors spite The house is haunted with a spirit , Now Nan will rise about midnight , and walk to Richards house . You Courtly states and gall [ l ] ants all , Climb not too high for fear you fallen : If one please not another shall , King pipping . Diana and her Darlings deer , The Dutchmen ply the double Beer : Boys rings the bells & make good cheer when Kempe returns from Room , Oh man what means thy heavy look Is Will not in his Mistress Book , Sir Rouland for a refuge took Horne-Castle Rich people have the world at will Trades fade , but Lawyers flourish still , Jacke would be married unto Gyll : but care will kill a Cat. Are you there Sirrah with your Bears , A Barbers shop with nitty hairs . Doll , Phillis hath lost both her ears , for cozening . Who list to led a soldiers life : Tom would eat meat but wants a knife , The Tinker swore that Tib his wife , would play at uptailes all Believe my word without and and Oath The Tailor stole some of her cloth : When George lay sick & Joane made him broth with Hemlock . The Patron gelded the parsonage , And Esau sold his heritage , Now Leonard lackwit is fool age , to be his Father's heir . Ther's many scratch before it itch , Saul did ask counsel of a Witch . Friend , you may have a Bacon flitch at Dunmow . King David played on a Welch Harp , This thread will never make good warp At wise men's words each fool will carp and shoot their witless bolts . Jone like a Ram wore horns and wool . Knew you my Hostis of the Bull , Spure Curio once was made a gull in Shoreditch The blackamoors are blabber lipt , At yarmouth are the Herrings shipped , And at Bride-well the beggars whipped , a man may live and learn , Grief in my heart does stop my tongue , The poor man still must put up wrong , Your way lies there then walk along , to Witham There lies a Lass that I love well , The Broker hath gay clothes to fell , Which from the Hangmans budget fell , are you no further you In Summer times when Pears be ripe , Who would give sixpence for a Tripe , Play Lad or else lend me thy Pipe and Taber . Saint Nicholas Clerks will take a purse , Young children now can swear and curse I hope ye like me never the worse , for finding fault therewith . The servant is the Master's mate . When gossips meet , ther's too much prate Poor Lazarus lies at Dives gate half starved , Make haste to Sea , and hoist up sails The hogs were served with milking pales From filth [ y ] sluts , and from all Joayles , good Lord deliver us all . I scorn to ride a raw boned Jade , Fetch me a Mattock and a Spade , A Gravesend Toste will soon be made , Saint Dennis , But for to finish up my Song , The Alewife did the brewer wrong , One day of sorrow seems as long as ten days do of mirth , My Medley now is at and end , Have you no Bowls or Trays to mend This hard to find so true a friend as Damon . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcocke . FINIS . 