The Countrymans new care away . To the tune of , Love will find out the way . IF there were employments for men , as have been , And Drums , Pikes , and Muskets in th' field to be seen , And every worthy Soldier had truly their pay , Then might they be bolder , to sing , Care away . If there were no Rooking , but plain dealing used , If honest Religion were no ways abused , If pride in the Country did not bear sway , The poor , and the Gentry might sing , Care away . If Farmers consider'd the dearness of grain , How honest poor Tradesmen their charge should maintain , And would bore the price on't to sing , Care away . We should not be nice on't , of what we did pay , Of poor Tenants Landlords , would not rack their rends , Which oft is the cause of their great discontents : If again good housekeeping in th' Land did bear sway , The poor that sits weeping , might sing , Care away . If to live uprightly all men were concurring , If Lawyers with Clients would use no demurring , But kindly would use them , for what they did pay ; They need not sit-musing , but sing , Care away . If Spendthrifts were careful and would leave their follies , Ebriety hating , Cards , Dice , Bowling-Alleyes , Or with wantons to dally by night or by day , Their wives might be merry , and sing , Care away . The second part . To the same tune . IF Children to Parents , would dutiful be , If Servants with Master's ; would deal faithfully , If Gallants poor Tradesmen would honestly pay , Then might they have comfort , to sing , Care away . There is no contentment , to a conscience thats clear , That man is most wretched , a bad mind does bear , To wrong his poor Neighbour , by night or by day , He wants the true comfort to sing , Care away . But he that is ready , by goodness to labour , In what he is able to help is poor Neighbour ; The Lord will ever bless him by night and by day , All joys shall possess him to sing , Care away . Would wives with their husbands , and husbands with wine , In love and true friendship would so led their lines , As best might be pleasing , to Goodnight and day , Then they with hearts easing , might sing , Care away . No cross can be greater , unto a good mind , Than a man to be matched with a woman unkind , Whose tongue is never quiet , but scolds night and day , That man wants the comfort to sing , Care away . A virtuous woman a husband that hath , That's given unto lewdness , to envy and wrath , Who after wicked women , does hunt for his prey , That woman wants comfort , to sing , Care away . Were there no resorting , to houses of vice , Or were there no courting a wench that is nice , Yet ere she will refuse it , the wanton will play . Poor men might be merry , and sing , Care away . Like true subject's loyal , to God let us pray , Our good King so Royal , to preserve night and day : With the Queen , Prince and Nobles , the Lord bless them aye : Then may we all have comfort , to sing , Care away . The Countrymans new care away . To the tune of , Love will find out the way . IF there were employments for men , as have been , And Drums , Pikes , and Muskets in th' field to be seen , And every worthy Soldier had truly their pay , Then might they be bolder , to sing , Care away . If there were no Rooking , but plain dealing used , If honest Religion were no ways abused , If pride in the Country did not bear sway , The poor , and the Gentry might sing , Care away . If Farmers consider'd the dearness of grain , How honest poor Tradesmen their charge should maintain , And would bore the price on't to sing , Care away . We should not be nice on't , of what we did pay , Of poor Tenants Landlords , would not rack their rends , Which oft is the cause of their great discontents : If again good housekeeping in th' Land did bear sway , The poor that sits weeping , might sing , Care away . If to live uprightly all men were concurring , If Lawyers with Clients would use no demurring , But kindly would use them , for what they did pay ; They need not sit-musing , but sing , Care away . If Spendthrifts were careful and would leave their follies , Ebriety hating , Cards , Dice , Bowling-Alleyes , Or with wantons to dally by night or by day , Their wives might be merry , and sing , Care away . The second part . To the same tune . IF Children to Parents , would dutiful be , If Servants with Master's ; would deal faithfully , If Gallants poor Tradesmen would honestly pay , Then might they have comfort , to sing , Care away . There is no contentment , to a conscience thats clear , That man is most wretched , a bad mind does bear , To wrong his poor Neighbour , by night or by day , He wants the true comfort to sing , Care away . But he that is ready , by goodness to labour , In what he is able to help is poor Neighbour ; The Lord will ever bless him by night and by day , All joys shall possess him to sing , Care away . Would wives with their husbands , and husbands with wine , In love and true friendship would so led their lines , As best might be pleasing , to Goodnight and day , Then they with hearts easing , might sing , Care away . No cross can be greater , unto a good mind , Than a man to be matched with a woman unkind , Whose tongue is never quiet , but scolds night and day , That man wants the comfort to sing , Care away . A virtuous woman a husband that hath , That's given unto lewdness , to envy and wrath , Who after wicked women , does hunt for his prey , That woman wants comfort , to sing , Care away . Were there no resorting , to houses of vice , Or were there no courting a wench that is nice , Yet ere she will refuse it , the wanton will play . Poor men might be merry , and sing , Care away . Like true subject's loyal , to God let us pray , Our good King so Royal , to preserve night and day : With the Queen , Prince and Nobles , the Lord bless them aye : Then may we all have comfort , to sing , Care away . 