The Cooper of Norfolke : OR , A pretty Jest of a Brewer and the Coopers Wife : And how the Cooper ser - ved the Brewer in his kind . To the tune of , The Wiving Age . ATtend my Master's , and listen well Unto this my Ditty , which briefly does tell Of a fine merry Jest which in Norfolke befell : A brave lusty Cooper in that County did dwell , And there he cry'd Work for a Cooper , Maids ha'ye any work for a Cooper ? This Cooper he had a fair creature to's wife , Which a Brewer i'th Town lov'd as deer as his life , And she had a trick , which in some wives is rife : She still kept a sheath for another men knife , And often cornuted the Cooper , While he cry'd , More work for a Cooper . It happened one morning the Cooper out went , To work for his living it was his inten He trusted his house to his wives government , And left her in bed to her own hearts content , While he cry'd , What work for a Cooper , Maids ha'ye any work for a Cooper ? And as the Cooper was passing along , Still crying and calling his old wonted song , The Brewer , his rival , both lusty and young , Did think now or never to do him some wrong , And lie with the wife of the Cooper , Who better lov'd him than the Cooper . So calling the Cooper , he to him did say , Go home to my house , and make no delay , I have so much work as thou canst do to day : What ever thou earnest , I'll bountifully pay . These tidings well pleased the Cooper , O , this was brave news for the Cooper . Away went the Cooper to th'house of the Brewer , Who seeing him safe at his work to endure : Thought he , now for this day the Cooper is sure , I'll go to his wife , her greensickness to cure : Take heed of your forehead , good Cooper , For now I must work for the Cooper . So straight ways he went to the Coopers dwelling , The goodwife to give entertainment was willing , The Brewer & she like two pigeons were billing : And what they did else they have bound me from telling : He pleased the wife of the Cooper , Who better lov'd him than the Cooper . But mark how it happened now at the last , The sunshine of pleasure was soon overpast ; The Cooper did lack one of's Tools , and in haste He came home to fetch it , and found the door fas Wife , open the door , quoth the Cooper , And let in thy husband the Cooper . Now when the goodwife and the Brewer did hear The Cooper at door , affrighted they were : The Brewer was in such a bodily fear , That for to hide himself he knew not where , To shun the fierce rage of the Cooper , He thought he should die by the Cooper . The good wife perceiving his woeful estate , She having a subtle and politic pate , She suddenly whelm'd down a great brewing Fat , And closely she cover'd the Brewer with tha Then after she let in the Cooper , What's under this Tub ? quoth the Cooper . The second Part , To the same Tune . SHe hearing her husband that question demand , She thought it was time to her tackling to stand : Take heed how you move it , quod she , with your hand , For there's a live big was sent by a friend : O , let it alone , good Cooper : Thus she thought to cozen the Cooper . Is it a Sow pig , the Cooper did say ? Let me hav't to my Supper : the good wife said nay , It is six , a Bore-pig , quoth she , by my faith : This for my own diet , it giv'n me to day : It is not for you , John Coop [ er , ] Then let it alone , John Cooper . I would it were in thy belly , quoth John , Indeed , quoth the goodwife , so it shall be anon : What , ere I do with it , faith thou shalt have none . Why standest thou here prating ? I prithee be gone , Make haste to thy work , John Cooper , Worse meat's good enough for a Cooper . Cannot a good wife have a bit now and than , But there must be notice taken by the good man : I'll hav't to my dinner , sir , do what you can : It may be I long to have all or none : Then prithee content thy self Cooper , O go to thy work , John Cooper . The Cooper mistrusted some knavery to be Hid under the brewing Fat , and therefore he Was fully resolv'd , for his mind-sake , to see . Alas , thought the Brewer , now woe be to me , O what shall I say to the Cooper ? I would I were gone from the Cooper . You whore , quod the Cooper , is this your Bore-pig ? He has been well fed , for hee's grown very big : I'll either of him have and arm or a leg ; I'll make him unable his tail for to wrig Before he gets hence from John Cooper , I'll make him remember the Cooper . O pardon me Neighbour the Brewer did say : And for the offence I have done thee this day , I am well contented thy wrath to allay , And make restitution for this my foul play : Oh prithee forgive me , John Cooper , And I'll be a friend to John Cooper . If from this offence thou wilt set me clear , My bounty and love to thee shall appear : I'll freely allow thee and thine all the year , As much as yee'l drink , either strong Ale or Beer : Then prithee forgive me , John Cooper , Accept of my proffer , John Cooper . O no , quoth the Cooper , I'de have thee to think , That I with my labour can buy my self drink : I'll geld thee , or lame thee , ere from me thou shrink . These words made the Brewer with fear for to stink ; He feared the rage of the Cooper , Yet still he entreated the Cooper . The Cooper by no means would let go his hold , The Brewer cry'd out to the Cooper , and told Him , there was the key of his silver and gold , And gave him free leave to fetch what he would : O then he contented the Cooper , These tidings well pleased the Cooper . If thou , quoth the Cooper , wilt swear with and oath , To do all thou tell'st me , although I am loath , I will be contented to pardon you both : Content , quoth the Brewer , I will by my troth , Here take thou my key , John Cooper . Yea , with a good will , quoth the Cooper . On this condition they both went their way , Both John and the Brewer , but John kept the key , Which open'd the Coffer where more money lay , Than John the Cooper had seen many a day : This is a brave sighed , thought the Cooper , I'll furnish my self , thought the Cooper . John was so far in affection with that , That he took up handfuls and filled his Would I will have my bargain , quoth John , that is flat , The Brewer shall pay well for using my Fa I'll cry no more work for a Cooper , Farewell to the trade of a Cooper . Thus money can pacify the greatest strife : For John never after found fault with his wife . He left off his Adz , his Saw and his Knife , And after liv'd richly all days of his life ; He cry'd no more work for a Cooper : O he left off the trade of a Cooper . And in his merry mood , oft he would say , If that I had hoop't twenty tubs in one day , I should not have god so much wealth , by my faith : Gramercy kind wife , for thy wit found the way To make a rich man of John Cooper : O what a good wife has John Cooper . Let no marry'd couple that hear this tale told , Be of the opinion this couple did hold , To fell reputation for silver or gold : For credit and honesty should not be sold . Thus ended the song of the Cooper . That cry'd , Ha'ye any work for a Cooper . Printed at London for Francis Grove , on Snow-hill . FINIS . M.P. The Cooper of Norfolke : OR , A pretty Jest of a Brewer and the Coopers Wife : And how the Cooper ser - ved the Brewer in his kind . To the tune of , The Wiving Age . ATtend my Master's , and listen well Unto this my Ditty , which briefly does tell Of a fine merry Jest which in Norfolke befell : A brave lusty Cooper in that County did dwell , And there he cry'd Work for a Cooper , Maids ha'ye any work for a Cooper ? This Cooper he had a fair creature to's wife , Which a Brewer i'th Town lov'd as deer as his life , And she had a trick , which in some wives is rife : She still kept a sheath for another men knife , And often cornuted the Cooper , While he cry'd , More work for a Cooper . It happened one morning the Cooper out went , To work for his living it was his inten He trusted his house to his wives government , And left her in bed to her own hearts content , While he cry'd , What work for a Cooper , Maids ha'ye any work for a Cooper ? And as the Cooper was passing along , Still crying and calling his old wonted song , The Brewer , his rival , both lusty and young , Did think now or never to do him some wrong , And lie with the wife of the Cooper , Who better lov'd him than the Cooper . So calling the Cooper , he to him did say , Go home to my house , and make no delay , I have so much work as thou canst do to day : What ever thou earnest , I'll bountifully pay . These tidings well pleased the Cooper , O , this was brave news for the Cooper . Away went the Cooper to th'house of the Brewer , Who seeing him safe at his work to endure : Thought he , now for this day the Cooper is sure , I'll go to his wife , her greensickness to cure : Take heed of your forehead , good Cooper , For now I must work for the Cooper . So straight ways he went to the Coopers dwelling , The goodwife to give entertainment was willing , The Brewer & she like two pigeons were billing : And what they did else they have bound me from telling : He pleased the wife of the Cooper , Who better lov'd him than the Cooper . But mark how it happened now at the last , The sunshine of pleasure was soon overpast ; The Cooper did lack one of's Tools , and in haste He came home to fetch it , and found the door fas Wife , open the door , quoth the Cooper , And let in thy husband the Cooper . Now when the goodwife and the Brewer did hear The Cooper at door , affrighted they were : The Brewer was in such a bodily fear , That for to hide himself he knew not where , To shun the fierce rage of the Cooper , He thought he should die by the Cooper . The good wife perceiving his woeful estate , She having a subtle and politic pate , She suddenly whelm'd down a great brewing Fat , And closely she cover'd the Brewer with tha Then after she let in the Cooper , What's under this Tub ? quoth the Cooper . The second Part , To the same Tune . SHe hearing her husband that question demand , She thought it was time to her tackling to stand : Take heed how you move it , quod she , with your hand , For there's a live big was sent by a friend : O , let it alone , good Cooper : Thus she thought to cozen the Cooper . Is it a Sow pig , the Cooper did say ? Let me hav't to my Supper : the good wife said nay , It is six , a Bore-pig , quoth she , by my faith : This for my own diet , it giv'n me to day : It is not for you , John Coop [ er , ] Then let it alone , John Cooper . I would it were in thy belly , quoth John , Indeed , quoth the goodwife , so it shall be anon : What , ere I do with it , faith thou shalt have none . Why standest thou here prating ? I prithee be gone , Make haste to thy work , John Cooper , Worse meat's good enough for a Cooper . Cannot a good wife have a bit now and than , But there must be notice taken by the good man : I'll hav't to my dinner , sir , do what you can : It may be I long to have all or none : Then prithee content thy self Cooper , O go to thy work , John Cooper . The Cooper mistrusted some knavery to be Hid under the brewing Fat , and therefore he Was fully resolv'd , for his mind-sake , to see . Alas , thought the Brewer , now woe be to me , O what shall I say to the Cooper ? I would I were gone from the Cooper . You whore , quod the Cooper , is this your Bore-pig ? He has been well fed , for hee's grown very big : I'll either of him have and arm or a leg ; I'll make him unable his tail for to wrig Before he gets hence from John Cooper , I'll make him remember the Cooper . O pardon me Neighbour the Brewer did say : And for the offence I have done thee this day , I am well contented thy wrath to allay , And make restitution for this my foul play : Oh prithee forgive me , John Cooper , And I'll be a friend to John Cooper . If from this offence thou wilt set me clear , My bounty and love to thee shall appear : I'll freely allow thee and thine all the year , As much as yee'l drink , either strong Ale or Beer : Then prithee forgive me , John Cooper , Accept of my proffer , John Cooper . O no , quoth the Cooper , I'de have thee to think , That I with my labour can buy my self drink : I'll geld thee , or lame thee , ere from me thou shrink . These words made the Brewer with fear for to stink ; He feared the rage of the Cooper , Yet still he entreated the Cooper . The Cooper by no means would let go his hold , The Brewer cry'd out to the Cooper , and told Him , there was the key of his silver and gold , And gave him free leave to fetch what he would : O then he contented the Cooper , These tidings well pleased the Cooper . If thou , quoth the Cooper , wilt swear with and oath , To do all thou tell'st me , although I am loath , I will be contented to pardon you both : Content , quoth the Brewer , I will by my troth , Here take thou my key , John Cooper . Yea , with a good will , quoth the Cooper . On this condition they both went their way , Both John and the Brewer , but John kept the key , Which open'd the Coffer where more money lay , Than John the Cooper had seen many a day : This is a brave sighed , thought the Cooper , I'll furnish my self , thought the Cooper . John was so far in affection with that , That he took up handfuls and filled his Would I will have my bargain , quoth John , that is flat , The Brewer shall pay well for using my Fa I'll cry no more work for a Cooper , Farewell to the trade of a Cooper . Thus money can pacify the greatest strife : For John never after found fault with his wife . He left off his Adz , his Saw and his Knife , And after liv'd richly all days of his life ; He cry'd no more work for a Cooper : O he left off the trade of a Cooper . And in his merry mood , oft he would say , If that I had hoop't twenty tubs in one day , I should not have god so much wealth , by my faith : Gramercy kind wife , for thy wit found the way To make a rich man of John Cooper : O what a good wife has John Cooper . Let no marry'd couple that hear this tale told , Be of the opinion this couple did hold , To fell reputation for silver or gold : For credit and honesty should not be sold . Thus ended the song of the Cooper . That cry'd , Ha'ye any work for a Cooper . Printed at London for Francis Grove , on Snow-hill . FINIS . M.P. 