A pleasant new Court Song , Between a young Courtier , and a Country Lass . To a new Court Tune . Upon a Summer's time , in the middle of the morn , A bonny Lass I spied , the fairest ere was born , Fast by a standing Pool , within a meadow green , She laid her self to cool , not thinking to be seen . She gathered lovely flowers , and spent her time in spor As if to Cupids bowers she daily did resort . The fields afford content unto this maiden kind , Much time , and pains she spent , to satisfy her mind . The Cowslip there she cropped , the Daffodil and Dazie : The Primrose looked so trim , she scorned to be lazy , And ever as he did , these pretty posies pull , She rose and fetched a sighs , and wished her apron full . I hearing of her wish , made bold to step unto her : Thinking her love to win , I thus began to woo her , Fair maid , be not so coy , to kiss thee I am ben Oh fie , she cried , away yet smiling gave consent . Then did I help to pluck of every flower that grew , No herb nor flower I missed , but only Time and Rue . Both she and I took pains to gather flowers store , Until this maiden said , kind sir , I'll have no more . Yet still my loving hear did proffer more to pull , No sir , quoth she , isle part , because mine apron's full . So sir , isle take my leave , till next we meet again : Rewards me with a kiss , and thanks me for my pain . The Second part . To the same Tune . IT was my chance of late , to walk the pleasant fields : Where sweet tun'd chirping birds , harmonious music yields . I lent a listening ear unto their music rare : At last mine eye did glance upon a Damsel fair . I stepped me close aside , under a Hawthorn bryer : Her passion laid her down , ore-rul'd with found desire . Alack found maid she cried , and straight fell a weeping , Why sufferest thou thy heart , within a false ones keeping ? Wherefore is Venus Queen , whom maids adore in mind , Obdurate to our prayers , or like her fondling blind : When we do spend our loves , whose found expense is vain : For men are grown so false , the cannot love again . The Queen of love does know , best how the matter stands , And Hymen knows , I long to come within her hands . My love best knows my love , and love repaies with hate , Was ever virgins love , so much unfortunate ? Did my love fickle prove then had he cause to fly : But I'll be judg'd by love . I lov'd him constantly . I hearing of her vows , set bashfulness a part , And striv'd with all my skill , to cheer this maidens heart . I did instruct her love , where love might be repaid : Could I , quoth she , find love , I were and happy maid . I straight in love replied , in me thou Love shalt find : So made the bargain sure , and eas'd the Maidens mind . FINIS . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcoeke A pleasant new Court Song , Between a young Courtier , and a Country Lass . To a new Court Tune . Upon a Summer's time , in the middle of the morn , A bonny Lass I spied , the fairest ere was born , Fast by a standing Pool , within a meadow green , She laid her self to cool , not thinking to be seen . She gathered lovely flowers , and spent her time in spor As if to Cupids bowers she daily did resort . The fields afford content unto this maiden kind , Much time , and pains she spent , to satisfy her mind . The Cowslip there she cropped , the Daffodil and Dazie : The Primrose looked so trim , she scorned to be lazy , And ever as he did , these pretty posies pull , She rose and fetched a sighs , and wished her apron full . I hearing of her wish , made bold to step unto her : Thinking her love to win , I thus began to woo her , Fair maid , be not so coy , to kiss thee I am ben Oh fie , she cried , away yet smiling gave consent . Then did I help to pluck of every flower that grew , No herb nor flower I missed , but only Time and Rue . Both she and I took pains to gather flowers store , Until this maiden said , kind sir , I'll have no more . Yet still my loving hear did proffer more to pull , No sir , quoth she , isle part , because mine apron's full . So sir , isle take my leave , till next we meet again : Rewards me with a kiss , and thanks me for my pain . The Second part . To the same Tune . IT was my chance of late , to walk the pleasant fields : Where sweet tun'd chirping birds , harmonious music yields . I lent a listening ear unto their music rare : At last mine eye did glance upon a Damsel fair . I stepped me close aside , under a Hawthorn bryer : Her passion laid her down , ore-rul'd with found desire . Alack found maid she cried , and straight fell a weeping , Why sufferest thou thy heart , within a false ones keeping ? Wherefore is Venus Queen , whom maids adore in mind , Obdurate to our prayers , or like her fondling blind : When we do spend our loves , whose found expense is vain : For men are grown so false , the cannot love again . The Queen of love does know , best how the matter stands , And Hymen knows , I long to come within her hands . My love best knows my love , and love repaies with hate , Was ever virgins love , so much unfortunate ? Did my love fickle prove then had he cause to fly : But I'll be judg'd by love . I lov'd him constantly . I hearing of her vows , set bashfulness a part , And striv'd with all my skill , to cheer this maidens heart . I did instruct her love , where love might be repaid : Could I , quoth she , find love , I were and happy maid . I straight in love replied , in me thou Love shalt find : So made the bargain sure , and eas'd the Maidens mind . FINIS . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcoeke A pleasant new Court Song , Between a young Courtier , and a Country Lass . To a new Court Tune . Upon a Summer's time , in the middle of the morn , A bonny Lass I spied , the fairest ere was born , Fast by a standing Pool , within a meadow green , She laid her self to cool , not thinking to be seen . She gathered lovely flowers , and spent her time in spor As if to Cupids bowers she daily did resort . The fields afford content unto this maiden kind , Much time , and pains she spent , to satisfy her mind . The Cowslip there she cropped , the Daffodil and Dazie : The Primrose looked so trim , she scorned to be lazy , And ever as he did , these pretty posies pull , She rose and fetched a sighs , and wished her apron full . I hearing of her wish , made bold to step unto her : Thinking her love to win , I thus began to woo her , Fair maid , be not so coy , to kiss thee I am ben Oh fie , she cried , away yet smiling gave consent . Then did I help to pluck of every flower that grew , No herb nor flower I missed , but only Time and Rue . Both she and I took pains to gather flowers store , Until this maiden said , kind sir , I'll have no more . Yet still my loving hear did proffer more to pull , No sir , quoth she , isle part , because mine apron's full . So sir , isle take my leave , till next we meet again : Rewards me with a kiss , and thanks me for my pain . The Second part . To the same Tune . IT was my chance of late , to walk the pleasant fields : Where sweet tun'd chirping birds , harmonious music yields . I lent a listening ear unto their music rare : At last mine eye did glance upon a Damsel fair . I stepped me close aside , under a Hawthorn bryer : Her passion laid her down , ore-rul'd with found desire . Alack found maid she cried , and straight fell a weeping , Why sufferest thou thy heart , within a false ones keeping ? Wherefore is Venus Queen , whom maids adore in mind , Obdurate to our prayers , or like her fondling blind : When we do spend our loves , whose found expense is vain : For men are grown so false , the cannot love again . The Queen of love does know , best how the matter stands , And Hymen knows , I long to come within her hands . My love best knows my love , and love repaies with hate , Was ever virgins love , so much unfortunate ? Did my love fickle prove then had he cause to fly : But I'll be judg'd by love . I lov'd him constantly . I hearing of her vows , set bashfulness a part , And striv'd with all my skill , to cheer this maidens heart . I did instruct her love , where love might be repaid : Could I , quoth she , find love , I were and happy maid . I straight in love replied , in me thou Love shalt find : So made the bargain sure , and eas'd the Maidens mind . FINIS . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcoeke A pleasant new Court Song , Between a young Courtier , and a Country Lass . To a new Court Tune . Upon a Summer's time , in the middle of the morn , A bonny Lass I spied , the fairest ere was born , Fast by a standing Pool , within a meadow green , She laid her self to cool , not thinking to be seen . She gathered lovely flowers , and spent her time in spor As if to Cupids bowers she daily did resort . The fields afford content unto this maiden kind , Much time , and pains she spent , to satisfy her mind . The Cowslip there she cropped , the Daffodil and Dazie : The Primrose looked so trim , she scorned to be lazy , And ever as he did , these pretty posies pull , She rose and fetched a sighs , and wished her apron full . I hearing of her wish , made bold to step unto her : Thinking her love to win , I thus began to woo her , Fair maid , be not so coy , to kiss thee I am ben Oh fie , she cried , away yet smiling gave consent . Then did I help to pluck of every flower that grew , No herb nor flower I missed , but only Time and Rue . Both she and I took pains to gather flowers store , Until this maiden said , kind sir , I'll have no more . Yet still my loving hear did proffer more to pull , No sir , quoth she , isle part , because mine apron's full . So sir , isle take my leave , till next we meet again : Rewards me with a kiss , and thanks me for my pain . The Second part . To the same Tune . IT was my chance of late , to walk the pleasant fields : Where sweet tun'd chirping birds , harmonious music yields . I lent a listening ear unto their music rare : At last mine eye did glance upon a Damsel fair . I stepped me close aside , under a Hawthorn bryer : Her passion laid her down , ore-rul'd with found desire . Alack found maid she cried , and straight fell a weeping , Why sufferest thou thy heart , within a false ones keeping ? Wherefore is Venus Queen , whom maids adore in mind , Obdurate to our prayers , or like her fondling blind : When we do spend our loves , whose found expense is vain : For men are grown so false , the cannot love again . The Queen of love does know , best how the matter stands , And Hymen knows , I long to come within her hands . My love best knows my love , and love repaies with hate , Was ever virgins love , so much unfortunate ? Did my love fickle prove then had he cause to fly : But I'll be judg'd by love . I lov'd him constantly . I hearing of her vows , set bashfulness a part , And striv'd with all my skill , to cheer this maidens heart . I did instruct her love , where love might be repaid : Could I , quoth she , find love , I were and happy maid . I straight in love replied , in me thou Love shalt find : So made the bargain sure , and eas'd the Maidens mind . FINIS . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcoeke 