Christmas Lamentation , For the loss of his Acquaintance , showing how he is forced to leave the Country , and come to London . To the tune of , Now the Spring is come . CHristmas is my name , far have I gone , Have I gone , have I gone , have I gone , without regard . Whereas great men by flocks there be flown , There be flown , there be flown , there be flown , to London-ward . Where they in pomp , and pleasure do waste , That which Christmas was wonted to feast , Welladay . Houses where music was wont for to ring , Nothing but Bats and Howlets do sing , Welladay . Welladay . Welladay . where should I stay . Christmas beef and bred , is turn'd into stones , Into stones , into stones , into stones , and silken rags . And Lady money sleeps , and makes moans , And makes moans , and makes moans , and , etc in Misers Bags . Houses where pleasures once did abound , Nought but a Dog and a Shepherd is found , Welladay . Places where Christmas Revels did keep , Is now become habitations for sheep , Welladay . Welladay . Welladay . where should I stay . Pan the Shepherds god does deface , Does deface , does deface , does deface , Lady Ceres crown . And tillage that does go to decay , To decay , to decay , to decay , in every Town . Landlords their rends so highly inhance , That Pierce the Plowman , bore foot may dance , Welladay . And Farmers that Christmas would entertain , Have scarce where with themselves to maintain , Welladay . Welladay . Welladay . where should I stay . Come to the Country man , he will protest , Will protest , will protest , will protest , and of Bull Beef lost . And for the Citizen he is so hight , Is so hight , is so hight , is so hight , he will burn the rost . The Courtier he good deeds will not scorn , Nor will he see poor Christmas forlorn , Welladay . Since none of these good deeds will do , Christmas had best turn Courtier too , Welladay . Welladay . Welladay . where should I stay . The second part . To the same Tune . PRide and luxury they do devour , Do devour , do devour , do devour , housekeeping quite . And beggary that does beget , Does beget , does beget , does beget , in many a Knight . Madam forsooth in her Coach she must wheell , Although she wear her hose out at heel , Welladay . And on her back wear that for a weed , Which me and all my fellows would feed , Welladay . Welladay . Welladay . where should I stay . Since pride that came up with yellow starch , Yellow starch , yellow starch , yellow starch , poor folks do want . And nothing the rich men will to them give , To them give , to them give , to them give , but do them taunt . For charity from the Country is fled , And in her place hath left nought but need , Welladay . And Corn is grown to so high a price , It makes poor men cry with weeping eyes , Welladay . Welladay . Welladay . where should I stay . Briefly for to end , here I do find , I do find , I do find , I do find , so great vacation , That most great houses seem to attain To attain , to attain , to attain . a strong purgation . Where purging pills , such effects they have showed , That forth of doors their owners have spewed , Welladay . And where as Christmas comes by and calls , Nought but solitary and naked walls , Welladay . Welladay . Welladay . where shall I stay . Phelomes cottage was turn'd into gold , Into gold , into gold , into gold , for harbouring Jove , Rich men their houses for to keep , For to keep , for to keep , for to keep , might their greatness move . But in the City they say they do live , Where gold by handfuls away they do give , I'll away . And thither therefore I purpose to pass , Hoping at London to find the golden Ass , I'll away . I'll away . I'll away . for here's no stay . Printed at London for F.C. dwelling in the Old-Bayly . Christmas Lamentation , For the loss of his Acquaintance , showing how he is forced to leave the Country , and come to London . To the tune of , Now the Spring is come . CHristmas is my name , far have I gone , Have I gone , have I gone , have I gone , without regard . Whereas great men by flocks there be flown , There be flown , there be flown , there be flown , to London-ward . Where they in pomp , and pleasure do waste , That which Christmas was wonted to feast , Welladay . Houses where music was wont for to ring , Nothing but Bats and Howlets do sing , Welladay . Welladay . Welladay . where should I stay . Christmas beef and bred , is turn'd into stones , Into stones , into stones , into stones , and silken rags . And Lady money sleeps , and makes moans , And makes moans , and makes moans , and , etc in Misers Bags . Houses where pleasures once did abound , Nought but a Dog and a Shepherd is found , Welladay . Places where Christmas Revels did keep , Is now become habitations for sheep , Welladay . Welladay . Welladay . where should I stay . Pan the Shepherds god does deface , Does deface , does deface , does deface , Lady Ceres crown . And tillage that does go to decay , To decay , to decay , to decay , in every Town . Landlords their rends so highly inhance , That Pierce the Plowman , bore foot may dance , Welladay . And Farmers that Christmas would entertain , Have scarce where with themselves to maintain , Welladay . Welladay . Welladay . where should I stay . Come to the Country man , he will protest , Will protest , will protest , will protest , and of Bull Beef lost . And for the Citizen he is so hight , Is so hight , is so hight , is so hight , he will burn the rost . The Courtier he good deeds will not scorn , Nor will he see poor Christmas forlorn , Welladay . Since none of these good deeds will do , Christmas had best turn Courtier too , Welladay . Welladay . Welladay . where should I stay . The second part . To the same Tune . PRide and luxury they do devour , Do devour , do devour , do devour , housekeeping quite . And beggary that does beget , Does beget , does beget , does beget , in many a Knight . Madam forsooth in her Coach she must wheell , Although she wear her hose out at heel , Welladay . And on her back wear that for a weed , Which me and all my fellows would feed , Welladay . Welladay . Welladay . where should I stay . Since pride that came up with yellow starch , Yellow starch , yellow starch , yellow starch , poor folks do want . And nothing the rich men will to them give , To them give , to them give , to them give , but do them taunt . For charity from the Country is fled , And in her place hath left nought but need , Welladay . And Corn is grown to so high a price , It makes poor men cry with weeping eyes , Welladay . Welladay . Welladay . where should I stay . Briefly for to end , here I do find , I do find , I do find , I do find , so great vacation , That most great houses seem to attain To attain , to attain , to attain . a strong purgation . Where purging pills , such effects they have showed , That forth of doors their owners have spewed , Welladay . And where as Christmas comes by and calls , Nought but solitary and naked walls , Welladay . Welladay . Welladay . where shall I stay . Phelomes cottage was turn'd into gold , Into gold , into gold , into gold , for harbouring Jove , Rich men their houses for to keep , For to keep , for to keep , for to keep , might their greatness move . But in the City they say they do live , Where gold by handfuls away they do give , I'll away . And thither therefore I purpose to pass , Hoping at London to find the golden Ass , I'll away . I'll away . I'll away . for here's no stay . Printed at London for F.C. dwelling in the Old-Bayly . 