A discourse of men life . Comparing him to things that quickly pass , As bubble , shuttle , blossom , stream , and grass . To the tune of Aim not too high . NOw to discourse of man I take in hand , In what estate his fickle life does stand , He in this world is as a pilgrimage , And makes haste to travail to old age . men life compared is unto a Flower , That grows and withers all within one hour And like to grass that grows in the field . Or like true courage which is loath to yield . The flower's cut , and now can bear no show , The grass is withered which was green to view True courage wronged by or'e many foes . And death does make a man his life to loose . men life is like the damask Rose you see , Or like the blossom that grows on the tree , Or like unto the dainty flowers in May , Or like the morning that begins the day . The Rose is withered & the blossom blasteth , The flowers fade , & fast the morning hastes . Even such is man whose thread is quickly spun , Drawn out and cut , and suddenly is done . men life is like the Sun , or like the shade , Or like unto the gourd which Jonas had , Or like and hour , or like unto a span , Or like unto the singing of a Swan The Sun does set , and fast the shadow flies , The gourd consumes and man he quickly die The hour is short , for and the span not long , The swan near death , men life is quickly dONE men life is like the grass that's newly sprung Or like unto a tale that's new begun , Or like the bird which we do see to day , Or like the pearly due that is in May . The grass is wither'd , and the tale is ended , The bird is flown , and up the due ascended , Even such is man , who lives by his breath , Is here , now there , still subject unto death . men life is like the bubble in the Brook , Or like a glass wherein a man does look , Or like a shuttle in a Weavers hand , Or like the writing that is in the sand . The bubble's broke , and soon the looke's forgotten The shuttle's flung , for and the writings blo Even such is man that lives on the earth , He's always subject for to lose his breath . The second part . To the same tune . MAns life is like a thought , or like a dream , Or like the gliding of a running stream , Or like a raze , or like unto a goal , Or like the dealing of a rich men dole . The thought is past , for and the dream is gone , The water glides , even so men life is done . The raze soon run , so is the goal soon wone , The dole soon dealt , men life is quickly done . men life is like and arrow from the bow , Or like sweet course of waters that does flow , Or like the time betwixt the flood and ebb , Or like unto the Spiders tender web . The arrows shot , for and the flood soon spent , The time's no time , the Spiders web is ren Even such is man , and of as brittle state , Hee's always subject unto Envies hate . men life is like the lightning in the sky , Or like a Post that suddenly does high , Or like a Quaver singing of a song , Or like a journey that's not very long . The lightning's past , for and the Post must go , The Note is short , and so's the journey too : Even such is Man the which does heap up sorrow That lives to day , and dies before to morrow . men like unto the snow when summer's come , Or like a Pear , or like unto a Plum , Or like a tree that grows fresh and green , Or like the wind which can no ways be seen . The Pear does rot , for and the Plum does fallen , The snow dissolves , and so we must do all , The tree's consumed that was so fresh and fair , The wind's uncertain that blows in the air . Man's like the seed put into the earth's womb , Or like dead Lazarus that's in his Tomb : Or like Tabitha being in a sleep , Or like to Jonas that was in the deep . The seed it springs , Lazarus now stands , Tabitha wakes , and Jonas he hath landed , Thus are we certain life we shall obtain , Though death does kill yet shall we live again . God of his mercy grant to us his grace , That we may led our lives in such a case , That when we are departed hence away , we then may live with him in joy for aye . Grant Lord that we may please thy will divine Lord let thy loving favour on us shine , And turn from us thy heavy wrath and ire , And grant us mercy Lord we thee require . Lord make us like the fruitful Vines , To bring forth fruits in our due tides & times , Unto the honour of thy glorious name , Amen good Lord , grant we may do the same . Now to conclude , God bless our gracious Charles , With all his worthy Subject's , Lords , & Earls , And grant us Lord , true faith , with love & peace , And let thy Gospel more and more increase . FINIS . London Printed for H.G. A discourse of men life . Comparing him to things that quickly pass , As bubble , shuttle , blossom , stream , and grass . To the tune of Aim not too high . NOw to discourse of man I take in hand , In what estate his fickle life does stand , He in this world is as a pilgrimage , And makes haste to travail to old age . men life compared is unto a Flower , That grows and withers all within one hour And like to grass that grows in the field . Or like true courage which is loath to yield . The flower's cut , and now can bear no show , The grass is withered which was green to view True courage wronged by or'e many foes . And death does make a man his life to loose . men life is like the damask Rose you see , Or like the blossom that grows on the tree , Or like unto the dainty flowers in May , Or like the morning that begins the day . The Rose is withered & the blossom blasteth , The flowers fade , & fast the morning hastes . Even such is man whose thread is quickly spun , Drawn out and cut , and suddenly is done . men life is like the Sun , or like the shade , Or like unto the gourd which Jonas had , Or like and hour , or like unto a span , Or like unto the singing of a Swan The Sun does set , and fast the shadow flies , The gourd consumes and man he quickly die The hour is short , for and the span not long , The swan near death , men life is quickly dONE men life is like the grass that's newly sprung Or like unto a tale that's new begun , Or like the bird which we do see to day , Or like the pearly due that is in May . The grass is wither'd , and the tale is ended , The bird is flown , and up the due ascended , Even such is man , who lives by his breath , Is here , now there , still subject unto death . men life is like the bubble in the Brook , Or like a glass wherein a man does look , Or like a shuttle in a Weavers hand , Or like the writing that is in the sand . The bubble's broke , and soon the looke's forgotten The shuttle's flung , for and the writings blo Even such is man that lives on the earth , He's always subject for to lose his breath . The second part . To the same tune . MAns life is like a thought , or like a dream , Or like the gliding of a running stream , Or like a raze , or like unto a goal , Or like the dealing of a rich men dole . The thought is past , for and the dream is gone , The water glides , even so men life is done . The raze soon run , so is the goal soon wone , The dole soon dealt , men life is quickly done . men life is like and arrow from the bow , Or like sweet course of waters that does flow , Or like the time betwixt the flood and ebb , Or like unto the Spiders tender web . The arrows shot , for and the flood soon spent , The time's no time , the Spiders web is ren Even such is man , and of as brittle state , Hee's always subject unto Envies hate . men life is like the lightning in the sky , Or like a Post that suddenly does high , Or like a Quaver singing of a song , Or like a journey that's not very long . The lightning's past , for and the Post must go , The Note is short , and so's the journey too : Even such is Man the which does heap up sorrow That lives to day , and dies before to morrow . men like unto the snow when summer's come , Or like a Pear , or like unto a Plum , Or like a tree that grows fresh and green , Or like the wind which can no ways be seen . The Pear does rot , for and the Plum does fallen , The snow dissolves , and so we must do all , The tree's consumed that was so fresh and fair , The wind's uncertain that blows in the air . Man's like the seed put into the earth's womb , Or like dead Lazarus that's in his Tomb : Or like Tabitha being in a sleep , Or like to Jonas that was in the deep . The seed it springs , Lazarus now stands , Tabitha wakes , and Jonas he hath landed , Thus are we certain life we shall obtain , Though death does kill yet shall we live again . God of his mercy grant to us his grace , That we may led our lives in such a case , That when we are departed hence away , we then may live with him in joy for aye . Grant Lord that we may please thy will divine Lord let thy loving favour on us shine , And turn from us thy heavy wrath and ire , And grant us mercy Lord we thee require . Lord make us like the fruitful Vines , To bring forth fruits in our due tides & times , Unto the honour of thy glorious name , Amen good Lord , grant we may do the same . Now to conclude , God bless our gracious Charles , With all his worthy Subject's , Lords , & Earls , And grant us Lord , true faith , with love & peace , And let thy Gospel more and more increase . FINIS . London Printed for H.G. A discourse of men life . Comparing him to things that quickly pass , As bubble , shuttle , blossom , stream , and grass . To the tune of Aim not too high . NOw to discourse of man I take in hand , In what estate his fickle life does stand , He in this world is as a pilgrimage , And makes haste to travail to old age . men life compared is unto a Flower , That grows and withers all within one hour And like to grass that grows in the field . Or like true courage which is loath to yield . The flower's cut , and now can bear no show , The grass is withered which was green to view True courage wronged by or'e many foes . And death does make a man his life to loose . men life is like the damask Rose you see , Or like the blossom that grows on the tree , Or like unto the dainty flowers in May , Or like the morning that begins the day . The Rose is withered & the blossom blasteth , The flowers fade , & fast the morning hastes . Even such is man whose thread is quickly spun , Drawn out and cut , and suddenly is done . men life is like the Sun , or like the shade , Or like unto the gourd which Jonas had , Or like and hour , or like unto a span , Or like unto the singing of a Swan The Sun does set , and fast the shadow flies , The gourd consumes and man he quickly die The hour is short , for and the span not long , The swan near death , men life is quickly dONE men life is like the grass that's newly sprung Or like unto a tale that's new begun , Or like the bird which we do see to day , Or like the pearly due that is in May . The grass is wither'd , and the tale is ended , The bird is flown , and up the due ascended , Even such is man , who lives by his breath , Is here , now there , still subject unto death . men life is like the bubble in the Brook , Or like a glass wherein a man does look , Or like a shuttle in a Weavers hand , Or like the writing that is in the sand . The bubble's broke , and soon the looke's forgotten The shuttle's flung , for and the writings blo Even such is man that lives on the earth , He's always subject for to lose his breath . The second part . To the same tune . MAns life is like a thought , or like a dream , Or like the gliding of a running stream , Or like a raze , or like unto a goal , Or like the dealing of a rich men dole . The thought is past , for and the dream is gone , The water glides , even so men life is done . The raze soon run , so is the goal soon wone , The dole soon dealt , men life is quickly done . men life is like and arrow from the bow , Or like sweet course of waters that does flow , Or like the time betwixt the flood and ebb , Or like unto the Spiders tender web . The arrows shot , for and the flood soon spent , The time's no time , the Spiders web is ren Even such is man , and of as brittle state , Hee's always subject unto Envies hate . men life is like the lightning in the sky , Or like a Post that suddenly does high , Or like a Quaver singing of a song , Or like a journey that's not very long . The lightning's past , for and the Post must go , The Note is short , and so's the journey too : Even such is Man the which does heap up sorrow That lives to day , and dies before to morrow . men like unto the snow when summer's come , Or like a Pear , or like unto a Plum , Or like a tree that grows fresh and green , Or like the wind which can no ways be seen . The Pear does rot , for and the Plum does fallen , The snow dissolves , and so we must do all , The tree's consumed that was so fresh and fair , The wind's uncertain that blows in the air . Man's like the seed put into the earth's womb , Or like dead Lazarus that's in his Tomb : Or like Tabitha being in a sleep , Or like to Jonas that was in the deep . The seed it springs , Lazarus now stands , Tabitha wakes , and Jonas he hath landed , Thus are we certain life we shall obtain , Though death does kill yet shall we live again . God of his mercy grant to us his grace , That we may led our lives in such a case , That when we are departed hence away , we then may live with him in joy for aye . Grant Lord that we may please thy will divine Lord let thy loving favour on us shine , And turn from us thy heavy wrath and ire , And grant us mercy Lord we thee require . Lord make us like the fruitful Vines , To bring forth fruits in our due tides & times , Unto the honour of thy glorious name , Amen good Lord , grant we may do the same . Now to conclude , God bless our gracious Charles , With all his worthy Subject's , Lords , & Earls , And grant us Lord , true faith , with love & peace , And let thy Gospel more and more increase . FINIS . London Printed for H.G. A discourse of men life . Comparing him to things that quickly pass , As bubble , shuttle , blossom , stream , and grass . To the tune of Aim not too high . NOw to discourse of man I take in hand , In what estate his fickle life does stand , He in this world is as a pilgrimage , And makes haste to travail to old age . men life compared is unto a Flower , That grows and withers all within one hour And like to grass that grows in the field . Or like true courage which is loath to yield . The flower's cut , and now can bear no show , The grass is withered which was green to view True courage wronged by or'e many foes . And death does make a man his life to loose . men life is like the damask Rose you see , Or like the blossom that grows on the tree , Or like unto the dainty flowers in May , Or like the morning that begins the day . The Rose is withered & the blossom blasteth , The flowers fade , & fast the morning hastes . Even such is man whose thread is quickly spun , Drawn out and cut , and suddenly is done . men life is like the Sun , or like the shade , Or like unto the gourd which Jonas had , Or like and hour , or like unto a span , Or like unto the singing of a Swan The Sun does set , and fast the shadow flies , The gourd consumes and man he quickly die The hour is short , for and the span not long , The swan near death , men life is quickly dONE men life is like the grass that's newly sprung Or like unto a tale that's new begun , Or like the bird which we do see to day , Or like the pearly due that is in May . The grass is wither'd , and the tale is ended , The bird is flown , and up the due ascended , Even such is man , who lives by his breath , Is here , now there , still subject unto death . men life is like the bubble in the Brook , Or like a glass wherein a man does look , Or like a shuttle in a Weavers hand , Or like the writing that is in the sand . The bubble's broke , and soon the looke's forgotten The shuttle's flung , for and the writings blo Even such is man that lives on the earth , He's always subject for to lose his breath . The second part . To the same tune . MAns life is like a thought , or like a dream , Or like the gliding of a running stream , Or like a raze , or like unto a goal , Or like the dealing of a rich men dole . The thought is past , for and the dream is gone , The water glides , even so men life is done . The raze soon run , so is the goal soon wone , The dole soon dealt , men life is quickly done . men life is like and arrow from the bow , Or like sweet course of waters that does flow , Or like the time betwixt the flood and ebb , Or like unto the Spiders tender web . The arrows shot , for and the flood soon spent , The time's no time , the Spiders web is ren Even such is man , and of as brittle state , Hee's always subject unto Envies hate . men life is like the lightning in the sky , Or like a Post that suddenly does high , Or like a Quaver singing of a song , Or like a journey that's not very long . The lightning's past , for and the Post must go , The Note is short , and so's the journey too : Even such is Man the which does heap up sorrow That lives to day , and dies before to morrow . men like unto the snow when summer's come , Or like a Pear , or like unto a Plum , Or like a tree that grows fresh and green , Or like the wind which can no ways be seen . The Pear does rot , for and the Plum does fallen , The snow dissolves , and so we must do all , The tree's consumed that was so fresh and fair , The wind's uncertain that blows in the air . Man's like the seed put into the earth's womb , Or like dead Lazarus that's in his Tomb : Or like Tabitha being in a sleep , Or like to Jonas that was in the deep . The seed it springs , Lazarus now stands , Tabitha wakes , and Jonas he hath landed , Thus are we certain life we shall obtain , Though death does kill yet shall we live again . God of his mercy grant to us his grace , That we may led our lives in such a case , That when we are departed hence away , we then may live with him in joy for aye . Grant Lord that we may please thy will divine Lord let thy loving favour on us shine , And turn from us thy heavy wrath and ire , And grant us mercy Lord we thee require . Lord make us like the fruitful Vines , To bring forth fruits in our due tides & times , Unto the honour of thy glorious name , Amen good Lord , grant we may do the same . Now to conclude , God bless our gracious Charles , With all his worthy Subject's , Lords , & Earls , And grant us Lord , true faith , with love & peace , And let thy Gospel more and more increase . FINIS . London Printed for H.G. 