A Courtly new Ballad of the Princely wooing of the fair Maid of London , by King Edward . To the tune of , Bonny sweet Robin . FAaire Angel of England , thy beauty most bright Is all my hearts treasure my joy and deligh Then grant me sweet Lady thy true Love to be , That I may say welcome good fortune to me . The Turtle so true and chaste in her love , By gentle persuasions her fancy will move : Then be not entreated sweet Lady in vain , For Nature requires what I would obtain . What Phoenix so fair that lives alone , Is vowed to chastity being but one ? But be not my Darling so chaste in desire , Lest thou like the Phoenix do penance in fire . But alas ( gallant Lady ) I pity thy state , In being resolved to live without mate : For if of our courting the pleasure you knew , You shall have a liking the same to ensue . Long time I have sued the same to obtain , Yet am I requited with scornful disdain : But if you will grant your goodwill to me , You shall be advanced to Princely degree . Promotions and honours may often entice The chasest that lives , though never so nice ; What woman so worthy but will be contenc , To live in the Palace where Princes frequent ? Two Brides young & princely to Church have I led , Two Ladies most lovely have decked my bed : Yet hath thy love taken more root in my heart , Than all their contentment's whereof I had part . Your gentle hearts cannot men's tears much abide , And women least angry when most they do chide : Then yield to me kindly and say that at length , Men do want mercy , and poor women strength . I grant fair Ladies may poor men resist , But Princes will conquer and love whom they lis A King may command her to lie by his side , Whose feature deserveth to be a Kings Bride . In granting your love you shall purchase renown , Your head shall decked with Englands fair crown , Thy garment most gallant with gold shall wrought If true love [ f ] or treasure of thee may be bought . Great Ladies of honour shall tend on thy train , Most richly attired with scarlet in grain : My chamber most Princely thy person shall keep , Where Virgins with music shall rock thee asleep . If any more pleasures thy heart can invent , Command them sweet Lady thy mind to conten For Kings gallant Courts where Princes do dwell Afford such sweet pastimes as Ladies love well . Then be not resolved to die a true Maid , But print in thy bosom the words I have said : And grant a King favour thy true love to be , That I may say welcome sweet Virgin to me . The fair Maid of Londons answer to King Edwards wanton Love . To the same tune . O wanton King Edward thy labour is vain , To follow the pleasure thou canst not attain , Which getting thou losest , and having dost wast it The which is thou purchase is spoil'd if thou hast i But if thou obtainst it thou nothing hast wone , And I losing nothing yet quite am undone , But if of that Jewel a King do deceive me , No King can restore though a Kingdom he give me . My colour is changed since you saw me last , My favour is vanished , my beauty is passed The Roses read blushes that sat on my cheeks , To paleness are turned , which all men mislikes . I pass not what Princes for love do protest , The name of a Virgin contents me bes I have not deserved to sleep by thy side , Nor to be accounted for King Edwards bride . The name of a Princess I never did crave , No such tipe of honour thy handmaid will have , My breast shall not harbour so lofty a thought , Nor be with rich proffers to wantonness brought . If wild wanton Rosamond one of our sort , Had never frequented King Henries brave Cour Such heaps of deep sorrow she never had seen , Nor tasted the rage of a jealous Queen . All men have their freedom to show their intent , They win not a woman except she consen Who then can impute to a man any fault , Who still goes uprightly while women do halt . This counted kindness in men for to try , And virtue in women the same to deny : For women inconstant can never be prov'd , Until by their betters therein they be mov'd . If women and modesty once do but sever , Then farewell good name and credit for ever : And royal King Edward let me be exiled , Ere any man knows my body's defil'd . No , no , my old Father's reverend tears , Too deep and impression within my soul bears : Nor shall his bright honour that blot by me have , To bring his grey hairs with grief to the grave . The heavens forbid that when I should die , That any such sin upon my soul lie : If I have kept me from doing this sin , My heart shall not yield with a Prince to begin . Come rather with pity to weep on my Tomb , Then for my birth curse my deer mother's Womb , That brought forth a blossom that stained the tree , With wanton desires to shame her and me . Leave me ( most noble King ) tempt not in vain , My milkwhite affections with lewdness to stain : Though England will give me no comfort at all , Yet England shall yield me a sad burial . FINIS . London Printed for Henry Gosson . A Courtly new Ballad of the Princely wooing of the fair Maid of London , by King Edward . To the tune of , Bonny sweet Robin . FAaire Angel of England , thy beauty most bright Is all my hearts treasure my joy and deligh Then grant me sweet Lady thy true Love to be , That I may say welcome good fortune to me . The Turtle so true and chaste in her love , By gentle persuasions her fancy will move : Then be not entreated sweet Lady in vain , For Nature requires what I would obtain . What Phoenix so fair that lives alone , Is vowed to chastity being but one ? But be not my Darling so chaste in desire , Lest thou like the Phoenix do penance in fire . But alas ( gallant Lady ) I pity thy state , In being resolved to live without mate : For if of our courting the pleasure you knew , You shall have a liking the same to ensue . Long time I have sued the same to obtain , Yet am I requited with scornful disdain : But if you will grant your goodwill to me , You shall be advanced to Princely degree . Promotions and honours may often entice The chasest that lives , though never so nice ; What woman so worthy but will be contenc , To live in the Palace where Princes frequent ? Two Brides young & princely to Church have I led , Two Ladies most lovely have decked my bed : Yet hath thy love taken more root in my heart , Than all their contentment's whereof I had part . Your gentle hearts cannot men's tears much abide , And women least angry when most they do chide : Then yield to me kindly and say that at length , Men do want mercy , and poor women strength . I grant fair Ladies may poor men resist , But Princes will conquer and love whom they lis A King may command her to lie by his side , Whose feature deserveth to be a Kings Bride . In granting your love you shall purchase renown , Your head shall decked with Englands fair crown , Thy garment most gallant with gold shall wrought If true love [ f ] or treasure of thee may be bought . Great Ladies of honour shall tend on thy train , Most richly attired with scarlet in grain : My chamber most Princely thy person shall keep , Where Virgins with music shall rock thee asleep . If any more pleasures thy heart can invent , Command them sweet Lady thy mind to conten For Kings gallant Courts where Princes do dwell Afford such sweet pastimes as Ladies love well . Then be not resolved to die a true Maid , But print in thy bosom the words I have said : And grant a King favour thy true love to be , That I may say welcome sweet Virgin to me . The fair Maid of Londons answer to King Edwards wanton Love . To the same tune . O wanton King Edward thy labour is vain , To follow the pleasure thou canst not attain , Which getting thou losest , and having dost wast it The which is thou purchase is spoil'd if thou hast i But if thou obtainst it thou nothing hast wone , And I losing nothing yet quite am undone , But if of that Jewel a King do deceive me , No King can restore though a Kingdom he give me . My colour is changed since you saw me last , My favour is vanished , my beauty is passed The Roses read blushes that sat on my cheeks , To paleness are turned , which all men mislikes . I pass not what Princes for love do protest , The name of a Virgin contents me bes I have not deserved to sleep by thy side , Nor to be accounted for King Edwards bride . The name of a Princess I never did crave , No such tipe of honour thy handmaid will have , My breast shall not harbour so lofty a thought , Nor be with rich proffers to wantonness brought . If wild wanton Rosamond one of our sort , Had never frequented King Henries brave Cour Such heaps of deep sorrow she never had seen , Nor tasted the rage of a jealous Queen . All men have their freedom to show their intent , They win not a woman except she consen Who then can impute to a man any fault , Who still goes uprightly while women do halt . This counted kindness in men for to try , And virtue in women the same to deny : For women inconstant can never be prov'd , Until by their betters therein they be mov'd . If women and modesty once do but sever , Then farewell good name and credit for ever : And royal King Edward let me be exiled , Ere any man knows my body's defil'd . No , no , my old Father's reverend tears , Too deep and impression within my soul bears : Nor shall his bright honour that blot by me have , To bring his grey hairs with grief to the grave . The heavens forbid that when I should die , That any such sin upon my soul lie : If I have kept me from doing this sin , My heart shall not yield with a Prince to begin . Come rather with pity to weep on my Tomb , Then for my birth curse my deer mother's Womb , That brought forth a blossom that stained the tree , With wanton desires to shame her and me . Leave me ( most noble King ) tempt not in vain , My milkwhite affections with lewdness to stain : Though England will give me no comfort at all , Yet England shall yield me a sad burial . FINIS . London Printed for Henry Gosson . A Courtly new Ballad of the Princely wooing of the fair Maid of London , by King Edward . To the tune of , Bonny sweet Robin . FAaire Angel of England , thy beauty most bright Is all my hearts treasure my joy and deligh Then grant me sweet Lady thy true Love to be , That I may say welcome good fortune to me . The Turtle so true and chaste in her love , By gentle persuasions her fancy will move : Then be not entreated sweet Lady in vain , For Nature requires what I would obtain . What Phoenix so fair that lives alone , Is vowed to chastity being but one ? But be not my Darling so chaste in desire , Lest thou like the Phoenix do penance in fire . But alas ( gallant Lady ) I pity thy state , In being resolved to live without mate : For if of our courting the pleasure you knew , You shall have a liking the same to ensue . Long time I have sued the same to obtain , Yet am I requited with scornful disdain : But if you will grant your goodwill to me , You shall be advanced to Princely degree . Promotions and honours may often entice The chasest that lives , though never so nice ; What woman so worthy but will be contenc , To live in the Palace where Princes frequent ? Two Brides young & princely to Church have I led , Two Ladies most lovely have decked my bed : Yet hath thy love taken more root in my heart , Than all their contentment's whereof I had part . Your gentle hearts cannot men's tears much abide , And women least angry when most they do chide : Then yield to me kindly and say that at length , Men do want mercy , and poor women strength . I grant fair Ladies may poor men resist , But Princes will conquer and love whom they lis A King may command her to lie by his side , Whose feature deserveth to be a Kings Bride . In granting your love you shall purchase renown , Your head shall decked with Englands fair crown , Thy garment most gallant with gold shall wrought If true love [ f ] or treasure of thee may be bought . Great Ladies of honour shall tend on thy train , Most richly attired with scarlet in grain : My chamber most Princely thy person shall keep , Where Virgins with music shall rock thee asleep . If any more pleasures thy heart can invent , Command them sweet Lady thy mind to conten For Kings gallant Courts where Princes do dwell Afford such sweet pastimes as Ladies love well . Then be not resolved to die a true Maid , But print in thy bosom the words I have said : And grant a King favour thy true love to be , That I may say welcome sweet Virgin to me . The fair Maid of Londons answer to King Edwards wanton Love . To the same tune . O wanton King Edward thy labour is vain , To follow the pleasure thou canst not attain , Which getting thou losest , and having dost wast it The which is thou purchase is spoil'd if thou hast i But if thou obtainst it thou nothing hast wone , And I losing nothing yet quite am undone , But if of that Jewel a King do deceive me , No King can restore though a Kingdom he give me . My colour is changed since you saw me last , My favour is vanished , my beauty is passed The Roses read blushes that sat on my cheeks , To paleness are turned , which all men mislikes . I pass not what Princes for love do protest , The name of a Virgin contents me bes I have not deserved to sleep by thy side , Nor to be accounted for King Edwards bride . The name of a Princess I never did crave , No such tipe of honour thy handmaid will have , My breast shall not harbour so lofty a thought , Nor be with rich proffers to wantonness brought . If wild wanton Rosamond one of our sort , Had never frequented King Henries brave Cour Such heaps of deep sorrow she never had seen , Nor tasted the rage of a jealous Queen . All men have their freedom to show their intent , They win not a woman except she consen Who then can impute to a man any fault , Who still goes uprightly while women do halt . This counted kindness in men for to try , And virtue in women the same to deny : For women inconstant can never be prov'd , Until by their betters therein they be mov'd . If women and modesty once do but sever , Then farewell good name and credit for ever : And royal King Edward let me be exiled , Ere any man knows my body's defil'd . No , no , my old Father's reverend tears , Too deep and impression within my soul bears : Nor shall his bright honour that blot by me have , To bring his grey hairs with grief to the grave . The heavens forbid that when I should die , That any such sin upon my soul lie : If I have kept me from doing this sin , My heart shall not yield with a Prince to begin . Come rather with pity to weep on my Tomb , Then for my birth curse my deer mother's Womb , That brought forth a blossom that stained the tree , With wanton desires to shame her and me . Leave me ( most noble King ) tempt not in vain , My milkwhite affections with lewdness to stain : Though England will give me no comfort at all , Yet England shall yield me a sad burial . FINIS . London Printed for Henry Gosson . A Courtly new Ballad of the Princely wooing of the fair Maid of London , by King Edward . To the tune of , Bonny sweet Robin . FAaire Angel of England , thy beauty most bright Is all my hearts treasure my joy and deligh Then grant me sweet Lady thy true Love to be , That I may say welcome good fortune to me . The Turtle so true and chaste in her love , By gentle persuasions her fancy will move : Then be not entreated sweet Lady in vain , For Nature requires what I would obtain . What Phoenix so fair that lives alone , Is vowed to chastity being but one ? But be not my Darling so chaste in desire , Lest thou like the Phoenix do penance in fire . But alas ( gallant Lady ) I pity thy state , In being resolved to live without mate : For if of our courting the pleasure you knew , You shall have a liking the same to ensue . Long time I have sued the same to obtain , Yet am I requited with scornful disdain : But if you will grant your goodwill to me , You shall be advanced to Princely degree . Promotions and honours may often entice The chasest that lives , though never so nice ; What woman so worthy but will be contenc , To live in the Palace where Princes frequent ? Two Brides young & princely to Church have I led , Two Ladies most lovely have decked my bed : Yet hath thy love taken more root in my heart , Than all their contentment's whereof I had part . Your gentle hearts cannot men's tears much abide , And women least angry when most they do chide : Then yield to me kindly and say that at length , Men do want mercy , and poor women strength . I grant fair Ladies may poor men resist , But Princes will conquer and love whom they lis A King may command her to lie by his side , Whose feature deserveth to be a Kings Bride . In granting your love you shall purchase renown , Your head shall decked with Englands fair crown , Thy garment most gallant with gold shall wrought If true love [ f ] or treasure of thee may be bought . Great Ladies of honour shall tend on thy train , Most richly attired with scarlet in grain : My chamber most Princely thy person shall keep , Where Virgins with music shall rock thee asleep . If any more pleasures thy heart can invent , Command them sweet Lady thy mind to conten For Kings gallant Courts where Princes do dwell Afford such sweet pastimes as Ladies love well . Then be not resolved to die a true Maid , But print in thy bosom the words I have said : And grant a King favour thy true love to be , That I may say welcome sweet Virgin to me . The fair Maid of Londons answer to King Edwards wanton Love . To the same tune . O wanton King Edward thy labour is vain , To follow the pleasure thou canst not attain , Which getting thou losest , and having dost wast it The which is thou purchase is spoil'd if thou hast i But if thou obtainst it thou nothing hast wone , And I losing nothing yet quite am undone , But if of that Jewel a King do deceive me , No King can restore though a Kingdom he give me . My colour is changed since you saw me last , My favour is vanished , my beauty is passed The Roses read blushes that sat on my cheeks , To paleness are turned , which all men mislikes . I pass not what Princes for love do protest , The name of a Virgin contents me bes I have not deserved to sleep by thy side , Nor to be accounted for King Edwards bride . The name of a Princess I never did crave , No such tipe of honour thy handmaid will have , My breast shall not harbour so lofty a thought , Nor be with rich proffers to wantonness brought . If wild wanton Rosamond one of our sort , Had never frequented King Henries brave Cour Such heaps of deep sorrow she never had seen , Nor tasted the rage of a jealous Queen . All men have their freedom to show their intent , They win not a woman except she consen Who then can impute to a man any fault , Who still goes uprightly while women do halt . This counted kindness in men for to try , And virtue in women the same to deny : For women inconstant can never be prov'd , Until by their betters therein they be mov'd . If women and modesty once do but sever , Then farewell good name and credit for ever : And royal King Edward let me be exiled , Ere any man knows my body's defil'd . No , no , my old Father's reverend tears , Too deep and impression within my soul bears : Nor shall his bright honour that blot by me have , To bring his grey hairs with grief to the grave . The heavens forbid that when I should die , That any such sin upon my soul lie : If I have kept me from doing this sin , My heart shall not yield with a Prince to begin . Come rather with pity to weep on my Tomb , Then for my birth curse my deer mother's Womb , That brought forth a blossom that stained the tree , With wanton desires to shame her and me . Leave me ( most noble King ) tempt not in vain , My milkwhite affections with lewdness to stain : Though England will give me no comfort at all , Yet England shall yield me a sad burial . FINIS . London Printed for Henry Gosson . 