A Complete Gentlewoman Described by her feature , Her person slender , her beauty admirable , her wit excellent , her carriage modest , her behaviour chaste , with her constancy in love . To the tune of Sabina . YOu Muses all your aid to me assign To speak in praise of the true love of mine . Strike up with joy Strike up with joy Strike up with joy your instruments of mirth Till piercing Echoes ring 'twixt heaven and earth . Let Pan with speed prepare himself to play , And sweetly chant my love a roundelay While Satires peep While Satires peep While Satires peep to see her lovely face , Let Cittern , harp , and lute her meeting grace . Let all the Poets company combine Their wits in one for my sweet Rosaline , And say that she And say that she And say that she Queen Venus does excel , For beauty , love , and wit she bears the bell . And to recite the substance of her feature That all may say she is a comely creature , From head to foot From head to foot From head to foot I will unfold aright The shape of her which is my hearts delight . First is her hair like threads of golden wire Upon her head is set a seemly tyre , Which does protect Which does protect Which does protect her crimson cheeks from wind From Titans heat and Boreas blasts unkind . Her glistering eyes excel the diamond light , When I behold her countenance by night , I do admire I do admire I do admire to see her beauteous brow In whom Diana chastnesse does allow . The second part , To the same tune . HEr ruby lips which does enclose the tongue From whence rare elegies are sweetly sung , That may amaze That may amaze That may amaze each rural swain to hear Her Siren songs with voice so shrill and clear . Her Ivory neck with golden gems complete , Her arms and shoulders framed fine and neat , Her lily hand Her lily hand Her lily hand and fingers long and small With slender waste and person somewhat tall . And farther to devulge some other parts Wherein dame nature shows her chiefest arts , I purpose to I purpose to I purpose to stoop down unto the toe , And so speak of the rest as up I go . Her pretty foot and nimble dapper heel Her shaking leg have shown such active skill , Both Coridon Both Coridon Both Coridon and Phillis blush't to see Her amorous carriage when she bends the knee . Not only this which nature in her plac't , But Lady virtue hath her further grac't In all respects In all respects In all respects each creature does her find To pass the Pelican she is so kind . So constant in her actions still is she She may compare with chaste Penelope , Her mind once fix't Her mind once fix't Her mind once fix't it never will remove , Shee'l rather die like to the Turtle dove . Her will to chastity is so appli'd , She scorns ambition , lust , and hateful pride , Whereby she gains Whereby she gains Whereby she gains good will of great and small Strong weak , high low , rich poor , they love her all But since my trembling hand and pen wants skill To write her fame complete unto my will , I here conclude I here conclude I here conclude wishing each honest lad May have so true a choice as I have had . FINIS . L . P : A Complete Gentlewoman Described by her feature , Her person slender , her beauty admirable , her wit excellent , her carriage modest , her behaviour chaste , with her constancy in love . To the tune of Sabina . YOu Muses all your aid to me assign To speak in praise of the true love of mine . Strike up with joy Strike up with joy Strike up with joy your instruments of mirth Till piercing Echoes ring 'twixt heaven and earth . Let Pan with speed prepare himself to play , And sweetly chant my love a roundelay While Satires peep While Satires peep While Satires peep to see her lovely face , Let Cittern , harp , and lute her meeting grace . Let all the Poets company combine Their wits in one for my sweet Rosaline , And say that she And say that she And say that she Queen Venus does excel , For beauty , love , and wit she bears the bell . And to recite the substance of her feature That all may say she is a comely creature , From head to foot From head to foot From head to foot I will unfold aright The shape of her which is my hearts delight . First is her hair like threads of golden wire Upon her head is set a seemly tyre , Which does protect Which does protect Which does protect her crimson cheeks from wind From Titans heat and Boreas blasts unkind . Her glistering eyes excel the diamond light , When I behold her countenance by night , I do admire I do admire I do admire to see her beauteous brow In whom Diana chastnesse does allow . The second part , To the same tune . HEr ruby lips which does enclose the tongue From whence rare elegies are sweetly sung , That may amaze That may amaze That may amaze each rural swain to hear Her Siren songs with voice so shrill and clear . Her Ivory neck with golden gems complete , Her arms and shoulders framed fine and neat , Her lily hand Her lily hand Her lily hand and fingers long and small With slender waste and person somewhat tall . And farther to devulge some other parts Wherein dame nature shows her chiefest arts , I purpose to I purpose to I purpose to stoop down unto the toe , And so speak of the rest as up I go . Her pretty foot and nimble dapper heel Her shaking leg have shown such active skill , Both Coridon Both Coridon Both Coridon and Phillis blush't to see Her amorous carriage when she bends the knee . Not only this which nature in her plac't , But Lady virtue hath her further grac't In all respects In all respects In all respects each creature does her find To pass the Pelican she is so kind . So constant in her actions still is she She may compare with chaste Penelope , Her mind once fix't Her mind once fix't Her mind once fix't it never will remove , Shee'l rather die like to the Turtle dove . Her will to chastity is so appli'd , She scorns ambition , lust , and hateful pride , Whereby she gains Whereby she gains Whereby she gains good will of great and small Strong weak , high low , rich poor , they love her all But since my trembling hand and pen wants skill To write her fame complete unto my will , I here conclude I here conclude I here conclude wishing each honest lad May have so true a choice as I have had . FINIS . L . P : 