The Complaint of a Lover forsaken of his Love . To a pleasant new Tune . A Poor Soul sat sighing , by a Sycamore Tree . O Willow , willow , willow : His hand on his bosom , his head on his knee , Oh Willow , willow , willow , Oh Willow , willow , willow , Sing Oh the green Willow shall be my Garland . He sigh'd in his singing , and after each groan Oh Willow , willow , willow : Love to all pleasure , my true love is gone , Oh Willow , willow , willow , Oh Willow , willow , willow , Sing Oh the green Willow shall be my Garland . O false she is turned , untrue she does prove , Oh Willow , willow , willow : She renders me nothing but hate for my love . O Willow , willow , etc Sing Oh the green Willow , etc O pity me ( cried he ) you Lovers each one , Oh Willow , etc Her heart's hard as Marble , she rues not my moan , Oh Willow , willow , willow etc Sing Oh the green Willow , shall be my Garland . The cold streams ran by him , his eyes wept apace , Oh willow , willow , willow : The salt tears fell from him , which drowned his face , Oh Willow , willow , etc Sing Oh the green Willow , etc The mute Birds sat by him , made tame by his moan , Oh Willow , etc The salt tears fell from him , which softened the stone , Oh Willow , etc Sing Oh the green Willow , Let no body blame me , her scorns I do prove , Oh Willow , etc She was born to be false , and I die for her love : Oh Willow , willow , etc Sing Oh the green willow shall my Garland . O that beauty should harbour , a heart that's so hard , Oh Willow , willow , etc My true love rejecting , without all regard : Oh Willow , etc Sing Oh the green Willow , etc Let Love no more boast him , in Palace or Bower , Oh Willow , etc For Women are trothless , and fleet in and hour : Oh Willow , etc Sing oh the green , etc But what helps complaining , in vain I complain , Oh Willow , etc I must patiently suffer , her scorn and disdain : Oh Willow , etc Sing Oh the green , etc Come all you forsaken , and fit down by me , Oh Willow , etc He that plaineth of his false love , mine's falser then she : Oh Willow , etc Sing Oh the green , etc The Willow wreathe wear I , since my Love did fleet , Oh Willow , etc A Garland for Lovers forsaken most me O Willow , Willow , etc Sing oh the green Willow shall be my Garland . FINIS . The second Part , To the same Tune . LOw laid by my sorrow , begotten by disdain , Oh Willow , Willow , Willow , Against her , too cruel , still still I complain : Oh Willow , Willow , Willow ; Oh Willow , etc Sing oh the green , etc O Love too injurious , to wound my poor heart , Oh Willow , etc To suffer her triumph , and joy in my smar Oh Willow , etc Sing oh the green , etc Oh Willow , Willow , Willow , the Willow Garland , Oh Willow , etc A sign of her falseness , before me does stand , Oh Willow , etc Sing oh the green , etc As here lying pained , it stands in mine eye , Oh Willow , etc So hang it ( friends ) over me , in Grave where I lie : Oh Willow , etc Sing oh the green , etc In Grave when I rest me , hang this to the view , Oh Willow , etc Of all that do know her , to blaze her untrue : Oh Willow , etc Sing oh the green , etc With these words engraven , as Epitaph meet , Oh Willow , etc Here lies one drunk Poison , for potion most sweet : Oh Willow , etc Sing Oh the green , etc Though she thus unkindly , have scorned my love , Oh Willow etc And carelessly smiles at the sorrows I prove , Oh Willow , etc Sing oh the green Willow , etc I cannot against her unkindly exclaim . O Willow , etc Cause once well I loud her , and honourde her name , Oh Willow , etc Sing oh the green , etc The name of her sounded , so sweet in mine ear , O Willow , etc It raised my heart lightly , the name of my deer : Oh Willow , etc Sing oh the green , etc As then it my comfort , it now is my grief , O Willow , etc It now brings me anguish ; then , brought me relief : Oh Willow , etc Sing oh the green , etc Farewell fair , falsehearted , plaints end with my breath O Willow , Willow , Willow , Thou dost loath me , I love thee , though cause of my death Oh Willow , Willow , Willow , Oh Willow , Willow , Willow ; Sing Oh the green Willow shall be my Garland . FINIS . London , Printed by M.P. for Edward Wright at his Shop near Christ Church gate . The Complaint of a Lover forsaken of his Love . To a pleasant new Tune . A Poor Soul sat sighing , by a Sycamore Tree . O Willow , willow , willow : His hand on his bosom , his head on his knee , Oh Willow , willow , willow , Oh Willow , willow , willow , Sing Oh the green Willow shall be my Garland . He sigh'd in his singing , and after each groan Oh Willow , willow , willow : Love to all pleasure , my true love is gone , Oh Willow , willow , willow , Oh Willow , willow , willow , Sing Oh the green Willow shall be my Garland . O false she is turned , untrue she does prove , Oh Willow , willow , willow : She renders me nothing but hate for my love . O Willow , willow , etc Sing Oh the green Willow , etc O pity me ( cried he ) you Lovers each one , Oh Willow , etc Her heart's hard as Marble , she rues not my moan , Oh Willow , willow , willow etc Sing Oh the green Willow , shall be my Garland . The cold streams ran by him , his eyes wept apace , Oh willow , willow , willow : The salt tears fell from him , which drowned his face , Oh Willow , willow , etc Sing Oh the green Willow , etc The mute Birds sat by him , made tame by his moan , Oh Willow , etc The salt tears fell from him , which softened the stone , Oh Willow , etc Sing Oh the green Willow , Let no body blame me , her scorns I do prove , Oh Willow , etc She was born to be false , and I die for her love : Oh Willow , willow , etc Sing Oh the green willow shall my Garland . O that beauty should harbour , a heart that's so hard , Oh Willow , willow , etc My true love rejecting , without all regard : Oh Willow , etc Sing Oh the green Willow , etc Let Love no more boast him , in Palace or Bower , Oh Willow , etc For Women are trothless , and fleet in and hour : Oh Willow , etc Sing oh the green , etc But what helps complaining , in vain I complain , Oh Willow , etc I must patiently suffer , her scorn and disdain : Oh Willow , etc Sing Oh the green , etc Come all you forsaken , and fit down by me , Oh Willow , etc He that plaineth of his false love , mine's falser then she : Oh Willow , etc Sing Oh the green , etc The Willow wreathe wear I , since my Love did fleet , Oh Willow , etc A Garland for Lovers forsaken most me O Willow , Willow , etc Sing oh the green Willow shall be my Garland . FINIS . The second Part , To the same Tune . LOw laid by my sorrow , begotten by disdain , Oh Willow , Willow , Willow , Against her , too cruel , still still I complain : Oh Willow , Willow , Willow ; Oh Willow , etc Sing oh the green , etc O Love too injurious , to wound my poor heart , Oh Willow , etc To suffer her triumph , and joy in my smar Oh Willow , etc Sing oh the green , etc Oh Willow , Willow , Willow , the Willow Garland , Oh Willow , etc A sign of her falseness , before me does stand , Oh Willow , etc Sing oh the green , etc As here lying pained , it stands in mine eye , Oh Willow , etc So hang it ( friends ) over me , in Grave where I lie : Oh Willow , etc Sing oh the green , etc In Grave when I rest me , hang this to the view , Oh Willow , etc Of all that do know her , to blaze her untrue : Oh Willow , etc Sing oh the green , etc With these words engraven , as Epitaph meet , Oh Willow , etc Here lies one drunk Poison , for potion most sweet : Oh Willow , etc Sing Oh the green , etc Though she thus unkindly , have scorned my love , Oh Willow etc And carelessly smiles at the sorrows I prove , Oh Willow , etc Sing oh the green Willow , etc I cannot against her unkindly exclaim . O Willow , etc Cause once well I loud her , and honourde her name , Oh Willow , etc Sing oh the green , etc The name of her sounded , so sweet in mine ear , O Willow , etc It raised my heart lightly , the name of my deer : Oh Willow , etc Sing oh the green , etc As then it my comfort , it now is my grief , O Willow , etc It now brings me anguish ; then , brought me relief : Oh Willow , etc Sing oh the green , etc Farewell fair , falsehearted , plaints end with my breath O Willow , Willow , Willow , Thou dost loath me , I love thee , though cause of my death Oh Willow , Willow , Willow , Oh Willow , Willow , Willow ; Sing Oh the green Willow shall be my Garland . FINIS . London , Printed by M.P. for Edward Wright at his Shop near Christ Church gate . 