A delicate new Ditty composed upon the Posy of a Ring : being , I fancy none but thee alone : sent as a Newyears gift by a Lover to his Sweetheart . To the tune of Dulcina . THou that art so sweet a creature , that above all earthly joy , I thee deem for thy rare feature , kill me not by seeming coy , nor be thou mute when this my suit Into thy ears by love is blown , but say by me , as I by thee , I fancy none but thee alone . Hadst thou Cupids mother's beauty , and Dianaes chaste desires , Think on that which is thy duty , to fulfil what love requires : 'tis love I ask , and this thy task to be propitious to my moan , for still I say , and will for aye , I fancy none but thee alone . Let not self conceit overstrain thee , woman was at first ordained To serve man , though I obey thee , being by loves law constrained , my sobs and tears , true witness bears of my hearts grief and heavy moan , let not thy frown then me cast down , Who fancies none but thee alone . Think what promise thou didst give me , when I first did thee behold , There thou vow'dst thou wouldst not leave me for a mass of Indian gold , but now I find thou art unkind , all former vows are past and gone , yet once again him entertain : Who fancies none but thee alone . Let my true affections move thee to commiserate my pain , If thou knew'st how deer I love thee , sure thou wouldst love me again : I thee affect , and more respect thy welfare then I do mine own , let this move thee to pity me , Who fancies none but thee alone . Why should women be obdurate , and men's proffers thus despise ? Dear , be rul'd , we have a Curate , nuptial Rites to solemnize : thou Marigold , whose leaves unfold , when Tytans rays reflect thereon , on thee I'll shine , for thou art mine , I fancy none but thee alone . The second part , Or the Maidens kind Reply . To the same tune . DEare I have receiv'd thy token , and with it thy faithful love , Prithee let no more be spoken , I to thee will constant prove , do not despair , nor live in care for her who vows to be thy own , though I seem strange , I will not change , I fancy none but thee alone . Think not that I will forgo thee , though I'm absent from thy sighed , When I find my self kept from thee , I'd be with thee day and night , but well thou know'st how I am crossed , else should my love to thee be shown , with free accord , yet take my word , I fancy none but thee alone . This Proverb hath oft been used , she that's bound must needs obey , And thou seest how I'm enclosed , from thy presence night and day , I dare not show what love I owe to thee , for fear it should be known , yet still my mind shall be inclined , To fancy none but thee alone . Though my body for a season , be absent from thee perforce , Yet I pray thee judge with reason , that I love thee never the worse : O that I might enjoy thy sighed , then should my love to thee be shown , then do not think her love to shrink , Who fancies none but thee alone . Many times I think upon thee , in my melancholy fits , When I find my self kept from thee , it deprives me of my wits , oft times I weep , when others sleep ; producing many agrievous groans , then think on me , as I on thee , And fancy none but me alone . No fastidious motions move me , to be from thy sighed so long , Do not then ( my deer ) reprove me , nor suspect I do thee wrong , for he thou sure , I do endure , in constancy surpassed by none , I long to see the time that we shall of two bodies be made one , Printed at London for H. Gosson on London-Bridge . FINIS . A delicate new Ditty composed upon the Posy of a Ring : being , I fancy none but thee alone : sent as a Newyears gift by a Lover to his Sweetheart . To the tune of Dulcina . THou that art so sweet a creature , that above all earthly joy , I thee deem for thy rare feature , kill me not by seeming coy , nor be thou mute when this my suit Into thy ears by love is blown , but say by me , as I by thee , I fancy none but thee alone . Hadst thou Cupids mother's beauty , and Dianaes chaste desires , Think on that which is thy duty , to fulfil what love requires : 'tis love I ask , and this thy task to be propitious to my moan , for still I say , and will for aye , I fancy none but thee alone . Let not self conceit overstrain thee , woman was at first ordained To serve man , though I obey thee , being by loves law constrained , my sobs and tears , true witness bears of my hearts grief and heavy moan , let not thy frown then me cast down , Who fancies none but thee alone . Think what promise thou didst give me , when I first did thee behold , There thou vow'dst thou wouldst not leave me for a mass of Indian gold , but now I find thou art unkind , all former vows are past and gone , yet once again him entertain : Who fancies none but thee alone . Let my true affections move thee to commiserate my pain , If thou knew'st how deer I love thee , sure thou wouldst love me again : I thee affect , and more respect thy welfare then I do mine own , let this move thee to pity me , Who fancies none but thee alone . Why should women be obdurate , and men's proffers thus despise ? Dear , be rul'd , we have a Curate , nuptial Rites to solemnize : thou Marigold , whose leaves unfold , when Tytans rays reflect thereon , on thee I'll shine , for thou art mine , I fancy none but thee alone . The second part , Or the Maidens kind Reply . To the same tune . DEare I have receiv'd thy token , and with it thy faithful love , Prithee let no more be spoken , I to thee will constant prove , do not despair , nor live in care for her who vows to be thy own , though I seem strange , I will not change , I fancy none but thee alone . Think not that I will forgo thee , though I'm absent from thy sighed , When I find my self kept from thee , I'd be with thee day and night , but well thou know'st how I am crossed , else should my love to thee be shown , with free accord , yet take my word , I fancy none but thee alone . This Proverb hath oft been used , she that's bound must needs obey , And thou seest how I'm enclosed , from thy presence night and day , I dare not show what love I owe to thee , for fear it should be known , yet still my mind shall be inclined , To fancy none but thee alone . Though my body for a season , be absent from thee perforce , Yet I pray thee judge with reason , that I love thee never the worse : O that I might enjoy thy sighed , then should my love to thee be shown , then do not think her love to shrink , Who fancies none but thee alone . Many times I think upon thee , in my melancholy fits , When I find my self kept from thee , it deprives me of my wits , oft times I weep , when others sleep ; producing many agrievous groans , then think on me , as I on thee , And fancy none but me alone . No fastidious motions move me , to be from thy sighed so long , Do not then ( my deer ) reprove me , nor suspect I do thee wrong , for he thou sure , I do endure , in constancy surpassed by none , I long to see the time that we shall of two bodies be made one , Printed at London for H. Gosson on London-Bridge . FINIS . A delicate new Ditty composed upon the Posy of a Ring : being , I fancy none but thee alone : sent as a Newyears gift by a Lover to his Sweetheart . To the tune of Dulcina . THou that art so sweet a creature , that above all earthly joy , I thee deem for thy rare feature , kill me not by seeming coy , nor be thou mute when this my suit Into thy ears by love is blown , but say by me , as I by thee , I fancy none but thee alone . Hadst thou Cupids mother's beauty , and Dianaes chaste desires , Think on that which is thy duty , to fulfil what love requires : 'tis love I ask , and this thy task to be propitious to my moan , for still I say , and will for aye , I fancy none but thee alone . Let not self conceit overstrain thee , woman was at first ordained To serve man , though I obey thee , being by loves law constrained , my sobs and tears , true witness bears of my hearts grief and heavy moan , let not thy frown then me cast down , Who fancies none but thee alone . Think what promise thou didst give me , when I first did thee behold , There thou vow'dst thou wouldst not leave me for a mass of Indian gold , but now I find thou art unkind , all former vows are past and gone , yet once again him entertain : Who fancies none but thee alone . Let my true affections move thee to commiserate my pain , If thou knew'st how deer I love thee , sure thou wouldst love me again : I thee affect , and more respect thy welfare then I do mine own , let this move thee to pity me , Who fancies none but thee alone . Why should women be obdurate , and men's proffers thus despise ? Dear , be rul'd , we have a Curate , nuptial Rites to solemnize : thou Marigold , whose leaves unfold , when Tytans rays reflect thereon , on thee I'll shine , for thou art mine , I fancy none but thee alone . The second part , Or the Maidens kind Reply . To the same tune . DEare I have receiv'd thy token , and with it thy faithful love , Prithee let no more be spoken , I to thee will constant prove , do not despair , nor live in care for her who vows to be thy own , though I seem strange , I will not change , I fancy none but thee alone . Think not that I will forgo thee , though I'm absent from thy sighed , When I find my self kept from thee , I'd be with thee day and night , but well thou know'st how I am crossed , else should my love to thee be shown , with free accord , yet take my word , I fancy none but thee alone . This Proverb hath oft been used , she that's bound must needs obey , And thou seest how I'm enclosed , from thy presence night and day , I dare not show what love I owe to thee , for fear it should be known , yet still my mind shall be inclined , To fancy none but thee alone . Though my body for a season , be absent from thee perforce , Yet I pray thee judge with reason , that I love thee never the worse : O that I might enjoy thy sighed , then should my love to thee be shown , then do not think her love to shrink , Who fancies none but thee alone . Many times I think upon thee , in my melancholy fits , When I find my self kept from thee , it deprives me of my wits , oft times I weep , when others sleep ; producing many agrievous groans , then think on me , as I on thee , And fancy none but me alone . No fastidious motions move me , to be from thy sighed so long , Do not then ( my deer ) reprove me , nor suspect I do thee wrong , for he thou sure , I do endure , in constancy surpassed by none , I long to see the time that we shall of two bodies be made one , Printed at London for H. Gosson on London-Bridge . FINIS . A delicate new Ditty composed upon the Posy of a Ring : being , I fancy none but thee alone : sent as a Newyears gift by a Lover to his Sweetheart . To the tune of Dulcina . THou that art so sweet a creature , that above all earthly joy , I thee deem for thy rare feature , kill me not by seeming coy , nor be thou mute when this my suit Into thy ears by love is blown , but say by me , as I by thee , I fancy none but thee alone . Hadst thou Cupids mother's beauty , and Dianaes chaste desires , Think on that which is thy duty , to fulfil what love requires : 'tis love I ask , and this thy task to be propitious to my moan , for still I say , and will for aye , I fancy none but thee alone . Let not self conceit overstrain thee , woman was at first ordained To serve man , though I obey thee , being by loves law constrained , my sobs and tears , true witness bears of my hearts grief and heavy moan , let not thy frown then me cast down , Who fancies none but thee alone . Think what promise thou didst give me , when I first did thee behold , There thou vow'dst thou wouldst not leave me for a mass of Indian gold , but now I find thou art unkind , all former vows are past and gone , yet once again him entertain : Who fancies none but thee alone . Let my true affections move thee to commiserate my pain , If thou knew'st how deer I love thee , sure thou wouldst love me again : I thee affect , and more respect thy welfare then I do mine own , let this move thee to pity me , Who fancies none but thee alone . Why should women be obdurate , and men's proffers thus despise ? Dear , be rul'd , we have a Curate , nuptial Rites to solemnize : thou Marigold , whose leaves unfold , when Tytans rays reflect thereon , on thee I'll shine , for thou art mine , I fancy none but thee alone . The second part , Or the Maidens kind Reply . To the same tune . DEare I have receiv'd thy token , and with it thy faithful love , Prithee let no more be spoken , I to thee will constant prove , do not despair , nor live in care for her who vows to be thy own , though I seem strange , I will not change , I fancy none but thee alone . Think not that I will forgo thee , though I'm absent from thy sighed , When I find my self kept from thee , I'd be with thee day and night , but well thou know'st how I am crossed , else should my love to thee be shown , with free accord , yet take my word , I fancy none but thee alone . This Proverb hath oft been used , she that's bound must needs obey , And thou seest how I'm enclosed , from thy presence night and day , I dare not show what love I owe to thee , for fear it should be known , yet still my mind shall be inclined , To fancy none but thee alone . Though my body for a season , be absent from thee perforce , Yet I pray thee judge with reason , that I love thee never the worse : O that I might enjoy thy sighed , then should my love to thee be shown , then do not think her love to shrink , Who fancies none but thee alone . Many times I think upon thee , in my melancholy fits , When I find my self kept from thee , it deprives me of my wits , oft times I weep , when others sleep ; producing many agrievous groans , then think on me , as I on thee , And fancy none but me alone . No fastidious motions move me , to be from thy sighed so long , Do not then ( my deer ) reprove me , nor suspect I do thee wrong , for he thou sure , I do endure , in constancy surpassed by none , I long to see the time that we shall of two bodies be made one , Printed at London for H. Gosson on London-Bridge . FINIS . 