The Dead men Song , Whose dwelling was near unto Bassings Hall in London . to the tune of , Flying Fame . Soar sick deer friends , long time I was and weakly laid in bed ; And for five hours in all men's sighed , at length I lay as dead : The bel rung out , my friends came in , and I key cold was found , Then was my carcase brought from bed , and cast upon the ground : My loving wife did weep full soar , and children loud did cry , My friends did mourn , yet thus they said all flesh is born to die : My winding sheet prepared was , my grave was also made , And five long hours by just report , in this same case I laid : During which time , my soul did see such strange and fearful sights , That for to hear the same disclos'd , would banish all delights . Yet sith the Lord restor'd my life , which from my body fled , I will declare what sights I saw , that time that I was dead . Me thought along a gallant green , where pleasant flowers sprung , I took my way , whereas I thought , the Muses sweetly sung , The grass was sweet the trees full fair , and lovely to behold , And full of fruit was every twig , which shin'd like glistering gold , My cheerful heart desired much to taste the fruit so fair : But as I reached a fair young man , to me did fast repair , Touch not ( quod he ) that's none of thine , but weened and walk with me , And see thou mark each several thing which I shall show to thee : I wondered greatly at his words , yet went with him away : Till on a goodly pleasant bank , with him he bade me stay . With branches then of Lilies white , mine eyes there wiped he . When this was done he bade me look , what I far off could see . I looked up and lo at last , I did a City see , So fair a thing did never man behold with mortal eye ; Of Diamonds , pearls , and precious stones it seem'd the walls were made : The houses all with beaten gold , were til'd and overlaid . More brighter than the morning Sun , the light thereof did show , And every creature in the same , like crowned Kings did go . The fields about this City fair , were all with Roses see Gillyflowers , and Carnation fair , which canker could not from And from these fields there did proceed the sweet'st and pleasant'st smell , That ever living creature felt , the scent did so excel : Beside such sweet triumphant mirth , did from the City found , That I there with was ravished , my joy did so abound . With music , mirth , and melody , Princes did there embrace , And in my heart I long'd to be , within that joyful place . The more I gaz'd , the more I might , the sighed pleas'd me so well . For what I saw in every thing , my tongue can no way tell : Then of the man I did demand , what place the same might be , Whereas so many Kings do dwell in joy and melody ? Quoth he , that blessed place is heaven , where yet thou must not rest , And those that do like Princes walk , are men whom God hath blessed . Then did he turn me round about , and on the other side , He bade me view and mark as much , what things are to be spied . With that I saw a coalblack den , all tanned with soot and smoke , Where stinking Brimstone burning was which made me like to choke , And ugly creature there I saw , whose face with knives was slashed , And in a caldron of poyson'd filth , his ugly corpse were washed . About his neck were fiery ruffs , that flam'd on every side , I asked , and lo the Young man said , that he was damn'd for pride , Another sort then did I see , whose bowels Vipers tore , And grievously with gaping mouth , they did both yell and roar . The second part , to the same Tune . A Spotted person by each one , stood gnawing on their hearts , And this was conscience I was told , that plagu'd their envious parts . These were no sooner out of sighed , but straight came in their place , A sort still throwing burning fire , which fell against their face . And ladles full of melted gold , were poured down their throats , And these were set ( it seem'd to me ) in midst of burning boats : The foremost of this company , was Indas I was told , Who had for filthy lucres sake , his Lord and Master sold , For covetousness these were condemn'd , so it was told to me , And then methought another rout , of Hellhounds I did see : Their faces they seem'd fat in sighed , yet all their bones were bore , And dishes full of crawling Toads , was made their finest fare : From arms , from hands , from thighs and feet , with read hight pincers then , The flesh was plucked even from the bone , of those vile gluttonous men : On coalblack beds another sort , in grievous sort did lie , And underneath them burning brands , their flesh did burn and fry . With brimstone fierce their pillows eke , whereon their heads were laid , And fiends with whips of glowing fire , their lecherous skins off flayed . Then did I see another come , stab'd in with daggers thick , And filthy fiends with fiery darts , their hearts did wound and prick , And mighty bowls of corrupt blood , was brought for them to drink , And these men were for murder plagu'd , from which they could not shrink . I saw when these were gone away , the Swearer and the Liar , And these were hung up by the tongues , right over a flaming fire . From eyes , from ears , from Navel & nose and from the lower parts , The blood me thought did gushing run , and clodded like men's hearts . I asked why that punishment , was upon swearers laid : Because , quoth one , wounds , blood & heart , was still the oath they made . And there withal from ugly Hell , such shrieks and cries I herd , As though some greater grief and plague had vexed them afterwards . So that my soul was soar afraid , such terror on me fell : Away then went the young man quite , and had me not farewell . Wherefore unto my body straight , my spirit return'd again , And lively blood did after wards stretch forth in every vein . My closed eyes I opened , and raised from my swoon , I wondered much to see my self laid so upon the ground : Which when my neighbours did behold , great fear upon them fell , To whom soon after I did tell , the news from heaven and hell . Printed at London for F. Coules . The Dead men Song , Whose dwelling was near unto Bassings Hall in London . to the tune of , Flying Fame . Soar sick deer friends , long time I was and weakly laid in bed ; And for five hours in all men's sighed , at length I lay as dead : The bel rung out , my friends came in , and I key cold was found , Then was my carcase brought from bed , and cast upon the ground : My loving wife did weep full soar , and children loud did cry , My friends did mourn , yet thus they said all flesh is born to die : My winding sheet prepared was , my grave was also made , And five long hours by just report , in this same case I laid : During which time , my soul did see such strange and fearful sights , That for to hear the same disclos'd , would banish all delights . Yet sith the Lord restor'd my life , which from my body fled , I will declare what sights I saw , that time that I was dead . Me thought along a gallant green , where pleasant flowers sprung , I took my way , whereas I thought , the Muses sweetly sung , The grass was sweet the trees full fair , and lovely to behold , And full of fruit was every twig , which shin'd like glistering gold , My cheerful heart desired much to taste the fruit so fair : But as I reached a fair young man , to me did fast repair , Touch not ( quod he ) that's none of thine , but weened and walk with me , And see thou mark each several thing which I shall show to thee : I wondered greatly at his words , yet went with him away : Till on a goodly pleasant bank , with him he bade me stay . With branches then of Lilies white , mine eyes there wiped he . When this was done he bade me look , what I far off could see . I looked up and lo at last , I did a City see , So fair a thing did never man behold with mortal eye ; Of Diamonds , pearls , and precious stones it seem'd the walls were made : The houses all with beaten gold , were til'd and overlaid . More brighter than the morning Sun , the light thereof did show , And every creature in the same , like crowned Kings did go . The fields about this City fair , were all with Roses see Gillyflowers , and Carnation fair , which canker could not from And from these fields there did proceed the sweet'st and pleasant'st smell , That ever living creature felt , the scent did so excel : Beside such sweet triumphant mirth , did from the City found , That I there with was ravished , my joy did so abound . With music , mirth , and melody , Princes did there embrace , And in my heart I long'd to be , within that joyful place . The more I gaz'd , the more I might , the sighed pleas'd me so well . For what I saw in every thing , my tongue can no way tell : Then of the man I did demand , what place the same might be , Whereas so many Kings do dwell in joy and melody ? Quoth he , that blessed place is heaven , where yet thou must not rest , And those that do like Princes walk , are men whom God hath blessed . Then did he turn me round about , and on the other side , He bade me view and mark as much , what things are to be spied . With that I saw a coalblack den , all tanned with soot and smoke , Where stinking Brimstone burning was which made me like to choke , And ugly creature there I saw , whose face with knives was slashed , And in a caldron of poyson'd filth , his ugly corpse were washed . About his neck were fiery ruffs , that flam'd on every side , I asked , and lo the Young man said , that he was damn'd for pride , Another sort then did I see , whose bowels Vipers tore , And grievously with gaping mouth , they did both yell and roar . The second part , to the same Tune . A Spotted person by each one , stood gnawing on their hearts , And this was conscience I was told , that plagu'd their envious parts . These were no sooner out of sighed , but straight came in their place , A sort still throwing burning fire , which fell against their face . And ladles full of melted gold , were poured down their throats , And these were set ( it seem'd to me ) in midst of burning boats : The foremost of this company , was Indas I was told , Who had for filthy lucres sake , his Lord and Master sold , For covetousness these were condemn'd , so it was told to me , And then methought another rout , of Hellhounds I did see : Their faces they seem'd fat in sighed , yet all their bones were bore , And dishes full of crawling Toads , was made their finest fare : From arms , from hands , from thighs and feet , with read hight pincers then , The flesh was plucked even from the bone , of those vile gluttonous men : On coalblack beds another sort , in grievous sort did lie , And underneath them burning brands , their flesh did burn and fry . With brimstone fierce their pillows eke , whereon their heads were laid , And fiends with whips of glowing fire , their lecherous skins off flayed . Then did I see another come , stab'd in with daggers thick , And filthy fiends with fiery darts , their hearts did wound and prick , And mighty bowls of corrupt blood , was brought for them to drink , And these men were for murder plagu'd , from which they could not shrink . I saw when these were gone away , the Swearer and the Liar , And these were hung up by the tongues , right over a flaming fire . From eyes , from ears , from Navel & nose and from the lower parts , The blood me thought did gushing run , and clodded like men's hearts . I asked why that punishment , was upon swearers laid : Because , quoth one , wounds , blood & heart , was still the oath they made . And there withal from ugly Hell , such shrieks and cries I herd , As though some greater grief and plague had vexed them afterwards . So that my soul was soar afraid , such terror on me fell : Away then went the young man quite , and had me not farewell . Wherefore unto my body straight , my spirit return'd again , And lively blood did after wards stretch forth in every vein . My closed eyes I opened , and raised from my swoon , I wondered much to see my self laid so upon the ground : Which when my neighbours did behold , great fear upon them fell , To whom soon after I did tell , the news from heaven and hell . Printed at London for F. Coules . 