DEAT [ H'S ] DANCE . To be sung to a pleasant new tune , call [ led ] O no , no , no , not yet , or , the meadow brow . IF Death would come and show his face , as he dare show his power , And fit at many a rich men place , both every day and hour . He would amaze them every one , to see him standing there , And wish that soon he would be gone , from all their dwellings fair . Or if that Death would take the pains , to go to the water side , Where Merchant's purchase golden gains to prank them up in pride . And bid them think upon the poor , or else I'll see you soon , There would be given then at their door , good alms , both night and noon . Or walk into the Royall-Exchange , when every man is there , No doubt his coming would be strange , to put them all in fear . How they do worldly buy and fell , to make their markets good , Their dealings all would prosper well , if so the matter stood . Or if Death would take the pains , to go to Pauls one day , To talk with such as there remains , to walk and not to pray . Of life they would take lasting Lease , though never so great a Fine , What is not that , but some would give , to set them up a Shrine . If Death would go to Westminster , to walk about the Hall , And make himself a Counsellor , in pleasant among them all . I think the Court of Conscience , would have a great regard , When Death should come with diligence , to have their matters herd . For Death hath been a Checker man , not many years ago , And he is such a one as can , bestow his checking so . That never a Clarke within the Hall , can argue so his case , But Death can overrule them all , in every Court and place . If Death would keep a tippling house , where Roisters do resort , And take the cup , and drink , carouse , when they are in their sport . And briefly say , my Master's all , why stand you idle here , I bring to you Saint Gibs his bowl , twold put them all in fear . If Death would make a step to dance , where lusty Gallants be , Or take Dice , and throw a chance , when he does gamesters see . And say , my Master's , Have at all , I warrant it will be mine . They would in amazement fallen , to set him any Coin . If Death would Gossip now and then , among the crabbed Wives , That taunts and rails at their good men , to make them weary lives . It would amaze them , I might say , so spitefully to boas That they will bear the swing and sway , and overrule the roast . If Death would quarterly but come , among the Landlords crew , And take a count of every sum , that rises more than due . As well of Income , as of Fine , above the old set Rend . They would let Leases without Coin , for fear they should be shent . If Death would take his daily course , where Tradesmen fell their Ware , His welcome sure would be more worse , then those of moneys bore , It would affright them for to see , his lean and hollow looks , If Death should say , come show to me , any reckoning in your books . If Death would thorough the Markets trace where Conscience used to dwell , And take but there a Hucksters place , he might do wondrous well . High prizes would abated be , and nothing found too deer , When Death should call , Come buy of me , would put them all in fear . If Death would prove a Gentleman , and come to court our Dams , And do the best of all he can , to blazon forth their names . Yet should he little welcomes have , among so fair a crew , That daily go so fine and brave , when they his face do view . Or if he would but walk about , our City Suburbs round , There would be given him out of doubt full many a golden pound . To spare our wanton female crew , and give them longer day : But Death will grant no Leases new , but take them all away . For Death hath promised to come , and come he will indeed , Therefore I warn you all and some , beware and take good heed . For what you do , or what you be , he's sure to find and know you , Though he be blind , and cannot see , in earth he will bestow you . FINIS . Printed at London for H. Gosson . DEAT [ H'S ] DANCE . To be sung to a pleasant new tune , call [ led ] O no , no , no , not yet , or , the meadow brow . IF Death would come and show his face , as he dare show his power , And fit at many a rich men place , both every day and hour . He would amaze them every one , to see him standing there , And wish that soon he would be gone , from all their dwellings fair . Or if that Death would take the pains , to go to the water side , Where Merchant's purchase golden gains to prank them up in pride . And bid them think upon the poor , or else I'll see you soon , There would be given then at their door , good alms , both night and noon . Or walk into the Royall-Exchange , when every man is there , No doubt his coming would be strange , to put them all in fear . How they do worldly buy and fell , to make their markets good , Their dealings all would prosper well , if so the matter stood . Or if Death would take the pains , to go to Pauls one day , To talk with such as there remains , to walk and not to pray . Of life they would take lasting Lease , though never so great a Fine , What is not that , but some would give , to set them up a Shrine . If Death would go to Westminster , to walk about the Hall , And make himself a Counsellor , in pleasant among them all . I think the Court of Conscience , would have a great regard , When Death should come with diligence , to have their matters herd . For Death hath been a Checker man , not many years ago , And he is such a one as can , bestow his checking so . That never a Clarke within the Hall , can argue so his case , But Death can overrule them all , in every Court and place . If Death would keep a tippling house , where Roisters do resort , And take the cup , and drink , carouse , when they are in their sport . And briefly say , my Master's all , why stand you idle here , I bring to you Saint Gibs his bowl , twold put them all in fear . If Death would make a step to dance , where lusty Gallants be , Or take Dice , and throw a chance , when he does gamesters see . And say , my Master's , Have at all , I warrant it will be mine . They would in amazement fallen , to set him any Coin . If Death would Gossip now and then , among the crabbed Wives , That taunts and rails at their good men , to make them weary lives . It would amaze them , I might say , so spitefully to boas That they will bear the swing and sway , and overrule the roast . If Death would quarterly but come , among the Landlords crew , And take a count of every sum , that rises more than due . As well of Income , as of Fine , above the old set Rend . They would let Leases without Coin , for fear they should be shent . If Death would take his daily course , where Tradesmen fell their Ware , His welcome sure would be more worse , then those of moneys bore , It would affright them for to see , his lean and hollow looks , If Death should say , come show to me , any reckoning in your books . If Death would thorough the Markets trace where Conscience used to dwell , And take but there a Hucksters place , he might do wondrous well . High prizes would abated be , and nothing found too deer , When Death should call , Come buy of me , would put them all in fear . If Death would prove a Gentleman , and come to court our Dams , And do the best of all he can , to blazon forth their names . Yet should he little welcomes have , among so fair a crew , That daily go so fine and brave , when they his face do view . Or if he would but walk about , our City Suburbs round , There would be given him out of doubt full many a golden pound . To spare our wanton female crew , and give them longer day : But Death will grant no Leases new , but take them all away . For Death hath promised to come , and come he will indeed , Therefore I warn you all and some , beware and take good heed . For what you do , or what you be , he's sure to find and know you , Though he be blind , and cannot see , in earth he will bestow you . FINIS . Printed at London for H. Gosson . DEAT [ H'S ] DANCE . To be sung to a pleasant new tune , call [ led ] O no , no , no , not yet , or , the meadow brow . IF Death would come and show his face , as he dare show his power , And fit at many a rich men place , both every day and hour . He would amaze them every one , to see him standing there , And wish that soon he would be gone , from all their dwellings fair . Or if that Death would take the pains , to go to the water side , Where Merchant's purchase golden gains to prank them up in pride . And bid them think upon the poor , or else I'll see you soon , There would be given then at their door , good alms , both night and noon . Or walk into the Royall-Exchange , when every man is there , No doubt his coming would be strange , to put them all in fear . How they do worldly buy and fell , to make their markets good , Their dealings all would prosper well , if so the matter stood . Or if Death would take the pains , to go to Pauls one day , To talk with such as there remains , to walk and not to pray . Of life they would take lasting Lease , though never so great a Fine , What is not that , but some would give , to set them up a Shrine . If Death would go to Westminster , to walk about the Hall , And make himself a Counsellor , in pleasant among them all . I think the Court of Conscience , would have a great regard , When Death should come with diligence , to have their matters herd . For Death hath been a Checker man , not many years ago , And he is such a one as can , bestow his checking so . That never a Clarke within the Hall , can argue so his case , But Death can overrule them all , in every Court and place . If Death would keep a tippling house , where Roisters do resort , And take the cup , and drink , carouse , when they are in their sport . And briefly say , my Master's all , why stand you idle here , I bring to you Saint Gibs his bowl , twold put them all in fear . If Death would make a step to dance , where lusty Gallants be , Or take Dice , and throw a chance , when he does gamesters see . And say , my Master's , Have at all , I warrant it will be mine . They would in amazement fallen , to set him any Coin . If Death would Gossip now and then , among the crabbed Wives , That taunts and rails at their good men , to make them weary lives . It would amaze them , I might say , so spitefully to boas That they will bear the swing and sway , and overrule the roast . If Death would quarterly but come , among the Landlords crew , And take a count of every sum , that rises more than due . As well of Income , as of Fine , above the old set Rend . They would let Leases without Coin , for fear they should be shent . If Death would take his daily course , where Tradesmen fell their Ware , His welcome sure would be more worse , then those of moneys bore , It would affright them for to see , his lean and hollow looks , If Death should say , come show to me , any reckoning in your books . If Death would thorough the Markets trace where Conscience used to dwell , And take but there a Hucksters place , he might do wondrous well . High prizes would abated be , and nothing found too deer , When Death should call , Come buy of me , would put them all in fear . If Death would prove a Gentleman , and come to court our Dams , And do the best of all he can , to blazon forth their names . Yet should he little welcomes have , among so fair a crew , That daily go so fine and brave , when they his face do view . Or if he would but walk about , our City Suburbs round , There would be given him out of doubt full many a golden pound . To spare our wanton female crew , and give them longer day : But Death will grant no Leases new , but take them all away . For Death hath promised to come , and come he will indeed , Therefore I warn you all and some , beware and take good heed . For what you do , or what you be , he's sure to find and know you , Though he be blind , and cannot see , in earth he will bestow you . FINIS . Printed at London for H. Gosson . DEAT [ H'S ] DANCE . To be sung to a pleasant new tune , call [ led ] O no , no , no , not yet , or , the meadow brow . IF Death would come and show his face , as he dare show his power , And fit at many a rich men place , both every day and hour . He would amaze them every one , to see him standing there , And wish that soon he would be gone , from all their dwellings fair . Or if that Death would take the pains , to go to the water side , Where Merchant's purchase golden gains to prank them up in pride . And bid them think upon the poor , or else I'll see you soon , There would be given then at their door , good alms , both night and noon . Or walk into the Royall-Exchange , when every man is there , No doubt his coming would be strange , to put them all in fear . How they do worldly buy and fell , to make their markets good , Their dealings all would prosper well , if so the matter stood . Or if Death would take the pains , to go to Pauls one day , To talk with such as there remains , to walk and not to pray . Of life they would take lasting Lease , though never so great a Fine , What is not that , but some would give , to set them up a Shrine . If Death would go to Westminster , to walk about the Hall , And make himself a Counsellor , in pleasant among them all . I think the Court of Conscience , would have a great regard , When Death should come with diligence , to have their matters herd . For Death hath been a Checker man , not many years ago , And he is such a one as can , bestow his checking so . That never a Clarke within the Hall , can argue so his case , But Death can overrule them all , in every Court and place . If Death would keep a tippling house , where Roisters do resort , And take the cup , and drink , carouse , when they are in their sport . And briefly say , my Master's all , why stand you idle here , I bring to you Saint Gibs his bowl , twold put them all in fear . If Death would make a step to dance , where lusty Gallants be , Or take Dice , and throw a chance , when he does gamesters see . And say , my Master's , Have at all , I warrant it will be mine . They would in amazement fallen , to set him any Coin . If Death would Gossip now and then , among the crabbed Wives , That taunts and rails at their good men , to make them weary lives . It would amaze them , I might say , so spitefully to boas That they will bear the swing and sway , and overrule the roast . If Death would quarterly but come , among the Landlords crew , And take a count of every sum , that rises more than due . As well of Income , as of Fine , above the old set Rend . They would let Leases without Coin , for fear they should be shent . If Death would take his daily course , where Tradesmen fell their Ware , His welcome sure would be more worse , then those of moneys bore , It would affright them for to see , his lean and hollow looks , If Death should say , come show to me , any reckoning in your books . If Death would thorough the Markets trace where Conscience used to dwell , And take but there a Hucksters place , he might do wondrous well . High prizes would abated be , and nothing found too deer , When Death should call , Come buy of me , would put them all in fear . If Death would prove a Gentleman , and come to court our Dams , And do the best of all he can , to blazon forth their names . Yet should he little welcomes have , among so fair a crew , That daily go so fine and brave , when they his face do view . Or if he would but walk about , our City Suburbs round , There would be given him out of doubt full many a golden pound . To spare our wanton female crew , and give them longer day : But Death will grant no Leases new , but take them all away . For Death hath promised to come , and come he will indeed , Therefore I warn you all and some , beware and take good heed . For what you do , or what you be , he's sure to find and know you , Though he be blind , and cannot see , in earth he will bestow you . FINIS . Printed at London for H. Gosson . 