The Story of David and Berseba  . To a pleasant new tune . WHen David in Jerusalem , as royal King did rule & reign , Behold what happened unto him , that afterwards procur'd his pain . On the top of all his Princely Place , a gallant prospect there had he , From whence he might when't pleas'd him [ s ] Grace , many a gallant Garden see . It chanced so upon a day , the King went forth to take the air , All in the pleasant month of May , from whence he spied a Lady fair . Her beauty was more excellent and brighter than the morning Sun , By which the King incontinent , was to her favour quickly won . She stood within a pleasant Bower , all naked for to wash her there , Her body like a Lily Flower , was covered with her golden hair . The King was wounded with her love , and what she was he did inquire , He could not his affection move , he had to her such great desire . She is Uriah's Wife , quoth they , a Captain of your Princely Train , That in your Wars is now away , and she does all alone remain . Then said the King , Bring her to me , for with her love my heart is slain : The Prince of beauty sure is she , for whom I do great griefs sustain . The Servants they did soon prepare , to do the message of the King , And Berseba the Lady fair , unto the Court did quickly bring . The King rejoiced at her sighed , and wone her love , and lay her by , Till they in sport had spent the night , and that the Sun was risen high . The King his leave most kindly took of the fair Lady at the las And homeward then she cast her look , till that three months were gone & passed . And then in Berseba so fair , she found her former health exiled , By certain tokens that she saw , the King had got her with child . Then to the King she made her moan , and told him how the case did stand : The King sent for her Husband home , to cloak the matter out of hand . When from the Camp Uriah came , the King receiv'd him courteously , Demanding how all things did frame concerning of the Enemy . Uriah shew'd his Highness all the accident of warlike strife , Then said the King , this night you shall keep company with your own wife . The Ark of God ( Uriah said ) with Judah's Host , and Israel , Keep in the Field , and not a man within the house where they do dwell . Then should I take my ease , quoth he , in beds of Downe with my fair wife ? O King , he said , that must not be , so long as I enjoy my life . Then did the King a Letter frame , to Joab General of the Host , And by Uriah sent the same , but certainly his life it cost . The second part , To the same tune . ANd when the King for certain knew Uriah thus had murdered been , Fair Berseba to Court he drew , and made of her his royal Queen . Then God that saw his wicked deed , was angry at King Davids sin : The Prophet Nathan then with speed , came thus complaining unto him . O David , ponder what I say , a great abuse I shall thee tell : For thou that rul'st in equity , shouldst see the people ruled well . Two men within the City dwell , the one is rich , the other poor : The rich in Cattle does excel , the other nothing hath in store , Saving one silly little Sheep , which young he did with money buy : With his own bred he did it feed , among his Children tenderly . The rich man had a stranger came unto his house that lov'd him deer , The poor men Sheep therefore he took , and thereof made his friend good cheer . Because that he his own would save , he us'd the man thus cruelly : Then by the Lord the Kind did swear , the rich man for that fault should die . Thou art the man , the Prophet said , thy Princely Crown God gave to thee : Thy Lords wives thou thine own haste made , and many more of fair beauty . Why hast thou so defiled thy life , and slain Uriah with the sword , And taken home his wedded Wife , regarding not Gods holy Word ? Therefore behold , thus says the Lord , great wars upon thy house shall be , Because thou hast my Laws abhorred , much ill be sure I'll raise on thee . I'll take thy wives before thy face , and give them to thy neighbours use : And thou thereby shalt have disgrace , for men shall laugh at thine abuse . Then David cried out piteously , soar have I sinned against the Lord , Have mercy God therefore on me , let not my prayers be abhor'd . But as the Prophet told to him , so did it after chance indeed . For God did greatly plague his sin , as in the Bible you may read . The scourge of sin thus you may see , for murder and adultery . Lord grant that we may warned be , such crying sins to shun and fly . FINIS . Printed at London for I. Wright , dwelling in Gilt-spur street , near New-gate . The Story of David and Berseba  . To a pleasant new tune . WHen David in Jerusalem , as royal King did rule & reign , Behold what happened unto him , that afterwards procur'd his pain . On the top of all his Princely Place , a gallant prospect there had he , From whence he might when't pleas'd him [ s ] Grace , many a gallant Garden see . It chanced so upon a day , the King went forth to take the air , All in the pleasant month of May , from whence he spied a Lady fair . Her beauty was more excellent and brighter than the morning Sun , By which the King incontinent , was to her favour quickly won . She stood within a pleasant Bower , all naked for to wash her there , Her body like a Lily Flower , was covered with her golden hair . The King was wounded with her love , and what she was he did inquire , He could not his affection move , he had to her such great desire . She is Uriah's Wife , quoth they , a Captain of your Princely Train , That in your Wars is now away , and she does all alone remain . Then said the King , Bring her to me , for with her love my heart is slain : The Prince of beauty sure is she , for whom I do great griefs sustain . The Servants they did soon prepare , to do the message of the King , And Berseba the Lady fair , unto the Court did quickly bring . The King rejoiced at her sighed , and wone her love , and lay her by , Till they in sport had spent the night , and that the Sun was risen high . The King his leave most kindly took of the fair Lady at the las And homeward then she cast her look , till that three months were gone & passed . And then in Berseba so fair , she found her former health exiled , By certain tokens that she saw , the King had got her with child . Then to the King she made her moan , and told him how the case did stand : The King sent for her Husband home , to cloak the matter out of hand . When from the Camp Uriah came , the King receiv'd him courteously , Demanding how all things did frame concerning of the Enemy . Uriah shew'd his Highness all the accident of warlike strife , Then said the King , this night you shall keep company with your own wife . The Ark of God ( Uriah said ) with Judah's Host , and Israel , Keep in the Field , and not a man within the house where they do dwell . Then should I take my ease , quoth he , in beds of Downe with my fair wife ? O King , he said , that must not be , so long as I enjoy my life . Then did the King a Letter frame , to Joab General of the Host , And by Uriah sent the same , but certainly his life it cost . The second part , To the same tune . ANd when the King for certain knew Uriah thus had murdered been , Fair Berseba to Court he drew , and made of her his royal Queen . Then God that saw his wicked deed , was angry at King Davids sin : The Prophet Nathan then with speed , came thus complaining unto him . O David , ponder what I say , a great abuse I shall thee tell : For thou that rul'st in equity , shouldst see the people ruled well . Two men within the City dwell , the one is rich , the other poor : The rich in Cattle does excel , the other nothing hath in store , Saving one silly little Sheep , which young he did with money buy : With his own bred he did it feed , among his Children tenderly . The rich man had a stranger came unto his house that lov'd him deer , The poor men Sheep therefore he took , and thereof made his friend good cheer . Because that he his own would save , he us'd the man thus cruelly : Then by the Lord the Kind did swear , the rich man for that fault should die . Thou art the man , the Prophet said , thy Princely Crown God gave to thee : Thy Lords wives thou thine own haste made , and many more of fair beauty . Why hast thou so defiled thy life , and slain Uriah with the sword , And taken home his wedded Wife , regarding not Gods holy Word ? Therefore behold , thus says the Lord , great wars upon thy house shall be , Because thou hast my Laws abhorred , much ill be sure I'll raise on thee . I'll take thy wives before thy face , and give them to thy neighbours use : And thou thereby shalt have disgrace , for men shall laugh at thine abuse . Then David cried out piteously , soar have I sinned against the Lord , Have mercy God therefore on me , let not my prayers be abhor'd . But as the Prophet told to him , so did it after chance indeed . For God did greatly plague his sin , as in the Bible you may read . The scourge of sin thus you may see , for murder and adultery . Lord grant that we may warned be , such crying sins to shun and fly . FINIS . Printed at London for I. Wright , dwelling in Gilt-spur street , near New-gate . The Story of David and Berseba  . To a pleasant new tune . WHen David in Jerusalem , as royal King did rule & reign , Behold what happened unto him , that afterwards procur'd his pain . On the top of all his Princely Place , a gallant prospect there had he , From whence he might when't pleas'd him [ s ] Grace , many a gallant Garden see . It chanced so upon a day , the King went forth to take the air , All in the pleasant month of May , from whence he spied a Lady fair . Her beauty was more excellent and brighter than the morning Sun , By which the King incontinent , was to her favour quickly won . She stood within a pleasant Bower , all naked for to wash her there , Her body like a Lily Flower , was covered with her golden hair . The King was wounded with her love , and what she was he did inquire , He could not his affection move , he had to her such great desire . She is Uriah's Wife , quoth they , a Captain of your Princely Train , That in your Wars is now away , and she does all alone remain . Then said the King , Bring her to me , for with her love my heart is slain : The Prince of beauty sure is she , for whom I do great griefs sustain . The Servants they did soon prepare , to do the message of the King , And Berseba the Lady fair , unto the Court did quickly bring . The King rejoiced at her sighed , and wone her love , and lay her by , Till they in sport had spent the night , and that the Sun was risen high . The King his leave most kindly took of the fair Lady at the las And homeward then she cast her look , till that three months were gone & passed . And then in Berseba so fair , she found her former health exiled , By certain tokens that she saw , the King had got her with child . Then to the King she made her moan , and told him how the case did stand : The King sent for her Husband home , to cloak the matter out of hand . When from the Camp Uriah came , the King receiv'd him courteously , Demanding how all things did frame concerning of the Enemy . Uriah shew'd his Highness all the accident of warlike strife , Then said the King , this night you shall keep company with your own wife . The Ark of God ( Uriah said ) with Judah's Host , and Israel , Keep in the Field , and not a man within the house where they do dwell . Then should I take my ease , quoth he , in beds of Downe with my fair wife ? O King , he said , that must not be , so long as I enjoy my life . Then did the King a Letter frame , to Joab General of the Host , And by Uriah sent the same , but certainly his life it cost . The second part , To the same tune . ANd when the King for certain knew Uriah thus had murdered been , Fair Berseba to Court he drew , and made of her his royal Queen . Then God that saw his wicked deed , was angry at King Davids sin : The Prophet Nathan then with speed , came thus complaining unto him . O David , ponder what I say , a great abuse I shall thee tell : For thou that rul'st in equity , shouldst see the people ruled well . Two men within the City dwell , the one is rich , the other poor : The rich in Cattle does excel , the other nothing hath in store , Saving one silly little Sheep , which young he did with money buy : With his own bred he did it feed , among his Children tenderly . The rich man had a stranger came unto his house that lov'd him deer , The poor men Sheep therefore he took , and thereof made his friend good cheer . Because that he his own would save , he us'd the man thus cruelly : Then by the Lord the Kind did swear , the rich man for that fault should die . Thou art the man , the Prophet said , thy Princely Crown God gave to thee : Thy Lords wives thou thine own haste made , and many more of fair beauty . Why hast thou so defiled thy life , and slain Uriah with the sword , And taken home his wedded Wife , regarding not Gods holy Word ? Therefore behold , thus says the Lord , great wars upon thy house shall be , Because thou hast my Laws abhorred , much ill be sure I'll raise on thee . I'll take thy wives before thy face , and give them to thy neighbours use : And thou thereby shalt have disgrace , for men shall laugh at thine abuse . Then David cried out piteously , soar have I sinned against the Lord , Have mercy God therefore on me , let not my prayers be abhor'd . But as the Prophet told to him , so did it after chance indeed . For God did greatly plague his sin , as in the Bible you may read . The scourge of sin thus you may see , for murder and adultery . Lord grant that we may warned be , such crying sins to shun and fly . FINIS . Printed at London for I. Wright , dwelling in Gilt-spur street , near New-gate . The Story of David and Berseba  . To a pleasant new tune . WHen David in Jerusalem , as royal King did rule & reign , Behold what happened unto him , that afterwards procur'd his pain . On the top of all his Princely Place , a gallant prospect there had he , From whence he might when't pleas'd him [ s ] Grace , many a gallant Garden see . It chanced so upon a day , the King went forth to take the air , All in the pleasant month of May , from whence he spied a Lady fair . Her beauty was more excellent and brighter than the morning Sun , By which the King incontinent , was to her favour quickly won . She stood within a pleasant Bower , all naked for to wash her there , Her body like a Lily Flower , was covered with her golden hair . The King was wounded with her love , and what she was he did inquire , He could not his affection move , he had to her such great desire . She is Uriah's Wife , quoth they , a Captain of your Princely Train , That in your Wars is now away , and she does all alone remain . Then said the King , Bring her to me , for with her love my heart is slain : The Prince of beauty sure is she , for whom I do great griefs sustain . The Servants they did soon prepare , to do the message of the King , And Berseba the Lady fair , unto the Court did quickly bring . The King rejoiced at her sighed , and wone her love , and lay her by , Till they in sport had spent the night , and that the Sun was risen high . The King his leave most kindly took of the fair Lady at the las And homeward then she cast her look , till that three months were gone & passed . And then in Berseba so fair , she found her former health exiled , By certain tokens that she saw , the King had got her with child . Then to the King she made her moan , and told him how the case did stand : The King sent for her Husband home , to cloak the matter out of hand . When from the Camp Uriah came , the King receiv'd him courteously , Demanding how all things did frame concerning of the Enemy . Uriah shew'd his Highness all the accident of warlike strife , Then said the King , this night you shall keep company with your own wife . The Ark of God ( Uriah said ) with Judah's Host , and Israel , Keep in the Field , and not a man within the house where they do dwell . Then should I take my ease , quoth he , in beds of Downe with my fair wife ? O King , he said , that must not be , so long as I enjoy my life . Then did the King a Letter frame , to Joab General of the Host , And by Uriah sent the same , but certainly his life it cost . The second part , To the same tune . ANd when the King for certain knew Uriah thus had murdered been , Fair Berseba to Court he drew , and made of her his royal Queen . Then God that saw his wicked deed , was angry at King Davids sin : The Prophet Nathan then with speed , came thus complaining unto him . O David , ponder what I say , a great abuse I shall thee tell : For thou that rul'st in equity , shouldst see the people ruled well . Two men within the City dwell , the one is rich , the other poor : The rich in Cattle does excel , the other nothing hath in store , Saving one silly little Sheep , which young he did with money buy : With his own bred he did it feed , among his Children tenderly . The rich man had a stranger came unto his house that lov'd him deer , The poor men Sheep therefore he took , and thereof made his friend good cheer . Because that he his own would save , he us'd the man thus cruelly : Then by the Lord the Kind did swear , the rich man for that fault should die . Thou art the man , the Prophet said , thy Princely Crown God gave to thee : Thy Lords wives thou thine own haste made , and many more of fair beauty . Why hast thou so defiled thy life , and slain Uriah with the sword , And taken home his wedded Wife , regarding not Gods holy Word ? Therefore behold , thus says the Lord , great wars upon thy house shall be , Because thou hast my Laws abhorred , much ill be sure I'll raise on thee . I'll take thy wives before thy face , and give them to thy neighbours use : And thou thereby shalt have disgrace , for men shall laugh at thine abuse . Then David cried out piteously , soar have I sinned against the Lord , Have mercy God therefore on me , let not my prayers be abhor'd . But as the Prophet told to him , so did it after chance indeed . For God did greatly plague his sin , as in the Bible you may read . The scourge of sin thus you may see , for murder and adultery . Lord grant that we may warned be , such crying sins to shun and fly . FINIS . Printed at London for I. Wright , dwelling in Gilt-spur street , near New-gate . 