A [ Lam ] entable ballad on the Earl of Esex's Death . Tune is , Essex last Goodnight . ALL you that cry Oh hone , Oh hone , come now and sing Oh hone with me , For why our Jewel is from us gone , the valiant Knight of Chivalry : Of rich and poor belov'd was he , in time and honourable knight , When by our Laws condemn'd to die , He lately took his last Goodnight . Count him not like to Champion , those traitorous men of Babington , Nor like the Earl of Westmoorland , by whom a number were undone : He never yet hurt Mother's Son , his quarrel still maintains the right , Which the tears my face down run , when I think on his last good night . The Portugals can witness be , his Dagger at Lisbon gate he flung , And like a Knight of Chivalry , his Chain upon the Gate he hung ; I would to God that he would come , to fetch them back in order right , Which thing was by his honour done , yet lately took their last good night . The French-men they can testify , the town of Gourney he took in , And marched to Room immediately , not caring for his foes a pin : With Bullets then he pierc'd his skin , and made them fly from his sighs He there that time did credit win , and now hath taken his last good night . And stately Cales can witness be , even by his Proclamation right , And did command them all straightly , to have a care of Infants lives , And that none should hurt man or wife , which was against their right ; Therefore they pray'd for his long life , which lately took his last good night . would God he ne'er had Ireland known , nor set one foot on Flanders ground , Then might we well injoy'd our own , where now our jewel will not be found , which makes our foes still abound ; trickling with s [ a ] l [ tO ] tears in our [ fl ] ight , To hear his name in our ears to found , Lord Deverux took his last good nigh [ tO ] Ash wednesday , that dismal day , when he came forth his Chamber door , Upon a Scaffold there he saw , his Headsman standing him before : His Nobles all they did deplore , shedding salt tears in his sighed , He said farewell to rich and poor , at his good morrow and good night . My Lords , said he , you stand but by , to see performance of the law , It is I that have deserv'd to die , and yield my self unto the blow ; I have deserv'd to die I know , but ne'er against my Countries right , Nor to my Queen was ever foe , upon my death at my good night . Farewell , Elizabeth , my gracious Queen , God bless thee with thy Council all ; Farewell my Knights of Chivalry , farewell my Soldiers stout and tall , Farewell the Commons great and small , into the hands of men I light , My life shall make amends for all , for Essex bids the world good night . Farewell dear wife , and children three , farewell my kind and tender son ; Comfort your selves , mourn not for me , although your fallen be now begun , My time is come , my glass is run , comfort your self in former light , Seeing by my fallen you are undone , your Father bids the world good night . Derick , thou know'st at Cales I sav'd thy life , lost for a Rape there done , As thou thy self canst testify , thine own hand three and twenty hung , But now thou seest my self is come , by chance into thy hands I light , Strike out thy blow that I may know , thou , Essex lov'd at his good night . when England counted me a Papist , the works of papists I defy , I ne're worshipped Saint nor Angel in Heaven , nor the Virgin Marry , I ; But to Christ , which for my sins did die , trickling with salt tears in his sighed , Spreading my arms to God on high , Lord Jesus receive my soul this night . Printed by and for A.M. and sold by the booksellers of London . A [ Lam ] entable ballad on the Earl of Esex's Death . Tune is , Essex last Goodnight . ALL you that cry Oh hone , Oh hone , come now and sing Oh hone with me , For why our Jewel is from us gone , the valiant Knight of Chivalry : Of rich and poor belov'd was he , in time and honourable knight , When by our Laws condemn'd to die , He lately took his last Goodnight . Count him not like to Champion , those traitorous men of Babington , Nor like the Earl of Westmoorland , by whom a number were undone : He never yet hurt Mother's Son , his quarrel still maintains the right , Which the tears my face down run , when I think on his last good night . The Portugals can witness be , his Dagger at Lisbon gate he flung , And like a Knight of Chivalry , his Chain upon the Gate he hung ; I would to God that he would come , to fetch them back in order right , Which thing was by his honour done , yet lately took their last good night . The French-men they can testify , the town of Gourney he took in , And marched to Room immediately , not caring for his foes a pin : With Bullets then he pierc'd his skin , and made them fly from his sighs He there that time did credit win , and now hath taken his last good night . And stately Cales can witness be , even by his Proclamation right , And did command them all straightly , to have a care of Infants lives , And that none should hurt man or wife , which was against their right ; Therefore they pray'd for his long life , which lately took his last good night . would God he ne'er had Ireland known , nor set one foot on Flanders ground , Then might we well injoy'd our own , where now our jewel will not be found , which makes our foes still abound ; trickling with s [ a ] l [ tO ] tears in our [ fl ] ight , To hear his name in our ears to found , Lord Deverux took his last good nigh [ tO ] Ash wednesday , that dismal day , when he came forth his Chamber door , Upon a Scaffold there he saw , his Headsman standing him before : His Nobles all they did deplore , shedding salt tears in his sighed , He said farewell to rich and poor , at his good morrow and good night . My Lords , said he , you stand but by , to see performance of the law , It is I that have deserv'd to die , and yield my self unto the blow ; I have deserv'd to die I know , but ne'er against my Countries right , Nor to my Queen was ever foe , upon my death at my good night . Farewell , Elizabeth , my gracious Queen , God bless thee with thy Council all ; Farewell my Knights of Chivalry , farewell my Soldiers stout and tall , Farewell the Commons great and small , into the hands of men I light , My life shall make amends for all , for Essex bids the world good night . Farewell dear wife , and children three , farewell my kind and tender son ; Comfort your selves , mourn not for me , although your fallen be now begun , My time is come , my glass is run , comfort your self in former light , Seeing by my fallen you are undone , your Father bids the world good night . Derick , thou know'st at Cales I sav'd thy life , lost for a Rape there done , As thou thy self canst testify , thine own hand three and twenty hung , But now thou seest my self is come , by chance into thy hands I light , Strike out thy blow that I may know , thou , Essex lov'd at his good night . when England counted me a Papist , the works of papists I defy , I ne're worshipped Saint nor Angel in Heaven , nor the Virgin Marry , I ; But to Christ , which for my sins did die , trickling with salt tears in his sighed , Spreading my arms to God on high , Lord Jesus receive my soul this night . Printed by and for A.M. and sold by the booksellers of London . A [ Lam ] entable ballad on the Earl of Esex's Death . Tune is , Essex last Goodnight . ALL you that cry Oh hone , Oh hone , come now and sing Oh hone with me , For why our Jewel is from us gone , the valiant Knight of Chivalry : Of rich and poor belov'd was he , in time and honourable knight , When by our Laws condemn'd to die , He lately took his last Goodnight . Count him not like to Champion , those traitorous men of Babington , Nor like the Earl of Westmoorland , by whom a number were undone : He never yet hurt Mother's Son , his quarrel still maintains the right , Which the tears my face down run , when I think on his last good night . The Portugals can witness be , his Dagger at Lisbon gate he flung , And like a Knight of Chivalry , his Chain upon the Gate he hung ; I would to God that he would come , to fetch them back in order right , Which thing was by his honour done , yet lately took their last good night . The French-men they can testify , the town of Gourney he took in , And marched to Room immediately , not caring for his foes a pin : With Bullets then he pierc'd his skin , and made them fly from his sighs He there that time did credit win , and now hath taken his last good night . And stately Cales can witness be , even by his Proclamation right , And did command them all straightly , to have a care of Infants lives , And that none should hurt man or wife , which was against their right ; Therefore they pray'd for his long life , which lately took his last good night . would God he ne'er had Ireland known , nor set one foot on Flanders ground , Then might we well injoy'd our own , where now our jewel will not be found , which makes our foes still abound ; trickling with s [ a ] l [ tO ] tears in our [ fl ] ight , To hear his name in our ears to found , Lord Deverux took his last good nigh [ tO ] Ash wednesday , that dismal day , when he came forth his Chamber door , Upon a Scaffold there he saw , his Headsman standing him before : His Nobles all they did deplore , shedding salt tears in his sighed , He said farewell to rich and poor , at his good morrow and good night . My Lords , said he , you stand but by , to see performance of the law , It is I that have deserv'd to die , and yield my self unto the blow ; I have deserv'd to die I know , but ne'er against my Countries right , Nor to my Queen was ever foe , upon my death at my good night . Farewell , Elizabeth , my gracious Queen , God bless thee with thy Council all ; Farewell my Knights of Chivalry , farewell my Soldiers stout and tall , Farewell the Commons great and small , into the hands of men I light , My life shall make amends for all , for Essex bids the world good night . Farewell dear wife , and children three , farewell my kind and tender son ; Comfort your selves , mourn not for me , although your fallen be now begun , My time is come , my glass is run , comfort your self in former light , Seeing by my fallen you are undone , your Father bids the world good night . Derick , thou know'st at Cales I sav'd thy life , lost for a Rape there done , As thou thy self canst testify , thine own hand three and twenty hung , But now thou seest my self is come , by chance into thy hands I light , Strike out thy blow that I may know , thou , Essex lov'd at his good night . when England counted me a Papist , the works of papists I defy , I ne're worshipped Saint nor Angel in Heaven , nor the Virgin Marry , I ; But to Christ , which for my sins did die , trickling with salt tears in his sighed , Spreading my arms to God on high , Lord Jesus receive my soul this night . Printed by and for A.M. and sold by the booksellers of London . A [ Lam ] entable ballad on the Earl of Esex's Death . Tune is , Essex last Goodnight . ALL you that cry Oh hone , Oh hone , come now and sing Oh hone with me , For why our Jewel is from us gone , the valiant Knight of Chivalry : Of rich and poor belov'd was he , in time and honourable knight , When by our Laws condemn'd to die , He lately took his last Goodnight . Count him not like to Champion , those traitorous men of Babington , Nor like the Earl of Westmoorland , by whom a number were undone : He never yet hurt Mother's Son , his quarrel still maintains the right , Which the tears my face down run , when I think on his last good night . The Portugals can witness be , his Dagger at Lisbon gate he flung , And like a Knight of Chivalry , his Chain upon the Gate he hung ; I would to God that he would come , to fetch them back in order right , Which thing was by his honour done , yet lately took their last good night . The French-men they can testify , the town of Gourney he took in , And marched to Room immediately , not caring for his foes a pin : With Bullets then he pierc'd his skin , and made them fly from his sighs He there that time did credit win , and now hath taken his last good night . And stately Cales can witness be , even by his Proclamation right , And did command them all straightly , to have a care of Infants lives , And that none should hurt man or wife , which was against their right ; Therefore they pray'd for his long life , which lately took his last good night . would God he ne'er had Ireland known , nor set one foot on Flanders ground , Then might we well injoy'd our own , where now our jewel will not be found , which makes our foes still abound ; trickling with s [ a ] l [ tO ] tears in our [ fl ] ight , To hear his name in our ears to found , Lord Deverux took his last good nigh [ tO ] Ash wednesday , that dismal day , when he came forth his Chamber door , Upon a Scaffold there he saw , his Headsman standing him before : His Nobles all they did deplore , shedding salt tears in his sighed , He said farewell to rich and poor , at his good morrow and good night . My Lords , said he , you stand but by , to see performance of the law , It is I that have deserv'd to die , and yield my self unto the blow ; I have deserv'd to die I know , but ne'er against my Countries right , Nor to my Queen was ever foe , upon my death at my good night . Farewell , Elizabeth , my gracious Queen , God bless thee with thy Council all ; Farewell my Knights of Chivalry , farewell my Soldiers stout and tall , Farewell the Commons great and small , into the hands of men I light , My life shall make amends for all , for Essex bids the world good night . Farewell dear wife , and children three , farewell my kind and tender son ; Comfort your selves , mourn not for me , although your fallen be now begun , My time is come , my glass is run , comfort your self in former light , Seeing by my fallen you are undone , your Father bids the world good night . Derick , thou know'st at Cales I sav'd thy life , lost for a Rape there done , As thou thy self canst testify , thine own hand three and twenty hung , But now thou seest my self is come , by chance into thy hands I light , Strike out thy blow that I may know , thou , Essex lov'd at his good night . when England counted me a Papist , the works of papists I defy , I ne're worshipped Saint nor Angel in Heaven , nor the Virgin Marry , I ; But to Christ , which for my sins did die , trickling with salt tears in his sighed , Spreading my arms to God on high , Lord Jesus receive my soul this night . Printed by and for A.M. and sold by the booksellers of London . 