The discontented married Man. OR , A merry new Song that was pend in foul weather , Of a Scold that could not keep her lips together . To the tune of , She cannot keep her etc A Young man lately wedded was To a fair and comely creature ; She was a blithe and bonny Lass As ere was fram'd by Nature . With rolling eye , And forehead high , And all good parts Nature could give her : But she had learned such a note , She could not keep her l. together . A lusty youth of Cupids strain , That might the Queen of Love contented : Came unto her , her love to gain , And freely she her love consented . But to be short , In Cupids Court , He used her well when he came thither : And played his part in such and art , She could not , etc When her Husband he herd tell Of her tricks with true relation , He complained to himself Very sadly in this fashion . Quoth he , I would give twenty pound , Thats ten more then I had with her , Her mother would take her home again And make her keep her , etc Son be thou of patient mind , Let not thoughts thy fancies trouble : For I to thee will still prove kind , And her portion I will double . Time and age Will assuage , And the fairest flower will wither , And I such counsel will her give , Shall make her keep her l. together . Henceforth therefore I'll forsake her , And her mother shall her take : And for shame let her better make her , Or I again will never take her . Pure modeshy she does defy , Beside she's fickle as the weather : And her scolding plainly shows , She cannot keep her l. together . Then I'll leave off to find another , Though't may add unto my lustre , For brave spacious England wide I am sure affords a cluster . Good and bad , Are to be had , Jove speed me well though long I tarry For ere that I'll have such a Mate , I never more intend to marry . The second part to the same tune . Shee is gone a wandering forth , Wanton wenches will be ranging With two gallants of great worth : Such as they affect a changing . She is bent To consent For to go she knows not whither They will teach her such a trick , She will not keep her l. together . To the Dancing-school she goes , There she spends her husbands treasure , On each Shoo she wears a Rose , For to show she's fit for pleasure . And resort , To Cupids Court , And no sooner she comes thither , She learns so much of that same sport She cannot keep her l. together . To the Tavern she repairs , While her husband sits and muses , There she domineers and swears , This a thing she often uses . And being fine She for wine , Will both pawn her hat and feather , Which does show that it is true , She cannot keep her l. together . He's a Coxcomb that does grieve And knows not how to court this creature , For he may pin her to his sleeve , She is of so kind a nature . She will play Every way . And is as nimble as a feather But she will often go astray , She cannot keep her l. together . Thou that hast a wife thats civil , Love her well and make much of her , For a woman that is evil All the town thou seest will scoff her . Love thy wife As thy life Let her not go thou know'st not whither , For you will always live in strife , If she keep not her l. together . Maidens fair have a care , Whom you love , and whom you marry , Love not those that jealous are Longer you had better tarry . For offence , Springs from hence , You will go you know not whither , Till you loose both wit and sense , And cannot keep your l. together . LONDON , Printed for Richard Harper in Smithfield . The discontented married Man. OR , A merry new Song that was pend in foul weather , Of a Scold that could not keep her lips together . To the tune of , She cannot keep her etc A Young man lately wedded was To a fair and comely creature ; She was a blithe and bonny Lass As ere was fram'd by Nature . With rolling eye , And forehead high , And all good parts Nature could give her : But she had learned such a note , She could not keep her l. together . A lusty youth of Cupids strain , That might the Queen of Love contented : Came unto her , her love to gain , And freely she her love consented . But to be short , In Cupids Court , He used her well when he came thither : And played his part in such and art , She could not , etc When her Husband he herd tell Of her tricks with true relation , He complained to himself Very sadly in this fashion . Quoth he , I would give twenty pound , Thats ten more then I had with her , Her mother would take her home again And make her keep her , etc Son be thou of patient mind , Let not thoughts thy fancies trouble : For I to thee will still prove kind , And her portion I will double . Time and age Will assuage , And the fairest flower will wither , And I such counsel will her give , Shall make her keep her l. together . Henceforth therefore I'll forsake her , And her mother shall her take : And for shame let her better make her , Or I again will never take her . Pure modeshy she does defy , Beside she's fickle as the weather : And her scolding plainly shows , She cannot keep her l. together . Then I'll leave off to find another , Though't may add unto my lustre , For brave spacious England wide I am sure affords a cluster . Good and bad , Are to be had , Jove speed me well though long I tarry For ere that I'll have such a Mate , I never more intend to marry . The second part to the same tune . Shee is gone a wandering forth , Wanton wenches will be ranging With two gallants of great worth : Such as they affect a changing . She is bent To consent For to go she knows not whither They will teach her such a trick , She will not keep her l. together . To the Dancing-school she goes , There she spends her husbands treasure , On each Shoo she wears a Rose , For to show she's fit for pleasure . And resort , To Cupids Court , And no sooner she comes thither , She learns so much of that same sport She cannot keep her l. together . To the Tavern she repairs , While her husband sits and muses , There she domineers and swears , This a thing she often uses . And being fine She for wine , Will both pawn her hat and feather , Which does show that it is true , She cannot keep her l. together . He's a Coxcomb that does grieve And knows not how to court this creature , For he may pin her to his sleeve , She is of so kind a nature . She will play Every way . And is as nimble as a feather But she will often go astray , She cannot keep her l. together . Thou that hast a wife thats civil , Love her well and make much of her , For a woman that is evil All the town thou seest will scoff her . Love thy wife As thy life Let her not go thou know'st not whither , For you will always live in strife , If she keep not her l. together . Maidens fair have a care , Whom you love , and whom you marry , Love not those that jealous are Longer you had better tarry . For offence , Springs from hence , You will go you know not whither , Till you loose both wit and sense , And cannot keep your l. together . LONDON , Printed for Richard Harper in Smithfield . 