And excellent Song wherein you shall find Great consolation for a troubled mind . To the tune of Fortune my Foe . AYme not too high in things above thy reach , Be not too foolish in thine own conceit , As thou hast wit and worldly wealth at will , So give him thanks that shall increase it still . Beware of pride the mother of mishap , Whose sugared snares will seek thee to entrap , Be meek in heart , and lowly minded still , So shalt thou Gods Commandments fulfil . Cast all thy care upon the Lord , and he In thy distress will send to succour thee , Cease not therefore to serve him every day , Who with his blood thy ransom once did pay . Drive from thy heart ill thoughts that may offend , Desire of God his holy spirit to send , Which will direct thy life in such a sort , As thou thereby shalt find joy and comfort , Except each day and hour when Christ shall come With power to judge the world both all & some : Be ready then , and with the Bridegroom Christ , Receive reward in heaven among the highest . Fear to offend his heavenly Majesty , Faith does confirm true love and loyalty : Without which faith , as holy Scriptures say , No man to heaven can find the perfect way . Great is the Lord and merciful doubtless , To those that with true zeal their faults confess , But unto those in mischief daily runs , He lets alone to taste what after comes . Hope in the Lord , on him repose thy trust , Serve him with fear , whose judgements are most just Desire of him thy life so to direct , That to thy soul he may have good respect . Injure not man , but love thine enemy , Though to thy hurt , yet take it patiently , And think the Lord , although he suffer long , When time shall serve , will soon revenge thy wrong Keep thou no rancour hidden in thy heart , Remember well the word Christ did impart , That is , forgive offences overpast , As thou thy self wilt be forgiven at last . Lay not thy treasure up in hoarding sort , But therewithal the poor feed and comfort , If thou cold water give in Christ his name , Thrice double told he will reward the same . Misorder not thy self in any wise , In meat and drink let reason still suffice : Moderate thy mind , and keep thy self content , So shalt thou please the Lord Omnipotent , The second part to the same Tune . NO man can say that he is void of since , For if he do he's much deceiv'd therein : The Lord does say , the just seven times aday Committeth since , and runneth oft astray . Obey his will , who to redeem thy loss Did shed his blood for us upon the Cross , Such was the love that Christ did show to man , Why should we be ungrateful to him than ? Pity the poor with such as God hath sent , And be not proud with that which he hath lent , Remember well what Christ hath said to thee , Do this as though thou didst it unto me . Quench found desires and pleasures of the flesh , Fly gluttony , the Mother of excess , For whoordome is the very sink of since , In which the wicked daily wallow in . Root from thy heart malicious thoughts be sure , Which are a means Gods judgements to procure For be assur'd when envy bears sway , The fear of God departeth soon away . Subdue thy self , let wisdom be thy guide , Suppress ill thoughts , beware of hateful pride , Despise the world , a veil of vanities , Lest headlong thou runnest on in misery's . Turn unto me , our Saviour Christ does say , And I will hear thy prayers every day , If any thing thou ask in Christ his name , Be well assur'd thou shalt obtain the same . Vain exercise abolish from thy sighed , Desire of God his faith and holy Spirit , Who will direct thee in the perfect way , That leads to life , as holy Scriptures say . When Satan seeks to tempt thee any way , Call upon God thy only strength and stay , And he assur'd from out his holy hill He will preserve thy life from danger still . Experience of his love that lends thee life , Must make thee seek to live devoid of strife , Let his love be thy rule , who so lov'd thee , That death he underwent to set thee free . Young men and maids , old men and babes repent , Lest for your sins you at the last be shen Be wise , take heed , do not the time delay , For Christ must be our Judge at the last day . Zeal like to fire our good works let make bright , That others thereof may behold the ligh Light up your Lamps , and with the Virgins five Have oil in stoore to keep your Lamps alive . FINIS . Printed at London by the Assigns of Thomas Symcocke . And excellent Song wherein you shall find Great consolation for a troubled mind . To the tune of Fortune my Foe . AYme not too high in things above thy reach , Be not too foolish in thine own conceit , As thou hast wit and worldly wealth at will , So give him thanks that shall increase it still . Beware of pride the mother of mishap , Whose sugared snares will seek thee to entrap , Be meek in heart , and lowly minded still , So shalt thou Gods Commandments fulfil . Cast all thy care upon the Lord , and he In thy distress will send to succour thee , Cease not therefore to serve him every day , Who with his blood thy ransom once did pay . Drive from thy heart ill thoughts that may offend , Desire of God his holy spirit to send , Which will direct thy life in such a sort , As thou thereby shalt find joy and comfort , Except each day and hour when Christ shall come With power to judge the world both all & some : Be ready then , and with the Bridegroom Christ , Receive reward in heaven among the highest . Fear to offend his heavenly Majesty , Faith does confirm true love and loyalty : Without which faith , as holy Scriptures say , No man to heaven can find the perfect way . Great is the Lord and merciful doubtless , To those that with true zeal their faults confess , But unto those in mischief daily runs , He lets alone to taste what after comes . Hope in the Lord , on him repose thy trust , Serve him with fear , whose judgements are most just Desire of him thy life so to direct , That to thy soul he may have good respect . Injure not man , but love thine enemy , Though to thy hurt , yet take it patiently , And think the Lord , although he suffer long , When time shall serve , will soon revenge thy wrong Keep thou no rancour hidden in thy heart , Remember well the word Christ did impart , That is , forgive offences overpast , As thou thy self wilt be forgiven at last . Lay not thy treasure up in hoarding sort , But therewithal the poor feed and comfort , If thou cold water give in Christ his name , Thrice double told he will reward the same . Misorder not thy self in any wise , In meat and drink let reason still suffice : Moderate thy mind , and keep thy self content , So shalt thou please the Lord Omnipotent , The second part to the same Tune . NO man can say that he is void of since , For if he do he's much deceiv'd therein : The Lord does say , the just seven times aday Committeth since , and runneth oft astray . Obey his will , who to redeem thy loss Did shed his blood for us upon the Cross , Such was the love that Christ did show to man , Why should we be ungrateful to him than ? Pity the poor with such as God hath sent , And be not proud with that which he hath lent , Remember well what Christ hath said to thee , Do this as though thou didst it unto me . Quench found desires and pleasures of the flesh , Fly gluttony , the Mother of excess , For whoordome is the very sink of since , In which the wicked daily wallow in . Root from thy heart malicious thoughts be sure , Which are a means Gods judgements to procure For be assur'd when envy bears sway , The fear of God departeth soon away . Subdue thy self , let wisdom be thy guide , Suppress ill thoughts , beware of hateful pride , Despise the world , a veil of vanities , Lest headlong thou runnest on in misery's . Turn unto me , our Saviour Christ does say , And I will hear thy prayers every day , If any thing thou ask in Christ his name , Be well assur'd thou shalt obtain the same . Vain exercise abolish from thy sighed , Desire of God his faith and holy Spirit , Who will direct thee in the perfect way , That leads to life , as holy Scriptures say . When Satan seeks to tempt thee any way , Call upon God thy only strength and stay , And he assur'd from out his holy hill He will preserve thy life from danger still . Experience of his love that lends thee life , Must make thee seek to live devoid of strife , Let his love be thy rule , who so lov'd thee , That death he underwent to set thee free . Young men and maids , old men and babes repent , Lest for your sins you at the last be shen Be wise , take heed , do not the time delay , For Christ must be our Judge at the last day . Zeal like to fire our good works let make bright , That others thereof may behold the ligh Light up your Lamps , and with the Virgins five Have oil in stoore to keep your Lamps alive . FINIS . Printed at London by the Assigns of Thomas Symcocke . And excellent Song wherein you shall find Great consolation for a troubled mind . To the tune of Fortune my Foe . AYme not too high in things above thy reach , Be not too foolish in thine own conceit , As thou hast wit and worldly wealth at will , So give him thanks that shall increase it still . Beware of pride the mother of mishap , Whose sugared snares will seek thee to entrap , Be meek in heart , and lowly minded still , So shalt thou Gods Commandments fulfil . Cast all thy care upon the Lord , and he In thy distress will send to succour thee , Cease not therefore to serve him every day , Who with his blood thy ransom once did pay . Drive from thy heart ill thoughts that may offend , Desire of God his holy spirit to send , Which will direct thy life in such a sort , As thou thereby shalt find joy and comfort , Except each day and hour when Christ shall come With power to judge the world both all & some : Be ready then , and with the Bridegroom Christ , Receive reward in heaven among the highest . Fear to offend his heavenly Majesty , Faith does confirm true love and loyalty : Without which faith , as holy Scriptures say , No man to heaven can find the perfect way . Great is the Lord and merciful doubtless , To those that with true zeal their faults confess , But unto those in mischief daily runs , He lets alone to taste what after comes . Hope in the Lord , on him repose thy trust , Serve him with fear , whose judgements are most just Desire of him thy life so to direct , That to thy soul he may have good respect . Injure not man , but love thine enemy , Though to thy hurt , yet take it patiently , And think the Lord , although he suffer long , When time shall serve , will soon revenge thy wrong Keep thou no rancour hidden in thy heart , Remember well the word Christ did impart , That is , forgive offences overpast , As thou thy self wilt be forgiven at last . Lay not thy treasure up in hoarding sort , But therewithal the poor feed and comfort , If thou cold water give in Christ his name , Thrice double told he will reward the same . Misorder not thy self in any wise , In meat and drink let reason still suffice : Moderate thy mind , and keep thy self content , So shalt thou please the Lord Omnipotent , The second part to the same Tune . NO man can say that he is void of since , For if he do he's much deceiv'd therein : The Lord does say , the just seven times aday Committeth since , and runneth oft astray . Obey his will , who to redeem thy loss Did shed his blood for us upon the Cross , Such was the love that Christ did show to man , Why should we be ungrateful to him than ? Pity the poor with such as God hath sent , And be not proud with that which he hath lent , Remember well what Christ hath said to thee , Do this as though thou didst it unto me . Quench found desires and pleasures of the flesh , Fly gluttony , the Mother of excess , For whoordome is the very sink of since , In which the wicked daily wallow in . Root from thy heart malicious thoughts be sure , Which are a means Gods judgements to procure For be assur'd when envy bears sway , The fear of God departeth soon away . Subdue thy self , let wisdom be thy guide , Suppress ill thoughts , beware of hateful pride , Despise the world , a veil of vanities , Lest headlong thou runnest on in misery's . Turn unto me , our Saviour Christ does say , And I will hear thy prayers every day , If any thing thou ask in Christ his name , Be well assur'd thou shalt obtain the same . Vain exercise abolish from thy sighed , Desire of God his faith and holy Spirit , Who will direct thee in the perfect way , That leads to life , as holy Scriptures say . When Satan seeks to tempt thee any way , Call upon God thy only strength and stay , And he assur'd from out his holy hill He will preserve thy life from danger still . Experience of his love that lends thee life , Must make thee seek to live devoid of strife , Let his love be thy rule , who so lov'd thee , That death he underwent to set thee free . Young men and maids , old men and babes repent , Lest for your sins you at the last be shen Be wise , take heed , do not the time delay , For Christ must be our Judge at the last day . Zeal like to fire our good works let make bright , That others thereof may behold the ligh Light up your Lamps , and with the Virgins five Have oil in stoore to keep your Lamps alive . FINIS . Printed at London by the Assigns of Thomas Symcocke . And excellent Song wherein you shall find Great consolation for a troubled mind . To the tune of Fortune my Foe . AYme not too high in things above thy reach , Be not too foolish in thine own conceit , As thou hast wit and worldly wealth at will , So give him thanks that shall increase it still . Beware of pride the mother of mishap , Whose sugared snares will seek thee to entrap , Be meek in heart , and lowly minded still , So shalt thou Gods Commandments fulfil . Cast all thy care upon the Lord , and he In thy distress will send to succour thee , Cease not therefore to serve him every day , Who with his blood thy ransom once did pay . Drive from thy heart ill thoughts that may offend , Desire of God his holy spirit to send , Which will direct thy life in such a sort , As thou thereby shalt find joy and comfort , Except each day and hour when Christ shall come With power to judge the world both all & some : Be ready then , and with the Bridegroom Christ , Receive reward in heaven among the highest . Fear to offend his heavenly Majesty , Faith does confirm true love and loyalty : Without which faith , as holy Scriptures say , No man to heaven can find the perfect way . Great is the Lord and merciful doubtless , To those that with true zeal their faults confess , But unto those in mischief daily runs , He lets alone to taste what after comes . Hope in the Lord , on him repose thy trust , Serve him with fear , whose judgements are most just Desire of him thy life so to direct , That to thy soul he may have good respect . Injure not man , but love thine enemy , Though to thy hurt , yet take it patiently , And think the Lord , although he suffer long , When time shall serve , will soon revenge thy wrong Keep thou no rancour hidden in thy heart , Remember well the word Christ did impart , That is , forgive offences overpast , As thou thy self wilt be forgiven at last . Lay not thy treasure up in hoarding sort , But therewithal the poor feed and comfort , If thou cold water give in Christ his name , Thrice double told he will reward the same . Misorder not thy self in any wise , In meat and drink let reason still suffice : Moderate thy mind , and keep thy self content , So shalt thou please the Lord Omnipotent , The second part to the same Tune . NO man can say that he is void of since , For if he do he's much deceiv'd therein : The Lord does say , the just seven times aday Committeth since , and runneth oft astray . Obey his will , who to redeem thy loss Did shed his blood for us upon the Cross , Such was the love that Christ did show to man , Why should we be ungrateful to him than ? Pity the poor with such as God hath sent , And be not proud with that which he hath lent , Remember well what Christ hath said to thee , Do this as though thou didst it unto me . Quench found desires and pleasures of the flesh , Fly gluttony , the Mother of excess , For whoordome is the very sink of since , In which the wicked daily wallow in . Root from thy heart malicious thoughts be sure , Which are a means Gods judgements to procure For be assur'd when envy bears sway , The fear of God departeth soon away . Subdue thy self , let wisdom be thy guide , Suppress ill thoughts , beware of hateful pride , Despise the world , a veil of vanities , Lest headlong thou runnest on in misery's . Turn unto me , our Saviour Christ does say , And I will hear thy prayers every day , If any thing thou ask in Christ his name , Be well assur'd thou shalt obtain the same . Vain exercise abolish from thy sighed , Desire of God his faith and holy Spirit , Who will direct thee in the perfect way , That leads to life , as holy Scriptures say . When Satan seeks to tempt thee any way , Call upon God thy only strength and stay , And he assur'd from out his holy hill He will preserve thy life from danger still . Experience of his love that lends thee life , Must make thee seek to live devoid of strife , Let his love be thy rule , who so lov'd thee , That death he underwent to set thee free . Young men and maids , old men and babes repent , Lest for your sins you at the last be shen Be wise , take heed , do not the time delay , For Christ must be our Judge at the last day . Zeal like to fire our good works let make bright , That others thereof may behold the ligh Light up your Lamps , and with the Virgins five Have oil in stoore to keep your Lamps alive . FINIS . Printed at London by the Assigns of Thomas Symcocke . 