Found Love why dost thou dally : OR , The passionate Lovers Ditty , In praise of his Love thats fair and witty . To the tune of The mock Widow . Found Love why dost thou dally , And mock my passion with thy disdain ? there is no bliss , where coyness is , Seek not thy pleasure in my pain : But let the chaste torments of my desire , Kindle in thee propitious fire : So shall the pleasures of thy sweet embraces , Conquer the grief of my former disgraces , Then those storms past , shall mercy appear , And thou of cruelty go quit and clear . If not , thou art accused , For being a lure of my grief and care , for from thy sighed , comes my delight , Thy frown only procures despair : But in thy smiles there dwell eternal joys , Which from my heart all floods of woes destroys , Then be not thou obdurate unto me , Seeing thou art my chief felicity : Thou seest how passionate I am for thee , Oh then grant Love , forgetting cruelty . Sweet Jove thou art my goddess To whom my heart I solely dedicate , then mercy send , to me thy friend , My sad grief to abreviate : Then shall I praise thy goodly tresses , Shining like gold as all the Gods confesses , And eke the splendour of thy comely face , Which does so well thy complete body grace , As thou appear'st like Cynthia in her sphere , Or like Apollo in the days bright chair . Never was fram'd by nature , A Maid of rarer form and beauty then is my Love , to whom I'll prove , Officious in my duty , Her breath more sweeter far then Civet can be , Delicious honey , or rare Sugar-Candy , Her rosy Cheeks most comely to the view , Which causeth me her Love for to pursue , And for Lorina languish I in grief , For from her smiles my pleasures come in brief . Come sweet fit thee down by me , And pay just tribute for our true love , come lets court , and merrily sport , Here is the pleasant shady grove , Where nothing is wanting that pleasures may bring , Where nature's harmonious Musicioners sing , And Philomel among them the sweetest , To love recording those notes that are meetest , Where soft winds murmur the joy of our bliss , And gliding by thy lips , oft steal a kiss . Hear the nimble Fans caper , And old Silvanus train does trip and dance , thy form to grace , in this fair place , Woods Nymphs do their notes advance , Here all pleasure and content does dwell , Joy does all sorrow from this place expel , Oh I could surfeit with this goodly sighed , Wherein my heart and senses take delight , Thou art the Sovereign of my lovesick mind , In whom a Map of virtues are inshrin'd . The second part To the same tune . O How I am astonish't , To view the feature of my true love , thy sweet face , and comely grace , Would in and Angel envy move , Thy eyes give luster these shadows overspread , And thy sweet language would waken the dead , The music of the spheres is but a dull noise When we shall hear thee , in thy sweetest voice , Curious wonders within thee do shine , Which do persuade me that thou art divine . Juno the Queen of glory , Cannot come near thee for thy virtuous grace : thou art more fair , in beauty rare , And dost deserve as well that place , Wherein Joves darling in her glory moves , Thy hands far whiter then fair Venus Doves , And thou thy self complete in each degree , Upon thy forehead dwells rare Majesty : Thou art indeed a lamp of heavenly wonder , And for thy virtues keepest all creatures under . All earthly joys and pleasures Are to be had in thy society , Lorina's name , deserves true fame , She is endued with piety , Fairer she is by ods then rocks of pearl : Jove till this time never saw a braver Girl . The Phoenix rare makes not a gayer show , Nor yet the Lilies on the bank of Poe , She is indeed the mirror of our age , And with Joves Queen may walk in equipage . Wherefore should I dally then , To court this glory , and to embrace , even in thee , all bliss I see , Lively depainted in thy face , Come then lets dally , and to the wanton air , Change loves delightments , so shall we declare Our loves by our kisses , while I nothing fearing Breath my best wish , in my wished beauty's hearin [ g ] Which when I have done thy captive I'll be , Yet think I have a glorious liberty . Come then , come my Lorina , And yield that treasure , which who so knows , knows a bliss , by which he is Eternally exempt from woes , Should Jove himself envy at our best delight , These joys weel enjoy still in envies despigh Nay should his anger descend so upon me , As my Lorina to ravish thee from me , Idem fly in my fury as high as his sphere , And snatch thee from his arms or perish there . Come then let me enjoy thee , While beauty's flourish on thee does dwell , Colour fades , and foolish Maids , That so die led Apes in hell , Oh then be wiser and grant to my desire , In thy snow white bosom quench my loves quic [ k ] fi [ re ] Let not unfeigned love go unrewarded , Nor true affections be slightly regarded , So shall I still live , and all sorrows defy , Or else a Martyr to thy beauty die . Printed at London for Francis Coules . FINIS . Found Love why dost thou dally : OR , The passionate Lovers Ditty , In praise of his Love thats fair and witty . To the tune of The mock Widow . Found Love why dost thou dally , And mock my passion with thy disdain ? there is no bliss , where coyness is , Seek not thy pleasure in my pain : But let the chaste torments of my desire , Kindle in thee propitious fire : So shall the pleasures of thy sweet embraces , Conquer the grief of my former disgraces , Then those storms past , shall mercy appear , And thou of cruelty go quit and clear . If not , thou art accused , For being a lure of my grief and care , for from thy sighed , comes my delight , Thy frown only procures despair : But in thy smiles there dwell eternal joys , Which from my heart all floods of woes destroys , Then be not thou obdurate unto me , Seeing thou art my chief felicity : Thou seest how passionate I am for thee , Oh then grant Love , forgetting cruelty . Sweet Jove thou art my goddess To whom my heart I solely dedicate , then mercy send , to me thy friend , My sad grief to abreviate : Then shall I praise thy goodly tresses , Shining like gold as all the Gods confesses , And eke the splendour of thy comely face , Which does so well thy complete body grace , As thou appear'st like Cynthia in her sphere , Or like Apollo in the days bright chair . Never was fram'd by nature , A Maid of rarer form and beauty then is my Love , to whom I'll prove , Officious in my duty , Her breath more sweeter far then Civet can be , Delicious honey , or rare Sugar-Candy , Her rosy Cheeks most comely to the view , Which causeth me her Love for to pursue , And for Lorina languish I in grief , For from her smiles my pleasures come in brief . Come sweet fit thee down by me , And pay just tribute for our true love , come lets court , and merrily sport , Here is the pleasant shady grove , Where nothing is wanting that pleasures may bring , Where nature's harmonious Musicioners sing , And Philomel among them the sweetest , To love recording those notes that are meetest , Where soft winds murmur the joy of our bliss , And gliding by thy lips , oft steal a kiss . Hear the nimble Fans caper , And old Silvanus train does trip and dance , thy form to grace , in this fair place , Woods Nymphs do their notes advance , Here all pleasure and content does dwell , Joy does all sorrow from this place expel , Oh I could surfeit with this goodly sighed , Wherein my heart and senses take delight , Thou art the Sovereign of my lovesick mind , In whom a Map of virtues are inshrin'd . The second part To the same tune . O How I am astonish't , To view the feature of my true love , thy sweet face , and comely grace , Would in and Angel envy move , Thy eyes give luster these shadows overspread , And thy sweet language would waken the dead , The music of the spheres is but a dull noise When we shall hear thee , in thy sweetest voice , Curious wonders within thee do shine , Which do persuade me that thou art divine . Juno the Queen of glory , Cannot come near thee for thy virtuous grace : thou art more fair , in beauty rare , And dost deserve as well that place , Wherein Joves darling in her glory moves , Thy hands far whiter then fair Venus Doves , And thou thy self complete in each degree , Upon thy forehead dwells rare Majesty : Thou art indeed a lamp of heavenly wonder , And for thy virtues keepest all creatures under . All earthly joys and pleasures Are to be had in thy society , Lorina's name , deserves true fame , She is endued with piety , Fairer she is by ods then rocks of pearl : Jove till this time never saw a braver Girl . The Phoenix rare makes not a gayer show , Nor yet the Lilies on the bank of Poe , She is indeed the mirror of our age , And with Joves Queen may walk in equipage . Wherefore should I dally then , To court this glory , and to embrace , even in thee , all bliss I see , Lively depainted in thy face , Come then lets dally , and to the wanton air , Change loves delightments , so shall we declare Our loves by our kisses , while I nothing fearing Breath my best wish , in my wished beauty's hearin [ g ] Which when I have done thy captive I'll be , Yet think I have a glorious liberty . Come then , come my Lorina , And yield that treasure , which who so knows , knows a bliss , by which he is Eternally exempt from woes , Should Jove himself envy at our best delight , These joys weel enjoy still in envies despigh Nay should his anger descend so upon me , As my Lorina to ravish thee from me , Idem fly in my fury as high as his sphere , And snatch thee from his arms or perish there . Come then let me enjoy thee , While beauty's flourish on thee does dwell , Colour fades , and foolish Maids , That so die led Apes in hell , Oh then be wiser and grant to my desire , In thy snow white bosom quench my loves quic [ k ] fi [ re ] Let not unfeigned love go unrewarded , Nor true affections be slightly regarded , So shall I still live , and all sorrows defy , Or else a Martyr to thy beauty die . Printed at London for Francis Coules . FINIS . Found Love why dost thou dally : OR , The passionate Lovers Ditty , In praise of his Love thats fair and witty . To the tune of The mock Widow . Found Love why dost thou dally , And mock my passion with thy disdain ? there is no bliss , where coyness is , Seek not thy pleasure in my pain : But let the chaste torments of my desire , Kindle in thee propitious fire : So shall the pleasures of thy sweet embraces , Conquer the grief of my former disgraces , Then those storms past , shall mercy appear , And thou of cruelty go quit and clear . If not , thou art accused , For being a lure of my grief and care , for from thy sighed , comes my delight , Thy frown only procures despair : But in thy smiles there dwell eternal joys , Which from my heart all floods of woes destroys , Then be not thou obdurate unto me , Seeing thou art my chief felicity : Thou seest how passionate I am for thee , Oh then grant Love , forgetting cruelty . Sweet Jove thou art my goddess To whom my heart I solely dedicate , then mercy send , to me thy friend , My sad grief to abreviate : Then shall I praise thy goodly tresses , Shining like gold as all the Gods confesses , And eke the splendour of thy comely face , Which does so well thy complete body grace , As thou appear'st like Cynthia in her sphere , Or like Apollo in the days bright chair . Never was fram'd by nature , A Maid of rarer form and beauty then is my Love , to whom I'll prove , Officious in my duty , Her breath more sweeter far then Civet can be , Delicious honey , or rare Sugar-Candy , Her rosy Cheeks most comely to the view , Which causeth me her Love for to pursue , And for Lorina languish I in grief , For from her smiles my pleasures come in brief . Come sweet fit thee down by me , And pay just tribute for our true love , come lets court , and merrily sport , Here is the pleasant shady grove , Where nothing is wanting that pleasures may bring , Where nature's harmonious Musicioners sing , And Philomel among them the sweetest , To love recording those notes that are meetest , Where soft winds murmur the joy of our bliss , And gliding by thy lips , oft steal a kiss . Hear the nimble Fans caper , And old Silvanus train does trip and dance , thy form to grace , in this fair place , Woods Nymphs do their notes advance , Here all pleasure and content does dwell , Joy does all sorrow from this place expel , Oh I could surfeit with this goodly sighed , Wherein my heart and senses take delight , Thou art the Sovereign of my lovesick mind , In whom a Map of virtues are inshrin'd . The second part To the same tune . O How I am astonish't , To view the feature of my true love , thy sweet face , and comely grace , Would in and Angel envy move , Thy eyes give luster these shadows overspread , And thy sweet language would waken the dead , The music of the spheres is but a dull noise When we shall hear thee , in thy sweetest voice , Curious wonders within thee do shine , Which do persuade me that thou art divine . Juno the Queen of glory , Cannot come near thee for thy virtuous grace : thou art more fair , in beauty rare , And dost deserve as well that place , Wherein Joves darling in her glory moves , Thy hands far whiter then fair Venus Doves , And thou thy self complete in each degree , Upon thy forehead dwells rare Majesty : Thou art indeed a lamp of heavenly wonder , And for thy virtues keepest all creatures under . All earthly joys and pleasures Are to be had in thy society , Lorina's name , deserves true fame , She is endued with piety , Fairer she is by ods then rocks of pearl : Jove till this time never saw a braver Girl . The Phoenix rare makes not a gayer show , Nor yet the Lilies on the bank of Poe , She is indeed the mirror of our age , And with Joves Queen may walk in equipage . Wherefore should I dally then , To court this glory , and to embrace , even in thee , all bliss I see , Lively depainted in thy face , Come then lets dally , and to the wanton air , Change loves delightments , so shall we declare Our loves by our kisses , while I nothing fearing Breath my best wish , in my wished beauty's hearin [ g ] Which when I have done thy captive I'll be , Yet think I have a glorious liberty . Come then , come my Lorina , And yield that treasure , which who so knows , knows a bliss , by which he is Eternally exempt from woes , Should Jove himself envy at our best delight , These joys weel enjoy still in envies despigh Nay should his anger descend so upon me , As my Lorina to ravish thee from me , Idem fly in my fury as high as his sphere , And snatch thee from his arms or perish there . Come then let me enjoy thee , While beauty's flourish on thee does dwell , Colour fades , and foolish Maids , That so die led Apes in hell , Oh then be wiser and grant to my desire , In thy snow white bosom quench my loves quic [ k ] fi [ re ] Let not unfeigned love go unrewarded , Nor true affections be slightly regarded , So shall I still live , and all sorrows defy , Or else a Martyr to thy beauty die . Printed at London for Francis Coules . FINIS . Found Love why dost thou dally : OR , The passionate Lovers Ditty , In praise of his Love thats fair and witty . To the tune of The mock Widow . Found Love why dost thou dally , And mock my passion with thy disdain ? there is no bliss , where coyness is , Seek not thy pleasure in my pain : But let the chaste torments of my desire , Kindle in thee propitious fire : So shall the pleasures of thy sweet embraces , Conquer the grief of my former disgraces , Then those storms past , shall mercy appear , And thou of cruelty go quit and clear . If not , thou art accused , For being a lure of my grief and care , for from thy sighed , comes my delight , Thy frown only procures despair : But in thy smiles there dwell eternal joys , Which from my heart all floods of woes destroys , Then be not thou obdurate unto me , Seeing thou art my chief felicity : Thou seest how passionate I am for thee , Oh then grant Love , forgetting cruelty . Sweet Jove thou art my goddess To whom my heart I solely dedicate , then mercy send , to me thy friend , My sad grief to abreviate : Then shall I praise thy goodly tresses , Shining like gold as all the Gods confesses , And eke the splendour of thy comely face , Which does so well thy complete body grace , As thou appear'st like Cynthia in her sphere , Or like Apollo in the days bright chair . Never was fram'd by nature , A Maid of rarer form and beauty then is my Love , to whom I'll prove , Officious in my duty , Her breath more sweeter far then Civet can be , Delicious honey , or rare Sugar-Candy , Her rosy Cheeks most comely to the view , Which causeth me her Love for to pursue , And for Lorina languish I in grief , For from her smiles my pleasures come in brief . Come sweet fit thee down by me , And pay just tribute for our true love , come lets court , and merrily sport , Here is the pleasant shady grove , Where nothing is wanting that pleasures may bring , Where nature's harmonious Musicioners sing , And Philomel among them the sweetest , To love recording those notes that are meetest , Where soft winds murmur the joy of our bliss , And gliding by thy lips , oft steal a kiss . Hear the nimble Fans caper , And old Silvanus train does trip and dance , thy form to grace , in this fair place , Woods Nymphs do their notes advance , Here all pleasure and content does dwell , Joy does all sorrow from this place expel , Oh I could surfeit with this goodly sighed , Wherein my heart and senses take delight , Thou art the Sovereign of my lovesick mind , In whom a Map of virtues are inshrin'd . The second part To the same tune . O How I am astonish't , To view the feature of my true love , thy sweet face , and comely grace , Would in and Angel envy move , Thy eyes give luster these shadows overspread , And thy sweet language would waken the dead , The music of the spheres is but a dull noise When we shall hear thee , in thy sweetest voice , Curious wonders within thee do shine , Which do persuade me that thou art divine . Juno the Queen of glory , Cannot come near thee for thy virtuous grace : thou art more fair , in beauty rare , And dost deserve as well that place , Wherein Joves darling in her glory moves , Thy hands far whiter then fair Venus Doves , And thou thy self complete in each degree , Upon thy forehead dwells rare Majesty : Thou art indeed a lamp of heavenly wonder , And for thy virtues keepest all creatures under . All earthly joys and pleasures Are to be had in thy society , Lorina's name , deserves true fame , She is endued with piety , Fairer she is by ods then rocks of pearl : Jove till this time never saw a braver Girl . The Phoenix rare makes not a gayer show , Nor yet the Lilies on the bank of Poe , She is indeed the mirror of our age , And with Joves Queen may walk in equipage . Wherefore should I dally then , To court this glory , and to embrace , even in thee , all bliss I see , Lively depainted in thy face , Come then lets dally , and to the wanton air , Change loves delightments , so shall we declare Our loves by our kisses , while I nothing fearing Breath my best wish , in my wished beauty's hearin [ g ] Which when I have done thy captive I'll be , Yet think I have a glorious liberty . Come then , come my Lorina , And yield that treasure , which who so knows , knows a bliss , by which he is Eternally exempt from woes , Should Jove himself envy at our best delight , These joys weel enjoy still in envies despigh Nay should his anger descend so upon me , As my Lorina to ravish thee from me , Idem fly in my fury as high as his sphere , And snatch thee from his arms or perish there . Come then let me enjoy thee , While beauty's flourish on thee does dwell , Colour fades , and foolish Maids , That so die led Apes in hell , Oh then be wiser and grant to my desire , In thy snow white bosom quench my loves quic [ k ] fi [ re ] Let not unfeigned love go unrewarded , Nor true affections be slightly regarded , So shall I still live , and all sorrows defy , Or else a Martyr to thy beauty die . Printed at London for Francis Coules . FINIS . 