And excellent new Ditty : OR , Which proves that women the best Warriors be , For they made the Devil from earth for to flee . To the Tune of , Death's Dance . OLd Beelzebub merry disposed to be , To earth he did hurry , some pastime to see ; A Landlord he proved , and Leases would let , To all them that loved a long life to get . Come hither all mortals , ( quoth the Devil of Hell ) Come long tails and curtails , now unto my Cell , To you I here proffer , a bargain to buy ; If you'l take my offer , you never shall die . This bargain them pleased , they long'd it to gain , The sick and diseased , came thither amain , And though they were crazy , they hither could fly , The sluggard and lazy , this bargain would buy . The Gallants and Gentry , his love to embrace , From City and Country , flocked hither apace , Long life they desired , with much jollity , Their hearts they were fired , this bargain to buy . The Dams of the City , came hither with speed , Your Merchant wives pretty , would seal to this deed , To live with a Lover , and never to die , Here Courtesans hover , this bargain to buy . No females there wanted , But hither they came , They came till they panted , to purchase the same , Wives , Widow's , and Maidens , to the Devil did high , Brave Lasses and Ladies , this bargain would buy . The Lecher which viewed , such pretty ones there , His love was renewed , and hee'd have a share , And here he sojourned , cause never hee'd die , His heart it was burned , this bargain to buy . Now wicked sons roaring , that had their means spent , In Dicing and Whoring , to this office went , Apace they here gather , because they'd not die , But to outlive their father , this bargain they'd buy . The second part . To the same Tune . NExt comes the Shoemaker , to crave a long life , Here to be partaker , he brought his fine wife ; The Tailors attends here , for money they cry , And follow the spender , this bargain to buy . The Usurers follow , that pawns have in hand , With whoop and with hollow , they call for the Land , Which spendthrifts pawn to them while for cash they high , To live to undo them , this bargain they'l buy . Next came these ri [ s ] h Farmers , that coozin the poor , And hoard up in corners , provision and store , To live till a deer year , and never to die - These greedy cornmizers , this bargain would buy . Now Brokers came hither , that in their hands had , Pawns heaped together , both good ones and bad , To live till they view them all forfeited lie , To the Devil they sue then , this bargain to buy . This purchase contented the Devil of Hell , To see such flocks enter all into his Cell , Yet still he proclaimed , they never should die , Who ere it was aimed , this bargain to buy . Next came the poor women , that cry fish and Oysters , They flock here in common , and many great clusters , They ran hither scolding , and to the Devil cry , Sir wee'd be beholding , this bargain to buy . But when these came hither , they kept such a noise , Each brabbled with other , which first should have choice ; As that their noise frighted the Devil of Hell , No more he delighted , such bargains to fell . Quoth he , I must from them , for should I stay here , In pieces among them , my body they'l tear ; ( Quoth he ) I am willing to deal among men , But never will have dealing , 'mongst women again . Printed at London for H.G. FINIS . And excellent new Ditty : OR , Which proves that women the best Warriors be , For they made the Devil from earth for to flee . To the Tune of , Death's Dance . OLd Beelzebub merry disposed to be , To earth he did hurry , some pastime to see ; A Landlord he proved , and Leases would let , To all them that loved a long life to get . Come hither all mortals , ( quoth the Devil of Hell ) Come long tails and curtails , now unto my Cell , To you I here proffer , a bargain to buy ; If you'l take my offer , you never shall die . This bargain them pleased , they long'd it to gain , The sick and diseased , came thither amain , And though they were crazy , they hither could fly , The sluggard and lazy , this bargain would buy . The Gallants and Gentry , his love to embrace , From City and Country , flocked hither apace , Long life they desired , with much jollity , Their hearts they were fired , this bargain to buy . The Dams of the City , came hither with speed , Your Merchant wives pretty , would seal to this deed , To live with a Lover , and never to die , Here Courtesans hover , this bargain to buy . No females there wanted , But hither they came , They came till they panted , to purchase the same , Wives , Widow's , and Maidens , to the Devil did high , Brave Lasses and Ladies , this bargain would buy . The Lecher which viewed , such pretty ones there , His love was renewed , and hee'd have a share , And here he sojourned , cause never hee'd die , His heart it was burned , this bargain to buy . Now wicked sons roaring , that had their means spent , In Dicing and Whoring , to this office went , Apace they here gather , because they'd not die , But to outlive their father , this bargain they'd buy . The second part . To the same Tune . NExt comes the Shoemaker , to crave a long life , Here to be partaker , he brought his fine wife ; The Tailors attends here , for money they cry , And follow the spender , this bargain to buy . The Usurers follow , that pawns have in hand , With whoop and with hollow , they call for the Land , Which spendthrifts pawn to them while for cash they high , To live to undo them , this bargain they'l buy . Next came these ri [ s ] h Farmers , that coozin the poor , And hoard up in corners , provision and store , To live till a deer year , and never to die - These greedy cornmizers , this bargain would buy . Now Brokers came hither , that in their hands had , Pawns heaped together , both good ones and bad , To live till they view them all forfeited lie , To the Devil they sue then , this bargain to buy . This purchase contented the Devil of Hell , To see such flocks enter all into his Cell , Yet still he proclaimed , they never should die , Who ere it was aimed , this bargain to buy . Next came the poor women , that cry fish and Oysters , They flock here in common , and many great clusters , They ran hither scolding , and to the Devil cry , Sir wee'd be beholding , this bargain to buy . But when these came hither , they kept such a noise , Each brabbled with other , which first should have choice ; As that their noise frighted the Devil of Hell , No more he delighted , such bargains to fell . Quoth he , I must from them , for should I stay here , In pieces among them , my body they'l tear ; ( Quoth he ) I am willing to deal among men , But never will have dealing , 'mongst women again . Printed at London for H.G. FINIS . And excellent new Ditty : OR , Which proves that women the best Warriors be , For they made the Devil from earth for to flee . To the Tune of , Death's Dance . OLd Beelzebub merry disposed to be , To earth he did hurry , some pastime to see ; A Landlord he proved , and Leases would let , To all them that loved a long life to get . Come hither all mortals , ( quoth the Devil of Hell ) Come long tails and curtails , now unto my Cell , To you I here proffer , a bargain to buy ; If you'l take my offer , you never shall die . This bargain them pleased , they long'd it to gain , The sick and diseased , came thither amain , And though they were crazy , they hither could fly , The sluggard and lazy , this bargain would buy . The Gallants and Gentry , his love to embrace , From City and Country , flocked hither apace , Long life they desired , with much jollity , Their hearts they were fired , this bargain to buy . The Dams of the City , came hither with speed , Your Merchant wives pretty , would seal to this deed , To live with a Lover , and never to die , Here Courtesans hover , this bargain to buy . No females there wanted , But hither they came , They came till they panted , to purchase the same , Wives , Widow's , and Maidens , to the Devil did high , Brave Lasses and Ladies , this bargain would buy . The Lecher which viewed , such pretty ones there , His love was renewed , and hee'd have a share , And here he sojourned , cause never hee'd die , His heart it was burned , this bargain to buy . Now wicked sons roaring , that had their means spent , In Dicing and Whoring , to this office went , Apace they here gather , because they'd not die , But to outlive their father , this bargain they'd buy . The second part . To the same Tune . NExt comes the Shoemaker , to crave a long life , Here to be partaker , he brought his fine wife ; The Tailors attends here , for money they cry , And follow the spender , this bargain to buy . The Usurers follow , that pawns have in hand , With whoop and with hollow , they call for the Land , Which spendthrifts pawn to them while for cash they high , To live to undo them , this bargain they'l buy . Next came these ri [ s ] h Farmers , that coozin the poor , And hoard up in corners , provision and store , To live till a deer year , and never to die - These greedy cornmizers , this bargain would buy . Now Brokers came hither , that in their hands had , Pawns heaped together , both good ones and bad , To live till they view them all forfeited lie , To the Devil they sue then , this bargain to buy . This purchase contented the Devil of Hell , To see such flocks enter all into his Cell , Yet still he proclaimed , they never should die , Who ere it was aimed , this bargain to buy . Next came the poor women , that cry fish and Oysters , They flock here in common , and many great clusters , They ran hither scolding , and to the Devil cry , Sir wee'd be beholding , this bargain to buy . But when these came hither , they kept such a noise , Each brabbled with other , which first should have choice ; As that their noise frighted the Devil of Hell , No more he delighted , such bargains to fell . Quoth he , I must from them , for should I stay here , In pieces among them , my body they'l tear ; ( Quoth he ) I am willing to deal among men , But never will have dealing , 'mongst women again . Printed at London for H.G. FINIS . And excellent new Ditty : OR , Which proves that women the best Warriors be , For they made the Devil from earth for to flee . To the Tune of , Death's Dance . OLd Beelzebub merry disposed to be , To earth he did hurry , some pastime to see ; A Landlord he proved , and Leases would let , To all them that loved a long life to get . Come hither all mortals , ( quoth the Devil of Hell ) Come long tails and curtails , now unto my Cell , To you I here proffer , a bargain to buy ; If you'l take my offer , you never shall die . This bargain them pleased , they long'd it to gain , The sick and diseased , came thither amain , And though they were crazy , they hither could fly , The sluggard and lazy , this bargain would buy . The Gallants and Gentry , his love to embrace , From City and Country , flocked hither apace , Long life they desired , with much jollity , Their hearts they were fired , this bargain to buy . The Dams of the City , came hither with speed , Your Merchant wives pretty , would seal to this deed , To live with a Lover , and never to die , Here Courtesans hover , this bargain to buy . No females there wanted , But hither they came , They came till they panted , to purchase the same , Wives , Widow's , and Maidens , to the Devil did high , Brave Lasses and Ladies , this bargain would buy . The Lecher which viewed , such pretty ones there , His love was renewed , and hee'd have a share , And here he sojourned , cause never hee'd die , His heart it was burned , this bargain to buy . Now wicked sons roaring , that had their means spent , In Dicing and Whoring , to this office went , Apace they here gather , because they'd not die , But to outlive their father , this bargain they'd buy . The second part . To the same Tune . NExt comes the Shoemaker , to crave a long life , Here to be partaker , he brought his fine wife ; The Tailors attends here , for money they cry , And follow the spender , this bargain to buy . The Usurers follow , that pawns have in hand , With whoop and with hollow , they call for the Land , Which spendthrifts pawn to them while for cash they high , To live to undo them , this bargain they'l buy . Next came these ri [ s ] h Farmers , that coozin the poor , And hoard up in corners , provision and store , To live till a deer year , and never to die - These greedy cornmizers , this bargain would buy . Now Brokers came hither , that in their hands had , Pawns heaped together , both good ones and bad , To live till they view them all forfeited lie , To the Devil they sue then , this bargain to buy . This purchase contented the Devil of Hell , To see such flocks enter all into his Cell , Yet still he proclaimed , they never should die , Who ere it was aimed , this bargain to buy . Next came the poor women , that cry fish and Oysters , They flock here in common , and many great clusters , They ran hither scolding , and to the Devil cry , Sir wee'd be beholding , this bargain to buy . But when these came hither , they kept such a noise , Each brabbled with other , which first should have choice ; As that their noise frighted the Devil of Hell , No more he delighted , such bargains to fell . Quoth he , I must from them , for should I stay here , In pieces among them , my body they'l tear ; ( Quoth he ) I am willing to deal among men , But never will have dealing , 'mongst women again . Printed at London for H.G. FINIS . 