Fair Warning , OR , Happy is he whom other men's harms Can make to beware , and to shun Satans charms . To the tune of Packingtons pound . THe World is overrun with enormous abuse , Pure virtue and honesty do now decrease , One vice on the neck of another pursues , This grown to a custom that hardly will cease , but blessed is he who when he does see Such vices in'others , reformed will be , For happy is he whom other men's harms Can make to beware , and to shun Satans charms . Then be well advised whoever thou art , By other men's danger their ways to forsake , And when thou seest any for his folly smart , Then see that good use of the same thou dost make : and when thou dost see how bad others be , Say thou to thy self , here's example for me . O happy is he whom other men's harms Can make to beware , and to shun Satans charms . If thou see a man who is proud and ambitious , Like soaring Phaeton strive to aspire , Presuming his Fates will be ever auspicious , He boldly will climb till he can go no higher : if fortune should frown , he may tumble down , Then heel be derided of every clown , Thus happy is he whom other men's harms Can make to beware , and to shun Satans charms . If thou see a Gentleman strive for the wall , And hazard his life for a fantasy vain , This is the occasion of many a brawl , But he thats a wiseman from that will refrain : this better give place to one thats more base , Then hazard thy life in so desperate a case : Oh happy is he whom other men's harms Can make to beware , and to shun Satans charms . The second Part. To the same Tune . IF thou see a whoremonger passing at leisure , Half fearful his legs will drop off by the knees , When every justle may do him displeasure , He hath been so stung with the Turnbull-street Bees . when thou seest his case , beware of that place , Which brings a man nothing but shame and disgrace : Oh happy is he whom other men's harms Can make to beware , and to shun Satans charms . If thou see a man who hath been and ill liver , By hanging himself , to kill body and soul , This fit his example should make thee endeavour That thy heart never harbour a project so foul , Oh what a vile shame he brings on his name , His children will after be twit with the same : Oh happy is he whom other men's harms Can make to beware , and to shun Satans charms . If thou seest a Judge malefactors condemn For rapine or murder , or such heinous acts , This fit thou shouldst take and example by them , Who must by the Law suffer death for their facts : their ways thou mayest flee , because thou dost see The reason , and therefore they hanged must be : Oh happy is he whom other men's harms Can make to beware , and to shun Satans charms . If thou seest a drunkard come reeling ith' street , And cutting cross capers oft times through the dirt , Still ready to quarrel with all he does meet , Whereby he goes seldom to bed without hur Oh then thou mayest think comes all this through drink ; Sure I from the Alehouse in good time will shrink . O Happy is he whom other etc If thou see a rogue to the Pillory brought For perjury or else some cosening feat , To look on his punishment thou mayest be taught To live more uprightly , and use no deceit . if thou love thine ear , then do not come there To look upon him may make thee to fear . O Happy is he whom other men's harms Can make to beware , and to shun Satans charms . If thou see a wealthy man grow very poor By passing his credit for other men's debts , Whereby he's constrained to keep within door For fear lest a Sergeant inns clutches him gets , be therefore aware of this cruel snare : By suretyship many men beggared are : But happy is he whom other men's harms Can make to beware , and to shun Satans charms . Thus every man who is willing to learn , Of other men's follies may make a good use . And by their just punishment he may return From vice unto virtue , reforming abuse , the which if he can , he is a blessed man . And thus I'll conclude with the same I began , That happy is he whom other men's harms Can make to beware , and to shun Satans charms . FINIS . M.P. London , Printed for Richard Harper . Fair Warning , OR , Happy is he whom other men's harms Can make to beware , and to shun Satans charms . To the tune of Packingtons pound . THe World is overrun with enormous abuse , Pure virtue and honesty do now decrease , One vice on the neck of another pursues , This grown to a custom that hardly will cease , but blessed is he who when he does see Such vices in'others , reformed will be , For happy is he whom other men's harms Can make to beware , and to shun Satans charms . Then be well advised whoever thou art , By other men's danger their ways to forsake , And when thou seest any for his folly smart , Then see that good use of the same thou dost make : and when thou dost see how bad others be , Say thou to thy self , here's example for me . O happy is he whom other men's harms Can make to beware , and to shun Satans charms . If thou see a man who is proud and ambitious , Like soaring Phaeton strive to aspire , Presuming his Fates will be ever auspicious , He boldly will climb till he can go no higher : if fortune should frown , he may tumble down , Then heel be derided of every clown , Thus happy is he whom other men's harms Can make to beware , and to shun Satans charms . If thou see a Gentleman strive for the wall , And hazard his life for a fantasy vain , This is the occasion of many a brawl , But he thats a wiseman from that will refrain : this better give place to one thats more base , Then hazard thy life in so desperate a case : Oh happy is he whom other men's harms Can make to beware , and to shun Satans charms . The second Part. To the same Tune . IF thou see a whoremonger passing at leisure , Half fearful his legs will drop off by the knees , When every justle may do him displeasure , He hath been so stung with the Turnbull-street Bees . when thou seest his case , beware of that place , Which brings a man nothing but shame and disgrace : Oh happy is he whom other men's harms Can make to beware , and to shun Satans charms . If thou see a man who hath been and ill liver , By hanging himself , to kill body and soul , This fit his example should make thee endeavour That thy heart never harbour a project so foul , Oh what a vile shame he brings on his name , His children will after be twit with the same : Oh happy is he whom other men's harms Can make to beware , and to shun Satans charms . If thou seest a Judge malefactors condemn For rapine or murder , or such heinous acts , This fit thou shouldst take and example by them , Who must by the Law suffer death for their facts : their ways thou mayest flee , because thou dost see The reason , and therefore they hanged must be : Oh happy is he whom other men's harms Can make to beware , and to shun Satans charms . If thou seest a drunkard come reeling ith' street , And cutting cross capers oft times through the dirt , Still ready to quarrel with all he does meet , Whereby he goes seldom to bed without hur Oh then thou mayest think comes all this through drink ; Sure I from the Alehouse in good time will shrink . O Happy is he whom other etc If thou see a rogue to the Pillory brought For perjury or else some cosening feat , To look on his punishment thou mayest be taught To live more uprightly , and use no deceit . if thou love thine ear , then do not come there To look upon him may make thee to fear . O Happy is he whom other men's harms Can make to beware , and to shun Satans charms . If thou see a wealthy man grow very poor By passing his credit for other men's debts , Whereby he's constrained to keep within door For fear lest a Sergeant inns clutches him gets , be therefore aware of this cruel snare : By suretyship many men beggared are : But happy is he whom other men's harms Can make to beware , and to shun Satans charms . Thus every man who is willing to learn , Of other men's follies may make a good use . And by their just punishment he may return From vice unto virtue , reforming abuse , the which if he can , he is a blessed man . And thus I'll conclude with the same I began , That happy is he whom other men's harms Can make to beware , and to shun Satans charms . FINIS . M.P. London , Printed for Richard Harper . Fair Warning , OR , Happy is he whom other men's harms Can make to beware , and to shun Satans charms . To the tune of Packingtons pound . THe World is overrun with enormous abuse , Pure virtue and honesty do now decrease , One vice on the neck of another pursues , This grown to a custom that hardly will cease , but blessed is he who when he does see Such vices in'others , reformed will be , For happy is he whom other men's harms Can make to beware , and to shun Satans charms . Then be well advised whoever thou art , By other men's danger their ways to forsake , And when thou seest any for his folly smart , Then see that good use of the same thou dost make : and when thou dost see how bad others be , Say thou to thy self , here's example for me . O happy is he whom other men's harms Can make to beware , and to shun Satans charms . If thou see a man who is proud and ambitious , Like soaring Phaeton strive to aspire , Presuming his Fates will be ever auspicious , He boldly will climb till he can go no higher : if fortune should frown , he may tumble down , Then heel be derided of every clown , Thus happy is he whom other men's harms Can make to beware , and to shun Satans charms . If thou see a Gentleman strive for the wall , And hazard his life for a fantasy vain , This is the occasion of many a brawl , But he thats a wiseman from that will refrain : this better give place to one thats more base , Then hazard thy life in so desperate a case : Oh happy is he whom other men's harms Can make to beware , and to shun Satans charms . The second Part. To the same Tune . IF thou see a whoremonger passing at leisure , Half fearful his legs will drop off by the knees , When every justle may do him displeasure , He hath been so stung with the Turnbull-street Bees . when thou seest his case , beware of that place , Which brings a man nothing but shame and disgrace : Oh happy is he whom other men's harms Can make to beware , and to shun Satans charms . If thou see a man who hath been and ill liver , By hanging himself , to kill body and soul , This fit his example should make thee endeavour That thy heart never harbour a project so foul , Oh what a vile shame he brings on his name , His children will after be twit with the same : Oh happy is he whom other men's harms Can make to beware , and to shun Satans charms . If thou seest a Judge malefactors condemn For rapine or murder , or such heinous acts , This fit thou shouldst take and example by them , Who must by the Law suffer death for their facts : their ways thou mayest flee , because thou dost see The reason , and therefore they hanged must be : Oh happy is he whom other men's harms Can make to beware , and to shun Satans charms . If thou seest a drunkard come reeling ith' street , And cutting cross capers oft times through the dirt , Still ready to quarrel with all he does meet , Whereby he goes seldom to bed without hur Oh then thou mayest think comes all this through drink ; Sure I from the Alehouse in good time will shrink . O Happy is he whom other etc If thou see a rogue to the Pillory brought For perjury or else some cosening feat , To look on his punishment thou mayest be taught To live more uprightly , and use no deceit . if thou love thine ear , then do not come there To look upon him may make thee to fear . O Happy is he whom other men's harms Can make to beware , and to shun Satans charms . If thou see a wealthy man grow very poor By passing his credit for other men's debts , Whereby he's constrained to keep within door For fear lest a Sergeant inns clutches him gets , be therefore aware of this cruel snare : By suretyship many men beggared are : But happy is he whom other men's harms Can make to beware , and to shun Satans charms . Thus every man who is willing to learn , Of other men's follies may make a good use . And by their just punishment he may return From vice unto virtue , reforming abuse , the which if he can , he is a blessed man . And thus I'll conclude with the same I began , That happy is he whom other men's harms Can make to beware , and to shun Satans charms . FINIS . M.P. London , Printed for Richard Harper . Fair Warning , OR , Happy is he whom other men's harms Can make to beware , and to shun Satans charms . To the tune of Packingtons pound . THe World is overrun with enormous abuse , Pure virtue and honesty do now decrease , One vice on the neck of another pursues , This grown to a custom that hardly will cease , but blessed is he who when he does see Such vices in'others , reformed will be , For happy is he whom other men's harms Can make to beware , and to shun Satans charms . Then be well advised whoever thou art , By other men's danger their ways to forsake , And when thou seest any for his folly smart , Then see that good use of the same thou dost make : and when thou dost see how bad others be , Say thou to thy self , here's example for me . O happy is he whom other men's harms Can make to beware , and to shun Satans charms . If thou see a man who is proud and ambitious , Like soaring Phaeton strive to aspire , Presuming his Fates will be ever auspicious , He boldly will climb till he can go no higher : if fortune should frown , he may tumble down , Then heel be derided of every clown , Thus happy is he whom other men's harms Can make to beware , and to shun Satans charms . If thou see a Gentleman strive for the wall , And hazard his life for a fantasy vain , This is the occasion of many a brawl , But he thats a wiseman from that will refrain : this better give place to one thats more base , Then hazard thy life in so desperate a case : Oh happy is he whom other men's harms Can make to beware , and to shun Satans charms . The second Part. To the same Tune . IF thou see a whoremonger passing at leisure , Half fearful his legs will drop off by the knees , When every justle may do him displeasure , He hath been so stung with the Turnbull-street Bees . when thou seest his case , beware of that place , Which brings a man nothing but shame and disgrace : Oh happy is he whom other men's harms Can make to beware , and to shun Satans charms . If thou see a man who hath been and ill liver , By hanging himself , to kill body and soul , This fit his example should make thee endeavour That thy heart never harbour a project so foul , Oh what a vile shame he brings on his name , His children will after be twit with the same : Oh happy is he whom other men's harms Can make to beware , and to shun Satans charms . If thou seest a Judge malefactors condemn For rapine or murder , or such heinous acts , This fit thou shouldst take and example by them , Who must by the Law suffer death for their facts : their ways thou mayest flee , because thou dost see The reason , and therefore they hanged must be : Oh happy is he whom other men's harms Can make to beware , and to shun Satans charms . If thou seest a drunkard come reeling ith' street , And cutting cross capers oft times through the dirt , Still ready to quarrel with all he does meet , Whereby he goes seldom to bed without hur Oh then thou mayest think comes all this through drink ; Sure I from the Alehouse in good time will shrink . O Happy is he whom other etc If thou see a rogue to the Pillory brought For perjury or else some cosening feat , To look on his punishment thou mayest be taught To live more uprightly , and use no deceit . if thou love thine ear , then do not come there To look upon him may make thee to fear . O Happy is he whom other men's harms Can make to beware , and to shun Satans charms . If thou see a wealthy man grow very poor By passing his credit for other men's debts , Whereby he's constrained to keep within door For fear lest a Sergeant inns clutches him gets , be therefore aware of this cruel snare : By suretyship many men beggared are : But happy is he whom other men's harms Can make to beware , and to shun Satans charms . Thus every man who is willing to learn , Of other men's follies may make a good use . And by their just punishment he may return From vice unto virtue , reforming abuse , the which if he can , he is a blessed man . And thus I'll conclude with the same I began , That happy is he whom other men's harms Can make to beware , and to shun Satans charms . FINIS . M.P. London , Printed for Richard Harper . 