A Friends advice : In and excellent Ditty , concerning the variable changes in this World . To a pleasant new tune ; WHat if a day or a month , or a year , crown thy desires with a thousand wished contentings Cannot the chance of a night or and hour , Cross thy delights with as many sad tormentings : Fortune's in their fairest birth , Are but blossoms dying . Wanton pleasures , doting mirth , Are but shadows flying : All your joys are but toys , Idle thoughts deceiving : None hath power of and hour , In our lives bereaving . What if a smile , or a beck , or a look , Feed thy found thoughts with many a sweet conceiving May not that smile , or that beck or that look , Tell thee as well they are but vain deceivings : Why should beauty be so proud , In things of no surmounting : All her wealth is but shroud , Of a rich accounting : Then in this repose no bliss , Which is so vain and idle : Beauty's flowers have their hours Time does hold the bridle . What if the world with allures of her wealth , Raise thy degree to a place of high advancing : May not the World by a check of that wealth , Put thee again to as low despised chancing : While the Sun of wealth does shine , Thou shalt have friends plenty : But come want , then they repine , Not one abides of twenty : Wealth and Friends holds and ends , As your fortune's rise and fallen , Up and down , rise and frown , Certain is no state at all , What if a grief , or a strain , or a fit , Pinch thee with pain , or the feeling pangs of sickness Does not that gripe , or that strain , or that fit , Show thee the from of thine own true perfect likeness Health is but a glimpse of joy , Subject to all changes : Mirth is but a silly toy , Which mishap estranges . Tell me than , silly Man , Why art thou so weak of wit , As to be in jeopardy , When thou mayest in quiet si Then if all this have declar'd thine amiss , Take this from me for a gentle friendly warning , If thou refuse , and good counsel abuse , Thou mayest hereafter dearly buy thy learning : All is hazard that we have . There is nothing biding , Days of pleasure are like streams , Through fair Meadows gliding , Wealth or woe , time does go , There is no returning , Secret Fates guide our states , Both in mirth and mourning The Second Part. To the same tune . MAn's but a blast , or a smoke , or a cloud , TO [ would ] tO in a thought , or a moment is dispersed : Life's but a span , or a tale , or a word , That in a trice , or sudden is rehearsed : Hope's are chang'd , and thoughts are crossed , Will nor skill prevails , Though we laugh and live at ease , Change of thoughts assaileth , Though a while Fortune smile , And her comforts crowneth , Yet at length fail her strength : And in fine she frowneth . Thus are the joys of a year in and hour , And of a month , in a moment quite expired . And in the night with the word of a noise , Crossed by the day , of and ease your hearts desired : Fairest blossoms soonest fade , Withered foul and rotten . And through grief our greatest joys Quickly are forgotten : Seek not then ( mortal men ) Earthly fleeting pleasure But with pain strive to gain Heavenly lasting treasure , Earth to the World , as a Man the Earth ; Hath but a point , and a point soon defaced : Flesh to the Soul , as a Flower to the Sun , That in a storm or a tempest is disgraced : Fortune may the Body please , Which is only carnal , But it will the Soul disease , That is still immortal , Earthly joys are but toys , To the Souls election , Worldly grace does defate men divine perfection . Fleshly delights to the earth that is flesh , May be the cause of a thousand sweet contentings , But that defaults of a fleshly desire Brings to the soul many thousand sad tormentings , Be not proud presumptuous Man , Sith thou art a point so base , Of the least , and lowest Element , Which hath least and lowest place : Mark thy fate , and thy state . Which is only earth and dust , And as grass , which alas Shortly surely perish must . Let not the hope's of and earthly desire , Bar thee the joys of and endless contentation , Nor let not thy eye on the world be so fixed To hinder thy heart from unfeigned recantation , Be not backward in that course , That may bring the Soul delight , Though another way may seem Far more pleasant to thy sighs Do not go , if he says not , That knows the secrets of thy mind , Follow this , thou shalt not miss And endless happiness to find . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcock . FINIS . A Friends advice : In and excellent Ditty , concerning the variable changes in this World . To a pleasant new tune ; WHat if a day or a month , or a year , crown thy desires with a thousand wished contentings Cannot the chance of a night or and hour , Cross thy delights with as many sad tormentings : Fortune's in their fairest birth , Are but blossoms dying . Wanton pleasures , doting mirth , Are but shadows flying : All your joys are but toys , Idle thoughts deceiving : None hath power of and hour , In our lives bereaving . What if a smile , or a beck , or a look , Feed thy found thoughts with many a sweet conceiving May not that smile , or that beck or that look , Tell thee as well they are but vain deceivings : Why should beauty be so proud , In things of no surmounting : All her wealth is but shroud , Of a rich accounting : Then in this repose no bliss , Which is so vain and idle : Beauty's flowers have their hours Time does hold the bridle . What if the world with allures of her wealth , Raise thy degree to a place of high advancing : May not the World by a check of that wealth , Put thee again to as low despised chancing : While the Sun of wealth does shine , Thou shalt have friends plenty : But come want , then they repine , Not one abides of twenty : Wealth and Friends holds and ends , As your fortune's rise and fallen , Up and down , rise and frown , Certain is no state at all , What if a grief , or a strain , or a fit , Pinch thee with pain , or the feeling pangs of sickness Does not that gripe , or that strain , or that fit , Show thee the from of thine own true perfect likeness Health is but a glimpse of joy , Subject to all changes : Mirth is but a silly toy , Which mishap estranges . Tell me than , silly Man , Why art thou so weak of wit , As to be in jeopardy , When thou mayest in quiet si Then if all this have declar'd thine amiss , Take this from me for a gentle friendly warning , If thou refuse , and good counsel abuse , Thou mayest hereafter dearly buy thy learning : All is hazard that we have . There is nothing biding , Days of pleasure are like streams , Through fair Meadows gliding , Wealth or woe , time does go , There is no returning , Secret Fates guide our states , Both in mirth and mourning The Second Part. To the same tune . MAn's but a blast , or a smoke , or a cloud , TO [ would ] tO in a thought , or a moment is dispersed : Life's but a span , or a tale , or a word , That in a trice , or sudden is rehearsed : Hope's are chang'd , and thoughts are crossed , Will nor skill prevails , Though we laugh and live at ease , Change of thoughts assaileth , Though a while Fortune smile , And her comforts crowneth , Yet at length fail her strength : And in fine she frowneth . Thus are the joys of a year in and hour , And of a month , in a moment quite expired . And in the night with the word of a noise , Crossed by the day , of and ease your hearts desired : Fairest blossoms soonest fade , Withered foul and rotten . And through grief our greatest joys Quickly are forgotten : Seek not then ( mortal men ) Earthly fleeting pleasure But with pain strive to gain Heavenly lasting treasure , Earth to the World , as a Man the Earth ; Hath but a point , and a point soon defaced : Flesh to the Soul , as a Flower to the Sun , That in a storm or a tempest is disgraced : Fortune may the Body please , Which is only carnal , But it will the Soul disease , That is still immortal , Earthly joys are but toys , To the Souls election , Worldly grace does defate men divine perfection . Fleshly delights to the earth that is flesh , May be the cause of a thousand sweet contentings , But that defaults of a fleshly desire Brings to the soul many thousand sad tormentings , Be not proud presumptuous Man , Sith thou art a point so base , Of the least , and lowest Element , Which hath least and lowest place : Mark thy fate , and thy state . Which is only earth and dust , And as grass , which alas Shortly surely perish must . Let not the hope's of and earthly desire , Bar thee the joys of and endless contentation , Nor let not thy eye on the world be so fixed To hinder thy heart from unfeigned recantation , Be not backward in that course , That may bring the Soul delight , Though another way may seem Far more pleasant to thy sighs Do not go , if he says not , That knows the secrets of thy mind , Follow this , thou shalt not miss And endless happiness to find . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcock . FINIS . A Friends advice : In and excellent Ditty , concerning the variable changes in this World . To a pleasant new tune ; WHat if a day or a month , or a year , crown thy desires with a thousand wished contentings Cannot the chance of a night or and hour , Cross thy delights with as many sad tormentings : Fortune's in their fairest birth , Are but blossoms dying . Wanton pleasures , doting mirth , Are but shadows flying : All your joys are but toys , Idle thoughts deceiving : None hath power of and hour , In our lives bereaving . What if a smile , or a beck , or a look , Feed thy found thoughts with many a sweet conceiving May not that smile , or that beck or that look , Tell thee as well they are but vain deceivings : Why should beauty be so proud , In things of no surmounting : All her wealth is but shroud , Of a rich accounting : Then in this repose no bliss , Which is so vain and idle : Beauty's flowers have their hours Time does hold the bridle . What if the world with allures of her wealth , Raise thy degree to a place of high advancing : May not the World by a check of that wealth , Put thee again to as low despised chancing : While the Sun of wealth does shine , Thou shalt have friends plenty : But come want , then they repine , Not one abides of twenty : Wealth and Friends holds and ends , As your fortune's rise and fallen , Up and down , rise and frown , Certain is no state at all , What if a grief , or a strain , or a fit , Pinch thee with pain , or the feeling pangs of sickness Does not that gripe , or that strain , or that fit , Show thee the from of thine own true perfect likeness Health is but a glimpse of joy , Subject to all changes : Mirth is but a silly toy , Which mishap estranges . Tell me than , silly Man , Why art thou so weak of wit , As to be in jeopardy , When thou mayest in quiet si Then if all this have declar'd thine amiss , Take this from me for a gentle friendly warning , If thou refuse , and good counsel abuse , Thou mayest hereafter dearly buy thy learning : All is hazard that we have . There is nothing biding , Days of pleasure are like streams , Through fair Meadows gliding , Wealth or woe , time does go , There is no returning , Secret Fates guide our states , Both in mirth and mourning The Second Part. To the same tune . MAn's but a blast , or a smoke , or a cloud , TO [ would ] tO in a thought , or a moment is dispersed : Life's but a span , or a tale , or a word , That in a trice , or sudden is rehearsed : Hope's are chang'd , and thoughts are crossed , Will nor skill prevails , Though we laugh and live at ease , Change of thoughts assaileth , Though a while Fortune smile , And her comforts crowneth , Yet at length fail her strength : And in fine she frowneth . Thus are the joys of a year in and hour , And of a month , in a moment quite expired . And in the night with the word of a noise , Crossed by the day , of and ease your hearts desired : Fairest blossoms soonest fade , Withered foul and rotten . And through grief our greatest joys Quickly are forgotten : Seek not then ( mortal men ) Earthly fleeting pleasure But with pain strive to gain Heavenly lasting treasure , Earth to the World , as a Man the Earth ; Hath but a point , and a point soon defaced : Flesh to the Soul , as a Flower to the Sun , That in a storm or a tempest is disgraced : Fortune may the Body please , Which is only carnal , But it will the Soul disease , That is still immortal , Earthly joys are but toys , To the Souls election , Worldly grace does defate men divine perfection . Fleshly delights to the earth that is flesh , May be the cause of a thousand sweet contentings , But that defaults of a fleshly desire Brings to the soul many thousand sad tormentings , Be not proud presumptuous Man , Sith thou art a point so base , Of the least , and lowest Element , Which hath least and lowest place : Mark thy fate , and thy state . Which is only earth and dust , And as grass , which alas Shortly surely perish must . Let not the hope's of and earthly desire , Bar thee the joys of and endless contentation , Nor let not thy eye on the world be so fixed To hinder thy heart from unfeigned recantation , Be not backward in that course , That may bring the Soul delight , Though another way may seem Far more pleasant to thy sighs Do not go , if he says not , That knows the secrets of thy mind , Follow this , thou shalt not miss And endless happiness to find . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcock . FINIS . A Friends advice : In and excellent Ditty , concerning the variable changes in this World . To a pleasant new tune ; WHat if a day or a month , or a year , crown thy desires with a thousand wished contentings Cannot the chance of a night or and hour , Cross thy delights with as many sad tormentings : Fortune's in their fairest birth , Are but blossoms dying . Wanton pleasures , doting mirth , Are but shadows flying : All your joys are but toys , Idle thoughts deceiving : None hath power of and hour , In our lives bereaving . What if a smile , or a beck , or a look , Feed thy found thoughts with many a sweet conceiving May not that smile , or that beck or that look , Tell thee as well they are but vain deceivings : Why should beauty be so proud , In things of no surmounting : All her wealth is but shroud , Of a rich accounting : Then in this repose no bliss , Which is so vain and idle : Beauty's flowers have their hours Time does hold the bridle . What if the world with allures of her wealth , Raise thy degree to a place of high advancing : May not the World by a check of that wealth , Put thee again to as low despised chancing : While the Sun of wealth does shine , Thou shalt have friends plenty : But come want , then they repine , Not one abides of twenty : Wealth and Friends holds and ends , As your fortune's rise and fallen , Up and down , rise and frown , Certain is no state at all , What if a grief , or a strain , or a fit , Pinch thee with pain , or the feeling pangs of sickness Does not that gripe , or that strain , or that fit , Show thee the from of thine own true perfect likeness Health is but a glimpse of joy , Subject to all changes : Mirth is but a silly toy , Which mishap estranges . Tell me than , silly Man , Why art thou so weak of wit , As to be in jeopardy , When thou mayest in quiet si Then if all this have declar'd thine amiss , Take this from me for a gentle friendly warning , If thou refuse , and good counsel abuse , Thou mayest hereafter dearly buy thy learning : All is hazard that we have . There is nothing biding , Days of pleasure are like streams , Through fair Meadows gliding , Wealth or woe , time does go , There is no returning , Secret Fates guide our states , Both in mirth and mourning The Second Part. To the same tune . MAn's but a blast , or a smoke , or a cloud , TO [ would ] tO in a thought , or a moment is dispersed : Life's but a span , or a tale , or a word , That in a trice , or sudden is rehearsed : Hope's are chang'd , and thoughts are crossed , Will nor skill prevails , Though we laugh and live at ease , Change of thoughts assaileth , Though a while Fortune smile , And her comforts crowneth , Yet at length fail her strength : And in fine she frowneth . Thus are the joys of a year in and hour , And of a month , in a moment quite expired . And in the night with the word of a noise , Crossed by the day , of and ease your hearts desired : Fairest blossoms soonest fade , Withered foul and rotten . And through grief our greatest joys Quickly are forgotten : Seek not then ( mortal men ) Earthly fleeting pleasure But with pain strive to gain Heavenly lasting treasure , Earth to the World , as a Man the Earth ; Hath but a point , and a point soon defaced : Flesh to the Soul , as a Flower to the Sun , That in a storm or a tempest is disgraced : Fortune may the Body please , Which is only carnal , But it will the Soul disease , That is still immortal , Earthly joys are but toys , To the Souls election , Worldly grace does defate men divine perfection . Fleshly delights to the earth that is flesh , May be the cause of a thousand sweet contentings , But that defaults of a fleshly desire Brings to the soul many thousand sad tormentings , Be not proud presumptuous Man , Sith thou art a point so base , Of the least , and lowest Element , Which hath least and lowest place : Mark thy fate , and thy state . Which is only earth and dust , And as grass , which alas Shortly surely perish must . Let not the hope's of and earthly desire , Bar thee the joys of and endless contentation , Nor let not thy eye on the world be so fixed To hinder thy heart from unfeigned recantation , Be not backward in that course , That may bring the Soul delight , Though another way may seem Far more pleasant to thy sighs Do not go , if he says not , That knows the secrets of thy mind , Follow this , thou shalt not miss And endless happiness to find . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcock . FINIS . 