R : 140-141 A good Wife , or none . To a pleasant new Tune . THe blazing Torch is soon burned out , the Diamonds light abides : The one in glory shines about , the other it's virtue hides : That spark ( if any ) shall be mine , that else gives light to none ; For if to every one she shine , I had rather lie alone . The Glowworm in the dark gives light , unto the view of many ; The Moon she shows her self by night , and yields her self to any : But if my Love should seem to be , of every one so known : She never more should shine on me , I had rather lie alone . I'll not consume nor pine away , as other lovers do ; For such as wandering walk astray , and never will prove true : I'll set as light by any she , as she by me hath done : And fix my love on constancy ; or else will lie alone . A willow Garland for my head , I never mean to wear ; I need no pillow for my bed , I yet am void of care : A single life , is without strife , and freed from sighs and groan ; For such contentment's of my life , I'll choose to lie alone . Once did I love the fairest Love , that ever eye did see : But she did most inconstant prove , and set no love by me : And ever since my mind is such , to lend my love to none ; Because I have been crossed so much , I'll ever lie alone . The beauty of the fairest Flower , so pleasing to the eye , Does fade and wither in and hour , and no man sets thereby : So deals my fairest fair with me , her joys in Love are gone ; Wherefore the wanton world shall see , I'll choose to lie alone . The second Part. To the same tune . WEll may we picture Cupid blind , which roving shot his dart , And made my lover most unkind , to steal away my hear Which cannot be restored again , it is so love sick grown ; For she hath kil'd it with disdain , therefore I'll lie alone . Within that face I once did see two diamond eyes , whose bright And glistering beams so dazzled me , that I was ravished quite , And struck so blind , I could not see the way that I had gone : But from found love I'm now set free , and choose to lie alone . This single life breeds golden ease , no jealous thoughts offend ; Unwedded wights go where they please , and fear no changing friend ; While married mates with musing mind , do sob , and sighs , and groan , Because their Turtles prove unkind : therefore , I'll lie alone . What if the Willow Garland be appointed for my lot ; Yet this content shall comfort me , false love is soon forgo A second Love may make amends , now that the first is gone ; For Cresid kind had choice of friends , else still had lain alone . For if I could but cull my Choice , out of Diana's train , Who will not hear the tempters voice ; then might I love again : And choose some yet more constant light , then that which lately shone , My equal fancy to requite : or still I'll lie alone . For time and opportunity , will win the coyest Dame , And overcome the chastest she , that bears the bravest name : Yea , Man was made for Woman's good , not like the idle drone : But for to heat and stir the blood ; and not to lie alone . FINIS . Imprinted at London for Francis Coules . R : 140-141 A good Wife , or none . To a pleasant new Tune . THe blazing Torch is soon burned out , the Diamonds light abides : The one in glory shines about , the other it's virtue hides : That spark ( if any ) shall be mine , that else gives light to none ; For if to every one she shine , I had rather lie alone . The Glowworm in the dark gives light , unto the view of many ; The Moon she shows her self by night , and yields her self to any : But if my Love should seem to be , of every one so known : She never more should shine on me , I had rather lie alone . I'll not consume nor pine away , as other lovers do ; For such as wandering walk astray , and never will prove true : I'll set as light by any she , as she by me hath done : And fix my love on constancy ; or else will lie alone . A willow Garland for my head , I never mean to wear ; I need no pillow for my bed , I yet am void of care : A single life , is without strife , and freed from sighs and groan ; For such contentment's of my life , I'll choose to lie alone . Once did I love the fairest Love , that ever eye did see : But she did most inconstant prove , and set no love by me : And ever since my mind is such , to lend my love to none ; Because I have been crossed so much , I'll ever lie alone . The beauty of the fairest Flower , so pleasing to the eye , Does fade and wither in and hour , and no man sets thereby : So deals my fairest fair with me , her joys in Love are gone ; Wherefore the wanton world shall see , I'll choose to lie alone . The second Part. To the same tune . WEll may we picture Cupid blind , which roving shot his dart , And made my lover most unkind , to steal away my hear Which cannot be restored again , it is so love sick grown ; For she hath kil'd it with disdain , therefore I'll lie alone . Within that face I once did see two diamond eyes , whose bright And glistering beams so dazzled me , that I was ravished quite , And struck so blind , I could not see the way that I had gone : But from found love I'm now set free , and choose to lie alone . This single life breeds golden ease , no jealous thoughts offend ; Unwedded wights go where they please , and fear no changing friend ; While married mates with musing mind , do sob , and sighs , and groan , Because their Turtles prove unkind : therefore , I'll lie alone . What if the Willow Garland be appointed for my lot ; Yet this content shall comfort me , false love is soon forgo A second Love may make amends , now that the first is gone ; For Cresid kind had choice of friends , else still had lain alone . For if I could but cull my Choice , out of Diana's train , Who will not hear the tempters voice ; then might I love again : And choose some yet more constant light , then that which lately shone , My equal fancy to requite : or still I'll lie alone . For time and opportunity , will win the coyest Dame , And overcome the chastest she , that bears the bravest name : Yea , Man was made for Woman's good , not like the idle drone : But for to heat and stir the blood ; and not to lie alone . FINIS . Imprinted at London for Francis Coules . R : 140-141 A good Wife , or none . To a pleasant new Tune . THe blazing Torch is soon burned out , the Diamonds light abides : The one in glory shines about , the other it's virtue hides : That spark ( if any ) shall be mine , that else gives light to none ; For if to every one she shine , I had rather lie alone . The Glowworm in the dark gives light , unto the view of many ; The Moon she shows her self by night , and yields her self to any : But if my Love should seem to be , of every one so known : She never more should shine on me , I had rather lie alone . I'll not consume nor pine away , as other lovers do ; For such as wandering walk astray , and never will prove true : I'll set as light by any she , as she by me hath done : And fix my love on constancy ; or else will lie alone . A willow Garland for my head , I never mean to wear ; I need no pillow for my bed , I yet am void of care : A single life , is without strife , and freed from sighs and groan ; For such contentment's of my life , I'll choose to lie alone . Once did I love the fairest Love , that ever eye did see : But she did most inconstant prove , and set no love by me : And ever since my mind is such , to lend my love to none ; Because I have been crossed so much , I'll ever lie alone . The beauty of the fairest Flower , so pleasing to the eye , Does fade and wither in and hour , and no man sets thereby : So deals my fairest fair with me , her joys in Love are gone ; Wherefore the wanton world shall see , I'll choose to lie alone . The second Part. To the same tune . WEll may we picture Cupid blind , which roving shot his dart , And made my lover most unkind , to steal away my hear Which cannot be restored again , it is so love sick grown ; For she hath kil'd it with disdain , therefore I'll lie alone . Within that face I once did see two diamond eyes , whose bright And glistering beams so dazzled me , that I was ravished quite , And struck so blind , I could not see the way that I had gone : But from found love I'm now set free , and choose to lie alone . This single life breeds golden ease , no jealous thoughts offend ; Unwedded wights go where they please , and fear no changing friend ; While married mates with musing mind , do sob , and sighs , and groan , Because their Turtles prove unkind : therefore , I'll lie alone . What if the Willow Garland be appointed for my lot ; Yet this content shall comfort me , false love is soon forgo A second Love may make amends , now that the first is gone ; For Cresid kind had choice of friends , else still had lain alone . For if I could but cull my Choice , out of Diana's train , Who will not hear the tempters voice ; then might I love again : And choose some yet more constant light , then that which lately shone , My equal fancy to requite : or still I'll lie alone . For time and opportunity , will win the coyest Dame , And overcome the chastest she , that bears the bravest name : Yea , Man was made for Woman's good , not like the idle drone : But for to heat and stir the blood ; and not to lie alone . FINIS . Imprinted at London for Francis Coules . R : 140-141 A good Wife , or none . To a pleasant new Tune . THe blazing Torch is soon burned out , the Diamonds light abides : The one in glory shines about , the other it's virtue hides : That spark ( if any ) shall be mine , that else gives light to none ; For if to every one she shine , I had rather lie alone . The Glowworm in the dark gives light , unto the view of many ; The Moon she shows her self by night , and yields her self to any : But if my Love should seem to be , of every one so known : She never more should shine on me , I had rather lie alone . I'll not consume nor pine away , as other lovers do ; For such as wandering walk astray , and never will prove true : I'll set as light by any she , as she by me hath done : And fix my love on constancy ; or else will lie alone . A willow Garland for my head , I never mean to wear ; I need no pillow for my bed , I yet am void of care : A single life , is without strife , and freed from sighs and groan ; For such contentment's of my life , I'll choose to lie alone . Once did I love the fairest Love , that ever eye did see : But she did most inconstant prove , and set no love by me : And ever since my mind is such , to lend my love to none ; Because I have been crossed so much , I'll ever lie alone . The beauty of the fairest Flower , so pleasing to the eye , Does fade and wither in and hour , and no man sets thereby : So deals my fairest fair with me , her joys in Love are gone ; Wherefore the wanton world shall see , I'll choose to lie alone . The second Part. To the same tune . WEll may we picture Cupid blind , which roving shot his dart , And made my lover most unkind , to steal away my hear Which cannot be restored again , it is so love sick grown ; For she hath kil'd it with disdain , therefore I'll lie alone . Within that face I once did see two diamond eyes , whose bright And glistering beams so dazzled me , that I was ravished quite , And struck so blind , I could not see the way that I had gone : But from found love I'm now set free , and choose to lie alone . This single life breeds golden ease , no jealous thoughts offend ; Unwedded wights go where they please , and fear no changing friend ; While married mates with musing mind , do sob , and sighs , and groan , Because their Turtles prove unkind : therefore , I'll lie alone . What if the Willow Garland be appointed for my lot ; Yet this content shall comfort me , false love is soon forgo A second Love may make amends , now that the first is gone ; For Cresid kind had choice of friends , else still had lain alone . For if I could but cull my Choice , out of Diana's train , Who will not hear the tempters voice ; then might I love again : And choose some yet more constant light , then that which lately shone , My equal fancy to requite : or still I'll lie alone . For time and opportunity , will win the coyest Dame , And overcome the chastest she , that bears the bravest name : Yea , Man was made for Woman's good , not like the idle drone : But for to heat and stir the blood ; and not to lie alone . FINIS . Imprinted at London for Francis Coules . Come turn to me thou pretty little one , and I will turn to thee . To a pleasant new Tune . SWeet if thou wilt be As I am to thee , Then by Cupids Mother , I have vow'd to have none other she : Then turn to me thou pretty little one , And I will turn to thee . Those bright eyes of thine Which do dazzle mine , Like the stars of Heaven , Which do keep their even course and shine : Then let us in conjunction meet and both our loves combine . If that lovely Face , Will to mine give place , That with loves devotion We may use the motion of embrace : Then fit thee down my pretty little one and let us love a space . What hurt is this ? For to take a kiss If it may be granted ; I that long have wanted such a bliss : Then be not sparing of a few whereas such plenty is . If thy breasts do pant For the milk they want , Every Hill and Mountain To supply each Fountain , be not scan Then give to me thy lily white hand , and I thee mine will grant . If so be that I , May but thee come nigh , The Vine , and Elm shall never , Join more close together then will I , Then show thy fruits my amorous joy and I'll with love supply . If that thou dost crave ; Silks and Garments brave Or what rich attire : Could thy heart desire to receive : Declare to me thou pretty little one , thou canst but ask and have . From the Indies far , Where rich Jewels are I will bring thee treasure Far beyond all measure and compare : Then be not coy my pretty little one for I no cost will spare SWeet-heart for thy sake , I will never make , Choice of any other , Then by Cupids Mother ; freely speak : It's at thy choice my dearest Love , either to leave or take . I thy Mary gold ; Wrapped in many fold , Like the golden Client , To the Sun supplient , show it's gold : Display the beams my glorious Sun , and I'le to thee unfold . Those bright locks of hair , Spreading o're each ear , Every crisp and curl ; Far more rich then pearl , does appear : Then be thou constant in thy love , and I will be thy Dear , Till I have possessed , Thee whom I love best , I have vow'd for ever , In thy absence never , to take res Deny me not thou pretty little one , In whom my hope's are blessed . If a kiss or two , Can thee a favour do , Were it more then twenty , Love's indu'd with plenty ; Lovers know : For thy sweet sake a thousand take , for that's the way to woo . It does grieve my heart , From thee for to part ; It is to me more pleasant , Ever to be present , where thou are Yet in the absence of a friend , my love shall never start , As to me thou art kind , Duty shall me bind , Ever to obey thee , Reason so does sway me , to thy mind : Thou hast my heart where e're thou art , although I stay behind . In thy bed or bark , I will be thy mark . Couples yet more loving , Never had their moving ; from the Ark : Welcome to me my only joy , all times , be it light or dark , London , Printed for W. Thackaray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . Come turn to me thou pretty little one , and I will turn to thee . To a pleasant new Tune . SWeet if thou wilt be As I am to thee , Then by Cupids Mother , I have vow'd to have none other she : Then turn to me thou pretty little one , And I will turn to thee . Those bright eyes of thine Which do dazzle mine , Like the stars of Heaven , Which do keep their even course and shine : Then let us in conjunction meet and both our loves combine . If that lovely Face , Will to mine give place , That with loves devotion We may use the motion of embrace : Then fit thee down my pretty little one and let us love a space . What hurt is this ? For to take a kiss If it may be granted ; I that long have wanted such a bliss : Then be not sparing of a few whereas such plenty is . If thy breasts do pant For the milk they want , Every Hill and Mountain To supply each Fountain , be not scan Then give to me thy lily white hand , and I thee mine will grant . If so be that I , May but thee come nigh , The Vine , and Elm shall never , Join more close together then will I , Then show thy fruits my amorous joy and I'll with love supply . If that thou dost crave ; Silks and Garments brave Or what rich attire : Could thy heart desire to receive : Declare to me thou pretty little one , thou canst but ask and have . From the Indies far , Where rich Jewels are I will bring thee treasure Far beyond all measure and compare : Then be not coy my pretty little one for I no cost will spare SWeet-heart for thy sake , I will never make , Choice of any other , Then by Cupids Mother ; freely speak : It's at thy choice my dearest Love , either to leave or take . I thy Mary gold ; Wrapped in many fold , Like the golden Client , To the Sun supplient , show it's gold : Display the beams my glorious Sun , and I'le to thee unfold . Those bright locks of hair , Spreading o're each ear , Every crisp and curl ; Far more rich then pearl , does appear : Then be thou constant in thy love , and I will be thy Dear , Till I have possessed , Thee whom I love best , I have vow'd for ever , In thy absence never , to take res Deny me not thou pretty little one , In whom my hope's are blessed . If a kiss or two , Can thee a favour do , Were it more then twenty , Love's indu'd with plenty ; Lovers know : For thy sweet sake a thousand take , for that's the way to woo . It does grieve my heart , From thee for to part ; It is to me more pleasant , Ever to be present , where thou are Yet in the absence of a friend , my love shall never start , As to me thou art kind , Duty shall me bind , Ever to obey thee , Reason so does sway me , to thy mind : Thou hast my heart where e're thou art , although I stay behind . In thy bed or bark , I will be thy mark . Couples yet more loving , Never had their moving ; from the Ark : Welcome to me my only joy , all times , be it light or dark , London , Printed for W. Thackaray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . 