Good Ale for my money . The Good-fellows resolution of strong Ale , That cures his nose from looking pale . To the tune of , The Country Lass . BE merry my friends , and list a while unto a merry jest , It may from you produce a smile , when you hear it expressed , Of a young man lately married , which was a boon good fellow , This song in's head he always carried , when drink had made him mellow , I cannot go home , nor I will not go home , its long of the oil of Barley : I'll tarry all night for my delight , and go home in the morning early , No Tapster stout , or Vintner fine , quoth he shall ever get One groat out of this purse of mine to pay his master's deb Why should I deal with sharking Rooks , that seek poor gulls to cozen , To give twelve pence for a quart of wine , of ale 'twill buy a dozen . 'Twill make me sing , I cannot etc The old renowned I pocrist and Raspie does excel , But never any wine could yet my honour please to swell . The Rhenish wine or Muscadine , sweet Malmsie is too fulsome , No give me a cup of Barley broth , for that is very wholesome , 'Twill make me sing , I cannot etc Hight waters are to me as death , and soon the head oreturneth , And Nectar hath so strong a breath Canary when it burns , It cures no pain but breaks the brain , and raps out oaths and curses , And makes men part with heavy heart , but light it makes their purses , I cannot go home , etc Some say Metheglin bears the name , with Perry and sweet Sider 'Twill bring the body out of frame . and reach the belly wider : Which to prevent I am content with ale thats good and nappy . And when thereof I have enough . I think my self most happy . I cannot go home , etc All sorts of men when they do meet both trade and occupation , With courtesy each other greet , and kind humiliation : A good coale-fire is their desire , whereby to fit and parley , Theyle drink their ale and tell a tale , and go home in the morning early . I cannot go home , etc Your domineering swaggering blades , and Cavaliers that flashes , That throw the Jugs against the walls , and break in pieces glasses , When Bacchus round cannot be found they will in merriment Drink ale and beer , and cast of care , and sing with one consent . I cannot go home , etc , The second par To the same tune , HEre honest John , to thee I'll drink , and so to Will and Thomas , None of this company I think , will this night part from us : While we are here wee'll join for beer like lively lads together , We have a house over our heads , a fig for ranie weather . I cannot go home , nor I will not go home , its long of the oil of barley , I stay all night for my delight . and go home in the morning early . Heres Smug the smith , & Ned the Cook , and Frank the fine feltmaker , Heres Steven with his silver hook , and What the lusty baker : Heres Harry & Dick , with Greg & Nicke , heres Timothy the Tailor , Heres honest [ K ] it , never spoke of yet , and George the jovial Sailor . That cannot etc Wee'll fit and bouse and merrily chat , and freely we will join For care near paid a pound of debt , nor shall pay none of mine : Here is but eighteen pence to pay , since every man is willing , Bring drink withal the speed you may , wee'll make it up two shillings . We cannot etc Let Father frown , and Mother chide , and Uncle seek to find us , Here is good lap here will we bide weel leave no drink behind us , A proverb old I have herd told , by my deer dad and grandsire , He was hang'd that left his drink behind therefore this is our answer , We cannot etc James the Joiner he hath paid , and Anthony the Glover , Our hostess hath a pretty maid , I cannot choose but love her : Her pot shee'll fill , with right good will , heres ale as brown as a berry , 'Twill make and old woman dance for joy , and and oh [ l ] worser men heart full merry I cannot etc 'Twill make a Soldier domineer , and bravely draw his rapier , Sum [ changed ] virtue does remain in beer 'twill make a Cripple caper : Women with men , will now and then fit round a drink a little , Tom Tinkers wife on Friday night for drink did pawn her kettle , She could not come home , nor would not come home her belly began to rumble , She had no power to go nor stand ; but about the street did tumble . Thus to conclude my verses rude , would some good-fellows here Would join together pence a piece to buy the singer beer : I trust none of this company will be herewith offended , Therefore call for your Jugs a piece and drink to him that pend it . Finis . Lawrence Price . Printed at London Good Ale for my money . The Good-fellows resolution of strong Ale , That cures his nose from looking pale . To the tune of , The Country Lass . BE merry my friends , and list a while unto a merry jest , It may from you produce a smile , when you hear it expressed , Of a young man lately married , which was a boon good fellow , This song in's head he always carried , when drink had made him mellow , I cannot go home , nor I will not go home , its long of the oil of Barley : I'll tarry all night for my delight , and go home in the morning early , No Tapster stout , or Vintner fine , quoth he shall ever get One groat out of this purse of mine to pay his master's deb Why should I deal with sharking Rooks , that seek poor gulls to cozen , To give twelve pence for a quart of wine , of ale 'twill buy a dozen . 'Twill make me sing , I cannot etc The old renowned I pocrist and Raspie does excel , But never any wine could yet my honour please to swell . The Rhenish wine or Muscadine , sweet Malmsie is too fulsome , No give me a cup of Barley broth , for that is very wholesome , 'Twill make me sing , I cannot etc Hight waters are to me as death , and soon the head oreturneth , And Nectar hath so strong a breath Canary when it burns , It cures no pain but breaks the brain , and raps out oaths and curses , And makes men part with heavy heart , but light it makes their purses , I cannot go home , etc Some say Metheglin bears the name , with Perry and sweet Sider 'Twill bring the body out of frame . and reach the belly wider : Which to prevent I am content with ale thats good and nappy . And when thereof I have enough . I think my self most happy . I cannot go home , etc All sorts of men when they do meet both trade and occupation , With courtesy each other greet , and kind humiliation : A good coale-fire is their desire , whereby to fit and parley , Theyle drink their ale and tell a tale , and go home in the morning early . I cannot go home , etc Your domineering swaggering blades , and Cavaliers that flashes , That throw the Jugs against the walls , and break in pieces glasses , When Bacchus round cannot be found they will in merriment Drink ale and beer , and cast of care , and sing with one consent . I cannot go home , etc , The second par To the same tune , HEre honest John , to thee I'll drink , and so to Will and Thomas , None of this company I think , will this night part from us : While we are here wee'll join for beer like lively lads together , We have a house over our heads , a fig for ranie weather . I cannot go home , nor I will not go home , its long of the oil of barley , I stay all night for my delight . and go home in the morning early . Heres Smug the smith , & Ned the Cook , and Frank the fine feltmaker , Heres Steven with his silver hook , and What the lusty baker : Heres Harry & Dick , with Greg & Nicke , heres Timothy the Tailor , Heres honest [ K ] it , never spoke of yet , and George the jovial Sailor . That cannot etc Wee'll fit and bouse and merrily chat , and freely we will join For care near paid a pound of debt , nor shall pay none of mine : Here is but eighteen pence to pay , since every man is willing , Bring drink withal the speed you may , wee'll make it up two shillings . We cannot etc Let Father frown , and Mother chide , and Uncle seek to find us , Here is good lap here will we bide weel leave no drink behind us , A proverb old I have herd told , by my deer dad and grandsire , He was hang'd that left his drink behind therefore this is our answer , We cannot etc James the Joiner he hath paid , and Anthony the Glover , Our hostess hath a pretty maid , I cannot choose but love her : Her pot shee'll fill , with right good will , heres ale as brown as a berry , 'Twill make and old woman dance for joy , and and oh [ l ] worser men heart full merry I cannot etc 'Twill make a Soldier domineer , and bravely draw his rapier , Sum [ changed ] virtue does remain in beer 'twill make a Cripple caper : Women with men , will now and then fit round a drink a little , Tom Tinkers wife on Friday night for drink did pawn her kettle , She could not come home , nor would not come home her belly began to rumble , She had no power to go nor stand ; but about the street did tumble . Thus to conclude my verses rude , would some good-fellows here Would join together pence a piece to buy the singer beer : I trust none of this company will be herewith offended , Therefore call for your Jugs a piece and drink to him that pend it . Finis . Lawrence Price . Printed at London 