A most Godly and Comfortable Ballad of the Glorious Resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ ; how he Triumphed over Death , Hell , and since , whereby we are certainly persuaded of our Rising again from the Dead . The Tune is , Rogero . WHat faithless , froward , sinful man so far from grace is fled , That does not in his heart believe the Rising of the Dead ? Or , why do wicked mortal men their lives so vainly frame , That being Dead , they do suppose they shall not rise again . For why , if that the Dead indeed , which now consuming lies , Shall not by God be rais'd again , then Christ did never rise ; And if so he our Saviour sweet he did not rise from death , Our Preaching is of no effect , and vain's our hope on Earth . If Christ rose not again I say , then are we yet in since , And they that fallen asleep in him , no part of joy shall win : Of all the Creatures living , then , which God on Earth did frame , Most wretched are the statess of men which spend their days in vain . But Christ is risen up from Death , as it was right and meet , And thereby trod down Death & Hell , and since , under his fee And that the same to simple men , the plainer might appear , The glorious rising of the Lord , his word declareth clear . When he within the grave was laid , the Jews did Watch men set , Lest by his friends his corpse thence should secretly be fe A mighty Stone likewise they did on his Sepulchre role , And all for fear his body should away from thence be stole . But in the Dead time of the night , a mighty Earthquake came , The which did shake both Sea & Land , and all within the same : And then the Angel of the Lord came down from Heaven so high , And rol'd away the mighty Stone which on the ground did lie . His face did shine like flaming fire , his Clothes were white as snow , Which put the watchmen in great fear who ran away for woe : And told unto the High-Priest plain what I do now rehearse , Who hired them for money straight , that they would hold their peace . And say , quoth he , His Servants came , whom he sometime did keep , And secretly stole him away while you were fast asleep : And if that Herod hear thereof , we will persuade him so , That you shall find no hurt at all , where ever you do go . But faithful Mary Magdalen , and James her Brother too , They brought great store of Ointment as Jesus were wont to do : Who rose up early in the morn before that it was day , The body of the Lord t' anoint , in grace whereas he lay . And when unto the Grave they came , they were in wondrous fear , They saw a young man in the same , but Christ they saw not there : Then said the Angel unto them , why are you so afraid : The Lord whom you do seek I know is Risen up , he said . Then went these women both away , who told these tidings than To John and Peter , who in haste to the Sepulchre ran ; Who found it as the woman said , and then away did go , But Mary stayed weeping still , whose tears declar'd her woe . Who looking down into the grave , two Angels there did see ; Quod they , Why weeps this woman so , even for my Lord , quod she : And turning then her self about as she stood weeping so , The Lord was standing at her back , but him she did not know . Why does this woman weep , he said , whom seekest thou in this place ? She thought it had the Gard'ner been , and thus she shows her case ; If thou hast born him hence she said , then tell me where he is , And for to fetch him back again be sure I will not miss . What Marry ! then our Saviour said , dost thou lament for me ; Oh Master livest thou again , my soul does joy in thee : Oh Marry touch me not , he said , ere I have been above Even with my God , the only God , and Father whom we love . And oftentimes did Christ appear to his Disciples all , Yet Thomas would not it believe , his faith it was so small , Except that he might thrust his hand into the wound so wide , And put his finger where the Spear did pierce his tender side . Then Christ , which knew all secrets to them again came he , Who said to Thomas , Here I am , as plainly thou mayest see : See here the hands which nails did pierce and holes are in my side ; And be not faithless O thou man , for whom these pains I bide . Thus sundry times he shew'd himself , when he did rise again , And then ascended into Heaven , in glory for to reign : Where he prepares a place for those whom he shall raise likewise , To live with him in Heavenly bliss above the lofty Skies . Printed by and for A.M. and sold by the Booksellers of London . A most Godly and Comfortable Ballad of the Glorious Resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ ; how he Triumphed over Death , Hell , and since , whereby we are certainly persuaded of our Rising again from the Dead . The Tune is , Rogero . WHat faithless , froward , sinful man so far from grace is fled , That does not in his heart believe the Rising of the Dead ? Or , why do wicked mortal men their lives so vainly frame , That being Dead , they do suppose they shall not rise again . For why , if that the Dead indeed , which now consuming lies , Shall not by God be rais'd again , then Christ did never rise ; And if so he our Saviour sweet he did not rise from death , Our Preaching is of no effect , and vain's our hope on Earth . If Christ rose not again I say , then are we yet in since , And they that fallen asleep in him , no part of joy shall win : Of all the Creatures living , then , which God on Earth did frame , Most wretched are the statess of men which spend their days in vain . But Christ is risen up from Death , as it was right and meet , And thereby trod down Death & Hell , and since , under his fee And that the same to simple men , the plainer might appear , The glorious rising of the Lord , his word declareth clear . When he within the grave was laid , the Jews did Watch men set , Lest by his friends his corpse thence should secretly be fe A mighty Stone likewise they did on his Sepulchre role , And all for fear his body should away from thence be stole . But in the Dead time of the night , a mighty Earthquake came , The which did shake both Sea & Land , and all within the same : And then the Angel of the Lord came down from Heaven so high , And rol'd away the mighty Stone which on the ground did lie . His face did shine like flaming fire , his Clothes were white as snow , Which put the watchmen in great fear who ran away for woe : And told unto the High-Priest plain what I do now rehearse , Who hired them for money straight , that they would hold their peace . And say , quoth he , His Servants came , whom he sometime did keep , And secretly stole him away while you were fast asleep : And if that Herod hear thereof , we will persuade him so , That you shall find no hurt at all , where ever you do go . But faithful Mary Magdalen , and James her Brother too , They brought great store of Ointment as Jesus were wont to do : Who rose up early in the morn before that it was day , The body of the Lord t' anoint , in grace whereas he lay . And when unto the Grave they came , they were in wondrous fear , They saw a young man in the same , but Christ they saw not there : Then said the Angel unto them , why are you so afraid : The Lord whom you do seek I know is Risen up , he said . Then went these women both away , who told these tidings than To John and Peter , who in haste to the Sepulchre ran ; Who found it as the woman said , and then away did go , But Mary stayed weeping still , whose tears declar'd her woe . Who looking down into the grave , two Angels there did see ; Quod they , Why weeps this woman so , even for my Lord , quod she : And turning then her self about as she stood weeping so , The Lord was standing at her back , but him she did not know . Why does this woman weep , he said , whom seekest thou in this place ? She thought it had the Gard'ner been , and thus she shows her case ; If thou hast born him hence she said , then tell me where he is , And for to fetch him back again be sure I will not miss . What Marry ! then our Saviour said , dost thou lament for me ; Oh Master livest thou again , my soul does joy in thee : Oh Marry touch me not , he said , ere I have been above Even with my God , the only God , and Father whom we love . And oftentimes did Christ appear to his Disciples all , Yet Thomas would not it believe , his faith it was so small , Except that he might thrust his hand into the wound so wide , And put his finger where the Spear did pierce his tender side . Then Christ , which knew all secrets to them again came he , Who said to Thomas , Here I am , as plainly thou mayest see : See here the hands which nails did pierce and holes are in my side ; And be not faithless O thou man , for whom these pains I bide . Thus sundry times he shew'd himself , when he did rise again , And then ascended into Heaven , in glory for to reign : Where he prepares a place for those whom he shall raise likewise , To live with him in Heavenly bliss above the lofty Skies . Printed by and for A.M. and sold by the Booksellers of London . A most Godly and Comfortable Ballad of the Glorious Resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ ; how he Triumphed over Death , Hell , and since , whereby we are certainly persuaded of our Rising again from the Dead . The Tune is , Rogero . WHat faithless , froward , sinful man so far from grace is fled , That does not in his heart believe the Rising of the Dead ? Or , why do wicked mortal men their lives so vainly frame , That being Dead , they do suppose they shall not rise again . For why , if that the Dead indeed , which now consuming lies , Shall not by God be rais'd again , then Christ did never rise ; And if so he our Saviour sweet he did not rise from death , Our Preaching is of no effect , and vain's our hope on Earth . If Christ rose not again I say , then are we yet in since , And they that fallen asleep in him , no part of joy shall win : Of all the Creatures living , then , which God on Earth did frame , Most wretched are the statess of men which spend their days in vain . But Christ is risen up from Death , as it was right and meet , And thereby trod down Death & Hell , and since , under his fee And that the same to simple men , the plainer might appear , The glorious rising of the Lord , his word declareth clear . When he within the grave was laid , the Jews did Watch men set , Lest by his friends his corpse thence should secretly be fe A mighty Stone likewise they did on his Sepulchre role , And all for fear his body should away from thence be stole . But in the Dead time of the night , a mighty Earthquake came , The which did shake both Sea & Land , and all within the same : And then the Angel of the Lord came down from Heaven so high , And rol'd away the mighty Stone which on the ground did lie . His face did shine like flaming fire , his Clothes were white as snow , Which put the watchmen in great fear who ran away for woe : And told unto the High-Priest plain what I do now rehearse , Who hired them for money straight , that they would hold their peace . And say , quoth he , His Servants came , whom he sometime did keep , And secretly stole him away while you were fast asleep : And if that Herod hear thereof , we will persuade him so , That you shall find no hurt at all , where ever you do go . But faithful Mary Magdalen , and James her Brother too , They brought great store of Ointment as Jesus were wont to do : Who rose up early in the morn before that it was day , The body of the Lord t' anoint , in grace whereas he lay . And when unto the Grave they came , they were in wondrous fear , They saw a young man in the same , but Christ they saw not there : Then said the Angel unto them , why are you so afraid : The Lord whom you do seek I know is Risen up , he said . Then went these women both away , who told these tidings than To John and Peter , who in haste to the Sepulchre ran ; Who found it as the woman said , and then away did go , But Mary stayed weeping still , whose tears declar'd her woe . Who looking down into the grave , two Angels there did see ; Quod they , Why weeps this woman so , even for my Lord , quod she : And turning then her self about as she stood weeping so , The Lord was standing at her back , but him she did not know . Why does this woman weep , he said , whom seekest thou in this place ? She thought it had the Gard'ner been , and thus she shows her case ; If thou hast born him hence she said , then tell me where he is , And for to fetch him back again be sure I will not miss . What Marry ! then our Saviour said , dost thou lament for me ; Oh Master livest thou again , my soul does joy in thee : Oh Marry touch me not , he said , ere I have been above Even with my God , the only God , and Father whom we love . And oftentimes did Christ appear to his Disciples all , Yet Thomas would not it believe , his faith it was so small , Except that he might thrust his hand into the wound so wide , And put his finger where the Spear did pierce his tender side . Then Christ , which knew all secrets to them again came he , Who said to Thomas , Here I am , as plainly thou mayest see : See here the hands which nails did pierce and holes are in my side ; And be not faithless O thou man , for whom these pains I bide . Thus sundry times he shew'd himself , when he did rise again , And then ascended into Heaven , in glory for to reign : Where he prepares a place for those whom he shall raise likewise , To live with him in Heavenly bliss above the lofty Skies . Printed by and for A.M. and sold by the Booksellers of London . A most Godly and Comfortable Ballad of the Glorious Resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ ; how he Triumphed over Death , Hell , and since , whereby we are certainly persuaded of our Rising again from the Dead . The Tune is , Rogero . WHat faithless , froward , sinful man so far from grace is fled , That does not in his heart believe the Rising of the Dead ? Or , why do wicked mortal men their lives so vainly frame , That being Dead , they do suppose they shall not rise again . For why , if that the Dead indeed , which now consuming lies , Shall not by God be rais'd again , then Christ did never rise ; And if so he our Saviour sweet he did not rise from death , Our Preaching is of no effect , and vain's our hope on Earth . If Christ rose not again I say , then are we yet in since , And they that fallen asleep in him , no part of joy shall win : Of all the Creatures living , then , which God on Earth did frame , Most wretched are the statess of men which spend their days in vain . But Christ is risen up from Death , as it was right and meet , And thereby trod down Death & Hell , and since , under his fee And that the same to simple men , the plainer might appear , The glorious rising of the Lord , his word declareth clear . When he within the grave was laid , the Jews did Watch men set , Lest by his friends his corpse thence should secretly be fe A mighty Stone likewise they did on his Sepulchre role , And all for fear his body should away from thence be stole . But in the Dead time of the night , a mighty Earthquake came , The which did shake both Sea & Land , and all within the same : And then the Angel of the Lord came down from Heaven so high , And rol'd away the mighty Stone which on the ground did lie . His face did shine like flaming fire , his Clothes were white as snow , Which put the watchmen in great fear who ran away for woe : And told unto the High-Priest plain what I do now rehearse , Who hired them for money straight , that they would hold their peace . And say , quoth he , His Servants came , whom he sometime did keep , And secretly stole him away while you were fast asleep : And if that Herod hear thereof , we will persuade him so , That you shall find no hurt at all , where ever you do go . But faithful Mary Magdalen , and James her Brother too , They brought great store of Ointment as Jesus were wont to do : Who rose up early in the morn before that it was day , The body of the Lord t' anoint , in grace whereas he lay . And when unto the Grave they came , they were in wondrous fear , They saw a young man in the same , but Christ they saw not there : Then said the Angel unto them , why are you so afraid : The Lord whom you do seek I know is Risen up , he said . Then went these women both away , who told these tidings than To John and Peter , who in haste to the Sepulchre ran ; Who found it as the woman said , and then away did go , But Mary stayed weeping still , whose tears declar'd her woe . Who looking down into the grave , two Angels there did see ; Quod they , Why weeps this woman so , even for my Lord , quod she : And turning then her self about as she stood weeping so , The Lord was standing at her back , but him she did not know . Why does this woman weep , he said , whom seekest thou in this place ? She thought it had the Gard'ner been , and thus she shows her case ; If thou hast born him hence she said , then tell me where he is , And for to fetch him back again be sure I will not miss . What Marry ! then our Saviour said , dost thou lament for me ; Oh Master livest thou again , my soul does joy in thee : Oh Marry touch me not , he said , ere I have been above Even with my God , the only God , and Father whom we love . And oftentimes did Christ appear to his Disciples all , Yet Thomas would not it believe , his faith it was so small , Except that he might thrust his hand into the wound so wide , And put his finger where the Spear did pierce his tender side . Then Christ , which knew all secrets to them again came he , Who said to Thomas , Here I am , as plainly thou mayest see : See here the hands which nails did pierce and holes are in my side ; And be not faithless O thou man , for whom these pains I bide . Thus sundry times he shew'd himself , when he did rise again , And then ascended into Heaven , in glory for to reign : Where he prepares a place for those whom he shall raise likewise , To live with him in Heavenly bliss above the lofty Skies . Printed by and for A.M. and sold by the Booksellers of London . Loves fierce desire , and hope's of Recovery Or , A true and brief Description of two resolved Lovers , whose excellent wits , suitable minds , and faithful hearts one to another , shall heedful - lie be spoken of in this following new made paper of Verses . To and excellent new Tune ; Or , Fair Angel of England . NOw the Tyrant hath stolen my dearest away , And I am confined with Mopsa to stay , Yet let Celia remember how faithful I'le be , Neither distance nor absence shall terrify me . In volumes of sighs I will send to my Dear , And make my own heart correspond to my sphere , Till the soul of my life may be pleased to see , How delightful her safest return is to me . It cheers my sad heart to remember her love , Though malice hath caused this sudden remove , And my mind is resolved what ever ensue , Whither Sunshine or Thunder to be constant and true . If my Bark sail but safely , through this rugged Sea , Though with contrary winds , much tossee it be , In the Haven of rest , and long look't for content , Wee'l chant forth melodious songs of merriment . Till then I'll retreat to the Forest and mourn , Acteon shall echo my hound and my horn : No Reynard shall escape me that runs on the way , But patience perforce I will make him to stay . My heart hath inquired of every stone , What convoy the Heavens hath bequeath'd to my moan , But for ought I can find holy Angels are agreed , To rival my hope's , and to slaken her speed . THerefore I'll fit down and bewail my sad Fate , Like the Turtle I'le mourn for the loss of my mate ; All the world's greatest glories vexation to me , Till my Celia and I in our loves may be free . Celia her sweet Reply to her faithful friend . THy presence dear friend I have well understood , And how in exile thou hast wandered the wood , But I am resolved thy sorrows to free , To make thee amends , I'll soon come unto thee . 'Tis neither the Tiger , the Wolf , nor the Bear , Nor shall Nylus Crocodile put me in fear , I'll swim through the Ocean upon my bear breast , To find out my Darling whom I do love best . And when I have found him , with double delight , I'll comfort him kindly , by day and by night , And I'll be more faithful then the Turtle Dove , Which never at all did prove false to her Love . The fierce Basilisks that kills with the eye , Shall not have the power once thee to come nigh : I'll clip thee and hug thee so close in my arms , And I'll venture my life for , to save thee from harms . My lap for thy head love , a Pillow shall be , And while thou dost sleep I'll be careful of thee . I'll wake , and I'll watch , and I'll kiss thee for joy , And no venomous creature shall my Love annoy . The Satyrs shall pipe , and the Sire's shall sing , The wood-nymphs with music shall make the Groves ring . The Horn it shall found , and the Hounds make a noise To fill my loves heart with ten thousand rare joys . So now I am coming to hasten the deed , Pray heaven and goods Angels to be my good speed . If fortune me favour , and Seas quiet prove , I soon will arrive at the Port which I love . Now Celia is gone to find out her dear , Her heart that was sad to comfort and cheer : No doubt but each other they will lovingly greet , When as they together do lovingly meet . L.P. FINIS . Printed for T. V. and are to be sold by F. Coals , in Wine-street near Hatten-Garden . Loves fierce desire , and hope's of Recovery Or , A true and brief Description of two resolved Lovers , whose excellent wits , suitable minds , and faithful hearts one to another , shall heedful - lie be spoken of in this following new made paper of Verses . To and excellent new Tune ; Or , Fair Angel of England . NOw the Tyrant hath stolen my dearest away , And I am confined with Mopsa to stay , Yet let Celia remember how faithful I'le be , Neither distance nor absence shall terrify me . In volumes of sighs I will send to my Dear , And make my own heart correspond to my sphere , Till the soul of my life may be pleased to see , How delightful her safest return is to me . It cheers my sad heart to remember her love , Though malice hath caused this sudden remove , And my mind is resolved what ever ensue , Whither Sunshine or Thunder to be constant and true . If my Bark sail but safely , through this rugged Sea , Though with contrary winds , much tossee it be , In the Haven of rest , and long look't for content , Wee'l chant forth melodious songs of merriment . Till then I'll retreat to the Forest and mourn , Acteon shall echo my hound and my horn : No Reynard shall escape me that runs on the way , But patience perforce I will make him to stay . My heart hath inquired of every stone , What convoy the Heavens hath bequeath'd to my moan , But for ought I can find holy Angels are agreed , To rival my hope's , and to slaken her speed . THerefore I'll fit down and bewail my sad Fate , Like the Turtle I'le mourn for the loss of my mate ; All the world's greatest glories vexation to me , Till my Celia and I in our loves may be free . Celia her sweet Reply to her faithful friend . THy presence dear friend I have well understood , And how in exile thou hast wandered the wood , But I am resolved thy sorrows to free , To make thee amends , I'll soon come unto thee . 'Tis neither the Tiger , the Wolf , nor the Bear , Nor shall Nylus Crocodile put me in fear , I'll swim through the Ocean upon my bear breast , To find out my Darling whom I do love best . And when I have found him , with double delight , I'll comfort him kindly , by day and by night , And I'll be more faithful then the Turtle Dove , Which never at all did prove false to her Love . The fierce Basilisks that kills with the eye , Shall not have the power once thee to come nigh : I'll clip thee and hug thee so close in my arms , And I'll venture my life for , to save thee from harms . My lap for thy head love , a Pillow shall be , And while thou dost sleep I'll be careful of thee . I'll wake , and I'll watch , and I'll kiss thee for joy , And no venomous creature shall my Love annoy . The Satyrs shall pipe , and the Sire's shall sing , The wood-nymphs with music shall make the Groves ring . The Horn it shall found , and the Hounds make a noise To fill my loves heart with ten thousand rare joys . So now I am coming to hasten the deed , Pray heaven and goods Angels to be my good speed . If fortune me favour , and Seas quiet prove , I soon will arrive at the Port which I love . Now Celia is gone to find out her dear , Her heart that was sad to comfort and cheer : No doubt but each other they will lovingly greet , When as they together do lovingly meet . L.P. FINIS . Printed for T. V. and are to be sold by F. Coals , in Wine-street near Hatten-Garden . 