The Great Assize ; Or , Christ's certain and sudden ap - pearance to Judgement . Being serious considerations on these Four Things , Death , Judgement , Heaven , and Hell . By Mr. Stevens , Minister . To the Tune of , Aim not too high , etc Licensed according to Order . HEre is presented , clearly to the eye , A little World , new made most gloriously , Today here stands proud man like flowers sprite ; But look to morrow , and he's weather'd quite . How happily might fallen man have liv'd , For ever , had he not his Maker griev'd : His num'rous Offspring never would espy , Thro' that black Curtain of Mortality . Alas how fast the days of man pass by , Swifter than Weaver's Shuttle they do fly ; As soon as Death does end his days so soon , Man must appear before the great Tribune . Death will no succour to a King afford , Nor diff'rence make 'twixt Beggar and a Lord ; Nor Beauty , Riches , favour shall obtain , He'll take no Bribes to linger out their pain . Methusalem you see by Death was told , That die he must , tho' he was ne'er so old , Like Fruit , when almost ripe , Storms can it shake ; So Youth , when almost Man , Death may him take . The Rich Man trusting to his Riches . And yet , how proud Man is this side the Grave ! As if he never should and Exit have ; ( Vaunting poor Worm ) and up and down the world His busy carping thoughts with care is hurled . He's wealthy grown , and proud of bags of treasure , Trusting in Riches ; taking all the pleasure His heart can wish for ; nay , he does control The checks of Conscience to his precious Soul : Says to himself , Soul , take thine ease , and spend Thy time in mirth , ne'er think it will have end : Thus ! thus ! the Sinner does abuse his God , And chooses Vice , instead o' th' virtuous Rod . He Swears , & Damns , & imprecates God's wrath , To strike him dead ; but ah ! to die he's loath : He Damns his very Soul ; were it not just That God should do so too , and say , Be cursed ? Roaring and Ranting is his Hellish Note , Quaffing so long until his senses float , Drunk , like a Beast , he staggers up and down , Sleeps like a Hog , and is a Devil grown . But Oh! if God , thus angered , ready be To say , thou Fool , I do require of thee , Thy soul , this night , come , give a just account To what thy Stewardship does now amount . How dumb & senseless would he stand , to see Hell ready to devour him presently , Calls to the Rocks , and strives to get a place , Therein to hide him from God's angry face . But yet , suppose God suffers him to live , Adds mercy unto mercy , and does give Him yet a longer time of life , and trys , If he'll Repent before death shuts his eyes . He sees that time runs round like to a wheel , And wrinkled Years upon his brow does steal , Beside grey hairs on's crazy head does grow , Scatter'd it lies like to a drift of Snow . A foggy dimness does his sighed assail , Striking into his head , his eyes they fail , His tongue does falter , and his hands they shake , And with the Palsy every limb does quake . His glass most run , he's even out of breath , Ready to yield his life to conquering death , Who will no longer favour his old age , But is resolved in his death engage . It peeps behind the Curtain in his face , Then draws the Schene , then dreadful is his case , His tongue does quiver , and his veins does start , Like sticks asunder ; nay his very heart Ceases its motion , with his vitals , soon , And now alas ! he's colder than a stone : His Kinsfolks dear his dying eyes do shut , So from his Bed he's in a Coffin put . Thus ends his Earthly splendour , and his pleasure , Wife , Children , Kinsfolk , and his bags of treasure , Are left behind , enjoy the same estate A little while , but follow must his fate . Nay , they're not sure to keep it half a day , For Death does oft sweep Families away , The Infants instantly bereav'd of Mother , Husband from Wife , the Sister from her Brother . Behold this figure , see the glass does run , Therefore Repent before thy time is gone , Both Young and Old have this before your eyes , You're born to happiness or misery's . O therefore wretched man this very day , Strive by Repenting tears to wash away Thy sins , and then no doubt the Lord will be In love and mercy reconcil'd to thee . The manner of Christ's coming at the Day of Judgement . Serene , like as the days of Noah were , So shall the coming of God's Son appear , Eating and Drinking , men will merry make , And carnal Souls Security will take . And like the thief who comes in the night , So will the Son of Man in glory bright , Come down with numerous Angels , and the found , Of trumpets shrill , whose voice unnerves the ground The dead arise , Lord , what a horror here Is to the wicked , who must strait appear , And come to Judgement , Oh how this begins , To bring to mind their many wretched Sins . O what sad shrieks they make , and clam'rous cries , To see Hell gaping just before their eyes , The Heav'ns to melt away with fervent heat , The Earth a burning underneath their feet . The Blessed State of the Godly . But happy , ever happy are the Sheep Of Christ , who joy for evermore will keep , When he shall say to Saints , come come thee hither , You of my chosen Flock , blessed of the Father . The Kingdom now enjoy for you prepar'd Before the heav'ns were made or world was rear'd , O what soul ravishing sweet news is this , Angels attend them presently to bliss . The miserable State of the wicked . But hark ! what grief the Damned does attend , Who have no Advocate to stand their Friend , Sentence must passed be , go , go to dwell In Firey Burnings in the Lake of Hell . Depart with Devils which did you entice To hate your Saviour , and cleeve to Vice , Go to that Everlasting Pit , and lie Howling with Firey Fiends perpetually . O what a wretched sighed 'twill be to see The Devils dragging them to misery , Husbands to see their Wives convey'd to Bliss , While they 'mongst Damned , quite Salvation miss . Son from the Father , Father from the Son , Must partest be in the great Day of Doom , Praising of God , and own it to be just , Their own Relations are with Devils cursed . The Godly they to Heaven take their flight , While wicked take their course to Hell outright , Lord let us watch continually ; and pray That we may be prepar'd for that Great Day . Give us Repentance , that while here we live , We may the offers of thy Son receive , Then feed our souls , good God , with thy rich Grace , That we may stand before our Saviour's Face . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pie-corner , near West-Smithfield . The Great Assize ; Or , Christ's certain and sudden ap - pearance to Judgement . Being serious considerations on these Four Things , Death , Judgement , Heaven , and Hell . By Mr. Stevens , Minister . To the Tune of , Aim not too high , etc Licensed according to Order . HEre is presented , clearly to the eye , A little World , new made most gloriously , Today here stands proud man like flowers sprite ; But look to morrow , and he's weather'd quite . How happily might fallen man have liv'd , For ever , had he not his Maker griev'd : His num'rous Offspring never would espy , Thro' that black Curtain of Mortality . Alas how fast the days of man pass by , Swifter than Weaver's Shuttle they do fly ; As soon as Death does end his days so soon , Man must appear before the great Tribune . Death will no succour to a King afford , Nor diff'rence make 'twixt Beggar and a Lord ; Nor Beauty , Riches , favour shall obtain , He'll take no Bribes to linger out their pain . Methusalem you see by Death was told , That die he must , tho' he was ne'er so old , Like Fruit , when almost ripe , Storms can it shake ; So Youth , when almost Man , Death may him take . The Rich Man trusting to his Riches . And yet , how proud Man is this side the Grave ! As if he never should and Exit have ; ( Vaunting poor Worm ) and up and down the world His busy carping thoughts with care is hurled . He's wealthy grown , and proud of bags of treasure , Trusting in Riches ; taking all the pleasure His heart can wish for ; nay , he does control The checks of Conscience to his precious Soul : Says to himself , Soul , take thine ease , and spend Thy time in mirth , ne'er think it will have end : Thus ! thus ! the Sinner does abuse his God , And chooses Vice , instead o' th' virtuous Rod . He Swears , & Damns , & imprecates God's wrath , To strike him dead ; but ah ! to die he's loath : He Damns his very Soul ; were it not just That God should do so too , and say , Be cursed ? Roaring and Ranting is his Hellish Note , Quaffing so long until his senses float , Drunk , like a Beast , he staggers up and down , Sleeps like a Hog , and is a Devil grown . But Oh! if God , thus angered , ready be To say , thou Fool , I do require of thee , Thy soul , this night , come , give a just account To what thy Stewardship does now amount . How dumb & senseless would he stand , to see Hell ready to devour him presently , Calls to the Rocks , and strives to get a place , Therein to hide him from God's angry face . But yet , suppose God suffers him to live , Adds mercy unto mercy , and does give Him yet a longer time of life , and trys , If he'll Repent before death shuts his eyes . He sees that time runs round like to a wheel , And wrinkled Years upon his brow does steal , Beside grey hairs on's crazy head does grow , Scatter'd it lies like to a drift of Snow . A foggy dimness does his sighed assail , Striking into his head , his eyes they fail , His tongue does falter , and his hands they shake , And with the Palsy every limb does quake . His glass most run , he's even out of breath , Ready to yield his life to conquering death , Who will no longer favour his old age , But is resolved in his death engage . It peeps behind the Curtain in his face , Then draws the Schene , then dreadful is his case , His tongue does quiver , and his veins does start , Like sticks asunder ; nay his very heart Ceases its motion , with his vitals , soon , And now alas ! he's colder than a stone : His Kinsfolks dear his dying eyes do shut , So from his Bed he's in a Coffin put . Thus ends his Earthly splendour , and his pleasure , Wife , Children , Kinsfolk , and his bags of treasure , Are left behind , enjoy the same estate A little while , but follow must his fate . Nay , they're not sure to keep it half a day , For Death does oft sweep Families away , The Infants instantly bereav'd of Mother , Husband from Wife , the Sister from her Brother . Behold this figure , see the glass does run , Therefore Repent before thy time is gone , Both Young and Old have this before your eyes , You're born to happiness or misery's . O therefore wretched man this very day , Strive by Repenting tears to wash away Thy sins , and then no doubt the Lord will be In love and mercy reconcil'd to thee . The manner of Christ's coming at the Day of Judgement . Serene , like as the days of Noah were , So shall the coming of God's Son appear , Eating and Drinking , men will merry make , And carnal Souls Security will take . And like the thief who comes in the night , So will the Son of Man in glory bright , Come down with numerous Angels , and the found , Of trumpets shrill , whose voice unnerves the ground The dead arise , Lord , what a horror here Is to the wicked , who must strait appear , And come to Judgement , Oh how this begins , To bring to mind their many wretched Sins . O what sad shrieks they make , and clam'rous cries , To see Hell gaping just before their eyes , The Heav'ns to melt away with fervent heat , The Earth a burning underneath their feet . The Blessed State of the Godly . But happy , ever happy are the Sheep Of Christ , who joy for evermore will keep , When he shall say to Saints , come come thee hither , You of my chosen Flock , blessed of the Father . The Kingdom now enjoy for you prepar'd Before the heav'ns were made or world was rear'd , O what soul ravishing sweet news is this , Angels attend them presently to bliss . The miserable State of the wicked . But hark ! what grief the Damned does attend , Who have no Advocate to stand their Friend , Sentence must passed be , go , go to dwell In Firey Burnings in the Lake of Hell . Depart with Devils which did you entice To hate your Saviour , and cleeve to Vice , Go to that Everlasting Pit , and lie Howling with Firey Fiends perpetually . O what a wretched sighed 'twill be to see The Devils dragging them to misery , Husbands to see their Wives convey'd to Bliss , While they 'mongst Damned , quite Salvation miss . Son from the Father , Father from the Son , Must partest be in the great Day of Doom , Praising of God , and own it to be just , Their own Relations are with Devils cursed . The Godly they to Heaven take their flight , While wicked take their course to Hell outright , Lord let us watch continually ; and pray That we may be prepar'd for that Great Day . Give us Repentance , that while here we live , We may the offers of thy Son receive , Then feed our souls , good God , with thy rich Grace , That we may stand before our Saviour's Face . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pie-corner , near West-Smithfield . The Great Assize ; Or , Christ's certain and sudden ap - pearance to Judgement . Being serious considerations on these Four Things , Death , Judgement , Heaven , and Hell . By Mr. Stevens , Minister . To the Tune of , Aim not too high , etc Licensed according to Order . HEre is presented , clearly to the eye , A little World , new made most gloriously , Today here stands proud man like flowers sprite ; But look to morrow , and he's weather'd quite . How happily might fallen man have liv'd , For ever , had he not his Maker griev'd : His num'rous Offspring never would espy , Thro' that black Curtain of Mortality . Alas how fast the days of man pass by , Swifter than Weaver's Shuttle they do fly ; As soon as Death does end his days so soon , Man must appear before the great Tribune . Death will no succour to a King afford , Nor diff'rence make 'twixt Beggar and a Lord ; Nor Beauty , Riches , favour shall obtain , He'll take no Bribes to linger out their pain . Methusalem you see by Death was told , That die he must , tho' he was ne'er so old , Like Fruit , when almost ripe , Storms can it shake ; So Youth , when almost Man , Death may him take . The Rich Man trusting to his Riches . And yet , how proud Man is this side the Grave ! As if he never should and Exit have ; ( Vaunting poor Worm ) and up and down the world His busy carping thoughts with care is hurled . He's wealthy grown , and proud of bags of treasure , Trusting in Riches ; taking all the pleasure His heart can wish for ; nay , he does control The checks of Conscience to his precious Soul : Says to himself , Soul , take thine ease , and spend Thy time in mirth , ne'er think it will have end : Thus ! thus ! the Sinner does abuse his God , And chooses Vice , instead o' th' virtuous Rod . He Swears , & Damns , & imprecates God's wrath , To strike him dead ; but ah ! to die he's loath : He Damns his very Soul ; were it not just That God should do so too , and say , Be cursed ? Roaring and Ranting is his Hellish Note , Quaffing so long until his senses float , Drunk , like a Beast , he staggers up and down , Sleeps like a Hog , and is a Devil grown . But Oh! if God , thus angered , ready be To say , thou Fool , I do require of thee , Thy soul , this night , come , give a just account To what thy Stewardship does now amount . How dumb & senseless would he stand , to see Hell ready to devour him presently , Calls to the Rocks , and strives to get a place , Therein to hide him from God's angry face . But yet , suppose God suffers him to live , Adds mercy unto mercy , and does give Him yet a longer time of life , and trys , If he'll Repent before death shuts his eyes . He sees that time runs round like to a wheel , And wrinkled Years upon his brow does steal , Beside grey hairs on's crazy head does grow , Scatter'd it lies like to a drift of Snow . A foggy dimness does his sighed assail , Striking into his head , his eyes they fail , His tongue does falter , and his hands they shake , And with the Palsy every limb does quake . His glass most run , he's even out of breath , Ready to yield his life to conquering death , Who will no longer favour his old age , But is resolved in his death engage . It peeps behind the Curtain in his face , Then draws the Schene , then dreadful is his case , His tongue does quiver , and his veins does start , Like sticks asunder ; nay his very heart Ceases its motion , with his vitals , soon , And now alas ! he's colder than a stone : His Kinsfolks dear his dying eyes do shut , So from his Bed he's in a Coffin put . Thus ends his Earthly splendour , and his pleasure , Wife , Children , Kinsfolk , and his bags of treasure , Are left behind , enjoy the same estate A little while , but follow must his fate . Nay , they're not sure to keep it half a day , For Death does oft sweep Families away , The Infants instantly bereav'd of Mother , Husband from Wife , the Sister from her Brother . Behold this figure , see the glass does run , Therefore Repent before thy time is gone , Both Young and Old have this before your eyes , You're born to happiness or misery's . O therefore wretched man this very day , Strive by Repenting tears to wash away Thy sins , and then no doubt the Lord will be In love and mercy reconcil'd to thee . The manner of Christ's coming at the Day of Judgement . Serene , like as the days of Noah were , So shall the coming of God's Son appear , Eating and Drinking , men will merry make , And carnal Souls Security will take . And like the thief who comes in the night , So will the Son of Man in glory bright , Come down with numerous Angels , and the found , Of trumpets shrill , whose voice unnerves the ground The dead arise , Lord , what a horror here Is to the wicked , who must strait appear , And come to Judgement , Oh how this begins , To bring to mind their many wretched Sins . O what sad shrieks they make , and clam'rous cries , To see Hell gaping just before their eyes , The Heav'ns to melt away with fervent heat , The Earth a burning underneath their feet . The Blessed State of the Godly . But happy , ever happy are the Sheep Of Christ , who joy for evermore will keep , When he shall say to Saints , come come thee hither , You of my chosen Flock , blessed of the Father . The Kingdom now enjoy for you prepar'd Before the heav'ns were made or world was rear'd , O what soul ravishing sweet news is this , Angels attend them presently to bliss . The miserable State of the wicked . But hark ! what grief the Damned does attend , Who have no Advocate to stand their Friend , Sentence must passed be , go , go to dwell In Firey Burnings in the Lake of Hell . Depart with Devils which did you entice To hate your Saviour , and cleeve to Vice , Go to that Everlasting Pit , and lie Howling with Firey Fiends perpetually . O what a wretched sighed 'twill be to see The Devils dragging them to misery , Husbands to see their Wives convey'd to Bliss , While they 'mongst Damned , quite Salvation miss . Son from the Father , Father from the Son , Must partest be in the great Day of Doom , Praising of God , and own it to be just , Their own Relations are with Devils cursed . The Godly they to Heaven take their flight , While wicked take their course to Hell outright , Lord let us watch continually ; and pray That we may be prepar'd for that Great Day . Give us Repentance , that while here we live , We may the offers of thy Son receive , Then feed our souls , good God , with thy rich Grace , That we may stand before our Saviour's Face . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pie-corner , near West-Smithfield . The Great Assize ; Or , Christ's certain and sudden ap - pearance to Judgement . Being serious considerations on these Four Things , Death , Judgement , Heaven , and Hell . By Mr. Stevens , Minister . To the Tune of , Aim not too high , etc Licensed according to Order . HEre is presented , clearly to the eye , A little World , new made most gloriously , Today here stands proud man like flowers sprite ; But look to morrow , and he's weather'd quite . How happily might fallen man have liv'd , For ever , had he not his Maker griev'd : His num'rous Offspring never would espy , Thro' that black Curtain of Mortality . Alas how fast the days of man pass by , Swifter than Weaver's Shuttle they do fly ; As soon as Death does end his days so soon , Man must appear before the great Tribune . Death will no succour to a King afford , Nor diff'rence make 'twixt Beggar and a Lord ; Nor Beauty , Riches , favour shall obtain , He'll take no Bribes to linger out their pain . Methusalem you see by Death was told , That die he must , tho' he was ne'er so old , Like Fruit , when almost ripe , Storms can it shake ; So Youth , when almost Man , Death may him take . The Rich Man trusting to his Riches . And yet , how proud Man is this side the Grave ! As if he never should and Exit have ; ( Vaunting poor Worm ) and up and down the world His busy carping thoughts with care is hurled . He's wealthy grown , and proud of bags of treasure , Trusting in Riches ; taking all the pleasure His heart can wish for ; nay , he does control The checks of Conscience to his precious Soul : Says to himself , Soul , take thine ease , and spend Thy time in mirth , ne'er think it will have end : Thus ! thus ! the Sinner does abuse his God , And chooses Vice , instead o' th' virtuous Rod . He Swears , & Damns , & imprecates God's wrath , To strike him dead ; but ah ! to die he's loath : He Damns his very Soul ; were it not just That God should do so too , and say , Be cursed ? Roaring and Ranting is his Hellish Note , Quaffing so long until his senses float , Drunk , like a Beast , he staggers up and down , Sleeps like a Hog , and is a Devil grown . But Oh! if God , thus angered , ready be To say , thou Fool , I do require of thee , Thy soul , this night , come , give a just account To what thy Stewardship does now amount . How dumb & senseless would he stand , to see Hell ready to devour him presently , Calls to the Rocks , and strives to get a place , Therein to hide him from God's angry face . But yet , suppose God suffers him to live , Adds mercy unto mercy , and does give Him yet a longer time of life , and trys , If he'll Repent before death shuts his eyes . He sees that time runs round like to a wheel , And wrinkled Years upon his brow does steal , Beside grey hairs on's crazy head does grow , Scatter'd it lies like to a drift of Snow . A foggy dimness does his sighed assail , Striking into his head , his eyes they fail , His tongue does falter , and his hands they shake , And with the Palsy every limb does quake . His glass most run , he's even out of breath , Ready to yield his life to conquering death , Who will no longer favour his old age , But is resolved in his death engage . It peeps behind the Curtain in his face , Then draws the Schene , then dreadful is his case , His tongue does quiver , and his veins does start , Like sticks asunder ; nay his very heart Ceases its motion , with his vitals , soon , And now alas ! he's colder than a stone : His Kinsfolks dear his dying eyes do shut , So from his Bed he's in a Coffin put . Thus ends his Earthly splendour , and his pleasure , Wife , Children , Kinsfolk , and his bags of treasure , Are left behind , enjoy the same estate A little while , but follow must his fate . Nay , they're not sure to keep it half a day , For Death does oft sweep Families away , The Infants instantly bereav'd of Mother , Husband from Wife , the Sister from her Brother . Behold this figure , see the glass does run , Therefore Repent before thy time is gone , Both Young and Old have this before your eyes , You're born to happiness or misery's . O therefore wretched man this very day , Strive by Repenting tears to wash away Thy sins , and then no doubt the Lord will be In love and mercy reconcil'd to thee . The manner of Christ's coming at the Day of Judgement . Serene , like as the days of Noah were , So shall the coming of God's Son appear , Eating and Drinking , men will merry make , And carnal Souls Security will take . And like the thief who comes in the night , So will the Son of Man in glory bright , Come down with numerous Angels , and the found , Of trumpets shrill , whose voice unnerves the ground The dead arise , Lord , what a horror here Is to the wicked , who must strait appear , And come to Judgement , Oh how this begins , To bring to mind their many wretched Sins . O what sad shrieks they make , and clam'rous cries , To see Hell gaping just before their eyes , The Heav'ns to melt away with fervent heat , The Earth a burning underneath their feet . The Blessed State of the Godly . But happy , ever happy are the Sheep Of Christ , who joy for evermore will keep , When he shall say to Saints , come come thee hither , You of my chosen Flock , blessed of the Father . The Kingdom now enjoy for you prepar'd Before the heav'ns were made or world was rear'd , O what soul ravishing sweet news is this , Angels attend them presently to bliss . The miserable State of the wicked . But hark ! what grief the Damned does attend , Who have no Advocate to stand their Friend , Sentence must passed be , go , go to dwell In Firey Burnings in the Lake of Hell . Depart with Devils which did you entice To hate your Saviour , and cleeve to Vice , Go to that Everlasting Pit , and lie Howling with Firey Fiends perpetually . O what a wretched sighed 'twill be to see The Devils dragging them to misery , Husbands to see their Wives convey'd to Bliss , While they 'mongst Damned , quite Salvation miss . Son from the Father , Father from the Son , Must partest be in the great Day of Doom , Praising of God , and own it to be just , Their own Relations are with Devils cursed . The Godly they to Heaven take their flight , While wicked take their course to Hell outright , Lord let us watch continually ; and pray That we may be prepar'd for that Great Day . Give us Repentance , that while here we live , We may the offers of thy Son receive , Then feed our souls , good God , with thy rich Grace , That we may stand before our Saviour's Face . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pie-corner , near West-Smithfield . 