A Health to all Good-Fellowes : OR , The good Companions Arithmaticke . To the tune of , To drive the cold Winter away . BE merry my hearts , and call for your quarts , and let no liquour be lacking , We have gold in store , we purpose to roar , until we set care a packing . Then Hostis make haste , and let no time waste , let every man have his endue , To save shoes and trouble , bring in the pots double for he that made one , made two . I'll drink up my drink , and speak what I think , strong drink will make us speak truly , We cannot be termed , all drunkards confirmed , so long as we are not unruly , Weel drink and be civil , intending no evil , if none be offended at me , As I did before , so I'll add one more , and he that made two , made three . The greedy Curmudgin , sits all the day snudging , at home with brown bred and small bear , To Coffer up wealth , he starves himself , scarce eats a good meal in a year , But I'll not do so , how ere the world go , so long as I have money in store , I scorn for to fail , go fill us more Ale , for he that made three , made foure . Why fit you thus sadly , because I call madly ; I mean not to leave in the lurch , My reckoning I'll pay , ere I go away , else hang me as high as a Church , Perhaps you will say this is not the way , they must pine that in this world will thrive , No matter for that , weel laugh and be fat , for he that made foure , made five . To those my good friends , my love so extends , I cannot truly express i When with you I meet , your words are so sweet , I am unwilling to miss it , I hate all base slaves , that their money saves , and all those that use base tricks , For with jovial blades , I'm as merry as the maids and he that made five , made six . Then drink about round , till sorrow be drowned , and let us sing heigh down a derry , I cannot endure to fit thus demure , for hither I came to be merry : Then pluck up a good heart , before we depart , with my Hostess we will make even , For I am set a madding , and still will be adding , for he that made six , made seven . The second part , To the same tune . SAd melancholy will bring us to folly , and this is death's principal magent , But this course I will take , it never shall make , me look otherwise then and agent , And in more content , my time shall be spent , and I'll pay every man his right , Then Hostess go fill , and stand not so still , for he that made seven , made eight . At home I confess , with my wife honest Besse , I practise , good husbandry well . I followed my calling , to keep me from falling , my neighbours about me that dwell , Will praise me at large , for maintaining my charge but when I to drinking incline , I scorn for to shrink , go fetch us more drink , for he that made eight , made nine . Then while we are here wee'le drink Ale & Beer , and freely our money wee'le spend , Let no man take care , for paying his share , if need be I'll pay for my friend , Then Hostess make haste , and let no time waste , you're welcome all kind Gentlemen : Never fear to carouse , while there is beer in the house , for he that made nine , made ten . Then Hostess be quicker , and bring us more liquour and let no attendance be missing , I cannot content me , to see the pot empty , a full cup is well worth the kissing , Then Hostess go fetch us some , for till you do come we are of all joys bereaven , You know what I mean , make haste come again , for he that made ten , made eleven . With merry solaces , quite void of all malice , with honest good fellows that's here , No cursing nor swearing , no staring nor tearing , among us do see me to appear , When we have spent all , to labour we fallen , for a living wee'le dig or wee'le delve . Determin'd to be , both bouteous and free , he that made eleven , made twelve . Now I think it is fit , and most requisite , to drink a health to our wives , The which being done , wee'le pay and be gone , strong drink all our wits now deprives : Then Hostess lets know , the sum that we owe , twelvepence there is for certain , Then fill t'other pot , and here's money for't for he that made twelve , made thirteene . London Printed for Henry Gossen . FINIS . A Health to all Good-Fellowes : OR , The good Companions Arithmaticke . To the tune of , To drive the cold Winter away . BE merry my hearts , and call for your quarts , and let no liquour be lacking , We have gold in store , we purpose to roar , until we set care a packing . Then Hostis make haste , and let no time waste , let every man have his endue , To save shoes and trouble , bring in the pots double for he that made one , made two . I'll drink up my drink , and speak what I think , strong drink will make us speak truly , We cannot be termed , all drunkards confirmed , so long as we are not unruly , Weel drink and be civil , intending no evil , if none be offended at me , As I did before , so I'll add one more , and he that made two , made three . The greedy Curmudgin , sits all the day snudging , at home with brown bred and small bear , To Coffer up wealth , he starves himself , scarce eats a good meal in a year , But I'll not do so , how ere the world go , so long as I have money in store , I scorn for to fail , go fill us more Ale , for he that made three , made foure . Why fit you thus sadly , because I call madly ; I mean not to leave in the lurch , My reckoning I'll pay , ere I go away , else hang me as high as a Church , Perhaps you will say this is not the way , they must pine that in this world will thrive , No matter for that , weel laugh and be fat , for he that made foure , made five . To those my good friends , my love so extends , I cannot truly express i When with you I meet , your words are so sweet , I am unwilling to miss it , I hate all base slaves , that their money saves , and all those that use base tricks , For with jovial blades , I'm as merry as the maids and he that made five , made six . Then drink about round , till sorrow be drowned , and let us sing heigh down a derry , I cannot endure to fit thus demure , for hither I came to be merry : Then pluck up a good heart , before we depart , with my Hostess we will make even , For I am set a madding , and still will be adding , for he that made six , made seven . The second part , To the same tune . SAd melancholy will bring us to folly , and this is death's principal magent , But this course I will take , it never shall make , me look otherwise then and agent , And in more content , my time shall be spent , and I'll pay every man his right , Then Hostess go fill , and stand not so still , for he that made seven , made eight . At home I confess , with my wife honest Besse , I practise , good husbandry well . I followed my calling , to keep me from falling , my neighbours about me that dwell , Will praise me at large , for maintaining my charge but when I to drinking incline , I scorn for to shrink , go fetch us more drink , for he that made eight , made nine . Then while we are here wee'le drink Ale & Beer , and freely our money wee'le spend , Let no man take care , for paying his share , if need be I'll pay for my friend , Then Hostess make haste , and let no time waste , you're welcome all kind Gentlemen : Never fear to carouse , while there is beer in the house , for he that made nine , made ten . Then Hostess be quicker , and bring us more liquour and let no attendance be missing , I cannot content me , to see the pot empty , a full cup is well worth the kissing , Then Hostess go fetch us some , for till you do come we are of all joys bereaven , You know what I mean , make haste come again , for he that made ten , made eleven . With merry solaces , quite void of all malice , with honest good fellows that's here , No cursing nor swearing , no staring nor tearing , among us do see me to appear , When we have spent all , to labour we fallen , for a living wee'le dig or wee'le delve . Determin'd to be , both bouteous and free , he that made eleven , made twelve . Now I think it is fit , and most requisite , to drink a health to our wives , The which being done , wee'le pay and be gone , strong drink all our wits now deprives : Then Hostess lets know , the sum that we owe , twelvepence there is for certain , Then fill t'other pot , and here's money for't for he that made twelve , made thirteene . London Printed for Henry Gossen . FINIS . A Health to all Good-Fellowes : OR , The good Companions Arithmaticke . To the tune of , To drive the cold Winter away . BE merry my hearts , and call for your quarts , and let no liquour be lacking , We have gold in store , we purpose to roar , until we set care a packing . Then Hostis make haste , and let no time waste , let every man have his endue , To save shoes and trouble , bring in the pots double for he that made one , made two . I'll drink up my drink , and speak what I think , strong drink will make us speak truly , We cannot be termed , all drunkards confirmed , so long as we are not unruly , Weel drink and be civil , intending no evil , if none be offended at me , As I did before , so I'll add one more , and he that made two , made three . The greedy Curmudgin , sits all the day snudging , at home with brown bred and small bear , To Coffer up wealth , he starves himself , scarce eats a good meal in a year , But I'll not do so , how ere the world go , so long as I have money in store , I scorn for to fail , go fill us more Ale , for he that made three , made foure . Why fit you thus sadly , because I call madly ; I mean not to leave in the lurch , My reckoning I'll pay , ere I go away , else hang me as high as a Church , Perhaps you will say this is not the way , they must pine that in this world will thrive , No matter for that , weel laugh and be fat , for he that made foure , made five . To those my good friends , my love so extends , I cannot truly express i When with you I meet , your words are so sweet , I am unwilling to miss it , I hate all base slaves , that their money saves , and all those that use base tricks , For with jovial blades , I'm as merry as the maids and he that made five , made six . Then drink about round , till sorrow be drowned , and let us sing heigh down a derry , I cannot endure to fit thus demure , for hither I came to be merry : Then pluck up a good heart , before we depart , with my Hostess we will make even , For I am set a madding , and still will be adding , for he that made six , made seven . The second part , To the same tune . SAd melancholy will bring us to folly , and this is death's principal magent , But this course I will take , it never shall make , me look otherwise then and agent , And in more content , my time shall be spent , and I'll pay every man his right , Then Hostess go fill , and stand not so still , for he that made seven , made eight . At home I confess , with my wife honest Besse , I practise , good husbandry well . I followed my calling , to keep me from falling , my neighbours about me that dwell , Will praise me at large , for maintaining my charge but when I to drinking incline , I scorn for to shrink , go fetch us more drink , for he that made eight , made nine . Then while we are here wee'le drink Ale & Beer , and freely our money wee'le spend , Let no man take care , for paying his share , if need be I'll pay for my friend , Then Hostess make haste , and let no time waste , you're welcome all kind Gentlemen : Never fear to carouse , while there is beer in the house , for he that made nine , made ten . Then Hostess be quicker , and bring us more liquour and let no attendance be missing , I cannot content me , to see the pot empty , a full cup is well worth the kissing , Then Hostess go fetch us some , for till you do come we are of all joys bereaven , You know what I mean , make haste come again , for he that made ten , made eleven . With merry solaces , quite void of all malice , with honest good fellows that's here , No cursing nor swearing , no staring nor tearing , among us do see me to appear , When we have spent all , to labour we fallen , for a living wee'le dig or wee'le delve . Determin'd to be , both bouteous and free , he that made eleven , made twelve . Now I think it is fit , and most requisite , to drink a health to our wives , The which being done , wee'le pay and be gone , strong drink all our wits now deprives : Then Hostess lets know , the sum that we owe , twelvepence there is for certain , Then fill t'other pot , and here's money for't for he that made twelve , made thirteene . London Printed for Henry Gossen . FINIS . A Health to all Good-Fellowes : OR , The good Companions Arithmaticke . To the tune of , To drive the cold Winter away . BE merry my hearts , and call for your quarts , and let no liquour be lacking , We have gold in store , we purpose to roar , until we set care a packing . Then Hostis make haste , and let no time waste , let every man have his endue , To save shoes and trouble , bring in the pots double for he that made one , made two . I'll drink up my drink , and speak what I think , strong drink will make us speak truly , We cannot be termed , all drunkards confirmed , so long as we are not unruly , Weel drink and be civil , intending no evil , if none be offended at me , As I did before , so I'll add one more , and he that made two , made three . The greedy Curmudgin , sits all the day snudging , at home with brown bred and small bear , To Coffer up wealth , he starves himself , scarce eats a good meal in a year , But I'll not do so , how ere the world go , so long as I have money in store , I scorn for to fail , go fill us more Ale , for he that made three , made foure . Why fit you thus sadly , because I call madly ; I mean not to leave in the lurch , My reckoning I'll pay , ere I go away , else hang me as high as a Church , Perhaps you will say this is not the way , they must pine that in this world will thrive , No matter for that , weel laugh and be fat , for he that made foure , made five . To those my good friends , my love so extends , I cannot truly express i When with you I meet , your words are so sweet , I am unwilling to miss it , I hate all base slaves , that their money saves , and all those that use base tricks , For with jovial blades , I'm as merry as the maids and he that made five , made six . Then drink about round , till sorrow be drowned , and let us sing heigh down a derry , I cannot endure to fit thus demure , for hither I came to be merry : Then pluck up a good heart , before we depart , with my Hostess we will make even , For I am set a madding , and still will be adding , for he that made six , made seven . The second part , To the same tune . SAd melancholy will bring us to folly , and this is death's principal magent , But this course I will take , it never shall make , me look otherwise then and agent , And in more content , my time shall be spent , and I'll pay every man his right , Then Hostess go fill , and stand not so still , for he that made seven , made eight . At home I confess , with my wife honest Besse , I practise , good husbandry well . I followed my calling , to keep me from falling , my neighbours about me that dwell , Will praise me at large , for maintaining my charge but when I to drinking incline , I scorn for to shrink , go fetch us more drink , for he that made eight , made nine . Then while we are here wee'le drink Ale & Beer , and freely our money wee'le spend , Let no man take care , for paying his share , if need be I'll pay for my friend , Then Hostess make haste , and let no time waste , you're welcome all kind Gentlemen : Never fear to carouse , while there is beer in the house , for he that made nine , made ten . Then Hostess be quicker , and bring us more liquour and let no attendance be missing , I cannot content me , to see the pot empty , a full cup is well worth the kissing , Then Hostess go fetch us some , for till you do come we are of all joys bereaven , You know what I mean , make haste come again , for he that made ten , made eleven . With merry solaces , quite void of all malice , with honest good fellows that's here , No cursing nor swearing , no staring nor tearing , among us do see me to appear , When we have spent all , to labour we fallen , for a living wee'le dig or wee'le delve . Determin'd to be , both bouteous and free , he that made eleven , made twelve . Now I think it is fit , and most requisite , to drink a health to our wives , The which being done , wee'le pay and be gone , strong drink all our wits now deprives : Then Hostess lets know , the sum that we owe , twelvepence there is for certain , Then fill t'other pot , and here's money for't for he that made twelve , made thirteene . London Printed for Henry Gossen . FINIS . 