Have among you good Women OR , A Highway discourse between old William Starket , And Robin Hobs , going to Maydstone mark Good Women before hand let me you advice , To keep your own counsel , and so be held wise . If any one take in ill part what's here said , Sheel show by her kicking that shee's a galled jade . To the tune of , Oh such a Rogue . GOd morrow old father Starket , whither go you with such speed , Ime going to Maidstone Market , to buy such things as I need : I care not if I go a long with you , if you go no faster then I , I am very glad that I spied you , for I love good company . What think you of Alce that sells butter , her neighbours head clothes she off plucked , And she scolded from dinner to supper , o such a scold would be cuckt . There's many such birds in our town , whose fury no reason can suage , Idem give very gladly a crown , to hear them all sing in a Cage : Poor men in subjection are held , so are modest women likewise , Unless their own mind be fulfil'd , they'll be ready to scratch out ones eyes . What think you of Jone the Spinner , her husbands pocket she picked , And she grudges her servants their dinner o such a Quean would be kicked . Nay kicking's too good for her , her husband of her stands in awe , Out of doors he dares not stir , for fear that he feel club law : If he to the Alehouse steal , shee'll go as fast or faster , And there she will ring him a peal , that is worse then Lord or Master : What think you of Ruth the Seamstris , her tongue can no way be reclam'd , She rules o're poor Tom like and Empress , o such a proud wench would be tam'd . This pity that men are such fools , to make themselves slaves to their wives , For still where the foot the head rules , 'tis wonder if any thing thrives : That man that will be his wives drudge , of such a conceit I am , That if I might be his Judge , he should eat none o'th roasted Ram : What think you of Jone that cries pins , come eight rows a penny cries she , She has broken her husbands shins , and swears shee'll be drunk before he . Why , wherefore all this does he suffer , why if he should give her a check , She tells her friends how he does cuff her , and threatens to break her neck : So he for fear shee'll cry out , dares neither to strike nor chide her , For shee'll give the word all about , that his Queans will not let him abide her : What think you of drunken Sue , for drink she will fell all her smocks , I'th streets she will rail and spew , 'tis fit she were tam'd in the stocks . The second part , To the same tune . NAy sometime beside her own getting , shee'll pawn his shirt and his breeches , Which all shall be spent at a sitting , and thus she increases his riches : What thinks her poor husband of that , why , if he do her reprehend , His face She will scratch like a Cat , and swears what she gets she will spend : What think you of Peg the Pie-woman , her Nose hath been cut and slashed , Shee's turned now a days very common , o such a Quean would be lashed . Last Saturday noon at dinner , some spoke about her I suppose , How she was found nought with a Joiner , whose wife came and cut her Nose : Indeed no body can blame her , she has given her a mark to be known , And if all that will not shame her , the Hangman has marked her for his own : What think you of snuffelling Kate , by her many women have smarted , She sells Maidenheads at a rate , o such a old Trot would be carted . Such cunning old sluts as she , indeed are the ruin of many , Such fast holding Lime-twigs they be , that if they get hold of any , There's no speech at all of dismissing , while money their turn can serve , Thus while he his Minion is kissing , his poor wife and children may starve : What think you of Madge that cries wheat , she makes her poor husband shed tears , She uses to cozen and cheat , but the Pillory gapes for her ears . I herd lately how she did deal , with a Butcher a notable blade , Whom she gulled of a quarter of Veil , and thus she set by her trade : Since that she hath done many a sleight , as bad or rather worse , If you in her company light , I wish you take heed of your purse : What think you of quarreling Nan , that will to no goodness be turn'd , She threatens to kill her good man , o such a Quean would be burn'd . I me sorry to hear that news , when man and wife are at strife : Alas neighbour , how can you choose , when a man go in danger on's life . Loe thus we have talked away time , and now perforce must we part , The Market is now in the prime , then farewell with all my hear Commend me to Doll at the Crown , that message must not be missed , Shee's the kindest Hostis in the town , o such a Lass would be kissed . But stay neighbour , hark you one word , which I had forgotten before , What hear you of little Kate Bird , some say she is turned arrant whore : Indeed neighbour I thought no less , since that with her I was acquainted , A man can not otherwise guess , her face is most basely painted : She lodges with mouldy fac [ ' ] tO Nell , and I doubt they will never be parted , Till the one get the lash in Bridewell , and the other from Newgate be carted . Printed at London for Thomas Lambert . FINIS . M.P. Have among you good Women OR , A Highway discourse between old William Starket , And Robin Hobs , going to Maydstone mark Good Women before hand let me you advice , To keep your own counsel , and so be held wise . If any one take in ill part what's here said , Sheel show by her kicking that shee's a galled jade . To the tune of , Oh such a Rogue . GOd morrow old father Starket , whither go you with such speed , Ime going to Maidstone Market , to buy such things as I need : I care not if I go a long with you , if you go no faster then I , I am very glad that I spied you , for I love good company . What think you of Alce that sells butter , her neighbours head clothes she off plucked , And she scolded from dinner to supper , o such a scold would be cuckt . There's many such birds in our town , whose fury no reason can suage , Idem give very gladly a crown , to hear them all sing in a Cage : Poor men in subjection are held , so are modest women likewise , Unless their own mind be fulfil'd , they'll be ready to scratch out ones eyes . What think you of Jone the Spinner , her husbands pocket she picked , And she grudges her servants their dinner o such a Quean would be kicked . Nay kicking's too good for her , her husband of her stands in awe , Out of doors he dares not stir , for fear that he feel club law : If he to the Alehouse steal , shee'll go as fast or faster , And there she will ring him a peal , that is worse then Lord or Master : What think you of Ruth the Seamstris , her tongue can no way be reclam'd , She rules o're poor Tom like and Empress , o such a proud wench would be tam'd . This pity that men are such fools , to make themselves slaves to their wives , For still where the foot the head rules , 'tis wonder if any thing thrives : That man that will be his wives drudge , of such a conceit I am , That if I might be his Judge , he should eat none o'th roasted Ram : What think you of Jone that cries pins , come eight rows a penny cries she , She has broken her husbands shins , and swears shee'll be drunk before he . Why , wherefore all this does he suffer , why if he should give her a check , She tells her friends how he does cuff her , and threatens to break her neck : So he for fear shee'll cry out , dares neither to strike nor chide her , For shee'll give the word all about , that his Queans will not let him abide her : What think you of drunken Sue , for drink she will fell all her smocks , I'th streets she will rail and spew , 'tis fit she were tam'd in the stocks . The second part , To the same tune . NAy sometime beside her own getting , shee'll pawn his shirt and his breeches , Which all shall be spent at a sitting , and thus she increases his riches : What thinks her poor husband of that , why , if he do her reprehend , His face She will scratch like a Cat , and swears what she gets she will spend : What think you of Peg the Pie-woman , her Nose hath been cut and slashed , Shee's turned now a days very common , o such a Quean would be lashed . Last Saturday noon at dinner , some spoke about her I suppose , How she was found nought with a Joiner , whose wife came and cut her Nose : Indeed no body can blame her , she has given her a mark to be known , And if all that will not shame her , the Hangman has marked her for his own : What think you of snuffelling Kate , by her many women have smarted , She sells Maidenheads at a rate , o such a old Trot would be carted . Such cunning old sluts as she , indeed are the ruin of many , Such fast holding Lime-twigs they be , that if they get hold of any , There's no speech at all of dismissing , while money their turn can serve , Thus while he his Minion is kissing , his poor wife and children may starve : What think you of Madge that cries wheat , she makes her poor husband shed tears , She uses to cozen and cheat , but the Pillory gapes for her ears . I herd lately how she did deal , with a Butcher a notable blade , Whom she gulled of a quarter of Veil , and thus she set by her trade : Since that she hath done many a sleight , as bad or rather worse , If you in her company light , I wish you take heed of your purse : What think you of quarreling Nan , that will to no goodness be turn'd , She threatens to kill her good man , o such a Quean would be burn'd . I me sorry to hear that news , when man and wife are at strife : Alas neighbour , how can you choose , when a man go in danger on's life . Loe thus we have talked away time , and now perforce must we part , The Market is now in the prime , then farewell with all my hear Commend me to Doll at the Crown , that message must not be missed , Shee's the kindest Hostis in the town , o such a Lass would be kissed . But stay neighbour , hark you one word , which I had forgotten before , What hear you of little Kate Bird , some say she is turned arrant whore : Indeed neighbour I thought no less , since that with her I was acquainted , A man can not otherwise guess , her face is most basely painted : She lodges with mouldy fac [ ' ] tO Nell , and I doubt they will never be parted , Till the one get the lash in Bridewell , and the other from Newgate be carted . Printed at London for Thomas Lambert . FINIS . M.P. Have among you good Women OR , A Highway discourse between old William Starket , And Robin Hobs , going to Maydstone mark Good Women before hand let me you advice , To keep your own counsel , and so be held wise . If any one take in ill part what's here said , Sheel show by her kicking that shee's a galled jade . To the tune of , Oh such a Rogue . GOd morrow old father Starket , whither go you with such speed , Ime going to Maidstone Market , to buy such things as I need : I care not if I go a long with you , if you go no faster then I , I am very glad that I spied you , for I love good company . What think you of Alce that sells butter , her neighbours head clothes she off plucked , And she scolded from dinner to supper , o such a scold would be cuckt . There's many such birds in our town , whose fury no reason can suage , Idem give very gladly a crown , to hear them all sing in a Cage : Poor men in subjection are held , so are modest women likewise , Unless their own mind be fulfil'd , they'll be ready to scratch out ones eyes . What think you of Jone the Spinner , her husbands pocket she picked , And she grudges her servants their dinner o such a Quean would be kicked . Nay kicking's too good for her , her husband of her stands in awe , Out of doors he dares not stir , for fear that he feel club law : If he to the Alehouse steal , shee'll go as fast or faster , And there she will ring him a peal , that is worse then Lord or Master : What think you of Ruth the Seamstris , her tongue can no way be reclam'd , She rules o're poor Tom like and Empress , o such a proud wench would be tam'd . This pity that men are such fools , to make themselves slaves to their wives , For still where the foot the head rules , 'tis wonder if any thing thrives : That man that will be his wives drudge , of such a conceit I am , That if I might be his Judge , he should eat none o'th roasted Ram : What think you of Jone that cries pins , come eight rows a penny cries she , She has broken her husbands shins , and swears shee'll be drunk before he . Why , wherefore all this does he suffer , why if he should give her a check , She tells her friends how he does cuff her , and threatens to break her neck : So he for fear shee'll cry out , dares neither to strike nor chide her , For shee'll give the word all about , that his Queans will not let him abide her : What think you of drunken Sue , for drink she will fell all her smocks , I'th streets she will rail and spew , 'tis fit she were tam'd in the stocks . The second part , To the same tune . NAy sometime beside her own getting , shee'll pawn his shirt and his breeches , Which all shall be spent at a sitting , and thus she increases his riches : What thinks her poor husband of that , why , if he do her reprehend , His face She will scratch like a Cat , and swears what she gets she will spend : What think you of Peg the Pie-woman , her Nose hath been cut and slashed , Shee's turned now a days very common , o such a Quean would be lashed . Last Saturday noon at dinner , some spoke about her I suppose , How she was found nought with a Joiner , whose wife came and cut her Nose : Indeed no body can blame her , she has given her a mark to be known , And if all that will not shame her , the Hangman has marked her for his own : What think you of snuffelling Kate , by her many women have smarted , She sells Maidenheads at a rate , o such a old Trot would be carted . Such cunning old sluts as she , indeed are the ruin of many , Such fast holding Lime-twigs they be , that if they get hold of any , There's no speech at all of dismissing , while money their turn can serve , Thus while he his Minion is kissing , his poor wife and children may starve : What think you of Madge that cries wheat , she makes her poor husband shed tears , She uses to cozen and cheat , but the Pillory gapes for her ears . I herd lately how she did deal , with a Butcher a notable blade , Whom she gulled of a quarter of Veil , and thus she set by her trade : Since that she hath done many a sleight , as bad or rather worse , If you in her company light , I wish you take heed of your purse : What think you of quarreling Nan , that will to no goodness be turn'd , She threatens to kill her good man , o such a Quean would be burn'd . I me sorry to hear that news , when man and wife are at strife : Alas neighbour , how can you choose , when a man go in danger on's life . Loe thus we have talked away time , and now perforce must we part , The Market is now in the prime , then farewell with all my hear Commend me to Doll at the Crown , that message must not be missed , Shee's the kindest Hostis in the town , o such a Lass would be kissed . But stay neighbour , hark you one word , which I had forgotten before , What hear you of little Kate Bird , some say she is turned arrant whore : Indeed neighbour I thought no less , since that with her I was acquainted , A man can not otherwise guess , her face is most basely painted : She lodges with mouldy fac [ ' ] tO Nell , and I doubt they will never be parted , Till the one get the lash in Bridewell , and the other from Newgate be carted . Printed at London for Thomas Lambert . FINIS . M.P. Have among you good Women OR , A Highway discourse between old William Starket , And Robin Hobs , going to Maydstone mark Good Women before hand let me you advice , To keep your own counsel , and so be held wise . If any one take in ill part what's here said , Sheel show by her kicking that shee's a galled jade . To the tune of , Oh such a Rogue . GOd morrow old father Starket , whither go you with such speed , Ime going to Maidstone Market , to buy such things as I need : I care not if I go a long with you , if you go no faster then I , I am very glad that I spied you , for I love good company . What think you of Alce that sells butter , her neighbours head clothes she off plucked , And she scolded from dinner to supper , o such a scold would be cuckt . There's many such birds in our town , whose fury no reason can suage , Idem give very gladly a crown , to hear them all sing in a Cage : Poor men in subjection are held , so are modest women likewise , Unless their own mind be fulfil'd , they'll be ready to scratch out ones eyes . What think you of Jone the Spinner , her husbands pocket she picked , And she grudges her servants their dinner o such a Quean would be kicked . Nay kicking's too good for her , her husband of her stands in awe , Out of doors he dares not stir , for fear that he feel club law : If he to the Alehouse steal , shee'll go as fast or faster , And there she will ring him a peal , that is worse then Lord or Master : What think you of Ruth the Seamstris , her tongue can no way be reclam'd , She rules o're poor Tom like and Empress , o such a proud wench would be tam'd . This pity that men are such fools , to make themselves slaves to their wives , For still where the foot the head rules , 'tis wonder if any thing thrives : That man that will be his wives drudge , of such a conceit I am , That if I might be his Judge , he should eat none o'th roasted Ram : What think you of Jone that cries pins , come eight rows a penny cries she , She has broken her husbands shins , and swears shee'll be drunk before he . Why , wherefore all this does he suffer , why if he should give her a check , She tells her friends how he does cuff her , and threatens to break her neck : So he for fear shee'll cry out , dares neither to strike nor chide her , For shee'll give the word all about , that his Queans will not let him abide her : What think you of drunken Sue , for drink she will fell all her smocks , I'th streets she will rail and spew , 'tis fit she were tam'd in the stocks . The second part , To the same tune . NAy sometime beside her own getting , shee'll pawn his shirt and his breeches , Which all shall be spent at a sitting , and thus she increases his riches : What thinks her poor husband of that , why , if he do her reprehend , His face She will scratch like a Cat , and swears what she gets she will spend : What think you of Peg the Pie-woman , her Nose hath been cut and slashed , Shee's turned now a days very common , o such a Quean would be lashed . Last Saturday noon at dinner , some spoke about her I suppose , How she was found nought with a Joiner , whose wife came and cut her Nose : Indeed no body can blame her , she has given her a mark to be known , And if all that will not shame her , the Hangman has marked her for his own : What think you of snuffelling Kate , by her many women have smarted , She sells Maidenheads at a rate , o such a old Trot would be carted . Such cunning old sluts as she , indeed are the ruin of many , Such fast holding Lime-twigs they be , that if they get hold of any , There's no speech at all of dismissing , while money their turn can serve , Thus while he his Minion is kissing , his poor wife and children may starve : What think you of Madge that cries wheat , she makes her poor husband shed tears , She uses to cozen and cheat , but the Pillory gapes for her ears . I herd lately how she did deal , with a Butcher a notable blade , Whom she gulled of a quarter of Veil , and thus she set by her trade : Since that she hath done many a sleight , as bad or rather worse , If you in her company light , I wish you take heed of your purse : What think you of quarreling Nan , that will to no goodness be turn'd , She threatens to kill her good man , o such a Quean would be burn'd . I me sorry to hear that news , when man and wife are at strife : Alas neighbour , how can you choose , when a man go in danger on's life . Loe thus we have talked away time , and now perforce must we part , The Market is now in the prime , then farewell with all my hear Commend me to Doll at the Crown , that message must not be missed , Shee's the kindest Hostis in the town , o such a Lass would be kissed . But stay neighbour , hark you one word , which I had forgotten before , What hear you of little Kate Bird , some say she is turned arrant whore : Indeed neighbour I thought no less , since that with her I was acquainted , A man can not otherwise guess , her face is most basely painted : She lodges with mouldy fac [ ' ] tO Nell , and I doubt they will never be parted , Till the one get the lash in Bridewell , and the other from Newgate be carted . Printed at London for Thomas Lambert . FINIS . M.P. 