The industrious Smith wherein is shown , How plain dealing is overthrown , That let a man do the best that he may , And idle huswife will work his decay , Yet art is no burden , though ill we may speed , Our labour will help us in time of our need ; To the tune of young man remember delights are but vain . THere was a poor Smith liv'd in a poor town , That had a loving wife bonny and brown , And though he were very discreet and wise , Yet would he do nothing without her advice , His stock it grew low , full well he did know , He told his wife what he intended to do , Quoth he , sweet wife , if I can prevail , I will shoo horses , and thou shalt fell Ale . I see by my labour but little I thrive , And that against the stream I do strive , By selling of Ale some money is god , If every man honestly pay for his po By this may we keep the Wolf from the door , And live in good fashion though now we live poor , If we have good custom we shall have quick sale , So may we live bravely by selling of Ale . Kind husband , quoth she , let be as you said , It is the best motion that ever you made , A Stan of good Ale , let me have in , A dozen of good white bred in my been , Tobacco likewise we must not forget , Men will call for it , when malt's above wheat . When once it is known , then over hill and dale , Men will come flocking to taste of our Ale . They sent for a wench , her name it was Besse , And her they hired to welcome their guess , They took in good Ale and many things more , The Smith had god him two strings to his bow , Good fellows come in , and began for to roar , The Smith he was never so troubled before , But quoth the good wife , sweet heart do not rail , These things must be if we fell Ale . The Smith went to his work every day , But still one or other would call him away . For now he had god him the name of and Host , It cost him many a pot and a toste , Beside much precious time he now lost , And thus the poor Smith was every day crossed , But , quoth the good wife , sweet heart do not rail , These things must be if we fell Ale . Men run on the score and little they paid Which made the poor Smith be greatly dismayed And bonny Besse though she were not slack , To welcome her guess , yet things went to wrack For she would exchange a pot for a kiss , Which any fellow should seldom times miss . But quoth the good wife , sweet heart do not rail , These things must be if we fell Ale . The Smith went abroad , at length he came home And found his maid , and man in a room , Both drinking together foot to foot , To speak unto them he thought it no boot , For they were both drunk and could not reply , To make and excuse as big as a lie . But quoth the good wife , sweet heart do not rail , These things must be if we fell Ale . He came home again and there he did see His Wife kindly sitting on a men knee , And though he said little , yet he thought the more And who could blame the poor Wittal therefore , He hugd her & kissed her though Vulcan stood by , Which made him to grumble , and look all awry . But quoth the good wife , sweet heart do not rail , These things must be if we fell Ale . The second part to the same tune . A Sort of Sailors were drinking one night , And when they were drunk began for to fight The Smith came to part them , as some do report , And for his good will was beatrice in such sort , That he could not lift his arms to his head , Nor yet very hardly creep up to his bed . But quoth the good Wife , sweet heart do not rail , These things must be if we fell Ale . The Smith by chance a good fellow had met , That for strong Ale was much in his debt , He asked him for money , quoth he , by your leave , I owe you no money nor none you shall have , I owe to your wife and her I will pay , The Smith he was vexed and departed away . Alas , who could blame him if now he do rail , These things should not be though they sold Ale . Old debts must be paid , Oh why should they not , The fellow went home to pay the old shot , The Smith followed after and they fell at strife , For he found this fellow in bed with his Wife , He fretted and fumed , he cursed and he swore , Quoth she , he is come to pay the old score . And still she cried , good sweet heart do not rail , For these things must be if we fell Ale . A flock of good fellows all Smiths by their trade , Within a while after a holiday made , Unto the Smiths house they came then with speed , And there they were wondrous merry indeed , With my pot and thy pot to raise the score hire , Mine Oast was so drunk he fell in the fire . But quoth the good Wife , sweet heart do not rail , These things must be if we fell Ale . Mine Oast being drunk and lose in his joints , He took and occasion to untruss his points , The vault it was never , but boarded but slight , The Smith he was heavy and could not tread light , The boards broke asunder , and down he fell in , It was a worse matter then breaking his shin , But quoth the good Wife , sweet heart do not rail , These things must be if we fell Ale . Happy is he who when he does stumble , Knows the ground well before he do tumble , But so did not he , for he had forgotten , The boards which he trod on were so rotten , He moved the house to mirth and to laughter , His clothes they stunk at least a month after , But , quoth the good Wife , sweet heart do not rail , These things must be if we fell Ale . But men ran so much with him on the score , That Vulcan at last grew wondrous poor , He owed the Brewer and Baker so much , They threatened to arrest him , his case it was such , He went to his Anvil , to my pot and thine , He turn'd out his Maid , he pulled down his Sign . But Oh ( quoth the good Wife ) why should we fail , These things should not be if we fell Ale . The Smith & his boy went to work for some chink , To pay for the liquour which others did drink , Of all trades in London , few break as I hear , That fell Tobacco , strong Ale and good Beer , They might have done better , but they were loath , To fill up their measure with nothing but froth . Let no Alehouse keeper at my Song rail , These things must be if they fell Ale . FINIS . Humfrey Crowch . LONDON , Printed for RICHARD HARPER in Smithfield . The industrious Smith wherein is shown , How plain dealing is overthrown , That let a man do the best that he may , And idle huswife will work his decay , Yet art is no burden , though ill we may speed , Our labour will help us in time of our need ; To the tune of young man remember delights are but vain . THere was a poor Smith liv'd in a poor town , That had a loving wife bonny and brown , And though he were very discreet and wise , Yet would he do nothing without her advice , His stock it grew low , full well he did know , He told his wife what he intended to do , Quoth he , sweet wife , if I can prevail , I will shoo horses , and thou shalt fell Ale . I see by my labour but little I thrive , And that against the stream I do strive , By selling of Ale some money is god , If every man honestly pay for his po By this may we keep the Wolf from the door , And live in good fashion though now we live poor , If we have good custom we shall have quick sale , So may we live bravely by selling of Ale . Kind husband , quoth she , let be as you said , It is the best motion that ever you made , A Stan of good Ale , let me have in , A dozen of good white bred in my been , Tobacco likewise we must not forget , Men will call for it , when malt's above wheat . When once it is known , then over hill and dale , Men will come flocking to taste of our Ale . They sent for a wench , her name it was Besse , And her they hired to welcome their guess , They took in good Ale and many things more , The Smith had god him two strings to his bow , Good fellows come in , and began for to roar , The Smith he was never so troubled before , But quoth the good wife , sweet heart do not rail , These things must be if we fell Ale . The Smith went to his work every day , But still one or other would call him away . For now he had god him the name of and Host , It cost him many a pot and a toste , Beside much precious time he now lost , And thus the poor Smith was every day crossed , But , quoth the good wife , sweet heart do not rail , These things must be if we fell Ale . Men run on the score and little they paid Which made the poor Smith be greatly dismayed And bonny Besse though she were not slack , To welcome her guess , yet things went to wrack For she would exchange a pot for a kiss , Which any fellow should seldom times miss . But quoth the good wife , sweet heart do not rail , These things must be if we fell Ale . The Smith went abroad , at length he came home And found his maid , and man in a room , Both drinking together foot to foot , To speak unto them he thought it no boot , For they were both drunk and could not reply , To make and excuse as big as a lie . But quoth the good wife , sweet heart do not rail , These things must be if we fell Ale . He came home again and there he did see His Wife kindly sitting on a men knee , And though he said little , yet he thought the more And who could blame the poor Wittal therefore , He hugd her & kissed her though Vulcan stood by , Which made him to grumble , and look all awry . But quoth the good wife , sweet heart do not rail , These things must be if we fell Ale . The second part to the same tune . A Sort of Sailors were drinking one night , And when they were drunk began for to fight The Smith came to part them , as some do report , And for his good will was beatrice in such sort , That he could not lift his arms to his head , Nor yet very hardly creep up to his bed . But quoth the good Wife , sweet heart do not rail , These things must be if we fell Ale . The Smith by chance a good fellow had met , That for strong Ale was much in his debt , He asked him for money , quoth he , by your leave , I owe you no money nor none you shall have , I owe to your wife and her I will pay , The Smith he was vexed and departed away . Alas , who could blame him if now he do rail , These things should not be though they sold Ale . Old debts must be paid , Oh why should they not , The fellow went home to pay the old shot , The Smith followed after and they fell at strife , For he found this fellow in bed with his Wife , He fretted and fumed , he cursed and he swore , Quoth she , he is come to pay the old score . And still she cried , good sweet heart do not rail , For these things must be if we fell Ale . A flock of good fellows all Smiths by their trade , Within a while after a holiday made , Unto the Smiths house they came then with speed , And there they were wondrous merry indeed , With my pot and thy pot to raise the score hire , Mine Oast was so drunk he fell in the fire . But quoth the good Wife , sweet heart do not rail , These things must be if we fell Ale . Mine Oast being drunk and lose in his joints , He took and occasion to untruss his points , The vault it was never , but boarded but slight , The Smith he was heavy and could not tread light , The boards broke asunder , and down he fell in , It was a worse matter then breaking his shin , But quoth the good Wife , sweet heart do not rail , These things must be if we fell Ale . Happy is he who when he does stumble , Knows the ground well before he do tumble , But so did not he , for he had forgotten , The boards which he trod on were so rotten , He moved the house to mirth and to laughter , His clothes they stunk at least a month after , But , quoth the good Wife , sweet heart do not rail , These things must be if we fell Ale . But men ran so much with him on the score , That Vulcan at last grew wondrous poor , He owed the Brewer and Baker so much , They threatened to arrest him , his case it was such , He went to his Anvil , to my pot and thine , He turn'd out his Maid , he pulled down his Sign . But Oh ( quoth the good Wife ) why should we fail , These things should not be if we fell Ale . The Smith & his boy went to work for some chink , To pay for the liquour which others did drink , Of all trades in London , few break as I hear , That fell Tobacco , strong Ale and good Beer , They might have done better , but they were loath , To fill up their measure with nothing but froth . Let no Alehouse keeper at my Song rail , These things must be if they fell Ale . FINIS . Humfrey Crowch . LONDON , Printed for RICHARD HARPER in Smithfield . The industrious Smith wherein is shown , How plain dealing is overthrown , That let a man do the best that he may , And idle huswife will work his decay , Yet art is no burden , though ill we may speed , Our labour will help us in time of our need ; To the tune of young man remember delights are but vain . THere was a poor Smith liv'd in a poor town , That had a loving wife bonny and brown , And though he were very discreet and wise , Yet would he do nothing without her advice , His stock it grew low , full well he did know , He told his wife what he intended to do , Quoth he , sweet wife , if I can prevail , I will shoo horses , and thou shalt fell Ale . I see by my labour but little I thrive , And that against the stream I do strive , By selling of Ale some money is god , If every man honestly pay for his po By this may we keep the Wolf from the door , And live in good fashion though now we live poor , If we have good custom we shall have quick sale , So may we live bravely by selling of Ale . Kind husband , quoth she , let be as you said , It is the best motion that ever you made , A Stan of good Ale , let me have in , A dozen of good white bred in my been , Tobacco likewise we must not forget , Men will call for it , when malt's above wheat . When once it is known , then over hill and dale , Men will come flocking to taste of our Ale . They sent for a wench , her name it was Besse , And her they hired to welcome their guess , They took in good Ale and many things more , The Smith had god him two strings to his bow , Good fellows come in , and began for to roar , The Smith he was never so troubled before , But quoth the good wife , sweet heart do not rail , These things must be if we fell Ale . The Smith went to his work every day , But still one or other would call him away . For now he had god him the name of and Host , It cost him many a pot and a toste , Beside much precious time he now lost , And thus the poor Smith was every day crossed , But , quoth the good wife , sweet heart do not rail , These things must be if we fell Ale . Men run on the score and little they paid Which made the poor Smith be greatly dismayed And bonny Besse though she were not slack , To welcome her guess , yet things went to wrack For she would exchange a pot for a kiss , Which any fellow should seldom times miss . But quoth the good wife , sweet heart do not rail , These things must be if we fell Ale . The Smith went abroad , at length he came home And found his maid , and man in a room , Both drinking together foot to foot , To speak unto them he thought it no boot , For they were both drunk and could not reply , To make and excuse as big as a lie . But quoth the good wife , sweet heart do not rail , These things must be if we fell Ale . He came home again and there he did see His Wife kindly sitting on a men knee , And though he said little , yet he thought the more And who could blame the poor Wittal therefore , He hugd her & kissed her though Vulcan stood by , Which made him to grumble , and look all awry . But quoth the good wife , sweet heart do not rail , These things must be if we fell Ale . The second part to the same tune . A Sort of Sailors were drinking one night , And when they were drunk began for to fight The Smith came to part them , as some do report , And for his good will was beatrice in such sort , That he could not lift his arms to his head , Nor yet very hardly creep up to his bed . But quoth the good Wife , sweet heart do not rail , These things must be if we fell Ale . The Smith by chance a good fellow had met , That for strong Ale was much in his debt , He asked him for money , quoth he , by your leave , I owe you no money nor none you shall have , I owe to your wife and her I will pay , The Smith he was vexed and departed away . Alas , who could blame him if now he do rail , These things should not be though they sold Ale . Old debts must be paid , Oh why should they not , The fellow went home to pay the old shot , The Smith followed after and they fell at strife , For he found this fellow in bed with his Wife , He fretted and fumed , he cursed and he swore , Quoth she , he is come to pay the old score . And still she cried , good sweet heart do not rail , For these things must be if we fell Ale . A flock of good fellows all Smiths by their trade , Within a while after a holiday made , Unto the Smiths house they came then with speed , And there they were wondrous merry indeed , With my pot and thy pot to raise the score hire , Mine Oast was so drunk he fell in the fire . But quoth the good Wife , sweet heart do not rail , These things must be if we fell Ale . Mine Oast being drunk and lose in his joints , He took and occasion to untruss his points , The vault it was never , but boarded but slight , The Smith he was heavy and could not tread light , The boards broke asunder , and down he fell in , It was a worse matter then breaking his shin , But quoth the good Wife , sweet heart do not rail , These things must be if we fell Ale . Happy is he who when he does stumble , Knows the ground well before he do tumble , But so did not he , for he had forgotten , The boards which he trod on were so rotten , He moved the house to mirth and to laughter , His clothes they stunk at least a month after , But , quoth the good Wife , sweet heart do not rail , These things must be if we fell Ale . But men ran so much with him on the score , That Vulcan at last grew wondrous poor , He owed the Brewer and Baker so much , They threatened to arrest him , his case it was such , He went to his Anvil , to my pot and thine , He turn'd out his Maid , he pulled down his Sign . But Oh ( quoth the good Wife ) why should we fail , These things should not be if we fell Ale . The Smith & his boy went to work for some chink , To pay for the liquour which others did drink , Of all trades in London , few break as I hear , That fell Tobacco , strong Ale and good Beer , They might have done better , but they were loath , To fill up their measure with nothing but froth . Let no Alehouse keeper at my Song rail , These things must be if they fell Ale . FINIS . Humfrey Crowch . LONDON , Printed for RICHARD HARPER in Smithfield . The industrious Smith wherein is shown , How plain dealing is overthrown , That let a man do the best that he may , And idle huswife will work his decay , Yet art is no burden , though ill we may speed , Our labour will help us in time of our need ; To the tune of young man remember delights are but vain . THere was a poor Smith liv'd in a poor town , That had a loving wife bonny and brown , And though he were very discreet and wise , Yet would he do nothing without her advice , His stock it grew low , full well he did know , He told his wife what he intended to do , Quoth he , sweet wife , if I can prevail , I will shoo horses , and thou shalt fell Ale . I see by my labour but little I thrive , And that against the stream I do strive , By selling of Ale some money is god , If every man honestly pay for his po By this may we keep the Wolf from the door , And live in good fashion though now we live poor , If we have good custom we shall have quick sale , So may we live bravely by selling of Ale . Kind husband , quoth she , let be as you said , It is the best motion that ever you made , A Stan of good Ale , let me have in , A dozen of good white bred in my been , Tobacco likewise we must not forget , Men will call for it , when malt's above wheat . When once it is known , then over hill and dale , Men will come flocking to taste of our Ale . They sent for a wench , her name it was Besse , And her they hired to welcome their guess , They took in good Ale and many things more , The Smith had god him two strings to his bow , Good fellows come in , and began for to roar , The Smith he was never so troubled before , But quoth the good wife , sweet heart do not rail , These things must be if we fell Ale . The Smith went to his work every day , But still one or other would call him away . For now he had god him the name of and Host , It cost him many a pot and a toste , Beside much precious time he now lost , And thus the poor Smith was every day crossed , But , quoth the good wife , sweet heart do not rail , These things must be if we fell Ale . Men run on the score and little they paid Which made the poor Smith be greatly dismayed And bonny Besse though she were not slack , To welcome her guess , yet things went to wrack For she would exchange a pot for a kiss , Which any fellow should seldom times miss . But quoth the good wife , sweet heart do not rail , These things must be if we fell Ale . The Smith went abroad , at length he came home And found his maid , and man in a room , Both drinking together foot to foot , To speak unto them he thought it no boot , For they were both drunk and could not reply , To make and excuse as big as a lie . But quoth the good wife , sweet heart do not rail , These things must be if we fell Ale . He came home again and there he did see His Wife kindly sitting on a men knee , And though he said little , yet he thought the more And who could blame the poor Wittal therefore , He hugd her & kissed her though Vulcan stood by , Which made him to grumble , and look all awry . But quoth the good wife , sweet heart do not rail , These things must be if we fell Ale . The second part to the same tune . A Sort of Sailors were drinking one night , And when they were drunk began for to fight The Smith came to part them , as some do report , And for his good will was beatrice in such sort , That he could not lift his arms to his head , Nor yet very hardly creep up to his bed . But quoth the good Wife , sweet heart do not rail , These things must be if we fell Ale . The Smith by chance a good fellow had met , That for strong Ale was much in his debt , He asked him for money , quoth he , by your leave , I owe you no money nor none you shall have , I owe to your wife and her I will pay , The Smith he was vexed and departed away . Alas , who could blame him if now he do rail , These things should not be though they sold Ale . Old debts must be paid , Oh why should they not , The fellow went home to pay the old shot , The Smith followed after and they fell at strife , For he found this fellow in bed with his Wife , He fretted and fumed , he cursed and he swore , Quoth she , he is come to pay the old score . And still she cried , good sweet heart do not rail , For these things must be if we fell Ale . A flock of good fellows all Smiths by their trade , Within a while after a holiday made , Unto the Smiths house they came then with speed , And there they were wondrous merry indeed , With my pot and thy pot to raise the score hire , Mine Oast was so drunk he fell in the fire . But quoth the good Wife , sweet heart do not rail , These things must be if we fell Ale . Mine Oast being drunk and lose in his joints , He took and occasion to untruss his points , The vault it was never , but boarded but slight , The Smith he was heavy and could not tread light , The boards broke asunder , and down he fell in , It was a worse matter then breaking his shin , But quoth the good Wife , sweet heart do not rail , These things must be if we fell Ale . Happy is he who when he does stumble , Knows the ground well before he do tumble , But so did not he , for he had forgotten , The boards which he trod on were so rotten , He moved the house to mirth and to laughter , His clothes they stunk at least a month after , But , quoth the good Wife , sweet heart do not rail , These things must be if we fell Ale . But men ran so much with him on the score , That Vulcan at last grew wondrous poor , He owed the Brewer and Baker so much , They threatened to arrest him , his case it was such , He went to his Anvil , to my pot and thine , He turn'd out his Maid , he pulled down his Sign . But Oh ( quoth the good Wife ) why should we fail , These things should not be if we fell Ale . The Smith & his boy went to work for some chink , To pay for the liquour which others did drink , Of all trades in London , few break as I hear , That fell Tobacco , strong Ale and good Beer , They might have done better , but they were loath , To fill up their measure with nothing but froth . Let no Alehouse keeper at my Song rail , These things must be if they fell Ale . FINIS . Humfrey Crowch . LONDON , Printed for RICHARD HARPER in Smithfield . 