Joy and sorrow mixed together : Or , a pleasant new Ditty , wherein you may find Conceits that are pretty to pleasure your mind . To the tune of , Such a Rouge would be hang'd . HAng sorrow , let's cast away care , for now I do mean to be merry ; Wee'l drink some good Ale and strong Beer , with Sugar , and Clarret , and Sherry . Now I'll have a Wife of mine own , I shall have no need for to borrow : I would have it for to be known , that I shall be married to morrow . Here's a health to my Bride that shall be , come pledge it you boon merry blades : The day I much long for to see , we will be as merry as the Maids . I long have sought out for a Wife , before that I any could see : But now for to end all the strife , I have found one that pleases me . She is a brave gallant indeed , beside she is loving and kind : Good luck had I so well to speed , she is according to my mind . Here's a health to my Bride that shall be , come pledge it you boon merry blades : To morrow's the day you shall see , we will be as merry , etc Dame Nature hath showed her Art in framing my Love so complete , Shee's handsomely made in each part , her like is not in my concei Her hair it does glitter like gold , her eyes like to Stars do appear : Shee's beauteous for to behold , yet she is my joy and my deer . Here's a health to my Bride that shall be , come pledge it , etc There's many a one will admire , how I should obtain such a Lass : But now she's mine , gold shall not buy her , for ever I will her embrace : Beside she's a friend that will give ten pound to me when I am married , This will maintain us while we live , and if things be orderly carried . Here's a health , etc This man is a friend to my Lass , I doubt not but so hee'l remain : He tells me what ere come to pass , my labour shall not be in vain , If he his own promise do keep , 'tis likely with me to go well : This makes me both waking and sleep to think of my bonny sweet Nell . Here's a health , etc Now is the sad night overpast , and day cheerfully does appear , To Church with my Nell I'll make haste , to void all suspicion and fear : All you that will now go along , I pray you not to use delay ; Delay oftentimes causeth wrong , I'm joyful of this happy day . Now here's a health to my Bride , come pledge it you boon merry blades , And to all married couples beside , wee'll now be as merry as the Maids . Now wedding and all being done and finished as he did desire , The Company homeward were gone , the Bride a bed , and he lay by her : Some speeches there passed them between , which made him his bargain repent , The next morning as it does seem , the Bridegroom began to relent , He'l now drink no more to his Bride , nor yet to no boon merry blades ; Now he lays his joys all aside , he is not so merry as the Maids . The second part now makes the young man complain , He wishes with heart , he were unwedded again . To the same tune . YOu young men I'm married too soon , my Wife she is not what she seem'd , Alas I am now quite undone , now sorrow comes which I never deem'd : In Wiving I have made too much haste , I would the fast knot were untied , If my wedding day were not past , I would not be tide to my Bride . I'm wedded to sorrow and pain , now farewell all my merry blades ; Would I were unmarried again , I would be as merry as the Maids . My Wife's not what I thought she was , the more is my grief and my care ; She proves to me but a cracked glass , alas I am catched in a snare : She was promis'd me to be found , but now I find 'tis nothing so , Would I were rid of her ten pound , so that I were rid of her too . I'm wedded to sorrow , etc The man that did give me the money , I doubt that he had the best share , It seems he did love my sweet honey , and still does so I greatly fear : But now here is the worst of all , my Wife she proves to be with Barn , The Child it will me Father call , although me it nothing concern . I'm wedded , etc My Wife was with Child long before that I married her , I do find , 'Tis folly to say any more , and yet it does trouble my mind : If I ask her in loving sort , to whom she her Maidenhead did give , With words she does cut me off short , saying , I shall never know while I live . I'm wedded , etc What Man living can brook this wrong , to Father another men Child ? Yet I were as good hold my tongue , now I find that I am beguiled : With patience I must be content , 'tis many men's Fortune like mine , Now I have no way to prevent , this I might have foreseen in time . I'm wedded to sorrow , etc Before I was wed I never thought of any such matter at all , I thought a great price I had caught , but now my reward is but small : 'Tis true indeed I have ten pound , and a dainty curious fine Wife ; But had I known what I have found , I would have lived a single life . I [ ' ] m wedded , etc Let young men take warning by me , for Maidens are dangerous ware , I have god a Wife and some money , and yet I have bought her too deer : For cunningly I am buguild , unto all my Neighbours 'tis known , Now I must Father a Child , although it be none of mine own . I'm wedded to sorrow and pain , now farewell all my merry blades , Would I were unmarried again , I would be as merry as the Maids . Finis . Richard Climsall . London , Printed for John Wright the youn - her dwelling in the Old Bayley . Joy and sorrow mixed together : Or , a pleasant new Ditty , wherein you may find Conceits that are pretty to pleasure your mind . To the tune of , Such a Rouge would be hang'd . HAng sorrow , let's cast away care , for now I do mean to be merry ; Wee'l drink some good Ale and strong Beer , with Sugar , and Clarret , and Sherry . Now I'll have a Wife of mine own , I shall have no need for to borrow : I would have it for to be known , that I shall be married to morrow . Here's a health to my Bride that shall be , come pledge it you boon merry blades : The day I much long for to see , we will be as merry as the Maids . I long have sought out for a Wife , before that I any could see : But now for to end all the strife , I have found one that pleases me . She is a brave gallant indeed , beside she is loving and kind : Good luck had I so well to speed , she is according to my mind . Here's a health to my Bride that shall be , come pledge it you boon merry blades : To morrow's the day you shall see , we will be as merry , etc Dame Nature hath showed her Art in framing my Love so complete , Shee's handsomely made in each part , her like is not in my concei Her hair it does glitter like gold , her eyes like to Stars do appear : Shee's beauteous for to behold , yet she is my joy and my deer . Here's a health to my Bride that shall be , come pledge it , etc There's many a one will admire , how I should obtain such a Lass : But now she's mine , gold shall not buy her , for ever I will her embrace : Beside she's a friend that will give ten pound to me when I am married , This will maintain us while we live , and if things be orderly carried . Here's a health , etc This man is a friend to my Lass , I doubt not but so hee'l remain : He tells me what ere come to pass , my labour shall not be in vain , If he his own promise do keep , 'tis likely with me to go well : This makes me both waking and sleep to think of my bonny sweet Nell . Here's a health , etc Now is the sad night overpast , and day cheerfully does appear , To Church with my Nell I'll make haste , to void all suspicion and fear : All you that will now go along , I pray you not to use delay ; Delay oftentimes causeth wrong , I'm joyful of this happy day . Now here's a health to my Bride , come pledge it you boon merry blades , And to all married couples beside , wee'll now be as merry as the Maids . Now wedding and all being done and finished as he did desire , The Company homeward were gone , the Bride a bed , and he lay by her : Some speeches there passed them between , which made him his bargain repent , The next morning as it does seem , the Bridegroom began to relent , He'l now drink no more to his Bride , nor yet to no boon merry blades ; Now he lays his joys all aside , he is not so merry as the Maids . The second part now makes the young man complain , He wishes with heart , he were unwedded again . To the same tune . YOu young men I'm married too soon , my Wife she is not what she seem'd , Alas I am now quite undone , now sorrow comes which I never deem'd : In Wiving I have made too much haste , I would the fast knot were untied , If my wedding day were not past , I would not be tide to my Bride . I'm wedded to sorrow and pain , now farewell all my merry blades ; Would I were unmarried again , I would be as merry as the Maids . My Wife's not what I thought she was , the more is my grief and my care ; She proves to me but a cracked glass , alas I am catched in a snare : She was promis'd me to be found , but now I find 'tis nothing so , Would I were rid of her ten pound , so that I were rid of her too . I'm wedded to sorrow , etc The man that did give me the money , I doubt that he had the best share , It seems he did love my sweet honey , and still does so I greatly fear : But now here is the worst of all , my Wife she proves to be with Barn , The Child it will me Father call , although me it nothing concern . I'm wedded , etc My Wife was with Child long before that I married her , I do find , 'Tis folly to say any more , and yet it does trouble my mind : If I ask her in loving sort , to whom she her Maidenhead did give , With words she does cut me off short , saying , I shall never know while I live . I'm wedded , etc What Man living can brook this wrong , to Father another men Child ? Yet I were as good hold my tongue , now I find that I am beguiled : With patience I must be content , 'tis many men's Fortune like mine , Now I have no way to prevent , this I might have foreseen in time . I'm wedded to sorrow , etc Before I was wed I never thought of any such matter at all , I thought a great price I had caught , but now my reward is but small : 'Tis true indeed I have ten pound , and a dainty curious fine Wife ; But had I known what I have found , I would have lived a single life . I [ ' ] m wedded , etc Let young men take warning by me , for Maidens are dangerous ware , I have god a Wife and some money , and yet I have bought her too deer : For cunningly I am buguild , unto all my Neighbours 'tis known , Now I must Father a Child , although it be none of mine own . I'm wedded to sorrow and pain , now farewell all my merry blades , Would I were unmarried again , I would be as merry as the Maids . Finis . Richard Climsall . London , Printed for John Wright the youn - her dwelling in the Old Bayley . Joy and sorrow mixed together : Or , a pleasant new Ditty , wherein you may find Conceits that are pretty to pleasure your mind . To the tune of , Such a Rouge would be hang'd . HAng sorrow , let's cast away care , for now I do mean to be merry ; Wee'l drink some good Ale and strong Beer , with Sugar , and Clarret , and Sherry . Now I'll have a Wife of mine own , I shall have no need for to borrow : I would have it for to be known , that I shall be married to morrow . Here's a health to my Bride that shall be , come pledge it you boon merry blades : The day I much long for to see , we will be as merry as the Maids . I long have sought out for a Wife , before that I any could see : But now for to end all the strife , I have found one that pleases me . She is a brave gallant indeed , beside she is loving and kind : Good luck had I so well to speed , she is according to my mind . Here's a health to my Bride that shall be , come pledge it you boon merry blades : To morrow's the day you shall see , we will be as merry , etc Dame Nature hath showed her Art in framing my Love so complete , Shee's handsomely made in each part , her like is not in my concei Her hair it does glitter like gold , her eyes like to Stars do appear : Shee's beauteous for to behold , yet she is my joy and my deer . Here's a health to my Bride that shall be , come pledge it , etc There's many a one will admire , how I should obtain such a Lass : But now she's mine , gold shall not buy her , for ever I will her embrace : Beside she's a friend that will give ten pound to me when I am married , This will maintain us while we live , and if things be orderly carried . Here's a health , etc This man is a friend to my Lass , I doubt not but so hee'l remain : He tells me what ere come to pass , my labour shall not be in vain , If he his own promise do keep , 'tis likely with me to go well : This makes me both waking and sleep to think of my bonny sweet Nell . Here's a health , etc Now is the sad night overpast , and day cheerfully does appear , To Church with my Nell I'll make haste , to void all suspicion and fear : All you that will now go along , I pray you not to use delay ; Delay oftentimes causeth wrong , I'm joyful of this happy day . Now here's a health to my Bride , come pledge it you boon merry blades , And to all married couples beside , wee'll now be as merry as the Maids . Now wedding and all being done and finished as he did desire , The Company homeward were gone , the Bride a bed , and he lay by her : Some speeches there passed them between , which made him his bargain repent , The next morning as it does seem , the Bridegroom began to relent , He'l now drink no more to his Bride , nor yet to no boon merry blades ; Now he lays his joys all aside , he is not so merry as the Maids . The second part now makes the young man complain , He wishes with heart , he were unwedded again . To the same tune . YOu young men I'm married too soon , my Wife she is not what she seem'd , Alas I am now quite undone , now sorrow comes which I never deem'd : In Wiving I have made too much haste , I would the fast knot were untied , If my wedding day were not past , I would not be tide to my Bride . I'm wedded to sorrow and pain , now farewell all my merry blades ; Would I were unmarried again , I would be as merry as the Maids . My Wife's not what I thought she was , the more is my grief and my care ; She proves to me but a cracked glass , alas I am catched in a snare : She was promis'd me to be found , but now I find 'tis nothing so , Would I were rid of her ten pound , so that I were rid of her too . I'm wedded to sorrow , etc The man that did give me the money , I doubt that he had the best share , It seems he did love my sweet honey , and still does so I greatly fear : But now here is the worst of all , my Wife she proves to be with Barn , The Child it will me Father call , although me it nothing concern . I'm wedded , etc My Wife was with Child long before that I married her , I do find , 'Tis folly to say any more , and yet it does trouble my mind : If I ask her in loving sort , to whom she her Maidenhead did give , With words she does cut me off short , saying , I shall never know while I live . I'm wedded , etc What Man living can brook this wrong , to Father another men Child ? Yet I were as good hold my tongue , now I find that I am beguiled : With patience I must be content , 'tis many men's Fortune like mine , Now I have no way to prevent , this I might have foreseen in time . I'm wedded to sorrow , etc Before I was wed I never thought of any such matter at all , I thought a great price I had caught , but now my reward is but small : 'Tis true indeed I have ten pound , and a dainty curious fine Wife ; But had I known what I have found , I would have lived a single life . I [ ' ] m wedded , etc Let young men take warning by me , for Maidens are dangerous ware , I have god a Wife and some money , and yet I have bought her too deer : For cunningly I am buguild , unto all my Neighbours 'tis known , Now I must Father a Child , although it be none of mine own . I'm wedded to sorrow and pain , now farewell all my merry blades , Would I were unmarried again , I would be as merry as the Maids . Finis . Richard Climsall . London , Printed for John Wright the youn - her dwelling in the Old Bayley . Joy and sorrow mixed together : Or , a pleasant new Ditty , wherein you may find Conceits that are pretty to pleasure your mind . To the tune of , Such a Rouge would be hang'd . HAng sorrow , let's cast away care , for now I do mean to be merry ; Wee'l drink some good Ale and strong Beer , with Sugar , and Clarret , and Sherry . Now I'll have a Wife of mine own , I shall have no need for to borrow : I would have it for to be known , that I shall be married to morrow . Here's a health to my Bride that shall be , come pledge it you boon merry blades : The day I much long for to see , we will be as merry as the Maids . I long have sought out for a Wife , before that I any could see : But now for to end all the strife , I have found one that pleases me . She is a brave gallant indeed , beside she is loving and kind : Good luck had I so well to speed , she is according to my mind . Here's a health to my Bride that shall be , come pledge it you boon merry blades : To morrow's the day you shall see , we will be as merry , etc Dame Nature hath showed her Art in framing my Love so complete , Shee's handsomely made in each part , her like is not in my concei Her hair it does glitter like gold , her eyes like to Stars do appear : Shee's beauteous for to behold , yet she is my joy and my deer . Here's a health to my Bride that shall be , come pledge it , etc There's many a one will admire , how I should obtain such a Lass : But now she's mine , gold shall not buy her , for ever I will her embrace : Beside she's a friend that will give ten pound to me when I am married , This will maintain us while we live , and if things be orderly carried . Here's a health , etc This man is a friend to my Lass , I doubt not but so hee'l remain : He tells me what ere come to pass , my labour shall not be in vain , If he his own promise do keep , 'tis likely with me to go well : This makes me both waking and sleep to think of my bonny sweet Nell . Here's a health , etc Now is the sad night overpast , and day cheerfully does appear , To Church with my Nell I'll make haste , to void all suspicion and fear : All you that will now go along , I pray you not to use delay ; Delay oftentimes causeth wrong , I'm joyful of this happy day . Now here's a health to my Bride , come pledge it you boon merry blades , And to all married couples beside , wee'll now be as merry as the Maids . Now wedding and all being done and finished as he did desire , The Company homeward were gone , the Bride a bed , and he lay by her : Some speeches there passed them between , which made him his bargain repent , The next morning as it does seem , the Bridegroom began to relent , He'l now drink no more to his Bride , nor yet to no boon merry blades ; Now he lays his joys all aside , he is not so merry as the Maids . The second part now makes the young man complain , He wishes with heart , he were unwedded again . To the same tune . YOu young men I'm married too soon , my Wife she is not what she seem'd , Alas I am now quite undone , now sorrow comes which I never deem'd : In Wiving I have made too much haste , I would the fast knot were untied , If my wedding day were not past , I would not be tide to my Bride . I'm wedded to sorrow and pain , now farewell all my merry blades ; Would I were unmarried again , I would be as merry as the Maids . My Wife's not what I thought she was , the more is my grief and my care ; She proves to me but a cracked glass , alas I am catched in a snare : She was promis'd me to be found , but now I find 'tis nothing so , Would I were rid of her ten pound , so that I were rid of her too . I'm wedded to sorrow , etc The man that did give me the money , I doubt that he had the best share , It seems he did love my sweet honey , and still does so I greatly fear : But now here is the worst of all , my Wife she proves to be with Barn , The Child it will me Father call , although me it nothing concern . I'm wedded , etc My Wife was with Child long before that I married her , I do find , 'Tis folly to say any more , and yet it does trouble my mind : If I ask her in loving sort , to whom she her Maidenhead did give , With words she does cut me off short , saying , I shall never know while I live . I'm wedded , etc What Man living can brook this wrong , to Father another men Child ? Yet I were as good hold my tongue , now I find that I am beguiled : With patience I must be content , 'tis many men's Fortune like mine , Now I have no way to prevent , this I might have foreseen in time . I'm wedded to sorrow , etc Before I was wed I never thought of any such matter at all , I thought a great price I had caught , but now my reward is but small : 'Tis true indeed I have ten pound , and a dainty curious fine Wife ; But had I known what I have found , I would have lived a single life . I [ ' ] m wedded , etc Let young men take warning by me , for Maidens are dangerous ware , I have god a Wife and some money , and yet I have bought her too deer : For cunningly I am buguild , unto all my Neighbours 'tis known , Now I must Father a Child , although it be none of mine own . I'm wedded to sorrow and pain , now farewell all my merry blades , Would I were unmarried again , I would be as merry as the Maids . Finis . Richard Climsall . London , Printed for John Wright the youn - her dwelling in the Old Bayley . 