The Woeful Lamentation of Mrs. JANE SHORE , a Gold-smith's Wife of London , sometime King Edward the Fourth's Cancubine , who for her Wanton Life came tO [ oh ] a Miserable End. Set Forth for the Example of all wicked Livers . To the Tune of , Live with me . IF Rosamond that was so fair , Had cause her sorrows to declare , Then let Jane Shore with sorrow sing , That was beloved of a King : Then wanton Wives in time amend , For love and beauty will have end . In maidens years my beauty bright Was loved dear of Lord and Knight , But yet the love that they requir'd , It was not as my friends desir'd ; My Parents they for thirst of gain , A husband for me did obtain ; And I their pleasure to fulfil , Was forc'd to wed against my will To Matthew Shore , I was a wife , Till lust brought ruin to my life . And then my life so lewdly spent , Which makes my soul for to lamen In Lumbard-street I once did dwell , As London yet can witness well , Where many Gallants did behold My beauty in a shop of Gold : I spread my plumes as wantons do , Some sweet and secret friend to woo , Because my love I did not find Agreeing to my wanton mind . At last my name in Court did ring , Into the ears of Englands King , Who came and lik'd and love required , But I made coy what he desired : Yet mistress Blague a neighbour near , Whose friendship I esteemed dear Did say it was a gallant thing , To be beloved of a King . By her persuasions I was led For to defile my marriagebed , And wrong my wedded husband Shore , Whom I had lov'd ten years before ; In heart and mind I did rejoice , That I had made so sweet a choice , And therefore did my state resign To be King Edwards Concubine ; From City then to Court I went , To reap the pleasures of content , And had the Joys that love could bring And knew the secrets of a King : When I was thus advanc'd on high , Commanding Edward with mine eye , For mistress Blague I in short space Obtain'd a living of his Grace . No friend I had but in short time I made unto promortion climb : But yet for all this costly pride ; My husband could not me abide : His bed though wronged by a King , His heart with grief did deadly sting , From England then he goes away , To end his life upon the Sea , He could not live to see his name Impaired by my wanton shame , Although a Prince of Peerless might , Did reap the pleasure of his right . Long time I lived in the court With Lords and Ladies of great sort , For when I smil'd all men were glad , But when I mourn'd my prince grew sad . But yet and honest mind I boar To helpless people that were poor , I still redressed the Orphans cry , And sav'd their lives condemn'd to die . I still had ruth on widows tears , I succour'd babes of tender years , And never looked for other gain , But love and thanks for all my pain . At last my Royal King did die , And then my days of woe grew nigh , When Crookback Rich god the crown , K Edwards friends were soon put down , I then was punished for my since , That I so long had lived in . Yea , every one that was his friend , This tyrant brought to shameful end . Then for my rude and wanton life , That made a Strumpet of a wife , I penance did in Lumbard-street , In shameful manner in a sheet . Where many thousands did me view , Who late in Court my credit knew , Which made the tears run down my face , To think upon my foul disgrace : Not thus content they took from me My goods my livings and my fee ; & charg'd that none should me relieve , Nor any succour to me give . Then unto mistress Blague I went , To whom my Jewels I had sent , In hope thereby to ease my want , when riches fail'd , and love grew scant But she deny'd to me the same , When in my need for them I came . To recompense my former love , Out of her doors she did we shove ; So love did vanish with my state , Which now my soul repents too late , Therefore example take by me , For friendship parts in poverty . But yet one friend among the rest , Whom I before had seen distressed , And sav'd his life condemn'd to die , Did give me food to succour me , For which by law it was decreed , That he was hanged for that deed : His death did grieve me so much more Then had I died my self therefore : Then those to whom I had done good Durst not restore me any food ; Whereby in vain I beg'd all day , And still in streets by night I lay . My Gowns beset with pearl and gold , Are turn'd to simple garments old . My chains and jems and golden Ring To filthy rags and loathsome things , Thus was I scorn'd of maid and wife , For leading such a wicked life ; Both sucking babes and children small Did make a pastime at my fallen ; I could not get one bit of bred Whereby my hunger might be fed : Nor drink but such as channels yield , Or stinking ditches in the field : Thus weary of my life at length , I yielded up my vital strength , Within a Ditch of loathsome scent , Where carrion dogs do much frequent , The which now since my dying day , Is Shoreditch call'd as writers say : Which is a witness of my since , For being Concubine to a king : You wanton wives that fallen to lust ; Be you assured that God is just , Whoredom shall not escape his hand , Nor Pride unpunished in this land ; If God to me such shame should bring , That yielded only to a king : How shall they escape that daily run to practice since with every man ? You Husbands match not but for love , Lest some disliking after prove ! women be warn'd when you are wives , What plagues are due to sinful lives ; Then maids and wives in time amend For love and beauty will have end . The second part of Jane Shore , wherein her sorrowful Husband bewaileth his own Estate , and Wives Wantonness , the wrong of Marriage , the Fallen of Pride ; being a warning for Women . If she that was fair Londons pride For beauty fam'd both far and wide With swanli [ k ] e song in sadness told , Her deep distresses manifold . Then in the same let me also , Now bear a part of such like woe : Kind Matthew Shore-men called me , A goldsmith once of good degree , And might have lived long therein , Had not my wife been wed to since , O gentle Jane thy wanton raze Hath brought me to this foul disgrace : Thou hadst all things at wish and will , Thy wanton fancy to fulfil , No London Dame nor Merchant's wife Did led so sweet and pleasant life , Then gentle Jane the truth Report , Why left'st thou me to live in Court ? Thou hadst both gold and silver store , No wife in London then had more And once a week to walk in field To see what pleasure it would yield . But woe to me that liberty , Hath brought me to this misery : I married thee while thou wertenberg young Before thou knewest what did belong To husbands love or marriage state , Which now my soul repents too late : Thus wanton pride made thee unjust , And so deceived was my trust . But when the king possessed my room , And cropped my Rosy gallant bloom , Fair Londons blossom and my joy My heart was drown'd in deep annoy : To think how unto public shame Thy wicked life brought my good name . And then I thought each man & wife , In jesting sort accus'd my life , And every one to the other said . That Shores fair wife the wanton played . Thereby in mind I grew to change , My dwelling in some country strange . My lands and goods I sold away , And so from England went to Sea ; Oppressed with grief and woeful mind , But left my cause of grief behind . My loving wife whom I once thought Would never me to lewdness brought But women now I well espy , Are subject to unconstancy ; And few there be so true of love , But by long suit will wanton prove . For flesh is frail and women weak When kings for love long suit do make But yet from England my depart Was with a sad and heavy heart , Whereat when as my leave I took , I sent back many a heavy look , Desiring God if it might be , To send one sighs sweet Jane to thee . For if thou hadst but constant been , These days of woe I ne're had seen , But yet I mourn and grief full soar , The Description OF Jane Shore . THis woman's beauty hath been highly prai - sed by a famous Writer that liv'd in her time , nam'd Thomas Moor , who describ'd her in this manner . Before her death she was poor and aged , her stature was mean , her hair of a dark yellow , her face round & full , her eyes grey , her bo - dy fat , white and smooth , her cour - tenance cheerful , like to her condi - tions . There is a picture of hers to be seen in London , it is such as she was when The Woeful Lamentation of Mrs. JANE SHORE , a Gold-smith's Wife of London , sometime King Edward the Fourth's Cancubine , who for her Wanton Life came tO [ oh ] a Miserable End. Set Forth for the Example of all wicked Livers . To the Tune of , Live with me . IF Rosamond that was so fair , Had cause her sorrows to declare , Then let Jane Shore with sorrow sing , That was beloved of a King : Then wanton Wives in time amend , For love and beauty will have end . In maidens years my beauty bright Was loved dear of Lord and Knight , But yet the love that they requir'd , It was not as my friends desir'd ; My Parents they for thirst of gain , A husband for me did obtain ; And I their pleasure to fulfil , Was forc'd to wed against my will To Matthew Shore , I was a wife , Till lust brought ruin to my life . And then my life so lewdly spent , Which makes my soul for to lamen In Lumbard-street I once did dwell , As London yet can witness well , Where many Gallants did behold My beauty in a shop of Gold : I spread my plumes as wantons do , Some sweet and secret friend to woo , Because my love I did not find Agreeing to my wanton mind . At last my name in Court did ring , Into the ears of Englands King , Who came and lik'd and love required , But I made coy what he desired : Yet mistress Blague a neighbour near , Whose friendship I esteemed dear Did say it was a gallant thing , To be beloved of a King . By her persuasions I was led For to defile my marriagebed , And wrong my wedded husband Shore , Whom I had lov'd ten years before ; In heart and mind I did rejoice , That I had made so sweet a choice , And therefore did my state resign To be King Edwards Concubine ; From City then to Court I went , To reap the pleasures of content , And had the Joys that love could bring And knew the secrets of a King : When I was thus advanc'd on high , Commanding Edward with mine eye , For mistress Blague I in short space Obtain'd a living of his Grace . No friend I had but in short time I made unto promortion climb : But yet for all this costly pride ; My husband could not me abide : His bed though wronged by a King , His heart with grief did deadly sting , From England then he goes away , To end his life upon the Sea , He could not live to see his name Impaired by my wanton shame , Although a Prince of Peerless might , Did reap the pleasure of his right . Long time I lived in the court With Lords and Ladies of great sort , For when I smil'd all men were glad , But when I mourn'd my prince grew sad . But yet and honest mind I boar To helpless people that were poor , I still redressed the Orphans cry , And sav'd their lives condemn'd to die . I still had ruth on widows tears , I succour'd babes of tender years , And never looked for other gain , But love and thanks for all my pain . At last my Royal King did die , And then my days of woe grew nigh , When Crookback Rich god the crown , K Edwards friends were soon put down , I then was punished for my since , That I so long had lived in . Yea , every one that was his friend , This tyrant brought to shameful end . Then for my rude and wanton life , That made a Strumpet of a wife , I penance did in Lumbard-street , In shameful manner in a sheet . Where many thousands did me view , Who late in Court my credit knew , Which made the tears run down my face , To think upon my foul disgrace : Not thus content they took from me My goods my livings and my fee ; & charg'd that none should me relieve , Nor any succour to me give . Then unto mistress Blague I went , To whom my Jewels I had sent , In hope thereby to ease my want , when riches fail'd , and love grew scant But she deny'd to me the same , When in my need for them I came . To recompense my former love , Out of her doors she did we shove ; So love did vanish with my state , Which now my soul repents too late , Therefore example take by me , For friendship parts in poverty . But yet one friend among the rest , Whom I before had seen distressed , And sav'd his life condemn'd to die , Did give me food to succour me , For which by law it was decreed , That he was hanged for that deed : His death did grieve me so much more Then had I died my self therefore : Then those to whom I had done good Durst not restore me any food ; Whereby in vain I beg'd all day , And still in streets by night I lay . My Gowns beset with pearl and gold , Are turn'd to simple garments old . My chains and jems and golden Ring To filthy rags and loathsome things , Thus was I scorn'd of maid and wife , For leading such a wicked life ; Both sucking babes and children small Did make a pastime at my fallen ; I could not get one bit of bred Whereby my hunger might be fed : Nor drink but such as channels yield , Or stinking ditches in the field : Thus weary of my life at length , I yielded up my vital strength , Within a Ditch of loathsome scent , Where carrion dogs do much frequent , The which now since my dying day , Is Shoreditch call'd as writers say : Which is a witness of my since , For being Concubine to a king : You wanton wives that fallen to lust ; Be you assured that God is just , Whoredom shall not escape his hand , Nor Pride unpunished in this land ; If God to me such shame should bring , That yielded only to a king : How shall they escape that daily run to practice since with every man ? You Husbands match not but for love , Lest some disliking after prove ! women be warn'd when you are wives , What plagues are due to sinful lives ; Then maids and wives in time amend For love and beauty will have end . The second part of Jane Shore , wherein her sorrowful Husband bewaileth his own Estate , and Wives Wantonness , the wrong of Marriage , the Fallen of Pride ; being a warning for Women . If she that was fair Londons pride For beauty fam'd both far and wide With swanli [ k ] e song in sadness told , Her deep distresses manifold . Then in the same let me also , Now bear a part of such like woe : Kind Matthew Shore-men called me , A goldsmith once of good degree , And might have lived long therein , Had not my wife been wed to since , O gentle Jane thy wanton raze Hath brought me to this foul disgrace : Thou hadst all things at wish and will , Thy wanton fancy to fulfil , No London Dame nor Merchant's wife Did led so sweet and pleasant life , Then gentle Jane the truth Report , Why left'st thou me to live in Court ? Thou hadst both gold and silver store , No wife in London then had more And once a week to walk in field To see what pleasure it would yield . But woe to me that liberty , Hath brought me to this misery : I married thee while thou wertenberg young Before thou knewest what did belong To husbands love or marriage state , Which now my soul repents too late : Thus wanton pride made thee unjust , And so deceived was my trust . But when the king possessed my room , And cropped my Rosy gallant bloom , Fair Londons blossom and my joy My heart was drown'd in deep annoy : To think how unto public shame Thy wicked life brought my good name . And then I thought each man & wife , In jesting sort accus'd my life , And every one to the other said . That Shores fair wife the wanton played . Thereby in mind I grew to change , My dwelling in some country strange . My lands and goods I sold away , And so from England went to Sea ; Oppressed with grief and woeful mind , But left my cause of grief behind . My loving wife whom I once thought Would never me to lewdness brought But women now I well espy , Are subject to unconstancy ; And few there be so true of love , But by long suit will wanton prove . For flesh is frail and women weak When kings for love long suit do make But yet from England my depart Was with a sad and heavy heart , Whereat when as my leave I took , I sent back many a heavy look , Desiring God if it might be , To send one sighs sweet Jane to thee . For if thou hadst but constant been , These days of woe I ne're had seen , But yet I mourn and grief full soar , The Description OF Jane Shore . THis woman's beauty hath been highly prai - sed by a famous Writer that liv'd in her time , nam'd Thomas Moor , who describ'd her in this manner . Before her death she was poor and aged , her stature was mean , her hair of a dark yellow , her face round & full , her eyes grey , her bo - dy fat , white and smooth , her cour - tenance cheerful , like to her condi - tions . There is a picture of hers to be seen in London , it is such as she was when she rose out of , her bed in the morning , having nothing on but a Rich Mantle cast under her arm , oh - for which her na - ked arm did lie . What her Fa - the name is , or where she was Born , is not cer - tainly known , but her husband Ma - thew Shore , a Young Man of - right good Paren - tage , wealth , and behaviour , aban - don'd her bed of - ter the King had made her his Concubine . To think what plagues ere left in store , For such as careless tread awry , The modest paths of constancy : All gentle Jane if thou didst know , The uncouth paths I daily go , And woeful tears for thee I shed , For wronging thus my marriagebed . Then sure I am thou wouldst confess , My love was sure though in distress : Both Flanders , France and Spain I passed , And come to Turky at the las And there within that mighty Court , I lived long in honest sort ; Desiring God that sits in heaven , That lovers sins might be forgiven : And there advanced thy loving name , Of living wights the fairest dame ? The praise of Englands beauty stain , All which thy husband did maintain , And set thy Picture there in gold , For Kings and Princes to behold , But when I thought upon thy since , Thy wanton thoughts delighted in , I griev [ ' ] worser that such a comely face , Should hold true honour in disgrace , And counted it a luckless day , When as thou first didst go astray , Desiring then some news to hear , Of her my soul did love so dear , My secrets then I did impart To one well skill'd in Magick-art , Who in a Glass did truly show , Such things as I desired to know , I there did see thy Courtly state , Thy Pomp , thy Pride , thy Glory great , And likewise there I did behold , My Jane in Edwards arms enfold : Thy secret love I there espy'd , Thy rice , thy fallen , and how thou died , Thy naked body in the street , I saw doe penance in a she Barefoot before the Beadles wand , With burning taper in thy hand , And babes not having use of tongue , Stood pointing as thou went'st along , Thus ended was the shame of thine , Though God gave yet no end to mine . When I suppos'd my name forgotten , And time had washed away my blot , And in another Princess reign , I came to England back again : But staying there my friends decay'd , My Prince's laws I disobey'd . And by true Justice judg'd to die . For clipping Gold in secrecy . By Gold was my best living made , And so by Gold my life decay'd : Thus have you herd the woeful strife That came by my unconstant wife , Her Fallen , my Death , wherein is shew'd The story of a Strumpet lewd , In hope thereby some women may , Take heed how they the wanton play . Printed by & for A. Milbourn , in Green-Arbour - Court , in the Little Old-Baily . she rose out of , her bed in the morning , having nothing on but a Rich Mantle cast under her arm , oh - for which her na - ked arm did lie . What her Fa - the name is , or where she was Born , is not cer - tainly known , but her husband Ma - thew Shore , a Young Man of - right good Paren - tage , wealth , and behaviour , aban - don'd her bed of - ter the King had made her his Concubine . To think what plagues ere left in store , For such as careless tread awry , The modest paths of constancy : All gentle Jane if thou didst know , The uncouth paths I daily go , And woeful tears for thee I shed , For wronging thus my marriagebed . Then sure I am thou wouldst confess , My love was sure though in distress : Both Flanders , France and Spain I passed , And come to Turky at the las And there within that mighty Court , I lived long in honest sort ; Desiring God that sits in heaven , That lovers sins might be forgiven : And there advanced thy loving name , Of living wights the fairest dame ? The praise of Englands beauty stain , All which thy husband did maintain , And set thy Picture there in gold , For Kings and Princes to behold , But when I thought upon thy since , Thy wanton thoughts delighted in , I griev [ ' ] worser that such a comely face , Should hold true honour in disgrace , And counted it a luckless day , When as thou first didst go astray , Desiring then some news to hear , Of her my soul did love so dear , My secrets then I did impart To one well skill'd in Magick-art , Who in a Glass did truly show , Such things as I desired to know , I there did see thy Courtly state , Thy Pomp , thy Pride , thy Glory great , And likewise there I did behold , My Jane in Edwards arms enfold : Thy secret love I there espy'd , Thy rice , thy fallen , and how thou died , Thy naked body in the street , I saw doe penance in a she Barefoot before the Beadles wand , With burning taper in thy hand , And babes not having use of tongue , Stood pointing as thou went'st along , Thus ended was the shame of thine , Though God gave yet no end to mine . When I suppos'd my name forgotten , And time had washed away my blot , And in another Princess reign , I came to England back again : But staying there my friends decay'd , My Prince's laws I disobey'd . And by true Justice judg'd to die . For clipping Gold in secrecy . By Gold was my best living made , And so by Gold my life decay'd : Thus have you herd the woeful strife That came by my unconstant wife , Her Fallen , my Death , wherein is shew'd The story of a Strumpet lewd , In hope thereby some women may , Take heed how they the wanton play . Printed by & for A. Milbourn , in Green-Arbour - Court , in the Little Old-Baily . The Woeful Lamentation of Mrs. JANE SHORE , a Gold-smith's Wife of London , sometime King Edward the Fourth's Cancubine , who for her Wanton Life came tO [ oh ] a Miserable End. Set Forth for the Example of all wicked Livers . To the Tune of , Live with me . IF Rosamond that was so fair , Had cause her sorrows to declare , Then let Jane Shore with sorrow sing , That was beloved of a King : Then wanton Wives in time amend , For love and beauty will have end . In maidens years my beauty bright Was loved dear of Lord and Knight , But yet the love that they requir'd , It was not as my friends desir'd ; My Parents they for thirst of gain , A husband for me did obtain ; And I their pleasure to fulfil , Was forc'd to wed against my will To Matthew Shore , I was a wife , Till lust brought ruin to my life . And then my life so lewdly spent , Which makes my soul for to lamen In Lumbard-street I once did dwell , As London yet can witness well , Where many Gallants did behold My beauty in a shop of Gold : I spread my plumes as wantons do , Some sweet and secret friend to woo , Because my love I did not find Agreeing to my wanton mind . At last my name in Court did ring , Into the ears of Englands King , Who came and lik'd and love required , But I made coy what he desired : Yet mistress Blague a neighbour near , Whose friendship I esteemed dear Did say it was a gallant thing , To be beloved of a King . By her persuasions I was led For to defile my marriagebed , And wrong my wedded husband Shore , Whom I had lov'd ten years before ; In heart and mind I did rejoice , That I had made so sweet a choice , And therefore did my state resign To be King Edwards Concubine ; From City then to Court I went , To reap the pleasures of content , And had the Joys that love could bring And knew the secrets of a King : When I was thus advanc'd on high , Commanding Edward with mine eye , For mistress Blague I in short space Obtain'd a living of his Grace . No friend I had but in short time I made unto promortion climb : But yet for all this costly pride ; My husband could not me abide : His bed though wronged by a King , His heart with grief did deadly sting , From England then he goes away , To end his life upon the Sea , He could not live to see his name Impaired by my wanton shame , Although a Prince of Peerless might , Did reap the pleasure of his right . Long time I lived in the court With Lords and Ladies of great sort , For when I smil'd all men were glad , But when I mourn'd my prince grew sad . But yet and honest mind I boar To helpless people that were poor , I still redressed the Orphans cry , And sav'd their lives condemn'd to die . I still had ruth on widows tears , I succour'd babes of tender years , And never looked for other gain , But love and thanks for all my pain . At last my Royal King did die , And then my days of woe grew nigh , When Crookback Rich god the crown , K Edwards friends were soon put down , I then was punished for my since , That I so long had lived in . Yea , every one that was his friend , This tyrant brought to shameful end . Then for my rude and wanton life , That made a Strumpet of a wife , I penance did in Lumbard-street , In shameful manner in a sheet . Where many thousands did me view , Who late in Court my credit knew , Which made the tears run down my face , To think upon my foul disgrace : Not thus content they took from me My goods my livings and my fee ; & charg'd that none should me relieve , Nor any succour to me give . Then unto mistress Blague I went , To whom my Jewels I had sent , In hope thereby to ease my want , when riches fail'd , and love grew scant But she deny'd to me the same , When in my need for them I came . To recompense my former love , Out of her doors she did we shove ; So love did vanish with my state , Which now my soul repents too late , Therefore example take by me , For friendship parts in poverty . But yet one friend among the rest , Whom I before had seen distressed , And sav'd his life condemn'd to die , Did give me food to succour me , For which by law it was decreed , That he was hanged for that deed : His death did grieve me so much more Then had I died my self therefore : Then those to whom I had done good Durst not restore me any food ; Whereby in vain I beg'd all day , And still in streets by night I lay . My Gowns beset with pearl and gold , Are turn'd to simple garments old . My chains and jems and golden Ring To filthy rags and loathsome things , Thus was I scorn'd of maid and wife , For leading such a wicked life ; Both sucking babes and children small Did make a pastime at my fallen ; I could not get one bit of bred Whereby my hunger might be fed : Nor drink but such as channels yield , Or stinking ditches in the field : Thus weary of my life at length , I yielded up my vital strength , Within a Ditch of loathsome scent , Where carrion dogs do much frequent , The which now since my dying day , Is Shoreditch call'd as writers say : Which is a witness of my since , For being Concubine to a king : You wanton wives that fallen to lust ; Be you assured that God is just , Whoredom shall not escape his hand , Nor Pride unpunished in this land ; If God to me such shame should bring , That yielded only to a king : How shall they escape that daily run to practice since with every man ? You Husbands match not but for love , Lest some disliking after prove ! women be warn'd when you are wives , What plagues are due to sinful lives ; Then maids and wives in time amend For love and beauty will have end . The second part of Jane Shore , wherein her sorrowful Husband bewaileth his own Estate , and Wives Wantonness , the wrong of Marriage , the Fallen of Pride ; being a warning for Women . If she that was fair Londons pride For beauty fam'd both far and wide With swanli [ k ] e song in sadness told , Her deep distresses manifold . Then in the same let me also , Now bear a part of such like woe : Kind Matthew Shore-men called me , A goldsmith once of good degree , And might have lived long therein , Had not my wife been wed to since , O gentle Jane thy wanton raze Hath brought me to this foul disgrace : Thou hadst all things at wish and will , Thy wanton fancy to fulfil , No London Dame nor Merchant's wife Did led so sweet and pleasant life , Then gentle Jane the truth Report , Why left'st thou me to live in Court ? Thou hadst both gold and silver store , No wife in London then had more And once a week to walk in field To see what pleasure it would yield . But woe to me that liberty , Hath brought me to this misery : I married thee while thou wertenberg young Before thou knewest what did belong To husbands love or marriage state , Which now my soul repents too late : Thus wanton pride made thee unjust , And so deceived was my trust . But when the king possessed my room , And cropped my Rosy gallant bloom , Fair Londons blossom and my joy My heart was drown'd in deep annoy : To think how unto public shame Thy wicked life brought my good name . And then I thought each man & wife , In jesting sort accus'd my life , And every one to the other said . That Shores fair wife the wanton played . Thereby in mind I grew to change , My dwelling in some country strange . My lands and goods I sold away , And so from England went to Sea ; Oppressed with grief and woeful mind , But left my cause of grief behind . My loving wife whom I once thought Would never me to lewdness brought But women now I well espy , Are subject to unconstancy ; And few there be so true of love , But by long suit will wanton prove . For flesh is frail and women weak When kings for love long suit do make But yet from England my depart Was with a sad and heavy heart , Whereat when as my leave I took , I sent back many a heavy look , Desiring God if it might be , To send one sighs sweet Jane to thee . For if thou hadst but constant been , These days of woe I ne're had seen , But yet I mourn and grief full soar , The Description OF Jane Shore . THis woman's beauty hath been highly prai - sed by a famous Writer that liv'd in her time , nam'd Thomas Moor , who describ'd her in this manner . Before her death she was poor and aged , her stature was mean , her hair of a dark yellow , her face round & full , her eyes grey , her bo - dy fat , white and smooth , her cour - tenance cheerful , like to her condi - tions . There is a picture of hers to be seen in London , it is such as she was when The Woeful Lamentation of Mrs. JANE SHORE , a Gold-smith's Wife of London , sometime King Edward the Fourth's Cancubine , who for her Wanton Life came tO [ oh ] a Miserable End. Set Forth for the Example of all wicked Livers . To the Tune of , Live with me . IF Rosamond that was so fair , Had cause her sorrows to declare , Then let Jane Shore with sorrow sing , That was beloved of a King : Then wanton Wives in time amend , For love and beauty will have end . In maidens years my beauty bright Was loved dear of Lord and Knight , But yet the love that they requir'd , It was not as my friends desir'd ; My Parents they for thirst of gain , A husband for me did obtain ; And I their pleasure to fulfil , Was forc'd to wed against my will To Matthew Shore , I was a wife , Till lust brought ruin to my life . And then my life so lewdly spent , Which makes my soul for to lamen In Lumbard-street I once did dwell , As London yet can witness well , Where many Gallants did behold My beauty in a shop of Gold : I spread my plumes as wantons do , Some sweet and secret friend to woo , Because my love I did not find Agreeing to my wanton mind . At last my name in Court did ring , Into the ears of Englands King , Who came and lik'd and love required , But I made coy what he desired : Yet mistress Blague a neighbour near , Whose friendship I esteemed dear Did say it was a gallant thing , To be beloved of a King . By her persuasions I was led For to defile my marriagebed , And wrong my wedded husband Shore , Whom I had lov'd ten years before ; In heart and mind I did rejoice , That I had made so sweet a choice , And therefore did my state resign To be King Edwards Concubine ; From City then to Court I went , To reap the pleasures of content , And had the Joys that love could bring And knew the secrets of a King : When I was thus advanc'd on high , Commanding Edward with mine eye , For mistress Blague I in short space Obtain'd a living of his Grace . No friend I had but in short time I made unto promortion climb : But yet for all this costly pride ; My husband could not me abide : His bed though wronged by a King , His heart with grief did deadly sting , From England then he goes away , To end his life upon the Sea , He could not live to see his name Impaired by my wanton shame , Although a Prince of Peerless might , Did reap the pleasure of his right . Long time I lived in the court With Lords and Ladies of great sort , For when I smil'd all men were glad , But when I mourn'd my prince grew sad . But yet and honest mind I boar To helpless people that were poor , I still redressed the Orphans cry , And sav'd their lives condemn'd to die . I still had ruth on widows tears , I succour'd babes of tender years , And never looked for other gain , But love and thanks for all my pain . At last my Royal King did die , And then my days of woe grew nigh , When Crookback Rich god the crown , K Edwards friends were soon put down , I then was punished for my since , That I so long had lived in . Yea , every one that was his friend , This tyrant brought to shameful end . Then for my rude and wanton life , That made a Strumpet of a wife , I penance did in Lumbard-street , In shameful manner in a sheet . Where many thousands did me view , Who late in Court my credit knew , Which made the tears run down my face , To think upon my foul disgrace : Not thus content they took from me My goods my livings and my fee ; & charg'd that none should me relieve , Nor any succour to me give . Then unto mistress Blague I went , To whom my Jewels I had sent , In hope thereby to ease my want , when riches fail'd , and love grew scant But she deny'd to me the same , When in my need for them I came . To recompense my former love , Out of her doors she did we shove ; So love did vanish with my state , Which now my soul repents too late , Therefore example take by me , For friendship parts in poverty . But yet one friend among the rest , Whom I before had seen distressed , And sav'd his life condemn'd to die , Did give me food to succour me , For which by law it was decreed , That he was hanged for that deed : His death did grieve me so much more Then had I died my self therefore : Then those to whom I had done good Durst not restore me any food ; Whereby in vain I beg'd all day , And still in streets by night I lay . My Gowns beset with pearl and gold , Are turn'd to simple garments old . My chains and jems and golden Ring To filthy rags and loathsome things , Thus was I scorn'd of maid and wife , For leading such a wicked life ; Both sucking babes and children small Did make a pastime at my fallen ; I could not get one bit of bred Whereby my hunger might be fed : Nor drink but such as channels yield , Or stinking ditches in the field : Thus weary of my life at length , I yielded up my vital strength , Within a Ditch of loathsome scent , Where carrion dogs do much frequent , The which now since my dying day , Is Shoreditch call'd as writers say : Which is a witness of my since , For being Concubine to a king : You wanton wives that fallen to lust ; Be you assured that God is just , Whoredom shall not escape his hand , Nor Pride unpunished in this land ; If God to me such shame should bring , That yielded only to a king : How shall they escape that daily run to practice since with every man ? You Husbands match not but for love , Lest some disliking after prove ! women be warn'd when you are wives , What plagues are due to sinful lives ; Then maids and wives in time amend For love and beauty will have end . The second part of Jane Shore , wherein her sorrowful Husband bewaileth his own Estate , and Wives Wantonness , the wrong of Marriage , the Fallen of Pride ; being a warning for Women . If she that was fair Londons pride For beauty fam'd both far and wide With swanli [ k ] e song in sadness told , Her deep distresses manifold . Then in the same let me also , Now bear a part of such like woe : Kind Matthew Shore-men called me , A goldsmith once of good degree , And might have lived long therein , Had not my wife been wed to since , O gentle Jane thy wanton raze Hath brought me to this foul disgrace : Thou hadst all things at wish and will , Thy wanton fancy to fulfil , No London Dame nor Merchant's wife Did led so sweet and pleasant life , Then gentle Jane the truth Report , Why left'st thou me to live in Court ? Thou hadst both gold and silver store , No wife in London then had more And once a week to walk in field To see what pleasure it would yield . But woe to me that liberty , Hath brought me to this misery : I married thee while thou wertenberg young Before thou knewest what did belong To husbands love or marriage state , Which now my soul repents too late : Thus wanton pride made thee unjust , And so deceived was my trust . But when the king possessed my room , And cropped my Rosy gallant bloom , Fair Londons blossom and my joy My heart was drown'd in deep annoy : To think how unto public shame Thy wicked life brought my good name . And then I thought each man & wife , In jesting sort accus'd my life , And every one to the other said . That Shores fair wife the wanton played . Thereby in mind I grew to change , My dwelling in some country strange . My lands and goods I sold away , And so from England went to Sea ; Oppressed with grief and woeful mind , But left my cause of grief behind . My loving wife whom I once thought Would never me to lewdness brought But women now I well espy , Are subject to unconstancy ; And few there be so true of love , But by long suit will wanton prove . For flesh is frail and women weak When kings for love long suit do make But yet from England my depart Was with a sad and heavy heart , Whereat when as my leave I took , I sent back many a heavy look , Desiring God if it might be , To send one sighs sweet Jane to thee . For if thou hadst but constant been , These days of woe I ne're had seen , But yet I mourn and grief full soar , The Description OF Jane Shore . THis woman's beauty hath been highly prai - sed by a famous Writer that liv'd in her time , nam'd Thomas Moor , who describ'd her in this manner . Before her death she was poor and aged , her stature was mean , her hair of a dark yellow , her face round & full , her eyes grey , her bo - dy fat , white and smooth , her cour - tenance cheerful , like to her condi - tions . There is a picture of hers to be seen in London , it is such as she was when she rose out of , her bed in the morning , having nothing on but a Rich Mantle cast under her arm , oh - for which her na - ked arm did lie . What her Fa - the name is , or where she was Born , is not cer - tainly known , but her husband Ma - thew Shore , a Young Man of - right good Paren - tage , wealth , and behaviour , aban - don'd her bed of - ter the King had made her his Concubine . To think what plagues ere left in store , For such as careless tread awry , The modest paths of constancy : All gentle Jane if thou didst know , The uncouth paths I daily go , And woeful tears for thee I shed , For wronging thus my marriagebed . Then sure I am thou wouldst confess , My love was sure though in distress : Both Flanders , France and Spain I passed , And come to Turky at the las And there within that mighty Court , I lived long in honest sort ; Desiring God that sits in heaven , That lovers sins might be forgiven : And there advanced thy loving name , Of living wights the fairest dame ? The praise of Englands beauty stain , All which thy husband did maintain , And set thy Picture there in gold , For Kings and Princes to behold , But when I thought upon thy since , Thy wanton thoughts delighted in , I griev [ ' ] worser that such a comely face , Should hold true honour in disgrace , And counted it a luckless day , When as thou first didst go astray , Desiring then some news to hear , Of her my soul did love so dear , My secrets then I did impart To one well skill'd in Magick-art , Who in a Glass did truly show , Such things as I desired to know , I there did see thy Courtly state , Thy Pomp , thy Pride , thy Glory great , And likewise there I did behold , My Jane in Edwards arms enfold : Thy secret love I there espy'd , Thy rice , thy fallen , and how thou died , Thy naked body in the street , I saw doe penance in a she Barefoot before the Beadles wand , With burning taper in thy hand , And babes not having use of tongue , Stood pointing as thou went'st along , Thus ended was the shame of thine , Though God gave yet no end to mine . When I suppos'd my name forgotten , And time had washed away my blot , And in another Princess reign , I came to England back again : But staying there my friends decay'd , My Prince's laws I disobey'd . And by true Justice judg'd to die . For clipping Gold in secrecy . By Gold was my best living made , And so by Gold my life decay'd : Thus have you herd the woeful strife That came by my unconstant wife , Her Fallen , my Death , wherein is shew'd The story of a Strumpet lewd , In hope thereby some women may , Take heed how they the wanton play . Printed by & for A. Milbourn , in Green-Arbour - Court , in the Little Old-Baily . she rose out of , her bed in the morning , having nothing on but a Rich Mantle cast under her arm , oh - for which her na - ked arm did lie . What her Fa - the name is , or where she was Born , is not cer - tainly known , but her husband Ma - thew Shore , a Young Man of - right good Paren - tage , wealth , and behaviour , aban - don'd her bed of - ter the King had made her his Concubine . To think what plagues ere left in store , For such as careless tread awry , The modest paths of constancy : All gentle Jane if thou didst know , The uncouth paths I daily go , And woeful tears for thee I shed , For wronging thus my marriagebed . Then sure I am thou wouldst confess , My love was sure though in distress : Both Flanders , France and Spain I passed , And come to Turky at the las And there within that mighty Court , I lived long in honest sort ; Desiring God that sits in heaven , That lovers sins might be forgiven : And there advanced thy loving name , Of living wights the fairest dame ? The praise of Englands beauty stain , All which thy husband did maintain , And set thy Picture there in gold , For Kings and Princes to behold , But when I thought upon thy since , Thy wanton thoughts delighted in , I griev [ ' ] worser that such a comely face , Should hold true honour in disgrace , And counted it a luckless day , When as thou first didst go astray , Desiring then some news to hear , Of her my soul did love so dear , My secrets then I did impart To one well skill'd in Magick-art , Who in a Glass did truly show , Such things as I desired to know , I there did see thy Courtly state , Thy Pomp , thy Pride , thy Glory great , And likewise there I did behold , My Jane in Edwards arms enfold : Thy secret love I there espy'd , Thy rice , thy fallen , and how thou died , Thy naked body in the street , I saw doe penance in a she Barefoot before the Beadles wand , With burning taper in thy hand , And babes not having use of tongue , Stood pointing as thou went'st along , Thus ended was the shame of thine , Though God gave yet no end to mine . When I suppos'd my name forgotten , And time had washed away my blot , And in another Princess reign , I came to England back again : But staying there my friends decay'd , My Prince's laws I disobey'd . And by true Justice judg'd to die . For clipping Gold in secrecy . By Gold was my best living made , And so by Gold my life decay'd : Thus have you herd the woeful strife That came by my unconstant wife , Her Fallen , my Death , wherein is shew'd The story of a Strumpet lewd , In hope thereby some women may , Take heed how they the wanton play . Printed by & for A. Milbourn , in Green-Arbour - Court , in the Little Old-Baily . 