The King & Northern-man , Showing how a poor Northumberland-Man ( Tenant to the King ) being wronged by a Lawyer ( his Neighbour ) , went to the King himself to make known his grievance . To the Tune of , Slut . TO drive away the weary day , a book I chanced to take in hand , And therein I read assuredly , a story as you shall understand : Perusing many a History over , among the Leaves I chanc'd to view : The Books name and Title is this , The second Lesson , too good to be true . There read I of a Northumberland-man , that was born & brought up in the Kings land , He paid twenty shillings Rend a year , to the King , as I do understand : By him there dwelled a Lawyer false , that with his Farm was not content , But over the poor man still hang'd his nose , because he did gather the Kings Rend . He told him he his Lease had forfeit , and that he must there no longer abide : The King by such Lowness hath much wrong done and for you the world is broad and wide . The poor man pray'd him for to cease , and content himself if he would be willing , And pick no vantage in my Lease , and I shall give thee forty shilling : I'ts neither forty Shilling , nor forty pound , i'm warrant thee , so can agree thee and me , Unless thou yield me thy farm so round , and stand unto my courtesy . The Poor man said he might not do so , his wife and his Barns will make ill work , If thou with my Farm wilt let me go , thou seem'st a good fellow i'm give thee 5 mark . The Lawyer would not be so content , but further i'th matter he means to smell : The neighbours bade the poor man provide his rend , and make a submission to the King himself . He got a humble staff on his back , a jerkin I wot that was of gray : With a good blue Bonnet he thought it no lack to the King he is ganging as fast as he may : He had not gone a mile out o'th town , but one of his Neighbours he did espy : How far is't to'th King , for thither i'm boun , as fast as ever I can high . I am sorry for you neighbour he said , for your simplicity I make moan , Ire warrant you , you may ask for the King , when nine or ten days journey you have gone . Had I wist the King had woned so far , i'm never a sought him a mile out o'th town , He's either had sought me , or we'd never a come near , at home I had rather would spent a Crown . But when he came to the City of London , of every man he for the King did call : They told him , that him he need not to fear , for the King he lies now at the White-Hall . And with spying of Farlies in the City , because he had never been there beforn , He lee so long a bed the next day , the Court was remov'd to Winsor that morn . You would lay too long , then said his Host , you would lay too long by a great while ? The King is now to Winsor gone , he's further gone by twenty mile . I think I was cursed , then said the poor man , if I had been wise I might would consider , Belike the King of me has got some weet , he had ne'r gone away , had not I come hither He fled not for you , then said his Host , but high you to Winsor as fast as you may : Besure it will requite your cost , for look what is passed the King will pay ? But when he came to Winsor Castle , with his humble staff on his back , Although the Gates wide open stood , he laid on them till he made 'um crack . Why stay , pray friend , art mad quod the Porter , what makes thee keep this stir to day ? Why I am a Tenant of the Kings , who have a Message to him to say : The King hath men enough , said the Porter , your Message well that they can say : Why , ther's ne'r a Knave the King does keep , shalt ken my secret mind to day . I were told e're I came from home , e're I god hither it would be dear bought , Let me in , i'm give thee a single Penny , I see , thou wilt would small , e're thou do it for nought . Gramercy , said the Porter then , thy reward is so great I cannot say nay : Yonders a Noble Man within the Court , I'le first hear what he does say . When the Porter came to the Noble man , he said he would show him pretty sport , There's sike a Clown come to the gate , as came not these seven years to the Court . He calls all Knaves the King does keep , he raps at the Gates , and makes great din ; He's passing liberal of reward , he'd give a good single Penny to be let in . Let him in , then said the Noble man , come in Fellow , the Porter gan say ; If thou come within thy self , he said , thy staff behind the Gate must stay . And this Cuckolds Cur must lig behind , what a Deel what a Cur hast god with thee ? The King will take him up for his own fell , I'm warrant when as he does him see . Beshrew thy Limbs , then said the poor man , then mayest thou count me a fool or worse , I wot not what Bankrupt lies by the King , for want of Money he may pick my purse . Let him in with his Staff and Dog said the Lord he gave a nod with's head , & a beck with's knee If you be Sir King , then said the poor man , as I can very well think you be : For as I was told e're I came from home , you'r goodliest man that e're I saw beforn , With so many jingles jangles about one neck , as is about yours , I never saw none . I am not the King , said the Noble man , fellow , though I have a proud Coa If you be not the King , help me to the speech of him . you seem a good fellow , i'm give you a Groat . Gramercy said the Noble man , thy reward is so great , I cannot say nay ; I'll go know the Kings pleasure , if I can , till I come again besure you stay . Here's sike a staying , then said the poor man , [ be ] like the kings better than any in our country I might a gane to the farthest Nuke i'th house , neither Lad nor Town to trouble me . When the Noble man came to the King , he said he could show his Grace good sport , Here's such a Clown come to the gate , as came not this seven years to the Court . He calls all knaves your Highness keeps , and more than that , he terms them worse , [ He'l ] not come in without his Staff and Dog for fear some Bankrupt will pick his purse . Let him in with his staff , then said our King , that of [ his ] sport [ we ] may see some : We'l see how [ he'l ] handle every thing , as soon as oh [ ur ] match of Bowls is done . The Noble man led him through many a room , and through many a Galleray gay , What a deel does the King with so many houses that he gets them not fill'd with Corn & Hay ? At last they spied the King in a Garden , yet from his game he did not start , The day was so hight , he cast off his Doublet , he had nothing from the waste but his shirt . Lo yonder's the King , said the Nobleman , behold follow , lo where he goes : Believ't he's some unthrift , says the poor man , that has lost his money , and pawn'd his clothes . But when he came before the King , the Nobleman did his courtesy : The poor man followed after him , And gave a nod with's head , and a beck with's knee . And if you be Sir King then said the poor man , as I can hardly think you be : Here is a good fellow that brought me hither , is liker to be the king than you . I am the king his Grace now said , fellow let me thy case understand : If you be Sir king i'me a Tenant of yours , that was born & up brought in your own land . There dwells a Lawyer hard by me . and a fault in my Lease he says he hath found , And all was for selling five poor Ashes , to built and house upon your own ground . Hast thou a Lease here , said our king ? or canst thou she to me the Deed ? He gave it into the kings own hand , and said , Sir , here 'tis if that you can read . Let's see thy Lease , then said the king : then from his Black Box he pull'd it out , He gave it into the kings own hand , with four or five knots t'yd fast in a clout . We'st never unlose these knots , said the king , he gave it to one that behind him did stay . It is a proud Horse then said the poor man , will not carry's own Provinder along the high way Pay me forty shillings as i'm pay you , I will not think much to unloose a knot ; I would I were so occupied every day , i'd unloose a score on 'um for a groat . When the king had got these Letters read , and found the truth wak very so , I warrent thee , thou hast not forfeit thy Lease , if thou hadst felled five Ashes more . I , every one can warrant me , but all your warrants are not worth a flee , For he that troubles me and will not let me go , neither cares for warrant of you nor me . Thou'st have and Injunction , said our king from troubling of thee he will ceas He'l either show thee good cause wh The King & Northern-man , Showing how a poor Northumberland-Man ( Tenant to the King ) being wronged by a Lawyer ( his Neighbour ) , went to the King himself to make known his grievance . To the Tune of , Slut . TO drive away the weary day , a book I chanced to take in hand , And therein I read assuredly , a story as you shall understand : Perusing many a History over , among the Leaves I chanc'd to view : The Books name and Title is this , The second Lesson , too good to be true . There read I of a Northumberland-man , that was born & brought up in the Kings land , He paid twenty shillings Rend a year , to the King , as I do understand : By him there dwelled a Lawyer false , that with his Farm was not content , But over the poor man still hang'd his nose , because he did gather the Kings Rend . He told him he his Lease had forfeit , and that he must there no longer abide : The King by such Lowness hath much wrong done and for you the world is broad and wide . The poor man pray'd him for to cease , and content himself if he would be willing , And pick no vantage in my Lease , and I shall give thee forty shilling : I'ts neither forty Shilling , nor forty pound , i'm warrant thee , so can agree thee and me , Unless thou yield me thy farm so round , and stand unto my courtesy . The Poor man said he might not do so , his wife and his Barns will make ill work , If thou with my Farm wilt let me go , thou seem'st a good fellow i'm give thee 5 mark . The Lawyer would not be so content , but further i'th matter he means to smell : The neighbours bade the poor man provide his rend , and make a submission to the King himself . He got a humble staff on his back , a jerkin I wot that was of gray : With a good blue Bonnet he thought it no lack to the King he is ganging as fast as he may : He had not gone a mile out o'th town , but one of his Neighbours he did espy : How far is't to'th King , for thither i'm boun , as fast as ever I can high . I am sorry for you neighbour he said , for your simplicity I make moan , Ire warrant you , you may ask for the King , when nine or ten days journey you have gone . Had I wist the King had woned so far , i'm never a sought him a mile out o'th town , He's either had sought me , or we'd never a come near , at home I had rather would spent a Crown . But when he came to the City of London , of every man he for the King did call : They told him , that him he need not to fear , for the King he lies now at the White-Hall . And with spying of Farlies in the City , because he had never been there beforn , He lee so long a bed the next day , the Court was remov'd to Winsor that morn . You would lay too long , then said his Host , you would lay too long by a great while ? The King is now to Winsor gone , he's further gone by twenty mile . I think I was cursed , then said the poor man , if I had been wise I might would consider , Belike the King of me has got some weet , he had ne'r gone away , had not I come hither He fled not for you , then said his Host , but high you to Winsor as fast as you may : Besure it will requite your cost , for look what is passed the King will pay ? But when he came to Winsor Castle , with his humble staff on his back , Although the Gates wide open stood , he laid on them till he made 'um crack . Why stay , pray friend , art mad quod the Porter , what makes thee keep this stir to day ? Why I am a Tenant of the Kings , who have a Message to him to say : The King hath men enough , said the Porter , your Message well that they can say : Why , ther's ne'r a Knave the King does keep , shalt ken my secret mind to day . I were told e're I came from home , e're I god hither it would be dear bought , Let me in , i'm give thee a single Penny , I see , thou wilt would small , e're thou do it for nought . Gramercy , said the Porter then , thy reward is so great I cannot say nay : Yonders a Noble Man within the Court , I'le first hear what he does say . When the Porter came to the Noble man , he said he would show him pretty sport , There's sike a Clown come to the gate , as came not these seven years to the Court . He calls all Knaves the King does keep , he raps at the Gates , and makes great din ; He's passing liberal of reward , he'd give a good single Penny to be let in . Let him in , then said the Noble man , come in Fellow , the Porter gan say ; If thou come within thy self , he said , thy staff behind the Gate must stay . And this Cuckolds Cur must lig behind , what a Deel what a Cur hast god with thee ? The King will take him up for his own fell , I'm warrant when as he does him see . Beshrew thy Limbs , then said the poor man , then mayest thou count me a fool or worse , I wot not what Bankrupt lies by the King , for want of Money he may pick my purse . Let him in with his Staff and Dog said the Lord he gave a nod with's head , & a beck with's knee If you be Sir King , then said the poor man , as I can very well think you be : For as I was told e're I came from home , you'r goodliest man that e're I saw beforn , With so many jingles jangles about one neck , as is about yours , I never saw none . I am not the King , said the Noble man , fellow , though I have a proud Coa If you be not the King , help me to the speech of him . you seem a good fellow , i'm give you a Groat . Gramercy said the Noble man , thy reward is so great , I cannot say nay ; I'll go know the Kings pleasure , if I can , till I come again besure you stay . Here's sike a staying , then said the poor man , [ be ] like the kings better than any in our country I might a gane to the farthest Nuke i'th house , neither Lad nor Town to trouble me . When the Noble man came to the King , he said he could show his Grace good sport , Here's such a Clown come to the gate , as came not this seven years to the Court . He calls all knaves your Highness keeps , and more than that , he terms them worse , [ He'l ] not come in without his Staff and Dog for fear some Bankrupt will pick his purse . Let him in with his staff , then said our King , that of [ his ] sport [ we ] may see some : We'l see how [ he'l ] handle every thing , as soon as oh [ ur ] match of Bowls is done . The Noble man led him through many a room , and through many a Galleray gay , What a deel does the King with so many houses that he gets them not fill'd with Corn & Hay ? At last they spied the King in a Garden , yet from his game he did not start , The day was so hight , he cast off his Doublet , he had nothing from the waste but his shirt . Lo yonder's the King , said the Nobleman , behold follow , lo where he goes : Believ't he's some unthrift , says the poor man , that has lost his money , and pawn'd his clothes . But when he came before the King , the Nobleman did his courtesy : The poor man followed after him , And gave a nod with's head , and a beck with's knee . And if you be Sir King then said the poor man , as I can hardly think you be : Here is a good fellow that brought me hither , is liker to be the king than you . I am the king his Grace now said , fellow let me thy case understand : If you be Sir king i'me a Tenant of yours , that was born & up brought in your own land . There dwells a Lawyer hard by me . and a fault in my Lease he says he hath found , And all was for selling five poor Ashes , to built and house upon your own ground . Hast thou a Lease here , said our king ? or canst thou she to me the Deed ? He gave it into the kings own hand , and said , Sir , here 'tis if that you can read . Let's see thy Lease , then said the king : then from his Black Box he pull'd it out , He gave it into the kings own hand , with four or five knots t'yd fast in a clout . We'st never unlose these knots , said the king , he gave it to one that behind him did stay . It is a proud Horse then said the poor man , will not carry's own Provinder along the high way Pay me forty shillings as i'm pay you , I will not think much to unloose a knot ; I would I were so occupied every day , i'd unloose a score on 'um for a groat . When the king had got these Letters read , and found the truth wak very so , I warrent thee , thou hast not forfeit thy Lease , if thou hadst felled five Ashes more . I , every one can warrant me , but all your warrants are not worth a flee , For he that troubles me and will not let me go , neither cares for warrant of you nor me . Thou'st have and Injunction , said our king from troubling of thee he will ceas He'l either show thee good cause why , or else he'l let thee live in peace . What's that Injunction , said the poor man ? good Sir to me I pray you say , Why , it is a Letter i'le cause to be written , but art thou so simple as thou showest to day ? Why if't be a Letter i'me never the better , keep it to thy self and trouble not me , I could would had a letter written cheaper at home , and never a come out of my own country . Thoust have and Attachment , said our King , charge all that thou seest take thy part , Till he pay thee and hundred pound , [ be ] sure thou never let him star If any seem against thee to stand , besure thou come hither straightway , I marry , is that all i'm get for my labour , then I may come trotting every day , Thou art hard of belief , then said our King , to please him with Letters he was willing , I see you have taken great pains in writing , with all my heart i'm give a Shilling I'le have none of thy shilling said our King , man with thy money God give there win , He threw it into the Kings bosom , the money lay cold next to his skin . Beshrew thy heart , then said our King , thou art and Earl something too bold : Dost thou not see I am hight with Bowling , and the money next to my skin lies cold . I never wist that before said the poor man , before sike time as I came hither . If the Lawyers in our Country thought 'twas cold , they would not heap up so much together , The King called up his Treasurer , and bade him fetch him twenty Pound ; If ever thy Errand lie here away , i'le bear thy Charges up and down . When the poor man saw the Gold down tendered for to receive it he was willing : If I had thought the King had had so much gold , beshrew my heart i'de would kept my shilling , The poor man god home the next Sunday , the Lawer soon did him espy ; Oh Sir , you have been a stranger long , I think from me you have kept you by . It was for you indeed , said the poor man , the matter to the King , as I have tell : I did as my neighbour put into my head , and made a submission to him my fell . What a deel didst thou with the King quod the lawyer could not neighbours and friends agree thee & me , The deel a neighbour or friend that I had , that would would been such a days man as he : He has gin me a Letter , but I know not what they cal't but if the kings words be true to me When you have read and perused it over , I hope you'l leave and let me be . He has gin me another , but I know not what too but I charge you all to hold him fast , Till he pay me and hundred pound , I will go tie him fast tull a Post . Marry God forbid , the Lawyer said , then the Tachment was read before them there , Thou must needs something credit me , till I go home and fetch some mear . Credit , nay that's it the king forbade , he bade it I god thee I should thee stay , The Lawyer paid him and hundred pound in ready money e're he went away . Would every Lawyer were served thus , from troubling poor men they would cease : They'd either show him good cause why , or else they'd let him live in peace . And thus I end my merry song , which shows the plain men's simpleness , And the kings' great mercy in Righting wrongs and the Lawyers fraud and wickedness . Printed by and for Alex. Milbourn , at the Stationers-Arms in Green-Arbor-Court , in the Little Old-Baily . y , or else he'l let thee live in peace . What's that Injunction , said the poor man ? good Sir to me I pray you say , Why , it is a Letter i'le cause to be written , but art thou so simple as thou showest to day ? Why if't be a Letter i'me never the better , keep it to thy self and trouble not me , I could would had a letter written cheaper at home , and never a come out of my own country . Thoust have and Attachment , said our King , charge all that thou seest take thy part , Till he pay thee and hundred pound , [ be ] sure thou never let him star If any seem against thee to stand , besure thou come hither straightway , I marry , is that all i'm get for my labour , then I may come trotting every day , Thou art hard of belief , then said our King , to please him with Letters he was willing , I see you have taken great pains in writing , with all my heart i'm give a Shilling I'le have none of thy shilling said our King , man with thy money God give there win , He threw it into the Kings bosom , the money lay cold next to his skin . Beshrew thy heart , then said our King , thou art and Earl something too bold : Dost thou not see I am hight with Bowling , and the money next to my skin lies cold . I never wist that before said the poor man , before sike time as I came hither . If the Lawyers in our Country thought 'twas cold , they would not heap up so much together , The King called up his Treasurer , and bade him fetch him twenty Pound ; If ever thy Errand lie here away , i'le bear thy Charges up and down . When the poor man saw the Gold down tendered for to receive it he was willing : If I had thought the King had had so much gold , beshrew my heart i'de would kept my shilling , The poor man god home the next Sunday , the Lawer soon did him espy ; Oh Sir , you have been a stranger long , I think from me you have kept you by . It was for you indeed , said the poor man , the matter to the King , as I have tell : I did as my neighbour put into my head , and made a submission to him my fell . What a deel didst thou with the King quod the lawyer could not neighbours and friends agree thee & me , The deel a neighbour or friend that I had , that would would been such a days man as he : He has gin me a Letter , but I know not what they cal't but if the kings words be true to me When you have read and perused it over , I hope you'l leave and let me be . He has gin me another , but I know not what too but I charge you all to hold him fast , Till he pay me and hundred pound , I will go tie him fast tull a Post . Marry God forbid , the Lawyer said , then the Tachment was read before them there , Thou must needs something credit me , till I go home and fetch some mear . Credit , nay that's it the king forbade , he bade it I god thee I should thee stay , The Lawyer paid him and hundred pound in ready money e're he went away . Would every Lawyer were served thus , from troubling poor men they would cease : They'd either show him good cause why , or else they'd let him live in peace . And thus I end my merry song , which shows the plain men's simpleness , And the kings' great mercy in Righting wrongs and the Lawyers fraud and wickedness . Printed by and for Alex. Milbourn , at the Stationers-Arms in Green-Arbor-Court , in the Little Old-Baily . The King & Northern-man , Showing how a poor Northumberland-Man ( Tenant to the King ) being wronged by a Lawyer ( his Neighbour ) , went to the King himself to make known his grievance . To the Tune of , Slut . TO drive away the weary day , a book I chanced to take in hand , And therein I read assuredly , a story as you shall understand : Perusing many a History over , among the Leaves I chanc'd to view : The Books name and Title is this , The second Lesson , too good to be true . There read I of a Northumberland-man , that was born & brought up in the Kings land , He paid twenty shillings Rend a year , to the King , as I do understand : By him there dwelled a Lawyer false , that with his Farm was not content , But over the poor man still hang'd his nose , because he did gather the Kings Rend . He told him he his Lease had forfeit , and that he must there no longer abide : The King by such Lowness hath much wrong done and for you the world is broad and wide . The poor man pray'd him for to cease , and content himself if he would be willing , And pick no vantage in my Lease , and I shall give thee forty shilling : I'ts neither forty Shilling , nor forty pound , i'm warrant thee , so can agree thee and me , Unless thou yield me thy farm so round , and stand unto my courtesy . The Poor man said he might not do so , his wife and his Barns will make ill work , If thou with my Farm wilt let me go , thou seem'st a good fellow i'm give thee 5 mark . The Lawyer would not be so content , but further i'th matter he means to smell : The neighbours bade the poor man provide his rend , and make a submission to the King himself . He got a humble staff on his back , a jerkin I wot that was of gray : With a good blue Bonnet he thought it no lack to the King he is ganging as fast as he may : He had not gone a mile out o'th town , but one of his Neighbours he did espy : How far is't to'th King , for thither i'm boun , as fast as ever I can high . I am sorry for you neighbour he said , for your simplicity I make moan , Ire warrant you , you may ask for the King , when nine or ten days journey you have gone . Had I wist the King had woned so far , i'm never a sought him a mile out o'th town , He's either had sought me , or we'd never a come near , at home I had rather would spent a Crown . But when he came to the City of London , of every man he for the King did call : They told him , that him he need not to fear , for the King he lies now at the White-Hall . And with spying of Farlies in the City , because he had never been there beforn , He lee so long a bed the next day , the Court was remov'd to Winsor that morn . You would lay too long , then said his Host , you would lay too long by a great while ? The King is now to Winsor gone , he's further gone by twenty mile . I think I was cursed , then said the poor man , if I had been wise I might would consider , Belike the King of me has got some weet , he had ne'r gone away , had not I come hither He fled not for you , then said his Host , but high you to Winsor as fast as you may : Besure it will requite your cost , for look what is passed the King will pay ? But when he came to Winsor Castle , with his humble staff on his back , Although the Gates wide open stood , he laid on them till he made 'um crack . Why stay , pray friend , art mad quod the Porter , what makes thee keep this stir to day ? Why I am a Tenant of the Kings , who have a Message to him to say : The King hath men enough , said the Porter , your Message well that they can say : Why , ther's ne'r a Knave the King does keep , shalt ken my secret mind to day . I were told e're I came from home , e're I god hither it would be dear bought , Let me in , i'm give thee a single Penny , I see , thou wilt would small , e're thou do it for nought . Gramercy , said the Porter then , thy reward is so great I cannot say nay : Yonders a Noble Man within the Court , I'le first hear what he does say . When the Porter came to the Noble man , he said he would show him pretty sport , There's sike a Clown come to the gate , as came not these seven years to the Court . He calls all Knaves the King does keep , he raps at the Gates , and makes great din ; He's passing liberal of reward , he'd give a good single Penny to be let in . Let him in , then said the Noble man , come in Fellow , the Porter gan say ; If thou come within thy self , he said , thy staff behind the Gate must stay . And this Cuckolds Cur must lig behind , what a Deel what a Cur hast god with thee ? The King will take him up for his own fell , I'm warrant when as he does him see . Beshrew thy Limbs , then said the poor man , then mayest thou count me a fool or worse , I wot not what Bankrupt lies by the King , for want of Money he may pick my purse . Let him in with his Staff and Dog said the Lord he gave a nod with's head , & a beck with's knee If you be Sir King , then said the poor man , as I can very well think you be : For as I was told e're I came from home , you'r goodliest man that e're I saw beforn , With so many jingles jangles about one neck , as is about yours , I never saw none . I am not the King , said the Noble man , fellow , though I have a proud Coa If you be not the King , help me to the speech of him . you seem a good fellow , i'm give you a Groat . Gramercy said the Noble man , thy reward is so great , I cannot say nay ; I'll go know the Kings pleasure , if I can , till I come again besure you stay . Here's sike a staying , then said the poor man , [ be ] like the kings better than any in our country I might a gane to the farthest Nuke i'th house , neither Lad nor Town to trouble me . When the Noble man came to the King , he said he could show his Grace good sport , Here's such a Clown come to the gate , as came not this seven years to the Court . He calls all knaves your Highness keeps , and more than that , he terms them worse , [ He'l ] not come in without his Staff and Dog for fear some Bankrupt will pick his purse . Let him in with his staff , then said our King , that of [ his ] sport [ we ] may see some : We'l see how [ he'l ] handle every thing , as soon as oh [ ur ] match of Bowls is done . The Noble man led him through many a room , and through many a Galleray gay , What a deel does the King with so many houses that he gets them not fill'd with Corn & Hay ? At last they spied the King in a Garden , yet from his game he did not start , The day was so hight , he cast off his Doublet , he had nothing from the waste but his shirt . Lo yonder's the King , said the Nobleman , behold follow , lo where he goes : Believ't he's some unthrift , says the poor man , that has lost his money , and pawn'd his clothes . But when he came before the King , the Nobleman did his courtesy : The poor man followed after him , And gave a nod with's head , and a beck with's knee . And if you be Sir King then said the poor man , as I can hardly think you be : Here is a good fellow that brought me hither , is liker to be the king than you . I am the king his Grace now said , fellow let me thy case understand : If you be Sir king i'me a Tenant of yours , that was born & up brought in your own land . There dwells a Lawyer hard by me . and a fault in my Lease he says he hath found , And all was for selling five poor Ashes , to built and house upon your own ground . Hast thou a Lease here , said our king ? or canst thou she to me the Deed ? He gave it into the kings own hand , and said , Sir , here 'tis if that you can read . Let's see thy Lease , then said the king : then from his Black Box he pull'd it out , He gave it into the kings own hand , with four or five knots t'yd fast in a clout . We'st never unlose these knots , said the king , he gave it to one that behind him did stay . It is a proud Horse then said the poor man , will not carry's own Provinder along the high way Pay me forty shillings as i'm pay you , I will not think much to unloose a knot ; I would I were so occupied every day , i'd unloose a score on 'um for a groat . When the king had got these Letters read , and found the truth wak very so , I warrent thee , thou hast not forfeit thy Lease , if thou hadst felled five Ashes more . I , every one can warrant me , but all your warrants are not worth a flee , For he that troubles me and will not let me go , neither cares for warrant of you nor me . Thou'st have and Injunction , said our king from troubling of thee he will ceas He'l either show thee good cause wh The King & Northern-man , Showing how a poor Northumberland-Man ( Tenant to the King ) being wronged by a Lawyer ( his Neighbour ) , went to the King himself to make known his grievance . To the Tune of , Slut . TO drive away the weary day , a book I chanced to take in hand , And therein I read assuredly , a story as you shall understand : Perusing many a History over , among the Leaves I chanc'd to view : The Books name and Title is this , The second Lesson , too good to be true . There read I of a Northumberland-man , that was born & brought up in the Kings land , He paid twenty shillings Rend a year , to the King , as I do understand : By him there dwelled a Lawyer false , that with his Farm was not content , But over the poor man still hang'd his nose , because he did gather the Kings Rend . He told him he his Lease had forfeit , and that he must there no longer abide : The King by such Lowness hath much wrong done and for you the world is broad and wide . The poor man pray'd him for to cease , and content himself if he would be willing , And pick no vantage in my Lease , and I shall give thee forty shilling : I'ts neither forty Shilling , nor forty pound , i'm warrant thee , so can agree thee and me , Unless thou yield me thy farm so round , and stand unto my courtesy . The Poor man said he might not do so , his wife and his Barns will make ill work , If thou with my Farm wilt let me go , thou seem'st a good fellow i'm give thee 5 mark . The Lawyer would not be so content , but further i'th matter he means to smell : The neighbours bade the poor man provide his rend , and make a submission to the King himself . He got a humble staff on his back , a jerkin I wot that was of gray : With a good blue Bonnet he thought it no lack to the King he is ganging as fast as he may : He had not gone a mile out o'th town , but one of his Neighbours he did espy : How far is't to'th King , for thither i'm boun , as fast as ever I can high . I am sorry for you neighbour he said , for your simplicity I make moan , Ire warrant you , you may ask for the King , when nine or ten days journey you have gone . Had I wist the King had woned so far , i'm never a sought him a mile out o'th town , He's either had sought me , or we'd never a come near , at home I had rather would spent a Crown . But when he came to the City of London , of every man he for the King did call : They told him , that him he need not to fear , for the King he lies now at the White-Hall . And with spying of Farlies in the City , because he had never been there beforn , He lee so long a bed the next day , the Court was remov'd to Winsor that morn . You would lay too long , then said his Host , you would lay too long by a great while ? The King is now to Winsor gone , he's further gone by twenty mile . I think I was cursed , then said the poor man , if I had been wise I might would consider , Belike the King of me has got some weet , he had ne'r gone away , had not I come hither He fled not for you , then said his Host , but high you to Winsor as fast as you may : Besure it will requite your cost , for look what is passed the King will pay ? But when he came to Winsor Castle , with his humble staff on his back , Although the Gates wide open stood , he laid on them till he made 'um crack . Why stay , pray friend , art mad quod the Porter , what makes thee keep this stir to day ? Why I am a Tenant of the Kings , who have a Message to him to say : The King hath men enough , said the Porter , your Message well that they can say : Why , ther's ne'r a Knave the King does keep , shalt ken my secret mind to day . I were told e're I came from home , e're I god hither it would be dear bought , Let me in , i'm give thee a single Penny , I see , thou wilt would small , e're thou do it for nought . Gramercy , said the Porter then , thy reward is so great I cannot say nay : Yonders a Noble Man within the Court , I'le first hear what he does say . When the Porter came to the Noble man , he said he would show him pretty sport , There's sike a Clown come to the gate , as came not these seven years to the Court . He calls all Knaves the King does keep , he raps at the Gates , and makes great din ; He's passing liberal of reward , he'd give a good single Penny to be let in . Let him in , then said the Noble man , come in Fellow , the Porter gan say ; If thou come within thy self , he said , thy staff behind the Gate must stay . And this Cuckolds Cur must lig behind , what a Deel what a Cur hast god with thee ? The King will take him up for his own fell , I'm warrant when as he does him see . Beshrew thy Limbs , then said the poor man , then mayest thou count me a fool or worse , I wot not what Bankrupt lies by the King , for want of Money he may pick my purse . Let him in with his Staff and Dog said the Lord he gave a nod with's head , & a beck with's knee If you be Sir King , then said the poor man , as I can very well think you be : For as I was told e're I came from home , you'r goodliest man that e're I saw beforn , With so many jingles jangles about one neck , as is about yours , I never saw none . I am not the King , said the Noble man , fellow , though I have a proud Coa If you be not the King , help me to the speech of him . you seem a good fellow , i'm give you a Groat . Gramercy said the Noble man , thy reward is so great , I cannot say nay ; I'll go know the Kings pleasure , if I can , till I come again besure you stay . Here's sike a staying , then said the poor man , [ be ] like the kings better than any in our country I might a gane to the farthest Nuke i'th house , neither Lad nor Town to trouble me . When the Noble man came to the King , he said he could show his Grace good sport , Here's such a Clown come to the gate , as came not this seven years to the Court . He calls all knaves your Highness keeps , and more than that , he terms them worse , [ He'l ] not come in without his Staff and Dog for fear some Bankrupt will pick his purse . Let him in with his staff , then said our King , that of [ his ] sport [ we ] may see some : We'l see how [ he'l ] handle every thing , as soon as oh [ ur ] match of Bowls is done . The Noble man led him through many a room , and through many a Galleray gay , What a deel does the King with so many houses that he gets them not fill'd with Corn & Hay ? At last they spied the King in a Garden , yet from his game he did not start , The day was so hight , he cast off his Doublet , he had nothing from the waste but his shirt . Lo yonder's the King , said the Nobleman , behold follow , lo where he goes : Believ't he's some unthrift , says the poor man , that has lost his money , and pawn'd his clothes . But when he came before the King , the Nobleman did his courtesy : The poor man followed after him , And gave a nod with's head , and a beck with's knee . And if you be Sir King then said the poor man , as I can hardly think you be : Here is a good fellow that brought me hither , is liker to be the king than you . I am the king his Grace now said , fellow let me thy case understand : If you be Sir king i'me a Tenant of yours , that was born & up brought in your own land . There dwells a Lawyer hard by me . and a fault in my Lease he says he hath found , And all was for selling five poor Ashes , to built and house upon your own ground . Hast thou a Lease here , said our king ? or canst thou she to me the Deed ? He gave it into the kings own hand , and said , Sir , here 'tis if that you can read . Let's see thy Lease , then said the king : then from his Black Box he pull'd it out , He gave it into the kings own hand , with four or five knots t'yd fast in a clout . We'st never unlose these knots , said the king , he gave it to one that behind him did stay . It is a proud Horse then said the poor man , will not carry's own Provinder along the high way Pay me forty shillings as i'm pay you , I will not think much to unloose a knot ; I would I were so occupied every day , i'd unloose a score on 'um for a groat . When the king had got these Letters read , and found the truth wak very so , I warrent thee , thou hast not forfeit thy Lease , if thou hadst felled five Ashes more . I , every one can warrant me , but all your warrants are not worth a flee , For he that troubles me and will not let me go , neither cares for warrant of you nor me . Thou'st have and Injunction , said our king from troubling of thee he will ceas He'l either show thee good cause why , or else he'l let thee live in peace . What's that Injunction , said the poor man ? good Sir to me I pray you say , Why , it is a Letter i'le cause to be written , but art thou so simple as thou showest to day ? Why if't be a Letter i'me never the better , keep it to thy self and trouble not me , I could would had a letter written cheaper at home , and never a come out of my own country . Thoust have and Attachment , said our King , charge all that thou seest take thy part , Till he pay thee and hundred pound , [ be ] sure thou never let him star If any seem against thee to stand , besure thou come hither straightway , I marry , is that all i'm get for my labour , then I may come trotting every day , Thou art hard of belief , then said our King , to please him with Letters he was willing , I see you have taken great pains in writing , with all my heart i'm give a Shilling I'le have none of thy shilling said our King , man with thy money God give there win , He threw it into the Kings bosom , the money lay cold next to his skin . Beshrew thy heart , then said our King , thou art and Earl something too bold : Dost thou not see I am hight with Bowling , and the money next to my skin lies cold . I never wist that before said the poor man , before sike time as I came hither . If the Lawyers in our Country thought 'twas cold , they would not heap up so much together , The King called up his Treasurer , and bade him fetch him twenty Pound ; If ever thy Errand lie here away , i'le bear thy Charges up and down . When the poor man saw the Gold down tendered for to receive it he was willing : If I had thought the King had had so much gold , beshrew my heart i'de would kept my shilling , The poor man god home the next Sunday , the Lawer soon did him espy ; Oh Sir , you have been a stranger long , I think from me you have kept you by . It was for you indeed , said the poor man , the matter to the King , as I have tell : I did as my neighbour put into my head , and made a submission to him my fell . What a deel didst thou with the King quod the lawyer could not neighbours and friends agree thee & me , The deel a neighbour or friend that I had , that would would been such a days man as he : He has gin me a Letter , but I know not what they cal't but if the kings words be true to me When you have read and perused it over , I hope you'l leave and let me be . He has gin me another , but I know not what too but I charge you all to hold him fast , Till he pay me and hundred pound , I will go tie him fast tull a Post . Marry God forbid , the Lawyer said , then the Tachment was read before them there , Thou must needs something credit me , till I go home and fetch some mear . Credit , nay that's it the king forbade , he bade it I god thee I should thee stay , The Lawyer paid him and hundred pound in ready money e're he went away . Would every Lawyer were served thus , from troubling poor men they would cease : They'd either show him good cause why , or else they'd let him live in peace . And thus I end my merry song , which shows the plain men's simpleness , And the kings' great mercy in Righting wrongs and the Lawyers fraud and wickedness . Printed by and for Alex. Milbourn , at the Stationers-Arms in Green-Arbor-Court , in the Little Old-Baily . y , or else he'l let thee live in peace . What's that Injunction , said the poor man ? good Sir to me I pray you say , Why , it is a Letter i'le cause to be written , but art thou so simple as thou showest to day ? Why if't be a Letter i'me never the better , keep it to thy self and trouble not me , I could would had a letter written cheaper at home , and never a come out of my own country . Thoust have and Attachment , said our King , charge all that thou seest take thy part , Till he pay thee and hundred pound , [ be ] sure thou never let him star If any seem against thee to stand , besure thou come hither straightway , I marry , is that all i'm get for my labour , then I may come trotting every day , Thou art hard of belief , then said our King , to please him with Letters he was willing , I see you have taken great pains in writing , with all my heart i'm give a Shilling I'le have none of thy shilling said our King , man with thy money God give there win , He threw it into the Kings bosom , the money lay cold next to his skin . Beshrew thy heart , then said our King , thou art and Earl something too bold : Dost thou not see I am hight with Bowling , and the money next to my skin lies cold . I never wist that before said the poor man , before sike time as I came hither . If the Lawyers in our Country thought 'twas cold , they would not heap up so much together , The King called up his Treasurer , and bade him fetch him twenty Pound ; If ever thy Errand lie here away , i'le bear thy Charges up and down . When the poor man saw the Gold down tendered for to receive it he was willing : If I had thought the King had had so much gold , beshrew my heart i'de would kept my shilling , The poor man god home the next Sunday , the Lawer soon did him espy ; Oh Sir , you have been a stranger long , I think from me you have kept you by . It was for you indeed , said the poor man , the matter to the King , as I have tell : I did as my neighbour put into my head , and made a submission to him my fell . What a deel didst thou with the King quod the lawyer could not neighbours and friends agree thee & me , The deel a neighbour or friend that I had , that would would been such a days man as he : He has gin me a Letter , but I know not what they cal't but if the kings words be true to me When you have read and perused it over , I hope you'l leave and let me be . He has gin me another , but I know not what too but I charge you all to hold him fast , Till he pay me and hundred pound , I will go tie him fast tull a Post . Marry God forbid , the Lawyer said , then the Tachment was read before them there , Thou must needs something credit me , till I go home and fetch some mear . Credit , nay that's it the king forbade , he bade it I god thee I should thee stay , The Lawyer paid him and hundred pound in ready money e're he went away . Would every Lawyer were served thus , from troubling poor men they would cease : They'd either show him good cause why , or else they'd let him live in peace . And thus I end my merry song , which shows the plain men's simpleness , And the kings' great mercy in Righting wrongs and the Lawyers fraud and wickedness . Printed by and for Alex. Milbourn , at the Stationers-Arms in Green-Arbor-Court , in the Little Old-Baily . 