A Pleasant Ballad of King Henry the second , and the Miller of Mansfield , and how he was Entertained and Lodged at the Miller's House , and of their pleasant Come - munication . To the tune of the French Levalto , etc HEnry , our Royal King , would ride a Hunting , to the green Forest , so pleasant and fair , To have the Heart chased , and dainty Does tripping , unto merry Sherwood his Nobles repair ; Hawk and Hound was unbound , all things prepar'd For the same : To the Game , with good regard , All a long Summer's Day , road the King pleasantly , with all his Princes , and Nobles ; each one Chasing the Heart , and Hind , & the Buck gallantly , till the dark Evening forc'd Him to turn home . Then , at last , riding fast , he had lost quite All his Lords in the Wood ; late , in dark Night , Wand'ring thus , warily , all alone , up and down , with a rude Miller he met , at the las Asking the ready way unto fair Nottingham . Sir , ( quoth the Miller ) your way you have lost ; Yet I think what I think , truth for to say , You do not likely ride out of your way . Why ? what dost thou think of me ? quod our King merrily , passing thy judgement upon me so brief . Good faith , ( said the Miller ) I mean not to flatter thee , I guess thee to be but some Gentleman-Thief : Stand thee back in the dark , light thee not down , lest that I presently crack thy Kaves crown . Thou hast abus'd me much , ( quod the King , saying thus ) I am a Gentleman , and Lodging I lack . Thou hast not ( quod the miller ) one groat in thy purse , all thy Inheritance hangs on thy back . I have gold to discharge all that I call , If it be Forty Pence I will pay all . If thou be'st a Trueman , ( then quoth the Miller ) I swear by my tole-dish , I'll lodge thee all night . Here's my hand , ( quoth the King ) that was I ever . Nay , soft , ( quod the Miller ) thou may'st be a Spright , Better I [ ' ] ll know thee e'er hands I will take , With none but honest men hands will I shake . Thus they went all along unto the Miller's house , where they were seething of Puddings and Souse ; The Miller first entered in , then after him the King , never came he in so smoky a house : Now ( quoth he ) let me see here what you are . Quoth our King , Look your fill , and do not spare . I like thy countenance , thou hast and honest face , with my Son Richard this night thou shalt lie , Quoth his wife , By my troth it is a handsome Youth , yet it is best ( husband ) for to deal warily : Art thou not a Runaway , prithee Youth tell ? Show me thy Passport and all shall be well . Then our King presently making low courtesy , with his Hat in his hand , thus he did say , I have no passport , nor never was Servitor , but a poor Courtier road out of my way : And for your kindness here offered me , I will requite it in every degree . Then to the Miller his wife whispered secretly , saying it seems this Youth's of good kin , Both by his apparel and eke by his manners , to turn him out certainly 'twere a great since . Yea ( quoth he ) you may see he hath some grace , When he does speak to his betters in place . Well , quod the Miller's wife , young man welcome here , and tho' I say it well lodg'd thou shalt be , Fresh straw I will have laid on thy bed so brave , good brown hempon-sheets likewise , quoth she . Ay , quoth the good man , and when that is done You shalt lie with no worse than my own Son. Nay first ( quoth Richard ) Goodfellow tell me true , hast thou no Creepers within thy gay Hose ? Or art thou not troubled with the Scabbado ? I pray quoth our King what things are those ? art thou not lousy nor scabby ? quoth he , If thou be'st , surely thou ly'st not with me . This caus'd the King suddenly to laugh most heartily till the tears trickled down from his eyes ; Then to their supper were they set orderly , with a hight bag-pudding and good apple-pies ; Nappy ale good and stale in a brown bowl , Which did about the board merrily trowl . Here quod the miller good fellow I'll drink to thee , and to all Courtnals wherever they be . I'll pledge you , quoth our King , and thank you heartly for your good welcome in every degree ; And here in like manner I'll drink to your Son. Do so , quoth Richard , but quick let it come . Wife , quoth the miller , fetch me forth Lightfoot that we of his sweetness a little may taste ; A fair venision-pasty then brought she forth presently , Eat , quoth the miller , but Sir make no waste : Here's dainty Lightfoot , in faith , said our King , I never before did Eat so dainty a thing . I wis , said Richard , no dainty at all it is , for we do eat of it every day ; In what place , said the King may be bought like to this We never pay penny for it by faith . From merry Sherwood we fetch it home here , Now and then we make bold with our King's deer : Then I think , said our King , that it is venision . Each fool quoth Richard , full well may see that ; Never are we without two or three under the roof , very well fleshed and excellent fa But prithee say nothing where ever thou go , We would not for twopence the King should it know Doubt not , then said the King , my promis'd secrecy , the King shall never know more on't for me . A cup of lambswool they drank unto him then , and to their beds they passed presently : The Nobles next morning went all up and down For to seek out the King in every town . At last at the millers house soon they espy'd him play [ n ] as he was mounting upon his fair Steed , To whom they came presently falling upon their knee , which made the miller's heart woefully bleed ; Shaking and quaking before them he stood , Thinking he should have been hang'd by the rood : The King perceiving him fearful and trembling , drew forth his sword and nothing he said . The miller down did fallen , crying before them all , doubting the King would have cut off his head ; But his kind Courtesy for to requite , Gave him a living , and made him a knight . The Second Part of the King and Miller , showing how he came to Court with his wife and son , and what merry Conceits passed between the King and them . When as our Royal king came home from Nottingham and with his Nobles at Westminster lay , Recounting the sports and pastimes they had taken , in this late Progress along by the way : Of them all great and small , he did protest , The miller of Mansfield's sport liked him bes And now my Lords , quod the king I am determined , against St. George's next a sumptuous feast , That this old miller our last confirmed knight with his son Richard shall both be my Guess , For in this merriment 'tis my desire , To talk with the jolly knight and the young Squire . When as the Lords saw the kings pleasantness , they were right joyful and glad in their hearts . A Pursuivant there was sent straight on the business , the which had oftentimes been in those parts : When he came to the place where he did dwell , His message orderly then he did tell : God save your worship then said the messenger , and grant your Lady her hearts desire ; And to your Son Richard good fortune & happiness that sweet young Gentleman & gallant young squire , Our king greets you all , and thus does say , You must come to the Court on St. Georges day . Therefore in any case , fail not to be in place . I wis quoth the miller this is and odd jest ; what should we do there he said faith I am half afraid I doubt quoth Richard be hang'd at the least , Nay quoth the messenger you do mistake , Our king he provides a great feast for your sake . Then said the miller now by my troth messenger , thou hast contented my worship full well ; Hold here's 3 farthings to quit thy great gentleness , for these happy tidings which thou dost me tell ; Let me see heres to thee , tell to our king we'll wait on his mastership in every thing . The Pursuivant smiled at their simplicity , and making many legs took their Reward : And taking then his leave with great humility to the kings Court again he repair'd : [ s ] hewing unto his Grace in each degree The knights most liberal gift and bounty . When he was gone away thus did the miller say , heye comes expenses and charges indeed Now we must needs be brave though we spend all we have ; for of new Garments we have great need : Of horses and servingmen we must have store , With bridles and saddles , and twenty things more . Tush Sir John quod his wife never fret nor frown , you shall be at no more charges for me . For I will turn and trim up my old Rus A Pleasant Ballad of King Henry the second , and the Miller of Mansfield , and how he was Entertained and Lodged at the Miller's House , and of their pleasant Come - munication . To the tune of the French Levalto , etc HEnry , our Royal King , would ride a Hunting , to the green Forest , so pleasant and fair , To have the Heart chased , and dainty Does tripping , unto merry Sherwood his Nobles repair ; Hawk and Hound was unbound , all things prepar'd For the same : To the Game , with good regard , All a long Summer's Day , road the King pleasantly , with all his Princes , and Nobles ; each one Chasing the Heart , and Hind , & the Buck gallantly , till the dark Evening forc'd Him to turn home . Then , at last , riding fast , he had lost quite All his Lords in the Wood ; late , in dark Night , Wand'ring thus , warily , all alone , up and down , with a rude Miller he met , at the las Asking the ready way unto fair Nottingham . Sir , ( quoth the Miller ) your way you have lost ; Yet I think what I think , truth for to say , You do not likely ride out of your way . Why ? what dost thou think of me ? quod our King merrily , passing thy judgement upon me so brief . Good faith , ( said the Miller ) I mean not to flatter thee , I guess thee to be but some Gentleman-Thief : Stand thee back in the dark , light thee not down , lest that I presently crack thy Kaves crown . Thou hast abus'd me much , ( quod the King , saying thus ) I am a Gentleman , and Lodging I lack . Thou hast not ( quod the miller ) one groat in thy purse , all thy Inheritance hangs on thy back . I have gold to discharge all that I call , If it be Forty Pence I will pay all . If thou be'st a Trueman , ( then quoth the Miller ) I swear by my tole-dish , I'll lodge thee all night . Here's my hand , ( quoth the King ) that was I ever . Nay , soft , ( quod the Miller ) thou may'st be a Spright , Better I [ ' ] ll know thee e'er hands I will take , With none but honest men hands will I shake . Thus they went all along unto the Miller's house , where they were seething of Puddings and Souse ; The Miller first entered in , then after him the King , never came he in so smoky a house : Now ( quoth he ) let me see here what you are . Quoth our King , Look your fill , and do not spare . I like thy countenance , thou hast and honest face , with my Son Richard this night thou shalt lie , Quoth his wife , By my troth it is a handsome Youth , yet it is best ( husband ) for to deal warily : Art thou not a Runaway , prithee Youth tell ? Show me thy Passport and all shall be well . Then our King presently making low courtesy , with his Hat in his hand , thus he did say , I have no passport , nor never was Servitor , but a poor Courtier road out of my way : And for your kindness here offered me , I will requite it in every degree . Then to the Miller his wife whispered secretly , saying it seems this Youth's of good kin , Both by his apparel and eke by his manners , to turn him out certainly 'twere a great since . Yea ( quoth he ) you may see he hath some grace , When he does speak to his betters in place . Well , quod the Miller's wife , young man welcome here , and tho' I say it well lodg'd thou shalt be , Fresh straw I will have laid on thy bed so brave , good brown hempon-sheets likewise , quoth she . Ay , quoth the good man , and when that is done You shalt lie with no worse than my own Son. Nay first ( quoth Richard ) Goodfellow tell me true , hast thou no Creepers within thy gay Hose ? Or art thou not troubled with the Scabbado ? I pray quoth our King what things are those ? art thou not lousy nor scabby ? quoth he , If thou be'st , surely thou ly'st not with me . This caus'd the King suddenly to laugh most heartily till the tears trickled down from his eyes ; Then to their supper were they set orderly , with a hight bag-pudding and good apple-pies ; Nappy ale good and stale in a brown bowl , Which did about the board merrily trowl . Here quod the miller good fellow I'll drink to thee , and to all Courtnals wherever they be . I'll pledge you , quoth our King , and thank you heartly for your good welcome in every degree ; And here in like manner I'll drink to your Son. Do so , quoth Richard , but quick let it come . Wife , quoth the miller , fetch me forth Lightfoot that we of his sweetness a little may taste ; A fair venision-pasty then brought she forth presently , Eat , quoth the miller , but Sir make no waste : Here's dainty Lightfoot , in faith , said our King , I never before did Eat so dainty a thing . I wis , said Richard , no dainty at all it is , for we do eat of it every day ; In what place , said the King may be bought like to this We never pay penny for it by faith . From merry Sherwood we fetch it home here , Now and then we make bold with our King's deer : Then I think , said our King , that it is venision . Each fool quoth Richard , full well may see that ; Never are we without two or three under the roof , very well fleshed and excellent fa But prithee say nothing where ever thou go , We would not for twopence the King should it know Doubt not , then said the King , my promis'd secrecy , the King shall never know more on't for me . A cup of lambswool they drank unto him then , and to their beds they passed presently : The Nobles next morning went all up and down For to seek out the King in every town . At last at the millers house soon they espy'd him play [ n ] as he was mounting upon his fair Steed , To whom they came presently falling upon their knee , which made the miller's heart woefully bleed ; Shaking and quaking before them he stood , Thinking he should have been hang'd by the rood : The King perceiving him fearful and trembling , drew forth his sword and nothing he said . The miller down did fallen , crying before them all , doubting the King would have cut off his head ; But his kind Courtesy for to requite , Gave him a living , and made him a knight . The Second Part of the King and Miller , showing how he came to Court with his wife and son , and what merry Conceits passed between the King and them . When as our Royal king came home from Nottingham and with his Nobles at Westminster lay , Recounting the sports and pastimes they had taken , in this late Progress along by the way : Of them all great and small , he did protest , The miller of Mansfield's sport liked him bes And now my Lords , quod the king I am determined , against St. George's next a sumptuous feast , That this old miller our last confirmed knight with his son Richard shall both be my Guess , For in this merriment 'tis my desire , To talk with the jolly knight and the young Squire . When as the Lords saw the kings pleasantness , they were right joyful and glad in their hearts . A Pursuivant there was sent straight on the business , the which had oftentimes been in those parts : When he came to the place where he did dwell , His message orderly then he did tell : God save your worship then said the messenger , and grant your Lady her hearts desire ; And to your Son Richard good fortune & happiness that sweet young Gentleman & gallant young squire , Our king greets you all , and thus does say , You must come to the Court on St. Georges day . Therefore in any case , fail not to be in place . I wis quoth the miller this is and odd jest ; what should we do there he said faith I am half afraid I doubt quoth Richard be hang'd at the least , Nay quoth the messenger you do mistake , Our king he provides a great feast for your sake . Then said the miller now by my troth messenger , thou hast contented my worship full well ; Hold here's 3 farthings to quit thy great gentleness , for these happy tidings which thou dost me tell ; Let me see heres to thee , tell to our king we'll wait on his mastership in every thing . The Pursuivant smiled at their simplicity , and making many legs took their Reward : And taking then his leave with great humility to the kings Court again he repair'd : [ s ] hewing unto his Grace in each degree The knights most liberal gift and bounty . When he was gone away thus did the miller say , heye comes expenses and charges indeed Now we must needs be brave though we spend all we have ; for of new Garments we have great need : Of horses and servingmen we must have store , With bridles and saddles , and twenty things more . Tush Sir John quod his wife never fret nor frown , you shall be at no more charges for me . For I will turn and trim up my old Russet Gown , with every thing as fine as may be : and on our mill-horses full swift we will ride . With pillows and panels as we shall provide . In this most stately sort Road they unto the Court , their jolly Son Richard foremost of all , Who set up by good hap a Cocks Feather in his cap , and so they jetted down towards the King's Hall . the merry old miller with his hands on his side , His Wife like maid Ma [ rrian ] did mince at that tide . The king and his nobles that herd of his coming , meeting this gallant knight with his brave train , Welcome Sir knight quod he with this your gay Lady , good Sir John Cockle once welcome again ; And so is this squire of courage so free . Quoth Dick , A bots on you do you know me ? Quoth our king gently , How should I forget thee ? thou wast my own Bedfellow well that I wot . But I think of a trick , tell me that prithee Dick , how thou with farting didst make the bed hight ? Thou whoreson happy knave then quoth the knight , speak cleanly to our king , or else go shite . The king and his Courtiers heartily laugh'd at this , while the king took them both by the hand ; With Ladies and their Maids , like to the Queen of Spades , the Millers wife did so orderly stand , A Milkmaids courtesy at every word , And down the Folks were set at the side board : Where the king royally in Princely majesty , sat at his dinner with joy and delight ; When they had eaten well to jesting then they fell , taking a bowl of wine drank to the knigh Here's to you both he said in wine ale and beer , Thanking you all for your Country Cheer . Quoth Sir John Cockle I'll pledge you a pottle , were it the best ale in Nottinghamshire . But then said the king I do think of a thing , some of your Lightfoot I would we had here ; Ho ho quoth Richard full well I may say it , This knavery to eat it and then to betray it . why art thou angry ? quoth our king merrily , in faith I take it very unkind , I thought thou wouldst pledge me in ale and wine heartily You'r like to stay quoth Dick till I have din'd , You feed us with twatling dishes so small , Zounds a black Pudding is better than all . ay marry quoth our king that were a dainty thing , if a man could get one here for to eat . with that Dick arose and plucked one out of his hose , which with heat of his breech began for to swea The king made a proffer to snatch it away , This meat for your Master good Sir you must stay . thus in great merriment was the time wholly spent , and then the Ladies prepared to dance , Old Sir John Cockle and Richard incont [ i ] nent , unto this p [ r ] actice the king did advance ; Here with the Ladies such sport they did make , the Nobles with laughing did make their hearts ache , Many thanks for their pains did the king give them , asking young Richard if he would wed , among these Ladies free tell me which liketh thee : Quoth he Jug Grumbol with the Read Head ; Shes my love shes my life she will I wed , She hath sworn I shall have her maidenhead . then Sir John Cockle the king called unto him , and of merry Sherwood made him Overseer . and gave him out of hand three hundred pound yearly . and now take heed you steel no more of my Deer : and once a quarter lets here have your view and thus Sir John Cockle I bid you adieu . Prin [ ted ] for A. Milbourn in Green-Arbor-Court in the Little Old-Baily . set Gown , with every thing as fine as may be : and on our mill-horses full swift we will ride . With pillows and panels as we shall provide . In this most stately sort Road they unto the Court , their jolly Son Richard foremost of all , Who set up by good hap a Cocks Feather in his cap , and so they jetted down towards the King's Hall . the merry old miller with his hands on his side , His Wife like maid Ma [ rrian ] did mince at that tide . The king and his nobles that herd of his coming , meeting this gallant knight with his brave train , Welcome Sir knight quod he with this your gay Lady , good Sir John Cockle once welcome again ; And so is this squire of courage so free . Quoth Dick , A bots on you do you know me ? Quoth our king gently , How should I forget thee ? thou wast my own Bedfellow well that I wot . But I think of a trick , tell me that prithee Dick , how thou with farting didst make the bed hight ? Thou whoreson happy knave then quoth the knight , speak cleanly to our king , or else go shite . The king and his Courtiers heartily laugh'd at this , while the king took them both by the hand ; With Ladies and their Maids , like to the Queen of Spades , the Millers wife did so orderly stand , A Milkmaids courtesy at every word , And down the Folks were set at the side board : Where the king royally in Princely majesty , sat at his dinner with joy and delight ; When they had eaten well to jesting then they fell , taking a bowl of wine drank to the knigh Here's to you both he said in wine ale and beer , Thanking you all for your Country Cheer . Quoth Sir John Cockle I'll pledge you a pottle , were it the best ale in Nottinghamshire . But then said the king I do think of a thing , some of your Lightfoot I would we had here ; Ho ho quoth Richard full well I may say it , This knavery to eat it and then to betray it . why art thou angry ? quoth our king merrily , in faith I take it very unkind , I thought thou wouldst pledge me in ale and wine heartily You'r like to stay quoth Dick till I have din'd , You feed us with twatling dishes so small , Zounds a black Pudding is better than all . ay marry quoth our king that were a dainty thing , if a man could get one here for to eat . with that Dick arose and plucked one out of his hose , which with heat of his breech began for to swea The king made a proffer to snatch it away , This meat for your Master good Sir you must stay . thus in great merriment was the time wholly spent , and then the Ladies prepared to dance , Old Sir John Cockle and Richard incont [ i ] nent , unto this p [ r ] actice the king did advance ; Here with the Ladies such sport they did make , the Nobles with laughing did make their hearts ache , Many thanks for their pains did the king give them , asking young Richard if he would wed , among these Ladies free tell me which liketh thee : Quoth he Jug Grumbol with the Read Head ; Shes my love shes my life she will I wed , She hath sworn I shall have her maidenhead . then Sir John Cockle the king called unto him , and of merry Sherwood made him Overseer . and gave him out of hand three hundred pound yearly . and now take heed you steel no more of my Deer : and once a quarter lets here have your view and thus Sir John Cockle I bid you adieu . Prin [ ted ] for A. Milbourn in Green-Arbor-Court in the Little Old-Baily . A Pleasant Ballad of King Henry the second , and the Miller of Mansfield , and how he was Entertained and Lodged at the Miller's House , and of their pleasant Come - munication . To the tune of the French Levalto , etc HEnry , our Royal King , would ride a Hunting , to the green Forest , so pleasant and fair , To have the Heart chased , and dainty Does tripping , unto merry Sherwood his Nobles repair ; Hawk and Hound was unbound , all things prepar'd For the same : To the Game , with good regard , All a long Summer's Day , road the King pleasantly , with all his Princes , and Nobles ; each one Chasing the Heart , and Hind , & the Buck gallantly , till the dark Evening forc'd Him to turn home . Then , at last , riding fast , he had lost quite All his Lords in the Wood ; late , in dark Night , Wand'ring thus , warily , all alone , up and down , with a rude Miller he met , at the las Asking the ready way unto fair Nottingham . Sir , ( quoth the Miller ) your way you have lost ; Yet I think what I think , truth for to say , You do not likely ride out of your way . Why ? what dost thou think of me ? quod our King merrily , passing thy judgement upon me so brief . Good faith , ( said the Miller ) I mean not to flatter thee , I guess thee to be but some Gentleman-Thief : Stand thee back in the dark , light thee not down , lest that I presently crack thy Kaves crown . Thou hast abus'd me much , ( quod the King , saying thus ) I am a Gentleman , and Lodging I lack . Thou hast not ( quod the miller ) one groat in thy purse , all thy Inheritance hangs on thy back . I have gold to discharge all that I call , If it be Forty Pence I will pay all . If thou be'st a Trueman , ( then quoth the Miller ) I swear by my tole-dish , I'll lodge thee all night . Here's my hand , ( quoth the King ) that was I ever . Nay , soft , ( quod the Miller ) thou may'st be a Spright , Better I [ ' ] ll know thee e'er hands I will take , With none but honest men hands will I shake . Thus they went all along unto the Miller's house , where they were seething of Puddings and Souse ; The Miller first entered in , then after him the King , never came he in so smoky a house : Now ( quoth he ) let me see here what you are . Quoth our King , Look your fill , and do not spare . I like thy countenance , thou hast and honest face , with my Son Richard this night thou shalt lie , Quoth his wife , By my troth it is a handsome Youth , yet it is best ( husband ) for to deal warily : Art thou not a Runaway , prithee Youth tell ? Show me thy Passport and all shall be well . Then our King presently making low courtesy , with his Hat in his hand , thus he did say , I have no passport , nor never was Servitor , but a poor Courtier road out of my way : And for your kindness here offered me , I will requite it in every degree . Then to the Miller his wife whispered secretly , saying it seems this Youth's of good kin , Both by his apparel and eke by his manners , to turn him out certainly 'twere a great since . Yea ( quoth he ) you may see he hath some grace , When he does speak to his betters in place . Well , quod the Miller's wife , young man welcome here , and tho' I say it well lodg'd thou shalt be , Fresh straw I will have laid on thy bed so brave , good brown hempon-sheets likewise , quoth she . Ay , quoth the good man , and when that is done You shalt lie with no worse than my own Son. Nay first ( quoth Richard ) Goodfellow tell me true , hast thou no Creepers within thy gay Hose ? Or art thou not troubled with the Scabbado ? I pray quoth our King what things are those ? art thou not lousy nor scabby ? quoth he , If thou be'st , surely thou ly'st not with me . This caus'd the King suddenly to laugh most heartily till the tears trickled down from his eyes ; Then to their supper were they set orderly , with a hight bag-pudding and good apple-pies ; Nappy ale good and stale in a brown bowl , Which did about the board merrily trowl . Here quod the miller good fellow I'll drink to thee , and to all Courtnals wherever they be . I'll pledge you , quoth our King , and thank you heartly for your good welcome in every degree ; And here in like manner I'll drink to your Son. Do so , quoth Richard , but quick let it come . Wife , quoth the miller , fetch me forth Lightfoot that we of his sweetness a little may taste ; A fair venision-pasty then brought she forth presently , Eat , quoth the miller , but Sir make no waste : Here's dainty Lightfoot , in faith , said our King , I never before did Eat so dainty a thing . I wis , said Richard , no dainty at all it is , for we do eat of it every day ; In what place , said the King may be bought like to this We never pay penny for it by faith . From merry Sherwood we fetch it home here , Now and then we make bold with our King's deer : Then I think , said our King , that it is venision . Each fool quoth Richard , full well may see that ; Never are we without two or three under the roof , very well fleshed and excellent fa But prithee say nothing where ever thou go , We would not for twopence the King should it know Doubt not , then said the King , my promis'd secrecy , the King shall never know more on't for me . A cup of lambswool they drank unto him then , and to their beds they passed presently : The Nobles next morning went all up and down For to seek out the King in every town . At last at the millers house soon they espy'd him play [ n ] as he was mounting upon his fair Steed , To whom they came presently falling upon their knee , which made the miller's heart woefully bleed ; Shaking and quaking before them he stood , Thinking he should have been hang'd by the rood : The King perceiving him fearful and trembling , drew forth his sword and nothing he said . The miller down did fallen , crying before them all , doubting the King would have cut off his head ; But his kind Courtesy for to requite , Gave him a living , and made him a knight . The Second Part of the King and Miller , showing how he came to Court with his wife and son , and what merry Conceits passed between the King and them . When as our Royal king came home from Nottingham and with his Nobles at Westminster lay , Recounting the sports and pastimes they had taken , in this late Progress along by the way : Of them all great and small , he did protest , The miller of Mansfield's sport liked him bes And now my Lords , quod the king I am determined , against St. George's next a sumptuous feast , That this old miller our last confirmed knight with his son Richard shall both be my Guess , For in this merriment 'tis my desire , To talk with the jolly knight and the young Squire . When as the Lords saw the kings pleasantness , they were right joyful and glad in their hearts . A Pursuivant there was sent straight on the business , the which had oftentimes been in those parts : When he came to the place where he did dwell , His message orderly then he did tell : God save your worship then said the messenger , and grant your Lady her hearts desire ; And to your Son Richard good fortune & happiness that sweet young Gentleman & gallant young squire , Our king greets you all , and thus does say , You must come to the Court on St. Georges day . Therefore in any case , fail not to be in place . I wis quoth the miller this is and odd jest ; what should we do there he said faith I am half afraid I doubt quoth Richard be hang'd at the least , Nay quoth the messenger you do mistake , Our king he provides a great feast for your sake . Then said the miller now by my troth messenger , thou hast contented my worship full well ; Hold here's 3 farthings to quit thy great gentleness , for these happy tidings which thou dost me tell ; Let me see heres to thee , tell to our king we'll wait on his mastership in every thing . The Pursuivant smiled at their simplicity , and making many legs took their Reward : And taking then his leave with great humility to the kings Court again he repair'd : [ s ] hewing unto his Grace in each degree The knights most liberal gift and bounty . When he was gone away thus did the miller say , heye comes expenses and charges indeed Now we must needs be brave though we spend all we have ; for of new Garments we have great need : Of horses and servingmen we must have store , With bridles and saddles , and twenty things more . Tush Sir John quod his wife never fret nor frown , you shall be at no more charges for me . For I will turn and trim up my old Rus A Pleasant Ballad of King Henry the second , and the Miller of Mansfield , and how he was Entertained and Lodged at the Miller's House , and of their pleasant Come - munication . To the tune of the French Levalto , etc HEnry , our Royal King , would ride a Hunting , to the green Forest , so pleasant and fair , To have the Heart chased , and dainty Does tripping , unto merry Sherwood his Nobles repair ; Hawk and Hound was unbound , all things prepar'd For the same : To the Game , with good regard , All a long Summer's Day , road the King pleasantly , with all his Princes , and Nobles ; each one Chasing the Heart , and Hind , & the Buck gallantly , till the dark Evening forc'd Him to turn home . Then , at last , riding fast , he had lost quite All his Lords in the Wood ; late , in dark Night , Wand'ring thus , warily , all alone , up and down , with a rude Miller he met , at the las Asking the ready way unto fair Nottingham . Sir , ( quoth the Miller ) your way you have lost ; Yet I think what I think , truth for to say , You do not likely ride out of your way . Why ? what dost thou think of me ? quod our King merrily , passing thy judgement upon me so brief . Good faith , ( said the Miller ) I mean not to flatter thee , I guess thee to be but some Gentleman-Thief : Stand thee back in the dark , light thee not down , lest that I presently crack thy Kaves crown . Thou hast abus'd me much , ( quod the King , saying thus ) I am a Gentleman , and Lodging I lack . Thou hast not ( quod the miller ) one groat in thy purse , all thy Inheritance hangs on thy back . I have gold to discharge all that I call , If it be Forty Pence I will pay all . If thou be'st a Trueman , ( then quoth the Miller ) I swear by my tole-dish , I'll lodge thee all night . Here's my hand , ( quoth the King ) that was I ever . Nay , soft , ( quod the Miller ) thou may'st be a Spright , Better I [ ' ] ll know thee e'er hands I will take , With none but honest men hands will I shake . Thus they went all along unto the Miller's house , where they were seething of Puddings and Souse ; The Miller first entered in , then after him the King , never came he in so smoky a house : Now ( quoth he ) let me see here what you are . Quoth our King , Look your fill , and do not spare . I like thy countenance , thou hast and honest face , with my Son Richard this night thou shalt lie , Quoth his wife , By my troth it is a handsome Youth , yet it is best ( husband ) for to deal warily : Art thou not a Runaway , prithee Youth tell ? Show me thy Passport and all shall be well . Then our King presently making low courtesy , with his Hat in his hand , thus he did say , I have no passport , nor never was Servitor , but a poor Courtier road out of my way : And for your kindness here offered me , I will requite it in every degree . Then to the Miller his wife whispered secretly , saying it seems this Youth's of good kin , Both by his apparel and eke by his manners , to turn him out certainly 'twere a great since . Yea ( quoth he ) you may see he hath some grace , When he does speak to his betters in place . Well , quod the Miller's wife , young man welcome here , and tho' I say it well lodg'd thou shalt be , Fresh straw I will have laid on thy bed so brave , good brown hempon-sheets likewise , quoth she . Ay , quoth the good man , and when that is done You shalt lie with no worse than my own Son. Nay first ( quoth Richard ) Goodfellow tell me true , hast thou no Creepers within thy gay Hose ? Or art thou not troubled with the Scabbado ? I pray quoth our King what things are those ? art thou not lousy nor scabby ? quoth he , If thou be'st , surely thou ly'st not with me . This caus'd the King suddenly to laugh most heartily till the tears trickled down from his eyes ; Then to their supper were they set orderly , with a hight bag-pudding and good apple-pies ; Nappy ale good and stale in a brown bowl , Which did about the board merrily trowl . Here quod the miller good fellow I'll drink to thee , and to all Courtnals wherever they be . I'll pledge you , quoth our King , and thank you heartly for your good welcome in every degree ; And here in like manner I'll drink to your Son. Do so , quoth Richard , but quick let it come . Wife , quoth the miller , fetch me forth Lightfoot that we of his sweetness a little may taste ; A fair venision-pasty then brought she forth presently , Eat , quoth the miller , but Sir make no waste : Here's dainty Lightfoot , in faith , said our King , I never before did Eat so dainty a thing . I wis , said Richard , no dainty at all it is , for we do eat of it every day ; In what place , said the King may be bought like to this We never pay penny for it by faith . From merry Sherwood we fetch it home here , Now and then we make bold with our King's deer : Then I think , said our King , that it is venision . Each fool quoth Richard , full well may see that ; Never are we without two or three under the roof , very well fleshed and excellent fa But prithee say nothing where ever thou go , We would not for twopence the King should it know Doubt not , then said the King , my promis'd secrecy , the King shall never know more on't for me . A cup of lambswool they drank unto him then , and to their beds they passed presently : The Nobles next morning went all up and down For to seek out the King in every town . At last at the millers house soon they espy'd him play [ n ] as he was mounting upon his fair Steed , To whom they came presently falling upon their knee , which made the miller's heart woefully bleed ; Shaking and quaking before them he stood , Thinking he should have been hang'd by the rood : The King perceiving him fearful and trembling , drew forth his sword and nothing he said . The miller down did fallen , crying before them all , doubting the King would have cut off his head ; But his kind Courtesy for to requite , Gave him a living , and made him a knight . The Second Part of the King and Miller , showing how he came to Court with his wife and son , and what merry Conceits passed between the King and them . When as our Royal king came home from Nottingham and with his Nobles at Westminster lay , Recounting the sports and pastimes they had taken , in this late Progress along by the way : Of them all great and small , he did protest , The miller of Mansfield's sport liked him bes And now my Lords , quod the king I am determined , against St. George's next a sumptuous feast , That this old miller our last confirmed knight with his son Richard shall both be my Guess , For in this merriment 'tis my desire , To talk with the jolly knight and the young Squire . When as the Lords saw the kings pleasantness , they were right joyful and glad in their hearts . A Pursuivant there was sent straight on the business , the which had oftentimes been in those parts : When he came to the place where he did dwell , His message orderly then he did tell : God save your worship then said the messenger , and grant your Lady her hearts desire ; And to your Son Richard good fortune & happiness that sweet young Gentleman & gallant young squire , Our king greets you all , and thus does say , You must come to the Court on St. Georges day . Therefore in any case , fail not to be in place . I wis quoth the miller this is and odd jest ; what should we do there he said faith I am half afraid I doubt quoth Richard be hang'd at the least , Nay quoth the messenger you do mistake , Our king he provides a great feast for your sake . Then said the miller now by my troth messenger , thou hast contented my worship full well ; Hold here's 3 farthings to quit thy great gentleness , for these happy tidings which thou dost me tell ; Let me see heres to thee , tell to our king we'll wait on his mastership in every thing . The Pursuivant smiled at their simplicity , and making many legs took their Reward : And taking then his leave with great humility to the kings Court again he repair'd : [ s ] hewing unto his Grace in each degree The knights most liberal gift and bounty . When he was gone away thus did the miller say , heye comes expenses and charges indeed Now we must needs be brave though we spend all we have ; for of new Garments we have great need : Of horses and servingmen we must have store , With bridles and saddles , and twenty things more . Tush Sir John quod his wife never fret nor frown , you shall be at no more charges for me . For I will turn and trim up my old Russet Gown , with every thing as fine as may be : and on our mill-horses full swift we will ride . With pillows and panels as we shall provide . In this most stately sort Road they unto the Court , their jolly Son Richard foremost of all , Who set up by good hap a Cocks Feather in his cap , and so they jetted down towards the King's Hall . the merry old miller with his hands on his side , His Wife like maid Ma [ rrian ] did mince at that tide . The king and his nobles that herd of his coming , meeting this gallant knight with his brave train , Welcome Sir knight quod he with this your gay Lady , good Sir John Cockle once welcome again ; And so is this squire of courage so free . Quoth Dick , A bots on you do you know me ? Quoth our king gently , How should I forget thee ? thou wast my own Bedfellow well that I wot . But I think of a trick , tell me that prithee Dick , how thou with farting didst make the bed hight ? Thou whoreson happy knave then quoth the knight , speak cleanly to our king , or else go shite . The king and his Courtiers heartily laugh'd at this , while the king took them both by the hand ; With Ladies and their Maids , like to the Queen of Spades , the Millers wife did so orderly stand , A Milkmaids courtesy at every word , And down the Folks were set at the side board : Where the king royally in Princely majesty , sat at his dinner with joy and delight ; When they had eaten well to jesting then they fell , taking a bowl of wine drank to the knigh Here's to you both he said in wine ale and beer , Thanking you all for your Country Cheer . Quoth Sir John Cockle I'll pledge you a pottle , were it the best ale in Nottinghamshire . But then said the king I do think of a thing , some of your Lightfoot I would we had here ; Ho ho quoth Richard full well I may say it , This knavery to eat it and then to betray it . why art thou angry ? quoth our king merrily , in faith I take it very unkind , I thought thou wouldst pledge me in ale and wine heartily You'r like to stay quoth Dick till I have din'd , You feed us with twatling dishes so small , Zounds a black Pudding is better than all . ay marry quoth our king that were a dainty thing , if a man could get one here for to eat . with that Dick arose and plucked one out of his hose , which with heat of his breech began for to swea The king made a proffer to snatch it away , This meat for your Master good Sir you must stay . thus in great merriment was the time wholly spent , and then the Ladies prepared to dance , Old Sir John Cockle and Richard incont [ i ] nent , unto this p [ r ] actice the king did advance ; Here with the Ladies such sport they did make , the Nobles with laughing did make their hearts ache , Many thanks for their pains did the king give them , asking young Richard if he would wed , among these Ladies free tell me which liketh thee : Quoth he Jug Grumbol with the Read Head ; Shes my love shes my life she will I wed , She hath sworn I shall have her maidenhead . then Sir John Cockle the king called unto him , and of merry Sherwood made him Overseer . and gave him out of hand three hundred pound yearly . and now take heed you steel no more of my Deer : and once a quarter lets here have your view and thus Sir John Cockle I bid you adieu . Prin [ ted ] for A. Milbourn in Green-Arbor-Court in the Little Old-Baily . set Gown , with every thing as fine as may be : and on our mill-horses full swift we will ride . With pillows and panels as we shall provide . In this most stately sort Road they unto the Court , their jolly Son Richard foremost of all , Who set up by good hap a Cocks Feather in his cap , and so they jetted down towards the King's Hall . the merry old miller with his hands on his side , His Wife like maid Ma [ rrian ] did mince at that tide . The king and his nobles that herd of his coming , meeting this gallant knight with his brave train , Welcome Sir knight quod he with this your gay Lady , good Sir John Cockle once welcome again ; And so is this squire of courage so free . Quoth Dick , A bots on you do you know me ? Quoth our king gently , How should I forget thee ? thou wast my own Bedfellow well that I wot . But I think of a trick , tell me that prithee Dick , how thou with farting didst make the bed hight ? Thou whoreson happy knave then quoth the knight , speak cleanly to our king , or else go shite . The king and his Courtiers heartily laugh'd at this , while the king took them both by the hand ; With Ladies and their Maids , like to the Queen of Spades , the Millers wife did so orderly stand , A Milkmaids courtesy at every word , And down the Folks were set at the side board : Where the king royally in Princely majesty , sat at his dinner with joy and delight ; When they had eaten well to jesting then they fell , taking a bowl of wine drank to the knigh Here's to you both he said in wine ale and beer , Thanking you all for your Country Cheer . Quoth Sir John Cockle I'll pledge you a pottle , were it the best ale in Nottinghamshire . But then said the king I do think of a thing , some of your Lightfoot I would we had here ; Ho ho quoth Richard full well I may say it , This knavery to eat it and then to betray it . why art thou angry ? quoth our king merrily , in faith I take it very unkind , I thought thou wouldst pledge me in ale and wine heartily You'r like to stay quoth Dick till I have din'd , You feed us with twatling dishes so small , Zounds a black Pudding is better than all . ay marry quoth our king that were a dainty thing , if a man could get one here for to eat . with that Dick arose and plucked one out of his hose , which with heat of his breech began for to swea The king made a proffer to snatch it away , This meat for your Master good Sir you must stay . thus in great merriment was the time wholly spent , and then the Ladies prepared to dance , Old Sir John Cockle and Richard incont [ i ] nent , unto this p [ r ] actice the king did advance ; Here with the Ladies such sport they did make , the Nobles with laughing did make their hearts ache , Many thanks for their pains did the king give them , asking young Richard if he would wed , among these Ladies free tell me which liketh thee : Quoth he Jug Grumbol with the Read Head ; Shes my love shes my life she will I wed , She hath sworn I shall have her maidenhead . then Sir John Cockle the king called unto him , and of merry Sherwood made him Overseer . and gave him out of hand three hundred pound yearly . and now take heed you steel no more of my Deer : and once a quarter lets here have your view and thus Sir John Cockle I bid you adieu . Prin [ ted ] for A. Milbourn in Green-Arbor-Court in the Little Old-Baily . 