AMINTAS , Or , The constant Shepherd's complaint . While others take delight to range , And mostly pleasure take in change , Amintas vows he'l constant prove , Unto the death to his dear Love . Tune of , Young Pheon strove the bliss to taste . Chaste thoughts within my lovesick breast most welcome doe I find , While other rangers are possessed with a lascivious mind , Let others love variety , my Caelia isle adore , And might I gain her company I'd never covet more . Such charming sweetness in her eyes , I e're was wont to find , They did attract and still surprise , and captivate my mind , But though she's fickle I must love and cannot but admire , Though she my passion disapprove , it more augments my fire . Cupid has made too deep a wound , that for to cure the smart , There's none but she that can be found to ease my Lovesick heart , Oh! might I be so fortunate my Shepherdess to gain , But she contemns my mean estate , and laughs at all my pain . Her beauty's such none can withstand , the attractives of her eyes , The greatest Monarch may command , and at first view surprise , Yea gods ! her victim I'll he still and must adore her charms , Though she should be enclosed still within another's Arms. O cruel fair ! how oft did you both swear and eke protest , Your love both real was and true , when yet you were in jest , While I believ'd and did receive your words with listening strange , Yet now you scornfully deceive , and love to rove and range . How many hours by me been spent in sobs and sighs in vain , Each minute full of discontent , regardless of my pain , While Syren like your looks ensnare , intending to deceive , For till they love you speak them fair , and then you take your leave . The second part to the same Tune , Beware fair Nymph lest Cupids Dart against you being bent , E're long ensnare your stubborn heart and cause you to repent , Although that now you scornful are and pity not my flame , True Lovers are the gods chief care , who will repay the same . You tax us with inconstancy when we poor men do find , Your Sex does love Variety more fickle than the Wind. The Ship that rides upon the Waves more steadfast in foul weather , 'gainst which the curling Billows laves oft sailing God knows whither . The Choristers within the Groves with warbling notes can tell , When Philomell did chant our loves I thought that all was well ; The merry Shepherd's on the Lawn , how would they sing your praise , E're blushing Sol began to dawn in their sweet Roundelays . But finding you unconstant prove , the Scene is altered quite , Although they blame me for my Love , to you they bear a spite , Instead of praises curses store on you each day bestow , When that your name comes them before as with their flocks they go . In time therefore my Rival leave , though tempting be his charms , Your dying Shepherd wrong'd receive into your Snowy Arms , The gods they have design'd , that you must be my wife at last , Then we shall greet like Lovers true when Storms are gone and passed . Then shall I well rewarded be , with bliss for all my pain , And endless my felicity , when constant you remain , New transports we shall always find , for to increase Loves fire , When both are mutually thus joyn'd , and have but one desire . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden Ball in West-smithfield . AMINTAS , Or , The constant Shepherd's complaint . While others take delight to range , And mostly pleasure take in change , Amintas vows he'l constant prove , Unto the death to his dear Love . Tune of , Young Pheon strove the bliss to taste . Chaste thoughts within my lovesick breast most welcome doe I find , While other rangers are possessed with a lascivious mind , Let others love variety , my Caelia isle adore , And might I gain her company I'd never covet more . Such charming sweetness in her eyes , I e're was wont to find , They did attract and still surprise , and captivate my mind , But though she's fickle I must love and cannot but admire , Though she my passion disapprove , it more augments my fire . Cupid has made too deep a wound , that for to cure the smart , There's none but she that can be found to ease my Lovesick heart , Oh! might I be so fortunate my Shepherdess to gain , But she contemns my mean estate , and laughs at all my pain . Her beauty's such none can withstand , the attractives of her eyes , The greatest Monarch may command , and at first view surprise , Yea gods ! her victim I'll he still and must adore her charms , Though she should be enclosed still within another's Arms. O cruel fair ! how oft did you both swear and eke protest , Your love both real was and true , when yet you were in jest , While I believ'd and did receive your words with listening strange , Yet now you scornfully deceive , and love to rove and range . How many hours by me been spent in sobs and sighs in vain , Each minute full of discontent , regardless of my pain , While Syren like your looks ensnare , intending to deceive , For till they love you speak them fair , and then you take your leave . The second part to the same Tune , Beware fair Nymph lest Cupids Dart against you being bent , E're long ensnare your stubborn heart and cause you to repent , Although that now you scornful are and pity not my flame , True Lovers are the gods chief care , who will repay the same . You tax us with inconstancy when we poor men do find , Your Sex does love Variety more fickle than the Wind. The Ship that rides upon the Waves more steadfast in foul weather , 'gainst which the curling Billows laves oft sailing God knows whither . The Choristers within the Groves with warbling notes can tell , When Philomell did chant our loves I thought that all was well ; The merry Shepherd's on the Lawn , how would they sing your praise , E're blushing Sol began to dawn in their sweet Roundelays . But finding you unconstant prove , the Scene is altered quite , Although they blame me for my Love , to you they bear a spite , Instead of praises curses store on you each day bestow , When that your name comes them before as with their flocks they go . In time therefore my Rival leave , though tempting be his charms , Your dying Shepherd wrong'd receive into your Snowy Arms , The gods they have design'd , that you must be my wife at last , Then we shall greet like Lovers true when Storms are gone and passed . Then shall I well rewarded be , with bliss for all my pain , And endless my felicity , when constant you remain , New transports we shall always find , for to increase Loves fire , When both are mutually thus joyn'd , and have but one desire . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden Ball in West-smithfield . 