A Pleasant new Ballad between King Edward the fourth , and a Tan - ner of Tamworth , as he road upon a time with his Nobles on Hunting , towards Drayton Basset . IN Summer time when leaves grew green , and birds sitting on every tree : King Edward would a hunting ride , some pastime for to see . Our King he would a hunting ride , by eight a clock of the day , And well was he aware of a bold Tanner , come riding on the way . A good russet coat the Tanner had on , fast buttoned under his chin : And under him a good Cowhide , and a Mare of foure shilling . Now stand you here good my Lords all , under this trusty tree : And I will weened to yonder fellow , to know from whence came he . God speed , God speed , then said our King , thou art welcome good fellow ( quoth he ) Which is the way to Drayton Basset ? I pray you show it to me . The way to Drayton Basset , from this way as thou dost stand , The next pair of Gallows thou comest to , thou must turn upon the left hand . That is not the way then said our King , the readiest way I pray thee show me . Whither thou be thief or true man quoth the Tanner , I am weary of thy company . Away with a vengeance quoth the Tanner , I hold thee out of thy wi For this day have I ridden and gone , and I am fasting yet . Go with me to Drayton Basset , said our King , no Dainties we will lack : For wee'l have meat and drink of the best , and I will pay for the shot . Godamercy for nothing quoth the Tanner , thou shalt pay for no dinner of mine : I have more groats and nobles in my purse , than thou hast pence in thine . God save your goods then said our King , and send them well to thee . Be thou thief or true man said the Tanner , I am weary of thy company . Away with a vengeance quoth the Tanner , of thee I stand in fear : The apparel thou wearest on thy back , may seem a good Lord to wear . I never stole them said our King , I swear to you by the rood : Thou art some Ruffian of the Country , thou ridest in the midst of thy good . What news do you hear then said our King , I pray what news d'you hear ? I hear no news answered the Tanner , but that Cowhides be deer . Cowhides , Cowhides then said our King , I marvel what they be . Why art thou a fool quoth the Tanner ? look I have one under me . Yet one thing of thee I would thee pray , so that thou would not be strange : If thy Mare be better than my Steed , I pray you let us change . But if thou needs with me wilt change , as change full well may ye : By the faith of my body quoth the Tanner , I look to have boot of thee . What boot wilt thou ask then said the King , what boot wilt thou ask on this ground ? No pence nor halfpence said the Tanner , but a Noble in gold so round . The second Part of King Edward the fourth , and the Tanner of Tamworth . HEres twenty good groats then said the King , so well paid see that you be : I love thee better than I did before , I thought thou hadst ne're a penny . But if so be we must needs change , as change we must abide : Though thou hast got Brocke my Mare , thou shalt not have my Cowhide . The Tanner he took the good Cowhide that of the Cow was hilt , And threw it upon the Kings Saddle , that was so fairly gilded . Now help me , help me up quoth the Tanner , full quickly that I were gone : For when I come home to Jillian my wife , shee'l say I am a Gentleman . The King took the Tanner by the leg , he girded a fart so round : You are very homely then said the King , were I aware I'de a laid you o'th ground . But when the Tanner was in the Kings Saddle , astonished then he was : He knew not the stirrups that he did wear , whither they were gold or brass . But when the Steed saw the black Cow-taile wag , for and the black Cow-horne : The Steed began to run away , as the Devil the Tanner had born . Until he came unto a nook , a little beside and Ash : The Steed gave the Tanner such a fallen , his neck was almost braced . Take thy horse again with a vengeance , he said , with me he shall not abide : It is no marvel said the King , and laughed , he knew not your Cowhide . But if that we must needs now change here , as change well that we mote : I'll swear to you plain , if you have your Ma [ re ] I do look to have some boot . What boot wilt thou ask , quoth the Tanner , what boot wilt thou ask on this ground ? No pence nor halfpence , said the King , but in gold twenty pound . Heres twenty groats said the Tanner , and twenty more I had of thine : I have ten groats more in my purse , wee'l drink five of them at the Wine . The King set a Bugle horn to his mouth , that blew both loud and shrill , Then five hundred Lords and Knights , came riding over a hill . Away with a vengeance quoth the Tanner , with thee I'll no longer abide : Thou art a strong thief , yonder be thy fellow they will steal away my Cowhide . No I protest then said our King , for so it may not be : They be Lords of Drayton Basset , come out of the North country . But when they came before the King , full lo they fell on their knee : The Tanner had rather than a hundred pound he had been out of their company . A Collar , a Collar , then said the King , a Collar that he did cry : Then would he ha' giv'n a thousand pound , he had not been so nigh . A Collar , a Collar , quoth the Tanner , that is a thing will breed sorrow , For after a Collar comes a halter , and I shall be hanged to morrow . No do not fear , the King did say , for pastime thou hast shown me : No Collar nor halter thou shalt have , but I will give thee a fee . For Plumton Park I will thee give , with the Tenements three beside ; Which is worth five hundred pound a year , to maintain thy good Cowhide . Godamercy , Godamercy , quoth the Tanner , for this good deed thou hast done : If ever thou comest to merry Tamworth , thou shalt have clouting leather for thy shone London , Printed by A.M. FINIS . A Pleasant new Ballad between King Edward the fourth , and a Tan - ner of Tamworth , as he road upon a time with his Nobles on Hunting , towards Drayton Basset . IN Summer time when leaves grew green , and birds sitting on every tree : King Edward would a hunting ride , some pastime for to see . Our King he would a hunting ride , by eight a clock of the day , And well was he aware of a bold Tanner , come riding on the way . A good russet coat the Tanner had on , fast buttoned under his chin : And under him a good Cowhide , and a Mare of foure shilling . Now stand you here good my Lords all , under this trusty tree : And I will weened to yonder fellow , to know from whence came he . God speed , God speed , then said our King , thou art welcome good fellow ( quoth he ) Which is the way to Drayton Basset ? I pray you show it to me . The way to Drayton Basset , from this way as thou dost stand , The next pair of Gallows thou comest to , thou must turn upon the left hand . That is not the way then said our King , the readiest way I pray thee show me . Whither thou be thief or true man quoth the Tanner , I am weary of thy company . Away with a vengeance quoth the Tanner , I hold thee out of thy wi For this day have I ridden and gone , and I am fasting yet . Go with me to Drayton Basset , said our King , no Dainties we will lack : For wee'l have meat and drink of the best , and I will pay for the shot . Godamercy for nothing quoth the Tanner , thou shalt pay for no dinner of mine : I have more groats and nobles in my purse , than thou hast pence in thine . God save your goods then said our King , and send them well to thee . Be thou thief or true man said the Tanner , I am weary of thy company . Away with a vengeance quoth the Tanner , of thee I stand in fear : The apparel thou wearest on thy back , may seem a good Lord to wear . I never stole them said our King , I swear to you by the rood : Thou art some Ruffian of the Country , thou ridest in the midst of thy good . What news do you hear then said our King , I pray what news d'you hear ? I hear no news answered the Tanner , but that Cowhides be deer . Cowhides , Cowhides then said our King , I marvel what they be . Why art thou a fool quoth the Tanner ? look I have one under me . Yet one thing of thee I would thee pray , so that thou would not be strange : If thy Mare be better than my Steed , I pray you let us change . But if thou needs with me wilt change , as change full well may ye : By the faith of my body quoth the Tanner , I look to have boot of thee . What boot wilt thou ask then said the King , what boot wilt thou ask on this ground ? No pence nor halfpence said the Tanner , but a Noble in gold so round . The second Part of King Edward the fourth , and the Tanner of Tamworth . HEres twenty good groats then said the King , so well paid see that you be : I love thee better than I did before , I thought thou hadst ne're a penny . But if so be we must needs change , as change we must abide : Though thou hast got Brocke my Mare , thou shalt not have my Cowhide . The Tanner he took the good Cowhide that of the Cow was hilt , And threw it upon the Kings Saddle , that was so fairly gilded . Now help me , help me up quoth the Tanner , full quickly that I were gone : For when I come home to Jillian my wife , shee'l say I am a Gentleman . The King took the Tanner by the leg , he girded a fart so round : You are very homely then said the King , were I aware I'de a laid you o'th ground . But when the Tanner was in the Kings Saddle , astonished then he was : He knew not the stirrups that he did wear , whither they were gold or brass . But when the Steed saw the black Cow-taile wag , for and the black Cow-horne : The Steed began to run away , as the Devil the Tanner had born . Until he came unto a nook , a little beside and Ash : The Steed gave the Tanner such a fallen , his neck was almost braced . Take thy horse again with a vengeance , he said , with me he shall not abide : It is no marvel said the King , and laughed , he knew not your Cowhide . But if that we must needs now change here , as change well that we mote : I'll swear to you plain , if you have your Ma [ re ] I do look to have some boot . What boot wilt thou ask , quoth the Tanner , what boot wilt thou ask on this ground ? No pence nor halfpence , said the King , but in gold twenty pound . Heres twenty groats said the Tanner , and twenty more I had of thine : I have ten groats more in my purse , wee'l drink five of them at the Wine . The King set a Bugle horn to his mouth , that blew both loud and shrill , Then five hundred Lords and Knights , came riding over a hill . Away with a vengeance quoth the Tanner , with thee I'll no longer abide : Thou art a strong thief , yonder be thy fellow they will steal away my Cowhide . No I protest then said our King , for so it may not be : They be Lords of Drayton Basset , come out of the North country . But when they came before the King , full lo they fell on their knee : The Tanner had rather than a hundred pound he had been out of their company . A Collar , a Collar , then said the King , a Collar that he did cry : Then would he ha' giv'n a thousand pound , he had not been so nigh . A Collar , a Collar , quoth the Tanner , that is a thing will breed sorrow , For after a Collar comes a halter , and I shall be hanged to morrow . No do not fear , the King did say , for pastime thou hast shown me : No Collar nor halter thou shalt have , but I will give thee a fee . For Plumton Park I will thee give , with the Tenements three beside ; Which is worth five hundred pound a year , to maintain thy good Cowhide . Godamercy , Godamercy , quoth the Tanner , for this good deed thou hast done : If ever thou comest to merry Tamworth , thou shalt have clouting leather for thy shone London , Printed by A.M. FINIS . A Pleasant new Ballad between King Edward the fourth , and a Tan - ner of Tamworth , as he road upon a time with his Nobles on Hunting , towards Drayton Basset . IN Summer time when leaves grew green , and birds sitting on every tree : King Edward would a hunting ride , some pastime for to see . Our King he would a hunting ride , by eight a clock of the day , And well was he aware of a bold Tanner , come riding on the way . A good russet coat the Tanner had on , fast buttoned under his chin : And under him a good Cowhide , and a Mare of foure shilling . Now stand you here good my Lords all , under this trusty tree : And I will weened to yonder fellow , to know from whence came he . God speed , God speed , then said our King , thou art welcome good fellow ( quoth he ) Which is the way to Drayton Basset ? I pray you show it to me . The way to Drayton Basset , from this way as thou dost stand , The next pair of Gallows thou comest to , thou must turn upon the left hand . That is not the way then said our King , the readiest way I pray thee show me . Whither thou be thief or true man quoth the Tanner , I am weary of thy company . Away with a vengeance quoth the Tanner , I hold thee out of thy wi For this day have I ridden and gone , and I am fasting yet . Go with me to Drayton Basset , said our King , no Dainties we will lack : For wee'l have meat and drink of the best , and I will pay for the shot . Godamercy for nothing quoth the Tanner , thou shalt pay for no dinner of mine : I have more groats and nobles in my purse , than thou hast pence in thine . God save your goods then said our King , and send them well to thee . Be thou thief or true man said the Tanner , I am weary of thy company . Away with a vengeance quoth the Tanner , of thee I stand in fear : The apparel thou wearest on thy back , may seem a good Lord to wear . I never stole them said our King , I swear to you by the rood : Thou art some Ruffian of the Country , thou ridest in the midst of thy good . What news do you hear then said our King , I pray what news d'you hear ? I hear no news answered the Tanner , but that Cowhides be deer . Cowhides , Cowhides then said our King , I marvel what they be . Why art thou a fool quoth the Tanner ? look I have one under me . Yet one thing of thee I would thee pray , so that thou would not be strange : If thy Mare be better than my Steed , I pray you let us change . But if thou needs with me wilt change , as change full well may ye : By the faith of my body quoth the Tanner , I look to have boot of thee . What boot wilt thou ask then said the King , what boot wilt thou ask on this ground ? No pence nor halfpence said the Tanner , but a Noble in gold so round . The second Part of King Edward the fourth , and the Tanner of Tamworth . HEres twenty good groats then said the King , so well paid see that you be : I love thee better than I did before , I thought thou hadst ne're a penny . But if so be we must needs change , as change we must abide : Though thou hast got Brocke my Mare , thou shalt not have my Cowhide . The Tanner he took the good Cowhide that of the Cow was hilt , And threw it upon the Kings Saddle , that was so fairly gilded . Now help me , help me up quoth the Tanner , full quickly that I were gone : For when I come home to Jillian my wife , shee'l say I am a Gentleman . The King took the Tanner by the leg , he girded a fart so round : You are very homely then said the King , were I aware I'de a laid you o'th ground . But when the Tanner was in the Kings Saddle , astonished then he was : He knew not the stirrups that he did wear , whither they were gold or brass . But when the Steed saw the black Cow-taile wag , for and the black Cow-horne : The Steed began to run away , as the Devil the Tanner had born . Until he came unto a nook , a little beside and Ash : The Steed gave the Tanner such a fallen , his neck was almost braced . Take thy horse again with a vengeance , he said , with me he shall not abide : It is no marvel said the King , and laughed , he knew not your Cowhide . But if that we must needs now change here , as change well that we mote : I'll swear to you plain , if you have your Ma [ re ] I do look to have some boot . What boot wilt thou ask , quoth the Tanner , what boot wilt thou ask on this ground ? No pence nor halfpence , said the King , but in gold twenty pound . Heres twenty groats said the Tanner , and twenty more I had of thine : I have ten groats more in my purse , wee'l drink five of them at the Wine . The King set a Bugle horn to his mouth , that blew both loud and shrill , Then five hundred Lords and Knights , came riding over a hill . Away with a vengeance quoth the Tanner , with thee I'll no longer abide : Thou art a strong thief , yonder be thy fellow they will steal away my Cowhide . No I protest then said our King , for so it may not be : They be Lords of Drayton Basset , come out of the North country . But when they came before the King , full lo they fell on their knee : The Tanner had rather than a hundred pound he had been out of their company . A Collar , a Collar , then said the King , a Collar that he did cry : Then would he ha' giv'n a thousand pound , he had not been so nigh . A Collar , a Collar , quoth the Tanner , that is a thing will breed sorrow , For after a Collar comes a halter , and I shall be hanged to morrow . No do not fear , the King did say , for pastime thou hast shown me : No Collar nor halter thou shalt have , but I will give thee a fee . For Plumton Park I will thee give , with the Tenements three beside ; Which is worth five hundred pound a year , to maintain thy good Cowhide . Godamercy , Godamercy , quoth the Tanner , for this good deed thou hast done : If ever thou comest to merry Tamworth , thou shalt have clouting leather for thy shone London , Printed by A.M. FINIS . A Pleasant new Ballad between King Edward the fourth , and a Tan - ner of Tamworth , as he road upon a time with his Nobles on Hunting , towards Drayton Basset . IN Summer time when leaves grew green , and birds sitting on every tree : King Edward would a hunting ride , some pastime for to see . Our King he would a hunting ride , by eight a clock of the day , And well was he aware of a bold Tanner , come riding on the way . A good russet coat the Tanner had on , fast buttoned under his chin : And under him a good Cowhide , and a Mare of foure shilling . Now stand you here good my Lords all , under this trusty tree : And I will weened to yonder fellow , to know from whence came he . God speed , God speed , then said our King , thou art welcome good fellow ( quoth he ) Which is the way to Drayton Basset ? I pray you show it to me . The way to Drayton Basset , from this way as thou dost stand , The next pair of Gallows thou comest to , thou must turn upon the left hand . That is not the way then said our King , the readiest way I pray thee show me . Whither thou be thief or true man quoth the Tanner , I am weary of thy company . Away with a vengeance quoth the Tanner , I hold thee out of thy wi For this day have I ridden and gone , and I am fasting yet . Go with me to Drayton Basset , said our King , no Dainties we will lack : For wee'l have meat and drink of the best , and I will pay for the shot . Godamercy for nothing quoth the Tanner , thou shalt pay for no dinner of mine : I have more groats and nobles in my purse , than thou hast pence in thine . God save your goods then said our King , and send them well to thee . Be thou thief or true man said the Tanner , I am weary of thy company . Away with a vengeance quoth the Tanner , of thee I stand in fear : The apparel thou wearest on thy back , may seem a good Lord to wear . I never stole them said our King , I swear to you by the rood : Thou art some Ruffian of the Country , thou ridest in the midst of thy good . What news do you hear then said our King , I pray what news d'you hear ? I hear no news answered the Tanner , but that Cowhides be deer . Cowhides , Cowhides then said our King , I marvel what they be . Why art thou a fool quoth the Tanner ? look I have one under me . Yet one thing of thee I would thee pray , so that thou would not be strange : If thy Mare be better than my Steed , I pray you let us change . But if thou needs with me wilt change , as change full well may ye : By the faith of my body quoth the Tanner , I look to have boot of thee . What boot wilt thou ask then said the King , what boot wilt thou ask on this ground ? No pence nor halfpence said the Tanner , but a Noble in gold so round . The second Part of King Edward the fourth , and the Tanner of Tamworth . HEres twenty good groats then said the King , so well paid see that you be : I love thee better than I did before , I thought thou hadst ne're a penny . But if so be we must needs change , as change we must abide : Though thou hast got Brocke my Mare , thou shalt not have my Cowhide . The Tanner he took the good Cowhide that of the Cow was hilt , And threw it upon the Kings Saddle , that was so fairly gilded . Now help me , help me up quoth the Tanner , full quickly that I were gone : For when I come home to Jillian my wife , shee'l say I am a Gentleman . The King took the Tanner by the leg , he girded a fart so round : You are very homely then said the King , were I aware I'de a laid you o'th ground . But when the Tanner was in the Kings Saddle , astonished then he was : He knew not the stirrups that he did wear , whither they were gold or brass . But when the Steed saw the black Cow-taile wag , for and the black Cow-horne : The Steed began to run away , as the Devil the Tanner had born . Until he came unto a nook , a little beside and Ash : The Steed gave the Tanner such a fallen , his neck was almost braced . Take thy horse again with a vengeance , he said , with me he shall not abide : It is no marvel said the King , and laughed , he knew not your Cowhide . But if that we must needs now change here , as change well that we mote : I'll swear to you plain , if you have your Ma [ re ] I do look to have some boot . What boot wilt thou ask , quoth the Tanner , what boot wilt thou ask on this ground ? No pence nor halfpence , said the King , but in gold twenty pound . Heres twenty groats said the Tanner , and twenty more I had of thine : I have ten groats more in my purse , wee'l drink five of them at the Wine . The King set a Bugle horn to his mouth , that blew both loud and shrill , Then five hundred Lords and Knights , came riding over a hill . Away with a vengeance quoth the Tanner , with thee I'll no longer abide : Thou art a strong thief , yonder be thy fellow they will steal away my Cowhide . No I protest then said our King , for so it may not be : They be Lords of Drayton Basset , come out of the North country . But when they came before the King , full lo they fell on their knee : The Tanner had rather than a hundred pound he had been out of their company . A Collar , a Collar , then said the King , a Collar that he did cry : Then would he ha' giv'n a thousand pound , he had not been so nigh . A Collar , a Collar , quoth the Tanner , that is a thing will breed sorrow , For after a Collar comes a halter , and I shall be hanged to morrow . No do not fear , the King did say , for pastime thou hast shown me : No Collar nor halter thou shalt have , but I will give thee a fee . For Plumton Park I will thee give , with the Tenements three beside ; Which is worth five hundred pound a year , to maintain thy good Cowhide . Godamercy , Godamercy , quoth the Tanner , for this good deed thou hast done : If ever thou comest to merry Tamworth , thou shalt have clouting leather for thy shone London , Printed by A.M. FINIS . 