The Bashful Bachelor : CONTAINING The Loyal Courtship of a Squire's Daughter of Dorsetshire . SHOWING How she fell in Love with Thomas a Servingman who lived in the Family of a Knight within two Miles of her Father' [ s ] House ; where they now enjoy each other , to their hearts content . Tune of , The Ring of Gold . Licensed according to Order . Woman . THomas , why come you not often to see me ? I fear you have forget your vows to free me , From the distracted care which I lie under ; My heart with sad despair will break asunder . Man. My dearest don't complain , thus of thy lover , While I alive remain thou shalt discover , Nothing but what is just , my dearest jewel , Then set thy heart at rest , I'll not be cruel . Woman . Why do you keep away ? Thomas , what mean you ? Above this two months day I have not seen you : And as I met you here , you seem'd affrighted , Which gives me cause to fear that I am slighted . Man. No , no , my dearest love , my joy and pleasure , Thy smiles I prize above all worldly treasure : My dear I'd often see , but that thy parents , Scornfully frown on me , like foes at variance . Woman . What though my parents chide , love will engage us Short trials to abide ; then be courageous : Thou art my hearts delight , dearest , believe me ; At any time of night I will receive thee . Man. But shou'd thy friends be crossed , here lies the danger , Their love would quite be lost , then like a stranger , They'll turn thee out of door , and quite refrain thee , While I have nought in store , love , to maintain thee . Woman . Let not such doubts and fears ever amaze thee , Prosperity appears , my wealth shall raise thee Above my parents wrath , which they may offer ; Then be no longer loath to take this proffer . Thou shalt in wealth abound , my dearest honey ; Here is five hundred pound in ready money ; 'Twas left me , with free Land , by a relation : All is at thy command , use thy discretion . My parents cannot wrong me of one penny , This does to me belong , friends I have many : Now if they angry are , and should disdain us , I have enough , with care , still to maintain us . Man. No man lov'd more than I , e'er since our wooing ; Yet I had rather die than prove thy ruin : When I thy charms drew near , my low condition Told me , there did appear too much ambition . To think thou shouldst be kind , though I admir'd , I never thought to find what I desir'd : But since I may enjoy thy lasting favour , This will my cares destroy , I'm blessed for ever . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Giltspur-Street . The Bashful Bachelor : CONTAINING The Loyal Courtship of a Squire's Daughter of Dorsetshire . SHOWING How she fell in Love with Thomas a Servingman who lived in the Family of a Knight within two Miles of her Father' [ s ] House ; where they now enjoy each other , to their hearts content . Tune of , The Ring of Gold . Licensed according to Order . Woman . THomas , why come you not often to see me ? I fear you have forget your vows to free me , From the distracted care which I lie under ; My heart with sad despair will break asunder . Man. My dearest don't complain , thus of thy lover , While I alive remain thou shalt discover , Nothing but what is just , my dearest jewel , Then set thy heart at rest , I'll not be cruel . Woman . Why do you keep away ? Thomas , what mean you ? Above this two months day I have not seen you : And as I met you here , you seem'd affrighted , Which gives me cause to fear that I am slighted . Man. No , no , my dearest love , my joy and pleasure , Thy smiles I prize above all worldly treasure : My dear I'd often see , but that thy parents , Scornfully frown on me , like foes at variance . Woman . What though my parents chide , love will engage us Short trials to abide ; then be courageous : Thou art my hearts delight , dearest , believe me ; At any time of night I will receive thee . Man. But shou'd thy friends be crossed , here lies the danger , Their love would quite be lost , then like a stranger , They'll turn thee out of door , and quite refrain thee , While I have nought in store , love , to maintain thee . Woman . Let not such doubts and fears ever amaze thee , Prosperity appears , my wealth shall raise thee Above my parents wrath , which they may offer ; Then be no longer loath to take this proffer . Thou shalt in wealth abound , my dearest honey ; Here is five hundred pound in ready money ; 'Twas left me , with free Land , by a relation : All is at thy command , use thy discretion . My parents cannot wrong me of one penny , This does to me belong , friends I have many : Now if they angry are , and should disdain us , I have enough , with care , still to maintain us . Man. No man lov'd more than I , e'er since our wooing ; Yet I had rather die than prove thy ruin : When I thy charms drew near , my low condition Told me , there did appear too much ambition . To think thou shouldst be kind , though I admir'd , I never thought to find what I desir'd : But since I may enjoy thy lasting favour , This will my cares destroy , I'm blessed for ever . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Giltspur-Street . The Bashful Bachelor : CONTAINING The Loyal Courtship of a Squire's Daughter of Dorsetshire . SHOWING How she fell in Love with Thomas a Servingman who lived in the Family of a Knight within two Miles of her Father' [ s ] House ; where they now enjoy each other , to their hearts content . Tune of , The Ring of Gold . Licensed according to Order . Woman . THomas , why come you not often to see me ? I fear you have forget your vows to free me , From the distracted care which I lie under ; My heart with sad despair will break asunder . Man. My dearest don't complain , thus of thy lover , While I alive remain thou shalt discover , Nothing but what is just , my dearest jewel , Then set thy heart at rest , I'll not be cruel . Woman . Why do you keep away ? Thomas , what mean you ? Above this two months day I have not seen you : And as I met you here , you seem'd affrighted , Which gives me cause to fear that I am slighted . Man. No , no , my dearest love , my joy and pleasure , Thy smiles I prize above all worldly treasure : My dear I'd often see , but that thy parents , Scornfully frown on me , like foes at variance . Woman . What though my parents chide , love will engage us Short trials to abide ; then be courageous : Thou art my hearts delight , dearest , believe me ; At any time of night I will receive thee . Man. But shou'd thy friends be crossed , here lies the danger , Their love would quite be lost , then like a stranger , They'll turn thee out of door , and quite refrain thee , While I have nought in store , love , to maintain thee . Woman . Let not such doubts and fears ever amaze thee , Prosperity appears , my wealth shall raise thee Above my parents wrath , which they may offer ; Then be no longer loath to take this proffer . Thou shalt in wealth abound , my dearest honey ; Here is five hundred pound in ready money ; 'Twas left me , with free Land , by a relation : All is at thy command , use thy discretion . My parents cannot wrong me of one penny , This does to me belong , friends I have many : Now if they angry are , and should disdain us , I have enough , with care , still to maintain us . Man. No man lov'd more than I , e'er since our wooing ; Yet I had rather die than prove thy ruin : When I thy charms drew near , my low condition Told me , there did appear too much ambition . To think thou shouldst be kind , though I admir'd , I never thought to find what I desir'd : But since I may enjoy thy lasting favour , This will my cares destroy , I'm blessed for ever . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Giltspur-Street . The Bashful Bachelor : CONTAINING The Loyal Courtship of a Squire's Daughter of Dorsetshire . SHOWING How she fell in Love with Thomas a Servingman who lived in the Family of a Knight within two Miles of her Father' [ s ] House ; where they now enjoy each other , to their hearts content . Tune of , The Ring of Gold . Licensed according to Order . Woman . THomas , why come you not often to see me ? I fear you have forget your vows to free me , From the distracted care which I lie under ; My heart with sad despair will break asunder . Man. My dearest don't complain , thus of thy lover , While I alive remain thou shalt discover , Nothing but what is just , my dearest jewel , Then set thy heart at rest , I'll not be cruel . Woman . Why do you keep away ? Thomas , what mean you ? Above this two months day I have not seen you : And as I met you here , you seem'd affrighted , Which gives me cause to fear that I am slighted . Man. No , no , my dearest love , my joy and pleasure , Thy smiles I prize above all worldly treasure : My dear I'd often see , but that thy parents , Scornfully frown on me , like foes at variance . Woman . What though my parents chide , love will engage us Short trials to abide ; then be courageous : Thou art my hearts delight , dearest , believe me ; At any time of night I will receive thee . Man. But shou'd thy friends be crossed , here lies the danger , Their love would quite be lost , then like a stranger , They'll turn thee out of door , and quite refrain thee , While I have nought in store , love , to maintain thee . Woman . Let not such doubts and fears ever amaze thee , Prosperity appears , my wealth shall raise thee Above my parents wrath , which they may offer ; Then be no longer loath to take this proffer . Thou shalt in wealth abound , my dearest honey ; Here is five hundred pound in ready money ; 'Twas left me , with free Land , by a relation : All is at thy command , use thy discretion . My parents cannot wrong me of one penny , This does to me belong , friends I have many : Now if they angry are , and should disdain us , I have enough , with care , still to maintain us . Man. No man lov'd more than I , e'er since our wooing ; Yet I had rather die than prove thy ruin : When I thy charms drew near , my low condition Told me , there did appear too much ambition . To think thou shouldst be kind , though I admir'd , I never thought to find what I desir'd : But since I may enjoy thy lasting favour , This will my cares destroy , I'm blessed for ever . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Giltspur-Street . 