And Answer to SEFAUTIANS Farewell , OR , Fair Silvia's Dying Complaint for the decease of her Love . To the same TUNE . MY Sefaution , art thou Deceased , and left thy Silvia in sorrow behind ? From my Torments let me be released , for in this World I no Comfort can find : My Loving Swain , for thee I Complain , Oh that I was able to call thee again ; Then should I be , happy in thee , But this is a Blessing I never more shall see . Didd'st thou Dote so much on my Beauty , and yet I would not thy Favours regard ; For that cruel neglect of my Duty , these pains I bear is a legal Reward . Here in this Breast , my Soul is oppressed , With sad sighs and anguish , Oh where shall I rest ; Here in despair , these Robes I tear , The height of my passion is more than I can bear . IN this Tomb now lies my Sefautian , while my poor heart is ready to brake ; For I suffer the pains of my passion , I wish , my Dear , I had dy'd for thy sake . Nothing appears , but troops of new fears , And here do I water thy Tomb with my Tears : Never did one , make greater moan , For thou art departed , and I am left alone . We by Death are parted asunder , and I am left to bemoan my hard Fate ; Oh what sorrow of heart I lie under , I weep for thee ; but alas 'tis too late . He's gone before , whom I did adore , The thoughts of his Sayings does trouble me soar ; From Misery , Death set me free , For why should I live any longer here , than he . While thy dying tears they were vented , thou said'st , fair Silvia , I bid thee adieu ; But when gone , I shall then be lamented , and now I find that thy sayings are true ; Why did a frown , so soon cast thee down , Thy sorrows with favours I promis'd to crown : But first I try , thy Constancy , Not thinking that Death wou'd have been thy destiny . While I on my Pillows am lying , methinks I hear then his hovering Ghost , With shrill trembling voice he is crying , make haste , fair Silvia , whom I loved most . This would he say , Love , make haste away , And do not endeavour no longer delay : He is , I know , in Shades below , And therefore I now will to the Elizium go . Scorching Love soon turn'd to a Fever , make haste , kind Charon , she often did cry ; All her beautiful Charms they did leave her , as in Death's power she panting did lie . Then with a groan , and sorrowful moan , Fair Silvia said thus to her Lover alone : I'll no more be , in Chains , but free , For my dear Sefautian , I come , I come to th [ e ] e . FINIS . This may be Printed , R. P. Printed for J. Deacon , in Guilt-spur-street . And Answer to SEFAUTIANS Farewell , OR , Fair Silvia's Dying Complaint for the decease of her Love . To the same TUNE . MY Sefaution , art thou Deceased , and left thy Silvia in sorrow behind ? From my Torments let me be released , for in this World I no Comfort can find : My Loving Swain , for thee I Complain , Oh that I was able to call thee again ; Then should I be , happy in thee , But this is a Blessing I never more shall see . Didd'st thou Dote so much on my Beauty , and yet I would not thy Favours regard ; For that cruel neglect of my Duty , these pains I bear is a legal Reward . Here in this Breast , my Soul is oppressed , With sad sighs and anguish , Oh where shall I rest ; Here in despair , these Robes I tear , The height of my passion is more than I can bear . IN this Tomb now lies my Sefautian , while my poor heart is ready to brake ; For I suffer the pains of my passion , I wish , my Dear , I had dy'd for thy sake . Nothing appears , but troops of new fears , And here do I water thy Tomb with my Tears : Never did one , make greater moan , For thou art departed , and I am left alone . We by Death are parted asunder , and I am left to bemoan my hard Fate ; Oh what sorrow of heart I lie under , I weep for thee ; but alas 'tis too late . He's gone before , whom I did adore , The thoughts of his Sayings does trouble me soar ; From Misery , Death set me free , For why should I live any longer here , than he . While thy dying tears they were vented , thou said'st , fair Silvia , I bid thee adieu ; But when gone , I shall then be lamented , and now I find that thy sayings are true ; Why did a frown , so soon cast thee down , Thy sorrows with favours I promis'd to crown : But first I try , thy Constancy , Not thinking that Death wou'd have been thy destiny . While I on my Pillows am lying , methinks I hear then his hovering Ghost , With shrill trembling voice he is crying , make haste , fair Silvia , whom I loved most . This would he say , Love , make haste away , And do not endeavour no longer delay : He is , I know , in Shades below , And therefore I now will to the Elizium go . Scorching Love soon turn'd to a Fever , make haste , kind Charon , she often did cry ; All her beautiful Charms they did leave her , as in Death's power she panting did lie . Then with a groan , and sorrowful moan , Fair Silvia said thus to her Lover alone : I'll no more be , in Chains , but free , For my dear Sefautian , I come , I come to th [ e ] e . FINIS . This may be Printed , R. P. Printed for J. Deacon , in Guilt-spur-street . And Answer to SEFAUTIANS Farewell , OR , Fair Silvia's Dying Complaint for the decease of her Love . To the same TUNE . MY Sefaution , art thou Deceased , and left thy Silvia in sorrow behind ? From my Torments let me be released , for in this World I no Comfort can find : My Loving Swain , for thee I Complain , Oh that I was able to call thee again ; Then should I be , happy in thee , But this is a Blessing I never more shall see . Didd'st thou Dote so much on my Beauty , and yet I would not thy Favours regard ; For that cruel neglect of my Duty , these pains I bear is a legal Reward . Here in this Breast , my Soul is oppressed , With sad sighs and anguish , Oh where shall I rest ; Here in despair , these Robes I tear , The height of my passion is more than I can bear . IN this Tomb now lies my Sefautian , while my poor heart is ready to brake ; For I suffer the pains of my passion , I wish , my Dear , I had dy'd for thy sake . Nothing appears , but troops of new fears , And here do I water thy Tomb with my Tears : Never did one , make greater moan , For thou art departed , and I am left alone . We by Death are parted asunder , and I am left to bemoan my hard Fate ; Oh what sorrow of heart I lie under , I weep for thee ; but alas 'tis too late . He's gone before , whom I did adore , The thoughts of his Sayings does trouble me soar ; From Misery , Death set me free , For why should I live any longer here , than he . While thy dying tears they were vented , thou said'st , fair Silvia , I bid thee adieu ; But when gone , I shall then be lamented , and now I find that thy sayings are true ; Why did a frown , so soon cast thee down , Thy sorrows with favours I promis'd to crown : But first I try , thy Constancy , Not thinking that Death wou'd have been thy destiny . While I on my Pillows am lying , methinks I hear then his hovering Ghost , With shrill trembling voice he is crying , make haste , fair Silvia , whom I loved most . This would he say , Love , make haste away , And do not endeavour no longer delay : He is , I know , in Shades below , And therefore I now will to the Elizium go . Scorching Love soon turn'd to a Fever , make haste , kind Charon , she often did cry ; All her beautiful Charms they did leave her , as in Death's power she panting did lie . Then with a groan , and sorrowful moan , Fair Silvia said thus to her Lover alone : I'll no more be , in Chains , but free , For my dear Sefautian , I come , I come to th [ e ] e . FINIS . This may be Printed , R. P. Printed for J. Deacon , in Guilt-spur-street . And Answer to SEFAUTIANS Farewell , OR , Fair Silvia's Dying Complaint for the decease of her Love . To the same TUNE . MY Sefaution , art thou Deceased , and left thy Silvia in sorrow behind ? From my Torments let me be released , for in this World I no Comfort can find : My Loving Swain , for thee I Complain , Oh that I was able to call thee again ; Then should I be , happy in thee , But this is a Blessing I never more shall see . Didd'st thou Dote so much on my Beauty , and yet I would not thy Favours regard ; For that cruel neglect of my Duty , these pains I bear is a legal Reward . Here in this Breast , my Soul is oppressed , With sad sighs and anguish , Oh where shall I rest ; Here in despair , these Robes I tear , The height of my passion is more than I can bear . IN this Tomb now lies my Sefautian , while my poor heart is ready to brake ; For I suffer the pains of my passion , I wish , my Dear , I had dy'd for thy sake . Nothing appears , but troops of new fears , And here do I water thy Tomb with my Tears : Never did one , make greater moan , For thou art departed , and I am left alone . We by Death are parted asunder , and I am left to bemoan my hard Fate ; Oh what sorrow of heart I lie under , I weep for thee ; but alas 'tis too late . He's gone before , whom I did adore , The thoughts of his Sayings does trouble me soar ; From Misery , Death set me free , For why should I live any longer here , than he . While thy dying tears they were vented , thou said'st , fair Silvia , I bid thee adieu ; But when gone , I shall then be lamented , and now I find that thy sayings are true ; Why did a frown , so soon cast thee down , Thy sorrows with favours I promis'd to crown : But first I try , thy Constancy , Not thinking that Death wou'd have been thy destiny . While I on my Pillows am lying , methinks I hear then his hovering Ghost , With shrill trembling voice he is crying , make haste , fair Silvia , whom I loved most . This would he say , Love , make haste away , And do not endeavour no longer delay : He is , I know , in Shades below , And therefore I now will to the Elizium go . Scorching Love soon turn'd to a Fever , make haste , kind Charon , she often did cry ; All her beautiful Charms they did leave her , as in Death's power she panting did lie . Then with a groan , and sorrowful moan , Fair Silvia said thus to her Lover alone : I'll no more be , in Chains , but free , For my dear Sefautian , I come , I come to th [ e ] e . FINIS . This may be Printed , R. P. Printed for J. Deacon , in Guilt-spur-street . 