A Rare Example of a Virtuous Maid in Paris , who was by her own Mother procured to be put in Prison , think king thereby to compel her to Popery : but she continued to the end , and [ worser ] finished her life in the fire . Tune is , Oh man in Desparation . IT was a Ladies Daughter of Paris properly , Her mother her commanded to Mass that she should high : Oh pardon me , dear mother , her daughter dear did say , Unto that filthy Idol I never can obey . With weeping and wailing , her mother then did go , To assemble her Kinsfolks , that they the truth may know , Who being then assembled , they did this maiden call , And put her into prison , to fear her there withal . But where they thought to fear her , she did most strong endure , Altho' her years was tender , her faith was firm and sure , She weigh'd not their allurements , she fear'd not firy flame , She hop'd thro' Christ her Saviour , to have immortal fame . Before the judge they brought her , thinking that she would turn , And there she was condemned , in fire for to burn , instead of Golden bracelets , with Cords they bound her fast , My God grant me with patience ( quoth she ) to die at last . And on the morrow after , which was her d [ y ] ing day , They stripped this silly Damsel out of her rich array , Her Chain of Gold so costly , away from her they take , And she again most joyfully did all the world forsake . Unto the place of torment they brought her speedily , With heart and mind most constant , she willing was to die , But seeing many Ladies assembled in that place , These words she then pronounced , lamenting of their case . You Ladies of this City , mark well my words ( quoth she ) Although I shall be burned , yet do not pity me , Your selves I rather pity , and weep for your decay , Amend your time fair Ladies , and do no time delay . Then came her mother weeping , her daughter to behold , And in her hand she brought her a book covered with gold : Throw hence , quoth she , that idol , convey it from my sighed , And bring me hither my bible wherein I take delight . But my distressed mother , why weep you ? be content , You have to death delivered me , most like and innocent , Tormentor do thy Office on me when thou thinkest best , but God my Heavenly Father will bring my soul to rest . but O my aged Father , wherever thou dost lie , Thou know'st not thy poor daughter is ready for to die ; but yet among the Angels , in Heaven I hope to dwell , Therefore my loving Father , I bid thee now farewell . Farewell likewise my mother , adieu my Friends also , God grant that you by others may never feel such woe , Forsake your Superstition , the cause of mortal strife , Embrace God's true Religion , for which I loose my life . When all these words were ended , then came the man of death , Who kindled soon a fire , which stopped this Virgins breath : To Christ her only Saviour , she did her Soul commend , Farewell ( quoth she ) good people , and thus she made and end . Printed by and for A. M. and sold by the Booksellers of London . A Rare Example of a Virtuous Maid in Paris , who was by her own Mother procured to be put in Prison , think king thereby to compel her to Popery : but she continued to the end , and [ worser ] finished her life in the fire . Tune is , Oh man in Desparation . IT was a Ladies Daughter of Paris properly , Her mother her commanded to Mass that she should high : Oh pardon me , dear mother , her daughter dear did say , Unto that filthy Idol I never can obey . With weeping and wailing , her mother then did go , To assemble her Kinsfolks , that they the truth may know , Who being then assembled , they did this maiden call , And put her into prison , to fear her there withal . But where they thought to fear her , she did most strong endure , Altho' her years was tender , her faith was firm and sure , She weigh'd not their allurements , she fear'd not firy flame , She hop'd thro' Christ her Saviour , to have immortal fame . Before the judge they brought her , thinking that she would turn , And there she was condemned , in fire for to burn , instead of Golden bracelets , with Cords they bound her fast , My God grant me with patience ( quoth she ) to die at last . And on the morrow after , which was her d [ y ] ing day , They stripped this silly Damsel out of her rich array , Her Chain of Gold so costly , away from her they take , And she again most joyfully did all the world forsake . Unto the place of torment they brought her speedily , With heart and mind most constant , she willing was to die , But seeing many Ladies assembled in that place , These words she then pronounced , lamenting of their case . You Ladies of this City , mark well my words ( quoth she ) Although I shall be burned , yet do not pity me , Your selves I rather pity , and weep for your decay , Amend your time fair Ladies , and do no time delay . Then came her mother weeping , her daughter to behold , And in her hand she brought her a book covered with gold : Throw hence , quoth she , that idol , convey it from my sighed , And bring me hither my bible wherein I take delight . But my distressed mother , why weep you ? be content , You have to death delivered me , most like and innocent , Tormentor do thy Office on me when thou thinkest best , but God my Heavenly Father will bring my soul to rest . but O my aged Father , wherever thou dost lie , Thou know'st not thy poor daughter is ready for to die ; but yet among the Angels , in Heaven I hope to dwell , Therefore my loving Father , I bid thee now farewell . Farewell likewise my mother , adieu my Friends also , God grant that you by others may never feel such woe , Forsake your Superstition , the cause of mortal strife , Embrace God's true Religion , for which I loose my life . When all these words were ended , then came the man of death , Who kindled soon a fire , which stopped this Virgins breath : To Christ her only Saviour , she did her Soul commend , Farewell ( quoth she ) good people , and thus she made and end . Printed by and for A. M. and sold by the Booksellers of London . 