The Lovers Joy and Grief : OR A young men relation In a pitiful fashion , Being from his Love hindered By Locks , Bolts , and Kindred . To the tune of Youngmen and Maids . AMong the nine , all Nymphs divine , that haunt the forked mountain , If any will bring me a Quill , dipped in Castalia's fountain I'll show ( in brief ) my joy and grief , and her due praises render , To whom I would come if I could , but locks and bolts do hinder . My joy , in that I had the fate , to choose so rare a jewel , My grief in this , that she ( my bliss ) is kept by kindred cruel , Out of my sighed , which day and night does pierce my heart so tender , This she to whom I feign would come , but locks and bolts do hinder . She is a Lass that does surpass , her neighbours round about her , Her worth is such , it grieves me much , to live so long without her : With strong desire in Cupids fire , my heart burns to a cinder , I would possess my happiness but locks and bolts do hinder . As Thisbe fair by Parents care from Pyramus was hidden , So she to come abroad from home is earnestly forbidden : She dares not stir , nor I to her , so closely they have penn'd her , She would come out I make no doubt , but locks and bolts do hinder . As Danae was i'th Tower of brass , enclosed by her Father , So she ( my sweet ) lest we should meet , is kept more closely rather : Yet as great Jove god to his Love , though walls did comprehend her , So I do hope to have free scope , though locks and bolts do hinder . I'th interim I must patiently expect that happy season , I dare not think that she will shrink , for in truth I have no reason , I find that she is true to me , in that I must commend her , She would not be so long from me . but locks and bolts do hinder . It grieves my heart to think what smart ( poor creature ) she endureth , What means her kindred use to win her heart , which she assureth Is fixed fast , while life does last , no policy can bend her , To any course love hath such force , but locks and bolts do hinder . The second part To the same tune . She hath ( this true to speak what's due ) too great a marriage portion , This may I vow , for Cupid now , is bent unto extortion : I would therefore her friends were poor , or else in heart more tender , For poor or rich wee'd go through stitch , but locks and bolts do hinder . Although my self want worldly pelf , unto their expectation , Yet if I may the truth display , without any ostentation , My birth and parts and due deserts are not so weak and slender , But that I might earn my delight , though locks and bolts do hinder . Were I a Prince of eminence , and she a peasants daughter , Had she no more of learning's store , then what wise nature taught her , Her peerless face and inward grace , shows in my heart such splendour , She mine should be , the like says she , but locks and bolts do hinder . This not her pelf but her sweet self , that I ( in heart ) do covit Necessity let wealth supply , for nothing else I love it , Her only love is that does move my heart and makes it tender , I mourn in grief without relief , for locks and bolts do hinder . No ease of mind at all I find , but only this assurance , That my deer wench will never flinch , though she be kept in durance , She hath her share of woe and care for which I must commend her , On me she hath bestow'd her faith , though locks and bolts do hinder . Continue still in thy good will , thou Paragon of beauty , And I to thee as true will be ( so am I bound in duty ) Though fortune frown , yet the renown of our affections tender , Abroad is flown , we two are one , though locks and bolts do hinder . With patience wee'll expect to feel , the fruit of all this sorrow , Though sorrow may endure this day , I shall have joy to morrow , In the mean while , I in exile will be thy true defender , And spread thy name , which is my claim , though locks and bolts do hinder . O cruel fate , expire the date , of two deer Lovers trouble , If once our grief do find relief , our joys will then be double And all our tears , our cares and fears , will to our names add splender Thy heart is mine , and mine is thine , though locks and bolts do hinder . FINIS . M.P. Printed at London for Though : Lambert and are to be sold at the sign of the Horse-shoo in Smithfield . The Lovers Joy and Grief : OR A young men relation In a pitiful fashion , Being from his Love hindered By Locks , Bolts , and Kindred . To the tune of Youngmen and Maids . AMong the nine , all Nymphs divine , that haunt the forked mountain , If any will bring me a Quill , dipped in Castalia's fountain I'll show ( in brief ) my joy and grief , and her due praises render , To whom I would come if I could , but locks and bolts do hinder . My joy , in that I had the fate , to choose so rare a jewel , My grief in this , that she ( my bliss ) is kept by kindred cruel , Out of my sighed , which day and night does pierce my heart so tender , This she to whom I feign would come , but locks and bolts do hinder . She is a Lass that does surpass , her neighbours round about her , Her worth is such , it grieves me much , to live so long without her : With strong desire in Cupids fire , my heart burns to a cinder , I would possess my happiness but locks and bolts do hinder . As Thisbe fair by Parents care from Pyramus was hidden , So she to come abroad from home is earnestly forbidden : She dares not stir , nor I to her , so closely they have penn'd her , She would come out I make no doubt , but locks and bolts do hinder . As Danae was i'th Tower of brass , enclosed by her Father , So she ( my sweet ) lest we should meet , is kept more closely rather : Yet as great Jove god to his Love , though walls did comprehend her , So I do hope to have free scope , though locks and bolts do hinder . I'th interim I must patiently expect that happy season , I dare not think that she will shrink , for in truth I have no reason , I find that she is true to me , in that I must commend her , She would not be so long from me . but locks and bolts do hinder . It grieves my heart to think what smart ( poor creature ) she endureth , What means her kindred use to win her heart , which she assureth Is fixed fast , while life does last , no policy can bend her , To any course love hath such force , but locks and bolts do hinder . The second part To the same tune . She hath ( this true to speak what's due ) too great a marriage portion , This may I vow , for Cupid now , is bent unto extortion : I would therefore her friends were poor , or else in heart more tender , For poor or rich wee'd go through stitch , but locks and bolts do hinder . Although my self want worldly pelf , unto their expectation , Yet if I may the truth display , without any ostentation , My birth and parts and due deserts are not so weak and slender , But that I might earn my delight , though locks and bolts do hinder . Were I a Prince of eminence , and she a peasants daughter , Had she no more of learning's store , then what wise nature taught her , Her peerless face and inward grace , shows in my heart such splendour , She mine should be , the like says she , but locks and bolts do hinder . This not her pelf but her sweet self , that I ( in heart ) do covit Necessity let wealth supply , for nothing else I love it , Her only love is that does move my heart and makes it tender , I mourn in grief without relief , for locks and bolts do hinder . No ease of mind at all I find , but only this assurance , That my deer wench will never flinch , though she be kept in durance , She hath her share of woe and care for which I must commend her , On me she hath bestow'd her faith , though locks and bolts do hinder . Continue still in thy good will , thou Paragon of beauty , And I to thee as true will be ( so am I bound in duty ) Though fortune frown , yet the renown of our affections tender , Abroad is flown , we two are one , though locks and bolts do hinder . With patience wee'll expect to feel , the fruit of all this sorrow , Though sorrow may endure this day , I shall have joy to morrow , In the mean while , I in exile will be thy true defender , And spread thy name , which is my claim , though locks and bolts do hinder . O cruel fate , expire the date , of two deer Lovers trouble , If once our grief do find relief , our joys will then be double And all our tears , our cares and fears , will to our names add splender Thy heart is mine , and mine is thine , though locks and bolts do hinder . FINIS . M.P. Printed at London for Though : Lambert and are to be sold at the sign of the Horse-shoo in Smithfield . The Lovers Joy and Grief : OR A young men relation In a pitiful fashion , Being from his Love hindered By Locks , Bolts , and Kindred . To the tune of Youngmen and Maids . AMong the nine , all Nymphs divine , that haunt the forked mountain , If any will bring me a Quill , dipped in Castalia's fountain I'll show ( in brief ) my joy and grief , and her due praises render , To whom I would come if I could , but locks and bolts do hinder . My joy , in that I had the fate , to choose so rare a jewel , My grief in this , that she ( my bliss ) is kept by kindred cruel , Out of my sighed , which day and night does pierce my heart so tender , This she to whom I feign would come , but locks and bolts do hinder . She is a Lass that does surpass , her neighbours round about her , Her worth is such , it grieves me much , to live so long without her : With strong desire in Cupids fire , my heart burns to a cinder , I would possess my happiness but locks and bolts do hinder . As Thisbe fair by Parents care from Pyramus was hidden , So she to come abroad from home is earnestly forbidden : She dares not stir , nor I to her , so closely they have penn'd her , She would come out I make no doubt , but locks and bolts do hinder . As Danae was i'th Tower of brass , enclosed by her Father , So she ( my sweet ) lest we should meet , is kept more closely rather : Yet as great Jove god to his Love , though walls did comprehend her , So I do hope to have free scope , though locks and bolts do hinder . I'th interim I must patiently expect that happy season , I dare not think that she will shrink , for in truth I have no reason , I find that she is true to me , in that I must commend her , She would not be so long from me . but locks and bolts do hinder . It grieves my heart to think what smart ( poor creature ) she endureth , What means her kindred use to win her heart , which she assureth Is fixed fast , while life does last , no policy can bend her , To any course love hath such force , but locks and bolts do hinder . The second part To the same tune . She hath ( this true to speak what's due ) too great a marriage portion , This may I vow , for Cupid now , is bent unto extortion : I would therefore her friends were poor , or else in heart more tender , For poor or rich wee'd go through stitch , but locks and bolts do hinder . Although my self want worldly pelf , unto their expectation , Yet if I may the truth display , without any ostentation , My birth and parts and due deserts are not so weak and slender , But that I might earn my delight , though locks and bolts do hinder . Were I a Prince of eminence , and she a peasants daughter , Had she no more of learning's store , then what wise nature taught her , Her peerless face and inward grace , shows in my heart such splendour , She mine should be , the like says she , but locks and bolts do hinder . This not her pelf but her sweet self , that I ( in heart ) do covit Necessity let wealth supply , for nothing else I love it , Her only love is that does move my heart and makes it tender , I mourn in grief without relief , for locks and bolts do hinder . No ease of mind at all I find , but only this assurance , That my deer wench will never flinch , though she be kept in durance , She hath her share of woe and care for which I must commend her , On me she hath bestow'd her faith , though locks and bolts do hinder . Continue still in thy good will , thou Paragon of beauty , And I to thee as true will be ( so am I bound in duty ) Though fortune frown , yet the renown of our affections tender , Abroad is flown , we two are one , though locks and bolts do hinder . With patience wee'll expect to feel , the fruit of all this sorrow , Though sorrow may endure this day , I shall have joy to morrow , In the mean while , I in exile will be thy true defender , And spread thy name , which is my claim , though locks and bolts do hinder . O cruel fate , expire the date , of two deer Lovers trouble , If once our grief do find relief , our joys will then be double And all our tears , our cares and fears , will to our names add splender Thy heart is mine , and mine is thine , though locks and bolts do hinder . FINIS . M.P. Printed at London for Though : Lambert and are to be sold at the sign of the Horse-shoo in Smithfield . The Lovers Joy and Grief : OR A young men relation In a pitiful fashion , Being from his Love hindered By Locks , Bolts , and Kindred . To the tune of Youngmen and Maids . AMong the nine , all Nymphs divine , that haunt the forked mountain , If any will bring me a Quill , dipped in Castalia's fountain I'll show ( in brief ) my joy and grief , and her due praises render , To whom I would come if I could , but locks and bolts do hinder . My joy , in that I had the fate , to choose so rare a jewel , My grief in this , that she ( my bliss ) is kept by kindred cruel , Out of my sighed , which day and night does pierce my heart so tender , This she to whom I feign would come , but locks and bolts do hinder . She is a Lass that does surpass , her neighbours round about her , Her worth is such , it grieves me much , to live so long without her : With strong desire in Cupids fire , my heart burns to a cinder , I would possess my happiness but locks and bolts do hinder . As Thisbe fair by Parents care from Pyramus was hidden , So she to come abroad from home is earnestly forbidden : She dares not stir , nor I to her , so closely they have penn'd her , She would come out I make no doubt , but locks and bolts do hinder . As Danae was i'th Tower of brass , enclosed by her Father , So she ( my sweet ) lest we should meet , is kept more closely rather : Yet as great Jove god to his Love , though walls did comprehend her , So I do hope to have free scope , though locks and bolts do hinder . I'th interim I must patiently expect that happy season , I dare not think that she will shrink , for in truth I have no reason , I find that she is true to me , in that I must commend her , She would not be so long from me . but locks and bolts do hinder . It grieves my heart to think what smart ( poor creature ) she endureth , What means her kindred use to win her heart , which she assureth Is fixed fast , while life does last , no policy can bend her , To any course love hath such force , but locks and bolts do hinder . The second part To the same tune . She hath ( this true to speak what's due ) too great a marriage portion , This may I vow , for Cupid now , is bent unto extortion : I would therefore her friends were poor , or else in heart more tender , For poor or rich wee'd go through stitch , but locks and bolts do hinder . Although my self want worldly pelf , unto their expectation , Yet if I may the truth display , without any ostentation , My birth and parts and due deserts are not so weak and slender , But that I might earn my delight , though locks and bolts do hinder . Were I a Prince of eminence , and she a peasants daughter , Had she no more of learning's store , then what wise nature taught her , Her peerless face and inward grace , shows in my heart such splendour , She mine should be , the like says she , but locks and bolts do hinder . This not her pelf but her sweet self , that I ( in heart ) do covit Necessity let wealth supply , for nothing else I love it , Her only love is that does move my heart and makes it tender , I mourn in grief without relief , for locks and bolts do hinder . No ease of mind at all I find , but only this assurance , That my deer wench will never flinch , though she be kept in durance , She hath her share of woe and care for which I must commend her , On me she hath bestow'd her faith , though locks and bolts do hinder . Continue still in thy good will , thou Paragon of beauty , And I to thee as true will be ( so am I bound in duty ) Though fortune frown , yet the renown of our affections tender , Abroad is flown , we two are one , though locks and bolts do hinder . With patience wee'll expect to feel , the fruit of all this sorrow , Though sorrow may endure this day , I shall have joy to morrow , In the mean while , I in exile will be thy true defender , And spread thy name , which is my claim , though locks and bolts do hinder . O cruel fate , expire the date , of two deer Lovers trouble , If once our grief do find relief , our joys will then be double And all our tears , our cares and fears , will to our names add splender Thy heart is mine , and mine is thine , though locks and bolts do hinder . FINIS . M.P. Printed at London for Though : Lambert and are to be sold at the sign of the Horse-shoo in Smithfield . 