The Lovers Dream : Who sleeping , thought he did embrace his Love , Which when he wak'd , did no such matter prove ; Yet afterwards her Love he did enjoy , By sending a Letter by a trusty young Boy . To the tune of , I laid me down to sleep . AS I was walking all alone , and musing in my mind , With many a sighs and groan , I studied how to find , Some dainty pleasant Theme , to write unto my Love , And I fell in a dream , and mark how it did prove . I laid me down to sleep , thinking my Love lay by , But when I did awake , my dream it prov'd a lie : I sweat , and I am cold , I freeze , and am a fire ; I see , and cannot behold the thing that I most desire . Thus dreaming as I lay , me thought she smil'd on me , Which did increase my joy , such happiness to see : I spoke unto my Love , and she did answer make : But so it did not prove , when as I did awake . Me thought I saw my Love , and with her I did stray , Hard by a pleasant Grove , where we a while did stay . But time that swift does go , did run too suddenly : Oh time why didst thou so ? thou mad'st my Love to cry : But when I saw her eyes , bedew'd with brinish tears , Then I did soon surmise her heart was struck with fears . And I did soon require some reason for to know : Her answer did admire my heart with joy and woe . Quoth she , I love thee deer , yet so I dare not say , Because I live in fear of my true Loves decay : My Father he is rich , and I his only Heir , And he at me will grutch , to wed on's poor and bore . Me thought I answer made , that I was young and fair , And having Art and Trade , I bade her not take care . With that me thought she smil'd , and to me she did say ; My Love be reconcil'd , and I'll be thine for aye . My mind was thus imploy'd , and yet I nothing do ; I thought I'd god a Bride , but yet it was not so : Me thought I had my will , according to my mind , But I do want it still , my Love proves not so kind : The second Part , To the same Tune . THus sleeping still I lay , betwixt hope and despair ; But at the break of day , Oh then began my care : When as I did awake , and found it nothing so , Then for my true Loves sake , I did lament with woe . I cannot come my Love , to the place where thou art ; But I will write to thee , if thou wilt take my part , The complaint of my poor heart , receive it as you will : My Love may ease my smart , or she my heart may kill . My heart is not mine own , nor I at liberty : All joys are from me gone , alack what remedy . I would I were in place , where my true Love does rest , And then I would embrace , the joys that I like best . Would Jove would pleased be , for to transform my shape , That I unknown may see my Love , and so escape : And yet I would be seen of her and none but she : And thus I would begin , Fair Lady , pity me . But some perchance may say , that I my Love would fright , To those I answer , Nay , she is my hearts deligh Although I wish to change , my self in some men hue , Yet I would not seem strange , unto my Lover true . And if I find her coy , and grieved with vexation , Yet I with her will play , to gain my expectation . Then happily she will consider of my woe : Thus I will use my skill , and glad to please her so . I would I had some Page , that would to me be true , In haste to run a voyage , that my true Love may view This Letter of my grief , and send me some reply : If she yield no relief , alack , then must I die . Then straight a Page he sent unto her hastily : At whose return content was brought him speedily . When his true Love did view , his writing in such kind ; Quoth she I will be true , and so my Love shall find . O haste , thou little Page , make haste unto my Love , That death may cease his rage , and joys may sorrows move : And I my self will come , before the break of day , When darkness is begun , then I'll steal hence away . My Father must not know , what you about do come : For if he should be so , my Love were quite undone . Therefore make haste again , and save my true Loves life : I will release his pain , and prove his loving wife . Printed at London for J.W. dwelling in Giltspur street . FINIS . The Lovers Dream : Who sleeping , thought he did embrace his Love , Which when he wak'd , did no such matter prove ; Yet afterwards her Love he did enjoy , By sending a Letter by a trusty young Boy . To the tune of , I laid me down to sleep . AS I was walking all alone , and musing in my mind , With many a sighs and groan , I studied how to find , Some dainty pleasant Theme , to write unto my Love , And I fell in a dream , and mark how it did prove . I laid me down to sleep , thinking my Love lay by , But when I did awake , my dream it prov'd a lie : I sweat , and I am cold , I freeze , and am a fire ; I see , and cannot behold the thing that I most desire . Thus dreaming as I lay , me thought she smil'd on me , Which did increase my joy , such happiness to see : I spoke unto my Love , and she did answer make : But so it did not prove , when as I did awake . Me thought I saw my Love , and with her I did stray , Hard by a pleasant Grove , where we a while did stay . But time that swift does go , did run too suddenly : Oh time why didst thou so ? thou mad'st my Love to cry : But when I saw her eyes , bedew'd with brinish tears , Then I did soon surmise her heart was struck with fears . And I did soon require some reason for to know : Her answer did admire my heart with joy and woe . Quoth she , I love thee deer , yet so I dare not say , Because I live in fear of my true Loves decay : My Father he is rich , and I his only Heir , And he at me will grutch , to wed on's poor and bore . Me thought I answer made , that I was young and fair , And having Art and Trade , I bade her not take care . With that me thought she smil'd , and to me she did say ; My Love be reconcil'd , and I'll be thine for aye . My mind was thus imploy'd , and yet I nothing do ; I thought I'd god a Bride , but yet it was not so : Me thought I had my will , according to my mind , But I do want it still , my Love proves not so kind : The second Part , To the same Tune . THus sleeping still I lay , betwixt hope and despair ; But at the break of day , Oh then began my care : When as I did awake , and found it nothing so , Then for my true Loves sake , I did lament with woe . I cannot come my Love , to the place where thou art ; But I will write to thee , if thou wilt take my part , The complaint of my poor heart , receive it as you will : My Love may ease my smart , or she my heart may kill . My heart is not mine own , nor I at liberty : All joys are from me gone , alack what remedy . I would I were in place , where my true Love does rest , And then I would embrace , the joys that I like best . Would Jove would pleased be , for to transform my shape , That I unknown may see my Love , and so escape : And yet I would be seen of her and none but she : And thus I would begin , Fair Lady , pity me . But some perchance may say , that I my Love would fright , To those I answer , Nay , she is my hearts deligh Although I wish to change , my self in some men hue , Yet I would not seem strange , unto my Lover true . And if I find her coy , and grieved with vexation , Yet I with her will play , to gain my expectation . Then happily she will consider of my woe : Thus I will use my skill , and glad to please her so . I would I had some Page , that would to me be true , In haste to run a voyage , that my true Love may view This Letter of my grief , and send me some reply : If she yield no relief , alack , then must I die . Then straight a Page he sent unto her hastily : At whose return content was brought him speedily . When his true Love did view , his writing in such kind ; Quoth she I will be true , and so my Love shall find . O haste , thou little Page , make haste unto my Love , That death may cease his rage , and joys may sorrows move : And I my self will come , before the break of day , When darkness is begun , then I'll steal hence away . My Father must not know , what you about do come : For if he should be so , my Love were quite undone . Therefore make haste again , and save my true Loves life : I will release his pain , and prove his loving wife . Printed at London for J.W. dwelling in Giltspur street . FINIS . The Lovers Dream : Who sleeping , thought he did embrace his Love , Which when he wak'd , did no such matter prove ; Yet afterwards her Love he did enjoy , By sending a Letter by a trusty young Boy . To the tune of , I laid me down to sleep . AS I was walking all alone , and musing in my mind , With many a sighs and groan , I studied how to find , Some dainty pleasant Theme , to write unto my Love , And I fell in a dream , and mark how it did prove . I laid me down to sleep , thinking my Love lay by , But when I did awake , my dream it prov'd a lie : I sweat , and I am cold , I freeze , and am a fire ; I see , and cannot behold the thing that I most desire . Thus dreaming as I lay , me thought she smil'd on me , Which did increase my joy , such happiness to see : I spoke unto my Love , and she did answer make : But so it did not prove , when as I did awake . Me thought I saw my Love , and with her I did stray , Hard by a pleasant Grove , where we a while did stay . But time that swift does go , did run too suddenly : Oh time why didst thou so ? thou mad'st my Love to cry : But when I saw her eyes , bedew'd with brinish tears , Then I did soon surmise her heart was struck with fears . And I did soon require some reason for to know : Her answer did admire my heart with joy and woe . Quoth she , I love thee deer , yet so I dare not say , Because I live in fear of my true Loves decay : My Father he is rich , and I his only Heir , And he at me will grutch , to wed on's poor and bore . Me thought I answer made , that I was young and fair , And having Art and Trade , I bade her not take care . With that me thought she smil'd , and to me she did say ; My Love be reconcil'd , and I'll be thine for aye . My mind was thus imploy'd , and yet I nothing do ; I thought I'd god a Bride , but yet it was not so : Me thought I had my will , according to my mind , But I do want it still , my Love proves not so kind : The second Part , To the same Tune . THus sleeping still I lay , betwixt hope and despair ; But at the break of day , Oh then began my care : When as I did awake , and found it nothing so , Then for my true Loves sake , I did lament with woe . I cannot come my Love , to the place where thou art ; But I will write to thee , if thou wilt take my part , The complaint of my poor heart , receive it as you will : My Love may ease my smart , or she my heart may kill . My heart is not mine own , nor I at liberty : All joys are from me gone , alack what remedy . I would I were in place , where my true Love does rest , And then I would embrace , the joys that I like best . Would Jove would pleased be , for to transform my shape , That I unknown may see my Love , and so escape : And yet I would be seen of her and none but she : And thus I would begin , Fair Lady , pity me . But some perchance may say , that I my Love would fright , To those I answer , Nay , she is my hearts deligh Although I wish to change , my self in some men hue , Yet I would not seem strange , unto my Lover true . And if I find her coy , and grieved with vexation , Yet I with her will play , to gain my expectation . Then happily she will consider of my woe : Thus I will use my skill , and glad to please her so . I would I had some Page , that would to me be true , In haste to run a voyage , that my true Love may view This Letter of my grief , and send me some reply : If she yield no relief , alack , then must I die . Then straight a Page he sent unto her hastily : At whose return content was brought him speedily . When his true Love did view , his writing in such kind ; Quoth she I will be true , and so my Love shall find . O haste , thou little Page , make haste unto my Love , That death may cease his rage , and joys may sorrows move : And I my self will come , before the break of day , When darkness is begun , then I'll steal hence away . My Father must not know , what you about do come : For if he should be so , my Love were quite undone . Therefore make haste again , and save my true Loves life : I will release his pain , and prove his loving wife . Printed at London for J.W. dwelling in Giltspur street . FINIS . The Lovers Dream : Who sleeping , thought he did embrace his Love , Which when he wak'd , did no such matter prove ; Yet afterwards her Love he did enjoy , By sending a Letter by a trusty young Boy . To the tune of , I laid me down to sleep . AS I was walking all alone , and musing in my mind , With many a sighs and groan , I studied how to find , Some dainty pleasant Theme , to write unto my Love , And I fell in a dream , and mark how it did prove . I laid me down to sleep , thinking my Love lay by , But when I did awake , my dream it prov'd a lie : I sweat , and I am cold , I freeze , and am a fire ; I see , and cannot behold the thing that I most desire . Thus dreaming as I lay , me thought she smil'd on me , Which did increase my joy , such happiness to see : I spoke unto my Love , and she did answer make : But so it did not prove , when as I did awake . Me thought I saw my Love , and with her I did stray , Hard by a pleasant Grove , where we a while did stay . But time that swift does go , did run too suddenly : Oh time why didst thou so ? thou mad'st my Love to cry : But when I saw her eyes , bedew'd with brinish tears , Then I did soon surmise her heart was struck with fears . And I did soon require some reason for to know : Her answer did admire my heart with joy and woe . Quoth she , I love thee deer , yet so I dare not say , Because I live in fear of my true Loves decay : My Father he is rich , and I his only Heir , And he at me will grutch , to wed on's poor and bore . Me thought I answer made , that I was young and fair , And having Art and Trade , I bade her not take care . With that me thought she smil'd , and to me she did say ; My Love be reconcil'd , and I'll be thine for aye . My mind was thus imploy'd , and yet I nothing do ; I thought I'd god a Bride , but yet it was not so : Me thought I had my will , according to my mind , But I do want it still , my Love proves not so kind : The second Part , To the same Tune . THus sleeping still I lay , betwixt hope and despair ; But at the break of day , Oh then began my care : When as I did awake , and found it nothing so , Then for my true Loves sake , I did lament with woe . I cannot come my Love , to the place where thou art ; But I will write to thee , if thou wilt take my part , The complaint of my poor heart , receive it as you will : My Love may ease my smart , or she my heart may kill . My heart is not mine own , nor I at liberty : All joys are from me gone , alack what remedy . I would I were in place , where my true Love does rest , And then I would embrace , the joys that I like best . Would Jove would pleased be , for to transform my shape , That I unknown may see my Love , and so escape : And yet I would be seen of her and none but she : And thus I would begin , Fair Lady , pity me . But some perchance may say , that I my Love would fright , To those I answer , Nay , she is my hearts deligh Although I wish to change , my self in some men hue , Yet I would not seem strange , unto my Lover true . And if I find her coy , and grieved with vexation , Yet I with her will play , to gain my expectation . Then happily she will consider of my woe : Thus I will use my skill , and glad to please her so . I would I had some Page , that would to me be true , In haste to run a voyage , that my true Love may view This Letter of my grief , and send me some reply : If she yield no relief , alack , then must I die . Then straight a Page he sent unto her hastily : At whose return content was brought him speedily . When his true Love did view , his writing in such kind ; Quoth she I will be true , and so my Love shall find . O haste , thou little Page , make haste unto my Love , That death may cease his rage , and joys may sorrows move : And I my self will come , before the break of day , When darkness is begun , then I'll steal hence away . My Father must not know , what you about do come : For if he should be so , my Love were quite undone . Therefore make haste again , and save my true Loves life : I will release his pain , and prove his loving wife . Printed at London for J.W. dwelling in Giltspur street . FINIS . 