A Lovers desire for his best beloved : OR , Come away , come away , and do not stay . To and excellent new Court Tune . NOw the spring is come , turn to thy Love to thy Love , to thy Love , to thy Love , make no delay : While the flowers spring , & the birds do sing , their sweet tunes , their sweet tunes , their sweet tunes , and do not stay , Where I will fill thy lap full of flowers , And cover thee with shady bowers , come away , come away , come away , and do not stay . Shall I languish still for my Love , for my love , for my Love , for my Love , etc without relief : Shall my faith so well approved , now despair , now despair , etc , unto my grief : Where shall beauty then be found , But where virtue does abound : come away , come away , etc and do etc Flora here hath made a bed for my Love , for my Love , etc with Roses read : Phoebus beams to stay are bent , for to yield , for to yield , etc my Love conten And the pleasant Eglantine Made with a thousand flowers fine : come away , come away , etc and do etc Hark how the Nightingale sweetly does sing for my Love , for my Love , etc the Lambs do play , Pan , to please my Love , the Rocks makes to ring , And does pipe , and does pipe , etc a roundelay . She the pleasant rushy Brooks , And every Flower for my Love looks , come away , come away , and do not stay , Beauty's Queen with all her train , does attend , does attend etc upon my Dear : Tripping Satyrs they do dance amain , to delight , to delight , etc her hath no phere . Muses nine with Music sweet . Do all attend my Love to meet come away , come away , etc and do etc Fairest fair , now turn to thy Love , to thy Love , to thy Love etc that loves thee bes Sweet , let pity move , grant love for love , like the Dove , like the Dove , etc for ever rest . Crown thy delights with hopeful joys , Thy love revives , thy hate destroys , come away , come away , come away , and do not stay . The Second Part. OR The Woman's answer . To the same tune . WHo is't that calls me come away : this my Love , this my etc most cheerful voice : He looks cheerful as the bright day , which does make , which does etc each heart rejoice . With flowers sweet I'll make my bed , My lap a pillow for thy head . come away , come etc and do etc If thou doubtest , Sweetest prove , that thy Love , that thy etc she lov'd thee ever . Nor ne're think , deer , but I will be thy Dove and from thee , and from etc I'll never sever : This not beauty makes me proud , For this that heaven hath allowed come away , come etc and do etc See the lovely Queen of Flowers she hath strewn , she hath etc thy way to trace : Trees do bend to make thee bowers , Satyrs peep , Satyrs etc to see thy face : Lambs to please thee leap and skip , And little Fairies trip . come away , come etc and do etc Woods yield pleasant harmony , for my Love , for my etc the Birds do sing , Thy absence makes them seem to cry : phillis crowns Phillis etc , thee Summer's King : With a wreathe of flowers sweet , All the Nymph's my love do greet , come away , come etc , and do etc Venus does not stick to swear By her Doves , by her etc sheel steal my Love : And as for Adon tears her hair , her fair eyes , her fair etc much sorrow proves : But for all the Indian wealth , None shall have him but my self : come away , come etc and do not stay : Like the words eye my Love does appear when his steeds , when his etc approach the morn : And his face the Clouds do clear , dims the stars , dims the etc , and Cynthias horn : Now I am in my marriage bed , See my arms for thee are spread , come away , come away , come away , and do not stay . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcocke FINIS A Lovers desire for his best beloved : OR , Come away , come away , and do not stay . To and excellent new Court Tune . NOw the spring is come , turn to thy Love to thy Love , to thy Love , to thy Love , make no delay : While the flowers spring , & the birds do sing , their sweet tunes , their sweet tunes , their sweet tunes , and do not stay , Where I will fill thy lap full of flowers , And cover thee with shady bowers , come away , come away , come away , and do not stay . Shall I languish still for my Love , for my love , for my Love , for my Love , etc without relief : Shall my faith so well approved , now despair , now despair , etc , unto my grief : Where shall beauty then be found , But where virtue does abound : come away , come away , etc and do etc Flora here hath made a bed for my Love , for my Love , etc with Roses read : Phoebus beams to stay are bent , for to yield , for to yield , etc my Love conten And the pleasant Eglantine Made with a thousand flowers fine : come away , come away , etc and do etc Hark how the Nightingale sweetly does sing for my Love , for my Love , etc the Lambs do play , Pan , to please my Love , the Rocks makes to ring , And does pipe , and does pipe , etc a roundelay . She the pleasant rushy Brooks , And every Flower for my Love looks , come away , come away , and do not stay , Beauty's Queen with all her train , does attend , does attend etc upon my Dear : Tripping Satyrs they do dance amain , to delight , to delight , etc her hath no phere . Muses nine with Music sweet . Do all attend my Love to meet come away , come away , etc and do etc Fairest fair , now turn to thy Love , to thy Love , to thy Love etc that loves thee bes Sweet , let pity move , grant love for love , like the Dove , like the Dove , etc for ever rest . Crown thy delights with hopeful joys , Thy love revives , thy hate destroys , come away , come away , come away , and do not stay . The Second Part. OR The Woman's answer . To the same tune . WHo is't that calls me come away : this my Love , this my etc most cheerful voice : He looks cheerful as the bright day , which does make , which does etc each heart rejoice . With flowers sweet I'll make my bed , My lap a pillow for thy head . come away , come etc and do etc If thou doubtest , Sweetest prove , that thy Love , that thy etc she lov'd thee ever . Nor ne're think , deer , but I will be thy Dove and from thee , and from etc I'll never sever : This not beauty makes me proud , For this that heaven hath allowed come away , come etc and do etc See the lovely Queen of Flowers she hath strewn , she hath etc thy way to trace : Trees do bend to make thee bowers , Satyrs peep , Satyrs etc to see thy face : Lambs to please thee leap and skip , And little Fairies trip . come away , come etc and do etc Woods yield pleasant harmony , for my Love , for my etc the Birds do sing , Thy absence makes them seem to cry : phillis crowns Phillis etc , thee Summer's King : With a wreathe of flowers sweet , All the Nymph's my love do greet , come away , come etc , and do etc Venus does not stick to swear By her Doves , by her etc sheel steal my Love : And as for Adon tears her hair , her fair eyes , her fair etc much sorrow proves : But for all the Indian wealth , None shall have him but my self : come away , come etc and do not stay : Like the words eye my Love does appear when his steeds , when his etc approach the morn : And his face the Clouds do clear , dims the stars , dims the etc , and Cynthias horn : Now I am in my marriage bed , See my arms for thee are spread , come away , come away , come away , and do not stay . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcocke FINIS A Lovers desire for his best beloved : OR , Come away , come away , and do not stay . To and excellent new Court Tune . NOw the spring is come , turn to thy Love to thy Love , to thy Love , to thy Love , make no delay : While the flowers spring , & the birds do sing , their sweet tunes , their sweet tunes , their sweet tunes , and do not stay , Where I will fill thy lap full of flowers , And cover thee with shady bowers , come away , come away , come away , and do not stay . Shall I languish still for my Love , for my love , for my Love , for my Love , etc without relief : Shall my faith so well approved , now despair , now despair , etc , unto my grief : Where shall beauty then be found , But where virtue does abound : come away , come away , etc and do etc Flora here hath made a bed for my Love , for my Love , etc with Roses read : Phoebus beams to stay are bent , for to yield , for to yield , etc my Love conten And the pleasant Eglantine Made with a thousand flowers fine : come away , come away , etc and do etc Hark how the Nightingale sweetly does sing for my Love , for my Love , etc the Lambs do play , Pan , to please my Love , the Rocks makes to ring , And does pipe , and does pipe , etc a roundelay . She the pleasant rushy Brooks , And every Flower for my Love looks , come away , come away , and do not stay , Beauty's Queen with all her train , does attend , does attend etc upon my Dear : Tripping Satyrs they do dance amain , to delight , to delight , etc her hath no phere . Muses nine with Music sweet . Do all attend my Love to meet come away , come away , etc and do etc Fairest fair , now turn to thy Love , to thy Love , to thy Love etc that loves thee bes Sweet , let pity move , grant love for love , like the Dove , like the Dove , etc for ever rest . Crown thy delights with hopeful joys , Thy love revives , thy hate destroys , come away , come away , come away , and do not stay . The Second Part. OR The Woman's answer . To the same tune . WHo is't that calls me come away : this my Love , this my etc most cheerful voice : He looks cheerful as the bright day , which does make , which does etc each heart rejoice . With flowers sweet I'll make my bed , My lap a pillow for thy head . come away , come etc and do etc If thou doubtest , Sweetest prove , that thy Love , that thy etc she lov'd thee ever . Nor ne're think , deer , but I will be thy Dove and from thee , and from etc I'll never sever : This not beauty makes me proud , For this that heaven hath allowed come away , come etc and do etc See the lovely Queen of Flowers she hath strewn , she hath etc thy way to trace : Trees do bend to make thee bowers , Satyrs peep , Satyrs etc to see thy face : Lambs to please thee leap and skip , And little Fairies trip . come away , come etc and do etc Woods yield pleasant harmony , for my Love , for my etc the Birds do sing , Thy absence makes them seem to cry : phillis crowns Phillis etc , thee Summer's King : With a wreathe of flowers sweet , All the Nymph's my love do greet , come away , come etc , and do etc Venus does not stick to swear By her Doves , by her etc sheel steal my Love : And as for Adon tears her hair , her fair eyes , her fair etc much sorrow proves : But for all the Indian wealth , None shall have him but my self : come away , come etc and do not stay : Like the words eye my Love does appear when his steeds , when his etc approach the morn : And his face the Clouds do clear , dims the stars , dims the etc , and Cynthias horn : Now I am in my marriage bed , See my arms for thee are spread , come away , come away , come away , and do not stay . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcocke FINIS A Lovers desire for his best beloved : OR , Come away , come away , and do not stay . To and excellent new Court Tune . NOw the spring is come , turn to thy Love to thy Love , to thy Love , to thy Love , make no delay : While the flowers spring , & the birds do sing , their sweet tunes , their sweet tunes , their sweet tunes , and do not stay , Where I will fill thy lap full of flowers , And cover thee with shady bowers , come away , come away , come away , and do not stay . Shall I languish still for my Love , for my love , for my Love , for my Love , etc without relief : Shall my faith so well approved , now despair , now despair , etc , unto my grief : Where shall beauty then be found , But where virtue does abound : come away , come away , etc and do etc Flora here hath made a bed for my Love , for my Love , etc with Roses read : Phoebus beams to stay are bent , for to yield , for to yield , etc my Love conten And the pleasant Eglantine Made with a thousand flowers fine : come away , come away , etc and do etc Hark how the Nightingale sweetly does sing for my Love , for my Love , etc the Lambs do play , Pan , to please my Love , the Rocks makes to ring , And does pipe , and does pipe , etc a roundelay . She the pleasant rushy Brooks , And every Flower for my Love looks , come away , come away , and do not stay , Beauty's Queen with all her train , does attend , does attend etc upon my Dear : Tripping Satyrs they do dance amain , to delight , to delight , etc her hath no phere . Muses nine with Music sweet . Do all attend my Love to meet come away , come away , etc and do etc Fairest fair , now turn to thy Love , to thy Love , to thy Love etc that loves thee bes Sweet , let pity move , grant love for love , like the Dove , like the Dove , etc for ever rest . Crown thy delights with hopeful joys , Thy love revives , thy hate destroys , come away , come away , come away , and do not stay . The Second Part. OR The Woman's answer . To the same tune . WHo is't that calls me come away : this my Love , this my etc most cheerful voice : He looks cheerful as the bright day , which does make , which does etc each heart rejoice . With flowers sweet I'll make my bed , My lap a pillow for thy head . come away , come etc and do etc If thou doubtest , Sweetest prove , that thy Love , that thy etc she lov'd thee ever . Nor ne're think , deer , but I will be thy Dove and from thee , and from etc I'll never sever : This not beauty makes me proud , For this that heaven hath allowed come away , come etc and do etc See the lovely Queen of Flowers she hath strewn , she hath etc thy way to trace : Trees do bend to make thee bowers , Satyrs peep , Satyrs etc to see thy face : Lambs to please thee leap and skip , And little Fairies trip . come away , come etc and do etc Woods yield pleasant harmony , for my Love , for my etc the Birds do sing , Thy absence makes them seem to cry : phillis crowns Phillis etc , thee Summer's King : With a wreathe of flowers sweet , All the Nymph's my love do greet , come away , come etc , and do etc Venus does not stick to swear By her Doves , by her etc sheel steal my Love : And as for Adon tears her hair , her fair eyes , her fair etc much sorrow proves : But for all the Indian wealth , None shall have him but my self : come away , come etc and do not stay : Like the words eye my Love does appear when his steeds , when his etc approach the morn : And his face the Clouds do clear , dims the stars , dims the etc , and Cynthias horn : Now I am in my marriage bed , See my arms for thee are spread , come away , come away , come away , and do not stay . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcocke FINIS 