A lamentable new Ditty , made upon the death of a worthy Gentle - man , nam George Stool , dwelling sometime on Gate-side Moore , and sometime at New-castle in Northumberland : with his penitent end . To a delicate Scottish Tune . COme you lusty Northern Lads , that are so blithe and bonny , Prepare your hearts to be full sad , to hear the end of Georgy , Heigh ho , heighho my bony love , heighho , heigh ho my honey ; Heighho , heighho my own deer love and God be with my Georgie . When Georgie to his trial came , a thousand hearts were sorry , A thousand Lasses wept full soar , and all for love of Georgy . Heighho , heighho , my bony Love , heigho , etc Some did say he would escape , some at his fallen did glory : But these wers Clowns and fickle friends , and none that loved Georgy . Heighho , etc Might friends have satisfied the Law , then Gorgie would find many : Yet bravely did he plead for life , if mercy might be any . Heighho , etc But when this doughty Carl was cast he was full sad and sorry : Yet boldly did he take his death , so patiently died Georgie . Heighho , etc As Georgie went up to the Gate , he tookd his leave of many : He took his leave of his Lards wife , whom ho lov'd best of any . Heighho , etc With thousand sighs and heavy looks , away from thence he parted : Where he so often blithe had been , though now so heavy hearted . Heighho , etc He writ a Letter with his own hand , he thought he writ it bravely : He sent it to New-castle Town , to his beloved Lady . Heighho , etc Wherein he did at large bewail , the occasion of his folly : Bequeathing life unto the Law , his soul to heaven holy : Heighho , etc Why Lady , leave to weep for me , let not my ending grieve you : Prove costant to the ney you love , for I cannot relieve ye . Hiegh ho , etc Out upon the Withrington , and fie upon the Phoenix : Thou hast put down the doughty one that stole the sheep from Anix . The second part , To the same tune . ANd fie on all such cruel Carls , whose crueltie's so fickle : To cast away a Gentleman in hatred for so little . Heighho heigh ho , my bonny Love ; heighho , etc I would I were on yonder Hill , where I have been full merry : My sword and buckler by my side to fight till I be weary . Heighho etc They well , should know that took me first though whoops be now forsaken : Had I but freedom , arms , and health , I'de die , are I'de be taken . Heighho etc But Law comdemns me to my grave , they have me in their power : Ther's none but Christ that can me save , at this my dying hour . Heighho . etc He call'd his dearest love to him , when as his heart wae sorry : And speaking thus with manly heart , Dear sweating , pray for Georgie . Heighho , etc He gave to her a piece of gold , and bade her give't her Barns : And oft he kissed her rosy lips , and laid him into her arms . Heighho , etc And coming to the place of death , he never changed colour . The more they thought he would looks pale , the more his veins were fuller . Heighho , etc And with a cheerful countenance , ( being at that time entreated For to confess his former life ) these-words he straight repeated . Heighho etc I never stole no Over nor Cow , nor never murdered any : But fifty Horse I did receive of a Merchant's man of Gory . Heighho , etc For which I am condemn'd to die , though guiltless I stand dying : Dear gracious God , my soul receive for now my life is flying . Heighho , etc The man of death a part did act , which grieves me tell the story . God comfort all are comfortless , and did so well as Georgie . Heighho , heighho , my bonny Love , heighho heigh-my bonny , Heighho , heighho , mine own true lov [ e ] sweet Christ receive my Georgie . FINIS . At London printed for H. Gosson . A lamentable new Ditty , made upon the death of a worthy Gentle - man , nam George Stool , dwelling sometime on Gate-side Moore , and sometime at New-castle in Northumberland : with his penitent end . To a delicate Scottish Tune . COme you lusty Northern Lads , that are so blithe and bonny , Prepare your hearts to be full sad , to hear the end of Georgy , Heigh ho , heighho my bony love , heighho , heigh ho my honey ; Heighho , heighho my own deer love and God be with my Georgie . When Georgie to his trial came , a thousand hearts were sorry , A thousand Lasses wept full soar , and all for love of Georgy . Heighho , heighho , my bony Love , heigho , etc Some did say he would escape , some at his fallen did glory : But these wers Clowns and fickle friends , and none that loved Georgy . Heighho , etc Might friends have satisfied the Law , then Gorgie would find many : Yet bravely did he plead for life , if mercy might be any . Heighho , etc But when this doughty Carl was cast he was full sad and sorry : Yet boldly did he take his death , so patiently died Georgie . Heighho , etc As Georgie went up to the Gate , he tookd his leave of many : He took his leave of his Lards wife , whom ho lov'd best of any . Heighho , etc With thousand sighs and heavy looks , away from thence he parted : Where he so often blithe had been , though now so heavy hearted . Heighho , etc He writ a Letter with his own hand , he thought he writ it bravely : He sent it to New-castle Town , to his beloved Lady . Heighho , etc Wherein he did at large bewail , the occasion of his folly : Bequeathing life unto the Law , his soul to heaven holy : Heighho , etc Why Lady , leave to weep for me , let not my ending grieve you : Prove costant to the ney you love , for I cannot relieve ye . Hiegh ho , etc Out upon the Withrington , and fie upon the Phoenix : Thou hast put down the doughty one that stole the sheep from Anix . The second part , To the same tune . ANd fie on all such cruel Carls , whose crueltie's so fickle : To cast away a Gentleman in hatred for so little . Heighho heigh ho , my bonny Love ; heighho , etc I would I were on yonder Hill , where I have been full merry : My sword and buckler by my side to fight till I be weary . Heighho etc They well , should know that took me first though whoops be now forsaken : Had I but freedom , arms , and health , I'de die , are I'de be taken . Heighho etc But Law comdemns me to my grave , they have me in their power : Ther's none but Christ that can me save , at this my dying hour . Heighho . etc He call'd his dearest love to him , when as his heart wae sorry : And speaking thus with manly heart , Dear sweating , pray for Georgie . Heighho , etc He gave to her a piece of gold , and bade her give't her Barns : And oft he kissed her rosy lips , and laid him into her arms . Heighho , etc And coming to the place of death , he never changed colour . The more they thought he would looks pale , the more his veins were fuller . Heighho , etc And with a cheerful countenance , ( being at that time entreated For to confess his former life ) these-words he straight repeated . Heighho etc I never stole no Over nor Cow , nor never murdered any : But fifty Horse I did receive of a Merchant's man of Gory . Heighho , etc For which I am condemn'd to die , though guiltless I stand dying : Dear gracious God , my soul receive for now my life is flying . Heighho , etc The man of death a part did act , which grieves me tell the story . God comfort all are comfortless , and did so well as Georgie . Heighho , heighho , my bonny Love , heighho heigh-my bonny , Heighho , heighho , mine own true lov [ e ] sweet Christ receive my Georgie . FINIS . At London printed for H. Gosson . A lamentable new Ditty , made upon the death of a worthy Gentle - man , nam George Stool , dwelling sometime on Gate-side Moore , and sometime at New-castle in Northumberland : with his penitent end . To a delicate Scottish Tune . COme you lusty Northern Lads , that are so blithe and bonny , Prepare your hearts to be full sad , to hear the end of Georgy , Heigh ho , heighho my bony love , heighho , heigh ho my honey ; Heighho , heighho my own deer love and God be with my Georgie . When Georgie to his trial came , a thousand hearts were sorry , A thousand Lasses wept full soar , and all for love of Georgy . Heighho , heighho , my bony Love , heigho , etc Some did say he would escape , some at his fallen did glory : But these wers Clowns and fickle friends , and none that loved Georgy . Heighho , etc Might friends have satisfied the Law , then Gorgie would find many : Yet bravely did he plead for life , if mercy might be any . Heighho , etc But when this doughty Carl was cast he was full sad and sorry : Yet boldly did he take his death , so patiently died Georgie . Heighho , etc As Georgie went up to the Gate , he tookd his leave of many : He took his leave of his Lards wife , whom ho lov'd best of any . Heighho , etc With thousand sighs and heavy looks , away from thence he parted : Where he so often blithe had been , though now so heavy hearted . Heighho , etc He writ a Letter with his own hand , he thought he writ it bravely : He sent it to New-castle Town , to his beloved Lady . Heighho , etc Wherein he did at large bewail , the occasion of his folly : Bequeathing life unto the Law , his soul to heaven holy : Heighho , etc Why Lady , leave to weep for me , let not my ending grieve you : Prove costant to the ney you love , for I cannot relieve ye . Hiegh ho , etc Out upon the Withrington , and fie upon the Phoenix : Thou hast put down the doughty one that stole the sheep from Anix . The second part , To the same tune . ANd fie on all such cruel Carls , whose crueltie's so fickle : To cast away a Gentleman in hatred for so little . Heighho heigh ho , my bonny Love ; heighho , etc I would I were on yonder Hill , where I have been full merry : My sword and buckler by my side to fight till I be weary . Heighho etc They well , should know that took me first though whoops be now forsaken : Had I but freedom , arms , and health , I'de die , are I'de be taken . Heighho etc But Law comdemns me to my grave , they have me in their power : Ther's none but Christ that can me save , at this my dying hour . Heighho . etc He call'd his dearest love to him , when as his heart wae sorry : And speaking thus with manly heart , Dear sweating , pray for Georgie . Heighho , etc He gave to her a piece of gold , and bade her give't her Barns : And oft he kissed her rosy lips , and laid him into her arms . Heighho , etc And coming to the place of death , he never changed colour . The more they thought he would looks pale , the more his veins were fuller . Heighho , etc And with a cheerful countenance , ( being at that time entreated For to confess his former life ) these-words he straight repeated . Heighho etc I never stole no Over nor Cow , nor never murdered any : But fifty Horse I did receive of a Merchant's man of Gory . Heighho , etc For which I am condemn'd to die , though guiltless I stand dying : Dear gracious God , my soul receive for now my life is flying . Heighho , etc The man of death a part did act , which grieves me tell the story . God comfort all are comfortless , and did so well as Georgie . Heighho , heighho , my bonny Love , heighho heigh-my bonny , Heighho , heighho , mine own true lov [ e ] sweet Christ receive my Georgie . FINIS . At London printed for H. Gosson . A lamentable new Ditty , made upon the death of a worthy Gentle - man , nam George Stool , dwelling sometime on Gate-side Moore , and sometime at New-castle in Northumberland : with his penitent end . To a delicate Scottish Tune . COme you lusty Northern Lads , that are so blithe and bonny , Prepare your hearts to be full sad , to hear the end of Georgy , Heigh ho , heighho my bony love , heighho , heigh ho my honey ; Heighho , heighho my own deer love and God be with my Georgie . When Georgie to his trial came , a thousand hearts were sorry , A thousand Lasses wept full soar , and all for love of Georgy . Heighho , heighho , my bony Love , heigho , etc Some did say he would escape , some at his fallen did glory : But these wers Clowns and fickle friends , and none that loved Georgy . Heighho , etc Might friends have satisfied the Law , then Gorgie would find many : Yet bravely did he plead for life , if mercy might be any . Heighho , etc But when this doughty Carl was cast he was full sad and sorry : Yet boldly did he take his death , so patiently died Georgie . Heighho , etc As Georgie went up to the Gate , he tookd his leave of many : He took his leave of his Lards wife , whom ho lov'd best of any . Heighho , etc With thousand sighs and heavy looks , away from thence he parted : Where he so often blithe had been , though now so heavy hearted . Heighho , etc He writ a Letter with his own hand , he thought he writ it bravely : He sent it to New-castle Town , to his beloved Lady . Heighho , etc Wherein he did at large bewail , the occasion of his folly : Bequeathing life unto the Law , his soul to heaven holy : Heighho , etc Why Lady , leave to weep for me , let not my ending grieve you : Prove costant to the ney you love , for I cannot relieve ye . Hiegh ho , etc Out upon the Withrington , and fie upon the Phoenix : Thou hast put down the doughty one that stole the sheep from Anix . The second part , To the same tune . ANd fie on all such cruel Carls , whose crueltie's so fickle : To cast away a Gentleman in hatred for so little . Heighho heigh ho , my bonny Love ; heighho , etc I would I were on yonder Hill , where I have been full merry : My sword and buckler by my side to fight till I be weary . Heighho etc They well , should know that took me first though whoops be now forsaken : Had I but freedom , arms , and health , I'de die , are I'de be taken . Heighho etc But Law comdemns me to my grave , they have me in their power : Ther's none but Christ that can me save , at this my dying hour . Heighho . etc He call'd his dearest love to him , when as his heart wae sorry : And speaking thus with manly heart , Dear sweating , pray for Georgie . Heighho , etc He gave to her a piece of gold , and bade her give't her Barns : And oft he kissed her rosy lips , and laid him into her arms . Heighho , etc And coming to the place of death , he never changed colour . The more they thought he would looks pale , the more his veins were fuller . Heighho , etc And with a cheerful countenance , ( being at that time entreated For to confess his former life ) these-words he straight repeated . Heighho etc I never stole no Over nor Cow , nor never murdered any : But fifty Horse I did receive of a Merchant's man of Gory . Heighho , etc For which I am condemn'd to die , though guiltless I stand dying : Dear gracious God , my soul receive for now my life is flying . Heighho , etc The man of death a part did act , which grieves me tell the story . God comfort all are comfortless , and did so well as Georgie . Heighho , heighho , my bonny Love , heighho heigh-my bonny , Heighho , heighho , mine own true lov [ e ] sweet Christ receive my Georgie . FINIS . At London printed for H. Gosson . 