Loves Solace ; OR The true lovers part , & in his conclusion he shows his constant heart . He still does praise her for her beauty rare , And says there's none with her that can compare . To a new Court tune called the Damask Rose . THe Damask Rose nor Lily fair , the Couslip nor the Pancy , With my true Love cannot compare , for beauty love and fancy , She does excel the rarest Dame , in all the world that may be , Which makes me thus extol her fame , so sweet is the Lass that loves me . If I should speak of my true Love , as I am bound in duty ; She does surpass the gods above , in each degree for beauty , Juno , Pallas , nor Venus fair , shine not so bright and lovely , Ther's none with her that may compare , so sweet is the Lass that loves me . When first I saw her peerless face , I did admire her beauty , And I did seek with heart and voice , to offer her all duty , Which willingly she did accept , so kind and loving was she , Which makes me thus with all respect , say sweet is the Lass that loves me . Mars though he be the god of war , could not so deeply wound me , As Cupid with a little skarre , which I have plainly shown you , Boreas with all his blustering storms , never pierced so sorely : Cupids Arrows prick like thorns , so sweet is the Lass that loves me . For her sweet sake I'll undertake , any thing she requires , To sail the Seas like Captain Drake , whose deeds there's some admireth What ever she commands is done , so much her love does move me , She is a precious Paragon , so sweet is the Lass that loves me . Bright Cinthia in her rich Robes , my Love does much resemble , whose beauteous beams such rares affords that makes my heart to tremble , Yet is the Saint so chaste so rare , which unto fancy moves me , And makes my joys without compare , so sweet is the Lass that loves me . Diana and her Darlings deer , that lived in woods and valleys : And spent her time so chaste and rare , she with no mankind dallies : Yet is she not more chaste than my Love , I hope none can disprove me , Oh no my mind shall never remove , so sweet is the Lass that loves me . Sweet Love adieu I pray be true , and think of what is spoken , Change not thy old friend for a new , let not thy vow be broken , Sweet Love I leave thee for this time , for so it does behove me , But still my heart does me combine , to say sweet is the Lass that loves me . The second part , To the same Tune . The Maidens kind answer wherein she does agree , That he shall be her Love , and none but only he . MY love , my life , my duck my deer , now will I yield unto thee , All thou hast said I well did hear , and now thy words does move me , For to reply in answer kind , and so thy self shall prove me , I will not change like to the wind , so sweet is the Lass that loves thee . Be thou my lovely Pyramus , I'll be thy constant Thysbe , And I am now resolved thus , never to displease thee . True love surpasses Croe [ s ] us gold , this not thy wealth that moves me , Hereafter let my love be bold , and say sweet is the Lass that loves me . I'll prove as chaste unto my Love , as ever could be any , No found enticements me shall move , although I am urged to many , I will endure for ever kind , as it does best behove me , A truer Mate thou shalt not find , so sweet is the Lass that loves thee . My daily care shall always be , only for to delight thee , And I my self still will be she that shall with joys unite thee , I will shine bright at noon and night , if I may so content thee , Like Cinthia I will shine bright , unto the Lad that loves me . Do not despair my only deer , let not vain thoughts torment thee , Of my true heart have thou no fear , nor do not thou absent me , I will remain for ever sure , though I a while did prove thee , Till death depart I'll thine endure , so sweet is the Lass that loves thee . No gold nor gain shall me obtain , to fancy any other , All those that seek my Love to gain , their wishes I do smother , I answer them unto their kind , for so it does behove me , I will not change like to the wind , so sweet is the Lass that loves thee . So Love adieu I pray be true , I am thine own for ever , The next time that I meet with you , weel not so soon dissever , Although we part I leave my heart , with him that dearly loves me , This Hymens bans must ease my smart , and I am the Lass that loves thee . O my sweet love and only deer , thou hast renewed my pleasure , Thou in my sighed dost more appear than any earthly treasure ; I do rejoice much in my choice , and so it does behove me , I'll sing thy praise with heart and voice . so sweet is the Lass that loves me . London Printed for Francis Grove , on Snow-hill . FINIS . M.P. Loves Solace ; OR The true lovers part , & in his conclusion he shows his constant heart . He still does praise her for her beauty rare , And says there's none with her that can compare . To a new Court tune called the Damask Rose . THe Damask Rose nor Lily fair , the Couslip nor the Pancy , With my true Love cannot compare , for beauty love and fancy , She does excel the rarest Dame , in all the world that may be , Which makes me thus extol her fame , so sweet is the Lass that loves me . If I should speak of my true Love , as I am bound in duty ; She does surpass the gods above , in each degree for beauty , Juno , Pallas , nor Venus fair , shine not so bright and lovely , Ther's none with her that may compare , so sweet is the Lass that loves me . When first I saw her peerless face , I did admire her beauty , And I did seek with heart and voice , to offer her all duty , Which willingly she did accept , so kind and loving was she , Which makes me thus with all respect , say sweet is the Lass that loves me . Mars though he be the god of war , could not so deeply wound me , As Cupid with a little skarre , which I have plainly shown you , Boreas with all his blustering storms , never pierced so sorely : Cupids Arrows prick like thorns , so sweet is the Lass that loves me . For her sweet sake I'll undertake , any thing she requires , To sail the Seas like Captain Drake , whose deeds there's some admireth What ever she commands is done , so much her love does move me , She is a precious Paragon , so sweet is the Lass that loves me . Bright Cinthia in her rich Robes , my Love does much resemble , whose beauteous beams such rares affords that makes my heart to tremble , Yet is the Saint so chaste so rare , which unto fancy moves me , And makes my joys without compare , so sweet is the Lass that loves me . Diana and her Darlings deer , that lived in woods and valleys : And spent her time so chaste and rare , she with no mankind dallies : Yet is she not more chaste than my Love , I hope none can disprove me , Oh no my mind shall never remove , so sweet is the Lass that loves me . Sweet Love adieu I pray be true , and think of what is spoken , Change not thy old friend for a new , let not thy vow be broken , Sweet Love I leave thee for this time , for so it does behove me , But still my heart does me combine , to say sweet is the Lass that loves me . The second part , To the same Tune . The Maidens kind answer wherein she does agree , That he shall be her Love , and none but only he . MY love , my life , my duck my deer , now will I yield unto thee , All thou hast said I well did hear , and now thy words does move me , For to reply in answer kind , and so thy self shall prove me , I will not change like to the wind , so sweet is the Lass that loves thee . Be thou my lovely Pyramus , I'll be thy constant Thysbe , And I am now resolved thus , never to displease thee . True love surpasses Croe [ s ] us gold , this not thy wealth that moves me , Hereafter let my love be bold , and say sweet is the Lass that loves me . I'll prove as chaste unto my Love , as ever could be any , No found enticements me shall move , although I am urged to many , I will endure for ever kind , as it does best behove me , A truer Mate thou shalt not find , so sweet is the Lass that loves thee . My daily care shall always be , only for to delight thee , And I my self still will be she that shall with joys unite thee , I will shine bright at noon and night , if I may so content thee , Like Cinthia I will shine bright , unto the Lad that loves me . Do not despair my only deer , let not vain thoughts torment thee , Of my true heart have thou no fear , nor do not thou absent me , I will remain for ever sure , though I a while did prove thee , Till death depart I'll thine endure , so sweet is the Lass that loves thee . No gold nor gain shall me obtain , to fancy any other , All those that seek my Love to gain , their wishes I do smother , I answer them unto their kind , for so it does behove me , I will not change like to the wind , so sweet is the Lass that loves thee . So Love adieu I pray be true , I am thine own for ever , The next time that I meet with you , weel not so soon dissever , Although we part I leave my heart , with him that dearly loves me , This Hymens bans must ease my smart , and I am the Lass that loves thee . O my sweet love and only deer , thou hast renewed my pleasure , Thou in my sighed dost more appear than any earthly treasure ; I do rejoice much in my choice , and so it does behove me , I'll sing thy praise with heart and voice . so sweet is the Lass that loves me . London Printed for Francis Grove , on Snow-hill . FINIS . M.P. 