Labour in vain . OR And imperfect description of Love . Imperfect I well call it may , For who can all Loves parts display ? To a dainty new tune , called Jenkinson . FIe upon love , found love , false love , Great are the torments that Lovers endure : It is a snare , brings care , bones bore , None can a remedy for it procure : Of all the afflictions that are incident To us while we march under Times regiment , There's nothing to man brings so much discontent as love unbeloved again . It breaks our sleep , it distracteth the wit , It makes us doe things that for men are unfi If I may but give It a true censure on it , shall be call'd Labour in vain . Love is a fire , hight fire , fierce fire , Who can abide ? the extremity on't ! It burns the reins , great pains , small gains Shall a man get after beauty to hun This that which the learned by right do name ( As I do conjecture ) the Idalean flame , Jove grant that I never do feel the same . so near as I can I'll refrain : Yet if the blind rascal at me shall shoot , I know to withstand him it were no boot , Both young men and maidens with you look to't , For this is right Labour in vain . Love is a well , deep well , steep well , No man can found its profundity righ The water in't , melts [ fl ] int sets stint Both to the Peasant , the Lord , and the Knigh It is Aganipe , or Helicon , It gives him invention that erst had none : It yields enough matter to work upon For every illiterate swain : This like to that water where Tantalus stood , A man may be starv'd among plenty of food , I had rather taste of the cool running flood , Then drink at this Labour in vain . The second part , To the same tune . LOve is a hill , high hill , great hill , No man ere climb'd to the top of the same : He that aspires , it tires , with briers It is environed wild men to tame . This that against which poor Sisiphus strives To roll up a stone , which downward drives , This restless toil costs many men's lives , & few by the journey do gain : The paths are so difficult to find out , The best Cosmographer his skill may doubt , 'Twill daunt him if he thinks himself most stout , And this is right Labour in vain . Love is a chain , strong chain , long chain , He who is bound in it seldom gets free , 'Twill hold him fast , till th'last , houre's passed , Though strong as Hector , or Ajax he be , This that wherewith lusty Alcides bound The three headed Cerberus , that hellhound , When he did DONE Plutoes power confound , and god Proserpina again . This that wherewith Sampson , by'thPhilistims was Bound to the mill where he ground like and ass : This stronger then iron , steel , or brass , And this is call'd Labour in vain . Love is a wheel , round wheel , swift wheel , Which when this turning none's able to stop : In circle wise , it flies , and hies Swiftly to bring what was lowest to'th top : This that which unfortunate Ixion turns , While at his never ending labour he mourns , The axletree of it perpetually burns , because it no liquour can gain : In brief , Love is any thing that's without rest , A passion that boileth and scaldeth the breast , Yet he who loves lov'd again ( fo [ r ] all this jest ) Dwellsr not at the Labour in vain . Printed at London for Thomas Lambert . Finis . M.P. Labour in vain . OR And imperfect description of Love . Imperfect I well call it may , For who can all Loves parts display ? To a dainty new tune , called Jenkinson . FIe upon love , found love , false love , Great are the torments that Lovers endure : It is a snare , brings care , bones bore , None can a remedy for it procure : Of all the afflictions that are incident To us while we march under Times regiment , There's nothing to man brings so much discontent as love unbeloved again . It breaks our sleep , it distracteth the wit , It makes us doe things that for men are unfi If I may but give It a true censure on it , shall be call'd Labour in vain . Love is a fire , hight fire , fierce fire , Who can abide ? the extremity on't ! It burns the reins , great pains , small gains Shall a man get after beauty to hun This that which the learned by right do name ( As I do conjecture ) the Idalean flame , Jove grant that I never do feel the same . so near as I can I'll refrain : Yet if the blind rascal at me shall shoot , I know to withstand him it were no boot , Both young men and maidens with you look to't , For this is right Labour in vain . Love is a well , deep well , steep well , No man can found its profundity righ The water in't , melts [ fl ] int sets stint Both to the Peasant , the Lord , and the Knigh It is Aganipe , or Helicon , It gives him invention that erst had none : It yields enough matter to work upon For every illiterate swain : This like to that water where Tantalus stood , A man may be starv'd among plenty of food , I had rather taste of the cool running flood , Then drink at this Labour in vain . The second part , To the same tune . LOve is a hill , high hill , great hill , No man ere climb'd to the top of the same : He that aspires , it tires , with briers It is environed wild men to tame . This that against which poor Sisiphus strives To roll up a stone , which downward drives , This restless toil costs many men's lives , & few by the journey do gain : The paths are so difficult to find out , The best Cosmographer his skill may doubt , 'Twill daunt him if he thinks himself most stout , And this is right Labour in vain . Love is a chain , strong chain , long chain , He who is bound in it seldom gets free , 'Twill hold him fast , till th'last , houre's passed , Though strong as Hector , or Ajax he be , This that wherewith lusty Alcides bound The three headed Cerberus , that hellhound , When he did DONE Plutoes power confound , and god Proserpina again . This that wherewith Sampson , by'thPhilistims was Bound to the mill where he ground like and ass : This stronger then iron , steel , or brass , And this is call'd Labour in vain . Love is a wheel , round wheel , swift wheel , Which when this turning none's able to stop : In circle wise , it flies , and hies Swiftly to bring what was lowest to'th top : This that which unfortunate Ixion turns , While at his never ending labour he mourns , The axletree of it perpetually burns , because it no liquour can gain : In brief , Love is any thing that's without rest , A passion that boileth and scaldeth the breast , Yet he who loves lov'd again ( fo [ r ] all this jest ) Dwellsr not at the Labour in vain . Printed at London for Thomas Lambert . Finis . M.P. Labour in vain . OR And imperfect description of Love . Imperfect I well call it may , For who can all Loves parts display ? To a dainty new tune , called Jenkinson . FIe upon love , found love , false love , Great are the torments that Lovers endure : It is a snare , brings care , bones bore , None can a remedy for it procure : Of all the afflictions that are incident To us while we march under Times regiment , There's nothing to man brings so much discontent as love unbeloved again . It breaks our sleep , it distracteth the wit , It makes us doe things that for men are unfi If I may but give It a true censure on it , shall be call'd Labour in vain . Love is a fire , hight fire , fierce fire , Who can abide ? the extremity on't ! It burns the reins , great pains , small gains Shall a man get after beauty to hun This that which the learned by right do name ( As I do conjecture ) the Idalean flame , Jove grant that I never do feel the same . so near as I can I'll refrain : Yet if the blind rascal at me shall shoot , I know to withstand him it were no boot , Both young men and maidens with you look to't , For this is right Labour in vain . Love is a well , deep well , steep well , No man can found its profundity righ The water in't , melts [ fl ] int sets stint Both to the Peasant , the Lord , and the Knigh It is Aganipe , or Helicon , It gives him invention that erst had none : It yields enough matter to work upon For every illiterate swain : This like to that water where Tantalus stood , A man may be starv'd among plenty of food , I had rather taste of the cool running flood , Then drink at this Labour in vain . The second part , To the same tune . LOve is a hill , high hill , great hill , No man ere climb'd to the top of the same : He that aspires , it tires , with briers It is environed wild men to tame . This that against which poor Sisiphus strives To roll up a stone , which downward drives , This restless toil costs many men's lives , & few by the journey do gain : The paths are so difficult to find out , The best Cosmographer his skill may doubt , 'Twill daunt him if he thinks himself most stout , And this is right Labour in vain . Love is a chain , strong chain , long chain , He who is bound in it seldom gets free , 'Twill hold him fast , till th'last , houre's passed , Though strong as Hector , or Ajax he be , This that wherewith lusty Alcides bound The three headed Cerberus , that hellhound , When he did DONE Plutoes power confound , and god Proserpina again . This that wherewith Sampson , by'thPhilistims was Bound to the mill where he ground like and ass : This stronger then iron , steel , or brass , And this is call'd Labour in vain . Love is a wheel , round wheel , swift wheel , Which when this turning none's able to stop : In circle wise , it flies , and hies Swiftly to bring what was lowest to'th top : This that which unfortunate Ixion turns , While at his never ending labour he mourns , The axletree of it perpetually burns , because it no liquour can gain : In brief , Love is any thing that's without rest , A passion that boileth and scaldeth the breast , Yet he who loves lov'd again ( fo [ r ] all this jest ) Dwellsr not at the Labour in vain . Printed at London for Thomas Lambert . Finis . M.P. Labour in vain . OR And imperfect description of Love . Imperfect I well call it may , For who can all Loves parts display ? To a dainty new tune , called Jenkinson . FIe upon love , found love , false love , Great are the torments that Lovers endure : It is a snare , brings care , bones bore , None can a remedy for it procure : Of all the afflictions that are incident To us while we march under Times regiment , There's nothing to man brings so much discontent as love unbeloved again . It breaks our sleep , it distracteth the wit , It makes us doe things that for men are unfi If I may but give It a true censure on it , shall be call'd Labour in vain . Love is a fire , hight fire , fierce fire , Who can abide ? the extremity on't ! It burns the reins , great pains , small gains Shall a man get after beauty to hun This that which the learned by right do name ( As I do conjecture ) the Idalean flame , Jove grant that I never do feel the same . so near as I can I'll refrain : Yet if the blind rascal at me shall shoot , I know to withstand him it were no boot , Both young men and maidens with you look to't , For this is right Labour in vain . Love is a well , deep well , steep well , No man can found its profundity righ The water in't , melts [ fl ] int sets stint Both to the Peasant , the Lord , and the Knigh It is Aganipe , or Helicon , It gives him invention that erst had none : It yields enough matter to work upon For every illiterate swain : This like to that water where Tantalus stood , A man may be starv'd among plenty of food , I had rather taste of the cool running flood , Then drink at this Labour in vain . The second part , To the same tune . LOve is a hill , high hill , great hill , No man ere climb'd to the top of the same : He that aspires , it tires , with briers It is environed wild men to tame . This that against which poor Sisiphus strives To roll up a stone , which downward drives , This restless toil costs many men's lives , & few by the journey do gain : The paths are so difficult to find out , The best Cosmographer his skill may doubt , 'Twill daunt him if he thinks himself most stout , And this is right Labour in vain . Love is a chain , strong chain , long chain , He who is bound in it seldom gets free , 'Twill hold him fast , till th'last , houre's passed , Though strong as Hector , or Ajax he be , This that wherewith lusty Alcides bound The three headed Cerberus , that hellhound , When he did DONE Plutoes power confound , and god Proserpina again . This that wherewith Sampson , by'thPhilistims was Bound to the mill where he ground like and ass : This stronger then iron , steel , or brass , And this is call'd Labour in vain . Love is a wheel , round wheel , swift wheel , Which when this turning none's able to stop : In circle wise , it flies , and hies Swiftly to bring what was lowest to'th top : This that which unfortunate Ixion turns , While at his never ending labour he mourns , The axletree of it perpetually burns , because it no liquour can gain : In brief , Love is any thing that's without rest , A passion that boileth and scaldeth the breast , Yet he who loves lov'd again ( fo [ r ] all this jest ) Dwellsr not at the Labour in vain . Printed at London for Thomas Lambert . Finis . M.P. 