A Lovers tears : OR , The constancy of a young men mind , Although his choice be too unkind . All you young men who hear this Ditty , A Lovers tears bemoan with pity . To the tune of Sighs , sob , and weep . YOu who have run in Cupids maze , and on found beauty's vainly gaze , Attend while I explain my moan , and think my case may be your own , Then learn to pity Lovers tears , for love is full of cares and fears . The bitter sweets that I did taste , and borrowed hours consum'd in wast , Makes me my friends with counsel arm that they in time may shun like harm . And learn etc A curious beauty I adore , and must though she hate me therefore , For now I am within the net , at liberty I cannot get . Then learn etc Ill hap had I to see her face , unless her heart would yield me grace : Her eyes had such attractive force , I needs must love without remorse . Then learn , etc Her hairs were Cupids chains to tie me unto her perpetually , For I must love her , this my fate , and be repaid with mortal hate . Then learn to pity Lovers tears , for love is full of cares and fears . I think on her both night and morn , which when she hears , she says in scorn If you be foolish , sir , must I be bound your mind to satisfy ? And thus my sad complaints she jeers , for love is full of cares and fears . She thinks her self too high in blood , and for to match with me too good , Found fool says she ; art so unwise , to think that Eagles strike at flies ? O young men pity Lovers tears , for love is full of cares and fears . Such unequality she makes , no pity on my moan she takes , The more I weep , the more does she , insult over my misery . O young men , etc If I to her a letter frame , she says she hates to read my name , And therefore to prevent that pain , in scorn she sends it back again : Then learn etc If I do meet with her by chance , my captiv'd heart ( for joy ) does dance , But to suppress that joy again , she turns her face with coy disdain . Then young men , etc The second part To the same tune . SHe shuns my presence with haste , then ere one word from me is past , Shee's out of sighed or out of call , and will not hear me speak at all . O young men pity Lovers tears , for love is full of cares and fears . Sometime unto her maid I speak , and she my mind to her does break , Away thou silly fool quoth she , hee's hardly good enough for thee . O young men , etc Thus she does strive to vilify my name with hateful infamy , Oh note the haughty insolence of maids in fortune's eminence . And learn , etc Wer't not a shame it should be said I woo'd the Mistress , yet the maid I am esteem'd scarce worthy of , what man could bear so foul a scoff ? Yet I with patience take these jeers , for love is full of cares and fears . I would my fancy could dissuade me from the Mistress to the maid , But oh alas that may not be , if ere I marry 't must be she . O young men , etc I wish I could my heart reclaim , from doting on this scornful dame , For all my sighs and all my care are like to arrows shot i'th air . O young men etc Suppose she be in her degree , ( as she pretends ) too good for me , In love the beggar and the King , coequally do feel the sting . O young men etc It is her proud fastidious thought , that only hath this difference wrought For in a true impartial eye , there's no great odds betwixt her and I , Oh young men etc Well , if I die as needs I must , Cupid grant me one boon that's just , That ere she wed she may be feign a worse then I to entertain . O young men etc And so farewell thou cruel fair , come gentle death and end my care , Kind youngmen learn by my behest , to love your enemies that's the best . And learn to pity Lovers tears , for love is full of cares and fears . M.P. FINIS . Printed at London for Though : Lambert , at the sign of the Horse-shoo in Smithfield . A Lovers tears : OR , The constancy of a young men mind , Although his choice be too unkind . All you young men who hear this Ditty , A Lovers tears bemoan with pity . To the tune of Sighs , sob , and weep . YOu who have run in Cupids maze , and on found beauty's vainly gaze , Attend while I explain my moan , and think my case may be your own , Then learn to pity Lovers tears , for love is full of cares and fears . The bitter sweets that I did taste , and borrowed hours consum'd in wast , Makes me my friends with counsel arm that they in time may shun like harm . And learn etc A curious beauty I adore , and must though she hate me therefore , For now I am within the net , at liberty I cannot get . Then learn etc Ill hap had I to see her face , unless her heart would yield me grace : Her eyes had such attractive force , I needs must love without remorse . Then learn , etc Her hairs were Cupids chains to tie me unto her perpetually , For I must love her , this my fate , and be repaid with mortal hate . Then learn to pity Lovers tears , for love is full of cares and fears . I think on her both night and morn , which when she hears , she says in scorn If you be foolish , sir , must I be bound your mind to satisfy ? And thus my sad complaints she jeers , for love is full of cares and fears . She thinks her self too high in blood , and for to match with me too good , Found fool says she ; art so unwise , to think that Eagles strike at flies ? O young men pity Lovers tears , for love is full of cares and fears . Such unequality she makes , no pity on my moan she takes , The more I weep , the more does she , insult over my misery . O young men , etc If I to her a letter frame , she says she hates to read my name , And therefore to prevent that pain , in scorn she sends it back again : Then learn etc If I do meet with her by chance , my captiv'd heart ( for joy ) does dance , But to suppress that joy again , she turns her face with coy disdain . Then young men , etc The second part To the same tune . SHe shuns my presence with haste , then ere one word from me is past , Shee's out of sighed or out of call , and will not hear me speak at all . O young men pity Lovers tears , for love is full of cares and fears . Sometime unto her maid I speak , and she my mind to her does break , Away thou silly fool quoth she , hee's hardly good enough for thee . O young men , etc Thus she does strive to vilify my name with hateful infamy , Oh note the haughty insolence of maids in fortune's eminence . And learn , etc Wer't not a shame it should be said I woo'd the Mistress , yet the maid I am esteem'd scarce worthy of , what man could bear so foul a scoff ? Yet I with patience take these jeers , for love is full of cares and fears . I would my fancy could dissuade me from the Mistress to the maid , But oh alas that may not be , if ere I marry 't must be she . O young men , etc I wish I could my heart reclaim , from doting on this scornful dame , For all my sighs and all my care are like to arrows shot i'th air . O young men etc Suppose she be in her degree , ( as she pretends ) too good for me , In love the beggar and the King , coequally do feel the sting . O young men etc It is her proud fastidious thought , that only hath this difference wrought For in a true impartial eye , there's no great odds betwixt her and I , Oh young men etc Well , if I die as needs I must , Cupid grant me one boon that's just , That ere she wed she may be feign a worse then I to entertain . O young men etc And so farewell thou cruel fair , come gentle death and end my care , Kind youngmen learn by my behest , to love your enemies that's the best . And learn to pity Lovers tears , for love is full of cares and fears . M.P. FINIS . Printed at London for Though : Lambert , at the sign of the Horse-shoo in Smithfield . A Lovers tears : OR , The constancy of a young men mind , Although his choice be too unkind . All you young men who hear this Ditty , A Lovers tears bemoan with pity . To the tune of Sighs , sob , and weep . YOu who have run in Cupids maze , and on found beauty's vainly gaze , Attend while I explain my moan , and think my case may be your own , Then learn to pity Lovers tears , for love is full of cares and fears . The bitter sweets that I did taste , and borrowed hours consum'd in wast , Makes me my friends with counsel arm that they in time may shun like harm . And learn etc A curious beauty I adore , and must though she hate me therefore , For now I am within the net , at liberty I cannot get . Then learn etc Ill hap had I to see her face , unless her heart would yield me grace : Her eyes had such attractive force , I needs must love without remorse . Then learn , etc Her hairs were Cupids chains to tie me unto her perpetually , For I must love her , this my fate , and be repaid with mortal hate . Then learn to pity Lovers tears , for love is full of cares and fears . I think on her both night and morn , which when she hears , she says in scorn If you be foolish , sir , must I be bound your mind to satisfy ? And thus my sad complaints she jeers , for love is full of cares and fears . She thinks her self too high in blood , and for to match with me too good , Found fool says she ; art so unwise , to think that Eagles strike at flies ? O young men pity Lovers tears , for love is full of cares and fears . Such unequality she makes , no pity on my moan she takes , The more I weep , the more does she , insult over my misery . O young men , etc If I to her a letter frame , she says she hates to read my name , And therefore to prevent that pain , in scorn she sends it back again : Then learn etc If I do meet with her by chance , my captiv'd heart ( for joy ) does dance , But to suppress that joy again , she turns her face with coy disdain . Then young men , etc The second part To the same tune . SHe shuns my presence with haste , then ere one word from me is past , Shee's out of sighed or out of call , and will not hear me speak at all . O young men pity Lovers tears , for love is full of cares and fears . Sometime unto her maid I speak , and she my mind to her does break , Away thou silly fool quoth she , hee's hardly good enough for thee . O young men , etc Thus she does strive to vilify my name with hateful infamy , Oh note the haughty insolence of maids in fortune's eminence . And learn , etc Wer't not a shame it should be said I woo'd the Mistress , yet the maid I am esteem'd scarce worthy of , what man could bear so foul a scoff ? Yet I with patience take these jeers , for love is full of cares and fears . I would my fancy could dissuade me from the Mistress to the maid , But oh alas that may not be , if ere I marry 't must be she . O young men , etc I wish I could my heart reclaim , from doting on this scornful dame , For all my sighs and all my care are like to arrows shot i'th air . O young men etc Suppose she be in her degree , ( as she pretends ) too good for me , In love the beggar and the King , coequally do feel the sting . O young men etc It is her proud fastidious thought , that only hath this difference wrought For in a true impartial eye , there's no great odds betwixt her and I , Oh young men etc Well , if I die as needs I must , Cupid grant me one boon that's just , That ere she wed she may be feign a worse then I to entertain . O young men etc And so farewell thou cruel fair , come gentle death and end my care , Kind youngmen learn by my behest , to love your enemies that's the best . And learn to pity Lovers tears , for love is full of cares and fears . M.P. FINIS . Printed at London for Though : Lambert , at the sign of the Horse-shoo in Smithfield . A Lovers tears : OR , The constancy of a young men mind , Although his choice be too unkind . All you young men who hear this Ditty , A Lovers tears bemoan with pity . To the tune of Sighs , sob , and weep . YOu who have run in Cupids maze , and on found beauty's vainly gaze , Attend while I explain my moan , and think my case may be your own , Then learn to pity Lovers tears , for love is full of cares and fears . The bitter sweets that I did taste , and borrowed hours consum'd in wast , Makes me my friends with counsel arm that they in time may shun like harm . And learn etc A curious beauty I adore , and must though she hate me therefore , For now I am within the net , at liberty I cannot get . Then learn etc Ill hap had I to see her face , unless her heart would yield me grace : Her eyes had such attractive force , I needs must love without remorse . Then learn , etc Her hairs were Cupids chains to tie me unto her perpetually , For I must love her , this my fate , and be repaid with mortal hate . Then learn to pity Lovers tears , for love is full of cares and fears . I think on her both night and morn , which when she hears , she says in scorn If you be foolish , sir , must I be bound your mind to satisfy ? And thus my sad complaints she jeers , for love is full of cares and fears . She thinks her self too high in blood , and for to match with me too good , Found fool says she ; art so unwise , to think that Eagles strike at flies ? O young men pity Lovers tears , for love is full of cares and fears . Such unequality she makes , no pity on my moan she takes , The more I weep , the more does she , insult over my misery . O young men , etc If I to her a letter frame , she says she hates to read my name , And therefore to prevent that pain , in scorn she sends it back again : Then learn etc If I do meet with her by chance , my captiv'd heart ( for joy ) does dance , But to suppress that joy again , she turns her face with coy disdain . Then young men , etc The second part To the same tune . SHe shuns my presence with haste , then ere one word from me is past , Shee's out of sighed or out of call , and will not hear me speak at all . O young men pity Lovers tears , for love is full of cares and fears . Sometime unto her maid I speak , and she my mind to her does break , Away thou silly fool quoth she , hee's hardly good enough for thee . O young men , etc Thus she does strive to vilify my name with hateful infamy , Oh note the haughty insolence of maids in fortune's eminence . And learn , etc Wer't not a shame it should be said I woo'd the Mistress , yet the maid I am esteem'd scarce worthy of , what man could bear so foul a scoff ? Yet I with patience take these jeers , for love is full of cares and fears . I would my fancy could dissuade me from the Mistress to the maid , But oh alas that may not be , if ere I marry 't must be she . O young men , etc I wish I could my heart reclaim , from doting on this scornful dame , For all my sighs and all my care are like to arrows shot i'th air . O young men etc Suppose she be in her degree , ( as she pretends ) too good for me , In love the beggar and the King , coequally do feel the sting . O young men etc It is her proud fastidious thought , that only hath this difference wrought For in a true impartial eye , there's no great odds betwixt her and I , Oh young men etc Well , if I die as needs I must , Cupid grant me one boon that's just , That ere she wed she may be feign a worse then I to entertain . O young men etc And so farewell thou cruel fair , come gentle death and end my care , Kind youngmen learn by my behest , to love your enemies that's the best . And learn to pity Lovers tears , for love is full of cares and fears . M.P. FINIS . Printed at London for Though : Lambert , at the sign of the Horse-shoo in Smithfield . 