The Bashful Virgin : OR , The Secret Lover . Cupid hath wounded her unto the heart Which makes her feel a Love tormenting smart Yet she ( poor heart ) is loath for to discover Her real grief unto her dearest Lover , At length she courage takes and does reveal What she long time intended to conceal . Tune of , I am so deep in Love , or Little Boy , etc O What a pain it is to be a Lover , Being deny'd the bliss for to discover : Blind Cupid with his Dart hath wrought my anguish , Yet dare I not impart for whom I languish . I feed a flame within which so torments me , That it both pains my heart and yet contents me , It's such a pleasing smart and I so love it , That I had rather die than once remove it . But he for whom I grieve shall never know it , My tongue shall ne're descry nor my eyes show i Not a sighs nor a tear , my grief discloses , But they fallen silently like due on Roses . But to prevent my Love for being cruel , My hearts the Sacrifice as 'tis the fuel , And whilse I suffer this to give him quiet , My faith rewards my Love though he deny it . ON his eyes will I gaze and there delight me , While I conceal my flames no frowns can fright me , To be more happy I dare not aspire , Nor can I fallen more low mounting more higher . But words they are but wind I cannot bear it , Perhaps he may be kind although I fear it , To him I must impart for whom I languish , Or love will break my heart with grief and anguish . Dear love regard my grief , do not prove cruel Cupid hath played the thief and stolen a Jewel : My heart it is the prize now in thy keeping , Wounded by thy fair eyes which caus'd my weeping . My modesty excuse , blame higher powers Though Maidens do not use for to turn woers , Yet I had better speak truth to discover , Then that my heart should break while Love I smother . With blushes on my cheek I do reveal it , That I do love thee dear isle not conceal i Though Virgin-bashfulness now does restrain me , Regard my heaviness do not disdain me . Love hath consum'd me so while I was silent , That I am worn with woe my pains so violent , Let pity move thy heart now to requite me , And I will do my part for to delight thee . With charms of Love my dear I will endeavour , Thy heart all times to cheer both now and ever : No harms shall thee annoy while I embrace thee , If thou wilt be my joy I'll ne're disgrace thee . Therefore consider sweet how I invite thee . Let our affections meet , do not thou slight me : Answer me lovingly to my desire , Lest I with sorrow die in Cupids fire . London Printed for W. Thackery , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . The Bashful Virgin : OR , The Secret Lover . Cupid hath wounded her unto the heart Which makes her feel a Love tormenting smart Yet she ( poor heart ) is loath for to discover Her real grief unto her dearest Lover , At length she courage takes and does reveal What she long time intended to conceal . Tune of , I am so deep in Love , or Little Boy , etc O What a pain it is to be a Lover , Being deny'd the bliss for to discover : Blind Cupid with his Dart hath wrought my anguish , Yet dare I not impart for whom I languish . I feed a flame within which so torments me , That it both pains my heart and yet contents me , It's such a pleasing smart and I so love it , That I had rather die than once remove it . But he for whom I grieve shall never know it , My tongue shall ne're descry nor my eyes show i Not a sighs nor a tear , my grief discloses , But they fallen silently like due on Roses . But to prevent my Love for being cruel , My hearts the Sacrifice as 'tis the fuel , And whilse I suffer this to give him quiet , My faith rewards my Love though he deny it . ON his eyes will I gaze and there delight me , While I conceal my flames no frowns can fright me , To be more happy I dare not aspire , Nor can I fallen more low mounting more higher . But words they are but wind I cannot bear it , Perhaps he may be kind although I fear it , To him I must impart for whom I languish , Or love will break my heart with grief and anguish . Dear love regard my grief , do not prove cruel Cupid hath played the thief and stolen a Jewel : My heart it is the prize now in thy keeping , Wounded by thy fair eyes which caus'd my weeping . My modesty excuse , blame higher powers Though Maidens do not use for to turn woers , Yet I had better speak truth to discover , Then that my heart should break while Love I smother . With blushes on my cheek I do reveal it , That I do love thee dear isle not conceal i Though Virgin-bashfulness now does restrain me , Regard my heaviness do not disdain me . Love hath consum'd me so while I was silent , That I am worn with woe my pains so violent , Let pity move thy heart now to requite me , And I will do my part for to delight thee . With charms of Love my dear I will endeavour , Thy heart all times to cheer both now and ever : No harms shall thee annoy while I embrace thee , If thou wilt be my joy I'll ne're disgrace thee . Therefore consider sweet how I invite thee . Let our affections meet , do not thou slight me : Answer me lovingly to my desire , Lest I with sorrow die in Cupids fire . London Printed for W. Thackery , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . 