The Bachelors Delight , Being a pleasant new Song , showing the happiness of a single life , and the misery's that do commonly attend Matrimony . To the Tune of the Kings delight , or , The young men advice to his fellow Bachelors . THe world's a Blister swelled with care much like unto a Bubble , Wherein poor men tormented are with women and with trouble , And every one that takes a wife . Adds sorrow to his life , and makes his burden double . While Adam was a Bachelor , in Eden he did tarry , It is and Eden upon earth , to live and never marry , O then what cause have we to grieve , To think upon our mother Eve , Who made us all miscarry Sampson , they say , was a Champion stout , that fill'd the world with wonder : The proud Philistians he did rout , his blows did found like Thunder ; But when he courted false Dallila The wicked whore did him betray ; and so he was brought under , Job was a man that open lay , unto the spite of the Devil , Who took his goods and Sons away , but could we count him civil , Because he left him still his Nurse , O no! he left her for a curse , she was his greatest evil . A woman once was hang'd on a Tree , and some the Rope were cutting , Diogenes this sighed did see , and spoke unto them [ st ] rutting Would every Tree such fruit would bear , If so , found fools those young men are , that e're would go a nutting . A Thief once road up Holborn-hill , towards Oliver Cromwells Palace ; A Maid that boar him some good will , had begg'd him from the Gallows , O no , ( quoth he ) I'le go to the Gibb , And not be a Slave to my own rib , drive on the Cart-good fellows . Marriage is Honourable indeed , but tell me what's house keeping It makes the good men Pockets bleed ; his purse is always weeping , Nay more , hee's always full of care , While he that is a Bachelor , Is fast and soundly sleeping . A Froward woman takes delight , to see her Husband vexed , Both morning , evening , noon and night , the poor man is perplexed , She brawls and scolds , she frowns and poutest And to her speeches scoffs and flouts , are ever more annexed . Though he hath been at work all day , as hard as he is able Yet when he comes home without delay , she bids him rock the Cradle , And if he does thee same refuse , The dirty Quean will him abuse , and beatrice him with the Ladle . He cannot quietly rest in bed , but every little season , The Child does cry and must be fed , and then she says 'tis reason , That he shoulds't , and let her sleep , The poor man he must silence keep , for talking would be Treason . Then certainly a Bachelors life , is a most precious Treasure He that does suddenly marry a wife , will surely repent it at leisure For when he hath been snub'd and curb'd : And almost all the night disturb'd , Yet must he rise at her pleasure . Robin ( quoth she ) 'tis time to rise , and thumps him on the shoulder , The hogs wants swilling in the sties , at length she speaks bolder . Calling him Fool and Loggerhead And with her feet quite out of the bed , she thrusts the poor householder , And therefore he that weds a mate , is like a horse in a Tether , Marriage and hanging go by fate , and therefore choose you whither , For the three destinies have spun Knots for Hymen and for Dun. then let them go together . Man is a little world of himself , and therefore wants nothing , He needs not care for wordly pelf , so he have food and clothing , And marriage is a fickle thing , Which sometime does in love begin , and often ends in loathing , And therefore I will single live , in spite of lust and passion , Pure Virgins good examples give , and worth our imitation For before Matrimony arose , The mode of wearing yellow hose , and horns were out of fashion . And lastly to conclude my song , vain joy is but a Bubble , A double heart , and a double tongue hath fill'd the world with trouble And therefore to avoid all strife , 'Tis best to led a single life , we will have nothing double . Finis . London printed for F. G. on Snow-hill [ . ] The Bachelors Delight , Being a pleasant new Song , showing the happiness of a single life , and the misery's that do commonly attend Matrimony . To the Tune of the Kings delight , or , The young men advice to his fellow Bachelors . THe world's a Blister swelled with care much like unto a Bubble , Wherein poor men tormented are with women and with trouble , And every one that takes a wife . Adds sorrow to his life , and makes his burden double . While Adam was a Bachelor , in Eden he did tarry , It is and Eden upon earth , to live and never marry , O then what cause have we to grieve , To think upon our mother Eve , Who made us all miscarry Sampson , they say , was a Champion stout , that fill'd the world with wonder : The proud Philistians he did rout , his blows did found like Thunder ; But when he courted false Dallila The wicked whore did him betray ; and so he was brought under , Job was a man that open lay , unto the spite of the Devil , Who took his goods and Sons away , but could we count him civil , Because he left him still his Nurse , O no! he left her for a curse , she was his greatest evil . A woman once was hang'd on a Tree , and some the Rope were cutting , Diogenes this sighed did see , and spoke unto them [ st ] rutting Would every Tree such fruit would bear , If so , found fools those young men are , that e're would go a nutting . A Thief once road up Holborn-hill , towards Oliver Cromwells Palace ; A Maid that boar him some good will , had begg'd him from the Gallows , O no , ( quoth he ) I'le go to the Gibb , And not be a Slave to my own rib , drive on the Cart-good fellows . Marriage is Honourable indeed , but tell me what's house keeping It makes the good men Pockets bleed ; his purse is always weeping , Nay more , hee's always full of care , While he that is a Bachelor , Is fast and soundly sleeping . A Froward woman takes delight , to see her Husband vexed , Both morning , evening , noon and night , the poor man is perplexed , She brawls and scolds , she frowns and poutest And to her speeches scoffs and flouts , are ever more annexed . Though he hath been at work all day , as hard as he is able Yet when he comes home without delay , she bids him rock the Cradle , And if he does thee same refuse , The dirty Quean will him abuse , and beatrice him with the Ladle . He cannot quietly rest in bed , but every little season , The Child does cry and must be fed , and then she says 'tis reason , That he shoulds't , and let her sleep , The poor man he must silence keep , for talking would be Treason . Then certainly a Bachelors life , is a most precious Treasure He that does suddenly marry a wife , will surely repent it at leisure For when he hath been snub'd and curb'd : And almost all the night disturb'd , Yet must he rise at her pleasure . Robin ( quoth she ) 'tis time to rise , and thumps him on the shoulder , The hogs wants swilling in the sties , at length she speaks bolder . Calling him Fool and Loggerhead And with her feet quite out of the bed , she thrusts the poor householder , And therefore he that weds a mate , is like a horse in a Tether , Marriage and hanging go by fate , and therefore choose you whither , For the three destinies have spun Knots for Hymen and for Dun. then let them go together . Man is a little world of himself , and therefore wants nothing , He needs not care for wordly pelf , so he have food and clothing , And marriage is a fickle thing , Which sometime does in love begin , and often ends in loathing , And therefore I will single live , in spite of lust and passion , Pure Virgins good examples give , and worth our imitation For before Matrimony arose , The mode of wearing yellow hose , and horns were out of fashion . And lastly to conclude my song , vain joy is but a Bubble , A double heart , and a double tongue hath fill'd the world with trouble And therefore to avoid all strife , 'Tis best to led a single life , we will have nothing double . Finis . London printed for F. G. on Snow-hill [ . ] The Bachelors Delight , Being a pleasant new Song , showing the happiness of a single life , and the misery's that do commonly attend Matrimony . To the Tune of the Kings delight , or , The young men advice to his fellow Bachelors . THe world's a Blister swelled with care much like unto a Bubble , Wherein poor men tormented are with women and with trouble , And every one that takes a wife . Adds sorrow to his life , and makes his burden double . While Adam was a Bachelor , in Eden he did tarry , It is and Eden upon earth , to live and never marry , O then what cause have we to grieve , To think upon our mother Eve , Who made us all miscarry Sampson , they say , was a Champion stout , that fill'd the world with wonder : The proud Philistians he did rout , his blows did found like Thunder ; But when he courted false Dallila The wicked whore did him betray ; and so he was brought under , Job was a man that open lay , unto the spite of the Devil , Who took his goods and Sons away , but could we count him civil , Because he left him still his Nurse , O no! he left her for a curse , she was his greatest evil . A woman once was hang'd on a Tree , and some the Rope were cutting , Diogenes this sighed did see , and spoke unto them [ st ] rutting Would every Tree such fruit would bear , If so , found fools those young men are , that e're would go a nutting . A Thief once road up Holborn-hill , towards Oliver Cromwells Palace ; A Maid that boar him some good will , had begg'd him from the Gallows , O no , ( quoth he ) I'le go to the Gibb , And not be a Slave to my own rib , drive on the Cart-good fellows . Marriage is Honourable indeed , but tell me what's house keeping It makes the good men Pockets bleed ; his purse is always weeping , Nay more , hee's always full of care , While he that is a Bachelor , Is fast and soundly sleeping . A Froward woman takes delight , to see her Husband vexed , Both morning , evening , noon and night , the poor man is perplexed , She brawls and scolds , she frowns and poutest And to her speeches scoffs and flouts , are ever more annexed . Though he hath been at work all day , as hard as he is able Yet when he comes home without delay , she bids him rock the Cradle , And if he does thee same refuse , The dirty Quean will him abuse , and beatrice him with the Ladle . He cannot quietly rest in bed , but every little season , The Child does cry and must be fed , and then she says 'tis reason , That he shoulds't , and let her sleep , The poor man he must silence keep , for talking would be Treason . Then certainly a Bachelors life , is a most precious Treasure He that does suddenly marry a wife , will surely repent it at leisure For when he hath been snub'd and curb'd : And almost all the night disturb'd , Yet must he rise at her pleasure . Robin ( quoth she ) 'tis time to rise , and thumps him on the shoulder , The hogs wants swilling in the sties , at length she speaks bolder . Calling him Fool and Loggerhead And with her feet quite out of the bed , she thrusts the poor householder , And therefore he that weds a mate , is like a horse in a Tether , Marriage and hanging go by fate , and therefore choose you whither , For the three destinies have spun Knots for Hymen and for Dun. then let them go together . Man is a little world of himself , and therefore wants nothing , He needs not care for wordly pelf , so he have food and clothing , And marriage is a fickle thing , Which sometime does in love begin , and often ends in loathing , And therefore I will single live , in spite of lust and passion , Pure Virgins good examples give , and worth our imitation For before Matrimony arose , The mode of wearing yellow hose , and horns were out of fashion . And lastly to conclude my song , vain joy is but a Bubble , A double heart , and a double tongue hath fill'd the world with trouble And therefore to avoid all strife , 'Tis best to led a single life , we will have nothing double . Finis . London printed for F. G. on Snow-hill [ . ] The Bachelors Delight , Being a pleasant new Song , showing the happiness of a single life , and the misery's that do commonly attend Matrimony . To the Tune of the Kings delight , or , The young men advice to his fellow Bachelors . THe world's a Blister swelled with care much like unto a Bubble , Wherein poor men tormented are with women and with trouble , And every one that takes a wife . Adds sorrow to his life , and makes his burden double . While Adam was a Bachelor , in Eden he did tarry , It is and Eden upon earth , to live and never marry , O then what cause have we to grieve , To think upon our mother Eve , Who made us all miscarry Sampson , they say , was a Champion stout , that fill'd the world with wonder : The proud Philistians he did rout , his blows did found like Thunder ; But when he courted false Dallila The wicked whore did him betray ; and so he was brought under , Job was a man that open lay , unto the spite of the Devil , Who took his goods and Sons away , but could we count him civil , Because he left him still his Nurse , O no! he left her for a curse , she was his greatest evil . A woman once was hang'd on a Tree , and some the Rope were cutting , Diogenes this sighed did see , and spoke unto them [ st ] rutting Would every Tree such fruit would bear , If so , found fools those young men are , that e're would go a nutting . A Thief once road up Holborn-hill , towards Oliver Cromwells Palace ; A Maid that boar him some good will , had begg'd him from the Gallows , O no , ( quoth he ) I'le go to the Gibb , And not be a Slave to my own rib , drive on the Cart-good fellows . Marriage is Honourable indeed , but tell me what's house keeping It makes the good men Pockets bleed ; his purse is always weeping , Nay more , hee's always full of care , While he that is a Bachelor , Is fast and soundly sleeping . A Froward woman takes delight , to see her Husband vexed , Both morning , evening , noon and night , the poor man is perplexed , She brawls and scolds , she frowns and poutest And to her speeches scoffs and flouts , are ever more annexed . Though he hath been at work all day , as hard as he is able Yet when he comes home without delay , she bids him rock the Cradle , And if he does thee same refuse , The dirty Quean will him abuse , and beatrice him with the Ladle . He cannot quietly rest in bed , but every little season , The Child does cry and must be fed , and then she says 'tis reason , That he shoulds't , and let her sleep , The poor man he must silence keep , for talking would be Treason . Then certainly a Bachelors life , is a most precious Treasure He that does suddenly marry a wife , will surely repent it at leisure For when he hath been snub'd and curb'd : And almost all the night disturb'd , Yet must he rise at her pleasure . Robin ( quoth she ) 'tis time to rise , and thumps him on the shoulder , The hogs wants swilling in the sties , at length she speaks bolder . Calling him Fool and Loggerhead And with her feet quite out of the bed , she thrusts the poor householder , And therefore he that weds a mate , is like a horse in a Tether , Marriage and hanging go by fate , and therefore choose you whither , For the three destinies have spun Knots for Hymen and for Dun. then let them go together . Man is a little world of himself , and therefore wants nothing , He needs not care for wordly pelf , so he have food and clothing , And marriage is a fickle thing , Which sometime does in love begin , and often ends in loathing , And therefore I will single live , in spite of lust and passion , Pure Virgins good examples give , and worth our imitation For before Matrimony arose , The mode of wearing yellow hose , and horns were out of fashion . And lastly to conclude my song , vain joy is but a Bubble , A double heart , and a double tongue hath fill'd the world with trouble And therefore to avoid all strife , 'Tis best to led a single life , we will have nothing double . Finis . London printed for F. G. on Snow-hill [ . ] 