The Batchelor's Triumph : Or , The Single-Man's Happiness . A Hen-peck'd Husband's like a Slave , who wears His Master's Fetters , whom each whisper scares ; His thoughts are all to please his Wife , nor knows He other Hell , then what her frowns disclose : What Madmen then will be such fools , when they Without control , may Love and Freedom sway . To the Tune of , For what is Man , etc With Allowance . FOr what is Man confin'd Unto a Woman kind ? But a Slave , Cuckold , and Drudge ; that must work and toil , while her Amors beguile , And deprive him of what he gains : but we will live a Single life , and free from care and strife , We tip their Fortune's for their pains . Royot we all the day , they bound and must obey , Wives they will curb 'um and make 'um grow Sots ; But we are free from this , Are not oblieg'd to Kiss , Keep Ladies company just when we please : Pass the whole Year away , Merrily as the Day , Revel like Princes with pleasure and ease . Treated whole weeks are we , they love Variety , There's not a woman but will have her friend ; Poor silly Idle Knaves , their wives we make our slaves , Court 'um to taverns , to Ball and to Plays ; While the poor Fool at home , Patient sits like a Moam , What they want nightly we give 'um a day . TAke Coach and to Hide-Park , There Revel till 'tis dark , Then with all speed the next tavern we find ; Whither we straight repair , treated with sumptuous fare , And whatsoe'r we want have at command : Oysters and wine are free , Or whatsoe'r we see , Sill when we call for it's ready at hand . Poor Husbands they know not , their Money pays the Shot , While that in Horns we return it again ; Ignorant of the case , While we their Foreheads grace , And do adorn their Brows with a high Crest ; They'l not at Beer repine , While their wives feast with wine , But think that all they do is for the best . While their Dams Rant and sing , And close about us cling , Panting long time we lie in loves embrace For which their Gold they spend , And what we asked 'um lend , Free without Bound or scruple resign , And empty all their store , Let Husbands work for more , Friends shall be surely supply'd with their coin . While they keep on their pace [ , ] And the Moams saddles grace , Of what they possess there's noug [ ? ] then who would be Marry'd , Continually wearied , When loves sweet accents so plen [ ? ] that Pastimes and Pleasures , we take at our leisures , And can abridge them when wear [ ? ] We live free from those cares that a Husband still fears , Frownings and poutings from w [ ? ] till the fools Moneys give , that they quiet may live , Which on their Gallants so kindl [ ? ] For the which we embrace , And set Horns on their face , While the lov'd silver procures [ ? ] The poor Mopus confides , And for Christening provides , And by the Cradle a Rocking he [ ? ] Then let Sots be confin'd Unto false women kind , But we'r resolv'd to Court sing [ ? ] And to pity his case , who with Hornny-fy'd face , Slaves for his wife both by day [ ? ] Printed for P. B [ rooksby ] at the Golden-Ball , near the Hospital-gate in West-smi [ thfield . ] The Batchelor's Triumph : Or , The Single-Man's Happiness . A Hen-peck'd Husband's like a Slave , who wears His Master's Fetters , whom each whisper scares ; His thoughts are all to please his Wife , nor knows He other Hell , then what her frowns disclose : What Madmen then will be such fools , when they Without control , may Love and Freedom sway . To the Tune of , For what is Man , etc With Allowance . FOr what is Man confin'd Unto a Woman kind ? But a Slave , Cuckold , and Drudge ; that must work and toil , while her Amors beguile , And deprive him of what he gains : but we will live a Single life , and free from care and strife , We tip their Fortune's for their pains . Royot we all the day , they bound and must obey , Wives they will curb 'um and make 'um grow Sots ; But we are free from this , Are not oblieg'd to Kiss , Keep Ladies company just when we please : Pass the whole Year away , Merrily as the Day , Revel like Princes with pleasure and ease . Treated whole weeks are we , they love Variety , There's not a woman but will have her friend ; Poor silly Idle Knaves , their wives we make our slaves , Court 'um to taverns , to Ball and to Plays ; While the poor Fool at home , Patient sits like a Moam , What they want nightly we give 'um a day . TAke Coach and to Hide-Park , There Revel till 'tis dark , Then with all speed the next tavern we find ; Whither we straight repair , treated with sumptuous fare , And whatsoe'r we want have at command : Oysters and wine are free , Or whatsoe'r we see , Sill when we call for it's ready at hand . Poor Husbands they know not , their Money pays the Shot , While that in Horns we return it again ; Ignorant of the case , While we their Foreheads grace , And do adorn their Brows with a high Crest ; They'l not at Beer repine , While their wives feast with wine , But think that all they do is for the best . While their Dams Rant and sing , And close about us cling , Panting long time we lie in loves embrace For which their Gold they spend , And what we asked 'um lend , Free without Bound or scruple resign , And empty all their store , Let Husbands work for more , Friends shall be surely supply'd with their coin . While they keep on their pace [ , ] And the Moams saddles grace , Of what they possess there's noug [ ? ] then who would be Marry'd , Continually wearied , When loves sweet accents so plen [ ? ] that Pastimes and Pleasures , we take at our leisures , And can abridge them when wear [ ? ] We live free from those cares that a Husband still fears , Frownings and poutings from w [ ? ] till the fools Moneys give , that they quiet may live , Which on their Gallants so kindl [ ? ] For the which we embrace , And set Horns on their face , While the lov'd silver procures [ ? ] The poor Mopus confides , And for Christening provides , And by the Cradle a Rocking he [ ? ] Then let Sots be confin'd Unto false women kind , But we'r resolv'd to Court sing [ ? ] And to pity his case , who with Hornny-fy'd face , Slaves for his wife both by day [ ? ] Printed for P. B [ rooksby ] at the Golden-Ball , near the Hospital-gate in West-smi [ thfield . ] 