A light hearts A Jewel . Or , The honest good blade who a free heart does carry , And cares for nothing but to have's own vagary . To the tune of Jacke Puddings vagary . ALL you that merry lives do led , although your means be little , That seldom are o'reseene in bred , nor take much thought for victual : Attend while I'le exemplyfie , the mind that I do carry , I take delight both morn and night , to have mine own vagary . Though fortune have not lent me wealth as she hath done to many , Yet while I've liberty and health , I'le be as blithe as any : I'le bear and honest upright heart , theres none shall prove contrary , Yet now and then Abroad I'll start , and have mine own vagary . No base profession will I choose , thereby to get my living , No Kent-street manding will I use , my minds more bent to giving : I will not say I'm this and that , with bug Bear boasts to scare you , Let Coxcombs prate they know not what , I'le have mine own vagary . I am no Gravesend Travailour , No teller of strange stories , No forger of Coranto's nor , a man that evermore is Extolling of his own deserts , and with proud words will dare you , Let such as these are act their parts , I'le have mine own vagary . I am no haunter of the Plays , to pick poor peoples purses , Nor one that every word he says , does coin new oaths and curses : If I do run on Tapsters scores , to pay them I am wary , Let others spend their means on whores , I love mine own vagary . I am no blade nor Roaring Boy , aboading in they City , No Whisk , no Lift , nor no Decoy , nor one that asks for pity : My educations not the best , yet such a heart I carry , That what my humour ca'nt digest , it fits not my vagary . No City Shuffler scarce of age , to have what fate hath left me , No hair brained Ass that's full of rage , reason hath not bereft me : No great Bum-Bayly that may fright , my fearful adversary , But one that loves and takes delight , to have his own vagary . No Usurer that hordes up trash , nor yet a noted Spender , No borrowing Shark that never pays , but to a Friend a Lender : No Petyfog , nor Common-bail , For no such fellows care I , In honest sort I'le never fail , to have mine own vagary . The second part , To the same tune . NO Bowling Alley Rooke am I , that sweareth all by dam me , By such I'le not o're reached be , In this their's none can blame me : No swaggering Pimp that champion is , to Dole , to Kate , and Sary , I hate such slavish Offices , those fit not my vagary . Those painful Swains that on the green , do daily take their pleasure , The pleasant'st life that can be seen , though not so stor'd with treasure : When Husbandmen and Shepherd Swains , with Lasses of the Dary , Do sportingly trip over the Plains , Oh that fits my vagary . I care not to wear Gallant rags , and owe the Tailor for them , I care not for those vaunting brags , I ever did abhor them : What to the world I seem to be , no man shall prove contrary , My Suits shall suit to my degree , Oh that fits my vagary . I care not for those scar Crow blades , whose valour lies in speeches , That in discourse of manhood wades , ofttimes above their reaches : If I have not a mind to fight , I'le urge no adversary , When word and deed both jump aright , Oh that fits my vagary . I care not for the Brokers Book , my names not there enrolled , I nothing owe , therefore I look , by none to be controlled : I do not fear the Sergeants Mace , walk by the Counter dare I , And look a Bailiff in the face , Oh this is my vagary . I care not much in company , to spend what is allotted , I'le drink but for sufficiency , I'le never be besotted : When I do feel my spirits dull , a cup of old Canary Will fill my heart with courage full , and this is my vagary . I care not for sad malcontent , that is the bane of nature , I love good honest merriment , and I'le despise no creature : Thats for my use and sustinence , and still I will be wary , lest I exceed in my expense , that fits not my vagary . Still will I have and honest care , that none lies wronged by me , I'le not built Castles in the air , whoever lists to try me , Shall find in all thats promis'd here , not any word contrary , I envious censure do not fear , I'le have mine own vagary . Printed at London for J. Wright , dwelling in Giltspur street . A light hearts A Jewel . Or , The honest good blade who a free heart does carry , And cares for nothing but to have's own vagary . To the tune of Jacke Puddings vagary . ALL you that merry lives do led , although your means be little , That seldom are o'reseene in bred , nor take much thought for victual : Attend while I'le exemplyfie , the mind that I do carry , I take delight both morn and night , to have mine own vagary . Though fortune have not lent me wealth as she hath done to many , Yet while I've liberty and health , I'le be as blithe as any : I'le bear and honest upright heart , theres none shall prove contrary , Yet now and then Abroad I'll start , and have mine own vagary . No base profession will I choose , thereby to get my living , No Kent-street manding will I use , my minds more bent to giving : I will not say I'm this and that , with bug Bear boasts to scare you , Let Coxcombs prate they know not what , I'le have mine own vagary . I am no Gravesend Travailour , No teller of strange stories , No forger of Coranto's nor , a man that evermore is Extolling of his own deserts , and with proud words will dare you , Let such as these are act their parts , I'le have mine own vagary . I am no haunter of the Plays , to pick poor peoples purses , Nor one that every word he says , does coin new oaths and curses : If I do run on Tapsters scores , to pay them I am wary , Let others spend their means on whores , I love mine own vagary . I am no blade nor Roaring Boy , aboading in they City , No Whisk , no Lift , nor no Decoy , nor one that asks for pity : My educations not the best , yet such a heart I carry , That what my humour ca'nt digest , it fits not my vagary . No City Shuffler scarce of age , to have what fate hath left me , No hair brained Ass that's full of rage , reason hath not bereft me : No great Bum-Bayly that may fright , my fearful adversary , But one that loves and takes delight , to have his own vagary . No Usurer that hordes up trash , nor yet a noted Spender , No borrowing Shark that never pays , but to a Friend a Lender : No Petyfog , nor Common-bail , For no such fellows care I , In honest sort I'le never fail , to have mine own vagary . The second part , To the same tune . NO Bowling Alley Rooke am I , that sweareth all by dam me , By such I'le not o're reached be , In this their's none can blame me : No swaggering Pimp that champion is , to Dole , to Kate , and Sary , I hate such slavish Offices , those fit not my vagary . Those painful Swains that on the green , do daily take their pleasure , The pleasant'st life that can be seen , though not so stor'd with treasure : When Husbandmen and Shepherd Swains , with Lasses of the Dary , Do sportingly trip over the Plains , Oh that fits my vagary . I care not to wear Gallant rags , and owe the Tailor for them , I care not for those vaunting brags , I ever did abhor them : What to the world I seem to be , no man shall prove contrary , My Suits shall suit to my degree , Oh that fits my vagary . I care not for those scar Crow blades , whose valour lies in speeches , That in discourse of manhood wades , ofttimes above their reaches : If I have not a mind to fight , I'le urge no adversary , When word and deed both jump aright , Oh that fits my vagary . I care not for the Brokers Book , my names not there enrolled , I nothing owe , therefore I look , by none to be controlled : I do not fear the Sergeants Mace , walk by the Counter dare I , And look a Bailiff in the face , Oh this is my vagary . I care not much in company , to spend what is allotted , I'le drink but for sufficiency , I'le never be besotted : When I do feel my spirits dull , a cup of old Canary Will fill my heart with courage full , and this is my vagary . I care not for sad malcontent , that is the bane of nature , I love good honest merriment , and I'le despise no creature : Thats for my use and sustinence , and still I will be wary , lest I exceed in my expense , that fits not my vagary . Still will I have and honest care , that none lies wronged by me , I'le not built Castles in the air , whoever lists to try me , Shall find in all thats promis'd here , not any word contrary , I envious censure do not fear , I'le have mine own vagary . Printed at London for J. Wright , dwelling in Giltspur street . 