A Lover forsaken , Of his best Beloved . To and excellent new Court Tune . JOy to the person of my Love Although that she does me disdain , Fixed are my thoughts , And cannot remove : But yet I love in vain . Shall I loose the sighed , Of my joy and hearts delight , Or shall I cease my suit ; Shall I strive to touch ; O no , that were too much , She is forbidden fruit . Ah woe is me , That ever I did see The beauty that did me bewitch , But now alas I must forgo The treasure I esteemed so much . O whither shall my sad heart go ; Or whither shall I fly ; Sad echo shall resound my plaint Or else alack I needs must die . Shall I by her live , That no life to me will give , But deadly wounds my heart ; If I fly away , Oh will she not cry stay , My sorrow to convert ; O , no , no , no , She will not do so , But comfortless I must be gone : But ere I go , To friend or foe , I'll love her , or I will love none . A thousand good fortune's fallen to her share Although she hath forsaken me , & fil'd my sad heart full of despair , Yet ever will I constant be , For she is the Dame , My tongue shall ever name , For branch of modesty . Chaste in heart and mind , O were she half so kind , Then would she pity me . O turn again , Be kind as thou art fair , And let me in thy bosom dwell , So shall I gain The treasure of loves paino , Till then , my dearest Love , farewell . FINIS . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcocke A Lover forsaken , Of his best Beloved . To and excellent new Court Tune . JOy to the person of my Love Although that she does me disdain , Fixed are my thoughts , And cannot remove : But yet I love in vain . Shall I loose the sighed , Of my joy and hearts delight , Or shall I cease my suit ; Shall I strive to touch ; O no , that were too much , She is forbidden fruit . Ah woe is me , That ever I did see The beauty that did me bewitch , But now alas I must forgo The treasure I esteemed so much . O whither shall my sad heart go ; Or whither shall I fly ; Sad echo shall resound my plaint Or else alack I needs must die . Shall I by her live , That no life to me will give , But deadly wounds my heart ; If I fly away , Oh will she not cry stay , My sorrow to convert ; O , no , no , no , She will not do so , But comfortless I must be gone : But ere I go , To friend or foe , I'll love her , or I will love none . A thousand good fortune's fallen to her share Although she hath forsaken me , & fil'd my sad heart full of despair , Yet ever will I constant be , For she is the Dame , My tongue shall ever name , For branch of modesty . Chaste in heart and mind , O were she half so kind , Then would she pity me . O turn again , Be kind as thou art fair , And let me in thy bosom dwell , So shall I gain The treasure of loves paino , Till then , my dearest Love , farewell . FINIS . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcocke 