Love in a MAZE ; or , The Youngman put to his Dumps . Here in this Song you may behold and see A gallant Girl obtain'd by Wit and Honesty ; All you that hear my Song , and mark it but aright , Will say true Love's worth Gold , and breeds delight . To a pleasant New tune , called , the true Lovers delight ; or , the Cambridge Horn . LAte in the morning , as I abroad was walking , All in a Meadow green , I herd two Lovers talking ; With kisses sweet the youngman her Saluted , Then I drew near to hear what they disputed : Then I drew near to hear what they disputed . Youngman . Fair Maid , quoth he , this merry morning , Present one smile to me , and be no longer scorning ; Him who hath vow'd to be thine own for ever , Oh say but to me , Our loves shall never sever : Oh say , etc Maid . Indeed Sir , quoth she , it is a misty morning , But I would have you to know I always hated scorning , And as for love , as yet I mean to smother , I know not one as yet I love better than another : I know , etc Youngman . True love , sweetheart , quod he , if e're you chance to know it , It cannot smothered be , but at last you'll show it ; The first time I beheld thy sweet and comely carriage , I ever since desired that we were joyn'd in marriage : I ever , etc Maid . Love Sir , quoth she , is like a Fishers Angle , Which oft hath golden baits silly Maidens to entangle , Are cunningly cast out by Youngman's false inventions , Then marriage they'll pretend where 'tis not their inten-tions Then marriage , etc Youngman . O 'tis so , my dear , true love is like a fountain That cast out water clear out of a Rocky mountain , Whose stream for to stop you'll say it is a wonder , Likewise 'tis as strange to cleave the Rocks in sunder : Likewise 'tis as , etc Such is my love to thee , and shall be ever , No unconstant thoughts or fickle mind can sever My heart from thee , which always shall be bringing Fountains clear & fresh , that from true love is springing , Fountains clear and fresh , etc Maid . Your comparison , said she , I must confess is witty , To stay the stream of love it were a pity ; But your heart you compare indeed to rocky mountains , For stony oft they are , and cast out several fountains . For stony , etc As from some fountain several streams are running , So many feigned loves you oft have by your cunning ; 'Tis hard to pierce your flinty heart asunder , and stop your fickle streams , it is a wonder : And stop , etc Youngman . Fie , fie , sweetheart , your wit does overmatch me , No words I can impart but presently you catch me : You maidens now each day do grow so coy and witty , Let Youngmen beg and pray , you'll take of them not pity . let Youngmen , etc Maid . Fie , away for shame , you Youngmen can dissemble , Your wits are ripe , your tongues are quick and nimble , Indeed you'll beg and pray sometimes to get your pleasure , Then leave us in the lurch , and we may repent at leisure : Then leave , etc Youngman . Confessed it is , there's many are so minded , But if thou wouldst prove my Constancy , thou'lt find it , Do thou but command , through danger I will enter , and for to gain thy love , through and army I would venture : And for to gain , etc SWeet-heart i'd have you know I never could dissemble , and my compliments are slow , my tongue was never nimble ; 'Tis none but loyal love makes me come unto thee , It is not for thy wealth but virtue that I love thee . it is not for , etc With that a bush of May this lovely maid espied , Near to a bank of Time , whereto she quickly hied , Down she plucked the May that was so green and tender , and up she plucked the time with her pretty arms so slender : and up she , etc She stuck the bush of may in time , and did present it Unto this Youngman , which was soon discontented ; Here , Sir , quoth she , if that you will be eased , Read but this Riddle , Sir , perhaps you may be pleased . Read but , etc Youngman . He took it from her hand and receiv'd it as a token , Then in a dump did stand , & never a word was spoken ; blushing , then at last he modestly replied , Your Riddle I can read , love , and shall not be denied , Your Riddle , etc This may stuck in time , which is to me presenting , Shows that I may in time gain your love & not contenting Which if I may , i'll stay your time and leisure , No time i'll think too long , so at last I gain the treasure . No time , etc He took her by the hand and lovingly they walked , but tied in Cupids hands most amorously they talked , Then on each other smil'd with interchanging kisses , Oh 'tis pity time beguiled such lovers of their blisses . O 'tis pity , etc Perhaps , sweet Sir , you by this Riddle reading , May think you gained me by little or no persuading , Which if you did , it is yet at my pleasure , I am not bound to you yet , but you must stay my leisure . I am not , etc Then let this heart within this breast lie panting , No happiness e're see , but let joys be ever wanting ; If e're I think and evil thought upon thee , let mirth be banished quite , and sorrow wait upon me . Let mirth , etc If it be so , quoth she , thou bearest such true affeition , Hereafter i'll agree to be rul'd by thy direction ; No friend shall sever or break our loves asunder , For loyal loving hearts will be the world's wonder . for Loyal , etc The time that late was mine to thee shall be presented , all that I have is thine , then rest thy self contented ; Thy gallant-wit , thy modesty and carriage , Hath wone my heart , we will be joined in marriage , Hath wone , etc Youngman . He took her at her word , and modestly replied , Short time I will afford , long time shall be denied : This being the first of May , our hearts being join'd and wedded . before the fifth day in wedlock we'll be bedded . before thee , etc Nine hundred pound with this maiden he obtained , On marriage day was paid , which by his wit he gained ; altho' no means he had , she never a whit repented , He was a gallant lad , and she was well contented . He was , etc Now all you pretty maids that live in town or city , The author you persuades to learn from this his dity , If a Youngman you love , look not then for his treasure , For if he honest prove in him is wealth and pleasure : for if , etc You Young men i'll persuade to hear my motion , For if you affect a maid , regard not then her portion ; Hang ten pounds , give me the lass that loves me , If a good wife thou'st found , no joy on Earth's above thee . if a good , etc Youngmen and maids that lately went a Maying , Mark the Nightingale , one tune he's always playing , Jug , jug , jug , sweet , is all the note she sings , as when loyal lovers meet , no double tongues they brings . as when , etc all you pretty maids that are civil in Your carriage , This Song is sent to you to be wary in Your marriage : Try before you trust , be careful in consenting , That when the knot is tied , there may be no repenting , that when the Knot is , etc FINIS . Printed by and for A.M. and sold by the Booksellers of London . Love in a MAZE ; or , The Youngman put to his Dumps . Here in this Song you may behold and see A gallant Girl obtain'd by Wit and Honesty ; All you that hear my Song , and mark it but aright , Will say true Love's worth Gold , and breeds delight . To a pleasant New tune , called , the true Lovers delight ; or , the Cambridge Horn . LAte in the morning , as I abroad was walking , All in a Meadow green , I herd two Lovers talking ; With kisses sweet the youngman her Saluted , Then I drew near to hear what they disputed : Then I drew near to hear what they disputed . Youngman . Fair Maid , quoth he , this merry morning , Present one smile to me , and be no longer scorning ; Him who hath vow'd to be thine own for ever , Oh say but to me , Our loves shall never sever : Oh say , etc Maid . Indeed Sir , quoth she , it is a misty morning , But I would have you to know I always hated scorning , And as for love , as yet I mean to smother , I know not one as yet I love better than another : I know , etc Youngman . True love , sweetheart , quod he , if e're you chance to know it , It cannot smothered be , but at last you'll show it ; The first time I beheld thy sweet and comely carriage , I ever since desired that we were joyn'd in marriage : I ever , etc Maid . Love Sir , quoth she , is like a Fishers Angle , Which oft hath golden baits silly Maidens to entangle , Are cunningly cast out by Youngman's false inventions , Then marriage they'll pretend where 'tis not their inten-tions Then marriage , etc Youngman . O 'tis so , my dear , true love is like a fountain That cast out water clear out of a Rocky mountain , Whose stream for to stop you'll say it is a wonder , Likewise 'tis as strange to cleave the Rocks in sunder : Likewise 'tis as , etc Such is my love to thee , and shall be ever , No unconstant thoughts or fickle mind can sever My heart from thee , which always shall be bringing Fountains clear & fresh , that from true love is springing , Fountains clear and fresh , etc Maid . Your comparison , said she , I must confess is witty , To stay the stream of love it were a pity ; But your heart you compare indeed to rocky mountains , For stony oft they are , and cast out several fountains . For stony , etc As from some fountain several streams are running , So many feigned loves you oft have by your cunning ; 'Tis hard to pierce your flinty heart asunder , and stop your fickle streams , it is a wonder : And stop , etc Youngman . Fie , fie , sweetheart , your wit does overmatch me , No words I can impart but presently you catch me : You maidens now each day do grow so coy and witty , Let Youngmen beg and pray , you'll take of them not pity . let Youngmen , etc Maid . Fie , away for shame , you Youngmen can dissemble , Your wits are ripe , your tongues are quick and nimble , Indeed you'll beg and pray sometimes to get your pleasure , Then leave us in the lurch , and we may repent at leisure : Then leave , etc Youngman . Confessed it is , there's many are so minded , But if thou wouldst prove my Constancy , thou'lt find it , Do thou but command , through danger I will enter , and for to gain thy love , through and army I would venture : And for to gain , etc SWeet-heart i'd have you know I never could dissemble , and my compliments are slow , my tongue was never nimble ; 'Tis none but loyal love makes me come unto thee , It is not for thy wealth but virtue that I love thee . it is not for , etc With that a bush of May this lovely maid espied , Near to a bank of Time , whereto she quickly hied , Down she plucked the May that was so green and tender , and up she plucked the time with her pretty arms so slender : and up she , etc She stuck the bush of may in time , and did present it Unto this Youngman , which was soon discontented ; Here , Sir , quoth she , if that you will be eased , Read but this Riddle , Sir , perhaps you may be pleased . Read but , etc Youngman . He took it from her hand and receiv'd it as a token , Then in a dump did stand , & never a word was spoken ; blushing , then at last he modestly replied , Your Riddle I can read , love , and shall not be denied , Your Riddle , etc This may stuck in time , which is to me presenting , Shows that I may in time gain your love & not contenting Which if I may , i'll stay your time and leisure , No time i'll think too long , so at last I gain the treasure . No time , etc He took her by the hand and lovingly they walked , but tied in Cupids hands most amorously they talked , Then on each other smil'd with interchanging kisses , Oh 'tis pity time beguiled such lovers of their blisses . O 'tis pity , etc Perhaps , sweet Sir , you by this Riddle reading , May think you gained me by little or no persuading , Which if you did , it is yet at my pleasure , I am not bound to you yet , but you must stay my leisure . I am not , etc Then let this heart within this breast lie panting , No happiness e're see , but let joys be ever wanting ; If e're I think and evil thought upon thee , let mirth be banished quite , and sorrow wait upon me . Let mirth , etc If it be so , quoth she , thou bearest such true affeition , Hereafter i'll agree to be rul'd by thy direction ; No friend shall sever or break our loves asunder , For loyal loving hearts will be the world's wonder . for Loyal , etc The time that late was mine to thee shall be presented , all that I have is thine , then rest thy self contented ; Thy gallant-wit , thy modesty and carriage , Hath wone my heart , we will be joined in marriage , Hath wone , etc Youngman . He took her at her word , and modestly replied , Short time I will afford , long time shall be denied : This being the first of May , our hearts being join'd and wedded . before the fifth day in wedlock we'll be bedded . before thee , etc Nine hundred pound with this maiden he obtained , On marriage day was paid , which by his wit he gained ; altho' no means he had , she never a whit repented , He was a gallant lad , and she was well contented . He was , etc Now all you pretty maids that live in town or city , The author you persuades to learn from this his dity , If a Youngman you love , look not then for his treasure , For if he honest prove in him is wealth and pleasure : for if , etc You Young men i'll persuade to hear my motion , For if you affect a maid , regard not then her portion ; Hang ten pounds , give me the lass that loves me , If a good wife thou'st found , no joy on Earth's above thee . if a good , etc Youngmen and maids that lately went a Maying , Mark the Nightingale , one tune he's always playing , Jug , jug , jug , sweet , is all the note she sings , as when loyal lovers meet , no double tongues they brings . as when , etc all you pretty maids that are civil in Your carriage , This Song is sent to you to be wary in Your marriage : Try before you trust , be careful in consenting , That when the knot is tied , there may be no repenting , that when the Knot is , etc FINIS . Printed by and for A.M. and sold by the Booksellers of London . 