A most notable example of and ungracious Son , who in the pride of his heart denied his own Father , and how God for his offence , turned his meat into loathsome Toads . To the Tune of Lord Darley . IN searching famous Chronicles , it was my chance to read A worthy Story strange and true , whereto I took good heed : Betwixt a Farmer and his Son , this rare example stands , Which well may move the hardest hearts to weep and wring their hands . The Farmer in the Country liv'd , whose substance did excel ; He sent therefore his eldest Son , in Paris for to dwell , Where he became a Merchant man , and Traffic great he used , So that he was exceeding rich , till he himself abused . For having now the World at will , his mind was wholly bent To gaming , wine , and wantonness , till all his goods were spent . Yea , such excessive Riotousness by him was showed forth , That he was three times more in debt then all his wealth was worth . At length his credit clean was cracked , and he in Prison cast , And every man against him then did set his actium fast . There lay he locked in Irons strong , for ever and for aye , Unable while his life did last , his grievous debt to pay . And living in this woeful case , his eyes with tears he spen The lewdness of his former life , too late he did repen And being void of all relief , of help and comfort quite ; Unto his father at the last , he thus began to write . Bow down a while your heedful ears , my loving Father deer ; And grant I pray in gracious sort , my piteous plaint to hear . Forgive the foul offences all of your unthrifty Son ; Which through the lewdness of his life , hath now himself undone . O my good Father , take remorse on this my extreme need , And succour his distressed state , whose heart for woe does bleed . In direful dungeon here I lie , my feet in fetters fas Whom my most cruel Creditors in Prison so have cast . Let pity therefore pierce your breast , and mercy move your mind : And to release my misery , some shift , sweet Father find . My chiefest cheer is bred full brown , the boards my softest bed : And flinty stones my pillows serve to rest my troubled head . The second Part , to the same Tune . MY garments all are worn to rags , my body starves with cold : And crawling Vermin eats my flesh , most grievous to behold . Dear Father come , therefore with speed , and rid me out of thrall , And let me not in Prison die , sith for your help I call . The good old man no sooner had perus'd this written scroll , But trickling tears along his cheeks most plenteously did roll . Alas , my Son , my Son , quoth he , in whom I joyed most , Thou shalt not long in Prison be , whatever it me cost . Two hundred heads of welfead Beasts , he changed into gold : Foure hundred quarters of good Corn , for silver eke he sold . But all the same could not suffice , this heinous fact to pay , Till at the last constrain'd he was to fell his Land away . Then was his Son released quite , his debt discharged clean , And he likewise as well to live , as he before had been . Then went his loving Father home , who for to help his Son Had sold his Living quite away , and eke himself undone . So that he lived poor and bore and in such extreme need , That many times he wanted food , his hungry Corpse to feed . His Son mean time in wealth did swim whose substance now was such , That sure within the City then , few men were found so rich . But as his goods did still increase , and riches in did slide : So more and more his hardened heart did swell in hateful pride : But it fell out upon a time , when ten years woe was passed , Unto his Sun he did repair for some relief at last . And being come unto his house in very poor array : It chanced so that with his Son , great States should dine that day . The poor old man with hat in hand did then the Porter pray , To show his Son that at the gate his Father there did stay . Whereat this proud disdainful wretch , with taunting speeches said , That long ago his Father's bones within the Grave were laid : What rascal then is that quoth he , that stains so my state ? I charge thee Porter presently to drive him from my gate . Which answer , when the old man herd he was in mind dismayed : He wept , he wailed , he wrung his hands , and thus at length he said : Oh cursed wretch , and most unkind , and worker of my woe , Thou monster of humanity , and eke thy Father's Foe : Have I been careful of thy case , maintaining still thy state , And dost thou now so doggedly , enforce me from thy gate : And have I wronged thy brothers all [ , ] from thrall to set thee free : And brought my self to beggars stat [ e ] and all to succour thee ? Woe worth the time when first of all thy body I espy'd , Which hath in hardness of thy hear [ tO ] thy Father's face deny'd . But now behold how God that time , did show a wonder great ; Even where his Son with all his fry [ nds ] were settled down to meat . For when the fairest Pie was cut , a strange and dreadful case , Most ugly Toads came crawling ou [ tO ] and leapt at his face . Then did this wretch his fault confess and for his father sent . And for his great ingratitude , full soar he did repent . All virtuous Children learn by this obedient hearts to show , And honour still your Parents deer , for God commanded so : And think how he did turn his mea [ tO ] to poisoned Toads indeed , Which did his Father's face deny , because he stood in need . FINIS . London Printed by M.P. for Hen [ ry ] Gosson , on London Bridge . A most notable example of and ungracious Son , who in the pride of his heart denied his own Father , and how God for his offence , turned his meat into loathsome Toads . To the Tune of Lord Darley . IN searching famous Chronicles , it was my chance to read A worthy Story strange and true , whereto I took good heed : Betwixt a Farmer and his Son , this rare example stands , Which well may move the hardest hearts to weep and wring their hands . The Farmer in the Country liv'd , whose substance did excel ; He sent therefore his eldest Son , in Paris for to dwell , Where he became a Merchant man , and Traffic great he used , So that he was exceeding rich , till he himself abused . For having now the World at will , his mind was wholly bent To gaming , wine , and wantonness , till all his goods were spent . Yea , such excessive Riotousness by him was showed forth , That he was three times more in debt then all his wealth was worth . At length his credit clean was cracked , and he in Prison cast , And every man against him then did set his actium fast . There lay he locked in Irons strong , for ever and for aye , Unable while his life did last , his grievous debt to pay . And living in this woeful case , his eyes with tears he spen The lewdness of his former life , too late he did repen And being void of all relief , of help and comfort quite ; Unto his father at the last , he thus began to write . Bow down a while your heedful ears , my loving Father deer ; And grant I pray in gracious sort , my piteous plaint to hear . Forgive the foul offences all of your unthrifty Son ; Which through the lewdness of his life , hath now himself undone . O my good Father , take remorse on this my extreme need , And succour his distressed state , whose heart for woe does bleed . In direful dungeon here I lie , my feet in fetters fas Whom my most cruel Creditors in Prison so have cast . Let pity therefore pierce your breast , and mercy move your mind : And to release my misery , some shift , sweet Father find . My chiefest cheer is bred full brown , the boards my softest bed : And flinty stones my pillows serve to rest my troubled head . The second Part , to the same Tune . MY garments all are worn to rags , my body starves with cold : And crawling Vermin eats my flesh , most grievous to behold . Dear Father come , therefore with speed , and rid me out of thrall , And let me not in Prison die , sith for your help I call . The good old man no sooner had perus'd this written scroll , But trickling tears along his cheeks most plenteously did roll . Alas , my Son , my Son , quoth he , in whom I joyed most , Thou shalt not long in Prison be , whatever it me cost . Two hundred heads of welfead Beasts , he changed into gold : Foure hundred quarters of good Corn , for silver eke he sold . But all the same could not suffice , this heinous fact to pay , Till at the last constrain'd he was to fell his Land away . Then was his Son released quite , his debt discharged clean , And he likewise as well to live , as he before had been . Then went his loving Father home , who for to help his Son Had sold his Living quite away , and eke himself undone . So that he lived poor and bore and in such extreme need , That many times he wanted food , his hungry Corpse to feed . His Son mean time in wealth did swim whose substance now was such , That sure within the City then , few men were found so rich . But as his goods did still increase , and riches in did slide : So more and more his hardened heart did swell in hateful pride : But it fell out upon a time , when ten years woe was passed , Unto his Sun he did repair for some relief at last . And being come unto his house in very poor array : It chanced so that with his Son , great States should dine that day . The poor old man with hat in hand did then the Porter pray , To show his Son that at the gate his Father there did stay . Whereat this proud disdainful wretch , with taunting speeches said , That long ago his Father's bones within the Grave were laid : What rascal then is that quoth he , that stains so my state ? I charge thee Porter presently to drive him from my gate . Which answer , when the old man herd he was in mind dismayed : He wept , he wailed , he wrung his hands , and thus at length he said : Oh cursed wretch , and most unkind , and worker of my woe , Thou monster of humanity , and eke thy Father's Foe : Have I been careful of thy case , maintaining still thy state , And dost thou now so doggedly , enforce me from thy gate : And have I wronged thy brothers all [ , ] from thrall to set thee free : And brought my self to beggars stat [ e ] and all to succour thee ? Woe worth the time when first of all thy body I espy'd , Which hath in hardness of thy hear [ tO ] thy Father's face deny'd . But now behold how God that time , did show a wonder great ; Even where his Son with all his fry [ nds ] were settled down to meat . For when the fairest Pie was cut , a strange and dreadful case , Most ugly Toads came crawling ou [ tO ] and leapt at his face . Then did this wretch his fault confess and for his father sent . And for his great ingratitude , full soar he did repent . All virtuous Children learn by this obedient hearts to show , And honour still your Parents deer , for God commanded so : And think how he did turn his mea [ tO ] to poisoned Toads indeed , Which did his Father's face deny , because he stood in need . FINIS . London Printed by M.P. for Hen [ ry ] Gosson , on London Bridge . 