A pleasant new Ballad of the Miller of Mansfield , in Sherwood and of King Henry the second , and how he was lodged in the Millers house , and of their pleasant communication . To the Tune of , The French Lavolia . HEnry our royal King would ride a hunting , To the green forest so pleasant and fair , To have the heart chased and dainty Does tripping , Unto merry Sherwood his Nobles repair : Hawk and hound was unbound , all things prepar'd for the same to the game , with good regard . All a long Summer's day , rod the King pleasant , With all his Princes and Nobles each one , Chasing the Heart and Hind , and the Buck gallantly , Till the dark evening enforcst them turn home : then at last , riding fast , he had lost quite , all his Lords in the wood , late in dark night . Wandering thus wearily all alone up and down , With a rude Miller he met at the last , Asking the ready way unto fair Nottingham , Sir ( quoth the Miller ) your way you have lost , yet I think , what I think , truth for to say , you do not likely ride out of your way , Why what dost thou think of me , quod our King merrily Passing thy judgement upon me so brief ? Good faith ( quoth the Miller ) I mean not to flatter thee , I guess thee to be but some Gentleman thief : stand thee back in the dark light thee not down , lest that I presently crack thy knaves crown . Thou dost abuse me much ( quoth our King ) saying thus I am a Gentleman , and lodging I lack : Thou hast not ( quoth the Miller ) one groat in thy purse , All thy inheritance hangs on thy back : I have gold to discharge all that I call , if it be forty pence I will pay all . If thou be'st a true man , then ( said the Miller ) I swear by my tole-dish I'll lodge thee all night , Here's my hand ( quoth our King ) that was I ever , Nay soft ( quoth the Miller ) thou mayest be a sprigh better I'll know thee ere hands I do shake , with none but honest men hands will I take . Thus they went all along unto the Millers house , Where they were seething of Puddings and Souse , The Miller first entered in , then after him the King , Never came he in so smoky a house : now ( quoth he ) let me see , here what you are , quoth our King look your fill and do not spare . I like well thy countenance , thou hast and honest face , With my son Richard this night thou shalt lie , Quoth his wife , by my troth , it is a handsome youth , Yet it is best ( quoth his wife ) for to deal warily , art not a run away I pray thee youth tell , show me thy Passport and all shall be well . Then our King presently making low courtesy , With his hat in his hand , thus he did say , I have no Passport , nor never was servitor , But a poor Courtier road out of my way . and for your kindness here offered to me , I will requite it in every degree . Then to the Miller his wife whispered secretly , Saying it seems this youth's of good kin , Both by his apparel , and eke by his manners , To turn him out certainly it were a great sin : you ( quoth he ) you may see he hath some grace , when he does speak to his betters in place . Well ( quod the Millers wife ) young man welcome here , And though I say it , well lodg'd thou shalt be Fresh straw I will have laid on your bed so brave , Good brown hempen sheets likewise ( quoth she ) I ( quoth the goodman ) and when that is done , you shall lie with no worse than our own son . Nay first ( quoth Richard ) good fellow tell me true , Hast any creepers within thy gay hose ? Or art thou not troubled with the Scabado ? I pray you ( quoth the King ) what things are those ? art thou not lousy , nor scabby ( quoth he ) if thou be'st surely thou liest not with me . This caus'd the King suddenly to laugh most heartily Till the tears trickled down from his eyes , Then to their supper were they set orderly , With a hight bag-pudding and good apple-pies : nappy-ale , good and stale , in a brown bowl : which did about the board merrily trowle . Here ( quoth the Miller ) good fellow I drink to thee , And to all the Courtnols that courteous be , I pledge ( quoth our King ) and thank you heartily , For your good welcome in every degree : and here in like manner I'll drink to your son , do so ( quoth Richard ) but quick let it come . Wife ( quoth the Miller ) fetch me forth lightfoot , That we of his sweetness a little may taste , A fair Venison pasty then brought she forth presently , Eat ( quoth the Miller ) but sir make no waste : here's dainty Lightfoot in faith then said our King , I never before eat so dainty a thing . I wis ( said Richard ) no dainty at all it is , For we do eat of it every day , In what place ( said our King ) may be bought like this , We never pay penny for it by my faith : from merry Sherwood we set it home here , now and then we make bold with our Kings Dear . Then I think ( said our King ) that it is Venison , Each fool , said Richard , full well may see that , Never are we without two or three in the roose , Very well fleshed and excellent fa but pray thee say nothing , where ere thou dost go , we would not for two pence the King should it know , Doubt not then , said our King , my promised secrecy , The King shall never know more on [ ' ] tO for me , A cup of Lambs wool , they drank unto him then , And then to bed they passed presently : the Nobles next morning went all up and down , for to seek out the King in every Town . At last at the Millers house soon they espy'd him plain As he was mounting upon his fair steed , To whom they came presently , falling down on their knees Which made the Millers heart woefully bleed : shaking and quaking before him he stood , thinking he should have him hang'd by the rood . The King perceiving him fearful and trembling , Drew forth his sword but nothing he said , The Miller down did fallen , crying before them all , Doubting the King would have cut off his head : but his kind courtesy there to requite , gave him a great living and made him a Knight . The second part of the Miller and the King : Showing how he came to the Court with his wife and Son : and what merry conceits passed between the King and him . WHen as our Noble King came home from Notting-ham , And with his Nobles in Westminster lay , Recounting the sports and pastimes they had taken , In this late progress [ s ] e along by the way : of them all , great and small , this did he protest , the Miller of Mansfields sport liked him best . And now my Lords quoth the King I am determined Against Saint Geoges next sumptuous feast , That this old Miller our last confirmed knight , With his son Richard shall both be my guest , for in this merriment 'tis my desire , to taike with the jolly Knight and the brave Squire . When as the Noblemen saw the Kings pleasantness , They were right joyful and glad in their hearts , A Pursuivant their was sent straight on the business , The which had many times been in those parts , when he came to the place where he did dwell , his message orderly then he did tell . God save your worship then said the Messenger , And grant your Lady her hearts desire : And to your son Richhrd good fortune and happiness , That sweet young Gentleman and gallant young Squire our King greets you all and thus he does say , you must come to the Court on S. Georges day . Therefore in any case , fail not to be in place , I wis ( quoth the Miller ) this is one odd jest , What should he do there he said , faith I am half afraid , I doubt quoth Richard be hang'd at the leas nay quoth the Messenger you do mistake , our King prepares a great feast for your sake . Then said the Miller now by my troth Messenger , Thou hast contentev my worshipful well , Hold here's three farthings to quit thy great gentleness For these happy tidings which thou dost me tell : let me see hear'st thou me , tell to our King , wee'l wait on his mastership in every thing . The Pursuivant smiled at their simplicity , And making many legs took their reward , And taking then his leave with great humility , To the Kings Court , again he repair'd , showing unto his Grace in each degree , the Knights most liberal gift and bounty . When as he was gone away , thus did the Miller say , Here comes expenses and charges indeed , Now we must needs be brave , though we spend all we have , For of new garments we have great need , of horses and servingmen we must have store , with bridles and saddles and twenty things more A pleasant new Ballad of the Miller of Mansfield , in Sherwood and of King Henry the second , and how he was lodged in the Millers house , and of their pleasant communication . To the Tune of , The French Lavolia . HEnry our royal King would ride a hunting , To the green forest so pleasant and fair , To have the heart chased and dainty Does tripping , Unto merry Sherwood his Nobles repair : Hawk and hound was unbound , all things prepar'd for the same to the game , with good regard . All a long Summer's day , rod the King pleasant , With all his Princes and Nobles each one , Chasing the Heart and Hind , and the Buck gallantly , Till the dark evening enforcst them turn home : then at last , riding fast , he had lost quite , all his Lords in the wood , late in dark night . Wandering thus wearily all alone up and down , With a rude Miller he met at the last , Asking the ready way unto fair Nottingham , Sir ( quoth the Miller ) your way you have lost , yet I think , what I think , truth for to say , you do not likely ride out of your way , Why what dost thou think of me , quod our King merrily Passing thy judgement upon me so brief ? Good faith ( quoth the Miller ) I mean not to flatter thee , I guess thee to be but some Gentleman thief : stand thee back in the dark light thee not down , lest that I presently crack thy knaves crown . Thou dost abuse me much ( quoth our King ) saying thus I am a Gentleman , and lodging I lack : Thou hast not ( quoth the Miller ) one groat in thy purse , All thy inheritance hangs on thy back : I have gold to discharge all that I call , if it be forty pence I will pay all . If thou be'st a true man , then ( said the Miller ) I swear by my tole-dish I'll lodge thee all night , Here's my hand ( quoth our King ) that was I ever , Nay soft ( quoth the Miller ) thou mayest be a sprigh better I'll know thee ere hands I do shake , with none but honest men hands will I take . Thus they went all along unto the Millers house , Where they were seething of Puddings and Souse , The Miller first entered in , then after him the King , Never came he in so smoky a house : now ( quoth he ) let me see , here what you are , quoth our King look your fill and do not spare . I like well thy countenance , thou hast and honest face , With my son Richard this night thou shalt lie , Quoth his wife , by my troth , it is a handsome youth , Yet it is best ( quoth his wife ) for to deal warily , art not a run away I pray thee youth tell , show me thy Passport and all shall be well . Then our King presently making low courtesy , With his hat in his hand , thus he did say , I have no Passport , nor never was servitor , But a poor Courtier road out of my way . and for your kindness here offered to me , I will requite it in every degree . Then to the Miller his wife whispered secretly , Saying it seems this youth's of good kin , Both by his apparel , and eke by his manners , To turn him out certainly it were a great sin : you ( quoth he ) you may see he hath some grace , when he does speak to his betters in place . Well ( quod the Millers wife ) young man welcome here , And though I say it , well lodg'd thou shalt be Fresh straw I will have laid on your bed so brave , Good brown hempen sheets likewise ( quoth she ) I ( quoth the goodman ) and when that is done , you shall lie with no worse than our own son . Nay first ( quoth Richard ) good fellow tell me true , Hast any creepers within thy gay hose ? Or art thou not troubled with the Scabado ? I pray you ( quoth the King ) what things are those ? art thou not lousy , nor scabby ( quoth he ) if thou be'st surely thou liest not with me . This caus'd the King suddenly to laugh most heartily Till the tears trickled down from his eyes , Then to their supper were they set orderly , With a hight bag-pudding and good apple-pies : nappy-ale , good and stale , in a brown bowl : which did about the board merrily trowle . Here ( quoth the Miller ) good fellow I drink to thee , And to all the Courtnols that courteous be , I pledge ( quoth our King ) and thank you heartily , For your good welcome in every degree : and here in like manner I'll drink to your son , do so ( quoth Richard ) but quick let it come . Wife ( quoth the Miller ) fetch me forth lightfoot , That we of his sweetness a little may taste , A fair Venison pasty then brought she forth presently , Eat ( quoth the Miller ) but sir make no waste : here's dainty Lightfoot in faith then said our King , I never before eat so dainty a thing . I wis ( said Richard ) no dainty at all it is , For we do eat of it every day , In what place ( said our King ) may be bought like this , We never pay penny for it by my faith : from merry Sherwood we set it home here , now and then we make bold with our Kings Dear . Then I think ( said our King ) that it is Venison , Each fool , said Richard , full well may see that , Never are we without two or three in the roose , Very well fleshed and excellent fa but pray thee say nothing , where ere thou dost go , we would not for two pence the King should it know , Doubt not then , said our King , my promised secrecy , The King shall never know more on [ ' ] tO for me , A cup of Lambs wool , they drank unto him then , And then to bed they passed presently : the Nobles next morning went all up and down , for to seek out the King in every Town . At last at the Millers house soon they espy'd him plain As he was mounting upon his fair steed , To whom they came presently , falling down on their knees Which made the Millers heart woefully bleed : shaking and quaking before him he stood , thinking he should have him hang'd by the rood . The King perceiving him fearful and trembling , Drew forth his sword but nothing he said , The Miller down did fallen , crying before them all , Doubting the King would have cut off his head : but his kind courtesy there to requite , gave him a great living and made him a Knight . The second part of the Miller and the King : Showing how he came to the Court with his wife and Son : and what merry conceits passed between the King and him . WHen as our Noble King came home from Notting-ham , And with his Nobles in Westminster lay , Recounting the sports and pastimes they had taken , In this late progress [ s ] e along by the way : of them all , great and small , this did he protest , the Miller of Mansfields sport liked him best . And now my Lords quoth the King I am determined Against Saint Geoges next sumptuous feast , That this old Miller our last confirmed knight , With his son Richard shall both be my guest , for in this merriment 'tis my desire , to taike with the jolly Knight and the brave Squire . When as the Noblemen saw the Kings pleasantness , They were right joyful and glad in their hearts , A Pursuivant their was sent straight on the business , The which had many times been in those parts , when he came to the place where he did dwell , his message orderly then he did tell . God save your worship then said the Messenger , And grant your Lady her hearts desire : And to your son Richhrd good fortune and happiness , That sweet young Gentleman and gallant young Squire our King greets you all and thus he does say , you must come to the Court on S. Georges day . Therefore in any case , fail not to be in place , I wis ( quoth the Miller ) this is one odd jest , What should he do there he said , faith I am half afraid , I doubt quoth Richard be hang'd at the leas nay quoth the Messenger you do mistake , our King prepares a great feast for your sake . Then said the Miller now by my troth Messenger , Thou hast contentev my worshipful well , Hold here's three farthings to quit thy great gentleness For these happy tidings which thou dost me tell : let me see hear'st thou me , tell to our King , wee'l wait on his mastership in every thing . The Pursuivant smiled at their simplicity , And making many legs took their reward , And taking then his leave with great humility , To the Kings Court , again he repair'd , showing unto his Grace in each degree , the Knights most liberal gift and bounty . When as he was gone away , thus did the Miller say , Here comes expenses and charges indeed , Now we must needs be brave , though we spend all we have , For of new garments we have great need , of horses and servingmen we must have store , with bridles and saddles and twenty things more , Tush sir ( John quod his wife ) neither doe fret nor frown You shall be at no more charges for me : For I will turn and trim up my old Russet gown , With every thing as fine as may be : and on our Mil horses full swift we will ride , with pillows and panels as we shall provide , In this most stately sort , road they unto the Court , Their lusty son Richard foremost of all : Who set up by good hap , a Cocks feather in his Cap , And so they jetted down towards the Kings Hall , the merry old Miller with his hand on his side , his wife like Maid marrian did mince at that tide , The King and his Nobles , that herd of their coming Meeting this gallant Knight with his brave train , Welcome sir Knight ( quod he ) with this your gay Lady , Good sir John Cockle , once welcome again : and so is this Squire of courage so free , quoth Dicke abbots on you , do you know me ? Quoth our King gently , how should I forget thee , Thou wast mine own bedfellow well that I wot , But I do think on a trick tell me that prethe Dicke How we with farting did make the bed hight , thou whoreson happy knave , then quoth the Knight , speak cleanly to our King , or else go shite . The King and his Counsellors heartily laughed at this , While the King took them both by the hand , With Ladies & their maids , like to the Queen of spades , The Millers wife did so orderly stand , a milkmaids courtesy at every word , and down the folks were set at the side board , Where the King Royally , in princely Majesty , Sat at his dinner with joy and deligh When he had eaten well , to jesting then they fell , Taking a bowl of wine drank to the Knight , here's to you both he said , in wine ale , and beer , thanking you all for your Country cheer . Quoth sir John Cockle I'll pledge you a pottle , Were it the best ale in Nottinghamshire , But then said our King , I think of a thing , Some of your Lightfoot I would we had here : ho , ho , quoth Richard , full well I may say it , this knavery to eat it and then to bewray it . Why art thou angry quoth our King merrily ? In faith I take it very unkind , I thought thou wouldst pledge me in ale & wine heartily Y'are like to stay , quoth Dicke , till I have dinde : you feed us with twatling dishes so small , Zounds a black pudding is better than all . I marry , quoth our King , that were a dainty thing , If a man could get one here for to eat . With that Dicke , straight arose , & plucked one out of his hose Which with heat of his breech began to swea the King made proffer to snatch it away , 'tis meat for your Master , good sir you must stay . Thus with great merriment , was the time wholly spent And then the Ladies prepared to dance , Old sir John Cockle and Richard incontinent , Unto this practice the King did advance : here with the Ladies , such sport they did make , the Nobles with laughing did make their hearts ache Many thanks for their pains did the King give them then , Asking young Richard if he would wed , among these Ladies free , tell me which liketh thee , Quoth he , Jug Grumball with the read head : she's my Love , she's my life , she will I wed , she hath sworn I shall have her Maidenhead . Then sir John Cockle , the King called unto him , And of merry Sherwood makemade him Overseer , And gave him out of hand , three hundred pound yearly , But now take heed you steel no more of my Dear , and once a quarter let's here have your view , and thus sir John Cockle I bid you adieu . Printed at London for E. Wright , dwelling at Christ-Church Gate . FINIS . , Tush sir ( John quod his wife ) neither doe fret nor frown You shall be at no more charges for me : For I will turn and trim up my old Russet gown , With every thing as fine as may be : and on our Mil horses full swift we will ride , with pillows and panels as we shall provide , In this most stately sort , road they unto the Court , Their lusty son Richard foremost of all : Who set up by good hap , a Cocks feather in his Cap , And so they jetted down towards the Kings Hall , the merry old Miller with his hand on his side , his wife like Maid marrian did mince at that tide , The King and his Nobles , that herd of their coming Meeting this gallant Knight with his brave train , Welcome sir Knight ( quod he ) with this your gay Lady , Good sir John Cockle , once welcome again : and so is this Squire of courage so free , quoth Dicke abbots on you , do you know me ? Quoth our King gently , how should I forget thee , Thou wast mine own bedfellow well that I wot , But I do think on a trick tell me that prethe Dicke How we with farting did make the bed hight , thou whoreson happy knave , then quoth the Knight , speak cleanly to our King , or else go shite . The King and his Counsellors heartily laughed at this , While the King took them both by the hand , With Ladies & their maids , like to the Queen of spades , The Millers wife did so orderly stand , a milkmaids courtesy at every word , and down the folks were set at the side board , Where the King Royally , in princely Majesty , Sat at his dinner with joy and deligh When he had eaten well , to jesting then they fell , Taking a bowl of wine drank to the Knight , here's to you both he said , in wine ale , and beer , thanking you all for your Country cheer . Quoth sir John Cockle I'll pledge you a pottle , Were it the best ale in Nottinghamshire , But then said our King , I think of a thing , Some of your Lightfoot I would we had here : ho , ho , quoth Richard , full well I may say it , this knavery to eat it and then to bewray it . Why art thou angry quoth our King merrily ? In faith I take it very unkind , I thought thou wouldst pledge me in ale & wine heartily Y'are like to stay , quoth Dicke , till I have dinde : you feed us with twatling dishes so small , Zounds a black pudding is better than all . I marry , quoth our King , that were a dainty thing , If a man could get one here for to eat . With that Dicke , straight arose , & plucked one out of his hose Which with heat of his breech began to swea the King made proffer to snatch it away , 'tis meat for your Master , good sir you must stay . Thus with great merriment , was the time wholly spent And then the Ladies prepared to dance , Old sir John Cockle and Richard incontinent , Unto this practice the King did advance : here with the Ladies , such sport they did make , the Nobles with laughing did make their hearts ache Many thanks for their pains did the King give them then , Asking young Richard if he would wed , among these Ladies free , tell me which liketh thee , Quoth he , Jug Grumball with the read head : she's my Love , she's my life , she will I wed , she hath sworn I shall have her Maidenhead . Then sir John Cockle , the King called unto him , And of merry Sherwood makemade him Overseer , And gave him out of hand , three hundred pound yearly , But now take heed you steel no more of my Dear , and once a quarter let's here have your view , and thus sir John Cockle I bid you adieu . Printed at London for E. Wright , dwelling at Christ-Church Gate . FINIS . 