The merry conceited Lass , Whose hearts desire was set on fire , A husband for to have ; In hope that he would certainly , Maintain her fine and brave . To a pleasant new Northern tune . I Am a young woman and feign I would have , to ra la tal da rat de ra do , A husband that will maintain me brave , This that which my heart does wish and crave , te ra la la te ra la la tal da rat de ra do . And if I have a husband kind , te ra la tal da rat de ra do , That gives content unto my mind , A courteous wife he shall me find . te ra la la te ra la la tal da rat de ra do . But if my husband froward be , te ra la tal da rat de ra do , The same bred he does break to me , He shall eat part ont presently . te ra la la te ra la la tal da rat de ra do . And if my husband use to room , te ra la tal da rat de ra do , He shall not keep me like a mome , He were better to stay with me at home . te ra la la te ra la la tal da rat de ra do . And if my husband keeps me bore , te ra la tal da rat de ra do , With thread bore clothes and hungry fare , The worst will fallen to his own share . te ra la la te ra la la tal da rat de ra do . And if my husband use me well , te ra la tal da rat de ra do , Of his deserts my tongue shall tell , How that in love he does excel , te ra la la te ra la la tal da rat de ra do . If he buy me new hat and gown , te ra la tal da rat de ra do , That I may flaunt it up and down , With some of the bravest in the town . te ra la la te ra la la tal da rat de ra do . The second part To the same tune . ANd if he does abuse my name , te ra la tal da rat de ra do , I will not greatly his words blame , For I am as like to do the same . te ra la la , te ra la la , tal da rat de ra do . But if he ply the good ale pot , te ra la tal da rat de ra do , And have no money to pay the shot , But come home like a drunken sot , te ra la la , te ra la la , tal de rat de ra do . And if he chance to bang my coat , te ra la tal da rat de ra do , So that he do not hurt my threat , Then will I sing a pleasant note , te ra la la , te ra la la , tal da rat de ra do . But if he come home foxt to bed , te ra la tal da rat de ra do , I will not strive to wrong his head , Though by the foretop he is led , te ra la la , te ra la la , tal da rat de ra do , And if my husband catch a fallen , te ra la tal da rat de ra do , I hope he will keep him from the wall , If he have a staff to hold withal . te ra la la , te ra la la , tal da rat de ra do . And if my husband will be drunk , te ra la tal da rat de ra do , And loves the company of a punk , Until he be in liquour sunk . te ra la la , te ra la la , tal da rat de ra do , If any young man be weary of his life , te ra la tal da rat de ra do , Let him make choice of me for his wife , And there is and end of all the strife . te ra la la , te ra la la , tal da rat de ra do . FINIS . L.P. Printed at London for Thomas Lam - bert , at the sign of the Horse-shoo in Smithfield . The merry conceited Lass , Whose hearts desire was set on fire , A husband for to have ; In hope that he would certainly , Maintain her fine and brave . To a pleasant new Northern tune . I Am a young woman and feign I would have , to ra la tal da rat de ra do , A husband that will maintain me brave , This that which my heart does wish and crave , te ra la la te ra la la tal da rat de ra do . And if I have a husband kind , te ra la tal da rat de ra do , That gives content unto my mind , A courteous wife he shall me find . te ra la la te ra la la tal da rat de ra do . But if my husband froward be , te ra la tal da rat de ra do , The same bred he does break to me , He shall eat part ont presently . te ra la la te ra la la tal da rat de ra do . And if my husband use to room , te ra la tal da rat de ra do , He shall not keep me like a mome , He were better to stay with me at home . te ra la la te ra la la tal da rat de ra do . And if my husband keeps me bore , te ra la tal da rat de ra do , With thread bore clothes and hungry fare , The worst will fallen to his own share . te ra la la te ra la la tal da rat de ra do . And if my husband use me well , te ra la tal da rat de ra do , Of his deserts my tongue shall tell , How that in love he does excel , te ra la la te ra la la tal da rat de ra do . If he buy me new hat and gown , te ra la tal da rat de ra do , That I may flaunt it up and down , With some of the bravest in the town . te ra la la te ra la la tal da rat de ra do . The second part To the same tune . ANd if he does abuse my name , te ra la tal da rat de ra do , I will not greatly his words blame , For I am as like to do the same . te ra la la , te ra la la , tal da rat de ra do . But if he ply the good ale pot , te ra la tal da rat de ra do , And have no money to pay the shot , But come home like a drunken sot , te ra la la , te ra la la , tal de rat de ra do . And if he chance to bang my coat , te ra la tal da rat de ra do , So that he do not hurt my threat , Then will I sing a pleasant note , te ra la la , te ra la la , tal da rat de ra do . But if he come home foxt to bed , te ra la tal da rat de ra do , I will not strive to wrong his head , Though by the foretop he is led , te ra la la , te ra la la , tal da rat de ra do , And if my husband catch a fallen , te ra la tal da rat de ra do , I hope he will keep him from the wall , If he have a staff to hold withal . te ra la la , te ra la la , tal da rat de ra do . And if my husband will be drunk , te ra la tal da rat de ra do , And loves the company of a punk , Until he be in liquour sunk . te ra la la , te ra la la , tal da rat de ra do , If any young man be weary of his life , te ra la tal da rat de ra do , Let him make choice of me for his wife , And there is and end of all the strife . te ra la la , te ra la la , tal da rat de ra do . FINIS . L.P. Printed at London for Thomas Lam - bert , at the sign of the Horse-shoo in Smithfield . 