The Merchant's Daughter of Bristow . To the Tune of The Maidens Joy . BEhold the Touchstone of true love , Maudlin the Merchants daughter of Bristow town , Whose firm affection nothing could move : This favour bears the lovely brown . A gallant youth was dwelling by , Which many years had born this Lady great good will , She loved him so faithfully , But all her friends withstood it still . The young man now perceiving well , He could not get nor win the favour of her friends , The force of sorrow to expel , To view strange Countries' he intends , And now to take his last farewell , Of his true love , his fair and constant Maudlin , With music sweet that did excel , He plays under her window then . ( Farewell quoth he ) mine own true love , Farewell my deer and chiefest treasure of my heart , Through fortune's spite that false did prove , I am inforc'd from thee to par Into the land of Italy : There will I wail and weary out my days in woe , Seeing my true Love is kept from me , I hold my life a mortal foe . Fair Bristow town therefore adieu , For Padua shall be my habitation now , Although my love does lodge in thee , To whom alone my heart I vow . With trickling tears this he did sing , With sighs and sobs descending from his heart full soar , He said when he his hands did wring , Farewell sweet love for evermore . Fair Maudlin from a window nigh , Beholding her true Love with Music where he stood , But not a word she durst reply , Fearing her Parents angry mood . In tears she spent this doleful night , Wishing ( though naked ) with her faithful friend , She blames her friends and fortune's spite , That wrought their loves such luckless end . And in her heart she made a vow , Clean to forsake her Country and her kinsfolks all , And for to follow her true Love , To hide all chance that might befall . The night is gone and the day is come , And in the morning very early she did rise : She gets her down in a lower room , Where sundry Seamen she espies . A gallant Master among them all , ( The Master of a fair and goodly ship was he , ) Who there stood waiting in the Hall , To speak with her Father if it might be . She kindly takes him by the hand , Good sir ( said she ) and would you speak with any here , Quoth he , fair Maid therefore I stand , Then gentle sir I pray you draw near , Into a pleasant Parlour by , With hand in hand she brings the Seaman all alone , Sighing to him most piteously She thus to him did make her moan . She falls upon her tender knee , Good sir ( she said ) now pity you a woman's woe , And prove a faithful friend to me , That I my grief to you may show , Sith you repose your trust , he said , To me that am unknown , and eke a stranger here , Be you assur'd most proper maid , Most faithful still I will appear . I have a Brother then quoth she , Whom as my life I love , and favour tenderly , In Padua ( alas ) is he , Full sick God wot , and like to die . And feign I would my Brother see , But that my Father will not yield to let me go : Wherefore good sir be good to me , And unto me this favour show . Some ship-bois garment bring to me , That I disguis'd may go away from hence unknown , And unto Sea I'll go with thee , If thus much favoar may be shown . Fair Maid ( quoth he ) take here my hand , I will fulfil each tO [ h ] ing that you desire , And set you safe in that same Land , And in that place that you require . She gave him then a tender kiss , And says , your servant gallant Master will I be , And prove your faithful friend for this , Sweet Master then forget not me . This done as they had both decreed , Soon after ( early ) before the break of day , He brings her garments then with speed , Wherein she does her self array , And ere her Father did arise , She meets her Master as he walks in the Hall , She did attend on him likewise , Even till her Father did him call . But ere the Merchant made and end , Of all the matters to the master he could say , His wife came weeping in with speed , Saying , our Daughter is gone away . The Merchant thus amaz'd in mind , Yonder vile wretch intic'd away my child , quoth he , But well I wot I shall him find , At Padua in Italy . With that bespoke the Master brave , Worshipful Master thither goes this pretty youth , And any thing that you would have , He will perform it , and write the truth . Sweet youth ( quoth he ) if it be so , Bear me a letter to the English Merchants there , And gold on thee I will bestow , My Daughters welfare I do fear , Her M [ oh ] there takes her by the hand , Fair youth ( quod she ) if there thou dost my daughter see , Let me thereof soon understand , And the [ r ] e is twenty Crowns for thee . Thus through the Daughters strange disguise , The Mother knew not when she spoke unto her Child , And after her Master straight she hies , Taking her leave with countenance mild . Thus to the Sea fair Maud [ l ] in is gone , With her gentle Master , God send them a merry wind , Where we a while must let them alone , Till you the second part do find . The second part , To the same tune . WElcome sweet Maudlin from the Sea , Where bitter storms and tempests do arise , The pleasant banks of Italy , we may behold with mortal eyes . Thanks gentle Master then quoth she , A faithful friend in sorrow hast thou been , If fortune once does smile on me , My thankful heart shall well be seen . Blessed be the Land that feeds my Love , Blessed be the place whereas his person does abide , No trial will I stick to prove , Whereby my true Love may be tried . Now will I walk witd joyful heart , To view the Town whereas my darling does remain And seek him out in every part ; Until I do his sighed attain . And I quoth he will not forsake , Sweet Maudlin in her sorrow up and down , In wealth and woe thy part I'll take And bring thee safe to Padua town . And after many weary steps , In Padua they safely arrive at last , For very joy her heart it leaps , She thinks not of her sorrows past . Condemned to die he was alas , Except he would from his Religion turn , But rather then he would to Mass , In fiery flames he vow'd to burn . Now does Maudlin weep and wail , Her joy is changed to weeping , sorrow grief , and care , But nothing could her plaints prevail , For death alone must be his share She walked under the prison walls , Where her true love does lie and languish in distress , Most woefully for food he calls , When hunger did his heart oppress . He sighs and sobs , and makes great moan . Farewell he said sweet England now for evermore , And all my friends that have me known , In Bristow town with wealth and store . But most of all farewell quoth he , My own true Love , sweet Maudlin , whom I left behind , For never more I shall see thee , Woe to thy Father , most unkind . How well were I if thou wertenberg here , With thy fair hands to close up these wretched eyes , My torments easy would appear , My soul with joy shall scale the skies . When Maudlin herd her Lovers moan , Her eyes with tears , her heart with sorrow filled , To speak with him no means is known , Such grievous doom on him did pass . Then she cast off her lads attire , A Maidens weed upon her back she seemly set , To the Judges house she did inquire , And there she did a service get . She did her duty there so well . And eke so prudently she did her self behave , With her in love her Master fell , His servants favour he does crave . Maudlin quoth he , my hearts delight , To whom my heart in affection is tied , Breed not my death through thy despite , A faithful friend I will be tried . Grant me thy love , fair maid quoth he , And at my hands require what thou canst devise , And I will grant it unto thee . Whereby thy credit may arise , I have a Brother , sir , she said , For his Religion is now condemned to Die , In loathsome prison he is laid , Oppressed with grief and misery . Grant me my Brother's life , she said , And to you my love and liking will I give , That may not be quoth he fair maid , Except he turn , he cannot live . And English Friar there is she said , Of Learning great , and passing pure of Life , Let him to my brother be sent , And he will finish soon the strife . Her Master hearing this request , The Mariner in Friars weed she did array , And to her Love that lay distressed , She did The Merchant's Daughter of Bristow . To the Tune of The Maidens Joy . BEhold the Touchstone of true love , Maudlin the Merchants daughter of Bristow town , Whose firm affection nothing could move : This favour bears the lovely brown . A gallant youth was dwelling by , Which many years had born this Lady great good will , She loved him so faithfully , But all her friends withstood it still . The young man now perceiving well , He could not get nor win the favour of her friends , The force of sorrow to expel , To view strange Countries' he intends , And now to take his last farewell , Of his true love , his fair and constant Maudlin , With music sweet that did excel , He plays under her window then . ( Farewell quoth he ) mine own true love , Farewell my deer and chiefest treasure of my heart , Through fortune's spite that false did prove , I am inforc'd from thee to par Into the land of Italy : There will I wail and weary out my days in woe , Seeing my true Love is kept from me , I hold my life a mortal foe . Fair Bristow town therefore adieu , For Padua shall be my habitation now , Although my love does lodge in thee , To whom alone my heart I vow . With trickling tears this he did sing , With sighs and sobs descending from his heart full soar , He said when he his hands did wring , Farewell sweet love for evermore . Fair Maudlin from a window nigh , Beholding her true Love with Music where he stood , But not a word she durst reply , Fearing her Parents angry mood . In tears she spent this doleful night , Wishing ( though naked ) with her faithful friend , She blames her friends and fortune's spite , That wrought their loves such luckless end . And in her heart she made a vow , Clean to forsake her Country and her kinsfolks all , And for to follow her true Love , To hide all chance that might befall . The night is gone and the day is come , And in the morning very early she did rise : She gets her down in a lower room , Where sundry Seamen she espies . A gallant Master among them all , ( The Master of a fair and goodly ship was he , ) Who there stood waiting in the Hall , To speak with her Father if it might be . She kindly takes him by the hand , Good sir ( said she ) and would you speak with any here , Quoth he , fair Maid therefore I stand , Then gentle sir I pray you draw near , Into a pleasant Parlour by , With hand in hand she brings the Seaman all alone , Sighing to him most piteously She thus to him did make her moan . She falls upon her tender knee , Good sir ( she said ) now pity you a woman's woe , And prove a faithful friend to me , That I my grief to you may show , Sith you repose your trust , he said , To me that am unknown , and eke a stranger here , Be you assur'd most proper maid , Most faithful still I will appear . I have a Brother then quoth she , Whom as my life I love , and favour tenderly , In Padua ( alas ) is he , Full sick God wot , and like to die . And feign I would my Brother see , But that my Father will not yield to let me go : Wherefore good sir be good to me , And unto me this favour show . Some ship-bois garment bring to me , That I disguis'd may go away from hence unknown , And unto Sea I'll go with thee , If thus much favoar may be shown . Fair Maid ( quoth he ) take here my hand , I will fulfil each tO [ h ] ing that you desire , And set you safe in that same Land , And in that place that you require . She gave him then a tender kiss , And says , your servant gallant Master will I be , And prove your faithful friend for this , Sweet Master then forget not me . This done as they had both decreed , Soon after ( early ) before the break of day , He brings her garments then with speed , Wherein she does her self array , And ere her Father did arise , She meets her Master as he walks in the Hall , She did attend on him likewise , Even till her Father did him call . But ere the Merchant made and end , Of all the matters to the master he could say , His wife came weeping in with speed , Saying , our Daughter is gone away . The Merchant thus amaz'd in mind , Yonder vile wretch intic'd away my child , quoth he , But well I wot I shall him find , At Padua in Italy . With that bespoke the Master brave , Worshipful Master thither goes this pretty youth , And any thing that you would have , He will perform it , and write the truth . Sweet youth ( quoth he ) if it be so , Bear me a letter to the English Merchants there , And gold on thee I will bestow , My Daughters welfare I do fear , Her M [ oh ] there takes her by the hand , Fair youth ( quod she ) if there thou dost my daughter see , Let me thereof soon understand , And the [ r ] e is twenty Crowns for thee . Thus through the Daughters strange disguise , The Mother knew not when she spoke unto her Child , And after her Master straight she hies , Taking her leave with countenance mild . Thus to the Sea fair Maud [ l ] in is gone , With her gentle Master , God send them a merry wind , Where we a while must let them alone , Till you the second part do find . The second part , To the same tune . WElcome sweet Maudlin from the Sea , Where bitter storms and tempests do arise , The pleasant banks of Italy , we may behold with mortal eyes . Thanks gentle Master then quoth she , A faithful friend in sorrow hast thou been , If fortune once does smile on me , My thankful heart shall well be seen . Blessed be the Land that feeds my Love , Blessed be the place whereas his person does abide , No trial will I stick to prove , Whereby my true Love may be tried . Now will I walk witd joyful heart , To view the Town whereas my darling does remain And seek him out in every part ; Until I do his sighed attain . And I quoth he will not forsake , Sweet Maudlin in her sorrow up and down , In wealth and woe thy part I'll take And bring thee safe to Padua town . And after many weary steps , In Padua they safely arrive at last , For very joy her heart it leaps , She thinks not of her sorrows past . Condemned to die he was alas , Except he would from his Religion turn , But rather then he would to Mass , In fiery flames he vow'd to burn . Now does Maudlin weep and wail , Her joy is changed to weeping , sorrow grief , and care , But nothing could her plaints prevail , For death alone must be his share She walked under the prison walls , Where her true love does lie and languish in distress , Most woefully for food he calls , When hunger did his heart oppress . He sighs and sobs , and makes great moan . Farewell he said sweet England now for evermore , And all my friends that have me known , In Bristow town with wealth and store . But most of all farewell quoth he , My own true Love , sweet Maudlin , whom I left behind , For never more I shall see thee , Woe to thy Father , most unkind . How well were I if thou wertenberg here , With thy fair hands to close up these wretched eyes , My torments easy would appear , My soul with joy shall scale the skies . When Maudlin herd her Lovers moan , Her eyes with tears , her heart with sorrow filled , To speak with him no means is known , Such grievous doom on him did pass . Then she cast off her lads attire , A Maidens weed upon her back she seemly set , To the Judges house she did inquire , And there she did a service get . She did her duty there so well . And eke so prudently she did her self behave , With her in love her Master fell , His servants favour he does crave . Maudlin quoth he , my hearts delight , To whom my heart in affection is tied , Breed not my death through thy despite , A faithful friend I will be tried . Grant me thy love , fair maid quoth he , And at my hands require what thou canst devise , And I will grant it unto thee . Whereby thy credit may arise , I have a Brother , sir , she said , For his Religion is now condemned to Die , In loathsome prison he is laid , Oppressed with grief and misery . Grant me my Brother's life , she said , And to you my love and liking will I give , That may not be quoth he fair maid , Except he turn , he cannot live . And English Friar there is she said , Of Learning great , and passing pure of Life , Let him to my brother be sent , And he will finish soon the strife . Her Master hearing this request , The Mariner in Friars weed she did array , And to her Love that lay distressed , She did a letter straight convey . When he had read these gentle lines , His heart was ravished with sudden joy , Where now she was full well he knew , The Friar likewise was not coy , But did declare to him at large , The enterprise his Love for him had taken in hand : The young man did the Friar charge , His Love should straight depart the Land : Here is no place for her he said , But woeful death , and danger of her harmless life [ e ] Professing Truth , I was betrayed , And fearful flames must end my strife : For ere I will my Faith deny , And swear my self to follow damned Antichrist , I'll yield my body for to die , To live in heaven with the Highest , Oh sir , the gentle Friar said , For your sweet Love , recant and save your wished l [ ife ] A woeful match quoth he is made , Where Christ is lost to win a Wife . When she had wrought all means that might , To save her friend , and that she saw it would not b [ e ] Then of the Judge she claimed her right , To die the death as well as he . When no persuasion could prevail , Nor change her mind in any thing that she had said She was with him condemned to die . And for them both one fire was made , And arm in arm most joyfully , These Lovers twaine unto the fire they did go , The Mariner most faithfully , Was likewise partner of their woe . But when the Judges understood , The faithful friendship did in them remain , They saved their lives , and afterwards , To England sent them home again . Now was their sorrow turned to joy , And faithful Lovers had now their hearts desire , Their pains so well they did employ , God granted that they did require . And when they were to England come ; And in merry Bristow arrived at the last , Great joy there was to all and some , That herd the dangers they had passed . Her Gentle Master she desired , To be her Father , and at the Church to give her then , it was fulfilled , as she required , Unto the joy of all good men . a letter straight convey . When he had read these gentle lines , His heart was ravished with sudden joy , Where now she was full well he knew , The Friar likewise was not coy , But did declare to him at large , The enterprise his Love for him had taken in hand : The young man did the Friar charge , His Love should straight depart the Land : Here is no place for her he said , But woeful death , and danger of her harmless life [ e ] Professing Truth , I was betrayed , And fearful flames must end my strife : For ere I will my Faith deny , And swear my self to follow damned Antichrist , I'll yield my body for to die , To live in heaven with the Highest , Oh sir , the gentle Friar said , For your sweet Love , recant and save your wished l [ ife ] A woeful match quoth he is made , Where Christ is lost to win a Wife . When she had wrought all means that might , To save her friend , and that she saw it would not b [ e ] Then of the Judge she claimed her right , To die the death as well as he . When no persuasion could prevail , Nor change her mind in any thing that she had said She was with him condemned to die . And for them both one fire was made , And arm in arm most joyfully , These Lovers twaine unto the fire they did go , The Mariner most faithfully , Was likewise partner of their woe . But when the Judges understood , The faithful friendship did in them remain , They saved their lives , and afterwards , To England sent them home again . Now was their sorrow turned to joy , And faithful Lovers had now their hearts desire , Their pains so well they did employ , God granted that they did require . And when they were to England come ; And in merry Bristow arrived at the last , Great joy there was to all and some , That herd the dangers they had passed . Her Gentle Master she desired , To be her Father , and at the Church to give her then , it was fulfilled , as she required , Unto the joy of all good men . 