The Maids Comfort OR , The kind young Man , who , as many have said , Sweet comfort did yield to a comfortless Maid . To a pleasant new Tune . Down in a Garden sits my dearest Love , Her skin more white then is the Down of Swan , More tender-hearted then the Turtle-Dove , And far more kind then is the Pelican : I courted her ; she blushing , rose and said , Why was I born to live and die a Maid ? If that be all your grief , my Sweet , said I , I soon shall ease you of your care and pain , Yielding a mean to cure your misery , That you no more shall cause have to complain : Then be content , Sweating , to her I said , Be rul'd by me , thou shalt not die a Maid . A Medicine for thy grief I can procure , Then wail no more ( my Sweet ) in discontent , My love to thee for ever shall endure , I'll give no cause whereby thou shouldst repent The Match we make : for I will constant prove To thee my Sweating , and my dearest Love . Then sighs no more , but wipe thy watery eyes , Be not perplexed , my Honey , at the heart , Thy beauty does my heart and thoughts surprise , Then yield me love , to end my burning smar Shrink not from me , my bonny Love , I said , For I have vow'd , thou shalt not die a Maid . Pity it were , so fair a one as you , Adorn'd with Nature's chiefest Ornaments , Should languish thus in pain , I tell you true ; Yielding in love , all danger still prevents : Then seem not coy , nor Love be not afraid , But yield to me , thou shalt not die a Maid . Yield me some comfort , Sweating , I entreat , For I am now tormented at the heart , My affection's pure , my love to thee is great , Which makes me thus my thoughts to thee impar I love thee deer , and shall do evermore , Oh pity me , for love I now implore . For her I plucked a pretty Marigold , Whose leaves shut up even with the Evening Sun , Saying , Sweetheart , look now and do behold A pretty Riddle here in't to be shown : This Leaf shut in , even like a Cloistered Nun , Yet will it open , when it feels the Sun . What mean you by this Riddle , Sir , she said : I pray expound it . Then he thus began : Women were made for Men , and Men for Maids : With that , she chang'd her colour , and looked wan . Since you this Riddle to me so well have told , Be you my Sun , I'll be your Marigold . The Second part . To the same Tune . I Gave consent , and thereto did agree To sport with her within that lovely Bower : I pleased her , and she likewise pleas'd me , Jove found such pleasures in a Golden Shower . Our Sports being ended , then she blushing , said , I have my wish , for now I am no Maid . But , Sir ( quoth she ) from me you must not part , Your company so well I do affect , My love you have , now you have won my heart , Your loving self for ever I respec Then go not from me , gentle Sir , quoth she , This death to part , my gentle Love , from thee . The kindness you , good Sir , to me have shown , Shall never be forgotten , while Life remains : Grant me thy love , and I will be thine own , Yield her relief , that now for love complains : Oh leave me not , to languish in despair , But stay with me , to ease my heart of care . Your Marigold for ever I will be , Be you my Sun , this all I do desire , Your heating Beams yield comfort unto me , My love to you is fervent and entire : Let yours , good Sir , I pray be so to me , For I hold you my chief felicity . Content within your company I find , Yield me some comfort , gentle Sir , I pray , To ease my grief and my tormented mind ; My love is firm , and never shall decay : So constant still ( my Sweet ) I'll prove to you , Loyal in thoughts , my love shall still be true . Content thy self ( quoth he ) my only Dear , In love to thee I will remain as pure As Turtle to her Mate ; to thee I swear , My constant love for ever shall endure : Then weep no more , sweet comfort I'll thee yield , Thy beauteous Face my heart with love hath fill'd . Comfort she found , and straight was made a Wife , It was the only thing she did desire : And she enjoys a Man loves her as Life , And will do ever , till his date expire . And this for truth , report hath to me told , He is her Sun , and she his Marigold . FINIS . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcocke . The Maids Comfort OR , The kind young Man , who , as many have said , Sweet comfort did yield to a comfortless Maid . To a pleasant new Tune . Down in a Garden sits my dearest Love , Her skin more white then is the Down of Swan , More tender-hearted then the Turtle-Dove , And far more kind then is the Pelican : I courted her ; she blushing , rose and said , Why was I born to live and die a Maid ? If that be all your grief , my Sweet , said I , I soon shall ease you of your care and pain , Yielding a mean to cure your misery , That you no more shall cause have to complain : Then be content , Sweating , to her I said , Be rul'd by me , thou shalt not die a Maid . A Medicine for thy grief I can procure , Then wail no more ( my Sweet ) in discontent , My love to thee for ever shall endure , I'll give no cause whereby thou shouldst repent The Match we make : for I will constant prove To thee my Sweating , and my dearest Love . Then sighs no more , but wipe thy watery eyes , Be not perplexed , my Honey , at the heart , Thy beauty does my heart and thoughts surprise , Then yield me love , to end my burning smar Shrink not from me , my bonny Love , I said , For I have vow'd , thou shalt not die a Maid . Pity it were , so fair a one as you , Adorn'd with Nature's chiefest Ornaments , Should languish thus in pain , I tell you true ; Yielding in love , all danger still prevents : Then seem not coy , nor Love be not afraid , But yield to me , thou shalt not die a Maid . Yield me some comfort , Sweating , I entreat , For I am now tormented at the heart , My affection's pure , my love to thee is great , Which makes me thus my thoughts to thee impar I love thee deer , and shall do evermore , Oh pity me , for love I now implore . For her I plucked a pretty Marigold , Whose leaves shut up even with the Evening Sun , Saying , Sweetheart , look now and do behold A pretty Riddle here in't to be shown : This Leaf shut in , even like a Cloistered Nun , Yet will it open , when it feels the Sun . What mean you by this Riddle , Sir , she said : I pray expound it . Then he thus began : Women were made for Men , and Men for Maids : With that , she chang'd her colour , and looked wan . Since you this Riddle to me so well have told , Be you my Sun , I'll be your Marigold . The Second part . To the same Tune . I Gave consent , and thereto did agree To sport with her within that lovely Bower : I pleased her , and she likewise pleas'd me , Jove found such pleasures in a Golden Shower . Our Sports being ended , then she blushing , said , I have my wish , for now I am no Maid . But , Sir ( quoth she ) from me you must not part , Your company so well I do affect , My love you have , now you have won my heart , Your loving self for ever I respec Then go not from me , gentle Sir , quoth she , This death to part , my gentle Love , from thee . The kindness you , good Sir , to me have shown , Shall never be forgotten , while Life remains : Grant me thy love , and I will be thine own , Yield her relief , that now for love complains : Oh leave me not , to languish in despair , But stay with me , to ease my heart of care . Your Marigold for ever I will be , Be you my Sun , this all I do desire , Your heating Beams yield comfort unto me , My love to you is fervent and entire : Let yours , good Sir , I pray be so to me , For I hold you my chief felicity . Content within your company I find , Yield me some comfort , gentle Sir , I pray , To ease my grief and my tormented mind ; My love is firm , and never shall decay : So constant still ( my Sweet ) I'll prove to you , Loyal in thoughts , my love shall still be true . Content thy self ( quoth he ) my only Dear , In love to thee I will remain as pure As Turtle to her Mate ; to thee I swear , My constant love for ever shall endure : Then weep no more , sweet comfort I'll thee yield , Thy beauteous Face my heart with love hath fill'd . Comfort she found , and straight was made a Wife , It was the only thing she did desire : And she enjoys a Man loves her as Life , And will do ever , till his date expire . And this for truth , report hath to me told , He is her Sun , and she his Marigold . FINIS . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcocke . 