The Map of Mock-beggar Hall , with his situation in the spacious Country , called , Anywhere . To the tune of It is not your Notherne Nanny : or Sweet is the Lass that Loves me . I Read in ancient times of yore , That men of worthy calling Built alms houses and Spittles store , Which now are all down falling : And few men seek them to repair , Nor is there one among twenty , That for good deeds will take any care , While mock beggar hall stands empty . Farm houses which their father's built , And Land well kept by tillage , Their Prodigal sons have sold for gilded , In every Town and village . To th' City and Court they do resort With gold and silver plenty , And there they spend their time in sport , While mock beggars hall stands empty . Young Landlords when to age they come , Their rends they will be racking , The tenant must give a golden sum , Or else he is turn'd packing , Great fines and double rend beside , Or else they'l not content be , It is to maintain their monstrous pride , While mock beggar hall stands empty . Their father's went in homely frees , And good plain broadcloth breeches , Their stockings with the same agrees , Sow'd on with good strong stitches . They were not then call'd Gentlemen , Though they had wealth great plenty , Now every gul's grown worshipful , While mock beggar hall stands empty . No gold nor silver parchment lace Was worn but by our Nobles , Nor would the honest harmless face , Wear Ruffs with so many doubles , Our bans were to our shirts sown then , Yet cloth was full as plenty , Now one band hath more cloth than ten , While mock beggar hall stands empty . Now we are Apes in imitation , The more indeed's the pity , The City follows the Strangers fashion , The Country follows the City , And ere one fashion is known throughout , Another they will invent ye , This all your gallants study about , While mock beggars hall stands empty . The second part , To the same tune . ME thinks it is a great reproach To those that are nobly descended , When for their pleasures cannot have a Coach , Wherewith they might be attended , But every beggarly Jacke and Gill That eat scant a good meal in twenty , Must thorough the streets be jolted still , While mock beggar hall stands empty . There's some are rattled thorough the streets , Probatum est , I tell it , Whose names are wrapped in parchment sheets , It grieves their hearts to spell it , They are not able two men to keep , With a coachman they must content be , Which at playhouse doors in his box lies asleep , While mock beggar hall stands empty . Our Gentlewomen whose means is nothing To that which they make show of , Must use all the fashions in their clothing , Which they can hear or know of , They take such care themselves to deck , That money is oft so scanty , The belly is forc'd to complain of the back , While mock beggar hall stands empty . It may well be that some will muse , Wherefore in this relation , The name of Mock beggar I do use , Without any explanation , To clear which doubt before I end , Because they shall all content be , To show the meaning I do intend , Of mock beggar hall still empty . Some Gentlemen and Citizens have In diverse eminent places , Erected houses rich and brave , Which stood for the owners graces , Let any poor to such a door Come , they expecting plenty , They there may ask till their throats are soar , For mock beggar hall stands empty . Thus in these times we can perceive Small charity comfort yielding , For pride does men of grace bereave , Not only in clothes but in building , Man makes the senseless stones and brick Which by heavens goodness lent be , Express his pride by those vain tricks , Thus mock beggar hall stands empty . Printed at London for Richard Harper , near to the Hospital gate in Smithfield . FINIS . The Map of Mock-beggar Hall , with his situation in the spacious Country , called , Anywhere . To the tune of It is not your Notherne Nanny : or Sweet is the Lass that Loves me . I Read in ancient times of yore , That men of worthy calling Built alms houses and Spittles store , Which now are all down falling : And few men seek them to repair , Nor is there one among twenty , That for good deeds will take any care , While mock beggar hall stands empty . Farm houses which their father's built , And Land well kept by tillage , Their Prodigal sons have sold for gilded , In every Town and village . To th' City and Court they do resort With gold and silver plenty , And there they spend their time in sport , While mock beggars hall stands empty . Young Landlords when to age they come , Their rends they will be racking , The tenant must give a golden sum , Or else he is turn'd packing , Great fines and double rend beside , Or else they'l not content be , It is to maintain their monstrous pride , While mock beggar hall stands empty . Their father's went in homely frees , And good plain broadcloth breeches , Their stockings with the same agrees , Sow'd on with good strong stitches . They were not then call'd Gentlemen , Though they had wealth great plenty , Now every gul's grown worshipful , While mock beggar hall stands empty . No gold nor silver parchment lace Was worn but by our Nobles , Nor would the honest harmless face , Wear Ruffs with so many doubles , Our bans were to our shirts sown then , Yet cloth was full as plenty , Now one band hath more cloth than ten , While mock beggar hall stands empty . Now we are Apes in imitation , The more indeed's the pity , The City follows the Strangers fashion , The Country follows the City , And ere one fashion is known throughout , Another they will invent ye , This all your gallants study about , While mock beggars hall stands empty . The second part , To the same tune . ME thinks it is a great reproach To those that are nobly descended , When for their pleasures cannot have a Coach , Wherewith they might be attended , But every beggarly Jacke and Gill That eat scant a good meal in twenty , Must thorough the streets be jolted still , While mock beggar hall stands empty . There's some are rattled thorough the streets , Probatum est , I tell it , Whose names are wrapped in parchment sheets , It grieves their hearts to spell it , They are not able two men to keep , With a coachman they must content be , Which at playhouse doors in his box lies asleep , While mock beggar hall stands empty . Our Gentlewomen whose means is nothing To that which they make show of , Must use all the fashions in their clothing , Which they can hear or know of , They take such care themselves to deck , That money is oft so scanty , The belly is forc'd to complain of the back , While mock beggar hall stands empty . It may well be that some will muse , Wherefore in this relation , The name of Mock beggar I do use , Without any explanation , To clear which doubt before I end , Because they shall all content be , To show the meaning I do intend , Of mock beggar hall still empty . Some Gentlemen and Citizens have In diverse eminent places , Erected houses rich and brave , Which stood for the owners graces , Let any poor to such a door Come , they expecting plenty , They there may ask till their throats are soar , For mock beggar hall stands empty . Thus in these times we can perceive Small charity comfort yielding , For pride does men of grace bereave , Not only in clothes but in building , Man makes the senseless stones and brick Which by heavens goodness lent be , Express his pride by those vain tricks , Thus mock beggar hall stands empty . Printed at London for Richard Harper , near to the Hospital gate in Smithfield . FINIS . 