The Milkmaids life : OR , A pretty new Ditty , Composed and pend , The praise of the Milking pail to defend . To a curious new tune called , The Milkmaids Dumps . YOu Rural goddesses that woods and fields possess Assist me with your skill , That may direct my quill more jocundly to express The mirth and delight , Both morning and night , on mountain or in dale , Of them who choose This trade to use , And through cold dews Do never refuse to carry the milking pail . The bravest Lasses gay , live not so merry as they , In honest civil sort , They make each other sport , as they trudge on their way : Come fair or foul weather They're fearful of neither , their courages never quail : In wet and dry Though winds be high And darke's the sky , They never deny to carry the milking pail . Their hearts are free from care , they never will despair : What ever them befall , They bravely bear out all & Fortune's frowns outdare . They pleasantly sing To welcome the spring , 'gainst heaven they never rail : If grass well grow Their thanks they show , And frost or snow They merrily go along with the milking pail . Base idleness they do scorn , they rise very early i'th morn , And walk into the field , Where pretty birds do yield brave music on every thorn . The Linet and Thrush Do sing on each bush , and the dulcid Nightingale Her note does strain In a jocund vain , To entertain That worthy train which carry the milking pail . The second part To the same tune . THeir labour does health preserve no Doctors rules they observe , While others too nice In taking their advice , look always as though they would starve , Their meat is digested , They never are molested , no sickness does them assail : Their time is spent In merriment , While limbs are lent They are content to carry the milking pail . Those Lasses nice and strange , that keep shops in the Exchange Fit pricking of clouts , And giving of flouts , they seldom abroad do range : Then comes the green sickness , And changes their likeness , all this is for want of good sale : But this not so As proof does show By them that go In frost and snow to carry the milking pail . If they any sweethearts have , that do their affection crave , Their privilege is this , Which many others miss , they can give them welcome brave With them they may walk , And pleasantly talk with a bottle of Wine or Ale : The gentle Cow Does them allow As they know how , God speed the blow , and bless the milking pail . Upon the first of May , with garlands fresh and gay , With mirth and music sweet For such a season meet they pass their time away : They dance away sorrow , And all the day thorough , their legs do never fail : They nimbly Their feet do ply , And bravely try The victory , in honour o'th milking pail . If any think that I do practice flattery , In seeking thus to raise The merry Milkmaids praise isle to them thus reply , It is their desert Inviteth my Art to study this pleasant tale , In their defence , Whose innocence And providence , Gets honest pence out of the milking pail . M.P. Printed at London for T. Lambert FINIS . The Milkmaids life : OR , A pretty new Ditty , Composed and pend , The praise of the Milking pail to defend . To a curious new tune called , The Milkmaids Dumps . YOu Rural goddesses that woods and fields possess Assist me with your skill , That may direct my quill more jocundly to express The mirth and delight , Both morning and night , on mountain or in dale , Of them who choose This trade to use , And through cold dews Do never refuse to carry the milking pail . The bravest Lasses gay , live not so merry as they , In honest civil sort , They make each other sport , as they trudge on their way : Come fair or foul weather They're fearful of neither , their courages never quail : In wet and dry Though winds be high And darke's the sky , They never deny to carry the milking pail . Their hearts are free from care , they never will despair : What ever them befall , They bravely bear out all & Fortune's frowns outdare . They pleasantly sing To welcome the spring , 'gainst heaven they never rail : If grass well grow Their thanks they show , And frost or snow They merrily go along with the milking pail . Base idleness they do scorn , they rise very early i'th morn , And walk into the field , Where pretty birds do yield brave music on every thorn . The Linet and Thrush Do sing on each bush , and the dulcid Nightingale Her note does strain In a jocund vain , To entertain That worthy train which carry the milking pail . The second part To the same tune . THeir labour does health preserve no Doctors rules they observe , While others too nice In taking their advice , look always as though they would starve , Their meat is digested , They never are molested , no sickness does them assail : Their time is spent In merriment , While limbs are lent They are content to carry the milking pail . Those Lasses nice and strange , that keep shops in the Exchange Fit pricking of clouts , And giving of flouts , they seldom abroad do range : Then comes the green sickness , And changes their likeness , all this is for want of good sale : But this not so As proof does show By them that go In frost and snow to carry the milking pail . If they any sweethearts have , that do their affection crave , Their privilege is this , Which many others miss , they can give them welcome brave With them they may walk , And pleasantly talk with a bottle of Wine or Ale : The gentle Cow Does them allow As they know how , God speed the blow , and bless the milking pail . Upon the first of May , with garlands fresh and gay , With mirth and music sweet For such a season meet they pass their time away : They dance away sorrow , And all the day thorough , their legs do never fail : They nimbly Their feet do ply , And bravely try The victory , in honour o'th milking pail . If any think that I do practice flattery , In seeking thus to raise The merry Milkmaids praise isle to them thus reply , It is their desert Inviteth my Art to study this pleasant tale , In their defence , Whose innocence And providence , Gets honest pence out of the milking pail . M.P. Printed at London for T. Lambert FINIS . 