The Mad-Mans Morrice . Wherein you shall find His trouble and grief , and discontent of his mind , A warning to young men to have a care , How they in love entangled are . To a pleasant new Tune . HEard you not lately of a man , That went beside his wits , And naked through the streets he ran , Wrapped in his frantic fits ? My honest neighbours it is I , Hark how the people flout me : See where the mad man comes they cry , With all the Boys about me . Into a pond stark nak'd I ran And cast my clothes away Sir , Without the help of any man Made shift to run away Sir , How I god out , I have forgotten , I do not well remember , Or whither it was cold or hight , In June , or in December , Tom Bedlam's but a Sage to me , I speak in sober sadness , For more strange visions do I see , Then he in all his madness . When first this chance to me befell , About the market walked I , With Capons feathers in my cap , And to my self thus talked I . Did you not see my Love of late , Like Titan in her glory ? Do you not know she is my mate , And I must write her story , With pen of gold on silver leaf , I will so much befriend her ; For why , I am of this belief , None can so well commend her . Saw you not Angels in her eyes , While that she was a speaking , Smelled you not smells like Paradise , Between two Rubies breaking ? Is not her hair more pure then gold , Or finest Spiders spinning ? Me thinks , in her I do behold , My joys and woes beginning . Is not a dimple in her cheek , Each eye a star thats starting , Is not all grace install'd in her , Each step all joys imparting ? Me thinks I see her in a Cloud , With graces round about her : To them I cry and call aloud I cannot live without her . The second part to the same tune . THen raging towards the Sky I roar , Thinking to catch her hand , Oh then to love I call and cry , To let me by her stand , I look behind and there I see My shadow me beguile , And wish she were as near to me , Which makes my worship smile . There is no creature can compare With my beloved Nancy . Thus I built castles in the air , This is the fruits of fancy : My thoughts mount high above the Sky , Of none I stand in aw , Although my body here do lie Upon a pad of straw . I was as good a harmless youth Before base Cupid caught me , Or his own mother with her charms Into this cage had brought me , Stripped and whipped now must I be In Bedlam bound with chains : Good people all , now you may see What love hath for his pains . When I was young as others are With Gallants did I flourish , Oh then was I the properest Lad That was in all the Parish ! The bracelets which I us'd to wear About my arm so tender Are turned now to iron plataeae , About my body slender . My silken Suits do now decay , My caps of gold are vanished , And all my friends do wear away , As I from them were banished , My silver cups are turn'd to earth , I'm jeer'd by every Clown , I was a better man by birth , Till Fortune cast me down . I'm out of frame and temper too , Though I am something cheerful , O this can love and fancy do , If that you be not careful ! O set a watch before your eyes , Lest they betray your heart , And make you slaves to vanities , To act a mad men part . Declare this to each mother's son , Unto each honest Lad , Let them not do as I have done , Lest they like me grow mad , If Cupid strike , be sure of this , Let reason rule affection , So shalt thou never do amiss , By reasons good direction . I have no more to say to you , My keeper now does chide me , Now must I bid you all adieu , God knows what will betide me , To picking straws now must I go , My time in Bedlam spending , Good folks you your beginning know But do not know your ending . Humfrey Crowch . FINIS . LONDON , Printed for Richard Harper in Smithfield . The Mad-Mans Morrice . Wherein you shall find His trouble and grief , and discontent of his mind , A warning to young men to have a care , How they in love entangled are . To a pleasant new Tune . HEard you not lately of a man , That went beside his wits , And naked through the streets he ran , Wrapped in his frantic fits ? My honest neighbours it is I , Hark how the people flout me : See where the mad man comes they cry , With all the Boys about me . Into a pond stark nak'd I ran And cast my clothes away Sir , Without the help of any man Made shift to run away Sir , How I god out , I have forgotten , I do not well remember , Or whither it was cold or hight , In June , or in December , Tom Bedlam's but a Sage to me , I speak in sober sadness , For more strange visions do I see , Then he in all his madness . When first this chance to me befell , About the market walked I , With Capons feathers in my cap , And to my self thus talked I . Did you not see my Love of late , Like Titan in her glory ? Do you not know she is my mate , And I must write her story , With pen of gold on silver leaf , I will so much befriend her ; For why , I am of this belief , None can so well commend her . Saw you not Angels in her eyes , While that she was a speaking , Smelled you not smells like Paradise , Between two Rubies breaking ? Is not her hair more pure then gold , Or finest Spiders spinning ? Me thinks , in her I do behold , My joys and woes beginning . Is not a dimple in her cheek , Each eye a star thats starting , Is not all grace install'd in her , Each step all joys imparting ? Me thinks I see her in a Cloud , With graces round about her : To them I cry and call aloud I cannot live without her . The second part to the same tune . THen raging towards the Sky I roar , Thinking to catch her hand , Oh then to love I call and cry , To let me by her stand , I look behind and there I see My shadow me beguile , And wish she were as near to me , Which makes my worship smile . There is no creature can compare With my beloved Nancy . Thus I built castles in the air , This is the fruits of fancy : My thoughts mount high above the Sky , Of none I stand in aw , Although my body here do lie Upon a pad of straw . I was as good a harmless youth Before base Cupid caught me , Or his own mother with her charms Into this cage had brought me , Stripped and whipped now must I be In Bedlam bound with chains : Good people all , now you may see What love hath for his pains . When I was young as others are With Gallants did I flourish , Oh then was I the properest Lad That was in all the Parish ! The bracelets which I us'd to wear About my arm so tender Are turned now to iron plataeae , About my body slender . My silken Suits do now decay , My caps of gold are vanished , And all my friends do wear away , As I from them were banished , My silver cups are turn'd to earth , I'm jeer'd by every Clown , I was a better man by birth , Till Fortune cast me down . I'm out of frame and temper too , Though I am something cheerful , O this can love and fancy do , If that you be not careful ! O set a watch before your eyes , Lest they betray your heart , And make you slaves to vanities , To act a mad men part . Declare this to each mother's son , Unto each honest Lad , Let them not do as I have done , Lest they like me grow mad , If Cupid strike , be sure of this , Let reason rule affection , So shalt thou never do amiss , By reasons good direction . I have no more to say to you , My keeper now does chide me , Now must I bid you all adieu , God knows what will betide me , To picking straws now must I go , My time in Bedlam spending , Good folks you your beginning know But do not know your ending . Humfrey Crowch . FINIS . LONDON , Printed for Richard Harper in Smithfield . 