A Mess of good Fellows : OR , The generous spark who roundly , does call , and says for his part , Tush , we have and shall have abundance , come fill us the other odd quart . To the tune of , Ragged and torn . WEll met my jovial blades , Tom , Anthony , Dick , & James We have been all merry Comrades , as all our acquaintance proclaims : Now sith we are all met here , Wee'l be merry before we go , For paying let's never fear , our credit is good we know . Here's 4 or five shillings good round ones isle spend them before we part , Tush , we have & shall have abundance come fill us the other odd quart . Wee'l laugh and make good sport , and cry a fig for care , What though our means grows short , the world has enough to spare : When either of us was born , we had as much wealth about us As those that are rich ( I'll be sworn ) why then should they jeer and flout us ? & though they have since god ground on's it does not much grieve my hear Tush , we have etc Let's sing and make a noise , as best the time befits , we show our selves merry good boys , when the world is beside her wits : The Usurer with all his bags , is not so content in mind , As honest good fellows in rags , that are to each other kind . Our hearts are all perfect & found ones , we scorn from our friends to start , Tush , we have and shall have abundance ; come fill us the other odd quart . The Mizer does daily plod how he may his riches increase , He makes his gold his God , but we live at better hearts ease : Let fortune frown or smile , we do not for that much pass , The world shall not us beguile , with her prospective glass , If poverty seek to wound us , wee'l cure't with the Vintners art , Tush , we have etc He that does enjoy his health , and a competent means withal , What need he to pine for wealth , but take what to him does befall ? A contented mind is worth gold , it is but a folly to strive , We all were at first of one mould , yet all are not born to thrive , Then let no ill thoughts confound us , let every one bear a good heart , Tush , we have and shall have abundance , come fill us the other odd quart . The second part , To the same tune . WE scorn to spend money on queans , though sometime we hunt the fox , For he that so wastes his means , at last will be paid with a p ---------- No surgeon nor any Physician , for money their aid shall lend us , When drinking hath chang'd our condi-tion a hair o'th old dog will mend us . Grim sorrow can never wound us , which makes curmudgeans to smart , Tush , we have , and shall have abundance , Come fill us the tother odd quart . This better far to be poor , and have a contented mind , Then to have abundance of store , and with it no rest can find : The covetous man is not rich , he never is satisfied , His money does him bewitch , he thinks upon nothing beside : Such puddles shall never drown us , wee'l be well content with our part , Tush , we have etc Some idle companions there be , that rather then they will work , Upon such good fellows as we , the Rascals will live by the shirk , At last they are taken in the neck , ( for cheating can never come to good ) And then they are taught a fine trick , to look through a piece of wood : And oftentimes when they are found thus with pain they do follow the cart Tush , we have etc He that hath a generous mind , will take any laudable course , What fortune to him hath assigned , he takes it for better for worse : And to recreate his senses , when labour hath taken off the edge , They weigh not a little expenses , each other like us they will pledge . Let our hearts be true and found ones , though fortune our meanings does thwart , Tush , we have , etc Such merry vagaries weel play , when liquour hath captiv'd our wits , We think not how hard the next day we must work for these mad merry fits : Yet weel neither quarrel nor chide , as fools in these humours do use , Such folly we cannot abide , if any way we can choose . And if any man seek to wrong us , weel one take another's part . Tush we have , etc But among all our merry cheer , it pity of all our lives , If all the while we are here , we neglect to drink to our wives . Faith that was remembered well , this better at last then never , Though my share do the rest excel , it shall go about howsoever . Now lest too much liquour should drown us let's know what's oath score & depart , Tush we have , and shall have abundance , come give us the other odd quart . M.P. FINIS . Printed for Thomas Lambert near the Hospital-gate in Smithfield . A Mess of good Fellows : OR , The generous spark who roundly , does call , and says for his part , Tush , we have and shall have abundance , come fill us the other odd quart . To the tune of , Ragged and torn . WEll met my jovial blades , Tom , Anthony , Dick , & James We have been all merry Comrades , as all our acquaintance proclaims : Now sith we are all met here , Wee'l be merry before we go , For paying let's never fear , our credit is good we know . Here's 4 or five shillings good round ones isle spend them before we part , Tush , we have & shall have abundance come fill us the other odd quart . Wee'l laugh and make good sport , and cry a fig for care , What though our means grows short , the world has enough to spare : When either of us was born , we had as much wealth about us As those that are rich ( I'll be sworn ) why then should they jeer and flout us ? & though they have since god ground on's it does not much grieve my hear Tush , we have etc Let's sing and make a noise , as best the time befits , we show our selves merry good boys , when the world is beside her wits : The Usurer with all his bags , is not so content in mind , As honest good fellows in rags , that are to each other kind . Our hearts are all perfect & found ones , we scorn from our friends to start , Tush , we have and shall have abundance ; come fill us the other odd quart . The Mizer does daily plod how he may his riches increase , He makes his gold his God , but we live at better hearts ease : Let fortune frown or smile , we do not for that much pass , The world shall not us beguile , with her prospective glass , If poverty seek to wound us , wee'l cure't with the Vintners art , Tush , we have etc He that does enjoy his health , and a competent means withal , What need he to pine for wealth , but take what to him does befall ? A contented mind is worth gold , it is but a folly to strive , We all were at first of one mould , yet all are not born to thrive , Then let no ill thoughts confound us , let every one bear a good heart , Tush , we have and shall have abundance , come fill us the other odd quart . The second part , To the same tune . WE scorn to spend money on queans , though sometime we hunt the fox , For he that so wastes his means , at last will be paid with a p ---------- No surgeon nor any Physician , for money their aid shall lend us , When drinking hath chang'd our condi-tion a hair o'th old dog will mend us . Grim sorrow can never wound us , which makes curmudgeans to smart , Tush , we have , and shall have abundance , Come fill us the tother odd quart . This better far to be poor , and have a contented mind , Then to have abundance of store , and with it no rest can find : The covetous man is not rich , he never is satisfied , His money does him bewitch , he thinks upon nothing beside : Such puddles shall never drown us , wee'l be well content with our part , Tush , we have etc Some idle companions there be , that rather then they will work , Upon such good fellows as we , the Rascals will live by the shirk , At last they are taken in the neck , ( for cheating can never come to good ) And then they are taught a fine trick , to look through a piece of wood : And oftentimes when they are found thus with pain they do follow the cart Tush , we have etc He that hath a generous mind , will take any laudable course , What fortune to him hath assigned , he takes it for better for worse : And to recreate his senses , when labour hath taken off the edge , They weigh not a little expenses , each other like us they will pledge . Let our hearts be true and found ones , though fortune our meanings does thwart , Tush , we have , etc Such merry vagaries weel play , when liquour hath captiv'd our wits , We think not how hard the next day we must work for these mad merry fits : Yet weel neither quarrel nor chide , as fools in these humours do use , Such folly we cannot abide , if any way we can choose . And if any man seek to wrong us , weel one take another's part . Tush we have , etc But among all our merry cheer , it pity of all our lives , If all the while we are here , we neglect to drink to our wives . Faith that was remembered well , this better at last then never , Though my share do the rest excel , it shall go about howsoever . Now lest too much liquour should drown us let's know what's oath score & depart , Tush we have , and shall have abundance , come give us the other odd quart . M.P. FINIS . Printed for Thomas Lambert near the Hospital-gate in Smithfield . 