The merry Old Woman : OR , This is a good Old Woman , This is a merry Old Woman , Her counsel is good I'll warrant , For she does wish ill to no Man. To the tune , This is my Grannams deedle . COme hither good-fellows , come hither , Good counsel if you will learn it , I here in a Song will show it , If you have but wit to discern it . O this is a good old Woman , Oh this is a merry old Woman , Her counsel is good I'll warrant , For she does wish ill to no man . He that does woo a Maiden , Must use sometime to flatter , And he that would woo a Widow , Must seriously spoke good matter . O this is a good old Woman , etc He that would have a Woman Officious unto his humour , Must always be loving unto her , And be no vain consumer . O this is a good old Woman , etc She that would please her Parents , Must her affections bridle , And still have a care however , To shun all company idle . O this is a good old Woman , etc And she that would have a Husband , Merry to sing , with a fadding , No cause of distaste must give him Abroad for to go gadding . O this is a good old Woman , etc He that would gain true honour , Must hate to be a coward : And he that would live in quiet , Must marry no Widow that's froward . O this is a good old Woman , etc And he that would eat , must labour , And carefully follow his calling : And he that a Scold does marry , Shee'll vex him all day with her brawling . O this is a good old Woman , etc She that would feign be married , And wants both portion and beauty , Must unto her Master and Mistress Owe good respect and duty , Oh this is a good old Woman , etc To gain their loves and favour , Then may she hope the better , To get a kind Husband will love her , To toil then , he will not let her . O this is a good old Woman , etc He that would seek preferment , Must neatly usher a Lady , And wear good cloethes for his credit , And still at a call be ready . O this is a good old Woman , Oh this is a merry old Woman , Her counsel is good I'll warrant , For she does wish ill to no man . The second part , To the same tune ANd he that would be a Courtier , Must be with good parts adorned , To please his Master's humour , Or else he shall be scorned . O this is a good old Woman , Oh this is a merry old woman , Her counsel is good I'll warrant , For she does wish ill to no man . She that would have no scandal ! Or imputation on her , Must not frequent a Burdello , But chaste Diana honour . O this is a good old Woman , etc Brave Girls , there be a many Go richly in their apparel , Which makes the roaring Gallants , About them so to quarrel . O this is a good old Woman , etc He that would be no Cuckold , Then let him never marry , It were a horn-plague unto him , A jealous mind to carry . O this is a good old Woman , etc And he that would raise his fortune's , Being poor left by his Dady : He must be stout and valiant , Faint heart ne'r wone fair Lady . O this is a good old Woman . He that would be a Scholar , Must hate your drinks that is muddy : But a cup of good Canary Will make him the better to study . O this is a good old Woman , etc And he that would be a Poet , Must no ways be flocke-pated : His ignorance if he show it , He shall of all Scholars be hated . O this is a good old Woman , etc He that would be a Goodfellow , Of means must be prepared : If that he love drink and Tobacco , Or else he shall be jeered . O this is a good old Woman , etc He that would be a Taylor , Must active be and nimble : And he that would be a good liver , Most hate to lie and dissemble . O this is a good old Woman , etc He that would be a Musician , Must neatly run division , To humour each jovial Gallant , Or else he is held in derision . O this is a good old Woman , etc And he that would strive for riches , Or how to get a good marriage , Must still in his carriage be wary , That nothing his credit disparage . O this is a good old Woman , etc And he that would learn true goodness , Must daily himself endeavour , To hate all wicked lewdness , And still in all grace persever . O this is a good old Woman , Oh this is a merry old Woman , Her counsel is good I'll warrant , For she does wish ill to no man . FINIS . Robert Guy . Printed at London for F. Coules dwelling in the Old Baily . The merry Old Woman : OR , This is a good Old Woman , This is a merry Old Woman , Her counsel is good I'll warrant , For she does wish ill to no Man. To the tune , This is my Grannams deedle . COme hither good-fellows , come hither , Good counsel if you will learn it , I here in a Song will show it , If you have but wit to discern it . O this is a good old Woman , Oh this is a merry old Woman , Her counsel is good I'll warrant , For she does wish ill to no man . He that does woo a Maiden , Must use sometime to flatter , And he that would woo a Widow , Must seriously spoke good matter . O this is a good old Woman , etc He that would have a Woman Officious unto his humour , Must always be loving unto her , And be no vain consumer . O this is a good old Woman , etc She that would please her Parents , Must her affections bridle , And still have a care however , To shun all company idle . O this is a good old Woman , etc And she that would have a Husband , Merry to sing , with a fadding , No cause of distaste must give him Abroad for to go gadding . O this is a good old Woman , etc He that would gain true honour , Must hate to be a coward : And he that would live in quiet , Must marry no Widow that's froward . O this is a good old Woman , etc And he that would eat , must labour , And carefully follow his calling : And he that a Scold does marry , Shee'll vex him all day with her brawling . O this is a good old Woman , etc She that would feign be married , And wants both portion and beauty , Must unto her Master and Mistress Owe good respect and duty , Oh this is a good old Woman , etc To gain their loves and favour , Then may she hope the better , To get a kind Husband will love her , To toil then , he will not let her . O this is a good old Woman , etc He that would seek preferment , Must neatly usher a Lady , And wear good cloethes for his credit , And still at a call be ready . O this is a good old Woman , Oh this is a merry old Woman , Her counsel is good I'll warrant , For she does wish ill to no man . The second part , To the same tune ANd he that would be a Courtier , Must be with good parts adorned , To please his Master's humour , Or else he shall be scorned . O this is a good old Woman , Oh this is a merry old woman , Her counsel is good I'll warrant , For she does wish ill to no man . She that would have no scandal ! Or imputation on her , Must not frequent a Burdello , But chaste Diana honour . O this is a good old Woman , etc Brave Girls , there be a many Go richly in their apparel , Which makes the roaring Gallants , About them so to quarrel . O this is a good old Woman , etc He that would be no Cuckold , Then let him never marry , It were a horn-plague unto him , A jealous mind to carry . O this is a good old Woman , etc And he that would raise his fortune's , Being poor left by his Dady : He must be stout and valiant , Faint heart ne'r wone fair Lady . O this is a good old Woman . He that would be a Scholar , Must hate your drinks that is muddy : But a cup of good Canary Will make him the better to study . O this is a good old Woman , etc And he that would be a Poet , Must no ways be flocke-pated : His ignorance if he show it , He shall of all Scholars be hated . O this is a good old Woman , etc He that would be a Goodfellow , Of means must be prepared : If that he love drink and Tobacco , Or else he shall be jeered . O this is a good old Woman , etc He that would be a Taylor , Must active be and nimble : And he that would be a good liver , Most hate to lie and dissemble . O this is a good old Woman , etc He that would be a Musician , Must neatly run division , To humour each jovial Gallant , Or else he is held in derision . O this is a good old Woman , etc And he that would strive for riches , Or how to get a good marriage , Must still in his carriage be wary , That nothing his credit disparage . O this is a good old Woman , etc And he that would learn true goodness , Must daily himself endeavour , To hate all wicked lewdness , And still in all grace persever . O this is a good old Woman , Oh this is a merry old Woman , Her counsel is good I'll warrant , For she does wish ill to no man . FINIS . Robert Guy . Printed at London for F. Coules dwelling in the Old Baily . 