A merry Dialogue betwixt a married man and his wife , concerning the affairs of this careful life . To and excellent Tune . I Have for all good wives a Song , I do lament the women's wrong , And I do pity them with my heart , to think upon the women's smart , Their labours great and full of pain , you for the same they have small gain . In that you say cannot be true , for men do take more pains then you , We toil , we moil , we grieve and care , when you fit on a stool or chair , Yet let us do all what we can , your tongues will get the upper hand . We women in the morning rise , as soon as day breaks in the skies , And then to please you with desire , the first we do , is , make a fire , Then other work we straight begin , to sweep the house , to carded , or spin . Why men do work at Plough and Cart , which soon would break a woman's har They sow , they mow , and reap the corn , and many times do wear the horn . In praise of wives speak you no more , for these were lies you told before . We women here do bear the blame , but men would seem to have the same : But trust me , I will never yield , my tongues mine own , I thereon built , Men may not in this case compare with women for their toil and care . Fie , idle women how you prate , this men that get you all your state , You know this true in what I say , therefore you must give men the way , And not presume to grow too high , your speeches are not worth a fly . You men could not tell how to shift , if you of women were bereft , We wash your clothes , & dress your diet , and all to keep your minds in quiet , Our work's not done at morn nor night , to pleasure men is our delight . Women are called a house of care : they bring poor men unto despair , That man is blessed that hath not been inlured by a woman's since , They'l cause a man , if heel give way , to bring him to his lives decay . The second part . To the same Tune . IF we poor women were as bad as men report being drunk or mad , We might compare with many men , and count our selves as bad as them . Some oft are drunk and beatrice their wives , and make them weary of their lives . Why , women they must rule their tongues that bring them to so many wrongs , Sometime their husbands to disgrace , they'l call him knave and rogue to's face Nay , worse then that they'l tell him plain , his will he shall not well obtain , We women in childbed take great care , I hope the like sorrow will fall to your share Then would you think of women's smart , and seem to pity them with your heart , So many things to us belong , we oftentimes do suffer wrong . Though you in childbed bide some pain , your Babes renew your joys again , Your Gossips comes unto your joy . and say , God bless your little Boy , They say , the child is like the Dad when he but little share in't had . You talk like and ass you are a Cuckoldly fool , I'll break thy head with a 3 legd stool Will you poor Women thus abuse : our tongues and hands we need to use . You say our tongues do make men fight , our hands must serve to do us right . Then I to you must give the way , and yield to women in what they say , All you that are to choose a wife , be careful of it as your life . You see that women will not yield , in any thing to be compelled . You Maids , I speak the like to you , there's many dangers do ensue : But howsoever fortune's serve , see that my rules you do observe , If men once have the upper hand , they'l keep you down do what you can , I will not seem to urge no more , good wives , what I did say before , Was for your good , and so it take , I love all women for my wives sake . And I pray you when you are sick and die , call at my house and take my wife wye . Well , come sweet heart let us agree , content , sweet wife so let it be , Where man and wife does live at hate , the curse of God hangs over the gate . But I will love thee as my life , as every man should love his wife . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcocke . A merry Dialogue betwixt a married man and his wife , concerning the affairs of this careful life . To and excellent Tune . I Have for all good wives a Song , I do lament the women's wrong , And I do pity them with my heart , to think upon the women's smart , Their labours great and full of pain , you for the same they have small gain . In that you say cannot be true , for men do take more pains then you , We toil , we moil , we grieve and care , when you fit on a stool or chair , Yet let us do all what we can , your tongues will get the upper hand . We women in the morning rise , as soon as day breaks in the skies , And then to please you with desire , the first we do , is , make a fire , Then other work we straight begin , to sweep the house , to carded , or spin . Why men do work at Plough and Cart , which soon would break a woman's har They sow , they mow , and reap the corn , and many times do wear the horn . In praise of wives speak you no more , for these were lies you told before . We women here do bear the blame , but men would seem to have the same : But trust me , I will never yield , my tongues mine own , I thereon built , Men may not in this case compare with women for their toil and care . Fie , idle women how you prate , this men that get you all your state , You know this true in what I say , therefore you must give men the way , And not presume to grow too high , your speeches are not worth a fly . You men could not tell how to shift , if you of women were bereft , We wash your clothes , & dress your diet , and all to keep your minds in quiet , Our work's not done at morn nor night , to pleasure men is our delight . Women are called a house of care : they bring poor men unto despair , That man is blessed that hath not been inlured by a woman's since , They'l cause a man , if heel give way , to bring him to his lives decay . The second part . To the same Tune . IF we poor women were as bad as men report being drunk or mad , We might compare with many men , and count our selves as bad as them . Some oft are drunk and beatrice their wives , and make them weary of their lives . Why , women they must rule their tongues that bring them to so many wrongs , Sometime their husbands to disgrace , they'l call him knave and rogue to's face Nay , worse then that they'l tell him plain , his will he shall not well obtain , We women in childbed take great care , I hope the like sorrow will fall to your share Then would you think of women's smart , and seem to pity them with your heart , So many things to us belong , we oftentimes do suffer wrong . Though you in childbed bide some pain , your Babes renew your joys again , Your Gossips comes unto your joy . and say , God bless your little Boy , They say , the child is like the Dad when he but little share in't had . You talk like and ass you are a Cuckoldly fool , I'll break thy head with a 3 legd stool Will you poor Women thus abuse : our tongues and hands we need to use . You say our tongues do make men fight , our hands must serve to do us right . Then I to you must give the way , and yield to women in what they say , All you that are to choose a wife , be careful of it as your life . You see that women will not yield , in any thing to be compelled . You Maids , I speak the like to you , there's many dangers do ensue : But howsoever fortune's serve , see that my rules you do observe , If men once have the upper hand , they'l keep you down do what you can , I will not seem to urge no more , good wives , what I did say before , Was for your good , and so it take , I love all women for my wives sake . And I pray you when you are sick and die , call at my house and take my wife wye . Well , come sweet heart let us agree , content , sweet wife so let it be , Where man and wife does live at hate , the curse of God hangs over the gate . But I will love thee as my life , as every man should love his wife . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcocke . 