A merry Discourse between Norfolke Thomas , and Sisly Standtoo't his Wife ; Together with their thankless journey from Norfolk to London , only to see their friends , and how they do respect and entertain 'um for their love and labour . Which shows that this same Age most certain true , Is only for to ask ye how you do . To the tune of the Spanish Pavin . Thomas . TO London is mad Thomas come , With Sisly here , his Wife alone , To see some friends , I hear are gone , to heaven a while ago . But I do hope it is a lie , As I shall find it by and by . Or else poor Tom and Sisse should cry , till Doomsday . For though they be none of the best , I should be loath I do protest , To hear that they are gone to rest , and never take their leave . For I do love 'um ail so well , A little thing would make me dwell , Within the sounding of Bow-bell , at London . Sisly . Nay husband do not you say so , Our Cottage poor wee'l not forgo , For the best house that stands aroe , 'twixt Cheap and Charing Cross . For though our house be thatch't with Straw , We do not live as some in awe , For 'tis our own by Common law , in Norfolke . Beside we live at hearts content , We take no care to pay our Rend , For that is done incontinent or twinkling of and eye . When here at London as they say , They brawl and brabble every day , And few or none but finds a way to Hogdsdon . Thomas . Mum Sisly keep your Clapper still There's them can hear at Hygat hill , There's Rats has been in Peggies Mill , or else she lies her self . What if the world be vild and bad , Shall I be such a foolish Lad To blaze and noise it all abroad , I scorn it . Although , indeed I must confess , Thou speak'st but truth my honest Sisse , Yet ever while you live , mark this , and take it for a rule . That every Chimney must not smoke , Nor every Beggar wear a Cloak , Nor every truth must not be spoke , in sadness . But hang that Cobbler and his Ends , That lives too well and never mends , Wood they were whipped that never offends , peace Chuck I mean not thee . For thou wilt scold sometime I know , The more is Thomas Standtoots woe , But hang it ; come lets trip and go to Fleetstreet . And thus they trudg'd along the street , With many a justle they did meet , Which put poor Thomas in a sweat , and something angry to . Which made him think they told a lie That said there did so many die , When as he could not go hardly , for people . Sisly . At length quoth she , good husband stay And tell me what this place is prey , Where things are carried as they may , I never saw the like . For yonders one does ride in state , And hears a Beggar at a gate And there's a woman that will prate for nothing . See here is one that soundly beats , And thumps his Hemp until he sweats , And there's another greedy eats , I fear hee'l choke himself , And yonder goes a gallant bilk , And there's a woman winding silk , And hears another fetches milk at Hackney . But here's the prettiest sighed of all , A woman that is mighty tall , And yet her Spouse a little squall , I wonder how they met . And heres a man in Armour stands , That has it seems lost both his hands , 'Tis pity that he has no lands to keep him . Now you must by this time suppose them about the Exchange . The second part . To the same tune . ANd heres a world of people fine , That do in Silks and Satins shine , I wood that Suit and Cloak were mine , I hope I wish no harm . And here hangs Pictures two or three , The best that ever I did see , I think one looks full butt at me , and laughs too . And heres a man hath many a Rat , Both in his hand , and on his Hat , Me thinks he keeps 'um very fat , Oh strange what tails they have . And heres a Gentlewomen too , That hides her face from me and you , I wonder what she means to do in Summer . And heres and empty Church I see , Great pity 'tis most certainly , It should indeed no fuller be , and all these people here . And there's and old man carries wood , And heres a young man does no good , And heres a woman wears a hood , heigh Dazie . Thomas . Come Sisly let us go along And not stand gaping hear among A sort of people that do throng , I never saw the like . But let us to our brother go , That will us welcome well I know , For he himself did tell me so , at Norfolke . Soft , let us knock for heres the door , But if because our clothes be poor , They should not let us in therefore , t'wod make a dog to laugh . For I have herd my mother say , That if a man fallen to decay , There's few or none will bid him stay , y'are welcome . But silence , not a word but mum , For see our brother now does come , Me thinks he looks as he were dum , what makes him not to speak . Good brother we our loves unfold , For though my Sisse and I am old , Yet we have made a little bold to see you . Brother . And truly I do thank you for't , Ye'r welcome both with all my heart , Wee'l drink a Cup before we part , ant please you but to stay . For I have friends within truly , That if they should a stranger see , They strait wood very fearful be of danger . Thomas . Why Brother we no sickness have , Nor are we started from our grave , Your love is all that we do crave , what need you then to fear , We do not come to eat your roast Nor yet to put you unto cost , But now I see our labours lost poor Sisly . Brother . Pray do not think the fault is mine , For if you'l drink a Pint of wine , I'll give it you , and never repine , hang money what care I . And had I not so many Guess , Indeed I seriously profess , Your welcome should be more or less , good Brother . Thomas . No thank you Brother , eene farewell , A blind man now with ease may smell , That all things is not carried well , what love pray call you this . Come now unto thy Sister we [ W ] ill go with all selerity , No doubt that she shall kinder be , unto us . They condescend and were content So to their Sister straight they went , But all in vain their time was spent for when they thither came . Their Sister did her Maid compel , And bid her thus much to them tell , Indeed she was not very well , at that time . From thence they to their cozen go , Being much desirous for to know , Whither that she wood serve 'um so . or use 'um in that kind . But being there this news was brought , That she a smock had newly bought , And she was gone to have it wrought with Woosted , Well now says Thomas to his Dear , What say'st thou Sisly to this gear , We far have gone , yet never the near , We thank our kindred for't . But if that brother's be so kind What favour shall a stranger find , Protest it troubles much my mind to think on't . Sisly . Nay Husband let us not do so , The best is we can homeward go , And yet not trouble friend nor foe , what need we then to care . For now each one I tell you true , Will only ask you how do you , I am glad to see you well , Sir Hugh , good morrow . Thomas . Why then old Sisly thou and I , Will back again to Norfolke high , And bid a fig for company : our Dog is sport enough . But when we come to London next , Our friends shall have a better Text , I swear and vow I am soundly vexed , who cares for't . Printed by M.P. for F.C. Finis . Ed. Ford . A merry Discourse between Norfolke Thomas , and Sisly Standtoo't his Wife ; Together with their thankless journey from Norfolk to London , only to see their friends , and how they do respect and entertain 'um for their love and labour . Which shows that this same Age most certain true , Is only for to ask ye how you do . To the tune of the Spanish Pavin . Thomas . TO London is mad Thomas come , With Sisly here , his Wife alone , To see some friends , I hear are gone , to heaven a while ago . But I do hope it is a lie , As I shall find it by and by . Or else poor Tom and Sisse should cry , till Doomsday . For though they be none of the best , I should be loath I do protest , To hear that they are gone to rest , and never take their leave . For I do love 'um ail so well , A little thing would make me dwell , Within the sounding of Bow-bell , at London . Sisly . Nay husband do not you say so , Our Cottage poor wee'l not forgo , For the best house that stands aroe , 'twixt Cheap and Charing Cross . For though our house be thatch't with Straw , We do not live as some in awe , For 'tis our own by Common law , in Norfolke . Beside we live at hearts content , We take no care to pay our Rend , For that is done incontinent or twinkling of and eye . When here at London as they say , They brawl and brabble every day , And few or none but finds a way to Hogdsdon . Thomas . Mum Sisly keep your Clapper still There's them can hear at Hygat hill , There's Rats has been in Peggies Mill , or else she lies her self . What if the world be vild and bad , Shall I be such a foolish Lad To blaze and noise it all abroad , I scorn it . Although , indeed I must confess , Thou speak'st but truth my honest Sisse , Yet ever while you live , mark this , and take it for a rule . That every Chimney must not smoke , Nor every Beggar wear a Cloak , Nor every truth must not be spoke , in sadness . But hang that Cobbler and his Ends , That lives too well and never mends , Wood they were whipped that never offends , peace Chuck I mean not thee . For thou wilt scold sometime I know , The more is Thomas Standtoots woe , But hang it ; come lets trip and go to Fleetstreet . And thus they trudg'd along the street , With many a justle they did meet , Which put poor Thomas in a sweat , and something angry to . Which made him think they told a lie That said there did so many die , When as he could not go hardly , for people . Sisly . At length quoth she , good husband stay And tell me what this place is prey , Where things are carried as they may , I never saw the like . For yonders one does ride in state , And hears a Beggar at a gate And there's a woman that will prate for nothing . See here is one that soundly beats , And thumps his Hemp until he sweats , And there's another greedy eats , I fear hee'l choke himself , And yonder goes a gallant bilk , And there's a woman winding silk , And hears another fetches milk at Hackney . But here's the prettiest sighed of all , A woman that is mighty tall , And yet her Spouse a little squall , I wonder how they met . And heres a man in Armour stands , That has it seems lost both his hands , 'Tis pity that he has no lands to keep him . Now you must by this time suppose them about the Exchange . The second part . To the same tune . ANd heres a world of people fine , That do in Silks and Satins shine , I wood that Suit and Cloak were mine , I hope I wish no harm . And here hangs Pictures two or three , The best that ever I did see , I think one looks full butt at me , and laughs too . And heres a man hath many a Rat , Both in his hand , and on his Hat , Me thinks he keeps 'um very fat , Oh strange what tails they have . And heres a Gentlewomen too , That hides her face from me and you , I wonder what she means to do in Summer . And heres and empty Church I see , Great pity 'tis most certainly , It should indeed no fuller be , and all these people here . And there's and old man carries wood , And heres a young man does no good , And heres a woman wears a hood , heigh Dazie . Thomas . Come Sisly let us go along And not stand gaping hear among A sort of people that do throng , I never saw the like . But let us to our brother go , That will us welcome well I know , For he himself did tell me so , at Norfolke . Soft , let us knock for heres the door , But if because our clothes be poor , They should not let us in therefore , t'wod make a dog to laugh . For I have herd my mother say , That if a man fallen to decay , There's few or none will bid him stay , y'are welcome . But silence , not a word but mum , For see our brother now does come , Me thinks he looks as he were dum , what makes him not to speak . Good brother we our loves unfold , For though my Sisse and I am old , Yet we have made a little bold to see you . Brother . And truly I do thank you for't , Ye'r welcome both with all my heart , Wee'l drink a Cup before we part , ant please you but to stay . For I have friends within truly , That if they should a stranger see , They strait wood very fearful be of danger . Thomas . Why Brother we no sickness have , Nor are we started from our grave , Your love is all that we do crave , what need you then to fear , We do not come to eat your roast Nor yet to put you unto cost , But now I see our labours lost poor Sisly . Brother . Pray do not think the fault is mine , For if you'l drink a Pint of wine , I'll give it you , and never repine , hang money what care I . And had I not so many Guess , Indeed I seriously profess , Your welcome should be more or less , good Brother . Thomas . No thank you Brother , eene farewell , A blind man now with ease may smell , That all things is not carried well , what love pray call you this . Come now unto thy Sister we [ W ] ill go with all selerity , No doubt that she shall kinder be , unto us . They condescend and were content So to their Sister straight they went , But all in vain their time was spent for when they thither came . Their Sister did her Maid compel , And bid her thus much to them tell , Indeed she was not very well , at that time . From thence they to their cozen go , Being much desirous for to know , Whither that she wood serve 'um so . or use 'um in that kind . But being there this news was brought , That she a smock had newly bought , And she was gone to have it wrought with Woosted , Well now says Thomas to his Dear , What say'st thou Sisly to this gear , We far have gone , yet never the near , We thank our kindred for't . But if that brother's be so kind What favour shall a stranger find , Protest it troubles much my mind to think on't . Sisly . Nay Husband let us not do so , The best is we can homeward go , And yet not trouble friend nor foe , what need we then to care . For now each one I tell you true , Will only ask you how do you , I am glad to see you well , Sir Hugh , good morrow . Thomas . Why then old Sisly thou and I , Will back again to Norfolke high , And bid a fig for company : our Dog is sport enough . But when we come to London next , Our friends shall have a better Text , I swear and vow I am soundly vexed , who cares for't . Printed by M.P. for F.C. Finis . Ed. Ford . 