men Felicity and Misery : Which is , a good Wife and a bad : or the best and the worst , discoursed in a Dialogue between Edmund and David . To the tune of I have for all good wives a Song . Edmund . KInd Cozen David prithee stay , Good news to thee I will bewray , Since last I saw thee I am married , Now things with me are better carried , I dare say that which few men can , I have the best Wife that ever had man . David . I am right joyful Cozen Ned , To hear that thou so well art sped : As thou mayest thy good fortune bless , I may curse my unhappiness ; My torments none on earth can scan , I have the worst Wife that ever had man . Edmund . My wife for beauty bears the name , From all i'th town from whence she came , For shape she might a Lady be , And so all say that do her see : Her middle I can easily span , Oh shee's the best Wife that ever had man . David . My wife so loathsome is to view , She every morning makes me spew , For person shee's scarce good enough To cry , maids ha' you any Kitchen-stuff : She shines like a Dripping pan , Oh she's the worst Wife that ever had man . Edmund . My wife is affable and meek , To please my fancy she does seek , My humour she will never th'wart , But dee my will with all her heart , We use no words but Ned and Nan , She is the best Wife that ever had man . David . My wife is obstinate and froward , Shee's sullen , peevish , and untoward ; Shee's glad at heart when she can find , Occasion to molest my mind : Shee'l have her will do what I can , Oh she's the worst Wife that ever had man . Edmund . My wife is careful of her charge , She never comes abroad at large , Her business she will ne're neglect , But brings all things to good effec Shee's to her Babes a Pelican , Oh shee's the best Wife that ever had man . David . My wife among her Gossips does gad , As though nothing to doe she had , The children go undrest all day , Unless I put on their array : I'me feign to make what shift I can , For she's the worst wife that ever had man . Edmund . My wife's for constant chastity , Like Lucrece or Penelope : She is so wary in her carriage , That if a kiss would wrong her marriage , No one should get that favour than , For shee's the best Wife that ever had man . David . My wife is full of merry tricks , She hath been nought with five or sixe , If she can get me out o'th door , Ere I return sheele play the whore , Shee'l say though I can't others can , Oh shee's the worst Wife that ever had man . The second part , To the same tune . Edmund . MY wife so cleanly is and neat , She adds a goodness to my meat , I eat when I no stomach have , Because 'tis done as I do crave , In sickness she is my Physician , For she's the best Wife that ever had man . David . My wife is such a beastly Slut , Unless it be and Egg or a Nut , I in the house dare nothing eat , For fear there's a poison in the meat , The Dogs do lick both Dish and Pan , Oh she's the worst Wife , etc Edmund . My wife will wear no yellow hose , No wench can make her swell ith' nose , She knows that I to her am just , And in my faith she puts her trust ; Sheele not be vexed say what I can , For she's the best , etc David . If I upon a woman look , My wife will swear upon a book , That she is certainly a Whore , Though I ne're saw the Woman before , Sheele claw her eyes out if she can , Oh she's the worst , etc Edmund . My wife will never follow me , Go where I will , at home stays she , Though I from morn till night do room , She smiling bids me welcome home , This makes me haste home to my Nan , For she's the best , etc David . If I unto the Alehouse go , To drink a Jug of beer or so , Though ne're so fast I thither high , My wife is there as soon as I : At me and my friends she'le curse and ban , For she's the worst , etc Edmund . If any friends come home to me , My wife gives entertainment free , But out oth' doors she will not stir Unless I go along with her , She scrapes and saves what ere she can , Oh she's the best , etc David . My wife will at the Alehouse fit , And waste away both money and wit , Nay rather then sheele liquour lack , Shee'l fell the smock from off her back , Shee'l steal from me all that she can , Oh she's the worst Edmund . Kind Cousin David I am very sorry , To hear thee tell so sad a story , Marriage and hanging now I see , Go as they say by destiny I would thou couldst say as I can , I have the best wife , etc David . I thank you Cousin for your good will , Long may your blessing continue still , My cross I must with patience bear , Till God or the Devil end my care , And thus I end as I began , I have the worst Wife that ever had man . Author . You wives who have herd this discourse Now show who's better and who's worse . The best will freely buy this Song , The worst will show she hath a tongue . The head's soon broken that is scald , And Jades will kick if they be gall'd . FINIS . M.P. Printed at London for Francis Grove . men Felicity and Misery : Which is , a good Wife and a bad : or the best and the worst , discoursed in a Dialogue between Edmund and David . To the tune of I have for all good wives a Song . Edmund . KInd Cozen David prithee stay , Good news to thee I will bewray , Since last I saw thee I am married , Now things with me are better carried , I dare say that which few men can , I have the best Wife that ever had man . David . I am right joyful Cozen Ned , To hear that thou so well art sped : As thou mayest thy good fortune bless , I may curse my unhappiness ; My torments none on earth can scan , I have the worst Wife that ever had man . Edmund . My wife for beauty bears the name , From all i'th town from whence she came , For shape she might a Lady be , And so all say that do her see : Her middle I can easily span , Oh shee's the best Wife that ever had man . David . My wife so loathsome is to view , She every morning makes me spew , For person shee's scarce good enough To cry , maids ha' you any Kitchen-stuff : She shines like a Dripping pan , Oh she's the worst Wife that ever had man . Edmund . My wife is affable and meek , To please my fancy she does seek , My humour she will never th'wart , But dee my will with all her heart , We use no words but Ned and Nan , She is the best Wife that ever had man . David . My wife is obstinate and froward , Shee's sullen , peevish , and untoward ; Shee's glad at heart when she can find , Occasion to molest my mind : Shee'l have her will do what I can , Oh she's the worst Wife that ever had man . Edmund . My wife is careful of her charge , She never comes abroad at large , Her business she will ne're neglect , But brings all things to good effec Shee's to her Babes a Pelican , Oh shee's the best Wife that ever had man . David . My wife among her Gossips does gad , As though nothing to doe she had , The children go undrest all day , Unless I put on their array : I'me feign to make what shift I can , For she's the worst wife that ever had man . Edmund . My wife's for constant chastity , Like Lucrece or Penelope : She is so wary in her carriage , That if a kiss would wrong her marriage , No one should get that favour than , For shee's the best Wife that ever had man . David . My wife is full of merry tricks , She hath been nought with five or sixe , If she can get me out o'th door , Ere I return sheele play the whore , Shee'l say though I can't others can , Oh shee's the worst Wife that ever had man . The second part , To the same tune . Edmund . MY wife so cleanly is and neat , She adds a goodness to my meat , I eat when I no stomach have , Because 'tis done as I do crave , In sickness she is my Physician , For she's the best Wife that ever had man . David . My wife is such a beastly Slut , Unless it be and Egg or a Nut , I in the house dare nothing eat , For fear there's a poison in the meat , The Dogs do lick both Dish and Pan , Oh she's the worst Wife , etc Edmund . My wife will wear no yellow hose , No wench can make her swell ith' nose , She knows that I to her am just , And in my faith she puts her trust ; Sheele not be vexed say what I can , For she's the best , etc David . If I upon a woman look , My wife will swear upon a book , That she is certainly a Whore , Though I ne're saw the Woman before , Sheele claw her eyes out if she can , Oh she's the worst , etc Edmund . My wife will never follow me , Go where I will , at home stays she , Though I from morn till night do room , She smiling bids me welcome home , This makes me haste home to my Nan , For she's the best , etc David . If I unto the Alehouse go , To drink a Jug of beer or so , Though ne're so fast I thither high , My wife is there as soon as I : At me and my friends she'le curse and ban , For she's the worst , etc Edmund . If any friends come home to me , My wife gives entertainment free , But out oth' doors she will not stir Unless I go along with her , She scrapes and saves what ere she can , Oh she's the best , etc David . My wife will at the Alehouse fit , And waste away both money and wit , Nay rather then sheele liquour lack , Shee'l fell the smock from off her back , Shee'l steal from me all that she can , Oh she's the worst Edmund . Kind Cousin David I am very sorry , To hear thee tell so sad a story , Marriage and hanging now I see , Go as they say by destiny I would thou couldst say as I can , I have the best wife , etc David . I thank you Cousin for your good will , Long may your blessing continue still , My cross I must with patience bear , Till God or the Devil end my care , And thus I end as I began , I have the worst Wife that ever had man . Author . You wives who have herd this discourse Now show who's better and who's worse . The best will freely buy this Song , The worst will show she hath a tongue . The head's soon broken that is scald , And Jades will kick if they be gall'd . FINIS . M.P. Printed at London for Francis Grove . 