v The woeful complaint of a Lovesick Maid , She was afraid to have died a Maid : Because her Love did prove unkind , She thought he was gone a new Love to find . To the tune of Come my sweet and bonny one . AS't was my chance to walk abroad one time to take the air , I herd a fair Maid make great moan , and she was in great care [ : ] Alas ( quoth she ) now woe is me , my Love is from me gone , And I am here in grief and care , and comfortless alone . O art thou gone away from me , and bidst me not adue ; Hast thou forsaken thy old true Love , and changed me for a new ? Being it's so , as I do know , thou bear'st a flattering mind : Because that thou dist make a vow , to prove both true and kind . Thou saidst to me thou wouldst be true , and ever wouldst endure : But now I see thou art not so , thou seek'st for to procure My endless woe , which will I know , in time procure my smar Because that thou' keep'st not thy vow , but seek'st to break my heart . O faithless false & forsworn wretch , how couldst thou have the heart , To leave a Maiden in distress ? O this a Judas par But cruel thou , though thou didst vow , thou little dost regard , What cruel pains may be thy gains at last for thy reward . You Maidens all example take by me that am in grief : And have been caught in Cupids net , which yields me no relief : Because I am sure I'm undone , what shall I say or do ? But may complain , and all in vain , my heart will break with woe . Would God I could enjoy my Love , though he be much unkind , And that he would turn to his Dove , that never chang'd her mind . But being he is gone from me , and left me here in scorn : I must decay , and waste away , and pine , and grieve , and mourn . I do expect my time is short , and soon will have and end : Because my Love is false in heart , , prey God he may amend , And prove more true , to's Lover new , then he hath been to me : Adieu sweet Love , pray God above , full safe that thou may'st be . Now of my speech I make and end , and mean to say no more : But well I wish unto my friend , God bless him evermore : Though I have spoke , God may provoke his mind to turn again , For to love me , most faithfully , and long for to remain . FINIS . The young men kind reply unto the comfortless Maid , He grees with his Love in all she hath said , Showing to her a part of his mind , That he will be always most loving and kind . To the tune Of the pride of Leister Shire . Hark , hark , me thinks I hear one speak what should this Echo mean ? I think it be my own true Love , my fair and only Dame : Oh why shouldst thou , my Philladay , complain that I am gone , And knowest I am the only man , that loves thee alone ? I am not gone away from thee , my only hearts deligh But comfort thou shalt find by me , by day and eke by nigh My own sweet Love , and Turtle Dove , be not disturbed in mind : For thou shalt find , I will prove kind , and never change again . I promised thee for to be true , and so I will endure , Though I at first did prove thy heart , this good for to be sure , To prove thy mind , and know thee kind , for many false there be , And so mightest thou , for ought I know , have proved unto me . Though I did make a vow to thee , and pawned with thee my heart , Yet thou hast spoken unto me , as though thou would'st depar But now I find thee true and kind , and I the like will be : While death does part , my tender heart , I will not part with thee : All you kind hearts that have true loves , by me example take : And have a care , whereto you swear for the Almighty's sake : Do not go on as I have done , to breed a Maidens smar But turn in time , in heart and mind , and ease your true Loves heart . Would God I ne'r had wrong'd my Love , nor been to her unkind : Then should she have no cause to mourn , nor be disturbed in mind : But being it's so , I well do know , I must unto her go ; And speak my mind , in loving kind , and ease her of her woe . Come , come , sweet heart , do not repent , nor wrestle in despair , Though I to thee have been unkind , I'll ease thee of thy care : For I will prove constant in love , as always thou shalt find , I will be true , not change for new , but always will be kind . Come , Love , let's speak no more of this , but faithfully let's join : And look before what was amiss , I mean for to amend : Come let us now , perform our vow , and make no more ado : But let us join in heart and mind , and so to Church let's go . And so these Lovers made and end , of these their former words : One loved the other heartily , not breeding no discords : In peace I pray long live they may , and all true Lovers else : What ere they be , or what degree , so much is spoke of me . FINIS . London Printed for F. Coules . v The woeful complaint of a Lovesick Maid , She was afraid to have died a Maid : Because her Love did prove unkind , She thought he was gone a new Love to find . To the tune of Come my sweet and bonny one . AS't was my chance to walk abroad one time to take the air , I herd a fair Maid make great moan , and she was in great care [ : ] Alas ( quoth she ) now woe is me , my Love is from me gone , And I am here in grief and care , and comfortless alone . O art thou gone away from me , and bidst me not adue ; Hast thou forsaken thy old true Love , and changed me for a new ? Being it's so , as I do know , thou bear'st a flattering mind : Because that thou dist make a vow , to prove both true and kind . Thou saidst to me thou wouldst be true , and ever wouldst endure : But now I see thou art not so , thou seek'st for to procure My endless woe , which will I know , in time procure my smar Because that thou' keep'st not thy vow , but seek'st to break my heart . O faithless false & forsworn wretch , how couldst thou have the heart , To leave a Maiden in distress ? O this a Judas par But cruel thou , though thou didst vow , thou little dost regard , What cruel pains may be thy gains at last for thy reward . You Maidens all example take by me that am in grief : And have been caught in Cupids net , which yields me no relief : Because I am sure I'm undone , what shall I say or do ? But may complain , and all in vain , my heart will break with woe . Would God I could enjoy my Love , though he be much unkind , And that he would turn to his Dove , that never chang'd her mind . But being he is gone from me , and left me here in scorn : I must decay , and waste away , and pine , and grieve , and mourn . I do expect my time is short , and soon will have and end : Because my Love is false in heart , , prey God he may amend , And prove more true , to's Lover new , then he hath been to me : Adieu sweet Love , pray God above , full safe that thou may'st be . Now of my speech I make and end , and mean to say no more : But well I wish unto my friend , God bless him evermore : Though I have spoke , God may provoke his mind to turn again , For to love me , most faithfully , and long for to remain . FINIS . The young men kind reply unto the comfortless Maid , He grees with his Love in all she hath said , Showing to her a part of his mind , That he will be always most loving and kind . To the tune Of the pride of Leister Shire . Hark , hark , me thinks I hear one speak what should this Echo mean ? I think it be my own true Love , my fair and only Dame : Oh why shouldst thou , my Philladay , complain that I am gone , And knowest I am the only man , that loves thee alone ? I am not gone away from thee , my only hearts deligh But comfort thou shalt find by me , by day and eke by nigh My own sweet Love , and Turtle Dove , be not disturbed in mind : For thou shalt find , I will prove kind , and never change again . I promised thee for to be true , and so I will endure , Though I at first did prove thy heart , this good for to be sure , To prove thy mind , and know thee kind , for many false there be , And so mightest thou , for ought I know , have proved unto me . Though I did make a vow to thee , and pawned with thee my heart , Yet thou hast spoken unto me , as though thou would'st depar But now I find thee true and kind , and I the like will be : While death does part , my tender heart , I will not part with thee : All you kind hearts that have true loves , by me example take : And have a care , whereto you swear for the Almighty's sake : Do not go on as I have done , to breed a Maidens smar But turn in time , in heart and mind , and ease your true Loves heart . Would God I ne'r had wrong'd my Love , nor been to her unkind : Then should she have no cause to mourn , nor be disturbed in mind : But being it's so , I well do know , I must unto her go ; And speak my mind , in loving kind , and ease her of her woe . Come , come , sweet heart , do not repent , nor wrestle in despair , Though I to thee have been unkind , I'll ease thee of thy care : For I will prove constant in love , as always thou shalt find , I will be true , not change for new , but always will be kind . Come , Love , let's speak no more of this , but faithfully let's join : And look before what was amiss , I mean for to amend : Come let us now , perform our vow , and make no more ado : But let us join in heart and mind , and so to Church let's go . And so these Lovers made and end , of these their former words : One loved the other heartily , not breeding no discords : In peace I pray long live they may , and all true Lovers else : What ere they be , or what degree , so much is spoke of me . FINIS . London Printed for F. Coules . 