The Norfolke Gentleman his last Will and Testamen And how he committed the keeping of his Children to his own brother , who dealt most wickedly with them : and how God plagued him for it . To the tune of Rogero . NOw ponder well you parents deer , the words which I shall write , A doleful story you shall hear , which time hath brought to light . A Gentleman of good account , in Norfolke liv'd of late , Whose wealth and riches did surmount most men of his estate , Soar sick he was and like to die , no help that he could have , His wife by him as sick did lie , and both possessed one grave . No love between these two was lost , each was to other kind , In love they lived , in love they died , and left two Babes behind . The one a fine and pretty Boy , not passing three years old . The next a Girl more young than he , and made of beauty's mould . This Father left his little son , as well it does appear , When he to perfect age should come , three hundred pounds a year . And to his little daughter Jane , three hundred pounds in Gold , To be paid down at marriage day , which might not be controlled ; But if these Children chance to die , ere they to age should come , Their Uncle should possess this wealth , and so the Will did run . Now Brother said the dying man , look to my Children deer , Be good unto my Boy and Girl , no friends I else have here . To God and you I do commend my Children night and day , A little time be sure we have within this world to stay . You must be father and mother both , and Uncle all in one , God knows what will become of them , when we are dead and gone . With that bespoke their mother deer , Oh brother mine ( quoth she ) You are the man must bring my Babes , to wealth or misery . If you do keep them carefully , then God will you reward , If otherwise you seem to deal , your deed God will regard , With lips as cold as any clay , she kissed her Children small , God bless you both my little lambs , with that the tears did fallen . These speeches then their brother spoke to this sick couple there , The keeping of your Children young , sweet sister do not fear ; God never prosper me nor mine , or ought else that I have , If I do wrong your Children small , when you are laid in grave . Their Parents being dead and gone , the children home he takes , And brings them home unto his house , and much of them he makes . He had not kept these pretty Babes , a twelvemonth and a day : But for their wealth he did devise , to make them both away . He bargain'd with two Ruffians rude , that were of furious mood , That they should take the children youn [ g ] and slay them in the Wood : And told his Wife and all the rest , he did the Children send , To be brought up in fair London , with one that was his friend . The second part , To the same tune . AWay then went these pretty Babes , rejoicing of that tide , And smiling with a merry mind , they should on cockhorse ride . They prate and prattle pleasantly , as they road on their way , To them that should their butchers be , and work their lives decay . So that the pretty speech they had , made murderers hearts relent , And that they took this deed to do , full soar they did repen Yet one of them more hard of heart , did vow to do his charge , Because the wretch that hired them , had paid them very large . The other would not gree thereto , so here they fell at strife , With one another they did fight , about these Children's life And he that was of mildest mood , did kill the other there , Within and unfrequented Wood , while Babes did quake for fear . He took the children by the hand , when tears stood in their eye , And bade them come and go with him , and look they did not cry . And two long miles he led them thus , when they for bred complain , Stay here ( quoth he ) I'll bring you bred when I do come again . Those pretty Babes with hand in hand , went wandering up and down , But never more they saw the man , approaching from the town . Their pretty lips with blackberries , were all besmear'd and dy'd , And when they saw the darksome night , they sat them down and cry'd . Thus wandered these two little Babes till death did end their grief . In one another's arms they dy'd , as Babes wanting relief . No burial these pretty Babes of any man receives , Till Robin Redbrest painfully , did cover them with leaves , And now the heavy wrath of God , upon their Uncle fell : Yea fearful fiends did haunt his house his conscience felt and hell . His barns were fir'd , his goods consum'd , his land was barren made , His cattle dy'd within the fields , and nothing with him stayed , And in the voyage of Portugall , two of his sons did die , And to conclude , himself was brought , to extreme misery . He pawn'd and morgag'd all his land , ere seaven years went about . And now at length this wicked act , did by this means come out . The fellow which did take in hand , the Children for to kill , Was for a robbery judg'd to death , as was Gods blessed will , Who did confess the very truth , the which is here expressed , Their Uncle died , while he for debt , in prison long did rest . All you that be Executors made , and overseers eke , Of children that be fatherless , of Infants mild and meek , Take you example by the same , and yield to each their right , Lest God with such like misery , your wicked mind requite , FINIS . Printed for J.W. The Norfolke Gentleman his last Will and Testamen And how he committed the keeping of his Children to his own brother , who dealt most wickedly with them : and how God plagued him for it . To the tune of Rogero . NOw ponder well you parents deer , the words which I shall write , A doleful story you shall hear , which time hath brought to light . A Gentleman of good account , in Norfolke liv'd of late , Whose wealth and riches did surmount most men of his estate , Soar sick he was and like to die , no help that he could have , His wife by him as sick did lie , and both possessed one grave . No love between these two was lost , each was to other kind , In love they lived , in love they died , and left two Babes behind . The one a fine and pretty Boy , not passing three years old . The next a Girl more young than he , and made of beauty's mould . This Father left his little son , as well it does appear , When he to perfect age should come , three hundred pounds a year . And to his little daughter Jane , three hundred pounds in Gold , To be paid down at marriage day , which might not be controlled ; But if these Children chance to die , ere they to age should come , Their Uncle should possess this wealth , and so the Will did run . Now Brother said the dying man , look to my Children deer , Be good unto my Boy and Girl , no friends I else have here . To God and you I do commend my Children night and day , A little time be sure we have within this world to stay . You must be father and mother both , and Uncle all in one , God knows what will become of them , when we are dead and gone . With that bespoke their mother deer , Oh brother mine ( quoth she ) You are the man must bring my Babes , to wealth or misery . If you do keep them carefully , then God will you reward , If otherwise you seem to deal , your deed God will regard , With lips as cold as any clay , she kissed her Children small , God bless you both my little lambs , with that the tears did fallen . These speeches then their brother spoke to this sick couple there , The keeping of your Children young , sweet sister do not fear ; God never prosper me nor mine , or ought else that I have , If I do wrong your Children small , when you are laid in grave . Their Parents being dead and gone , the children home he takes , And brings them home unto his house , and much of them he makes . He had not kept these pretty Babes , a twelvemonth and a day : But for their wealth he did devise , to make them both away . He bargain'd with two Ruffians rude , that were of furious mood , That they should take the children youn [ g ] and slay them in the Wood : And told his Wife and all the rest , he did the Children send , To be brought up in fair London , with one that was his friend . The second part , To the same tune . AWay then went these pretty Babes , rejoicing of that tide , And smiling with a merry mind , they should on cockhorse ride . They prate and prattle pleasantly , as they road on their way , To them that should their butchers be , and work their lives decay . So that the pretty speech they had , made murderers hearts relent , And that they took this deed to do , full soar they did repen Yet one of them more hard of heart , did vow to do his charge , Because the wretch that hired them , had paid them very large . The other would not gree thereto , so here they fell at strife , With one another they did fight , about these Children's life And he that was of mildest mood , did kill the other there , Within and unfrequented Wood , while Babes did quake for fear . He took the children by the hand , when tears stood in their eye , And bade them come and go with him , and look they did not cry . And two long miles he led them thus , when they for bred complain , Stay here ( quoth he ) I'll bring you bred when I do come again . Those pretty Babes with hand in hand , went wandering up and down , But never more they saw the man , approaching from the town . Their pretty lips with blackberries , were all besmear'd and dy'd , And when they saw the darksome night , they sat them down and cry'd . Thus wandered these two little Babes till death did end their grief . In one another's arms they dy'd , as Babes wanting relief . No burial these pretty Babes of any man receives , Till Robin Redbrest painfully , did cover them with leaves , And now the heavy wrath of God , upon their Uncle fell : Yea fearful fiends did haunt his house his conscience felt and hell . His barns were fir'd , his goods consum'd , his land was barren made , His cattle dy'd within the fields , and nothing with him stayed , And in the voyage of Portugall , two of his sons did die , And to conclude , himself was brought , to extreme misery . He pawn'd and morgag'd all his land , ere seaven years went about . And now at length this wicked act , did by this means come out . The fellow which did take in hand , the Children for to kill , Was for a robbery judg'd to death , as was Gods blessed will , Who did confess the very truth , the which is here expressed , Their Uncle died , while he for debt , in prison long did rest . All you that be Executors made , and overseers eke , Of children that be fatherless , of Infants mild and meek , Take you example by the same , and yield to each their right , Lest God with such like misery , your wicked mind requite , FINIS . Printed for J.W. 