The Nightingale : Whose curious Notes are here explain'd , In a dainty Ditty sweetly fain'd . To a new and much affected Court Tune . YOu Gallants that resort To Hide Park or Totnam Court , To recreate , And to elevate your senses when they are out of date , Come listen to my Song , Which does belong to the Nightingales sweet tongue : This Music rare To hear this little , pretty , dulcid , dainty Philomel how she makes the Woods for to ring , Sweet , sweet , sweet , sweet , Jug , jug , jug , jug , sweet , jug , jug , jug , jug , the Nightingale does sing . The Courtiers in their pride , Walking by the green Wood side , They do much admire , When they hear the Choir , of little Birds whose notes aspire , Above all the rest , They fancy best the Nightingales sweet breast , For she does strain Her little pretty , dulcid , dainty , pleasant throat , with music fit for a King , Sweet , sweet , sweet , sweet , Jug , jug , jug , jug , sweet , jug , jug , jug , jug , the Nightingale does sing . The Citizens would feign Hear Philomels sweet strain , But that they fear When they come there , the curious constant Note to hear , And therefore they refuse And will not use , the Woods if they can choose , But yet sometime , This little , pretty , dulcid , dainty dilly , They delight to hear in the Spring , Sweet , sweet , sweet , sweet , Jug , jug , jug , jug , sweet , jug , jug , jug , jug , the Nightingale does sing . The Prentices do stray , Upon the first of May , To meet their Loves In the gay green Groves , where every one their fancy proves , And with Loves delight , From morn till night , they feed their appetite ; And while they woo This little , pretty , dulcid , dainty creature , her music to them does bring , Sweet , sweet , sweet , sweet , Jug , jug , jug , jug , sweet , jug , jug , jug , jug , the Nightingale does sing . The second part . To the same Tune . THe honest labouring Swain , To extenuate his pain When he does plod To his work abroad , His Hay , or Corn , or Wood to load , It does joy his heart , At Plough or Cart , to hear the curious part , Which among the Choir , This little pretty , dulcid , dainty Quirister does bear , this delight does bring ; Sweet , sweet , sweet , sweet , Jug , jug , jug , jug , sweet , jug , jug , jug , jug , the Nightingale does sing . The Country Milkmaids sweet , When they go to milk their Neat , In a Summer's day , In June or May , delight to walk ith' Meadows gay , They do think it long , To hear a Song , from Philomels sweet tongue , In April they Expect this little , pretty , dulcid , dainty bird , when she first proclaims the Spring , Sweet , sweet , sweet , sweet , Jug , jug , jug , jug , sweet , jug , jug ; jug , jug , the Nightingale does sing . Both men and women go , To the green Wood on a row , Both old and young Walk in a throng , both Lads and Lasses march along , In a Sympathy , For company , with mirth and jollity . It is not for Nuts , But to hear this little , pretty , dulcid , dainty Musician how she makes the Woods for to ring , Sweet , sweet , sweet , sweet , Jug , jug , jug , jug , sweet , jug , jug , jug , jug , the Nightingale does sing . Thus Country , City and Court , Unto the Woods resort , To please their minds , Both Lords and Hinds , all sorts according to their kinds , Walk to take delight , Both morn and night ; and as they please their sighed , Their ears are pleased , To hear this little , pretty , dulcid , dainty Messenger what wished for news she does bring , Sweet , sweet , sweet , sweet , Jug , jug , jug , jug , sweet , jug , jug , jug , jug , the Nightingale does sing . London , printed for F. Coules , dwelling in the Old-Baily . The Nightingale : Whose curious Notes are here explain'd , In a dainty Ditty sweetly fain'd . To a new and much affected Court Tune . YOu Gallants that resort To Hide Park or Totnam Court , To recreate , And to elevate your senses when they are out of date , Come listen to my Song , Which does belong to the Nightingales sweet tongue : This Music rare To hear this little , pretty , dulcid , dainty Philomel how she makes the Woods for to ring , Sweet , sweet , sweet , sweet , Jug , jug , jug , jug , sweet , jug , jug , jug , jug , the Nightingale does sing . The Courtiers in their pride , Walking by the green Wood side , They do much admire , When they hear the Choir , of little Birds whose notes aspire , Above all the rest , They fancy best the Nightingales sweet breast , For she does strain Her little pretty , dulcid , dainty , pleasant throat , with music fit for a King , Sweet , sweet , sweet , sweet , Jug , jug , jug , jug , sweet , jug , jug , jug , jug , the Nightingale does sing . The Citizens would feign Hear Philomels sweet strain , But that they fear When they come there , the curious constant Note to hear , And therefore they refuse And will not use , the Woods if they can choose , But yet sometime , This little , pretty , dulcid , dainty dilly , They delight to hear in the Spring , Sweet , sweet , sweet , sweet , Jug , jug , jug , jug , sweet , jug , jug , jug , jug , the Nightingale does sing . The Prentices do stray , Upon the first of May , To meet their Loves In the gay green Groves , where every one their fancy proves , And with Loves delight , From morn till night , they feed their appetite ; And while they woo This little , pretty , dulcid , dainty creature , her music to them does bring , Sweet , sweet , sweet , sweet , Jug , jug , jug , jug , sweet , jug , jug , jug , jug , the Nightingale does sing . The second part . To the same Tune . THe honest labouring Swain , To extenuate his pain When he does plod To his work abroad , His Hay , or Corn , or Wood to load , It does joy his heart , At Plough or Cart , to hear the curious part , Which among the Choir , This little pretty , dulcid , dainty Quirister does bear , this delight does bring ; Sweet , sweet , sweet , sweet , Jug , jug , jug , jug , sweet , jug , jug , jug , jug , the Nightingale does sing . The Country Milkmaids sweet , When they go to milk their Neat , In a Summer's day , In June or May , delight to walk ith' Meadows gay , They do think it long , To hear a Song , from Philomels sweet tongue , In April they Expect this little , pretty , dulcid , dainty bird , when she first proclaims the Spring , Sweet , sweet , sweet , sweet , Jug , jug , jug , jug , sweet , jug , jug ; jug , jug , the Nightingale does sing . Both men and women go , To the green Wood on a row , Both old and young Walk in a throng , both Lads and Lasses march along , In a Sympathy , For company , with mirth and jollity . It is not for Nuts , But to hear this little , pretty , dulcid , dainty Musician how she makes the Woods for to ring , Sweet , sweet , sweet , sweet , Jug , jug , jug , jug , sweet , jug , jug , jug , jug , the Nightingale does sing . Thus Country , City and Court , Unto the Woods resort , To please their minds , Both Lords and Hinds , all sorts according to their kinds , Walk to take delight , Both morn and night ; and as they please their sighed , Their ears are pleased , To hear this little , pretty , dulcid , dainty Messenger what wished for news she does bring , Sweet , sweet , sweet , sweet , Jug , jug , jug , jug , sweet , jug , jug , jug , jug , the Nightingale does sing . London , printed for F. Coules , dwelling in the Old-Baily . 