A new Ballad , showing the great misery sustained by a poor man in Essex , his Wife and Children : with other strange things done by the Devil . To the tune of , The rich Merchant man . A poor Essex man that was in great distress , Most bitterly made his complaint , in grief and heaviness : Through scarcity and want , he was oppressed soar , He could not find his children bred , he was so extreme poor . His silly wife God wot , being lately brought to bed , With her poor Infants at her breast had neither drink nor bred . A woeful lying in was this , the Lord does know , God keep all honest virtuous wives from feeling of such woe . O Husband deer , she said , for want of food I die , Some succour do for me provide , to ease my misery . The man with many a tear , most piteously replied , We have no means to buy us bred ; with that the children cry'd . They came about him round , upon his coat they hung : And piteously they made their moan their little hands they wrung . Be still my boys , said he , and I'll go to the wood , And bring some Acorns for to rost , and you shall have some food . Forth went the woeful man , a Cord he took with him , Wherewith to bind the broken wood that he should homeward bring : And by the way as he went , met Farmers two or three , Desiring them for Christ his sake , to help his misery . O lend to me ( he said ) one loaf of Barley bred , One pint of milk for my poor wife in Childbed almost dead : Think on my extreme need , to lend me have no doubt , I have no money for to pay , but I will work it out . But they in churlish sort , did one by one reply , We have already lent you more than we can come well by . This answer struck his heart as cold as any stone : Unto the wood from thence he went , with many a grievous groan . Where at the length ( behold ) a tall man did him meet , And coalblack were his garments all from head unto his feet . Thou wretched man ( said he ) why dost thou weep so soar ? What is the cause thou mak'st this moan tell me and sighs no more . Alas , good Sir ( he said ) the lack of some relief , For my poor wife & children small , 'tis cause of all my grief : They lie all like to starve for want of bred ( says he ) Good Sir , vouchsafe therefore tO [ oh ] give one penny unto me . Hereby this wretched man committed wondrous evil , He begged and alms and did not know he asked it of the Devil : But straight the hellish Fiend , to him reply'd again , And odious sinner art thou then , that dost such want sustain . Alack ( the poor man said ) this thing for truth I know , That Job was just , yet never man endured greater woe . The godly oft do want , and need does pinch them soar , Yet God will not forsake them quite but does their states restore . If thou so faithful be , why goest thou begging then ? Thou shalt be fed as Daniel was , within the Lyons Den , If thus thou do abide , the Ravens shall bring thee food , As they unto Elias did , that wandered in the Wood . Mock not a woeful man , good Sir , the poor man said , Redouble not my sorrows so , that are upon me laid : But rather do extend unto my need , and give One penny for to buy some bred , my children poor may live . With that he opened straight , the fairest purse in sighed , That ever mortal eye beheld , filled up with crowns full bright , Unto the woeful man the same he wholly gave , Who very earnestly did pray , that Christ his life might save . Well ( quoth the damned spirit ) go ease thy children's sorrow , And if thou wantest any thing , come meet me here to morrow : Then home the poor man went , with cheerful heart and mind , And comforted his woeful wife with words that were most kind . The second part , To the same tune . TAke comfort Wife he said , I have a purse of Gold Now given by a Gentleman , most fair for to behold . And thinking for to pull his purse from bosom out , He found nothing but Oaken leaves , bound in a filthy clout . Which when he did behold , with sorrow pale and wan , In desperate sort to seek the purse , unto the Wood he ran , Supposing in his mind , that he had lost it there : He could not tell then what to think , he was t'wixt hope and fear . He had no sooner come into the shady Grove , The Devil met with him again , as he in fancy strove : What seekest thou hear he said ? the purse ( quoth he ) you gave : Thus fortune she hath crossed me , and then the Devil said , Where didst thou put the purse ? tell me , and do not lie , Within my bosom said the man , where no man did come nigh . Look there again ( quoth he ) then said the man I shall , And found his bosom full of Toads , as thick as they could crawl . The poor man at this sighed , to speak had not the power , See ( quod the Devil ) vengeance does pursue thee every hour : Go cursed wretch ( quoth he ) and rid away thy life , But murder first thy children young , and miserable Wife . The poor man raging mad , ran home incontinent , Intending for to kill them all , but God did him prevent . For why the chiefest man , that in the Parish dwelled , With meat and money thither came , which liberally he dealt . Who seeing the poor man come home in such a rage , Was feign to bind him in his bed , his fury to assuage : Where long he lay full sick , still crying for his Gold , But being well , this whole discourse he to his neighbours told . From all temptations , Lord bless both great and small : And let no man , Oh heavenly God , for want of succour fallen : But put their special trust in God for evermore , Who will no doubt from misery , each faithful man restore . FINIS . Printed at London for H. Gosson . A new Ballad , showing the great misery sustained by a poor man in Essex , his Wife and Children : with other strange things done by the Devil . To the tune of , The rich Merchant man . A poor Essex man that was in great distress , Most bitterly made his complaint , in grief and heaviness : Through scarcity and want , he was oppressed soar , He could not find his children bred , he was so extreme poor . His silly wife God wot , being lately brought to bed , With her poor Infants at her breast had neither drink nor bred . A woeful lying in was this , the Lord does know , God keep all honest virtuous wives from feeling of such woe . O Husband deer , she said , for want of food I die , Some succour do for me provide , to ease my misery . The man with many a tear , most piteously replied , We have no means to buy us bred ; with that the children cry'd . They came about him round , upon his coat they hung : And piteously they made their moan their little hands they wrung . Be still my boys , said he , and I'll go to the wood , And bring some Acorns for to rost , and you shall have some food . Forth went the woeful man , a Cord he took with him , Wherewith to bind the broken wood that he should homeward bring : And by the way as he went , met Farmers two or three , Desiring them for Christ his sake , to help his misery . O lend to me ( he said ) one loaf of Barley bred , One pint of milk for my poor wife in Childbed almost dead : Think on my extreme need , to lend me have no doubt , I have no money for to pay , but I will work it out . But they in churlish sort , did one by one reply , We have already lent you more than we can come well by . This answer struck his heart as cold as any stone : Unto the wood from thence he went , with many a grievous groan . Where at the length ( behold ) a tall man did him meet , And coalblack were his garments all from head unto his feet . Thou wretched man ( said he ) why dost thou weep so soar ? What is the cause thou mak'st this moan tell me and sighs no more . Alas , good Sir ( he said ) the lack of some relief , For my poor wife & children small , 'tis cause of all my grief : They lie all like to starve for want of bred ( says he ) Good Sir , vouchsafe therefore tO [ oh ] give one penny unto me . Hereby this wretched man committed wondrous evil , He begged and alms and did not know he asked it of the Devil : But straight the hellish Fiend , to him reply'd again , And odious sinner art thou then , that dost such want sustain . Alack ( the poor man said ) this thing for truth I know , That Job was just , yet never man endured greater woe . The godly oft do want , and need does pinch them soar , Yet God will not forsake them quite but does their states restore . If thou so faithful be , why goest thou begging then ? Thou shalt be fed as Daniel was , within the Lyons Den , If thus thou do abide , the Ravens shall bring thee food , As they unto Elias did , that wandered in the Wood . Mock not a woeful man , good Sir , the poor man said , Redouble not my sorrows so , that are upon me laid : But rather do extend unto my need , and give One penny for to buy some bred , my children poor may live . With that he opened straight , the fairest purse in sighed , That ever mortal eye beheld , filled up with crowns full bright , Unto the woeful man the same he wholly gave , Who very earnestly did pray , that Christ his life might save . Well ( quoth the damned spirit ) go ease thy children's sorrow , And if thou wantest any thing , come meet me here to morrow : Then home the poor man went , with cheerful heart and mind , And comforted his woeful wife with words that were most kind . The second part , To the same tune . TAke comfort Wife he said , I have a purse of Gold Now given by a Gentleman , most fair for to behold . And thinking for to pull his purse from bosom out , He found nothing but Oaken leaves , bound in a filthy clout . Which when he did behold , with sorrow pale and wan , In desperate sort to seek the purse , unto the Wood he ran , Supposing in his mind , that he had lost it there : He could not tell then what to think , he was t'wixt hope and fear . He had no sooner come into the shady Grove , The Devil met with him again , as he in fancy strove : What seekest thou hear he said ? the purse ( quoth he ) you gave : Thus fortune she hath crossed me , and then the Devil said , Where didst thou put the purse ? tell me , and do not lie , Within my bosom said the man , where no man did come nigh . Look there again ( quoth he ) then said the man I shall , And found his bosom full of Toads , as thick as they could crawl . The poor man at this sighed , to speak had not the power , See ( quod the Devil ) vengeance does pursue thee every hour : Go cursed wretch ( quoth he ) and rid away thy life , But murder first thy children young , and miserable Wife . The poor man raging mad , ran home incontinent , Intending for to kill them all , but God did him prevent . For why the chiefest man , that in the Parish dwelled , With meat and money thither came , which liberally he dealt . Who seeing the poor man come home in such a rage , Was feign to bind him in his bed , his fury to assuage : Where long he lay full sick , still crying for his Gold , But being well , this whole discourse he to his neighbours told . From all temptations , Lord bless both great and small : And let no man , Oh heavenly God , for want of succour fallen : But put their special trust in God for evermore , Who will no doubt from misery , each faithful man restore . FINIS . Printed at London for H. Gosson . 