The Mournful SUBJECT'S OR , The whole Nations Lamentation , from the Highest to the Lowes Who did , with brinish Tears , ( the true signs of Sorrow ) bewail the Death of their most Graci - ous Sovereign King , Charles the Second ; who departed this Life Feb. 6th . 1684. And was interr'd in Westminster-Abby , in King Henry the Seventh's Chapel , on Saturday Night last , be - ing the 14th . day of the said Month ; To the solid grief and sorrow of all his loving Sub - jects . To the Tune of , Troy Town ; Or , The Duchess of Suffolk . TRue Subject's mourn , & well they may , of each degree , both Lords and Earls ; Which did behold that Dismal Day , the Death of Princely Pious Charles : Some thousand weeping Tears did fallen , At his most solid FUNERAL . He was a Prince of Clemency , whose Love and Mercy did abound , His Death may well lamented be , through all the Nations AEurope round : Unto the Ears of Christian Kings , His Death unwelcome Tidings brings . All those that ever thought him ill , and did disturb him in his Reign , Let Horror now their Conscience fill , and strive such actions to refrain : For sure they know not what they do , The time will come when they shall rue . How often Villains did design by Cruelty , his Blood to spill , Yet by the Providence Divine , God would not let them have their will ; But did preserve our Gracious King , Under the shadow of his Wing . We griev'd his Soul while he was here , when we wou'd not his Laws obey , Therefore the Lord he was severe , and took our Gracious Prince away : We was not worthy to enjoy The Prince whom Subject's would annoy . In peace he did lay down his Head , the Sceptre and the Royal Crown , His Soul is now to Heaven fled , above the reach of Mortal frown : Where joy and Glory will not cease , In presence with the King of Peace . Alas ! we had our Liberty , he never sought for to devour , By a Usurping Tyranny , to Rule by Arbitrary Power : No , no , in all his blessed Reign , We had no cause for to Complain . Let Mourners now lament the loss of him that did the Sceptre sway , And look upon it as a Cross , that he from us is snatched away : Though he is free from Care and Woe , Yet we cannot forget him so . But since it was thy blessed Will , to call him from a sinful Land , Oh let us all be thankful still , that it was done by thine own hand : No pitch of Honour can be free From Death's Usurping Tyranny . The Fourteen day of February , they did Inter our Gracious Charles His Funeral Solemnity , accompanied with Lords and Earls : Four Dukes , I , and Prince George by Name , Went next the KING , with all his Train . And thus they to the Abbey went , to lay him in his silent Tomb , Where many inward Sighs was spent , to think upon their dismal Doom : Whole showers of Tears afresh there fell , When they beheld his last farewell . Since it is so that all must die , and must before our God appear , Oh let us have a watchful eye , over our Conversation here : That like Great Charles our King and Friend , We all may have a happy end . Let England by their Loyalty , repair the Breach which they did make ; And let us all United be , to Gracious James , for Charles his sake : And let there be no more Discord , But Love the King , and fear the Lord . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , in Guilt-surp-street . The Mournful SUBJECT'S OR , The whole Nations Lamentation , from the Highest to the Lowes Who did , with brinish Tears , ( the true signs of Sorrow ) bewail the Death of their most Graci - ous Sovereign King , Charles the Second ; who departed this Life Feb. 6th . 1684. And was interr'd in Westminster-Abby , in King Henry the Seventh's Chapel , on Saturday Night last , be - ing the 14th . day of the said Month ; To the solid grief and sorrow of all his loving Sub - jects . To the Tune of , Troy Town ; Or , The Duchess of Suffolk . TRue Subject's mourn , & well they may , of each degree , both Lords and Earls ; Which did behold that Dismal Day , the Death of Princely Pious Charles : Some thousand weeping Tears did fallen , At his most solid FUNERAL . He was a Prince of Clemency , whose Love and Mercy did abound , His Death may well lamented be , through all the Nations AEurope round : Unto the Ears of Christian Kings , His Death unwelcome Tidings brings . All those that ever thought him ill , and did disturb him in his Reign , Let Horror now their Conscience fill , and strive such actions to refrain : For sure they know not what they do , The time will come when they shall rue . How often Villains did design by Cruelty , his Blood to spill , Yet by the Providence Divine , God would not let them have their will ; But did preserve our Gracious King , Under the shadow of his Wing . We griev'd his Soul while he was here , when we wou'd not his Laws obey , Therefore the Lord he was severe , and took our Gracious Prince away : We was not worthy to enjoy The Prince whom Subject's would annoy . In peace he did lay down his Head , the Sceptre and the Royal Crown , His Soul is now to Heaven fled , above the reach of Mortal frown : Where joy and Glory will not cease , In presence with the King of Peace . Alas ! we had our Liberty , he never sought for to devour , By a Usurping Tyranny , to Rule by Arbitrary Power : No , no , in all his blessed Reign , We had no cause for to Complain . Let Mourners now lament the loss of him that did the Sceptre sway , And look upon it as a Cross , that he from us is snatched away : Though he is free from Care and Woe , Yet we cannot forget him so . But since it was thy blessed Will , to call him from a sinful Land , Oh let us all be thankful still , that it was done by thine own hand : No pitch of Honour can be free From Death's Usurping Tyranny . The Fourteen day of February , they did Inter our Gracious Charles His Funeral Solemnity , accompanied with Lords and Earls : Four Dukes , I , and Prince George by Name , Went next the KING , with all his Train . And thus they to the Abbey went , to lay him in his silent Tomb , Where many inward Sighs was spent , to think upon their dismal Doom : Whole showers of Tears afresh there fell , When they beheld his last farewell . Since it is so that all must die , and must before our God appear , Oh let us have a watchful eye , over our Conversation here : That like Great Charles our King and Friend , We all may have a happy end . Let England by their Loyalty , repair the Breach which they did make ; And let us all United be , to Gracious James , for Charles his sake : And let there be no more Discord , But Love the King , and fear the Lord . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , in Guilt-surp-street . 