A posy of rare Flowers , Gathered by a Youngman for his Mistress . To a delectable new tune . THe Summer's Sun ore-heating , Within and harbour sitting , under a marble shade , For my true Love the fairest , And of flowers the rarest , a Posy thus I made . The first and last for trusting , Is called everlasting , I pulled from the Bay , The blue and crimson Columbine , The Dasie and the Woodbine , and eke the blooming May . The sweetest flowers for posies , Pinks , Giliflowers and Roses , I gathered in their prime : The flowers of Muskmillions , Come blow me down sweet-williams , with Rosemary and Time . The Larksheele and the Lily , The Flag and Daffadilly , the Wallflower sweet of smell : The Maidenblush and Cowslip , The Peagle and the Tulip , that does so sweet excel . The Violet and Grediline , The odoriferous Eglantine , with Thrift and Honesty , The Muskerose sweet and dainty , With other flowers plenty , Oxlops and Piony . The Giliflowers variety , Of every colour severally , the Lady smock and Pancy , The Bachelors button fair and fine , The Primerose and the Sops-in-wine , with them the Maidens fancy . The time-observing Marigold , Most fair and lovely to behold , I plucked among the rest , The white and read Carnation , The senses recreation , with other flowers the best . The flowers fit for smelling , Whose sweet is far excelling all the perfumes of art , I pulled up each several , And made a Posy there withal , to bear to my Sweetheart . The second part , To the same tune . SWeet Basill and sweet Margerum , The Cowslip of Jerusalem , the Crowfoot and Seaflower , The Startup and kiss me , A flower that shall not miss me , in my true Lovers bower . The Lady of Essex fair , A flower passing sweet and rare , I in the midst did place , Because my Love is fairest , And of all maids the rarest , in body and in face . These flowers being culled , And their branches pulled , did yield a fragrant scen Observing their fit places , I bound them in bridelaces , and to my Love I wen In hope she would receive them , To th'end that I might give them , as pledges of my love , To her whose radiant beauty , Did bind me to this duty , hoping shee'l ne'r remove . Her permanent affection , To me , who by election am hers while life does last , These flowers did resemble My thoughts which never dissemble , but hold both smell and taste . When I had made this Nosegay , With joyful heart I took my way , to find out my true Love : Who for my absence mourned , Until that I returned , as does the Turtle Dove . At last I found her sporting , With other Maids consorting , close by a River side : My Posy not refused , When she the same perused , upon her arm she tide . ( Quoth she ) although these flowers , Will wither in few hours , yet take my word , Sweet heart , My love to thee shall never decay , Till death does take my life away , from thee I'll never depart . The like to her I vowed , And while the time allowed , about such things we talked , At length because it waxed late , We for that time did leave our prate , and from each other walked . When with a mild behaviour , She thanks me for my favour , and wore it for my sake , With interchanging kisses , The rest remains in wishes , unwilling leave we take . Printed at London for H.G. A posy of rare Flowers , Gathered by a Youngman for his Mistress . To a delectable new tune . THe Summer's Sun ore-heating , Within and harbour sitting , under a marble shade , For my true Love the fairest , And of flowers the rarest , a Posy thus I made . The first and last for trusting , Is called everlasting , I pulled from the Bay , The blue and crimson Columbine , The Dasie and the Woodbine , and eke the blooming May . The sweetest flowers for posies , Pinks , Giliflowers and Roses , I gathered in their prime : The flowers of Muskmillions , Come blow me down sweet-williams , with Rosemary and Time . The Larksheele and the Lily , The Flag and Daffadilly , the Wallflower sweet of smell : The Maidenblush and Cowslip , The Peagle and the Tulip , that does so sweet excel . The Violet and Grediline , The odoriferous Eglantine , with Thrift and Honesty , The Muskerose sweet and dainty , With other flowers plenty , Oxlops and Piony . The Giliflowers variety , Of every colour severally , the Lady smock and Pancy , The Bachelors button fair and fine , The Primerose and the Sops-in-wine , with them the Maidens fancy . The time-observing Marigold , Most fair and lovely to behold , I plucked among the rest , The white and read Carnation , The senses recreation , with other flowers the best . The flowers fit for smelling , Whose sweet is far excelling all the perfumes of art , I pulled up each several , And made a Posy there withal , to bear to my Sweetheart . The second part , To the same tune . SWeet Basill and sweet Margerum , The Cowslip of Jerusalem , the Crowfoot and Seaflower , The Startup and kiss me , A flower that shall not miss me , in my true Lovers bower . The Lady of Essex fair , A flower passing sweet and rare , I in the midst did place , Because my Love is fairest , And of all maids the rarest , in body and in face . These flowers being culled , And their branches pulled , did yield a fragrant scen Observing their fit places , I bound them in bridelaces , and to my Love I wen In hope she would receive them , To th'end that I might give them , as pledges of my love , To her whose radiant beauty , Did bind me to this duty , hoping shee'l ne'r remove . Her permanent affection , To me , who by election am hers while life does last , These flowers did resemble My thoughts which never dissemble , but hold both smell and taste . When I had made this Nosegay , With joyful heart I took my way , to find out my true Love : Who for my absence mourned , Until that I returned , as does the Turtle Dove . At last I found her sporting , With other Maids consorting , close by a River side : My Posy not refused , When she the same perused , upon her arm she tide . ( Quoth she ) although these flowers , Will wither in few hours , yet take my word , Sweet heart , My love to thee shall never decay , Till death does take my life away , from thee I'll never depart . The like to her I vowed , And while the time allowed , about such things we talked , At length because it waxed late , We for that time did leave our prate , and from each other walked . When with a mild behaviour , She thanks me for my favour , and wore it for my sake , With interchanging kisses , The rest remains in wishes , unwilling leave we take . Printed at London for H.G. 