A Pennyworth of good Counsel . To Widow's , and to Maids , this Counsel I send free ; And let them look before they leap , or , that they married be . To the tune of Dulcima . OF late it was my chance to walk for recreation in the Spring , Where as the feathered Quiristers , melodiously aloud did sing ; and at that tide , I there espied , A woman fair , her hands sat wringing ; she wept apace , and cry'd , alas ; My Husband hath no forecast in him . Quoth she , when as I was a Maiden , I had store of Suitors brave , And I most coily did reject them , to take the man that now I have ; but woe is me , that ere I see The face of him , makes me thus singing , most heavily I sing , and cry , My Husband hath no forecast in him . His flattering tongue it did bewitch me , fair promises to me he gave , And said I should have all things plenty , but no such thing I'm sure I have ; his purse is light , nothing is right , Although a portion I did bring him ; aye me poor soul , thus to condole , My Husband hath no forecast in him . Hee's not the man I took him for , alas , who would be so much tIED ? I tell you friends now seriously , my Husband he does nought but chide : his looks are sour , and he does lower ; For Nature no good parts hath gi'n him : For which I grieve , You may believe , My Husband hath no forecast in him . When as he was a Bachelor , then who but he among the Maids ? He went most neat in his apparel ; but now I find his glory fades : so spruce he went , would give content , To any Maiden that could win him , hee'd dance , and sing , wrestle and ring ; But now he hath no forecast in him . Some Men unto their Wives are loving , and all content to them do give ; But mine is lumpish sad and heavy , which is the cause wherefore I grieve : if I prove kind , some fault hee'l find , And says he knows where his shoe wrings him ; in dark , or light , by day or night , My Husband hath no forecast in him . The second Part , To the same tune . HE keeps me short of every thing , no money he will give or lend ; 'Tis fitting sometime that a woman should with a friend some money spend : I must fit here , with heavy cheer , Although that I did something bring him ; which makes me thus to cry , alas , My Husband hath no forecast in him . He does not use me like a Woman , and does not care what clothes I have . When other men's wives wear each fashion , and are maintained rich and brave : thus to the wall , I may condole , Although that this same song I sing him : some counsel give , me to relieve ; My Husband hath no forecast in him . Eringo-roots I do provide him , which Cawdles made of Muscadine , Yea , Marrowbones and Oyster-pies , which all are dishes good and fine : and Lobsters great , for him to eat , And yolks of Eggs ; these have I gin him : do what I can , yet this same man By no means will have forecast in him . He will not have me go abroad , yet seldom is himself at home ; He says that I must be a House-dove , I must not fly abroad and room : when other Wives , do led brave lives , They'l go to Plays , hear Fiddlers singing , and spend their Coin , at Ale or Wine ; My Husband hath no forecast in him . Thus like the Turtle I fit mourning , because I have and unkind Mate ; And fickle Fortune on me frowneth , it is my destiny and fate : I hope hee'l mend , and be more kind , With sweet embraces I will cling him ; I'll speak him fair to have more care ; That he may have more forecast in him . But if I see he will not mend , come tell me Widow , Maid , or Wife ; What shall I do in this same woe ? for I am weary of this life : my tongue I'll tune , It shall chime noon , And in his ears a peal I'll ring him ; I am put too't and I will doo't , Because he hath no forecast in him . FINIS . M.P. A Pennyworth of good Counsel . To Widow's , and to Maids , this Counsel I send free ; And let them look before they leap , or , that they married be . To the tune of Dulcima . OF late it was my chance to walk for recreation in the Spring , Where as the feathered Quiristers , melodiously aloud did sing ; and at that tide , I there espied , A woman fair , her hands sat wringing ; she wept apace , and cry'd , alas ; My Husband hath no forecast in him . Quoth she , when as I was a Maiden , I had store of Suitors brave , And I most coily did reject them , to take the man that now I have ; but woe is me , that ere I see The face of him , makes me thus singing , most heavily I sing , and cry , My Husband hath no forecast in him . His flattering tongue it did bewitch me , fair promises to me he gave , And said I should have all things plenty , but no such thing I'm sure I have ; his purse is light , nothing is right , Although a portion I did bring him ; aye me poor soul , thus to condole , My Husband hath no forecast in him . Hee's not the man I took him for , alas , who would be so much tIED ? I tell you friends now seriously , my Husband he does nought but chide : his looks are sour , and he does lower ; For Nature no good parts hath gi'n him : For which I grieve , You may believe , My Husband hath no forecast in him . When as he was a Bachelor , then who but he among the Maids ? He went most neat in his apparel ; but now I find his glory fades : so spruce he went , would give content , To any Maiden that could win him , hee'd dance , and sing , wrestle and ring ; But now he hath no forecast in him . Some Men unto their Wives are loving , and all content to them do give ; But mine is lumpish sad and heavy , which is the cause wherefore I grieve : if I prove kind , some fault hee'l find , And says he knows where his shoe wrings him ; in dark , or light , by day or night , My Husband hath no forecast in him . The second Part , To the same tune . HE keeps me short of every thing , no money he will give or lend ; 'Tis fitting sometime that a woman should with a friend some money spend : I must fit here , with heavy cheer , Although that I did something bring him ; which makes me thus to cry , alas , My Husband hath no forecast in him . He does not use me like a Woman , and does not care what clothes I have . When other men's wives wear each fashion , and are maintained rich and brave : thus to the wall , I may condole , Although that this same song I sing him : some counsel give , me to relieve ; My Husband hath no forecast in him . Eringo-roots I do provide him , which Cawdles made of Muscadine , Yea , Marrowbones and Oyster-pies , which all are dishes good and fine : and Lobsters great , for him to eat , And yolks of Eggs ; these have I gin him : do what I can , yet this same man By no means will have forecast in him . He will not have me go abroad , yet seldom is himself at home ; He says that I must be a House-dove , I must not fly abroad and room : when other Wives , do led brave lives , They'l go to Plays , hear Fiddlers singing , and spend their Coin , at Ale or Wine ; My Husband hath no forecast in him . Thus like the Turtle I fit mourning , because I have and unkind Mate ; And fickle Fortune on me frowneth , it is my destiny and fate : I hope hee'l mend , and be more kind , With sweet embraces I will cling him ; I'll speak him fair to have more care ; That he may have more forecast in him . But if I see he will not mend , come tell me Widow , Maid , or Wife ; What shall I do in this same woe ? for I am weary of this life : my tongue I'll tune , It shall chime noon , And in his ears a peal I'll ring him ; I am put too't and I will doo't , Because he hath no forecast in him . FINIS . M.P. 