The politic Maid . OR , A dainty new ditty , both pleasant and witty : Wherein you may see , the maids policy . To a pleasant new tune . THere was a Knight was wine drunk , as he road on the way , And there he spied a bonny Lass , among the Cocks of Hay : Sing loud , whistle in the wind , blow merry merry , Up and down in yonder dale , with hey tro nonney nonney . This gallant Knight unto the Lass , did present take his way , But it seem'd he had a shame face , he did not Court and play : Sing loud , whistle in the wind , blow merry merry , Up and down in yonder dale , with hey tro nonney nonney . When he came to this bonny Lass , he found she was not coy , His courtesy she did embrace , and did not say him nay : Sing loud , whistle in the wind , blow merry merry , Up and down in yonder dale with hey tro nonney nonney . If we should fit us down here , upon the grass so green , Heres neither sheet nor covering , to keep our clothes clean : Sing loud , whistle in the wind , blow merry merry , Up and down in yonder dale , with hey tro nonney nonney . And if we should fit down quoth he , among the Cocks of hay , Then would come forth the Kings Pinder , and take our steeds away : Sing loud , whistle in the wind , blow merry merry , Up and down in yonder dale , with hey tro nonney nonney . I have rings on my fingers , made of the purest gold , That will release our steeds again out of the Kings pinfold : Sing loud , whistle in the wind , blow merry merry , Up and down in yonder dale , with hey tro nonney nonney . The second part To the same tune . SIR Knight if you will go with me , into my Father's Bowers , There may you fit and talk with me , this three or foure hours : Sing loud , whistle in the wind , blow merry merry , Up and down in yonder dale , with hey tro nonney nonney . When she came to her Father's Bowers , they were moted round about , Then she slipped in at a wicket and left Sir Knight without Sing loud , whistle in the wind , blow merry merry , Up and down in yonder dale , with hey tro nonney nonney . Now I am here a maid within , and you Sir Knight without , You may lay straw under your feet to keep you from the gou Sing loud , whistle in the wind , blow merry merry , Up and down in yonder dale , with hey tro nonney nonney . Henceforth when you do meet a maid a mile out of the town , Sir Knight you must not be afraid , of soiling of her gown : Sing loud , whistle in the wind , blow merry merry , Up and down in yonder dale , with hey tro nonney nonney . And if you chance to meet a maid , among the Cocks of hay , Sir Knight you must not be afraid , with her to Court , and say Sing loud , whistle in the wind , blow merry merry , Up and down in yonder dale , with hey tro nonney nonney . It is a proverb many say , and truth it is in trial , He that will not when as he may , shall after have denial : Sing loud , whistle in the wind , blow merry merry , Up and down in yonder dale , with hey tro nonney nonney . And thus Sir Knight now fare you well , to you I bid adieu , Now you hereafterwards may tell how I have served you . Sing loud , whistle in the wind , blow merry merry merry , Up and down in yonder dale , with hey tro nonney nonney . FINIS . R.C. Printed at London for Thomas Lam - bert , at the sign of the Horse-shoo in Smithfield . The politic Maid . OR , A dainty new ditty , both pleasant and witty : Wherein you may see , the maids policy . To a pleasant new tune . THere was a Knight was wine drunk , as he road on the way , And there he spied a bonny Lass , among the Cocks of Hay : Sing loud , whistle in the wind , blow merry merry , Up and down in yonder dale , with hey tro nonney nonney . This gallant Knight unto the Lass , did present take his way , But it seem'd he had a shame face , he did not Court and play : Sing loud , whistle in the wind , blow merry merry , Up and down in yonder dale , with hey tro nonney nonney . When he came to this bonny Lass , he found she was not coy , His courtesy she did embrace , and did not say him nay : Sing loud , whistle in the wind , blow merry merry , Up and down in yonder dale with hey tro nonney nonney . If we should fit us down here , upon the grass so green , Heres neither sheet nor covering , to keep our clothes clean : Sing loud , whistle in the wind , blow merry merry , Up and down in yonder dale , with hey tro nonney nonney . And if we should fit down quoth he , among the Cocks of hay , Then would come forth the Kings Pinder , and take our steeds away : Sing loud , whistle in the wind , blow merry merry , Up and down in yonder dale , with hey tro nonney nonney . I have rings on my fingers , made of the purest gold , That will release our steeds again out of the Kings pinfold : Sing loud , whistle in the wind , blow merry merry , Up and down in yonder dale , with hey tro nonney nonney . The second part To the same tune . SIR Knight if you will go with me , into my Father's Bowers , There may you fit and talk with me , this three or foure hours : Sing loud , whistle in the wind , blow merry merry , Up and down in yonder dale , with hey tro nonney nonney . When she came to her Father's Bowers , they were moted round about , Then she slipped in at a wicket and left Sir Knight without Sing loud , whistle in the wind , blow merry merry , Up and down in yonder dale , with hey tro nonney nonney . Now I am here a maid within , and you Sir Knight without , You may lay straw under your feet to keep you from the gou Sing loud , whistle in the wind , blow merry merry , Up and down in yonder dale , with hey tro nonney nonney . Henceforth when you do meet a maid a mile out of the town , Sir Knight you must not be afraid , of soiling of her gown : Sing loud , whistle in the wind , blow merry merry , Up and down in yonder dale , with hey tro nonney nonney . And if you chance to meet a maid , among the Cocks of hay , Sir Knight you must not be afraid , with her to Court , and say Sing loud , whistle in the wind , blow merry merry , Up and down in yonder dale , with hey tro nonney nonney . It is a proverb many say , and truth it is in trial , He that will not when as he may , shall after have denial : Sing loud , whistle in the wind , blow merry merry , Up and down in yonder dale , with hey tro nonney nonney . And thus Sir Knight now fare you well , to you I bid adieu , Now you hereafterwards may tell how I have served you . Sing loud , whistle in the wind , blow merry merry merry , Up and down in yonder dale , with hey tro nonney nonney . FINIS . R.C. Printed at London for Thomas Lam - bert , at the sign of the Horse-shoo in Smithfield . 