A most excellent and virtuous Ballad of the Patient Grissell . To the tune of The Brides good morrow . A Noble Marquess , As he did ride a hunting hard by a Forest side , A fair and comely Maiden , As she did fit a spinning , his gentle eye espied : Most fair and lovely , And of comely grace was she , although in simple attire ; She sung full sweetly , With pleasant voice melodiously , which set the Lords heart on fire ; The more he looked , the more he might , Beauty bred his hearts delight , And to this Damsel then he went . God speed ( quoth he ) thou famous flower , Fair Mistress of this homely Bower , Where love and virtue dwells with sweet content . With comely gesture , And modest mild behaviour she bade him welcome then , She entertain'd him In faithful friendly manner , and all his Gentlemen . The Noble Marquess In's heart felt such a flame , which set his senses at strife , Quoth he , fair Maiden , Show me soon what is thy name , I mean to make thee my wife . Grissell is my name quoth she , Far unfit for your degree , silly Maiden , and of Parents poor . Nay , Grissell , thou art rich , he said , A virtuous , fair , and comely Maid , Grant me thy love , and I will ask no more . At length she consented , And being both contented , they married were with speed : Her Country Russet Was chang'd to Silk and Velvet , as to her state agreed : And when that she Was trimly tired in the same , her beauty shined bright , Far staining every Other fair and Princely Dame that did appear in her sighed . Many envied her therefore , Because she was of Parents poor , And t'wixt her Lord and she great strife did raise : Some said this , and some said that , And some did call her Beggars brat , And to her Lord they would her oft dispraise . O Noble Marquesse , Quoth they , why dost thou wrong us , thus basely for to wed , That might have got And honourable Lady into your Princely bed ? Who will not now Your Noble Issue still deride , which shall hereafter be born , That are of blood so base , Born by the Mother's side , the which will bring them in scorn . Put her therefore quite away , And take to you a Lady gay , Whereby your Lineage may renowned be . Thus every day they seem'd to prate , That malic'd Grissells good estate , Who all this while took it most patiently . When that the Marquess Did see that they were bent thus against his faithful Wife , Whom he most dearly , Tenderly , and entirely , beloved as his life , Minding in secret For to prove her patient heart thereby her foes to disgrace , Thinking to show her A hard discourteous part , that men might pity her case : Great with child this Lady was , And at last it came to pass , Two goodly children at one birth she had , A Son and Daughter God had sent , Which did their Father well content , And which did make their Mother's heart full glad , Great royal Feasting Was at these Children's Christening , and Princely triumph made , Sixe weeks together , All Nobles that came thither were entertain'd and stayed , And when all these pleasant Sportings quite were done , the Marquess a Messenger sent For his young Daughter , And his pretty smiling Son , declaring his full intent , How that the Babes must murdered be , For so the Marquess did decree : Come , let me have the Children , then he said . With that fair Grissel wept full soar , She wrung her hands & said no more , My gracious Lord must have his will obeyed . The second part To the same tune . SHe took the Babies , Even from the nursing Ladies , between her tender arms , She often wishes With many sorrowful kisses , that she might ease their harms : Farewell , farewell A thousand times my children deer , never shall I see you again ; 'Tis long of me Your sad and woeful mother here , for whose sake both must be slain ; Had I been born of Royal raze , You might have been in happy case , But you must die for my unworthiness . Come messenger of death ( quoth she ) Take my dearest Babes to thee , And to their Father my complaints express . He took the Children , And to his Noble Master he brought them both with speed , Who in secret sent them Unto a Noble Lady to be brought up indeed . Then to fair Grissell With a heavy heart he goes where she sat mildly all alone , A pleasant gesture , And a lovely look she shows , as if no grief she had known . ( Quod he ) my children now are slain , What thinks fair Grissell of the same , Sweet Grissell now declare thy mind to me . Sith you , my Lord are pleas'd with it , Poor Grissell thinks the actium fit , Both I and mine at your command will be . My Nobles murmur , Fair Grissell at thy honour , and I no joy can have Till thou be banished Both from my Court and presence , as they unjustly crave ; Thou must be stripped Out of thy stately garments all , and as thou cam'st to me In homely grey In stead of Bisse and purest Pall , now all thy clothing must be . My Lady thou must be no more , Nor I thy Lord , which grieves me soar , The poorest life must now content thy mind . A groat to thee I must not give , Thee to maintain while I do live , Against my Grissell such great foes I find . When gentle Grissell Did hear these woeful tidings , the tears stood in her eyes , Nothing she answered , No words of discontentment did from her lips arise ; Her Velvet Gown Most patiently she slipped off , her Kirtle of Silk with the same , Her Russet Gown Was brought again with many a scoff to bear them her self she did frame , When she was dressed in this array , And was ready to part away , God send long life unto my Lord ( quoth she ) Let no offence be found in this , To give my Lord a parting kiss , With watery eyes , farewell my deer , he said . From Princely Palace , Unto her Father's Cottage , poor Grissell now is gone : Full sixteene Winter's She lived there contented , no wrong she thought upon : And at that time through All the Land the speeches went , the Marquess should married be , Unto a Noble Lady great , Of high dissent , and to the same all parties did agr [ ee ] The Marquess sent for Grissell fair The Brides bedchamber to prepare That nothing therein might be found awry ; The Bride was with her Brother come [ e ] Which was great joy to all and some [ e ] But Grissell took all this most patiently . And in the morning , When as they should be wedded , her patience then was tried ; Grissell was charged , Her self in friendly manner ; for to attire the Bride , Most willingly She gave consent to do the same , the Bride in her bravery was dres [ tO ] And presently The Noble Marquess thither came with all his Lords at his request , Oh Grissell , I would ask of thee , If to this match thou wilt agree , Me thinks thy looks are waxed wondrous coy . With that they all began to smile , And Grissell she replied the while , God send Lord Marquesse many years of joy . The Marquess was moved To see his best beloved thus patient in distress , He stepped unto her , And by the hand he took her , these words he did express , Thou art my Bride , And all the Brides I mean to have , these two thine own children be . The youthful Lady On her knees did blessing crave , her brother as well as she . And you that envied her estate , Whom I have made my loving Mate Now blush for shame , and honour virtuous life . The Chronicles of lasting fame Shall evermore extol the name Of Patient Grissell my most constant Wife . London Printed for John Wright . FINIS . A most excellent and virtuous Ballad of the Patient Grissell . To the tune of The Brides good morrow . A Noble Marquess , As he did ride a hunting hard by a Forest side , A fair and comely Maiden , As she did fit a spinning , his gentle eye espied : Most fair and lovely , And of comely grace was she , although in simple attire ; She sung full sweetly , With pleasant voice melodiously , which set the Lords heart on fire ; The more he looked , the more he might , Beauty bred his hearts delight , And to this Damsel then he went . God speed ( quoth he ) thou famous flower , Fair Mistress of this homely Bower , Where love and virtue dwells with sweet content . With comely gesture , And modest mild behaviour she bade him welcome then , She entertain'd him In faithful friendly manner , and all his Gentlemen . The Noble Marquess In's heart felt such a flame , which set his senses at strife , Quoth he , fair Maiden , Show me soon what is thy name , I mean to make thee my wife . Grissell is my name quoth she , Far unfit for your degree , silly Maiden , and of Parents poor . Nay , Grissell , thou art rich , he said , A virtuous , fair , and comely Maid , Grant me thy love , and I will ask no more . At length she consented , And being both contented , they married were with speed : Her Country Russet Was chang'd to Silk and Velvet , as to her state agreed : And when that she Was trimly tired in the same , her beauty shined bright , Far staining every Other fair and Princely Dame that did appear in her sighed . Many envied her therefore , Because she was of Parents poor , And t'wixt her Lord and she great strife did raise : Some said this , and some said that , And some did call her Beggars brat , And to her Lord they would her oft dispraise . O Noble Marquesse , Quoth they , why dost thou wrong us , thus basely for to wed , That might have got And honourable Lady into your Princely bed ? Who will not now Your Noble Issue still deride , which shall hereafter be born , That are of blood so base , Born by the Mother's side , the which will bring them in scorn . Put her therefore quite away , And take to you a Lady gay , Whereby your Lineage may renowned be . Thus every day they seem'd to prate , That malic'd Grissells good estate , Who all this while took it most patiently . When that the Marquess Did see that they were bent thus against his faithful Wife , Whom he most dearly , Tenderly , and entirely , beloved as his life , Minding in secret For to prove her patient heart thereby her foes to disgrace , Thinking to show her A hard discourteous part , that men might pity her case : Great with child this Lady was , And at last it came to pass , Two goodly children at one birth she had , A Son and Daughter God had sent , Which did their Father well content , And which did make their Mother's heart full glad , Great royal Feasting Was at these Children's Christening , and Princely triumph made , Sixe weeks together , All Nobles that came thither were entertain'd and stayed , And when all these pleasant Sportings quite were done , the Marquess a Messenger sent For his young Daughter , And his pretty smiling Son , declaring his full intent , How that the Babes must murdered be , For so the Marquess did decree : Come , let me have the Children , then he said . With that fair Grissel wept full soar , She wrung her hands & said no more , My gracious Lord must have his will obeyed . The second part To the same tune . SHe took the Babies , Even from the nursing Ladies , between her tender arms , She often wishes With many sorrowful kisses , that she might ease their harms : Farewell , farewell A thousand times my children deer , never shall I see you again ; 'Tis long of me Your sad and woeful mother here , for whose sake both must be slain ; Had I been born of Royal raze , You might have been in happy case , But you must die for my unworthiness . Come messenger of death ( quoth she ) Take my dearest Babes to thee , And to their Father my complaints express . He took the Children , And to his Noble Master he brought them both with speed , Who in secret sent them Unto a Noble Lady to be brought up indeed . Then to fair Grissell With a heavy heart he goes where she sat mildly all alone , A pleasant gesture , And a lovely look she shows , as if no grief she had known . ( Quod he ) my children now are slain , What thinks fair Grissell of the same , Sweet Grissell now declare thy mind to me . Sith you , my Lord are pleas'd with it , Poor Grissell thinks the actium fit , Both I and mine at your command will be . My Nobles murmur , Fair Grissell at thy honour , and I no joy can have Till thou be banished Both from my Court and presence , as they unjustly crave ; Thou must be stripped Out of thy stately garments all , and as thou cam'st to me In homely grey In stead of Bisse and purest Pall , now all thy clothing must be . My Lady thou must be no more , Nor I thy Lord , which grieves me soar , The poorest life must now content thy mind . A groat to thee I must not give , Thee to maintain while I do live , Against my Grissell such great foes I find . When gentle Grissell Did hear these woeful tidings , the tears stood in her eyes , Nothing she answered , No words of discontentment did from her lips arise ; Her Velvet Gown Most patiently she slipped off , her Kirtle of Silk with the same , Her Russet Gown Was brought again with many a scoff to bear them her self she did frame , When she was dressed in this array , And was ready to part away , God send long life unto my Lord ( quoth she ) Let no offence be found in this , To give my Lord a parting kiss , With watery eyes , farewell my deer , he said . From Princely Palace , Unto her Father's Cottage , poor Grissell now is gone : Full sixteene Winter's She lived there contented , no wrong she thought upon : And at that time through All the Land the speeches went , the Marquess should married be , Unto a Noble Lady great , Of high dissent , and to the same all parties did agr [ ee ] The Marquess sent for Grissell fair The Brides bedchamber to prepare That nothing therein might be found awry ; The Bride was with her Brother come [ e ] Which was great joy to all and some [ e ] But Grissell took all this most patiently . And in the morning , When as they should be wedded , her patience then was tried ; Grissell was charged , Her self in friendly manner ; for to attire the Bride , Most willingly She gave consent to do the same , the Bride in her bravery was dres [ tO ] And presently The Noble Marquess thither came with all his Lords at his request , Oh Grissell , I would ask of thee , If to this match thou wilt agree , Me thinks thy looks are waxed wondrous coy . With that they all began to smile , And Grissell she replied the while , God send Lord Marquesse many years of joy . The Marquess was moved To see his best beloved thus patient in distress , He stepped unto her , And by the hand he took her , these words he did express , Thou art my Bride , And all the Brides I mean to have , these two thine own children be . The youthful Lady On her knees did blessing crave , her brother as well as she . And you that envied her estate , Whom I have made my loving Mate Now blush for shame , and honour virtuous life . The Chronicles of lasting fame Shall evermore extol the name Of Patient Grissell my most constant Wife . London Printed for John Wright . FINIS . 