The [ P ] raise of Saint Davids day . Showing the Reason why the Welshmen honour the Leek on that day . To the tune of When this Old Cap was new . WHo list to read the deeds by valiant Welch-men done , Shall find them worthy men of Arms , as breath [ e ] s beneath the Sun : They are of valiant hearts , of nature kind and meek , And honour on Saint Davids day , it is to wear a Leek . The Welch most ancient is of this our famous land , Who were the first that conquer'd it , by force and warlike hand . From Troy stout [ B ] rute did come , this kingdom for to seek ; Which was possessed by savage men , then honoured be the Leek . He having wone the same , and put them to the sword : Of Brute did Britaine first take name , as Chronicles record . The Welch true Britons are , whose swords in blood did reek , Of Pagan men being heathenish , then honoured be the Leek . And now if you would know , why they the Leek do wear , In honour of Saint Davids day , it plainly shall appear . Upon Saint Davids day , and first of March that week , The Welch-men with their foes did join , then honoured be the Leek . And being in the field , their valour they did try ; Where thousands on both sides being slain , within their bloods did lie . And they not knowing how their friends from foes to seek , Into a Garden they did go , where each one pull'd a Leek : And wore it in his Hat , their Countrymen to know ; And then most valiantly they did , o'recome th [ e ] ir warlike foe . Then were no colours known , nor any feathers eke ; The feathers first original , it was the Welshmans Leek . And ever since that time , the Leek they use to wear , In honour of Saint Davids day , they do that Trophy bear . A Reverend Bishop was Saint David mild and meek , And this and honour that same day , for them to wear a Leek . The second part . To the same tune . FOr Englishmen Saint George , Saint Andrew for the Scot , Saint Patericke for Ireland , Saint David Welsh-men's Lo In honour of which Saint , those Country men do seek , For to remember the same day , in wearing of a Leek . Each Country hath his Saint , why should not Welshmen then Give honour to her Country due , as well as other men , A Reason for the same , are many men to seek , Then know it is and honour brave , that day to wear a Leek . What Royal Princes have , in fruitful Wales been born , Yea for to wear a Leek that day , they took it for no scorn . The seventh Henery , was born on mountain Peke , Which on that day did use to wear , in solemn sort the Leek . From him Elizabeth , did lineally descend , Who did the Gospel true maintain , until her life did end , And she upon that day , with diverse Courtiers meek In token of that victory , did wear the honoured Leek . And Royal Kings likewise , from Heneryes loins did spring , With many noble Princes else , beside our Royal King , And Princes more of Wales , that day were ne're to seek , For on that day for Davids sake , they always wore a Leek , When Princes of the Blood , did celebrate the same , Whom foreign nations so admir'd , and prais'd with lasting fame , Who had such Lyons hearts , yet like to lambs were meek , That did in honour of that day , still wear the royal Leek . I call it Royal Leek , Cause Princes i [ tO ] does wear , Let no true hearted Welch-man then , disdain the same to bear : But let them now as they , true honour always seek , And still remember Davids day : in wearing of a Leek . FINIS . The [ P ] raise of Saint Davids day . Showing the Reason why the Welshmen honour the Leek on that day . To the tune of When this Old Cap was new . WHo list to read the deeds by valiant Welch-men done , Shall find them worthy men of Arms , as breath [ e ] s beneath the Sun : They are of valiant hearts , of nature kind and meek , And honour on Saint Davids day , it is to wear a Leek . The Welch most ancient is of this our famous land , Who were the first that conquer'd it , by force and warlike hand . From Troy stout [ B ] rute did come , this kingdom for to seek ; Which was possessed by savage men , then honoured be the Leek . He having wone the same , and put them to the sword : Of Brute did Britaine first take name , as Chronicles record . The Welch true Britons are , whose swords in blood did reek , Of Pagan men being heathenish , then honoured be the Leek . And now if you would know , why they the Leek do wear , In honour of Saint Davids day , it plainly shall appear . Upon Saint Davids day , and first of March that week , The Welch-men with their foes did join , then honoured be the Leek . And being in the field , their valour they did try ; Where thousands on both sides being slain , within their bloods did lie . And they not knowing how their friends from foes to seek , Into a Garden they did go , where each one pull'd a Leek : And wore it in his Hat , their Countrymen to know ; And then most valiantly they did , o'recome th [ e ] ir warlike foe . Then were no colours known , nor any feathers eke ; The feathers first original , it was the Welshmans Leek . And ever since that time , the Leek they use to wear , In honour of Saint Davids day , they do that Trophy bear . A Reverend Bishop was Saint David mild and meek , And this and honour that same day , for them to wear a Leek . The second part . To the same tune . FOr Englishmen Saint George , Saint Andrew for the Scot , Saint Patericke for Ireland , Saint David Welsh-men's Lo In honour of which Saint , those Country men do seek , For to remember the same day , in wearing of a Leek . Each Country hath his Saint , why should not Welshmen then Give honour to her Country due , as well as other men , A Reason for the same , are many men to seek , Then know it is and honour brave , that day to wear a Leek . What Royal Princes have , in fruitful Wales been born , Yea for to wear a Leek that day , they took it for no scorn . The seventh Henery , was born on mountain Peke , Which on that day did use to wear , in solemn sort the Leek . From him Elizabeth , did lineally descend , Who did the Gospel true maintain , until her life did end , And she upon that day , with diverse Courtiers meek In token of that victory , did wear the honoured Leek . And Royal Kings likewise , from Heneryes loins did spring , With many noble Princes else , beside our Royal King , And Princes more of Wales , that day were ne're to seek , For on that day for Davids sake , they always wore a Leek , When Princes of the Blood , did celebrate the same , Whom foreign nations so admir'd , and prais'd with lasting fame , Who had such Lyons hearts , yet like to lambs were meek , That did in honour of that day , still wear the royal Leek . I call it Royal Leek , Cause Princes i [ tO ] does wear , Let no true hearted Welch-man then , disdain the same to bear : But let them now as they , true honour always seek , And still remember Davids day : in wearing of a Leek . FINIS . 