The old Bride , OR The gilded Beauty . To a dainty new tune . NOr morning read nor blushing fair , Be through your glass or curtain spied : But cloudy grey , like the short hair Of your old ever - lasting Bride . So old , So wondrous old , In the nonage of time , Ere Adam wore a beard she was in her prime . Whose swarthy dry Westphalia lips , Are sunk to mumy in her skin , Whose gums are empty , and her lips Like eyelids hairy , and as thin : So old , So wondrous old , In the nonage of time , Ere Adam wore a beard she was in her prime . For amorous sighs which Virgins use , She coughs aloud through lungs decayed , And with her palsy cannot choose But quake like trembling of a maid : So old , So wondrous old , in the nonage of time Ere Adam wore a beard she was in her prime . If that her Bridegroom be ill sped , Hee's not the first that hath been sad : For hee's the last heir to her bed , Of seven before that she hath had . So old , So wondrous old , In the nonage of time Ere Adam wore a beard she was in her prime . Why should her husband then vex heaven , Or for a plenteous offspring beg ? Since all the issue can be given , Is that which runneth in her leg . So old , So wondrous old , in the nonage of time Ere Adam wore a beard she was in her prime . Of losing her there is no doubt . Nor need you ask where she does dwell : For you may easily scent her out , As hounds do find their game by 'th smel . So old , So wondrous old , in the nonage of time Ere Adam wore a beard she was in her prime . The second part , To the same tune . HEr nose and chin are now grown friends , & meet together lovingly : From danger these her mouth defends , So near they join in unity . So old , So wondrous old , in the nonage of time Ere Adam wore a beard she was in her prime . Her painting serves her turn no more , Her face is like a ruin'd wall That hath so oft been plaister'd over , With age at length it needs must fallen . So old , So wondrous old , in the nonage of time Ere Adam-wore a beard she was in her prime . Her husband hath no cause to dread , ( As many do through jealousy ) That any will defile his bed , There's none will use such charity , So old , So wondrous old , in the nonage of time Ere Adam wore a beard she was in her prime . What hath been spoken is not meant Any old woman to disgrace , But she who is to marriage bent , When death's character's in her face . So old , So wondrous old , in the nonage of time Ere Adam word a beard she was in her prime . FINIS . Printed at London for Thomas Lambert , at the sign of the Horse-shoo in Smithfield . The old Bride , OR The gilded Beauty . To a dainty new tune . NOr morning read nor blushing fair , Be through your glass or curtain spied : But cloudy grey , like the short hair Of your old ever - lasting Bride . So old , So wondrous old , In the nonage of time , Ere Adam wore a beard she was in her prime . Whose swarthy dry Westphalia lips , Are sunk to mumy in her skin , Whose gums are empty , and her lips Like eyelids hairy , and as thin : So old , So wondrous old , In the nonage of time , Ere Adam wore a beard she was in her prime . For amorous sighs which Virgins use , She coughs aloud through lungs decayed , And with her palsy cannot choose But quake like trembling of a maid : So old , So wondrous old , in the nonage of time Ere Adam wore a beard she was in her prime . If that her Bridegroom be ill sped , Hee's not the first that hath been sad : For hee's the last heir to her bed , Of seven before that she hath had . So old , So wondrous old , In the nonage of time Ere Adam wore a beard she was in her prime . Why should her husband then vex heaven , Or for a plenteous offspring beg ? Since all the issue can be given , Is that which runneth in her leg . So old , So wondrous old , in the nonage of time Ere Adam wore a beard she was in her prime . Of losing her there is no doubt . Nor need you ask where she does dwell : For you may easily scent her out , As hounds do find their game by 'th smel . So old , So wondrous old , in the nonage of time Ere Adam wore a beard she was in her prime . The second part , To the same tune . HEr nose and chin are now grown friends , & meet together lovingly : From danger these her mouth defends , So near they join in unity . So old , So wondrous old , in the nonage of time Ere Adam wore a beard she was in her prime . Her painting serves her turn no more , Her face is like a ruin'd wall That hath so oft been plaister'd over , With age at length it needs must fallen . So old , So wondrous old , in the nonage of time Ere Adam-wore a beard she was in her prime . Her husband hath no cause to dread , ( As many do through jealousy ) That any will defile his bed , There's none will use such charity , So old , So wondrous old , in the nonage of time Ere Adam wore a beard she was in her prime . What hath been spoken is not meant Any old woman to disgrace , But she who is to marriage bent , When death's character's in her face . So old , So wondrous old , in the nonage of time Ere Adam word a beard she was in her prime . FINIS . Printed at London for Thomas Lambert , at the sign of the Horse-shoo in Smithfield . 