A Ballad Entitled , The Old men Complaint against his Wretched Son , who to Advance his Marriage , did undo himself . To the same Tune . ALL you that father's be , look on my misery , Let not affection found work your extremity , For to advance my son in marriage wealthily , I have my self undone without all remedy . I that was wont to live uncontroul'd any way , With many checks & taunts am grieved every day : Alack and woe is me I that might late command , Cannot have a bit of bred but at my Children's hand . While I was wont to fit chief at the tables end , Now like a Servant slave must I on them attend , I must not come in place where their friends merry be , Lest I should my son disgrace with my unreverency , my Coughing in the night offends my daughter in law , my Deafness and ill-sight does much disliking draw . Fie on this doting fool , this crooked Churl ( quoth she ) The Chimney corner still must with him troubled be , I must rise from my Chair to give my children place . I must speak servants fair , this is my woeful case . Unto their friends they tell ( I must not say they lie ) That they do keep me here even of mere charity . When I am sick in bed they will not come me nigh , Each day they wish me dead yet say i'll never die : Oh Lord an't be thy will look on my woeful case , No honest man before ever took such disgrace . This was the Old-mans plaint every night & day , With woe he waxed faint , but mark what I shall say . This rich and dainty pair , the youngman and his wife , Tho' clog'd with golden coin , yet led a grievous life . Seven years they married were , and yet in all that space , God sent them ne'er and heir their Riches to embrace : Thus did their sorrow breed , joy was from them exil'd , Quoth she , a hundred pound would I give for a Child , to have a joyful Child of my own body . Full oft I am revil'd of this my barren womb , much Physic did she take to make a fruitful Soil , And with access thereof her body she did spoil . Full of grief , full of pain , full of each grew she then , that she cries out amain , seek for some cunning men , that I my health may have , I will no money spare . But that which she did crave never fell to her share . Alack alack , she said , what torments I live in , How well are they paid that truly ease can win : So that I had my health , and from this pain was free , I would give all my wealth that blessed day to see . O that my health I had , tho' I were ne'er so poor , I car'd not tho' I went begging from door to door , fie on this muck , quoth she , it cannot pleasure me , in this my woeful case and great extremity . thus lived she long in pain , all comfort from her fled , She strangled at the last her self within the bed . Her husband full of grief consumed woefully , His body pin'd away , suddenly he did die . E're thirteen years was passed dy'd he without a will , And by this means at last the Old man , living still , Enjoy'd his Land at last , after much misery , Many Years after that liv'd he most happily , far richer than before , by this means was he known He helped the sick and soar , the poor-man overthrown . But this was all his Song , let all men understand , those Parents are accursed , lives on their children's hand . Printed by and for A.M. and sold by the Booksellers of London . A Ballad Entitled , The Old men Complaint against his Wretched Son , who to Advance his Marriage , did undo himself . To the same Tune . ALL you that father's be , look on my misery , Let not affection found work your extremity , For to advance my son in marriage wealthily , I have my self undone without all remedy . I that was wont to live uncontroul'd any way , With many checks & taunts am grieved every day : Alack and woe is me I that might late command , Cannot have a bit of bred but at my Children's hand . While I was wont to fit chief at the tables end , Now like a Servant slave must I on them attend , I must not come in place where their friends merry be , Lest I should my son disgrace with my unreverency , my Coughing in the night offends my daughter in law , my Deafness and ill-sight does much disliking draw . Fie on this doting fool , this crooked Churl ( quoth she ) The Chimney corner still must with him troubled be , I must rise from my Chair to give my children place . I must speak servants fair , this is my woeful case . Unto their friends they tell ( I must not say they lie ) That they do keep me here even of mere charity . When I am sick in bed they will not come me nigh , Each day they wish me dead yet say i'll never die : Oh Lord an't be thy will look on my woeful case , No honest man before ever took such disgrace . This was the Old-mans plaint every night & day , With woe he waxed faint , but mark what I shall say . This rich and dainty pair , the youngman and his wife , Tho' clog'd with golden coin , yet led a grievous life . Seven years they married were , and yet in all that space , God sent them ne'er and heir their Riches to embrace : Thus did their sorrow breed , joy was from them exil'd , Quoth she , a hundred pound would I give for a Child , to have a joyful Child of my own body . Full oft I am revil'd of this my barren womb , much Physic did she take to make a fruitful Soil , And with access thereof her body she did spoil . Full of grief , full of pain , full of each grew she then , that she cries out amain , seek for some cunning men , that I my health may have , I will no money spare . But that which she did crave never fell to her share . Alack alack , she said , what torments I live in , How well are they paid that truly ease can win : So that I had my health , and from this pain was free , I would give all my wealth that blessed day to see . O that my health I had , tho' I were ne'er so poor , I car'd not tho' I went begging from door to door , fie on this muck , quoth she , it cannot pleasure me , in this my woeful case and great extremity . thus lived she long in pain , all comfort from her fled , She strangled at the last her self within the bed . Her husband full of grief consumed woefully , His body pin'd away , suddenly he did die . E're thirteen years was passed dy'd he without a will , And by this means at last the Old man , living still , Enjoy'd his Land at last , after much misery , Many Years after that liv'd he most happily , far richer than before , by this means was he known He helped the sick and soar , the poor-man overthrown . But this was all his Song , let all men understand , those Parents are accursed , lives on their children's hand . Printed by and for A.M. and sold by the Booksellers of London . 