A Pair of Turtle Doves , Or , A dainty new Scotch Dialogue between a Youngman and his Mistress , both correspondent in affection , etc To a pretty pleasant tune , called the absence of my Mistress , or I live not where I love . Youngman . MUst the absence of my Mistress gar me be thus discontent , As thus to leave me in distress , and with languor to lamen Nothing earthly shall divorce me from my dearest , but disdain , Nor no fortune shall enforce me , from my fairest to refrain . O my dearest , My heart neeres When shall I so happy be To embrace thee , And to place thee , Where thou never mayest part from me . Maid . Since my absence does so grieve thee , it does wound me to the hear If my presence could relieve thee , I would play a loyal par But I prithee be contented , sith the Fates will have it so , Though our meeting be prevented , thou my constancy shalt know . O my sweetest , The compleatest Man alive in my conceit , Lady Fortune I'll importune , Soon to make our Joys complete . Youngman . Since thy absence does conjure me with perplexity and pain , What would thy presence then allure me , for to see thee once again : As thy absence sends such sadness that it scarcely can be told : So thy presence yields gladness , to all eyes that thee behold . O my dearest , etc Maid . What reward then shall I render , to him that me does so respect , But my constancy to tender , With like favour to affec And since thy love to me is fervent , so my heart shall be to thee , And as thou prov'st my loyal servant , thy true Mistress I will be , Oh my sweetest , The compleatest Man alive in my conceit , Lady Fortune I'll importune , Soon to make our Joys complate . Youngman . Then my Love , my Dove , my fairest , sith I may repose such trust , In my heart thou only sharest , none else crave a portion mus Thou hast settled thy affection upon me and none beside , And I of thee have made election , thou alone shalt be my Bride . Come my dearest , My heart nearest , When shall I so happy be , To embrace thee , And to place thee , Where thou never mayest part from me . Maid . My hearts Joy , more sweet than honey , or the odoriferous rose , I have laid such hold upon thee , as the world can never unlose The Gordian knot , which though as yet is not by Hymen tied fast , Yet Heaven knows my heart is set on thee my choice , while breath does last . Come my sweetest , etc The second part To the same tune . Youngman . When Hyperion does for ever from the Sky obscure his rays , When bright Luna ( constant never ) leaves to sever nights from days : When the Sea does cease from running , when all thus change preposterously , Then that firm vow which I once made , ( and not till then ) I'll break with thee . Come my dearest , My heart nearest , When shall I so happy be , To embrace thee , And to place thee , Where thou never mayest part from me . Maid . When rich mizers throw their money in the streets , and hoard up stones , When my Father's Nag so bonny , leaves good hay to pick dry bones : And when the dog conform to that , does change his food for Oats and hay , Then shall my oath be out of date , or else last till my dying day . Come my sweetest , The compleatest Man alive in my conceit , Lady Fortune , I'll importune , Soon to make our joys complete . Youngman . When the Buck , the Hare , or Cony do pursue the Dog to death , When a rock so hard and stony , can dissolv'd be with man's breath : When turtles make a second choosing , then will I a new Love seek , Till then all but thee refusing , though I might change every week . Come my dearest , etc Maid . When both toads , with snakes and adders , breed upon the Irish ground , When men scale the Sky with Ladders , when two Phoenixs are found : When the Goose the Fox does follow , or seek to hunt him forth his den , Or swine in dirt refuse to wallow , I'll not forsake my love till then . Come my sweetest , etc Youngman . Then sweet Love sith both agree thus , having hearts reciprocal , Long I hope we shall not be thus barred from the principal Of all our joy , which is blessed marriage , Hymen haste to knit the knot , I'th mean time our constant carriage , will i'th world never be forgotten . Come my dearest , My heart nearest , When shall I so happy be , To embrace thee And to place thee , Where thou never mayest part from me . FINIS . Martin Parker . Printed at London for Thomas Lam - bert , at the sign of the Horse - shoe in Smithfield . A Pair of Turtle Doves , Or , A dainty new Scotch Dialogue between a Youngman and his Mistress , both correspondent in affection , etc To a pretty pleasant tune , called the absence of my Mistress , or I live not where I love . Youngman . MUst the absence of my Mistress gar me be thus discontent , As thus to leave me in distress , and with languor to lamen Nothing earthly shall divorce me from my dearest , but disdain , Nor no fortune shall enforce me , from my fairest to refrain . O my dearest , My heart neeres When shall I so happy be To embrace thee , And to place thee , Where thou never mayest part from me . Maid . Since my absence does so grieve thee , it does wound me to the hear If my presence could relieve thee , I would play a loyal par But I prithee be contented , sith the Fates will have it so , Though our meeting be prevented , thou my constancy shalt know . O my sweetest , The compleatest Man alive in my conceit , Lady Fortune I'll importune , Soon to make our Joys complete . Youngman . Since thy absence does conjure me with perplexity and pain , What would thy presence then allure me , for to see thee once again : As thy absence sends such sadness that it scarcely can be told : So thy presence yields gladness , to all eyes that thee behold . O my dearest , etc Maid . What reward then shall I render , to him that me does so respect , But my constancy to tender , With like favour to affec And since thy love to me is fervent , so my heart shall be to thee , And as thou prov'st my loyal servant , thy true Mistress I will be , Oh my sweetest , The compleatest Man alive in my conceit , Lady Fortune I'll importune , Soon to make our Joys complate . Youngman . Then my Love , my Dove , my fairest , sith I may repose such trust , In my heart thou only sharest , none else crave a portion mus Thou hast settled thy affection upon me and none beside , And I of thee have made election , thou alone shalt be my Bride . Come my dearest , My heart nearest , When shall I so happy be , To embrace thee , And to place thee , Where thou never mayest part from me . Maid . My hearts Joy , more sweet than honey , or the odoriferous rose , I have laid such hold upon thee , as the world can never unlose The Gordian knot , which though as yet is not by Hymen tied fast , Yet Heaven knows my heart is set on thee my choice , while breath does last . Come my sweetest , etc The second part To the same tune . Youngman . When Hyperion does for ever from the Sky obscure his rays , When bright Luna ( constant never ) leaves to sever nights from days : When the Sea does cease from running , when all thus change preposterously , Then that firm vow which I once made , ( and not till then ) I'll break with thee . Come my dearest , My heart nearest , When shall I so happy be , To embrace thee , And to place thee , Where thou never mayest part from me . Maid . When rich mizers throw their money in the streets , and hoard up stones , When my Father's Nag so bonny , leaves good hay to pick dry bones : And when the dog conform to that , does change his food for Oats and hay , Then shall my oath be out of date , or else last till my dying day . Come my sweetest , The compleatest Man alive in my conceit , Lady Fortune , I'll importune , Soon to make our joys complete . Youngman . When the Buck , the Hare , or Cony do pursue the Dog to death , When a rock so hard and stony , can dissolv'd be with man's breath : When turtles make a second choosing , then will I a new Love seek , Till then all but thee refusing , though I might change every week . Come my dearest , etc Maid . When both toads , with snakes and adders , breed upon the Irish ground , When men scale the Sky with Ladders , when two Phoenixs are found : When the Goose the Fox does follow , or seek to hunt him forth his den , Or swine in dirt refuse to wallow , I'll not forsake my love till then . Come my sweetest , etc Youngman . Then sweet Love sith both agree thus , having hearts reciprocal , Long I hope we shall not be thus barred from the principal Of all our joy , which is blessed marriage , Hymen haste to knit the knot , I'th mean time our constant carriage , will i'th world never be forgotten . Come my dearest , My heart nearest , When shall I so happy be , To embrace thee And to place thee , Where thou never mayest part from me . FINIS . Martin Parker . Printed at London for Thomas Lam - bert , at the sign of the Horse - shoe in Smithfield . 