A Pleasant new Ballad you here may behold , How the Devil , though subtle , was gulled by a Scold . To the tune of , The Seminary Priest . GIve ear , my loving Countrymen , that still desire news , Nor pass not while you hear it sung , or else the song peruse . For ere you hear it , I must tell my news , it is not common , But , I'll unfold a truth betwixt a Devil and a woman . Tom Thumb is not my subject , whom Fairies oft did aid , Nor that mad spirit Robin that plagues both wife and maid , Nor is my song satyric like , invented against no man , But only of a prank betwixt a Devil and a woman . Then widow's , wives and maids , give ear as well as men , And by this woman learn to gull the world again : You may by this turn artists , or master's of your Art , And when the Devil comes for you , you need not care a fart . A woman well in years , liv'd with a husband kind , Who had a great desire to live content in mind . But it a thing unpossible to compass his desire , For night and day with scolding she did her husband tire . With roughish , lowtish clown , despite thee I'll be wild , Dost thou think I married thee to use thee like a child , And set thee on my lap , or humour what you speak ? Before I'll be so found , thy very heart I'll break . Why loving wife , quoth he , I'll never do thee wrong , So thoul't be rul'd by me , and only hold thy tongue , And when I come from work , wilt please at board and bed . Do this my loving wife , and take all being dead . Mark well quoth she , my words , what ere you speak me to , By fair means or by foul , the contrary I'll do . According to her speech , this man led such a life , That oft he wish't the Devil to come and fetch his wife . Had he bid her go homely , why then she would go brave , Had he' cal'd her good wife , she cal'd him rogue and slave : Bade he , wife go to Church , and take the fairest pew , Shee'd go unto and Alehouse , and drink , lie down and spew . The Devil being merry with laughing at this mirth , Would needs from hell come trotting to fetch her from the earth , And coming like a horse , did tell this man his mind , Saying , Set her but astride my back , I'll hurry her through the wind . The second part , To the same tune . Kind Devil quoth the man , if thou a while wilt wait , I'll bid her do that thing shall make her back thee straight . And here I'll make a vow , for all she is my wife , I'll never send for her again whilst I have breath or life . Content the Devil cry'd , then to his wife goes he , Good wife go lead that horse so black and fair you see . Go lead , sir knave , quoth she ? and wherefore not go ride ? She took the Devil by the reins , and up she goes astride . The Devil neighed loud , and threw his heals i'th air , Kick in the Devils name , quoth she , a shrew does never fear . Away to hell he went , with this most wicked scold , But she did curb him with the bit , and would not lose her hold . The more he cry'd , Give way , the more she kept him in , And kicked him so with both her heals , that both his sides were thin . Alight the Devil cry'd , and quick the bridle lose . No , I will ride ( quoth she ) while thou hast breath or shoes . Again she kicked and pricked , and sat so stiff and well . The Devil was not so plagu'd , a hundred years in hell . For pity light ( quoth he ) thou put'st me to much pain , I will not light ( quoth she ) till I come home again . The Devil shew'd her all the pains within that place , And told her that they were ordain'd for Scolds so base . Being bereft of breath , for scolding this my endue , But whilst I live on earth , I'll be reveng'd on you . Then did she draw her knife , and gave his ear a slit , The Devil never felt the like from mortal yet . So fearing further danger , he to his heals did take , And faster then he came , he post hast home did make . Here take her ( quoth the Devil ) to keep her here be bold , For hell will not be troubled with such and earthly scold . When I come home , I may to all my fellows tell , I lost my labour and my blood , to bring a scold to hell . The man half dead did stand , away the Devil hide . Then since the world nor hell can well a scold abide : To make a sail of ships let husbands fallen to work , And give their free consents to send them to the Turke . Then honest wives and maids , and widow's of each sort , Might live in peace and rest , and Silence keep her court . Nor would I have a scold one penny here bestow , But honest men and wives buy these before you go . FINIS . Printed at London for Henry Gosson dwelling upon London-Bridge near to the Gate . A Pleasant new Ballad you here may behold , How the Devil , though subtle , was gulled by a Scold . To the tune of , The Seminary Priest . GIve ear , my loving Countrymen , that still desire news , Nor pass not while you hear it sung , or else the song peruse . For ere you hear it , I must tell my news , it is not common , But , I'll unfold a truth betwixt a Devil and a woman . Tom Thumb is not my subject , whom Fairies oft did aid , Nor that mad spirit Robin that plagues both wife and maid , Nor is my song satyric like , invented against no man , But only of a prank betwixt a Devil and a woman . Then widow's , wives and maids , give ear as well as men , And by this woman learn to gull the world again : You may by this turn artists , or master's of your Art , And when the Devil comes for you , you need not care a fart . A woman well in years , liv'd with a husband kind , Who had a great desire to live content in mind . But it a thing unpossible to compass his desire , For night and day with scolding she did her husband tire . With roughish , lowtish clown , despite thee I'll be wild , Dost thou think I married thee to use thee like a child , And set thee on my lap , or humour what you speak ? Before I'll be so found , thy very heart I'll break . Why loving wife , quoth he , I'll never do thee wrong , So thoul't be rul'd by me , and only hold thy tongue , And when I come from work , wilt please at board and bed . Do this my loving wife , and take all being dead . Mark well quoth she , my words , what ere you speak me to , By fair means or by foul , the contrary I'll do . According to her speech , this man led such a life , That oft he wish't the Devil to come and fetch his wife . Had he bid her go homely , why then she would go brave , Had he' cal'd her good wife , she cal'd him rogue and slave : Bade he , wife go to Church , and take the fairest pew , Shee'd go unto and Alehouse , and drink , lie down and spew . The Devil being merry with laughing at this mirth , Would needs from hell come trotting to fetch her from the earth , And coming like a horse , did tell this man his mind , Saying , Set her but astride my back , I'll hurry her through the wind . The second part , To the same tune . Kind Devil quoth the man , if thou a while wilt wait , I'll bid her do that thing shall make her back thee straight . And here I'll make a vow , for all she is my wife , I'll never send for her again whilst I have breath or life . Content the Devil cry'd , then to his wife goes he , Good wife go lead that horse so black and fair you see . Go lead , sir knave , quoth she ? and wherefore not go ride ? She took the Devil by the reins , and up she goes astride . The Devil neighed loud , and threw his heals i'th air , Kick in the Devils name , quoth she , a shrew does never fear . Away to hell he went , with this most wicked scold , But she did curb him with the bit , and would not lose her hold . The more he cry'd , Give way , the more she kept him in , And kicked him so with both her heals , that both his sides were thin . Alight the Devil cry'd , and quick the bridle lose . No , I will ride ( quoth she ) while thou hast breath or shoes . Again she kicked and pricked , and sat so stiff and well . The Devil was not so plagu'd , a hundred years in hell . For pity light ( quoth he ) thou put'st me to much pain , I will not light ( quoth she ) till I come home again . The Devil shew'd her all the pains within that place , And told her that they were ordain'd for Scolds so base . Being bereft of breath , for scolding this my endue , But whilst I live on earth , I'll be reveng'd on you . Then did she draw her knife , and gave his ear a slit , The Devil never felt the like from mortal yet . So fearing further danger , he to his heals did take , And faster then he came , he post hast home did make . Here take her ( quoth the Devil ) to keep her here be bold , For hell will not be troubled with such and earthly scold . When I come home , I may to all my fellows tell , I lost my labour and my blood , to bring a scold to hell . The man half dead did stand , away the Devil hide . Then since the world nor hell can well a scold abide : To make a sail of ships let husbands fallen to work , And give their free consents to send them to the Turke . Then honest wives and maids , and widow's of each sort , Might live in peace and rest , and Silence keep her court . Nor would I have a scold one penny here bestow , But honest men and wives buy these before you go . FINIS . Printed at London for Henry Gosson dwelling upon London-Bridge near to the Gate . 