The praise of Brotherhood : OR A description of Hoods writ in Verse , not in Prose Showing which best becomes the Nose . To the tune of Abington Fair . TO Fashions strange the world is bent , one fashion gives not all content , For some with masks their faces hide , and some their breasts lay open wide . Some go with curled locks of hair and some fine hoods like hankes do were , Then choice of hoods I will disclose , And show which best becomes the nose . He that through storms and tempests does ride hath need of a hood his head for to hide , To keep off each blast of the Northern wind for to much cold comfort I know is unkind , When tempests rise and winds do blow , and sturdy storms their fury show , A Close hood is good , when cold the wind blows , Yet brotherhood best becomes the nose . He that will have the world to his mind must search well his wits now fashions to find , And study new fangles to pleasure found fools , for wantons are willing to follow bad rules . Deceit is unseemly it blinds the eyes , plain-dealing is pleasing which fools do despise ; Keep peace in thy bosom , show love to thy foes , For brotherhood best becomes the nose . For brother , hood most I must commend , the virtue thereof so far does extend , true love and peace and charity , in brotherhood do hidden lie , He that true brotherhood hath possessed , shall lived well beloved and die double blessed , Great hope's therein I do repose For brotherhood best becomes the nose . In days of old when I was but a boy , then Brotherhood went for a fashion each day , But brotherhood now is out of request and other hoods are accounted best , For now strange tricks and trifles they use , which makes the poor man to stand in a muse , I do say no more then all the world knows , For brotherhood best becomes the nose . Priesthood is and order divine , let them that attain it in glory so shine , That poor men unlearned may find out the way which leads unto Re [ st ] that shall never decay , This priesthood was unto the learned ordained , Oh blessed is the man that true wisdom hath gayn'd To succour the needy and pray for his foes , For brotherhood best becomes the nose . Knighthood proceeds from honour and fame when men try there Valour to win them a name With undaunted force to fight in the field , to purchase renown with sword and with shield : He that fights in field with might and with main , deserves well the honour of Knighthood to gain , Thus poor men by Valour to honour have rose , For brotherhood best becomes the nose . The Second Part , to [ the Same Tune . ] MAn-hood I'll praise the best that I can , for he that wants manhood is counted no man And he that wants manners is counted and ass , A dunce , or a fool , but for that let it pass . Manhood is more then some men have possessed , yet he that hath manhood is a man at the least , And a man is a man , where so ever he goes Yet brotherhood best becomes the nose . Womanhood next I i [ n ] order apply , in good sooth gossipe , I'll tell you no lie , A beautiful woman from womanhood free , is like a fair Image made of and old tree , A modest woman is accounted wise and a shameless woman is a grief to the eyes , A woman that's shameless her shame will disclose Then brotherhood best becomes the nose . Neighbourhood next does follow in rank but men are not now so free and so frank , So frank , and so free , So loving and kind , for neighbourhood now is quite worn out of mind Each man for himself now , and God for us all : for neighbourhood now among men is but small , Yea those that are friends live as if they were foes , Though brotherhood best becomes the nose . The French-hood is a fashion of old , in Fraunce well respected as I have been told For it so well becomes the Crown , that it is held in high renown , Old women do think it is wonderful rare , as if that none with them might compare , But for all that I do depose , that brotherhood best becomes the nose . Yet cause the French-hood doth make a fine show , therefore I'll speak of it as much as I know , For sure the French-hood much honour does gain , it holds all the wit that comes in the brain : Give Jone the French-hood and she will appear to look like a Lady all times of the year For hoods are deceitful which makes me suppose , That brotherhood best becomes the nose . Childhood , is a wonderful simple thing , Yet time and old age more wisdom will br [ ing ] Yet some men in age are so Childish groan as if that true manhood they had never know [ wn ] Let childhood alone for children to use , and when they are old they will it refuse As a child grows in age so in wisdom he grows , Yet brotherhood best becomes the nose . But yet theres one hood which I have not expressed . and that is cal'd falsehood more worse then the rest For falsehood breeds folly in and [ y ] men hear that does so unwisely from virtue depart He that two faces bears under a hood , his deeds are deceitful they cann't be withstood It will make true friends to be mortal foes , Then brotherhood best becomes the nose . I would that the world to love were inclined that each man might bore a brotherly mind , For brotherhood then would come in request and poor men find comfort which are much oppress [ tO ] He that hath purchased much wealth and much gol [ worser ] and lets his poor brother to starve in the cold , I respect such a friend but as one of my foes For brotherhood best becomes the nose . Printed at London for R , Harper . FINIS . J.D. The praise of Brotherhood : OR A description of Hoods writ in Verse , not in Prose Showing which best becomes the Nose . To the tune of Abington Fair . TO Fashions strange the world is bent , one fashion gives not all content , For some with masks their faces hide , and some their breasts lay open wide . Some go with curled locks of hair and some fine hoods like hankes do were , Then choice of hoods I will disclose , And show which best becomes the nose . He that through storms and tempests does ride hath need of a hood his head for to hide , To keep off each blast of the Northern wind for to much cold comfort I know is unkind , When tempests rise and winds do blow , and sturdy storms their fury show , A Close hood is good , when cold the wind blows , Yet brotherhood best becomes the nose . He that will have the world to his mind must search well his wits now fashions to find , And study new fangles to pleasure found fools , for wantons are willing to follow bad rules . Deceit is unseemly it blinds the eyes , plain-dealing is pleasing which fools do despise ; Keep peace in thy bosom , show love to thy foes , For brotherhood best becomes the nose . For brother , hood most I must commend , the virtue thereof so far does extend , true love and peace and charity , in brotherhood do hidden lie , He that true brotherhood hath possessed , shall lived well beloved and die double blessed , Great hope's therein I do repose For brotherhood best becomes the nose . In days of old when I was but a boy , then Brotherhood went for a fashion each day , But brotherhood now is out of request and other hoods are accounted best , For now strange tricks and trifles they use , which makes the poor man to stand in a muse , I do say no more then all the world knows , For brotherhood best becomes the nose . Priesthood is and order divine , let them that attain it in glory so shine , That poor men unlearned may find out the way which leads unto Re [ st ] that shall never decay , This priesthood was unto the learned ordained , Oh blessed is the man that true wisdom hath gayn'd To succour the needy and pray for his foes , For brotherhood best becomes the nose . Knighthood proceeds from honour and fame when men try there Valour to win them a name With undaunted force to fight in the field , to purchase renown with sword and with shield : He that fights in field with might and with main , deserves well the honour of Knighthood to gain , Thus poor men by Valour to honour have rose , For brotherhood best becomes the nose . The Second Part , to [ the Same Tune . ] MAn-hood I'll praise the best that I can , for he that wants manhood is counted no man And he that wants manners is counted and ass , A dunce , or a fool , but for that let it pass . Manhood is more then some men have possessed , yet he that hath manhood is a man at the least , And a man is a man , where so ever he goes Yet brotherhood best becomes the nose . Womanhood next I i [ n ] order apply , in good sooth gossipe , I'll tell you no lie , A beautiful woman from womanhood free , is like a fair Image made of and old tree , A modest woman is accounted wise and a shameless woman is a grief to the eyes , A woman that's shameless her shame will disclose Then brotherhood best becomes the nose . Neighbourhood next does follow in rank but men are not now so free and so frank , So frank , and so free , So loving and kind , for neighbourhood now is quite worn out of mind Each man for himself now , and God for us all : for neighbourhood now among men is but small , Yea those that are friends live as if they were foes , Though brotherhood best becomes the nose . The French-hood is a fashion of old , in Fraunce well respected as I have been told For it so well becomes the Crown , that it is held in high renown , Old women do think it is wonderful rare , as if that none with them might compare , But for all that I do depose , that brotherhood best becomes the nose . Yet cause the French-hood doth make a fine show , therefore I'll speak of it as much as I know , For sure the French-hood much honour does gain , it holds all the wit that comes in the brain : Give Jone the French-hood and she will appear to look like a Lady all times of the year For hoods are deceitful which makes me suppose , That brotherhood best becomes the nose . Childhood , is a wonderful simple thing , Yet time and old age more wisdom will br [ ing ] Yet some men in age are so Childish groan as if that true manhood they had never know [ wn ] Let childhood alone for children to use , and when they are old they will it refuse As a child grows in age so in wisdom he grows , Yet brotherhood best becomes the nose . But yet theres one hood which I have not expressed . and that is cal'd falsehood more worse then the rest For falsehood breeds folly in and [ y ] men hear that does so unwisely from virtue depart He that two faces bears under a hood , his deeds are deceitful they cann't be withstood It will make true friends to be mortal foes , Then brotherhood best becomes the nose . I would that the world to love were inclined that each man might bore a brotherly mind , For brotherhood then would come in request and poor men find comfort which are much oppress [ tO ] He that hath purchased much wealth and much gol [ worser ] and lets his poor brother to starve in the cold , I respect such a friend but as one of my foes For brotherhood best becomes the nose . Printed at London for R , Harper . FINIS . J.D. 