Mr. Playstowes Epithalamium : OR The Marriage of Pandarus and Flora . To the tune of Would o'er would o'er the water . A Wedding hay , a wedding hoe , Sir Pandar marries Flora : Look for no solemn bidding hoe , the feast for to decore-a . Let every street , of Trading meet , the Wedding to adore-a : Both he and she of Brothelry , that's Pandar , Bawd , or Whore-a . God Priapus , the Bride-knight is , and leads the Lads before-a : With cakes of spice old Meretrice , comes ushering mistress Flora . The rout consi [ st ] s , of Amorists , and painted faces store-a : There's Tib for Tom and Ned for Nan , and every Knave is hoe-there . DONE Cupids priest with Counterfeit [ zen - ] crest , their galls hath join'd together : A peal of horns , the match adorns , And winds them fast forever . Obscenity , and Ribaldry , goes fiddling on before them : Desire is guide , and loads the Bride , with Baldpate to adore them In at the door , with kissings store , the Damsels are received : And every guest , down to the feast , in Equipage is seated . Ryat , Excess , and Wontonnesse , upon the guests attends : Quack-salvers stand , with Drugs in hand , to help if ought offends . At cupboard by with vigil eye , does stand Apothycaries : For every grief , to lend relief , with oils and applicasies . Rich waters rare in vyols are , for buboes and for poxes : If other wrong shall chance among , ther's Antidotes in boxes . The Rhenish bouls , among them troules , hight Sack and Aquavitie : Tobacco than , from man to man , besmoakes the rooms as titelie . A ribaald song , by every tongue , throughout the house is canted : God Bacchus skinkes , to all their drinks , there was no liquour wanted . The second part . To the same tune . DIsease and Need bids them good speed , but Lust is deaf and hears not For Venus glance , and dallyance , besot them so they fear not The Fiddlers sing , Lads closely cling , and make your right conjunctum : The Lasses throat , to every noate , oh Io , Io Punctum . God Pan come [ es ] in , and brings with him , a mask of sundry Gallants : As Squires and Knights , and city wights , crown'd all with Vulcans talons : To them comes Lust , with Baudy thrust , of wanton wenches many : Who dance and sing , and clip and cling , no matter whoso any . The rustic rout , thus skipped about the hall , in antique faces : While Bacchus bowls turn'd all their nowles out of their sober places . Like Silvans fair , with horn and hair , they daunct the Cornucopia : With forked shapes to show the escapes of this their Lady Flora . All civil joys by wanton toys to surfeits were submitted : And hayrelesse skulls marked out for gulls , in being not steadfast witted . Blind beldames came , all halting lame , to show the maskers folly , That young bred lust would turn to dust , and mirth to melancholy . The five fine senses , by expenses were hired slaves to rio The sighed embraced with touch and taste , to feed on wantons diet . The care and smell on pleasures dwell , when Panders prove their keepers : Luxurious play , thus spent the day . the senses all lay sleepors . Black night drew on , and every one , unto his lass betakes him : But Drunkenness , so drowl'd the guess , Delight could not awake them . In honest names , so soyl'd their fame's , at peeping of Aurora : Like headless flies , away each hies , asham'd of Panders Flora . FINIS . Printed at London by G.E. Mr. Playstowes Epithalamium : OR The Marriage of Pandarus and Flora . To the tune of Would o'er would o'er the water . A Wedding hay , a wedding hoe , Sir Pandar marries Flora : Look for no solemn bidding hoe , the feast for to decore-a . Let every street , of Trading meet , the Wedding to adore-a : Both he and she of Brothelry , that's Pandar , Bawd , or Whore-a . God Priapus , the Bride-knight is , and leads the Lads before-a : With cakes of spice old Meretrice , comes ushering mistress Flora . The rout consi [ st ] s , of Amorists , and painted faces store-a : There's Tib for Tom and Ned for Nan , and every Knave is hoe-there . DONE Cupids priest with Counterfeit [ zen - ] crest , their galls hath join'd together : A peal of horns , the match adorns , And winds them fast forever . Obscenity , and Ribaldry , goes fiddling on before them : Desire is guide , and loads the Bride , with Baldpate to adore them In at the door , with kissings store , the Damsels are received : And every guest , down to the feast , in Equipage is seated . Ryat , Excess , and Wontonnesse , upon the guests attends : Quack-salvers stand , with Drugs in hand , to help if ought offends . At cupboard by with vigil eye , does stand Apothycaries : For every grief , to lend relief , with oils and applicasies . Rich waters rare in vyols are , for buboes and for poxes : If other wrong shall chance among , ther's Antidotes in boxes . The Rhenish bouls , among them troules , hight Sack and Aquavitie : Tobacco than , from man to man , besmoakes the rooms as titelie . A ribaald song , by every tongue , throughout the house is canted : God Bacchus skinkes , to all their drinks , there was no liquour wanted . The second part . To the same tune . DIsease and Need bids them good speed , but Lust is deaf and hears not For Venus glance , and dallyance , besot them so they fear not The Fiddlers sing , Lads closely cling , and make your right conjunctum : The Lasses throat , to every noate , oh Io , Io Punctum . God Pan come [ es ] in , and brings with him , a mask of sundry Gallants : As Squires and Knights , and city wights , crown'd all with Vulcans talons : To them comes Lust , with Baudy thrust , of wanton wenches many : Who dance and sing , and clip and cling , no matter whoso any . The rustic rout , thus skipped about the hall , in antique faces : While Bacchus bowls turn'd all their nowles out of their sober places . Like Silvans fair , with horn and hair , they daunct the Cornucopia : With forked shapes to show the escapes of this their Lady Flora . All civil joys by wanton toys to surfeits were submitted : And hayrelesse skulls marked out for gulls , in being not steadfast witted . Blind beldames came , all halting lame , to show the maskers folly , That young bred lust would turn to dust , and mirth to melancholy . The five fine senses , by expenses were hired slaves to rio The sighed embraced with touch and taste , to feed on wantons diet . The care and smell on pleasures dwell , when Panders prove their keepers : Luxurious play , thus spent the day . the senses all lay sleepors . Black night drew on , and every one , unto his lass betakes him : But Drunkenness , so drowl'd the guess , Delight could not awake them . In honest names , so soyl'd their fame's , at peeping of Aurora : Like headless flies , away each hies , asham'd of Panders Flora . FINIS . Printed at London by G.E. 