A New Ballad of bold ROBIN HOOD : SHOWING His Birth , Breeding , Valour and Marriage , at Titbury Bull-running : Calculated for the Meridi [ and ] of Scaffordshire , but may serve for Derbyshire or Kent . KInd Gentlemen will you be patient a while Ay , and then y [ oh ] u shall hear anon , A very good Ballad of bold Robin Hood , and of his Man brave Little John. In Locksly Town in merry Nottinghamshire , in merry sweet Locksly Town ; There bold Robin Hood he was born and was bred bold Robin of famous renown . The Father of Robin a Forester was , and he shot in a lusty long bow , Two North Country miles and and inch at a shot , as the Pinder of Wakefield does know . For he brought Adam Bell , and Clim of the Clugh , and William a Clowdel-le ; To shoot with our Forester for forty mark , and the Forester beatrice them all three . His Mother was Niece to the Coventry Knight , which Warwickshire Men call Sir Guy ; For he slew the blue boar that hangs up at the gate , or mine Host of the Bull tells a lie . Her Brother was Gamwel of great Gamwel-hall , and a noble Housekeeper was he , Ay , as ever broke bred in sweet Nottinghamshire , and a 'Squire of famous degree . The Mother of Robin said to her Husband , My Honey , my Love , and my Dear ; Let Robin and I ride this morning to Gamwel , to taste of my Brother's good cheer . And he said , I grant thee thy boon , gentle Joan , take one of my Horses I pray : The Sun is a rising , and therefore make haste , for tomorrow is Christmas-day . Then Robin Hood's Father's gray gelding was brought and saddled and bridled was he , God-wot , a blue Bonnet , his new suit of clothes , and a Cloak that did reach to his knee . She god on her Holiday kirtle and gown , they were of a light Lincoln green , The cloth was home spun , but for colour and make it might a beseem'd our Queen . And then Robin god on his basket-hilt sword , and a dagger on his tother side : And said , My dear Mother , let's haste to be gone , we have forty long miles to ride . When Robin had mounted his Gelding so gray , his Father without any trouble , Set her up behind him , and bade her not fear , for his gelding has oft carried double . And when she was settled , they road to their Neighbours and drank and shook hands with them all : And then Robin galloped and never gave o're till they lighted at Gamwel-hall . And now you may think the right worshipful Squire was joyful his Sister to see ; For he kissed her and kissed her , and swore a great oath , thou art welcome , kind Sister , to me . To morrow when Mass had been said in the chapel six tables were cover'd in the hall ; And in comes the Squire and makes a short speech , it was , Neighbours you're welcome all . But not a Man here shall taste my March-beer till a Christmas carol be sung ; Then all clapped their hands , and they shouted and sung till the hall and the parlour did ring . Now mustards Braun , roast-beef and plumb-pies , were set upon every table : And noble George Gamwel said , Eat and be merry , and drink too as long as you're able . When dinner was ended his Chaplain said grace , and be merry , my friends said the 'Squire , It rains and it blows , but call for more ale , and lay some more wood on the fire . And now call you Little John hither to me , for Little John is a fine Lad At gambols and juggling , and twenty such tricks , as shall make you both merry and glad . When Little John came to gambols they went , both Gentlemen , Yeomen and Clown ; And what do you think ? Why as true as I live ; bold Robin Hood put them all down . And now you may think the right worshipful 'Squire was joyful this sighed for to see , For he said , Cousin Robin , thou'st go no more home , but tarry and dwell here with me . Thou shalt have my land when I die , and till then thou shalt be the staff of my Age . Then grant me my boon dear Uncle , said Robin , that little John may be my Page . And he said kind Cousin I grant thee thy boon , with all my heart so let it be , Then come hither , Little John , said Robin Hood , come hither , my Page , unto me . Go fetch me my Bow , my longest long Bow , and broad arrows one two or three ; For when it is fair weather we'll into Sherw [ oh ] od , some merry pastime to see . When Robin Hood came into merry Sherwo [ oh ] worser , he winded his bugle so clear ; And twice five and twenty good Yeomen and bold , before Robin Hood did appear . Where are your companions all ? ( said Rob. Hood ) for still I want forty and three : Then said a bold Yeoman , Lo yonder they stand , all under a green wood tree . As that word was spoke Clorinda came by , the Queen of the Shepherd's was she : And her gown was of Velvet as green as the grass and her buskin did reach to her knee . Her gate it was graceful her Body was straight , and her countenance free from pride : A bow in her hand , and quiver and arrows , hung dangling by her sweet side . Her eyebrows were black , ay and so was her hair , and her skin was as smooth as glass ; Her visage spoke wisdom and modesty too , sets with Robin Hood such a Lass. Said Robin Hood , Lady fair , whither away , o whither , fair Lady , away ? And she made him answer , to kill a fat Buck , for to morrow is Titbury day . Said Robin Hood , Lady fair , wander with me , a little to yonder green bower , There fit down to rest you , and you shall be sure of a brace or a lease in and hour . And as we were going towards the green bower , two hundred good bucks we espy'd : She choose out the fattest that was in the heard , and she shot him through side and side . By the faith of my body , said bold Robin Hood , I never saw Woman like thee , And com'st thou from East , ay or com'st thou from West thou needest not beg venison of me . However along to my bower you shall go , and taste of a Forrester's meat ; And when we came thither we found as good cheer , as any Man needs for to eat . For there was hight venison , and warden-pies cold , cream clouted with honey-combs plenty , And the Sarvitors they were beside Little John , good Yeomen at least four and twenty . Clorinda said , Tell me your name gentle Sir ? and he said , 'Tis bold Robin Hood ; 'Squire Gamwel's mine Uncle , but all my delight is to dwell in the merry Sherwood : For 'tis a fine life , and 'tis void of all strife , So 'tis , Sir , Clorinda reply'd ; But o , said bold Robin , how sweet would it be , if Clorinda would be my Bride ? She blushed at the motion , yet after a pause , said , Yes , Sir , and with all my heart , Then let us send for a Priest , said Robin Hood , and be merry before we do part . But she said , It may not be so gentle Sir , for I must be at Titbury feas And if Robin Hood will go thither with me , I'll make him the most welcome Guest . Said Robin Hood , Reach me that Buck , Little John , for I'll go along with my Dear ; [ Then ] bid my Yeomen kill six brace of bucks , [ and ] worser meet me to morrow just here . Before we had ridden five Staffordshire miles , eight Yeomen that were too bold , Bid Robin Hood stand , and deliver his Buck , a truer Tale never was told . I will nat faith , said , bold Robin ; come John , stand to me and we'll beatrice 'em all ; Then both drew their swords , and so cut 'em and slash't 'em that five of them did fallen . The three that remain'd call'd to Robin for quarter , and pitiful John begg'd their lives ; When John's boon was granted , he gave them good counsel , and so sent them home to their Wives . This battle was fought near to Titbury Town , when the bagpipes bated the bull : I am King of the Fiddlers , and sware 'tis a truth ; and I call him that doubts it a Gull. For I saw them fighting , and fidl'd the while , and Clorinda sung , Heigh derry down : The Bumpkins are beaten , put up thy sword Bob , and now let's dance into the Town , Before we came to it , we herd a strange shouting , and all that were in it look'd madly , For some were a bull-back , some dancing a morris , and some singing Arthur a Bradly . And there we see Thomas our Justices-Clerk , and Marry to whom he way kind : For Tom road before her , and call'd Marry Madam , and kissed her full sweetly behind . And so may your Worships , but we went to dinner , with Thomas , and Marry , and Nan ; They all drank a health to Clorinda , and told her , bold Robin Hood was a fine Man. When dinner was ended , Sir Roger the Parson of Dubbridge was sent for in haste : He brought his Mass-book , and he had them take hands , and he joyn'd them in marriage full fast . And then as bold Ro A New Ballad of bold ROBIN HOOD : SHOWING His Birth , Breeding , Valour and Marriage , at Titbury Bull-running : Calculated for the Meridi [ and ] of Scaffordshire , but may serve for Derbyshire or Kent . KInd Gentlemen will you be patient a while Ay , and then y [ oh ] u shall hear anon , A very good Ballad of bold Robin Hood , and of his Man brave Little John. In Locksly Town in merry Nottinghamshire , in merry sweet Locksly Town ; There bold Robin Hood he was born and was bred bold Robin of famous renown . The Father of Robin a Forester was , and he shot in a lusty long bow , Two North Country miles and and inch at a shot , as the Pinder of Wakefield does know . For he brought Adam Bell , and Clim of the Clugh , and William a Clowdel-le ; To shoot with our Forester for forty mark , and the Forester beatrice them all three . His Mother was Niece to the Coventry Knight , which Warwickshire Men call Sir Guy ; For he slew the blue boar that hangs up at the gate , or mine Host of the Bull tells a lie . Her Brother was Gamwel of great Gamwel-hall , and a noble Housekeeper was he , Ay , as ever broke bred in sweet Nottinghamshire , and a 'Squire of famous degree . The Mother of Robin said to her Husband , My Honey , my Love , and my Dear ; Let Robin and I ride this morning to Gamwel , to taste of my Brother's good cheer . And he said , I grant thee thy boon , gentle Joan , take one of my Horses I pray : The Sun is a rising , and therefore make haste , for tomorrow is Christmas-day . Then Robin Hood's Father's gray gelding was brought and saddled and bridled was he , God-wot , a blue Bonnet , his new suit of clothes , and a Cloak that did reach to his knee . She god on her Holiday kirtle and gown , they were of a light Lincoln green , The cloth was home spun , but for colour and make it might a beseem'd our Queen . And then Robin god on his basket-hilt sword , and a dagger on his tother side : And said , My dear Mother , let's haste to be gone , we have forty long miles to ride . When Robin had mounted his Gelding so gray , his Father without any trouble , Set her up behind him , and bade her not fear , for his gelding has oft carried double . And when she was settled , they road to their Neighbours and drank and shook hands with them all : And then Robin galloped and never gave o're till they lighted at Gamwel-hall . And now you may think the right worshipful Squire was joyful his Sister to see ; For he kissed her and kissed her , and swore a great oath , thou art welcome , kind Sister , to me . To morrow when Mass had been said in the chapel six tables were cover'd in the hall ; And in comes the Squire and makes a short speech , it was , Neighbours you're welcome all . But not a Man here shall taste my March-beer till a Christmas carol be sung ; Then all clapped their hands , and they shouted and sung till the hall and the parlour did ring . Now mustards Braun , roast-beef and plumb-pies , were set upon every table : And noble George Gamwel said , Eat and be merry , and drink too as long as you're able . When dinner was ended his Chaplain said grace , and be merry , my friends said the 'Squire , It rains and it blows , but call for more ale , and lay some more wood on the fire . And now call you Little John hither to me , for Little John is a fine Lad At gambols and juggling , and twenty such tricks , as shall make you both merry and glad . When Little John came to gambols they went , both Gentlemen , Yeomen and Clown ; And what do you think ? Why as true as I live ; bold Robin Hood put them all down . And now you may think the right worshipful 'Squire was joyful this sighed for to see , For he said , Cousin Robin , thou'st go no more home , but tarry and dwell here with me . Thou shalt have my land when I die , and till then thou shalt be the staff of my Age . Then grant me my boon dear Uncle , said Robin , that little John may be my Page . And he said kind Cousin I grant thee thy boon , with all my heart so let it be , Then come hither , Little John , said Robin Hood , come hither , my Page , unto me . Go fetch me my Bow , my longest long Bow , and broad arrows one two or three ; For when it is fair weather we'll into Sherw [ oh ] od , some merry pastime to see . When Robin Hood came into merry Sherwo [ oh ] worser , he winded his bugle so clear ; And twice five and twenty good Yeomen and bold , before Robin Hood did appear . Where are your companions all ? ( said Rob. Hood ) for still I want forty and three : Then said a bold Yeoman , Lo yonder they stand , all under a green wood tree . As that word was spoke Clorinda came by , the Queen of the Shepherd's was she : And her gown was of Velvet as green as the grass and her buskin did reach to her knee . Her gate it was graceful her Body was straight , and her countenance free from pride : A bow in her hand , and quiver and arrows , hung dangling by her sweet side . Her eyebrows were black , ay and so was her hair , and her skin was as smooth as glass ; Her visage spoke wisdom and modesty too , sets with Robin Hood such a Lass. Said Robin Hood , Lady fair , whither away , o whither , fair Lady , away ? And she made him answer , to kill a fat Buck , for to morrow is Titbury day . Said Robin Hood , Lady fair , wander with me , a little to yonder green bower , There fit down to rest you , and you shall be sure of a brace or a lease in and hour . And as we were going towards the green bower , two hundred good bucks we espy'd : She choose out the fattest that was in the heard , and she shot him through side and side . By the faith of my body , said bold Robin Hood , I never saw Woman like thee , And com'st thou from East , ay or com'st thou from West thou needest not beg venison of me . However along to my bower you shall go , and taste of a Forrester's meat ; And when we came thither we found as good cheer , as any Man needs for to eat . For there was hight venison , and warden-pies cold , cream clouted with honey-combs plenty , And the Sarvitors they were beside Little John , good Yeomen at least four and twenty . Clorinda said , Tell me your name gentle Sir ? and he said , 'Tis bold Robin Hood ; 'Squire Gamwel's mine Uncle , but all my delight is to dwell in the merry Sherwood : For 'tis a fine life , and 'tis void of all strife , So 'tis , Sir , Clorinda reply'd ; But o , said bold Robin , how sweet would it be , if Clorinda would be my Bride ? She blushed at the motion , yet after a pause , said , Yes , Sir , and with all my heart , Then let us send for a Priest , said Robin Hood , and be merry before we do part . But she said , It may not be so gentle Sir , for I must be at Titbury feas And if Robin Hood will go thither with me , I'll make him the most welcome Guest . Said Robin Hood , Reach me that Buck , Little John , for I'll go along with my Dear ; [ Then ] bid my Yeomen kill six brace of bucks , [ and ] worser meet me to morrow just here . Before we had ridden five Staffordshire miles , eight Yeomen that were too bold , Bid Robin Hood stand , and deliver his Buck , a truer Tale never was told . I will nat faith , said , bold Robin ; come John , stand to me and we'll beatrice 'em all ; Then both drew their swords , and so cut 'em and slash't 'em that five of them did fallen . The three that remain'd call'd to Robin for quarter , and pitiful John begg'd their lives ; When John's boon was granted , he gave them good counsel , and so sent them home to their Wives . This battle was fought near to Titbury Town , when the bagpipes bated the bull : I am King of the Fiddlers , and sware 'tis a truth ; and I call him that doubts it a Gull. For I saw them fighting , and fidl'd the while , and Clorinda sung , Heigh derry down : The Bumpkins are beaten , put up thy sword Bob , and now let's dance into the Town , Before we came to it , we herd a strange shouting , and all that were in it look'd madly , For some were a bull-back , some dancing a morris , and some singing Arthur a Bradly . And there we see Thomas our Justices-Clerk , and Marry to whom he way kind : For Tom road before her , and call'd Marry Madam , and kissed her full sweetly behind . And so may your Worships , but we went to dinner , with Thomas , and Marry , and Nan ; They all drank a health to Clorinda , and told her , bold Robin Hood was a fine Man. When dinner was ended , Sir Roger the Parson of Dubbridge was sent for in haste : He brought his Mass-book , and he had them take hands , and he joyn'd them in marriage full fast . And then as bold Robin Hood , and his sweet bride , went hand in hand to the green bower , The birds sung with pleasure in merry Sherwood , and 'twas a most joyful hour . And when Robin came in the sighed of the bower , Where are my Yeomen ? said he . And Little John answered , Lo yonder they stand , all under the green wood tree . Then a Garland the brought her by two and by two , and plac'd them at the bride's bed : The Music struck up ; and we all fell to dance , till the Bride and the Groom were a bed . And what they did there must be counsel to me , because they lay long the next day : And I had haste home but I god a good piece of the bride-cake and so came away . Now out alas , I had forgotten to tell you , that marry'd they were with a ring : And so will Nan Knight , or be buried a Maiden , and now let us pray for the King . That he may get Children and they may get more to govern and do us some good , And then I'll make Ballads in Rob. Hood's bower and sing 'em in merry Sherwood . London : Printed by and for W.O. and are to be sold by the Booksellers . been Hood , and his sweet bride , went hand in hand to the green bower , The birds sung with pleasure in merry Sherwood , and 'twas a most joyful hour . And when Robin came in the sighed of the bower , Where are my Yeomen ? said he . And Little John answered , Lo yonder they stand , all under the green wood tree . Then a Garland the brought her by two and by two , and plac'd them at the bride's bed : The Music struck up ; and we all fell to dance , till the Bride and the Groom were a bed . And what they did there must be counsel to me , because they lay long the next day : And I had haste home but I god a good piece of the bride-cake and so came away . Now out alas , I had forgotten to tell you , that marry'd they were with a ring : And so will Nan Knight , or be buried a Maiden , and now let us pray for the King . That he may get Children and they may get more to govern and do us some good , And then I'll make Ballads in Rob. Hood's bower and sing 'em in merry Sherwood . London : Printed by and for W.O. and are to be sold by the Booksellers . 