Ragged , and Torn , and True . Or. the poor men Resoltion , To the tune of Old Simon the King . I Am a poor man , God knows , and all my neighbours can tell . I want both money and clothes , and yet I live wondrous well : I have a contented mind , and a heart to bear out all , Though Fortune ( being unkind ) hath given me substance small . Then hang up sorrow and care , it never shall make me rue : What though my back goes bore : I'me ragged , and torn , and true . I scorn to live by the shift , or by any sinister dealing . I'll flatter no man for a gift , nor will I get money by stealing , I'll be no Knight of the Post ; to fell my soul for a bribe , Though all my fortune's be crossed , yet I scorn the Cheaters tribe . Then hang up sorrow and care , it never shall make me rue , What though my cloak be threadbare , Ime ragged , and torn , and true . A Boot of Spanish leather . I have seen set fast in the stocks , Exposed to wind and weather , and foul reproach and mock [ e ] , While I in my poor rags , can pass at liberty still : Oh fie on these brawling brags , when the money is got so ill , Oh fie on these pelfering knaves , I scorn to be of that crew . They steal to make themselves brave , Ime ragged , and torn , and true . I have seen a Gallant go by , woth all his wealth on his back , He looked as loftily , as one that did nothing lack , And yet he hath no means , but what he gets by the sword , Which he consume on Queans , for it thrives not take my word O fie on these highway thieves , the Gallows will be then due : Though my doublet be rend ith sleeves Ime ragged , and torn , and true . The Second Part. To the Same Tune . SOme do themselves maintain , with playing at cards and Dice , Oh fie on that lawless gain , god by such wicked vice : They cozen poor Countrymen , with their delusions vild , Yet it happens now and then , that they are themselves beguiled : For if they be caught in a snare , then the Pillery clames its due , Though my Jerkin be worn and bore Ime ragged , and torn , and true . I have seen some gallants brave , up Holborne ride in a Cart , Which sighed much sorrow gave to every tender hear Then have I said to my self , what pity is it for this , That any man for pelf , should do such a foul amiss : Oh fie on deceit and theft , it makes men at the last rue , Though I have but little left , Ime ragged , and torn , and true . The Pick-pockets in a throng , at a Market or a Fair . Will try whose purse is strong that they may the money share : But if they are caught ith actium , they are carried away in disgrace . Either to the house of Correction , or else to a worse place : Oh fie on these pelfering Thieves , the Gallows will be their endue , What need I suee for a repreeve [ ? ] Ime ragged , and torn , and true . The Hostler , to maintain himself with money inns purse , Approves the Proverb true , and says Gramercy Horse : He robs the traveling beast , that cannot divulge his ill , He steals a whole handful at least , from every half peck he should fill , Oh fie on those cozening scabs , that rob the poor Jades of their due I scorn all thieves and Drabs : Ime ragged , and torn , and true . This good to be honest and just , though a man be never so poor , False dealers are still in mistrust , there afraid of the officers door : Their conscience does them accuse and the quake at the noise of a bush : While he that does not man abuse , For the law needs nat care a rush , Then welfare the man that can say , I pay every man his endue , Although I go poor in array , Ime ragged , and torn , and true . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcocke . FINIS . Ragged , and Torn , and True . Or. the poor men Resoltion , To the tune of Old Simon the King . I Am a poor man , God knows , and all my neighbours can tell . I want both money and clothes , and yet I live wondrous well : I have a contented mind , and a heart to bear out all , Though Fortune ( being unkind ) hath given me substance small . Then hang up sorrow and care , it never shall make me rue : What though my back goes bore : I'me ragged , and torn , and true . I scorn to live by the shift , or by any sinister dealing . I'll flatter no man for a gift , nor will I get money by stealing , I'll be no Knight of the Post ; to fell my soul for a bribe , Though all my fortune's be crossed , yet I scorn the Cheaters tribe . Then hang up sorrow and care , it never shall make me rue , What though my cloak be threadbare , Ime ragged , and torn , and true . A Boot of Spanish leather . I have seen set fast in the stocks , Exposed to wind and weather , and foul reproach and mock [ e ] , While I in my poor rags , can pass at liberty still : Oh fie on these brawling brags , when the money is got so ill , Oh fie on these pelfering knaves , I scorn to be of that crew . They steal to make themselves brave , Ime ragged , and torn , and true . I have seen a Gallant go by , woth all his wealth on his back , He looked as loftily , as one that did nothing lack , And yet he hath no means , but what he gets by the sword , Which he consume on Queans , for it thrives not take my word O fie on these highway thieves , the Gallows will be then due : Though my doublet be rend ith sleeves Ime ragged , and torn , and true . The Second Part. To the Same Tune . SOme do themselves maintain , with playing at cards and Dice , Oh fie on that lawless gain , god by such wicked vice : They cozen poor Countrymen , with their delusions vild , Yet it happens now and then , that they are themselves beguiled : For if they be caught in a snare , then the Pillery clames its due , Though my Jerkin be worn and bore Ime ragged , and torn , and true . I have seen some gallants brave , up Holborne ride in a Cart , Which sighed much sorrow gave to every tender hear Then have I said to my self , what pity is it for this , That any man for pelf , should do such a foul amiss : Oh fie on deceit and theft , it makes men at the last rue , Though I have but little left , Ime ragged , and torn , and true . The Pick-pockets in a throng , at a Market or a Fair . Will try whose purse is strong that they may the money share : But if they are caught ith actium , they are carried away in disgrace . Either to the house of Correction , or else to a worse place : Oh fie on these pelfering Thieves , the Gallows will be their endue , What need I suee for a repreeve [ ? ] Ime ragged , and torn , and true . The Hostler , to maintain himself with money inns purse , Approves the Proverb true , and says Gramercy Horse : He robs the traveling beast , that cannot divulge his ill , He steals a whole handful at least , from every half peck he should fill , Oh fie on those cozening scabs , that rob the poor Jades of their due I scorn all thieves and Drabs : Ime ragged , and torn , and true . This good to be honest and just , though a man be never so poor , False dealers are still in mistrust , there afraid of the officers door : Their conscience does them accuse and the quake at the noise of a bush : While he that does not man abuse , For the law needs nat care a rush , Then welfare the man that can say , I pay every man his endue , Although I go poor in array , Ime ragged , and torn , and true . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcocke . FINIS . 