Robin Hood , Will . Scadlock and Little John OR , A Narrative of their Victory obtained against the Princ [ e ] of Aragon , and the two Giants : and how Will . Scadlock married that [ e ] Princess . Tune of , Robin Hood ; or , Hay down , down a down . Licens'd and Enter'd . NOw Robin Hood , Will . Scadlock and Little John , are walking over the plain , With a good fat buck which Will Scadlock with his strong bow had slave . Jog on , jog on , cries Robin Hood , the day it runs full fast , For though my Nephew me a breakfast gave , I have not yet broke my fast . Then to yonder lodge , let us take our way , I think it wondrous good , Where my Nephew by my bold Yeomen , shalt be welcom'd unto the greenwood . With that he took the bugle-horn , full well he could it blow : Straight from the woods came marching down one hundred tall Fellows and more . Stand , stand to your arms , cries Will . Scadlock , lo the Enemies are within ken . With that Robin Hood he laugh'd aloud , cries , They are my bold Yeoman , Who when they arriv'd , and Robin espy'd , [ ? ] cry'd , Master , What is your will ? We thought you had in danger been , your horn did found so shrill . Now nay , now nay , quoth Robin Hood , the danger is past and gone , I would have you to welcome my Nephew here , that hath paid me two for one . In feasting and sporting they passed the day , till Phoebus sunk into the deep ; Then each one to his quarters hy'd , his guard there for to keep . Long had they not walked within the greenwood , but Robin he was espy'd Of a beautiful Damsel all alone , that on a black palfrey did ride . Her riding-suit was of sable hew black , sypress over her face , Through which her roselike cheeks did blush all with a comely grace Come tell me the cause [ , ] thou pretty One , quoth Ro [ b ] in , and tell me aright , From whence thou comest , and whither thou goest , all in this mournful plighted ? From London I came , the Damsel reply'd , from London upon the Thames , Which circled is [ , ] O grief to tell , besieg'd with foreign Arms : By the proud Prince of Aragon , who swears by his martial hand , To have the Princess to his Spouse , or else to waste this Land : Except that Champions can be found , that dare fight three to three , Against the Prince and Giants twain , most horrid for to see : Whose grisly looks , and eyes like brands , strike terror where they come , With serpents hissing on their helms , instead of feathered plume . The Princess shall be the Victor's Prize , the King hath vow'd , and said , And he that shall the conquest win , shall have her to his Bride . Now we are four Damsels sent abroad to the East , West , North , and South , To try whose fortune is so good , to find these Champions forth . But all in vain we have sought about , yet none so bold there are , That dare adventure life and blood , to free a Lady fair . When is the day ? quoth Robin Hood , tell me this , and no more . On Midsummer next , the Dam'sel said , which is June the twenty four . with that the tears trickled down her cheeks , and silent was her tongue , with sighs and sobs , she took her leave , away her palfrey sprung . This News struck Robin to the heart , he fell down on the grass , His actium and his troubled mind , shew'd he perplexed was . Where lies your grief ? quoth Will . Scadlock , Oh Master tell to me ; If the Damsel [ ' ] s eyes have pierc'd your heart , I'll fetch her back to thee . Now nay , now nay , quoth Robin Hood , she does not cause my smart , But it is the poor distressed Princess , that wounds me to the heart . I will go fight the Giants all , to set the Lady free . The Devil take my soul , quoth Little John , if I part with thy company . Must I stay behind ? quoth Will . Scadlock , no , no , that must not be ; I [ ' ] ll make the third Man in the fight , so we shall be three to three . These words cheer'd Robin at the heart , joy shone within his face , Within his arms he hugg'd them both , and kindly did embrace . Quoth he , We'll put on mothly grey , with long staves in our hands , A scrip and bottle by our sides , as come from the Holy Land : So may we pass along the highway , none will ask from whence we came , But take us Pilgrim's for to be , or else some Holy-men . Now they are on their journey gone , as fast as they may speed , Yet for all haste , e're they arriv'd , the Princess forth was led , To be deliver'd to the Prince , who in the List did stand , Prepar'd to fight , or else receive his Lady by the hand . With that he walked about the lists , with Giants by his side , Bring forth , quoth he , your Champions , or bring me forth my Bride : This is the four and twentieth day , the day perfixt upon ; Bring forth my Bride , or London burns , I swear by Acaron . Then cries the King and Queen likewise , both weeping as they speak , Lo , we have brought our Daughter dear , whom we are forc'd to forsake . With that stepped out bold Robin Hood , cries , My Liege , it must not be so , Such Beauty as the fair Princess , is not for a Tyrant's mow . The Prince he then began to storm , cries , Fool , Fanatic , Baboon , How dares thou stop my Valour's Prize ? I'll kill thee with a frown . Thou Tyrant , Turk , thou Infidel , thus Robin began to reply , Thy frowns I scorn , lo here's my gage , and thus I thee defy : And for those two Goliath's there , that stand on either side , Here are two little Davids by , that soon can tame their pride . Then did the King for armour send , for lances , swords and shields ; And thus all three in armour bright came marching to the field . The trumpets began to found a charge , each singled out his Man , Their arms in pieces soon were hew'd , blood sprang from every vain : The Prince he reached Robin a blow , he struck with might and main , Which forc'd him to reel about the field , as though he had been slave . God-a-mercy , quoth Robin , for that blow , the Quarrel shall soon be try'd This stroke shall show a full divorce , betwixt thee and thy Bride . So from his shoulders he's cut his head , which on the ground did fallen , And grumbling soar at Robin Hood , to be so dealt withal . The Giants then began to rage , to see their Prince lie dead ; Thou's be the next , quoth Little John , except thou well guard thy head : With that his falchion he whirl'd about , it was both keen and sharp . He clove the Giant to the belt , and cut in twain his heart . Will . Scadlock well had play'd his part , the Giant he brought to his knee , Quoth he , The Devil cannot break his fallen , unless he have you all three : So with his falchion he run him through , a deep and gashly wound , Who dam'd and foam'd , cursed and blasphem'd , and then fell to the ground , Now all the lists with sheers were fill'd . the skies they did resound , Which brought the Princess to herself , who was fal'n in a swoon . The King , and Queen , and Princess fair , came walking to the place , And gave the Champions many thanks , and did them further grace . Tell me , quoth the King , whence you are that thus disguised came , Whose valour speaks that noble blood does run through every vain ? A boon , a boon , quoth Robin Hood , on my knees I beg and crave . By my Crown , quoth the King , I grant , ask what , and thou shalt have . Then pardon I beg for my merry Men , which are within the greenwood , For Little John , and Will . Scadlock , and for me bold Robin Hood , Art thou Robin Hood then ? quoth the King , for the valour you have shown , Your pardons I do freely grant , and welcome every one . The Princess I promised the Victor's Prize , she cannot have you all three : She shall choose , quoth Robin ; says Little John , Then little share falls to me . Then did the Princess view all three , with a comely lovely grace , Who took Will . Scadlock by the hand , quoth , Here I make my choice . With that a noble Lord stepped forth , of Maxfield Earl was he , Who looked Will . Scadlock in the face , then wept most bitterly : Quoth he , I had a Son like thee , whom I lov'd wondrous well , But he is gone , or rather dead , his name is young Gamwell . Then did Will . Scadlock fallen on his knees , cries , Father , Father , here , Here kneels your Son , your young Gamwell , you said you lov'd so dear . But , Lord ! what embracing and kissing was there , when all these Friends were me They are gone to the wedding , and so to bedding , and so I bid you good night . LONDON : Printed by and for W.O. and are to be sold by the Booksellers . Robin Hood , Will . Scadlock and Little John OR , A Narrative of their Victory obtained against the Princ [ e ] of Aragon , and the two Giants : and how Will . Scadlock married that [ e ] Princess . Tune of , Robin Hood ; or , Hay down , down a down . Licens'd and Enter'd . NOw Robin Hood , Will . Scadlock and Little John , are walking over the plain , With a good fat buck which Will Scadlock with his strong bow had slave . Jog on , jog on , cries Robin Hood , the day it runs full fast , For though my Nephew me a breakfast gave , I have not yet broke my fast . Then to yonder lodge , let us take our way , I think it wondrous good , Where my Nephew by my bold Yeomen , shalt be welcom'd unto the greenwood . With that he took the bugle-horn , full well he could it blow : Straight from the woods came marching down one hundred tall Fellows and more . Stand , stand to your arms , cries Will . Scadlock , lo the Enemies are within ken . With that Robin Hood he laugh'd aloud , cries , They are my bold Yeoman , Who when they arriv'd , and Robin espy'd , [ ? ] cry'd , Master , What is your will ? We thought you had in danger been , your horn did found so shrill . Now nay , now nay , quoth Robin Hood , the danger is past and gone , I would have you to welcome my Nephew here , that hath paid me two for one . In feasting and sporting they passed the day , till Phoebus sunk into the deep ; Then each one to his quarters hy'd , his guard there for to keep . Long had they not walked within the greenwood , but Robin he was espy'd Of a beautiful Damsel all alone , that on a black palfrey did ride . Her riding-suit was of sable hew black , sypress over her face , Through which her roselike cheeks did blush all with a comely grace Come tell me the cause [ , ] thou pretty One , quoth Ro [ b ] in , and tell me aright , From whence thou comest , and whither thou goest , all in this mournful plighted ? From London I came , the Damsel reply'd , from London upon the Thames , Which circled is [ , ] O grief to tell , besieg'd with foreign Arms : By the proud Prince of Aragon , who swears by his martial hand , To have the Princess to his Spouse , or else to waste this Land : Except that Champions can be found , that dare fight three to three , Against the Prince and Giants twain , most horrid for to see : Whose grisly looks , and eyes like brands , strike terror where they come , With serpents hissing on their helms , instead of feathered plume . The Princess shall be the Victor's Prize , the King hath vow'd , and said , And he that shall the conquest win , shall have her to his Bride . Now we are four Damsels sent abroad to the East , West , North , and South , To try whose fortune is so good , to find these Champions forth . But all in vain we have sought about , yet none so bold there are , That dare adventure life and blood , to free a Lady fair . When is the day ? quoth Robin Hood , tell me this , and no more . On Midsummer next , the Dam'sel said , which is June the twenty four . with that the tears trickled down her cheeks , and silent was her tongue , with sighs and sobs , she took her leave , away her palfrey sprung . This News struck Robin to the heart , he fell down on the grass , His actium and his troubled mind , shew'd he perplexed was . Where lies your grief ? quoth Will . Scadlock , Oh Master tell to me ; If the Damsel [ ' ] s eyes have pierc'd your heart , I'll fetch her back to thee . Now nay , now nay , quoth Robin Hood , she does not cause my smart , But it is the poor distressed Princess , that wounds me to the heart . I will go fight the Giants all , to set the Lady free . The Devil take my soul , quoth Little John , if I part with thy company . Must I stay behind ? quoth Will . Scadlock , no , no , that must not be ; I [ ' ] ll make the third Man in the fight , so we shall be three to three . These words cheer'd Robin at the heart , joy shone within his face , Within his arms he hugg'd them both , and kindly did embrace . Quoth he , We'll put on mothly grey , with long staves in our hands , A scrip and bottle by our sides , as come from the Holy Land : So may we pass along the highway , none will ask from whence we came , But take us Pilgrim's for to be , or else some Holy-men . Now they are on their journey gone , as fast as they may speed , Yet for all haste , e're they arriv'd , the Princess forth was led , To be deliver'd to the Prince , who in the List did stand , Prepar'd to fight , or else receive his Lady by the hand . With that he walked about the lists , with Giants by his side , Bring forth , quoth he , your Champions , or bring me forth my Bride : This is the four and twentieth day , the day perfixt upon ; Bring forth my Bride , or London burns , I swear by Acaron . Then cries the King and Queen likewise , both weeping as they speak , Lo , we have brought our Daughter dear , whom we are forc'd to forsake . With that stepped out bold Robin Hood , cries , My Liege , it must not be so , Such Beauty as the fair Princess , is not for a Tyrant's mow . The Prince he then began to storm , cries , Fool , Fanatic , Baboon , How dares thou stop my Valour's Prize ? I'll kill thee with a frown . Thou Tyrant , Turk , thou Infidel , thus Robin began to reply , Thy frowns I scorn , lo here's my gage , and thus I thee defy : And for those two Goliath's there , that stand on either side , Here are two little Davids by , that soon can tame their pride . Then did the King for armour send , for lances , swords and shields ; And thus all three in armour bright came marching to the field . The trumpets began to found a charge , each singled out his Man , Their arms in pieces soon were hew'd , blood sprang from every vain : The Prince he reached Robin a blow , he struck with might and main , Which forc'd him to reel about the field , as though he had been slave . God-a-mercy , quoth Robin , for that blow , the Quarrel shall soon be try'd This stroke shall show a full divorce , betwixt thee and thy Bride . So from his shoulders he's cut his head , which on the ground did fallen , And grumbling soar at Robin Hood , to be so dealt withal . The Giants then began to rage , to see their Prince lie dead ; Thou's be the next , quoth Little John , except thou well guard thy head : With that his falchion he whirl'd about , it was both keen and sharp . He clove the Giant to the belt , and cut in twain his heart . Will . Scadlock well had play'd his part , the Giant he brought to his knee , Quoth he , The Devil cannot break his fallen , unless he have you all three : So with his falchion he run him through , a deep and gashly wound , Who dam'd and foam'd , cursed and blasphem'd , and then fell to the ground , Now all the lists with sheers were fill'd . the skies they did resound , Which brought the Princess to herself , who was fal'n in a swoon . The King , and Queen , and Princess fair , came walking to the place , And gave the Champions many thanks , and did them further grace . Tell me , quoth the King , whence you are that thus disguised came , Whose valour speaks that noble blood does run through every vain ? A boon , a boon , quoth Robin Hood , on my knees I beg and crave . By my Crown , quoth the King , I grant , ask what , and thou shalt have . Then pardon I beg for my merry Men , which are within the greenwood , For Little John , and Will . Scadlock , and for me bold Robin Hood , Art thou Robin Hood then ? quoth the King , for the valour you have shown , Your pardons I do freely grant , and welcome every one . The Princess I promised the Victor's Prize , she cannot have you all three : She shall choose , quoth Robin ; says Little John , Then little share falls to me . Then did the Princess view all three , with a comely lovely grace , Who took Will . Scadlock by the hand , quoth , Here I make my choice . With that a noble Lord stepped forth , of Maxfield Earl was he , Who looked Will . Scadlock in the face , then wept most bitterly : Quoth he , I had a Son like thee , whom I lov'd wondrous well , But he is gone , or rather dead , his name is young Gamwell . Then did Will . Scadlock fallen on his knees , cries , Father , Father , here , Here kneels your Son , your young Gamwell , you said you lov'd so dear . But , Lord ! what embracing and kissing was there , when all these Friends were me They are gone to the wedding , and so to bedding , and so I bid you good night . LONDON : Printed by and for W.O. and are to be sold by the Booksellers . 