Robin and Kate : or , A bad husband converted by a good wife , in a dialogue between Robin and Kate . To the tune of Blew Cap. Far in the North Country ( as I have herd tell ) there lives a blithe couple cau'd Robbin and Kate : This Robin does love nappy liquour so well , that hee'll be at th' Alehouse both early and late The wife to her husband i'th morning does say , I prithee sweet Robin at home with me stay , Thou wastest thy time , and spendest thy chink , Turn back again Robin , and gam not to drink Man. I prithee sweet honey be patient and quiet , I'me sure thou want'st nothing thats fit for thy state , Thou lackest neither money , apparel , nor diet , if any thou dost , do but speak and thou'st ha'te : Thou hast all the good that a wife can desire , Tha'st servants to 'tend thee , and I pay their hire : Then for my good-fellowship do not thou prate , For I must and I will have my humour sweet Kate . Wife . This chiefly thy company that I do want , beside , though we now have sufficient to live , Yet if thou the Alehouse thus daily do haunt , we may become fitter to take than to give : Sweet husband consider and take my advice , Let not thy companions thus lewdly entice Thy heart from thy Kate , but upon my words think , Turn back again Robin , and gam not to drink . Out , out , hold thy twattle and do not thus preach , I'll not be ruled by thee whatever thou say , Seek not by persuasions my mind to overreach , for I'll to the Alehouse as fast as I may : If thither thou follow , thou welcome shalt be , So thou wilt be quiet and pleasant with me , Stay here or gam with me , this both of a rate , But I must , and I will have my humour sweet Kate . Wife . Waes me bonny Robin , that ere I was marride , unto sike a husband that seeks my undoing , I wou'd with my mother at home I had tarryde , or thought upon this when thou first cam'st a wooing : I think in my conscience , ( and I have cause why , ) That thou lov'st some other , far better than I : Thou hat'st to stay with me , then what may I think , Turn back again Robin and gam not to drink . Man. Nay now I find Kate whereabout thy shoe wrings , by this I perceive that of me thou art jealous , But I for my part never dream of sike things , I seek not for wenches , but honest good fellows : A pipe of Tobacco , a Pot or a Jug , These are the sweet honies that I kiss and hug : All wenching delights are with me out of date , But I must and I will have my humour sweet Kate . The second part To the same tune . Wife I Prithee my joy do not take at the worst the words that I speak in the heat of affection , No evil conceit in my bosom is nursed , Idem have thee be rul'd by my loving direction : I think thou art honest to me in thy heart , But company ill may draw thee apar To wasteful expenses thy mind do not link : Turn back again Robin , and gam not to drink . Man. Good wife be persuaded , and let me alone , for all thy vain prattle will prove but mere folly , I tell thee my heart will be cold as a stone , if I stay at home I shall be melancholy I'll make my self merry as long as I've store Tush Kate never think on't wee'st never be poor : Shall I stay at home on thy fancy to wait , No I must and I will have my humour sweet Kate . Wife . Why Robin when first thou didst marry with me , thou thoughtest thy self best when thou staidest with me longest , How comes the case thus to be alter'd with thee , true love by much usage will grow to be stronges But now thou art weary of my company , And canst not be merry , I prithee Love why ? Thou giv'st me occasion strange matters to think , Turn back again Robin . and gam not to drink . Man. O who wou'd be troubled thus with a fool , I prithee sweetheart take one word for thy learning , I scorn that my wife over me should bear rule : why Kate , do I sp [ e ] and any thing of thy earning ? I love thee as well as I did the first day , And yet when I list I will go or I'll stay , To be at command of my wife , I do hate , For I must and I will , have my humour sweet Kate . Wife Alas my deer Luis thou mistskest me much , I do not command thee , thats not my intention , For my humble duty unto thee is such , that one word of anger to thee I'll not mention Examine thy heart , and thou shalt understand I give thee good counsel , I do not command : Then with due discretion . upon my words think , Turn back again Robin , and gam not to drink . Man. Ah now my sweet Kate I perceive very well , thy words do proceed from a hearty affection , Now all my delight in thy bosom shall dwell , I'll ever be ordered by thy direction My former ill husbandry , I will repent , And in thy sweet company , rest well conten Strong Liquour no more , shall impair my estate . Now I'll stay at home with my bonny sweet Kate . FINIS . M.P. London Printed for Thomas La [ mbert . ] Robin and Kate : or , A bad husband converted by a good wife , in a dialogue between Robin and Kate . To the tune of Blew Cap. Far in the North Country ( as I have herd tell ) there lives a blithe couple cau'd Robbin and Kate : This Robin does love nappy liquour so well , that hee'll be at th' Alehouse both early and late The wife to her husband i'th morning does say , I prithee sweet Robin at home with me stay , Thou wastest thy time , and spendest thy chink , Turn back again Robin , and gam not to drink Man. I prithee sweet honey be patient and quiet , I'me sure thou want'st nothing thats fit for thy state , Thou lackest neither money , apparel , nor diet , if any thou dost , do but speak and thou'st ha'te : Thou hast all the good that a wife can desire , Tha'st servants to 'tend thee , and I pay their hire : Then for my good-fellowship do not thou prate , For I must and I will have my humour sweet Kate . Wife . This chiefly thy company that I do want , beside , though we now have sufficient to live , Yet if thou the Alehouse thus daily do haunt , we may become fitter to take than to give : Sweet husband consider and take my advice , Let not thy companions thus lewdly entice Thy heart from thy Kate , but upon my words think , Turn back again Robin , and gam not to drink . Out , out , hold thy twattle and do not thus preach , I'll not be ruled by thee whatever thou say , Seek not by persuasions my mind to overreach , for I'll to the Alehouse as fast as I may : If thither thou follow , thou welcome shalt be , So thou wilt be quiet and pleasant with me , Stay here or gam with me , this both of a rate , But I must , and I will have my humour sweet Kate . Wife . Waes me bonny Robin , that ere I was marride , unto sike a husband that seeks my undoing , I wou'd with my mother at home I had tarryde , or thought upon this when thou first cam'st a wooing : I think in my conscience , ( and I have cause why , ) That thou lov'st some other , far better than I : Thou hat'st to stay with me , then what may I think , Turn back again Robin and gam not to drink . Man. Nay now I find Kate whereabout thy shoe wrings , by this I perceive that of me thou art jealous , But I for my part never dream of sike things , I seek not for wenches , but honest good fellows : A pipe of Tobacco , a Pot or a Jug , These are the sweet honies that I kiss and hug : All wenching delights are with me out of date , But I must and I will have my humour sweet Kate . The second part To the same tune . Wife I Prithee my joy do not take at the worst the words that I speak in the heat of affection , No evil conceit in my bosom is nursed , Idem have thee be rul'd by my loving direction : I think thou art honest to me in thy heart , But company ill may draw thee apar To wasteful expenses thy mind do not link : Turn back again Robin , and gam not to drink . Man. Good wife be persuaded , and let me alone , for all thy vain prattle will prove but mere folly , I tell thee my heart will be cold as a stone , if I stay at home I shall be melancholy I'll make my self merry as long as I've store Tush Kate never think on't wee'st never be poor : Shall I stay at home on thy fancy to wait , No I must and I will have my humour sweet Kate . Wife . Why Robin when first thou didst marry with me , thou thoughtest thy self best when thou staidest with me longest , How comes the case thus to be alter'd with thee , true love by much usage will grow to be stronges But now thou art weary of my company , And canst not be merry , I prithee Love why ? Thou giv'st me occasion strange matters to think , Turn back again Robin . and gam not to drink . Man. O who wou'd be troubled thus with a fool , I prithee sweetheart take one word for thy learning , I scorn that my wife over me should bear rule : why Kate , do I sp [ e ] and any thing of thy earning ? I love thee as well as I did the first day , And yet when I list I will go or I'll stay , To be at command of my wife , I do hate , For I must and I will , have my humour sweet Kate . Wife Alas my deer Luis thou mistskest me much , I do not command thee , thats not my intention , For my humble duty unto thee is such , that one word of anger to thee I'll not mention Examine thy heart , and thou shalt understand I give thee good counsel , I do not command : Then with due discretion . upon my words think , Turn back again Robin , and gam not to drink . Man. Ah now my sweet Kate I perceive very well , thy words do proceed from a hearty affection , Now all my delight in thy bosom shall dwell , I'll ever be ordered by thy direction My former ill husbandry , I will repent , And in thy sweet company , rest well conten Strong Liquour no more , shall impair my estate . Now I'll stay at home with my bonny sweet Kate . FINIS . M.P. London Printed for Thomas La [ mbert . ] 