Saint Bernards Vision . OR , A brief Discourse ( Dialogue-wise ) between the Soul and the Body of a dam - ned man newly deceased , laying open the faults of each other : With a speech of the Devils in Hell . To the Tune of , Fortune my Foe . The Writer speaks . AS I lay slumbering in my Bed one Night , A fearful Vision did me soar affrigh Me thought I saw a Soul departed late , By it the Body , in a poor estate . Wailing with sighs , the Soul aloud did cry Upon the Body , in the Coffin by : And thus the Soul to it did make her moan , With grievous sobs , and many a bitter groan . The Soul speaks . O sinful Flesh , which now so low does lie , Whom yesterday the World esteem'd so high ; It was but yesterday the World was thine , Thy Sun is set , which yesterday did shine . Where is that Train that did attend on thee ? Where is thy Mirth ? where is thy Jollity ? Where are thy sumptuous Buildings , and thy Treasure ? Thy pleasant Walks , in which thou took'st such pleasure ? Gone is thy Train , thy Mirth to mourning turn'd , Thou in a Coffin in thy Shrine art Urn'd : For thy rich Clothes , thou hast a Winding-sheet , Thy high-built Roof now with thy Nose does meet . But I ( poor Soul ) was fram'd a noble creature , In likeness to my God , of heavenly feature : But by thy sin , whil'st we on Earth abode , I am made fouler than a loathsome Toad . O wretched Flesh , with me that art forlorn , That well mayest wish thou never hadst been born ; Thou never would'st to any good agree , For which we evermore shall damned be . I am and must forever be in pain , No tongue can tell the torments I sustain ; Both thou and I , we must descend to Hell , [ W ] here we in frying flames for aye must dwell . It was thy Pride , Deceit , and Luxury , Hath brought these torments both on me and thee ; Thy Wife , thy Children , Friends , which thou didst trust , Does loath thy Carcase , lying in the Dust. The Book of God , which is both true and sure , Witness at large what sinners shall endure : Thou that within thy Bed of Earth art laid , Arise , and answer to these things I said . The Body answereth . I know thee well , my Soul , which from me fled , Which left my Body senseless , cold , and dead : Cease then to say , the fault was all in me , When I will prove the fault was most in thee . Thou say'st , that I have led thee oft astray , And from welldoing drawn thee quite away , But if the Flesh the Spirits power can move , The fault is thine , as I will plainly prove . God you do know , created thee most fair , And of Celestial knowledge gave you share : I was your servant , form'd of Dirt and Clay ; You to command , and I for to obey . 'Twas in your power for to restrain my will , And not to let me do those things were ill . The Bodies works be from the Soul derided , And by the Soul the Body should be guided . The Body of it self none ill hath known : If I did what thou bidst , the guilt's thine own : For without thee , the Body rests dead ; The Soul commands it rests upon thy head . So to conclude , thy guilt exceeds mine ; O , how the worms do tear me in my Shrine ! And therefore fare thou well , poor sinful Soul , Whose trespasses pass mine , though they are foul . The second part . To the same tune . The Soul answereth . MOst wretched Flesh , which in thy time of life Wast foolish , idle , vain , and full of strife ; Though of my substance thou didst speak to me , I do confess I should have bridled thee . But thou through love of pleasure foul and ill , Still me resisted and would have thy will : When I would thee ( Oh Body ) have control'd , Straight the world's vanities did thee withhold . So thou of me didst get the upper hand , Enthralling me in worldly pleasures band , That thou and I eternal shall be drown'd In Hell , when glorious Saints in Heaven are crown'd . But flatt'ring fancies did thy mind so please , Thou never thought to die , till death did seize : This was thy fault , and cursed is our fate , Which we repent , but now alas too late . The Body speaks . O now I weep being scourg'd with mine own rod , we both stand guilty 'fore the face of God : Both are in fault , and yet not equally , The greatest burden ( Soul ) on thee does lie . No wit so mean , but this for truth it knows , That where most gifts of virtue God bestows . There most is due , and ought repaid be ; And unto this there's none but will agree . But foolishly thou yeeldedst unto me , And to my vain desires didst soon agree ; But ( o ) I know that at the latter hour , Both thou and I shall find a death most sour . I greatly fear and everlasting fire , Yet one thing more of thee I do desire : Hast thou been yet among the fiends of Hell ? Is not hope left , that we with Christ may dwell ? The Soul answereth . Found flesh , remember Dives was denay'd , When for one drop of water so he pray'd : Thy question ( senseless Body ) wants reason , Redemption now is hopeless , out of season . Vile Body go , and rot in bed of Clay , Until the great and general Judgement day : Then shalt thou rise and be with me condemn'd , To Hells hight lake , for ever without end . So fare thou well , I must no longer stay , Hark how the fiends of Hell call me away : The loss of Heavenly joys torments me More than all tortures that in Hell can be . The Devils speak . Ho , are you come , whom we expected long ? Now we will make you sing another song : Howling and yelling still shall be your note , And melted led be poured down your throat . Such horror we do on our servants load , Now thou art worse than is the crawling Toad : Ten thousand thousand torments thou shalt bide , When thou in flaming Sulphur shalt be fride . Thou art a soldier of our camp enrol'd , Never henceforth shalt thou the light behold : The pains prepared for thee no tongue can tell , Welcome , Oh welcome to the pit of Hell . The Writer speaks . At this the groaning Soul did weep most soar , And then the fiends with joy did laugh and roar : These Devils seemed more black than pitch or night , Whose horrid shapes did sorely me affright . Sharp steely forks each in his hand did bear , Tusked their teeth , like crooked mattocks were , Fire and Brimstone then they breathed out , And from their nostrils Snakes crawl'd round about . Foul filthy horns on their black brows they wore , Their nails were like the tusks of a Boar : Those fiends in chains fast bound this wretched Soul , And drag'd him in , who grievously did howl . Then straight me thought appeared to my sighed A beauteous young man , clothed all in white , His face did shine , most glorious to behold , Wings like the Raynebow , and his hair like Gold . With a sweet voice , All hail , all hail ( quoth he ) Arise and write what thou didst hear and see : Most heavenly music seemed then to play , And in a cloud he vanished quite away . Awaking straight , I took my pen in hand , To write these lines the young man did command , And so into the world abroad it sent , That each good Christian may in time repent . Then let us fear the Lord both night and day , Preserve our Souls and Bodies we thee pray , Grant that we may so run this mortal raze , That we in Heaven may have a resting place . Preserve the King , the Queen and Progeny , The Clergy , Council , and Nobility , Preserve our souls , Oh Lord , we do thee pray , Amen , with me let all good Christians say . FINIS . Printed at London for J. Wright , dwelling in Giltspur street . Saint Bernards Vision . OR , A brief Discourse ( Dialogue-wise ) between the Soul and the Body of a dam - ned man newly deceased , laying open the faults of each other : With a speech of the Devils in Hell . To the Tune of , Fortune my Foe . The Writer speaks . AS I lay slumbering in my Bed one Night , A fearful Vision did me soar affrigh Me thought I saw a Soul departed late , By it the Body , in a poor estate . Wailing with sighs , the Soul aloud did cry Upon the Body , in the Coffin by : And thus the Soul to it did make her moan , With grievous sobs , and many a bitter groan . The Soul speaks . O sinful Flesh , which now so low does lie , Whom yesterday the World esteem'd so high ; It was but yesterday the World was thine , Thy Sun is set , which yesterday did shine . Where is that Train that did attend on thee ? Where is thy Mirth ? where is thy Jollity ? Where are thy sumptuous Buildings , and thy Treasure ? Thy pleasant Walks , in which thou took'st such pleasure ? Gone is thy Train , thy Mirth to mourning turn'd , Thou in a Coffin in thy Shrine art Urn'd : For thy rich Clothes , thou hast a Winding-sheet , Thy high-built Roof now with thy Nose does meet . But I ( poor Soul ) was fram'd a noble creature , In likeness to my God , of heavenly feature : But by thy sin , whil'st we on Earth abode , I am made fouler than a loathsome Toad . O wretched Flesh , with me that art forlorn , That well mayest wish thou never hadst been born ; Thou never would'st to any good agree , For which we evermore shall damned be . I am and must forever be in pain , No tongue can tell the torments I sustain ; Both thou and I , we must descend to Hell , [ W ] here we in frying flames for aye must dwell . It was thy Pride , Deceit , and Luxury , Hath brought these torments both on me and thee ; Thy Wife , thy Children , Friends , which thou didst trust , Does loath thy Carcase , lying in the Dust. The Book of God , which is both true and sure , Witness at large what sinners shall endure : Thou that within thy Bed of Earth art laid , Arise , and answer to these things I said . The Body answereth . I know thee well , my Soul , which from me fled , Which left my Body senseless , cold , and dead : Cease then to say , the fault was all in me , When I will prove the fault was most in thee . Thou say'st , that I have led thee oft astray , And from welldoing drawn thee quite away , But if the Flesh the Spirits power can move , The fault is thine , as I will plainly prove . God you do know , created thee most fair , And of Celestial knowledge gave you share : I was your servant , form'd of Dirt and Clay ; You to command , and I for to obey . 'Twas in your power for to restrain my will , And not to let me do those things were ill . The Bodies works be from the Soul derided , And by the Soul the Body should be guided . The Body of it self none ill hath known : If I did what thou bidst , the guilt's thine own : For without thee , the Body rests dead ; The Soul commands it rests upon thy head . So to conclude , thy guilt exceeds mine ; O , how the worms do tear me in my Shrine ! And therefore fare thou well , poor sinful Soul , Whose trespasses pass mine , though they are foul . The second part . To the same tune . The Soul answereth . MOst wretched Flesh , which in thy time of life Wast foolish , idle , vain , and full of strife ; Though of my substance thou didst speak to me , I do confess I should have bridled thee . But thou through love of pleasure foul and ill , Still me resisted and would have thy will : When I would thee ( Oh Body ) have control'd , Straight the world's vanities did thee withhold . So thou of me didst get the upper hand , Enthralling me in worldly pleasures band , That thou and I eternal shall be drown'd In Hell , when glorious Saints in Heaven are crown'd . But flatt'ring fancies did thy mind so please , Thou never thought to die , till death did seize : This was thy fault , and cursed is our fate , Which we repent , but now alas too late . The Body speaks . O now I weep being scourg'd with mine own rod , we both stand guilty 'fore the face of God : Both are in fault , and yet not equally , The greatest burden ( Soul ) on thee does lie . No wit so mean , but this for truth it knows , That where most gifts of virtue God bestows . There most is due , and ought repaid be ; And unto this there's none but will agree . But foolishly thou yeeldedst unto me , And to my vain desires didst soon agree ; But ( o ) I know that at the latter hour , Both thou and I shall find a death most sour . I greatly fear and everlasting fire , Yet one thing more of thee I do desire : Hast thou been yet among the fiends of Hell ? Is not hope left , that we with Christ may dwell ? The Soul answereth . Found flesh , remember Dives was denay'd , When for one drop of water so he pray'd : Thy question ( senseless Body ) wants reason , Redemption now is hopeless , out of season . Vile Body go , and rot in bed of Clay , Until the great and general Judgement day : Then shalt thou rise and be with me condemn'd , To Hells hight lake , for ever without end . So fare thou well , I must no longer stay , Hark how the fiends of Hell call me away : The loss of Heavenly joys torments me More than all tortures that in Hell can be . The Devils speak . Ho , are you come , whom we expected long ? Now we will make you sing another song : Howling and yelling still shall be your note , And melted led be poured down your throat . Such horror we do on our servants load , Now thou art worse than is the crawling Toad : Ten thousand thousand torments thou shalt bide , When thou in flaming Sulphur shalt be fride . Thou art a soldier of our camp enrol'd , Never henceforth shalt thou the light behold : The pains prepared for thee no tongue can tell , Welcome , Oh welcome to the pit of Hell . The Writer speaks . At this the groaning Soul did weep most soar , And then the fiends with joy did laugh and roar : These Devils seemed more black than pitch or night , Whose horrid shapes did sorely me affright . Sharp steely forks each in his hand did bear , Tusked their teeth , like crooked mattocks were , Fire and Brimstone then they breathed out , And from their nostrils Snakes crawl'd round about . Foul filthy horns on their black brows they wore , Their nails were like the tusks of a Boar : Those fiends in chains fast bound this wretched Soul , And drag'd him in , who grievously did howl . Then straight me thought appeared to my sighed A beauteous young man , clothed all in white , His face did shine , most glorious to behold , Wings like the Raynebow , and his hair like Gold . With a sweet voice , All hail , all hail ( quoth he ) Arise and write what thou didst hear and see : Most heavenly music seemed then to play , And in a cloud he vanished quite away . Awaking straight , I took my pen in hand , To write these lines the young man did command , And so into the world abroad it sent , That each good Christian may in time repent . Then let us fear the Lord both night and day , Preserve our Souls and Bodies we thee pray , Grant that we may so run this mortal raze , That we in Heaven may have a resting place . Preserve the King , the Queen and Progeny , The Clergy , Council , and Nobility , Preserve our souls , Oh Lord , we do thee pray , Amen , with me let all good Christians say . FINIS . Printed at London for J. Wright , dwelling in Giltspur street . 