A new Sonnet , showing how the Goddess Diana Transformed Acteon into the shape of a Hart. to a New Tune . DIANA and her Darlings dear , went walking on a Day , Throughout the Wood and Waters clear , for their disports and play . The leaves aloft were very green and pleasant to behold , These Nymphs they walked the trees between , under the shadows cold . So long , at last they found a place of Springs and Waters clear , A fairer Bath there never was found out this thousand Year ; Wherein Diana dantily , her self began to bathe . And all her Virgins fair and pure , themselves did wash and lave . And as the Nymphs in water stood , ACTEON passed by , As he came runing through the Wood , on them he cast his Eye , And eke beheld their bodies bore , then presently that tide , And as the Nymphs of him were aware , with voice aloud they cry'd ; And clos'd Diana round about , to hide her body small ; But she was highest of the Rout , and seen above them all . And when Diana did perceive where Acteon did stand ; A furious look to him she gave , and took her Bow in hand , And as she went about to shoot , Acteon began to run , To hide he thought it was no boot , his former fight were done . And as he thought from her to 'scape , she brought it so to pass , Incotinently chang'd his shape , even runing as he was ; Each Goddess took Diana's part , Acteon to transform , To make of him a huge wild Heart , there they did all determ ; His Skin that was so fine and fair , was made a tawny Read , His body overgrown with Hair , from feet unto the head ; and on his head great Horns were set , most wondrous to behold , a huger Heart was never met , nor seen upon the Mould ; His Ears and Eyes that were so fair , transformed were full strange , His Hands and Feet compelled were throughout the Woods to range . Thus was he made a perfect Heart , and waxed fierce and grim ; His former shape did quite depart from every joint and limb ; but still his Memory did remain , although he could not speak , Nor yet among his Friends complain , his woeful mind to break ; at length he thought for to repair home to his dwelling place , anon of him his Hounds were aware , and 'gan to cry apace : Then Acteon was soar aghast , his Hounds would him devour , and from them then he fled full fast , with all his might and power . HE spared neither bush nor brake but ran through thick and thin , With all the swiftness he could make , in hope to save his Skin : Yet were his Hounds so near his tail , and followed him so fast , That running might not him avail , for all his speed and haste : For why his Hounds would never lin till they him overtook , and then they rend and tore his Skin , and all his body shook : I am your Master Acteon , then cry'd he to his Hounds , and made unto them rueful moans , with sad lamenting sounds ; I have been he which gave you food , wherein I took delight . Therefore suck not your master's blood , his friendship to requite . but those Curs of a cursed kind , on him had no remorse , although he was their dearest friend , they pull'd him down by force . There was no man to take his part , the story telleth plain ; Thus Acteon a huge wild Heart , among the Does were slave : You Hunter's all that Range the woods , although you rise up rath , beware you come not nigh the Flood where Virgins use to bathe : For if Diana you espy among her Darlings dear , Your former shape she will disguise , and make you Horns to wear : and so I do conclude my Song , have nothing to allege ; If Acteon had right or wrong , let all true Virgins judge . A Lullaby , COme little Babe , come silly Soul , thy father's shame & mother's grief Born as I doubt to all our doles , unto thy self unhappy chief : Sing Lullaby , and keep it warm , Poor Soul , it thinks no Creature harm ; thou little think'st , & least dost know , the cause of this thy Mother's moan , thou wantest wit to wail or woe , and I my self am left alone : why dost thou weep , why dost thou wail And knowest not what thou dost ail . Come silly wretch , ah silly heart , my only joy what can I more ? if there be any wrong , thy smart , that may thy destiny deplore , 'tis I , I say , against my will , I wait the time , but be thou still . And dost thou smile , Oh thou sweet face , I would thy Dad the same might see , No doubt but it would purchase grace , I know it would be for thee & me . But come to Mother , Babe , and play , Poor Father false is fled away . Sweet babe , i'ft be thy fortune chance , thy father home again to send , if Death does strike me with his lance , yet may'st thou me to him commend : if any ask thy Mother's name , tell how by love she purcha'st blame : then will his gentle heart soon yield , I know him of a noble mind , Although a Lion in the Field , a Lamb in town thou shalt him find ; ask blessing Lad , be not afraid , His Sugared lips hath me betray'd . then may'st thou joy and be right glad although in woe I seem to mourn , thy Father is no Rascal Lad , and able Youth of blood and bone , His glancing look , if he once smile , Right honest Women will beguile . Come little boy , and rock asleep , sing Lullaby and do not cry , I can do nought else but weep , and fit by thee the Lullaby ; God bless the babe and Lullaby , From this thy Father's Cruelty . Printed by and for A.M. and Sold by the Booksellers of London . A new Sonnet , showing how the Goddess Diana Transformed Acteon into the shape of a Hart. to a New Tune . DIANA and her Darlings dear , went walking on a Day , Throughout the Wood and Waters clear , for their disports and play . The leaves aloft were very green and pleasant to behold , These Nymphs they walked the trees between , under the shadows cold . So long , at last they found a place of Springs and Waters clear , A fairer Bath there never was found out this thousand Year ; Wherein Diana dantily , her self began to bathe . And all her Virgins fair and pure , themselves did wash and lave . And as the Nymphs in water stood , ACTEON passed by , As he came runing through the Wood , on them he cast his Eye , And eke beheld their bodies bore , then presently that tide , And as the Nymphs of him were aware , with voice aloud they cry'd ; And clos'd Diana round about , to hide her body small ; But she was highest of the Rout , and seen above them all . And when Diana did perceive where Acteon did stand ; A furious look to him she gave , and took her Bow in hand , And as she went about to shoot , Acteon began to run , To hide he thought it was no boot , his former fight were done . And as he thought from her to 'scape , she brought it so to pass , Incotinently chang'd his shape , even runing as he was ; Each Goddess took Diana's part , Acteon to transform , To make of him a huge wild Heart , there they did all determ ; His Skin that was so fine and fair , was made a tawny Read , His body overgrown with Hair , from feet unto the head ; and on his head great Horns were set , most wondrous to behold , a huger Heart was never met , nor seen upon the Mould ; His Ears and Eyes that were so fair , transformed were full strange , His Hands and Feet compelled were throughout the Woods to range . Thus was he made a perfect Heart , and waxed fierce and grim ; His former shape did quite depart from every joint and limb ; but still his Memory did remain , although he could not speak , Nor yet among his Friends complain , his woeful mind to break ; at length he thought for to repair home to his dwelling place , anon of him his Hounds were aware , and 'gan to cry apace : Then Acteon was soar aghast , his Hounds would him devour , and from them then he fled full fast , with all his might and power . HE spared neither bush nor brake but ran through thick and thin , With all the swiftness he could make , in hope to save his Skin : Yet were his Hounds so near his tail , and followed him so fast , That running might not him avail , for all his speed and haste : For why his Hounds would never lin till they him overtook , and then they rend and tore his Skin , and all his body shook : I am your Master Acteon , then cry'd he to his Hounds , and made unto them rueful moans , with sad lamenting sounds ; I have been he which gave you food , wherein I took delight . Therefore suck not your master's blood , his friendship to requite . but those Curs of a cursed kind , on him had no remorse , although he was their dearest friend , they pull'd him down by force . There was no man to take his part , the story telleth plain ; Thus Acteon a huge wild Heart , among the Does were slave : You Hunter's all that Range the woods , although you rise up rath , beware you come not nigh the Flood where Virgins use to bathe : For if Diana you espy among her Darlings dear , Your former shape she will disguise , and make you Horns to wear : and so I do conclude my Song , have nothing to allege ; If Acteon had right or wrong , let all true Virgins judge . A Lullaby , COme little Babe , come silly Soul , thy father's shame & mother's grief Born as I doubt to all our doles , unto thy self unhappy chief : Sing Lullaby , and keep it warm , Poor Soul , it thinks no Creature harm ; thou little think'st , & least dost know , the cause of this thy Mother's moan , thou wantest wit to wail or woe , and I my self am left alone : why dost thou weep , why dost thou wail And knowest not what thou dost ail . Come silly wretch , ah silly heart , my only joy what can I more ? if there be any wrong , thy smart , that may thy destiny deplore , 'tis I , I say , against my will , I wait the time , but be thou still . And dost thou smile , Oh thou sweet face , I would thy Dad the same might see , No doubt but it would purchase grace , I know it would be for thee & me . But come to Mother , Babe , and play , Poor Father false is fled away . Sweet babe , i'ft be thy fortune chance , thy father home again to send , if Death does strike me with his lance , yet may'st thou me to him commend : if any ask thy Mother's name , tell how by love she purcha'st blame : then will his gentle heart soon yield , I know him of a noble mind , Although a Lion in the Field , a Lamb in town thou shalt him find ; ask blessing Lad , be not afraid , His Sugared lips hath me betray'd . then may'st thou joy and be right glad although in woe I seem to mourn , thy Father is no Rascal Lad , and able Youth of blood and bone , His glancing look , if he once smile , Right honest Women will beguile . Come little boy , and rock asleep , sing Lullaby and do not cry , I can do nought else but weep , and fit by thee the Lullaby ; God bless the babe and Lullaby , From this thy Father's Cruelty . Printed by and for A.M. and Sold by the Booksellers of London . 