A pleasant new Ballad of Daphne To a new Tune . WHen Daphne from fair [ P ] hoebus did fly the West wind most sweetly Did blow in her face : Her silken Scarf scarce shadowed her eyes , The God cried , Oh pity , and held her in chase , Stay Nymph , Stay Nymph , cries Apollo ; Tarry and turn thee , sweet Nymph stay , Lion nor Tiger does thee follow : Turn thy fair eyes and look this away . O turn Oh pretty sweet , And let our read lips me Pity Oh Daphne , pity Oh pity me . pity Oh Daphne pity me . She gave no ear unto his cry , But still did neglect him the more he did moan , He still did entreat , she still did deny , , And earnestly prays him to leave her alone . Never never cries Apollo , Unless to love thou do consen But st [ i ] ll with my voice so hollow , I'll cry to thee while life be spent . But if thou turn to me , I will praise thy felicity Pity Oh Daphne , pity Oh me , pity Oh Daphne , pity me . Away like Venus Dove she flies , The read blood her buskin's did run all adown , He Plaintiff love she now denies Crying , help help Diana and save my renown : Wanton wanton lust is near me . Cold and chaste Diana aid , Let the earth a Virgin bear me : Or devour me quick a maid : Diana herd her pray , And turned her to a Bay. Pity Oh Daphne , pity , Oh pity me , pity Oh Daphne , pity me . Amazed stood Apollo then , When he beheld Daphne turn'd as she desired , Accursed I am above Gods and men , With grief and laments my senses are tired . Farewell false Daphne most unkind . My love is buried in this grave , Long have I sought love , yet love could not find , Therefore this is my Epitaph This tree does Daphne cover , That never pitied lover , Farewell false Daphne that would not pity me though not my Love , yet art thou my Tree . FINIS . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcocke . A pleasant new Ballad of Daphne To a new Tune . WHen Daphne from fair [ P ] hoebus did fly the West wind most sweetly Did blow in her face : Her silken Scarf scarce shadowed her eyes , The God cried , Oh pity , and held her in chase , Stay Nymph , Stay Nymph , cries Apollo ; Tarry and turn thee , sweet Nymph stay , Lion nor Tiger does thee follow : Turn thy fair eyes and look this away . O turn Oh pretty sweet , And let our read lips me Pity Oh Daphne , pity Oh pity me . pity Oh Daphne pity me . She gave no ear unto his cry , But still did neglect him the more he did moan , He still did entreat , she still did deny , , And earnestly prays him to leave her alone . Never never cries Apollo , Unless to love thou do consen But st [ i ] ll with my voice so hollow , I'll cry to thee while life be spent . But if thou turn to me , I will praise thy felicity Pity Oh Daphne , pity Oh me , pity Oh Daphne , pity me . Away like Venus Dove she flies , The read blood her buskin's did run all adown , He Plaintiff love she now denies Crying , help help Diana and save my renown : Wanton wanton lust is near me . Cold and chaste Diana aid , Let the earth a Virgin bear me : Or devour me quick a maid : Diana herd her pray , And turned her to a Bay. Pity Oh Daphne , pity , Oh pity me , pity Oh Daphne , pity me . Amazed stood Apollo then , When he beheld Daphne turn'd as she desired , Accursed I am above Gods and men , With grief and laments my senses are tired . Farewell false Daphne most unkind . My love is buried in this grave , Long have I sought love , yet love could not find , Therefore this is my Epitaph This tree does Daphne cover , That never pitied lover , Farewell false Daphne that would not pity me though not my Love , yet art thou my Tree . FINIS . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcocke . 