A New Ballad , Entitled , The stout Cripple of Cornwall , Wherein is showed his dessolute life and deserved Death . The Tune is , the Blind Beggar . OF a stout Cripple that kept the highway , And beg'd for his living all time of the day , A story I'll tell you that pleasant shall be , The Cripple of Cornwal surnamed was he . He crept on his hands and knees up and down , In a torn Jacket and a ragged torn gown , For he had never a Leg to the knee , the Cripple of Cornwal surnamed was he . He was of stomach courageous and stout , For he had no cause to complain of the Gout , To go upon stilts most cunning was he , With a staff on his neck most gallant to see . Yea , no good fellowship would he forsake , Were it in secret a Horse for to take , [ His ] help was as good as any might be , [ The ] Cripple of Cornwal surnamed was he . When he upon any service did go , The crafty young Cripple provided it so , His stool he kept close in and old hollow-tree , That stood from the City a mile two or three . Thus all the day long he beg'd for relief , And all the night long he play'd the false thief ; For seven years together this custom kept he , And no man knew him such a person to be . There were few Graziers went on the way , But unto the Cripple for passage did pay ; And every brave Merchant that he did descry , He emptied their purses e're they passed by . The noble Lord Courtney both gallant and bold , Road forth with great plenty of silver and gold , At Exeter there a Purchase to pay , But that the false Cripple his journey did stay . For why the false Cripple hard tidings of late , As he sat for alms at the Noble men gate , This is , quod the Cripple , a booty for me , And i'll follow it closely , as closely may be . Then to his companions the matter he moved , Which their false actions before had proved , They make themselves ready , & deeply they swear The moneys their own before they come there . Upon his two stilts the Cripple did mount , To have the best share it was his full account , All clothed in Canvas down to the ground He took up his place his mates with him round . Then came the Lord Courtney with half a score men , Yet little suspecting these thieves in their Den , And they perceiving them come to their hand , In a dark evening bid them to stand . Deliver thy purse quod the Cripple , with speed , we be good fellows , and thereof have need . No so , quod Lord Courtney , but this I'll tell you , Win it and wear it , else get none of me . With that the Lord Courtney stood in his defence , And so did his Servants , but e're they went hence , Two of the true men were slave in this fight , And four of the thieves were put to the flight . And while for their safeguard they run thus away The jolly bold Cripple did hold them in play , And with his Pikestaff he wounded them so , As they were unable to run or to go . With fighting the Lord Courtney was out of breath And most of his servants were wounded to death , Then came other Horsemen riding so fast , The Cripple was forced to fly at the last . And over a River that run there beside , Which was very deep , and eighteen foot wide ; With his long staff and stilts leapt he , And shifted himself in and old hollow-tree . Then throughout the City was hue and cry made , To have these thieves apprehended and stayed , The Cripple he creeps on his hands and his knees , And in the highway great passing he sees . And as they came Riding , he begging does say , Oh give me one penny good Master's I pray , And thus unto Exeter creeps he along , No man suspecting that he had done wrong : Anon the Lord Courtney he spies in the street , He comes unto him , and kisses his feet , God save your honour , and keep you from ill , And from the hands of your Enemies still . Amen , quod Lord Courtney , and therewith threw down , Unto the poor Cripple and English Crown , Away went the Cripple , and thus he did think , Five hundred pound more will make me to drink . In vain that hue and cry it was made , They found none of them though the Country was laid , But this grieved the Cripple night and day , That he so unluckily missed of his prey . Nine hundred pound this Cripple had god , By begging and thieving , so good was his lot , A thousand pound he would make it , he said , And then he would give over his trade . But as he striv'd his mind to fulfil , In following his actions so lewd a [ n ] worser so ill , At last he was taken the Law to suffice , Condemned and hanged at Exeter size . Which made all men amazed to see , That such and impudent Cripple as he , Should venture himself to such actions as they , To rob in such sort upon the Highway . Printed by and for A.M. and sold by the Book - sellers of London . A New Ballad , Entitled , The stout Cripple of Cornwall , Wherein is showed his dessolute life and deserved Death . The Tune is , the Blind Beggar . OF a stout Cripple that kept the highway , And beg'd for his living all time of the day , A story I'll tell you that pleasant shall be , The Cripple of Cornwal surnamed was he . He crept on his hands and knees up and down , In a torn Jacket and a ragged torn gown , For he had never a Leg to the knee , the Cripple of Cornwal surnamed was he . He was of stomach courageous and stout , For he had no cause to complain of the Gout , To go upon stilts most cunning was he , With a staff on his neck most gallant to see . Yea , no good fellowship would he forsake , Were it in secret a Horse for to take , [ His ] help was as good as any might be , [ The ] Cripple of Cornwal surnamed was he . When he upon any service did go , The crafty young Cripple provided it so , His stool he kept close in and old hollow-tree , That stood from the City a mile two or three . Thus all the day long he beg'd for relief , And all the night long he play'd the false thief ; For seven years together this custom kept he , And no man knew him such a person to be . There were few Graziers went on the way , But unto the Cripple for passage did pay ; And every brave Merchant that he did descry , He emptied their purses e're they passed by . The noble Lord Courtney both gallant and bold , Road forth with great plenty of silver and gold , At Exeter there a Purchase to pay , But that the false Cripple his journey did stay . For why the false Cripple hard tidings of late , As he sat for alms at the Noble men gate , This is , quod the Cripple , a booty for me , And i'll follow it closely , as closely may be . Then to his companions the matter he moved , Which their false actions before had proved , They make themselves ready , & deeply they swear The moneys their own before they come there . Upon his two stilts the Cripple did mount , To have the best share it was his full account , All clothed in Canvas down to the ground He took up his place his mates with him round . Then came the Lord Courtney with half a score men , Yet little suspecting these thieves in their Den , And they perceiving them come to their hand , In a dark evening bid them to stand . Deliver thy purse quod the Cripple , with speed , we be good fellows , and thereof have need . No so , quod Lord Courtney , but this I'll tell you , Win it and wear it , else get none of me . With that the Lord Courtney stood in his defence , And so did his Servants , but e're they went hence , Two of the true men were slave in this fight , And four of the thieves were put to the flight . And while for their safeguard they run thus away The jolly bold Cripple did hold them in play , And with his Pikestaff he wounded them so , As they were unable to run or to go . With fighting the Lord Courtney was out of breath And most of his servants were wounded to death , Then came other Horsemen riding so fast , The Cripple was forced to fly at the last . And over a River that run there beside , Which was very deep , and eighteen foot wide ; With his long staff and stilts leapt he , And shifted himself in and old hollow-tree . Then throughout the City was hue and cry made , To have these thieves apprehended and stayed , The Cripple he creeps on his hands and his knees , And in the highway great passing he sees . And as they came Riding , he begging does say , Oh give me one penny good Master's I pray , And thus unto Exeter creeps he along , No man suspecting that he had done wrong : Anon the Lord Courtney he spies in the street , He comes unto him , and kisses his feet , God save your honour , and keep you from ill , And from the hands of your Enemies still . Amen , quod Lord Courtney , and therewith threw down , Unto the poor Cripple and English Crown , Away went the Cripple , and thus he did think , Five hundred pound more will make me to drink . In vain that hue and cry it was made , They found none of them though the Country was laid , But this grieved the Cripple night and day , That he so unluckily missed of his prey . Nine hundred pound this Cripple had god , By begging and thieving , so good was his lot , A thousand pound he would make it , he said , And then he would give over his trade . But as he striv'd his mind to fulfil , In following his actions so lewd a [ n ] worser so ill , At last he was taken the Law to suffice , Condemned and hanged at Exeter size . Which made all men amazed to see , That such and impudent Cripple as he , Should venture himself to such actions as they , To rob in such sort upon the Highway . Printed by and for A.M. and sold by the Book - sellers of London . 