Solomons Sacrifice . With his prayer in Gibeon , and how God ap - peared to him in a vision and granted his request . To a pleasant new tune . OF all the Kings in Israel , that reigned long ago , I do remember very well , that Chronicles do show , That when it fell to Solomon , He proved such a Paragon , As never was there any one , as after you shall know . For when he came to be a King , He feared God in every thing , In Sacrifice and Worshipping great cost he did bestow . There was a place in Israel call'd Gibeon at that day , And thither went King Solomon to Sacrifice and pray . But God did in a vision Appear unto King Solomon , While he was yet in Gibeon and thus to him did say : Because of thy humility , Ask what thou wilt Oh King of me , And speak that I may give it thee before thou goest away . Then Solomon thus answered , to thee be always praise , For that as thou hast promised in our forefathers days , For that as thou hast promised Not to leave their seat unfurnished But to leave it garnished by me that seeks thy ways . Thy holy wisdom grant to me , thy holy Laws to understand , And understanding heart to see the judgements of the Land : That I may well govern the same As justice rightly ought to frame , To the glory of thy holy name , with mercy in my hand . Then God which took it in good part that Solomon had said , Because it was so in his heart , to ask as he had pray'd : He said , I will give unto thee , As never none the like shall be , Neither before nor after thee , therefore be not afraid . And I will give thee wisdom great and treasure passing store , Now sitting on thy Father's seat , as no King had before . With that arose King Solomon , And went away from Gibeon , To guide the charge he took upon , as no King had before , Then after that in Israel , He reigned long their king full well As all the holy book can tell , with great increase and store . FINIS . Printed at London for Henry Gosson . Solomons Sacrifice . With his prayer in Gibeon , and how God ap - peared to him in a vision and granted his request . To a pleasant new tune . OF all the Kings in Israel , that reigned long ago , I do remember very well , that Chronicles do show , That when it fell to Solomon , He proved such a Paragon , As never was there any one , as after you shall know . For when he came to be a King , He feared God in every thing , In Sacrifice and Worshipping great cost he did bestow . There was a place in Israel call'd Gibeon at that day , And thither went King Solomon to Sacrifice and pray . But God did in a vision Appear unto King Solomon , While he was yet in Gibeon and thus to him did say : Because of thy humility , Ask what thou wilt Oh King of me , And speak that I may give it thee before thou goest away . Then Solomon thus answered , to thee be always praise , For that as thou hast promised in our forefathers days , For that as thou hast promised Not to leave their seat unfurnished But to leave it garnished by me that seeks thy ways . Thy holy wisdom grant to me , thy holy Laws to understand , And understanding heart to see the judgements of the Land : That I may well govern the same As justice rightly ought to frame , To the glory of thy holy name , with mercy in my hand . Then God which took it in good part that Solomon had said , Because it was so in his heart , to ask as he had pray'd : He said , I will give unto thee , As never none the like shall be , Neither before nor after thee , therefore be not afraid . And I will give thee wisdom great and treasure passing store , Now sitting on thy Father's seat , as no King had before . With that arose King Solomon , And went away from Gibeon , To guide the charge he took upon , as no King had before , Then after that in Israel , He reigned long their king full well As all the holy book can tell , with great increase and store . FINIS . Printed at London for Henry Gosson . 