The three merry Cobblers , Who tell how the case with them does stand , How they are still on the mending hand . To the tune of The Spanish Gipsie . COme follow follow me , to th' Alehouse weel march all three , Leave Aule [ , ] Last [ , ] Thread , and Leather , And let's go alto [ g ] either , Our trade excels most trades ith' land , For we are st [ il ] l on the mending hand . Come Tapster fill us some ale , Then harken to our tale , And try what can be made Of our renowned trade ; We have Aule at our command , And still we are on the mending hand . Though Shoemakers us disdain , Yet this approved plain , Our trade cannot be missed , Let them say what they list , Though all grow worse quite through the land , Yet we are still on the mending hand . When Shoemakers are decayed Then do they fallen to our trade , And glad their minds they give By mending Shoes to live , When in necessity they stand , They strive to be on the mending hand . Although there's but few of us rich , Yet bravely we go thorough stich . Were't not for this barley broth ( Which is meat , drink [ , ] and cloth ) We sure should purchase house and land , At worst we are still on the mending hand . We deal most uprightly , Our neighbours that go awry We easily set upright , The broken we unite , When all men out of order stand ; Then we are most on the mending hand : We cannot dissemble for treasure , But give every one just measure , If Bakers kept size like us , They need not be frighted thus , We fear not to have our doings scann'd , For we are still on the mending hand . What ever we do intend We bring to a perfect end . If any offence be passed , We make all well at last , We fit at work when others stand , And still we are on the mending hand . We bristle as well as the best , All knavery we do detest , What we have promised Weel do unto a thread , We use wax , but to seal no Band , And still we are on the mending hand . Our wives do fit at the wheel , They spin , and we do reel , Although we take no Fa [ r ] mes , Yet we can show our arms , And spread them at our own command . Thus still we are on the mending hand . The second Part. To the same Tune . Poor weatherbeaten Soles , Whose case the body condoles , We for a little gain Can set on foot again , We make the falling steadfast stand , And still we are on the mending hand . You'd think we were passed sense , For we give pieces for pence , Judge , is't not very strange We should make such exchange , Yet so weel do at your command , And yet weel be on the mending hand . Our hands do show that we Live not by taking a Fee , We pull a living forth Of things but little worth , Our work does th' owners understand , Thus still we are on the mending hand . All day we merrily sing , And Customers do bring , Or unto us do send , Their Boots and Shoes to mend , We have our money at first demand , Thus still we are on the mending hand . When all our money is spent , We are not discontent , For we can work for more , And then pay off our score , We drink without either bill or band , Because we are still on the mending hand . While other Callings great , For fraud and foul deceit , Are looked unto by Law , We need not weigh't a straw , Our honesty spreads through the land , For we are still on the mending hand . Therefore let's be of good cheer , Though Leather be something deer , The Law some course will take Amends for all to make , And by their care we understand , the world is now on the mending hand , We pray for dirty weather , And money to pay for Leather , Which if we have , and health , A fig for worldly wealth , Till men upon their heads do stand , We shall be still on the mending hand . FINIS . M.P. Printed at London for F. Grove . The three merry Cobblers , Who tell how the case with them does stand , How they are still on the mending hand . To the tune of The Spanish Gipsie . COme follow follow me , to th' Alehouse weel march all three , Leave Aule [ , ] Last [ , ] Thread , and Leather , And let's go alto [ g ] either , Our trade excels most trades ith' land , For we are st [ il ] l on the mending hand . Come Tapster fill us some ale , Then harken to our tale , And try what can be made Of our renowned trade ; We have Aule at our command , And still we are on the mending hand . Though Shoemakers us disdain , Yet this approved plain , Our trade cannot be missed , Let them say what they list , Though all grow worse quite through the land , Yet we are still on the mending hand . When Shoemakers are decayed Then do they fallen to our trade , And glad their minds they give By mending Shoes to live , When in necessity they stand , They strive to be on the mending hand . Although there's but few of us rich , Yet bravely we go thorough stich . Were't not for this barley broth ( Which is meat , drink [ , ] and cloth ) We sure should purchase house and land , At worst we are still on the mending hand . We deal most uprightly , Our neighbours that go awry We easily set upright , The broken we unite , When all men out of order stand ; Then we are most on the mending hand : We cannot dissemble for treasure , But give every one just measure , If Bakers kept size like us , They need not be frighted thus , We fear not to have our doings scann'd , For we are still on the mending hand . What ever we do intend We bring to a perfect end . If any offence be passed , We make all well at last , We fit at work when others stand , And still we are on the mending hand . We bristle as well as the best , All knavery we do detest , What we have promised Weel do unto a thread , We use wax , but to seal no Band , And still we are on the mending hand . Our wives do fit at the wheel , They spin , and we do reel , Although we take no Fa [ r ] mes , Yet we can show our arms , And spread them at our own command . Thus still we are on the mending hand . The second Part. To the same Tune . Poor weatherbeaten Soles , Whose case the body condoles , We for a little gain Can set on foot again , We make the falling steadfast stand , And still we are on the mending hand . You'd think we were passed sense , For we give pieces for pence , Judge , is't not very strange We should make such exchange , Yet so weel do at your command , And yet weel be on the mending hand . Our hands do show that we Live not by taking a Fee , We pull a living forth Of things but little worth , Our work does th' owners understand , Thus still we are on the mending hand . All day we merrily sing , And Customers do bring , Or unto us do send , Their Boots and Shoes to mend , We have our money at first demand , Thus still we are on the mending hand . When all our money is spent , We are not discontent , For we can work for more , And then pay off our score , We drink without either bill or band , Because we are still on the mending hand . While other Callings great , For fraud and foul deceit , Are looked unto by Law , We need not weigh't a straw , Our honesty spreads through the land , For we are still on the mending hand . Therefore let's be of good cheer , Though Leather be something deer , The Law some course will take Amends for all to make , And by their care we understand , the world is now on the mending hand , We pray for dirty weather , And money to pay for Leather , Which if we have , and health , A fig for worldly wealth , Till men upon their heads do stand , We shall be still on the mending hand . FINIS . M.P. Printed at London for F. Grove . 