A Caveat for Cutpurses . With a warning to all purse-carriers : Showing the confi - dence of the first , and the carelessness of the last ; With necessary admonitions for them both , lest the Hangman get the one , and the Beggar take the other . To the tune of , Packingtons pound . MY Master's and friends and good people draw near and look to your purses , for that I do say . And though little money in them you do bear , it cost more to get then to loose in a day : you oft have been told both the young and the Old , and bidden beware of of the Cutpurse so bold : Then if you take heed not , free me from the curse , Who both give you warning , for and the Cutpurse . Youth , youth thou hadst better been starved by thy Nurse Then live to be hang'd for cutting a purse . It hath been upbraided to men of my Trade , that oftentimes we are the cause of this crime , Alack and for pity , why should it be said ? as if they regarded or places or time , Examples have been Or some that were seen of Westminster hall yea the pleaders between : Then why should the Judges be free from this curse , More then my poor self is for cutting the Purse , Youth youth , etc At Worster , 'tis known well and even in the Jale , a Knight of good worship did there show his fa [ ce ] Against the foul sinners in zeal for to rail , and so lost , ipso facto , his purse in the place : Nay once from the Seat Of judgement so great a Judge there did loose a fair purse of Velvet , O Lord for thy mercy how wicked or worse Are those that so venture their necks for a purse ! Youth youth , etc At Plays and at Sermons , and at the Sessions , 'tis daily their practice such booty to make , Yea under the Gallows at Executions , they stick not the stare-abouts purses to take . Nay one without grace At a better place at Court and in Christmas , before the Kings fa [ ce . ] Alack then for pity must I bear the curse , That only belong to the cunning Cutpurse . Youth youth thou hadst better been starved by that [ y Nurse ] Then live to be hang'd for cutting a pu [ rse . ] BUt o ! you vile Nation of Cutpurses all , Relent and repent , and amend and be found , And know that you ought not by honest men's fallen advance your own fortune's to die above ground . And though you go gay In Silks as you may , It is not the highway to Heaven as they say , Repent then repent you for better for worse And kiss not the Gallows for cutting a purse , Youth youth thou hadst better been starv'd by thy Nurse Then live to be hang'd for cuttting a purse . The Players do tell you in Bartholmew Fair what secret consumptions and Rascals you are , For one of their Actors it seems had the fate by some of your Trade to be fleeced of late , Then fallen to your prayers You that are way-layers , they're fit to choose all the world , that can cheat Players For he hath the Art , and no man the worse , Whose cunning can pilfer the pilferers purse . Youth youth etc The plain Country man that coms staring to London if once you come near him he quickly is undone , For when he amazedly gaz [ e ] th about one treads on his toes , and [ worser ] the other puls't out , Then in a strange place Where he knows no face , his money is gone this a pitiful case . The Devil of hell in his trade is not worse Then Gilter , and Diver , and Cutter of purse , Youth etc The poor servant maid wears her purse in her placket A place of quick feeling and yet you can take it , Nor is she aware that you have done the feat Until she is going to pay for her meat . Then she cries and rages among her Baggages , and swears at one thrust she hath lost all her wages For she is engaged her own to disburse , To make good the breach of the cruel Cutpurse Youth etc Your eyes and your fingers are nimble of growth . But Don many times he hath been nimbler then both Yet you are deceived by many a slut , But the Hangman is only the Cutpurses cut , It makes you to vex When he bridles your necks and then at the last what becomes of your tricks But when you should pray , you begin for to curse The hand that first showed you to slash at a purse , Youth , etc But now to my hearers this Counsel I give , And pray friends remember it as long as you live , Bring out no more cash in purse pocket or wallet , Then one single penny to pay for the Ballet , For Cutpurse does shroud Himself in a Cloud , there's many a purse hath been lost in a crowd For he's the most rogue that does crowd up & curses Who first cries my Master's beware of your purses . O youth thou hadst better been starv'd by thy Nurse Then live to be hanged for cutting a purse . Printed for W. Gilbertson . A Caveat for Cutpurses . With a warning to all purse-carriers : Showing the confi - dence of the first , and the carelessness of the last ; With necessary admonitions for them both , lest the Hangman get the one , and the Beggar take the other . To the tune of , Packingtons pound . MY Master's and friends and good people draw near and look to your purses , for that I do say . And though little money in them you do bear , it cost more to get then to loose in a day : you oft have been told both the young and the Old , and bidden beware of of the Cutpurse so bold : Then if you take heed not , free me from the curse , Who both give you warning , for and the Cutpurse . Youth , youth thou hadst better been starved by thy Nurse Then live to be hang'd for cutting a purse . It hath been upbraided to men of my Trade , that oftentimes we are the cause of this crime , Alack and for pity , why should it be said ? as if they regarded or places or time , Examples have been Or some that were seen of Westminster hall yea the pleaders between : Then why should the Judges be free from this curse , More then my poor self is for cutting the Purse , Youth youth , etc At Worster , 'tis known well and even in the Jale , a Knight of good worship did there show his fa [ ce ] Against the foul sinners in zeal for to rail , and so lost , ipso facto , his purse in the place : Nay once from the Seat Of judgement so great a Judge there did loose a fair purse of Velvet , O Lord for thy mercy how wicked or worse Are those that so venture their necks for a purse ! Youth youth , etc At Plays and at Sermons , and at the Sessions , 'tis daily their practice such booty to make , Yea under the Gallows at Executions , they stick not the stare-abouts purses to take . Nay one without grace At a better place at Court and in Christmas , before the Kings fa [ ce . ] Alack then for pity must I bear the curse , That only belong to the cunning Cutpurse . Youth youth thou hadst better been starved by that [ y Nurse ] Then live to be hang'd for cutting a pu [ rse . ] BUt o ! you vile Nation of Cutpurses all , Relent and repent , and amend and be found , And know that you ought not by honest men's fallen advance your own fortune's to die above ground . And though you go gay In Silks as you may , It is not the highway to Heaven as they say , Repent then repent you for better for worse And kiss not the Gallows for cutting a purse , Youth youth thou hadst better been starv'd by thy Nurse Then live to be hang'd for cuttting a purse . The Players do tell you in Bartholmew Fair what secret consumptions and Rascals you are , For one of their Actors it seems had the fate by some of your Trade to be fleeced of late , Then fallen to your prayers You that are way-layers , they're fit to choose all the world , that can cheat Players For he hath the Art , and no man the worse , Whose cunning can pilfer the pilferers purse . Youth youth etc The plain Country man that coms staring to London if once you come near him he quickly is undone , For when he amazedly gaz [ e ] th about one treads on his toes , and [ worser ] the other puls't out , Then in a strange place Where he knows no face , his money is gone this a pitiful case . The Devil of hell in his trade is not worse Then Gilter , and Diver , and Cutter of purse , Youth etc The poor servant maid wears her purse in her placket A place of quick feeling and yet you can take it , Nor is she aware that you have done the feat Until she is going to pay for her meat . Then she cries and rages among her Baggages , and swears at one thrust she hath lost all her wages For she is engaged her own to disburse , To make good the breach of the cruel Cutpurse Youth etc Your eyes and your fingers are nimble of growth . But Don many times he hath been nimbler then both Yet you are deceived by many a slut , But the Hangman is only the Cutpurses cut , It makes you to vex When he bridles your necks and then at the last what becomes of your tricks But when you should pray , you begin for to curse The hand that first showed you to slash at a purse , Youth , etc But now to my hearers this Counsel I give , And pray friends remember it as long as you live , Bring out no more cash in purse pocket or wallet , Then one single penny to pay for the Ballet , For Cutpurse does shroud Himself in a Cloud , there's many a purse hath been lost in a crowd For he's the most rogue that does crowd up & curses Who first cries my Master's beware of your purses . O youth thou hadst better been starv'd by thy Nurse Then live to be hanged for cutting a purse . Printed for W. Gilbertson . 