The Times abuses : OR , Muld-Sacke his grievances briefly expressed , S [ h ] ewing the causes does his mind molest , But y [ e ] tO he merry makes , and dedicates This So [ n ] g in love to all which baseness hates . To the [ tO ] une of , Over and under . ATtend my Master's and give ear , while here I do relate The base injurious slanders are thrown on me in hate , My wrongs and great abuses so commonly are known , As in in a Song to right my wrong , shall instantly be shown . They call me fuddling Muld-Sacke , when drink I have god none , Cannot they look to their business , and let Muld-Sacke alone . If I sometime a pot or so do drink for recreation , My reckoning paid , away I go , and follow my vocation , Not any good man grieving offensive for to be By rooking or deceiving , from that my thoughts are free . They call me fuddling Muld-Sacke , when drink I have god none , Cannot they think on the black Jacke , and let Muld-Sacke alone . As I along the streets do sing , the people flock about me , No harm to any one I mean , yet jeeringly they flout me , The Bar-boyes and the Tapsters , leave drawing of their Beer , And running forth , in haste they cry , see where Muld-Sacke comes here . Thus am I jeered by them , though harm I do them none , Cannot they look to their small kans , and let Muld-Sacke alone . The jeering cunning Courtesan , and rooking roaring Boy , Which day and night do take delight in drunkenness to joy , They with their Pimps and Panders , Decoys , and cheating Knaves , Which runs to whores & drinks & roars and simple men deceives . They have no grace to guide well , and conscience they have none , Cannot they take heed of Bridewell , and let Muld-Sacke alone . The Glutton rich that feeds of Biefe and Mutton store , And hates the poor that needs which goes from door to door , And will not spend his money , but for the love of drink , And grieves to give a penny , so well he loves his chink . Too many such alive is , of whom I am sure he's one , Cannot he remember Dives , and let Muld-Sacke alone . The second part . To the same tune . TEarme-trotting Petty-foggers , which are so fine and nice , Will drink if they meet rightly , a cup of Ale and Spice , Yet must they take their Chamber , before they do begin , And if they can but hide it , they think it is no sin . When I in the streets walk open , to the view of every one , Cannot they look to their Clients , and let Muld-Sacke alone . The jeering fleering Coxcomb , with hands behind his back All day , which stands from morn till night to cry what do you lack , With scoffing and with taunting , will by the sleeve me pull ; What is't you'l buy he'l to me cry , yet like a brainless gull , He'l cast on me a scornful look , though harm I do him none , Cannot he look to his Shop-book , and let Muld-Sacke alone . The Tailors saucy prentices , as I do pass along , They at my head will cast their shreds , though I do them no wrong , The saying old hath oft been told , it plain does verify , Poor and proud still Taylor like , for they most jeeringly Do call me fuddling Muld-Sacke , though drink I have god none , Cannot they keep their fingers true , and let Muld-Sacke alone . Also the jeering Tripe-wives , which Puddings fell and Sowce , Cries there goes fuddling Muld-Sacke , does wine and beer carouse , And with disdainful speeches , having no cause at all , Will taunt and scoff and jeer and laugh , and basely me miscall . And calls me fuddling Muld-Sacke , though I am no such one , Cannot she scrape well her greasy tripes and let Muld-Sacke alone . The Clownish country Carter , will likewise with a jeer , Point at me as I go along , his head being fill [ ' ] worser with beer , Yet for his jeers I care not , but laughing lets him pass , To follow his Cart with gee , gee ho , most like a witless Ass , For like a homebred Clownico , good manners he knows none , Cannot he look to his Wagon , and let Muld-Sack alone . The Bakers in the Suburbs , with hearts devoid of pity , Bred light and small they make for all , both Country and the City , And sometime of in two penny loaf , of weight wants ounces three , As merrily I pass them by , they cannot let me be . They call me fuddling Muld-Sacke , when drink I have god none , Cannot they look to their conscience , and let Muld-Sacke alone . Finis . London , Printed for J. Wright , dwelling in Gilt-spur-street . The Times abuses : OR , Muld-Sacke his grievances briefly expressed , S [ h ] ewing the causes does his mind molest , But y [ e ] tO he merry makes , and dedicates This So [ n ] g in love to all which baseness hates . To the [ tO ] une of , Over and under . ATtend my Master's and give ear , while here I do relate The base injurious slanders are thrown on me in hate , My wrongs and great abuses so commonly are known , As in in a Song to right my wrong , shall instantly be shown . They call me fuddling Muld-Sacke , when drink I have god none , Cannot they look to their business , and let Muld-Sacke alone . If I sometime a pot or so do drink for recreation , My reckoning paid , away I go , and follow my vocation , Not any good man grieving offensive for to be By rooking or deceiving , from that my thoughts are free . They call me fuddling Muld-Sacke , when drink I have god none , Cannot they think on the black Jacke , and let Muld-Sacke alone . As I along the streets do sing , the people flock about me , No harm to any one I mean , yet jeeringly they flout me , The Bar-boyes and the Tapsters , leave drawing of their Beer , And running forth , in haste they cry , see where Muld-Sacke comes here . Thus am I jeered by them , though harm I do them none , Cannot they look to their small kans , and let Muld-Sacke alone . The jeering cunning Courtesan , and rooking roaring Boy , Which day and night do take delight in drunkenness to joy , They with their Pimps and Panders , Decoys , and cheating Knaves , Which runs to whores & drinks & roars and simple men deceives . They have no grace to guide well , and conscience they have none , Cannot they take heed of Bridewell , and let Muld-Sacke alone . The Glutton rich that feeds of Biefe and Mutton store , And hates the poor that needs which goes from door to door , And will not spend his money , but for the love of drink , And grieves to give a penny , so well he loves his chink . Too many such alive is , of whom I am sure he's one , Cannot he remember Dives , and let Muld-Sacke alone . The second part . To the same tune . TEarme-trotting Petty-foggers , which are so fine and nice , Will drink if they meet rightly , a cup of Ale and Spice , Yet must they take their Chamber , before they do begin , And if they can but hide it , they think it is no sin . When I in the streets walk open , to the view of every one , Cannot they look to their Clients , and let Muld-Sacke alone . The jeering fleering Coxcomb , with hands behind his back All day , which stands from morn till night to cry what do you lack , With scoffing and with taunting , will by the sleeve me pull ; What is't you'l buy he'l to me cry , yet like a brainless gull , He'l cast on me a scornful look , though harm I do him none , Cannot he look to his Shop-book , and let Muld-Sacke alone . The Tailors saucy prentices , as I do pass along , They at my head will cast their shreds , though I do them no wrong , The saying old hath oft been told , it plain does verify , Poor and proud still Taylor like , for they most jeeringly Do call me fuddling Muld-Sacke , though drink I have god none , Cannot they keep their fingers true , and let Muld-Sacke alone . Also the jeering Tripe-wives , which Puddings fell and Sowce , Cries there goes fuddling Muld-Sacke , does wine and beer carouse , And with disdainful speeches , having no cause at all , Will taunt and scoff and jeer and laugh , and basely me miscall . And calls me fuddling Muld-Sacke , though I am no such one , Cannot she scrape well her greasy tripes and let Muld-Sacke alone . The Clownish country Carter , will likewise with a jeer , Point at me as I go along , his head being fill [ ' ] worser with beer , Yet for his jeers I care not , but laughing lets him pass , To follow his Cart with gee , gee ho , most like a witless Ass , For like a homebred Clownico , good manners he knows none , Cannot he look to his Wagon , and let Muld-Sack alone . The Bakers in the Suburbs , with hearts devoid of pity , Bred light and small they make for all , both Country and the City , And sometime of in two penny loaf , of weight wants ounces three , As merrily I pass them by , they cannot let me be . They call me fuddling Muld-Sacke , when drink I have god none , Cannot they look to their conscience , and let Muld-Sacke alone . Finis . London , Printed for J. Wright , dwelling in Gilt-spur-street . 