The Careless Gallan Or , A farewell to Sorrow . Whither these Lines do please , or give offence , Or shall be damn'd as neither wit nor sense , The Poet is , for that , in no suspense , For it is all one a hundred years hence . To and Excellent , and delightful Tune . LEt us sing and be merry , dance , joke , and rejoice , With Claret and Sherry , Theorbo and voice , The changeable world to our joy is unjust , All treasures uncertain , Then down with your dus In frolicks dispose your pounds , shillings , and pence , For we shall be nothing a hundred years hence . We'l sport and be free , with Frank , Betty , and Dolly , Have Lobsters and Oysters to cure melancholy , Fish-dinners will make a man spring like a Flay , Dame Venus , loves Lady , Was born of the Sea : With her and with Bacchus we'l tickle the sense , For we shall be past it a hundred years hence . Your beautiful bit , who hath all eyes upon her , That her honesty sells for a hogo of honour , whose lightness and brightness does cast such a splender , That none are thought fit , But the Stars to attend her ; Though now she seems pleasant , & sweet to the sense Will be damnable mouldy a hundred years hence . Your greatest Grand-Seignior who rants it in riot , Not suffering his poor Christian neighbours live quiet , Whose numberless army that to him belongs , Consists of more Nations , Than Babel hath tongues : Though numerous as dust , yet in spite of defence , Shall all lie in ashes a hundred years hence . Your Usurer that in the hundred takes twenty , Who wants in his wealth , and pines in his plenty , Lays up for a season which he shall ne'r see , The year of one thousand , Eight hundred and three ; Shall have chang'd all his Bags , his houses and Rends , For a wormeaten Coffin a hundred years [ hence . ] The Second Part , to the same Tune . YOur Chancery-Lawyer , who by conscience thrives , In spinning a suit to the length of three lives , A suit which the Client does wear out in slavery , while pleader makes conscience a cloak for his Knavery : Can boast of his cunning but i'th present-Tence , For Non est inventus a hundred years hence . Then why should we turmoil in cares and fears ? And turn our tranquillity to sighs and tears , Let's eat , drink , and play , e're the worms do corrupt us , For I say , that Post mortem nulla voluptas : Let's deal with our Damsels , that we may from thence Have brood's to succeed us a hundred years hence . I never could gain satisfaction upon , Your dreams of a bliss when we'r cold as as a stone , The Sages , call us Drunkards , Gluttons , & wenchers , But we find such Morsels , upon their own Trenchers : For Abigal , Hannah , and sister Prudence , Will simper to nothing a hundred years hence . The Plush-coated Quack that his fees to enlarge , Kills people with Licence , and at their own charge [ e , ] Who builds a vast structure of ill got wealth , from the degrees of a Pisspot , and ruins of health : Though treasures of life he pretends to despenc [ e , ] Shall be turn'd into mummy a hundred years henc [ e . ] The Butterfly Courtier that Peagant of state , The Mousetrap of honour , and May-game of fat [ e , ] With all his ambitions , intrigues , and his tricks must die like a Clown , and then drop into Stix ; His plots against death , are too slender a fence , For he'l be out of fashion a hundred years hence . Yea , the Poet himself that so loftily sings , As he scorns any subject's , but Hero's or Kings , Must to the Capricio's of fortune submit , and often be counted a fool for his wit , Thus beauty , wit , wealth , law learning , and senc [ e , ] All come to nothing a hundred years hence . Printed for F. Coals [ , ] T. Vere [ , ] J. Wright [ , ] and J. Clarke [ . ] The Careless Gallan Or , A farewell to Sorrow . Whither these Lines do please , or give offence , Or shall be damn'd as neither wit nor sense , The Poet is , for that , in no suspense , For it is all one a hundred years hence . To and Excellent , and delightful Tune . LEt us sing and be merry , dance , joke , and rejoice , With Claret and Sherry , Theorbo and voice , The changeable world to our joy is unjust , All treasures uncertain , Then down with your dus In frolicks dispose your pounds , shillings , and pence , For we shall be nothing a hundred years hence . We'l sport and be free , with Frank , Betty , and Dolly , Have Lobsters and Oysters to cure melancholy , Fish-dinners will make a man spring like a Flay , Dame Venus , loves Lady , Was born of the Sea : With her and with Bacchus we'l tickle the sense , For we shall be past it a hundred years hence . Your beautiful bit , who hath all eyes upon her , That her honesty sells for a hogo of honour , whose lightness and brightness does cast such a splender , That none are thought fit , But the Stars to attend her ; Though now she seems pleasant , & sweet to the sense Will be damnable mouldy a hundred years hence . Your greatest Grand-Seignior who rants it in riot , Not suffering his poor Christian neighbours live quiet , Whose numberless army that to him belongs , Consists of more Nations , Than Babel hath tongues : Though numerous as dust , yet in spite of defence , Shall all lie in ashes a hundred years hence . Your Usurer that in the hundred takes twenty , Who wants in his wealth , and pines in his plenty , Lays up for a season which he shall ne'r see , The year of one thousand , Eight hundred and three ; Shall have chang'd all his Bags , his houses and Rends , For a wormeaten Coffin a hundred years [ hence . ] The Second Part , to the same Tune . YOur Chancery-Lawyer , who by conscience thrives , In spinning a suit to the length of three lives , A suit which the Client does wear out in slavery , while pleader makes conscience a cloak for his Knavery : Can boast of his cunning but i'th present-Tence , For Non est inventus a hundred years hence . Then why should we turmoil in cares and fears ? And turn our tranquillity to sighs and tears , Let's eat , drink , and play , e're the worms do corrupt us , For I say , that Post mortem nulla voluptas : Let's deal with our Damsels , that we may from thence Have brood's to succeed us a hundred years hence . I never could gain satisfaction upon , Your dreams of a bliss when we'r cold as as a stone , The Sages , call us Drunkards , Gluttons , & wenchers , But we find such Morsels , upon their own Trenchers : For Abigal , Hannah , and sister Prudence , Will simper to nothing a hundred years hence . The Plush-coated Quack that his fees to enlarge , Kills people with Licence , and at their own charge [ e , ] Who builds a vast structure of ill got wealth , from the degrees of a Pisspot , and ruins of health : Though treasures of life he pretends to despenc [ e , ] Shall be turn'd into mummy a hundred years henc [ e . ] The Butterfly Courtier that Peagant of state , The Mousetrap of honour , and May-game of fat [ e , ] With all his ambitions , intrigues , and his tricks must die like a Clown , and then drop into Stix ; His plots against death , are too slender a fence , For he'l be out of fashion a hundred years hence . Yea , the Poet himself that so loftily sings , As he scorns any subject's , but Hero's or Kings , Must to the Capricio's of fortune submit , and often be counted a fool for his wit , Thus beauty , wit , wealth , law learning , and senc [ e , ] All come to nothing a hundred years hence . Printed for F. Coals [ , ] T. Vere [ , ] J. Wright [ , ] and J. Clarke [ . ] 