The Turtle Dove . Or , The wooing in the Wood , being a pleasant new Song of two constant Lovers . To the tune of , the North Country Lass . WHen Flora she had decked the fields with flowers fair , my love and I did walk abroad , to take the Pleasant air . Fair phebus brightly shined , and gently warmed each thing : Where every creature then did seem , to welcome in the Spring . Into a pleasant grove , by Nature trimly made : My Love and I together walked , to cool us in the shade . The bubbling brooks did glide , the silver fish leap : The gentle Lambs & nimble Fawns did seem to leap and skipe , The Birds with sugured notes , their pretty throats did strain : And Shepherds on their oaten pipes , made music on the plains . Then I began to talk , of Lovers in their bliss : I wood her and courted her , for to exchange a kiss . With that she straight way said , hark how the Nigtingale , Although that she does sweetly sing . does tell a heavy tale . That in her maiden years , by man she had much wrong : Which makes her now with thorn inbrest to sing a mournful song . With that I lent and ear , to hear sweet Philomell . among the other Birds in woods , and she this tale did tell . Fair maids be warned by me , I was a maiden pure . Until by man I was orereacht , which makes me this endure . To live in woods and groves , sequestered from all sighs For heavily I do complain , both morning , noon , and night . The Threstle-cock did say , fie , Phill , you are to blame : Although that one did doe amiss , will all men do the same : No quoth the Ousell then , though I be black of hew : Unto my mate and dearest love , I always will prove true . The Blackbird having spoke , the Lark began to sing : If I pertisipate of ought , my love to it I bring . The Magpie up did start , and straight began to chatter : Believe not men they all are false , for they will lie and flatter . Then up upon a leaf , the Wren leapt by and by , And said bold Parrat your pide-coate , shows you can cog and lie . The Second part . To the same Tune . THen Robin-Redbrest said , This I in love am true : My couller shows that I am he , if you give me my due . No , said the Linet then , your breast it is to yellow : For let your love be never so true , you [ ' ] le think you have a fellow . Another bird start up , being called the Popengay , And said fair Mistress view me well , my coat is fine and gay , Away with painted stuff , the Feldefare did say : My couller it the abourne is , and bears the bell away . The Goldfinch then bespoke , my coullours they are pure : For yellow , read , for black , and white , all weathers will endure . Each bird within the wood , a several sentence gave : And all did strive with several notes , pre-eminence to have . Then from and Ivy bush , the Owl put forth her head And said , not such and other Bird as I , the wood hath breed . With that each Bird of note , did beat the Owl away : That never more he durst be seen , to stay abroad by day . And then they all agreed , to choose the Turtle Dove , And that he should deside the cause , betwixt me and my love . Who thus began to speak , Behold sweet maiden fair : How my beloved and my self , do always live a pair . We never use to change , but always live in love : We kiss and bill , and therefore called , The faithful Turtle Dove . And when that each does die , we spend our time in moan , Bewailing our deceased friend , we live and die alone . We never match again , as other birds do use : Therefore sweet Maiden love your [ mate ] do not true love refuse . Thus ending of his speech , they all did silent stand , And then I turned me to my love , and took her by the hand And said , my dearest sweet , behold the love of these : How every one in his degree , do seek his ma [ tO ] e to please . Then fairest grant to me , your constant heart and love : And I will prove as true to thee , as does the Turtle Dove . She said here is my hand , my heart and all I have : I kissed her , and upon the same a token to her gave [ . ] And then upon the same , the Birds did sweetly sing : That echos through the woods and groves , most loudly then did ring . Then up I took my Love , and arm in arm did walk : With her unto her father's house , where we with him did talk . Who soon did condescend when we wear both agreed And shortly to the church we went , and married were with speed . The Bells' aloud did ring and Minstrels they did play And every Youth and maid did strive , to grace our wedding day . God grant my love and I , may have the like success : And live in love until we die , in joy and righteousness . FINIS . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcocke . The Turtle Dove . Or , The wooing in the Wood , being a pleasant new Song of two constant Lovers . To the tune of , the North Country Lass . WHen Flora she had decked the fields with flowers fair , my love and I did walk abroad , to take the Pleasant air . Fair phebus brightly shined , and gently warmed each thing : Where every creature then did seem , to welcome in the Spring . Into a pleasant grove , by Nature trimly made : My Love and I together walked , to cool us in the shade . The bubbling brooks did glide , the silver fish leap : The gentle Lambs & nimble Fawns did seem to leap and skipe , The Birds with sugured notes , their pretty throats did strain : And Shepherds on their oaten pipes , made music on the plains . Then I began to talk , of Lovers in their bliss : I wood her and courted her , for to exchange a kiss . With that she straight way said , hark how the Nigtingale , Although that she does sweetly sing . does tell a heavy tale . That in her maiden years , by man she had much wrong : Which makes her now with thorn inbrest to sing a mournful song . With that I lent and ear , to hear sweet Philomell . among the other Birds in woods , and she this tale did tell . Fair maids be warned by me , I was a maiden pure . Until by man I was orereacht , which makes me this endure . To live in woods and groves , sequestered from all sighs For heavily I do complain , both morning , noon , and night . The Threstle-cock did say , fie , Phill , you are to blame : Although that one did doe amiss , will all men do the same : No quoth the Ousell then , though I be black of hew : Unto my mate and dearest love , I always will prove true . The Blackbird having spoke , the Lark began to sing : If I pertisipate of ought , my love to it I bring . The Magpie up did start , and straight began to chatter : Believe not men they all are false , for they will lie and flatter . Then up upon a leaf , the Wren leapt by and by , And said bold Parrat your pide-coate , shows you can cog and lie . The Second part . To the same Tune . THen Robin-Redbrest said , This I in love am true : My couller shows that I am he , if you give me my due . No , said the Linet then , your breast it is to yellow : For let your love be never so true , you [ ' ] le think you have a fellow . Another bird start up , being called the Popengay , And said fair Mistress view me well , my coat is fine and gay , Away with painted stuff , the Feldefare did say : My couller it the abourne is , and bears the bell away . The Goldfinch then bespoke , my coullours they are pure : For yellow , read , for black , and white , all weathers will endure . Each bird within the wood , a several sentence gave : And all did strive with several notes , pre-eminence to have . Then from and Ivy bush , the Owl put forth her head And said , not such and other Bird as I , the wood hath breed . With that each Bird of note , did beat the Owl away : That never more he durst be seen , to stay abroad by day . And then they all agreed , to choose the Turtle Dove , And that he should deside the cause , betwixt me and my love . Who thus began to speak , Behold sweet maiden fair : How my beloved and my self , do always live a pair . We never use to change , but always live in love : We kiss and bill , and therefore called , The faithful Turtle Dove . And when that each does die , we spend our time in moan , Bewailing our deceased friend , we live and die alone . We never match again , as other birds do use : Therefore sweet Maiden love your [ mate ] do not true love refuse . Thus ending of his speech , they all did silent stand , And then I turned me to my love , and took her by the hand And said , my dearest sweet , behold the love of these : How every one in his degree , do seek his ma [ tO ] e to please . Then fairest grant to me , your constant heart and love : And I will prove as true to thee , as does the Turtle Dove . She said here is my hand , my heart and all I have : I kissed her , and upon the same a token to her gave [ . ] And then upon the same , the Birds did sweetly sing : That echos through the woods and groves , most loudly then did ring . Then up I took my Love , and arm in arm did walk : With her unto her father's house , where we with him did talk . Who soon did condescend when we wear both agreed And shortly to the church we went , and married were with speed . The Bells' aloud did ring and Minstrels they did play And every Youth and maid did strive , to grace our wedding day . God grant my love and I , may have the like success : And live in love until we die , in joy and righteousness . FINIS . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcocke . 