The Two kind Lovers : OR , The Maidens resolution and will To be like her truer Love still . To a Dainty new tune . TWo lovely Lovers , walking all alone : The Female to the Male , was making piteous moan : Saying , If thou wilt go , Love let me go with thee , Because I cannot live , without thy company . Be thou my Master , I'll be thy trusty Page , To wait on thee in thy weary Pilgriage . So shall I still enjoy thy lovely presence , In which alone consists my earthly essence . Be thou the Sun , I'll be the beams so bright , Be thou the Moon , I'll be the lightest nigh Be thou Aurora , the usher of the day , I will be the pearly due , upon the flowers gay . Be thou the Rose , thy smell I will assume , And yield a sweet odoriferous perfume : Be thou the Rainbow , I'll be the colours many , Be thou the cloud , I'll be the weather rainy . Be thou the Lion , I'll be the Lioness : Be thou the servant , I'll be the Mistress : Be thou the Porpentine , and isle be the quill , That wheresoever thou goes I may be with thee still . Be thou the Turtle and I will be thy Mate , And if thou die , my life isle ever hate : Be thou the nimble Fairy , that trips upon the ground , And I will be the circle , where thou mayest dance a round Be thou the swan , isle be the bubbling river : Be thou the gift , and I will be the giver : Be thou the chaste Diana , and I will be as chas Be thou the Time , isle be the hours past . Be thou the Ship isle be the surging Seas , That shall transport my Love , where he does please : Be thou the Neptune , isle bt triple Mace , Be thou the jocund Hunter , isle be the Dear in Chase . The Second Part. To the same Tune . BE thou the Shepherd , isle be the Shepherdess , To sport with thee in joy and happiness : I will be the Marigold , if thou wilt be the Sun : Be thou the Fryer , and I will be the Nun. I will be the Pelican , and thou shalt be the young , I'll spend my blood , to succour thee from wrong : Be thou the Gardener , and I will the flowers , That thou mayest make me grow with fruitful showers . Be thou the Falconer , the Falcon I will be , To yield delight and pleasure unto thee : Be thou the Lanthorn , I will be the light , To led thee to thy fancy every darksome night Be thou the Captain , isle be the Soldier stout , And help in danger still to bear thee ou Be thou the lovely Elm , and I will be the Vine , In sweet concordance , to smypathize and twine , Be thou the Pilot , isle be the Sea men Carded , I'll be the Taylor , and thou shalt be my yard : Be thou the Weaver , and isle the shuttle be , Be thou the Fruiterer , and I will be the tree . Be thou the Blacksmith , I will be the Forge : Be thou the Waterman , I will be the barge : Be thou the Broker , and I will be the Pawn : Be thou the Parasite , and I will learn to fawn . These lovely Lovers being thus combined , Most equally agreed both in heart and mind . Accursed may they be , who seek to part these twaine Whom Love and Nature did to love ordain . I wish all young men , that constant are in Love , To find out a woman that will so loyal prove : And to all honest Maidens , in heart I wish the same , That Cupids laws may be devoid of blame . Printed at London . by the Assigns of Thomas Symcocke . The Two kind Lovers : OR , The Maidens resolution and will To be like her truer Love still . To a Dainty new tune . TWo lovely Lovers , walking all alone : The Female to the Male , was making piteous moan : Saying , If thou wilt go , Love let me go with thee , Because I cannot live , without thy company . Be thou my Master , I'll be thy trusty Page , To wait on thee in thy weary Pilgriage . So shall I still enjoy thy lovely presence , In which alone consists my earthly essence . Be thou the Sun , I'll be the beams so bright , Be thou the Moon , I'll be the lightest nigh Be thou Aurora , the usher of the day , I will be the pearly due , upon the flowers gay . Be thou the Rose , thy smell I will assume , And yield a sweet odoriferous perfume : Be thou the Rainbow , I'll be the colours many , Be thou the cloud , I'll be the weather rainy . Be thou the Lion , I'll be the Lioness : Be thou the servant , I'll be the Mistress : Be thou the Porpentine , and isle be the quill , That wheresoever thou goes I may be with thee still . Be thou the Turtle and I will be thy Mate , And if thou die , my life isle ever hate : Be thou the nimble Fairy , that trips upon the ground , And I will be the circle , where thou mayest dance a round Be thou the swan , isle be the bubbling river : Be thou the gift , and I will be the giver : Be thou the chaste Diana , and I will be as chas Be thou the Time , isle be the hours past . Be thou the Ship isle be the surging Seas , That shall transport my Love , where he does please : Be thou the Neptune , isle bt triple Mace , Be thou the jocund Hunter , isle be the Dear in Chase . The Second Part. To the same Tune . BE thou the Shepherd , isle be the Shepherdess , To sport with thee in joy and happiness : I will be the Marigold , if thou wilt be the Sun : Be thou the Fryer , and I will be the Nun. I will be the Pelican , and thou shalt be the young , I'll spend my blood , to succour thee from wrong : Be thou the Gardener , and I will the flowers , That thou mayest make me grow with fruitful showers . Be thou the Falconer , the Falcon I will be , To yield delight and pleasure unto thee : Be thou the Lanthorn , I will be the light , To led thee to thy fancy every darksome night Be thou the Captain , isle be the Soldier stout , And help in danger still to bear thee ou Be thou the lovely Elm , and I will be the Vine , In sweet concordance , to smypathize and twine , Be thou the Pilot , isle be the Sea men Carded , I'll be the Taylor , and thou shalt be my yard : Be thou the Weaver , and isle the shuttle be , Be thou the Fruiterer , and I will be the tree . Be thou the Blacksmith , I will be the Forge : Be thou the Waterman , I will be the barge : Be thou the Broker , and I will be the Pawn : Be thou the Parasite , and I will learn to fawn . These lovely Lovers being thus combined , Most equally agreed both in heart and mind . Accursed may they be , who seek to part these twaine Whom Love and Nature did to love ordain . I wish all young men , that constant are in Love , To find out a woman that will so loyal prove : And to all honest Maidens , in heart I wish the same , That Cupids laws may be devoid of blame . Printed at London . by the Assigns of Thomas Symcocke . 