The Young-Mans A.B.C. Or , Two Dozen of Verses which a Young-Man sent his Love , who proved unkind . The Tune is , The Youngman's A.B.C. ACcept , dear love , these shadows of my grief , And let thy pity yield me some relief : A Captive to thy will I must remain ; For thou art only she must ease my pain . BE kind to me as I am kind to thee ; [ B ] last not thy fame with cruelty to me : but let thy inward parts thy features grace , beauty in heart ado [ r ] ns the outward face . COnsider how my service hath been bent Continually to gain thy sweet conten Canst thou , my Dear be so obdure to me ? Cross unto him that is so true to thee . DEfer no time to understand my grief , but with some speed come ease me with relief : Thy beauty rare hath struck my heart so deep , That all my days I mean to wail and weep . EXcept thou didst some favour to me yield , I shall be slave with love in Venu [ s ] field : I am so discontent in mind and heart , That neither means nor time can cure my smart . FOrget thou not the woe wherein I dwell , My torments do all all other griefs excel ; Consider well my woeful sable nights , And days I spend away without delights . GRant me thy love to mitigate my pain , The like thou shalt receive from me again . So love will we as does the turtle dove , [ W ] hose firm affection ever constant prove . HAve you respect on this the grief I take , Which out of sleep does sometime me awake ; In Dreams I see that which I most desire ; But waking sets my senses all on fire . IN doleful sort these words I now relate , which makes me think my self unfortunate ; To set my heart where I had nought but scorn , which makes me rue the time that I was born . KIll me not in this desperation deep , To think how I neither eat , nor drink , nor sleep ; To think of that which I cannot obtain , The which hath near my heart with sorrow slave . LEt tender pity move thy gentle heart , And so from thee my love shall never start , To gain thy love i'll venture life and limb , And for thy sake the Ocean I will swim . MY life I loath because my woes increase , Therefore my to [ r ] ments cease and me release : then be not harsh whereas thou wouldst be kind , but for my love let me no hatred find . NEither deny to grant me this request , Nor seek thou not to work me more unrest , For if you do the woe [ r ] st share fallen to thine . the worse can come ends but one life of mine . O that thou wouldst but now conceive aright , then would my darkness soon be turn'd to ligh My greatest sorrows I should then destroy And all my grief and care exchange to joy . PIerce then no worser [ e ] eper to my bleeding heart , The which is ready now for to depar He still that loves and is not lov'd again , Had better die than still to live in pain . QUench thou the flames of this my burning breast , which for thy sake no time nor tide can res My love to thee hath evermore been true , Therefore the same see that I have from me . REgard my grief how still it more exceeds , My life is like the Herb that's spoil'd with weeds : Among the finest wheat the tares do grow , And thou my love hath wrought my overthrow . SWeet love now take on me thy friend , some care , Regard my grief that still lives in despair Of thy true love , which is more dear than gold ; My griefs are more than numbers can be told . TOo long I've liv'd and yet too late repent , For why the glory of my life is spent ; In loving her that never did love me , Oh then what day of pleasure can I see ? WOuld I had never liv'd thy face to have seen , Oh then full happy surely had I been , For never any one under the Sun , But thou alone , could me this wrong done . X Thousand times more cruel is thy mind , Than Heathens , Jews , or Turks are in their kind Or any one that on the earth does go , And woe is me , for I have found it so . YEt if thy mind be so perversely bent , That nothing can procure my hearts content , Know this from me , that I have learn'd of late . No more to dote on her that does me hate . ZEnobia to Tamberlain ne'er was More dear than thou to me , but now alas ! I find my toil , my sighs and sobs in vain , Why should I love , and not be lov'd again ? & Now to set a perjod to my woe , if thou wilt have me , prithee tell me so : if otherwise thou mean'st , thy mind it send , Resolve me off oh [ r ] on , and there's and end . Printed by and for A. Milbourn , and sold by the Booksellers of Pie-corner and London-Bridge . The Young-Mans A.B.C. Or , Two Dozen of Verses which a Young-Man sent his Love , who proved unkind . The Tune is , The Youngman's A.B.C. ACcept , dear love , these shadows of my grief , And let thy pity yield me some relief : A Captive to thy will I must remain ; For thou art only she must ease my pain . BE kind to me as I am kind to thee ; [ B ] last not thy fame with cruelty to me : but let thy inward parts thy features grace , beauty in heart ado [ r ] ns the outward face . COnsider how my service hath been bent Continually to gain thy sweet conten Canst thou , my Dear be so obdure to me ? Cross unto him that is so true to thee . DEfer no time to understand my grief , but with some speed come ease me with relief : Thy beauty rare hath struck my heart so deep , That all my days I mean to wail and weep . EXcept thou didst some favour to me yield , I shall be slave with love in Venu [ s ] field : I am so discontent in mind and heart , That neither means nor time can cure my smart . FOrget thou not the woe wherein I dwell , My torments do all all other griefs excel ; Consider well my woeful sable nights , And days I spend away without delights . GRant me thy love to mitigate my pain , The like thou shalt receive from me again . So love will we as does the turtle dove , [ W ] hose firm affection ever constant prove . HAve you respect on this the grief I take , Which out of sleep does sometime me awake ; In Dreams I see that which I most desire ; But waking sets my senses all on fire . IN doleful sort these words I now relate , which makes me think my self unfortunate ; To set my heart where I had nought but scorn , which makes me rue the time that I was born . KIll me not in this desperation deep , To think how I neither eat , nor drink , nor sleep ; To think of that which I cannot obtain , The which hath near my heart with sorrow slave . LEt tender pity move thy gentle heart , And so from thee my love shall never start , To gain thy love i'll venture life and limb , And for thy sake the Ocean I will swim . MY life I loath because my woes increase , Therefore my to [ r ] ments cease and me release : then be not harsh whereas thou wouldst be kind , but for my love let me no hatred find . NEither deny to grant me this request , Nor seek thou not to work me more unrest , For if you do the woe [ r ] st share fallen to thine . the worse can come ends but one life of mine . O that thou wouldst but now conceive aright , then would my darkness soon be turn'd to ligh My greatest sorrows I should then destroy And all my grief and care exchange to joy . PIerce then no worser [ e ] eper to my bleeding heart , The which is ready now for to depar He still that loves and is not lov'd again , Had better die than still to live in pain . QUench thou the flames of this my burning breast , which for thy sake no time nor tide can res My love to thee hath evermore been true , Therefore the same see that I have from me . REgard my grief how still it more exceeds , My life is like the Herb that's spoil'd with weeds : Among the finest wheat the tares do grow , And thou my love hath wrought my overthrow . SWeet love now take on me thy friend , some care , Regard my grief that still lives in despair Of thy true love , which is more dear than gold ; My griefs are more than numbers can be told . TOo long I've liv'd and yet too late repent , For why the glory of my life is spent ; In loving her that never did love me , Oh then what day of pleasure can I see ? WOuld I had never liv'd thy face to have seen , Oh then full happy surely had I been , For never any one under the Sun , But thou alone , could me this wrong done . X Thousand times more cruel is thy mind , Than Heathens , Jews , or Turks are in their kind Or any one that on the earth does go , And woe is me , for I have found it so . YEt if thy mind be so perversely bent , That nothing can procure my hearts content , Know this from me , that I have learn'd of late . No more to dote on her that does me hate . ZEnobia to Tamberlain ne'er was More dear than thou to me , but now alas ! I find my toil , my sighs and sobs in vain , Why should I love , and not be lov'd again ? & Now to set a perjod to my woe , if thou wilt have me , prithee tell me so : if otherwise thou mean'st , thy mind it send , Resolve me off oh [ r ] on , and there's and end . Printed by and for A. Milbourn , and sold by the Booksellers of Pie-corner and London-Bridge . 