Youths Warning-piece . In a true Relation of the woeful Death of William Rogers of Cranbroke in Kent and Apothecary , who refusing all good counsel , and fol - lowing lewd company , died miserably since Christmas last . 1635. To the Tune of Doctor Faustus . WHat mournful ditty , or lamenting verse Shall I compose this subject to rehearse ? It being indeed most doleful to declare , Does wish all youth in time for to beware . If it was feigned , or not true indeed , It should not in men so much dolour breed : Or had it been some fable or old thing , It might have passed without much sorrowing . But it is true , and too too lately known 'Twas done , not far from hence , and clearly shown By men , whose credits are well known i'th' City , Come then , and listen to my doleful ditty . Thus I begin , Will . Rogers was his name , His Parents and his Kindred of good fame : These gave him education , and good Arts , By which he was endued with able parts . He and Apothecary was by Trade , By which it does appear he Learning had : For none can know the mysteries of that Art , Without some knowledge , or some good desert . Moreover , he in Chirurgery had skill , And practis'd it with success , & goodwill Of many grieved Patients whom he cur'd Of their corrupted soars which they endur'd . His carriage was most mild and temperate , By which he love and estimation gam He did not take any excessive gains , But often gave the poor his time and pains . His practice brought him into favour great , And caused him some means to gain and get , So that he did receive two hundred pound By each years practice , as it clear was found . His civil Education did impart The knowledge of Religion to his heart , Whereby he able was account to give , How he in Christ by faith alone did live . All these were hopeful blossoms in a youth , That in their season might good fruits have prov'd , And caus'd him to have lived in good fame , And died in the credit of his house and name . But see of this men life the fatal change , When in the world he did begin to range : For presently all gooodesse was forgotten , His latter course was to his first a blot . What pity 'tis that in so fair a face Such spots and blemishes should possess a place , Or that such good beginnings should be left ; Or that men should be of such hope's bereft . The second part to the same tune . WE cannot blame Dame Fortune as the cause , Nor yet religion which gives better laws , Nor yet our Parents , or our Master's care , Nor yet accuse a Planet , or a Star . All these are free , and clear from any blame , 'Tis we our selves that do procure our shame , It is our negligence that will not use Our gifts aright , but often them abuse . So did this young man by lewd courses spend , His time and means & stock , which God did send , He vainly lavish'd out in toyish sport , Amongst vain companions which to him resort . He left the council of his dearest friend , The Pastor of the Parish who did send , Directions grave and honest , just , and good , All which this young man mightily withstood . He did forget his former promise made To God , and others , that that sinful trade Should quite be left , and that he would put on , The practice of the pure Religion . But wholly gave himself to wine and drink , With company all times , which soon will sink A men estate , the bane and source of ill , And does all goodness and Religion spill . Hence he grew careless of his Patients lame , Still swilling his carouses down amain , Kept company , neglected Church , each time Slighted the use of the Sacraments Divine . So he grew settled in his sinful track , No friendly council could reduce him back : But obstinately still he did persist , And scornfully all council did resist . His Pastor told him he would be so bold , To excommunicate him from Christs fold : Which wrought upon his conscience , so that he Promis'd to diverse , a new man to be . But sickness Death's bold Sergeant did arrest Him , that he failed of what he did protest . In which his visitation he exclaim'd , That Hell was his , and that he sure was dam'd . Visits were made , and council grave was given , That yet he might possess a place in Heaven : But he still did rave , and strive curse and cry , That he should go to Hell immediately . Sometime he blames his since with some remorse , which had brought down Gods heavy rod & curse Then he advises others to beware Of sin , so even seeming to despair . He cries out fearfully that he must go , To Hell , the place of misery and woe ; There to endure all torments , grief and pain , Milions of milions of ages to remain . And fearful this to think , that in such wise , In raging fury , ends his life and dies . We cannot judge of his Eternal state , But leave to him , who rules all lives and Fate . So you have herd his end , I wish you all To take a warning by his fearful fallen , Of all lewd company , and drinking too , Which always are the Harbingers of woe . Reject not council , nor Gods ordinance scorn , Nor yet Church discipline , as men forlorn : Follow your callings diligently still , So God shall keep you in your ways from ill . God bless our gracious Sovereign Queen and Prince With all the royal Progeny , that thence Blessings may flow on all our Nobles , and For ever prove a blessing , to our land . If any desire further information touching the man - ner of this men Life , sickness , and death , let them read the Sermon Preached at his funeral , which is Printed by Authority . London printed for A.K. 1636. FINIS . Youths Warning-piece . In a true Relation of the woeful Death of William Rogers of Cranbroke in Kent and Apothecary , who refusing all good counsel , and fol - lowing lewd company , died miserably since Christmas last . 1635. To the Tune of Doctor Faustus . WHat mournful ditty , or lamenting verse Shall I compose this subject to rehearse ? It being indeed most doleful to declare , Does wish all youth in time for to beware . If it was feigned , or not true indeed , It should not in men so much dolour breed : Or had it been some fable or old thing , It might have passed without much sorrowing . But it is true , and too too lately known 'Twas done , not far from hence , and clearly shown By men , whose credits are well known i'th' City , Come then , and listen to my doleful ditty . Thus I begin , Will . Rogers was his name , His Parents and his Kindred of good fame : These gave him education , and good Arts , By which he was endued with able parts . He and Apothecary was by Trade , By which it does appear he Learning had : For none can know the mysteries of that Art , Without some knowledge , or some good desert . Moreover , he in Chirurgery had skill , And practis'd it with success , & goodwill Of many grieved Patients whom he cur'd Of their corrupted soars which they endur'd . His carriage was most mild and temperate , By which he love and estimation gam He did not take any excessive gains , But often gave the poor his time and pains . His practice brought him into favour great , And caused him some means to gain and get , So that he did receive two hundred pound By each years practice , as it clear was found . His civil Education did impart The knowledge of Religion to his heart , Whereby he able was account to give , How he in Christ by faith alone did live . All these were hopeful blossoms in a youth , That in their season might good fruits have prov'd , And caus'd him to have lived in good fame , And died in the credit of his house and name . But see of this men life the fatal change , When in the world he did begin to range : For presently all gooodesse was forgotten , His latter course was to his first a blot . What pity 'tis that in so fair a face Such spots and blemishes should possess a place , Or that such good beginnings should be left ; Or that men should be of such hope's bereft . The second part to the same tune . WE cannot blame Dame Fortune as the cause , Nor yet religion which gives better laws , Nor yet our Parents , or our Master's care , Nor yet accuse a Planet , or a Star . All these are free , and clear from any blame , 'Tis we our selves that do procure our shame , It is our negligence that will not use Our gifts aright , but often them abuse . So did this young man by lewd courses spend , His time and means & stock , which God did send , He vainly lavish'd out in toyish sport , Amongst vain companions which to him resort . He left the council of his dearest friend , The Pastor of the Parish who did send , Directions grave and honest , just , and good , All which this young man mightily withstood . He did forget his former promise made To God , and others , that that sinful trade Should quite be left , and that he would put on , The practice of the pure Religion . But wholly gave himself to wine and drink , With company all times , which soon will sink A men estate , the bane and source of ill , And does all goodness and Religion spill . Hence he grew careless of his Patients lame , Still swilling his carouses down amain , Kept company , neglected Church , each time Slighted the use of the Sacraments Divine . So he grew settled in his sinful track , No friendly council could reduce him back : But obstinately still he did persist , And scornfully all council did resist . His Pastor told him he would be so bold , To excommunicate him from Christs fold : Which wrought upon his conscience , so that he Promis'd to diverse , a new man to be . But sickness Death's bold Sergeant did arrest Him , that he failed of what he did protest . In which his visitation he exclaim'd , That Hell was his , and that he sure was dam'd . Visits were made , and council grave was given , That yet he might possess a place in Heaven : But he still did rave , and strive curse and cry , That he should go to Hell immediately . Sometime he blames his since with some remorse , which had brought down Gods heavy rod & curse Then he advises others to beware Of sin , so even seeming to despair . He cries out fearfully that he must go , To Hell , the place of misery and woe ; There to endure all torments , grief and pain , Milions of milions of ages to remain . And fearful this to think , that in such wise , In raging fury , ends his life and dies . We cannot judge of his Eternal state , But leave to him , who rules all lives and Fate . So you have herd his end , I wish you all To take a warning by his fearful fallen , Of all lewd company , and drinking too , Which always are the Harbingers of woe . Reject not council , nor Gods ordinance scorn , Nor yet Church discipline , as men forlorn : Follow your callings diligently still , So God shall keep you in your ways from ill . God bless our gracious Sovereign Queen and Prince With all the royal Progeny , that thence Blessings may flow on all our Nobles , and For ever prove a blessing , to our land . If any desire further information touching the man - ner of this men Life , sickness , and death , let them read the Sermon Preached at his funeral , which is Printed by Authority . London printed for A.K. 1636. FINIS . 