A warning for all lewd livers , By the example of a disobedient Child , who riotously wasted and consumed his Father's and Mother's goods , and also his own , among strumpets , and other lewd livers , and after died most miserably on a dunghill . To the tune of Sir Andrew Barton . MY bleeding heart with grief and care , does wish all young men to beware , That they not such like steps may tread , nor lead the life that I have led . My Father was a Gentleman , as many gallants witness can , He had no son but only I , which made his gold and silver fly . When as my Father hath me sent , to fell his goods or take up rend , I did consume and waste the same in drinking and unlawful game . The Cards and Dice were my delight , I haunted taverns day and night , Lewd women were my chiefest joys , and my consorts were cutpurse boys . Gods holy word I disobey'd , I cared not what the Preacher said , For quaffing cans of Ale and Beer , was all the service I would hear , Thus acting my ungracious part , I broke my aged Father's heart , When ghastly death did on him cease , I thought my self in happy case . What he had left I thought well god , but now the shame falls to my lot , Five hundred pound in good read gold , for Wine and Beer I quickly should . Then was I pressed to serve the King , that might my name to honour bring , A Soldiers life I held it base , and always took it in disgrace . And having thus consum'd my store , I to my Mother went for more ; Who should and morgag'd all her land , and put the money in my hand . And with these words with tears she said thou knowest my Son thy father's dead No more is left but I and thee , therefore deer Son be good to me . If that thy love from me should fallen , I have on earth no friend at all , Therefore good Son , to me prove kind , and thou in Heaven reward shalt find . Then on my bent knees fell I , desiring of the Lord on high , A shameful death might be his end , that would his Mother once offend . All you that do no reckoning make , of swearing when your words you speak , Give ear to this which will you tell , lewd livers seldom died well . You disobedient children all , draw near and listen to my fallen , Example take , repent in time , lest that your woes be like to mine . You Father's deer and Mother's kind , bear you this lesson well in mind , Trust not too much a wicked child for oftentimes men are beguiled . When twigs are green you may them ply but let them grow till they be dry , They will so stiff and stubborn stand , you cannot bend them with your hand . So I that ran a wicked raze , to mend my life had not the grace , Sixteene score pound in ready gold , into my hand my Mother told . But in the compass of one year , I spent it all as may appear , And having left no means at all , I unto robbing straight did fallen . THen did I steal my Mother's rings , her brass , her pewter , & such things , The very bed whereon she lay , I like a villain should away . What ever I could get or take , I thereof straight would money make , My flinty heart did feel no grief , to see my Mother want relief . At last she grew exceeding poor , and begged her bred from door to door , No Infidel nor Pagan vild , could bring to light so bad a child . At last my Mother lost her breath , as she constrained was by death , Who yields relief when friends grow scant and eases those that are in want . From place to place I then was tossed , by every man and woman crossed , No harbour could I get , whereby I might at night in safeguard lie . My dearest kinsfolks do me chide , my nearest friends mock and deride , Those that were my consort of late , their love is changed into hate . Those that have feasted many a time , and fed upon that which was mine , Despise at me along the street , as if they should a Serpent meet . Both old and young both great and small , both rich and poor , despise me all , No friend to take my part had I , but was constrain'd in fields to lie . In this my extreme misery , my grief and my necessity , No creature gave for my relief , one piece of bred to ease my grief . But as a poor despised wretch , his latest gasp that he did fetch , Was on a dunghill in the night , when as no creature was in sighed . But in the morning he was found , as cold as clay upon the ground : Thus was he born in shame to die , and end his days in misery . Take warning young men by this vice , learn to avoid the Cards and Dice : Lewd women's company forbear , they are the high way unto care . All Parents while your babes be young , look to their ways in hand and tongue , Then wickedness will not abound , but grace in children may be found . FINIS . Printed at London for Thomas Lambert , and are to be sold in Smithfield , at the Hospital gate . L.P. A warning for all lewd livers , By the example of a disobedient Child , who riotously wasted and consumed his Father's and Mother's goods , and also his own , among strumpets , and other lewd livers , and after died most miserably on a dunghill . To the tune of Sir Andrew Barton . MY bleeding heart with grief and care , does wish all young men to beware , That they not such like steps may tread , nor lead the life that I have led . My Father was a Gentleman , as many gallants witness can , He had no son but only I , which made his gold and silver fly . When as my Father hath me sent , to fell his goods or take up rend , I did consume and waste the same in drinking and unlawful game . The Cards and Dice were my delight , I haunted taverns day and night , Lewd women were my chiefest joys , and my consorts were cutpurse boys . Gods holy word I disobey'd , I cared not what the Preacher said , For quaffing cans of Ale and Beer , was all the service I would hear , Thus acting my ungracious part , I broke my aged Father's heart , When ghastly death did on him cease , I thought my self in happy case . What he had left I thought well god , but now the shame falls to my lot , Five hundred pound in good read gold , for Wine and Beer I quickly should . Then was I pressed to serve the King , that might my name to honour bring , A Soldiers life I held it base , and always took it in disgrace . And having thus consum'd my store , I to my Mother went for more ; Who should and morgag'd all her land , and put the money in my hand . And with these words with tears she said thou knowest my Son thy father's dead No more is left but I and thee , therefore deer Son be good to me . If that thy love from me should fallen , I have on earth no friend at all , Therefore good Son , to me prove kind , and thou in Heaven reward shalt find . Then on my bent knees fell I , desiring of the Lord on high , A shameful death might be his end , that would his Mother once offend . All you that do no reckoning make , of swearing when your words you speak , Give ear to this which will you tell , lewd livers seldom died well . You disobedient children all , draw near and listen to my fallen , Example take , repent in time , lest that your woes be like to mine . You Father's deer and Mother's kind , bear you this lesson well in mind , Trust not too much a wicked child for oftentimes men are beguiled . When twigs are green you may them ply but let them grow till they be dry , They will so stiff and stubborn stand , you cannot bend them with your hand . So I that ran a wicked raze , to mend my life had not the grace , Sixteene score pound in ready gold , into my hand my Mother told . But in the compass of one year , I spent it all as may appear , And having left no means at all , I unto robbing straight did fallen . THen did I steal my Mother's rings , her brass , her pewter , & such things , The very bed whereon she lay , I like a villain should away . What ever I could get or take , I thereof straight would money make , My flinty heart did feel no grief , to see my Mother want relief . At last she grew exceeding poor , and begged her bred from door to door , No Infidel nor Pagan vild , could bring to light so bad a child . At last my Mother lost her breath , as she constrained was by death , Who yields relief when friends grow scant and eases those that are in want . From place to place I then was tossed , by every man and woman crossed , No harbour could I get , whereby I might at night in safeguard lie . My dearest kinsfolks do me chide , my nearest friends mock and deride , Those that were my consort of late , their love is changed into hate . Those that have feasted many a time , and fed upon that which was mine , Despise at me along the street , as if they should a Serpent meet . Both old and young both great and small , both rich and poor , despise me all , No friend to take my part had I , but was constrain'd in fields to lie . In this my extreme misery , my grief and my necessity , No creature gave for my relief , one piece of bred to ease my grief . But as a poor despised wretch , his latest gasp that he did fetch , Was on a dunghill in the night , when as no creature was in sighed . But in the morning he was found , as cold as clay upon the ground : Thus was he born in shame to die , and end his days in misery . Take warning young men by this vice , learn to avoid the Cards and Dice : Lewd women's company forbear , they are the high way unto care . All Parents while your babes be young , look to their ways in hand and tongue , Then wickedness will not abound , but grace in children may be found . FINIS . Printed at London for Thomas Lambert , and are to be sold in Smithfield , at the Hospital gate . L.P. 