The Worst is past . OR , A merry new Song that lately was pend , Which when these things altar , the times will amend : It's merry and harmless , free from all distaste , And when these changes come , the worst is past . To a pleasant new Tune . MY master's all give ear awhile I'll do the best to make you smile , Hoping to give no man distaste , But tell them when the worst is past . And therefore now to please you all , To pen and ink I did befall , And casting up my sum at last , I told them how the worst is past . When Merchant's they leave over-buying , And Lawyers some give over lying , And all Precisians are grown chaste , Why then I hope , etc When Land lords do leave taking rend , And with good words will be content , And millers turn good fellows in haste , When then I think , etc When Turnball-street has ne're a whore , And thieves their stealing trade give over , And wanton wenches all live chaste , Why then I hope , etc When higw-way robbers will refuse To take a purse , knowing what ensuse , And recantation make in haste , Why then I think , etc When all will live by honest means , Hating dice , cards , and cozening quean , And all eschew ill ways in haste , Why then I hope , etc Now Seamen are brave fellows all , They'l drink the strong and leave the small And then the reckonings paid at last , Why then I hope , etc When northern cloth gives over shrinking And all good fellows leave off drinking , And Brewers all have brewed their last , Why then I hope , etc When Paritors will take no fee , And foe with fo will all agree , And spend no coin in Law at waste , Why then I hope , etc When Tapsters will not thrive by froth And to score two for one are loath , And all old scores are paid in haste , Why then I think the worst is past . Thus wishing all may mend apace , Let all are ill turn from the raze , And learn with speed to mend in haste , And then w'are sure the worst is past . The second part to the same tune . WHen Tailors will not use a hell , And travellers not lies will tell , And all's that spoke , prove true at last , Why then I think the worst is past . When some inquirers after news , Whose ears do itch for what ensues , Wilt be content to know at last , Why then I think the worst is past . When Knights o'th post will swear no lie , And truth is known from flattery . Then need no Pillories up be plac't , For then I think , etc When as Joan slattern cleanly grows , Does cut her nails , and pare her toes , And will turn cleanly at the last , Why then I think the worst is past , When Prodigals will save their coin , And will at once but two pence join , And cross the Mercers book in haste , Why then I think , etc When Gossips to no feast will range , Nor some like to the Moon still change , Then tattling tales will all lie waste , And then I think , etc And when new fashions are not used , And in some trades truth's not abused , Then we shall see good days at last , And surely think , etc When Gallants in their drink not swear , And all poor men are free from care , And spend not all in lustful waste , Why then I think , etc When thieves leave off their stealing trade , And Cheats to rook men are afraid , And are inclined to good at last , Why then I think the worst is past . When Brokers will refuse a pawn , And Parasites will leave to fawn , And Bankrupts pay all men in haste , Why then I hope , etc When horse coursers will leave to swear , And theev [ e ] s to Newgate none repair , And Doctor Stories Cap stands waste , Why then I think etc When Mistress midnight-walker will Turn from her courses which are ill , And come no more unto men's waste , Why then I think , etc And thus for to conclude in haste , Hoping none virtuous in distaste , When all our reckonings paid at last , Why then I hope the worst is past . FINIS LONDON , Printed for Richard Harper in Smithfi [ eld ] The Worst is past . OR , A merry new Song that lately was pend , Which when these things altar , the times will amend : It's merry and harmless , free from all distaste , And when these changes come , the worst is past . To a pleasant new Tune . MY master's all give ear awhile I'll do the best to make you smile , Hoping to give no man distaste , But tell them when the worst is past . And therefore now to please you all , To pen and ink I did befall , And casting up my sum at last , I told them how the worst is past . When Merchant's they leave over-buying , And Lawyers some give over lying , And all Precisians are grown chaste , Why then I hope , etc When Land lords do leave taking rend , And with good words will be content , And millers turn good fellows in haste , When then I think , etc When Turnball-street has ne're a whore , And thieves their stealing trade give over , And wanton wenches all live chaste , Why then I hope , etc When higw-way robbers will refuse To take a purse , knowing what ensuse , And recantation make in haste , Why then I think , etc When all will live by honest means , Hating dice , cards , and cozening quean , And all eschew ill ways in haste , Why then I hope , etc Now Seamen are brave fellows all , They'l drink the strong and leave the small And then the reckonings paid at last , Why then I hope , etc When northern cloth gives over shrinking And all good fellows leave off drinking , And Brewers all have brewed their last , Why then I hope , etc When Paritors will take no fee , And foe with fo will all agree , And spend no coin in Law at waste , Why then I hope , etc When Tapsters will not thrive by froth And to score two for one are loath , And all old scores are paid in haste , Why then I think the worst is past . Thus wishing all may mend apace , Let all are ill turn from the raze , And learn with speed to mend in haste , And then w'are sure the worst is past . The second part to the same tune . WHen Tailors will not use a hell , And travellers not lies will tell , And all's that spoke , prove true at last , Why then I think the worst is past . When some inquirers after news , Whose ears do itch for what ensues , Wilt be content to know at last , Why then I think the worst is past . When Knights o'th post will swear no lie , And truth is known from flattery . Then need no Pillories up be plac't , For then I think , etc When as Joan slattern cleanly grows , Does cut her nails , and pare her toes , And will turn cleanly at the last , Why then I think the worst is past , When Prodigals will save their coin , And will at once but two pence join , And cross the Mercers book in haste , Why then I think , etc When Gossips to no feast will range , Nor some like to the Moon still change , Then tattling tales will all lie waste , And then I think , etc And when new fashions are not used , And in some trades truth's not abused , Then we shall see good days at last , And surely think , etc When Gallants in their drink not swear , And all poor men are free from care , And spend not all in lustful waste , Why then I think , etc When thieves leave off their stealing trade , And Cheats to rook men are afraid , And are inclined to good at last , Why then I think the worst is past . When Brokers will refuse a pawn , And Parasites will leave to fawn , And Bankrupts pay all men in haste , Why then I hope , etc When horse coursers will leave to swear , And theev [ e ] s to Newgate none repair , And Doctor Stories Cap stands waste , Why then I think etc When Mistress midnight-walker will Turn from her courses which are ill , And come no more unto men's waste , Why then I think , etc And thus for to conclude in haste , Hoping none virtuous in distaste , When all our reckonings paid at last , Why then I hope the worst is past . FINIS LONDON , Printed for Richard Harper in Smithfi [ eld ] 