A well wishing to a place of pleasure . To and excellent new Tune . SEe the building , where whilst my mistress lived in , was pleasures essence , See how it drops , And how nakedly it looks without her presence : Every creature That appertains to nature , 'bout this house living , Does resemble , If not dissemble , due praises giving . Hark , how the hollow Winds do blow and seem to murmur , in every corner , for her long absence : The which does plainly show The causes why I do now All this grief and sorrow show . See the garden , Where I receivde reward in , for my true love : Behold chosen places , Where I receivde those graces , the Gods might move The Queen of plenty With all the fruits are dainty delights to please . Flora springing , Is ever bringing Dame Venus ease . O see the Arbour where that she with melting kisses distilling blisses , From her true self , with joy did ravish me . The pretty Nightingale did sing meloduously , Hail to those Groves , Where I injoyde those loves so many days Let the flowers be springing And sweet birds ever singing their Roundelays , Many Cupids measures And cause for true Loves pleasures , be danced around , Let all contentment For mirths presentment , this day be found : And may the grass grow ever green where we two lying have oft been trying , More several ways then beauty's lovely Queen , When she in bed with Mars by all the Gods was seen . A well wishing to a place of pleasure . To and excellent new Tune . SEe the building , where whilst my mistress lived in , was pleasures essence , See how it drops , And how nakedly it looks without her presence : Every creature That appertains to nature , 'bout this house living , Does resemble , If not dissemble , due praises giving . Hark , how the hollow Winds do blow and seem to murmur , in every corner , for her long absence : The which does plainly show The causes why I do now All this grief and sorrow show . See the garden , Where I receivde reward in , for my true love : Behold chosen places , Where I receivde those graces , the Gods might move The Queen of plenty With all the fruits are dainty delights to please . Flora springing , Is ever bringing Dame Venus ease . O see the Arbour where that she with melting kisses distilling blisses , From her true self , with joy did ravish me . The pretty Nightingale did sing meloduously , Hail to those Groves , Where I injoyde those loves so many days Let the flowers be springing And sweet birds ever singing their Roundelays , Many Cupids measures And cause for true Loves pleasures , be danced around , Let all contentment For mirths presentment , this day be found : And may the grass grow ever green where we two lying have oft been trying , More several ways then beauty's lovely Queen , When she in bed with Mars by all the Gods was seen . 