A Warning for Maids : Or the false dissembling , , cogging , Cunning , cozening young Man , Who long did try and use his skill , To woe a coy young Maid to his will And when he had obtain'd her love , To her he very false did prove . To a dainty new tune , called , No , no , not I . ALl in a May morning in the merry month of May into the green Meadows I did take my way , There I herd a young Man to his Love make reply , But she answered him scornfully , no no not I . Sweet heart quoth this young Man , my love is entire , my heart is inflamed with Cupids hight fire . Your love I entreat , why should you deny ? But she answered him scornfully , no , no not I . Oh sweet 'tis thy love that I do so much crave , and I will maintain you still gallant and brave . Fair Mistress , for your love I certain shall die , Quoth she , away foolish man , I care not I . Will you seek to wrong a Man in such a case ? if I die for love , it will be your disgrace , I hope you will yield me some other reply . But she answered him scornfully , no , no not I . Sweet , have you no more regard of a young man ? I will strive to do thee all the good I can , Methinks you should yield unto me by and by , But she answered him scornfully , no , no not I . And if that all Maids should be of your mind , then what would or should become of us mankind ? Sweet let you and I now try our destiny , But she answered him 'scornfully , no , no not I . Pray what is the reason ? I am young and fair , beside you do know I am my Father's heir : Sweet let me entreat your love and courtesy , But she answered him scornfully , no , no not I . For vaulting or leaping , or such exercises , for dancing or skipping I still win the prizes , Come grant me thy favour my pretty pigsney , But she answered him scornfully , no , not I . I am in all parts most complete like a man , and I can do as much as any can : Then prithee sweet heart do not my love deny , Now she answered him kindly , sweet Love not I . If gold will content thee , why gold thou shalt have , or any thing else that thou canst wish or crave : 'Tis only on thy love that I do rely , Now she had forgotten to say , no , no not I . The second Part , To the same tune . ILe be thy maintainer , thou shalt know no want , then let no disparagement my sweet heart daun Thou shalt be my Bride , and I'll love thee truly . This Maid had forgotten to say , no , no not I . With sweet salutations these Lovers did part , he call'd her his joy , and she call'd him sweet heart , Yet after this young Man his Love did deny , As I will declare unto you , by and by . In little space after she met with her Dear , desiring of him some farther news to hear : She wished him to marry her immediately , But he answered her scornfully , no , no not I . Sweet Love , ner'e deny me , thou knowest I am thine , and thou oft did'st promise that thou wouldst be mine : Now thy bitter answer makes me mourn and cry , To hear thee say unto me , no , no not I . Fair Mistress , remember , when I sued to you , you made a scoff at me , and from me you flew : Now I'll give you leave to sighs , sob , and cry , Though you are dispos'd to wed , so am not I . When first I came to thee , to ask thy good will , thou mad'st a scorn of me , now I am as ill , I will not be tide for to wed by and by : Though you are dispos'd to wed , so am not I . Quoth she , will you prove so perjur'd unto me ? I am sorry that ere I consented to thee : Let no Maid trust youngmen , for they'l falsify : Canst thou answer scornfully , no , no not I ? Farewell thou false youngman , farewell and adue , the like said this wanton youth , farewell to you . Now I do see Maidens can love men truly : But I never mean to wed , no , no not I . Was ever poor Maiden in such a like case , to yield to undoing , and such foul disgrace ? I might have been wise , and still made this reply : I will never yield to thee , no , no not I . I'll never trust false youngman for his sake , I had warning before , yet no warning could take : These youngmen will promise and present deny , I'll never trust false tongue more , no , no not I . Now shall I be mocked of other young Maids , they'l flout me , and say , see how her colour fades : She is sick for love , and forsooth they'l cry : Her Love now hath left her , and her does deny . But I wish all them that laugh me to scorn , hereafter beware , and escape the like harm : For youngmen are cunning , and full of policy : But I'll never trust them more , no , no not I . I am not the first that hath so been deceived , yet of a great number ne're was one more grieved . But now alas I can find no remedy : I'll ne're trust false youngman more , no , no not I . R. Climsall FINIS . Printed at London for John Wright the younger , dwell - ling at the upper end of the Old-Bayley . A Warning for Maids : Or the false dissembling , , cogging , Cunning , cozening young Man , Who long did try and use his skill , To woe a coy young Maid to his will And when he had obtain'd her love , To her he very false did prove . To a dainty new tune , called , No , no , not I . ALl in a May morning in the merry month of May into the green Meadows I did take my way , There I herd a young Man to his Love make reply , But she answered him scornfully , no no not I . Sweet heart quoth this young Man , my love is entire , my heart is inflamed with Cupids hight fire . Your love I entreat , why should you deny ? But she answered him scornfully , no , no not I . Oh sweet 'tis thy love that I do so much crave , and I will maintain you still gallant and brave . Fair Mistress , for your love I certain shall die , Quoth she , away foolish man , I care not I . Will you seek to wrong a Man in such a case ? if I die for love , it will be your disgrace , I hope you will yield me some other reply . But she answered him scornfully , no , no not I . Sweet , have you no more regard of a young man ? I will strive to do thee all the good I can , Methinks you should yield unto me by and by , But she answered him scornfully , no , no not I . And if that all Maids should be of your mind , then what would or should become of us mankind ? Sweet let you and I now try our destiny , But she answered him 'scornfully , no , no not I . Pray what is the reason ? I am young and fair , beside you do know I am my Father's heir : Sweet let me entreat your love and courtesy , But she answered him scornfully , no , no not I . For vaulting or leaping , or such exercises , for dancing or skipping I still win the prizes , Come grant me thy favour my pretty pigsney , But she answered him scornfully , no , not I . I am in all parts most complete like a man , and I can do as much as any can : Then prithee sweet heart do not my love deny , Now she answered him kindly , sweet Love not I . If gold will content thee , why gold thou shalt have , or any thing else that thou canst wish or crave : 'Tis only on thy love that I do rely , Now she had forgotten to say , no , no not I . The second Part , To the same tune . ILe be thy maintainer , thou shalt know no want , then let no disparagement my sweet heart daun Thou shalt be my Bride , and I'll love thee truly . This Maid had forgotten to say , no , no not I . With sweet salutations these Lovers did part , he call'd her his joy , and she call'd him sweet heart , Yet after this young Man his Love did deny , As I will declare unto you , by and by . In little space after she met with her Dear , desiring of him some farther news to hear : She wished him to marry her immediately , But he answered her scornfully , no , no not I . Sweet Love , ner'e deny me , thou knowest I am thine , and thou oft did'st promise that thou wouldst be mine : Now thy bitter answer makes me mourn and cry , To hear thee say unto me , no , no not I . Fair Mistress , remember , when I sued to you , you made a scoff at me , and from me you flew : Now I'll give you leave to sighs , sob , and cry , Though you are dispos'd to wed , so am not I . When first I came to thee , to ask thy good will , thou mad'st a scorn of me , now I am as ill , I will not be tide for to wed by and by : Though you are dispos'd to wed , so am not I . Quoth she , will you prove so perjur'd unto me ? I am sorry that ere I consented to thee : Let no Maid trust youngmen , for they'l falsify : Canst thou answer scornfully , no , no not I ? Farewell thou false youngman , farewell and adue , the like said this wanton youth , farewell to you . Now I do see Maidens can love men truly : But I never mean to wed , no , no not I . Was ever poor Maiden in such a like case , to yield to undoing , and such foul disgrace ? I might have been wise , and still made this reply : I will never yield to thee , no , no not I . I'll never trust false youngman for his sake , I had warning before , yet no warning could take : These youngmen will promise and present deny , I'll never trust false tongue more , no , no not I . Now shall I be mocked of other young Maids , they'l flout me , and say , see how her colour fades : She is sick for love , and forsooth they'l cry : Her Love now hath left her , and her does deny . But I wish all them that laugh me to scorn , hereafter beware , and escape the like harm : For youngmen are cunning , and full of policy : But I'll never trust them more , no , no not I . I am not the first that hath so been deceived , yet of a great number ne're was one more grieved . But now alas I can find no remedy : I'll ne're trust false youngman more , no , no not I . R. Climsall FINIS . Printed at London for John Wright the younger , dwell - ling at the upper end of the Old-Bayley . 