A new ballad entitled , the stout Cripple of Cornnwall , wherein is showed his dissolute life , and deserved death . To the tune of the Blind Beggar . OF a stout Cripple that kept the high way , and begged for his living all time of the day : A story I'll tell you that pleasant shall be , the Cripple of Cornwall surnamed was he . He crept on his hands & his knees up and down , in a torn jacket and ragged patched gown : For he had never a leg to the knee , the Cripple of cornwall surnamed was he , He was of stomach courageous and stout , for he had no cause to complain of the gou To go upon stilts most cunning was he , with a staff on his neck gall [ l ] ant and free . Yea no good fellowship would he forsake were it in secret a purse for to take : His help was good as any might be , the Cripple of Cornwall surnamed was he . When he upon any such service did go , the crafty young cripp [ l ] e provided it so His tools he kept close in and old hollow tree , that stood from the City a mile two or three . Thus all the day long he begged for relief , And late in the night he played the false thief : And seven years together this custom kept he and no man thought him such a person to be , There was few grasiiers went on the way , but unto the cripple for passage did pay , And every brave Merchant that he did descry , he emptied their purses ere they passed by , The gallant Lord Courtney both valiant and bold , road forth with great plenty of silver and gold : At Exeter there a purchase to pay , but that the false cripple his journey did stay . For why the false cripple herd tidings of late as he lay for alms at this nobleman's gate : What day and what hour his journey should be , this is quoth the cripple a booty for me , Then to his companions this mater he moved , which he in like actions before time had proved . They make themselves ready & deeply they swear this moneys their onwe before they come there . Upon his two stilts this cripple does mount to have his best share he makes his account All clothed in canvas down to the ground he takes up his standing his mates with him round Then comes the Lord Courtney with half a score men , that little suspected these thieves in their den : And they perceiving them come to their hand , in a dark evening they bid him stand Deliver thy purse quoth the Cripple with speed , for we be good fellows and thereof have need Not so quoth Lord Courtney but this I tell thee , win it and wear it , else get none of me . With that they Lord Courtney stood in his defence and so did his servants but ere they went hence Two of the true men were slain in the fight , and foure of the thieves were put to their flight , And while for their safeguard they ran thus away the jolly bold cripple did hold the rest play . And with his pikestaff he wounded them so as they were unable to run or to go . With fight the Lord Courtney was driven out of breath and most of his servants wounded to death , Then came other horsemen riding so fast , the cripple was forced to fly at last . And over a river a river that ran their beside , which was very deep and eighteen foot wide , With his long staff and his stilts leapt he , and shifted himself in and old hollow tree . Then through the country was hue and cry made to have these thieves apprehended and stayed , The Crepple he creeps on his hands & his knees and on the high way great posting he sees , And as they came Riding he begging does say , Oh give me one penny good Master I pray : And thus unto Exeter creeps he along no man suspecting that he had done wrong , A none the Lord Courtney he spied in the stree he comes unto him and kisses his fee Saying , God save your honour & keep you from ill and from the hands of you enemies still . Amen quod , Lord Courtney & therewith flung down unto the poor Cripple and English crown : Away went the cripple and thus did he think , five hundred pounds more would make me to drink In vain that hue and cry it was made , they found none of them though the country was laid But this grieved the cripple both night and day , that he so unluckily missed of his prey Nine hundred pounds this cripple had god , by begging and robbing so good was his lot , A thousand pound he would make it he said , and then he would quite give over his trade . But as he strived his mind to fulfil , in following his actions so lewd and so ill , At last he was taken the law to suffice , condemned and hanged at Exeter Sise , Which made all men amazed to see , that such and impotent person as he , Should venture himself in such actions as they , to rob in such sort upon the high way . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcock . FINIS . A new ballad entitled , the stout Cripple of Cornnwall , wherein is showed his dissolute life , and deserved death . To the tune of the Blind Beggar . OF a stout Cripple that kept the high way , and begged for his living all time of the day : A story I'll tell you that pleasant shall be , the Cripple of Cornwall surnamed was he . He crept on his hands & his knees up and down , in a torn jacket and ragged patched gown : For he had never a leg to the knee , the Cripple of cornwall surnamed was he , He was of stomach courageous and stout , for he had no cause to complain of the gou To go upon stilts most cunning was he , with a staff on his neck gall [ l ] ant and free . Yea no good fellowship would he forsake were it in secret a purse for to take : His help was good as any might be , the Cripple of Cornwall surnamed was he . When he upon any such service did go , the crafty young cripp [ l ] e provided it so His tools he kept close in and old hollow tree , that stood from the City a mile two or three . Thus all the day long he begged for relief , And late in the night he played the false thief : And seven years together this custom kept he and no man thought him such a person to be , There was few grasiiers went on the way , but unto the cripple for passage did pay , And every brave Merchant that he did descry , he emptied their purses ere they passed by , The gallant Lord Courtney both valiant and bold , road forth with great plenty of silver and gold : At Exeter there a purchase to pay , but that the false cripple his journey did stay . For why the false cripple herd tidings of late as he lay for alms at this nobleman's gate : What day and what hour his journey should be , this is quoth the cripple a booty for me , Then to his companions this mater he moved , which he in like actions before time had proved . They make themselves ready & deeply they swear this moneys their onwe before they come there . Upon his two stilts this cripple does mount to have his best share he makes his account All clothed in canvas down to the ground he takes up his standing his mates with him round Then comes the Lord Courtney with half a score men , that little suspected these thieves in their den : And they perceiving them come to their hand , in a dark evening they bid him stand Deliver thy purse quoth the Cripple with speed , for we be good fellows and thereof have need Not so quoth Lord Courtney but this I tell thee , win it and wear it , else get none of me . With that they Lord Courtney stood in his defence and so did his servants but ere they went hence Two of the true men were slain in the fight , and foure of the thieves were put to their flight , And while for their safeguard they ran thus away the jolly bold cripple did hold the rest play . And with his pikestaff he wounded them so as they were unable to run or to go . With fight the Lord Courtney was driven out of breath and most of his servants wounded to death , Then came other horsemen riding so fast , the cripple was forced to fly at last . And over a river a river that ran their beside , which was very deep and eighteen foot wide , With his long staff and his stilts leapt he , and shifted himself in and old hollow tree . Then through the country was hue and cry made to have these thieves apprehended and stayed , The Crepple he creeps on his hands & his knees and on the high way great posting he sees , And as they came Riding he begging does say , Oh give me one penny good Master I pray : And thus unto Exeter creeps he along no man suspecting that he had done wrong , A none the Lord Courtney he spied in the stree he comes unto him and kisses his fee Saying , God save your honour & keep you from ill and from the hands of you enemies still . Amen quod , Lord Courtney & therewith flung down unto the poor Cripple and English crown : Away went the cripple and thus did he think , five hundred pounds more would make me to drink In vain that hue and cry it was made , they found none of them though the country was laid But this grieved the cripple both night and day , that he so unluckily missed of his prey Nine hundred pounds this cripple had god , by begging and robbing so good was his lot , A thousand pound he would make it he said , and then he would quite give over his trade . But as he strived his mind to fulfil , in following his actions so lewd and so ill , At last he was taken the law to suffice , condemned and hanged at Exeter Sise , Which made all men amazed to see , that such and impotent person as he , Should venture himself in such actions as they , to rob in such sort upon the high way . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcock . FINIS . 