The Whoremongers Conversion , And his Exhortation to's worshipful friend , To leave haunting whores ; from his words this wasptenn'd : And at his request , which makes the Author bolder : It is to be sung like the manding Soldier . GOod your Worship cast your eye , Upon a whorehouse scornfully Let not their painted faces gay , Drive from your heart all grace away : but like a Neaphite , abandon quite all sensual pleasure and deligh and then you soon shall find a sweet contented mind , and have your purse still better linde . To beg I was not born , sweet sir , Yet this petition I prefer Unto your worship which may give You good instructions how to live , leave following of Whores , and them that roars , o do not come within their doors , and then you soon will find a sweet contented mind and have your purse still better linde . I'de scorn to make comparison , With a Jew , a Turke , or Sarizon : That in their lives ne'r tasted grace , But still have run a wicked raze : yet in bad desires , call'd Cupids fires , they pass not you , then need requires , that you your Whores forsake , and better courses take , or else you'll feel th' infernal Lake . Then scorn those painted counterfeits , That get their means by wicked sleights , They'll learn you so much parley French , From you shall come a rotten stench , and at last you shall be forced to fallen , ith Surgeons hands , o'th Hospital : there you shall lie and rot this is by Whoring god , then good your worship use it not . For I ( sir ) limping lame have been , Soar bitten by the Scorpiuns keen , In a bawdy house I us'd to roar , Till all my joints were pocky soar : all this I have endur'd , which vice procur'd , and since of health I am assur'd , I will do what I can , to hinder every man from that base course which once I ran . Thrice thoron the skull I have been shot , Till all my hair came off , God wot , I have at least a doozen times Been apprehended for those crimes : the Constable and Watch oft did me catch . thus I disgrace god by the match : and so shall every one that does as I have done : then , good your worship , wenching shun . The second part , To the same tune . AT pot and pipe I lost mine eye , In quarrel most unluckily : To old-street end , though then a lad , Foure wenches at one time I had : o you would little ween , that I have been a Champion unto many a Quean : I have been beaten soar , ith quarrel of a whore , but now I will be so no more . I coming from a play was taken , By th' Marshals men in Golding-lane , And stripped out of money quite , Exchanging Gold for Silver white : thus in poor array I hrisoner lay , until my friends the debp did pay , for a bound of my word I passed , and thus was scorn'd at las then good your worship live more chaste . There's no bad place that you can name , But I have been in't , the more's my shame : In Turnbull street and Bloomesbury , I have played my part most shamelessly : at Blackman-street I have like a lustful knave , receiv'd what welcome harlots gave : and at Rosemary lane I did two whores maintain , but now their baseness I disdain . And since I have been at Cow-crosse So punished with my Purses loss : Since that at Pickt-hatch I by chance Learn'd French of one that ne'r saw France : there I lost my cloak , which almost broke me quite : all this for truth is spoke , and now I home am come with a newly mended bum , such hap Jove keep your worship from . And now my case you understand , Good sir , let me this boon demand : That you'll be warn'd by me , and leave These damned Queans that will bereave not only you of wealth , but bodies health , nay that's not all , for they by stealth will steal your soul away , to be the devils prey : then sweet sir , leave them while you may . I pray your worship think on me , That am a poor man , as you see : Yet once I was with wealth endued , Which I have spent with strumpets lewd and so will you in time , if this your prime you waste away in such a crime : but I for you will pray , that you may mend this day . O sweet sir , think of what I say . M.P. London Printed for Fr. Cowles . FINIS . The Whoremongers Conversion , And his Exhortation to's worshipful friend , To leave haunting whores ; from his words this wasptenn'd : And at his request , which makes the Author bolder : It is to be sung like the manding Soldier . GOod your Worship cast your eye , Upon a whorehouse scornfully Let not their painted faces gay , Drive from your heart all grace away : but like a Neaphite , abandon quite all sensual pleasure and deligh and then you soon shall find a sweet contented mind , and have your purse still better linde . To beg I was not born , sweet sir , Yet this petition I prefer Unto your worship which may give You good instructions how to live , leave following of Whores , and them that roars , o do not come within their doors , and then you soon will find a sweet contented mind and have your purse still better linde . I'de scorn to make comparison , With a Jew , a Turke , or Sarizon : That in their lives ne'r tasted grace , But still have run a wicked raze : yet in bad desires , call'd Cupids fires , they pass not you , then need requires , that you your Whores forsake , and better courses take , or else you'll feel th' infernal Lake . Then scorn those painted counterfeits , That get their means by wicked sleights , They'll learn you so much parley French , From you shall come a rotten stench , and at last you shall be forced to fallen , ith Surgeons hands , o'th Hospital : there you shall lie and rot this is by Whoring god , then good your worship use it not . For I ( sir ) limping lame have been , Soar bitten by the Scorpiuns keen , In a bawdy house I us'd to roar , Till all my joints were pocky soar : all this I have endur'd , which vice procur'd , and since of health I am assur'd , I will do what I can , to hinder every man from that base course which once I ran . Thrice thoron the skull I have been shot , Till all my hair came off , God wot , I have at least a doozen times Been apprehended for those crimes : the Constable and Watch oft did me catch . thus I disgrace god by the match : and so shall every one that does as I have done : then , good your worship , wenching shun . The second part , To the same tune . AT pot and pipe I lost mine eye , In quarrel most unluckily : To old-street end , though then a lad , Foure wenches at one time I had : o you would little ween , that I have been a Champion unto many a Quean : I have been beaten soar , ith quarrel of a whore , but now I will be so no more . I coming from a play was taken , By th' Marshals men in Golding-lane , And stripped out of money quite , Exchanging Gold for Silver white : thus in poor array I hrisoner lay , until my friends the debp did pay , for a bound of my word I passed , and thus was scorn'd at las then good your worship live more chaste . There's no bad place that you can name , But I have been in't , the more's my shame : In Turnbull street and Bloomesbury , I have played my part most shamelessly : at Blackman-street I have like a lustful knave , receiv'd what welcome harlots gave : and at Rosemary lane I did two whores maintain , but now their baseness I disdain . And since I have been at Cow-crosse So punished with my Purses loss : Since that at Pickt-hatch I by chance Learn'd French of one that ne'r saw France : there I lost my cloak , which almost broke me quite : all this for truth is spoke , and now I home am come with a newly mended bum , such hap Jove keep your worship from . And now my case you understand , Good sir , let me this boon demand : That you'll be warn'd by me , and leave These damned Queans that will bereave not only you of wealth , but bodies health , nay that's not all , for they by stealth will steal your soul away , to be the devils prey : then sweet sir , leave them while you may . I pray your worship think on me , That am a poor man , as you see : Yet once I was with wealth endued , Which I have spent with strumpets lewd and so will you in time , if this your prime you waste away in such a crime : but I for you will pray , that you may mend this day . O sweet sir , think of what I say . M.P. London Printed for Fr. Cowles . FINIS . 