The Fantastic age : OR , The Anatomy of Englands vanity , In wearing the fashions Of several Nations , With good exhortations , Against transmutations . To the tune of , Oh Women monstrous etc AUdience audience gallants all , for here ( as on a stage ) I'll show the postures , admiral of this Fantastic age , Wherein both sexes are grown strange and Phebe-like they often change . O monsters , Neutral monsters leave these foolish toys . Chamelion-like themselves they change to any colour seen , How many several fashions strange have here observed been Within the circuit of few years , as by experience truth appears . O monsters , Neutral monsters , leave these apish toys . And English man or woman now I'll make excuse for neither , Composed are I know not how , of many shreds together : Italian , Spaniard , French , and Dutch , of each of these they have a touch . O monsters , Neutral monsters , leave these apish toys , The Germane and the drunken Dane , the Persian and Polonian : The Sunburnt AEthiopian , the Russian and Slavonian : Our English imitate in clothes , in drinking , drabbing , and strange oaths Oh monsters , Neutral monsters , leave these apish toys , When meekness boar in England sway and pride was not regarded , Then virtue boar the bell away , and goodness was rewarded Now our fantastic innovations , do cause prodigious transmutations . O monsters , Neutral monsters , leave these apish toys . Our men were in precedent days , to manly actions bent . They did not seek their names to raise by clothes , and compliment . Now he's the man whose brave apparel defends him in a Taverne-quarrell . O monsters , Neutral monsters , leave these apish toys . Me thinks the Tailors should not choose but grow exceeding rich , Yet from them I hear no such news though they go thorough stitch : The reason's this , new clothes are made before the old Bill is defrayed . O monsters , Neutral monsters , etc The second part , To the same tune . NOw many of both sexes go each afternoon to 'th play , Their rich Acoutrements to show and do even what they may , To note if they can any spy , that put them down in bravery . O monsters , Neutral monsters , leave these apish toys . The women will not be at quiet , their minds will still be crossed , Till Husbands , Friends , or Father's buy it , what ever price it cost . Thus wide mouth'd pride insatiately , devours all thoughts of piety . O monsters , Neutral monsters , leave these apish toys And men that should more wisdom have then the frail Female sex , As many found inventions have , nay rather they'l annex Unto the story of their shame , a higher style then women claim , Oh monsters , etc Ungirt unblest the proverb says , and they to prove it right , Have god a fashion now adays , thats odious to the sighed Of those who love civility , and hate this idle foppery . O monster . Neutral monster , leave these Apish toys . Like Frenchmen all on points they stand no girdles now they wear , To spread this fashion through the land The Hangman ( as I hear ) When at foure gates he hanged foure men did wear just such a Doublet then . O monsters etc If any thing may give them light to see their vanity : In my conceit that object might make wise men to defy A fashion that is held so base , worn by the Hangman in disgrace . O monsters etc Now to conclude , with all my heart I wish that every one , Would study on some better Art and let vain pride alone : Be as your good Forefathers were , and let not vice thus domineer . O monsters etc What you profusely do let fly , in pride , in drink , and gain : Spend in good hospitality , 'twill elevate your fame The prayers and praises of the poor , shall cloth your minds for evermore . O monster , Neutral monsters , leave these apish toys . FINIS . London Printed for Thomas Lambert . The Fantastic age : OR , The Anatomy of Englands vanity , In wearing the fashions Of several Nations , With good exhortations , Against transmutations . To the tune of , Oh Women monstrous etc AUdience audience gallants all , for here ( as on a stage ) I'll show the postures , admiral of this Fantastic age , Wherein both sexes are grown strange and Phebe-like they often change . O monsters , Neutral monsters leave these foolish toys . Chamelion-like themselves they change to any colour seen , How many several fashions strange have here observed been Within the circuit of few years , as by experience truth appears . O monsters , Neutral monsters , leave these apish toys . And English man or woman now I'll make excuse for neither , Composed are I know not how , of many shreds together : Italian , Spaniard , French , and Dutch , of each of these they have a touch . O monsters , Neutral monsters , leave these apish toys , The Germane and the drunken Dane , the Persian and Polonian : The Sunburnt AEthiopian , the Russian and Slavonian : Our English imitate in clothes , in drinking , drabbing , and strange oaths Oh monsters , Neutral monsters , leave these apish toys , When meekness boar in England sway and pride was not regarded , Then virtue boar the bell away , and goodness was rewarded Now our fantastic innovations , do cause prodigious transmutations . O monsters , Neutral monsters , leave these apish toys . Our men were in precedent days , to manly actions bent . They did not seek their names to raise by clothes , and compliment . Now he's the man whose brave apparel defends him in a Taverne-quarrell . O monsters , Neutral monsters , leave these apish toys . Me thinks the Tailors should not choose but grow exceeding rich , Yet from them I hear no such news though they go thorough stitch : The reason's this , new clothes are made before the old Bill is defrayed . O monsters , Neutral monsters , etc The second part , To the same tune . NOw many of both sexes go each afternoon to 'th play , Their rich Acoutrements to show and do even what they may , To note if they can any spy , that put them down in bravery . O monsters , Neutral monsters , leave these apish toys . The women will not be at quiet , their minds will still be crossed , Till Husbands , Friends , or Father's buy it , what ever price it cost . Thus wide mouth'd pride insatiately , devours all thoughts of piety . O monsters , Neutral monsters , leave these apish toys And men that should more wisdom have then the frail Female sex , As many found inventions have , nay rather they'l annex Unto the story of their shame , a higher style then women claim , Oh monsters , etc Ungirt unblest the proverb says , and they to prove it right , Have god a fashion now adays , thats odious to the sighed Of those who love civility , and hate this idle foppery . O monster . Neutral monster , leave these Apish toys . Like Frenchmen all on points they stand no girdles now they wear , To spread this fashion through the land The Hangman ( as I hear ) When at foure gates he hanged foure men did wear just such a Doublet then . O monsters etc If any thing may give them light to see their vanity : In my conceit that object might make wise men to defy A fashion that is held so base , worn by the Hangman in disgrace . O monsters etc Now to conclude , with all my heart I wish that every one , Would study on some better Art and let vain pride alone : Be as your good Forefathers were , and let not vice thus domineer . O monsters etc What you profusely do let fly , in pride , in drink , and gain : Spend in good hospitality , 'twill elevate your fame The prayers and praises of the poor , shall cloth your minds for evermore . O monster , Neutral monsters , leave these apish toys . FINIS . London Printed for Thomas Lambert . 