A Woman's Birth , OR A perfect relation more witty then common , Set forth to declare the descent of a Woman . To a pleasant new tune . THere is a certain kind of idle Creature , The which by foolish name , we call a woman : I could fallen out and rail upon dame Nature , That ere she fram'd such creatures to undo man , Many have wondered how it came to pass , But note , and I will tell you how it was . When Nature first brought forth her son and heir , The Gods came all one day to gossip with her , Her husband Hymen glad to see them there , Drank healths apace to bid them welcome thither , Till drunk , to bed he went , and in that fit , He god the second birth a female chit . The privy Counsel of the heavens and Planets , Whose Counsel governs all affairs on earth : They held a consultation in their Senates , What should become of this prodigious birth : These strange effects , and correspondent qualities , Which are brought forth by course , & by formalities . Saturne gave Sullenness , Jove Sovereignty , Mars sudden Wrath , and unappeased hate , Phoebus a garish look and wandering Eye , Venus Desire , and Lust insatiate , Mercury Craft , and deep dissembling gave her , Luna unconstant Thoughts , still apt to waver . Juno the wife of Jove , gave Jealousy , A pettish Anger , and revengeful spirit , In which she will persist perpetually , As if her soul could boast no other meri Though Love at first bear rule in her supremely , Wanting her will ther's none hates more extremely . Flora bestow'd upon her cheek , a hue Of read and white , to make her feature pleasant , That she the easier might the heart subdue , Of King , Prince , Courtier , Citizen or Peasant , But he that trusts her faith , it is so slack , Her read and white to willow turns , and black . Scornful Diana did her mind inspire With cruel Coyness , and obdurate Passion , That man might think her soul had most desire , Still to live single , without alterations , When heaven knows 'tis but her pride of mind , That thinks none good enough to court her kind . The second part , to the same tune . THus qualified , into the world was brought , This strange & uncatch piece of earth call'd woman , Nature afraid her husband should have thought That she had played the whore , or been too common , Besought Lucina from old Hymens sighed , Close to convey it unto Venus bright . Where being brought by Venus she did learn To use lose gestures with her hand and eye , With feigned sighs , false tears , not to discern , And diverse such lose tricks of Levity , Lisping of kisses , smilings , and such fits , As well might drive a kind man from his wits . Venus well skill'd and apt to make escape , Sent it to be brought up among the Fairies , Thus finding it to prove a pretty Ape , Wanton and merry , full of mad fegaries , She brought it home and gave it to her son , To be his playmate and companion . Mulciber envying that his wife had god , A nursery contrary to his mind , He call'd the Cyclopes , and with fire hight They forg'd her heart ( just to it's proper kind ) Of steel , i'th fashion of and Anvil hard , That should no fire nor strokes a whit regard . Phaeton that while assuming Phoebus seat , I'th time of's Reign , imparted to this brat , Mischievous fancies and a proud conceit , That should desire to do she knows not what , And that donation did her so inspire , If wishes might prevail , the world she'd fire . The winged Child no sooner did espy her , But he enamour'd of her feature grew , The god of Love himself was set on fire , And needs would change his mother for a new : If she on Lov's great power can work such rape , How shall his subject's with their weakness escape ? He prank't it up in Farthingales and Muffs , In Masks , Rebato's Shapperowns , and Wyers , In paintings , powderings , Periwigs and Cuffs , In Dutch , Italian , Spanish , French attires : Thus was it born brought forth & made Loves baby , And this is that which now we call a Lady . But you young men to whom she may be sent , Take some advisement ere you entertain her , Pray use her kindly for her high descent , Courting and kissing is the way to gain her , If she love true , I'll speak this in her praise , Each hour shee'le bless the number of your days . Printed at London for Francis Grove , dwelling upon Snow-hill . Philo-balladus . Finis . A Woman's Birth , OR A perfect relation more witty then common , Set forth to declare the descent of a Woman . To a pleasant new tune . THere is a certain kind of idle Creature , The which by foolish name , we call a woman : I could fallen out and rail upon dame Nature , That ere she fram'd such creatures to undo man , Many have wondered how it came to pass , But note , and I will tell you how it was . When Nature first brought forth her son and heir , The Gods came all one day to gossip with her , Her husband Hymen glad to see them there , Drank healths apace to bid them welcome thither , Till drunk , to bed he went , and in that fit , He god the second birth a female chit . The privy Counsel of the heavens and Planets , Whose Counsel governs all affairs on earth : They held a consultation in their Senates , What should become of this prodigious birth : These strange effects , and correspondent qualities , Which are brought forth by course , & by formalities . Saturne gave Sullenness , Jove Sovereignty , Mars sudden Wrath , and unappeased hate , Phoebus a garish look and wandering Eye , Venus Desire , and Lust insatiate , Mercury Craft , and deep dissembling gave her , Luna unconstant Thoughts , still apt to waver . Juno the wife of Jove , gave Jealousy , A pettish Anger , and revengeful spirit , In which she will persist perpetually , As if her soul could boast no other meri Though Love at first bear rule in her supremely , Wanting her will ther's none hates more extremely . Flora bestow'd upon her cheek , a hue Of read and white , to make her feature pleasant , That she the easier might the heart subdue , Of King , Prince , Courtier , Citizen or Peasant , But he that trusts her faith , it is so slack , Her read and white to willow turns , and black . Scornful Diana did her mind inspire With cruel Coyness , and obdurate Passion , That man might think her soul had most desire , Still to live single , without alterations , When heaven knows 'tis but her pride of mind , That thinks none good enough to court her kind . The second part , to the same tune . THus qualified , into the world was brought , This strange & uncatch piece of earth call'd woman , Nature afraid her husband should have thought That she had played the whore , or been too common , Besought Lucina from old Hymens sighed , Close to convey it unto Venus bright . Where being brought by Venus she did learn To use lose gestures with her hand and eye , With feigned sighs , false tears , not to discern , And diverse such lose tricks of Levity , Lisping of kisses , smilings , and such fits , As well might drive a kind man from his wits . Venus well skill'd and apt to make escape , Sent it to be brought up among the Fairies , Thus finding it to prove a pretty Ape , Wanton and merry , full of mad fegaries , She brought it home and gave it to her son , To be his playmate and companion . Mulciber envying that his wife had god , A nursery contrary to his mind , He call'd the Cyclopes , and with fire hight They forg'd her heart ( just to it's proper kind ) Of steel , i'th fashion of and Anvil hard , That should no fire nor strokes a whit regard . Phaeton that while assuming Phoebus seat , I'th time of's Reign , imparted to this brat , Mischievous fancies and a proud conceit , That should desire to do she knows not what , And that donation did her so inspire , If wishes might prevail , the world she'd fire . The winged Child no sooner did espy her , But he enamour'd of her feature grew , The god of Love himself was set on fire , And needs would change his mother for a new : If she on Lov's great power can work such rape , How shall his subject's with their weakness escape ? He prank't it up in Farthingales and Muffs , In Masks , Rebato's Shapperowns , and Wyers , In paintings , powderings , Periwigs and Cuffs , In Dutch , Italian , Spanish , French attires : Thus was it born brought forth & made Loves baby , And this is that which now we call a Lady . But you young men to whom she may be sent , Take some advisement ere you entertain her , Pray use her kindly for her high descent , Courting and kissing is the way to gain her , If she love true , I'll speak this in her praise , Each hour shee'le bless the number of your days . Printed at London for Francis Grove , dwelling upon Snow-hill . Philo-balladus . Finis . 