A worthy mirror , wherein you may mark , and excellent discourse of a breeding Lark : By reading whereof , perceive well you may , what trust is in friends or in kinsfolk to stay . To the tune of Rogero . A Lark some time did breed , within a field of corn : And had increase when as the grain was ready to be shorn , She wary of the time , and careful of her nes Debated wisely with her self , what thing to do were best . For to abide the rage , of cruel reapers hand : S [ he knew ] it was to perilous , with safety for to stand . And to dislodge her brood , unable yet to fly : Not knowing whither to remove , great harm might hap thereby . Therefore she meant to stay , till force constrained her fleet : And in the while for to provide , some other place as meet . The better to provide , the purpose of her mind : She would forthwith go seek abroad and leave her young behind . But first she bade them all , attend their Mother's will : Which careful was for to eschew , each likelihood of ill . This Corn is ripe quoth she , wherein we nestlyd are : The which if heads prevent not harms might cause our mortal care . Therefore to fence with skill , the sequel of mishaps : We will provide some other place , for fear of after claps . While I for this and food , am flown hence away : With heedful ears attentive be , what comers by do say . Thus said , she vaunst her self , upon her longest toe : And mounted up into the sky , still singing as she flow . Anon she home returned , full fraught with choice of meat : But lo a sudden chance , his birds for fear could nothing eat . Therewith aghast she cried , what hoe , what means this : I charge you on my blessing tell , what thing hath chanced amiss . Is this the welcome home , or thanks for food I have : You wonted were with chirping cheer to gape before I gave . But now such qualms oppress , your former quiet kind : That quite transform'd dum mute things senseless souls I find . The prime and eldest bird , thus chirpt began to say : Alas deer dame , such news we heard since you were flown away That were it not the trust , that we repose in you : Our lives were lost remediless , we know it well enough . The owner of the plot , came hither with his son : And said to him this Corn must down this more then time it done . Go get thee to my friends , and bid them come to morn : And tell them that I crave their help to reap a piece of corn . The Lark that was the Dame , stood in a dump a while , And after said , his friends quoth she and then began to smile . Tush , friends are hard to find , true friendship sild appears : A man may miss to have a friend , that lives old Nestors years , True Damond and his friend , long ere our time were dead : It was in Greece a great way henc [ e , ] where such true love was bred . Our country is too cold , to foster by a friend : Till proof be made each one will sa [ y ] still yours unto the end . But try in time of need , and all your friends are flown Such fruitless seeds , such fickle sta [ y ] in faithless friends be sown . The second part of the breeding Lark . To the same tune . THerefore be of good cheer , revive your dulled spirits : Expel the care that cause [ l ] es thus , bereaves you of delights : Let not surmised fear , deprive your eyes of sleep . My self will be amo [ n ] gst you still , that safely will you keep . And swear even by the tuft , that grows upon my Crown : If all his trust be in his friends , this corn shall not go down . The young assured by her , that such and oath did swear : Did pass the night in wonted sleep , and banished former fear . And when the drousy night , was fled from gladsome day : She bade them wake and look about for she must go her way . And said I warrant you , his friends will not come hear : Yet not withstanding listen well , and tell me what you hear . Anon the farmer came , enraged well nigh mad : And said who so dep [ e ] nds on friends , his case is worse then bad . I must go fetch my kin , to help me with this gear : In things of greater weight then this their kindred shall appear . The Larks their dame returned : informed her of all : and how that he himself was gone : his kindred for to call . But when she herd of kin , she laughing cried amain : A pin for kin a fig for friends , yet kin the worst of that twaine . This man himself is poor , though wealthy kin he have : And kindred now a days does fail , when need compels to crave . No not he shall return , with ill contented mind : His pains shall yield but loss of time no comfort shall he find . They all are so addict , Unto their private gain : That if you lack power to requite , your suits are all in vain . My self am overharg'd , with harvest as you see : And nearer is my skin then shirt , thus shall their answer be . Therefore as erst of friends , so say I now of kin : We shall receive no hurt by this , nor he no profit win . Yet listen once again , what now his refuge is : For kindred shall be like to friends , be well assured of this . I must go furnish up , a nest I have begun : I will return and bring you meat , as soon as I have done . Then up she came the clay , with such a lusty lay : That it rejoyc'd her younglings hearts as in their nest they lay . And much they did commend , their lusty mother's gate : And thought it long till time had brought themselves to such a state . Thus as their twinkling eyes , were roving to and from : They saw whereas the farmer came who was their mortal foe . Who after due complaints , thus said he in the end : I will from henceforth trust my self and not to kin or friends . Who gives me glossing words , and fails me at my need : May in my pater noster be , but never in my creed . My self will have it done , sith it must needs be so : For proof hath taught me so much wit to trust to any more . The birds that listening lay , attentive to the same : Informed their mother of the whole , as soon as ere she came . Yea Marry then quoth she , the case now altered is : We will no longer here abide , I always feared this . But out she god them all , and trudgd away apace , And through the Corn she brought them all unto another place . God send her luck to escape , the hawk and fowlers gin : And me the hap to have no need , of neither friend nor kin , Finis . Imprinted at London for J. W. A worthy mirror , wherein you may mark , and excellent discourse of a breeding Lark : By reading whereof , perceive well you may , what trust is in friends or in kinsfolk to stay . To the tune of Rogero . A Lark some time did breed , within a field of corn : And had increase when as the grain was ready to be shorn , She wary of the time , and careful of her nes Debated wisely with her self , what thing to do were best . For to abide the rage , of cruel reapers hand : S [ he knew ] it was to perilous , with safety for to stand . And to dislodge her brood , unable yet to fly : Not knowing whither to remove , great harm might hap thereby . Therefore she meant to stay , till force constrained her fleet : And in the while for to provide , some other place as meet . The better to provide , the purpose of her mind : She would forthwith go seek abroad and leave her young behind . But first she bade them all , attend their Mother's will : Which careful was for to eschew , each likelihood of ill . This Corn is ripe quoth she , wherein we nestlyd are : The which if heads prevent not harms might cause our mortal care . Therefore to fence with skill , the sequel of mishaps : We will provide some other place , for fear of after claps . While I for this and food , am flown hence away : With heedful ears attentive be , what comers by do say . Thus said , she vaunst her self , upon her longest toe : And mounted up into the sky , still singing as she flow . Anon she home returned , full fraught with choice of meat : But lo a sudden chance , his birds for fear could nothing eat . Therewith aghast she cried , what hoe , what means this : I charge you on my blessing tell , what thing hath chanced amiss . Is this the welcome home , or thanks for food I have : You wonted were with chirping cheer to gape before I gave . But now such qualms oppress , your former quiet kind : That quite transform'd dum mute things senseless souls I find . The prime and eldest bird , thus chirpt began to say : Alas deer dame , such news we heard since you were flown away That were it not the trust , that we repose in you : Our lives were lost remediless , we know it well enough . The owner of the plot , came hither with his son : And said to him this Corn must down this more then time it done . Go get thee to my friends , and bid them come to morn : And tell them that I crave their help to reap a piece of corn . The Lark that was the Dame , stood in a dump a while , And after said , his friends quoth she and then began to smile . Tush , friends are hard to find , true friendship sild appears : A man may miss to have a friend , that lives old Nestors years , True Damond and his friend , long ere our time were dead : It was in Greece a great way henc [ e , ] where such true love was bred . Our country is too cold , to foster by a friend : Till proof be made each one will sa [ y ] still yours unto the end . But try in time of need , and all your friends are flown Such fruitless seeds , such fickle sta [ y ] in faithless friends be sown . The second part of the breeding Lark . To the same tune . THerefore be of good cheer , revive your dulled spirits : Expel the care that cause [ l ] es thus , bereaves you of delights : Let not surmised fear , deprive your eyes of sleep . My self will be amo [ n ] gst you still , that safely will you keep . And swear even by the tuft , that grows upon my Crown : If all his trust be in his friends , this corn shall not go down . The young assured by her , that such and oath did swear : Did pass the night in wonted sleep , and banished former fear . And when the drousy night , was fled from gladsome day : She bade them wake and look about for she must go her way . And said I warrant you , his friends will not come hear : Yet not withstanding listen well , and tell me what you hear . Anon the farmer came , enraged well nigh mad : And said who so dep [ e ] nds on friends , his case is worse then bad . I must go fetch my kin , to help me with this gear : In things of greater weight then this their kindred shall appear . The Larks their dame returned : informed her of all : and how that he himself was gone : his kindred for to call . But when she herd of kin , she laughing cried amain : A pin for kin a fig for friends , yet kin the worst of that twaine . This man himself is poor , though wealthy kin he have : And kindred now a days does fail , when need compels to crave . No not he shall return , with ill contented mind : His pains shall yield but loss of time no comfort shall he find . They all are so addict , Unto their private gain : That if you lack power to requite , your suits are all in vain . My self am overharg'd , with harvest as you see : And nearer is my skin then shirt , thus shall their answer be . Therefore as erst of friends , so say I now of kin : We shall receive no hurt by this , nor he no profit win . Yet listen once again , what now his refuge is : For kindred shall be like to friends , be well assured of this . I must go furnish up , a nest I have begun : I will return and bring you meat , as soon as I have done . Then up she came the clay , with such a lusty lay : That it rejoyc'd her younglings hearts as in their nest they lay . And much they did commend , their lusty mother's gate : And thought it long till time had brought themselves to such a state . Thus as their twinkling eyes , were roving to and from : They saw whereas the farmer came who was their mortal foe . Who after due complaints , thus said he in the end : I will from henceforth trust my self and not to kin or friends . Who gives me glossing words , and fails me at my need : May in my pater noster be , but never in my creed . My self will have it done , sith it must needs be so : For proof hath taught me so much wit to trust to any more . The birds that listening lay , attentive to the same : Informed their mother of the whole , as soon as ere she came . Yea Marry then quoth she , the case now altered is : We will no longer here abide , I always feared this . But out she god them all , and trudgd away apace , And through the Corn she brought them all unto another place . God send her luck to escape , the hawk and fowlers gin : And me the hap to have no need , of neither friend nor kin , Finis . Imprinted at London for J. W. 