A Warning for all Murderers . A most rare , strange , and wonderful accident , which by Gods just judgement was brought to pass , not far from Rithin in Wales , and shown upon three most wicked persons , who had secretly and cunningly murdered a young Gentleman nam David Williams , that by no means it could be known , and how in the end it was revenged by a child of five years old , which was in his Mother's womb , and unborn when the deed was done . To the tune of , Wigmores Galliard . GIve ear unto my story true , you graceless men on earth : Which any way in secret seek your neighbours timeless death . Not many pleasant Summer's passed this wicked work was done , Which three accursed kinsmen wrought against their Uncles son . A kind and courteous Gentleman , his aged Father's joy , The only heir unto his Lands that should his place enjoy . His envious Nephews gaping still , his day of death to see , Thought every year that he did live , seven year [ e ] s and more to be . Because this gentle Gentleman , once being laid in grave , Their aged Uncle being dead , they should the living have : The thought whereof did often make their hearts with joy abound , For that they knew the living worth each year and hundred pound . But when they saw this towards Youth live up to men estate , And to himself hath likewise chosen a faithful loving mate , Then were they out of hope and heart , but most , when they did see His beauteous wife in little space , most big with child to be . Then did the Devil entice them straight to murder , death , and blood , Thereby to purchase to themselves their long desired good . A hundred ways they did devise this Gentleman to kill : But yet his wife being big with child , stuck in their stomach still . If we should slay the one , they said , and let the other live , No comfort to our hearts desire that deed at all would give : The brat new bred within her womb , none can for heir deny : Therefore 'tis meet and requisite , that both of them should die . And for to blind the eyes of men , strange garments had they god , Which to perform that wicked deed they only did allot . And after this most bad pretence , the Gentleman each day , Still felt his heart to throb and faint , and sad he was always . His sleep was full of dreadful dreams , in bed where he did lie , His heart was heavy in the day , yet knew no reason why , And oft as he did fit at meat , his nose most suddenly , Would spring and gush out crimson blood , and straight it would be dry . It chanced so upon a time , as he his supper ate , His eyes and heart so heavy were , that he slept at his meat . Now fie , then quoth his loving wife , and woke him presently , Why is my Dear so drowsy now ? quoth he , I know not , I Good wife , he said , let us go walk about our Land a while , I shall be wakened thoroughly , when I have walked a mile . His wife agreed , and forth they went , most kindly arm in arm : But suddenly were they espied , that thought on little harm . At length three sturdy men they met , in Soldiers tattered rags , With swords fast girded unto their sides , which tangled in their jagges : Their faces smear'd with dirt and soot , in loathsome beastly wise , With black thrumb'd hats upon their heads as is the Germane guise . And when they saw no persons nigh , those helpless couple then , They wounded soar in cruel sort , like most accursed men , And in the thickest of the corn , which in that place was high , They drag'd the murdered bodies then , and so away did high . And soon they shifted off their rags , and hit them by the way , And weaponless they homeward went , clad in their own array . Long did the silly servants wait their Master's coming home , Which dead within the field did lie , all bath'd in bloody foam . FINIS . Printed at London for Henry Gosson , dwelling upon London Bridge , near the Gate . A Warning for all Murderers . The second part of the Murder of David Williams , and his Wife being great with child , which was revenged by a child of five years old , which was in his Mother's womb , and unborn when the deed was done . To the tune of , Wigmores Galliard . AT length , when dark and gloomy clouds had shadowed all the sky , The servants wandered up and down , their Master to espy : And as they passed along the place where these were lately slain , Within the corn they herd one groan , as heart would break in twaine . And running straight to search and see , who gave this ghastly found : Their Master dead their Mistress stab'd , yet living there they found , In bitter pangs in travel then this woeful woman lay , And was delivered of a Son , before the break of day . Then died she incontinent , no memory had she For to descry the murderers , nor found they could not be . They both together buried were , the child to Nurse was set , Which thriv'd and prosper'd passing well , no sickness did him let . But now behold Gods judgement jus the truth I shall you tell , Ere this child was seven quarters old , this strange event befell : One of the murderers being set at Tables on a day , The Nurse did chance to bring this child within that place to play . The child under the Table god , unthought of any one , And bit his Cousin by the leg , hard at the ankle bone , Which by no help nor Art of man could ever healed be , But swelled and rotted in such sort , that thereof died he . Not full a twelvemonth after this , this child did chance to be , Whereas the second murderer was drinking merrily : He took one of the biggest pins that stuck about his breast , And thrust it in his Kinsmans thigh , where then the sign did rest . Which done , he laughing ran his way , the wound did bleed amain : By no means could they staunch the blood , nor ease his extreme pain . The grief and anguish was so great , which thereof did proceed , That ere three days were fully passed , the man to death did bleed . The child with rods was swing'd full soar , for this unhappy act , Yet never would forgiveness ask for his committed fact . Thus passed it on , until the time this child was five years old : The other murderer living still with conscience bad , behold , He never after saw the child , but he would shun the place , The child did never look on him , but with a frowning face : And stones at him still would he fling , where ere he did him meet : Which made the neighbours wonder much that oftentimes did see't . In Harvest next this little child , with other boys beside , Went to the Fields , and open mouth'd , this man asleep they spied : The child having a bramble stick , within his hand to play , Did thrust it down his Cousin's throat , a sleeping as he lay . The man therewith being soon awak't , did strive to pull it ou And he thereby did rend and tear his windpipe round abou Which being found incurable , as he lay in his bed , His murderous deed he did confess , as you before have read . FINIS . Printed at London for Henry Gosson dwell - ling upon London Bridge , near the Gate . A Warning for all Murderers . A most rare , strange , and wonderful accident , which by Gods just judgement was brought to pass , not far from Rithin in Wales , and shown upon three most wicked persons , who had secretly and cunningly murdered a young Gentleman nam David Williams , that by no means it could be known , and how in the end it was revenged by a child of five years old , which was in his Mother's womb , and unborn when the deed was done . To the tune of , Wigmores Galliard . GIve ear unto my story true , you graceless men on earth : Which any way in secret seek your neighbours timeless death . Not many pleasant Summer's passed this wicked work was done , Which three accursed kinsmen wrought against their Uncles son . A kind and courteous Gentleman , his aged Father's joy , The only heir unto his Lands that should his place enjoy . His envious Nephews gaping still , his day of death to see , Thought every year that he did live , seven year [ e ] s and more to be . Because this gentle Gentleman , once being laid in grave , Their aged Uncle being dead , they should the living have : The thought whereof did often make their hearts with joy abound , For that they knew the living worth each year and hundred pound . But when they saw this towards Youth live up to men estate , And to himself hath likewise chosen a faithful loving mate , Then were they out of hope and heart , but most , when they did see His beauteous wife in little space , most big with child to be . Then did the Devil entice them straight to murder , death , and blood , Thereby to purchase to themselves their long desired good . A hundred ways they did devise this Gentleman to kill : But yet his wife being big with child , stuck in their stomach still . If we should slay the one , they said , and let the other live , No comfort to our hearts desire that deed at all would give : The brat new bred within her womb , none can for heir deny : Therefore 'tis meet and requisite , that both of them should die . And for to blind the eyes of men , strange garments had they god , Which to perform that wicked deed they only did allot . And after this most bad pretence , the Gentleman each day , Still felt his heart to throb and faint , and sad he was always . His sleep was full of dreadful dreams , in bed where he did lie , His heart was heavy in the day , yet knew no reason why , And oft as he did fit at meat , his nose most suddenly , Would spring and gush out crimson blood , and straight it would be dry . It chanced so upon a time , as he his supper ate , His eyes and heart so heavy were , that he slept at his meat . Now fie , then quoth his loving wife , and woke him presently , Why is my Dear so drowsy now ? quoth he , I know not , I Good wife , he said , let us go walk about our Land a while , I shall be wakened thoroughly , when I have walked a mile . His wife agreed , and forth they went , most kindly arm in arm : But suddenly were they espied , that thought on little harm . At length three sturdy men they met , in Soldiers tattered rags , With swords fast girded unto their sides , which tangled in their jagges : Their faces smear'd with dirt and soot , in loathsome beastly wise , With black thrumb'd hats upon their heads as is the Germane guise . And when they saw no persons nigh , those helpless couple then , They wounded soar in cruel sort , like most accursed men , And in the thickest of the corn , which in that place was high , They drag'd the murdered bodies then , and so away did high . And soon they shifted off their rags , and hit them by the way , And weaponless they homeward went , clad in their own array . Long did the silly servants wait their Master's coming home , Which dead within the field did lie , all bath'd in bloody foam . FINIS . Printed at London for Henry Gosson , dwelling upon London Bridge , near the Gate . A Warning for all Murderers . The second part of the Murder of David Williams , and his Wife being great with child , which was revenged by a child of five years old , which was in his Mother's womb , and unborn when the deed was done . To the tune of , Wigmores Galliard . AT length , when dark and gloomy clouds had shadowed all the sky , The servants wandered up and down , their Master to espy : And as they passed along the place where these were lately slain , Within the corn they herd one groan , as heart would break in twaine . And running straight to search and see , who gave this ghastly found : Their Master dead their Mistress stab'd , yet living there they found , In bitter pangs in travel then this woeful woman lay , And was delivered of a Son , before the break of day . Then died she incontinent , no memory had she For to descry the murderers , nor found they could not be . They both together buried were , the child to Nurse was set , Which thriv'd and prosper'd passing well , no sickness did him let . But now behold Gods judgement jus the truth I shall you tell , Ere this child was seven quarters old , this strange event befell : One of the murderers being set at Tables on a day , The Nurse did chance to bring this child within that place to play . The child under the Table god , unthought of any one , And bit his Cousin by the leg , hard at the ankle bone , Which by no help nor Art of man could ever healed be , But swelled and rotted in such sort , that thereof died he . Not full a twelvemonth after this , this child did chance to be , Whereas the second murderer was drinking merrily : He took one of the biggest pins that stuck about his breast , And thrust it in his Kinsmans thigh , where then the sign did rest . Which done , he laughing ran his way , the wound did bleed amain : By no means could they staunch the blood , nor ease his extreme pain . The grief and anguish was so great , which thereof did proceed , That ere three days were fully passed , the man to death did bleed . The child with rods was swing'd full soar , for this unhappy act , Yet never would forgiveness ask for his committed fact . Thus passed it on , until the time this child was five years old : The other murderer living still with conscience bad , behold , He never after saw the child , but he would shun the place , The child did never look on him , but with a frowning face : And stones at him still would he fling , where ere he did him meet : Which made the neighbours wonder much that oftentimes did see't . In Harvest next this little child , with other boys beside , Went to the Fields , and open mouth'd , this man asleep they spied : The child having a bramble stick , within his hand to play , Did thrust it down his Cousin's throat , a sleeping as he lay . The man therewith being soon awak't , did strive to pull it ou And he thereby did rend and tear his windpipe round abou Which being found incurable , as he lay in his bed , His murderous deed he did confess , as you before have read . FINIS . Printed at London for Henry Gosson dwell - ling upon London Bridge , near the Gate . 