A right Godly and Christian A.B.C. showing the duty of every degree . To the tune of Rogero . ARise and wake from wickedness , repent and thou shalt live : Or else with sword and pestilence , the Lord God will thee grieve . BEware of Lust and Lechery , keep thou thy body chas Or else frequent the remedy , that Paul does say thou mayest . Confess thy sins as David did , and turn unto the Lord ; He will thee hear before thou call , so Esay does record . DEale with thy neighbour mercifully , deceive no man by guile : Take heed of all extortion , it will thy soul defile . EXamine well thy wicked life , hide not thy council deep : The Lord God threatens woe to them , that secret sins do keep . FLy theft and all unworthiness , and labour in the Lord : The ground of sin is idleness , with vices it is stor'd . GIve alms unto thy children deer , and turn not from the poor : Lend to the needy man thy goods , his pledge to him restore . HUrt not thy neighbour wittingly , in body goods or name : Remit offences willingly , lest God revenge the same . IF God do bless thee with his gifts , of worldly goods , and store : Let not thy heart on them be set , but praise the Lord therefore . Keep not thy hirelings wages back , God will his cry regard : In poor men's matters be not slack , the Lord will thee reward . LOve every man unfeignedly , hate no man in thy hear Despise the way of wicked men , pray God they may convert . MInister Justice Magistrates , you Master's kindly deal : You Parents all lest Gods curse fallen , let youth correction feel . NO guileful speech , nor lying talk use thou in any ways : Eschew all evil , in goodness walk , if thou wilt see good days . Oppress no man by usury , refuse unlawful gain : Give plenteously unto the poor , Christ will thee pay again . Possess your souls with patience , against the wicked world : Pour out your prayers with reverence , before the living Lord QUarrel with none quench such desire , to anger be not ben Remember God is merciful , when sinners do repent . REdeemed from the curse we are , by Christ to live with him : Our members let us mortify , which are all bent to sin . Sanctify the Sabbath , serve the Lord , from labour see thou rest Then God will have regard on thee , and make thy labour blessed . TAke heed you love no swearing false , swear not by God in vain : Let all your talk attend unto the honour of his Name . USe no deceit nor unjust means , to compass worldly wealth : Extortion , fraud , and usury , and all such things are stealth . WAlke not in worldly lustest and since , such worldly darkness shun But walk as children of the light , as Christ himself begun . XAmples many are set forth , against the drunken sor What deadly plagues are due to them , the Scriptures do report . Young folk be sober and chaste of mind , let Gods word be your guide : Make clean your hearts before the Lord , and never from him slide . ZAche a Publican Saint Lycia does tell what zeal to Christ he had : But to behold our Jewish hearts , alas it is too bad . & Plainly Lycia does specify , of that men Godly mind : How to the poor most liberally , half his goods he assign'd . EST , in English does specify , in speech a Latin Verb : Into our hearts Lord pour thy Spirit , whereby we may be stirr'd TO sighs and groan unfeignedly , with sorrow for our sins : And for to seek the remedy , a new life to begin . AMen , God grant we loose no time , to walk while we have light , That finally we may pessesse , the heavenly joys most bright . OUr noble King with Nestors years the Lord God long endue , With Sampsons strength and Salomons wit , his foes for to eschew . GOd grant his grace , great Joy & honour with pleasure here beneath : To rule and reign the Royal seat , so long as he hath breath . Printed at London for Henry Gosson . FINIS . A right Godly and Christian A.B.C. showing the duty of every degree . To the tune of Rogero . ARise and wake from wickedness , repent and thou shalt live : Or else with sword and pestilence , the Lord God will thee grieve . BEware of Lust and Lechery , keep thou thy body chas Or else frequent the remedy , that Paul does say thou mayest . Confess thy sins as David did , and turn unto the Lord ; He will thee hear before thou call , so Esay does record . DEale with thy neighbour mercifully , deceive no man by guile : Take heed of all extortion , it will thy soul defile . EXamine well thy wicked life , hide not thy council deep : The Lord God threatens woe to them , that secret sins do keep . FLy theft and all unworthiness , and labour in the Lord : The ground of sin is idleness , with vices it is stor'd . GIve alms unto thy children deer , and turn not from the poor : Lend to the needy man thy goods , his pledge to him restore . HUrt not thy neighbour wittingly , in body goods or name : Remit offences willingly , lest God revenge the same . IF God do bless thee with his gifts , of worldly goods , and store : Let not thy heart on them be set , but praise the Lord therefore . Keep not thy hirelings wages back , God will his cry regard : In poor men's matters be not slack , the Lord will thee reward . LOve every man unfeignedly , hate no man in thy hear Despise the way of wicked men , pray God they may convert . MInister Justice Magistrates , you Master's kindly deal : You Parents all lest Gods curse fallen , let youth correction feel . NO guileful speech , nor lying talk use thou in any ways : Eschew all evil , in goodness walk , if thou wilt see good days . Oppress no man by usury , refuse unlawful gain : Give plenteously unto the poor , Christ will thee pay again . Possess your souls with patience , against the wicked world : Pour out your prayers with reverence , before the living Lord QUarrel with none quench such desire , to anger be not ben Remember God is merciful , when sinners do repent . REdeemed from the curse we are , by Christ to live with him : Our members let us mortify , which are all bent to sin . Sanctify the Sabbath , serve the Lord , from labour see thou rest Then God will have regard on thee , and make thy labour blessed . TAke heed you love no swearing false , swear not by God in vain : Let all your talk attend unto the honour of his Name . USe no deceit nor unjust means , to compass worldly wealth : Extortion , fraud , and usury , and all such things are stealth . WAlke not in worldly lustest and since , such worldly darkness shun But walk as children of the light , as Christ himself begun . XAmples many are set forth , against the drunken sor What deadly plagues are due to them , the Scriptures do report . Young folk be sober and chaste of mind , let Gods word be your guide : Make clean your hearts before the Lord , and never from him slide . ZAche a Publican Saint Lycia does tell what zeal to Christ he had : But to behold our Jewish hearts , alas it is too bad . & Plainly Lycia does specify , of that men Godly mind : How to the poor most liberally , half his goods he assign'd . EST , in English does specify , in speech a Latin Verb : Into our hearts Lord pour thy Spirit , whereby we may be stirr'd TO sighs and groan unfeignedly , with sorrow for our sins : And for to seek the remedy , a new life to begin . AMen , God grant we loose no time , to walk while we have light , That finally we may pessesse , the heavenly joys most bright . OUr noble King with Nestors years the Lord God long endue , With Sampsons strength and Salomons wit , his foes for to eschew . GOd grant his grace , great Joy & honour with pleasure here beneath : To rule and reign the Royal seat , so long as he hath breath . Printed at London for Henry Gosson . FINIS . 