A Christian conference between Christ and a Sinner , wherein is showed the Love of Christ towards Mankind , and the pains which he suffered upon the Cross for our sins together with the wickedness of our corrupt nature's towards him for the same To the tune of Go to bed sweet heart . I Am a poor sinner , how should I begin , to fallen from my folly and horrible since , I Know not to whom I should make my complaint my sins are so heinous my heart it does faint . My conscience accuseth me , no man can comfort me Succour me sweet Christ I would come to thee . Christ . O thou sinful creature why dost thou despair , canst thou not settle thy self unto prayer : By faith and repentance if thou wilt relent , and fallen from the former life thou hast ill spen And turn away from thy since , that's the way to begin I that redeemed thee bids thee come to me . The Sinner . Alas , when to pray to thee I have intended , My conscience does tell me I have so offended That thou wilt deny my request in my prayer , and this ( Oh Lord ) causeth me thus to despair . My conscience accuseth me , etc Christ . Where dost thou find in my holy bible , that nothing with me can be unpossible : For were thine iniquity never so great , my mercy surpasses it , if thou wilt entreat . And turn away , etc Sinner . O how my body does tremble and shake , my soul is unquiet my heart it does ache : The Devil does temp and lead me to ill , enforcing that thou wilt be angry still , My conscience accuseth me , etc Christ . Believe not the Devil for all his delay , for his subtle sleight is to work thy decay : Think how I converted my Apostle S. Paul , by mercy and favour which I give to you all . Turn away . etc Sinner . How apt is ill counsel to led me to vice , how does the world daily my fancy entice , Adversity pincheth me every hour , I dread not thy judgement , thy justice and power . My conscience accuseth me , etc Christ . O earth and slime learn thou to shun all annoy , and suffer with patience , so shalt thou have joy , Consider what pain I have suffered for thee , enduring all torments to set thy soul free . Then turn away , etc Sinner . O my sweet Saviour , I cannot deny , but that for my filthy offence thou didst die . And what cruel pangs thou abidst in the Garden , and daily sweet Jesus thou pleadest for my pardon [ My conscience accuseth me , etc ] Christ . Then since thou confessest that I am thy Saviour , behold which way thou shalt attain to my favour Examine thy sins and be sorry therefore , and never commit such offence any more . Then turn away , etc Sinner . Alas , I am feeble and have not the face , take hold of thy promise except thy sweet grace , My carcase is filthy and nothing but clay , send help I beseech thee or else I decay . My conscience accuseth me , etc Christ . If once I do see thee be sorry in heart , amending thy life , and in time will convert , Let nothing dismay thee for I will receive thee , let all thy familiar and worldly friends leave thee Then turn away , etc Sinner . Then Lord in thy mercy is all my whole stay , permit not foul Satan to cast me away , From that filthy tyrant sweet Jesus defend me . he leads my affections , and still does attend me . And daily he telleth me , no man , etc Christ . Say to him thus when he would thee devour , avoid wicked Satan thou hast no more power , But that which my God does permit unto thee , thou hast not the power to be master over me , Believe not his treachery , that's the , etc Sinner . I thank thee sweet Jesus that of thy good grace . thou standest to assist me in every place . Yet I am disloyal unjust and perverse , no creature more filthy that I can rehearse . My conscience accuseth me , etc Christ . Take up thy cross and follow then me , with patience continue and look that thou be , For all thine offences repentant with sorrow , think death is at hand to present thee tomorrow , Then turn away from thy since , thats the way to begin I that redeemed thee bids thee come to me . Sinner . My filthy unworthiness here I confess , forgive me , Oh Saviour and send me redress : Increase my faith and patience that I may attain to thy presence , and boldly may say , Depart from me vanity , Christ hath released me , Succour me sweet Christ , I would come to thee . FINIS . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcocke . A Christian conference between Christ and a Sinner , wherein is showed the Love of Christ towards Mankind , and the pains which he suffered upon the Cross for our sins together with the wickedness of our corrupt nature's towards him for the same To the tune of Go to bed sweet heart . I Am a poor sinner , how should I begin , to fallen from my folly and horrible since , I Know not to whom I should make my complaint my sins are so heinous my heart it does faint . My conscience accuseth me , no man can comfort me Succour me sweet Christ I would come to thee . Christ . O thou sinful creature why dost thou despair , canst thou not settle thy self unto prayer : By faith and repentance if thou wilt relent , and fallen from the former life thou hast ill spen And turn away from thy since , that's the way to begin I that redeemed thee bids thee come to me . The Sinner . Alas , when to pray to thee I have intended , My conscience does tell me I have so offended That thou wilt deny my request in my prayer , and this ( Oh Lord ) causeth me thus to despair . My conscience accuseth me , etc Christ . Where dost thou find in my holy bible , that nothing with me can be unpossible : For were thine iniquity never so great , my mercy surpasses it , if thou wilt entreat . And turn away , etc Sinner . O how my body does tremble and shake , my soul is unquiet my heart it does ache : The Devil does temp and lead me to ill , enforcing that thou wilt be angry still , My conscience accuseth me , etc Christ . Believe not the Devil for all his delay , for his subtle sleight is to work thy decay : Think how I converted my Apostle S. Paul , by mercy and favour which I give to you all . Turn away . etc Sinner . How apt is ill counsel to led me to vice , how does the world daily my fancy entice , Adversity pincheth me every hour , I dread not thy judgement , thy justice and power . My conscience accuseth me , etc Christ . O earth and slime learn thou to shun all annoy , and suffer with patience , so shalt thou have joy , Consider what pain I have suffered for thee , enduring all torments to set thy soul free . Then turn away , etc Sinner . O my sweet Saviour , I cannot deny , but that for my filthy offence thou didst die . And what cruel pangs thou abidst in the Garden , and daily sweet Jesus thou pleadest for my pardon [ My conscience accuseth me , etc ] Christ . Then since thou confessest that I am thy Saviour , behold which way thou shalt attain to my favour Examine thy sins and be sorry therefore , and never commit such offence any more . Then turn away , etc Sinner . Alas , I am feeble and have not the face , take hold of thy promise except thy sweet grace , My carcase is filthy and nothing but clay , send help I beseech thee or else I decay . My conscience accuseth me , etc Christ . If once I do see thee be sorry in heart , amending thy life , and in time will convert , Let nothing dismay thee for I will receive thee , let all thy familiar and worldly friends leave thee Then turn away , etc Sinner . Then Lord in thy mercy is all my whole stay , permit not foul Satan to cast me away , From that filthy tyrant sweet Jesus defend me . he leads my affections , and still does attend me . And daily he telleth me , no man , etc Christ . Say to him thus when he would thee devour , avoid wicked Satan thou hast no more power , But that which my God does permit unto thee , thou hast not the power to be master over me , Believe not his treachery , that's the , etc Sinner . I thank thee sweet Jesus that of thy good grace . thou standest to assist me in every place . Yet I am disloyal unjust and perverse , no creature more filthy that I can rehearse . My conscience accuseth me , etc Christ . Take up thy cross and follow then me , with patience continue and look that thou be , For all thine offences repentant with sorrow , think death is at hand to present thee tomorrow , Then turn away from thy since , thats the way to begin I that redeemed thee bids thee come to me . Sinner . My filthy unworthiness here I confess , forgive me , Oh Saviour and send me redress : Increase my faith and patience that I may attain to thy presence , and boldly may say , Depart from me vanity , Christ hath released me , Succour me sweet Christ , I would come to thee . FINIS . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcocke . 