be Patient in Trouble : OR , The Patient men Counsel , wherein is shown the great goodness of God towards them that bear the Crosses and Afflictions of this World patience - ently : As also a friendly instruction , whereby to advice us to forsake our wonted sins , and turn unto the Lord by speedy repentance , very meet and necessary for Worldlings to mark , read , hear , and make use of . To the tune of , Bodkins Galliard . COme , come , you greedy worldlings leave your toil , Lend me your approbation to my song : For I like you was troubled for a while , Bout worldly matters which have done me wrong : Now to revoke that life I am inclined , I'll give God thanks and take what I do find . Though on this earth I live as one so poor , That few or none regards my company : Yet hath the Lord a blessing still in store For them that wait his leisure patiently : Then let no men despair though means be small , But in affliction give God thanks for all . When I remember Job that was so just , How he despised was of all his kin , And how from Post to Pillar he was tossed , And no man weighed his sorrows not a pin : Then unto memory I likewise call , That he in troubles gave God thanks for all . Although of riches once he had great store , And was the chiefest man in all the East , Yet was the Lords deer servant brought so poor , And of his goods and Cattle disposses Then patient Job unto the Earth did fallen , And heartily did give God thanks for all . Not only all the wealth which he enjoyed Was quite consum'd and taken from him away , His Sons and Daughters likewise were destroyed , By a tempestuous weather fell that day , The house in pieces on their heads did fallen , And still poor Job did give God thanks for all . And farther to increase his misery , His Wife to him most wrathfully did say , Husband quoth she curse God and yield to die , Oh no said Job , I know a better way , I'll not offend my Heavenly makers will , I'll praise his name and be contented still . The second part , To the same tune . THus being comfortless upon the Earth , His day of birth began to call to mind , He also thought upon his hours of death , And with great grief those speeches he assigned , Naked Came I out of my Mother's Womb , Naked shall I return unto my Tomb . Thus Job continued still so pure and holy , As holy writers does of him approve , Whom all the World could not entice to folly , For God lov'd Job , and Job his God did love . And afterwards the Lord his fortune's blessed , With far more wealth than he before possessed . This sweet example may for great and small Be a direction , how that we may guide Our lives , when crosses does to us befall , That from these Precepts we may never slide : Lord cloth us with that everlasting Robe , True Faith and Patience like thy Servant Job . And grant that ever we may put our trust In thee alone , which art our strength and stay , Seeing , that earthly treasure is but dust , Which soon will perish and consume away : Let us desire our sins may be forgiven , And every day prepare ourselves for Heaven . This World is full of vain deluding snares , The Devil also lays many cunning baits For to entrap our souls at unawares , He uses many policies and sleights : Just cause have we to fly to Christ with speed , And crave his aid in this our time of need . Moreover let us now with speed forsake , Our wonted sins wherein we take delight , And of our lives and ways a conscience make , And learn to serve the Lord our God aright . O let us not our time too long delay , But put from us all wickedness away . Let the Blasphemer now forego his oaths , And bid the Drunkard leave his swilling mates , For God himself the sin of swearing loathes , And all good men a Drunkards presence hates : Let foul Extortion now be put to flight , And Malice quite be banished out of sighed . Let Envy , Pride and vile Adultery , And Murder , that fierce Monster part from hence , Both Covetousness , and Prodigality , No more be seen among our Eminence : So will the Lord our Goods and Cattle bless , Our Land and all that ever we possess . Our Noble King the Father of our peace , The Lord preserve and keep continually , And send the Queen and all their blessed increase , The due of thy sweet blessing from on high : So shall all English men rejoice and sing , Praises be given to Christ our Heavenly King . FINIS . L.P. Printed at London for John Wright junior , dwelling at the upper end of the Old Baily . be Patient in Trouble : OR , The Patient men Counsel , wherein is shown the great goodness of God towards them that bear the Crosses and Afflictions of this World patience - ently : As also a friendly instruction , whereby to advice us to forsake our wonted sins , and turn unto the Lord by speedy repentance , very meet and necessary for Worldlings to mark , read , hear , and make use of . To the tune of , Bodkins Galliard . COme , come , you greedy worldlings leave your toil , Lend me your approbation to my song : For I like you was troubled for a while , Bout worldly matters which have done me wrong : Now to revoke that life I am inclined , I'll give God thanks and take what I do find . Though on this earth I live as one so poor , That few or none regards my company : Yet hath the Lord a blessing still in store For them that wait his leisure patiently : Then let no men despair though means be small , But in affliction give God thanks for all . When I remember Job that was so just , How he despised was of all his kin , And how from Post to Pillar he was tossed , And no man weighed his sorrows not a pin : Then unto memory I likewise call , That he in troubles gave God thanks for all . Although of riches once he had great store , And was the chiefest man in all the East , Yet was the Lords deer servant brought so poor , And of his goods and Cattle disposses Then patient Job unto the Earth did fallen , And heartily did give God thanks for all . Not only all the wealth which he enjoyed Was quite consum'd and taken from him away , His Sons and Daughters likewise were destroyed , By a tempestuous weather fell that day , The house in pieces on their heads did fallen , And still poor Job did give God thanks for all . And farther to increase his misery , His Wife to him most wrathfully did say , Husband quoth she curse God and yield to die , Oh no said Job , I know a better way , I'll not offend my Heavenly makers will , I'll praise his name and be contented still . The second part , To the same tune . THus being comfortless upon the Earth , His day of birth began to call to mind , He also thought upon his hours of death , And with great grief those speeches he assigned , Naked Came I out of my Mother's Womb , Naked shall I return unto my Tomb . Thus Job continued still so pure and holy , As holy writers does of him approve , Whom all the World could not entice to folly , For God lov'd Job , and Job his God did love . And afterwards the Lord his fortune's blessed , With far more wealth than he before possessed . This sweet example may for great and small Be a direction , how that we may guide Our lives , when crosses does to us befall , That from these Precepts we may never slide : Lord cloth us with that everlasting Robe , True Faith and Patience like thy Servant Job . And grant that ever we may put our trust In thee alone , which art our strength and stay , Seeing , that earthly treasure is but dust , Which soon will perish and consume away : Let us desire our sins may be forgiven , And every day prepare ourselves for Heaven . This World is full of vain deluding snares , The Devil also lays many cunning baits For to entrap our souls at unawares , He uses many policies and sleights : Just cause have we to fly to Christ with speed , And crave his aid in this our time of need . Moreover let us now with speed forsake , Our wonted sins wherein we take delight , And of our lives and ways a conscience make , And learn to serve the Lord our God aright . O let us not our time too long delay , But put from us all wickedness away . Let the Blasphemer now forego his oaths , And bid the Drunkard leave his swilling mates , For God himself the sin of swearing loathes , And all good men a Drunkards presence hates : Let foul Extortion now be put to flight , And Malice quite be banished out of sighed . Let Envy , Pride and vile Adultery , And Murder , that fierce Monster part from hence , Both Covetousness , and Prodigality , No more be seen among our Eminence : So will the Lord our Goods and Cattle bless , Our Land and all that ever we possess . Our Noble King the Father of our peace , The Lord preserve and keep continually , And send the Queen and all their blessed increase , The due of thy sweet blessing from on high : So shall all English men rejoice and sing , Praises be given to Christ our Heavenly King . FINIS . L.P. Printed at London for John Wright junior , dwelling at the upper end of the Old Baily . 