( 2 ) Sad Marshal to the singing Lark . O Blessed bird , whose soaring Song , declares the lighttome day ! I'm forc'd to bless thy little tongue , for thy solacious Lay. Yea , while I think on thine estate , and hear thine Harmony , I find my self to be ungrate , who sad and silent lie ; For thou hast neither Lands , nor Rend , nor Riches laid in store : And yet dost sing as full content , and with thy Song dost soar , But I to whom the loving Lord hath been more liberal , I sighs and cannot sing a word , nor move no mirth at all . What is the cause that I deplore , while thou so sweetly sings , But that I hunt to have much more than yet my fortune brings : But thou into thy mind's at rest , contented with thy Lo While I with cares am thus oppressed , thou chant'st a cheerful note , The mean to move me unto mirth , then is to be conten And eke with thee to leave the Earth , and pierce the Firmament ; For here below is nothing else , but cross , with changing toys , But they that in the highest dwell have everlasting Joys . My blessed bird , tyre not thy tune , move on thy music sweet , For I with cares was quite undone , till thou reviv'd my Sp'rit , And now , since thou hast me restor'd , with thee I'll soar , and sing : Giving all laud unto the Lord , my high and heavenly King Finis , quod Marshal . The Reply of the Lark . O Man ! sighs on , for thou hast cause to sorrow for thy since , GOD unto me hath giv'n no Laws , to led my life therein : But by his will he me ordains , to sing , and show the day : But thou , Oh man ! who grief sustains ; should bow thy knee , and pray . Man ! thou shouldst be more sad than I , more dangerous is thy state : The world , the flesh , and old envy , thou hast with to debate . High is the prize , if thou take care , that GOD shall to thee giv [ e ] Hard is the case , if thou despa [ ir ] , or yet securely live . Short while thou hast for to deplore : far shorter I to sing . A year , or two , or little mor [ e ] , to me my date shall bring , And when the winter waxes [ c ] old , my lays shall lurk full low : For I must shield me in some hold , till brumal blasts o'reblow Yea , fragrant flowers in summer fair shall then both drop and die : Fish in the floods , fowls in the Air , have their adversity . For every time is not the Spring : no state stands ay at ones There is a time for us to siing , a time for sighs and groans : Take every state to come from God , both wealth , want , weal , and woe , And when he lays on thee his Rod , thy visitation know : Yea , when he makes thy cup to flow , think on adversity : Lest that thy wealth thy wit o'rgrow ; in thy prosperity . Yet le [ tO ] no sadness thee o'rthrow , for trifles which thou tires : Oft while the earth is clad with snow , the Sun most brig [ h ] tlie shines , Though [ f ] or [ tO ] une frown , be not afraid each cloud is not a shower When grief is gone , and thou art glad , it shall be sweet that's sour No mortal man may climb the top of full felicity : We do but seldom hit our Scope , how low soever it be , Though thou wer't mounted to the hight whereto thy thoughts aspir [ e ] s , Some higher object out of si [ g ] ht would kindle new desires . Then let no worldly vanity in vain oppress thy sp'rit , Come , soar with me above the Sky , to thy Redeemer sweet , Sing of thy lasting liberty , when all these pains are pas Sing of thy joyful jubilie , thou shalt enjoy at last , So shall thy wishes be complete , to the most high degree : So shall thy present cross be sweet , how sour soever it be , Then sing , and sighs ; sighs and sing , till thou enjoy that Day Of perfect joy , with Christ thy King , where thou shalt sing for ay . FINIS . ( 2 ) Sad Marshal to the singing Lark . O Blessed bird , whose soaring Song , declares the lighttome day ! I'm forc'd to bless thy little tongue , for thy solacious Lay. Yea , while I think on thine estate , and hear thine Harmony , I find my self to be ungrate , who sad and silent lie ; For thou hast neither Lands , nor Rend , nor Riches laid in store : And yet dost sing as full content , and with thy Song dost soar , But I to whom the loving Lord hath been more liberal , I sighs and cannot sing a word , nor move no mirth at all . What is the cause that I deplore , while thou so sweetly sings , But that I hunt to have much more than yet my fortune brings : But thou into thy mind's at rest , contented with thy Lo While I with cares am thus oppressed , thou chant'st a cheerful note , The mean to move me unto mirth , then is to be conten And eke with thee to leave the Earth , and pierce the Firmament ; For here below is nothing else , but cross , with changing toys , But they that in the highest dwell have everlasting Joys . My blessed bird , tyre not thy tune , move on thy music sweet , For I with cares was quite undone , till thou reviv'd my Sp'rit , And now , since thou hast me restor'd , with thee I'll soar , and sing : Giving all laud unto the Lord , my high and heavenly King Finis , quod Marshal . The Reply of the Lark . O Man ! sighs on , for thou hast cause to sorrow for thy since , GOD unto me hath giv'n no Laws , to led my life therein : But by his will he me ordains , to sing , and show the day : But thou , Oh man ! who grief sustains ; should bow thy knee , and pray . Man ! thou shouldst be more sad than I , more dangerous is thy state : The world , the flesh , and old envy , thou hast with to debate . High is the prize , if thou take care , that GOD shall to thee giv [ e ] Hard is the case , if thou despa [ ir ] , or yet securely live . Short while thou hast for to deplore : far shorter I to sing . A year , or two , or little mor [ e ] , to me my date shall bring , And when the winter waxes [ c ] old , my lays shall lurk full low : For I must shield me in some hold , till brumal blasts o'reblow Yea , fragrant flowers in summer fair shall then both drop and die : Fish in the floods , fowls in the Air , have their adversity . For every time is not the Spring : no state stands ay at ones There is a time for us to siing , a time for sighs and groans : Take every state to come from God , both wealth , want , weal , and woe , And when he lays on thee his Rod , thy visitation know : Yea , when he makes thy cup to flow , think on adversity : Lest that thy wealth thy wit o'rgrow ; in thy prosperity . Yet le [ tO ] no sadness thee o'rthrow , for trifles which thou tires : Oft while the earth is clad with snow , the Sun most brig [ h ] tlie shines , Though [ f ] or [ tO ] une frown , be not afraid each cloud is not a shower When grief is gone , and thou art glad , it shall be sweet that's sour No mortal man may climb the top of full felicity : We do but seldom hit our Scope , how low soever it be , Though thou wer't mounted to the hight whereto thy thoughts aspir [ e ] s , Some higher object out of si [ g ] ht would kindle new desires . Then let no worldly vanity in vain oppress thy sp'rit , Come , soar with me above the Sky , to thy Redeemer sweet , Sing of thy lasting liberty , when all these pains are pas Sing of thy joyful jubilie , thou shalt enjoy at last , So shall thy wishes be complete , to the most high degree : So shall thy present cross be sweet , how sour soever it be , Then sing , and sighs ; sighs and sing , till thou enjoy that Day Of perfect joy , with Christ thy King , where thou shalt sing for ay . FINIS . 