A Warning for Maidens or young Bateman . To the Tune of , The Ladies fallen . YOu dainty Dams so finely fram'd in beauty's chiefest mould . [ A ] and you that trip it up and down , like lambs in Cupids fold ; Here is a lesson to be learn'd , a lesson in my mind , For such as will prove false in love , and bear a faithless mind . Not far from Notingham of late , in Clifton as I hear , There dwelled a fair and comely maid , for beauty without peer ; Her cheeks were like the Crimson rose , yet well we may perceive , The fairest Dame the falsest heart , and soonest will deceive . This gallant Damsel was belov'd , by many in that place ; And many sought in marriage bed , her body to embrace ; At last a comely proper youth , young Bateman call'd by name , In hope to have a married wife , unto this maiden came . Such love and liking soon he found , that he from all the rest , Had stolen away the Damsels heart , and she did like him best ; Then plighted promise secretly , did pass between them two ; That nothing could but death it self , their true loves knot undo . A piece of gold he brake in twain , one half to her he gave ; The other as a pledge quoth he , dear heart my self shall have ; And if I break my vow , quoth she , while I remain alive , May never thing I take in hand , be seen at all to thrive . This passed one for two months space , and then this maid began , To settle love and liking too , upon another man . Old Jerman who a widower was . he husband needs must be , Because he was of greater wealth , and better of degree . Her vow and promise lately passed to Bateman she deny'd , And in despite both him and his , she utterly defy'd . Well then quoth he if it be so , that thou wilt me forsake , And like a false and forsworn wretch , another husband take . Thou shalt not live one quiet day , for surely I will have Thee either now alive or dead , when I am laid in grave , Thy faithless mind thou shalt repent , therefore be well assur'd , When for thy sake thou hear'st report , what torments I endur'd . But mark how Bateman died for love , he finished up his life , The very day she married was , and made old Jermans wife ; For with a strangling cord , God wot , ( great moan was made therefore ) He hang'd himself in desperate sort before the brides own door . At which , such sorrow pierc'd her heart , and troubled soar her mind , That she could never after that , one hour of comfort find ; For wheresoever that she went , her fancy did surmise , Young Bateman's pale and gashlie ghost , appear'd before her eyes . When she in bed at night did lie , betwixt her husbands arms , In hope therein to sleep and rest , in safety without harms ; Great cries & grievous groans she herd , a voice that sometime said , Oh thou art she that I must have , and will not be deni'd . But she as then being with child , was for the infants sake Preserved from the spirits power , no vengeance could it take ; The Babe unborn did safely shield , ( as God appointed so ) His mother's body from the Fiend , that sought her overthrow . But being of her burden eas'd , and safely brought to bed : Her cares and gri [ e ] fs began anew , and fresh her sorrows bred , And hereupon she call'd her friends , desiring them to stay ; This night quoth she , out of my bed , I shall be born away . Here comes the spirit of my love , with pale and gashlie face , Who , till he take me hence with him , will not depart this place ; Alive or dead I am his right , and he will surely have , In spite of me and all the world , what I by promise gave . O watch with me all night , dear friends but see you do not sleep ; No longer then you be awake , my body can you keep : All promised to do their best ; yet nothing could suffice , In middle of the night to keep , sad slumber from their eyes . And being all full fast on sleep , as all unknown which way : This childbed wife , that woeful wight from thence was born away : But to what place no creature knew , nor to this day can tell : As strange a thing as ever yet , in any age befell . the Maidens that desire to love , and will good husbands choose , To him that you have vow'd your love , by no means do refuse : For God that hears all secret oaths , will dreadful vengeance take , On such as on a wilful vow , do slender reckoning make . FINIS . A Warning for Maidens or young Bateman . To the Tune of , The Ladies fallen . YOu dainty Dams so finely fram'd in beauty's chiefest mould . [ A ] and you that trip it up and down , like lambs in Cupids fold ; Here is a lesson to be learn'd , a lesson in my mind , For such as will prove false in love , and bear a faithless mind . Not far from Notingham of late , in Clifton as I hear , There dwelled a fair and comely maid , for beauty without peer ; Her cheeks were like the Crimson rose , yet well we may perceive , The fairest Dame the falsest heart , and soonest will deceive . This gallant Damsel was belov'd , by many in that place ; And many sought in marriage bed , her body to embrace ; At last a comely proper youth , young Bateman call'd by name , In hope to have a married wife , unto this maiden came . Such love and liking soon he found , that he from all the rest , Had stolen away the Damsels heart , and she did like him best ; Then plighted promise secretly , did pass between them two ; That nothing could but death it self , their true loves knot undo . A piece of gold he brake in twain , one half to her he gave ; The other as a pledge quoth he , dear heart my self shall have ; And if I break my vow , quoth she , while I remain alive , May never thing I take in hand , be seen at all to thrive . This passed one for two months space , and then this maid began , To settle love and liking too , upon another man . Old Jerman who a widower was . he husband needs must be , Because he was of greater wealth , and better of degree . Her vow and promise lately passed to Bateman she deny'd , And in despite both him and his , she utterly defy'd . Well then quoth he if it be so , that thou wilt me forsake , And like a false and forsworn wretch , another husband take . Thou shalt not live one quiet day , for surely I will have Thee either now alive or dead , when I am laid in grave , Thy faithless mind thou shalt repent , therefore be well assur'd , When for thy sake thou hear'st report , what torments I endur'd . But mark how Bateman died for love , he finished up his life , The very day she married was , and made old Jermans wife ; For with a strangling cord , God wot , ( great moan was made therefore ) He hang'd himself in desperate sort before the brides own door . At which , such sorrow pierc'd her heart , and troubled soar her mind , That she could never after that , one hour of comfort find ; For wheresoever that she went , her fancy did surmise , Young Bateman's pale and gashlie ghost , appear'd before her eyes . When she in bed at night did lie , betwixt her husbands arms , In hope therein to sleep and rest , in safety without harms ; Great cries & grievous groans she herd , a voice that sometime said , Oh thou art she that I must have , and will not be deni'd . But she as then being with child , was for the infants sake Preserved from the spirits power , no vengeance could it take ; The Babe unborn did safely shield , ( as God appointed so ) His mother's body from the Fiend , that sought her overthrow . But being of her burden eas'd , and safely brought to bed : Her cares and gri [ e ] fs began anew , and fresh her sorrows bred , And hereupon she call'd her friends , desiring them to stay ; This night quoth she , out of my bed , I shall be born away . Here comes the spirit of my love , with pale and gashlie face , Who , till he take me hence with him , will not depart this place ; Alive or dead I am his right , and he will surely have , In spite of me and all the world , what I by promise gave . O watch with me all night , dear friends but see you do not sleep ; No longer then you be awake , my body can you keep : All promised to do their best ; yet nothing could suffice , In middle of the night to keep , sad slumber from their eyes . And being all full fast on sleep , as all unknown which way : This childbed wife , that woeful wight from thence was born away : But to what place no creature knew , nor to this day can tell : As strange a thing as ever yet , in any age befell . the Maidens that desire to love , and will good husbands choose , To him that you have vow'd your love , by no means do refuse : For God that hears all secret oaths , will dreadful vengeance take , On such as on a wilful vow , do slender reckoning make . FINIS . 