Hang Pinching , OR , The good fellows Observation , Amongst a Jovial Crew , Of them that hate Flinching , But is always true blew . To the tune of Drive the Cold winter away . ALL you which lay claim , To a good fellows name , and yet do not prove your selves so , Give ear to this thing , The which I will sing , wherein I most plainly will show With proof and good ground , Those fellows profound , that unto the Alewives are true , In drinking their drink , And paying their chink , Oh such a good fellow's true blue , But otherwise he , That brabbling will be , about any trifle to pay , When that he does know He so much does owe , yet basely will shrink his way , Or bring the sum less , Disparaging guess . which willing would pay all that's due , His Company I , Detest and defy , Because that he is not true blue . Somes Chaps are so nimble , They'l fit and lick the wimble , but when that the Reckning's to pay , Away they will sneak , And not a word speak , all which is approved each day , The which having seen , Does draw me with spleen , to lay open unto your view . The honest good fellow , Who though he be mellow , In every kind is true blue . He's of the right mould , That spares not his gold . 'mongst hose good fellows that lack , If that they will drink , he'l part with his Chink , and looks not for any on't back , But is well content , His money is spent , among such a jovial Crew , And these are the parts , And chiefest deserts , That shows a good fellow true blue . Such difference I Do daily descry , among the Conditions of men , Some given are to fight , Some in singing delight pray what shall be censured then , Why truly my mind , To him is inclined , by whom unto mirth I am drew , For much I do hate , He that breeds debate , But give me a fellow true blue . There's some of that mind , When that they do find a man that is jovial and free , They'l drink and they'l call , But he must pay all , or else undischarg'd it must be . Once being serv'd so , No more will I go , into such a frivolous Crew , And so I'le advice All those that are wise , Because that they are not true blue The second part To the same tune . ACquaint thy self then , With these honest men , as I unto thee will explain , By tokens aright , To quicken thy sighed , that they all base tricks do disdain , First look on his nose , Then mayest thou suppose , by the colour that on it is drew , That over good Ale , He tells no long tale , But such a good fellow's true blue . So likewise is he , That loving will be , unto his Copartners at need , In giving them drink When as they want Chink , their necessity for to feed , Though precious and rare , Such company are , yet give the deservers their endue , For some without blame , Deserveth the name , Of that's a good fellow true blue . But of all and some , I yet am not come , to tell you the happy estate , Of him that can thus Be merry with us , and yet that vile sin for to hate , Of whoring and dice , The which in a trice , brings body and soul for to rue , He's happily blessed , That them does detest , For such a good fellow's true blue . The wasting of time , Is but a small crime , to that which I told you before , Yet must I confess , The truth to express , good fellows are commonly poor , But P Oh for that ; I leave off such Chat , for while that the Brewers do brew , I thus far presage , Until the last age , There will be good fellows true blue . And thus have I shown , To what we are prove , I hope I shall purchase no blame , Among any such , That have the best toutch , of love to a good fellows name , For to no ill end , This theam have I pend , but only to set to your view , The difference between , A puny so green , And he that is honest true blue . I fear not the frown , Of a penurious clown , which if he but twelve pence do spend In Ale or in wine , He so will repine , his garters must then be his end . But now to conclude , My verses so rude , a health i'le begin of a new , To every kind blade , That is not dismay'd , To be a good fellow true blue . Printed at London for Thomas Lambert , at the sign of the Horse-shoo in Smithfield . W.B. Hang Pinching , OR , The good fellows Observation , Amongst a Jovial Crew , Of them that hate Flinching , But is always true blew . To the tune of Drive the Cold winter away . ALL you which lay claim , To a good fellows name , and yet do not prove your selves so , Give ear to this thing , The which I will sing , wherein I most plainly will show With proof and good ground , Those fellows profound , that unto the Alewives are true , In drinking their drink , And paying their chink , Oh such a good fellow's true blue , But otherwise he , That brabbling will be , about any trifle to pay , When that he does know He so much does owe , yet basely will shrink his way , Or bring the sum less , Disparaging guess . which willing would pay all that's due , His Company I , Detest and defy , Because that he is not true blue . Somes Chaps are so nimble , They'l fit and lick the wimble , but when that the Reckning's to pay , Away they will sneak , And not a word speak , all which is approved each day , The which having seen , Does draw me with spleen , to lay open unto your view . The honest good fellow , Who though he be mellow , In every kind is true blue . He's of the right mould , That spares not his gold . 'mongst hose good fellows that lack , If that they will drink , he'l part with his Chink , and looks not for any on't back , But is well content , His money is spent , among such a jovial Crew , And these are the parts , And chiefest deserts , That shows a good fellow true blue . Such difference I Do daily descry , among the Conditions of men , Some given are to fight , Some in singing delight pray what shall be censured then , Why truly my mind , To him is inclined , by whom unto mirth I am drew , For much I do hate , He that breeds debate , But give me a fellow true blue . There's some of that mind , When that they do find a man that is jovial and free , They'l drink and they'l call , But he must pay all , or else undischarg'd it must be . Once being serv'd so , No more will I go , into such a frivolous Crew , And so I'le advice All those that are wise , Because that they are not true blue The second part To the same tune . ACquaint thy self then , With these honest men , as I unto thee will explain , By tokens aright , To quicken thy sighed , that they all base tricks do disdain , First look on his nose , Then mayest thou suppose , by the colour that on it is drew , That over good Ale , He tells no long tale , But such a good fellow's true blue . So likewise is he , That loving will be , unto his Copartners at need , In giving them drink When as they want Chink , their necessity for to feed , Though precious and rare , Such company are , yet give the deservers their endue , For some without blame , Deserveth the name , Of that's a good fellow true blue . But of all and some , I yet am not come , to tell you the happy estate , Of him that can thus Be merry with us , and yet that vile sin for to hate , Of whoring and dice , The which in a trice , brings body and soul for to rue , He's happily blessed , That them does detest , For such a good fellow's true blue . The wasting of time , Is but a small crime , to that which I told you before , Yet must I confess , The truth to express , good fellows are commonly poor , But P Oh for that ; I leave off such Chat , for while that the Brewers do brew , I thus far presage , Until the last age , There will be good fellows true blue . And thus have I shown , To what we are prove , I hope I shall purchase no blame , Among any such , That have the best toutch , of love to a good fellows name , For to no ill end , This theam have I pend , but only to set to your view , The difference between , A puny so green , And he that is honest true blue . I fear not the frown , Of a penurious clown , which if he but twelve pence do spend In Ale or in wine , He so will repine , his garters must then be his end . But now to conclude , My verses so rude , a health i'le begin of a new , To every kind blade , That is not dismay'd , To be a good fellow true blue . Printed at London for Thomas Lambert , at the sign of the Horse-shoo in Smithfield . W.B. 