The Good-fellows Advice : Showing what favour a man shall have while he hath means , But being in want , then all Friendship ends . To the tune of ; Upon a Summertime . FArewell good company , now I must leave you all : It hath bred my misery , and brought me into thrall . But now I will refrain and drink strong Ale no more , I'll seek to purchase gain , and quite forsake a Whore . Good-fellows great and small , pray let me you advice , To have a care withal , 'tis good to be merry and wise . Now I have spent my means , and have no money to pay , I'm quite bereft of friends , which breeds my sad annoy : But while I had silver and gold to pay for them and me , Then many have me told I was brave company . Good-fellows , etc But now they me despise , and ask what make you here : Therefore I'll now grow wise , and will live void of fear : I can get money enough when I do seek for it , Wer't not for drink and snuff , that robs me of my wit . Good-fellows etc Strong drink I will refuse , for it hath done me wrong , It hath made me abuse my self with hand and tongue , When I have been in drink I had no care at all , Nor did I ever think upon my own downfall . Good-fellows , etc I still cri'd fill the Pot , whil'st all my money was gone , And did pay many a shot for others as 'tis well known : And they gave me fair words , whil'st I could still do so : But now their tongue's are swords , from whence envy does flow . Good-fellows , etc My good will is repaid with envy , hate , and spite , Some of them snares have laid to take me with deceit , They laugh at my downfall , as plainly I do prove , Scarce any of them all repay me any love . Good-fellows , etc Had I known this before . while I had money and means , I had kept some in store , but I was shallow brains . For which some call me Ass , to spend my means away : Now I may feed on grass , or freely fast and pray . Good-fellows , etc The time hath been that I could not have passed by 'th doors , But as I walked by such company as rores , Would cause me to fit down , and welcome should be made : But many times a crown , for such welcomes I pay'd . Good-fellows great and small , pray let me you advice , To have a care withal , 'tis good to be merry and wise . The second part , To the same tune . TObacco , Ale , and Beer , for me was brought amain , With Wine and dainty cheer , serv'd in with Venus train . Look what I wished to have , they did fulfil my mind , Most dainty words they gave , which made me think them kind . Good-fellows great and small , pray let me you advice , To have a care withal , 'tis good to be merry and wise . But now the proverbs true , 'twas money was my friend , For having none I rue , there's none will give nor lend . They say the world is hard , and that I find indeed , For none do me regard , now I am in most need . Good-fellows , etc If I to 'th Alehouse go , and call for Ale or Beer , My Hostess soon will know my stock for she's in fear . If I call but two pots , and pay not presently , Then quickly for her shots , she will begin to cry . Good-fellows , etc But I do know her mind , 'tis money she would see , And then she will prove kind , or else a Devil is she . For those that have no money shall be thrust out of doors , For such poor men as I shee'l not trust on the scores . Good-fellows , etc When I had money good store , and had no need at all , Then I might freely score , whatever I did call . But now I am in want of Money , Bred , and Beer , At me shee'l loudly taunt , and ask , What make you here : Good-fellows , etc Now I repent too late , I cannot call again My money and estate , that I have spent in vain : I must take and new course , and seek to get some more , But yet sometime of force , my misery's I deplore . Good-fellows great , etc Some wonder now at me , and say I am grown strange , But they shall plainly see that I my life will change . For I'll not spend a penny among the drunken crew , Oh I have spent too many , that makes me have so few . Good-fellows , etc Had I done so in time , I ne'r had known such want , But I with each would join , there's nothing could me daunt . I never took no care what e're my friends did say : But what's fall'n to my share , even grief and sad annoy . Good-fellows , etc But now I will amend my lewd lascivious life , For now I do intend to be ruled by my Wife . O she's a loving soul , as ever poor man had , For her the Bell did toule , and I vile knave was glad . Good-fellows , etc But now she's well again , and will not die this fit , She shall have to maintain her , all that I can get . To conclude , I'll take pains , next Munday I'll begin , This Song it appertains to Women , and to Men . Good-fellows great and small , pray let me you advice , To have a care withal , 'tis good to be merry and wise . By Charles Records . London , Printed for J. Wright junior , dwelling at the upper end of the Old Baily . FINIS The Good-fellows Advice : Showing what favour a man shall have while he hath means , But being in want , then all Friendship ends . To the tune of ; Upon a Summertime . FArewell good company , now I must leave you all : It hath bred my misery , and brought me into thrall . But now I will refrain and drink strong Ale no more , I'll seek to purchase gain , and quite forsake a Whore . Good-fellows great and small , pray let me you advice , To have a care withal , 'tis good to be merry and wise . Now I have spent my means , and have no money to pay , I'm quite bereft of friends , which breeds my sad annoy : But while I had silver and gold to pay for them and me , Then many have me told I was brave company . Good-fellows , etc But now they me despise , and ask what make you here : Therefore I'll now grow wise , and will live void of fear : I can get money enough when I do seek for it , Wer't not for drink and snuff , that robs me of my wit . Good-fellows etc Strong drink I will refuse , for it hath done me wrong , It hath made me abuse my self with hand and tongue , When I have been in drink I had no care at all , Nor did I ever think upon my own downfall . Good-fellows , etc I still cri'd fill the Pot , whil'st all my money was gone , And did pay many a shot for others as 'tis well known : And they gave me fair words , whil'st I could still do so : But now their tongue's are swords , from whence envy does flow . Good-fellows , etc My good will is repaid with envy , hate , and spite , Some of them snares have laid to take me with deceit , They laugh at my downfall , as plainly I do prove , Scarce any of them all repay me any love . Good-fellows , etc Had I known this before . while I had money and means , I had kept some in store , but I was shallow brains . For which some call me Ass , to spend my means away : Now I may feed on grass , or freely fast and pray . Good-fellows , etc The time hath been that I could not have passed by 'th doors , But as I walked by such company as rores , Would cause me to fit down , and welcome should be made : But many times a crown , for such welcomes I pay'd . Good-fellows great and small , pray let me you advice , To have a care withal , 'tis good to be merry and wise . The second part , To the same tune . TObacco , Ale , and Beer , for me was brought amain , With Wine and dainty cheer , serv'd in with Venus train . Look what I wished to have , they did fulfil my mind , Most dainty words they gave , which made me think them kind . Good-fellows great and small , pray let me you advice , To have a care withal , 'tis good to be merry and wise . But now the proverbs true , 'twas money was my friend , For having none I rue , there's none will give nor lend . They say the world is hard , and that I find indeed , For none do me regard , now I am in most need . Good-fellows , etc If I to 'th Alehouse go , and call for Ale or Beer , My Hostess soon will know my stock for she's in fear . If I call but two pots , and pay not presently , Then quickly for her shots , she will begin to cry . Good-fellows , etc But I do know her mind , 'tis money she would see , And then she will prove kind , or else a Devil is she . For those that have no money shall be thrust out of doors , For such poor men as I shee'l not trust on the scores . Good-fellows , etc When I had money good store , and had no need at all , Then I might freely score , whatever I did call . But now I am in want of Money , Bred , and Beer , At me shee'l loudly taunt , and ask , What make you here : Good-fellows , etc Now I repent too late , I cannot call again My money and estate , that I have spent in vain : I must take and new course , and seek to get some more , But yet sometime of force , my misery's I deplore . Good-fellows great , etc Some wonder now at me , and say I am grown strange , But they shall plainly see that I my life will change . For I'll not spend a penny among the drunken crew , Oh I have spent too many , that makes me have so few . Good-fellows , etc Had I done so in time , I ne'r had known such want , But I with each would join , there's nothing could me daunt . I never took no care what e're my friends did say : But what's fall'n to my share , even grief and sad annoy . Good-fellows , etc But now I will amend my lewd lascivious life , For now I do intend to be ruled by my Wife . O she's a loving soul , as ever poor man had , For her the Bell did toule , and I vile knave was glad . Good-fellows , etc But now she's well again , and will not die this fit , She shall have to maintain her , all that I can get . To conclude , I'll take pains , next Munday I'll begin , This Song it appertains to Women , and to Men . Good-fellows great and small , pray let me you advice , To have a care withal , 'tis good to be merry and wise . By Charles Records . London , Printed for J. Wright junior , dwelling at the upper end of the Old Baily . FINIS 