The Wooing Lass , and the Wayward Lad , Who long had made his Sweetheart sad , Because to her he would not yield , Till Cupid him to Love compelled . To the tune of The Nightingale . UPon a Holy day , When the Nymph's had leave to play , I sat unseen In a Meadow green , where I herd a Lass in and angry spleen , Persuading of a Swain To leave his drudging vain , and sport with her upon the Plain . But the silly Clown , Did sadly fit him down : And regardless of her moan , He left her all alone . then she cry'd , Come away bony Boy , Come away ; I cannot come , I will not come , I dare not come , My works not done , and this was all the Clown would say . Quoth she thou gentle Swain , Do not my love disdain , Thou shouldst woe me , Now I woo thee , let not thy heart so froward be , But yield to my request , In troth I do not jest , 'tis thee alone that I love best . Yet the simple Ass , Respected not the Lass , Hard hearted that he was With her he would not pass , though she cry'd Come away bony Boy , etc I pre'thee Sweet ( she said ) Regard a Lovesick Maid , 'Tis thee alone Must ease my moan , or else I comfort can get none Oh be not so obdure , Oh fit not so demure , let me thy love ( with pray'rs ) procure . But all in vain She wood the surly Swain , For she could not obtain , His love that she would feign , though she cried Come away bony Boy , etc Yet still the loving Girl Besought the clownish Churl , And wood him still , For his good will , but her success was always ill , For all that painful while , She could not see him smile , her troubled thoughts to reconcile . The homebred Lad , For skill in loving had , He gave her answers bad , Which made her very sad : yet she cry'd Come away bony Boy , Come away ; I cannot come , I will not come , I dare not come , My worke's not done , And this was all the Clown would say . The second part , To the same tune . YEt shee'd not be answered so , Nor from him would she go , So soon away , But she still made stay , to hear more what the Swain would say . O courteous Lad she said , Reflect upon a Maid , and let me thee to love persuade : But all this wind No comfort yet could find Herein him to her mind , For still he was unkind , though she cry'd , Come away bony Boy , Come away ; : I cannot come , I will not come , I dare not come , My worke's not done , and this was all the Clown would say . Just as the Paphean Queen , Adonis urg'd to spleen , As he was coy , even so this Boy could not be won to kiss and toy . Though humbly there besought , It no compassion wrought , for he to love would not be taught . On him she hung , From her away he flung , He bade her hold her tongue , For he would not go along , yet she cry'd , Come away bony Boy , etc As Salmacis ( so bright ) Did woo young Aphrodite , But all in vain , So she this Swain , and could not her request obtain , For he was obstinate , And bade her leave her prate , thus for her love she purchased hate . Love was so strong , In this bonny Lass so young , That she could not hold her tongue , Though he had deny'd so long : yet she cry'd , Come away bonny Boy , etc This Maid was grieved soar , Great cause she had therefore , Sith 'twas her fate , To love for hate , which she could not anticipate . Such force young Cupid hath , O're them that tread his path , the Lad regards not what she says . He does persist , Still to resist , To her he will not list , But bids her to be whist , though she cry'd , Come away bonny Boy , etc The Maid was griev'd in mind , That the Lad was so unkind : Then to Venus she went , Soar discontent , who charg'd her Boy with his Bow ready bent , To take a nimble Dart , And pierce him to the heart , because he did her precept thwart . Cupid strong , Gave the Lad such a bang , That he forc'd him to gang , With his bonny Lass along , when she cry'd , Come away bonny Boy , Come thou hither ; I come , I come , I run , I run , Now I am wone , All shall be done , And so they went along together . By this we well may prove , The wondrous power of Love . For this young Boy , Before so coy , now calls the Maid his only Joy . He took her by the waste , And kindly her embrac't , he pays her love with kisses chaste . He grieves in mind , That before was unkind , He tells her she shall find , That the best shall come behind , and indeed , They with speed were agreed Each with other : With joint consent , And hearts content , To Church they went , Incontinent , and there they marry'd were together . Printed at London for J. Wright junior , dwelling at the upper end of the Old Baily . FINIS . M.P. The Wooing Lass , and the Wayward Lad , Who long had made his Sweetheart sad , Because to her he would not yield , Till Cupid him to Love compelled . To the tune of The Nightingale . UPon a Holy day , When the Nymph's had leave to play , I sat unseen In a Meadow green , where I herd a Lass in and angry spleen , Persuading of a Swain To leave his drudging vain , and sport with her upon the Plain . But the silly Clown , Did sadly fit him down : And regardless of her moan , He left her all alone . then she cry'd , Come away bony Boy , Come away ; I cannot come , I will not come , I dare not come , My works not done , and this was all the Clown would say . Quoth she thou gentle Swain , Do not my love disdain , Thou shouldst woe me , Now I woo thee , let not thy heart so froward be , But yield to my request , In troth I do not jest , 'tis thee alone that I love best . Yet the simple Ass , Respected not the Lass , Hard hearted that he was With her he would not pass , though she cry'd Come away bony Boy , etc I pre'thee Sweet ( she said ) Regard a Lovesick Maid , 'Tis thee alone Must ease my moan , or else I comfort can get none Oh be not so obdure , Oh fit not so demure , let me thy love ( with pray'rs ) procure . But all in vain She wood the surly Swain , For she could not obtain , His love that she would feign , though she cried Come away bony Boy , etc Yet still the loving Girl Besought the clownish Churl , And wood him still , For his good will , but her success was always ill , For all that painful while , She could not see him smile , her troubled thoughts to reconcile . The homebred Lad , For skill in loving had , He gave her answers bad , Which made her very sad : yet she cry'd Come away bony Boy , Come away ; I cannot come , I will not come , I dare not come , My worke's not done , And this was all the Clown would say . The second part , To the same tune . YEt shee'd not be answered so , Nor from him would she go , So soon away , But she still made stay , to hear more what the Swain would say . O courteous Lad she said , Reflect upon a Maid , and let me thee to love persuade : But all this wind No comfort yet could find Herein him to her mind , For still he was unkind , though she cry'd , Come away bony Boy , Come away ; : I cannot come , I will not come , I dare not come , My worke's not done , and this was all the Clown would say . Just as the Paphean Queen , Adonis urg'd to spleen , As he was coy , even so this Boy could not be won to kiss and toy . Though humbly there besought , It no compassion wrought , for he to love would not be taught . On him she hung , From her away he flung , He bade her hold her tongue , For he would not go along , yet she cry'd , Come away bony Boy , etc As Salmacis ( so bright ) Did woo young Aphrodite , But all in vain , So she this Swain , and could not her request obtain , For he was obstinate , And bade her leave her prate , thus for her love she purchased hate . Love was so strong , In this bonny Lass so young , That she could not hold her tongue , Though he had deny'd so long : yet she cry'd , Come away bonny Boy , etc This Maid was grieved soar , Great cause she had therefore , Sith 'twas her fate , To love for hate , which she could not anticipate . Such force young Cupid hath , O're them that tread his path , the Lad regards not what she says . He does persist , Still to resist , To her he will not list , But bids her to be whist , though she cry'd , Come away bonny Boy , etc The Maid was griev'd in mind , That the Lad was so unkind : Then to Venus she went , Soar discontent , who charg'd her Boy with his Bow ready bent , To take a nimble Dart , And pierce him to the heart , because he did her precept thwart . Cupid strong , Gave the Lad such a bang , That he forc'd him to gang , With his bonny Lass along , when she cry'd , Come away bonny Boy , Come thou hither ; I come , I come , I run , I run , Now I am wone , All shall be done , And so they went along together . By this we well may prove , The wondrous power of Love . For this young Boy , Before so coy , now calls the Maid his only Joy . He took her by the waste , And kindly her embrac't , he pays her love with kisses chaste . He grieves in mind , That before was unkind , He tells her she shall find , That the best shall come behind , and indeed , They with speed were agreed Each with other : With joint consent , And hearts content , To Church they went , Incontinent , and there they marry'd were together . Printed at London for J. Wright junior , dwelling at the upper end of the Old Baily . FINIS . M.P. 