A good workman needs never want work . If this be true , heres a parsell of ten , All lusty able well qualified men , That Scarce have their equals to eat , drink , and sleep And some are far better to hang then to keep . To the tune of the nine maids . YOu that good houses keep and would good servants hire , With proper men to eat and sleep , I'll furnish your desire , My own experience hath . ( in a month or little more ) Try'd all that's mention'd underneath in number half a score , Mark how they stand in Rank All lusty able men , Then you who doe good workmen want , come take your choice of ten . Come hither Tospot Tom , thou art the first in place , This fellow will not stay at home above and hours space , Heel at the alehouse stay , from breakfast time till dinner From thence till supper heell be away , by this I was a winner . O this was one of my men , the chief of half a score , All you who want good workmen then take choice among my store . The next was Retchgutt Ralph , right heir to Wood of Kent , A yeareling pig or else a Calf his stomach will content , With eight and fifty Eggs a lenten meal heel make , And yet he looks like one that begs , so lean as any Rake . O this was one of my men the chief of half a score , You who do want good workmen then take choice among my store . The third was Slippery Will , his trade he need not learn , I had two maids and with his skill he god them both with bairn , And two more in the town , all in a fortnights space , The like of him was seldom known , Hee's of a breeding raze . O this was one of my men , the chief of half a score , You who do want good workmen then take choice among my store . The fourth was desperate Dicke , heed loose his shirt at dice , Beside he hath another trick , which he esteems no vice , What ever he can get by cozening or by stealing Or running into honest men's debt , he counts it lawful dealing . O this was one of my men , the chief of half a score You who do want good workmen then , take choice among my store . The sceond part To the same tune . THe fifth was Sam a thresher , the best I ere did keep Heed work foure hours every day , and the rest heed spend in sleep . If any did him blame , For taking so much pains , Heed soon make answer to the same how can I thresh when't reins . O this was one of my men , the chief of half a score , You who doe want good workmen then take choice among my store . The sixth was Cogging Wart he us'd to lie and flatter And Gossip-like hee'd prate and chat , of what it made no matter . What ere his fellows said , ( though he Lov'd them in show ) The telltale Rascal more on't made , And that's a good gift you know . O this was one of my men , the chief of , etc The seventh was Kit the Butcher for him his sweet heart mourns , Heed dress a Sheep or a Bullock well , and give to his friends the horns . Of all I ere knew in my life , he was a pretty youth , Hee'd with his candle look his knife , when he had it in his mouth . O this was one of my men the chief , etc The eighth was George the Groom , a servant good and able , Because he would not wear out his broom , he never swept the stable . His providence was such , to show his honest care , Hee'd never curry the horses much , for fear they should loose their hair , Oh this was one , etc The ninth was painful Pierce , my honest Husbandman , All his good qualities to rehearse , is more then now I can . But one thing of great note , I here ( alone ) will tell Because my hemp should take deep root , he cast it in the Well . O this , etc The tenth and last was Ned , the bailiff of my land , Those tenants that his humour fed , he dealt with under hand . For bribes and private gifts heed let out leases cheap , Now Judge my master's by these gifts , what benefit I might Reap . O this was , etc Imagine now my friends , you to a place are come , Where half a score good fellows stand within a little room , And all do service crave , then do not them refuse , To keep them I no liking have , if I can any way choose . O these are my brave men , in number half a score , You who doe want good workmen then , take choice among my store . FINIS . M.P. Printed at London for Francis Grove . and are to be should at his shop on Snow hill by the Sarazens head A good workman needs never want work . If this be true , heres a parsell of ten , All lusty able well qualified men , That Scarce have their equals to eat , drink , and sleep And some are far better to hang then to keep . To the tune of the nine maids . YOu that good houses keep and would good servants hire , With proper men to eat and sleep , I'll furnish your desire , My own experience hath . ( in a month or little more ) Try'd all that's mention'd underneath in number half a score , Mark how they stand in Rank All lusty able men , Then you who doe good workmen want , come take your choice of ten . Come hither Tospot Tom , thou art the first in place , This fellow will not stay at home above and hours space , Heel at the alehouse stay , from breakfast time till dinner From thence till supper heell be away , by this I was a winner . O this was one of my men , the chief of half a score , All you who want good workmen then take choice among my store . The next was Retchgutt Ralph , right heir to Wood of Kent , A yeareling pig or else a Calf his stomach will content , With eight and fifty Eggs a lenten meal heel make , And yet he looks like one that begs , so lean as any Rake . O this was one of my men the chief of half a score , You who do want good workmen then take choice among my store . The third was Slippery Will , his trade he need not learn , I had two maids and with his skill he god them both with bairn , And two more in the town , all in a fortnights space , The like of him was seldom known , Hee's of a breeding raze . O this was one of my men , the chief of half a score , You who do want good workmen then take choice among my store . The fourth was desperate Dicke , heed loose his shirt at dice , Beside he hath another trick , which he esteems no vice , What ever he can get by cozening or by stealing Or running into honest men's debt , he counts it lawful dealing . O this was one of my men , the chief of half a score You who do want good workmen then , take choice among my store . The sceond part To the same tune . THe fifth was Sam a thresher , the best I ere did keep Heed work foure hours every day , and the rest heed spend in sleep . If any did him blame , For taking so much pains , Heed soon make answer to the same how can I thresh when't reins . O this was one of my men , the chief of half a score , You who doe want good workmen then take choice among my store . The sixth was Cogging Wart he us'd to lie and flatter And Gossip-like hee'd prate and chat , of what it made no matter . What ere his fellows said , ( though he Lov'd them in show ) The telltale Rascal more on't made , And that's a good gift you know . O this was one of my men , the chief of , etc The seventh was Kit the Butcher for him his sweet heart mourns , Heed dress a Sheep or a Bullock well , and give to his friends the horns . Of all I ere knew in my life , he was a pretty youth , Hee'd with his candle look his knife , when he had it in his mouth . O this was one of my men the chief , etc The eighth was George the Groom , a servant good and able , Because he would not wear out his broom , he never swept the stable . His providence was such , to show his honest care , Hee'd never curry the horses much , for fear they should loose their hair , Oh this was one , etc The ninth was painful Pierce , my honest Husbandman , All his good qualities to rehearse , is more then now I can . But one thing of great note , I here ( alone ) will tell Because my hemp should take deep root , he cast it in the Well . O this , etc The tenth and last was Ned , the bailiff of my land , Those tenants that his humour fed , he dealt with under hand . For bribes and private gifts heed let out leases cheap , Now Judge my master's by these gifts , what benefit I might Reap . O this was , etc Imagine now my friends , you to a place are come , Where half a score good fellows stand within a little room , And all do service crave , then do not them refuse , To keep them I no liking have , if I can any way choose . O these are my brave men , in number half a score , You who doe want good workmen then , take choice among my store . FINIS . M.P. Printed at London for Francis Grove . and are to be should at his shop on Snow hill by the Sarazens head 