The forlorn Traveller : Whose first beginning was pleasure and joy , But his riotous spending wrought his decay , He took delight to spend and roar , And at the last dy'd very poor . To a dainty new Court Tune . YOu Young men that much pleasure have come lend and ear To me that once lived fine and brave , and void of all fear , For I had gold and silver plenty , With all things dainty , and then I did roar ; But now alas I am grown poor , And not respected , but am rejected , woe is me therefore . My Parents were of good estate , and did maintain Me for to spend at any rate , which was but in vain ; They 'lowd me means to spend and revel , In courses evil : they such true love boar To me , but now , etc No Town nor City in England fair , but I have seen , And I do mean for to declare , whereas I have been ; And in each place my means consumed , Thus I presumed for to spend and roar , But now alas I am , etc From London I to Gravesend went , with coin great store , To Canterbury in famous Kent , and many Towns more , Where I did meet with roaring Gallants , That spent their talents , thus I company boar ; But now alas , etc Sussex , Surrey , and Southampton , and Barkeshire too , Wiltshire , Dorssetshire and so on , as many more doe , Till all is spent and they forsaken , Then are they taken . with sorrow full soar , So is't with me , for I , etc Summersetshire and Devonshire , and Cornwall then , I travel'd , as you now may hear , and then back again , Then Gloster , Hereford , and Woster , Stafford and Chester , I ranged all over , But now alas , etc My Host and Hostesses where I came , bid me welcome still , Saying , kind sir your self may claim , even what you will , You may but ask and have your pleasure , In any measure , dance , sing , drink and roar , But now alas , etc To Darby , Yorke , and Lancashire , and to Comberland . Westmerland Durram , then I did prepare to Northumberland , My money now being much wasted , I backward hasted , for to fetch some more ; But now alas I am grown poor , And not respected , but am rejected , woe is me therefore . The second part . To the same tune . TO Lester and to Notingham , I back returned , So to Warwicke and Lincolne came , whereas I sojourned , There did I wast away my treasure , Beyond all measure , yet still I did roar , But now alas I am grown poor . And not respected , but am rejected , woe is me therefore . Norfolke , Suffolke , and Cambridge to , and through Huntington , Northampton and Rutland also , Oxford , Buckingham , So I to Bedford , Hartford , Essex , Then to Middlesex , where I lived before , My friends soon died , then I , etc My friends being dead , my means I sold , and then did go , With gallant Sparks of courage bold , against Englands foe , The Neptunes foaming floods we passed , And thus we trased to the foreign shore , But now alas , etc Then in the exercise of Mars , we soon were tried , Whereas our luckless fortune was , soon for to abide , Hunger and cold with bloody battle , The Drums did rattell , and the Canons roar , From thence returned I , etc When I for England came again , I tried my friends , To see what means I could obtain , but their friendship ends , They say I might have been more careful My case is fearful , which does grieve me soar , For now alas , etc Once where ere I did come or go , I still found friends , But now I cannot find it so , having no means , They will not now so much as know me , But do forgo me , now from door to door , I'm feign to beg , etc Let this a warning be to all prodigal youth , Here you may now behold the fallen , of him that shew'th His careless and riotous spending , But now his ending is like to Jane Shore , For he was , etc Thus to conclude I will relate , of this poor man , He dy'd in a woeful estate , as I understand , For in the open fields he died , Being denied , to come within door , Nay at the Brick kills he was burned , And his flesh turned , to ashes all o're . P [ rinted at ] London for F. Coules . FINIS . R. C. The forlorn Traveller : Whose first beginning was pleasure and joy , But his riotous spending wrought his decay , He took delight to spend and roar , And at the last dy'd very poor . To a dainty new Court Tune . YOu Young men that much pleasure have come lend and ear To me that once lived fine and brave , and void of all fear , For I had gold and silver plenty , With all things dainty , and then I did roar ; But now alas I am grown poor , And not respected , but am rejected , woe is me therefore . My Parents were of good estate , and did maintain Me for to spend at any rate , which was but in vain ; They 'lowd me means to spend and revel , In courses evil : they such true love boar To me , but now , etc No Town nor City in England fair , but I have seen , And I do mean for to declare , whereas I have been ; And in each place my means consumed , Thus I presumed for to spend and roar , But now alas I am , etc From London I to Gravesend went , with coin great store , To Canterbury in famous Kent , and many Towns more , Where I did meet with roaring Gallants , That spent their talents , thus I company boar ; But now alas , etc Sussex , Surrey , and Southampton , and Barkeshire too , Wiltshire , Dorssetshire and so on , as many more doe , Till all is spent and they forsaken , Then are they taken . with sorrow full soar , So is't with me , for I , etc Summersetshire and Devonshire , and Cornwall then , I travel'd , as you now may hear , and then back again , Then Gloster , Hereford , and Woster , Stafford and Chester , I ranged all over , But now alas , etc My Host and Hostesses where I came , bid me welcome still , Saying , kind sir your self may claim , even what you will , You may but ask and have your pleasure , In any measure , dance , sing , drink and roar , But now alas , etc To Darby , Yorke , and Lancashire , and to Comberland . Westmerland Durram , then I did prepare to Northumberland , My money now being much wasted , I backward hasted , for to fetch some more ; But now alas I am grown poor , And not respected , but am rejected , woe is me therefore . The second part . To the same tune . TO Lester and to Notingham , I back returned , So to Warwicke and Lincolne came , whereas I sojourned , There did I wast away my treasure , Beyond all measure , yet still I did roar , But now alas I am grown poor . And not respected , but am rejected , woe is me therefore . Norfolke , Suffolke , and Cambridge to , and through Huntington , Northampton and Rutland also , Oxford , Buckingham , So I to Bedford , Hartford , Essex , Then to Middlesex , where I lived before , My friends soon died , then I , etc My friends being dead , my means I sold , and then did go , With gallant Sparks of courage bold , against Englands foe , The Neptunes foaming floods we passed , And thus we trased to the foreign shore , But now alas , etc Then in the exercise of Mars , we soon were tried , Whereas our luckless fortune was , soon for to abide , Hunger and cold with bloody battle , The Drums did rattell , and the Canons roar , From thence returned I , etc When I for England came again , I tried my friends , To see what means I could obtain , but their friendship ends , They say I might have been more careful My case is fearful , which does grieve me soar , For now alas , etc Once where ere I did come or go , I still found friends , But now I cannot find it so , having no means , They will not now so much as know me , But do forgo me , now from door to door , I'm feign to beg , etc Let this a warning be to all prodigal youth , Here you may now behold the fallen , of him that shew'th His careless and riotous spending , But now his ending is like to Jane Shore , For he was , etc Thus to conclude I will relate , of this poor man , He dy'd in a woeful estate , as I understand , For in the open fields he died , Being denied , to come within door , Nay at the Brick kills he was burned , And his flesh turned , to ashes all o're . P [ rinted at ] London for F. Coules . FINIS . R. C. 