The merry Hoastess : OR , A pretty new Ditty , compos'd by and Hoastess that lives in the City : To wrong such and Hoastess it were a great pity , By reason she caused this pretty new Ditty . To the Tune of , Buff Coat has no Fellow . COme all that loves good company , and harken to my Ditty ; 'Tis of a lovely Hoastess fine , that lives in London City : Which sells good Ale , nappy and stale , and always thus sings she , My Ale was tunn'd when I was young , and a little above my knee . Her Ale is lively strong and stout , if you please but to taste ; It is well brew'd you need not fear , but I pray you make no waste : It is lovely brown , the best in Town , and always thus sings she , My Ale was tunn'd when I was young , and a little above my knee . The gayest Lady with her Fan , does love such nappy Ale ; Both City Maids , and Country Girls that carries the milking Pail : Will take a touch , and not think much , to sing so merrily , My Ale was tunn'd when I was young , and a little above my knee . Both Lord and Esquire hath a desire unto it night and day ; For a quart or two , be it old or new , and for it they will pay : With Pipe in hand they may her command to sing most merrily , My Ale was tunn'd when I was young , and a little above my knee . You'r welcome all brave Gentlemen , if you please to come in ; To take a cup I do intend , and a health for to begin : To all the merry joval Blades , that will sing for company , My Ale was tunn'd when I was young , and a little above my knee . Here's a Health to all brave English men that loves this cup of Ale ; Let every man fill up his Can , and see that none do fail , 'Tis very good to nourish the blood , and make you sing with me , My Ale was tunn'd when I was young , and a little above my knee . The second Part , to the same Tune . THe bonny Scot will lay a plot , to get a handsome touch Of this my Ale so good and stale ; so will the cunning Dutch : They will take a part with all their heart , to sing this tune with me , My Ale was tunn'd when I was young , and a little above my knee . It will make the Irish cry a hone , If they but take their fill ; And put them all quite out of tune , let them use their chiefest skill : So strong and stout it will hold out in any company : For my Ale was tunn'd when I was young , and a little above my knee . The Welch-man on Saint Davids Day will cry , Cots Plutter a nail , Hur will hur ferry quite away , from off that nappy Ale : It makes hur foes with hur read Nose , hur seldom can agree . But my Ale was tunn'd when I was young , and a little above my knee . The Spaniard stout will have about , 'cause he hath store of gold ; Till at the last hs is laid fast , my Ale does him so hold : His Poigniard strong is laid along , yet he is good company . For my Ale was tunn'd when I was young , and a little above my knee . There's never a Tradesman in England , that can my Ale deny ; The Weaver , Taylor , and Glover , delights it for to buy : Small money they do take away , if that they drink with me . For my Ale was tunn'd when I was young , and a little above my knee . There is Smug the honest Blacksmith , he seldom can pass by ; Because a spark lies in his throat , which makes him very dry : But my old Ale tells him his tale , so finely we agree . For my Ale was tunn'd when I was young , and a little above my knee . The Brewer , Baker , and Butcher , as well as all the rest , Both night and day will watch where they may find Ale of the bes And the Gentle Craft will come full oft to drink a cup with me . For my Ale was tunn'd when I was young , and a little above my knee . So to conclude , good Fellows all , I bid you all adieu ; If that you love a cup of Ale , take rather old then new : For if you come where I do dwell , and chance to drink with me : My Ale was tunn'd when I was young , and a little above my knee . FINIS . T.R. London , Printed for John Andrews , at the White Lion near Pye-Corner . The merry Hoastess : OR , A pretty new Ditty , compos'd by and Hoastess that lives in the City : To wrong such and Hoastess it were a great pity , By reason she caused this pretty new Ditty . To the Tune of , Buff Coat has no Fellow . COme all that loves good company , and harken to my Ditty ; 'Tis of a lovely Hoastess fine , that lives in London City : Which sells good Ale , nappy and stale , and always thus sings she , My Ale was tunn'd when I was young , and a little above my knee . Her Ale is lively strong and stout , if you please but to taste ; It is well brew'd you need not fear , but I pray you make no waste : It is lovely brown , the best in Town , and always thus sings she , My Ale was tunn'd when I was young , and a little above my knee . The gayest Lady with her Fan , does love such nappy Ale ; Both City Maids , and Country Girls that carries the milking Pail : Will take a touch , and not think much , to sing so merrily , My Ale was tunn'd when I was young , and a little above my knee . Both Lord and Esquire hath a desire unto it night and day ; For a quart or two , be it old or new , and for it they will pay : With Pipe in hand they may her command to sing most merrily , My Ale was tunn'd when I was young , and a little above my knee . You'r welcome all brave Gentlemen , if you please to come in ; To take a cup I do intend , and a health for to begin : To all the merry joval Blades , that will sing for company , My Ale was tunn'd when I was young , and a little above my knee . Here's a Health to all brave English men that loves this cup of Ale ; Let every man fill up his Can , and see that none do fail , 'Tis very good to nourish the blood , and make you sing with me , My Ale was tunn'd when I was young , and a little above my knee . The second Part , to the same Tune . THe bonny Scot will lay a plot , to get a handsome touch Of this my Ale so good and stale ; so will the cunning Dutch : They will take a part with all their heart , to sing this tune with me , My Ale was tunn'd when I was young , and a little above my knee . It will make the Irish cry a hone , If they but take their fill ; And put them all quite out of tune , let them use their chiefest skill : So strong and stout it will hold out in any company : For my Ale was tunn'd when I was young , and a little above my knee . The Welch-man on Saint Davids Day will cry , Cots Plutter a nail , Hur will hur ferry quite away , from off that nappy Ale : It makes hur foes with hur read Nose , hur seldom can agree . But my Ale was tunn'd when I was young , and a little above my knee . The Spaniard stout will have about , 'cause he hath store of gold ; Till at the last hs is laid fast , my Ale does him so hold : His Poigniard strong is laid along , yet he is good company . For my Ale was tunn'd when I was young , and a little above my knee . There's never a Tradesman in England , that can my Ale deny ; The Weaver , Taylor , and Glover , delights it for to buy : Small money they do take away , if that they drink with me . For my Ale was tunn'd when I was young , and a little above my knee . There is Smug the honest Blacksmith , he seldom can pass by ; Because a spark lies in his throat , which makes him very dry : But my old Ale tells him his tale , so finely we agree . For my Ale was tunn'd when I was young , and a little above my knee . The Brewer , Baker , and Butcher , as well as all the rest , Both night and day will watch where they may find Ale of the bes And the Gentle Craft will come full oft to drink a cup with me . For my Ale was tunn'd when I was young , and a little above my knee . So to conclude , good Fellows all , I bid you all adieu ; If that you love a cup of Ale , take rather old then new : For if you come where I do dwell , and chance to drink with me : My Ale was tunn'd when I was young , and a little above my knee . FINIS . T.R. London , Printed for John Andrews , at the White Lion near Pye-Corner . 