The fetching home of May : OR , A pretty new Ditty wherein is made known , How each Lass does strive for to have a green Gown . To the Tune of , Room for Company , etc NOw Pan leaves piping , The Gods have done feasting , there's never a goddess a hunting to day : Mortals do marvel at Coridons jesting , that lends them assisting to entertain May . The Lads and the Lasses , With scarves on their faces , So lively it passes , trips over the downs : Much mirth and sport they make Running at Barleibreak , Good lack what pains they take for their green Gowns . Fine John and Gillian , Henry with Franses , Meg with Mary , and Robin with Will : George and Margery set all the dances , for they were reported to have the best skill . Sisle and Nanne The fairest of many , That came last of any from out of the Town , Quickly god in among The midst of the throng , Thus they so much did long for the green Gown . Blanch and Betaris Both of a Family , came very lasely lagging behind : Anes and Anibell noted their policy , Cupid is cunning although he be blind : Winny the witty That came from the City , With Parnell the pretty , and Besse the brown : Clim Jone and Isabell , Sum Also and bonny Nell , Liked of their journeys well , for the green Gown . But wanton Deborah Whispered to Dorrity , that she should wink upon Richard & Sim , Now mincing Maudlin showed her authority , and in the quarrel did venture a limb : Sibill was sickly And could not come quickly , And therefore was lickely to fallen in a swoon . There was none would tarry For Hugh nor for Harry , Lest Christian should carry away the green Gown . Thus all the Youngsters Had reach'd the green Meadows , where they appointed to gather their May , Some in the Sunshine , & some in the shadows , singled in couples did fallen to their play . Constant Penelope Faith , Hope and Charity , Looked very modestly , yet they sat down : Prudens prevented What Rachell repented , And Cate was contented to take the green Gown . The second part , To the same tune . THis Maying so pleased , Most of the fine Lasses , that they much desired to fetch in May flowers , For to strew the windows & such like places , beside they'l have May bows fit for shady Bowers . But most of all they go To find where love does grow , Each young man knows 'tis so , else hee's a Clown : For 'tis and old saying There is great joying , When Maids go a Maying , they'll have a green Gown . Maidens and young men go And 'tis and order old for to drink merrily , and eat spiced Cakes , The Lads & the Lasses their customs will hold for they will go walk i'th fields like loving Mates : Em calls for Marry , And Ruth calls for Sarah , Iddy calls for Hary to man them along : Martin calls Marcy , Dick calls for Debary , Then they go lovingly all in a throng . The bright Apollo Was all the while peeping , to see if his Daphne had been in the throng , And missing her hastily downward was cree-ping , for that's imagined they tarri'd too long Then all the troop mourned And homeward returned , For Cynthia scorned to smile or to frown : Thus did they gather May All the long Summer's day , And went at night away , each with a green Gown . Bright Venus still glisters , Out shining of Luna , Saturne was present , as right did require , And he called Jupiter with his Queen Juno , to see how Dame Venus did burn in desire : Now Jove sent Mercury To Vulcan hastily , Because he should descry Dame Venus down : Vulkan came running , On Mars he stood frowning , Yet for all his cunning , Venus had a green Gown . Cupid shoots Arrows At Venus her Darlings , for they are nearest unto him by kind : Diana he hits not nor can he pierce worldlings for they have strong armour his darts to defend : The one hath chastity , And Cupid does defy , The others cruelty , makes him a clown : But leaving this I see , From Cupid few are free , And ther's much courtesy in a green Gown . FINIS . Printed at London for J. Wright junior , dwelling at the upper end of the Old Baily . The fetching home of May : OR , A pretty new Ditty wherein is made known , How each Lass does strive for to have a green Gown . To the Tune of , Room for Company , etc NOw Pan leaves piping , The Gods have done feasting , there's never a goddess a hunting to day : Mortals do marvel at Coridons jesting , that lends them assisting to entertain May . The Lads and the Lasses , With scarves on their faces , So lively it passes , trips over the downs : Much mirth and sport they make Running at Barleibreak , Good lack what pains they take for their green Gowns . Fine John and Gillian , Henry with Franses , Meg with Mary , and Robin with Will : George and Margery set all the dances , for they were reported to have the best skill . Sisle and Nanne The fairest of many , That came last of any from out of the Town , Quickly god in among The midst of the throng , Thus they so much did long for the green Gown . Blanch and Betaris Both of a Family , came very lasely lagging behind : Anes and Anibell noted their policy , Cupid is cunning although he be blind : Winny the witty That came from the City , With Parnell the pretty , and Besse the brown : Clim Jone and Isabell , Sum Also and bonny Nell , Liked of their journeys well , for the green Gown . But wanton Deborah Whispered to Dorrity , that she should wink upon Richard & Sim , Now mincing Maudlin showed her authority , and in the quarrel did venture a limb : Sibill was sickly And could not come quickly , And therefore was lickely to fallen in a swoon . There was none would tarry For Hugh nor for Harry , Lest Christian should carry away the green Gown . Thus all the Youngsters Had reach'd the green Meadows , where they appointed to gather their May , Some in the Sunshine , & some in the shadows , singled in couples did fallen to their play . Constant Penelope Faith , Hope and Charity , Looked very modestly , yet they sat down : Prudens prevented What Rachell repented , And Cate was contented to take the green Gown . The second part , To the same tune . THis Maying so pleased , Most of the fine Lasses , that they much desired to fetch in May flowers , For to strew the windows & such like places , beside they'l have May bows fit for shady Bowers . But most of all they go To find where love does grow , Each young man knows 'tis so , else hee's a Clown : For 'tis and old saying There is great joying , When Maids go a Maying , they'll have a green Gown . Maidens and young men go And 'tis and order old for to drink merrily , and eat spiced Cakes , The Lads & the Lasses their customs will hold for they will go walk i'th fields like loving Mates : Em calls for Marry , And Ruth calls for Sarah , Iddy calls for Hary to man them along : Martin calls Marcy , Dick calls for Debary , Then they go lovingly all in a throng . The bright Apollo Was all the while peeping , to see if his Daphne had been in the throng , And missing her hastily downward was cree-ping , for that's imagined they tarri'd too long Then all the troop mourned And homeward returned , For Cynthia scorned to smile or to frown : Thus did they gather May All the long Summer's day , And went at night away , each with a green Gown . Bright Venus still glisters , Out shining of Luna , Saturne was present , as right did require , And he called Jupiter with his Queen Juno , to see how Dame Venus did burn in desire : Now Jove sent Mercury To Vulcan hastily , Because he should descry Dame Venus down : Vulkan came running , On Mars he stood frowning , Yet for all his cunning , Venus had a green Gown . Cupid shoots Arrows At Venus her Darlings , for they are nearest unto him by kind : Diana he hits not nor can he pierce worldlings for they have strong armour his darts to defend : The one hath chastity , And Cupid does defy , The others cruelty , makes him a clown : But leaving this I see , From Cupid few are free , And ther's much courtesy in a green Gown . FINIS . Printed at London for J. Wright junior , dwelling at the upper end of the Old Baily . 