Maddeis Lamentation When bloody Mars with his undantit rage With Saturne maid this cruel conspiration And cursed Juno with birnand fears courage Amangis Planettis had greitest dominatioun . I hard ane voice with dreary lamentation , Sayand oh Lord help now with thy right hand , Gone is the Joy , and guide of this Nation , I mean be James Regent of Scotland . When Lachesis his threid had drawing to length Prolonging forth this Princes life in gloir , Than Atropus extending forth his strength , This fatell threid , allace for to devoir , Now Justice ( o ) quha sal thy sword decoir ? This common weil quhat wicht sal now warrant Sen he is gone , that Governed us before That upricht Prince James Regent of Scotland His good beginning quha that could riched report When this Region of reule was destitude , In plane Parliament our Nobillis did exhort , That Innocent to taken the fortitude . Of this falls I'll , of Justice than denude , And with their aithis promysit with him to stand , Justice to keip in mind he did conclude , Sa lang as he was Regent in Scotland . Sen Fergus days , his like was never none , In equal Justice , and deidis Martial , Their Realms twa he knat up baith in one , Quhilk never Prince before could do at all . The Sovage daillis he dantonit and maid thrall To serve their King , he gart thames give their band , With fire and sword for grace he gart thames call That prudent Prince James Regent of Scotland . His common well , he lufit over all thing , In true Religion nam Prince might be his peir Idolatry but ruth he did down thring , All Sorsarars he puneist far and neir , Na Homiceid , nor thief that durst appear , Within his sight for dreid of dint of brand , Just men he maid his tallow and his fear , This humane Prince James Regent of Scotland . The Devil seand this godly Prince sa bent , Throw old malice he gaif to rage throw feid , His Spreit Inferne he send Incontinent , Amangis tratours for to conspire his dead . And cruelly but mercy or remeid , With schot of gun they murdreist him from hand , Short over twa years when he had rung in dead This Innocent Prince James Regent of Scotland . the virtuous men lament his careful chance , Sen he is gone that should you fortify , All you that walled the true Gospel avance : Bevaill , bevaill , for that sweit Josue . Your secund Moyses , that led you throw the se , Had he Indurit your Canane land had stand , Despair not yet . Christ will your Captain be , Sen he is gone James Regent of Scotland . the pure commounis that lang hes be oppressed And you Burrowis murne and Regrait his fallen : Give he had leifit , nam man durst you molest For quhy he was ane watchman on your wall Now sen na Prince may leif uprycht at all , In this falls Realm on slain in Burgh and land Adieu now Mirror of Justice Principal , Mayest godly Prince James Regent of Scotland . This common well he luffit sa tenderly , Quhilk to mantene na thing maid him aghast His love to it he show mayest faithfully , And with his blood he s [ e ] illit it up at last . Had he mantenit all Tratours that trespast , His godly life in Joyis yet had stand , That walled he not , and sa this Prince is past , That Innocent James Regent of Scotland . Now you his followeris of his Enterprise , Think on the murder of that Innocent , Extend your strengths , and all together rise , Pass endlang Clyde , but ruth incontinent , Meg Lochis get , that did the mys Invent , That Apostat , that Feyndis awin Seriand , Seis not quhill he , and his cursed kin Repent , The slaughter of our Regent of Scotland . That Infant Babe , that you have taine in cure , Saif him from skaith , and stiff together bide , Remember quhat you have in hand be sure , Your fais will launch when they see you divide . Lat na vain gloir , covet [ ic ] e nor pride . Expel freindschip to wrak you and this land , Keip the last words of our Just Joy and guide , When he deceased James Regent of Scotland . Hudge is your fais within this falls Region , With Ithand trystis contractand up new bandis To bring you to shame and confusion , Gaird you you love , sen you wait how it stands . Your Prince & strength , keip well in faithful hands For give your fais tryumphis over you to stand Schaip you for dead , or dwell in uther lands , Sen he is gone James Regent of Scotland . Your cause is Just , g [ if ] you walled all pursue Bot where division lu [ r ] kiss , it is ane pine : Christ hes it said , and doubtless it is true , That Kingdom shall cum to great ruin When that division hes his sait and tryne , Therefore be war , counsel is na command : For give you perische , your cause & friends shall tyne For now they want James of Scotland Great is the danger you stand in now but doubt , And you have shame from your purpois to fle , Spair not for geir , bot with bald hearts be stout Mantene Gods cause , to common well have Ee And he that is of mayest Magnificie , Your banner shall display with his awin hand , To the Confusion of your Enemy Sen he is gone James Regent of Scotland . O thou that art Omnipotent conding , Thre persounis Ringand in ane Trinitie , Help this pure Realm , & preserve our young King From shame and dead , and feid of Enemy . Amangis our Nobillis plant peace and unity , Fra mercyles strangers saif us with thy riched hand Our sins is great , yet mercy restis with thee , Adieu for ay James Regent of Scotland . FINIS . Imprentit at Edinburgh be Robert Lekpreuik . ANOO DO . 1570. Maddeis Lamentation When bloody Mars with his undantit rage With Saturne maid this cruel conspiration And cursed Juno with birnand fears courage Amangis Planettis had greitest dominatioun . I hard ane voice with dreary lamentation , Sayand oh Lord help now with thy right hand , Gone is the Joy , and guide of this Nation , I mean be James Regent of Scotland . When Lachesis his threid had drawing to length Prolonging forth this Princes life in gloir , Than Atropus extending forth his strength , This fatell threid , allace for to devoir , Now Justice ( o ) quha sal thy sword decoir ? This common weil quhat wicht sal now warrant Sen he is gone , that Governed us before That upricht Prince James Regent of Scotland His good beginning quha that could riched report When this Region of reule was destitude , In plane Parliament our Nobillis did exhort , That Innocent to taken the fortitude . Of this falls I'll , of Justice than denude , And with their aithis promysit with him to stand , Justice to keip in mind he did conclude , Sa lang as he was Regent in Scotland . Sen Fergus days , his like was never none , In equal Justice , and deidis Martial , Their Realms twa he knat up baith in one , Quhilk never Prince before could do at all . The Sovage daillis he dantonit and maid thrall To serve their King , he gart thames give their band , With fire and sword for grace he gart thames call That prudent Prince James Regent of Scotland . His common well , he lufit over all thing , In true Religion nam Prince might be his peir Idolatry but ruth he did down thring , All Sorsarars he puneist far and neir , Na Homiceid , nor thief that durst appear , Within his sight for dreid of dint of brand , Just men he maid his tallow and his fear , This humane Prince James Regent of Scotland . The Devil seand this godly Prince sa bent , Throw old malice he gaif to rage throw feid , His Spreit Inferne he send Incontinent , Amangis tratours for to conspire his dead . And cruelly but mercy or remeid , With schot of gun they murdreist him from hand , Short over twa years when he had rung in dead This Innocent Prince James Regent of Scotland . the virtuous men lament his careful chance , Sen he is gone that should you fortify , All you that walled the true Gospel avance : Bevaill , bevaill , for that sweit Josue . Your secund Moyses , that led you throw the se , Had he Indurit your Canane land had stand , Despair not yet . Christ will your Captain be , Sen he is gone James Regent of Scotland . the pure commounis that lang hes be oppressed And you Burrowis murne and Regrait his fallen : Give he had leifit , nam man durst you molest For quhy he was ane watchman on your wall Now sen na Prince may leif uprycht at all , In this falls Realm on slain in Burgh and land Adieu now Mirror of Justice Principal , Mayest godly Prince James Regent of Scotland . This common well he luffit sa tenderly , Quhilk to mantene na thing maid him aghast His love to it he show mayest faithfully , And with his blood he s [ e ] illit it up at last . Had he mantenit all Tratours that trespast , His godly life in Joyis yet had stand , That walled he not , and sa this Prince is past , That Innocent James Regent of Scotland . Now you his followeris of his Enterprise , Think on the murder of that Innocent , Extend your strengths , and all together rise , Pass endlang Clyde , but ruth incontinent , Meg Lochis get , that did the mys Invent , That Apostat , that Feyndis awin Seriand , Seis not quhill he , and his cursed kin Repent , The slaughter of our Regent of Scotland . That Infant Babe , that you have taine in cure , Saif him from skaith , and stiff together bide , Remember quhat you have in hand be sure , Your fais will launch when they see you divide . Lat na vain gloir , covet [ ic ] e nor pride . Expel freindschip to wrak you and this land , Keip the last words of our Just Joy and guide , When he deceased James Regent of Scotland . Hudge is your fais within this falls Region , With Ithand trystis contractand up new bandis To bring you to shame and confusion , Gaird you you love , sen you wait how it stands . Your Prince & strength , keip well in faithful hands For give your fais tryumphis over you to stand Schaip you for dead , or dwell in uther lands , Sen he is gone James Regent of Scotland . Your cause is Just , g [ if ] you walled all pursue Bot where division lu [ r ] kiss , it is ane pine : Christ hes it said , and doubtless it is true , That Kingdom shall cum to great ruin When that division hes his sait and tryne , Therefore be war , counsel is na command : For give you perische , your cause & friends shall tyne For now they want James of Scotland Great is the danger you stand in now but doubt , And you have shame from your purpois to fle , Spair not for geir , bot with bald hearts be stout Mantene Gods cause , to common well have Ee And he that is of mayest Magnificie , Your banner shall display with his awin hand , To the Confusion of your Enemy Sen he is gone James Regent of Scotland . O thou that art Omnipotent conding , Thre persounis Ringand in ane Trinitie , Help this pure Realm , & preserve our young King From shame and dead , and feid of Enemy . Amangis our Nobillis plant peace and unity , Fra mercyles strangers saif us with thy riched hand Our sins is great , yet mercy restis with thee , Adieu for ay James Regent of Scotland . FINIS . Imprentit at Edinburgh be Robert Lekpreuik . ANOO DO . 1570. 