The Coaches Overthrow . OR , A Jovial Exaltation of diverse Tradesmen , and others , for the suppression of troublesome Hackney Coaches . To the tune of , Old King Harry . AS I pass'd by this other day , where Sack and Clarret spring ; I herd a mad crew by the way , that loud did laugh and sing , High down , dery dery down , with the hackney Coaches down ; This cry'd aloud They make such a Crowd , Men cannot pass the Town . The Boys that brew strong Ale , and care not how the world does swing ; So bonny , blithe , and Jovial are , their lives are drink and sing , Heigh down , dery dery down , With the hackney Coaches down , To make them room , They may freely come , And liquour the thirsty Town . The Collier he's a sack of mirth , and though as black as soot , Yet still he tunes , and whistles forth , And this is all the Note . Heigh down , dery dery down , With the hackney Coaches down : They long made fools Of poor Carry-coales , But now must leave the town . The Carriers of every Shire , are as from cares immune : So Jovial is this packhorse Choir , and this is all their tune . Hey down , dery dery down , With the hackney Coaches down , Farewell , adieu , To the Jumping Crew , For they must leave the town . Although the Carman had a cold , he strein'd his March-bird voice , And with the best a part did hold to sing and to rejoice . Heigh down , dery dery down , with the hackney Coaches down : The Carmen Cars , And the Merchant's Wares May pass along the town . The very Slugs did pipe for Joy , that Coachmen hence should high , And that the Coaches must away a mellowing up to lie . Hey down , dery dery down , With the hackney Coachmen down , Pass they their scope , As round as a rope , Wee'l Jog them forth of town . Permonters , and the Informs , that oft offences hatch ; In all our times the Money-wormes , and they are for the catch . Heigh down , dery dery down , With the hackney Coaches down , For these Restraints , Will with Complaints , [ Fill all the noisy town . ] The second part To the same tune . THe world no more shall run on wheels , with Coachmen as't has done ; But they must take them to their heals , and try how they can run . Heigh down , dery dery down , with the Hackney Coaches down : we thought they'd burst , Their Pride since first Swell'd so within the Town . The Sedan does ( like Atlas ) hope to carry heaven pickpack : And likewise since he has such scope to bear the Town at's back . Heigh down , dery dery down , with the Hackney Coachmen down : Arise Sedan , Thou shalt be the Man To bear us about the Town . I love Sedans cause they do plod , and amble every where , Which Prancers are with Leather shod , and near disturb the ear . Heigh down , dery dery down , with the Hackney Coaches down : Their Jumpings make The Pavement shake , Their noise does mad the Town . The Elder Brother shall take place , the Youngest Brother rise : The middle Brother's out of grace , and every Tradesman cries . Heigh down , dery dery down , with the Hackney Coaches down , 'Twould save much hurt , Spare dust , and dirt , Were they clean out of Town . The Sick , the Weak , the Lame also , a Coach for ease might beg : When they on foot might lightly go , that are as Right's my Leg. Heigh down [ e , dery dery ] down , with the hackney Coaches down : Let's foot it out , Ere the year comes about , 'Twill save us many a Crown . What though we trip over boots and shoes , 'twill ease the prize of Leather : We shall get twice , what once we lose , when they do fallen together . Heigh down , dery dery down , with the hackney Coaches down ; Though one Trade fallen , Yet in general , This a good to all the Town . This and undoing unto none that a Profession use : This good for all , not hurt to one , considering the abuse . Then heigh down , dery dery down , with the hackney Coaches down : This so Decreed By a Royal Deed , To make't a happy Town . Coach-makers may use many Trades , and get enough of means : And Coachmen may turn off their Jades , and helps to drain the Fens . Heigh down , dery dery down , with the hackney Coaches down : The Sith , and Flail , Cart , and Ploughtail Do want them out of Town . But to conclude , this true , I hear they'l soon be out of Fashion , This thought , they very likely are to have a long Vacation . Heigh down , dery dery down , with the hackney Coaches down : Their Terme's near done , And shall be begun No more in London Town . FINIS . London Printed for Francis G [ rove . ] The Coaches Overthrow . OR , A Jovial Exaltation of diverse Tradesmen , and others , for the suppression of troublesome Hackney Coaches . To the tune of , Old King Harry . AS I pass'd by this other day , where Sack and Clarret spring ; I herd a mad crew by the way , that loud did laugh and sing , High down , dery dery down , with the hackney Coaches down ; This cry'd aloud They make such a Crowd , Men cannot pass the Town . The Boys that brew strong Ale , and care not how the world does swing ; So bonny , blithe , and Jovial are , their lives are drink and sing , Heigh down , dery dery down , With the hackney Coaches down , To make them room , They may freely come , And liquour the thirsty Town . The Collier he's a sack of mirth , and though as black as soot , Yet still he tunes , and whistles forth , And this is all the Note . Heigh down , dery dery down , With the hackney Coaches down : They long made fools Of poor Carry-coales , But now must leave the town . The Carriers of every Shire , are as from cares immune : So Jovial is this packhorse Choir , and this is all their tune . Hey down , dery dery down , With the hackney Coaches down , Farewell , adieu , To the Jumping Crew , For they must leave the town . Although the Carman had a cold , he strein'd his March-bird voice , And with the best a part did hold to sing and to rejoice . Heigh down , dery dery down , with the hackney Coaches down : The Carmen Cars , And the Merchant's Wares May pass along the town . The very Slugs did pipe for Joy , that Coachmen hence should high , And that the Coaches must away a mellowing up to lie . Hey down , dery dery down , With the hackney Coachmen down , Pass they their scope , As round as a rope , Wee'l Jog them forth of town . Permonters , and the Informs , that oft offences hatch ; In all our times the Money-wormes , and they are for the catch . Heigh down , dery dery down , With the hackney Coaches down , For these Restraints , Will with Complaints , [ Fill all the noisy town . ] The second part To the same tune . THe world no more shall run on wheels , with Coachmen as't has done ; But they must take them to their heals , and try how they can run . Heigh down , dery dery down , with the Hackney Coaches down : we thought they'd burst , Their Pride since first Swell'd so within the Town . The Sedan does ( like Atlas ) hope to carry heaven pickpack : And likewise since he has such scope to bear the Town at's back . Heigh down , dery dery down , with the Hackney Coachmen down : Arise Sedan , Thou shalt be the Man To bear us about the Town . I love Sedans cause they do plod , and amble every where , Which Prancers are with Leather shod , and near disturb the ear . Heigh down , dery dery down , with the Hackney Coaches down : Their Jumpings make The Pavement shake , Their noise does mad the Town . The Elder Brother shall take place , the Youngest Brother rise : The middle Brother's out of grace , and every Tradesman cries . Heigh down , dery dery down , with the Hackney Coaches down , 'Twould save much hurt , Spare dust , and dirt , Were they clean out of Town . The Sick , the Weak , the Lame also , a Coach for ease might beg : When they on foot might lightly go , that are as Right's my Leg. Heigh down [ e , dery dery ] down , with the hackney Coaches down : Let's foot it out , Ere the year comes about , 'Twill save us many a Crown . What though we trip over boots and shoes , 'twill ease the prize of Leather : We shall get twice , what once we lose , when they do fallen together . Heigh down , dery dery down , with the hackney Coaches down ; Though one Trade fallen , Yet in general , This a good to all the Town . This and undoing unto none that a Profession use : This good for all , not hurt to one , considering the abuse . Then heigh down , dery dery down , with the hackney Coaches down : This so Decreed By a Royal Deed , To make't a happy Town . Coach-makers may use many Trades , and get enough of means : And Coachmen may turn off their Jades , and helps to drain the Fens . Heigh down , dery dery down , with the hackney Coaches down : The Sith , and Flail , Cart , and Ploughtail Do want them out of Town . But to conclude , this true , I hear they'l soon be out of Fashion , This thought , they very likely are to have a long Vacation . Heigh down , dery dery down , with the hackney Coaches down : Their Terme's near done , And shall be begun No more in London Town . FINIS . London Printed for Francis G [ rove . ] 