The admonition to the Lords FOr lois thou Lythquo may miserably lament Thy fait Infortunate , and duilfull destanie , That precious peirle James our Regent In thee was slain , dissavit duilfullie . O cursed hour , oh dead of felony , Oh waryit band , o wappin violent , That spairit not his great Nobility Sa undeservit suddandly to be schent . In wicked hour he saift the from the Gallous Or show his grace to sic ane graceless grume , Had thou be hangit Tratour and thy fallowis This common well had born the Laurel blume Better Justice was not from hence to Room , More quiet peace before never King heir held , Allace that sic ane Tratour should consume His days before our King had be of eild . Dowglas & Hume address you now anon , His tressonabill dolent death for to Revenge : With Atholl , Erskyn , and Stewartis every one Grame , and Lyndsay remember on this change . Schaw now he lufit the manly Laird of Grange Glenkarne , and Sempil , convene with ane accord Throw out this Realm like Ratches see you range , And seek their blood that hes his body board . All uther Erlis , and Barrounis of renown , Convene your selfis with heart and hail Intent , All partakeris to put to confusion : With him that slew that Abell Innocent . And in your hearts perfytlie do it prent , Give one of you siclyke had loist his breith How day and night he walled be deligent Your cause and quarrel Revenge unto the death . Edinburgh Dundie , & uther Burrowtounis , Remember how the Regent lufit you well Heill nor conceill , reset nane of they lownis , Neither art nor part , that did his body keill . Sen he was keipar of your common well , Cleik on his quarrel , and shortly you dispone Lat never that Ruffians within your rowmis reill Bot kyith now kindness when that his grace is gone . Young tender King now behind dois abide Thy servand schot was only for thy saik , Had he not taken thy Governance and guide Lang might he levit with Lady And his maik , Na tratour Hammiltoun had gevin that mortal straik War not in hope to make thy Grace forlorn , They thought his death walled make thy power waik And than obtain they sought sa lang before . Bot God that hes thy Majesty in cure , Will fruster all their fulische Interprysis Is war they Butchers thy Father did combute , Quha flemit are for their devillische devysis . Thair fact and act , all Scotland now disprysis , Their awin misdeidis hes sa undone their well They dar never enter in Judgement nor assysis , Nor claim their lands , that did thy Father keill . Quhat trow you Tigers , that God omnipotent Will wynk unseen sic wickitnes and wrang , You may be sure his bow is ready bent You to ruit out , lycia ford and think not lang . Hammiltoun and Hepburne you will sing baith ane sang Shrewit is that service you have schawin to your King , Wald poysonit him self , his Father wyrreit strange , Now slain his Regent to make your selfis to ring . Woe worth unlefull meinis manifest , That you have sought to bruik Authority , Yet un obtenit , quhill that our King may lest Whom Christ conserve in his Minority . That tender plant our Superiority Should have , quha is our kindly King of nature , The King of Kings of his Majority , Make never ane King over Scotland of a Tratoure . Woe to the scheddars of his saikles blood , Woe cause of woe , sa money did commend , Woe to they Gylouris of godliness denude , Woe to they Pelouris , sic [ I ] nterprysis pretend . Woe thames Involve , now when his woe hes end , Woe and eik wrak , mot fa [ ll ] that bloody band Woe will they cry , and rew that they him kenned , For woe when that they l [ oh ] is baith life and land . Schamt is that sort , with shame they will schent Schamt schameles , shame hes schawin unto this nation Schamt are they tratouris , [ s ] ic tressoun did invent Shame sorrowles will [ b ] e their Castigation . For shame they dar neve [ r ] claim now dominatioun , To purches place did sa h [ is ] death prevent , Place have they loist , and [ fu ] and their desolation , That sought sic place , till G [ oh ] worser had be content . And God their pride w [ i ] ll puneis presently , That dois pretend be mu [ rt ] her manifest To Royal room , and he [ i ] changed Authority , Huiking na harm sa they may be possessed . In world wealth quhilk wisdom should detest , When it proceidis of falls [ e ] tO and Invy : Vain gloir , dissait , or ocht that may molest Good governance throw teinfull Tratory . Wise Noble Lords my Schedull now consider And give the wisest Lord the Governance , Sinder not now that are assemblit together Quhill ane be chosin the common well to avance . Sic as will puneis this last unhappy chance , And feiris God now sen the room dois waik , Chosin like the tother , you myster not to pans , For in all Scotland he hes not left his maik . Now is he well , and you in woe God wait , Your wickitnes and warkis hes the wit , Your Inobedience hes purchessit Gods hai Your gredynes to eik you [ r ] Rends great . In vain you reid the Scripture as ane rite , And of the pure hes na Compass [ i ] own , Their are the causis , than you of him are quite That rewlit you , and walled maid Reformation . FINIS . Imprentit at Edinburgh be Robert Lekpreuik . ANNO. DO . LXX . The admonition to the Lords FOr lois thou Lythquo may miserably lament Thy fait Infortunate , and duilfull destanie , That precious peirle James our Regent In thee was slain , dissavit duilfullie . O cursed hour , oh dead of felony , Oh waryit band , o wappin violent , That spairit not his great Nobility Sa undeservit suddandly to be schent . In wicked hour he saift the from the Gallous Or show his grace to sic ane graceless grume , Had thou be hangit Tratour and thy fallowis This common well had born the Laurel blume Better Justice was not from hence to Room , More quiet peace before never King heir held , Allace that sic ane Tratour should consume His days before our King had be of eild . Dowglas & Hume address you now anon , His tressonabill dolent death for to Revenge : With Atholl , Erskyn , and Stewartis every one Grame , and Lyndsay remember on this change . Schaw now he lufit the manly Laird of Grange Glenkarne , and Sempil , convene with ane accord Throw out this Realm like Ratches see you range , And seek their blood that hes his body board . All uther Erlis , and Barrounis of renown , Convene your selfis with heart and hail Intent , All partakeris to put to confusion : With him that slew that Abell Innocent . And in your hearts perfytlie do it prent , Give one of you siclyke had loist his breith How day and night he walled be deligent Your cause and quarrel Revenge unto the death . Edinburgh Dundie , & uther Burrowtounis , Remember how the Regent lufit you well Heill nor conceill , reset nane of they lownis , Neither art nor part , that did his body keill . Sen he was keipar of your common well , Cleik on his quarrel , and shortly you dispone Lat never that Ruffians within your rowmis reill Bot kyith now kindness when that his grace is gone . Young tender King now behind dois abide Thy servand schot was only for thy saik , Had he not taken thy Governance and guide Lang might he levit with Lady And his maik , Na tratour Hammiltoun had gevin that mortal straik War not in hope to make thy Grace forlorn , They thought his death walled make thy power waik And than obtain they sought sa lang before . Bot God that hes thy Majesty in cure , Will fruster all their fulische Interprysis Is war they Butchers thy Father did combute , Quha flemit are for their devillische devysis . Thair fact and act , all Scotland now disprysis , Their awin misdeidis hes sa undone their well They dar never enter in Judgement nor assysis , Nor claim their lands , that did thy Father keill . Quhat trow you Tigers , that God omnipotent Will wynk unseen sic wickitnes and wrang , You may be sure his bow is ready bent You to ruit out , lycia ford and think not lang . Hammiltoun and Hepburne you will sing baith ane sang Shrewit is that service you have schawin to your King , Wald poysonit him self , his Father wyrreit strange , Now slain his Regent to make your selfis to ring . Woe worth unlefull meinis manifest , That you have sought to bruik Authority , Yet un obtenit , quhill that our King may lest Whom Christ conserve in his Minority . That tender plant our Superiority Should have , quha is our kindly King of nature , The King of Kings of his Majority , Make never ane King over Scotland of a Tratoure . Woe to the scheddars of his saikles blood , Woe cause of woe , sa money did commend , Woe to they Gylouris of godliness denude , Woe to they Pelouris , sic [ I ] nterprysis pretend . Woe thames Involve , now when his woe hes end , Woe and eik wrak , mot fa [ ll ] that bloody band Woe will they cry , and rew that they him kenned , For woe when that they l [ oh ] is baith life and land . Schamt is that sort , with shame they will schent Schamt schameles , shame hes schawin unto this nation Schamt are they tratouris , [ s ] ic tressoun did invent Shame sorrowles will [ b ] e their Castigation . For shame they dar neve [ r ] claim now dominatioun , To purches place did sa h [ is ] death prevent , Place have they loist , and [ fu ] and their desolation , That sought sic place , till G [ oh ] worser had be content . And God their pride w [ i ] ll puneis presently , That dois pretend be mu [ rt ] her manifest To Royal room , and he [ i ] changed Authority , Huiking na harm sa they may be possessed . In world wealth quhilk wisdom should detest , When it proceidis of falls [ e ] tO and Invy : Vain gloir , dissait , or ocht that may molest Good governance throw teinfull Tratory . Wise Noble Lords my Schedull now consider And give the wisest Lord the Governance , Sinder not now that are assemblit together Quhill ane be chosin the common well to avance . Sic as will puneis this last unhappy chance , And feiris God now sen the room dois waik , Chosin like the tother , you myster not to pans , For in all Scotland he hes not left his maik . Now is he well , and you in woe God wait , Your wickitnes and warkis hes the wit , Your Inobedience hes purchessit Gods hai Your gredynes to eik you [ r ] Rends great . In vain you reid the Scripture as ane rite , And of the pure hes na Compass [ i ] own , Their are the causis , than you of him are quite That rewlit you , and walled maid Reformation . FINIS . Imprentit at Edinburgh be Robert Lekpreuik . ANNO. DO . LXX . 