The Regentis tragedy ending with ane exhortatoun JAmes Earl of Murray Regent of Renown , Now lyis dead and dulefullie put down , Murdreist but mercy , murnand for remeid , Quha lost his life in Lythquo with ane loun , Guiltless God wait betraist in to that town , Slane with ane schot and saikles put to dead : Feit be our fais , throw felony and feid : Hangman to Hary , now Burrio to his brother : Weill may this murder manifest the tother . Quhat leid on life walled nought lament his loose ? Ways me to want him , is the common voce , For sic ane Prince shall never pure man have , Tint be ane Tratour , steilling up ane close , Possessed in purpois , life for life to cose , Bot na compair , ane Kings Soon to ane knaif , Sen he is gone again my will to graif , Throw all this Realm I dar well make this ruse , Rang nought his maik sen buryir was the Bruise . To keip good reule , he arrayed and took na rest , Baith South and North , and sometime eist & west , All to decoir our common well you knaw , Be whom lat se wes Pirates sa oppressed ? Or yet the theiffis sa dautonis , dung , and dressed ? Argyle and Huntlie hid thames baith for awe , And when he might , he mist nought in the Law Twice on the day , and sleipit nought in sleuth , To se na buddis should beir thames by the truth . Of this foul fact suppois our fais be fane , Yet after Moyses , Josua come again , To guide the people , gevand the gloir to God : Should they succeed that hes him saikles slain ? Be war with that , I walled you war not vane , To have your waik anis wirryit with the tod , Think you with ressoun they should reule the rod , With double murder maid us all ado ? And with our King walled play Cowsauly to ? Pray give you pleis , I warn you you have neid , To keip our King from cankrit Kedyochis said , That daily ways Inventis to put him down , His Grandschir slain at Lythquo give I leid : His Gudschir thrice hes left this land in dead , Hary at midnycht murdreist in this town : His Cousing last , and yet they claim the Crown , Blind Jok may ges , give their be godly deidis , Brunt be yone Bishop in whom this barret breidis . Cut of that Papist Prothogall of partis , That with his lesingis all the laif pervertes , Sin Join your forces to the fields but fear , Because you taken your stoutness all in startis : To Hammiltoun in haist quhill you have hearts , Devise sum way to pay your men of weir , From he be gane you neid nought gather geir : Fetched well , and war thames , and win the riches their And give you de , in dead you neid na more . Cursed be you baith , bishop and bothwell hauch , For this foul dead , your said man rak ane sauch , Give you twa want the widdy , now they wrang you : Lythquo lament , your burgess may lycia bauch , In beir said time your burrow rudis lie fauch , Cause of this murder laitly maid among you , Or give I trowit it helpit ocht to hang you , Sa should you die : and sin your town in fire , Sum part for sythment to assuage our Ire . Over their twa houses , for their deids inding , The hand of God dois over their heidis hing Thame to destroy , I doubt not in our days , Hepburnis will wraik , for wyrrying of the King , Bot Hammiltounis fie , this was ane foular thing : Is this your ferme Religion ? yais ? yais ? Sic time shall cum I trow as Thomas says : Hirdm [ e ] n shall hunt you up throw Garranis gyll Castand their Patlis and lat the pleuch stand still . Apperandly their plaigis are powrit out , To wraik this world , and wait you where about ? Because we want na vice under the hevin : Sen double murder marks to reule the rout , With Niniveitis lat us gam cry and scout , For to retreat yone sentence Justly gevin , Yet thou good Lord that Judgis all things evin , Seand the perrell that over the people stands , Lat nought their blood be sought at saikles hands . Now Lords and Lairdis assemblit in this place , Over lang we talk of Tragedeis allace , Away with cair , with comfort now conclude : As good in paper as speak it in your face , Give murtherars for geir get only grace , You will be schent , think on I say for good Sen art and part , are guilty of his blood : Quhy should you fear , or favour thames for fleiching ? You heard yourself , quhat Knox spoke at the preaching . First on the fields make shortly to lat se , We want bot ane , and quhat the war are we ? Sen God wes pleist to pass him out of pine , All men on mould are markit for to de , With time and place appointit , sa wes he : Lat nought in cair your courages decline , For want of ane I walled nought all should tyne , Gar reid at Roxburgh when the King wes slain , And yet ane woman won the house again . Sen than be women douchtie deidis were done , Barronis be blithe , and hold your hearts abone , And lat us heir quhairfoir you hapnit hidder : They are na party , and you speid you soon , Albeit that boyed be daily in Denone , Lang or Argyle be gadderit in together , When all is done , the counsel may consider , Quhat is the mayest yone murtheraris may do , Suppois that Huntlie walled cum help thames to . Had we ane heid walled stoutly undertakit , The Barronis says they should be bauldly bakit . Might they for tyritnes travel of their tounis : Quhy stand you awe of Tratouriris twice detractit ? Think you not shame to heir your Lordschipis lakit ? Sum feiris their flesh , sum grevis to gadder cronuis Sum happis their heids , sum belttis thames up in gounis Lycia give your party prydis thames in their spurring , Reipand the fields and fryis not in their furring . Wa worth the wyfis that fostered you and fed , You dow not lie unless you have ane bed , Keip you from cauld , have claith within your scho : I think great ferly how you can be read , Or fray at thames , that last before you fled , Wantand their Queen , sin God again thames to , Quhy lie you heir with little thing ado ? The Barronis biddis you shortly bide or gang , Courage decayis from Scots men tarry lang Have Lyounis lukis , and than make me ane lear , Be Hanniballis , and heis your hearts sum hear , Bot keip not capua quhil yone Knaifis incluse you , He neidis not work , that hes ane good oversear , Nane neid you ferch , swa that your hearts war frear , Bot be my saul my self could never ruse you : I knaw well for this crime , Christ shall accuse you , For sparing Agag , Saull wes puneist sair : Swa shall he you , I dar nought say na mair . The Lord of Hosts that hevin & eirth commandis , To keip our King from all unhappy hands , The Queen of Ingland and his Counsel to : You fear the Frenchemen should overlay their lands , Bot I heir say be sum that understands , The Doctouris doutis bot they have more ado : Our Queen is kept straitly , their stands scho : Ingland will help you , and you help your sellis , And be the contrair craif thames na thing else . This fair you well , I flait not to offend you , In sempill veirs this Schedull that I send you Beseikand you to short it give you may , Steill you away , the wyfis will vilipend you And give you bide the burrowis will commend you , Best were I think might we prevene yone day Thair Semblis beis on Sonday I heir say , In Glasgow town thinkand to fetched or fle : It lukis well , their , you get na more of me . FINIS . The Tragedeis Lenvoy . AS men records , in dead my Lords , I shrink not for to schaw : Suppois you crak , you lie abak , And lybellis be the Law . You make not to , as men should do , I trow you stand sum aw : Suppois you hecht , to see you fetched , That day will never daw . Is na remeid , from he be dead , Na man to seek ane mendis ? Or quha is heir , dar break ane speir , Upon yone lymmeris lendis ? the dar not mum , quhill Saidlar cum , To see quhat Ingland sends : Thinkand to say it , and ay delay it , And swa the mater ends . With sychis and sobbis , and beltit robbis , You counterfite the dule : Quhat douchtie deidis , to weir sic weidis , Except it were ane fool . Make of the town , and cow thames down , Now or your courage cule , For Maddie says , bide you aucht days , You be not their quhill Yule . Is this the thing , quha gydis the King . You can not all aggre : Now fie for shame , feche Levenox hame , You have nane narer nor he . Gif he want grace to guide that place , Cheis outher twa or thre : Than war I fane , bot all in vane , To wis and will not be . And sum their bene , waittis on the Queen , Bot gaip ay quhill they get his : And war scho heir , I taken na fear , The Fiend aby we set his . For we are now , also stark I trow , As farnyer when we met his : When all is done , they start over soon , To boist The Regentis tragedy ending with ane exhortatoun JAmes Earl of Murray Regent of Renown , Now lyis dead and dulefullie put down , Murdreist but mercy , murnand for remeid , Quha lost his life in Lythquo with ane loun , Guiltless God wait betraist in to that town , Slane with ane schot and saikles put to dead : Feit be our fais , throw felony and feid : Hangman to Hary , now Burrio to his brother : Weill may this murder manifest the tother . Quhat leid on life walled nought lament his loose ? Ways me to want him , is the common voce , For sic ane Prince shall never pure man have , Tint be ane Tratour , steilling up ane close , Possessed in purpois , life for life to cose , Bot na compair , ane Kings Soon to ane knaif , Sen he is gone again my will to graif , Throw all this Realm I dar well make this ruse , Rang nought his maik sen buryir was the Bruise . To keip good reule , he arrayed and took na rest , Baith South and North , and sometime eist & west , All to decoir our common well you knaw , Be whom lat se wes Pirates sa oppressed ? Or yet the theiffis sa dautonis , dung , and dressed ? Argyle and Huntlie hid thames baith for awe , And when he might , he mist nought in the Law Twice on the day , and sleipit nought in sleuth , To se na buddis should beir thames by the truth . Of this foul fact suppois our fais be fane , Yet after Moyses , Josua come again , To guide the people , gevand the gloir to God : Should they succeed that hes him saikles slain ? Be war with that , I walled you war not vane , To have your waik anis wirryit with the tod , Think you with ressoun they should reule the rod , With double murder maid us all ado ? And with our King walled play Cowsauly to ? Pray give you pleis , I warn you you have neid , To keip our King from cankrit Kedyochis said , That daily ways Inventis to put him down , His Grandschir slain at Lythquo give I leid : His Gudschir thrice hes left this land in dead , Hary at midnycht murdreist in this town : His Cousing last , and yet they claim the Crown , Blind Jok may ges , give their be godly deidis , Brunt be yone Bishop in whom this barret breidis . Cut of that Papist Prothogall of partis , That with his lesingis all the laif pervertes , Sin Join your forces to the fields but fear , Because you taken your stoutness all in startis : To Hammiltoun in haist quhill you have hearts , Devise sum way to pay your men of weir , From he be gane you neid nought gather geir : Fetched well , and war thames , and win the riches their And give you de , in dead you neid na more . Cursed be you baith , bishop and bothwell hauch , For this foul dead , your said man rak ane sauch , Give you twa want the widdy , now they wrang you : Lythquo lament , your burgess may lycia bauch , In beir said time your burrow rudis lie fauch , Cause of this murder laitly maid among you , Or give I trowit it helpit ocht to hang you , Sa should you die : and sin your town in fire , Sum part for sythment to assuage our Ire . Over their twa houses , for their deids inding , The hand of God dois over their heidis hing Thame to destroy , I doubt not in our days , Hepburnis will wraik , for wyrrying of the King , Bot Hammiltounis fie , this was ane foular thing : Is this your ferme Religion ? yais ? yais ? Sic time shall cum I trow as Thomas says : Hirdm [ e ] n shall hunt you up throw Garranis gyll Castand their Patlis and lat the pleuch stand still . Apperandly their plaigis are powrit out , To wraik this world , and wait you where about ? Because we want na vice under the hevin : Sen double murder marks to reule the rout , With Niniveitis lat us gam cry and scout , For to retreat yone sentence Justly gevin , Yet thou good Lord that Judgis all things evin , Seand the perrell that over the people stands , Lat nought their blood be sought at saikles hands . Now Lords and Lairdis assemblit in this place , Over lang we talk of Tragedeis allace , Away with cair , with comfort now conclude : As good in paper as speak it in your face , Give murtherars for geir get only grace , You will be schent , think on I say for good Sen art and part , are guilty of his blood : Quhy should you fear , or favour thames for fleiching ? You heard yourself , quhat Knox spoke at the preaching . First on the fields make shortly to lat se , We want bot ane , and quhat the war are we ? Sen God wes pleist to pass him out of pine , All men on mould are markit for to de , With time and place appointit , sa wes he : Lat nought in cair your courages decline , For want of ane I walled nought all should tyne , Gar reid at Roxburgh when the King wes slain , And yet ane woman won the house again . Sen than be women douchtie deidis were done , Barronis be blithe , and hold your hearts abone , And lat us heir quhairfoir you hapnit hidder : They are na party , and you speid you soon , Albeit that boyed be daily in Denone , Lang or Argyle be gadderit in together , When all is done , the counsel may consider , Quhat is the mayest yone murtheraris may do , Suppois that Huntlie walled cum help thames to . Had we ane heid walled stoutly undertakit , The Barronis says they should be bauldly bakit . Might they for tyritnes travel of their tounis : Quhy stand you awe of Tratouriris twice detractit ? Think you not shame to heir your Lordschipis lakit ? Sum feiris their flesh , sum grevis to gadder cronuis Sum happis their heids , sum belttis thames up in gounis Lycia give your party prydis thames in their spurring , Reipand the fields and fryis not in their furring . Wa worth the wyfis that fostered you and fed , You dow not lie unless you have ane bed , Keip you from cauld , have claith within your scho : I think great ferly how you can be read , Or fray at thames , that last before you fled , Wantand their Queen , sin God again thames to , Quhy lie you heir with little thing ado ? The Barronis biddis you shortly bide or gang , Courage decayis from Scots men tarry lang Have Lyounis lukis , and than make me ane lear , Be Hanniballis , and heis your hearts sum hear , Bot keip not capua quhil yone Knaifis incluse you , He neidis not work , that hes ane good oversear , Nane neid you ferch , swa that your hearts war frear , Bot be my saul my self could never ruse you : I knaw well for this crime , Christ shall accuse you , For sparing Agag , Saull wes puneist sair : Swa shall he you , I dar nought say na mair . The Lord of Hosts that hevin & eirth commandis , To keip our King from all unhappy hands , The Queen of Ingland and his Counsel to : You fear the Frenchemen should overlay their lands , Bot I heir say be sum that understands , The Doctouris doutis bot they have more ado : Our Queen is kept straitly , their stands scho : Ingland will help you , and you help your sellis , And be the contrair craif thames na thing else . This fair you well , I flait not to offend you , In sempill veirs this Schedull that I send you Beseikand you to short it give you may , Steill you away , the wyfis will vilipend you And give you bide the burrowis will commend you , Best were I think might we prevene yone day Thair Semblis beis on Sonday I heir say , In Glasgow town thinkand to fetched or fle : It lukis well , their , you get na more of me . FINIS . The Tragedeis Lenvoy . AS men records , in dead my Lords , I shrink not for to schaw : Suppois you crak , you lie abak , And lybellis be the Law . You make not to , as men should do , I trow you stand sum aw : Suppois you hecht , to see you fetched , That day will never daw . Is na remeid , from he be dead , Na man to seek ane mendis ? Or quha is heir , dar break ane speir , Upon yone lymmeris lendis ? the dar not mum , quhill Saidlar cum , To see quhat Ingland sends : Thinkand to say it , and ay delay it , And swa the mater ends . With sychis and sobbis , and beltit robbis , You counterfite the dule : Quhat douchtie deidis , to weir sic weidis , Except it were ane fool . Make of the town , and cow thames down , Now or your courage cule , For Maddie says , bide you aucht days , You be not their quhill Yule . Is this the thing , quha gydis the King . You can not all aggre : Now fie for shame , feche Levenox hame , You have nane narer nor he . Gif he want grace to guide that place , Cheis outher twa or thre : Than war I fane , bot all in vane , To wis and will not be . And sum their bene , waittis on the Queen , Bot gaip ay quhill they get his : And war scho heir , I taken na fear , The Fiend aby we set his . For we are now , also stark I trow , As farnyer when we met his : When all is done , they start over soon , To boist and not the better . I think it best , you taken na rest , Give you durst under taken i And we be true , we are anew , You sal be bauldly bakit . Bot sen I see it will not be , That meeter will not make i The Fiend make cair , I say na mair , I rew that ever I spoke it . FINIS . Quod Robert Sempill . Imprentit at Edinburgh be Robert Lekpreuik . Anno. Do. 1570 . and not the better . I think it best , you taken na rest , Give you durst under taken i And we be true , we are anew , You sal be bauldly bakit . Bot sen I see it will not be , That meeter will not make i The Fiend make cair , I say na mair , I rew that ever I spoke it . FINIS . Quod Robert Sempill . Imprentit at Edinburgh be Robert Lekpreuik . Anno. Do. 1570. 