Robin Hood newly reviv'd . To a Delightful new Tune . Come listen a while you Gentlemen all With a heigh down , down , a down , down , That are in this Bower within , for a story of gallant bold Robin Hood I purpose now to begin . What time of the day , quod Robin Hood then , With a heigh down , etc Quoth little John 'tis in the prime ; why then we will to the green Wood gang , For we have no Victuals to dine . As Robin Hood walked the Forest along , With a heigh down , etc It was in the midst of the day , there was he met of a deft young man , As ever walk't on the way . His Doublet was of silk he said , With a heigh down , etc His stockings like Scarlet shone , and he walked on along the way , To Robin Hood then unknown . A Heard of Deer was in the Bend , with a heigh down , etc All feeding before his face , now the best of you I'le have to my dinner , And that in a little space . Now the stranger he made no much ado with a heigh down , etc But he bends a right good Bow , and the best Buck in the Heard he slew , Forty good yards him fro , Well shot , well shot , quod Robin Hood then , With a heigh down , etc That shot it was shot in time , and if thou wilt accept of the place Thou shalt be a bold yeoman of mine . Go play the Chiven the stranger said , with a heigh down , etc Make haste and quickly go , or with my fist , be sure of this , I'll give thee buffets store . Thou hadst not best buffet me , quod Robin Hood with a heigh down , etc For though I seem forlorn , yet I can have those that will take my part If I but blow my horn . Thou wast not best wind thy horn the stranger said with a heigh down , etc Be'st thou never so much in haste , for I can draw out a good broad Sword , And quickly cut the blast . Then Robin Hood bent a very good bow , with a heigh down , etc To that shot and he would fain , the stranger he bent a very good bow , To shoot at bold Robin again . O hold thy hand , hold thy hand , quod Robin Hood with a heigh down , etc To shot it would be in vain , for if we should shoot the one at the other , The one of us must be slave . The Second Part , to the same Tune . BUt let's take our swords and our broad buckler with a heigh down , etc And gang under yonder Tree , as I hope to be sav'd the stranger said , One foot I will not flee , Then Robin Hood lent the stranger a blow with a heigh down , etc Most scared him out of his wit , thou never felt blow the stranger he said , That shall be better quit . The stranger he drew out a good broad Sword , with a heigh down , etc And hit Robin on the Crown , that from every hair of bold Robins head , The blood ran trickling down . God a mercy good fellow quod Robin Hood then , with a heigh down , etc And for this that thou hast done , tell me good fellow what thou art , Tell me where thou dost won . The stranger then answered bold Robin Hood , with a heigh down , etc I'll tell thee where I did dwell , in Maxfield was I bred and born , My name is young Gamwel . For killing of my own Father's Steward , with a heigh down , etc I am forc'd to this English Wood , and for to seek and Uncle of mine , Some call him Robin Hood . But thou art a Cozen of Robin Hoods then ? with a heigh down , etc The sooner we should have done , as I hope to be sav'd the stranger then said , I am his own Sisters Son. But Lord what kissing & courting was there , with a heigh down , etc When these two Cozens did greet , and they went all that Summer's day , And little John did meet . But when they met with little John , with a hey noun , etc He thereunto did say , Oh Master where have you been , You have tarried so long away ? I met with a stranger quod Robin Hood then , with a heigh down , etc Full soar he hath beaten me , Then I'll have a bout with him , quod little John and try if he can beatrice me . O no , o no , quoth Robin Hood then , with a heigh down , etc Little John it may not be so , for he's my own dear Sisters Son , And Couzins I have no more . But he shall be a bold yeoman of mine , with a heigh down , etc My chief man next to thee , and I Robin Hood , and thou little John , And Scarlet he shall be . And wee'l be three of the bravest outlaws , With a heigh down , etc That is in the North Country , if you will have any more of bold Robin Hood In his second part it will be . Then bold Robin Hood to the North he would go , with a heigh down , etc With Valour and much might , with sword by his side , which oft had been trid To fight and recover his right . The first that he met was a bonny bold Scot with a heigh down , etc His servant he said he would be , no quoth Robin Hood , it cannot be good , For thou wilt prove false unto me . Thou hast not been true to Sire or Cuz , with a heigh down , etc Nay , marry the Scot he said , as true as your heart , I'll never part , Good Master be not afraid . Then Robin Hood turn'd his face to the East with a heigh down , etc Fight on my merry men stout , our case is good , quod brave Robin Hood , And we shall not be beaten out . The battle grows hight on every side , with a heigh down , etc The Scotchman made great moan , quod Jockey good faith they fight on each side Would I were with my Wife Jone . The enemy compassed brave Robin about , with a heigh down , etc [ ' ] This long ere the battle ends , there's neither will yield , nor give up the field For both are supplied with friends . This Song it was made in Robin Hoods days , with a heigh down , etc Lets pray unto Jove above , to give us true peace , the mischief may cease And War may give place unto Love . London , Printed for Richaed Burton , at the Sign of the Horshooe in West Smith-field . Robin Hood newly reviv'd . To a Delightful new Tune . Come listen a while you Gentlemen all With a heigh down , down , a down , down , That are in this Bower within , for a story of gallant bold Robin Hood I purpose now to begin . What time of the day , quod Robin Hood then , With a heigh down , etc Quoth little John 'tis in the prime ; why then we will to the green Wood gang , For we have no Victuals to dine . As Robin Hood walked the Forest along , With a heigh down , etc It was in the midst of the day , there was he met of a deft young man , As ever walk't on the way . His Doublet was of silk he said , With a heigh down , etc His stockings like Scarlet shone , and he walked on along the way , To Robin Hood then unknown . A Heard of Deer was in the Bend , with a heigh down , etc All feeding before his face , now the best of you I'le have to my dinner , And that in a little space . Now the stranger he made no much ado with a heigh down , etc But he bends a right good Bow , and the best Buck in the Heard he slew , Forty good yards him fro , Well shot , well shot , quod Robin Hood then , With a heigh down , etc That shot it was shot in time , and if thou wilt accept of the place Thou shalt be a bold yeoman of mine . Go play the Chiven the stranger said , with a heigh down , etc Make haste and quickly go , or with my fist , be sure of this , I'll give thee buffets store . Thou hadst not best buffet me , quod Robin Hood with a heigh down , etc For though I seem forlorn , yet I can have those that will take my part If I but blow my horn . Thou wast not best wind thy horn the stranger said with a heigh down , etc Be'st thou never so much in haste , for I can draw out a good broad Sword , And quickly cut the blast . Then Robin Hood bent a very good bow , with a heigh down , etc To that shot and he would fain , the stranger he bent a very good bow , To shoot at bold Robin again . O hold thy hand , hold thy hand , quod Robin Hood with a heigh down , etc To shot it would be in vain , for if we should shoot the one at the other , The one of us must be slave . The Second Part , to the same Tune . BUt let's take our swords and our broad buckler with a heigh down , etc And gang under yonder Tree , as I hope to be sav'd the stranger said , One foot I will not flee , Then Robin Hood lent the stranger a blow with a heigh down , etc Most scared him out of his wit , thou never felt blow the stranger he said , That shall be better quit . The stranger he drew out a good broad Sword , with a heigh down , etc And hit Robin on the Crown , that from every hair of bold Robins head , The blood ran trickling down . God a mercy good fellow quod Robin Hood then , with a heigh down , etc And for this that thou hast done , tell me good fellow what thou art , Tell me where thou dost won . The stranger then answered bold Robin Hood , with a heigh down , etc I'll tell thee where I did dwell , in Maxfield was I bred and born , My name is young Gamwel . For killing of my own Father's Steward , with a heigh down , etc I am forc'd to this English Wood , and for to seek and Uncle of mine , Some call him Robin Hood . But thou art a Cozen of Robin Hoods then ? with a heigh down , etc The sooner we should have done , as I hope to be sav'd the stranger then said , I am his own Sisters Son. But Lord what kissing & courting was there , with a heigh down , etc When these two Cozens did greet , and they went all that Summer's day , And little John did meet . But when they met with little John , with a hey noun , etc He thereunto did say , Oh Master where have you been , You have tarried so long away ? I met with a stranger quod Robin Hood then , with a heigh down , etc Full soar he hath beaten me , Then I'll have a bout with him , quod little John and try if he can beatrice me . O no , o no , quoth Robin Hood then , with a heigh down , etc Little John it may not be so , for he's my own dear Sisters Son , And Couzins I have no more . But he shall be a bold yeoman of mine , with a heigh down , etc My chief man next to thee , and I Robin Hood , and thou little John , And Scarlet he shall be . And wee'l be three of the bravest outlaws , With a heigh down , etc That is in the North Country , if you will have any more of bold Robin Hood In his second part it will be . Then bold Robin Hood to the North he would go , with a heigh down , etc With Valour and much might , with sword by his side , which oft had been trid To fight and recover his right . The first that he met was a bonny bold Scot with a heigh down , etc His servant he said he would be , no quoth Robin Hood , it cannot be good , For thou wilt prove false unto me . Thou hast not been true to Sire or Cuz , with a heigh down , etc Nay , marry the Scot he said , as true as your heart , I'll never part , Good Master be not afraid . Then Robin Hood turn'd his face to the East with a heigh down , etc Fight on my merry men stout , our case is good , quod brave Robin Hood , And we shall not be beaten out . The battle grows hight on every side , with a heigh down , etc The Scotchman made great moan , quod Jockey good faith they fight on each side Would I were with my Wife Jone . The enemy compassed brave Robin about , with a heigh down , etc [ ' ] This long ere the battle ends , there's neither will yield , nor give up the field For both are supplied with friends . This Song it was made in Robin Hoods days , with a heigh down , etc Lets pray unto Jove above , to give us true peace , the mischief may cease And War may give place unto Love . London , Printed for Richaed Burton , at the Sign of the Horshooe in West Smith-field . 