Robin Hoods Chase . OR , A Merry Progress between Robin Hood and King Henry . Showing how Robin Hood led the King his Chase , from London to London , and when he had spoken with the Queen , he returned to merry Sherewood . To the Tune of , Robin Hood and the beggar . COme you gallants all , to you I do call with hey down , down , and a down , that now is within this place , For a song I will sing , of Henry the King , how he did Robin Hood chase . Queen Katherine she a match did make , with heigh , etc as plainly does appear , For three hundred tun of good read Wine , and three hundred tun of beer . But yet her Archers she had to seek , with heigh , etc with their Bows and Arrows so good , But her mind was bent , with a good intent to send for bold Robin Hood . And when bold Robin hood he came there with heigh , etc Queen Katherine she did say : Thou art welcome Locksly said the Queen and all thy Yeomen gay . For a match of shooting I have made , with heigh , etc and thou on my part must be : Robin . If I miss the mark , be it light or dark , then hanged I will be , But when the Game it come to be play'd with heigh , etc bold Robin then drew nigh , with his Mantle of green , most brave to be seen he let his Arrows fly . And when the Game it ended was , with heigh , etc bold Robin won it with a grace , Then after the King was angry with him and vowed he would him chase . What though his pardon granted was , with hey down , etc while he with them did stay , Yet after the King was vex'd at him , when he was gone his way . Soon after the King from the Court did high , with heigh , etc in a furious angry mood , And did often inquire , both far and near , after bold Robin Hood . And when the King to Nottingham came with heigh , etc bold Robin was in the wood : Oh come now said he , and let me see , who can find me bold Robin Hood . But when that Robin Hood he did hear , with hey down , down and a down , the King had him in chase : Then said little John , 'tis time to be gone and go to some other place . THen away they went from merry Sherwood with hey down , etc and into Yorkshire he did high , And the King did follow , with a hoop and a hollow , but could not come him nigh . Yet jolly Robin he passed along , with heigh , etc he went to Newcastle town , And then stayed he , hours two or three , and then he for Barwick was gone . When the King did see how Robin did flee with heigh , etc he was vexed wondrous soar , With a hoop and a hollow , he vow'd him to follow , & take him , or never give o're . Come now let's away , then cry'd Little John , with heigh , etc let any man follow that dare , To Carlisle we'l high , with our company , and so then to Lancaster . From Lancaster then to chester they went hey down , etc and so did King Henry , Then Robin away , for he durst not stay , for fear of some treachery . Says Robin , let us to London go , with heigh , etc to see our noble Queen's face , It may be she wants our company , which make the King so us chase . When Robin he came Queen Katherine before with heigh , etc he fell low upon his knee , If it please your Grace , I am come to this place , for to speak with King Henry ; Queen Katherine she answer'd bold Robin again , with heigh , etc the King is gone to merry Sherewood , And when he went away , to me he did say , he would go seek Robin Hood . Then fare you well my Gracious queen , with heigh , etc for to Sherewood I will high apace , For fain would I see , what he would with me if I could meet his Grace . When as King Henry he came home , with heigh , etc full weary and full vexed in mind , Then he did hear , Robin had been there , and blamed Dame Fortune unkind . You are welcome home queen Katherine cry'd with heigh , etc Henry my Sovereign Liege , Bold Robin Hood , that archer good , your person hath been to seek . And when [ K ] ing Henry he did hear , with heigh , etc that Robin had been there him to seek , This answer he gave , he's a cunning knave I have sought him this whole three week A boon , a boon , Queen Katherine cry'd with heigh , etc I beg it here on your Grace , To pardon his life , and seek no more strife , and so endeth Robin Hoods Chase . FINIS . London , printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . Robin Hoods Chase . OR , A Merry Progress between Robin Hood and King Henry . Showing how Robin Hood led the King his Chase , from London to London , and when he had spoken with the Queen , he returned to merry Sherewood . To the Tune of , Robin Hood and the beggar . COme you gallants all , to you I do call with hey down , down , and a down , that now is within this place , For a song I will sing , of Henry the King , how he did Robin Hood chase . Queen Katherine she a match did make , with heigh , etc as plainly does appear , For three hundred tun of good read Wine , and three hundred tun of beer . But yet her Archers she had to seek , with heigh , etc with their Bows and Arrows so good , But her mind was bent , with a good intent to send for bold Robin Hood . And when bold Robin hood he came there with heigh , etc Queen Katherine she did say : Thou art welcome Locksly said the Queen and all thy Yeomen gay . For a match of shooting I have made , with heigh , etc and thou on my part must be : Robin . If I miss the mark , be it light or dark , then hanged I will be , But when the Game it come to be play'd with heigh , etc bold Robin then drew nigh , with his Mantle of green , most brave to be seen he let his Arrows fly . And when the Game it ended was , with heigh , etc bold Robin won it with a grace , Then after the King was angry with him and vowed he would him chase . What though his pardon granted was , with hey down , etc while he with them did stay , Yet after the King was vex'd at him , when he was gone his way . Soon after the King from the Court did high , with heigh , etc in a furious angry mood , And did often inquire , both far and near , after bold Robin Hood . And when the King to Nottingham came with heigh , etc bold Robin was in the wood : Oh come now said he , and let me see , who can find me bold Robin Hood . But when that Robin Hood he did hear , with hey down , down and a down , the King had him in chase : Then said little John , 'tis time to be gone and go to some other place . THen away they went from merry Sherwood with hey down , etc and into Yorkshire he did high , And the King did follow , with a hoop and a hollow , but could not come him nigh . Yet jolly Robin he passed along , with heigh , etc he went to Newcastle town , And then stayed he , hours two or three , and then he for Barwick was gone . When the King did see how Robin did flee with heigh , etc he was vexed wondrous soar , With a hoop and a hollow , he vow'd him to follow , & take him , or never give o're . Come now let's away , then cry'd Little John , with heigh , etc let any man follow that dare , To Carlisle we'l high , with our company , and so then to Lancaster . From Lancaster then to chester they went hey down , etc and so did King Henry , Then Robin away , for he durst not stay , for fear of some treachery . Says Robin , let us to London go , with heigh , etc to see our noble Queen's face , It may be she wants our company , which make the King so us chase . When Robin he came Queen Katherine before with heigh , etc he fell low upon his knee , If it please your Grace , I am come to this place , for to speak with King Henry ; Queen Katherine she answer'd bold Robin again , with heigh , etc the King is gone to merry Sherewood , And when he went away , to me he did say , he would go seek Robin Hood . Then fare you well my Gracious queen , with heigh , etc for to Sherewood I will high apace , For fain would I see , what he would with me if I could meet his Grace . When as King Henry he came home , with heigh , etc full weary and full vexed in mind , Then he did hear , Robin had been there , and blamed Dame Fortune unkind . You are welcome home queen Katherine cry'd with heigh , etc Henry my Sovereign Liege , Bold Robin Hood , that archer good , your person hath been to seek . And when [ K ] ing Henry he did hear , with heigh , etc that Robin had been there him to seek , This answer he gave , he's a cunning knave I have sought him this whole three week A boon , a boon , Queen Katherine cry'd with heigh , etc I beg it here on your Grace , To pardon his life , and seek no more strife , and so endeth Robin Hoods Chase . FINIS . London , printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . 