Robin Hood and the Beggar . SHOWING How Robin Hood and the Beggar fought , and how he changed Clothes with the Beggar , and how he went a Begging to Nottingham : and how he saved three Brothers from being Hanged , for steal - ing the Kings Deer . To the Tune of , Robin Hood and the Stra [ n ] her . COme light and listen you Gentleman all With hey down and a dawn . That mirth do love for to hear , and a Story true , I'll tell unto you , If that you will but draw near . In elder times when merriment was , with heigh etc And Archery was held good , there was and Outlaw , as many did know , Which men called Robin Hood . Upon a time it chanced so , with heigh , etc Bold Robin was merry dispos'd , his time to spend , he did intend , Either with friend or Foe . Then he god up on a gallant fine Steed , with heigh , etc The which was worth Angels ten , with a Mantle of green , most brave to be seen He left all his merry Men . And riding towards fair Nottingham , with heigh , etc Some pastime for to spy ; there was he aware of a jolly Beggar , As ere he beheld with his eye , And old pach'd Coat the Beggar had on , with heigh , etc Which he daily did use for to wear ; and many a bag , about him did wag , Which made Robin Hood to him repair . God speed , God speed , said Robin Hood then , with heigh , etc What Country man , tell unto me ? I am Yorkshire sir , but e're you go far , Some Charity give unto me . Why , what wouldst thou have , said Robin Hood , with heigh , etc I pray the tell unto me , no Lands nor no Livings , the Beggar he said , But a penny for Charity , I have no Money said Robin Hood then , with heigh , etc But a Ranger within the Wood , I am and Outlaw , as many do know , My name it is Robin Hood . But yet I must tell thee , bonny Beggar , with heigh , etc That a bout with thee I must try , thy Coat of Gray , lay down I say , And my Mantle of Green shall lie by . The second Part , to the same Tune COntent , content , the Beggar he cry'd , with hey down , down and a down . Thy part it will be the worse , for I hope this bout , to give thee the rout . And then have at thy Purse . The Beggar he had a much long staff , with heigh , etc And Robin had a nutbrown Sword , so the Beggar drew nigh , & at Robin let fly , But gave him never a word . Fight on , fight on , said Robin Hood then , with heigh , etc This Game well pleases me : for every blow then Robin did give , The Beggar gave buffets three . And fighting there , full hard and soar , with heigh , etc , Not far from Nottingham Town , they never fled , till from Robins head , The blood came tickling down . O hold thy hand , said Robin then , with heigh , etc And thou and I will agree , If that be true , the Beggar he said , Thy Mantle come give unto me . Nay , a change , a change , cry'd Robin Hood , with heigh , etc Thy Bags and Coat give me , and this Mantle of mine , i'le to thee resign My Horse and my bravery , When Robin had god the Beggars Clothes , with heigh , etc He looked round about , methinks , said he , I seem to be A Beggar brave and stout . For now I have a bag for my bred , with heigh , etc So have I another for Corn , I have one for Malt , and another for Salt , And one for my little Horn , And now I will a begging go , with heigh , etc Some charity for to find , and if any more of Robin you'l know , In the Second Part its behind , NOw Robin he is to Nottingingham gone , with hey down , down and a down . With his bags hanging down to his knee , his staff & his Coat , scarce worth a groat , Yet merrily passed he . As Robin he passed the streets along , with heigh , etc He herd a pitiful cry : three Brothers dear , as he did hear , Condemned were to die . Then Robin he hied to the Sheriffs , with heigh , etc Some relief for to seek , he skipped , & he leapt . and capor'd full high , As he went along the street , But when to the Sheriffs door he came , with heigh , etc He met a Gentleman fine and brave , thou Beggar , said he , come tell unto me , What is it that thou wouldst have ? No meat nor drink , said Robin then , with heigh , etc That I come here to crave , but to beg the lives of Youngmen three , And that I fain would have , That cannot be , thou bold Beggar , with heigh , etc Their Fact it is so clear , I tell to thee , hang'd they must be , For stealing of the King Deer . But when to the Gallows they did come , with heigh , etc There was many a weeping eye : Oh hold your peace , said Robin then , For certainly they shalt not die . Then Robin He set his Horn to his mouth , with heigh , etc And blew but blasts three , till a hundred bold Archers brave , Came kneeling down on their knee . What is your Will , Master they said , with heigh , etc We are here at your command : shoot East , shoot West , said Robin then ; And look that you spare no man . Then they shoot East , and they shoot West , with heigh , etc Their Arrows were so keen , the Sheriff he , and his company , No longer must be seen . Then he stepped to these Brothers three , with heigh , etc And away he has them taken , but the Sheriff was crossed , and many a man lost , That dead lay on the Plain . And away they went into the merry Greenwood , with heigh , etc And sung with a merry glee , then Robin Hood , took these Brothers good , To be one of his Yeomanry . FINIS . T. R. London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . Robin Hood and the Beggar . SHOWING How Robin Hood and the Beggar fought , and how he changed Clothes with the Beggar , and how he went a Begging to Nottingham : and how he saved three Brothers from being Hanged , for steal - ing the Kings Deer . To the Tune of , Robin Hood and the Stra [ n ] her . COme light and listen you Gentleman all With hey down and a dawn . That mirth do love for to hear , and a Story true , I'll tell unto you , If that you will but draw near . In elder times when merriment was , with heigh etc And Archery was held good , there was and Outlaw , as many did know , Which men called Robin Hood . Upon a time it chanced so , with heigh , etc Bold Robin was merry dispos'd , his time to spend , he did intend , Either with friend or Foe . Then he god up on a gallant fine Steed , with heigh , etc The which was worth Angels ten , with a Mantle of green , most brave to be seen He left all his merry Men . And riding towards fair Nottingham , with heigh , etc Some pastime for to spy ; there was he aware of a jolly Beggar , As ere he beheld with his eye , And old pach'd Coat the Beggar had on , with heigh , etc Which he daily did use for to wear ; and many a bag , about him did wag , Which made Robin Hood to him repair . God speed , God speed , said Robin Hood then , with heigh , etc What Country man , tell unto me ? I am Yorkshire sir , but e're you go far , Some Charity give unto me . Why , what wouldst thou have , said Robin Hood , with heigh , etc I pray the tell unto me , no Lands nor no Livings , the Beggar he said , But a penny for Charity , I have no Money said Robin Hood then , with heigh , etc But a Ranger within the Wood , I am and Outlaw , as many do know , My name it is Robin Hood . But yet I must tell thee , bonny Beggar , with heigh , etc That a bout with thee I must try , thy Coat of Gray , lay down I say , And my Mantle of Green shall lie by . The second Part , to the same Tune COntent , content , the Beggar he cry'd , with hey down , down and a down . Thy part it will be the worse , for I hope this bout , to give thee the rout . And then have at thy Purse . The Beggar he had a much long staff , with heigh , etc And Robin had a nutbrown Sword , so the Beggar drew nigh , & at Robin let fly , But gave him never a word . Fight on , fight on , said Robin Hood then , with heigh , etc This Game well pleases me : for every blow then Robin did give , The Beggar gave buffets three . And fighting there , full hard and soar , with heigh , etc , Not far from Nottingham Town , they never fled , till from Robins head , The blood came tickling down . O hold thy hand , said Robin then , with heigh , etc And thou and I will agree , If that be true , the Beggar he said , Thy Mantle come give unto me . Nay , a change , a change , cry'd Robin Hood , with heigh , etc Thy Bags and Coat give me , and this Mantle of mine , i'le to thee resign My Horse and my bravery , When Robin had god the Beggars Clothes , with heigh , etc He looked round about , methinks , said he , I seem to be A Beggar brave and stout . For now I have a bag for my bred , with heigh , etc So have I another for Corn , I have one for Malt , and another for Salt , And one for my little Horn , And now I will a begging go , with heigh , etc Some charity for to find , and if any more of Robin you'l know , In the Second Part its behind , NOw Robin he is to Nottingingham gone , with hey down , down and a down . With his bags hanging down to his knee , his staff & his Coat , scarce worth a groat , Yet merrily passed he . As Robin he passed the streets along , with heigh , etc He herd a pitiful cry : three Brothers dear , as he did hear , Condemned were to die . Then Robin he hied to the Sheriffs , with heigh , etc Some relief for to seek , he skipped , & he leapt . and capor'd full high , As he went along the street , But when to the Sheriffs door he came , with heigh , etc He met a Gentleman fine and brave , thou Beggar , said he , come tell unto me , What is it that thou wouldst have ? No meat nor drink , said Robin then , with heigh , etc That I come here to crave , but to beg the lives of Youngmen three , And that I fain would have , That cannot be , thou bold Beggar , with heigh , etc Their Fact it is so clear , I tell to thee , hang'd they must be , For stealing of the King Deer . But when to the Gallows they did come , with heigh , etc There was many a weeping eye : Oh hold your peace , said Robin then , For certainly they shalt not die . Then Robin He set his Horn to his mouth , with heigh , etc And blew but blasts three , till a hundred bold Archers brave , Came kneeling down on their knee . What is your Will , Master they said , with heigh , etc We are here at your command : shoot East , shoot West , said Robin then ; And look that you spare no man . Then they shoot East , and they shoot West , with heigh , etc Their Arrows were so keen , the Sheriff he , and his company , No longer must be seen . Then he stepped to these Brothers three , with heigh , etc And away he has them taken , but the Sheriff was crossed , and many a man lost , That dead lay on the Plain . And away they went into the merry Greenwood , with heigh , etc And sung with a merry glee , then Robin Hood , took these Brothers good , To be one of his Yeomanry . FINIS . T. R. London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . 