The Famous Battle between Robin Hood , and the Curtal Fryer . To a new Northern Tune . ROBIN HOOD . THE Curtal Fryer . Little John. IN Summer time when leaves grow green , and flowers are fresh and gay Robin Hood and his merry men , were disposed to play . Then some would leap and some would run , and would use Artillery , Which of you can a good Bow draw , a good Archer to be . Which of you can kill a Buck , or who can kill a Doe ? Or who can kill a Heart of Greece five hundred foot him from . Will Scadlock he kil'd a Buck and Midas he kil'd a Do , And little John kil'd a Heart of Greece , five hundred foot him from . Gods blessing on thy heart said Robin Hood that shot such a shoot to me , I would ride my horse a hundred miles to find one could match thee , That caused Will Scadlock to laugh , he laughed full heartily , there lives a curtal Fryer in fountains abbey will beatrice both him and thee . That Curtal Fryer in Fountains abbey well can a strong Bow draw , He will beatrice you and your yeomen , set them all on a row . Robin Hood took a solemn Oath , it was by Mary free , That he would neither eat nor drink till the Fryer he did see . Robin Hood put on his Harness good , and on his head a Cap of Steel ; Broad sword and Buckler by his side , and they became him weel . He took his Bow into his hand , it was made of a trusty tree , With a Sheaf of arrows at his Belt to the Fountains Dale went he . And coming unto Fountains Dale no farther would he ride , There was he aware of a Curtal Fryer walking by the water side . The Fryer had on a Harness good , and on his head a cap of steel , Broad Sword and Buckler by his side , and they became him weel . Robin Hood lighted off his horse , and tied him to a thorn . Carry me over the water thou Curtal Fryer , or else thy life's forlorn . The Fryer took Robin Hood on his back deep water he did bestride , And spoke neither good word nor bad , till he came at the other side . LIghtly step'd Robin Hood off the Friars back , the Fryer said to him again , Carry me over this water thou fine fellow or it shall breed thy pain . Robin Hood took the Fryer on his back deep water he did bestride . And spoke neither good word nor bad till he came at the other side . Lightly leapt the fryer off Robin Hoods back Robin Hood said to him again , Carry me over this water thou Curtal Fryer or it shall breed thy pain . The Fryer took Robin Hood on's back again and stepped up to the knee , Till he came at the middle stream , neither good nor bad spoke he . And coming to the middle stream , there he threw Robin in , And choose thee , choose thee fine fellow whither thou wilt sink or swim . Robin Hood swam to a bush of Broom , the Fryer to a wigger wand , Bold Robin Hood is gone to the shore , and took his Bow in hand . One of his best Arrows under his Belt to the Fryer he let fly , The Curtle Fryer with his steel Buckler he put that arrow by . Shoot on , shoot on thou fine fellow , shoot as thou hast begun , If thou shoot here a Summer's day thy mark I will not shun . Robin Hood shot so passing well till all his arrows were gone , They took their Swords and Steel Bucklers , they fought with might and main . From ten o'th clock that day till four i'th afternoon , Then Robin Hood came to Knees of Fryer to beg a boon . A boon , a boon thou Curtal Fryer , I beg it on my Knee , Give me leave to set my horn to my mouth , and to blow blasts three . That will I do said the Curtal Fryer , of thy blasts I have no doubt , I hope thoul't blow so passing well , till both thy eyes fallen out . Robin Hood set his horn to his mouth , he blew but blasts three , Half a hundred Yeomen with Bows bent came ranging over the Lee. Whose men are these said the Fryer that come so hastily , These are mine , said Robin Hood , Fryer what is that to thee . A boon , a boon , said the Curtal Fryer the like I gave to thee : Give me leave to set my fist to my mouth and to whute whutes three . That will I do , said Robin Hood or else I were to blame Three whutes in a Fryer fist would make me glad and fain . The Fryer set his fist to his mouth , and whuted whutes three , Half a hundred good Bay-dogs , came running the Fryer unto . Here is for every man a Dog , and I my self for thee , Nay by my faith , quoth Robin Hood , Fryer that may not be . Two Dogs at once to Robin Hood did go , the one behind the other before , Robin Hoods mantle of Lincoln green off from his back they tore . And whither his men shot East or West or they shot North or South , The Curtle Dogs so taught they were , they caught the arrows in their mouth . Take up thy Dogs said little John , Fryer at my bidding be , Whose man art thou , said the Curtal Fryer comes here to prate with me . I am little John , Robin Hoods man Fryer I will not lie , If thou take not up thy Dogs soon I'll take up them and thee . Little John had a Bow in his hand he shot with might and main Soon half a score of the Friars Dogs , lay dead upon the plain . Hold thy hand good fellow , said the Curtal Fryer , thy Master and I will agree : And we will have new order taken with all the haste that may be . If thou wilt forsake fair Fountain Dale , and Fountain Abby free , Every Sunday through the year , a Noble shall be thy fee . And every Holiday through the Year changed shall thy Garments be , If thou wilt go to fair Nottingham , and there remain with me . This Curtal Frier had kept Fountain Dale , seven long years and more , There was neither Knight Lord nor Earl , could make him yield before . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . The Famous Battle between Robin Hood , and the Curtal Fryer . To a new Northern Tune . ROBIN HOOD . THE Curtal Fryer . Little John. IN Summer time when leaves grow green , and flowers are fresh and gay Robin Hood and his merry men , were disposed to play . Then some would leap and some would run , and would use Artillery , Which of you can a good Bow draw , a good Archer to be . Which of you can kill a Buck , or who can kill a Doe ? Or who can kill a Heart of Greece five hundred foot him from . Will Scadlock he kil'd a Buck and Midas he kil'd a Do , And little John kil'd a Heart of Greece , five hundred foot him from . Gods blessing on thy heart said Robin Hood that shot such a shoot to me , I would ride my horse a hundred miles to find one could match thee , That caused Will Scadlock to laugh , he laughed full heartily , there lives a curtal Fryer in fountains abbey will beatrice both him and thee . That Curtal Fryer in Fountains abbey well can a strong Bow draw , He will beatrice you and your yeomen , set them all on a row . Robin Hood took a solemn Oath , it was by Mary free , That he would neither eat nor drink till the Fryer he did see . Robin Hood put on his Harness good , and on his head a Cap of Steel ; Broad sword and Buckler by his side , and they became him weel . He took his Bow into his hand , it was made of a trusty tree , With a Sheaf of arrows at his Belt to the Fountains Dale went he . And coming unto Fountains Dale no farther would he ride , There was he aware of a Curtal Fryer walking by the water side . The Fryer had on a Harness good , and on his head a cap of steel , Broad Sword and Buckler by his side , and they became him weel . Robin Hood lighted off his horse , and tied him to a thorn . Carry me over the water thou Curtal Fryer , or else thy life's forlorn . The Fryer took Robin Hood on his back deep water he did bestride , And spoke neither good word nor bad , till he came at the other side . LIghtly step'd Robin Hood off the Friars back , the Fryer said to him again , Carry me over this water thou fine fellow or it shall breed thy pain . Robin Hood took the Fryer on his back deep water he did bestride . And spoke neither good word nor bad till he came at the other side . Lightly leapt the fryer off Robin Hoods back Robin Hood said to him again , Carry me over this water thou Curtal Fryer or it shall breed thy pain . The Fryer took Robin Hood on's back again and stepped up to the knee , Till he came at the middle stream , neither good nor bad spoke he . And coming to the middle stream , there he threw Robin in , And choose thee , choose thee fine fellow whither thou wilt sink or swim . Robin Hood swam to a bush of Broom , the Fryer to a wigger wand , Bold Robin Hood is gone to the shore , and took his Bow in hand . One of his best Arrows under his Belt to the Fryer he let fly , The Curtle Fryer with his steel Buckler he put that arrow by . Shoot on , shoot on thou fine fellow , shoot as thou hast begun , If thou shoot here a Summer's day thy mark I will not shun . Robin Hood shot so passing well till all his arrows were gone , They took their Swords and Steel Bucklers , they fought with might and main . From ten o'th clock that day till four i'th afternoon , Then Robin Hood came to Knees of Fryer to beg a boon . A boon , a boon thou Curtal Fryer , I beg it on my Knee , Give me leave to set my horn to my mouth , and to blow blasts three . That will I do said the Curtal Fryer , of thy blasts I have no doubt , I hope thoul't blow so passing well , till both thy eyes fallen out . Robin Hood set his horn to his mouth , he blew but blasts three , Half a hundred Yeomen with Bows bent came ranging over the Lee. Whose men are these said the Fryer that come so hastily , These are mine , said Robin Hood , Fryer what is that to thee . A boon , a boon , said the Curtal Fryer the like I gave to thee : Give me leave to set my fist to my mouth and to whute whutes three . That will I do , said Robin Hood or else I were to blame Three whutes in a Fryer fist would make me glad and fain . The Fryer set his fist to his mouth , and whuted whutes three , Half a hundred good Bay-dogs , came running the Fryer unto . Here is for every man a Dog , and I my self for thee , Nay by my faith , quoth Robin Hood , Fryer that may not be . Two Dogs at once to Robin Hood did go , the one behind the other before , Robin Hoods mantle of Lincoln green off from his back they tore . And whither his men shot East or West or they shot North or South , The Curtle Dogs so taught they were , they caught the arrows in their mouth . Take up thy Dogs said little John , Fryer at my bidding be , Whose man art thou , said the Curtal Fryer comes here to prate with me . I am little John , Robin Hoods man Fryer I will not lie , If thou take not up thy Dogs soon I'll take up them and thee . Little John had a Bow in his hand he shot with might and main Soon half a score of the Friars Dogs , lay dead upon the plain . Hold thy hand good fellow , said the Curtal Fryer , thy Master and I will agree : And we will have new order taken with all the haste that may be . If thou wilt forsake fair Fountain Dale , and Fountain Abby free , Every Sunday through the year , a Noble shall be thy fee . And every Holiday through the Year changed shall thy Garments be , If thou wilt go to fair Nottingham , and there remain with me . This Curtal Frier had kept Fountain Dale , seven long years and more , There was neither Knight Lord nor Earl , could make him yield before . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . 