Robin Hood's Golden Prize . He met two Priests upon the way , And forced them with him to Pray . For Gold they pray'd , and Gold they had , Enough to make bold Robin glad : His share came to four hundred pound That then was told upon the ground : Now mark and you shall here the jest , You never herd the like expressed . Tune is , Robin Hood was a tall young man . I Have herd talk of bold Robin Hood , derry , derry down , And of brave Little John , Of Fryer Tuck , and William Scarlet , Loxley , and Maid Marion , heigh down , derry , derry down . But such a tale as this , before derry , etc I think there was never none , For Robin Hood disguised himself , and to the green wood is gone . heigh down , etc Like to a Fryer bold Robin Hood derry , etc Was accoutered in his array , With hood , gown , beads , and crucifix , he passed upon the way . heigh down , etc He had not gone miles two or three derry , etc But it was his chance to spy Two lusty Priests clad all in black come riding gallantly . heigh down , etc Benedicite then said Robin Hood , derry , etc Some pity on me take , Cross you my hand with a silver groat , for our dear Ladies sake . heigh down , etc For I been wandering all this day , derry , etc And nothing could I get , Not so much as one poor cup of drink , nor bit of bred to ea hey down , etc Now by our holy dame the Priests reply'd , derry , etc We never a penny have , For we this morning have been rob'd , and could no money save : heigh down , etc I am afraid , said Robin Hood , derry , etc That you both do tell a lie , And now before you do go hence I am resolv'd to try . heigh down , etc When as the Priests herd him say so , derry , derry , etc They road away amain , But Robin Hood betook him to his heels and soon overtook them again . heigh down , etc Then Robin Hood laid hold on them both derry , etc And pul'd them down from their horse , Oh spare us fryer , the Priests cry'd out , on us have some remorse . heigh down , derry , derry down . YOu said you had no money , quoth he derry , derry down , Wherefore without delay , We three will fallen down on our knees , and for money we will pray . heigh down , derry , derry down . The Priests they could not him gainsay , derry , etc But down they kneeled with speed , Send us , Oh send us , then , quoth they , some money to serve our need . heigh down , etc The Priests did pray with a mournful cheer , derry , etc Sometime their hands did wring , Sometime they wept and cry'd aloud , while Robin did merrily sing . heigh down , etc When they had been praying and hours space derry , etc The Priests did still lament , Then , quoth bold Robin , now let us see , what money heaven hath us sent , heigh down , etc We will be sharers now all alike , derry , etc Of the money that we have , And there is never a one of us , that his fellow shall deceive , heigh down , etc The priests their hand into their pockets put derry , etc But money could find none , We'l search our selves , said Robin Hood each other one by one . heigh down , etc Then Robin Hood took pains to search them both , derry , etc And he found good store of gold , Five hundred pieces presently , upon the ground was told , heigh down , etc Here is a brave show , said Robin Hood , derry , etc Such store of Gold to see , And you shall each one have a part , Cause you pray'd so heartily . heigh down , etc He gave them fifty pounds a piece , derry , etc And the rest for himself did keep , The Priests durst not speak one word , but they sighed wondrous deep . heigh down , etc With that the Priests rose up from their Knees , derry , etc Thinking to have parted so , Nay stay said Robin Hood , one thing more , I have to say , e're you do go . heigh down , etc You shall be sworn , said bold Robin Hood derry , etc Upon this holy grass , That you will never tell lies again , which way soever you pass . heigh down , etc the second Oath that here you must take derry , etc All the days of your lives , You never shall tempt Maids to since , nor lie with other men's wives . heigh down , etc The last Oath you shall take , it is this , derry , etc Be charitable to the poor , Say you have met with a Holy Fryer , and I desire no more . heigh down , etc He set them on their horses again , derry , etc And away then they did ride , And he return'd to the merry green wood with great joy , mirth , and pride . heigh down , derry , derry down . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke Robin Hood's Golden Prize . He met two Priests upon the way , And forced them with him to Pray . For Gold they pray'd , and Gold they had , Enough to make bold Robin glad : His share came to four hundred pound That then was told upon the ground : Now mark and you shall here the jest , You never herd the like expressed . Tune is , Robin Hood was a tall young man . I Have herd talk of bold Robin Hood , derry , derry down , And of brave Little John , Of Fryer Tuck , and William Scarlet , Loxley , and Maid Marion , heigh down , derry , derry down . But such a tale as this , before derry , etc I think there was never none , For Robin Hood disguised himself , and to the green wood is gone . heigh down , etc Like to a Fryer bold Robin Hood derry , etc Was accoutered in his array , With hood , gown , beads , and crucifix , he passed upon the way . heigh down , etc He had not gone miles two or three derry , etc But it was his chance to spy Two lusty Priests clad all in black come riding gallantly . heigh down , etc Benedicite then said Robin Hood , derry , etc Some pity on me take , Cross you my hand with a silver groat , for our dear Ladies sake . heigh down , etc For I been wandering all this day , derry , etc And nothing could I get , Not so much as one poor cup of drink , nor bit of bred to ea hey down , etc Now by our holy dame the Priests reply'd , derry , etc We never a penny have , For we this morning have been rob'd , and could no money save : heigh down , etc I am afraid , said Robin Hood , derry , etc That you both do tell a lie , And now before you do go hence I am resolv'd to try . heigh down , etc When as the Priests herd him say so , derry , derry , etc They road away amain , But Robin Hood betook him to his heels and soon overtook them again . heigh down , etc Then Robin Hood laid hold on them both derry , etc And pul'd them down from their horse , Oh spare us fryer , the Priests cry'd out , on us have some remorse . heigh down , derry , derry down . YOu said you had no money , quoth he derry , derry down , Wherefore without delay , We three will fallen down on our knees , and for money we will pray . heigh down , derry , derry down . The Priests they could not him gainsay , derry , etc But down they kneeled with speed , Send us , Oh send us , then , quoth they , some money to serve our need . heigh down , etc The Priests did pray with a mournful cheer , derry , etc Sometime their hands did wring , Sometime they wept and cry'd aloud , while Robin did merrily sing . heigh down , etc When they had been praying and hours space derry , etc The Priests did still lament , Then , quoth bold Robin , now let us see , what money heaven hath us sent , heigh down , etc We will be sharers now all alike , derry , etc Of the money that we have , And there is never a one of us , that his fellow shall deceive , heigh down , etc The priests their hand into their pockets put derry , etc But money could find none , We'l search our selves , said Robin Hood each other one by one . heigh down , etc Then Robin Hood took pains to search them both , derry , etc And he found good store of gold , Five hundred pieces presently , upon the ground was told , heigh down , etc Here is a brave show , said Robin Hood , derry , etc Such store of Gold to see , And you shall each one have a part , Cause you pray'd so heartily . heigh down , etc He gave them fifty pounds a piece , derry , etc And the rest for himself did keep , The Priests durst not speak one word , but they sighed wondrous deep . heigh down , etc With that the Priests rose up from their Knees , derry , etc Thinking to have parted so , Nay stay said Robin Hood , one thing more , I have to say , e're you do go . heigh down , etc You shall be sworn , said bold Robin Hood derry , etc Upon this holy grass , That you will never tell lies again , which way soever you pass . heigh down , etc the second Oath that here you must take derry , etc All the days of your lives , You never shall tempt Maids to since , nor lie with other men's wives . heigh down , etc The last Oath you shall take , it is this , derry , etc Be charitable to the poor , Say you have met with a Holy Fryer , and I desire no more . heigh down , etc He set them on their horses again , derry , etc And away then they did ride , And he return'd to the merry green wood with great joy , mirth , and pride . heigh down , derry , derry down . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke 