And Excellent Ballad of George Barnwel , and Apprentice of London , who was undone by a Strumpet , who having thrice robbed his Master , and murdered his Uncle in Ludlow , was hanged in Chains in Polonia , and by the means of a Letter sent from his own hand to the Mayor of London , she was hang'd at Ludlow . The Tune is , The Rich Merchant-Man . ALL youths of fair England , that dwell both far and near , Regard my story that I tell , and to my song give ear : A London Lad I was , a Merchant's Prentice bound , My name George Barnwel who did spend my master many a pound . Take heed of Harlots then , and their enticing trains , For by that means I have been brought , to hang alive in chains . As I upon a day was walking through the street , About my master's business , I did a wanton me A dainty gallant Dame , and sumptuous in attire , With smiling looks she greeted me and did my name require . Which when I had declar'd , she gave me then a kiss , And said , if I would come to her , I should have more then this . In faith my boy , quoth she , such news I can thee tell , As shall rejoice thy very heart , then come where I do dwell . Fair Mistress , then said I , if I the place may know , This evening I will be with you , for I abroad must go , To gather money in , that is my master's due , And e're that I do home return , i'le come and visit you . Good Barnwel then , quoth she , do thou to Shoreditch come , And ask for Mrs. Milwood there , next door unto the Gun. And trust me on my truth , if thou keep troth with me , For thy friends sake , as my own heart , thou shalt right welcome be . Thus parted we in peace , and home I passed right , Then went abroad and gathered in by five a clock at nigh A hundred pound and one , with bag under mine arm , I went to Mrs. Milwoods house and thought on little harm : And knocking at the door , straightway her self came down , Ruffling in most brave attire , her Hoods and silken gown : Who through her beauty bright , so gloriously did shine , That she amaz'd my dazzling eyes , she seemed so divine . She took me by the hand , and with a modest grace , Welcome sweet Barnwel than , quod she , unto this homely place : Welcome ten th [ oh ] usand times , more welcome then my brother , And better welcome I protest , then any one or other : And seeing I have thee found as good as thy word to be , A homely supper e'r thou part , thou shalt here take with me . O pardon me , quoth I , fair Mistress I you pray , For why out of my Master's house , so long I dare not stay . Alas , good sir , she said . art thou so strictly ty'd , You may not with your dearest friend one hour or two abide ? Fath then the case is hard if it be so , quoth she , I would I were a Prentice bound to live in house with thee . Therefore my sweetest George , list well what I do say , And do not blame a woman much , her fancy to bewray : Let not affections force be counted lewd desire , Nor think it not immodesty , I would thy love require . With that she turn'd aside , and with a blushing read , A mournful motion she bewray'd , by holding down her head . A Handkerchief she had , all wrought with silk and gold , which she to stop her trickling tears against her eyes did hold . This thing unto my sighed , was wondrous rare and strange ; & in my mind and inward thoughts it wrought a sudden change : That I so hardy was , to take her by the hand , Saying , sweet Mistress , why do you so sad and heavy stand ? Call me not Mistress now , but Sara thy true friend , Thy servant Sara honouring thee , until her life does end . If thou wouldst here allege thou art in years a Boy , So was Adonis , yet was he , fair Venus love and joy . Thus I that ne'r before , of Woman found such grace , And seeing now so fair a Dame , give me a kind embrace : I supped with her that night , with joys that did abound , And for the same paid presently , in Money twice three pound . A hundred Kisses then for my farewell she gave , Saying , sweet Barnwel , when shall I again thy company have ? O stay not too long my dear , sweet George have me in mind , her words bewitched my childishness she uttered them so kind , So that I made a vow , next Sunday without fail , With my sweet Sara once again , to tell some pleasant tale . When she herd me say I , the tears fell from her eyes , Oh George , quoth she , if thou dost fail thy Sara sure will die : Though long , yet lo at last , the pointed time was come , That I must with my Sara meet , having a mighty sum Of money in my hand , unto her house went I . Whereas my love , upon her bed , in saddest sort did lie . What ails my hearts delight , my Sara dear , quoth he , Let not my love lament and grieve nor sighing pain and die . But tell to me my dearest friend , what may thy woes amend , & thou shalt lack no means of help , though forty pounds I spend : With that she turn'd her head , and sickly thus did say , Oh my sweet George my grief is great , ten pounds I have to pay , Unto a cruel wretch , and God he knows , quoth she , I have it not , tush , rise , quoth I , and take it here of me : Ten pounds , nor ten times ten , shall make my love decay , Then from his bag into her lap , he cast ten pounds straight way . All blithe and pleasant then , to banqueting they go , She proffered him to lie with her , and said it should be so : And after that same time , I gave her store of Coin , Yea , sometime fifty pound at once , all which I did purloin : And thus I did pass on , until my master then , Did call to have his reckoning in , cast up among his men . The which when as I herd , I knew not what to say , For well I knew that I was out , two hundred pound that day : Then from my master straight , I run in secret sort , And unto Sara Milwood then my state I did repor But how she us'd this Youth , in this his extreme need , The which did her necessity , so oft with money feed : The second part behold shall tell it forth at large ; And shall a Strumpets willy ways with all her tricks discharge . The Second Part , to the same Tune . HEre comes young Barnwel unto , sweet Sara his delight , I am undone , except thou stand my faithful friend this nigh Our Master to command accounts , hath just occasion found , And I am come behind the hand , almost two hundred pound : And therefore knowing not at all what answer for to make , And his displeasure to escape , my way to thee I take : Hoping in this extremity thou wilt my succour be , That for a time I may remain in secret here with thee . with that she knit & bent her brows and looking all aquoy , Quoth she , what should I have to do with any Prentice-boy ? And seeing you have purloyn'd and god your Master's goods away , The case is bad , and therefore here , I mean thou shalt not stay . why sweetheart thou knowest , I said , that all which I did get ; I gave it , and did spend it all , upon thee every whit . Thou know'st I loved thee so well , thou could'st not ask the thing , But that I did incontinent the same unto thee bring . Quod she , thou art a paltry Jack , to charge me in this sort , Being a Woman of credit good , and known of good report ; And therefore this I tell thee flat , be packing with good speed , I do defy thee from my heart , and scorn thy filthy deed . Is this the love & friendship which thou didst to me protest ? Is this the great affection which you seemed to express ? Now fie on all deceitful shows , the best is I may speed , To get a lodging any where , for money in my need : Therefore false woman now farewell while twenty pound does last My anchor in some other Haven I will with wisdom cast . When she perceived by his words that he had money store , That she had gaul'd him in such sort it griev'd her heart full soar : Therefore to call him back again she did suppose it best , Stay George , quod she , thou art too quick why man I do but jest . think'st thou for all my passed speech that I would let thee go ? Faith not , quoth she , my love to thee I wis is more then so : you will not deal with prentice boys I herd you even now swear , Therefore I will not trouble you my George herk in thine ear , Thou shalt not go this night quod she what chance so e'r befall , But man we'l have a bed for thee , or else the Devil take all . Thus I that was with Wiles be-witch'd & snar'd with fancy still , Had not the power to put away , or to withstand her will . Then wine and wine I called in , and cheer upon good cheer , And nothing in the world I thought for Sarah' And Excellent Ballad of George Barnwel , and Apprentice of London , who was undone by a Strumpet , who having thrice robbed his Master , and murdered his Uncle in Ludlow , was hanged in Chains in Polonia , and by the means of a Letter sent from his own hand to the Mayor of London , she was hang'd at Ludlow . The Tune is , The Rich Merchant-Man . ALL youths of fair England , that dwell both far and near , Regard my story that I tell , and to my song give ear : A London Lad I was , a Merchant's Prentice bound , My name George Barnwel who did spend my master many a pound . Take heed of Harlots then , and their enticing trains , For by that means I have been brought , to hang alive in chains . As I upon a day was walking through the street , About my master's business , I did a wanton me A dainty gallant Dame , and sumptuous in attire , With smiling looks she greeted me and did my name require . Which when I had declar'd , she gave me then a kiss , And said , if I would come to her , I should have more then this . In faith my boy , quoth she , such news I can thee tell , As shall rejoice thy very heart , then come where I do dwell . Fair Mistress , then said I , if I the place may know , This evening I will be with you , for I abroad must go , To gather money in , that is my master's due , And e're that I do home return , i'le come and visit you . Good Barnwel then , quoth she , do thou to Shoreditch come , And ask for Mrs. Milwood there , next door unto the Gun. And trust me on my truth , if thou keep troth with me , For thy friends sake , as my own heart , thou shalt right welcome be . Thus parted we in peace , and home I passed right , Then went abroad and gathered in by five a clock at nigh A hundred pound and one , with bag under mine arm , I went to Mrs. Milwoods house and thought on little harm : And knocking at the door , straightway her self came down , Ruffling in most brave attire , her Hoods and silken gown : Who through her beauty bright , so gloriously did shine , That she amaz'd my dazzling eyes , she seemed so divine . She took me by the hand , and with a modest grace , Welcome sweet Barnwel than , quod she , unto this homely place : Welcome ten th [ oh ] usand times , more welcome then my brother , And better welcome I protest , then any one or other : And seeing I have thee found as good as thy word to be , A homely supper e'r thou part , thou shalt here take with me . O pardon me , quoth I , fair Mistress I you pray , For why out of my Master's house , so long I dare not stay . Alas , good sir , she said . art thou so strictly ty'd , You may not with your dearest friend one hour or two abide ? Fath then the case is hard if it be so , quoth she , I would I were a Prentice bound to live in house with thee . Therefore my sweetest George , list well what I do say , And do not blame a woman much , her fancy to bewray : Let not affections force be counted lewd desire , Nor think it not immodesty , I would thy love require . With that she turn'd aside , and with a blushing read , A mournful motion she bewray'd , by holding down her head . A Handkerchief she had , all wrought with silk and gold , which she to stop her trickling tears against her eyes did hold . This thing unto my sighed , was wondrous rare and strange ; & in my mind and inward thoughts it wrought a sudden change : That I so hardy was , to take her by the hand , Saying , sweet Mistress , why do you so sad and heavy stand ? Call me not Mistress now , but Sara thy true friend , Thy servant Sara honouring thee , until her life does end . If thou wouldst here allege thou art in years a Boy , So was Adonis , yet was he , fair Venus love and joy . Thus I that ne'r before , of Woman found such grace , And seeing now so fair a Dame , give me a kind embrace : I supped with her that night , with joys that did abound , And for the same paid presently , in Money twice three pound . A hundred Kisses then for my farewell she gave , Saying , sweet Barnwel , when shall I again thy company have ? O stay not too long my dear , sweet George have me in mind , her words bewitched my childishness she uttered them so kind , So that I made a vow , next Sunday without fail , With my sweet Sara once again , to tell some pleasant tale . When she herd me say I , the tears fell from her eyes , Oh George , quoth she , if thou dost fail thy Sara sure will die : Though long , yet lo at last , the pointed time was come , That I must with my Sara meet , having a mighty sum Of money in my hand , unto her house went I . Whereas my love , upon her bed , in saddest sort did lie . What ails my hearts delight , my Sara dear , quoth he , Let not my love lament and grieve nor sighing pain and die . But tell to me my dearest friend , what may thy woes amend , & thou shalt lack no means of help , though forty pounds I spend : With that she turn'd her head , and sickly thus did say , Oh my sweet George my grief is great , ten pounds I have to pay , Unto a cruel wretch , and God he knows , quoth she , I have it not , tush , rise , quoth I , and take it here of me : Ten pounds , nor ten times ten , shall make my love decay , Then from his bag into her lap , he cast ten pounds straight way . All blithe and pleasant then , to banqueting they go , She proffered him to lie with her , and said it should be so : And after that same time , I gave her store of Coin , Yea , sometime fifty pound at once , all which I did purloin : And thus I did pass on , until my master then , Did call to have his reckoning in , cast up among his men . The which when as I herd , I knew not what to say , For well I knew that I was out , two hundred pound that day : Then from my master straight , I run in secret sort , And unto Sara Milwood then my state I did repor But how she us'd this Youth , in this his extreme need , The which did her necessity , so oft with money feed : The second part behold shall tell it forth at large ; And shall a Strumpets willy ways with all her tricks discharge . The Second Part , to the same Tune . HEre comes young Barnwel unto , sweet Sara his delight , I am undone , except thou stand my faithful friend this nigh Our Master to command accounts , hath just occasion found , And I am come behind the hand , almost two hundred pound : And therefore knowing not at all what answer for to make , And his displeasure to escape , my way to thee I take : Hoping in this extremity thou wilt my succour be , That for a time I may remain in secret here with thee . with that she knit & bent her brows and looking all aquoy , Quoth she , what should I have to do with any Prentice-boy ? And seeing you have purloyn'd and god your Master's goods away , The case is bad , and therefore here , I mean thou shalt not stay . why sweetheart thou knowest , I said , that all which I did get ; I gave it , and did spend it all , upon thee every whit . Thou know'st I loved thee so well , thou could'st not ask the thing , But that I did incontinent the same unto thee bring . Quod she , thou art a paltry Jack , to charge me in this sort , Being a Woman of credit good , and known of good report ; And therefore this I tell thee flat , be packing with good speed , I do defy thee from my heart , and scorn thy filthy deed . Is this the love & friendship which thou didst to me protest ? Is this the great affection which you seemed to express ? Now fie on all deceitful shows , the best is I may speed , To get a lodging any where , for money in my need : Therefore false woman now farewell while twenty pound does last My anchor in some other Haven I will with wisdom cast . When she perceived by his words that he had money store , That she had gaul'd him in such sort it griev'd her heart full soar : Therefore to call him back again she did suppose it best , Stay George , quod she , thou art too quick why man I do but jest . think'st thou for all my passed speech that I would let thee go ? Faith not , quoth she , my love to thee I wis is more then so : you will not deal with prentice boys I herd you even now swear , Therefore I will not trouble you my George herk in thine ear , Thou shalt not go this night quod she what chance so e'r befall , But man we'l have a bed for thee , or else the Devil take all . Thus I that was with Wiles be-witch'd & snar'd with fancy still , Had not the power to put away , or to withstand her will . Then wine and wine I called in , and cheer upon good cheer , And nothing in the world I thought for Sarah's love too dear : While I was in her company , in joy and merriment , And all too little I did think , that I upon her spent , A fig for care or careful thought when all my gold is gone , In faith my girl we will have more , whoever it light upon : My father's rich , why then , quoth I should I want any gold ? With a father indeed ( quoth she ) a Son may well be bold : I have a Sister richly wed , that i'le rob e're i'le want ; Why then quod Sara they may well consider of your scan nay more then this and Uncle I have at Ludlow he does dwell , He is a Grazier , which in wealth , does all the rest excel . E're I will live in lack ( quoth he ) and have no coin for thee , I'll rob the churl and murder him , why should you not ( quoth she . ) E're I would want were I a man , or live in poor estate , On father , friends , and all my kin , I would my talents grate . For without money , George , ( quod she ) a man is but a beast , And bringing money thou shalt be always my chiefest gues For say thou shouldst pursued be with twenty hues and cries , And with a Warrant searched for with Argo's hundred eyes : Yet in my house thou shalt be safe , such privy ways there be , That if they sought and 100 years , they could not find out thee . And so carousing in their cups , their pleasure to content , George Barnwel had in little space his money wholly spent . Which being done to Ludlow then , he did provide to go , To rob his wealthy Uncle then , his Minion would it so : and once or twice he thought to take his father by the way , but that he thought his Master there took order for his stay . Directly to his Uncle then , he road with might and main , where with good welcome , and good cheer he did him entertain : A Sennets space he stayed there , until it chanced so , His Uncle with fat Cattle did unto a Market go . His Kinsman needs must ride with him and when he saw right plain Great store of Money he had took , in coming home again , Most suddenly within a Wood , he struck his Uncle down , And beatrice his brains out of his head , so soar he cracked his crown : And fourscore pound in ready coin , out of his Purse he took , And coming unto London strait , the Country quite forsook . To Sara Milwood then he came , showing his store of gold , And how he had his Uncle slave , to her he plainly told . Tush , 'tis no matter George , quod she so we the money have , To have good cheer in jolly sort , and deck us fine and brave . And thus they liv'd in filthy sort , till all his store was gone , And means to get them any more , I wis poor George had none . And therefore now in railing sort she thrust him out of door , Which is the just reward they get that spend upon a Whore . O do me not this vile disgrace , in this my need ( quoth he ) She call'd him thief and murderer with all the spite might be . And to the Constable she went , to have him apprehended , And shew'd in each degree how far , he had the law offended . When Barnwel saw her drift , to sea he god straightway , Where fear and dread , & conscience sting , upon him still does stay . Unto the Mayor of London then , he did a Letter write , Wherein his own and Sara's faults he did at large recite . Whereby she apprehended was , and then to Ludlow sent , Where she was judg'd , condemn'd & hang'd for murder incontinent , and there this gallant quean did die this was her greatest gains , For murder in Polonia was Barnwel hang'd in chains . Lo here's the end of wilful youth , that after Harlots haunt , Who in the spoil of other men , about the streets do flaunt . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clerks love too dear : While I was in her company , in joy and merriment , And all too little I did think , that I upon her spent , A fig for care or careful thought when all my gold is gone , In faith my girl we will have more , whoever it light upon : My father's rich , why then , quoth I should I want any gold ? With a father indeed ( quoth she ) a Son may well be bold : I have a Sister richly wed , that i'le rob e're i'le want ; Why then quod Sara they may well consider of your scan nay more then this and Uncle I have at Ludlow he does dwell , He is a Grazier , which in wealth , does all the rest excel . E're I will live in lack ( quoth he ) and have no coin for thee , I'll rob the churl and murder him , why should you not ( quoth she . ) E're I would want were I a man , or live in poor estate , On father , friends , and all my kin , I would my talents grate . For without money , George , ( quod she ) a man is but a beast , And bringing money thou shalt be always my chiefest gues For say thou shouldst pursued be with twenty hues and cries , And with a Warrant searched for with Argo's hundred eyes : Yet in my house thou shalt be safe , such privy ways there be , That if they sought and 100 years , they could not find out thee . And so carousing in their cups , their pleasure to content , George Barnwel had in little space his money wholly spent . Which being done to Ludlow then , he did provide to go , To rob his wealthy Uncle then , his Minion would it so : and once or twice he thought to take his father by the way , but that he thought his Master there took order for his stay . Directly to his Uncle then , he road with might and main , where with good welcome , and good cheer he did him entertain : A Sennets space he stayed there , until it chanced so , His Uncle with fat Cattle did unto a Market go . His Kinsman needs must ride with him and when he saw right plain Great store of Money he had took , in coming home again , Most suddenly within a Wood , he struck his Uncle down , And beatrice his brains out of his head , so soar he cracked his crown : And fourscore pound in ready coin , out of his Purse he took , And coming unto London strait , the Country quite forsook . To Sara Milwood then he came , showing his store of gold , And how he had his Uncle slave , to her he plainly told . Tush , 'tis no matter George , quod she so we the money have , To have good cheer in jolly sort , and deck us fine and brave . And thus they liv'd in filthy sort , till all his store was gone , And means to get them any more , I wis poor George had none . And therefore now in railing sort she thrust him out of door , Which is the just reward they get that spend upon a Whore . O do me not this vile disgrace , in this my need ( quoth he ) She call'd him thief and murderer with all the spite might be . And to the Constable she went , to have him apprehended , And shew'd in each degree how far , he had the law offended . When Barnwel saw her drift , to sea he god straightway , Where fear and dread , & conscience sting , upon him still does stay . Unto the Mayor of London then , he did a Letter write , Wherein his own and Sara's faults he did at large recite . Whereby she apprehended was , and then to Ludlow sent , Where she was judg'd , condemn'd & hang'd for murder incontinent , and there this gallant quean did die this was her greatest gains , For murder in Polonia was Barnwel hang'd in chains . Lo here's the end of wilful youth , that after Harlots haunt , Who in the spoil of other men , about the streets do flaunt . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke 