A Proper new Ballad , Entitled , the wandering Prince of Troy . The tune is , Queen Dido . WHen Troy Town for ten years Wars withstood the Greeks in manful wise , Then did their foes increase so fast , that to resist none could suffice , Waste lie those walls that were so good , And Corn now grows where Troy town stood . AEneas wandering Prince of Troy , when he for Land long time had sought , At length arrived with great joy , to mighty Carthage walls was brought , Where Dido's Queen with sumptuous Feast , Did entertain this wandering guest . And as in Hall at meat they sat , the Queen desirous news to hear , Of thy unhappy ten years Wars declare to me thou Trojan dear , The heavy hap and chance so bad That thou poor wandering Prince haste had . And then anon this worthy Knight with words demure as he could well , Of his unhappy ten years Wars so true a tale began to tell . With words so sweet , and sighs so deep , That oft he made them all to weep . And then a thousand sighs he fetched , and every sighs brought tears amain , That where he sat the place was wet , as if he had seen those wars again So that the Queen with ruth therefore , Said worthy P [ r ] ince enough no more . The darksome night apace grew on , and twinkling stars i'th skys were spread , And he his doleful Tale had told , as every one lay in his bed . Where they full sweetly took their rest , Save only Dido's b [ oh ] yling breast . This silly woman never slept but in her chamber all alone , As one unhsppy always kept , unto the walls she made her moan . That she should still desire in vain The thing that she could not obtain . And thus in grief she spent the night , till twinkling stars from skys were fled ; And Phoebus with his glistering beams through misty clouds appeared read . Then tidings came to her anon That all the Trojan ships were gone ; And then the Queen with bloody knife , did arm her heart as hard as stone , Yet somewhat loath to lose her life , in woeful ease she made her moan . And rolling on her careful bed , With sighs and sobs these words she said . O wretched Dido Queen quoth she , I see thy end approaching near , For he is gone away from thee , whom thou didst love and hold so dear , Is he then gone and passed by , Oh heart prepare thy self to die , Though reason would thou shouldst forbear to stop thy hand from bloody stroke , Yet fancy said thou shouldst not fear , who fettered thee in Cupids yoke , Come death quoth she and end the smart , And with those words she pierc'd her heart WHen death had pierc'd the tender heart of Dido , Carthaginian Queen , And bloody knife did end the smart which she sustain'd in woeful teen , AEnears being shipped and gone , Whose flattery caused all her moan . Her Funeral most costly made . and all things finished mournfully , Her body fine in mould was laid , where it consumed speedily , Her Sisters tears her Tomb bestrew'd , Her Subject's grief his kindness shew'd . Then was AEneas in and Isle . in Grecia where he liv'd long space , Whereas her Sister in short while . wrote to him to his foul disgrace , In phrase of Letters to her mind , She told him plain he was unkind . Falsehearted wretch quoth he thou art , and Traitorously thou hast betray'd Unto thy lure a gentle heart , which unto thee such welcome made , My Sister dear and Carthage joy . Whose folly wrought her dire annoy . Yet on her deathbed when she lay , she pray'd for thy prosperity , Beseeching God that every day might breed the great felicity , Thus by thy means I lost a friend , Heaven send thee such untimely end , When he these lines full fraught with gall , perused had and weig'd them right , His lofty courage then did fallen , and straight appeared in his sighed Queen Dido [ ' ] s Ghost both grim and pale , Which made this valiant Soldier quail . AEneas quoth this grisly Grst , my whole delight while I did live , Thee of all men I loved most , my fancy and my will did give . For entertainment I thee gave . Unthankfully thou didgst my Grave , Wherefore prepare thy fleeting Soul to wander with me in the air Where deadly grief shall make it howl , because of me thou tookest no care . Delay no time thy glass is run , Thy date is past and death is come , Oh stay a while thou lovely spright , be not so hasty to convey My soul into eternal night , where it shall never behold bright day , Oh do not frown , thy angry look Hath made my breath my life forsook , But woe is me it is in vain , and bootless is my dismal cry , Time will not be recal'd again nor thou surcease before I die Oh let me live to make amends Unto some of my dearest friends , But seeing thou obdurate art , and wilt not pity to me show . Because from thee I did depart , and left unpaid what I did owe , I must content my self to take What lot thou wilt with me partake , And like one being in a Trance , a multitude of ugly fiends , About this woeful Prince did dance , no help he had of any friends , His body then they took away , And no man knew his dying day , printed for F. Coals , T. Vere and W. Gilbertson A Proper new Ballad , Entitled , the wandering Prince of Troy . The tune is , Queen Dido . WHen Troy Town for ten years Wars withstood the Greeks in manful wise , Then did their foes increase so fast , that to resist none could suffice , Waste lie those walls that were so good , And Corn now grows where Troy town stood . AEneas wandering Prince of Troy , when he for Land long time had sought , At length arrived with great joy , to mighty Carthage walls was brought , Where Dido's Queen with sumptuous Feast , Did entertain this wandering guest . And as in Hall at meat they sat , the Queen desirous news to hear , Of thy unhappy ten years Wars declare to me thou Trojan dear , The heavy hap and chance so bad That thou poor wandering Prince haste had . And then anon this worthy Knight with words demure as he could well , Of his unhappy ten years Wars so true a tale began to tell . With words so sweet , and sighs so deep , That oft he made them all to weep . And then a thousand sighs he fetched , and every sighs brought tears amain , That where he sat the place was wet , as if he had seen those wars again So that the Queen with ruth therefore , Said worthy P [ r ] ince enough no more . The darksome night apace grew on , and twinkling stars i'th skys were spread , And he his doleful Tale had told , as every one lay in his bed . Where they full sweetly took their rest , Save only Dido's b [ oh ] yling breast . This silly woman never slept but in her chamber all alone , As one unhsppy always kept , unto the walls she made her moan . That she should still desire in vain The thing that she could not obtain . And thus in grief she spent the night , till twinkling stars from skys were fled ; And Phoebus with his glistering beams through misty clouds appeared read . Then tidings came to her anon That all the Trojan ships were gone ; And then the Queen with bloody knife , did arm her heart as hard as stone , Yet somewhat loath to lose her life , in woeful ease she made her moan . And rolling on her careful bed , With sighs and sobs these words she said . O wretched Dido Queen quoth she , I see thy end approaching near , For he is gone away from thee , whom thou didst love and hold so dear , Is he then gone and passed by , Oh heart prepare thy self to die , Though reason would thou shouldst forbear to stop thy hand from bloody stroke , Yet fancy said thou shouldst not fear , who fettered thee in Cupids yoke , Come death quoth she and end the smart , And with those words she pierc'd her heart WHen death had pierc'd the tender heart of Dido , Carthaginian Queen , And bloody knife did end the smart which she sustain'd in woeful teen , AEnears being shipped and gone , Whose flattery caused all her moan . Her Funeral most costly made . and all things finished mournfully , Her body fine in mould was laid , where it consumed speedily , Her Sisters tears her Tomb bestrew'd , Her Subject's grief his kindness shew'd . Then was AEneas in and Isle . in Grecia where he liv'd long space , Whereas her Sister in short while . wrote to him to his foul disgrace , In phrase of Letters to her mind , She told him plain he was unkind . Falsehearted wretch quoth he thou art , and Traitorously thou hast betray'd Unto thy lure a gentle heart , which unto thee such welcome made , My Sister dear and Carthage joy . Whose folly wrought her dire annoy . Yet on her deathbed when she lay , she pray'd for thy prosperity , Beseeching God that every day might breed the great felicity , Thus by thy means I lost a friend , Heaven send thee such untimely end , When he these lines full fraught with gall , perused had and weig'd them right , His lofty courage then did fallen , and straight appeared in his sighed Queen Dido [ ' ] s Ghost both grim and pale , Which made this valiant Soldier quail . AEneas quoth this grisly Grst , my whole delight while I did live , Thee of all men I loved most , my fancy and my will did give . For entertainment I thee gave . Unthankfully thou didgst my Grave , Wherefore prepare thy fleeting Soul to wander with me in the air Where deadly grief shall make it howl , because of me thou tookest no care . Delay no time thy glass is run , Thy date is past and death is come , Oh stay a while thou lovely spright , be not so hasty to convey My soul into eternal night , where it shall never behold bright day , Oh do not frown , thy angry look Hath made my breath my life forsook , But woe is me it is in vain , and bootless is my dismal cry , Time will not be recal'd again nor thou surcease before I die Oh let me live to make amends Unto some of my dearest friends , But seeing thou obdurate art , and wilt not pity to me show . Because from thee I did depart , and left unpaid what I did owe , I must content my self to take What lot thou wilt with me partake , And like one being in a Trance , a multitude of ugly fiends , About this woeful Prince did dance , no help he had of any friends , His body then they took away , And no man knew his dying day , printed for F. Coals , T. Vere and W. Gilbertson 