The Life and Death of Famous Thomas Stukely , and English Gallant , in the time of Queen Elizabeth , who ended his life in a Battle of three Kings of Barbury . The Tune is , King Henries going to Bullion . IN the West of England , Born there was I understand , a famous Gallant was he in his days , By birth a wealthy Clothiers Son , Deeds of wonder he had done , to purchase him a long and lasting praise . If I should tell his story , Pride was all his glory , and lusty Stukely was he cal'd in Cour He serv'd a Bishop in the West , And did accompany the best , maintaining of himself in gallant sort . Being thus esteemed , And every where well deemed , he gain'd the favour of a London Dame , Daughter to and Alderman , Curtis he was called then , to whom a Suitor gallantly he came . When he her person spied He could not be denied , so brave a Gentleman he was to see : She was quickly made his Wife , In weal or woe to led her Life , her Father willing thereto did agree . Thus in state and pleasure , Full many days they measure , till cruel death with his regardless spite Boar old Curtis to the Grave , A thing that Stukely wished to have , that he might Revel all in gold so bright . He was no sooner tombed , But Stukely he presumed , to spend a hundred pound a day in waste , The greatest Gallants in the Land , Had Sukelies purse at their command , thus merrily the time away he passed . Taverns and Ordinaries , Were his chiefest braveries , golden Angels there flew up and down : Riots were his best delight With stately feasting day and night , in Court and City thus he wone Renown . Thus wasting Land and Living , By this Lawless giving , at last he sold the pavements of the Yard : With covered were with blocks of Tin Old Curtis left the same to him , which he consumed lately as you herd . WHereat his Wife soar grieved , Desired to be relieved , make much of me dear husband she did say , I'le make much more of thee , said he , Then any man shall verily , I [ ' ] le fell the Clothes and so i'le go away . Cruelly thus hard hearted , Away from her he parted , and travel [ ' ] worser into Italy with speed : There he flourished many a day , In his silks and rich array , and did the pleasures of a Lady feed . It was the Ladies pleasure , To give him goods and treasure , to maintain him in great pomp and fame At last came news assuredly , Of a fought battle in Barbury , and he would valiantly go see the same . Many a Noble gollant , Sold both Land and Talent , to follow Stukely in this famous figh Whereas three Kings in person would Adventurously with courage bold , within this battle slew themselves in fight . Stukely and his followers all , Of the King of Portugal , had entertainment like to Gentlemen , The King affected Stukely so , That he his secrets all did know , and boar his Royal Standard now & then . Upon this day of honour , Each King did show his Banner , Morroco and the King of Barbury , Portugal and all his train , Bravely glistering on the plain , and gave the Onset there most valiantly . The Cannons they resounded , Thundering Drums rebounded , kill , kill , then was all the Soldiers cry , Mangled men lay on the ground , And with blood the earth was drown'd , the Sun likewise was darkened in the sky . Heaven was so displeased , And would not be appeased , but took us off Gods heavy wrath did show That he was angry at this War , He sent a fearful Blazing Star , whereby the Kings might their misfortunes know . Bloody was the slaughter , Or rather wilful Murder , where six score thousand fighting men were slave , Three K [ i ] ngs within this battle dy'd , With forty Dukes and Earls beside , the like will never more be fought again . With woeful arms infolding , Stukely stood beholding , this bloodly sacrifice of souls that day : He sighing said , I woeful wight , Against my conscience here do fight , and brought my followers all unto decay . Being thus molested , And with Grief oppressed , those brave Ita [ l ] ians that did fell their Lands , With Sankely for to travel forth , And venture Life for little worth , upon him all did lay their murdering hands . Unto doath thus wounded , His heart with sorrow swooned , and to them he made his heavy moan : Thus have I left my Country dear , To be so vilely murdered here , even in this place whereas I am not known My Wife I have much wronged , Of what to her belonged , I vainly spent in idle course of Life : What I have done is passed I see , And brings nought but Grief to me , therefore grant me pardon gentle wife . Life I see consumeth , And death I feel presumeth , to change this Life of mine into a new : Yet this my greatest comfort brings I liv'd and dy'd in love of Kings , and so brave Stukely bids the world adue . Stukelie Life thus ended , Was after death befriended , and like a Soldier buried gallantly : Where now there stands upon the grave , A stately Temple built brave , with golden Turrets piercing to the sky . FINIS . London , Printed for F. Coals , in Vine-street , near Hatten-Garden . The Life and Death of Famous Thomas Stukely , and English Gallant , in the time of Queen Elizabeth , who ended his life in a Battle of three Kings of Barbury . The Tune is , King Henries going to Bullion . IN the West of England , Born there was I understand , a famous Gallant was he in his days , By birth a wealthy Clothiers Son , Deeds of wonder he had done , to purchase him a long and lasting praise . If I should tell his story , Pride was all his glory , and lusty Stukely was he cal'd in Cour He serv'd a Bishop in the West , And did accompany the best , maintaining of himself in gallant sort . Being thus esteemed , And every where well deemed , he gain'd the favour of a London Dame , Daughter to and Alderman , Curtis he was called then , to whom a Suitor gallantly he came . When he her person spied He could not be denied , so brave a Gentleman he was to see : She was quickly made his Wife , In weal or woe to led her Life , her Father willing thereto did agree . Thus in state and pleasure , Full many days they measure , till cruel death with his regardless spite Boar old Curtis to the Grave , A thing that Stukely wished to have , that he might Revel all in gold so bright . He was no sooner tombed , But Stukely he presumed , to spend a hundred pound a day in waste , The greatest Gallants in the Land , Had Sukelies purse at their command , thus merrily the time away he passed . Taverns and Ordinaries , Were his chiefest braveries , golden Angels there flew up and down : Riots were his best delight With stately feasting day and night , in Court and City thus he wone Renown . Thus wasting Land and Living , By this Lawless giving , at last he sold the pavements of the Yard : With covered were with blocks of Tin Old Curtis left the same to him , which he consumed lately as you herd . WHereat his Wife soar grieved , Desired to be relieved , make much of me dear husband she did say , I'le make much more of thee , said he , Then any man shall verily , I [ ' ] le fell the Clothes and so i'le go away . Cruelly thus hard hearted , Away from her he parted , and travel [ ' ] worser into Italy with speed : There he flourished many a day , In his silks and rich array , and did the pleasures of a Lady feed . It was the Ladies pleasure , To give him goods and treasure , to maintain him in great pomp and fame At last came news assuredly , Of a fought battle in Barbury , and he would valiantly go see the same . Many a Noble gollant , Sold both Land and Talent , to follow Stukely in this famous figh Whereas three Kings in person would Adventurously with courage bold , within this battle slew themselves in fight . Stukely and his followers all , Of the King of Portugal , had entertainment like to Gentlemen , The King affected Stukely so , That he his secrets all did know , and boar his Royal Standard now & then . Upon this day of honour , Each King did show his Banner , Morroco and the King of Barbury , Portugal and all his train , Bravely glistering on the plain , and gave the Onset there most valiantly . The Cannons they resounded , Thundering Drums rebounded , kill , kill , then was all the Soldiers cry , Mangled men lay on the ground , And with blood the earth was drown'd , the Sun likewise was darkened in the sky . Heaven was so displeased , And would not be appeased , but took us off Gods heavy wrath did show That he was angry at this War , He sent a fearful Blazing Star , whereby the Kings might their misfortunes know . Bloody was the slaughter , Or rather wilful Murder , where six score thousand fighting men were slave , Three K [ i ] ngs within this battle dy'd , With forty Dukes and Earls beside , the like will never more be fought again . With woeful arms infolding , Stukely stood beholding , this bloodly sacrifice of souls that day : He sighing said , I woeful wight , Against my conscience here do fight , and brought my followers all unto decay . Being thus molested , And with Grief oppressed , those brave Ita [ l ] ians that did fell their Lands , With Sankely for to travel forth , And venture Life for little worth , upon him all did lay their murdering hands . Unto doath thus wounded , His heart with sorrow swooned , and to them he made his heavy moan : Thus have I left my Country dear , To be so vilely murdered here , even in this place whereas I am not known My Wife I have much wronged , Of what to her belonged , I vainly spent in idle course of Life : What I have done is passed I see , And brings nought but Grief to me , therefore grant me pardon gentle wife . Life I see consumeth , And death I feel presumeth , to change this Life of mine into a new : Yet this my greatest comfort brings I liv'd and dy'd in love of Kings , and so brave Stukely bids the world adue . Stukelie Life thus ended , Was after death befriended , and like a Soldier buried gallantly : Where now there stands upon the grave , A stately Temple built brave , with golden Turrets piercing to the sky . FINIS . London , Printed for F. Coals , in Vine-street , near Hatten-Garden . 