Lord WILLOUGHBY . OR , A true Relation of a Famous and Bloody Battle fought in Flanders , by the Noble and Valiant Lord Willoughby , with 1500 English , against 40000 Spaniards , where the English obtained a Notable Victory ; for the glory and Renown of our Nation . To the Tune of , Lord Willoughby . THe fifteen day of July , with glistering spear and shield , A famous fight in Flanders , was foughten in the field : The most courageous Officers ; was English Captains three ; But the bravest man in battle , was brave Lord Willoughby . The next was Captain Norris , a valiant man was he , The other Captain Turner , that from field would never flee : With fifteen hundred fighting men , alas there was no more , They fought with forty thousand then , upon the bloody shore . Stand to it noble Pikemen , and look you round about , And shoot you right you Bowmen , and we will keep them out . You Musquet and Calliver men , do you prove true to me , I'll be the foremost man in fight ; says brave Lord Willoughby . And then the bloody enemy , they fiercely did assail : And fought it out most valiantly , not doubting to prevail : The wounded men on both sides fell , most piteous for to see , Yet nothing could the courage quell , of brave Lord Willoughby . For seven hours to all men view , this fight endured soar , Until our men so feeble grew , that they could fight no more : And then upon dead Horses , full savourly they eat , And drank the puddle water , for no better they could get . WHen they had fed so freely , they kneeled on the ground , And praised God devoutly , for the favour they had found ; And bearing up their Colours , the fight they did renew , And turning towards the Spaniard , five thousand more they slew . The sharp steel pointed Arrows , and Bullets thick did fly ; Then did our Valiant Soldiers , charge on most furiously : Which made the Spaniards waver , they thought it best to flee , They fear'd the stout behaviour , of brave Lord Willoughby . Then quoth the Spanish General , come let us march away , I fear we shall be spoiled all , if that we longer stay : For yonder comes Lord Willoughby , with courage fierce and fell , He will not give one inch of ground , for all the Devils in hell . And then the fearful enemy , was quickly put to flight , Our men pursued courageously , and rout their forces quite : And at last they gave a shout , which echoed through the sky , God and St George for England the conquerors did cry . This news was brought to England , with all the speed might be And told unto our gracious Queen , of this same Victory : Oh this is brave Lord Willoughby , my love hath ever wone , Of all the Lords of honour 'tis he great deeds hath done . For Soldiers that were maimed , and wounded in the fray , The Queen allowed a Pension , of eighteen pence a day : Beside all costs and charges , she quit and set them free , And this she did all for the sake , of brave Lord Willoughby . Then courage noble English men , and never be dismayed , If that we be but one to ten , we will not be afraid : To fight with foreign Enemies , and set our Country free , And thus I end this bloody bout , of brave Lord Willoughby . Printed for F. Coals , in Vine-Street , near Hatton-Garden . Lord WILLOUGHBY . OR , A true Relation of a Famous and Bloody Battle fought in Flanders , by the Noble and Valiant Lord Willoughby , with 1500 English , against 40000 Spaniards , where the English obtained a Notable Victory ; for the glory and Renown of our Nation . To the Tune of , Lord Willoughby . THe fifteen day of July , with glistering spear and shield , A famous fight in Flanders , was foughten in the field : The most courageous Officers ; was English Captains three ; But the bravest man in battle , was brave Lord Willoughby . The next was Captain Norris , a valiant man was he , The other Captain Turner , that from field would never flee : With fifteen hundred fighting men , alas there was no more , They fought with forty thousand then , upon the bloody shore . Stand to it noble Pikemen , and look you round about , And shoot you right you Bowmen , and we will keep them out . You Musquet and Calliver men , do you prove true to me , I'll be the foremost man in fight ; says brave Lord Willoughby . And then the bloody enemy , they fiercely did assail : And fought it out most valiantly , not doubting to prevail : The wounded men on both sides fell , most piteous for to see , Yet nothing could the courage quell , of brave Lord Willoughby . For seven hours to all men view , this fight endured soar , Until our men so feeble grew , that they could fight no more : And then upon dead Horses , full savourly they eat , And drank the puddle water , for no better they could get . WHen they had fed so freely , they kneeled on the ground , And praised God devoutly , for the favour they had found ; And bearing up their Colours , the fight they did renew , And turning towards the Spaniard , five thousand more they slew . The sharp steel pointed Arrows , and Bullets thick did fly ; Then did our Valiant Soldiers , charge on most furiously : Which made the Spaniards waver , they thought it best to flee , They fear'd the stout behaviour , of brave Lord Willoughby . Then quoth the Spanish General , come let us march away , I fear we shall be spoiled all , if that we longer stay : For yonder comes Lord Willoughby , with courage fierce and fell , He will not give one inch of ground , for all the Devils in hell . And then the fearful enemy , was quickly put to flight , Our men pursued courageously , and rout their forces quite : And at last they gave a shout , which echoed through the sky , God and St George for England the conquerors did cry . This news was brought to England , with all the speed might be And told unto our gracious Queen , of this same Victory : Oh this is brave Lord Willoughby , my love hath ever wone , Of all the Lords of honour 'tis he great deeds hath done . For Soldiers that were maimed , and wounded in the fray , The Queen allowed a Pension , of eighteen pence a day : Beside all costs and charges , she quit and set them free , And this she did all for the sake , of brave Lord Willoughby . Then courage noble English men , and never be dismayed , If that we be but one to ten , we will not be afraid : To fight with foreign Enemies , and set our Country free , And thus I end this bloody bout , of brave Lord Willoughby . Printed for F. Coals , in Vine-Street , near Hatton-Garden . 