The Country Lass . To a dainty new Note , which if you can hit , There's another tune will as well fit . To the tune of , The mother beguiled daughter . ALthough I am a Country Lass , a lofty mind I bear a , I think my self as good as those that gay apparel wear a : My coat is made of comely Grey , yet is my skin as soft a , As those that with the chiefest Wines , do bathe their bodies oft a. Down , down dery , dery down , heigh down a down a down a , a dery dery dery dery down , heigh down a down a dery . What though I keep my Father's sheep , a thing that must be done a , A garland of the fairest flowers shall shrewd me from the Sun a : And when I see them feeding be , where grass and flowers spring a Close by a Crystal fountain side I fit me down , and sing a , Down etc Dame nature crowns us with delight , surpassing Court or City , We pleasures take from morn to night in Sports and pastimes pretty : Your City Dams in Coaches ride abroad for recreation , We Country Lasses hate their pride , and keep the Country fashion . Down etc Your City Wives led wanton lives , and if they come i'th' Country , They are so proud , that each one strives for to outbrave our Gentry We country lasses homely be for seat nor wall we strive not , We are content with our degree , our debtors we deprive not , Down etc I care not for the fane or Mask , when Titans heat reflecteth , A homely Hat is all I ask , which well my face protecteth : Yet am I in my Country guise , esteem'd Lass as pretty As those that every day devise new shapes in Court or City . Down etc In every season of the year I undergo my labour No Shower nor Wind at all I fear , my Limbs I do not favour : If Summer's heat my beauty stain , it makes me never the sicker , Sith I can wash it off again with a Cup of Christmas Liquour . Downe , down dery , dery down , heigh down a down a down a , a dery dery dery dery down , heigh down a down a dery . The second part . To the same tune , AT Christmas time in mirth and glee , I dance with young men neatly , And who i'the City like to me , shall surely taste completely ; No Sport , but Pride and Luxury i'th city can be found then , But bounteous Hospitality i'th Country does abound then , Down etc I the Spring my labour yields delight , to walk i the merry Morning , When Flora is ( to please my sighed ) the ground with flowers adorning : With merry Lads to make the Hay I go , and do not grumble , My work does seem to be but play , when with young men I tumble . Down etc The Lark & Thrush from Briar to Bush do leap , and skip , and sing a , And all this then to welcome in the long and looked for Spring a : We fear not Cupids arrows keen , Dame Venus we defy a , Diana is our honoured Queen , and her we magnify a. Down etc That which your City-Damsels scorn , we hold our chiefest Jewel , Without , to work at Hay and Corn , within to Bake and Brew well , To keep the Dairy decently , and all things clean and neatly , Your Citie-Minions do defy , their scorn we weigh not greatly . Down etc When we together a milking go , with pails upon our heads a , And walking over Woods and Fields , where Grass and Flowers spreads a , In honest pleasure we delight , which makes our labour sweet a , And Mirth exceeds on every side , when Lads and Lasses meet a. Down etc Then do not scorn a Country Lass , though she be plain and meanly : Who takes the Country Wench to Wife , ( that goes neat and cleanly ) Is better sped , then if he wed a fine one from the City , For then they are so nicely bred , they must not work for pity . Down etc I speak not this to that intent , ( as some may well conjecture ) As though to Wooing I were bent , nor I never learn'd Lovers Lectuue : But what I sing is in defence of all plain Country Lasses , Whose modest honest innocence all City Girls surpasses . Downe , down dery , dery down , etc FINIS . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcocke . The Country Lass . To a dainty new Note , which if you can hit , There's another tune will as well fit . To the tune of , The mother beguiled daughter . ALthough I am a Country Lass , a lofty mind I bear a , I think my self as good as those that gay apparel wear a : My coat is made of comely Grey , yet is my skin as soft a , As those that with the chiefest Wines , do bathe their bodies oft a. Down , down dery , dery down , heigh down a down a down a , a dery dery dery dery down , heigh down a down a dery . What though I keep my Father's sheep , a thing that must be done a , A garland of the fairest flowers shall shrewd me from the Sun a : And when I see them feeding be , where grass and flowers spring a Close by a Crystal fountain side I fit me down , and sing a , Down etc Dame nature crowns us with delight , surpassing Court or City , We pleasures take from morn to night in Sports and pastimes pretty : Your City Dams in Coaches ride abroad for recreation , We Country Lasses hate their pride , and keep the Country fashion . Down etc Your City Wives led wanton lives , and if they come i'th' Country , They are so proud , that each one strives for to outbrave our Gentry We country lasses homely be for seat nor wall we strive not , We are content with our degree , our debtors we deprive not , Down etc I care not for the fane or Mask , when Titans heat reflecteth , A homely Hat is all I ask , which well my face protecteth : Yet am I in my Country guise , esteem'd Lass as pretty As those that every day devise new shapes in Court or City . Down etc In every season of the year I undergo my labour No Shower nor Wind at all I fear , my Limbs I do not favour : If Summer's heat my beauty stain , it makes me never the sicker , Sith I can wash it off again with a Cup of Christmas Liquour . Downe , down dery , dery down , heigh down a down a down a , a dery dery dery dery down , heigh down a down a dery . The second part . To the same tune , AT Christmas time in mirth and glee , I dance with young men neatly , And who i'the City like to me , shall surely taste completely ; No Sport , but Pride and Luxury i'th city can be found then , But bounteous Hospitality i'th Country does abound then , Down etc I the Spring my labour yields delight , to walk i the merry Morning , When Flora is ( to please my sighed ) the ground with flowers adorning : With merry Lads to make the Hay I go , and do not grumble , My work does seem to be but play , when with young men I tumble . Down etc The Lark & Thrush from Briar to Bush do leap , and skip , and sing a , And all this then to welcome in the long and looked for Spring a : We fear not Cupids arrows keen , Dame Venus we defy a , Diana is our honoured Queen , and her we magnify a. Down etc That which your City-Damsels scorn , we hold our chiefest Jewel , Without , to work at Hay and Corn , within to Bake and Brew well , To keep the Dairy decently , and all things clean and neatly , Your Citie-Minions do defy , their scorn we weigh not greatly . Down etc When we together a milking go , with pails upon our heads a , And walking over Woods and Fields , where Grass and Flowers spreads a , In honest pleasure we delight , which makes our labour sweet a , And Mirth exceeds on every side , when Lads and Lasses meet a. Down etc Then do not scorn a Country Lass , though she be plain and meanly : Who takes the Country Wench to Wife , ( that goes neat and cleanly ) Is better sped , then if he wed a fine one from the City , For then they are so nicely bred , they must not work for pity . Down etc I speak not this to that intent , ( as some may well conjecture ) As though to Wooing I were bent , nor I never learn'd Lovers Lectuue : But what I sing is in defence of all plain Country Lasses , Whose modest honest innocence all City Girls surpasses . Downe , down dery , dery down , etc FINIS . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcocke . 