The Famous Sea-fight between Captain Ward and the RAINBOW . To the Tune of , Captain Ward . STrike up you lusty Gallants , with Music and found of Drum For we have descried a Rower , upon the Sea is come . His name is Captain Ward , right well it does appear , There has not been such a Rower , found out this thousand year . For he has sent unto our King , the sixt of January , Desiring that he might come in , with all his company . And if your King will let me come , till I my tale have told , I will bestow for my ransom full thirty Tun of Gold . O nay , Oh nay , then says our King , Oh nay , this may not be , To yield to such a Rower , my self will not agree . He has deceived the Frenchman , likewise the King of Spain , And how can he be true to me , that hath been false to twain . With that our King provided a Ship of worthy fame , Rainbow she is called , if you would know her name . Now the gallant Rainbow , she rows upon the Sea , Five hundred gallant Seamen to bear her company . The Dutch-man and the Spaniard , she made them for to fly , Also the bonny French-man , as she met them on the Sea. When as this gallant Rainbow , did come where Ward did lie , Where is the Captain of this Ship , this gallant Rainbow did cry . O that am I says Captain Ward , there's no man bids me lie , And if thou art the Kings fair Ship , thou art welcome unto me . I'll tell the what says Rainbow , our King is in great grief , That thou should'st lie upon the Sea and play the arrant thief . ANd will not let our Merchant's ships pass as they did before , Such tidings to our King is come , which grieves his heart full soar . With that this gallant Rainbow , she shot out of her Pride , Full fifty gallant brass pieces , charged on every side . Although these gallant Shooters prevailed not a pin , Though they were brass on the outside yet Ward was steel within . Shoot on , shoot on , says Captain ward your sport well pleases me , And he that first gives over , shall yield unto the Sea. I never wronged and English Ship , but Turk and King of Spain , For and the Jovial Dutch-man , as I met on the main . If I had known your King , but one two years before , I would have sav'd brave Essex's life whose death did grieve me soar . Go tell the King of England , go tell him thus from me , If he reign King of all the Land , I will reign King at Sea. With that the gallant Rainbow shot and shot and shot in vain , And left the Rowers company , and returned home again . Our Royal King of England , your Ships return'd again , For Wards Ship is so strong , she never will be taken . O everlasting says our King , I have lost jewels three , Which would a gone unto the Seas and brought proud Ward to me . The first was Lord Clifford , Earl of Cumberland , The second was the Lord Mountjoy , as you shall understand . The third was brave Essex , from field would never flee , Which would have gone unto the seas , and brought proud Ward to me . London , Printed for F. Coals , in Vine-street , near Hatton-Garden . The Famous Sea-fight between Captain Ward and the RAINBOW . To the Tune of , Captain Ward . STrike up you lusty Gallants , with Music and found of Drum For we have descried a Rower , upon the Sea is come . His name is Captain Ward , right well it does appear , There has not been such a Rower , found out this thousand year . For he has sent unto our King , the sixt of January , Desiring that he might come in , with all his company . And if your King will let me come , till I my tale have told , I will bestow for my ransom full thirty Tun of Gold . O nay , Oh nay , then says our King , Oh nay , this may not be , To yield to such a Rower , my self will not agree . He has deceived the Frenchman , likewise the King of Spain , And how can he be true to me , that hath been false to twain . With that our King provided a Ship of worthy fame , Rainbow she is called , if you would know her name . Now the gallant Rainbow , she rows upon the Sea , Five hundred gallant Seamen to bear her company . The Dutch-man and the Spaniard , she made them for to fly , Also the bonny French-man , as she met them on the Sea. When as this gallant Rainbow , did come where Ward did lie , Where is the Captain of this Ship , this gallant Rainbow did cry . O that am I says Captain Ward , there's no man bids me lie , And if thou art the Kings fair Ship , thou art welcome unto me . I'll tell the what says Rainbow , our King is in great grief , That thou should'st lie upon the Sea and play the arrant thief . ANd will not let our Merchant's ships pass as they did before , Such tidings to our King is come , which grieves his heart full soar . With that this gallant Rainbow , she shot out of her Pride , Full fifty gallant brass pieces , charged on every side . Although these gallant Shooters prevailed not a pin , Though they were brass on the outside yet Ward was steel within . Shoot on , shoot on , says Captain ward your sport well pleases me , And he that first gives over , shall yield unto the Sea. I never wronged and English Ship , but Turk and King of Spain , For and the Jovial Dutch-man , as I met on the main . If I had known your King , but one two years before , I would have sav'd brave Essex's life whose death did grieve me soar . Go tell the King of England , go tell him thus from me , If he reign King of all the Land , I will reign King at Sea. With that the gallant Rainbow shot and shot and shot in vain , And left the Rowers company , and returned home again . Our Royal King of England , your Ships return'd again , For Wards Ship is so strong , she never will be taken . O everlasting says our King , I have lost jewels three , Which would a gone unto the Seas and brought proud Ward to me . The first was Lord Clifford , Earl of Cumberland , The second was the Lord Mountjoy , as you shall understand . The third was brave Essex , from field would never flee , Which would have gone unto the seas , and brought proud Ward to me . London , Printed for F. Coals , in Vine-street , near Hatton-Garden . 