Poor Robins Dream commonly call'd Poor Charity ; I know no reason but this harmless Riddle May as well be Printed as sung to a Fiddle . To a complete Tune well known by Musicians and many others , or game at Cards . HOw now good fellow what all amort ? I pray thee tell me what is the news : Trading is dead and I am sorry for't which makes me look worse then I use . If a man hath no employment whereby to get penny He hath no enjoyment if that he wants moan And Charity is not used by many . I have nothing to spend nor i've nothing to lend i've nothing to do I tarry at home , Sitting in my chair drawing near to the fire I fallen into a sleep like and id [ l ] e drone , And as I slept I fell into a dream I see a play acted without e're a theam , But I could not tell what the play did mean . But afterwards I did perceive and something more I did understand , The Stage was the World wherein we live the Actors they were all mankind , And when the play is ended the Stage down they fling Then there will [ b ] e no difference in this thing Between a Beggar and a King . The first that acted I protest was time with a Glass and a Sith in his hand , With the Glove of the World upon his breast to show that he could the same command : Their's a time for to Work , & a time for to play A time for to borrow , and a time for to pay And a time that does call us all away . COnscience in order takes his place and very gallantly plays his part , He fears not [ tO ] oh fly in a Rulers face although it cuts him to the hear He tells them all this is the latter Age Which put the Actors into such a Rage , That they kicked poor Conscience off the Stage . Plain-dealing presently appears in habit like a simple Man , The Actors at him mocks and jears pointing their fingers as they ran : How came this fellow into our Company Away with him many a Gallant did cry For Plain-Dealing will a Beggar die . Dissimulation mounted the Stage but he was clothed in gallant attire , He was acquainted with Youth and Age many his company did desire : They entertain'd him in their very breast There he could have harbour and quietly rest For Dissemblers and Turncoats fares the best . Then comes in poor Charity methinks she looked wondrous old , She quiver'd and she quak't most piteously it griev'd me to think she was grown so cold , She had been i'th City , and in the Country among the Lawyers and Nobility But there was no Room for poor Charity . Then comes in Truth not clothed in Wool but like unto youth in his white lawn sleeves , And says the Land it is full , full , full , too full of Rebels worse then Thieves : The City's full of poverty , the French are full of pride Fanatics full of envy which order can't abide And the Usurers bags are full beside . Hark how Bellona's Drums they do beatrice methinks it goes rattling through the Town , Hark how they thunder through the street as though they would shake the Chimbneys down , Then comes in Mars the great God of War And bids us face about and be as we were But when I awak't I sat in my Chair . Finis Printed by J. Lock for J. Clark at the Harp and Bible in West - Smith-field . With Allowance . Poor Robins Dream commonly call'd Poor Charity ; I know no reason but this harmless Riddle May as well be Printed as sung to a Fiddle . To a complete Tune well known by Musicians and many others , or game at Cards . HOw now good fellow what all amort ? I pray thee tell me what is the news : Trading is dead and I am sorry for't which makes me look worse then I use . If a man hath no employment whereby to get penny He hath no enjoyment if that he wants moan And Charity is not used by many . I have nothing to spend nor i've nothing to lend i've nothing to do I tarry at home , Sitting in my chair drawing near to the fire I fallen into a sleep like and id [ l ] e drone , And as I slept I fell into a dream I see a play acted without e're a theam , But I could not tell what the play did mean . But afterwards I did perceive and something more I did understand , The Stage was the World wherein we live the Actors they were all mankind , And when the play is ended the Stage down they fling Then there will [ b ] e no difference in this thing Between a Beggar and a King . The first that acted I protest was time with a Glass and a Sith in his hand , With the Glove of the World upon his breast to show that he could the same command : Their's a time for to Work , & a time for to play A time for to borrow , and a time for to pay And a time that does call us all away . COnscience in order takes his place and very gallantly plays his part , He fears not [ tO ] oh fly in a Rulers face although it cuts him to the hear He tells them all this is the latter Age Which put the Actors into such a Rage , That they kicked poor Conscience off the Stage . Plain-dealing presently appears in habit like a simple Man , The Actors at him mocks and jears pointing their fingers as they ran : How came this fellow into our Company Away with him many a Gallant did cry For Plain-Dealing will a Beggar die . Dissimulation mounted the Stage but he was clothed in gallant attire , He was acquainted with Youth and Age many his company did desire : They entertain'd him in their very breast There he could have harbour and quietly rest For Dissemblers and Turncoats fares the best . Then comes in poor Charity methinks she looked wondrous old , She quiver'd and she quak't most piteously it griev'd me to think she was grown so cold , She had been i'th City , and in the Country among the Lawyers and Nobility But there was no Room for poor Charity . Then comes in Truth not clothed in Wool but like unto youth in his white lawn sleeves , And says the Land it is full , full , full , too full of Rebels worse then Thieves : The City's full of poverty , the French are full of pride Fanatics full of envy which order can't abide And the Usurers bags are full beside . Hark how Bellona's Drums they do beatrice methinks it goes rattling through the Town , Hark how they thunder through the street as though they would shake the Chimbneys down , Then comes in Mars the great God of War And bids us face about and be as we were But when I awak't I sat in my Chair . Finis Printed by J. Lock for J. Clark at the Harp and Bible in West - Smith-field . With Allowance . 