The Letters Three : A youngman walking forth in this merry Month of May , finding his True Love was gone astray , all his desire was to speak with her , before that he was gone to Sea. To a pleasant new Tune ; Or , Letters Three . WIth Letters three , I do begin , my mind to write , and then to try , The first is B , for she and me , the second WORSER , the third a Y. But if to me , She will prove true , I'le never change , i'le never change , I'le never change her for a new . As I was walking in a Grove , three pretty birds all in a Spring , One pretty bird did in that place , unto my thought most sweetly sing , and in her song , she told me so , whom I love best , whom I love best , whom I Love best I must forgo ; Standing a while amaz'd thereat , musing from whence this echo came , Feeding my flocks upon the plain , thinking it had been but a dream . But in her Song , she told me so , whom I Love best , whom I Love best , whom I Love best , I must forgo . Quoth he , I will to her again , and hear what she will some say , Perhaps she will more constant prove , although at first she said me nay . but if to me , she will prove true , I'le never change , I'le never change , I'le never change her for a new . The second part , to the same Tune . I Beg and crave , with cap in hand , falling upon my bent knee , I vow to be at her command , if she will grant her love to me : but all my labour is but in vain , She will not yiel'd , i've Lost the field , And am requited with disdain . Now will I leave off loving quite , until a more constant friend I find , Of one that will more constant prove , and will not waver with the wind , the cause of this that I complain , Is to seek relief , to admit my grief , I Loved ; and was not Loved again . You Lovers all , where e're you be , give ear unto my doleful note : With letters three perhaps you might , and so you may give in your vote : the Proverbs true which now I find , Once out of sighed , once out of sighed , Once out of sighed , quite out of mind . My story pen'd , I now will end , praying unto the Gods above : Wishing the next true love she have , may prove as constant in his love : one thing more , I had to indite : But for the tears , but for the tears , Fell on the paper , I could not write . By M. S. FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright ; and J. Clarke . The Letters Three : A youngman walking forth in this merry Month of May , finding his True Love was gone astray , all his desire was to speak with her , before that he was gone to Sea. To a pleasant new Tune ; Or , Letters Three . WIth Letters three , I do begin , my mind to write , and then to try , The first is B , for she and me , the second WORSER , the third a Y. But if to me , She will prove true , I'le never change , i'le never change , I'le never change her for a new . As I was walking in a Grove , three pretty birds all in a Spring , One pretty bird did in that place , unto my thought most sweetly sing , and in her song , she told me so , whom I love best , whom I love best , whom I Love best I must forgo ; Standing a while amaz'd thereat , musing from whence this echo came , Feeding my flocks upon the plain , thinking it had been but a dream . But in her Song , she told me so , whom I Love best , whom I Love best , whom I Love best , I must forgo . Quoth he , I will to her again , and hear what she will some say , Perhaps she will more constant prove , although at first she said me nay . but if to me , she will prove true , I'le never change , I'le never change , I'le never change her for a new . The second part , to the same Tune . I Beg and crave , with cap in hand , falling upon my bent knee , I vow to be at her command , if she will grant her love to me : but all my labour is but in vain , She will not yiel'd , i've Lost the field , And am requited with disdain . Now will I leave off loving quite , until a more constant friend I find , Of one that will more constant prove , and will not waver with the wind , the cause of this that I complain , Is to seek relief , to admit my grief , I Loved ; and was not Loved again . You Lovers all , where e're you be , give ear unto my doleful note : With letters three perhaps you might , and so you may give in your vote : the Proverbs true which now I find , Once out of sighed , once out of sighed , Once out of sighed , quite out of mind . My story pen'd , I now will end , praying unto the Gods above : Wishing the next true love she have , may prove as constant in his love : one thing more , I had to indite : But for the tears , but for the tears , Fell on the paper , I could not write . By M. S. FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright ; and J. Clarke . 