The young men approbation against the wise for - tune-teller . Wherein he shows to all Bachelors rare To choose a Wife that's civil by her hair , Take not a read , nor a sandy do not choose But flaxen or brown thy love will not abuse . Tune of , Corridons Complaint . J. Wade DId you not hear a fellow that writ against all those ; Which had a tallow face or had a fiery nose , He thought to please young Maidens but yet let me you tell , Young Men's cause i'le vindicate wherever they do dwell , And what here's writ they shall find fit to please their humours well . Then listen young Men and to you I will show , To take heed of subtle Damsels when you intend to Woo : For Maids are grown so cunning and hath such luring eyes , They'l kiss and court and with you sport and make of you a prize , But never trust a sandy-pate if that you be wise . No nor yet do not choose one that hath read hair , For if you should chance to fell her she'l be no Market beware , Beside like to Acteon she thy head will horn , And when that she has done it she'l laugh thee to scorn , Then thou wilt rue the time boy that ever thou was born . ALso beware and take good heed of a fleering-looks , She has more baits then the Fisher men to catch you with her hooks , She'l tell you many stories but none you true shall find , And when that you have Wedded her she soon will change her mind , And if she can get Master she will beatrice thee blind . Moreover let me tell thee if thou wilt be rul'd , How to choose a civil Wife that you may not be fool'd , Take not one that hath a Nose that is both sharp and high , Nor one that hath two blobber lips his mouth is never dry , But yet they'l serve at Supper instead of Tripes to fry . Likewise honest young Men I more to you will tell , Cause i'de have none to do amiss but all should do well : When as you go a Wooing and intends to have a mate , Beware of frowning Sarah also of scolding Kate , For if in the lest you cross her she will break thy pate . Therefore 'tis good for all Men in time for to take heed , The better you do look about the better you may speed , And honest Girl she is worth Pearl but of such there is but few , And for to find out one of them a man shall have much ado , He'd as good to seek St. Dennis out these words I speak are true . There's Sarah , Sue , and Betty are of a merry mood , But though they are so pretty they have more ways then's good , They'l lout and pout , they'l scoul & frown if a man he don't them please , And when they list then they can be sick of the same Disease , But the brown-hair'd Girl I do protest is better [ tO ] hen all these , A black brow'd Girl is lovely and seemly to behold , But the flaxen hair's without compare and worth her wait in Gold , And he that gains her to his Wife thus much for her i'le say ; Of all the Maids in our Town she bears the bell away , At singing or at dancing or else at Stoolball play . Thus much honest Bachelors I hope you all do hear ; How to choose a civil Wife by'th colour of her Hair , You know true blue will never stain no more won't and honest Wife , And he that gains such a one he lives a merry Life , But a scolding dame is void of shame and given much to strife . Printed by J. Lock for J. Clarke at the Bible and Harp in West-Smith-Feild . The young men approbation against the wise for - tune-teller . Wherein he shows to all Bachelors rare To choose a Wife that's civil by her hair , Take not a read , nor a sandy do not choose But flaxen or brown thy love will not abuse . Tune of , Corridons Complaint . J. Wade DId you not hear a fellow that writ against all those ; Which had a tallow face or had a fiery nose , He thought to please young Maidens but yet let me you tell , Young Men's cause i'le vindicate wherever they do dwell , And what here's writ they shall find fit to please their humours well . Then listen young Men and to you I will show , To take heed of subtle Damsels when you intend to Woo : For Maids are grown so cunning and hath such luring eyes , They'l kiss and court and with you sport and make of you a prize , But never trust a sandy-pate if that you be wise . No nor yet do not choose one that hath read hair , For if you should chance to fell her she'l be no Market beware , Beside like to Acteon she thy head will horn , And when that she has done it she'l laugh thee to scorn , Then thou wilt rue the time boy that ever thou was born . ALso beware and take good heed of a fleering-looks , She has more baits then the Fisher men to catch you with her hooks , She'l tell you many stories but none you true shall find , And when that you have Wedded her she soon will change her mind , And if she can get Master she will beatrice thee blind . Moreover let me tell thee if thou wilt be rul'd , How to choose a civil Wife that you may not be fool'd , Take not one that hath a Nose that is both sharp and high , Nor one that hath two blobber lips his mouth is never dry , But yet they'l serve at Supper instead of Tripes to fry . Likewise honest young Men I more to you will tell , Cause i'de have none to do amiss but all should do well : When as you go a Wooing and intends to have a mate , Beware of frowning Sarah also of scolding Kate , For if in the lest you cross her she will break thy pate . Therefore 'tis good for all Men in time for to take heed , The better you do look about the better you may speed , And honest Girl she is worth Pearl but of such there is but few , And for to find out one of them a man shall have much ado , He'd as good to seek St. Dennis out these words I speak are true . There's Sarah , Sue , and Betty are of a merry mood , But though they are so pretty they have more ways then's good , They'l lout and pout , they'l scoul & frown if a man he don't them please , And when they list then they can be sick of the same Disease , But the brown-hair'd Girl I do protest is better [ tO ] hen all these , A black brow'd Girl is lovely and seemly to behold , But the flaxen hair's without compare and worth her wait in Gold , And he that gains her to his Wife thus much for her i'le say ; Of all the Maids in our Town she bears the bell away , At singing or at dancing or else at Stoolball play . Thus much honest Bachelors I hope you all do hear ; How to choose a civil Wife by'th colour of her Hair , You know true blue will never stain no more won't and honest Wife , And he that gains such a one he lives a merry Life , But a scolding dame is void of shame and given much to strife . Printed by J. Lock for J. Clarke at the Bible and Harp in West-Smith-Feild . 