Beautys Overthrow : OR , The Rejoyc'd Libertine . When Pride and Beauty do together meet , They make that bitter which would else be swee The fervent Lover when too much abus'd , Bids Love farewell , desires to be Excus'd . To a New Playhouse , called , Cloah your Pride abate . CLoah your Pride abate , kind Beams discover , Frowns purchase all men's hate , but gain'd no Lover : Nature and Feature design'd you care , But while you'r Proud , you are not fair : Nor can the joys of passion prove For pride will ever be a foe to Love . To Court where Tyrants sway , who'd venture thither ? Or who would put to Sea , in Stormy Weather ? Graces and Faces not Lustre own , When shadeded by disdainful Frown : Ne'r to the Sun had the Persian bow'd Had he hid his glory behind a Cloud . Nor shall your Beauty great , while you'r Disdainful , Make my poor heart to ache , or my Life Painful : Cupid is Stupid , thinks he to Charm , His Golden Darts me cannot harm : nor can your blooming cheeks bear sway When beauty is gone your Pride must decay . Think you Ingratitude clouds not your Beauty , While you did me delude , love was my Duty : Sleeping or waking , Cloah was there Till Pride did say she was not fair : And then my passion I soon recal'd , No longer would I be to pride inthral'd You did your self Destroy , and made me wander , Now I am fill'd with joy , love's no Commander : Witty and Pretty , to me you seemed , But I your Prisoner , am now Redeemed : No Rosy cheeks shall me e're betray , Although at your footstool once I lay , Freedom I now do prize , and scorn my Fetters , I'le no more Idolise . like Cupids Debtors : Sobbing and Throbbing , made me look pale , But now I'm freed from a terrible Goal : I'le no more Beauty valve at all , since Princes thereby have been brought in thrall . You that would conquer all , when Age shall meet you , Into Despair you'l fallen , none then will treat you : Desire like Fire , will you possess , And Men will prove so Pitiless , That you shall then renounce your birth & wish that you never had lived on earth But if that you'l return , and see your Folly , You'l have no cause to mourn , no Melancholy Shall seize to Displease Cloah's kind Breast , But she for ever shall live at res When death shall make thy beauty yield Thou'lt post to the fair Elizium Field . FINIS . Printed for J. Clarke , at the Golden Lion , between the Hospital-gate , and Duck-Lane-end . Beautys Overthrow : OR , The Rejoyc'd Libertine . When Pride and Beauty do together meet , They make that bitter which would else be swee The fervent Lover when too much abus'd , Bids Love farewell , desires to be Excus'd . To a New Playhouse , called , Cloah your Pride abate . CLoah your Pride abate , kind Beams discover , Frowns purchase all men's hate , but gain'd no Lover : Nature and Feature design'd you care , But while you'r Proud , you are not fair : Nor can the joys of passion prove For pride will ever be a foe to Love . To Court where Tyrants sway , who'd venture thither ? Or who would put to Sea , in Stormy Weather ? Graces and Faces not Lustre own , When shadeded by disdainful Frown : Ne'r to the Sun had the Persian bow'd Had he hid his glory behind a Cloud . Nor shall your Beauty great , while you'r Disdainful , Make my poor heart to ache , or my Life Painful : Cupid is Stupid , thinks he to Charm , His Golden Darts me cannot harm : nor can your blooming cheeks bear sway When beauty is gone your Pride must decay . Think you Ingratitude clouds not your Beauty , While you did me delude , love was my Duty : Sleeping or waking , Cloah was there Till Pride did say she was not fair : And then my passion I soon recal'd , No longer would I be to pride inthral'd You did your self Destroy , and made me wander , Now I am fill'd with joy , love's no Commander : Witty and Pretty , to me you seemed , But I your Prisoner , am now Redeemed : No Rosy cheeks shall me e're betray , Although at your footstool once I lay , Freedom I now do prize , and scorn my Fetters , I'le no more Idolise . like Cupids Debtors : Sobbing and Throbbing , made me look pale , But now I'm freed from a terrible Goal : I'le no more Beauty valve at all , since Princes thereby have been brought in thrall . You that would conquer all , when Age shall meet you , Into Despair you'l fallen , none then will treat you : Desire like Fire , will you possess , And Men will prove so Pitiless , That you shall then renounce your birth & wish that you never had lived on earth But if that you'l return , and see your Folly , You'l have no cause to mourn , no Melancholy Shall seize to Displease Cloah's kind Breast , But she for ever shall live at res When death shall make thy beauty yield Thou'lt post to the fair Elizium Field . FINIS . Printed for J. Clarke , at the Golden Lion , between the Hospital-gate , and Duck-Lane-end . 