The Constant Maidens Resolution , Or The Damsels loyal love to a Seaman With the Seamans kind answer thereunto . This Damsels heart is on a Seaman bent , Because none other can give her content ; And he her love most kindly does embrace , And so they are united in short space . Tune of , I love thee dear but I dare not show it . AND amorous Damsel in Bristol City , Whom Cupid wounded without all pity : At length she met with her own true Lover , And her affection did thus discover . Well met my dearest since that I love thee , my mind now I will make known unto thee : Although i'me watched by a jealous Father , I hope the fruits of my Love to gather . I must be gone Love , I must forgo thee , I must be strange Love , I must not know thee : I love thee dear , but I dare not show it , Do thou the like , but let no man know it . I w [ i ] sh I were upon yonders mountain , Where Gold & Silver great store is counting : Then would I think upon my own dear Honey , Whom I love better then Gold or money . A thousand times Love I think upon thee And in despite of the World i'le own thee , Since there is none that I love besid [ e ] thee , I will prove constant what e're betide me . A Seaman he is of all men neatest , And in my eye is the most completes Then what care I for a misers money So I enjoy but my own dear Honey . A Hundred pound Love I have you know it , And on a Seaman I will bestow i For in a Seaman I take more pleasure Then in a Goldsmith with all his Treasure . I care not for my Father's anger If I be married 'tis but nine days wonder : Then come my Dearest let us be merry We'l drink a health in good Sack and Sherry . I do not care for the love of many I'le have a Seaman if I have any , And i'le drink a health to my own dear Honey Whom I love better then Gold or money . Then prithee dearest let me not languish Nor feel the smart of a Lovers anguish , And so adieu my own dear Sweating Until the next of our merry meeting . The Seamans kind Answer . my dearest Joy and my lovely Betty methinks thy looks are wondrous pretty , It much rejoiceth my heart this instant , To find thy love so firm and constant . This not their frowns , nor thy friends displeasure Shall rob me of thee , my chiefest Treasure : 'Ile draw my Sword , and i'le lay about me , Before that I will go without thee . Long time my Dear , I have plow'd the Ocean And by my Vallor have gain'd promotion , Then let my presence a little move thee , Because with joy I am come to love thee . Thou sayest my Dearest and I believe thee , None but a Seaman shall ever have thee : And for thy choice I do much commend thee , Since no man living can more befriend thee . A Valiant Seaman will shun no danger But venture life against any stranger , Of Gold and Silver to make a seizure And bring it home to his chiefest Treasure . most like a Lady I will maintain thee In Silks and Satins when I have gain'd thee , And whatsoever thou dost require Thou strait shalt have it at thy desire . I'le strive at all times to content thee , Thou shalt not for thy love repent thee : But thou shalt find a brave Seamans proffers Is better far then a misers Coffers . Then Dearest cast away care behind thee For a true Lover thou shalt find me , I valve neither thy Gold nor money , So I enjoy thee my only Honey . I fear not but by my good behaviour , In time to gain thy old Father's favour , We'l sing old Rose then , and be full merry And drowned our sorrows in Sack and Sherry . We'l bid our Neighbours to our Wedding , And we will have a most costly Bedding : So for the present farewell my Sweating , A thousand thanks for this happy meeting . With Allowance . Printed by J.L. for J.C. at the Bible and Harp in West-Smith-Field . The Constant Maidens Resolution , Or The Damsels loyal love to a Seaman With the Seamans kind answer thereunto . This Damsels heart is on a Seaman bent , Because none other can give her content ; And he her love most kindly does embrace , And so they are united in short space . Tune of , I love thee dear but I dare not show it . AND amorous Damsel in Bristol City , Whom Cupid wounded without all pity : At length she met with her own true Lover , And her affection did thus discover . Well met my dearest since that I love thee , my mind now I will make known unto thee : Although i'me watched by a jealous Father , I hope the fruits of my Love to gather . I must be gone Love , I must forgo thee , I must be strange Love , I must not know thee : I love thee dear , but I dare not show it , Do thou the like , but let no man know it . I w [ i ] sh I were upon yonders mountain , Where Gold & Silver great store is counting : Then would I think upon my own dear Honey , Whom I love better then Gold or money . A thousand times Love I think upon thee And in despite of the World i'le own thee , Since there is none that I love besid [ e ] thee , I will prove constant what e're betide me . A Seaman he is of all men neatest , And in my eye is the most completes Then what care I for a misers money So I enjoy but my own dear Honey . A Hundred pound Love I have you know it , And on a Seaman I will bestow i For in a Seaman I take more pleasure Then in a Goldsmith with all his Treasure . I care not for my Father's anger If I be married 'tis but nine days wonder : Then come my Dearest let us be merry We'l drink a health in good Sack and Sherry . I do not care for the love of many I'le have a Seaman if I have any , And i'le drink a health to my own dear Honey Whom I love better then Gold or money . Then prithee dearest let me not languish Nor feel the smart of a Lovers anguish , And so adieu my own dear Sweating Until the next of our merry meeting . The Seamans kind Answer . my dearest Joy and my lovely Betty methinks thy looks are wondrous pretty , It much rejoiceth my heart this instant , To find thy love so firm and constant . This not their frowns , nor thy friends displeasure Shall rob me of thee , my chiefest Treasure : 'Ile draw my Sword , and i'le lay about me , Before that I will go without thee . Long time my Dear , I have plow'd the Ocean And by my Vallor have gain'd promotion , Then let my presence a little move thee , Because with joy I am come to love thee . Thou sayest my Dearest and I believe thee , None but a Seaman shall ever have thee : And for thy choice I do much commend thee , Since no man living can more befriend thee . A Valiant Seaman will shun no danger But venture life against any stranger , Of Gold and Silver to make a seizure And bring it home to his chiefest Treasure . most like a Lady I will maintain thee In Silks and Satins when I have gain'd thee , And whatsoever thou dost require Thou strait shalt have it at thy desire . I'le strive at all times to content thee , Thou shalt not for thy love repent thee : But thou shalt find a brave Seamans proffers Is better far then a misers Coffers . Then Dearest cast away care behind thee For a true Lover thou shalt find me , I valve neither thy Gold nor money , So I enjoy thee my only Honey . I fear not but by my good behaviour , In time to gain thy old Father's favour , We'l sing old Rose then , and be full merry And drowned our sorrows in Sack and Sherry . We'l bid our Neighbours to our Wedding , And we will have a most costly Bedding : So for the present farewell my Sweating , A thousand thanks for this happy meeting . With Allowance . Printed by J.L. for J.C. at the Bible and Harp in West-Smith-Field . 