The constant Country Maid , OR Innocent Love at length Rewarded . Which by these Lines is here set forth in part The constant love , that lodged in her heart ; Which was by no means for to be remov'd , Since she would venture all for him she lov'd : For which he did reward her at the last , And made amends for all her Sorrows past . Tune of True Love rewarded with Loyalty . YOu Country Damsels , fine and gay , which o'r the Meadows trip along , While that the little Lambs do play , come give attention to my Song . I am a simple harmless Maid being with Sorrow soar oppressed , The God of Love , hath me betray , and so deprived me of rest . While I injoy'd my liberty and was not bound in Cupid [ 's ] thrall , In floods of sweet prosperity , I swam , and took no care at all , But now my poor and tender heart is unto Love a Captive made , In sorrow I must bear a part until my Dearest bring me aid . WHen first his person I did view , and to his melting words gave ear . Each time he did his suit renew it did rejoice my heart to hear . His flaxen hair like threads of Gold , his Ruby lips , and ruling Eyes , Amazed me for to behold , and of my heart did make a prize . He is both proper , strait and tall , who did my love at once subdue : Complete in every limb with all , as my poor eyes did find it true . When he appear'd upon the Green amongst the Youth each Holiday , He was so comely to be seen , that still he boar the Bell away . But now his absence makes me mourn , because I know no reason why That he should leave me here alone , for to bewail my misery . Perhaps he does it for to try if that my love be firm , and true , Which he shall find until I die , though with disdain he me pursue . For sooner shall the Mother dear her Babe forget that sucks her breast , Then he out of my mind shall wear , whom I have always loved best . The winds shall sooner cease to blow , and Stars their wonted course refrain , E'r I will falsify my Vow , until I see my Love again . The Ocean Sea shall break its bound And mountains from their places move , The course of Nature shall turn round e'r I forget my dearest Love . No Strangers suit that I will mind nor to temptations once give ear , Until my dearest love I find my sad lamenting heart to cheer . You Nymphs who through the woods do stray take pity of my grievous moan , Bring back my love without delay that for no cause is from me gone . Let every gentle Shepherd Swain which does his harmless flocks enfold , Strive for to bring my love again that I his face may once behold . For never shall I rest in peace until his person I do see , Each day my sorrows will increase until he come and pity me . Her Lover hearing of her plaint no longer could from tears refrain , But from a Myrtle-grove he came to ease her of her grief and pain . Quoth he my love I understand thy love is constant , firm , and true , Lo here I give thee heart and hand i'll never change thee for a new . These words did much revive her heart , and hand , in hand , away they went , Resolving never more to part , But to enjoy their hearts content . London , Printed for W. Whitwood at the Bell in Duck-lane . Finis . The constant Country Maid , OR Innocent Love at length Rewarded . Which by these Lines is here set forth in part The constant love , that lodged in her heart ; Which was by no means for to be remov'd , Since she would venture all for him she lov'd : For which he did reward her at the last , And made amends for all her Sorrows past . Tune of True Love rewarded with Loyalty . YOu Country Damsels , fine and gay , which o'r the Meadows trip along , While that the little Lambs do play , come give attention to my Song . I am a simple harmless Maid being with Sorrow soar oppressed , The God of Love , hath me betray , and so deprived me of rest . While I injoy'd my liberty and was not bound in Cupid [ 's ] thrall , In floods of sweet prosperity , I swam , and took no care at all , But now my poor and tender heart is unto Love a Captive made , In sorrow I must bear a part until my Dearest bring me aid . WHen first his person I did view , and to his melting words gave ear . Each time he did his suit renew it did rejoice my heart to hear . His flaxen hair like threads of Gold , his Ruby lips , and ruling Eyes , Amazed me for to behold , and of my heart did make a prize . He is both proper , strait and tall , who did my love at once subdue : Complete in every limb with all , as my poor eyes did find it true . When he appear'd upon the Green amongst the Youth each Holiday , He was so comely to be seen , that still he boar the Bell away . But now his absence makes me mourn , because I know no reason why That he should leave me here alone , for to bewail my misery . Perhaps he does it for to try if that my love be firm , and true , Which he shall find until I die , though with disdain he me pursue . For sooner shall the Mother dear her Babe forget that sucks her breast , Then he out of my mind shall wear , whom I have always loved best . The winds shall sooner cease to blow , and Stars their wonted course refrain , E'r I will falsify my Vow , until I see my Love again . The Ocean Sea shall break its bound And mountains from their places move , The course of Nature shall turn round e'r I forget my dearest Love . No Strangers suit that I will mind nor to temptations once give ear , Until my dearest love I find my sad lamenting heart to cheer . You Nymphs who through the woods do stray take pity of my grievous moan , Bring back my love without delay that for no cause is from me gone . Let every gentle Shepherd Swain which does his harmless flocks enfold , Strive for to bring my love again that I his face may once behold . For never shall I rest in peace until his person I do see , Each day my sorrows will increase until he come and pity me . Her Lover hearing of her plaint no longer could from tears refrain , But from a Myrtle-grove he came to ease her of her grief and pain . Quoth he my love I understand thy love is constant , firm , and true , Lo here I give thee heart and hand i'll never change thee for a new . These words did much revive her heart , and hand , in hand , away they went , Resolving never more to part , But to enjoy their hearts content . London , Printed for W. Whitwood at the Bell in Duck-lane . Finis . 