The New married Scotch Couple OR , The Second Part of the Scotch Wedding . They now begin in time for to consider , How they must live , now they are joyn'd together , And so they set their Grath in as geud order , As any twa upon the Scotch Border ; Then buy it since the price is but a penny , 'Tis love between a Scotchman and his honey . To a New Northern Tune ; Or , In January last , etc With Allowance . AS Jenny Crack and I , together ligg'd in Bed , My Jenny then , quo I , how lik'st thou to be wed ? We now may tack of love our fill , there's nean can troubled be , Then let me kiss thy Bonny Brow , and cuddle close to me . Then Jenny smiling said , my Jo I find it true , That I too long did live a Maid , which now full soar I rue ; Had I but ken'd that it had been , so sweet for to be wed , I would not then a been so leath , to lose my Maidenhead . But Jenny that's not all , now we are come together , We must what e're befall , provide against cold weather . There's mare belongs , my Granny said , unto a wedded life , Then four bore legs in a bed , to keep us free from strife . Ne'r rack for that , quo she , my Jo , we never shall be poor , Sea lang as we have leave to do , as others did before ; We something have for to begin the world though 'tis but small , Then if it is thy mind my Jo , our gear weel reckon all . WHy then , quo he , I have in stock , three Yows aw big with Lamb , Twa Geices to make up the flock , that never sucked the Damm : Beside a dainty filly sole , which thou shalt would my Jenny , If yean would ligg it in my hand , I would nea tack a Guinny . Quo she , my Jo , now well I wot , that I do like it weel , And for my own part I would god , my Grannams Spinning-Wheel : Beside a Case-pot and a Chirne , beath spick and spankin new , I and Skeel to fetch in Burn , and Vessels for to Brew . My Jenny thou hast wone my heart , to tell me sike a Tale , For weel I do perceive by that , that we must fell good Ale ; If that the Maltman stand my friend , we'l have it brisk and brown , There shall nea sike a Coague of Ale , be brew'd in aw the Town . Let me alane , quo Jenny than , geud custom to invite , For I ken many a Gentleman , and many a Leard , and Knight , That often leukt me in the face , and said that I was fair , Then let us eene provide apace , we need not to despair . Nay hold , quo he , for by nea means , I can of that allow , That thou to any Gentleman , or Leard or Knight should bow : I would nea for the world it self , so quickly horned be , Then prithee Jenny have a care , for to prove kind to me . Ne'r rack , quo she , i'le keep a Lass , shall blithe and bonny be , And i'le git her a Leuking-glass , her beauty for to see ; Each morn sheel dONE a Kerchief clean , and sleek her Bonny Brow , By that you knaw what I do mean , what think you on it now . O brave , quo he , my Jenny dear , thou makes me for to laugh , For when these merry days appear , i [ ' ] le fit , and smeuk , and quaff ; And steel my noah's from morn to night , until the ground leuk blue , And swear , and swagger , drink and fight , among the jovial crew . Then let us gang about it straight , for since that we are married , We must nea ligg too long in bed , this pace will never carry't ; When we are up about our work , mare ways we may devise , Then Jenny let us dONE our cleaths , for it is time to rise . Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . The New married Scotch Couple OR , The Second Part of the Scotch Wedding . They now begin in time for to consider , How they must live , now they are joyn'd together , And so they set their Grath in as geud order , As any twa upon the Scotch Border ; Then buy it since the price is but a penny , 'Tis love between a Scotchman and his honey . To a New Northern Tune ; Or , In January last , etc With Allowance . AS Jenny Crack and I , together ligg'd in Bed , My Jenny then , quo I , how lik'st thou to be wed ? We now may tack of love our fill , there's nean can troubled be , Then let me kiss thy Bonny Brow , and cuddle close to me . Then Jenny smiling said , my Jo I find it true , That I too long did live a Maid , which now full soar I rue ; Had I but ken'd that it had been , so sweet for to be wed , I would not then a been so leath , to lose my Maidenhead . But Jenny that's not all , now we are come together , We must what e're befall , provide against cold weather . There's mare belongs , my Granny said , unto a wedded life , Then four bore legs in a bed , to keep us free from strife . Ne'r rack for that , quo she , my Jo , we never shall be poor , Sea lang as we have leave to do , as others did before ; We something have for to begin the world though 'tis but small , Then if it is thy mind my Jo , our gear weel reckon all . WHy then , quo he , I have in stock , three Yows aw big with Lamb , Twa Geices to make up the flock , that never sucked the Damm : Beside a dainty filly sole , which thou shalt would my Jenny , If yean would ligg it in my hand , I would nea tack a Guinny . Quo she , my Jo , now well I wot , that I do like it weel , And for my own part I would god , my Grannams Spinning-Wheel : Beside a Case-pot and a Chirne , beath spick and spankin new , I and Skeel to fetch in Burn , and Vessels for to Brew . My Jenny thou hast wone my heart , to tell me sike a Tale , For weel I do perceive by that , that we must fell good Ale ; If that the Maltman stand my friend , we'l have it brisk and brown , There shall nea sike a Coague of Ale , be brew'd in aw the Town . Let me alane , quo Jenny than , geud custom to invite , For I ken many a Gentleman , and many a Leard , and Knight , That often leukt me in the face , and said that I was fair , Then let us eene provide apace , we need not to despair . Nay hold , quo he , for by nea means , I can of that allow , That thou to any Gentleman , or Leard or Knight should bow : I would nea for the world it self , so quickly horned be , Then prithee Jenny have a care , for to prove kind to me . Ne'r rack , quo she , i'le keep a Lass , shall blithe and bonny be , And i'le git her a Leuking-glass , her beauty for to see ; Each morn sheel dONE a Kerchief clean , and sleek her Bonny Brow , By that you knaw what I do mean , what think you on it now . O brave , quo he , my Jenny dear , thou makes me for to laugh , For when these merry days appear , i [ ' ] le fit , and smeuk , and quaff ; And steel my noah's from morn to night , until the ground leuk blue , And swear , and swagger , drink and fight , among the jovial crew . Then let us gang about it straight , for since that we are married , We must nea ligg too long in bed , this pace will never carry't ; When we are up about our work , mare ways we may devise , Then Jenny let us dONE our cleaths , for it is time to rise . Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . 