Corydon and Cloris OR , The Wanton Shepherdess . Cloris a pretty Nymph one summer's day By a Brook side under a Willow lay ; It chanc'd that Corydon did there Espy her , And took the boldness for to lie down by her : She blushed , & call'd him rude , but still the Swain Kept close ; at last she found words were in vain , She sighing cry'd , ah youth , what dost thou do ? But what he did , no matter is to you . He pleas'd her well , she after was his wife ; And now they live a happy quiet Life . To a pleasant Playhouse new Tune : Or , Amorett and Phillis . AS Cloris full of harmless Thought Beneath the Willows lay , Kind Love a Comely shepherd brought To pass the time away ; She blushed to be Encounter'd so , And chid the amorous Swain ; But as she strove to rise and go , he pull'd her back again . A sudden passion seiz'd her heart , in spite of her disdain ; She found a Pulse in e'ry part , and Love in e'ry vein : Ah youth quoth she what charms are these , that conquer and surprise ? Ah let me ( for unless you please ) I have no power to rise . She faintly spoke , and trembling lay , for fear he should comply ; But Virgins Eyes their hearts betray , and give their Tongues the Lie . Thus she ; who Princes had deny [ ' ] worser , with all their Pompous Train . Was in the lucky Minute try'd , and yielded to the Swain . And since the sweets of Love I've found , my Bliss I'le ne're deny : Fair Corydon my Joys shall Crown , he Loves as well as I : When Hymen both our hands has Joyn'd , i'le ask him to forgive , Because that Virgins are confin'd in Chastity to Live . The Second part to the same Tune . God Cupid did me overpower , and made me try too soon ; Fair Croydon in lucky hour did nip the Bud unblown : But since he's constant to me still , who dares of me complain ? No Mortal could withstand his will , so charming is my Swain . The Lovely Phillis did the same when Strephon came to woo , She did not think her self in blame : may not I frolic too ? Love's powers are great I must confess , and those that ne're have try'd , With Blushes easily may guess such Joys can't be deny [ ' ] worser . Since Corydon I've made my mate , I never shall repen But bless my timely happy Fate which brought me this conten I would not be a maid again for Joves rich shower of gold : While other Nymph's fit and complain , in pleasures I am bold . We now together fit and sing , while that our flocks do feed : We hug and kiss like any thing , he gives me what I need : The neighbouring Nymph's do Garlands make , to Crown us happy pair , While I the choyest pleasures take with Corydon my Dear . The Pretty Birds in pleasant Groves do sweetly chirp and sing : They seem to Imitate our Loves , and usher in the Spring : Found Amoret I would advice to use her youthful Time : Phillis and I , have been more wise , we took it in our Prime . You Shepherdesses of this plain , that hear me sing this Song , Do not consume your times in vain by living Maids too long : Such Joys are in a Marry'd Life : such pleasures do attend ; She that [ ' ] s a faithful Shepherd's wife , is happy to THE END . London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . Corydon and Cloris OR , The Wanton Shepherdess . Cloris a pretty Nymph one summer's day By a Brook side under a Willow lay ; It chanc'd that Corydon did there Espy her , And took the boldness for to lie down by her : She blushed , & call'd him rude , but still the Swain Kept close ; at last she found words were in vain , She sighing cry'd , ah youth , what dost thou do ? But what he did , no matter is to you . He pleas'd her well , she after was his wife ; And now they live a happy quiet Life . To a pleasant Playhouse new Tune : Or , Amorett and Phillis . AS Cloris full of harmless Thought Beneath the Willows lay , Kind Love a Comely shepherd brought To pass the time away ; She blushed to be Encounter'd so , And chid the amorous Swain ; But as she strove to rise and go , he pull'd her back again . A sudden passion seiz'd her heart , in spite of her disdain ; She found a Pulse in e'ry part , and Love in e'ry vein : Ah youth quoth she what charms are these , that conquer and surprise ? Ah let me ( for unless you please ) I have no power to rise . She faintly spoke , and trembling lay , for fear he should comply ; But Virgins Eyes their hearts betray , and give their Tongues the Lie . Thus she ; who Princes had deny [ ' ] worser , with all their Pompous Train . Was in the lucky Minute try'd , and yielded to the Swain . And since the sweets of Love I've found , my Bliss I'le ne're deny : Fair Corydon my Joys shall Crown , he Loves as well as I : When Hymen both our hands has Joyn'd , i'le ask him to forgive , Because that Virgins are confin'd in Chastity to Live . The Second part to the same Tune . God Cupid did me overpower , and made me try too soon ; Fair Croydon in lucky hour did nip the Bud unblown : But since he's constant to me still , who dares of me complain ? No Mortal could withstand his will , so charming is my Swain . The Lovely Phillis did the same when Strephon came to woo , She did not think her self in blame : may not I frolic too ? Love's powers are great I must confess , and those that ne're have try'd , With Blushes easily may guess such Joys can't be deny [ ' ] worser . Since Corydon I've made my mate , I never shall repen But bless my timely happy Fate which brought me this conten I would not be a maid again for Joves rich shower of gold : While other Nymph's fit and complain , in pleasures I am bold . We now together fit and sing , while that our flocks do feed : We hug and kiss like any thing , he gives me what I need : The neighbouring Nymph's do Garlands make , to Crown us happy pair , While I the choyest pleasures take with Corydon my Dear . The Pretty Birds in pleasant Groves do sweetly chirp and sing : They seem to Imitate our Loves , and usher in the Spring : Found Amoret I would advice to use her youthful Time : Phillis and I , have been more wise , we took it in our Prime . You Shepherdesses of this plain , that hear me sing this Song , Do not consume your times in vain by living Maids too long : Such Joys are in a Marry'd Life : such pleasures do attend ; She that [ ' ] s a faithful Shepherd's wife , is happy to THE END . London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . 