Phillida flouts me . OR , THE Country Lovers Complaint . Who seeks by all means for to win his Love , But she does scorn him , and disdainful prove ; Which makes him for to sighs , lament and cry , He fears for Phillida , that he shall die . To a pleasant Tune , Or , Phillida flouts me . O What a Plague is Love , how shall I bear it ? She will unconstant prove , I greatly fear i It so torments my mind , that my strength faileth , She wavers with the wind , as the ship saileth , Please her the best you may , She looks another way , Alas and well a day , Phillida Flouts me . At the Fair , yesterday , she did pass by me , She looked another way , and would not spy me . I woo'd her for to dine , I could not get her , Dick had her to the wine he might entreat her , With Daniel she did dance On me she would not glance Oh thrice unhappy chance , Philida Flouts me . Fair maid be not so coy , do not disdain me . I am thy Mother's boy sweet entertain me . Shee'l give me when she die all things thats fitting , Her Poultry and her Bees , and her Geese sitting . A pair of Mallerds beds A barrel full of Shreds And yet for all these goods Phillida Flouts me . The second part , to the same Tune . THou shalt eat curds & cream all the year lasting , And drink the Crystal stream pleasant in tasting , Wig & whey till thou burst and bramble Berries : Pye-lid and Pasty crust Pears Plums and Cherries Thy Garment shall be thin , Made of a Wethers skin , All is not worth a Pin. Phillida Flouts me . Cupid hath shot his Dart and hath me wounded , It prick't my tender heart , and ne'r rebounded : I was a fool to scorn his Bow any Quiver , I am like one forlorn , sick of a Fever : Now I may weep and mourn while with loves flams I burn Nothing will serve my turn , Phillida Flouts me . I am a lively Lad how e're she take me , I am not half so bad , as she would make me . Whither she smile or frown , she may deceive me , Ne'r a Girl in the Town , but fain would have me . Since she does from me fly , Now I may sighs and die , And never cease to cry Phillida Flouts me . In the last month of May , I made her Posies , I herd her often say , that she lov'd Roses . Cowslips , and Jilly-flowers , and the white Lily , I brought to deck the bowers , for my sweet Philly . But she did all disdain , And threw them back again , Therefore its flat and plain , Phillida Flouts me . Fair Maiden have a care and in time take me , I can have those as fair , if you forsake me . For Doll the Dairy Maid laughed at me lately , And wanton Winifred favours me greatly . One cast milk on my clothes T'other played with my nose , What wanton toys are those Phillida Flouts me . I cannot work and sleep all at a season , Grief wounds my heart so deep without all reason , I fade and pine away with grief and sorrow , I fallen quite to decay like any shadow , I shall be dead I fear within a thousand year All is for grief and care , Phillida Flouts me . She hath a clout of mine wrought with good Coventry , Which she keeps for a sign of my Fidelity . But in faith if she frown she shall not wear it , I'le give it Doll my maid , and she shall tear it . Since t'will no better be I'le bear it patiently Yet all the world may see Phillida Flouts me . London , Printed for F. Coals , in Wine-street near Hatten Garden . Phillida flouts me . OR , THE Country Lovers Complaint . Who seeks by all means for to win his Love , But she does scorn him , and disdainful prove ; Which makes him for to sighs , lament and cry , He fears for Phillida , that he shall die . To a pleasant Tune , Or , Phillida flouts me . O What a Plague is Love , how shall I bear it ? She will unconstant prove , I greatly fear i It so torments my mind , that my strength faileth , She wavers with the wind , as the ship saileth , Please her the best you may , She looks another way , Alas and well a day , Phillida Flouts me . At the Fair , yesterday , she did pass by me , She looked another way , and would not spy me . I woo'd her for to dine , I could not get her , Dick had her to the wine he might entreat her , With Daniel she did dance On me she would not glance Oh thrice unhappy chance , Philida Flouts me . Fair maid be not so coy , do not disdain me . I am thy Mother's boy sweet entertain me . Shee'l give me when she die all things thats fitting , Her Poultry and her Bees , and her Geese sitting . A pair of Mallerds beds A barrel full of Shreds And yet for all these goods Phillida Flouts me . The second part , to the same Tune . THou shalt eat curds & cream all the year lasting , And drink the Crystal stream pleasant in tasting , Wig & whey till thou burst and bramble Berries : Pye-lid and Pasty crust Pears Plums and Cherries Thy Garment shall be thin , Made of a Wethers skin , All is not worth a Pin. Phillida Flouts me . Cupid hath shot his Dart and hath me wounded , It prick't my tender heart , and ne'r rebounded : I was a fool to scorn his Bow any Quiver , I am like one forlorn , sick of a Fever : Now I may weep and mourn while with loves flams I burn Nothing will serve my turn , Phillida Flouts me . I am a lively Lad how e're she take me , I am not half so bad , as she would make me . Whither she smile or frown , she may deceive me , Ne'r a Girl in the Town , but fain would have me . Since she does from me fly , Now I may sighs and die , And never cease to cry Phillida Flouts me . In the last month of May , I made her Posies , I herd her often say , that she lov'd Roses . Cowslips , and Jilly-flowers , and the white Lily , I brought to deck the bowers , for my sweet Philly . But she did all disdain , And threw them back again , Therefore its flat and plain , Phillida Flouts me . Fair Maiden have a care and in time take me , I can have those as fair , if you forsake me . For Doll the Dairy Maid laughed at me lately , And wanton Winifred favours me greatly . One cast milk on my clothes T'other played with my nose , What wanton toys are those Phillida Flouts me . I cannot work and sleep all at a season , Grief wounds my heart so deep without all reason , I fade and pine away with grief and sorrow , I fallen quite to decay like any shadow , I shall be dead I fear within a thousand year All is for grief and care , Phillida Flouts me . She hath a clout of mine wrought with good Coventry , Which she keeps for a sign of my Fidelity . But in faith if she frown she shall not wear it , I'le give it Doll my maid , and she shall tear it . Since t'will no better be I'le bear it patiently Yet all the world may see Phillida Flouts me . London , Printed for F. Coals , in Wine-street near Hatten Garden . 