The Cuckcoo of the Times . Since Cuckcoo is but what men born to , certain The fault's not in the Woman , but his Fortune : The Cuckcoo therefore hope's to please your mind , And says it comprehends ev'n all Mankind . To the Tune of , The Wandering Jews Chronicle . TOM Tinkers Wife Joan Ruggles sat , Under a Hedge doing you know what , mark that which does ensue ; A Bird upon and Oaken Spray , It was no Chattering Pie , nor Jay , Sung merrily Cuckoo . I was as Ages will Record , In former times a great Earls Bird , that Lord that could not do ; Who though unfit for Cupids Laws , Was Stallion to the good old Cause , Which makes me sing Cuckoo . Although he could not frisk and Jerk , He god a thousand Bearns o'th Kirk , fine work that he did brew ; Yet he was Cuckold in his Mate , By Bradshaw and Crumwel i'th State , When England Sung Cuckoo . You Buxom Dams of Sanguine breed , That must have Morsels at your need , take heed what e're you do ; while youth bewitch you , old ones watch you Beware or they will catch you , catch you , Who hate my Song Cuckoo . The Second Part , to the same Tune . The Shopkeeper that trades for gain , And Merchant who does cross the Main , great wealth he does pursue ; The one i'th shop , though something strange The other while he's at the Change , May Sing with me Cuckoo . Soldiers of Fortune and Renown , Whose valour does their actions crown , this fate sometime pursue , Physicians too that live at ease , Can find no cure for this Disease , But Sing with me Cuckoo . Both rich and poor , both high and low , All sorts the Cuckoo's Note do know , Gentry and Commons too , The Country Lad that goes to Blow , May find the Antlers on his Brow , That makes him Sing Cuckoo . Red Letter men they did design Both Church and State to undermine , dam'd Plots they did pursue ; But thanks to God by happy fate , Themselves blew up , and not the State , They'l Sing with me Cuckoo . Another sort as bad or worse , Gaze in your face and pick your Purse , yet they'l cry Whore first too ; On others they would lay the blame , While they are doing of the same , Yet they may Sing Cuckoo . Jove hath his Eagles in the Skies , Juno hath her Peacock decked with Eyes , gay Toys , give them their endue ; Venus her Doves , Minerva's Foul , Is the King Harry's Groat-fac'd Owl , And I the poor Cuckoo . Bacchus Canary , old Pan the Lark , Pluto his Ravens that shriek i'th dark , but mark what does ensue ; Of all these Fowls none bears the Bell , For Sprightly Notes like Philomel , And I who Sing Cuckoo . A Lawyer he did throw a Stone , Quoth he , I hate thy Ugly Tone , be gone , and then cry'd Shoo ; Thou break'st the City peace , go pack , I'le clap a Warrant on thy back , But still she Sung Cuckoo . Luna they say is Populus , And we a Moon , as they to us , if thus , and it be true , Why should the Court make Citts the scorn [ s , ] Since all things here below wears Horns All Nations Sing Cuckoo . Neptune is Horn'd by 'th Delian Knight , Who plays at Put with Amphetrite , each night the Trick they do ; Mars Cuckolds Vulcan Mamon Mars , Mony's the Nerv's and Horns of Wars , The Soldier Sings Cuckoo . A brisk young Lady she took pity , Approving of her merry Ditty , 'twas witty and 'twas true ; Dwell with me Telltruth of the Age , I'le keep thee in a Golden Cage , Where thou shalt Sing Cuckoo . FINIS . Printed for P. [ Brooksby at the Golden Ball , near ] the Hosp [ ital-Gate in West-Smithfield . ] The Cuckcoo of the Times . Since Cuckcoo is but what men born to , certain The fault's not in the Woman , but his Fortune : The Cuckcoo therefore hope's to please your mind , And says it comprehends ev'n all Mankind . To the Tune of , The Wandering Jews Chronicle . TOM Tinkers Wife Joan Ruggles sat , Under a Hedge doing you know what , mark that which does ensue ; A Bird upon and Oaken Spray , It was no Chattering Pie , nor Jay , Sung merrily Cuckoo . I was as Ages will Record , In former times a great Earls Bird , that Lord that could not do ; Who though unfit for Cupids Laws , Was Stallion to the good old Cause , Which makes me sing Cuckoo . Although he could not frisk and Jerk , He god a thousand Bearns o'th Kirk , fine work that he did brew ; Yet he was Cuckold in his Mate , By Bradshaw and Crumwel i'th State , When England Sung Cuckoo . You Buxom Dams of Sanguine breed , That must have Morsels at your need , take heed what e're you do ; while youth bewitch you , old ones watch you Beware or they will catch you , catch you , Who hate my Song Cuckoo . The Second Part , to the same Tune . The Shopkeeper that trades for gain , And Merchant who does cross the Main , great wealth he does pursue ; The one i'th shop , though something strange The other while he's at the Change , May Sing with me Cuckoo . Soldiers of Fortune and Renown , Whose valour does their actions crown , this fate sometime pursue , Physicians too that live at ease , Can find no cure for this Disease , But Sing with me Cuckoo . Both rich and poor , both high and low , All sorts the Cuckoo's Note do know , Gentry and Commons too , The Country Lad that goes to Blow , May find the Antlers on his Brow , That makes him Sing Cuckoo . Red Letter men they did design Both Church and State to undermine , dam'd Plots they did pursue ; But thanks to God by happy fate , Themselves blew up , and not the State , They'l Sing with me Cuckoo . Another sort as bad or worse , Gaze in your face and pick your Purse , yet they'l cry Whore first too ; On others they would lay the blame , While they are doing of the same , Yet they may Sing Cuckoo . Jove hath his Eagles in the Skies , Juno hath her Peacock decked with Eyes , gay Toys , give them their endue ; Venus her Doves , Minerva's Foul , Is the King Harry's Groat-fac'd Owl , And I the poor Cuckoo . Bacchus Canary , old Pan the Lark , Pluto his Ravens that shriek i'th dark , but mark what does ensue ; Of all these Fowls none bears the Bell , For Sprightly Notes like Philomel , And I who Sing Cuckoo . A Lawyer he did throw a Stone , Quoth he , I hate thy Ugly Tone , be gone , and then cry'd Shoo ; Thou break'st the City peace , go pack , I'le clap a Warrant on thy back , But still she Sung Cuckoo . Luna they say is Populus , And we a Moon , as they to us , if thus , and it be true , Why should the Court make Citts the scorn [ s , ] Since all things here below wears Horns All Nations Sing Cuckoo . Neptune is Horn'd by 'th Delian Knight , Who plays at Put with Amphetrite , each night the Trick they do ; Mars Cuckolds Vulcan Mamon Mars , Mony's the Nerv's and Horns of Wars , The Soldier Sings Cuckoo . A brisk young Lady she took pity , Approving of her merry Ditty , 'twas witty and 'twas true ; Dwell with me Telltruth of the Age , I'le keep thee in a Golden Cage , Where thou shalt Sing Cuckoo . FINIS . Printed for P. [ Brooksby at the Golden Ball , near ] the Hosp [ ital-Gate in West-Smithfield . ] The Cuckcoo of the Times . Since Cuckcoo is but what men born to , certain The fault's not in the Woman , but his Fortune : The Cuckcoo therefore hope's to please your mind , And says it comprehends ev'n all Mankind . To the Tune of , The Wandering Jews Chronicle . TOM Tinkers Wife Joan Ruggles sat , Under a Hedge doing you know what , mark that which does ensue ; A Bird upon and Oaken Spray , It was no Chattering Pie , nor Jay , Sung merrily Cuckoo . I was as Ages will Record , In former times a great Earls Bird , that Lord that could not do ; Who though unfit for Cupids Laws , Was Stallion to the good old Cause , Which makes me sing Cuckoo . Although he could not frisk and Jerk , He god a thousand Bearns o'th Kirk , fine work that he did brew ; Yet he was Cuckold in his Mate , By Bradshaw and Crumwel i'th State , When England Sung Cuckoo . You Buxom Dams of Sanguine breed , That must have Morsels at your need , take heed what e're you do ; while youth bewitch you , old ones watch you Beware or they will catch you , catch you , Who hate my Song Cuckoo . The Second Part , to the same Tune . The Shopkeeper that trades for gain , And Merchant who does cross the Main , great wealth he does pursue ; The one i'th shop , though something strange The other while he's at the Change , May Sing with me Cuckoo . Soldiers of Fortune and Renown , Whose valour does their actions crown , this fate sometime pursue , Physicians too that live at ease , Can find no cure for this Disease , But Sing with me Cuckoo . Both rich and poor , both high and low , All sorts the Cuckoo's Note do know , Gentry and Commons too , The Country Lad that goes to Blow , May find the Antlers on his Brow , That makes him Sing Cuckoo . Red Letter men they did design Both Church and State to undermine , dam'd Plots they did pursue ; But thanks to God by happy fate , Themselves blew up , and not the State , They'l Sing with me Cuckoo . Another sort as bad or worse , Gaze in your face and pick your Purse , yet they'l cry Whore first too ; On others they would lay the blame , While they are doing of the same , Yet they may Sing Cuckoo . Jove hath his Eagles in the Skies , Juno hath her Peacock decked with Eyes , gay Toys , give them their endue ; Venus her Doves , Minerva's Foul , Is the King Harry's Groat-fac'd Owl , And I the poor Cuckoo . Bacchus Canary , old Pan the Lark , Pluto his Ravens that shriek i'th dark , but mark what does ensue ; Of all these Fowls none bears the Bell , For Sprightly Notes like Philomel , And I who Sing Cuckoo . A Lawyer he did throw a Stone , Quoth he , I hate thy Ugly Tone , be gone , and then cry'd Shoo ; Thou break'st the City peace , go pack , I'le clap a Warrant on thy back , But still she Sung Cuckoo . Luna they say is Populus , And we a Moon , as they to us , if thus , and it be true , Why should the Court make Citts the scorn [ s , ] Since all things here below wears Horns All Nations Sing Cuckoo . Neptune is Horn'd by 'th Delian Knight , Who plays at Put with Amphetrite , each night the Trick they do ; Mars Cuckolds Vulcan Mamon Mars , Mony's the Nerv's and Horns of Wars , The Soldier Sings Cuckoo . A brisk young Lady she took pity , Approving of her merry Ditty , 'twas witty and 'twas true ; Dwell with me Telltruth of the Age , I'le keep thee in a Golden Cage , Where thou shalt Sing Cuckoo . FINIS . Printed for P. [ Brooksby at the Golden Ball , near ] the Hosp [ ital-Gate in West-Smithfield . ] The Cuckcoo of the Times . Since Cuckcoo is but what men born to , certain The fault's not in the Woman , but his Fortune : The Cuckcoo therefore hope's to please your mind , And says it comprehends ev'n all Mankind . To the Tune of , The Wandering Jews Chronicle . TOM Tinkers Wife Joan Ruggles sat , Under a Hedge doing you know what , mark that which does ensue ; A Bird upon and Oaken Spray , It was no Chattering Pie , nor Jay , Sung merrily Cuckoo . I was as Ages will Record , In former times a great Earls Bird , that Lord that could not do ; Who though unfit for Cupids Laws , Was Stallion to the good old Cause , Which makes me sing Cuckoo . Although he could not frisk and Jerk , He god a thousand Bearns o'th Kirk , fine work that he did brew ; Yet he was Cuckold in his Mate , By Bradshaw and Crumwel i'th State , When England Sung Cuckoo . You Buxom Dams of Sanguine breed , That must have Morsels at your need , take heed what e're you do ; while youth bewitch you , old ones watch you Beware or they will catch you , catch you , Who hate my Song Cuckoo . The Second Part , to the same Tune . The Shopkeeper that trades for gain , And Merchant who does cross the Main , great wealth he does pursue ; The one i'th shop , though something strange The other while he's at the Change , May Sing with me Cuckoo . Soldiers of Fortune and Renown , Whose valour does their actions crown , this fate sometime pursue , Physicians too that live at ease , Can find no cure for this Disease , But Sing with me Cuckoo . Both rich and poor , both high and low , All sorts the Cuckoo's Note do know , Gentry and Commons too , The Country Lad that goes to Blow , May find the Antlers on his Brow , That makes him Sing Cuckoo . Red Letter men they did design Both Church and State to undermine , dam'd Plots they did pursue ; But thanks to God by happy fate , Themselves blew up , and not the State , They'l Sing with me Cuckoo . Another sort as bad or worse , Gaze in your face and pick your Purse , yet they'l cry Whore first too ; On others they would lay the blame , While they are doing of the same , Yet they may Sing Cuckoo . Jove hath his Eagles in the Skies , Juno hath her Peacock decked with Eyes , gay Toys , give them their endue ; Venus her Doves , Minerva's Foul , Is the King Harry's Groat-fac'd Owl , And I the poor Cuckoo . Bacchus Canary , old Pan the Lark , Pluto his Ravens that shriek i'th dark , but mark what does ensue ; Of all these Fowls none bears the Bell , For Sprightly Notes like Philomel , And I who Sing Cuckoo . A Lawyer he did throw a Stone , Quoth he , I hate thy Ugly Tone , be gone , and then cry'd Shoo ; Thou break'st the City peace , go pack , I'le clap a Warrant on thy back , But still she Sung Cuckoo . Luna they say is Populus , And we a Moon , as they to us , if thus , and it be true , Why should the Court make Citts the scorn [ s , ] Since all things here below wears Horns All Nations Sing Cuckoo . Neptune is Horn'd by 'th Delian Knight , Who plays at Put with Amphetrite , each night the Trick they do ; Mars Cuckolds Vulcan Mamon Mars , Mony's the Nerv's and Horns of Wars , The Soldier Sings Cuckoo . A brisk young Lady she took pity , Approving of her merry Ditty , 'twas witty and 'twas true ; Dwell with me Telltruth of the Age , I'le keep thee in a Golden Cage , Where thou shalt Sing Cuckoo . FINIS . Printed for P. [ Brooksby at the Golden Ball , near ] the Hosp [ ital-Gate in West-Smithfield . ] 