The Greeks and Trojans Wars . Caus'd by that wanton Trojan Knight Sir Paris Who ravishes Hellen and her to Troy carries The Greeks in revenge ( and to fetch her again ) A mighty great Army do quickly ordain . Imagine you see them besieging old Troy , Which after ten years they at th' last destroy , With a fit Allusion , before the Conclusion . Tune is , A Conscionable Caveat . OF Greece and Troy I shall you tell What cruel wars betwixt them fell Paris he was Author of the fame , For plundering of the Grecian Dame , He ravish'd her and he brought her unto Troy this you know but that short measure of found pleasure , Caus'd great Il [ l ] iums overthrow . For when the Grecians herd the same , Their hearts with ire began to flame , They counsel took and did decree , To raise and Army spaedily , to fetch that piece fair Hellen of Greece back again , or else the gallant Grecians valiant By the Trojans must be slave . Achilles he was in disguise When first he herd of this enterprise He Ladylike with a Lady lay Until her belly did them both bewray away found Lass for I from hence must pass , unto Troy but her note still is deer Achilles Stay with me my only Joy . Wilt thou be gone and leave me so Unto the Trojans wars to go If thou with me wilt stay behind Here thou shalt entertainment find , found fool avoid for I must be imploy'd out of hand for the enraged Greeks engaged All march under my command , My deer Achilles then said she , Alas what shall become of me ? My heart thy love hath set on fire I gave to thee what thou didst desire vaunt foolish girl , bright honour is the pearl I must seek wanton courting , idle sporting Fits not now a valiant Greek . Thou knowest sweetheart I am with child , Thy flattering tongue hath me beguiled Why then from me wilt thou depart And leave my breast without a heart ? cease Compliment , for now my mind is bent oath [ e ] r ways such enjoyment is implorment Fit for idle peaceful days The second part , to the same Tune . ULisses would seem mad cause he Would stay with his Penelope , But no illusions must take place . Though millions die for one fair face it shall be seen their Lacedemons Queen , whom that Boy violated shall be rated At the price of Greece or Troy . If Sir says she , one face hath force To raise so many foot and horse Why may not mine prais'd oft by you Have power to keep what is my endue ? plead not thy face ther's difference in the case very great our monarchal light were dark all Should we wink at this defeat Let noble Britains notice take Of this allusion which isle make Imagine all the power of Greece To fetch great Agamemnons Neece''' are sacking Troy which they at last destroy utterly they will fetch her , from her Lecher By all this extremity . Ireland is our Hellen fair Ravish'd from us through want of care The Paris that hath done this rape Is found security ( that ape ) as now you hear , Achilles with his Dear will not stay if Mars summon no found woman Can a Soldiers soul betray . So let brave English Soldiers seek For president that gallant Greek Let's leave our toys which slaves re-tard And to our honour have regard Ireland does shake our honour at the stake lies engaged this our Hellen stolen by villain Fallen on him like Greeks enraged . Let all homebred strife alone And as the Greeks all joyn'd in one Their loss and honour to repair Let their example be our care and never leave until that we receive for our pains death or honour when w'have wone her . We shall find sufficient gains . London , Printed for F. Grove . Finis . H.C. The Greeks and Trojans Wars . Caus'd by that wanton Trojan Knight Sir Paris Who ravishes Hellen and her to Troy carries The Greeks in revenge ( and to fetch her again ) A mighty great Army do quickly ordain . Imagine you see them besieging old Troy , Which after ten years they at th' last destroy , With a fit Allusion , before the Conclusion . Tune is , A Conscionable Caveat . OF Greece and Troy I shall you tell What cruel wars betwixt them fell Paris he was Author of the fame , For plundering of the Grecian Dame , He ravish'd her and he brought her unto Troy this you know but that short measure of found pleasure , Caus'd great Il [ l ] iums overthrow . For when the Grecians herd the same , Their hearts with ire began to flame , They counsel took and did decree , To raise and Army spaedily , to fetch that piece fair Hellen of Greece back again , or else the gallant Grecians valiant By the Trojans must be slave . Achilles he was in disguise When first he herd of this enterprise He Ladylike with a Lady lay Until her belly did them both bewray away found Lass for I from hence must pass , unto Troy but her note still is deer Achilles Stay with me my only Joy . Wilt thou be gone and leave me so Unto the Trojans wars to go If thou with me wilt stay behind Here thou shalt entertainment find , found fool avoid for I must be imploy'd out of hand for the enraged Greeks engaged All march under my command , My deer Achilles then said she , Alas what shall become of me ? My heart thy love hath set on fire I gave to thee what thou didst desire vaunt foolish girl , bright honour is the pearl I must seek wanton courting , idle sporting Fits not now a valiant Greek . Thou knowest sweetheart I am with child , Thy flattering tongue hath me beguiled Why then from me wilt thou depart And leave my breast without a heart ? cease Compliment , for now my mind is bent oath [ e ] r ways such enjoyment is implorment Fit for idle peaceful days The second part , to the same Tune . ULisses would seem mad cause he Would stay with his Penelope , But no illusions must take place . Though millions die for one fair face it shall be seen their Lacedemons Queen , whom that Boy violated shall be rated At the price of Greece or Troy . If Sir says she , one face hath force To raise so many foot and horse Why may not mine prais'd oft by you Have power to keep what is my endue ? plead not thy face ther's difference in the case very great our monarchal light were dark all Should we wink at this defeat Let noble Britains notice take Of this allusion which isle make Imagine all the power of Greece To fetch great Agamemnons Neece''' are sacking Troy which they at last destroy utterly they will fetch her , from her Lecher By all this extremity . Ireland is our Hellen fair Ravish'd from us through want of care The Paris that hath done this rape Is found security ( that ape ) as now you hear , Achilles with his Dear will not stay if Mars summon no found woman Can a Soldiers soul betray . So let brave English Soldiers seek For president that gallant Greek Let's leave our toys which slaves re-tard And to our honour have regard Ireland does shake our honour at the stake lies engaged this our Hellen stolen by villain Fallen on him like Greeks enraged . Let all homebred strife alone And as the Greeks all joyn'd in one Their loss and honour to repair Let their example be our care and never leave until that we receive for our pains death or honour when w'have wone her . We shall find sufficient gains . London , Printed for F. Grove . Finis . H.C. 