A Looking-glass for Maids : OR , The Downfall of two most Desperate Lovers . Henry Hartlove and William Martin , both late living in the Isle of Wight , who for the love of Ann Scarborow a beautiful Virgin , she having made her self sure to one of them , and afterwards fell off to the other , they challenged the field , where after a cruel fight , they were mortally Wounded and found dead on the place by the forementioned Maiden , who bestowed many tears on their bo - die , and buried them in one Grave . Tune is , Aim not too High . And now she lives in grief and sad distress , Wishing all Lovers true more happiness . UNhappy I who in the prime of youth , Unkind to him with whom I broke my truth Mark well my words you that are maids & wives I was the cause that two men lost their lives . I'th Isle of Wight , Ann Scarborow was my name There did I live in credit , wealth and fame , My Parents rich , I nothing then did lack , But grace and truth , the which did go to wrack . A Gentleman a Suitor to me came , With whom I might have liv'd a gallant dame , But wantonness and pride did seize my heart , Was sure to him , and yet from him did part . He broke a piece of gold and gave it me , Then did I seemingly to him agree , But , Oh , my heart was never rightly plac'd Another man I afterwards imbrac'd . Which when he knew , he fell into despair , He beatrice his breast , and tore his curled hair : A who would trust a Woman , then said he , That seldom are what they do seem to be . Now I do find that all a man can do , His best endeavours makes not women true , Yet he that hath and interest in your heart , Shall buy you dearly , 'fore that we do part . Then came the other , whom I lov'd so well , But now behold a heavy hap befell , When first my Love his Rival had beheld , He cast his glove and challeng'd him the field . To answer him the other thought it fit , He said he ne'r was known a Coward you He for my favour then so much did strive , He said he'd fight with any man alive . Next morning then these Gentlemen did meet , And manfully they did each other greet , Each other wounded in most piteous sort , E're any man unto them did resort . At last they made a strong and desperate close , Both fell to ground and never after rose , Cursed be the place where these brave men did fallen , And cursed be I who was the cause of all . When word was brought to me I quickly went , But e're I came their lives alas was spent , Then did I tear the hair from off my head , And wished a thousand times that I were dead . When I came there these gallants then I found , Both of them liveless bleeding on the ground , My conscience told me I was cause of this , Sweet Jesus now forgive me my amiss . I buried them and laid them in one grave , God grant their souls a resting place may have , More rest then I , whose restless conscience now Accuses me for breaking of my vow . If I walk near the place where now they lie , It troubles my mind exceedingly , If to the place where they did fight I go , It fills my guilty consciene full of woe . If I to Bed do go , I cannot sleep , And if I do , my dreams do make me Weep ; Methinks I see them bleeding in my sighed , My thoughts by day , and eke my dreams by night . My rich apparel I have laid a side , My cloth of gold , and other things of Pride , In Sable will I mourn while I have breath And every day expect and look for death . A dead men skull my silver Cup shall be , In which i'le drink , too good a cup for me , Instead of meat , on Roots and Herbs i'le feed To put me still in mind of my foul Deed. You woody Nymphs that welcome in the Spring , Come hear a discontented Virgin Sing ; Oh that I might my time now with you spend , In silent Groves , until my life does end . You Country Maids , in Country , and in City , That now have herd my discontented Ditty , Be constant , ever true to one alone , For if you prove false it will soon be known . If you will know where sorrow does abide Repair to me , no other place beside , Grief and despair does daily now attend me , & there is nought but death that can befriend me . This discontented Damsel now she keeps Her Chamber , where she sits and daily weeps And suffers none to come to her , 'tis said , But only one , and that's her father's Maid . The meat and Drink her Father to her sends , She sends the poor , the which she calls her friends ; She feeds on roots , and Herbs , and such Like things sometimes on bred , which she counts food for Kings . See here the fruits of wantonness and pride , Oh let us pray that God may be our guide , There's few of us but have our time ill spent , So well brought up , that do so well repent . You Damsels all , now have a special care , Forget not her , that did these things declare ; Be to your Sweethearts ever just and true , And so fair Maids she bids you all adieu . London , Printed for Tho. Vere , at the Angel without Newgate . A Looking-glass for Maids : OR , The Downfall of two most Desperate Lovers . Henry Hartlove and William Martin , both late living in the Isle of Wight , who for the love of Ann Scarborow a beautiful Virgin , she having made her self sure to one of them , and afterwards fell off to the other , they challenged the field , where after a cruel fight , they were mortally Wounded and found dead on the place by the forementioned Maiden , who bestowed many tears on their bo - die , and buried them in one Grave . Tune is , Aim not too High . And now she lives in grief and sad distress , Wishing all Lovers true more happiness . UNhappy I who in the prime of youth , Unkind to him with whom I broke my truth Mark well my words you that are maids & wives I was the cause that two men lost their lives . I'th Isle of Wight , Ann Scarborow was my name There did I live in credit , wealth and fame , My Parents rich , I nothing then did lack , But grace and truth , the which did go to wrack . A Gentleman a Suitor to me came , With whom I might have liv'd a gallant dame , But wantonness and pride did seize my heart , Was sure to him , and yet from him did part . He broke a piece of gold and gave it me , Then did I seemingly to him agree , But , Oh , my heart was never rightly plac'd Another man I afterwards imbrac'd . Which when he knew , he fell into despair , He beatrice his breast , and tore his curled hair : A who would trust a Woman , then said he , That seldom are what they do seem to be . Now I do find that all a man can do , His best endeavours makes not women true , Yet he that hath and interest in your heart , Shall buy you dearly , 'fore that we do part . Then came the other , whom I lov'd so well , But now behold a heavy hap befell , When first my Love his Rival had beheld , He cast his glove and challeng'd him the field . To answer him the other thought it fit , He said he ne'r was known a Coward you He for my favour then so much did strive , He said he'd fight with any man alive . Next morning then these Gentlemen did meet , And manfully they did each other greet , Each other wounded in most piteous sort , E're any man unto them did resort . At last they made a strong and desperate close , Both fell to ground and never after rose , Cursed be the place where these brave men did fallen , And cursed be I who was the cause of all . When word was brought to me I quickly went , But e're I came their lives alas was spent , Then did I tear the hair from off my head , And wished a thousand times that I were dead . When I came there these gallants then I found , Both of them liveless bleeding on the ground , My conscience told me I was cause of this , Sweet Jesus now forgive me my amiss . I buried them and laid them in one grave , God grant their souls a resting place may have , More rest then I , whose restless conscience now Accuses me for breaking of my vow . If I walk near the place where now they lie , It troubles my mind exceedingly , If to the place where they did fight I go , It fills my guilty consciene full of woe . If I to Bed do go , I cannot sleep , And if I do , my dreams do make me Weep ; Methinks I see them bleeding in my sighed , My thoughts by day , and eke my dreams by night . My rich apparel I have laid a side , My cloth of gold , and other things of Pride , In Sable will I mourn while I have breath And every day expect and look for death . A dead men skull my silver Cup shall be , In which i'le drink , too good a cup for me , Instead of meat , on Roots and Herbs i'le feed To put me still in mind of my foul Deed. You woody Nymphs that welcome in the Spring , Come hear a discontented Virgin Sing ; Oh that I might my time now with you spend , In silent Groves , until my life does end . You Country Maids , in Country , and in City , That now have herd my discontented Ditty , Be constant , ever true to one alone , For if you prove false it will soon be known . If you will know where sorrow does abide Repair to me , no other place beside , Grief and despair does daily now attend me , & there is nought but death that can befriend me . This discontented Damsel now she keeps Her Chamber , where she sits and daily weeps And suffers none to come to her , 'tis said , But only one , and that's her father's Maid . The meat and Drink her Father to her sends , She sends the poor , the which she calls her friends ; She feeds on roots , and Herbs , and such Like things sometimes on bred , which she counts food for Kings . See here the fruits of wantonness and pride , Oh let us pray that God may be our guide , There's few of us but have our time ill spent , So well brought up , that do so well repent . You Damsels all , now have a special care , Forget not her , that did these things declare ; Be to your Sweethearts ever just and true , And so fair Maids she bids you all adieu . London , Printed for Tho. Vere , at the Angel without Newgate . 