The beautiful Shepherdess of Arcadia . A new pastarell Song of a courteous young Knight , and a suppo - sed Shepherds Daughter . To a gallant tune , called the Shepherds Delight , THere was a shepherd's daughter , came triping on the way , And there she met a courteous knight which caused her to stay . Sing trang dil do lee . Good morrow to you you beauteous maid , these words pronounced he O I shall die this day he said if I have not my will of thee . Trang , etc The Lord forbid the Maid reply'd that such a thing should be , That ever such acourteous young knight should die for love of me . Sing trang , etc He took her by the middle so small , and laid her down on the plain , And after he had had his will , he took her up again . Trang dang . Now you have had your will good sir and put my body thus to shame , Even as you are a courteous Knight tell me what is your name ? trang dil do le . Some men do call me Jack sweet heart and some do call me John. But when I come to the Kings Court they call me sweet William . Sing trang dang . He set his foot in the stirrup and away then did he ride , She tucked her Kirtle abeut her middle and run close by his side . Sing trang . But when she came to the broad water . she set her breast and swom , And when she was god out again , she took her heels and run . Sing trang . He never was the courteous Knight to say fair maid will you ride . Nor she never was so loving a Maid to say sir knight abide . Sing trang , but when she came to the kings fair cour [ tO ] she knocked at the Ring , So ready was the King himself to let this fair Maid in . Sing trang , Oh Christ you save my gracious Liege , your body Christ save and see . You have god a knight within your court this day hath robbed me . Trang . What hath he robbed thee of fair Maid of purple or of pall , Or hath he took thy gay gold ring , from off thy fingers small . Trang . HE hath not robbed me my Liege of purple nor of pall . But he hath god my Maiden head which grieves me worst of all . Sing trang . Now if he be a Bachelor his body I'll give to thee , But if he be a married man high hanged shall he be : Trang dil do le . He called down his merry men all , by one , by two , and by three , Sweet William was us'd to be the first , but now the last comes he , trang dil do le . He brought her down full forty pound ty'd up with a Glove . Fair Maid I give the same to thee and seek another Love . Seng trang . O I'll have none of your gold she said nor I'll have none of your fee . But I must have your fair body , the King hath given me . trang . Sweet William ran and fetched her then , five hundred pound in gold , Saying fair maid take this unto thee thy fault [ e ] will never be told . Btrang . This not your gold that shall me tempt these words then answered she But I must have your own body , so the King hath granted me . Sing trang . Would I had drank the fair water when I did drink the wine That ever any shepherd's Daughter should be a fair Lady of mine . sing trang Would I had Drunk the puddle water when I did Drink the Ale That ever any shepherd's daughter should have told me such a tale . Sing trang , A Shepherds Daughter as I was , you might have let me be , I'd never come to the Kings fair Court to have craved any Love of thee , trang , etc : He set her on a Milkwhite Steed , and himself upon a Grey , He hung a Bugle about his neck , and so they road away : trang , etc : But when they came unto the place , where Marriage rights were done , She prov'd herself a Dukes daughter , and he but a Squires Son. trang . Now you have married me sir Knight your pleasures may be free , If you make me Lady of one good Town I'll make you Lord of three . trang . Accursed be the gold he said if thou hadst not been true ; That should have parted thee from me to have chang'd thee for a new trang . Their hearts being then to linked fast , and joining hand in hand , He had both purse and person too and all at his command . trang dil ' doe lee . London , Printed for William Gilbertson The beautiful Shepherdess of Arcadia . A new pastarell Song of a courteous young Knight , and a suppo - sed Shepherds Daughter . To a gallant tune , called the Shepherds Delight , THere was a shepherd's daughter , came triping on the way , And there she met a courteous knight which caused her to stay . Sing trang dil do lee . Good morrow to you you beauteous maid , these words pronounced he O I shall die this day he said if I have not my will of thee . Trang , etc The Lord forbid the Maid reply'd that such a thing should be , That ever such acourteous young knight should die for love of me . Sing trang , etc He took her by the middle so small , and laid her down on the plain , And after he had had his will , he took her up again . Trang dang . Now you have had your will good sir and put my body thus to shame , Even as you are a courteous Knight tell me what is your name ? trang dil do le . Some men do call me Jack sweet heart and some do call me John. But when I come to the Kings Court they call me sweet William . Sing trang dang . He set his foot in the stirrup and away then did he ride , She tucked her Kirtle abeut her middle and run close by his side . Sing trang . But when she came to the broad water . she set her breast and swom , And when she was god out again , she took her heels and run . Sing trang . He never was the courteous Knight to say fair maid will you ride . Nor she never was so loving a Maid to say sir knight abide . Sing trang , but when she came to the kings fair cour [ tO ] she knocked at the Ring , So ready was the King himself to let this fair Maid in . Sing trang , Oh Christ you save my gracious Liege , your body Christ save and see . You have god a knight within your court this day hath robbed me . Trang . What hath he robbed thee of fair Maid of purple or of pall , Or hath he took thy gay gold ring , from off thy fingers small . Trang . HE hath not robbed me my Liege of purple nor of pall . But he hath god my Maiden head which grieves me worst of all . Sing trang . Now if he be a Bachelor his body I'll give to thee , But if he be a married man high hanged shall he be : Trang dil do le . He called down his merry men all , by one , by two , and by three , Sweet William was us'd to be the first , but now the last comes he , trang dil do le . He brought her down full forty pound ty'd up with a Glove . Fair Maid I give the same to thee and seek another Love . Seng trang . O I'll have none of your gold she said nor I'll have none of your fee . But I must have your fair body , the King hath given me . trang . Sweet William ran and fetched her then , five hundred pound in gold , Saying fair maid take this unto thee thy fault [ e ] will never be told . Btrang . This not your gold that shall me tempt these words then answered she But I must have your own body , so the King hath granted me . Sing trang . Would I had drank the fair water when I did drink the wine That ever any shepherd's Daughter should be a fair Lady of mine . sing trang Would I had Drunk the puddle water when I did Drink the Ale That ever any shepherd's daughter should have told me such a tale . Sing trang , A Shepherds Daughter as I was , you might have let me be , I'd never come to the Kings fair Court to have craved any Love of thee , trang , etc : He set her on a Milkwhite Steed , and himself upon a Grey , He hung a Bugle about his neck , and so they road away : trang , etc : But when they came unto the place , where Marriage rights were done , She prov'd herself a Dukes daughter , and he but a Squires Son. trang . Now you have married me sir Knight your pleasures may be free , If you make me Lady of one good Town I'll make you Lord of three . trang . Accursed be the gold he said if thou hadst not been true ; That should have parted thee from me to have chang'd thee for a new trang . Their hearts being then to linked fast , and joining hand in hand , He had both purse and person too and all at his command . trang dil ' doe lee . London , Printed for William Gilbertson 