The Ragman : OR , A company that fell at odds one day , Which of them should carry the Cunny skins away , They strove who should have it , but none of them wise , For the Usurer and the Devil carry away the prize . To the Tune of Upon the highest Mountains , or The absence of my Mistress . THere was a Ragman and a mad man As they traveled on a day , There came a Beggar and a Bagman And stole the Cunny skins away : Quoth the mad man to the Ragman I have it in my brain , to make the Beggar and the Bagman Bring the Cunny skins again . Then with a cup of fuddle The mad man he did take The Bagman on the noddle Till his brains began to ache , till the Beggar he did stagger He had drunk himself so blind : thus they paid them till they made them Leave the Cunny skins behind . It was a Locksmith and a drinker As they went forth on a day , They met a Blacksmith and a Tinker Stole the Cunny skins away : quoth the Locksmith to the drinker I will take him o're the brain , I'le make the Blacksmith and the Tinker Bring the Cunny skins again . Thou shalt find me as good mettle The drinker he did say , As any is in his Kettle He beats upon each day : quoth the Locksmith ( then the Blacksmith ) Also by me shall find I'll so fuddle Vulcans noddle , Till he leave the skins behind There was a Cobbler and a Broomeman As they did meet one day , There came a Carman and a Plowman Stole the Cunny skins away , quoth the Cobbler to the Broom man Wee'le so toxicate the brain wee'le make the Carman and the Plowman Bring the Cunny skins again . We will call them to a parley , The Broom man thus did say , How they sow their Oats and Barley , And how they cut their grass and hay , then the Carman leg and arm man With Barley broth wee'le bind , wee'le not forsake them till we make them Leave the Cunny skins behind . The second Part , To the same Tune . IT was a Joiner and a Ropemaker As they met on the way There came a B [ r ] ewer and a Baker Stole the Cunny skins away quoth the Joiner to the Ropemaker This in a merry vain . make the Brewer and the Baker Bring the Cunny skins again . Quoth the Joiner to the Brewer Though that malt in price do fallen Yet still he will be sure For to make his drink too small the Ropemaker told the Baker Your knavery we shall find which if we take you we shall make you Leave the Cunny skins behind . It was a Glover and a Weaver As they met on the way , There came a Fiddler and a Pedlar Stole the Cunny skins away . quoth the Glover to the Weaver I will take him on the brain , wee'le make the Fiddler and the Pedlar Bring the Cunny skins again . The Weaver with his Treddle So fast about him laid Till the Fiddler pulled out's Fiddle And then a lesson played while the Glover with strong liquour So well their caps had lin'd which made the Fiddler and the Pedlar Leave the Cunny skins behind . It was a Broaker and a Taylor As they met on a day Came the hangman and the Jailor Stole the Cunny skins away quoth the Broker to the Taylor wee'le take them on the brain , and make the hangman and the Jailor , Bring the Cunny skins again . Quoth the Broaker , if the hangman I chance withal to meet His sides I will so bang ( man ) He shall hardly stand on's feet , quoth the Taylor with the Jailor No pleasure I can find , but if we take them we shall make them Leave the Cunny skins behind . It was a Royster and a Revel As they did meet one day , Came and Usurer and the Devil Stole the Cunny skins away . quoth the Royster To the Revel Wee'le take them on the brain wee'le make the Usurer and the Devil Bring the Cunny skins again . The Royster with his Rapier At the Devil he did run , And at him he did vapour , But could not make him shun . while the Revel he did cavell Crying out we have foul play for the Usurer and the Devil Bears the Cunny skins away . London Printed for Fr. Grove dwelling on Snow-hill . Finis . John Looks . The Ragman : OR , A company that fell at odds one day , Which of them should carry the Cunny skins away , They strove who should have it , but none of them wise , For the Usurer and the Devil carry away the prize . To the Tune of Upon the highest Mountains , or The absence of my Mistress . THere was a Ragman and a mad man As they traveled on a day , There came a Beggar and a Bagman And stole the Cunny skins away : Quoth the mad man to the Ragman I have it in my brain , to make the Beggar and the Bagman Bring the Cunny skins again . Then with a cup of fuddle The mad man he did take The Bagman on the noddle Till his brains began to ache , till the Beggar he did stagger He had drunk himself so blind : thus they paid them till they made them Leave the Cunny skins behind . It was a Locksmith and a drinker As they went forth on a day , They met a Blacksmith and a Tinker Stole the Cunny skins away : quoth the Locksmith to the drinker I will take him o're the brain , I'le make the Blacksmith and the Tinker Bring the Cunny skins again . Thou shalt find me as good mettle The drinker he did say , As any is in his Kettle He beats upon each day : quoth the Locksmith ( then the Blacksmith ) Also by me shall find I'll so fuddle Vulcans noddle , Till he leave the skins behind There was a Cobbler and a Broomeman As they did meet one day , There came a Carman and a Plowman Stole the Cunny skins away , quoth the Cobbler to the Broom man Wee'le so toxicate the brain wee'le make the Carman and the Plowman Bring the Cunny skins again . We will call them to a parley , The Broom man thus did say , How they sow their Oats and Barley , And how they cut their grass and hay , then the Carman leg and arm man With Barley broth wee'le bind , wee'le not forsake them till we make them Leave the Cunny skins behind . The second Part , To the same Tune . IT was a Joiner and a Ropemaker As they met on the way There came a B [ r ] ewer and a Baker Stole the Cunny skins away quoth the Joiner to the Ropemaker This in a merry vain . make the Brewer and the Baker Bring the Cunny skins again . Quoth the Joiner to the Brewer Though that malt in price do fallen Yet still he will be sure For to make his drink too small the Ropemaker told the Baker Your knavery we shall find which if we take you we shall make you Leave the Cunny skins behind . It was a Glover and a Weaver As they met on the way , There came a Fiddler and a Pedlar Stole the Cunny skins away . quoth the Glover to the Weaver I will take him on the brain , wee'le make the Fiddler and the Pedlar Bring the Cunny skins again . The Weaver with his Treddle So fast about him laid Till the Fiddler pulled out's Fiddle And then a lesson played while the Glover with strong liquour So well their caps had lin'd which made the Fiddler and the Pedlar Leave the Cunny skins behind . It was a Broaker and a Taylor As they met on a day Came the hangman and the Jailor Stole the Cunny skins away quoth the Broker to the Taylor wee'le take them on the brain , and make the hangman and the Jailor , Bring the Cunny skins again . Quoth the Broaker , if the hangman I chance withal to meet His sides I will so bang ( man ) He shall hardly stand on's feet , quoth the Taylor with the Jailor No pleasure I can find , but if we take them we shall make them Leave the Cunny skins behind . It was a Royster and a Revel As they did meet one day , Came and Usurer and the Devil Stole the Cunny skins away . quoth the Royster To the Revel Wee'le take them on the brain wee'le make the Usurer and the Devil Bring the Cunny skins again . The Royster with his Rapier At the Devil he did run , And at him he did vapour , But could not make him shun . while the Revel he did cavell Crying out we have foul play for the Usurer and the Devil Bears the Cunny skins away . London Printed for Fr. Grove dwelling on Snow-hill . Finis . John Looks . 