The KING and the BISHOP . OR , Unlearned Men , hard matters out can find , When Learned Bishops , Princes eyes do blind . To the Tune of , Chevy-Chase . IN Popish time when Bishops proud in England did bear sway , Their Lordship's did like Princes Live , and kept all at obey : Their Palaces with Arrace hang'd , their houses shin'd with gold : Their train of gallant Gentlemen , most stately to behold . A King then in this Land did Reign , ( some say 'twas old Henry ) One day he for a Bishop sent , his Scholarship to try : Then straightway to the Court he went , in all his Pomp and state , And took it for a favour great , upon the King to wait . And when he came unto the King he did both bow and bend , His Graces pleasure he did crave , why he for him did send : Bishop ( quoth he ) I sent for thee , to put thee to a task , And I Resolved true will be of three things I will ask . And three weeks time I will thee give on it to meditate , And then if you not tell me true , I vow to have thy pate : If that it like your Majesty , ( the Bishop then did say ) I'll try the utmost of my skill , your will for to obey . The first thing now ( then said the King ) is this that I would know , Unto a very hour the time a traveller may go About the vast and spacious world , and then Return again Unto the place he did set forth , and this I know would fain . The second thing that tell you must , even to one poor half-crown , What I am worth , that am a King ; ( this made the Bishop frown ) The third thing it is this ( he said ) the which you must explain , To tell to me what I do think , when you come here again . And so good Bishop you do know what things I do desire , And for to be resolv'd therefore of you I do require : Tell me the truth and keep your time , or else your head shall fly From off your shoulders when you come , your wits you now must try . These are hard things to be Resolv'd , unto the King he said , No man on earth can tell the same , I greatly am afraid : Yet I will try the greatest skill and so he took his leave : The task and sentence both were hard , which made his Lordship grieve . The second Part , to the same Tune . WHen he came home to study hard the Bishop then did go , His brains did hammer in his head , his heart was fil'd with woe : But yet for all his Learning great , these things he could not find , The time began for to expire , which did torment his mind . The heavy sentence of the King did touch him to the quick ; With Grief and overstudying he presently fell sick : The Bishop he a brother had , a man that hard did fare , A Shepherd by profession , for whom he did not care . This Shepherd when that he did hear his brother sick did lie , To visit him he did think best , before that he should die . With much ado , at length he god admittance him to see : It Griev'd the poor man to the heart at this his misery . Saluting his Lord brother then , ask [ ' ] worser him how he did doe ; He answered him with heavy heart , Oh full of Grief and Woe : You cannot help my misery , no man my Life can save , The task's too hard for me to do , the King my head will have . Dear brother ( then the Shepherd said ) to me your Grief explain , And if that I can save your life , i [ ' ] le venture to be slave : The Bishop told him every thing , cause he ado did make : If this be all the Shepherd said , the same i'le undertake . You know that we are very like in person , speech , and face , Let me put on your Robes of State , i'le execute the place : Your trains of gallants to the Court must bear me company , And if I do not tell these things instead of you i'le die . The time being come next day he went to see his Majesty , Who presently was entertain'd with courtlike courtesy : Now welcome Bishop ( quoth the King ) can you resolve me true ? And if you cannot he did say , I know what I must do . Unto your Graces question , the first I answer make : Let any man ascend the Sky , and the Suns Chariot take , In twenty and four hours time , about the World may ride , The which is but one day and night , this journey to abide . Thou sayest true ( then said the King ) unto the second then : Now unto that ( the Shepherd said ) I answer thus again : The King of Kings , our Saviour Christ , for thirty pence was sold , I undervalue you by far , for all your Crown of Gold . Then said the King , Bishop 'tis right , what thou hast said before , Now tell me truly what I think , and I will ask no more : You think that I the Bishop am , the Shepherd then did say : Why so I think ; then quoth the King , in spite of all says nay . You have confessed I told your thought , an't like your Majesty , Although I beware the Bishops Robe , a Shepherd poor am I : One Father and one Mother both we had and brothers are , And for to please your Royal Grace , my brother had a care . He now lies sick near unto death , and hither did me send , Who bid me tell you all these things , for fear he should offend : Commend me to him ( quoth the King ) and thank him heartily , He now hath satisfi [ ' ] worser my mind and pleased well am I . A hundred pound the King bestowed upon the Shepherd then , And taking leave away he went with all his Gentlemen : When to the Bishop he did come , all things he did relate , He thank'd his brother , and was glad of this his happy fate . Upon him he bestow'd a Farm , of forty pounds a year , As well he might for he did find of him a brother dear : And thus unlearned men sometime , hard matters out can find , When learned Bishops miss the mark , and Princes eyes do blind . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . The KING and the BISHOP . OR , Unlearned Men , hard matters out can find , When Learned Bishops , Princes eyes do blind . To the Tune of , Chevy-Chase . IN Popish time when Bishops proud in England did bear sway , Their Lordship's did like Princes Live , and kept all at obey : Their Palaces with Arrace hang'd , their houses shin'd with gold : Their train of gallant Gentlemen , most stately to behold . A King then in this Land did Reign , ( some say 'twas old Henry ) One day he for a Bishop sent , his Scholarship to try : Then straightway to the Court he went , in all his Pomp and state , And took it for a favour great , upon the King to wait . And when he came unto the King he did both bow and bend , His Graces pleasure he did crave , why he for him did send : Bishop ( quoth he ) I sent for thee , to put thee to a task , And I Resolved true will be of three things I will ask . And three weeks time I will thee give on it to meditate , And then if you not tell me true , I vow to have thy pate : If that it like your Majesty , ( the Bishop then did say ) I'll try the utmost of my skill , your will for to obey . The first thing now ( then said the King ) is this that I would know , Unto a very hour the time a traveller may go About the vast and spacious world , and then Return again Unto the place he did set forth , and this I know would fain . The second thing that tell you must , even to one poor half-crown , What I am worth , that am a King ; ( this made the Bishop frown ) The third thing it is this ( he said ) the which you must explain , To tell to me what I do think , when you come here again . And so good Bishop you do know what things I do desire , And for to be resolv'd therefore of you I do require : Tell me the truth and keep your time , or else your head shall fly From off your shoulders when you come , your wits you now must try . These are hard things to be Resolv'd , unto the King he said , No man on earth can tell the same , I greatly am afraid : Yet I will try the greatest skill and so he took his leave : The task and sentence both were hard , which made his Lordship grieve . The second Part , to the same Tune . WHen he came home to study hard the Bishop then did go , His brains did hammer in his head , his heart was fil'd with woe : But yet for all his Learning great , these things he could not find , The time began for to expire , which did torment his mind . The heavy sentence of the King did touch him to the quick ; With Grief and overstudying he presently fell sick : The Bishop he a brother had , a man that hard did fare , A Shepherd by profession , for whom he did not care . This Shepherd when that he did hear his brother sick did lie , To visit him he did think best , before that he should die . With much ado , at length he god admittance him to see : It Griev'd the poor man to the heart at this his misery . Saluting his Lord brother then , ask [ ' ] worser him how he did doe ; He answered him with heavy heart , Oh full of Grief and Woe : You cannot help my misery , no man my Life can save , The task's too hard for me to do , the King my head will have . Dear brother ( then the Shepherd said ) to me your Grief explain , And if that I can save your life , i [ ' ] le venture to be slave : The Bishop told him every thing , cause he ado did make : If this be all the Shepherd said , the same i'le undertake . You know that we are very like in person , speech , and face , Let me put on your Robes of State , i'le execute the place : Your trains of gallants to the Court must bear me company , And if I do not tell these things instead of you i'le die . The time being come next day he went to see his Majesty , Who presently was entertain'd with courtlike courtesy : Now welcome Bishop ( quoth the King ) can you resolve me true ? And if you cannot he did say , I know what I must do . Unto your Graces question , the first I answer make : Let any man ascend the Sky , and the Suns Chariot take , In twenty and four hours time , about the World may ride , The which is but one day and night , this journey to abide . Thou sayest true ( then said the King ) unto the second then : Now unto that ( the Shepherd said ) I answer thus again : The King of Kings , our Saviour Christ , for thirty pence was sold , I undervalue you by far , for all your Crown of Gold . Then said the King , Bishop 'tis right , what thou hast said before , Now tell me truly what I think , and I will ask no more : You think that I the Bishop am , the Shepherd then did say : Why so I think ; then quoth the King , in spite of all says nay . You have confessed I told your thought , an't like your Majesty , Although I beware the Bishops Robe , a Shepherd poor am I : One Father and one Mother both we had and brothers are , And for to please your Royal Grace , my brother had a care . He now lies sick near unto death , and hither did me send , Who bid me tell you all these things , for fear he should offend : Commend me to him ( quoth the King ) and thank him heartily , He now hath satisfi [ ' ] worser my mind and pleased well am I . A hundred pound the King bestowed upon the Shepherd then , And taking leave away he went with all his Gentlemen : When to the Bishop he did come , all things he did relate , He thank'd his brother , and was glad of this his happy fate . Upon him he bestow'd a Farm , of forty pounds a year , As well he might for he did find of him a brother dear : And thus unlearned men sometime , hard matters out can find , When learned Bishops miss the mark , and Princes eyes do blind . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . 