Cupids wanton wiles : OR , The young men friendly advice , beware lest Cupid you entice : Although God Cupid he be blind , yet he does oft overcome the mind . To the tune of , She cannot keep her , etc BLind-fold Cupid with his Dart , did a long time strive to hit me , Yet he shall not pierce my heart , I know better how to fit me , His decree shall not be any way to my disparriage : I will strive how to thrive , And to keep my self from marriage . Cupids slights and cunning tricks never in relapse shall bring me , To be drowned in loves pits , no aspiring boy shall sting me . Hee's a fool in loves School , and mere simple in his carriage , That will dally and say shall I Now incline to wanton marriage . Cupid is a subtle wile , and hath many projects used , The ripest wits for to beguile , many are by him abused : Let no man trust him then , lest he do their states disparriage , I advice you to be wise , And keep your selves from wanton mar-riage . To speak of Cupid to the matter . I intend as it time gives leisure : He will cog deceive and flatter , if you in his ways take pleasure . He will make you to take such strange courses in your carriage : Which will be your misery , If you incline to wanton marriage . Cupid is become a Gallant , and will tempt a brave young Shaver , On found love to spend his talon , and beside a false deceiver : He is when foolish men does intend to change their carriage , For we see often he Crosses young men in their marriage . The stoutest Champion Cupid danteth , and does bring the boldest under : The meanest man he then advanceth , and to fill us more with wonder , He can move Maids to love , though never so modest in their carriage , And will vex Female sex , To bestow themselves in marriage . The second part , To the same tune : NOble Lords Kings and Princes , Cupid bound in his subjection , Beauteous Ladies he convinces , they must yield to his direction : He will still use his skill , though it breeds a great disparridge , Therefore I till I die Mean to keep my self from marriage . Guy of Warwicke brave and bold traveled far to gain his Philice : Cupid kept his heart in hold , Hector though he met Achilles , Cupid pressed with the rest , this stout Captain in his carrydge , Thus he can force each man To bestow himself in marriage . Some Cupid takes at unawares in the bed where they lie sleeping , Some he catches in his snares , as they on downs their flocks are feed-ing . Every sort , Clown and Court , stoops to Cupid in his carrydg , No delay can him stay , If he appoint the time of marriage . High and low poor and rich men , strong , the weak , the simple creature : If Cupids Arrows do but twitch them , and they bridle not his nature , It will grow great in show , therefore I wish men in carrydge , To prevent his torment , And look before they leap to marriage . If thou art old be more wiser , let no blind God so deceive thee : Learn this Emblem of a Siser , lest Cupid doe of joys bereave thee . If thou be'st young do not wrong thine own state in such a carrydge : Have a care and beware Lest thou repent thy hasty marridge . Now to finish and conclude , I exhort all that are single , In your choosing be not rude , when you do with Hymen mingle . Liberty as we see , is a life of lovely carrydge , Therefore I till I die Will absent my self from marriage . FINIS . Printed at London for John Wright the Younger , dwelling in the Old-Bayley . L.P. Cupids wanton wiles : OR , The young men friendly advice , beware lest Cupid you entice : Although God Cupid he be blind , yet he does oft overcome the mind . To the tune of , She cannot keep her , etc BLind-fold Cupid with his Dart , did a long time strive to hit me , Yet he shall not pierce my heart , I know better how to fit me , His decree shall not be any way to my disparriage : I will strive how to thrive , And to keep my self from marriage . Cupids slights and cunning tricks never in relapse shall bring me , To be drowned in loves pits , no aspiring boy shall sting me . Hee's a fool in loves School , and mere simple in his carriage , That will dally and say shall I Now incline to wanton marriage . Cupid is a subtle wile , and hath many projects used , The ripest wits for to beguile , many are by him abused : Let no man trust him then , lest he do their states disparriage , I advice you to be wise , And keep your selves from wanton mar-riage . To speak of Cupid to the matter . I intend as it time gives leisure : He will cog deceive and flatter , if you in his ways take pleasure . He will make you to take such strange courses in your carriage : Which will be your misery , If you incline to wanton marriage . Cupid is become a Gallant , and will tempt a brave young Shaver , On found love to spend his talon , and beside a false deceiver : He is when foolish men does intend to change their carriage , For we see often he Crosses young men in their marriage . The stoutest Champion Cupid danteth , and does bring the boldest under : The meanest man he then advanceth , and to fill us more with wonder , He can move Maids to love , though never so modest in their carriage , And will vex Female sex , To bestow themselves in marriage . The second part , To the same tune : NOble Lords Kings and Princes , Cupid bound in his subjection , Beauteous Ladies he convinces , they must yield to his direction : He will still use his skill , though it breeds a great disparridge , Therefore I till I die Mean to keep my self from marriage . Guy of Warwicke brave and bold traveled far to gain his Philice : Cupid kept his heart in hold , Hector though he met Achilles , Cupid pressed with the rest , this stout Captain in his carrydge , Thus he can force each man To bestow himself in marriage . Some Cupid takes at unawares in the bed where they lie sleeping , Some he catches in his snares , as they on downs their flocks are feed-ing . Every sort , Clown and Court , stoops to Cupid in his carrydg , No delay can him stay , If he appoint the time of marriage . High and low poor and rich men , strong , the weak , the simple creature : If Cupids Arrows do but twitch them , and they bridle not his nature , It will grow great in show , therefore I wish men in carrydge , To prevent his torment , And look before they leap to marriage . If thou art old be more wiser , let no blind God so deceive thee : Learn this Emblem of a Siser , lest Cupid doe of joys bereave thee . If thou be'st young do not wrong thine own state in such a carrydge : Have a care and beware Lest thou repent thy hasty marridge . Now to finish and conclude , I exhort all that are single , In your choosing be not rude , when you do with Hymen mingle . Liberty as we see , is a life of lovely carrydge , Therefore I till I die Will absent my self from marriage . FINIS . Printed at London for John Wright the Younger , dwelling in the Old-Bayley . L.P. 