Cupid's Courtesy : OR , THE Young GALLANT Foil'd at his own Weapon . He scorned Cupid and his Dart , Until he felt a wounded Heart . To a most pleasant Northern Tune , etc THro' the cool shady Woods , as I was ranging , I herd the pretty Birds notes sweetly changing ; Down by a Meadow side , there runs a River , A little Boy I espy'd with Bow and Quiver : Little Boy tell me why thou art here diving ? Art thou some Runaway , and hast no biding ? I am no Runaway , Venus my Mother , She gave me leave to play , when I came hither . Little Boy go with me , and be my Servant ; I will take care to see for thy preferment . If I with thee should go , Venus would chide me , And take away my Bow , and never abide me . Little Boy let me know , what's thy name termed , That thou dost wear a Bow , and go'st so armed ? You may perceive the same , with often changing , Cupid it is my name , I live by ranging . If Cupid be thy name , that shoots at Rovers , I have herd of thy fame , by wounded Lovers . Should any languish that are set on fire , By such a naked Brat I much admire . If thou dost but the least , at my Laws grumble , I'll pierce thy stubborn breast , and make thee humble : If I with golden Dart wound thee but surely , There's no Physitian's Art , that e'er can cure thee . Little Boy with thy Bow , why dost thou threaten ; It is not long ago , since thou was beaten : Thy wanton Mother fair , Venus will chide thee ; When all thy Arrows are gone , thou may'st go hide thee . Of powerful Shafts you see , I am well stored , Which makes my Deity so much adored : With one poor Arrow now I'll make thee shiver , And bend unto my Bow , and fear my Quiver . Dear little Cupid be courteous and kindly , I know thou canst not hit , but shootest blindly . Although thou call'st me blind , surely i'll hit thee , That thou shalt quickly find , i'll not forget thee . Then little Cupid caught his Bow so nimble , And shot a fatal Shaft which made him tremble . Go tell thy Mistress dear , thou can'st discover , What all the Passion are of a dying Lover . And now his gallant heart sorely was bleeding ; And felt the greatest smart from Love proceeding : He did her help implore , whom he affected ; But found that more and more him she rejected . For Cupid , with his Craft , quickly had chosen , And with a leaden Shaft , her heart had frozen ; Which caus'd this Lover more sadly to languish , And Cupid's Aid implore to heal his Anguish . He humble Pardon crav'd for his Offence past , And vow'd himself a Slave and to Love stedfas His Prayers so ardent were , while his heart panted , That Cupid lent and ear , and his suit granted . For by his present Plaint , he was regarded , And his adored Saint his love rewarded : And now they live in Joy , sweetly embracing , And left the little Boy in the Woods chasing . London : Printed by and for W. O. for A. M. and sold by the Booksellers . Cupid's Courtesy : OR , THE Young GALLANT Foil'd at his own Weapon . He scorned Cupid and his Dart , Until he felt a wounded Heart . To a most pleasant Northern Tune , etc THro' the cool shady Woods , as I was ranging , I herd the pretty Birds notes sweetly changing ; Down by a Meadow side , there runs a River , A little Boy I espy'd with Bow and Quiver : Little Boy tell me why thou art here diving ? Art thou some Runaway , and hast no biding ? I am no Runaway , Venus my Mother , She gave me leave to play , when I came hither . Little Boy go with me , and be my Servant ; I will take care to see for thy preferment . If I with thee should go , Venus would chide me , And take away my Bow , and never abide me . Little Boy let me know , what's thy name termed , That thou dost wear a Bow , and go'st so armed ? You may perceive the same , with often changing , Cupid it is my name , I live by ranging . If Cupid be thy name , that shoots at Rovers , I have herd of thy fame , by wounded Lovers . Should any languish that are set on fire , By such a naked Brat I much admire . If thou dost but the least , at my Laws grumble , I'll pierce thy stubborn breast , and make thee humble : If I with golden Dart wound thee but surely , There's no Physitian's Art , that e'er can cure thee . Little Boy with thy Bow , why dost thou threaten ; It is not long ago , since thou was beaten : Thy wanton Mother fair , Venus will chide thee ; When all thy Arrows are gone , thou may'st go hide thee . Of powerful Shafts you see , I am well stored , Which makes my Deity so much adored : With one poor Arrow now I'll make thee shiver , And bend unto my Bow , and fear my Quiver . Dear little Cupid be courteous and kindly , I know thou canst not hit , but shootest blindly . Although thou call'st me blind , surely i'll hit thee , That thou shalt quickly find , i'll not forget thee . Then little Cupid caught his Bow so nimble , And shot a fatal Shaft which made him tremble . Go tell thy Mistress dear , thou can'st discover , What all the Passion are of a dying Lover . And now his gallant heart sorely was bleeding ; And felt the greatest smart from Love proceeding : He did her help implore , whom he affected ; But found that more and more him she rejected . For Cupid , with his Craft , quickly had chosen , And with a leaden Shaft , her heart had frozen ; Which caus'd this Lover more sadly to languish , And Cupid's Aid implore to heal his Anguish . He humble Pardon crav'd for his Offence past , And vow'd himself a Slave and to Love stedfas His Prayers so ardent were , while his heart panted , That Cupid lent and ear , and his suit granted . For by his present Plaint , he was regarded , And his adored Saint his love rewarded : And now they live in Joy , sweetly embracing , And left the little Boy in the Woods chasing . London : Printed by and for W. O. for A. M. and sold by the Booksellers . 