The Coy Shepherdess OR , Phillis and Amintas . Fair Phillis in a wanton posture lies Not thinking to be seen by mortal eyes Till accidentally Amintas came , And see her lie , which made her blush for shame He cast himself down by her on the Hay And wone her love , before he went away . Tune of , Phillis on the new-made Hay , or , Amarillis . PHillis on the new made hay On a pleasant Summer's day She in a wanton pasture lay thinking no Shepherd nigh her Till Amintas came that way and threw himself down by her . At the first she was amaz'd And with blushes on him gaz'd H [ e ] r beau [ tO ] y bright , did him invite her shape he did admire , Her wanton dress , could do no less , then set his heart on fire . Then Amintas mildly said Phillis be not now afraid But entertain , thy shepherd swain , now we are met together , Then I shall prize thy sparkling eyes that did invite me hither . I have rang'd the Plains about For to find my Phillis out My flocks I left of joys bereft while I for thee did languish This in thy will my heart to fill , with joy , or else with anguish THen fair Phillis frowning said , My privacy thou hast betrayed Therefore be gone , let me alone do not disturb my pleasure , Nor do not move thy suit of love , but leave me to my leisure . Never yet did Shepherds Swain On this smooth Sicilian plain Once dare to move my deep disdain by such like hold intrusion . Then cease thy suit 'tis but in vain I scorn such found delusion , When Amintas see her frown Hoping still his joys to crown Quoth he my dear , as I am here I like not this behaviour This Lovers bliss , to toy and kiss it wins a Maidens favour . Let us like the Ivy twine And our loves in one combine Grim Pluto loved Proserpine her beauty did him fetters When thou art mine , & I am thine , I'l please thee ten times better Fie for shame found Boy she said I'm resolv'd to live a Maid , Thou a [ r ] tO too young , to do me wrong be not so b [ oh ] ld to venture , While he [ p ] oor youth , to speak the truth still aimed at the centre Phillis blushed as read as blood When his mind she understood His bold intent for to prevent she us'd her best endeavour , His resolution it was bent for he was loath to leave her . Hotly he pursued the Game While his heart was on a flame She cry'd pish nay fie for shame in faith you shall not do it But the youth her overcame and eagerly fell to [ i ] tO . Thus she strived all in vain While she felt a pleasing pain , Yet he by no means would refrain but kindly did embrace her , He kissed his love and told her plain he never would disgrace her . In great rage she flung away Tumbling over the new made hay While he asham'd & breathless lay although he then displeased her He rally'd and renewed the fray , and manfully appeas'd her . Thus they spent this crystal day in such wanton sports and play , Amintias there , imbrac't his Dear And bid her be light-heatred But night being come they hasted home and kindly kissed and parted . Printed for R. Burton at the Horseshoe in West-smith-field . The Coy Shepherdess OR , Phillis and Amintas . Fair Phillis in a wanton posture lies Not thinking to be seen by mortal eyes Till accidentally Amintas came , And see her lie , which made her blush for shame He cast himself down by her on the Hay And wone her love , before he went away . Tune of , Phillis on the new-made Hay , or , Amarillis . PHillis on the new made hay On a pleasant Summer's day She in a wanton pasture lay thinking no Shepherd nigh her Till Amintas came that way and threw himself down by her . At the first she was amaz'd And with blushes on him gaz'd H [ e ] r beau [ tO ] y bright , did him invite her shape he did admire , Her wanton dress , could do no less , then set his heart on fire . Then Amintas mildly said Phillis be not now afraid But entertain , thy shepherd swain , now we are met together , Then I shall prize thy sparkling eyes that did invite me hither . I have rang'd the Plains about For to find my Phillis out My flocks I left of joys bereft while I for thee did languish This in thy will my heart to fill , with joy , or else with anguish THen fair Phillis frowning said , My privacy thou hast betrayed Therefore be gone , let me alone do not disturb my pleasure , Nor do not move thy suit of love , but leave me to my leisure . Never yet did Shepherds Swain On this smooth Sicilian plain Once dare to move my deep disdain by such like hold intrusion . Then cease thy suit 'tis but in vain I scorn such found delusion , When Amintas see her frown Hoping still his joys to crown Quoth he my dear , as I am here I like not this behaviour This Lovers bliss , to toy and kiss it wins a Maidens favour . Let us like the Ivy twine And our loves in one combine Grim Pluto loved Proserpine her beauty did him fetters When thou art mine , & I am thine , I'l please thee ten times better Fie for shame found Boy she said I'm resolv'd to live a Maid , Thou a [ r ] tO too young , to do me wrong be not so b [ oh ] ld to venture , While he [ p ] oor youth , to speak the truth still aimed at the centre Phillis blushed as read as blood When his mind she understood His bold intent for to prevent she us'd her best endeavour , His resolution it was bent for he was loath to leave her . Hotly he pursued the Game While his heart was on a flame She cry'd pish nay fie for shame in faith you shall not do it But the youth her overcame and eagerly fell to [ i ] tO . Thus she strived all in vain While she felt a pleasing pain , Yet he by no means would refrain but kindly did embrace her , He kissed his love and told her plain he never would disgrace her . In great rage she flung away Tumbling over the new made hay While he asham'd & breathless lay although he then displeased her He rally'd and renewed the fray , and manfully appeas'd her . Thus they spent this crystal day in such wanton sports and play , Amintias there , imbrac't his Dear And bid her be light-heatred But night being come they hasted home and kindly kissed and parted . Printed for R. Burton at the Horseshoe in West-smith-field . 