The Country Farmer's Vainglory ; in a New Song of Harvest Home : Together with and Answer to their undecent Behaviour . Sung to a New Tune much in Request . Licensed according to Order [ . ] OUr Oats they are how'd , and our Barley's reap'd Our Hay it is mow'd , and our Hovel's heap'd ; Harvest home , Harvest home , We'll merrily roar out our Harvest home , Harvest home , harvest home ; We'll merrily roar out our Harvest home , We'll merrily roar out our Harvest home . We cheated the Parson , we'll cheat him again ; For why shou'd the Vicar have One in Ten , One in Ten , One in Ten , For why should the Vicar have One in Ten ? For why should , etc For staying while Dinner is cold and hight , And Padding and Dumpling's burned to pot , Burned to pot , burned to pot , Till Pudding and Dumpling's burned to th' Pot , Burned to pot , etc We'll drink off our Liquour while we can stand , And heigh for the Honour of Old England , Old England old England , And heigh for the Honour of Old England , Old England , etc And ANSWER to Harvest Home : OR , A True Character of such Countrymen who Glory in cheating the V [ i - ] car , & prefer Bag-pudding & Dumpling before Religion & Learning . To the Tune of Harvest Home . THe Country store up Hay , Oats and Wheat , And glory how they can the Parson cheat , Parson cheat , Parson cheat , And glory how they can the Parson cheat , And glory , etc The Country Bumpkin may speak with shame , That ever he cheated , for he's to blame , He's to blame , he's to blame ; That ever he cheated , for he's to blame , That ever , etc Likewise by the Laws of this potent Land , Now he in the Pillory ought to stand , Ought to stand , ought to stand , Now he in the Pillory ought to stand , Now he , etc Degrading of Learning do's plainly show , They never knew nothing but Him , je , ho , Him , je , ho , him , je , ho ; They never knew nothing but Him , je , ho , They never , etc Their hungry Appetite to suffice , Bag-pudding and Dumpling they Idolise , Idolise , Idolise , Bag-pudding and Dumpling they Idolise , Bag-pudding , etc And still as their Paunches they stuff and fill , Faith they are as safe as a Thief in a Mill , Thief in a Mill , Thief in a Mill Faith they are as safe as a Thief in a Mill , Faith they , etc Religion and Learning they all contemn , A lusty Bag-pudding is more to them , More to them , more to them , A lusty Bag-pudding is more to them , A lusty , etc Tell them of going to Church to pray , They'd rather hear Robin the Piper play , Piper play , Piper play , They'd rather hear Robin the Piper play , They'd rather , etc And when they have gather'd in all their store They merrily revel , nay rant and roar , Harvest home , Harvest home , They merrily roar out their Harvest home , Harvest home , Harvest home , They merrily roar out their Harvest home , They merrily roar , etc Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Dencon , J. Blame [ re , ] and J. Back . The Country Farmer's Vainglory ; in a New Song of Harvest Home : Together with and Answer to their undecent Behaviour . Sung to a New Tune much in Request . Licensed according to Order [ . ] OUr Oats they are how'd , and our Barley's reap'd Our Hay it is mow'd , and our Hovel's heap'd ; Harvest home , Harvest home , We'll merrily roar out our Harvest home , Harvest home , harvest home ; We'll merrily roar out our Harvest home , We'll merrily roar out our Harvest home . We cheated the Parson , we'll cheat him again ; For why shou'd the Vicar have One in Ten , One in Ten , One in Ten , For why should the Vicar have One in Ten ? For why should , etc For staying while Dinner is cold and hight , And Padding and Dumpling's burned to pot , Burned to pot , burned to pot , Till Pudding and Dumpling's burned to th' Pot , Burned to pot , etc We'll drink off our Liquour while we can stand , And heigh for the Honour of Old England , Old England old England , And heigh for the Honour of Old England , Old England , etc And ANSWER to Harvest Home : OR , A True Character of such Countrymen who Glory in cheating the V [ i - ] car , & prefer Bag-pudding & Dumpling before Religion & Learning . To the Tune of Harvest Home . THe Country store up Hay , Oats and Wheat , And glory how they can the Parson cheat , Parson cheat , Parson cheat , And glory how they can the Parson cheat , And glory , etc The Country Bumpkin may speak with shame , That ever he cheated , for he's to blame , He's to blame , he's to blame ; That ever he cheated , for he's to blame , That ever , etc Likewise by the Laws of this potent Land , Now he in the Pillory ought to stand , Ought to stand , ought to stand , Now he in the Pillory ought to stand , Now he , etc Degrading of Learning do's plainly show , They never knew nothing but Him , je , ho , Him , je , ho , him , je , ho ; They never knew nothing but Him , je , ho , They never , etc Their hungry Appetite to suffice , Bag-pudding and Dumpling they Idolise , Idolise , Idolise , Bag-pudding and Dumpling they Idolise , Bag-pudding , etc And still as their Paunches they stuff and fill , Faith they are as safe as a Thief in a Mill , Thief in a Mill , Thief in a Mill Faith they are as safe as a Thief in a Mill , Faith they , etc Religion and Learning they all contemn , A lusty Bag-pudding is more to them , More to them , more to them , A lusty Bag-pudding is more to them , A lusty , etc Tell them of going to Church to pray , They'd rather hear Robin the Piper play , Piper play , Piper play , They'd rather hear Robin the Piper play , They'd rather , etc And when they have gather'd in all their store They merrily revel , nay rant and roar , Harvest home , Harvest home , They merrily roar out their Harvest home , Harvest home , Harvest home , They merrily roar out their Harvest home , They merrily roar , etc Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Dencon , J. Blame [ re , ] and J. Back . 