Covetous-minded Parents , OR , The Languishing young Gentlewoman Whose Friends would have her Marry and old Miser for the sake of his Gold , which she utterly refused to do , resolving to be true to the first . Tune is , Farewell my dearest Dear . Licensed according to Order . I Am a Damosel fair of blooming Beauty ; Therefore I do declare it is my Duty My Parents to obey , Father and Mother ; They'd have me Marry Grey , I love another . Gray hath Five Thousand Pound , in ready Money ; There Riches does abound , but yet my Honey Whom I shall still adore , brings Love and Pleasure , The which I valve more than Gold and Treasure . Good God what shall I do , whom shall I marry ? Father and Mother too constantly weary Their Child to entertain this wretched Miser ; For which they are to blame , would they were wiser . What are those bags of Gold without a Blessing ? My Dearest Love behold he is possessing My heart and all that's dear , how can I leave him ? Heaven may prove severe if I deceive him . Before my Vow I'll break , Death shall destroy me : I will no other take , he must enjoy me . Though Friends continually scorn and deride me ; With him I'll live and die , what e're betide me . Though Gray hath Riches store , my Dear's above him ; Nay , had he ten times more , I could not love him : His Gold I count but dross , dregs of confusion , Which often proves a cross in the conclusion . Gold , Pearl and Silver bright I ne'r desire Give me my hearts' delight , whom I admire ; That Treasure I'd enjoy , my sweetest jewel : What grief will me destroy , Parents are cruel . Though tedious Nights I spend in mournful weeping ; My Heart , entire Friend , thou hast in keeping : Bear up a cheerful mind , let nothing grieve thee ; If I was not confin'd , I'd never leave thee . When my free liberty once I recover ; I'll quickly be with thee my loyal lover . Though now with bitter moan , grief does annoy me , No man but thee alone e're shall enjoy me . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . Covetous-minded Parents , OR , The Languishing young Gentlewoman Whose Friends would have her Marry and old Miser for the sake of his Gold , which she utterly refused to do , resolving to be true to the first . Tune is , Farewell my dearest Dear . Licensed according to Order . I Am a Damosel fair of blooming Beauty ; Therefore I do declare it is my Duty My Parents to obey , Father and Mother ; They'd have me Marry Grey , I love another . Gray hath Five Thousand Pound , in ready Money ; There Riches does abound , but yet my Honey Whom I shall still adore , brings Love and Pleasure , The which I valve more than Gold and Treasure . Good God what shall I do , whom shall I marry ? Father and Mother too constantly weary Their Child to entertain this wretched Miser ; For which they are to blame , would they were wiser . What are those bags of Gold without a Blessing ? My Dearest Love behold he is possessing My heart and all that's dear , how can I leave him ? Heaven may prove severe if I deceive him . Before my Vow I'll break , Death shall destroy me : I will no other take , he must enjoy me . Though Friends continually scorn and deride me ; With him I'll live and die , what e're betide me . Though Gray hath Riches store , my Dear's above him ; Nay , had he ten times more , I could not love him : His Gold I count but dross , dregs of confusion , Which often proves a cross in the conclusion . Gold , Pearl and Silver bright I ne'r desire Give me my hearts' delight , whom I admire ; That Treasure I'd enjoy , my sweetest jewel : What grief will me destroy , Parents are cruel . Though tedious Nights I spend in mournful weeping ; My Heart , entire Friend , thou hast in keeping : Bear up a cheerful mind , let nothing grieve thee ; If I was not confin'd , I'd never leave thee . When my free liberty once I recover ; I'll quickly be with thee my loyal lover . Though now with bitter moan , grief does annoy me , No man but thee alone e're shall enjoy me . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . The Country FARMER ; OR , THE Buxom VIRGIN . To a New Tune , called , New-Market , or King James's Jig ; THere was a brisk Lass both Bonny and Brown , That courted her Sweet heart , in our Town , She laid by her work , her wheel , and Yarn , To find out her love in the Farmers Barn , Quoth she , if thou wilt be married , We'l high to the Priest , then to bed , My Virgin Treasure i'le give thee Ned , That is to be plain my Maidenhead . You know that my love is a Flame of Fire , And burns when it cannot obtain desire , My Beauty is now in it's bloom and prime , And I cannot , nor wonnot delay the time : I long for to taste of those tender joys , Those soft Kisses , and wanton Toys , That every Maid in her Wedding enjoys , When Lasses with Lovers get lusty Boys . A Garland of Flowers my love shall wear , And i'le give him a lock of my coal-black-hair , At every Wake my love i'le treat , And i'le give him kind busses as Cream-Bowls sweet ; Thou shalt be my Buck and i'le be thy Doe , And i'le Milk , and thou shalt mow , I'le Carded , and i'le Spin , while you Harrow and sow And call upon Dobbin with Hey-ge-woe . Quoth Ned , for your Love I take no care , But busy my self with my Blow , and Mare . Young Cupid I think is a lazy Loon , And beside I intend for to marry Joan ? Quoth Nell , as for Joan she will never Wed , She lies like and Eunuch in her dull Bed , She's ugly , and Old , looks paler then Led , Not like a Brisk Lass of a Woman bred . Young Colin upon Martilla's Cheeks A thousand delightful pleasures seeks , He kisses her of't by her own goodwill , And will scarcely once let her all night lie still : Come touch but my lips , with those lips of thine , They are all melting , and all divine , Like Grapes that appear on the Springing Vine , As plump , and as soft , and as sweet as thine . My dearest quoth Ned , i'le but clout my shoone , And we will be Married before 'tis noon : I'le go to the Church and a License bring , And buy thee a dainty fine Golden Ring : I'le give thee to ride on my pacing Roan , With the Gray Pillian I lent to Joan , Ah! ways me poor Jug , how will she make moan , That Fate has design'd her to lie alone . While Jug feels the pains of Cupids Dart , That wounds the breast of each Lovers heart , She'l fit and she'l sighs upon the Plain , And rehearse her disloyal Shepherd's name , While thee my dear Gill in my arms i'le hug , And hide thee in the soft Sheet and Rugg , Poor Joan shall look pale , that never looked smugg , Adieu to my gentle sweet Jugg-Jugg-Jugg . Though Juggy be crusty what need I care , For she may have Lovers enough to spare , But now she is lately so sour grown , She minds not the youngmen that make their more [ and ] Yet lusty for Life , and full of good will , I was yesterday , so I am still , I'll bring all my Grist to my true Lovers Mill , And hug and make much of my Gill , Gill , Gill. FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pie-corner [ . ] The Country FARMER ; OR , THE Buxom VIRGIN . To a New Tune , called , New-Market , or King James's Jig ; THere was a brisk Lass both Bonny and Brown , That courted her Sweet heart , in our Town , She laid by her work , her wheel , and Yarn , To find out her love in the Farmers Barn , Quoth she , if thou wilt be married , We'l high to the Priest , then to bed , My Virgin Treasure i'le give thee Ned , That is to be plain my Maidenhead . You know that my love is a Flame of Fire , And burns when it cannot obtain desire , My Beauty is now in it's bloom and prime , And I cannot , nor wonnot delay the time : I long for to taste of those tender joys , Those soft Kisses , and wanton Toys , That every Maid in her Wedding enjoys , When Lasses with Lovers get lusty Boys . A Garland of Flowers my love shall wear , And i'le give him a lock of my coal-black-hair , At every Wake my love i'le treat , And i'le give him kind busses as Cream-Bowls sweet ; Thou shalt be my Buck and i'le be thy Doe , And i'le Milk , and thou shalt mow , I'le Carded , and i'le Spin , while you Harrow and sow And call upon Dobbin with Hey-ge-woe . Quoth Ned , for your Love I take no care , But busy my self with my Blow , and Mare . Young Cupid I think is a lazy Loon , And beside I intend for to marry Joan ? Quoth Nell , as for Joan she will never Wed , She lies like and Eunuch in her dull Bed , She's ugly , and Old , looks paler then Led , Not like a Brisk Lass of a Woman bred . Young Colin upon Martilla's Cheeks A thousand delightful pleasures seeks , He kisses her of't by her own goodwill , And will scarcely once let her all night lie still : Come touch but my lips , with those lips of thine , They are all melting , and all divine , Like Grapes that appear on the Springing Vine , As plump , and as soft , and as sweet as thine . My dearest quoth Ned , i'le but clout my shoone , And we will be Married before 'tis noon : I'le go to the Church and a License bring , And buy thee a dainty fine Golden Ring : I'le give thee to ride on my pacing Roan , With the Gray Pillian I lent to Joan , Ah! ways me poor Jug , how will she make moan , That Fate has design'd her to lie alone . While Jug feels the pains of Cupids Dart , That wounds the breast of each Lovers heart , She'l fit and she'l sighs upon the Plain , And rehearse her disloyal Shepherd's name , While thee my dear Gill in my arms i'le hug , And hide thee in the soft Sheet and Rugg , Poor Joan shall look pale , that never looked smugg , Adieu to my gentle sweet Jugg-Jugg-Jugg . Though Juggy be crusty what need I care , For she may have Lovers enough to spare , But now she is lately so sour grown , She minds not the youngmen that make their more [ and ] Yet lusty for Life , and full of good will , I was yesterday , so I am still , I'll bring all my Grist to my true Lovers Mill , And hug and make much of my Gill , Gill , Gill. FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pie-corner [ . ] Covetous-minded Parents , OR , The Languishing young Gentlewoman Whose Friends would have her Marry and old Miser for the sake of his Gold , which she utterly refused to do , resolving to be true to the first . Tune is , Farewell my dearest Dear . Licensed according to Order . I Am a Damosel fair of blooming Beauty ; Therefore I do declare it is my Duty My Parents to obey , Father and Mother ; They'd have me Marry Grey , I love another . Gray hath Five Thousand Pound , in ready Money ; There Riches does abound , but yet my Honey Whom I shall still adore , brings Love and Pleasure , The which I valve more than Gold and Treasure . Good God what shall I do , whom shall I marry ? Father and Mother too constantly weary Their Child to entertain this wretched Miser ; For which they are to blame , would they were wiser . What are those bags of Gold without a Blessing ? My Dearest Love behold he is possessing My heart and all that's dear , how can I leave him ? Heaven may prove severe if I deceive him . Before my Vow I'll break , Death shall destroy me : I will no other take , he must enjoy me . Though Friends continually scorn and deride me ; With him I'll live and die , what e're betide me . Though Gray hath Riches store , my Dear's above him ; Nay , had he ten times more , I could not love him : His Gold I count but dross , dregs of confusion , Which often proves a cross in the conclusion . Gold , Pearl and Silver bright I ne'r desire Give me my hearts' delight , whom I admire ; That Treasure I'd enjoy , my sweetest jewel : What grief will me destroy , Parents are cruel . Though tedious Nights I spend in mournful weeping ; My Heart , entire Friend , thou hast in keeping : Bear up a cheerful mind , let nothing grieve thee ; If I was not confin'd , I'd never leave thee . When my free liberty once I recover ; I'll quickly be with thee my loyal lover . Though now with bitter moan , grief does annoy me , No man but thee alone e're shall enjoy me . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . Covetous-minded Parents , OR , The Languishing young Gentlewoman Whose Friends would have her Marry and old Miser for the sake of his Gold , which she utterly refused to do , resolving to be true to the first . Tune is , Farewell my dearest Dear . Licensed according to Order . I Am a Damosel fair of blooming Beauty ; Therefore I do declare it is my Duty My Parents to obey , Father and Mother ; They'd have me Marry Grey , I love another . Gray hath Five Thousand Pound , in ready Money ; There Riches does abound , but yet my Honey Whom I shall still adore , brings Love and Pleasure , The which I valve more than Gold and Treasure . Good God what shall I do , whom shall I marry ? Father and Mother too constantly weary Their Child to entertain this wretched Miser ; For which they are to blame , would they were wiser . What are those bags of Gold without a Blessing ? My Dearest Love behold he is possessing My heart and all that's dear , how can I leave him ? Heaven may prove severe if I deceive him . Before my Vow I'll break , Death shall destroy me : I will no other take , he must enjoy me . Though Friends continually scorn and deride me ; With him I'll live and die , what e're betide me . Though Gray hath Riches store , my Dear's above him ; Nay , had he ten times more , I could not love him : His Gold I count but dross , dregs of confusion , Which often proves a cross in the conclusion . Gold , Pearl and Silver bright I ne'r desire Give me my hearts' delight , whom I admire ; That Treasure I'd enjoy , my sweetest jewel : What grief will me destroy , Parents are cruel . Though tedious Nights I spend in mournful weeping ; My Heart , entire Friend , thou hast in keeping : Bear up a cheerful mind , let nothing grieve thee ; If I was not confin'd , I'd never leave thee . When my free liberty once I recover ; I'll quickly be with thee my loyal lover . Though now with bitter moan , grief does annoy me , No man but thee alone e're shall enjoy me . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 