A Pleasant New BALLAD : Being a merry Discourse between a Country Lass & a young Taylor : SHOWING How the Taylor lost his plighted and pleasure His Yard not being , by the Standard , Measure . To a pleasant New Tune , or Kesser Crab. IN Harvesttime I walked hard by a Corn-Close side ; I hearing people talk , I looked about , and spy'd A Young man and a maid , together they did lie ; When you hear it told , you'l laugh full heartily . She was as buxsome a Lass as any in our Town ; She will not let you pass , but she'l call you to fit down . A Taylor passing by , she hit him on the heel , You are very welcome Sir , to fit you down and feel . What money's in my Purse , at your command shall be , If you will go along to Marson wake with me . He hearing her say so , and seeing her to smile , Was charmed with her , so he sat him down a while . And having groped her Purse , and taken all her money , He grop'd again , and missed , and caught her by the Coney . Where am I now ? ( quoth he ) another I have found , Its not the same , quoth he , for this is tufted round . If it be tufted round , quoth she , there is good reason for't , There is such treasure lies , will make a Taylor sport . He hearing her say so , being a frolicsome Lad , Was willing for to know more of the fringed bag . With that he eagerly to feel put forth his hand ; Nay , hold good Sir , said she , go not before you stand : Except you take your Yard , the depth of it to measure , You'l find the Purse so deep , you'l hardly come to th' treasure . He hearing her say so , it put him to a stand ; She seeing him dismayed , she took his Yard in hand : Is this your Yard , quoth she , is this your Tailors measure ? It is too short for me , it is not Standard-Measure . The Taylor being abashed , she told him that it was More fitter for a man , than such a peuny Ass. She bids him now be gone , since he could make no sport , And said , thou art too dull to enter such a fort . She looking fiercely at him , she said , thou sneaking fool , Go straight away to Vulcan , and let him mend thy tool : And tell him that Dame Venus , at him is almost mad , For sending to her School such and unfit Lad. You Tailors that attempt fringed bags to measure , Be sure your Yards be sealed , and full Standard-Measure . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Westsmi [ th ] field . A Pleasant New BALLAD : Being a merry Discourse between a Country Lass & a young Taylor : SHOWING How the Taylor lost his plighted and pleasure His Yard not being , by the Standard , Measure . To a pleasant New Tune , or Kesser Crab. IN Harvesttime I walked hard by a Corn-Close side ; I hearing people talk , I looked about , and spy'd A Young man and a maid , together they did lie ; When you hear it told , you'l laugh full heartily . She was as buxsome a Lass as any in our Town ; She will not let you pass , but she'l call you to fit down . A Taylor passing by , she hit him on the heel , You are very welcome Sir , to fit you down and feel . What money's in my Purse , at your command shall be , If you will go along to Marson wake with me . He hearing her say so , and seeing her to smile , Was charmed with her , so he sat him down a while . And having groped her Purse , and taken all her money , He grop'd again , and missed , and caught her by the Coney . Where am I now ? ( quoth he ) another I have found , Its not the same , quoth he , for this is tufted round . If it be tufted round , quoth she , there is good reason for't , There is such treasure lies , will make a Taylor sport . He hearing her say so , being a frolicsome Lad , Was willing for to know more of the fringed bag . With that he eagerly to feel put forth his hand ; Nay , hold good Sir , said she , go not before you stand : Except you take your Yard , the depth of it to measure , You'l find the Purse so deep , you'l hardly come to th' treasure . He hearing her say so , it put him to a stand ; She seeing him dismayed , she took his Yard in hand : Is this your Yard , quoth she , is this your Tailors measure ? It is too short for me , it is not Standard-Measure . The Taylor being abashed , she told him that it was More fitter for a man , than such a peuny Ass. She bids him now be gone , since he could make no sport , And said , thou art too dull to enter such a fort . She looking fiercely at him , she said , thou sneaking fool , Go straight away to Vulcan , and let him mend thy tool : And tell him that Dame Venus , at him is almost mad , For sending to her School such and unfit Lad. You Tailors that attempt fringed bags to measure , Be sure your Yards be sealed , and full Standard-Measure . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Westsmi [ th ] field . 