THE Coy COOK-MAID , Who was Courted importunately by Irish , Welch , Spanish , French and Dutch , but at last was conquered by a poor English Taylor . To the Tune of , There was a brisk Lass , etc This may be Printed , R. P. JOan scrub'd up her rooms , made all things clean , The tables , th [ e ] chairs , and the edge of the skreen , She scour'd each pisspot and pewter-dish Made e'ry thing clean as heart could wish ; The pewter and brass was so very clear , That wanting a glass , she oft drew near , To worser [ eck ] up her head and curl her hair , Not one among twenty with her could compare . She made her plumb pottage and sweet minc'd-pies , The rost-beef was laid down when she did rise ; Dinner was ready , and lik'd so well , Not one among twenty could Joan excel ; They prais'd her so much that Joan grew proud , And then she began to prate aloud , I will have a husband oft she cry'd , A pretty youngman to lie by my side . Then out stepped a Scot with blue bonnet on , He looked full as big as a Spanish dONE : His pistol was under his chequer'd plade , His whinyard was made of a Bilbo blade : Quoth he , bred a gad , the day's mine-awn , I'm as bonny a fellow as e'er was knawn , I'm will would this lassee before I'm gang beam , She'll mack me geud langkeal to fill my weam . He came salute her , but Joan was mad , And call'd the poor scotchman a saucy lad , She took up the ladle and broke his p [ a ] to , And told him he proffer'd his love too late : Deel blin you , quoth Sawny , you nasty slut , The muckl deel stop hemp in your gut , I'm n [ oh ] w seck Joan to be my wife , She'll e'ne mack me weary of my life . Then a fine frenchman took his place , His cravet and ruffles where all of lace . Said he , begar , me comes to dis place , Me be much in love vid your sweet face , Me no like no la [ worser ] y vidin this town . Begar , me no like dem , they for much frown ; Me have seen all , me tink dere's none That may be compar'd vid mistress Joan. Me be resolve to loose my life But me will have Joan to be my wife : Joan look'd about , and then reply'd , The devil shall be the french-man's bride ; March to your pottage you sinical knave , I'll ne'r go to France to be your slave ; Get you out of the kitchen , or else by Mars This swinging sp [ i ] tO shall run through your a ---- Poor monsieur looked blank and sneaked away , For his wife nor his life he durst not stay ; The [ n ] enter'd and irishman and swore The noise of her beauty brought him o're ; My naam is Teague , and by my shalw [ a ] ashon I prize die faash 'bove all in the Naashon , Den preddee dear joy come kish my sweet faash , By shaint Phaatrick I never will leave this plaash . I have a potato-plat of my own , And a shneeshing-boxh , 'tish very well known ; I have a schullogue to run by my shide , I fait and trote thou shalt be my bride . Be gone bogg-trotter , then Joan did cry , Or the brom-stick shall on your shoulders lie , Pack up your awl , and make short of your story , Or I'll make you pay dear for your vainglory . A seaman from Holland then enter'd the list , As drunken a rascal as ever pist ; He brought in his hand a bottle of Nans , And swore 'twas the famousest liquour in Fran [ ce ; ] 'Twill make you Dutch spraagen before it be [ noon , ] Be gone ( said she ) you drunken clown , I'll pull the blue rug from off your pate , If you offer to stay with Joan to prate . And then Jack Spaniard began to vapour ; With a mighty short cloak and a very long rap [ ier , ] He offer'd his service and proudly did strut , But Joan went and gave him a kick with her [ foot . ] the insolent dog ( quoth she ) be gone , There's none I hate more then a Spanish dONE , I mean not to wait upon such a proud sinner While he is pamp'ring his guts at dinner . The welshman hearing the rest were gone , Resolv'd that he would be with her anon , With leek in his hat , on St. Taffy's day He came to Joan , and thus he did say : Hur was a brave gentleman in Wales , Hur has a tood land , cots-plutter-a-nails . Hur has a fine goat , and hur makes sheese , Was hur makes hur a lady if now hur please . But Joan protested she hated them all , And swore to be at and english man's call ; She k [ n ] ew their humours and did not doubt But some or other would choose her ou At last she married a taylor good lord , And he the greasy frigate did board ; They both were well pleas'd and kindly agreed , And she from the rest of her suitors was freed . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , in Pie-corner . THE Coy COOK-MAID , Who was Courted importunately by Irish , Welch , Spanish , French and Dutch , but at last was conquered by a poor English Taylor . To the Tune of , There was a brisk Lass , etc This may be Printed , R. P. JOan scrub'd up her rooms , made all things clean , The tables , th [ e ] chairs , and the edge of the skreen , She scour'd each pisspot and pewter-dish Made e'ry thing clean as heart could wish ; The pewter and brass was so very clear , That wanting a glass , she oft drew near , To worser [ eck ] up her head and curl her hair , Not one among twenty with her could compare . She made her plumb pottage and sweet minc'd-pies , The rost-beef was laid down when she did rise ; Dinner was ready , and lik'd so well , Not one among twenty could Joan excel ; They prais'd her so much that Joan grew proud , And then she began to prate aloud , I will have a husband oft she cry'd , A pretty youngman to lie by my side . Then out stepped a Scot with blue bonnet on , He looked full as big as a Spanish dONE : His pistol was under his chequer'd plade , His whinyard was made of a Bilbo blade : Quoth he , bred a gad , the day's mine-awn , I'm as bonny a fellow as e'er was knawn , I'm will would this lassee before I'm gang beam , She'll mack me geud langkeal to fill my weam . He came salute her , but Joan was mad , And call'd the poor scotchman a saucy lad , She took up the ladle and broke his p [ a ] to , And told him he proffer'd his love too late : Deel blin you , quoth Sawny , you nasty slut , The muckl deel stop hemp in your gut , I'm n [ oh ] w seck Joan to be my wife , She'll e'ne mack me weary of my life . Then a fine frenchman took his place , His cravet and ruffles where all of lace . Said he , begar , me comes to dis place , Me be much in love vid your sweet face , Me no like no la [ worser ] y vidin this town . Begar , me no like dem , they for much frown ; Me have seen all , me tink dere's none That may be compar'd vid mistress Joan. Me be resolve to loose my life But me will have Joan to be my wife : Joan look'd about , and then reply'd , The devil shall be the french-man's bride ; March to your pottage you sinical knave , I'll ne'r go to France to be your slave ; Get you out of the kitchen , or else by Mars This swinging sp [ i ] tO shall run through your a ---- Poor monsieur looked blank and sneaked away , For his wife nor his life he durst not stay ; The [ n ] enter'd and irishman and swore The noise of her beauty brought him o're ; My naam is Teague , and by my shalw [ a ] ashon I prize die faash 'bove all in the Naashon , Den preddee dear joy come kish my sweet faash , By shaint Phaatrick I never will leave this plaash . I have a potato-plat of my own , And a shneeshing-boxh , 'tish very well known ; I have a schullogue to run by my shide , I fait and trote thou shalt be my bride . Be gone bogg-trotter , then Joan did cry , Or the brom-stick shall on your shoulders lie , Pack up your awl , and make short of your story , Or I'll make you pay dear for your vainglory . A seaman from Holland then enter'd the list , As drunken a rascal as ever pist ; He brought in his hand a bottle of Nans , And swore 'twas the famousest liquour in Fran [ ce ; ] 'Twill make you Dutch spraagen before it be [ noon , ] Be gone ( said she ) you drunken clown , I'll pull the blue rug from off your pate , If you offer to stay with Joan to prate . And then Jack Spaniard began to vapour ; With a mighty short cloak and a very long rap [ ier , ] He offer'd his service and proudly did strut , But Joan went and gave him a kick with her [ foot . ] the insolent dog ( quoth she ) be gone , There's none I hate more then a Spanish dONE , I mean not to wait upon such a proud sinner While he is pamp'ring his guts at dinner . The welshman hearing the rest were gone , Resolv'd that he would be with her anon , With leek in his hat , on St. Taffy's day He came to Joan , and thus he did say : Hur was a brave gentleman in Wales , Hur has a tood land , cots-plutter-a-nails . Hur has a fine goat , and hur makes sheese , Was hur makes hur a lady if now hur please . But Joan protested she hated them all , And swore to be at and english man's call ; She k [ n ] ew their humours and did not doubt But some or other would choose her ou At last she married a taylor good lord , And he the greasy frigate did board ; They both were well pleas'd and kindly agreed , And she from the rest of her suitors was freed . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , in Pie-corner . 