The Cuckold's Lamentation of a Bad WIFE . He is tormented , and she Tanns his Hide , He knows not how to live , nor where to abide ; Beside she makes him for to wear the Horn , And he wishes that he never had been born : To all young Bachelors now he does declare , When they go a Wooing for to have a Care , There's is many Maids good , but some proves evil , His Luck was bad , he met with a She-Devil . To the Tune of The Country Farmer . Or , Why are my Eyes still flow ------ ing . YOung Bachelors all , come hear this new Song , And take warning by me , lest you do your selves wrong For I like a Fool must needs go to be Wed , To bring a Slut , and a Whore , and a Scold to my Bed ; Beside she will fight with me everyday , She is such a devilish Quean , I do say : A Man needs no more Sorrow to shorten his Life , When he has such hard Fortune to have a bad Wife . All day I lie working and taking of pains , And she lies at the Alehouse and spends all the Gains ; And when I come home and give her a word , She'll snap me up short and no comfort afford , And then she'll say , Sirrah where is all your Money ? You have been with your Whores , and you have left ne'er a penny ; And then she lets fly that I am weary of my Life , Then God help that poor Man that has god such a Wife : I complain of my Wedding , and of my bad Life , What fortune I had in choosing a Wife ; If I had sought Hell there had not been such another For fighting , and scolding , and swearing together , That I am frighted sometime clear out of my Wit , For fear that my Bones they should be soar bea A Man needs no more sorrow to shorten his Life , Then God help that poor Man that has god such a Wife . On Saturday-night I stayed late for my Wage , And when I came home my Wife was in a great Rage , She wellcom'd me home , but ne'er call'd me Honey , But bumbasted me soundly , and call'd for my Money ; She gave me a slap on the Chops , and put me in a fright , That I promise you truly that my Nose is soar you A Man needs no more sorrow to shorten his Life . When he has such hard Fortune to have a bad Wife . She makes me a Cuckold when I am at work , Her Cullies about her so closely do lurk , I may curse the time that e'er I was born , That I must be forced now to wear the Horn ; No , the Horn is not all , but she bangs my Bones soar , And when I am in Bed with her , she throws me on the floar A Man needs no , etc I cannot sleep quietly , I now will be sworn , I am so tormented with the pain of the Horn , Therefore honest Bachelors have a great care That you never , like me , draw your selves in a Snare ; For my Wife is so mankin when she sets on That I am not able to tame her , let me do what I can : A Man needs no , etc She minds nought but Idleness , this is the Truth , And to find fault with her I am very loath , One day I but speak , and she did begin , She took up the Tongue's and broke both my shins , You Cuckoldy Rogue do you know what you say ? I will soften your Hide if you prate in that way : Did you e'er hear the like , she will shorten my Life , God help that poor Man that has god such a Wife . When any of her Customers comes to our House , I must stand at the back ; I dare not say Don is the Mouse , She will be so angry at me , I swear , That I am ready to bepiss my Breeches for fear ; And if I do not carry my Cup then upright Lamb-pye I must have to my Supper that nigh I am so tormented I am weary of my Life , God help that poor Man that has god such a Wife . And now to conclude , you have herd my Distress , My Fortune was bad , all this I confess , And Bachelors all take warning by me , Some Women are dangerous Cattle you see ; For I am Henpeckt to the sighed of my Friends , And have nothing but Blows to make me amends : I am so tormented I am weary of my Life , God help that poor Man that has god such a Wife . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . The Cuckold's Lamentation of a Bad WIFE . He is tormented , and she Tanns his Hide , He knows not how to live , nor where to abide ; Beside she makes him for to wear the Horn , And he wishes that he never had been born : To all young Bachelors now he does declare , When they go a Wooing for to have a Care , There's is many Maids good , but some proves evil , His Luck was bad , he met with a She-Devil . To the Tune of The Country Farmer . Or , Why are my Eyes still flow ------ ing . YOung Bachelors all , come hear this new Song , And take warning by me , lest you do your selves wrong For I like a Fool must needs go to be Wed , To bring a Slut , and a Whore , and a Scold to my Bed ; Beside she will fight with me everyday , She is such a devilish Quean , I do say : A Man needs no more Sorrow to shorten his Life , When he has such hard Fortune to have a bad Wife . All day I lie working and taking of pains , And she lies at the Alehouse and spends all the Gains ; And when I come home and give her a word , She'll snap me up short and no comfort afford , And then she'll say , Sirrah where is all your Money ? You have been with your Whores , and you have left ne'er a penny ; And then she lets fly that I am weary of my Life , Then God help that poor Man that has god such a Wife : I complain of my Wedding , and of my bad Life , What fortune I had in choosing a Wife ; If I had sought Hell there had not been such another For fighting , and scolding , and swearing together , That I am frighted sometime clear out of my Wit , For fear that my Bones they should be soar bea A Man needs no more sorrow to shorten his Life , Then God help that poor Man that has god such a Wife . On Saturday-night I stayed late for my Wage , And when I came home my Wife was in a great Rage , She wellcom'd me home , but ne'er call'd me Honey , But bumbasted me soundly , and call'd for my Money ; She gave me a slap on the Chops , and put me in a fright , That I promise you truly that my Nose is soar you A Man needs no more sorrow to shorten his Life . When he has such hard Fortune to have a bad Wife . She makes me a Cuckold when I am at work , Her Cullies about her so closely do lurk , I may curse the time that e'er I was born , That I must be forced now to wear the Horn ; No , the Horn is not all , but she bangs my Bones soar , And when I am in Bed with her , she throws me on the floar A Man needs no , etc I cannot sleep quietly , I now will be sworn , I am so tormented with the pain of the Horn , Therefore honest Bachelors have a great care That you never , like me , draw your selves in a Snare ; For my Wife is so mankin when she sets on That I am not able to tame her , let me do what I can : A Man needs no , etc She minds nought but Idleness , this is the Truth , And to find fault with her I am very loath , One day I but speak , and she did begin , She took up the Tongue's and broke both my shins , You Cuckoldy Rogue do you know what you say ? I will soften your Hide if you prate in that way : Did you e'er hear the like , she will shorten my Life , God help that poor Man that has god such a Wife . When any of her Customers comes to our House , I must stand at the back ; I dare not say Don is the Mouse , She will be so angry at me , I swear , That I am ready to bepiss my Breeches for fear ; And if I do not carry my Cup then upright Lamb-pye I must have to my Supper that nigh I am so tormented I am weary of my Life , God help that poor Man that has god such a Wife . And now to conclude , you have herd my Distress , My Fortune was bad , all this I confess , And Bachelors all take warning by me , Some Women are dangerous Cattle you see ; For I am Henpeckt to the sighed of my Friends , And have nothing but Blows to make me amends : I am so tormented I am weary of my Life , God help that poor Man that has god such a Wife . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . 