The Brides Burial . To the tune of the Ladies fallen . COme mourn , come mourn with me you loyal lovers all , Lament my loss in weeds of woe , whom gripping grief does thrall , Like to the dropping vine , cut down by gardners knife , Even so my heart with sorrow stain , does bleed for my sweet wife . By Death ( that grisly Ghost ) my turtle Dove is slain : And I am lost unhappy man , to spend my days in pain : Her beauty late so bright , like Roses in their prime , Is wasted like the mountains snow , by force of Phoebus shine . Her fair read coloured lips , now pale and wan , her eyes That late did shine like crystal stars , alas her light it die : Her pretty lily hands , with fingers long and small , In colour lie like earthly clay , yea cold and stiff withal . When as the morning grey , her golden gate had spread , And that the glistering sun arose , forth from fair Thetis bed : Then did my love awake , most like a lily flower , And as the lovely Queen of heaven , so shin'd she in her bower . Attired she was then , like Flora in her pride , As fair as brave Dianaes Nymph's , so looked my lovely Bride , And as fair Hellens face , gave Grecian Dams the lurch , So did my deer exceed in sighed , all Virgins in the Church . When we had knit the knot , of holy wedlock's band : Like Alabaster joyn'd to jet , so stood we hand in hand : Then lo a chilling cold , struk every vital part ; And gripping grief like pangs of death , seaz'd on my true Loves heart . Down in a found she fell , as cold as any stone : Like Venus picture lacking life , so was my Love brought home . At length arose a read , throughout her comely face , As Phoebus beams with watery clouds over covered her face . Then with a grievous groan , and voice most hoarse and dry , Farewell quoth she my loving friends , for I this day must die . The messenger of God , with golden Trump I see : With many other Angels more , does found and call for me . In stead of music sweet , go tole my passing bell : And with these flowers strow my grave that in my chamber smell : Strip off my Brides array , my Cork-shoes from my feet , And gentle mother be not coy , to bring my winding sheet . My Wedding dinner dressed , bestow upon the poor : And on the hungry needy mained , that craves at the door . In stead of Virgins young , my Bridebed for to see , Go cause some cunning Carpente [ r ] to make a chest for me . My Bride laces of silk , bestow'd on maidens meet , May fitly serve when I am dead , to tie my hands and feet : And thou my Lover true , my husband and my friend , Let me entreat thee here to stay , until my life does end . Now leave to talk of love , and humbly on your knee : Direct your prayer unto God , but mourn no more for me . In love as we have lived , in love let us depar And I in token of my love , do kiss thee with my heart . O stench thy bootless tears , thy weeping is in vain : I am not lost , for we in heaven , shall one day meet again . With that she turn'd her head , as one disposed to sleep , And like a Lamb departed life : while friends full soar did weep . Her true Love seeing this , did fetch a grievous groan , As though his heart did burst in two , and thus he made his moan : Oh dismal heavy day , a day of grief and care , That hath bereft the Sun so high , whose beams refreshed the air . Now woe unto the world , and all that therein dwell , Oh that I were with her in heaven , for here I live in hell : And now this Lover lives , a discontented life : Whose Bride was brought unto that [ e ] gra [ we ] a Maiden and a Wife . A garland fresh and fair , of Lilies there was made , In sign of her Virginity , and on her Coffin laid : Sixe maidens all in white , did bear her to the ground , The Bells' did ring in solemn sort , and made a solemn found . In earth they laid her then , for hungry worms a prey : So shall the fairest face alive , at length be brought to clay . FINIS . London Printed for H. Gosson . The Brides Burial . To the tune of the Ladies fallen . COme mourn , come mourn with me you loyal lovers all , Lament my loss in weeds of woe , whom gripping grief does thrall , Like to the dropping vine , cut down by gardners knife , Even so my heart with sorrow stain , does bleed for my sweet wife . By Death ( that grisly Ghost ) my turtle Dove is slain : And I am lost unhappy man , to spend my days in pain : Her beauty late so bright , like Roses in their prime , Is wasted like the mountains snow , by force of Phoebus shine . Her fair read coloured lips , now pale and wan , her eyes That late did shine like crystal stars , alas her light it die : Her pretty lily hands , with fingers long and small , In colour lie like earthly clay , yea cold and stiff withal . When as the morning grey , her golden gate had spread , And that the glistering sun arose , forth from fair Thetis bed : Then did my love awake , most like a lily flower , And as the lovely Queen of heaven , so shin'd she in her bower . Attired she was then , like Flora in her pride , As fair as brave Dianaes Nymph's , so looked my lovely Bride , And as fair Hellens face , gave Grecian Dams the lurch , So did my deer exceed in sighed , all Virgins in the Church . When we had knit the knot , of holy wedlock's band : Like Alabaster joyn'd to jet , so stood we hand in hand : Then lo a chilling cold , struk every vital part ; And gripping grief like pangs of death , seaz'd on my true Loves heart . Down in a found she fell , as cold as any stone : Like Venus picture lacking life , so was my Love brought home . At length arose a read , throughout her comely face , As Phoebus beams with watery clouds over covered her face . Then with a grievous groan , and voice most hoarse and dry , Farewell quoth she my loving friends , for I this day must die . The messenger of God , with golden Trump I see : With many other Angels more , does found and call for me . In stead of music sweet , go tole my passing bell : And with these flowers strow my grave that in my chamber smell : Strip off my Brides array , my Cork-shoes from my feet , And gentle mother be not coy , to bring my winding sheet . My Wedding dinner dressed , bestow upon the poor : And on the hungry needy mained , that craves at the door . In stead of Virgins young , my Bridebed for to see , Go cause some cunning Carpente [ r ] to make a chest for me . My Bride laces of silk , bestow'd on maidens meet , May fitly serve when I am dead , to tie my hands and feet : And thou my Lover true , my husband and my friend , Let me entreat thee here to stay , until my life does end . Now leave to talk of love , and humbly on your knee : Direct your prayer unto God , but mourn no more for me . In love as we have lived , in love let us depar And I in token of my love , do kiss thee with my heart . O stench thy bootless tears , thy weeping is in vain : I am not lost , for we in heaven , shall one day meet again . With that she turn'd her head , as one disposed to sleep , And like a Lamb departed life : while friends full soar did weep . Her true Love seeing this , did fetch a grievous groan , As though his heart did burst in two , and thus he made his moan : Oh dismal heavy day , a day of grief and care , That hath bereft the Sun so high , whose beams refreshed the air . Now woe unto the world , and all that therein dwell , Oh that I were with her in heaven , for here I live in hell : And now this Lover lives , a discontented life : Whose Bride was brought unto that [ e ] gra [ we ] a Maiden and a Wife . A garland fresh and fair , of Lilies there was made , In sign of her Virginity , and on her Coffin laid : Sixe maidens all in white , did bear her to the ground , The Bells' did ring in solemn sort , and made a solemn found . In earth they laid her then , for hungry worms a prey : So shall the fairest face alive , at length be brought to clay . FINIS . London Printed for H. Gosson . The Brides Burial . To the tune of the Ladies fallen . COme mourn , come mourn with me you loyal lovers all , Lament my loss in weeds of woe , whom gripping grief does thrall , Like to the dropping vine , cut down by gardners knife , Even so my heart with sorrow stain , does bleed for my sweet wife . By Death ( that grisly Ghost ) my turtle Dove is slain : And I am lost unhappy man , to spend my days in pain : Her beauty late so bright , like Roses in their prime , Is wasted like the mountains snow , by force of Phoebus shine . Her fair read coloured lips , now pale and wan , her eyes That late did shine like crystal stars , alas her light it die : Her pretty lily hands , with fingers long and small , In colour lie like earthly clay , yea cold and stiff withal . When as the morning grey , her golden gate had spread , And that the glistering sun arose , forth from fair Thetis bed : Then did my love awake , most like a lily flower , And as the lovely Queen of heaven , so shin'd she in her bower . Attired she was then , like Flora in her pride , As fair as brave Dianaes Nymph's , so looked my lovely Bride , And as fair Hellens face , gave Grecian Dams the lurch , So did my deer exceed in sighed , all Virgins in the Church . When we had knit the knot , of holy wedlock's band : Like Alabaster joyn'd to jet , so stood we hand in hand : Then lo a chilling cold , struk every vital part ; And gripping grief like pangs of death , seaz'd on my true Loves heart . Down in a found she fell , as cold as any stone : Like Venus picture lacking life , so was my Love brought home . At length arose a read , throughout her comely face , As Phoebus beams with watery clouds over covered her face . Then with a grievous groan , and voice most hoarse and dry , Farewell quoth she my loving friends , for I this day must die . The messenger of God , with golden Trump I see : With many other Angels more , does found and call for me . In stead of music sweet , go tole my passing bell : And with these flowers strow my grave that in my chamber smell : Strip off my Brides array , my Cork-shoes from my feet , And gentle mother be not coy , to bring my winding sheet . My Wedding dinner dressed , bestow upon the poor : And on the hungry needy mained , that craves at the door . In stead of Virgins young , my Bridebed for to see , Go cause some cunning Carpente [ r ] to make a chest for me . My Bride laces of silk , bestow'd on maidens meet , May fitly serve when I am dead , to tie my hands and feet : And thou my Lover true , my husband and my friend , Let me entreat thee here to stay , until my life does end . Now leave to talk of love , and humbly on your knee : Direct your prayer unto God , but mourn no more for me . In love as we have lived , in love let us depar And I in token of my love , do kiss thee with my heart . O stench thy bootless tears , thy weeping is in vain : I am not lost , for we in heaven , shall one day meet again . With that she turn'd her head , as one disposed to sleep , And like a Lamb departed life : while friends full soar did weep . Her true Love seeing this , did fetch a grievous groan , As though his heart did burst in two , and thus he made his moan : Oh dismal heavy day , a day of grief and care , That hath bereft the Sun so high , whose beams refreshed the air . Now woe unto the world , and all that therein dwell , Oh that I were with her in heaven , for here I live in hell : And now this Lover lives , a discontented life : Whose Bride was brought unto that [ e ] gra [ we ] a Maiden and a Wife . A garland fresh and fair , of Lilies there was made , In sign of her Virginity , and on her Coffin laid : Sixe maidens all in white , did bear her to the ground , The Bells' did ring in solemn sort , and made a solemn found . In earth they laid her then , for hungry worms a prey : So shall the fairest face alive , at length be brought to clay . FINIS . London Printed for H. Gosson . The Brides Burial . To the tune of the Ladies fallen . COme mourn , come mourn with me you loyal lovers all , Lament my loss in weeds of woe , whom gripping grief does thrall , Like to the dropping vine , cut down by gardners knife , Even so my heart with sorrow stain , does bleed for my sweet wife . By Death ( that grisly Ghost ) my turtle Dove is slain : And I am lost unhappy man , to spend my days in pain : Her beauty late so bright , like Roses in their prime , Is wasted like the mountains snow , by force of Phoebus shine . Her fair read coloured lips , now pale and wan , her eyes That late did shine like crystal stars , alas her light it die : Her pretty lily hands , with fingers long and small , In colour lie like earthly clay , yea cold and stiff withal . When as the morning grey , her golden gate had spread , And that the glistering sun arose , forth from fair Thetis bed : Then did my love awake , most like a lily flower , And as the lovely Queen of heaven , so shin'd she in her bower . Attired she was then , like Flora in her pride , As fair as brave Dianaes Nymph's , so looked my lovely Bride , And as fair Hellens face , gave Grecian Dams the lurch , So did my deer exceed in sighed , all Virgins in the Church . When we had knit the knot , of holy wedlock's band : Like Alabaster joyn'd to jet , so stood we hand in hand : Then lo a chilling cold , struk every vital part ; And gripping grief like pangs of death , seaz'd on my true Loves heart . Down in a found she fell , as cold as any stone : Like Venus picture lacking life , so was my Love brought home . At length arose a read , throughout her comely face , As Phoebus beams with watery clouds over covered her face . Then with a grievous groan , and voice most hoarse and dry , Farewell quoth she my loving friends , for I this day must die . The messenger of God , with golden Trump I see : With many other Angels more , does found and call for me . In stead of music sweet , go tole my passing bell : And with these flowers strow my grave that in my chamber smell : Strip off my Brides array , my Cork-shoes from my feet , And gentle mother be not coy , to bring my winding sheet . My Wedding dinner dressed , bestow upon the poor : And on the hungry needy mained , that craves at the door . In stead of Virgins young , my Bridebed for to see , Go cause some cunning Carpente [ r ] to make a chest for me . My Bride laces of silk , bestow'd on maidens meet , May fitly serve when I am dead , to tie my hands and feet : And thou my Lover true , my husband and my friend , Let me entreat thee here to stay , until my life does end . Now leave to talk of love , and humbly on your knee : Direct your prayer unto God , but mourn no more for me . In love as we have lived , in love let us depar And I in token of my love , do kiss thee with my heart . O stench thy bootless tears , thy weeping is in vain : I am not lost , for we in heaven , shall one day meet again . With that she turn'd her head , as one disposed to sleep , And like a Lamb departed life : while friends full soar did weep . Her true Love seeing this , did fetch a grievous groan , As though his heart did burst in two , and thus he made his moan : Oh dismal heavy day , a day of grief and care , That hath bereft the Sun so high , whose beams refreshed the air . Now woe unto the world , and all that therein dwell , Oh that I were with her in heaven , for here I live in hell : And now this Lover lives , a discontented life : Whose Bride was brought unto that [ e ] gra [ we ] a Maiden and a Wife . A garland fresh and fair , of Lilies there was made , In sign of her Virginity , and on her Coffin laid : Sixe maidens all in white , did bear her to the ground , The Bells' did ring in solemn sort , and made a solemn found . In earth they laid her then , for hungry worms a prey : So shall the fairest face alive , at length be brought to clay . FINIS . London Printed for H. Gosson . 