The Dorsetshire DAMOSEL : OR , Young NANCY at her last Prayer . Containing her earnest request to Ralph the Miller , to be satisfied whither he would have her or not : Concluding with his kind Answer . To the Tune of , Found Boy , etc Or , Love's a sweet Passion , etc IN Dorsetshire lived a young Miller by Trade , Who had courted sweet Nancy and innocent Maid , Full a Twelvemonth or more he had kept her in hand ; She went to him at last that she might understand What he meant by his fooling and serving her so : Prithee tell me , quoth she , if you'll have me or no ? When first you come to me , How kind was you then ? You would give me sweet Kisses a hundred and ten , Nay , and told me that you did my Beauty adore , Yet you have not been with me this two Months or more ; Therefore pray now resolve me before I do go , Whither you do intend for to have me or no ? When ever I came with my Grist to your Mill You would always be kissing and courting me still , I could ne'er be at rest and at quiet for you ; I appeal to your Conscience if this be not true ; Therefore pray now resolve me before I do go , Whither you do intend for to have me or no ? I Bought you a Cravat to go to a Feast , One that cost Half-a-crown , or two Shillings at least , And beside that I gave you three Else of good Linen For to make you a Shirt , of my Mother's own Spinning [ ; ] Therefore prithee resolve me before I do go , Whither you do intend for to have me or no ? There's Roger would have me , and calls me his Dear ; He has god and Estate of ten Shillings a Year , Beside forty good Shillings and five in a Purse , Therefore don't spoil my Fortune and hinder me thus , But be pleas'd to resolve me before I do go , Whither you do intend for to have me or no ? You told me last Easter you'd make me your Bride , Wherefore new Knots and Favours I strait did provide , Yet you ne'er came a near me till now June the third ; E'ry honest Man would be as good as his Word : But I prithee resolve me before I do go , Whither you do intend for to have me or no ? You solemnly swore when I sat on your knee That you then had a love and a kindness for me , And if so , What's the reason I am not your Bride ? Faith these lingering Bargins I near could abide ; Let me now be resolved before I do go , Whither you do intend for to have me or no ? 'Tis very well known I am just in my Prime , And to have a kind Husband I think it high time ; If at Michaelmas last the good deed had been done , I might had before now a young Daughter or Son ; Pray resolve me this Question before I do go , Whither you do intend for to have me or no ? The Young Man's Answer . SWeet Nancy , my Promise I do not forget , But I am not resolv'd to be Marry'd as yet ; The devouring Sword now is reigning you see , And if I to the Wars should be forced from thee ; Then thy grief , care and sorrow will daily increase , Therefore prithee Love stay till a flourishing Peace . Believe me , I swear by the Powers above , That I never will leave thee for any new Love ; My desires is that thou wilt patiently wait , Till the Land is restor'd to a prosperous State ; If I live but till then thou shalt be my sweet Bride , For I love none in all the whole Nation beside . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street . The Dorsetshire DAMOSEL : OR , Young NANCY at her last Prayer . Containing her earnest request to Ralph the Miller , to be satisfied whither he would have her or not : Concluding with his kind Answer . To the Tune of , Found Boy , etc Or , Love's a sweet Passion , etc IN Dorsetshire lived a young Miller by Trade , Who had courted sweet Nancy and innocent Maid , Full a Twelvemonth or more he had kept her in hand ; She went to him at last that she might understand What he meant by his fooling and serving her so : Prithee tell me , quoth she , if you'll have me or no ? When first you come to me , How kind was you then ? You would give me sweet Kisses a hundred and ten , Nay , and told me that you did my Beauty adore , Yet you have not been with me this two Months or more ; Therefore pray now resolve me before I do go , Whither you do intend for to have me or no ? When ever I came with my Grist to your Mill You would always be kissing and courting me still , I could ne'er be at rest and at quiet for you ; I appeal to your Conscience if this be not true ; Therefore pray now resolve me before I do go , Whither you do intend for to have me or no ? I Bought you a Cravat to go to a Feast , One that cost Half-a-crown , or two Shillings at least , And beside that I gave you three Else of good Linen For to make you a Shirt , of my Mother's own Spinning [ ; ] Therefore prithee resolve me before I do go , Whither you do intend for to have me or no ? There's Roger would have me , and calls me his Dear ; He has god and Estate of ten Shillings a Year , Beside forty good Shillings and five in a Purse , Therefore don't spoil my Fortune and hinder me thus , But be pleas'd to resolve me before I do go , Whither you do intend for to have me or no ? You told me last Easter you'd make me your Bride , Wherefore new Knots and Favours I strait did provide , Yet you ne'er came a near me till now June the third ; E'ry honest Man would be as good as his Word : But I prithee resolve me before I do go , Whither you do intend for to have me or no ? You solemnly swore when I sat on your knee That you then had a love and a kindness for me , And if so , What's the reason I am not your Bride ? Faith these lingering Bargins I near could abide ; Let me now be resolved before I do go , Whither you do intend for to have me or no ? 'Tis very well known I am just in my Prime , And to have a kind Husband I think it high time ; If at Michaelmas last the good deed had been done , I might had before now a young Daughter or Son ; Pray resolve me this Question before I do go , Whither you do intend for to have me or no ? The Young Man's Answer . SWeet Nancy , my Promise I do not forget , But I am not resolv'd to be Marry'd as yet ; The devouring Sword now is reigning you see , And if I to the Wars should be forced from thee ; Then thy grief , care and sorrow will daily increase , Therefore prithee Love stay till a flourishing Peace . Believe me , I swear by the Powers above , That I never will leave thee for any new Love ; My desires is that thou wilt patiently wait , Till the Land is restor'd to a prosperous State ; If I live but till then thou shalt be my sweet Bride , For I love none in all the whole Nation beside . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street . 