The Distressed MOTHER : Being a Merchant's Daughter of London , who lost her Husband in Ireland , and her Father falling to decay , l [ ying ] in Prison , brought her youngest Child to the Court at Kensington , leaving it there with a Note in its bosom , w [ hich ] show'd her misfortunes ; desiring the Queen to be Kind to the Child for its parents sake ; which she graciously [ ac - ] cordingly did . To the Tune of , Let Cesar live long . ALL you that have now a desire to hear A pleasant new Ditty , I'd have you draw near , It is of a Passage that happen'd at Court , Where both Lords and Ladies of Fame do resort ; There came a young Woman , as we understand , And walk'd too and from with a Child in her hand . She seemed , alas ! to be loaded with grief , And stood in great need of some speedy relief , As having the Picture of Care in her Face , Yet nothing she said to the Nobles in place , But wander'd about in the Court for a while , Still leading the Babe which did prattle and smile . This Infant the Ladies of Honour beheld , And they with pure love and affection were fill'd , [ TO ] oh see this sweet Creature , who wittily play'd , And likewise at length near their Presence it stray' [ worser , ] Now they being busy , they then did not mind This Child , while the Mother had left it behind . Then missing the Mother , poor Creature it cry'd , And looking all round it on every side ; Yet this was in vain , for no Mother was there , At length the young Ladies of Honour took care , And brought it immediately to our good Queen , Who said a more sweeter she never had seen . In decent Apparel this Child then was dressed , And likewise a Writing was plac'd in the Breast [ , ] The which gave the Queen a relation at large , Concerning this poor Woman's grief and her char [ ge , ] As now in these following Lines will appear , If that you are willing to lend but and Ear . THe sum of the Lines of that Letter were these . My Husband , with Schomberg went over the Seas Unto the most desolate Irish Shore , Where Cannons in Battle , like thunder , did roar ; And there in the Field was unhappily slave , For whom I in sorrow and grief do remain . My Father he was a rich Merchant of Fame , In London , yet I shall not mention his Name ; He many fair Hundreds and Thousands has lost , By France , as they over the Ocean have cros This makes me almost now distracted to run , My Husband is dead , and my Father undone . This Wealth I'd not valve , nay , if it were more , Provided that we had but Treasure in store ; But my aged Father's in Prison this Day , Because he his Debts is not able to pay : And thus , Royal Queen , I in brief do relate Our sad and distressed deplorable state . As Gracious Queen Marry the Letter did read , With pity her heart then was ready to bleed ; Sweet Babe , for thy Mother and dear Father's sake , A careful provision for thee I will make ; And likewise be kind to thy Grandsire also , If that thy dear Mother and him I did know . A Lady of Honour then stood by the side Of Gracious Queen Marry , to whom she reply'd , Procure me a Nurse for this Child out of hand ; The Lady no longer disputing did stand , But a careful Woman that hour did seek , Who has for her Wages Six Shillings a Week . This Child was a Girl about two years of age , Whose pretty sweet actions does daily engage The Ladies of Honour to love it also , In sumptuous apparel likewise it does go : And thus by her Royal compassionate care , The Queen with her Ladies does nourish it there . FINIS . Licensed according to Order . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . The Distressed MOTHER : Being a Merchant's Daughter of London , who lost her Husband in Ireland , and her Father falling to decay , l [ ying ] in Prison , brought her youngest Child to the Court at Kensington , leaving it there with a Note in its bosom , w [ hich ] show'd her misfortunes ; desiring the Queen to be Kind to the Child for its parents sake ; which she graciously [ ac - ] cordingly did . To the Tune of , Let Cesar live long . ALL you that have now a desire to hear A pleasant new Ditty , I'd have you draw near , It is of a Passage that happen'd at Court , Where both Lords and Ladies of Fame do resort ; There came a young Woman , as we understand , And walk'd too and from with a Child in her hand . She seemed , alas ! to be loaded with grief , And stood in great need of some speedy relief , As having the Picture of Care in her Face , Yet nothing she said to the Nobles in place , But wander'd about in the Court for a while , Still leading the Babe which did prattle and smile . This Infant the Ladies of Honour beheld , And they with pure love and affection were fill'd , [ TO ] oh see this sweet Creature , who wittily play'd , And likewise at length near their Presence it stray' [ worser , ] Now they being busy , they then did not mind This Child , while the Mother had left it behind . Then missing the Mother , poor Creature it cry'd , And looking all round it on every side ; Yet this was in vain , for no Mother was there , At length the young Ladies of Honour took care , And brought it immediately to our good Queen , Who said a more sweeter she never had seen . In decent Apparel this Child then was dressed , And likewise a Writing was plac'd in the Breast [ , ] The which gave the Queen a relation at large , Concerning this poor Woman's grief and her char [ ge , ] As now in these following Lines will appear , If that you are willing to lend but and Ear . THe sum of the Lines of that Letter were these . My Husband , with Schomberg went over the Seas Unto the most desolate Irish Shore , Where Cannons in Battle , like thunder , did roar ; And there in the Field was unhappily slave , For whom I in sorrow and grief do remain . My Father he was a rich Merchant of Fame , In London , yet I shall not mention his Name ; He many fair Hundreds and Thousands has lost , By France , as they over the Ocean have cros This makes me almost now distracted to run , My Husband is dead , and my Father undone . This Wealth I'd not valve , nay , if it were more , Provided that we had but Treasure in store ; But my aged Father's in Prison this Day , Because he his Debts is not able to pay : And thus , Royal Queen , I in brief do relate Our sad and distressed deplorable state . As Gracious Queen Marry the Letter did read , With pity her heart then was ready to bleed ; Sweet Babe , for thy Mother and dear Father's sake , A careful provision for thee I will make ; And likewise be kind to thy Grandsire also , If that thy dear Mother and him I did know . A Lady of Honour then stood by the side Of Gracious Queen Marry , to whom she reply'd , Procure me a Nurse for this Child out of hand ; The Lady no longer disputing did stand , But a careful Woman that hour did seek , Who has for her Wages Six Shillings a Week . This Child was a Girl about two years of age , Whose pretty sweet actions does daily engage The Ladies of Honour to love it also , In sumptuous apparel likewise it does go : And thus by her Royal compassionate care , The Queen with her Ladies does nourish it there . FINIS . Licensed according to Order . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 