Downright Dick of the West ; OR , The Plow-Mans Ramble to LONDON , To see my Lord-Mayor and the rest of the Vine Folk of the City ; with what happened while he there remained . Tune of , The Country Farmer . This may be Printed . R. P. I Pray now attend and give ear to the jest , A Countryman he came late from the West , For he had a mind to see my Lord Mayor , And oh [ tO ] her fine Folk which it seems lodged there : Then up to the City at length he did range , Where seeing brave Gallants , in rich golden fringe But he above all did admire and strange To zee the fine folk at the Royal Exchange . The Countryman amazed did stand , And looking about with his Whip in his hand , Then come a fine fellow , a DONE of the Town , And called him Bumpkin and Country Clown , And asked him how he dare to presume , To Lag here and Loiter , thus fill up the Room , among these gay Ladies in Silk and Perfume , Be gone and pack off , or the stocks is your doom . I pray who are you ? then the Plowman reply'd , That does so scornfully here me deride , Fine fellow , said he , seeing you are unkind , In short I shall tell you a piece of my mind , I came now to see my Lord Mayor his good grace I fear not the angry frowns of [ y ] our face , As long as I list , I will stay in this place , Or on your Gay Coat I will lay a long Lace . For why , said the Plowman , I care not a fig , For all your high words , and your looking so big , This gallant was then in a passion indeed , And thus in a fury began to proceed , As making a proffer to give him a kick , The Plowmen perceiving him just in the neck , He told him his name it was resolute Dick , Then up with his lash , and he gave him a lick . O then this fine Fellow began for to roar , Then presently came in twenty and more , Who asked the Plowman , how dare he to do't , Since he was a person of worthy repute : He first did abuse me in calling me Clown , I could not forbear , but I gave him a frown ; Why should those fine fellows run Husband men down , You can't live without us in city or town . Nay Plowman , i'de have you well understand , That we have both Silver and Gold at command , Rich chains & choice jewels , with diamonds & rings , With plenty of spices , and other fine things : Of many Rich Coffers we carry the Keys , We have such Estates that we live at our ease , We eat and we drink and we walk where we please , Then what do you think of such fellows as these ? For all your rich Jewels , you starving may die , If we do not bring in a day [ l ] y supply , We blow and we sow , and we harrow and mow , We have both the Milk , and the Honey you know : We ne're are without a good pudding and souse , Then what need you Londoners make such a touze , If we did not labour you could not keep house , You gallants would soon sh -- as small as a Mouse . Both Linen and Woollen what e're we will wear , We have of our own by industrious care , We daily delight in much pleasure and mirth , And always receive the first fruit of the Earth : To flout us I think you were something too bold , You'd starve if you fed upon Silver or Gold , We have corn , cattle and sheep in our Fold , With rich beans and bacon , eat hold belly hold . The Londoners presently laughing outright , For in his discourse they had taken delight , They said it was true , and they did him commend , And thus the whole quarrel was soon at and end : The Plowman they freely began to extal , He soon god the favour of great men and small , And thus their debate did immediately fallen , The Plowman in wit was too hard for them all . FINIS . Downright Dick of the West ; OR , The Plow-Mans Ramble to LONDON , To see my Lord-Mayor and the rest of the Vine Folk of the City ; with what happened while he there remained . Tune of , The Country Farmer . This may be Printed . R. P. I Pray now attend and give ear to the jest , A Countryman he came late from the West , For he had a mind to see my Lord Mayor , And oh [ tO ] her fine Folk which it seems lodged there : Then up to the City at length he did range , Where seeing brave Gallants , in rich golden fringe But he above all did admire and strange To zee the fine folk at the Royal Exchange . The Countryman amazed did stand , And looking about with his Whip in his hand , Then come a fine fellow , a DONE of the Town , And called him Bumpkin and Country Clown , And asked him how he dare to presume , To Lag here and Loiter , thus fill up the Room , among these gay Ladies in Silk and Perfume , Be gone and pack off , or the stocks is your doom . I pray who are you ? then the Plowman reply'd , That does so scornfully here me deride , Fine fellow , said he , seeing you are unkind , In short I shall tell you a piece of my mind , I came now to see my Lord Mayor his good grace I fear not the angry frowns of [ y ] our face , As long as I list , I will stay in this place , Or on your Gay Coat I will lay a long Lace . For why , said the Plowman , I care not a fig , For all your high words , and your looking so big , This gallant was then in a passion indeed , And thus in a fury began to proceed , As making a proffer to give him a kick , The Plowmen perceiving him just in the neck , He told him his name it was resolute Dick , Then up with his lash , and he gave him a lick . O then this fine Fellow began for to roar , Then presently came in twenty and more , Who asked the Plowman , how dare he to do't , Since he was a person of worthy repute : He first did abuse me in calling me Clown , I could not forbear , but I gave him a frown ; Why should those fine fellows run Husband men down , You can't live without us in city or town . Nay Plowman , i'de have you well understand , That we have both Silver and Gold at command , Rich chains & choice jewels , with diamonds & rings , With plenty of spices , and other fine things : Of many Rich Coffers we carry the Keys , We have such Estates that we live at our ease , We eat and we drink and we walk where we please , Then what do you think of such fellows as these ? For all your rich Jewels , you starving may die , If we do not bring in a day [ l ] y supply , We blow and we sow , and we harrow and mow , We have both the Milk , and the Honey you know : We ne're are without a good pudding and souse , Then what need you Londoners make such a touze , If we did not labour you could not keep house , You gallants would soon sh -- as small as a Mouse . Both Linen and Woollen what e're we will wear , We have of our own by industrious care , We daily delight in much pleasure and mirth , And always receive the first fruit of the Earth : To flout us I think you were something too bold , You'd starve if you fed upon Silver or Gold , We have corn , cattle and sheep in our Fold , With rich beans and bacon , eat hold belly hold . The Londoners presently laughing outright , For in his discourse they had taken delight , They said it was true , and they did him commend , And thus the whole quarrel was soon at and end : The Plowman they freely began to extal , He soon god the favour of great men and small , And thus their debate did immediately fallen , The Plowman in wit was too hard for them all . FINIS . 