The Despairing Youths Grief Crowned with Joy and Happiness , By the Return of his Dear LOVE . Forsaken Lovers thus Complain , nay , and for Death will call ; But when their Loves return again , amends is made for all . To the Tune of , Black and Sullen hour . This may be Printed , R. P. ADieu my Dear whom I adore , thou art the cause of all my grief , I never shall behold thee more , here am I left without Relief : It was in thee I plac'd my chiefest Bliss , But now thy Company I miss ; But now thy Company I miss ; Alas ! what Grief and Torment's this ! Alas ! what Grief and Torment's this ! I must exclaim against you now , whose heart wi [ l ] l not with pity move , Could you so soon forget your Vow , and violate the Laws of Love ! No Creature e're ador'd you more than I , Yet , yet I here in sorrow lie : Yet , yet I here , etc And all through your Inconstancy , And all through your Inconstancy . When I am in my Nights Repose , methinks I have her in my Arms , Where I most tenderly enclose thee with a thousand pleasing Charms : But when I wake and find it nothing so , My heart is fill'd with Grief and woe ; My heart , etc Alas ! I know not where to go ; Alas I know not where to go . FAin would I cast thee from my mind , but yet alas ! 'tis all in vain ; No joy or Comfort can I find , while you requite me with disdain : And leave me here a Lover quite forlorn . Well may I wish I'de ne'r been born ; Well may , etc Then live the object of your scorn ; then live the Object of your scorn . Since I am thus in sorrow slave , by the departure of my dear , You gentle Winds that Fans the Plains , convey these tidings to my Dear : And let her understand my grief and woe . Who knows but she may pity show ; Who knows , etc Why should she seek my overthrow ? Why should she seek my overthrow ? He had no sooner spoke this word , but then her heart began to yern , No longer Grief she could afford , said she , I perfectly discern Thy Love is Loyal , therefore till I die , Take hand and heart , my dear , for why ; Take hand and heart , etc I cannot leave thee , no not I : I cannot leave thee , no not . Then turned he his head aside , most cheerfully he then did seem , Is this my Jewel ? he reply'd , or is it some deluding Dream ? No , no , 'tis I , then leave lamenting o're , For all thy blessings i'le restore ; For all thy , etc We ne'r will be divided more ; We ne'r will be divided more . Tho' I withdrew my self some time , it was to prove thy Constancy , But dearest pardon me this Crime , who from my promise cannot fly : My heart in purity I still did save , Which none alive but thee shall have ; Which none alive but thee shall have : I come to heal the wound I gave : I come to heal the Wound I gave . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , in Pye-Corner . The Despairing Youths Grief Crowned with Joy and Happiness , By the Return of his Dear LOVE . Forsaken Lovers thus Complain , nay , and for Death will call ; But when their Loves return again , amends is made for all . To the Tune of , Black and Sullen hour . This may be Printed , R. P. ADieu my Dear whom I adore , thou art the cause of all my grief , I never shall behold thee more , here am I left without Relief : It was in thee I plac'd my chiefest Bliss , But now thy Company I miss ; But now thy Company I miss ; Alas ! what Grief and Torment's this ! Alas ! what Grief and Torment's this ! I must exclaim against you now , whose heart wi [ l ] l not with pity move , Could you so soon forget your Vow , and violate the Laws of Love ! No Creature e're ador'd you more than I , Yet , yet I here in sorrow lie : Yet , yet I here , etc And all through your Inconstancy , And all through your Inconstancy . When I am in my Nights Repose , methinks I have her in my Arms , Where I most tenderly enclose thee with a thousand pleasing Charms : But when I wake and find it nothing so , My heart is fill'd with Grief and woe ; My heart , etc Alas ! I know not where to go ; Alas I know not where to go . FAin would I cast thee from my mind , but yet alas ! 'tis all in vain ; No joy or Comfort can I find , while you requite me with disdain : And leave me here a Lover quite forlorn . Well may I wish I'de ne'r been born ; Well may , etc Then live the object of your scorn ; then live the Object of your scorn . Since I am thus in sorrow slave , by the departure of my dear , You gentle Winds that Fans the Plains , convey these tidings to my Dear : And let her understand my grief and woe . Who knows but she may pity show ; Who knows , etc Why should she seek my overthrow ? Why should she seek my overthrow ? He had no sooner spoke this word , but then her heart began to yern , No longer Grief she could afford , said she , I perfectly discern Thy Love is Loyal , therefore till I die , Take hand and heart , my dear , for why ; Take hand and heart , etc I cannot leave thee , no not I : I cannot leave thee , no not . Then turned he his head aside , most cheerfully he then did seem , Is this my Jewel ? he reply'd , or is it some deluding Dream ? No , no , 'tis I , then leave lamenting o're , For all thy blessings i'le restore ; For all thy , etc We ne'r will be divided more ; We ne'r will be divided more . Tho' I withdrew my self some time , it was to prove thy Constancy , But dearest pardon me this Crime , who from my promise cannot fly : My heart in purity I still did save , Which none alive but thee shall have ; Which none alive but thee shall have : I come to heal the wound I gave : I come to heal the Wound I gave . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , in Pye-Corner . 