Englands Triumph : Or , The Subject's joy . All you that troubled are with Melancholy , The Spaniards have a Juice will make you jolly : Good Wine , good Wine , I say's the only thing , That can for such distemper comfort bring : It comforts the heart , and quickens each vein , If a man be half dead , it will fetch him again . To a pleasant new Tune , Or , come let us drink all day and night . THe Kings most faithful Subject's we , indeed we are not dull . We drink to show our Loyalty , and to fill his Coffers full : If all his Subject's drank like us , he would be richer far , More powerful and more prosperous then all the Eastern Monarchs are , then all the Eastern Monarchs are . Then let us drink all day and night , give each a lusty bowl , This is the ravishing Delight of every generous Soul : While others lie and soak in bed , and Live but half their time , This Wine that lies within our head , shall still preserve us in our prime , etc Instead of sleep we'l spend the Night , in singing of the praise , Of Wine that makes the Soldier fight , and gives the Poet bays , That fills the veins with noble blood though we be ne'r so mean , Inspires what's either great or good , and turns rank Clowns to Gentlemen , etc Let Soulders fight , and Parsons preach , and scholars break their brains , Fanatics sweat and ball to teach , sedition for their gains , While others they do wast and pine , we still are found at heart , And if we have but spritely Wine , we'l drin [ k ] and roar , and never part , we'l drink and roar , and never part . LEt Merchant's still for treasures run , and cross the burning Line , We have our Engines here at home , in every glass of Wine . Each Carbuncle upon my Nose , better then Jems does shine , My cheeks are fresh like to a Rose , my heart is merry with brisk Wine , my heart is merry with brisk Wine . Let Doctors cure themselves of grief , and each Apothecary , We are sure to give our selves relief , by drinking of Canary , If melancholy disturbs the mind , and makes our hearts full sad , We know where we good Sack can find and that will make us brisk and glad , and that will make us brisk and glad . Our Wives the benefit will find when we come home at night , Good Wine does always make us kind , and give them their delight . While that the sober sot is dull , in counting of his coin , And filling of his Coffers full , our brains shall swim in Spanish Wine , our brains shall swim in Spanish Wine . If that a foreign Foe should strive , our Country to invade , One bowl of Sack would conquer five , drank by and English blade , It makes e'm fight courageously , their country to defend , They never shrink nor fear to die , but hold out stoutly to the end , but hold out stoutly to the end . If that Consumption should us waste , and make our bodies poor , Then every morning Sack we taste , which does our health restore , Around , around , let's drink about , the first Glass shall be mine , Fill it up to that brim i'le drink it out , and fit and sing the praise of Wine , and fit and sing the praise of Wine . Here's a health , here's a health to Englands King , whom God grant long to Reign , Our drinking shall him tribute bring , let sectaries complain . Wealth , honour , and renown attend his Royal Name always , His Joys I wish may ne'r have end , but gain his subject's love and praise , but gain his Subject's love and praise [ . ] Printed for J. Hose . over-against Staples-Inn in Houlbourn . near Grays-Inn-Lane . Englands Triumph : Or , The Subject's joy . All you that troubled are with Melancholy , The Spaniards have a Juice will make you jolly : Good Wine , good Wine , I say's the only thing , That can for such distemper comfort bring : It comforts the heart , and quickens each vein , If a man be half dead , it will fetch him again . To a pleasant new Tune , Or , come let us drink all day and night . THe Kings most faithful Subject's we , indeed we are not dull . We drink to show our Loyalty , and to fill his Coffers full : If all his Subject's drank like us , he would be richer far , More powerful and more prosperous then all the Eastern Monarchs are , then all the Eastern Monarchs are . Then let us drink all day and night , give each a lusty bowl , This is the ravishing Delight of every generous Soul : While others lie and soak in bed , and Live but half their time , This Wine that lies within our head , shall still preserve us in our prime , etc Instead of sleep we'l spend the Night , in singing of the praise , Of Wine that makes the Soldier fight , and gives the Poet bays , That fills the veins with noble blood though we be ne'r so mean , Inspires what's either great or good , and turns rank Clowns to Gentlemen , etc Let Soulders fight , and Parsons preach , and scholars break their brains , Fanatics sweat and ball to teach , sedition for their gains , While others they do wast and pine , we still are found at heart , And if we have but spritely Wine , we'l drin [ k ] and roar , and never part , we'l drink and roar , and never part . LEt Merchant's still for treasures run , and cross the burning Line , We have our Engines here at home , in every glass of Wine . Each Carbuncle upon my Nose , better then Jems does shine , My cheeks are fresh like to a Rose , my heart is merry with brisk Wine , my heart is merry with brisk Wine . Let Doctors cure themselves of grief , and each Apothecary , We are sure to give our selves relief , by drinking of Canary , If melancholy disturbs the mind , and makes our hearts full sad , We know where we good Sack can find and that will make us brisk and glad , and that will make us brisk and glad . Our Wives the benefit will find when we come home at night , Good Wine does always make us kind , and give them their delight . While that the sober sot is dull , in counting of his coin , And filling of his Coffers full , our brains shall swim in Spanish Wine , our brains shall swim in Spanish Wine . If that a foreign Foe should strive , our Country to invade , One bowl of Sack would conquer five , drank by and English blade , It makes e'm fight courageously , their country to defend , They never shrink nor fear to die , but hold out stoutly to the end , but hold out stoutly to the end . If that Consumption should us waste , and make our bodies poor , Then every morning Sack we taste , which does our health restore , Around , around , let's drink about , the first Glass shall be mine , Fill it up to that brim i'le drink it out , and fit and sing the praise of Wine , and fit and sing the praise of Wine . Here's a health , here's a health to Englands King , whom God grant long to Reign , Our drinking shall him tribute bring , let sectaries complain . Wealth , honour , and renown attend his Royal Name always , His Joys I wish may ne'r have end , but gain his subject's love and praise , but gain his Subject's love and praise [ . ] Printed for J. Hose . over-against Staples-Inn in Houlbourn . near Grays-Inn-Lane . 