The Enchanted LOVER , Or , Celia Triumphant . Being a most pleasant new Court Song . Conquored by love enchanted Strephon sings , While the loves god his flames fans with his wings , And makes him Celia praise unto the Skies , Beauty and Celia now are all he cries , Transported by his passion and her eyes , Thus Amorous Youth are caught in Cupids net , Which the enchanting fair Doves daily set . To a pleasant new Playhouse Tune . AH ! how pleasant are the charms of Love , which like Streams are always flowing Ah! how pleasant are the Charms of Love , which like Streams are always flowing , So my passion [ ' ] s still a g [ r ] owing , nothing but my Celia's eyes can move , So my passion's still a growing , perfect and immortal as the joys above . When Celia did my heart surprise , every Siniew felt a pleasure , Each kind look from her obliging eye fill'd my heart with endless Treasure : Love , Oh Love , is the only treasure , Joy and Blessing from the Grave and Wise , Give me Love , and Life , and Pleasure , I shall never end , what the World enjoys . Ah! how ravishing is the delight how transporting is the pleasure , And what are the Charms that do invite when each smile's a boundless treasure , That exceeds the Indian Ocean , or all the Riches that the World can give , Her eyes sparkle in the motion like the Heav'nly fires that do for ever live . O still in the Groves I sing her praise while the Birds the same returning , Loudly warble forth fair Celias lays , and the Lark sings every morning , Grateful Tunes of sweetest number , for to raise my Celia from her ease , So to shake off her soft slumber , and all the gentle fancies that do her seize . Ah how like the Snow are Celia's Breasts which do charm with pleasant panting , There the god of love his head does rest , nor can sleep those pillows wanting , While her breath the Air perfuming . Balm forth from her Coral Lips does flow Which like Spices when they'r blooming , round about the world fragrant sweets do throw Her fair Tresses like Sunbeams do shine with which amorous Winds still playing , Make her for to look far more divine , while devotion I am paying And to pleasures am aspiring as there's nothing more has power to move , Nor on Earth that's worth desiring , is there ought I can compare with Celias love Ah my Celia pride of all her Sex , beauty's boast and chiefest treasure , To whom Venus does all things anex , to complete her all of pleasure , That the joys above resembled , in a mortal once again does dwell , Where all virtues are assembled perfect in themselves & that all else excel . Which the world beside has power to give , O my Celia fair and charming , By whose smiles alone I live whose eyes like the Sun are warming , But when in my Arms embracing O then let my silence speak the joy , For 'tis far beyond expressing , sure such blessed transports never yet could cloy . All upon each pleasant Tree her name in cool shades I still am carving , That for evermore may live her Fame , though far less than she's deserving , Whilst the Nymphs they do fit singing , and the pleasant Roses on her shed , Endless joys are ever springing , & a thousand blessings are around her spread . Each Shepherd does gaze with dazzled eyes , to see her face like Sun arising , Cast a bright Reflection on the Skies or as a Comet that's surprising Causes wonder , as she passes all the Woods and Groves resound her praise Chanted forth by Nymphlike Lasses , who for evermore unto her yield the Baize . Then let Celia ever happy be , Ay thrice happy in enjoying , And to love for ever be she free to loves power there's no denying , Then let no one envy this my Treasure in the which I still content do find ; Endless joys and endless pleasure which can never fade while Celia proves kind . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in West smithfield . The Enchanted LOVER , Or , Celia Triumphant . Being a most pleasant new Court Song . Conquored by love enchanted Strephon sings , While the loves god his flames fans with his wings , And makes him Celia praise unto the Skies , Beauty and Celia now are all he cries , Transported by his passion and her eyes , Thus Amorous Youth are caught in Cupids net , Which the enchanting fair Doves daily set . To a pleasant new Playhouse Tune . AH ! how pleasant are the charms of Love , which like Streams are always flowing Ah! how pleasant are the Charms of Love , which like Streams are always flowing , So my passion [ ' ] s still a g [ r ] owing , nothing but my Celia's eyes can move , So my passion's still a growing , perfect and immortal as the joys above . When Celia did my heart surprise , every Siniew felt a pleasure , Each kind look from her obliging eye fill'd my heart with endless Treasure : Love , Oh Love , is the only treasure , Joy and Blessing from the Grave and Wise , Give me Love , and Life , and Pleasure , I shall never end , what the World enjoys . Ah! how ravishing is the delight how transporting is the pleasure , And what are the Charms that do invite when each smile's a boundless treasure , That exceeds the Indian Ocean , or all the Riches that the World can give , Her eyes sparkle in the motion like the Heav'nly fires that do for ever live . O still in the Groves I sing her praise while the Birds the same returning , Loudly warble forth fair Celias lays , and the Lark sings every morning , Grateful Tunes of sweetest number , for to raise my Celia from her ease , So to shake off her soft slumber , and all the gentle fancies that do her seize . Ah how like the Snow are Celia's Breasts which do charm with pleasant panting , There the god of love his head does rest , nor can sleep those pillows wanting , While her breath the Air perfuming . Balm forth from her Coral Lips does flow Which like Spices when they'r blooming , round about the world fragrant sweets do throw Her fair Tresses like Sunbeams do shine with which amorous Winds still playing , Make her for to look far more divine , while devotion I am paying And to pleasures am aspiring as there's nothing more has power to move , Nor on Earth that's worth desiring , is there ought I can compare with Celias love Ah my Celia pride of all her Sex , beauty's boast and chiefest treasure , To whom Venus does all things anex , to complete her all of pleasure , That the joys above resembled , in a mortal once again does dwell , Where all virtues are assembled perfect in themselves & that all else excel . Which the world beside has power to give , O my Celia fair and charming , By whose smiles alone I live whose eyes like the Sun are warming , But when in my Arms embracing O then let my silence speak the joy , For 'tis far beyond expressing , sure such blessed transports never yet could cloy . All upon each pleasant Tree her name in cool shades I still am carving , That for evermore may live her Fame , though far less than she's deserving , Whilst the Nymphs they do fit singing , and the pleasant Roses on her shed , Endless joys are ever springing , & a thousand blessings are around her spread . Each Shepherd does gaze with dazzled eyes , to see her face like Sun arising , Cast a bright Reflection on the Skies or as a Comet that's surprising Causes wonder , as she passes all the Woods and Groves resound her praise Chanted forth by Nymphlike Lasses , who for evermore unto her yield the Baize . Then let Celia ever happy be , Ay thrice happy in enjoying , And to love for ever be she free to loves power there's no denying , Then let no one envy this my Treasure in the which I still content do find ; Endless joys and endless pleasure which can never fade while Celia proves kind . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in West smithfield . 