The Forc'd Marriage . Or , Unfortunate Celia . When Old Fools do a Wooing go to these who are Young-girls , they Court their cruel foes , The Old man sees he can't prevail with tongue , But finds tO [ h ] at young ones , love to sport with young : He to the Virgins Parents makes redress , And does the n [ u ] mber of his Bags express ; Which takes away her Father's heart by stealth , He weds her not to him , but to his Wealth . Which being done , she loathes his weak embraces , And throws her self on Ruinous Disgraces . Tune , Since Celia's my Foe . TO what great distress Without hope's of redress , I am brought without Thought of a better success . Poor Celia's undone , And all joys from her gone , By her Mate came ill fate , which poor she could not shun . My Parents unkind , And with wealth too much blind Made me marry , and miscarry , against my own mind . I lov'd one before , But they thought him too poor , They forc'd me , and divorc'd me from [ m ] seeing him more . I have now god a man I must love if I can , But I fear my first dear , I must love now and than . If I chance to transgress , As I shall you may guess , You may shame me , not blame me , for not loving him less . My Husband's a Sot. Deform'd , and what not , All Day He's at play , with his Nose o're a Pot. While I fit at home , Like a poor silly Mome , Still crying , and dying , ti [ l ] l my dearest does come . WHen my fumbler's in bed , & has laid down his head , He lies with clos'd eyes , just though he was dead . Why should he repine , If I spend store of coin , to assist whom I list , in my pleasures to join . My friends are all mad , If at this they grow sad , Why did they forbid , him that I would have had . 'Tis a dangerous disease , A Young woman to displease , Ill matching is catching , and is seldom at ease . I care not who knows , Be they friends or false foes , i'le Delight , day and night , in spite of their Nose . My first Love has my heart , And from him i'le ne'r start , though i'm wed , Yet in bed , he shall have the best part . If my father do chide , And his kindnesses hide , No anger nor danger my love shall divide . My mother does know , I have oft told her so , The old sot I lov'd not when he first came to woo . 'Tis a thousand to one That before I have done , i'le deceive him , and leave him , to himself all alone . I'll venture the fame , Of a scandalous name , Before i'le give o're , to love one of the game . I'll be happy and poor , With the man I adore , Since fate makes me hate , the old Fop that hath sto [ r ] e . 'Twas the ignorant curse , Of for better , for worse , Did me tie , till I die , to be true to his purse . I'll venture my lot , And get free from my Sot , Young blood does me good , now my spirits are hight . Let Parents conclude , I behave my self rude , Their will to fulfil , did my reason delude . Let each pretty Maid , Who hath herd what i've said , take care and beware , lest by force she's betrayed . Let Parents provide , For each daughter a Bride , That nothing Of loathing , their loves may divide . FINIS . With Allowance , R. L'Estrange . By W.P. Printed for E. Oliver , at the Golden - Key on Snowhill , near the Sarazens-head . The Forc'd Marriage . Or , Unfortunate Celia . When Old Fools do a Wooing go to these who are Young-girls , they Court their cruel foes , The Old man sees he can't prevail with tongue , But finds tO [ h ] at young ones , love to sport with young : He to the Virgins Parents makes redress , And does the n [ u ] mber of his Bags express ; Which takes away her Father's heart by stealth , He weds her not to him , but to his Wealth . Which being done , she loathes his weak embraces , And throws her self on Ruinous Disgraces . Tune , Since Celia's my Foe . TO what great distress Without hope's of redress , I am brought without Thought of a better success . Poor Celia's undone , And all joys from her gone , By her Mate came ill fate , which poor she could not shun . My Parents unkind , And with wealth too much blind Made me marry , and miscarry , against my own mind . I lov'd one before , But they thought him too poor , They forc'd me , and divorc'd me from [ m ] seeing him more . I have now god a man I must love if I can , But I fear my first dear , I must love now and than . If I chance to transgress , As I shall you may guess , You may shame me , not blame me , for not loving him less . My Husband's a Sot. Deform'd , and what not , All Day He's at play , with his Nose o're a Pot. While I fit at home , Like a poor silly Mome , Still crying , and dying , ti [ l ] l my dearest does come . WHen my fumbler's in bed , & has laid down his head , He lies with clos'd eyes , just though he was dead . Why should he repine , If I spend store of coin , to assist whom I list , in my pleasures to join . My friends are all mad , If at this they grow sad , Why did they forbid , him that I would have had . 'Tis a dangerous disease , A Young woman to displease , Ill matching is catching , and is seldom at ease . I care not who knows , Be they friends or false foes , i'le Delight , day and night , in spite of their Nose . My first Love has my heart , And from him i'le ne'r start , though i'm wed , Yet in bed , he shall have the best part . If my father do chide , And his kindnesses hide , No anger nor danger my love shall divide . My mother does know , I have oft told her so , The old sot I lov'd not when he first came to woo . 'Tis a thousand to one That before I have done , i'le deceive him , and leave him , to himself all alone . I'll venture the fame , Of a scandalous name , Before i'le give o're , to love one of the game . I'll be happy and poor , With the man I adore , Since fate makes me hate , the old Fop that hath sto [ r ] e . 'Twas the ignorant curse , Of for better , for worse , Did me tie , till I die , to be true to his purse . I'll venture my lot , And get free from my Sot , Young blood does me good , now my spirits are hight . Let Parents conclude , I behave my self rude , Their will to fulfil , did my reason delude . Let each pretty Maid , Who hath herd what i've said , take care and beware , lest by force she's betrayed . Let Parents provide , For each daughter a Bride , That nothing Of loathing , their loves may divide . FINIS . With Allowance , R. L'Estrange . By W.P. Printed for E. Oliver , at the Golden - Key on Snowhill , near the Sarazens-head . 