Flora's Farewell : Or , The Shepherd's Love Passion Song . Wherein he does greatly Complain Because his Love was spent in vain ; To a Delicate Tune ; Or , A thousand times my love commend . FLora farewell , I needs must go , for if with thee I longer stay , Thine eyes prevail over me so , I shall grow blind and lose my way . Fame of thy beauty and thy Fame , to seek for love me hither brought , But when in thee I found no truth , it was no boot for me to stay . Now i've ingag'd by word and Oath , a servant to another's will , Yet for thy sake would forgo both , wouldst thou be sure to love me still . But what assurance can I have , of thee who seeing my abuse , In that which Love desires to crave , may leave me with a just excuse . For thou must say , 'twas not thy fault , that thou didst so unconstant prove , Thou wertenberg by mine example taught , to break thy Oath and leave thy Love . No Flora , no , I will recall the former words which I have spoke , And thou shalt have no cause at all , to hamper me in Cupids Yoke . But since thy Honour is to range , and that thou bear'st a wavering mind , Like to the Moon with thee il'e change . and turn I can with every wind . Henceforth blind fancy i'le remove , and cast all sorrow from my heart , Young men to die for doting love , I hold it but a foolish part . The second part to the same Tune . WHy should I to one love be bound , and fix my thoughts on none but thee When as a thousand may be found , that's far more fair and fit for me . Though I am but a Shepherd swain , my mind to me does comfort bring , Feeding my flock upon a plain , I triumph like a petty King . No Female Rat shall me deceive , nor catch me by a crafty wild , Though I do love , yet I can leave , and will no longer be beguil'd . Flora , once more , farewell adieu , I so conclude my Passion song : To thy next love see that thou prove true , for thou hast done me double wrong . Fair Flora's Answer to the Shep - herds Song , Wherein she shows that he hath done the wrong . FIE Shepherd , fie thou are to blame , to rail against me in this sort , Thou dost disgrace a Sweethearts name , to give thy Love a false report . There was a Proverb used of old , and now I find it is no lie , One tale is good till another's cold , she that loves most is least set by . A brief Description I will tell , of thy favour , love and flattery ; And how at first thou didst excel , with cunning tricks and policy . But Oh that flattering tongue of thine , and tempting eye sought to entice , And to ensnare the heart of mine , and bring me in fools Paradise . When thou at first began to Woo , and with thy skill my patience try'd ; You thought there was no more to do , but presently to up and ride . Thou said'st that I was fair and bright , and fitting for thy Marriage Bed ; Thou fed'st my fancy with delight , thinking to have my Maidenhead : But when thou saw'st thou could'st not get the jem that thou distressed to have , My company thou didst refrain , like to a false dissembling Knave . Whereby I answered thus and said , to shun the cause of further strife ; I would contain myself a Maid , until such time I was made a wife . And since you my mind have crossed , you may bestow you as you will , Shepherd farewell , there's nothing lost , I am resolv'd to say so still . Blind Cupid with his wounding Dart , could never make me sorrow feel , I'le not lay that unto my heart , as others shake off with their heel . Printed for A. Milbourn , W. Onley and T. Thackeray , at the Angel in Duck-Lane Flora's Farewell : Or , The Shepherd's Love Passion Song . Wherein he does greatly Complain Because his Love was spent in vain ; To a Delicate Tune ; Or , A thousand times my love commend . FLora farewell , I needs must go , for if with thee I longer stay , Thine eyes prevail over me so , I shall grow blind and lose my way . Fame of thy beauty and thy Fame , to seek for love me hither brought , But when in thee I found no truth , it was no boot for me to stay . Now i've ingag'd by word and Oath , a servant to another's will , Yet for thy sake would forgo both , wouldst thou be sure to love me still . But what assurance can I have , of thee who seeing my abuse , In that which Love desires to crave , may leave me with a just excuse . For thou must say , 'twas not thy fault , that thou didst so unconstant prove , Thou wertenberg by mine example taught , to break thy Oath and leave thy Love . No Flora , no , I will recall the former words which I have spoke , And thou shalt have no cause at all , to hamper me in Cupids Yoke . But since thy Honour is to range , and that thou bear'st a wavering mind , Like to the Moon with thee il'e change . and turn I can with every wind . Henceforth blind fancy i'le remove , and cast all sorrow from my heart , Young men to die for doting love , I hold it but a foolish part . The second part to the same Tune . WHy should I to one love be bound , and fix my thoughts on none but thee When as a thousand may be found , that's far more fair and fit for me . Though I am but a Shepherd swain , my mind to me does comfort bring , Feeding my flock upon a plain , I triumph like a petty King . No Female Rat shall me deceive , nor catch me by a crafty wild , Though I do love , yet I can leave , and will no longer be beguil'd . Flora , once more , farewell adieu , I so conclude my Passion song : To thy next love see that thou prove true , for thou hast done me double wrong . Fair Flora's Answer to the Shep - herds Song , Wherein she shows that he hath done the wrong . FIE Shepherd , fie thou are to blame , to rail against me in this sort , Thou dost disgrace a Sweethearts name , to give thy Love a false report . There was a Proverb used of old , and now I find it is no lie , One tale is good till another's cold , she that loves most is least set by . A brief Description I will tell , of thy favour , love and flattery ; And how at first thou didst excel , with cunning tricks and policy . But Oh that flattering tongue of thine , and tempting eye sought to entice , And to ensnare the heart of mine , and bring me in fools Paradise . When thou at first began to Woo , and with thy skill my patience try'd ; You thought there was no more to do , but presently to up and ride . Thou said'st that I was fair and bright , and fitting for thy Marriage Bed ; Thou fed'st my fancy with delight , thinking to have my Maidenhead : But when thou saw'st thou could'st not get the jem that thou distressed to have , My company thou didst refrain , like to a false dissembling Knave . Whereby I answered thus and said , to shun the cause of further strife ; I would contain myself a Maid , until such time I was made a wife . And since you my mind have crossed , you may bestow you as you will , Shepherd farewell , there's nothing lost , I am resolv'd to say so still . Blind Cupid with his wounding Dart , could never make me sorrow feel , I'le not lay that unto my heart , as others shake off with their heel . Printed for A. Milbourn , W. Onley and T. Thackeray , at the Angel in Duck-Lane 