The Frantic 'Squire : Whose passionate Love for a Young Lady caused his Distraction , and since the restoration , of his Senses , he , with his own hand , writ this Excellent new Ditty . To the Tune of Let Mary live long . MElpomene now , assist a meek Lover , whose Tears will discover , How false to her Vow fair Cynthia hath been ; While I sighs and complain She return'd me disdain , and would not expel My languishing passion , My languishing passion , but bid me farewell . From morning to night , I wander'd distracted ah ! what have I acted Which made her delight to torture me so : Through the Shades did I post , Like a hovering Ghost bereft of rest ; With sad Lamentation , With sad Lamentation , in sorrows oppressed . My Riches I left , with dear Habitation , each Friend and Relation , Of Comforts bereft , Distracted I run ; That a place I might find That was free from mankind , ( fair women I mean ; ) Whose conquering Beauty , Whose conquering Beauty , too late I have seen . My Pillow I made on banks of green Rushes , near Brambles and Bushes , Where weeping I laid my sorrowful Head ; As I closed my Eyes , The kind watery Skies , would weep to behold A Lover exposed A Lover exposed to sorrow and cold . I valu'd not Crowns , with Kingdoms of Treasure , and wealth out of measure , Or fortifi'd Towns , for which they contend ; There was Cynthia my Love , Which I valu'd above and Emperor's Throne , Her amorous beauty , Her amorous beauty , was Riches alone . To Bedlam bound , at length they convey'd me , And there having laid me Upon the hard Ground , I took my repose ; And my rich silken Bed , Where I once laid my Head , was turned to Straws ; Of this my Distraction , Of this my Distraction , was Cynthia the Cause ? My Senses once more , the hand of kind Heaven , in pity hath given , And now I'll adore no woman alive : Since my Heart is at ease , Let 'em frown if they please I scorn their disdain , They never shall make me , They never shall make me , a Captive again . FINIS . Licensed according to Order . Printed for P. Brooksby , Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . The Frantic 'Squire : Whose passionate Love for a Young Lady caused his Distraction , and since the restoration , of his Senses , he , with his own hand , writ this Excellent new Ditty . To the Tune of Let Mary live long . MElpomene now , assist a meek Lover , whose Tears will discover , How false to her Vow fair Cynthia hath been ; While I sighs and complain She return'd me disdain , and would not expel My languishing passion , My languishing passion , but bid me farewell . From morning to night , I wander'd distracted ah ! what have I acted Which made her delight to torture me so : Through the Shades did I post , Like a hovering Ghost bereft of rest ; With sad Lamentation , With sad Lamentation , in sorrows oppressed . My Riches I left , with dear Habitation , each Friend and Relation , Of Comforts bereft , Distracted I run ; That a place I might find That was free from mankind , ( fair women I mean ; ) Whose conquering Beauty , Whose conquering Beauty , too late I have seen . My Pillow I made on banks of green Rushes , near Brambles and Bushes , Where weeping I laid my sorrowful Head ; As I closed my Eyes , The kind watery Skies , would weep to behold A Lover exposed A Lover exposed to sorrow and cold . I valu'd not Crowns , with Kingdoms of Treasure , and wealth out of measure , Or fortifi'd Towns , for which they contend ; There was Cynthia my Love , Which I valu'd above and Emperor's Throne , Her amorous beauty , Her amorous beauty , was Riches alone . To Bedlam bound , at length they convey'd me , And there having laid me Upon the hard Ground , I took my repose ; And my rich silken Bed , Where I once laid my Head , was turned to Straws ; Of this my Distraction , Of this my Distraction , was Cynthia the Cause ? My Senses once more , the hand of kind Heaven , in pity hath given , And now I'll adore no woman alive : Since my Heart is at ease , Let 'em frown if they please I scorn their disdain , They never shall make me , They never shall make me , a Captive again . FINIS . Licensed according to Order . Printed for P. Brooksby , Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 