A New , Rare , and Excellent sonnet of A Brave and lusty youth full Groom , that Was in Love and could not tell with Whom . To the Tune of , Bodkins Galliard . YOu gentile Nymph's that on the Meadows play , and oft relate [ tO ] he Loves of Shepherds young , Come fit you down if that you please to stay , now may you hear and uncouth passion Song : A Lad there is and I am that poor groom . That [ a ] t's fall'n in love , and cannot tell with whom . O do not smile at sorrow as a jes with others cares good nature's moved be , And I should weep if you had my unrest , then at my grief : how can you merry be ? Ah , when [ r ] e is tender pity now become ; I am in love , and cannot tell with whom . I that have oft the rarest features view'd and beauty in her best perfection seen , I that have laughed at them that Love pursu'd , and ever free from such perfection been , Lo now at last so cruel is my doom , I am in love , and not tell with whom . My heart is full nigh bursting with desire , yet cannot tell from whence these longings flow , My breast does burn , but she that lights the fire , I never saw , nor can I come to know , So great a bliss my fortune keeps me from , That though I dearly love , I know not whom Ere I bade twice foure Springs renewed seen , the force of beauty I began to prove , And ere I nine years old had fully be [ e ] ne , it taught me how to frame a found of love , And little thought I this day should have come , Before that I to love had found out whom . For on my Chin the Mossy down you see , and in my veins well heated blood does glow , Of Summer's I have seen twice three times three , and fast my youth full time a way does go : That much I fear , I aged shall become And still complain I love , I know not whom . O why had I a heart besto'd on me , to cherish deer affectians so inclin'd Since I am so unhappy born to be , no object for so true love to find , When I am dead it will be missed foe some , Yet now I live , I love , I know not whom . I to a thousand beauteous Nymph's are known , a hundred Ladies favours do I sware , I with as many half in love am grown , yet none of them I find can be my Dear , Me thinks I have a Mistress yet to come , Which makes me sing , I love I know not whom . The second Part , To the same Tune . THere lives no swain does stronger passion prove for her , whom most he covets to possess , Then does my heart , that being full of love , knows not to whom it may the same profess , For he that is despis'd hath sorrow some , but he hath more , that loves and knows not whom . Knew I my love as many others do , to some one object might my thoughts be bent , So they divided , wandering should not go , until the souls united force be spent , As he that seeks , and never finds a home , Such is my rest , that loves and know not whom . Those whom the frowns of jealous friends divine , may live to meet and descant of their woe , And he hath gain'd a Lady for his Brid , that durst not woe his Maid a while ago , But o what ends unto my hope's can come , That am in love , and cannot tell with whom . Poor Collin grieves that he was late disdain'd , and Clores does for Willies absence pine , Sad Thirsis weeps for his sick Phebe pain'd , but all their sorrows cannot equal mine , A greater care on me , alas is come , I am in love , and connote tell with whom . Narcissus like did I affect my shade . fume shadow yet I had to dote upon Or did I love some Image of the dead , whose substance had not breathed long ago , I might despair , and so and end would come . But o I love , and cannot tell with whom . Once in a dream me thought my Love I view'd but never waking could her face behold , And doubtless that resemblance was but shew'd , that more my tired heart tormented it should , For since that time more griev'd I am become , And more in love , and cannot tell with , whom . When on my bed at night to rest I lie , my watchful eyes with tears bedew my cheeakes And then , [ oh ] h would once were day I cry , yet when it comes I am as far to seek , For who can tell though all the earth bec [ oh ] me , Or when , or where to find he Knows not whom . Or if she be among the beauteous trains of all the Nymph's that hunt the several Hills , Or if you know her Ladies of the plains , or you that have your Bowers on the Hills , Tell if you can who will my love become , Or I shall die , and never know of whom . London Printed for F. C. J. W. T. V. W [ . ] G. A New , Rare , and Excellent sonnet of A Brave and lusty youth full Groom , that Was in Love and could not tell with Whom . To the Tune of , Bodkins Galliard . YOu gentile Nymph's that on the Meadows play , and oft relate [ tO ] he Loves of Shepherds young , Come fit you down if that you please to stay , now may you hear and uncouth passion Song : A Lad there is and I am that poor groom . That [ a ] t's fall'n in love , and cannot tell with whom . O do not smile at sorrow as a jes with others cares good nature's moved be , And I should weep if you had my unrest , then at my grief : how can you merry be ? Ah , when [ r ] e is tender pity now become ; I am in love , and cannot tell with whom . I that have oft the rarest features view'd and beauty in her best perfection seen , I that have laughed at them that Love pursu'd , and ever free from such perfection been , Lo now at last so cruel is my doom , I am in love , and not tell with whom . My heart is full nigh bursting with desire , yet cannot tell from whence these longings flow , My breast does burn , but she that lights the fire , I never saw , nor can I come to know , So great a bliss my fortune keeps me from , That though I dearly love , I know not whom Ere I bade twice foure Springs renewed seen , the force of beauty I began to prove , And ere I nine years old had fully be [ e ] ne , it taught me how to frame a found of love , And little thought I this day should have come , Before that I to love had found out whom . For on my Chin the Mossy down you see , and in my veins well heated blood does glow , Of Summer's I have seen twice three times three , and fast my youth full time a way does go : That much I fear , I aged shall become And still complain I love , I know not whom . O why had I a heart besto'd on me , to cherish deer affectians so inclin'd Since I am so unhappy born to be , no object for so true love to find , When I am dead it will be missed foe some , Yet now I live , I love , I know not whom . I to a thousand beauteous Nymph's are known , a hundred Ladies favours do I sware , I with as many half in love am grown , yet none of them I find can be my Dear , Me thinks I have a Mistress yet to come , Which makes me sing , I love I know not whom . The second Part , To the same Tune . THere lives no swain does stronger passion prove for her , whom most he covets to possess , Then does my heart , that being full of love , knows not to whom it may the same profess , For he that is despis'd hath sorrow some , but he hath more , that loves and knows not whom . Knew I my love as many others do , to some one object might my thoughts be bent , So they divided , wandering should not go , until the souls united force be spent , As he that seeks , and never finds a home , Such is my rest , that loves and know not whom . Those whom the frowns of jealous friends divine , may live to meet and descant of their woe , And he hath gain'd a Lady for his Brid , that durst not woe his Maid a while ago , But o what ends unto my hope's can come , That am in love , and cannot tell with whom . Poor Collin grieves that he was late disdain'd , and Clores does for Willies absence pine , Sad Thirsis weeps for his sick Phebe pain'd , but all their sorrows cannot equal mine , A greater care on me , alas is come , I am in love , and connote tell with whom . Narcissus like did I affect my shade . fume shadow yet I had to dote upon Or did I love some Image of the dead , whose substance had not breathed long ago , I might despair , and so and end would come . But o I love , and cannot tell with whom . Once in a dream me thought my Love I view'd but never waking could her face behold , And doubtless that resemblance was but shew'd , that more my tired heart tormented it should , For since that time more griev'd I am become , And more in love , and cannot tell with , whom . When on my bed at night to rest I lie , my watchful eyes with tears bedew my cheeakes And then , [ oh ] h would once were day I cry , yet when it comes I am as far to seek , For who can tell though all the earth bec [ oh ] me , Or when , or where to find he Knows not whom . Or if she be among the beauteous trains of all the Nymph's that hunt the several Hills , Or if you know her Ladies of the plains , or you that have your Bowers on the Hills , Tell if you can who will my love become , Or I shall die , and never know of whom . London Printed for F. C. J. W. T. V. W [ . ] G. 