The Prodigal Son Converted , OR The Youngman return'd from his Rambles . Wit ne're till now , was cry'd about the street , At the low rate of a poor Penny sheet ; Sharp times will make sharp wits , not fear sharp tongues , 'Tis we who money want which suffer wrongs ; You can't command a Poet with a frown To write new Songs : but yours , for a Crown : Here's that will please you sure , and much befreind you . You'll thank the Author , if the Devil be n't in you . To a pleasant New Playhouse Tune call'd The Delights of the Bottle , etc THe delights & the pleasures of a man without care , For the present are sweet , but ith' end prove a snare , The extravagant youth , who in Frolicks runs mad , Being vicious o're much , will have cause to be sad . Debauches are sorrows , and robs us of rest , This the temperate man with enjoyment is blessed . From fifteen till thirty just half of my time , I have lived in excess , and have thought it no crime . My Father being dead , I was left a young fool , Companion for none , but for boys in the school , Debauches are sorrows and robs us of rest This the temperate man with enjoyment is blessed . Then some of my friends did begin for to chat That I had and estate I soon hearken'd to that , And I quickly found Tutors to show me the way , In ranting and roaring to spend night and day ; These tickl'd my fancy with vice all a-mode , Then I must be riding in that pleasant Road. I quickly arriv'd to a wretched estate To act what the Devil could think or Create , But since they are past I will count it no since To name them in order as I did begin . But my chief delight was in vice all-a-mode , And I often was riding in that pleasant Road. First The Second part , To the same Tune . FIrst the Tavern me courted to lend it some coin , And to taste of these blessings that sprang from the vine , Whhich I found to be pleasant and always inviting So sweet is that since , which we most do delight in The Fiddlers to curse and the drawers command Is enough for those Fops who no more understand . The Bottles of Bacchus did my strength overcome , And with empty Pockets sent me realing home , Sick qualms of the stomach did blame my hard drinking , But I counted repentance was scarce worth my thinking ; The Fiddlers to curse and the drawers command Is enough for those Fops who no more understand . Then high for a Wench when my blood it was warm , If she were but in rags she might easily charm , And enjoy all I had if she seem'd to be kind ; And would simper out Bawdy to tickle my mind ; Then home to her lodging she might easily draw me , My flames made me bold that I car'd not who saw me . Though it was but a hold where this Lady did lie , Yet she made me amends you shall hear by and by With a kiss and a smile and a sighs all-a-mode She guided my hand to the very right Road , Which home to her lodging full often did draw me My joys were so great that I car'd not who saw me . That sport I soon learn'd , and that which is worse , She taught me to swear to damn and to curse , That in half a years time I had practic'd so well , That for drinking and whoring ther's none did excels , For swearing and cursing in common discourse , I thought , if left out , made my language the worse . Then next to accomplish my self like a man , I must learn for to game well , as fast as I can : With some Bully Hector , I must venture a pound , There's enough of those blades that may quickly be found , Forswearing and cursing in common discourse , And to win all my Guinneys which I [ tO ] hought much worse . All which by degrees my estate did so waste , I began to think that I made too much haste Being cloy'd with enjoymen [ tO ] s of such foolish pleasure , I'le now led my life in a tempera [ tO ] e measure Yet with a true friend merry and jolly , With a Bottle or two I do count it no folly . What we drink in excess makes the appetite dull , And empties the bags be they never so full : It shortens our lives and deprives us of health Then Young men beware and make much of your wealth Yet with a true friend to be merry and jolly , With a Bottle or two I do count it no folly . Printed for R , Burton , at the Horseshoe in West-Smithfield . The Prodigal Son Converted , OR The Youngman return'd from his Rambles . Wit ne're till now , was cry'd about the street , At the low rate of a poor Penny sheet ; Sharp times will make sharp wits , not fear sharp tongues , 'Tis we who money want which suffer wrongs ; You can't command a Poet with a frown To write new Songs : but yours , for a Crown : Here's that will please you sure , and much befreind you . You'll thank the Author , if the Devil be n't in you . To a pleasant New Playhouse Tune call'd The Delights of the Bottle , etc THe delights & the pleasures of a man without care , For the present are sweet , but ith' end prove a snare , The extravagant youth , who in Frolicks runs mad , Being vicious o're much , will have cause to be sad . Debauches are sorrows , and robs us of rest , This the temperate man with enjoyment is blessed . From fifteen till thirty just half of my time , I have lived in excess , and have thought it no crime . My Father being dead , I was left a young fool , Companion for none , but for boys in the school , Debauches are sorrows and robs us of rest This the temperate man with enjoyment is blessed . Then some of my friends did begin for to chat That I had and estate I soon hearken'd to that , And I quickly found Tutors to show me the way , In ranting and roaring to spend night and day ; These tickl'd my fancy with vice all a-mode , Then I must be riding in that pleasant Road. I quickly arriv'd to a wretched estate To act what the Devil could think or Create , But since they are past I will count it no since To name them in order as I did begin . But my chief delight was in vice all-a-mode , And I often was riding in that pleasant Road. First The Second part , To the same Tune . FIrst the Tavern me courted to lend it some coin , And to taste of these blessings that sprang from the vine , Whhich I found to be pleasant and always inviting So sweet is that since , which we most do delight in The Fiddlers to curse and the drawers command Is enough for those Fops who no more understand . The Bottles of Bacchus did my strength overcome , And with empty Pockets sent me realing home , Sick qualms of the stomach did blame my hard drinking , But I counted repentance was scarce worth my thinking ; The Fiddlers to curse and the drawers command Is enough for those Fops who no more understand . Then high for a Wench when my blood it was warm , If she were but in rags she might easily charm , And enjoy all I had if she seem'd to be kind ; And would simper out Bawdy to tickle my mind ; Then home to her lodging she might easily draw me , My flames made me bold that I car'd not who saw me . Though it was but a hold where this Lady did lie , Yet she made me amends you shall hear by and by With a kiss and a smile and a sighs all-a-mode She guided my hand to the very right Road , Which home to her lodging full often did draw me My joys were so great that I car'd not who saw me . That sport I soon learn'd , and that which is worse , She taught me to swear to damn and to curse , That in half a years time I had practic'd so well , That for drinking and whoring ther's none did excels , For swearing and cursing in common discourse , I thought , if left out , made my language the worse . Then next to accomplish my self like a man , I must learn for to game well , as fast as I can : With some Bully Hector , I must venture a pound , There's enough of those blades that may quickly be found , Forswearing and cursing in common discourse , And to win all my Guinneys which I [ tO ] hought much worse . All which by degrees my estate did so waste , I began to think that I made too much haste Being cloy'd with enjoymen [ tO ] s of such foolish pleasure , I'le now led my life in a tempera [ tO ] e measure Yet with a true friend merry and jolly , With a Bottle or two I do count it no folly . What we drink in excess makes the appetite dull , And empties the bags be they never so full : It shortens our lives and deprives us of health Then Young men beware and make much of your wealth Yet with a true friend to be merry and jolly , With a Bottle or two I do count it no folly . Printed for R , Burton , at the Horseshoe in West-Smithfield . 