The GOOD-FELLOW'S Resolution : OR , The Bad Husbands Return from his Folly , Being a Caveat for all Spend-Thrifts to beware of the Main Chance . Here in this Ballad you may see , The vain-ness of bad Husbandry : Good Advice here is to be found , The which may save you many a Pound . To the Tune of , The Plow-Mans Honour made known . By T. Lanfiere . I Have been a bad Husband this full fifteen year , And have spent many pounds in good Ale , & strong beer I have Ranted in Alehouses day after day , And wasted my time and my Money away : But now i'le beware , and have a great care , Lest at the last Poverty falls to my share : For now I will lay up my Money in store , And I never will play the bad Husband no more . Too long I have lived in this idle course , In spending my money , which hath made me the worse ; When as I had god Silver plentifully , I did not regard how fast I let it fly : For sometime i'de spend , and sometime i'de Lend , But the longest day now I see must have and end : For now , etc Sometime in the Alehouse a week I would fit , If I with Good-fellows did chance for to meet ; Until all my Money was wasted and gone , Then it was high time to turn out and go home : My proud Hostis she , would look scornful on me , And tell me she did not love such Company : But now , etc Doll Cleanly that lives in the middle of the Town , Hath first and last of me had many a Crown ; If then I did come to her and bring store of Money , And call apace for Drink , on me she'd look bonny : Both Early and Late a Boozing I have sat , But my Hostis and I now is in great Debate : For now , etc Too much unto Gaming my self I would use , There was no kind of Exercise I did Refuse ; A Crown or and Angel I have lost on a day , Which would have been better kept then thrown away : Then Beer it was plenty , no Flaggons stood empty , Sometime on the Board stood full eighteen or twenty : But now , etc Such idle courses I us'd always to take , For little account of my Money i'de make ; I would call for strong tipple , and make my heart merry , But now of such actions truly I am weary : Though threadbare I went , with my clothes torn & rend Yet I to the Alehouse would always frequen But now , etc My Landladys they would seem loving to be , If that they saw Money was plenty with me ; But if that I had none at all for to show , They would look coy on me , as if they did not me know , And if so be that I was never so dry , To trust me a Flagon some Whores would deny : But now I will lay up my Money in store , And I will never play the bad Husband no more . I Went to and Hostis where I us'd to resort , And I made her believe that money was short ; I asked her to trust me , but she answered nay , Enough of such Guests I can have every day : Then quoth she , pray forbear there's no staying here , Except you have money you shall have no Beer . But now , etc I pull'd out a handful of Money straightway , And shew'd it unto her , to hear what she'd say : Quoth she , you shall have Beer and ale of the best , You are kindly welcome , I did speak but in jes Oh no , no , said I , your words I defy , I'le see you hang'd e're with you i'le spend a penny : But now , etc Thus here you may see and observe it full plain , The Alewives and innkeepers all are for gain ; If a man on them spends all that e're he hath god , He shall have no thanks , but be counted a So To you they'l seem kind , while you can them Cash find , But when you have spent all they will change their mind But now , etc If I had but sav'd half the money I have spent , How it would rejoice my heart with much content ; But since 'tis all gone , farewell unto it , Henceforth i'm resolved for to learn more with My folly I see , in spending so free , The Alewives not more my Purse-bearers shall be : For now , etc Then bad Husbands of the main chance have a care , Lest Poverty comes on you e're you are aware : Take heed how idly your Money you spend , Make much of that little which God does you lend . Endeavour always your stock for to raise , Then of honest people you will have the praise : Strive for , etc To conclude , take my counsel do not it refrain , You'l find it will be for your profit and gain , While you are young and lusty strive to get and save , Then things necessary in old age you'l have : Be sure do not waste , lest you want at last , Those that plays in Summer in Winter must fas Then learn for to lay up your money in store , Resolve for to play the bad Husband no more . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The GOOD-FELLOW'S Resolution : OR , The Bad Husbands Return from his Folly , Being a Caveat for all Spend-Thrifts to beware of the Main Chance . Here in this Ballad you may see , The vain-ness of bad Husbandry : Good Advice here is to be found , The which may save you many a Pound . To the Tune of , The Plow-Mans Honour made known . By T. Lanfiere . I Have been a bad Husband this full fifteen year , And have spent many pounds in good Ale , & strong beer I have Ranted in Alehouses day after day , And wasted my time and my Money away : But now i'le beware , and have a great care , Lest at the last Poverty falls to my share : For now I will lay up my Money in store , And I never will play the bad Husband no more . Too long I have lived in this idle course , In spending my money , which hath made me the worse ; When as I had god Silver plentifully , I did not regard how fast I let it fly : For sometime i'de spend , and sometime i'de Lend , But the longest day now I see must have and end : For now , etc Sometime in the Alehouse a week I would fit , If I with Good-fellows did chance for to meet ; Until all my Money was wasted and gone , Then it was high time to turn out and go home : My proud Hostis she , would look scornful on me , And tell me she did not love such Company : But now , etc Doll Cleanly that lives in the middle of the Town , Hath first and last of me had many a Crown ; If then I did come to her and bring store of Money , And call apace for Drink , on me she'd look bonny : Both Early and Late a Boozing I have sat , But my Hostis and I now is in great Debate : For now , etc Too much unto Gaming my self I would use , There was no kind of Exercise I did Refuse ; A Crown or and Angel I have lost on a day , Which would have been better kept then thrown away : Then Beer it was plenty , no Flaggons stood empty , Sometime on the Board stood full eighteen or twenty : But now , etc Such idle courses I us'd always to take , For little account of my Money i'de make ; I would call for strong tipple , and make my heart merry , But now of such actions truly I am weary : Though threadbare I went , with my clothes torn & rend Yet I to the Alehouse would always frequen But now , etc My Landladys they would seem loving to be , If that they saw Money was plenty with me ; But if that I had none at all for to show , They would look coy on me , as if they did not me know , And if so be that I was never so dry , To trust me a Flagon some Whores would deny : But now I will lay up my Money in store , And I will never play the bad Husband no more . I Went to and Hostis where I us'd to resort , And I made her believe that money was short ; I asked her to trust me , but she answered nay , Enough of such Guests I can have every day : Then quoth she , pray forbear there's no staying here , Except you have money you shall have no Beer . But now , etc I pull'd out a handful of Money straightway , And shew'd it unto her , to hear what she'd say : Quoth she , you shall have Beer and ale of the best , You are kindly welcome , I did speak but in jes Oh no , no , said I , your words I defy , I'le see you hang'd e're with you i'le spend a penny : But now , etc Thus here you may see and observe it full plain , The Alewives and innkeepers all are for gain ; If a man on them spends all that e're he hath god , He shall have no thanks , but be counted a So To you they'l seem kind , while you can them Cash find , But when you have spent all they will change their mind But now , etc If I had but sav'd half the money I have spent , How it would rejoice my heart with much content ; But since 'tis all gone , farewell unto it , Henceforth i'm resolved for to learn more with My folly I see , in spending so free , The Alewives not more my Purse-bearers shall be : For now , etc Then bad Husbands of the main chance have a care , Lest Poverty comes on you e're you are aware : Take heed how idly your Money you spend , Make much of that little which God does you lend . Endeavour always your stock for to raise , Then of honest people you will have the praise : Strive for , etc To conclude , take my counsel do not it refrain , You'l find it will be for your profit and gain , While you are young and lusty strive to get and save , Then things necessary in old age you'l have : Be sure do not waste , lest you want at last , Those that plays in Summer in Winter must fas Then learn for to lay up your money in store , Resolve for to play the bad Husband no more . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 