The Good-Fellows Counsel : Or , The Bad Husbands Recantation . Proving by Arguments both Just and fit , That he which spends least money has most wit . To the Tune of , Tan Tivye . I Had no more wit , but was trod under feet , and all was for want of money , I daily did walk in the fear of a Writ , and all , etc But now i'm resolved to be more wise , And early each morning I mean for to rise , There's none for a sluggard that shall me despise , when I have no want of money . I was such a drudge , that it made me to grudge , because I had god no money , On each men occasions I for'st was to trudge , because I had god no money . But now i'm resolved i'le do so no more , I'le drink no strong Ale upon the old score , And then I do hope I shall never be poor , when I have no want of money . I was such a thrift , that I could not make shift , and all was , etc I was ready to hide my head in a clift , and all , etc But now i'm resolved my trade for to mend , I'le work and get money to keep and to spend , And then I am sure my foes will me befriend , when I have not , etc I was like a Fool , that's sent unto School , and all , etc And every vile fellow my actions did rule , and all , etc But now i'm resolved I will mend my trade , I'le get as good clothes as I can get made , And then I shall be a bonny bonny Blade , when I have no want of money . The second Part , To the same tune . FOr when I w [ a ] s poor , and had not a store , of that which we use to call money , Then all my proud Neighbours would pass by my door , because they knew I had no money . I'll warrant you that [ e ] y'd never ask me to go , To drink a strong pot because they did know , My purse and my credit was grown very low , for want of this rascally money . Then all my acquaintance my person did slight , and all was for want of this money , & some withheld from me that which was my right because they knew I had no money . Let me go , let me come , there was no man would heed When I try [ ' ] worser to be trusted I never could speed But all my friends fail'd at the time of my need , because they , etc Now all my dear friends be advised by me , all you that have wanted this money , Observe but rich people they are not so free , because they do love to get money . though presant you be all the while that they dine You'l find them as free as a hungry Swine , Then i [ ' ] le not be lavish of that which is mine , and I shall have plenty of money . For a Niggardly gallant i'le not be a slave , that is not the way to get money , Their clothes are so gay they are forced to crave , and to pinch the poor Labourers money . These needy young Gallants they are not for me , Your ordinary people are always most free , And 'tis better to work for a Farmer than he , for then a men sure of his money . From a paunch-belly'd Hostiss I am to refrain , if ever I mean to get money , For she both my purse and my credit will stain , in making me spend all my money . She'l ask me to eat when she thinks I have din'd Or of some salt bit she will put me in mind , That will make me to drink , & be spending my coin that she might be taking my money . With a Pickpocket longer I am not to deal , if ever I mean to get money , For they have broke more than ever they'l heal , in cheating poor men of their money . I never will give to a counsel a Fee , And Atorny shall ne'r take a penny of me , For I with my Neighbours so well will agree , when I have god plenty of money . All roistering blades I do mean to forsake , if e're I intend to get money , They'l tempt me to Wrestle and cudgels at wake , and cause me to spend all my money . We sing , and we dance , and we fuddle about , And when we are in we can never get out , Until we have given our pockets the rout , but that's not the way to get money . But here comes a danger that's worse then the rest that will tempt a youngman to spend money , A beautiful Whore when she's handsomely dressed , will quickly consume a men money . But all such decoys I intend for to shun , And honester ways I do mean for to run , My credi [ tO ] shall raise in the face of the Sun , when I have god plenty of money . I'll buy me a house , and i'le buy me some Land , when I have god plenty of money . And I will keep servants shall be at command , when I have god etc And [ a ] fter all this I will get a rich Wife , For I shall be free from care and from strife , And I shall live richly all days of my life , when I have god plenty of money . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby next the Golden-Ball by the Hospital-Gate in West-Smith-field , The Good-Fellows Counsel : Or , The Bad Husbands Recantation . Proving by Arguments both Just and fit , That he which spends least money has most wit . To the Tune of , Tan Tivye . I Had no more wit , but was trod under feet , and all was for want of money , I daily did walk in the fear of a Writ , and all , etc But now i'm resolved to be more wise , And early each morning I mean for to rise , There's none for a sluggard that shall me despise , when I have no want of money . I was such a drudge , that it made me to grudge , because I had god no money , On each men occasions I for'st was to trudge , because I had god no money . But now i'm resolved i'le do so no more , I'le drink no strong Ale upon the old score , And then I do hope I shall never be poor , when I have no want of money . I was such a thrift , that I could not make shift , and all was , etc I was ready to hide my head in a clift , and all , etc But now i'm resolved my trade for to mend , I'le work and get money to keep and to spend , And then I am sure my foes will me befriend , when I have not , etc I was like a Fool , that's sent unto School , and all , etc And every vile fellow my actions did rule , and all , etc But now i'm resolved I will mend my trade , I'le get as good clothes as I can get made , And then I shall be a bonny bonny Blade , when I have no want of money . The second Part , To the same tune . FOr when I w [ a ] s poor , and had not a store , of that which we use to call money , Then all my proud Neighbours would pass by my door , because they knew I had no money . I'll warrant you that [ e ] y'd never ask me to go , To drink a strong pot because they did know , My purse and my credit was grown very low , for want of this rascally money . Then all my acquaintance my person did slight , and all was for want of this money , & some withheld from me that which was my right because they knew I had no money . Let me go , let me come , there was no man would heed When I try [ ' ] worser to be trusted I never could speed But all my friends fail'd at the time of my need , because they , etc Now all my dear friends be advised by me , all you that have wanted this money , Observe but rich people they are not so free , because they do love to get money . though presant you be all the while that they dine You'l find them as free as a hungry Swine , Then i [ ' ] le not be lavish of that which is mine , and I shall have plenty of money . For a Niggardly gallant i'le not be a slave , that is not the way to get money , Their clothes are so gay they are forced to crave , and to pinch the poor Labourers money . These needy young Gallants they are not for me , Your ordinary people are always most free , And 'tis better to work for a Farmer than he , for then a men sure of his money . From a paunch-belly'd Hostiss I am to refrain , if ever I mean to get money , For she both my purse and my credit will stain , in making me spend all my money . She'l ask me to eat when she thinks I have din'd Or of some salt bit she will put me in mind , That will make me to drink , & be spending my coin that she might be taking my money . With a Pickpocket longer I am not to deal , if ever I mean to get money , For they have broke more than ever they'l heal , in cheating poor men of their money . I never will give to a counsel a Fee , And Atorny shall ne'r take a penny of me , For I with my Neighbours so well will agree , when I have god plenty of money . All roistering blades I do mean to forsake , if e're I intend to get money , They'l tempt me to Wrestle and cudgels at wake , and cause me to spend all my money . We sing , and we dance , and we fuddle about , And when we are in we can never get out , Until we have given our pockets the rout , but that's not the way to get money . But here comes a danger that's worse then the rest that will tempt a youngman to spend money , A beautiful Whore when she's handsomely dressed , will quickly consume a men money . But all such decoys I intend for to shun , And honester ways I do mean for to run , My credi [ tO ] shall raise in the face of the Sun , when I have god plenty of money . I'll buy me a house , and i'le buy me some Land , when I have god plenty of money . And I will keep servants shall be at command , when I have god etc And [ a ] fter all this I will get a rich Wife , For I shall be free from care and from strife , And I shall live richly all days of my life , when I have god plenty of money . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby next the Golden-Ball by the Hospital-Gate in West-Smith-field , 