Great Brittains Arlarm to Drowsy Sinners in Distress . Being a Rule for all sorts of people to follow in these distracted and dangerous Times : Showing the Judgements which hang over our heads for since , and the way by Repentance , to avoid the same . Very good and necessary for all sorts of people to peruse . All you that do this Alarm hear , Strive to live well , and God to fear . The Tune is , Aim not too high . ROuse up dull Sinners all with one accord , With prayers & tears now call upon the Lord , Security hath lull'd us fast asleep , When as we have most cause to mourn and weep . Remember Man , thy time it is but short , Then of the same thou should'st not make a sport ; lest thou by sudden death be snatched away , To give account at the great Judgement-day . While thou in prime of youth dost spend thy days , And takest pleasure in thy wicked ways : Be well advis'd , and think upon thy doom , That young and old must all to judgement come . So soon as in the morning you awake , Unto your Lord by Prayer your selves betake : Then to thy labour fallen if thou art poor , And God will bless thy basket and thy store . Defraud no man although thou b be in want But be content , although thy stock be stane , For goods ill got will consume away , And leave a Curse that will remain for aye . Unto thy honest Neighbours still be kind , And sure therein great comfort thou shalt find A friend will stick when Riches they are gone , Therefore endeavour to provide for one . If thou art blessed with Children at the board , Be sure you bring them up to serve the Lord : And for a portion God he will provide , And give a blessing to their Souls beside . A Child ill-natur'd proves a grievous Curse , His wicked courses will offend thee worse : A twig will bend when it is young and weak , But being old and stubborn it will break . Flye from all since , as from a Serpents sting , Much harm to Soul and body it will bring : When sinful pleasures are blown o're and past , Then grief and sorrow does remain at last . What pleasure hath the Drunkard in his wine , To make himself far-worse than any Swine : His wealth consumes away , if wealth he have , And surfeits sends him to his loathed Grave . He that on Harlots spends his gold and pelf , He neither value's credit nor himself : Until diseases brings him to his end , And then it is too late for to amend . The Swearer he does damn his Soul in vain , No benefit thereby that he does gain : So that he does fulfil his base desire , He never thinks of Hells eternal fire . The since of Pride among us is too rife ; Who should exceed in bravery is the strife : They do not think that one day die they must , And then their Pride is laid within the dust . The covetous Miser makes his Gold his God , While others wants it , he does plot and plod To fill his Coffers whatso e're befall , Until at last he gets the Devil and all . These are the sins , beside a many more , That brings Gods judgements down upon us soar And makes him smite us with his heavy Rod , Because we do offend our gracious God . Lord turn thy wrath away from us again , lest under thy displeasure we remain : For thy fierce anger we have felt of late , Yet it does not our hanious sins abate . With Plague and Fire we have suffered soar , And now with Wars our Land is vexed more : These judgements for our sins the Lord does send , And worse may come unless our lives we mend . For blessed be God ; no Famine we have felt , The Lord hath mercifully with us deal But if we once provoke his wrath again , We may have cause for hunger to complain . Once more , I say , Oh sinners now awake , And all your hanious sins in time forsake : Who knows but that the Lord will hear our prayer : And show us mercy for unfeigned tears . And let each one that reads what here is pen'd , Strive night and day their lives for to amend : That God in mercy all our Souls may save , When as we fallen into the silent Grave . Printed for P. Brooksbys at the Harp and Ball in Pye-Corner , near West Smithfield . Great Brittains Arlarm to Drowsy Sinners in Distress . Being a Rule for all sorts of people to follow in these distracted and dangerous Times : Showing the Judgements which hang over our heads for since , and the way by Repentance , to avoid the same . Very good and necessary for all sorts of people to peruse . All you that do this Alarm hear , Strive to live well , and God to fear . The Tune is , Aim not too high . ROuse up dull Sinners all with one accord , With prayers & tears now call upon the Lord , Security hath lull'd us fast asleep , When as we have most cause to mourn and weep . Remember Man , thy time it is but short , Then of the same thou should'st not make a sport ; lest thou by sudden death be snatched away , To give account at the great Judgement-day . While thou in prime of youth dost spend thy days , And takest pleasure in thy wicked ways : Be well advis'd , and think upon thy doom , That young and old must all to judgement come . So soon as in the morning you awake , Unto your Lord by Prayer your selves betake : Then to thy labour fallen if thou art poor , And God will bless thy basket and thy store . Defraud no man although thou b be in want But be content , although thy stock be stane , For goods ill got will consume away , And leave a Curse that will remain for aye . Unto thy honest Neighbours still be kind , And sure therein great comfort thou shalt find A friend will stick when Riches they are gone , Therefore endeavour to provide for one . If thou art blessed with Children at the board , Be sure you bring them up to serve the Lord : And for a portion God he will provide , And give a blessing to their Souls beside . A Child ill-natur'd proves a grievous Curse , His wicked courses will offend thee worse : A twig will bend when it is young and weak , But being old and stubborn it will break . Flye from all since , as from a Serpents sting , Much harm to Soul and body it will bring : When sinful pleasures are blown o're and past , Then grief and sorrow does remain at last . What pleasure hath the Drunkard in his wine , To make himself far-worse than any Swine : His wealth consumes away , if wealth he have , And surfeits sends him to his loathed Grave . He that on Harlots spends his gold and pelf , He neither value's credit nor himself : Until diseases brings him to his end , And then it is too late for to amend . The Swearer he does damn his Soul in vain , No benefit thereby that he does gain : So that he does fulfil his base desire , He never thinks of Hells eternal fire . The since of Pride among us is too rife ; Who should exceed in bravery is the strife : They do not think that one day die they must , And then their Pride is laid within the dust . The covetous Miser makes his Gold his God , While others wants it , he does plot and plod To fill his Coffers whatso e're befall , Until at last he gets the Devil and all . These are the sins , beside a many more , That brings Gods judgements down upon us soar And makes him smite us with his heavy Rod , Because we do offend our gracious God . Lord turn thy wrath away from us again , lest under thy displeasure we remain : For thy fierce anger we have felt of late , Yet it does not our hanious sins abate . With Plague and Fire we have suffered soar , And now with Wars our Land is vexed more : These judgements for our sins the Lord does send , And worse may come unless our lives we mend . For blessed be God ; no Famine we have felt , The Lord hath mercifully with us deal But if we once provoke his wrath again , We may have cause for hunger to complain . Once more , I say , Oh sinners now awake , And all your hanious sins in time forsake : Who knows but that the Lord will hear our prayer : And show us mercy for unfeigned tears . And let each one that reads what here is pen'd , Strive night and day their lives for to amend : That God in mercy all our Souls may save , When as we fallen into the silent Grave . Printed for P. Brooksbys at the Harp and Ball in Pye-Corner , near West Smithfield . 