The Happy Husbandman : OR , Country Innocence . To a pleasant New Court Tune . This may be Printed , R.P. MY young Mary do's mind the Dairy , while I go a Howing , and Mowing each Morn ; They hey the little Spinning Wheel , Merrily round do's Reel while I am singing amid the Corn : Cream and Kisses both are my Delight , She gives me them , and the Joys of Night ; She's soft as the Air , As Morning fair , Is not such a Maid a most pleasing sighed ? While I whistle , she from the Thistle does gather Down for to make us a Bed , And then my little Love does lie All the Night long , and die in the kind Arms of her noun dear Ned ; There I taste of a delicate Spring , But I must not tell you , nor name the thing , To put you a Wishing , And think of Kissing , For Kisses cause sighs , and young Men shou'd sing . Sedge and Rushes , and tops of Bushes shall thatch our Roof , and shalt shall strow all our Floar ; And then the pretty Nightingales Will fly from Groves and Dales to live with us , and we'll ne'er be Poor : Little Lambkins when ever they die Will bequeathe new Blankets to thee and I , Our Quilts shall be Roses Which June disposes ; So warm and so sweet my young Love shall lie . Fountains pure shall be thy Ewer to sprinkle Water upon thy fair Face ; And near the little Flock shall play All the long Summer's Day ; gentle white-Lambs will adorn the Place . Then at Night we'll high home to our Hive , And ( like Bees ) enjoy all the sweets alive : We'll cast all Love's Treasure , And enjoy that Pleasure , While others for Fame and for Greatness strive . No Man's Frowns are on the Downs , for truly there we most freely may sing , And kiss the pretty Nancies , While Changes and Chances amuse all the Great , and Disturbance bring . We will with our young Lambs go to Bed , And observe the Lives that our Father's led ; We'll mind not Ambition , Nor sow Sedition , And leave State-Affairs to the State-man's Head. Oaten Reeds ( those humble Weeds ) shall be the Pipes upon which we will play , And on the merry Mountain , Or else by a Fountain , we'll merrily pass the sweet time away : Sure no Mortal can blame us for this . And now mark the way of your London Miss , She master's your Breeches , And takes your Riches , While we have more Joys by a harmless Kiss . No Youth here need Willow wear , no beauteous Maid will her Lover destroy : The gentle little Lass will yield In the soft Daisy Field , freely our Pleasures we here enjoy : No great Juno we boldly defy , With young Cloris Cheeks , or fair Celia's Eye ; We let all those things alone , And enjoy our own , Every Night with our Beauty's lie . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden-Ball , in Pie-corner . The Happy Husbandman : OR , Country Innocence . To a pleasant New Court Tune . This may be Printed , R.P. MY young Mary do's mind the Dairy , while I go a Howing , and Mowing each Morn ; They hey the little Spinning Wheel , Merrily round do's Reel while I am singing amid the Corn : Cream and Kisses both are my Delight , She gives me them , and the Joys of Night ; She's soft as the Air , As Morning fair , Is not such a Maid a most pleasing sighed ? While I whistle , she from the Thistle does gather Down for to make us a Bed , And then my little Love does lie All the Night long , and die in the kind Arms of her noun dear Ned ; There I taste of a delicate Spring , But I must not tell you , nor name the thing , To put you a Wishing , And think of Kissing , For Kisses cause sighs , and young Men shou'd sing . Sedge and Rushes , and tops of Bushes shall thatch our Roof , and shalt shall strow all our Floar ; And then the pretty Nightingales Will fly from Groves and Dales to live with us , and we'll ne'er be Poor : Little Lambkins when ever they die Will bequeathe new Blankets to thee and I , Our Quilts shall be Roses Which June disposes ; So warm and so sweet my young Love shall lie . Fountains pure shall be thy Ewer to sprinkle Water upon thy fair Face ; And near the little Flock shall play All the long Summer's Day ; gentle white-Lambs will adorn the Place . Then at Night we'll high home to our Hive , And ( like Bees ) enjoy all the sweets alive : We'll cast all Love's Treasure , And enjoy that Pleasure , While others for Fame and for Greatness strive . No Man's Frowns are on the Downs , for truly there we most freely may sing , And kiss the pretty Nancies , While Changes and Chances amuse all the Great , and Disturbance bring . We will with our young Lambs go to Bed , And observe the Lives that our Father's led ; We'll mind not Ambition , Nor sow Sedition , And leave State-Affairs to the State-man's Head. Oaten Reeds ( those humble Weeds ) shall be the Pipes upon which we will play , And on the merry Mountain , Or else by a Fountain , we'll merrily pass the sweet time away : Sure no Mortal can blame us for this . And now mark the way of your London Miss , She master's your Breeches , And takes your Riches , While we have more Joys by a harmless Kiss . No Youth here need Willow wear , no beauteous Maid will her Lover destroy : The gentle little Lass will yield In the soft Daisy Field , freely our Pleasures we here enjoy : No great Juno we boldly defy , With young Cloris Cheeks , or fair Celia's Eye ; We let all those things alone , And enjoy our own , Every Night with our Beauty's lie . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden-Ball , in Pie-corner . 