The Huntingdonshire PLOW-MAN : OR , The Plowman's Complain For the Loss of his Hearts Delight . True Love alone , does cause my moan , such Sorrows I possess ; I being left of joys bereft , To languish in Distress . Tune of , My Child must have a Father . This may be Printed . R.P. YOung-Men and Maids I pray attend , unto a Plow-Mans Ditty ; It is to you these Lines I send , in hope's that you will pity My sad and woeful Destiny , I being now forsaken ; I thought she lov'd no man but me , yet I was much mistaken . I counted her my Hearts Delight , and doted on her Beauty ; I cou [ ' ] worser have serv'd her Day and Night , and counted it my Duty : My Love to her I made appear , at e'ry time and season , Yet I am slighted by my Dear , and know not what's the reason . Except the meaness of my state , does cause her to refuse me ; But if the truth I may relate , she ought not to abuse me : And hold my Person thus in scorn , in giving the denial ; For tho' I am a Plowman Born , my Heart is true and Loyal . No rest or quiet could I find , my Love is out of measure ; She still was running in my mind , I counted her my Treasure : But yet at me she still would scoff , instructed by her Mother , And at the length did leave me off , and Marry'd with another . I count this prov'd my Overthrow , by being far asunder , So that I daily could not go , therefore I now lie under The sense of sorrow , care and grief , which I am still possessing , And ne'r expect to have relief , or to enjoy the blessing . Tho' she by Letters knew my mind . which I was often sending , Yet now I find her most unkind , my Grief is without ending : In Chains of Love I here must lie , in Care and Grief surrounded ; Alas ! I freely now could die , for why my Heart is wounded . But tho' you thus do torture me , as I too well do know it , I must and will your Captive be , for I cannot forego i Therefore always , I'le write thy praise , in this my lovesick Story , For I am Will the Plowman still , and will set forth thy Glory . She had been true to Cupids Laws , and never coy nor cruel : Had not her Mother been the cause , I had enjoy'd my Jewel : On Wealth her Mother's mind was bent , she greeded out of measure , But Love will last when Money's spent , then who wou'd Wed for Treasure ? Young Men that hear me now this day , which have a mind to Marry ; Pray do not linger and delay , there's danger if you tarry : When e're you understand and find , that others are about her , Pray take her while she's in the mind , for fear you go without her . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner . The Huntingdonshire PLOW-MAN : OR , The Plowman's Complain For the Loss of his Hearts Delight . True Love alone , does cause my moan , such Sorrows I possess ; I being left of joys bereft , To languish in Distress . Tune of , My Child must have a Father . This may be Printed . R.P. YOung-Men and Maids I pray attend , unto a Plow-Mans Ditty ; It is to you these Lines I send , in hope's that you will pity My sad and woeful Destiny , I being now forsaken ; I thought she lov'd no man but me , yet I was much mistaken . I counted her my Hearts Delight , and doted on her Beauty ; I cou [ ' ] worser have serv'd her Day and Night , and counted it my Duty : My Love to her I made appear , at e'ry time and season , Yet I am slighted by my Dear , and know not what's the reason . Except the meaness of my state , does cause her to refuse me ; But if the truth I may relate , she ought not to abuse me : And hold my Person thus in scorn , in giving the denial ; For tho' I am a Plowman Born , my Heart is true and Loyal . No rest or quiet could I find , my Love is out of measure ; She still was running in my mind , I counted her my Treasure : But yet at me she still would scoff , instructed by her Mother , And at the length did leave me off , and Marry'd with another . I count this prov'd my Overthrow , by being far asunder , So that I daily could not go , therefore I now lie under The sense of sorrow , care and grief , which I am still possessing , And ne'r expect to have relief , or to enjoy the blessing . Tho' she by Letters knew my mind . which I was often sending , Yet now I find her most unkind , my Grief is without ending : In Chains of Love I here must lie , in Care and Grief surrounded ; Alas ! I freely now could die , for why my Heart is wounded . But tho' you thus do torture me , as I too well do know it , I must and will your Captive be , for I cannot forego i Therefore always , I'le write thy praise , in this my lovesick Story , For I am Will the Plowman still , and will set forth thy Glory . She had been true to Cupids Laws , and never coy nor cruel : Had not her Mother been the cause , I had enjoy'd my Jewel : On Wealth her Mother's mind was bent , she greeded out of measure , But Love will last when Money's spent , then who wou'd Wed for Treasure ? Young Men that hear me now this day , which have a mind to Marry ; Pray do not linger and delay , there's danger if you tarry : When e're you understand and find , that others are about her , Pray take her while she's in the mind , for fear you go without her . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner . 