The Passionate LOVER : OR , The Damsels Grief Crown'd with Comforts . To a pleasant New Playhouse Tune , much in Request . This may be Printed , R.P. Maid . SIghs and groans , and melancholy moans , I languish and anguish in doleful Tones , For him I loved dear I do complain . Because his company I can't refrain . Man. Sighs and groans you say you are oppressed , You say I am he whom you loved best , But if it be so , and your heart be true , Then I will bear a part as well as you . Maid . Men are deceitful , who can them believe Their flattering words , they Maids deceive With their Ruby Lips , and their tempting Eye , They terrify poor Maidens till they die , What cares he that never felt the smart Of this my languishing Lovesick Heart ; Had you a sense of what I do endure , Then you in love would grant a speedy cure . 'Tis pale Death that now must give me ease , For there is nothing else my Heart can please , Then on my Tomb alas ! it shall be read , That here lies a loyal Lover dead . Man. Thou hast no cause my dearest to complain , For as I am thy Love I will remain , Do but believe me , thou shalt be my Bride , For I valve none in the World beside . None but thee my Love I adore , Thy blessings dearest here I will restore , Dry up thy Tears , and take this tender kiss , Being in token of a true Loves bliss . Maid . Was I sure that these thy words were true , Then might I bid my sorrows quite adieu , Yet I have known Men say as much as this , And then have left their Lovers in distress . For when they have brought us to their bow . They then do prove our final overthrow , True hearted Men I find there is but few , Nay , I may say the very same by you . None but I , you say you do adore , Have you not said as much as this before , When you declar'd that I should be your wife , And yet you left me near bereav'd of Life . Man. When I left my love , it was to try Thy pure affections , and thy constancy . I know when Cupid does Mens hearts invade , Females have oftentimes the Tyrants play'd . But I find my Love is none of those , Therefore my heart to thee I will disclose ; Thy Loyalty my purest Love hath wone , 'Tis none I prize but thee beneath the Sun. We'll never part while I remain alive . Then let thy drooping Spirits now revive , The very Mountains shall as soon remove , As I found disloyal to my Love . Now when he had uttered forth his mind , There was no grief , but both to love inclin'd , Where he embrac'd her in his tender arms , With many sweet salutes and pleasing charms . Thus was tears straight turned into joy , There's nothing can their comforts annoy , By solemn vows their hearts are linked fast , And live in love , as long as life shall last . The Passionate LOVER : OR , The Damsels Grief Crown'd with Comforts . To a pleasant New Playhouse Tune , much in Request . This may be Printed , R.P. Maid . SIghs and groans , and melancholy moans , I languish and anguish in doleful Tones , For him I loved dear I do complain . Because his company I can't refrain . Man. Sighs and groans you say you are oppressed , You say I am he whom you loved best , But if it be so , and your heart be true , Then I will bear a part as well as you . Maid . Men are deceitful , who can them believe Their flattering words , they Maids deceive With their Ruby Lips , and their tempting Eye , They terrify poor Maidens till they die , What cares he that never felt the smart Of this my languishing Lovesick Heart ; Had you a sense of what I do endure , Then you in love would grant a speedy cure . 'Tis pale Death that now must give me ease , For there is nothing else my Heart can please , Then on my Tomb alas ! it shall be read , That here lies a loyal Lover dead . Man. Thou hast no cause my dearest to complain , For as I am thy Love I will remain , Do but believe me , thou shalt be my Bride , For I valve none in the World beside . None but thee my Love I adore , Thy blessings dearest here I will restore , Dry up thy Tears , and take this tender kiss , Being in token of a true Loves bliss . Maid . Was I sure that these thy words were true , Then might I bid my sorrows quite adieu , Yet I have known Men say as much as this , And then have left their Lovers in distress . For when they have brought us to their bow . They then do prove our final overthrow , True hearted Men I find there is but few , Nay , I may say the very same by you . None but I , you say you do adore , Have you not said as much as this before , When you declar'd that I should be your wife , And yet you left me near bereav'd of Life . Man. When I left my love , it was to try Thy pure affections , and thy constancy . I know when Cupid does Mens hearts invade , Females have oftentimes the Tyrants play'd . But I find my Love is none of those , Therefore my heart to thee I will disclose ; Thy Loyalty my purest Love hath wone , 'Tis none I prize but thee beneath the Sun. We'll never part while I remain alive . Then let thy drooping Spirits now revive , The very Mountains shall as soon remove , As I found disloyal to my Love . Now when he had uttered forth his mind , There was no grief , but both to love inclin'd , Where he embrac'd her in his tender arms , With many sweet salutes and pleasing charms . Thus was tears straight turned into joy , There's nothing can their comforts annoy , By solemn vows their hearts are linked fast , And live in love , as long as life shall last . 