Pretty KATE of Edenborough : BEING A New Scotch Song , Sung to the King at WINDSOR . JUst when the young and blooming Spring had melted down the winter Snow , And in the Grove the Birds did sing their charming Notes on ev'ry Bough : Poor Willy sat bemoaning his fate , and woeful state , for loving , loving , loving , and despairing too , alas ! he'd cry , that I must die , for pretty Kate of Edenbrough . WIlly was late at a Wedding-house , where Lords and Ladies danc'd all arrow , But Willy none so pretty a Lass , as bonny Kate of Edenborough ; Her bright eyes , with smiling joys , did so surprise , And something , something , something , else that shot him through : Thus Willy lies entranc'd in joys , with pretty Kate of Edenborough . The God of Love was Willy's Friend and cast and eye of pity down , And straight a fatal Dart did send the cruel Virgins heart to wound : Now every Dream is all of him , who still does seem More lovely , lovely , lovely , since the Marriage Vow : Thus Willy lies entranc'd in joys , with pretty Kate of Edenbrough . Now Willy thinks his happiness , all other Creatures do exceed , His tongue cannot his joys express , since Kate and he are well agreed : Both day and night her beauty bright , is his delight , And nothing , nothing , nothing , else can Willy do , But found her Fame , and praise the Name of pretty Kate of Edenbrough . Cupid with his love does bless , granting him his hearts desire , He does continually express , how that his heart is all on fire ; He feels no pains , amid his Chains , but still remains A wounded , wounded , wounded lover , firm and true ; And all his prate is now of late , of pretty Kate of Ededbrough . He swears her eyes are full of charms , enough to conquer all the World , Her Smiles secure him from all harms , her Locks they are so nearly curl'd ; That in his mind he ne'er shall find , since she proves kind , A Lover , Lover , Lover . like his Katy true ; And does express his happiness , in pretty Kate of Edenbrough . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . Pretty KATE of Edenborough : BEING A New Scotch Song , Sung to the King at WINDSOR . JUst when the young and blooming Spring had melted down the winter Snow , And in the Grove the Birds did sing their charming Notes on ev'ry Bough : Poor Willy sat bemoaning his fate , and woeful state , for loving , loving , loving , and despairing too , alas ! he'd cry , that I must die , for pretty Kate of Edenbrough . WIlly was late at a Wedding-house , where Lords and Ladies danc'd all arrow , But Willy none so pretty a Lass , as bonny Kate of Edenborough ; Her bright eyes , with smiling joys , did so surprise , And something , something , something , else that shot him through : Thus Willy lies entranc'd in joys , with pretty Kate of Edenborough . The God of Love was Willy's Friend and cast and eye of pity down , And straight a fatal Dart did send the cruel Virgins heart to wound : Now every Dream is all of him , who still does seem More lovely , lovely , lovely , since the Marriage Vow : Thus Willy lies entranc'd in joys , with pretty Kate of Edenbrough . Now Willy thinks his happiness , all other Creatures do exceed , His tongue cannot his joys express , since Kate and he are well agreed : Both day and night her beauty bright , is his delight , And nothing , nothing , nothing , else can Willy do , But found her Fame , and praise the Name of pretty Kate of Edenbrough . Cupid with his love does bless , granting him his hearts desire , He does continually express , how that his heart is all on fire ; He feels no pains , amid his Chains , but still remains A wounded , wounded , wounded lover , firm and true ; And all his prate is now of late , of pretty Kate of Ededbrough . He swears her eyes are full of charms , enough to conquer all the World , Her Smiles secure him from all harms , her Locks they are so nearly curl'd ; That in his mind he ne'er shall find , since she proves kind , A Lover , Lover , Lover . like his Katy true ; And does express his happiness , in pretty Kate of Edenbrough . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . 