The Protestant Courage ; OR , A brief account of some hundreds of Valiant Seamen , who daily comes in to serve Their Majesties , against the Forces of the French King . Tune is , Lilli borlero . Licensed according to Order . Found up the Trumpet , beatrice up the Drum , let not a Soul be subject to fear , Since the true pride of all Christendom , does against France in valour appear : The Courageous worthy Seamen , does from all parts to London advance , For Englands promotion , they'll fight on the Ocean , against all the strength and power of France . The last Engagement with the French Fleet , has so inrag [ ' ] worser true English Boys , That they resolve to make them retreat with the loud Cannons thund'ring noise ; Not a Soul among them daunted , but to the Seas they'll freely advance , On Board they do enter , and Lives they will venture to pull down the pride and power of France . Pray wou'd it not the Kingdom provoke , if we shou'd to a Tyrant bow ? But we will ne'er come under his Yoke , he must not think to Cope with us now ; For his Arbitrary Power , never shall to great Brittain advance , Our valiant brave Seamen , will keep us all Freem [ en ] and pull down the pride and power of France . Did he not drive his Subject's of late , out of their native Country dear ? Those that were rich did leave their Estate , naked and poor they came to us here : Should that Tyrant gain this Kingdom , the very same wou'd be our hard chance , His Fleet we will fire , or make them retire , and pull down the strength and power of Franc [ e . ] Therefore brave Seamen valiantly go , for to preserve this Nation from thrall , Rather than never Conquer this Foe , they do resolve to fight one and all ; From the brave Seaport of Weymouth , sixty true souls did freely advance , They needed no pressing , for by Heavens blessing , they'll pull down the pride and power of France . Norfolk brave Lads shall not be forgotten , Seamen they are that never will flinch ; With Cannons hight , and thund'ring shot , they do resolve to pepper the French : Six score came from thence to London , who in the Wars will hazard their chance , Stout Lads brisk and airy , for William and Mary , they'll help for to check the power of France . Bristow that ancient City of fame , still will stand up our Rights to restore , Sailors from thence most valiantly came , now one hundred and fifty or more : Valiant seamen , sons of thunder , who in the Wars will venture their chance , For the preservation of their native nation , they'll fight against all the power of France . E'ry seaport all over the Land , seamen comes in with joy and delight , Being resolv'd with Courage to stand , still to maintain the Protestants right , Since their Lives they freely venture , Englands Glory still to advance ; May Heaven defend them , and blessings attend them who fights against all the power of France . Printed for J. Deacon in Guiltspur-street . The Protestant Courage ; OR , A brief account of some hundreds of Valiant Seamen , who daily comes in to serve Their Majesties , against the Forces of the French King . Tune is , Lilli borlero . Licensed according to Order . Found up the Trumpet , beatrice up the Drum , let not a Soul be subject to fear , Since the true pride of all Christendom , does against France in valour appear : The Courageous worthy Seamen , does from all parts to London advance , For Englands promotion , they'll fight on the Ocean , against all the strength and power of France . The last Engagement with the French Fleet , has so inrag [ ' ] worser true English Boys , That they resolve to make them retreat with the loud Cannons thund'ring noise ; Not a Soul among them daunted , but to the Seas they'll freely advance , On Board they do enter , and Lives they will venture to pull down the pride and power of France . Pray wou'd it not the Kingdom provoke , if we shou'd to a Tyrant bow ? But we will ne'er come under his Yoke , he must not think to Cope with us now ; For his Arbitrary Power , never shall to great Brittain advance , Our valiant brave Seamen , will keep us all Freem [ en ] and pull down the pride and power of France . Did he not drive his Subject's of late , out of their native Country dear ? Those that were rich did leave their Estate , naked and poor they came to us here : Should that Tyrant gain this Kingdom , the very same wou'd be our hard chance , His Fleet we will fire , or make them retire , and pull down the strength and power of Franc [ e . ] Therefore brave Seamen valiantly go , for to preserve this Nation from thrall , Rather than never Conquer this Foe , they do resolve to fight one and all ; From the brave Seaport of Weymouth , sixty true souls did freely advance , They needed no pressing , for by Heavens blessing , they'll pull down the pride and power of France . Norfolk brave Lads shall not be forgotten , Seamen they are that never will flinch ; With Cannons hight , and thund'ring shot , they do resolve to pepper the French : Six score came from thence to London , who in the Wars will hazard their chance , Stout Lads brisk and airy , for William and Mary , they'll help for to check the power of France . Bristow that ancient City of fame , still will stand up our Rights to restore , Sailors from thence most valiantly came , now one hundred and fifty or more : Valiant seamen , sons of thunder , who in the Wars will venture their chance , For the preservation of their native nation , they'll fight against all the power of France . E'ry seaport all over the Land , seamen comes in with joy and delight , Being resolv'd with Courage to stand , still to maintain the Protestants right , Since their Lives they freely venture , Englands Glory still to advance ; May Heaven defend them , and blessings attend them who fights against all the power of France . Printed for J. Deacon in Guiltspur-street . 