r The Subject's Satisfaction Being a New SONG of the Proclaiming King William and Queen Marry the 13th . of this Instant February , to the great Joy and Comfort of the whole Kingdom To the Tune of , Grim King of the Ghosts , Or , Hail to the Myrtle Shades . KIng William is come to the Throne , the Nations Defender to be , And this is a blessing we own , ordain'd by the Heavens Decree ; Let Protestants truly rejoice , and Bells' too as merrily Ring , While all with a laudable voice , cry God bless great William our King . Queen Marry his Royal Consort , invested with Fame and Renown , She is the bright Star of the Court , as being true Heir to the Crown ; Long may they both flourish and Reign , their Fame thorough Europe to ring While Subject's they cry out amain , God prosper great William our King . The Triumph of that Noble day , as they were in London proclaim'd , Was duly observ'd e'ry way , vast Bone-fines gallantly flam'd : Canary was plenty and free , as Water that flows from a Spring , While all in one voice did agree , saying God bless great William our King . As being releas'd from that fear , which threatened this Nation of late , A blessing is come in the rear , to settle Religion and State : The Glory of Brittain is come , then Boy , let us merrily sing , And turn a Glass over your Thumb , with God save great William our King . There is such a change in the Scene , which soon all our Joys will restore A Protestant King and a Queen , the like was scarce ever before : Let loud Acclamations resound , and make the high Elements ring , The Glory of Brittain is found , in our true Protestant King . Now good Queen Elizabeth's Laws , in full force and power shall stand , To maintain the Protestant Cause , and make this a flourishing Land : We'll purge out all Popery quite , which Plots to this Nation did bring And all in Obedience unite , to pray for great William our King . The Lords and the Commons agreed , and gave satisfaction to all , Tho' Romans false rumours did breed , and hop'd they at variance wou'd fallen ; Yet Heaven has blessed the great work , which joy to this Nation did bring , A fig for the French or the Turk , now we have a Protestant King . Except those that wou'd us destroy ; there is not a sorrowful Soul ; The Land is transported with Joy , full bumpers does merrily troul ; Great Guns at the Tower did roar , while Fame she was boasting on wing , To carry the tidings all o're , of William our Protestant King . Let Marry his Royal good Queen , be blessed by the powers above , And that to her joy may be seen , a Mother e're long she may prove ; And have a Male Heir of her own , whose fame may thro' Christendom ring And fit in the height of the Throne , to Reign a true protestant King . Printed for : J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . r The Subject's Satisfaction Being a New SONG of the Proclaiming King William and Queen Marry the 13th . of this Instant February , to the great Joy and Comfort of the whole Kingdom To the Tune of , Grim King of the Ghosts , Or , Hail to the Myrtle Shades . KIng William is come to the Throne , the Nations Defender to be , And this is a blessing we own , ordain'd by the Heavens Decree ; Let Protestants truly rejoice , and Bells' too as merrily Ring , While all with a laudable voice , cry God bless great William our King . Queen Marry his Royal Consort , invested with Fame and Renown , She is the bright Star of the Court , as being true Heir to the Crown ; Long may they both flourish and Reign , their Fame thorough Europe to ring While Subject's they cry out amain , God prosper great William our King . The Triumph of that Noble day , as they were in London proclaim'd , Was duly observ'd e'ry way , vast Bone-fines gallantly flam'd : Canary was plenty and free , as Water that flows from a Spring , While all in one voice did agree , saying God bless great William our King . As being releas'd from that fear , which threatened this Nation of late , A blessing is come in the rear , to settle Religion and State : The Glory of Brittain is come , then Boy , let us merrily sing , And turn a Glass over your Thumb , with God save great William our King . There is such a change in the Scene , which soon all our Joys will restore A Protestant King and a Queen , the like was scarce ever before : Let loud Acclamations resound , and make the high Elements ring , The Glory of Brittain is found , in our true Protestant King . Now good Queen Elizabeth's Laws , in full force and power shall stand , To maintain the Protestant Cause , and make this a flourishing Land : We'll purge out all Popery quite , which Plots to this Nation did bring And all in Obedience unite , to pray for great William our King . The Lords and the Commons agreed , and gave satisfaction to all , Tho' Romans false rumours did breed , and hop'd they at variance wou'd fallen ; Yet Heaven has blessed the great work , which joy to this Nation did bring , A fig for the French or the Turk , now we have a Protestant King . Except those that wou'd us destroy ; there is not a sorrowful Soul ; The Land is transported with Joy , full bumpers does merrily troul ; Great Guns at the Tower did roar , while Fame she was boasting on wing , To carry the tidings all o're , of William our Protestant King . Let Marry his Royal good Queen , be blessed by the powers above , And that to her joy may be seen , a Mother e're long she may prove ; And have a Male Heir of her own , whose fame may thro' Christendom ring And fit in the height of the Throne , to Reign a true protestant King . Printed for : J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . 