The Lady Isabella's Tragedy ; OR , The Step-Mothers Cruelty . Being a Relation of a most Lamentable and Cruel Murder , committed on the Body of the Lady Isabella , the only Daughter of a Noble Duke , occasioned by the means of a Step-Mother and the Master-Cook , who were both adjudged to suffer a Cruel death , for committing the said Horrid Act. To the Tune of The Ladies Fallen . THere was a Lord of worthy fame and a Hunting he would ride , Attended by a noble Train , of Gentry by his side . And while he did in chase remain , to see both sport and play , His Lady went as she did feign , unto the Church to pray . This Lord he had a daughter fair whose beauty shin'd so brigh She was belov'd both far and near of many a Lord and Knight . Fair Isabella was she call'd , A Creature fair was she , She was her father's only joy , as you shall after see . But yet her Cruel step-Mother , did envy her so much , That day by day she sought her life her Malice it was such . She bargain'd with the Master-Cook to take her life away , And taking of her Daughters Book she thus to her did say . Go home sweet daughter , I thee pray go hasten presently . And tell unto the Master-Cook these words that I tell thee . And bid him dress to Dinner straight , that fair and milk white Doe , That in the Park does shine so bright , there's none so fair to show . THis Lady fearing of no harm , obey'd her Mother's will , And presently she hasted home , her mind for to fulfil . She straight into the Kitchen went , her message for to tell ; And there the Master Cook she spy'd , who did with Malice swell . You Master-Cook it must be so , do that which I thee tell , You needs must dress the milk white doe , which you do know full well . Then straight his cruel bloody hands , he on the Lady laid , Who quivering and shaking stands , while thus to her he said . Thou art the Doe that I must dress ; see here behold my Knife For it is pointed presently , to rid thee of thy life . O then cry'd out the Scullen boy as loud as loud might be , Oh save her Life good Master-Cook , and make your Pies of me , For pity sake do not destroy , my Lady with your Knife , You know she is her father's Joy , for Christ's sake save her life . I will not save her life he said , nor make my Pies of thee , But if thou dost this deed bewray , thy Butcher I will be , But when this Lord he did come home for to fit down and eat , He called for his Daughter dear , to come and carve his meat . Now fit you down his Lady said , Oh fit you down to meat , Into some Nunnery she is gone , your Daughter dear forget . Then solemnly he made a vow , before the company , That he would neither eat nor drink , until he [ di ] worser her see , Oh then bespoke the Scullen-boy , with a loud voice so high , If that you will your Daughter see , my Lord cut up that Pie . Wherein her flesh is minced small and parched with the fire : All caused by her Step-Mother , who did her death desire . And cursed be the Master-Cook , Oh cursed may he be , I proffered him my own hearts blood , from death to set her free . Then all in black this Lord did mourn , and for his Daughters sake , He judged for her Stepmother , to be burned at a Stake Likewise he judg'd the Master-Cook , in boiling Led to stand ; And made the simple Scullen Boy , the Heir to all his Land. Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner . The Lady Isabella's Tragedy ; OR , The Step-Mothers Cruelty . Being a Relation of a most Lamentable and Cruel Murder , committed on the Body of the Lady Isabella , the only Daughter of a Noble Duke , occasioned by the means of a Step-Mother and the Master-Cook , who were both adjudged to suffer a Cruel death , for committing the said Horrid Act. To the Tune of The Ladies Fallen . THere was a Lord of worthy fame and a Hunting he would ride , Attended by a noble Train , of Gentry by his side . And while he did in chase remain , to see both sport and play , His Lady went as she did feign , unto the Church to pray . This Lord he had a daughter fair whose beauty shin'd so brigh She was belov'd both far and near of many a Lord and Knight . Fair Isabella was she call'd , A Creature fair was she , She was her father's only joy , as you shall after see . But yet her Cruel step-Mother , did envy her so much , That day by day she sought her life her Malice it was such . She bargain'd with the Master-Cook to take her life away , And taking of her Daughters Book she thus to her did say . Go home sweet daughter , I thee pray go hasten presently . And tell unto the Master-Cook these words that I tell thee . And bid him dress to Dinner straight , that fair and milk white Doe , That in the Park does shine so bright , there's none so fair to show . THis Lady fearing of no harm , obey'd her Mother's will , And presently she hasted home , her mind for to fulfil . She straight into the Kitchen went , her message for to tell ; And there the Master Cook she spy'd , who did with Malice swell . You Master-Cook it must be so , do that which I thee tell , You needs must dress the milk white doe , which you do know full well . Then straight his cruel bloody hands , he on the Lady laid , Who quivering and shaking stands , while thus to her he said . Thou art the Doe that I must dress ; see here behold my Knife For it is pointed presently , to rid thee of thy life . O then cry'd out the Scullen boy as loud as loud might be , Oh save her Life good Master-Cook , and make your Pies of me , For pity sake do not destroy , my Lady with your Knife , You know she is her father's Joy , for Christ's sake save her life . I will not save her life he said , nor make my Pies of thee , But if thou dost this deed bewray , thy Butcher I will be , But when this Lord he did come home for to fit down and eat , He called for his Daughter dear , to come and carve his meat . Now fit you down his Lady said , Oh fit you down to meat , Into some Nunnery she is gone , your Daughter dear forget . Then solemnly he made a vow , before the company , That he would neither eat nor drink , until he [ di ] worser her see , Oh then bespoke the Scullen-boy , with a loud voice so high , If that you will your Daughter see , my Lord cut up that Pie . Wherein her flesh is minced small and parched with the fire : All caused by her Step-Mother , who did her death desire . And cursed be the Master-Cook , Oh cursed may he be , I proffered him my own hearts blood , from death to set her free . Then all in black this Lord did mourn , and for his Daughters sake , He judged for her Stepmother , to be burned at a Stake Likewise he judg'd the Master-Cook , in boiling Led to stand ; And made the simple Scullen Boy , the Heir to all his Land. Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner . 