THE London Lads Lamentation TO CUPID . OR , When shall I my True-Love have ? All youngmen must to Cupids power submit , Courage and Wisdom , Virtue too , & With None can his might power & charms withstand He , like young Beauty , always will Command : And here young maidens easily may find , How apt youngmen are to be true & kind Such constancy in them could scarce be found Should men go search the Universe all round . To and Excellent New Tune , Sung at the COURT . This may be Printed , R.P. CLoes Face is Heav'n to me ; Like the Morning-Light we see ; And the Beauty of her Eye , Bright and lovely , like the Sky : Cloe , since my Heav'n thou art , Ease and cure my wounded heart . Will young Love a Tyrant be ? Make me dote on Cruelty : Why does sullen Fate confine Me to one that is not mine ? Cloe , since my Heav'n thou art , Ease and cure my wounded heart . Had I Lov'd as others do , Only for and hour or two , Then there had a Reason been , I should suffer for my since : Cloe , since my Heav'n thou art , Ease and cure my wounded heart . Love ( thou know'st ) with what a flame , I adore young Cloes Name : Let me then thy pity find , Shoot a Dart and change her mind : Cloe , since my Heav'n thou art , Ease and cure my wounded heart . All her Beauty's do entice , Though the Nymph be cold as Ice , Rosie-Lips and Lilly-Skin , All we gaze on , Charm and win : Cloe , since my Heav'n thou art , Ease and cure my wounded heart . On her gentle Downy Breast , Let a sighing Lover rest , Twin'd within those tender Arms , Fetter'd by those pleasing Charms : Cloe , since my Heav'n thou art , Ease and cure my wounded heart . Let my Love with joys be Crown'd , You that with a Glance can Wound , With a Melting Kiss restore , Your young Love that sigh'd before : Cl [ oh ] e , since my Heav'n thou art , Ease and cure my wounded heart . Thus you'l show your power and skill , Able both to Save and Kill , But to Kill has always been Held a most Notorious since : Cloe , since my Heav'n thou art , Ease and cure my wounded heart . In sweet Groves we'l always dwell , With more joys than tongue can tell There the Wanton then we'l play , Steal each others heart away : Cloe , since my Heav'n thou art , Ease and cure my wounded heart . You I love ( by Jove ) I do , More then all things here below , With a Passion full as great , As e're Creature fancied you Cloe , since my Heav'n thou art , Ease and cure my wounded heart . Bid the Miser leave his Over , Bid the Wretched sighs no more : Bid the Old be Young again , Bid young Maids ne'r think of Men : Cloe , since my Heav'n thou art , Ease and cure my wounded heart . Love's not a thing of Chance , but Fat [ e ] That makes me Love , that makes the [ u ] hat [ e ] Then if you be false or true , Love I must , and none but you : Cloe , since my Heav'n thou art , Ease and cure my wounded heart . Printed for J. Back , at the Black-Boy on London-Bridge . THE London Lads Lamentation TO CUPID . OR , When shall I my True-Love have ? All youngmen must to Cupids power submit , Courage and Wisdom , Virtue too , & With None can his might power & charms withstand He , like young Beauty , always will Command : And here young maidens easily may find , How apt youngmen are to be true & kind Such constancy in them could scarce be found Should men go search the Universe all round . To and Excellent New Tune , Sung at the COURT . This may be Printed , R.P. CLoes Face is Heav'n to me ; Like the Morning-Light we see ; And the Beauty of her Eye , Bright and lovely , like the Sky : Cloe , since my Heav'n thou art , Ease and cure my wounded heart . Will young Love a Tyrant be ? Make me dote on Cruelty : Why does sullen Fate confine Me to one that is not mine ? Cloe , since my Heav'n thou art , Ease and cure my wounded heart . Had I Lov'd as others do , Only for and hour or two , Then there had a Reason been , I should suffer for my since : Cloe , since my Heav'n thou art , Ease and cure my wounded heart . Love ( thou know'st ) with what a flame , I adore young Cloes Name : Let me then thy pity find , Shoot a Dart and change her mind : Cloe , since my Heav'n thou art , Ease and cure my wounded heart . All her Beauty's do entice , Though the Nymph be cold as Ice , Rosie-Lips and Lilly-Skin , All we gaze on , Charm and win : Cloe , since my Heav'n thou art , Ease and cure my wounded heart . On her gentle Downy Breast , Let a sighing Lover rest , Twin'd within those tender Arms , Fetter'd by those pleasing Charms : Cloe , since my Heav'n thou art , Ease and cure my wounded heart . Let my Love with joys be Crown'd , You that with a Glance can Wound , With a Melting Kiss restore , Your young Love that sigh'd before : Cl [ oh ] e , since my Heav'n thou art , Ease and cure my wounded heart . Thus you'l show your power and skill , Able both to Save and Kill , But to Kill has always been Held a most Notorious since : Cloe , since my Heav'n thou art , Ease and cure my wounded heart . In sweet Groves we'l always dwell , With more joys than tongue can tell There the Wanton then we'l play , Steal each others heart away : Cloe , since my Heav'n thou art , Ease and cure my wounded heart . You I love ( by Jove ) I do , More then all things here below , With a Passion full as great , As e're Creature fancied you Cloe , since my Heav'n thou art , Ease and cure my wounded heart . Bid the Miser leave his Over , Bid the Wretched sighs no more : Bid the Old be Young again , Bid young Maids ne'r think of Men : Cloe , since my Heav'n thou art , Ease and cure my wounded heart . Love's not a thing of Chance , but Fat [ e ] That makes me Love , that makes the [ u ] hat [ e ] Then if you be false or true , Love I must , and none but you : Cloe , since my Heav'n thou art , Ease and cure my wounded heart . Printed for J. Back , at the Black-Boy on London-Bridge . 