The LONDON CUCKOLD : OR , And Ancient Citizens Head well fitted with a Flourishing pair of Fashionable Horns , by his Buxom Young Wife , who was well Back'd by a Coltish Spark , in the time of her Husbands Absence at the Campaign on Hounslow-Heath . Tune of , Oh Mother ! Roger , etc This may be Printed , R.P. A Tradesman hearing of the Story of the Army and Campaign , Long'd for to behold the Glory and he went to view the same ; On his Brown-bay Tit he god , And away does bravely trot , Left behind his witty Wife , Whom he lov'd as dear as life : But while my Tradesman took the Air , There came a Colt and Back'd his Mare . It was a Gallant with white Feather , and a Coat with Golden Lace , Hearing of her Fame , came thither , and supply'd her Husbands place : [ Li ] ttle thought the careless Man , Of the Game that then began , Thinking not to be beguil'd By his Wife so sweet and mild : But while the Tradesman took the Air , There came a Colt and Back'd his Mare . When he came home she gave him Kisses , and Sack-Posset very good , Caudles too , she never misses , for they warm and heat the Blood : Such things wilt create desire , And new kindle Cupid's Fire ; These things made him kiss his Wife , And to call her Love and Life ; But while ( alas ) he took the Air , A wanton Colt had Bac'd his Mare . The good man soon found something budding which did put him to great pain , And as he was eating Pudding , to his Wife he did complain : Wife , said he , I am not well , ( What I ail'd ) I cannot tell ) But my Forehead feels like Bone , 'Tis as hard as any Stone : By Jove , quoth she , and this fair morn , Husband , Husband , 'tis a Horn . A Horn , quoth he , pray hold your prating , ( for I vow you make me quake ) If it be , 'tis of your making , Oh dear ! how my Head does ache : I am in a woeful case , Something , something sprouts apace ; Love ( said she ) then know your doom , One lay with me in your Room ; For while you Rid to take the Air , There came a Colt that Back'd your Mare . The Duce ( quoth he ) take you for Witches , can't a Man Ride out a Mile , But some fellow with fine Breeches , must new Saddle you the while ? Husband , Husband , for your joy , You shall have a thumping Boy ; Come , come peace , and have more wit , Oh! I feel a qualmish Fit ; I find , I find , I am with-Child , Pray my Dear , be kind and mild . With Child , d'ye say , ( you arrant Hussie ) I ne'r god it , is it true ? 'Tis ( quoth she ) you were so busy , I was loath to trouble you : You love Bus'ness as your Life , But ne'r mind to kiss your Wife ; You leave me to lie alone , All night long to sighs and moan : And therefore when you took the Air , There came a Colt and Back'd your Mare . It was a Youth in Gaudy Jacket , that appear'd most brisk and fine , Kissed me , pressed me , teaz'd my Placket , made me blush like Claret-Wine : But at last I worser [ i ] worser obey , What young woman could say nay ? To this Gallant I did yield , And the Warrior wone the Field ; For while you ( Husband ) took the Air , This same Youngster Back'd your Mare . Oh! let true Patience be my Balsom , since I know my wretched Fate , Prating like a Fool is fulsome , silence cures the Horned Pate : Should I blow my Trumpet out , I should raise the Rabble-rout , Have the Boys about my E [ a ] rs , And endure their Flouts a [ n ] worser [ j ] eers : But for hereafter i'le take c [ a ] re , That no young Colt shall Back my Mare . Printed for J. Back , at the Black Boy on London-Bridge , near the Draw-Bridge . The LONDON CUCKOLD : OR , And Ancient Citizens Head well fitted with a Flourishing pair of Fashionable Horns , by his Buxom Young Wife , who was well Back'd by a Coltish Spark , in the time of her Husbands Absence at the Campaign on Hounslow-Heath . Tune of , Oh Mother ! Roger , etc This may be Printed , R.P. A Tradesman hearing of the Story of the Army and Campaign , Long'd for to behold the Glory and he went to view the same ; On his Brown-bay Tit he god , And away does bravely trot , Left behind his witty Wife , Whom he lov'd as dear as life : But while my Tradesman took the Air , There came a Colt and Back'd his Mare . It was a Gallant with white Feather , and a Coat with Golden Lace , Hearing of her Fame , came thither , and supply'd her Husbands place : [ Li ] ttle thought the careless Man , Of the Game that then began , Thinking not to be beguil'd By his Wife so sweet and mild : But while the Tradesman took the Air , There came a Colt and Back'd his Mare . When he came home she gave him Kisses , and Sack-Posset very good , Caudles too , she never misses , for they warm and heat the Blood : Such things wilt create desire , And new kindle Cupid's Fire ; These things made him kiss his Wife , And to call her Love and Life ; But while ( alas ) he took the Air , A wanton Colt had Bac'd his Mare . The good man soon found something budding which did put him to great pain , And as he was eating Pudding , to his Wife he did complain : Wife , said he , I am not well , ( What I ail'd ) I cannot tell ) But my Forehead feels like Bone , 'Tis as hard as any Stone : By Jove , quoth she , and this fair morn , Husband , Husband , 'tis a Horn . A Horn , quoth he , pray hold your prating , ( for I vow you make me quake ) If it be , 'tis of your making , Oh dear ! how my Head does ache : I am in a woeful case , Something , something sprouts apace ; Love ( said she ) then know your doom , One lay with me in your Room ; For while you Rid to take the Air , There came a Colt that Back'd your Mare . The Duce ( quoth he ) take you for Witches , can't a Man Ride out a Mile , But some fellow with fine Breeches , must new Saddle you the while ? Husband , Husband , for your joy , You shall have a thumping Boy ; Come , come peace , and have more wit , Oh! I feel a qualmish Fit ; I find , I find , I am with-Child , Pray my Dear , be kind and mild . With Child , d'ye say , ( you arrant Hussie ) I ne'r god it , is it true ? 'Tis ( quoth she ) you were so busy , I was loath to trouble you : You love Bus'ness as your Life , But ne'r mind to kiss your Wife ; You leave me to lie alone , All night long to sighs and moan : And therefore when you took the Air , There came a Colt and Back'd your Mare . It was a Youth in Gaudy Jacket , that appear'd most brisk and fine , Kissed me , pressed me , teaz'd my Placket , made me blush like Claret-Wine : But at last I worser [ i ] worser obey , What young woman could say nay ? To this Gallant I did yield , And the Warrior wone the Field ; For while you ( Husband ) took the Air , This same Youngster Back'd your Mare . Oh! let true Patience be my Balsom , since I know my wretched Fate , Prating like a Fool is fulsome , silence cures the Horned Pate : Should I blow my Trumpet out , I should raise the Rabble-rout , Have the Boys about my E [ a ] rs , And endure their Flouts a [ n ] worser [ j ] eers : But for hereafter i'le take c [ a ] re , That no young Colt shall Back my Mare . Printed for J. Back , at the Black Boy on London-Bridge , near the Draw-Bridge . 