The Life and Death of Sir Hugh of the Grime . AS it befell upon one time , about Midsummer of the year , Every man was taxed of his crime , for stealing the good Lord Bishops Mare . The good Lord Screw he saddled a Horse , and rid after this same scrime , Before he did get over the Moss , there was he aware of Sir Hugh of the Grime . Turn , Oh turn , thou false Traitor , turn and yield thy self unto me : Thou hast stolen the Lord Bishops Mare , and now thou thinkest away to flee . No , soft Lord Screw that may not be , here is a broad sword by my side , And if that thou can'st conquer me , the Victory will soon be try'd . I ne'r was afraid of a Traitor bold , although thy name be Hugh in the Grime , I'le make thee repent thy speeches foul , if day and life but give me time . Then do thy worst good Lord Screw , and deal your blows as fast as you can : It will be try'd between me and you , which of us two shall be the best man . THus as they dealt their blows so free , and both so bloody at that time , Over the Moss ten Yeomen they see , come for to take Sir Hugh in the Grime . Sir Hugh set his back against a Tree , and then the men encompassed him round , His much Sword from his hand did flee , & then they brought sir Hugh to the ground . Sir Hugh of the Grime now taken is , and brought back to Garlard Town , The good Wives all in Garlard Town , sir Hugh in the grime thou'st ne'r gang down The good Lord Bishop is come to the town , and on the Bench is set so high , And every man was taxed to his crime , at length he called sir Hugh in the Grime . Here am I thou false Bishop , thy humours all to fulfil , I do not think my fact so great , but thou may'st put it into thy own will . The Quest of Jurymen was call'd , the best that was in Garland Town , Eleven of them spoke all in a breast , Sir Hugh in the Grime thou'st ne'r gang down . Then other Questry-men was call'd , the best that was in Rumary , Twelve of them spoke all in a breast , sir Hugh in the Grime thou'st now guilty . Then came down my good Lord Boles , falling down upon his knee , Five hundred pieces of gold would I give , to grant Sir Hugh in the Grime to me . Peace , peace , my good Lord Boles , and of your speeches set them by , If there be eleven Grimes all of a name , then by my own honour they all should die . Then came down my good Lady Ward , falling low upon her knee , Five hundred measures of gold i'le give , to grant Sir Hugh of the Grime to me . Peace , peace , my good Lady Ward , none of your proffers shall him buy , For if there be twelve Grimes all of a name , by my own honour they all should die . Sir Hugh of the Grimes condemn'd to die , and of his friends he had no lack , Fourteen foot he leapt in his ward , his hands bound fast upon his back . Then he looked over his left shoulder , to see whom he could see or spy , There was he aware of his Father dear , came tearing his hair most pitifully . Peace , peace , my Father dear , and of your speeches set them by , Though they have bereav'd me of my life , they cannot bereave me of heaven so high . He looked over his right shoulder , to see whom he could see or spy , There was he aware of his Mother Dear , came tearing her hair most pitifully . Pray have me remembered to Peggy my wife , as she and I walked over the Moor , She was the causer of my life , and with the old Bishop she played the whore . Here Johnny Armstrong take thou my Sword that is made of the mettle so fine : And when thou com'st to the Border side , remember the death of Sir Hugh of the Grime . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , in West-smith-field , near the Hospital-gate . The Life and Death of Sir Hugh of the Grime . AS it befell upon one time , about Midsummer of the year , Every man was taxed of his crime , for stealing the good Lord Bishops Mare . The good Lord Screw he saddled a Horse , and rid after this same scrime , Before he did get over the Moss , there was he aware of Sir Hugh of the Grime . Turn , Oh turn , thou false Traitor , turn and yield thy self unto me : Thou hast stolen the Lord Bishops Mare , and now thou thinkest away to flee . No , soft Lord Screw that may not be , here is a broad sword by my side , And if that thou can'st conquer me , the Victory will soon be try'd . I ne'r was afraid of a Traitor bold , although thy name be Hugh in the Grime , I'le make thee repent thy speeches foul , if day and life but give me time . Then do thy worst good Lord Screw , and deal your blows as fast as you can : It will be try'd between me and you , which of us two shall be the best man . THus as they dealt their blows so free , and both so bloody at that time , Over the Moss ten Yeomen they see , come for to take Sir Hugh in the Grime . Sir Hugh set his back against a Tree , and then the men encompassed him round , His much Sword from his hand did flee , & then they brought sir Hugh to the ground . Sir Hugh of the Grime now taken is , and brought back to Garlard Town , The good Wives all in Garlard Town , sir Hugh in the grime thou'st ne'r gang down The good Lord Bishop is come to the town , and on the Bench is set so high , And every man was taxed to his crime , at length he called sir Hugh in the Grime . Here am I thou false Bishop , thy humours all to fulfil , I do not think my fact so great , but thou may'st put it into thy own will . The Quest of Jurymen was call'd , the best that was in Garland Town , Eleven of them spoke all in a breast , Sir Hugh in the Grime thou'st ne'r gang down . Then other Questry-men was call'd , the best that was in Rumary , Twelve of them spoke all in a breast , sir Hugh in the Grime thou'st now guilty . Then came down my good Lord Boles , falling down upon his knee , Five hundred pieces of gold would I give , to grant Sir Hugh in the Grime to me . Peace , peace , my good Lord Boles , and of your speeches set them by , If there be eleven Grimes all of a name , then by my own honour they all should die . Then came down my good Lady Ward , falling low upon her knee , Five hundred measures of gold i'le give , to grant Sir Hugh of the Grime to me . Peace , peace , my good Lady Ward , none of your proffers shall him buy , For if there be twelve Grimes all of a name , by my own honour they all should die . Sir Hugh of the Grimes condemn'd to die , and of his friends he had no lack , Fourteen foot he leapt in his ward , his hands bound fast upon his back . Then he looked over his left shoulder , to see whom he could see or spy , There was he aware of his Father dear , came tearing his hair most pitifully . Peace , peace , my Father dear , and of your speeches set them by , Though they have bereav'd me of my life , they cannot bereave me of heaven so high . He looked over his right shoulder , to see whom he could see or spy , There was he aware of his Mother Dear , came tearing her hair most pitifully . Pray have me remembered to Peggy my wife , as she and I walked over the Moor , She was the causer of my life , and with the old Bishop she played the whore . Here Johnny Armstrong take thou my Sword that is made of the mettle so fine : And when thou com'st to the Border side , remember the death of Sir Hugh of the Grime . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball , in West-smith-field , near the Hospital-gate . 