Love and Honour : Or , The Lovers Farewell to Calista . Being sent from Sea in the late Enngagemet against the Dutch , to his Mistress , under the Name of Calista . With the Ladies deploring and ingenious Answer . To a New sad Air much in request ; Or , Tune of , Now the Tyrant hath stolen . FArewel my Calista my joy and my grief , In vain have I lov'd thee , and found no relief ; Undone by your Virtues so strict and severe , Your eyes gave me love , but you gave me despair . Now cal'd by my honour , I seek with content , That fate which in pity you would not preven To languish in love were to find by delay , A death that's more welcome the speediest way . In Seas , and in Battles , amongst bullets and fire The danger is less then in hopeless desire . The dea [ tO ] hs wound you gave me , though far off , I bear My fa [ l ] l from y [ oh ] ur sight's not to cost you a tear . But if [ tO ] he kind flood on a wave should convey , And under your window my body should lay , The wound on my breast , when you happen to see you would say with a sighs , It was given by me , When Suitors are wounded with stabs of disdain This happiness to be put out of their pain : The grave is a place to bid torment farewell , But Lovers are tortur'd 'twixt Heaven and Hell When frowns of a Mistress do turn a man o're , 'Tis safer on Shipboard then 'tis on the shore : I find by experience , though with loss of breath 'Tis worse to encounter with Cupid then Death What strength hath a Lady with cast of her eye , To make a man live , or compel him to die : Such power had Calista with smile and with frown She'd raise me to heaven , then tumble me down . But dearest take care how you put faith in men , For I fear you will never be lov'd so again . You needs must acknowledge , while I could draw breath I was your unchangeable servant till death , ONce more my last farewell I breath in a blast The cloud on my vitals is much over-cas I faint , fail , I perish , and suddenly die , Yet sure should recover if thou wertenberg but by : That I never enjoy'd thee I do not repine , Thou liv [ ' ] st with thy honour , and I die with mine : For to altar ages this story will prove , I died in the war for my King and my Love . The Ladies Answer . BLame not your Calista , nor call her your grief 'Twas Honour , not she , that deny'd you relief : Abuse not her virtues , nor term them severe , Who loves without honour , must look for despair . Now prompted by pity I truly lament , The force of your fate which I could not preven And languish to think that your blood should defray The expense of your love , though so noble a way . On Seas and in Battles that you did expire , Was caus'd by your Valour , not hopeless desire ; Of your Fame , there acquired , I greedily hear , And grieve when I think that it cost you so dear : But when your sad friends shall your body convey By my window your funeral duties to pay , I'le sighs that your fate then I could not rev [ erse , ] And all my kind wishes I'le show on your He [ rse . ] When Suitors petition and run upon shelves , Or shot , if deny'd , they do murder themselves : The grave is a couch where the virtuous rema [ in , ] Without expectation of sorrow or pain . If the frowns of a Mistress can rule a men fat [ e , ] He value's his life at a pitiful rate : Though now she look cloudy , when she draws [ the ] sce [ ne , ] Who knows but the daylight may clear up age [ n . ] The looks of a Lady you falsely do scan , 'Tis not strength in the woman , but weakness [ in ] M [ and , ] When men set up Idols of flesh , blood , and bo [ ne , ] And bow down to worship , the fault is their owe [ n : ] I hope I shall ne'r be deceived by Men : For your sake I never shall trust them again : 'Tis fatal when Lovers do suffer such strife , That one must loose honour , or th'other loose life My mind never can your last farewell forget , My tears shall confess I'le not die in your deb I heartily wish I had been by your side , That you might recover , or I might have die [ worser : ] Then both to Elezium we had been convey'd , Where Ladies by Lovers are never betray'd But in future ages in sonnets they'l sing , It long of your love that you dy'd for the [ ur ] Kin [ g , ] Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Goldenball , in West-smithfield , near the Hospital-gate . Love and Honour : Or , The Lovers Farewell to Calista . Being sent from Sea in the late Enngagemet against the Dutch , to his Mistress , under the Name of Calista . With the Ladies deploring and ingenious Answer . To a New sad Air much in request ; Or , Tune of , Now the Tyrant hath stolen . FArewel my Calista my joy and my grief , In vain have I lov'd thee , and found no relief ; Undone by your Virtues so strict and severe , Your eyes gave me love , but you gave me despair . Now cal'd by my honour , I seek with content , That fate which in pity you would not preven To languish in love were to find by delay , A death that's more welcome the speediest way . In Seas , and in Battles , amongst bullets and fire The danger is less then in hopeless desire . The dea [ tO ] hs wound you gave me , though far off , I bear My fa [ l ] l from y [ oh ] ur sight's not to cost you a tear . But if [ tO ] he kind flood on a wave should convey , And under your window my body should lay , The wound on my breast , when you happen to see you would say with a sighs , It was given by me , When Suitors are wounded with stabs of disdain This happiness to be put out of their pain : The grave is a place to bid torment farewell , But Lovers are tortur'd 'twixt Heaven and Hell When frowns of a Mistress do turn a man o're , 'Tis safer on Shipboard then 'tis on the shore : I find by experience , though with loss of breath 'Tis worse to encounter with Cupid then Death What strength hath a Lady with cast of her eye , To make a man live , or compel him to die : Such power had Calista with smile and with frown She'd raise me to heaven , then tumble me down . But dearest take care how you put faith in men , For I fear you will never be lov'd so again . You needs must acknowledge , while I could draw breath I was your unchangeable servant till death , ONce more my last farewell I breath in a blast The cloud on my vitals is much over-cas I faint , fail , I perish , and suddenly die , Yet sure should recover if thou wertenberg but by : That I never enjoy'd thee I do not repine , Thou liv [ ' ] st with thy honour , and I die with mine : For to altar ages this story will prove , I died in the war for my King and my Love . The Ladies Answer . BLame not your Calista , nor call her your grief 'Twas Honour , not she , that deny'd you relief : Abuse not her virtues , nor term them severe , Who loves without honour , must look for despair . Now prompted by pity I truly lament , The force of your fate which I could not preven And languish to think that your blood should defray The expense of your love , though so noble a way . On Seas and in Battles that you did expire , Was caus'd by your Valour , not hopeless desire ; Of your Fame , there acquired , I greedily hear , And grieve when I think that it cost you so dear : But when your sad friends shall your body convey By my window your funeral duties to pay , I'le sighs that your fate then I could not rev [ erse , ] And all my kind wishes I'le show on your He [ rse . ] When Suitors petition and run upon shelves , Or shot , if deny'd , they do murder themselves : The grave is a couch where the virtuous rema [ in , ] Without expectation of sorrow or pain . If the frowns of a Mistress can rule a men fat [ e , ] He value's his life at a pitiful rate : Though now she look cloudy , when she draws [ the ] sce [ ne , ] Who knows but the daylight may clear up age [ n . ] The looks of a Lady you falsely do scan , 'Tis not strength in the woman , but weakness [ in ] M [ and , ] When men set up Idols of flesh , blood , and bo [ ne , ] And bow down to worship , the fault is their owe [ n : ] I hope I shall ne'r be deceived by Men : For your sake I never shall trust them again : 'Tis fatal when Lovers do suffer such strife , That one must loose honour , or th'other loose life My mind never can your last farewell forget , My tears shall confess I'le not die in your deb I heartily wish I had been by your side , That you might recover , or I might have die [ worser : ] Then both to Elezium we had been convey'd , Where Ladies by Lovers are never betray'd But in future ages in sonnets they'l sing , It long of your love that you dy'd for the [ ur ] Kin [ g , ] Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Goldenball , in West-smithfield , near the Hospital-gate . 