THE lovesick Maid of Waping Her Complaint for want of Apple-Pye . This Maid was in such deep distress , wanting a gamesome Lad , She cry'd for want of Happiness that other Lovers had . Tune of , Jenny Gin , Fair one let me in , Busy fame , Heigh boys up go we . YOu that enjoy your hearts delight , take pity now on me , Whom foe [ r ] tune seeks to despite , and bring to misery : But yet I will a Husband have , no fate shall me deny , For I sighs my self into my Grave and for want of Apple-py . Now I am seventeen years of age , methinks it is high time Love's fiery passion to all wage , now I am in my prime , I must , I must a Husband have , no fate shall me deny ; For I sighs my self into my Grave and for want of Apple-py . O that I play'd so much the fool as in times past I did ; I might have gone to Venus School , but fortune did forbid : And now I must a Husband have , no fate shall me deny , Foe [ r ] I sighs my self into my Grave , and for want of Apple-py . When George the Goldsmith came to me my beauty he admir'd ; And like a fool I did deny what of me he desir'd : But now a Husband I will a Husband have no fate shall me deny , For I sighs my self into my Grave , and for want of Apple-py . When Valentine the Vintner came that handsome bonny Lad , And to deny his fiery flame I think I was quite mad : But now I must a Husband have , no fate shall me deny , For I sighs my self into my Grave , and for want of Apple py . Could I but now a Husband have , how happy should I be , Oh then should I be brisk and brave , and live in jollity : But the pangs of love does me oppress , tho' fate does me deny ; And it is the only happiness to taste of Apple-py . Then John the Joyner came to me , whose charms were half divine ; He told me he could gamesome be , and understood to join : But alas I must a husband have that will both hug and kiss , Else I shall pine into my Grave for want of hit and miss . At last a Taylor neat and fine , with Bodkin and his Needle , He came to gain the love of mine , but him I thought too feeble : For I must have a thundering lad my passion to allay , Or else I surely shall go mad ; brisk youngsters come away . A brisk young Cobbler to me came , who worked in a Stall ; He said he burned with fiery flame , but I did not like his Aul : No , no , 'tis not a cobbling fool must be a match for me , For I full well must like his Tool that must my Husband be . And after they were come and gone , to me then came a Glover , He looked like a feeble one , not fit to be a Lover : At my denial he look'd pale , and a passion he was in ; I bid him hold his babbling tale , for he should not prick my skin . But then the Blacksmith to me came , whose sighed I did despise ; He lov'd , but I abhor'd the same , tho' he for pity cries : O let me not these pains endure , but grant to me some ease , Except I can some help procure , I die of Loves disease . At last the Sailor gent and neat to me a wooing came ; And he I thought was most complete to ease my fiery flame : He gave to me such sweet discourse I could him not deny , My stubborn heart then felt remorse , and he gave me Apple-py . THE lovesick Maid of Waping Her Complaint for want of Apple-Pye . This Maid was in such deep distress , wanting a gamesome Lad , She cry'd for want of Happiness that other Lovers had . Tune of , Jenny Gin , Fair one let me in , Busy fame , Heigh boys up go we . YOu that enjoy your hearts delight , take pity now on me , Whom foe [ r ] tune seeks to despite , and bring to misery : But yet I will a Husband have , no fate shall me deny , For I sighs my self into my Grave and for want of Apple-py . Now I am seventeen years of age , methinks it is high time Love's fiery passion to all wage , now I am in my prime , I must , I must a Husband have , no fate shall me deny ; For I sighs my self into my Grave and for want of Apple-py . O that I play'd so much the fool as in times past I did ; I might have gone to Venus School , but fortune did forbid : And now I must a Husband have , no fate shall me deny , Foe [ r ] I sighs my self into my Grave , and for want of Apple-py . When George the Goldsmith came to me my beauty he admir'd ; And like a fool I did deny what of me he desir'd : But now a Husband I will a Husband have no fate shall me deny , For I sighs my self into my Grave , and for want of Apple-py . When Valentine the Vintner came that handsome bonny Lad , And to deny his fiery flame I think I was quite mad : But now I must a Husband have , no fate shall me deny , For I sighs my self into my Grave , and for want of Apple py . Could I but now a Husband have , how happy should I be , Oh then should I be brisk and brave , and live in jollity : But the pangs of love does me oppress , tho' fate does me deny ; And it is the only happiness to taste of Apple-py . Then John the Joyner came to me , whose charms were half divine ; He told me he could gamesome be , and understood to join : But alas I must a husband have that will both hug and kiss , Else I shall pine into my Grave for want of hit and miss . At last a Taylor neat and fine , with Bodkin and his Needle , He came to gain the love of mine , but him I thought too feeble : For I must have a thundering lad my passion to allay , Or else I surely shall go mad ; brisk youngsters come away . A brisk young Cobbler to me came , who worked in a Stall ; He said he burned with fiery flame , but I did not like his Aul : No , no , 'tis not a cobbling fool must be a match for me , For I full well must like his Tool that must my Husband be . And after they were come and gone , to me then came a Glover , He looked like a feeble one , not fit to be a Lover : At my denial he look'd pale , and a passion he was in ; I bid him hold his babbling tale , for he should not prick my skin . But then the Blacksmith to me came , whose sighed I did despise ; He lov'd , but I abhor'd the same , tho' he for pity cries : O let me not these pains endure , but grant to me some ease , Except I can some help procure , I die of Loves disease . At last the Sailor gent and neat to me a wooing came ; And he I thought was most complete to ease my fiery flame : He gave to me such sweet discourse I could him not deny , My stubborn heart then felt remorse , and he gave me Apple-py . The Lovesick Maid quickly Revived . Within the prime time of the Spring , Within a Meadow she did sing ; And solemnly these words she said , I fear that I shall die a maid : But her Sweetheart in Ambush lay , And herd the words that she did say ; As in this Ditty you may hear If that you please but to give ear . Tune is , What shall I do , shall I die for love , etc Or , the Haymakers . AS I was walking forth of late , within the Meadows gay , It was in the prime time of the spring , in the merry Month of May I herd a Maiden sweetly sing , some Young man pity me , Oh what shall I do shall I die a Maid and never married be . Full twenty years of age am I , yea almost twenty one , Which makes me cry , what luck have I so long to lie alone : When younger maids they sweethearts have as daily I do see , what shall I do , shall I die a maid and never married be . My Mantua Gown is of pure Silk made of the neatest fashion , My smock is Cambrick , white as Milk as any in the Nation : My petticoats are made so short , young men my Legs may see , Oh what shall I do , shall I die a Maid and never married be . To Markets and Fairs , I do repair as other Maidens do , To see what young man will be there , my person for to Woo , Yet all in vain , I come again , for none does pity me , Which makes me afraid , I shall die a maid and never married be . I go to Church as Maidens do , and for small Devotion sake , But to see what true-Love I can find my Husband for to make : I often wish , but dare not speak , my blushing hinders me Which makes me afraid I shall die a maid and never married be . What if my Portion be but small , I much of him will make , And if such Fortune to me fallen great pains with him i'le take , A constant wife , while I have life , he still shall find of me , For loath I am to die a maid , but fain would married be . This Youngman he in Ambush lay , And herd this Maid what she did say ; How she complain'd most civilly , For fear a Maiden she should die . Till at the last blind Cupid he Did wound his heart with her Beauty : therefore to end up all the strife , He woo'd and wed her for his wife . I hearing of this Maidens moan , as in the Bush I lay , Delighting in her marry tone , I to my self did say , Thy beauty bright dazzles my sighed , if thy heart and tongue agree , It shall never be said , thou shalt die a maid , if thou canst fancy me . Then boldly I stepped unto this Maid , and took her by the hand , And unto her these words did say Lady at your Command , My Service and my person both , is ready here you see , It ne'r shall be said , thou dy'd a maid , if you can fancy me . Thy Portion be it great or small , for that I do not care , True Love and Fancy passes all , nothing with it can compare , Therefore grant me thy love my dear the like I'le do to thee , It ne'r shall be said , thou di'dst a maid , if thou canst fancy me . Then with a smile this Maid reply'd , I see I am betray'd , But yet your Suit is not deny'd , fulfil what you have said : Then of my love you need not f [ e ] a [ r ] , if constant you will be , Then to your promise have a care , with speed to marry me , So to conclude , away they went , and married was that day , Their Parents giving their consent , did Solemnize the day : Where now they live in sweet content , and lovingly agree , A civil pattern for all maids , that fain would married be . the AUTHOR's Advice . And so farewell you Maidens all , living in Town or City , I speak to you both great and small , which hears this merry ditty : If twenty years be come and gone , then mark what here is said , Be constant to your first true Love , for fear you die a maid . London , Printed for Phil. Brooksby at the Golden ball in West smithfield . The Lovesick Maid quickly Revived . Within the prime time of the Spring , Within a Meadow she did sing ; And solemnly these words she said , I fear that I shall die a maid : But her Sweetheart in Ambush lay , And herd the words that she did say ; As in this Ditty you may hear If that you please but to give ear . Tune is , What shall I do , shall I die for love , etc Or , the Haymakers . AS I was walking forth of late , within the Meadows gay , It was in the prime time of the spring , in the merry Month of May I herd a Maiden sweetly sing , some Young man pity me , Oh what shall I do shall I die a Maid and never married be . Full twenty years of age am I , yea almost twenty one , Which makes me cry , what luck have I so long to lie alone : When younger maids they sweethearts have as daily I do see , what shall I do , shall I die a maid and never married be . My Mantua Gown is of pure Silk made of the neatest fashion , My smock is Cambrick , white as Milk as any in the Nation : My petticoats are made so short , young men my Legs may see , Oh what shall I do , shall I die a Maid and never married be . To Markets and Fairs , I do repair as other Maidens do , To see what young man will be there , my person for to Woo , Yet all in vain , I come again , for none does pity me , Which makes me afraid , I shall die a maid and never married be . I go to Church as Maidens do , and for small Devotion sake , But to see what true-Love I can find my Husband for to make : I often wish , but dare not speak , my blushing hinders me Which makes me afraid I shall die a maid and never married be . What if my Portion be but small , I much of him will make , And if such Fortune to me fallen great pains with him i'le take , A constant wife , while I have life , he still shall find of me , For loath I am to die a maid , but fain would married be . This Youngman he in Ambush lay , And herd this Maid what she did say ; How she complain'd most civilly , For fear a Maiden she should die . Till at the last blind Cupid he Did wound his heart with her Beauty : therefore to end up all the strife , He woo'd and wed her for his wife . I hearing of this Maidens moan , as in the Bush I lay , Delighting in her marry tone , I to my self did say , Thy beauty bright dazzles my sighed , if thy heart and tongue agree , It shall never be said , thou shalt die a maid , if thou canst fancy me . Then boldly I stepped unto this Maid , and took her by the hand , And unto her these words did say Lady at your Command , My Service and my person both , is ready here you see , It ne'r shall be said , thou dy'd a maid , if you can fancy me . Thy Portion be it great or small , for that I do not care , True Love and Fancy passes all , nothing with it can compare , Therefore grant me thy love my dear the like I'le do to thee , It ne'r shall be said , thou di'dst a maid , if thou canst fancy me . Then with a smile this Maid reply'd , I see I am betray'd , But yet your Suit is not deny'd , fulfil what you have said : Then of my love you need not f [ e ] a [ r ] , if constant you will be , Then to your promise have a care , with speed to marry me , So to conclude , away they went , and married was that day , Their Parents giving their consent , did Solemnize the day : Where now they live in sweet content , and lovingly agree , A civil pattern for all maids , that fain would married be . the AUTHOR's Advice . And so farewell you Maidens all , living in Town or City , I speak to you both great and small , which hears this merry ditty : If twenty years be come and gone , then mark what here is said , Be constant to your first true Love , for fear you die a maid . London , Printed for Phil. Brooksby at the Golden ball in West smithfield . 