The Lunatic Lover : OR , The Young Man's Call to Grim King of the Ghosts for Cure . To and Excellent New Tune . Licensed according to Order . GRim King of the Ghosts make haste , and bring hither all your Train ; See how the pale Moon do's waste ! and just now is in the Wain : Come you Night-Hags with all your Charms , and Reveling Witches away , And hug me close in your Arms , to you my Respects I'll pay . I'll Court you and think you fair , since Love do's distract my Brain ; I'll go and I'll wed the Night-Mare , and kiss her and kiss her again , But if she proves peevish and proud , then a pile of her Love let her go , I'll seek me a winding Shroud , and down to the Shades below . A Lunacy I endure , since Reason departs away ; I call to those Hags for cure , as knowing not what I say : The Beauty whom I do adore , now slights me with scorn and disdain ; I never shall see her more , o ! how shall I bear my pain ? I ramble and range about to find out my charming Saint , While she at my Grief do's flout , and smiles at my loud Complain Distraction I see is my Doom , of this I am too too sure ; A Rival is god in my room , while Torments I do endure . Strange Fancies does fill my Head , while wand'ring in Despair , I am to the Deserts led , expecting to find her there : Methinks in a spangl'd Cloud I see her enthron'd on high , Then to her I cry'd aloud , and labour'd to reach the Sky . When thus I have rav'd a while , and weary'd my self in vain , I lie on the barren Soil , and bitterly do complain ; Till Slumber hath quieted me , in sorrow I sighs and weep , The Clouds is my Canopy , to cover me while I sleep . I dream that my Charming Fair is then in my Rival's Bed , Whose Tresses of golden Hair is on the fair Pillows spread Then this does my Passion inflame , I start and no longer can lie : And ! Silvia , art thou not to blame to Ruin a Lover ? I cry . Grim King of the Ghosts be true , and hurry me hence away ; My languishing Life to you , as Tribute I freely pay : To the Elizium Shades I post , in hope's to be free from Care , Where many a bleeding Ghost is hovering in the Air . The Lunatic Lover : OR , The Young Man's Call to Grim King of the Ghosts for Cure . To and Excellent New Tune . Licensed according to Order . GRim King of the Ghosts make haste , and bring hither all your Train ; See how the pale Moon do's waste ! and just now is in the Wain : Come you Night-Hags with all your Charms , and Reveling Witches away , And hug me close in your Arms , to you my Respects I'll pay . I'll Court you and think you fair , since Love do's distract my Brain ; I'll go and I'll wed the Night-Mare , and kiss her and kiss her again , But if she proves peevish and proud , then a pile of her Love let her go , I'll seek me a winding Shroud , and down to the Shades below . A Lunacy I endure , since Reason departs away ; I call to those Hags for cure , as knowing not what I say : The Beauty whom I do adore , now slights me with scorn and disdain ; I never shall see her more , o ! how shall I bear my pain ? I ramble and range about to find out my charming Saint , While she at my Grief do's flout , and smiles at my loud Complain Distraction I see is my Doom , of this I am too too sure ; A Rival is god in my room , while Torments I do endure . Strange Fancies does fill my Head , while wand'ring in Despair , I am to the Deserts led , expecting to find her there : Methinks in a spangl'd Cloud I see her enthron'd on high , Then to her I cry'd aloud , and labour'd to reach the Sky . When thus I have rav'd a while , and weary'd my self in vain , I lie on the barren Soil , and bitterly do complain ; Till Slumber hath quieted me , in sorrow I sighs and weep , The Clouds is my Canopy , to cover me while I sleep . I dream that my Charming Fair is then in my Rival's Bed , Whose Tresses of golden Hair is on the fair Pillows spread Then this does my Passion inflame , I start and no longer can lie : And ! Silvia , art thou not to blame to Ruin a Lover ? I cry . Grim King of the Ghosts be true , and hurry me hence away ; My languishing Life to you , as Tribute I freely pay : To the Elizium Shades I post , in hope's to be free from Care , Where many a bleeding Ghost is hovering in the Air . 