Luke Huttons Lamentation , which he wrote the day before his Death , being condemned to be hang'd at York , for his Robberies and Trespasses committed thereabouts . To the Tune of , wandering and wavering . I Am a poor Prisoner condemned to die ah woe is me , woe is me , for my great folly Fast fettered in Irons in place where I lie be warned young wantons , hemp passes green holly . My Parents were of good degree By whom I would not ruled be Lord Jesus receive me , with mercy relieve me , Receive Oh sweet Saviour , my Spirit unto thee . My name is Hutton , yea Lycia of bad life ah woe is me , etc Which on the Highway did rob Man and Wife be warned Enticed by many a graceless mate Whose Counsel I repent too late . Lord Jesus forgive me , etc Not twenty years Old ( alas ) was I ah woe is me , etc When I began this Felony be warned With me went still twelve yeomen tall Which I did my twelve Apostles call Lord Jesus forgive me , etc There was no Squire nor Baron bold ah woe is me , etc That road by the way with silver and gold be warned , But I and my Apostles gay Would lighten their load ere they went away . Lord Jesus forgive me , etc This news procured my Kinsfolks grief ah woe is me , etc That hearing I was a famous Thief be warned They wept , they wailed , they wrung their hands That thus I should hazard life and lands Lord Jesus forgive me etc They made me a Jailor a little before o woe is me , etc To keep in Prison Offenders soar be warned But such a Jailor was never known I went and let them out every one . Lord Jesus forgive me , etc I wis this sorrow soar grieved me ah woe is me , etc Such proper men should hanged be be warned My Office then I did defy And ran away for company . Lord Jesus forgive me , etc Three years I lived upon the Spoil ah woe is me , etc Giving many and Earl the foil be warned Yet did I never kill man nor wife Though lewdly long I led my life . Lord Jesus forgive me , etc But all too bad my deeds have been ah woe is me , etc Offending my Country , and my good Queen be warned All men in Yorkshire talk of me A stronger Thief there could not be Lord Jesus forgive me , with mercy relieve me , Receive Oh Sweet Saviour , my Spirit unto thee . UPon Saint Lukes day was I born ah woe is me , ah woe is me , for my , etc Who want of Grace hath made me scorn be warned young wantons , hemp , etc In honour of my Birthday then I rob'd in bravery nineteen men Lord Jesus forgive me , with mercy relieve me , Receive Oh sweet Saviour , my Spirit unto thee . The Country were to hear this wrong ah woe is me , etc With Hues and Cries , pursued me long be warned Thaugh long I scap'd , yet lo at the last At London I was in Newgate cast . Lord Jesus forgive me , etc Where I did lie with grieved mind ah woe is me , etc Although my Keeper was gentle and kind be warned Yet was he not so kind as I To let me go at liberty . Lord Jesus forgive me , etc At last the Sheriff of Yorkshire came ah woe is me , etc And in a Warrant he had my name be warned Quoth he at York thou must be try'd With me therefore hence must thou ride Lord Jesus forgive me , etc Like pangs of Death his words did found , ah woe is me , etc My hands and arms full fast he bound be warned Good Sir , quoth I , I had rather stay I have no heart to ride that way , Lord Jesus forgive me , etc When no entreaty would prevail ah woe is me , etc I called for Wine , Beer , and Ale be warned And when my heart was in woeful case I drank to my friends with a smiling face Lord Jesus forgive me , etc With clubs and staves I was guarded then ah woe is me , etc I never before had such waiting men be warned If they had ridden before me amain Beshrew me if I had call'd them again Lord Jesus forgive me , etc And when unto York that I was come ah woe is me , etc Each one on me did cast his doom be warned And while you live , this sentence note Evil men can never have good report . Lord Jesus forgive me , etc Before the Judges then I was brought ah woe is me , etc But sure I had a careful thought be warned Ninescore Indictments and seventeen Against me there were read and seen . Lord Jesus forgive me , etc And each of those were felony found ah woe is me , etc Which did my heart with sorrow wound be warned What should I herein longer stay For this I was condemned that day , Lord Jesus forgive me , etc My Death each hour I did attand ah woe is me , etc In prayers and tears my time I did spend be warned And all my loving friends that Day I did entreat for me to pray . Lord Jesus forgive me , etc I have deserved Death long since ah woe is me , etc A viler sinner lived not than I be warned On Friends I hoped life to save But I am fitted for the grave . Lord Jesus forgive me , etc Adieu my loving friends each one ah woe is me , etc Think on me Lords when I am gone be warned When on the Ladder you do me view Think I am nearer Heaven then you . Lord Jesus forgive me , etc FINIS . L. Hutton . Luke Huttons Lamentation , which he wrote the day before his Death , being condemned to be hang'd at York , for his Robberies and Trespasses committed thereabouts . To the Tune of , wandering and wavering . I Am a poor Prisoner condemned to die ah woe is me , woe is me , for my great folly Fast fettered in Irons in place where I lie be warned young wantons , hemp passes green holly . My Parents were of good degree By whom I would not ruled be Lord Jesus receive me , with mercy relieve me , Receive Oh sweet Saviour , my Spirit unto thee . My name is Hutton , yea Lycia of bad life ah woe is me , etc Which on the Highway did rob Man and Wife be warned Enticed by many a graceless mate Whose Counsel I repent too late . Lord Jesus forgive me , etc Not twenty years Old ( alas ) was I ah woe is me , etc When I began this Felony be warned With me went still twelve yeomen tall Which I did my twelve Apostles call Lord Jesus forgive me , etc There was no Squire nor Baron bold ah woe is me , etc That road by the way with silver and gold be warned , But I and my Apostles gay Would lighten their load ere they went away . Lord Jesus forgive me , etc This news procured my Kinsfolks grief ah woe is me , etc That hearing I was a famous Thief be warned They wept , they wailed , they wrung their hands That thus I should hazard life and lands Lord Jesus forgive me etc They made me a Jailor a little before o woe is me , etc To keep in Prison Offenders soar be warned But such a Jailor was never known I went and let them out every one . Lord Jesus forgive me , etc I wis this sorrow soar grieved me ah woe is me , etc Such proper men should hanged be be warned My Office then I did defy And ran away for company . Lord Jesus forgive me , etc Three years I lived upon the Spoil ah woe is me , etc Giving many and Earl the foil be warned Yet did I never kill man nor wife Though lewdly long I led my life . Lord Jesus forgive me , etc But all too bad my deeds have been ah woe is me , etc Offending my Country , and my good Queen be warned All men in Yorkshire talk of me A stronger Thief there could not be Lord Jesus forgive me , with mercy relieve me , Receive Oh Sweet Saviour , my Spirit unto thee . UPon Saint Lukes day was I born ah woe is me , ah woe is me , for my , etc Who want of Grace hath made me scorn be warned young wantons , hemp , etc In honour of my Birthday then I rob'd in bravery nineteen men Lord Jesus forgive me , with mercy relieve me , Receive Oh sweet Saviour , my Spirit unto thee . The Country were to hear this wrong ah woe is me , etc With Hues and Cries , pursued me long be warned Thaugh long I scap'd , yet lo at the last At London I was in Newgate cast . Lord Jesus forgive me , etc Where I did lie with grieved mind ah woe is me , etc Although my Keeper was gentle and kind be warned Yet was he not so kind as I To let me go at liberty . Lord Jesus forgive me , etc At last the Sheriff of Yorkshire came ah woe is me , etc And in a Warrant he had my name be warned Quoth he at York thou must be try'd With me therefore hence must thou ride Lord Jesus forgive me , etc Like pangs of Death his words did found , ah woe is me , etc My hands and arms full fast he bound be warned Good Sir , quoth I , I had rather stay I have no heart to ride that way , Lord Jesus forgive me , etc When no entreaty would prevail ah woe is me , etc I called for Wine , Beer , and Ale be warned And when my heart was in woeful case I drank to my friends with a smiling face Lord Jesus forgive me , etc With clubs and staves I was guarded then ah woe is me , etc I never before had such waiting men be warned If they had ridden before me amain Beshrew me if I had call'd them again Lord Jesus forgive me , etc And when unto York that I was come ah woe is me , etc Each one on me did cast his doom be warned And while you live , this sentence note Evil men can never have good report . Lord Jesus forgive me , etc Before the Judges then I was brought ah woe is me , etc But sure I had a careful thought be warned Ninescore Indictments and seventeen Against me there were read and seen . Lord Jesus forgive me , etc And each of those were felony found ah woe is me , etc Which did my heart with sorrow wound be warned What should I herein longer stay For this I was condemned that day , Lord Jesus forgive me , etc My Death each hour I did attand ah woe is me , etc In prayers and tears my time I did spend be warned And all my loving friends that Day I did entreat for me to pray . Lord Jesus forgive me , etc I have deserved Death long since ah woe is me , etc A viler sinner lived not than I be warned On Friends I hoped life to save But I am fitted for the grave . Lord Jesus forgive me , etc Adieu my loving friends each one ah woe is me , etc Think on me Lords when I am gone be warned When on the Ladder you do me view Think I am nearer Heaven then you . Lord Jesus forgive me , etc FINIS . L. Hutton . 