The Maidens Frolic : OR , A brief Relation how Six Lusty Lasses has Pressed full Fourteen Tailors on the backside of St. Clements , and the other adjacent Places . To the Tune of and Orange . Licensed according to Order . OF late near the Strand we well understand , Six Lasses that took a brisk Frolic in hand ; 'Twas thus I profess , they in Seaman's Dress , Not far from the Maypole resolved to Press Fourteen Tailors . Young Nancy she ty'd a Sword by her side , And she was resolved for to be their Guide : This young Female Crew , Kate , Bridget , & Prue , And she that went foremost was Lieutenant Sue , Pressing Tailors . These Maids by consent their minds fully bent , First thro' the back side of St. Clements they went , Where just in the Street they a Taylor did meet , They Pressed him , and straight he fell down at their feet , I'm a Taylor . I tell you , said he , I ne'er was at Sea , And therefore kind Gentlemen pray set me free , And pity those Tears , I have liv'd Forty Year , And never us'd Weapon , but Bodkin and Shears , I'm a Taylor . But Susan and they strait haul'd him away , While Tom the poor Taylor did sighs , beg , and pray , Yet all was in vain , for they did him retain , And told him that now he must fight on the Main , Though a Taylor . Then to White-hart-yard they went with regard , And there a poor Taylor was labouring hard Upon his Shopboard , Nan drew out her Sword , Saying , He must King William his Service afford , Tho' a Taylor . The Taylor did quake , nay , quiver and shake , At length with a pitiful Voice he did spoke , While Tears down did run , he cry'd I'm undone , I never did know the right end of a Gun , I'm a Taylor . Then stout Boston Bess said nevertheless , You must go with us , we've a Warrant to Press ; Then wave this Excuse , and lay by your Goose , Such nimble young Fellows may be of great use . Tho' a Taylor . And then by report they went to Round Court , Where Seven young Tailors were making of spo [ rt , ] Their Hearts void of Care , tho' when they come that [ ere , ] These Maids did catch napping , as Moss catch'd [ his ] Ma [ re , ] Seven Tailors . They thought to resist , but Joan with her Fist , She thumpt them about till the Tailors they Pis [ tO ; ] And then in a rage , the rest did engage , And brought them away to the Round-House or Ca [ ge , ] These poor Tailors . With all might and main , down to Duchy-lane , These Petticoats Press-Masters hurried again , To Press some they knew , 'twas Morgan and Hu [ gh , ] A couple belong'd to the Crosslegged Crew , And Welsh Tailors . Then Morgan hur rails , cries , Splutter-a-nails , Hur newly come up to fair London from Wales , Then pray cease your Strife , hur has a young Wife [ e , ] Beside hur was never yet kill'd in hur Life , A Welsh Taylor . But yet right or wrong , they brought 'em along , And happen'd to meet with Three more in the Through [ ng , ] Then said lusty Jane , you must serve King & Que [ en , ] And thus these stout Females did Press full Fort [ en , ] And all Tailors . Printed for P Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . The Maidens Frolic : OR , A brief Relation how Six Lusty Lasses has Pressed full Fourteen Tailors on the backside of St. Clements , and the other adjacent Places . To the Tune of and Orange . Licensed according to Order . OF late near the Strand we well understand , Six Lasses that took a brisk Frolic in hand ; 'Twas thus I profess , they in Seaman's Dress , Not far from the Maypole resolved to Press Fourteen Tailors . Young Nancy she ty'd a Sword by her side , And she was resolved for to be their Guide : This young Female Crew , Kate , Bridget , & Prue , And she that went foremost was Lieutenant Sue , Pressing Tailors . These Maids by consent their minds fully bent , First thro' the back side of St. Clements they went , Where just in the Street they a Taylor did meet , They Pressed him , and straight he fell down at their feet , I'm a Taylor . I tell you , said he , I ne'er was at Sea , And therefore kind Gentlemen pray set me free , And pity those Tears , I have liv'd Forty Year , And never us'd Weapon , but Bodkin and Shears , I'm a Taylor . But Susan and they strait haul'd him away , While Tom the poor Taylor did sighs , beg , and pray , Yet all was in vain , for they did him retain , And told him that now he must fight on the Main , Though a Taylor . Then to White-hart-yard they went with regard , And there a poor Taylor was labouring hard Upon his Shopboard , Nan drew out her Sword , Saying , He must King William his Service afford , Tho' a Taylor . The Taylor did quake , nay , quiver and shake , At length with a pitiful Voice he did spoke , While Tears down did run , he cry'd I'm undone , I never did know the right end of a Gun , I'm a Taylor . Then stout Boston Bess said nevertheless , You must go with us , we've a Warrant to Press ; Then wave this Excuse , and lay by your Goose , Such nimble young Fellows may be of great use . Tho' a Taylor . And then by report they went to Round Court , Where Seven young Tailors were making of spo [ rt , ] Their Hearts void of Care , tho' when they come that [ ere , ] These Maids did catch napping , as Moss catch'd [ his ] Ma [ re , ] Seven Tailors . They thought to resist , but Joan with her Fist , She thumpt them about till the Tailors they Pis [ tO ; ] And then in a rage , the rest did engage , And brought them away to the Round-House or Ca [ ge , ] These poor Tailors . With all might and main , down to Duchy-lane , These Petticoats Press-Masters hurried again , To Press some they knew , 'twas Morgan and Hu [ gh , ] A couple belong'd to the Crosslegged Crew , And Welsh Tailors . Then Morgan hur rails , cries , Splutter-a-nails , Hur newly come up to fair London from Wales , Then pray cease your Strife , hur has a young Wife [ e , ] Beside hur was never yet kill'd in hur Life , A Welsh Taylor . But yet right or wrong , they brought 'em along , And happen'd to meet with Three more in the Through [ ng , ] Then said lusty Jane , you must serve King & Que [ en , ] And thus these stout Females did Press full Fort [ en , ] And all Tailors . Printed for P Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 