The Lusty MILLER's Recreation : OR , The Buxom Females chief Delight . Being a most pleasant Design between a certain Miller , the Good-Wife , and her Three Daughters . A most Delectable New Song , etc Fair Peggy first to'th Mill with Grist was sent , Who pleas'd return'd , but would not tell th' event ; Which Betty once perceiving , needs would go , Who sped in the same Tune , returned too ; At which the Mother knew not what to guess , But did her self in admiration bless . Till Jenny , of the Three the Youngest Lass , Would needs go see how all this came to pass , Returns the same ; then forth the Mother set , Who finds the Plot , but ne'r Discover'd it . To a pleasant New Tune . THe Good-Wife her Daughter did send to the Miller , to grind her Grist neatly , and for to come back ; But you little imagine how full he had fill'd her , to fill up her Belly as full as her Sack : And when she came home her Wits were bebrich'd , Her Mother did think she had been bewitch'd ; She ask'd her where she had been loitering all day , But this was all that the Daughter would say , Ay! marry Sir , there's a brave Miller indeed . Quoth Betty to Peggy your Back is all whited , what has the Miller done ? pray tell me truth ; If you have been wronged , then you shall be righted , for I have herd say he's a mad merry Youth : Said Peggy to Betty your suit is in vain , For Peggy o'th Miller would never complain ; For what they could do by Night or by Day , Still this is all that the Daughter would say , Ay! marry Sir , etc Next morning sweet Betty , fair Peggy's own Sister , would venture her Body whatever befell ; But how finely the Miller he hug'd her and kissed her , that in a while after her Belly did swell : And for to come back again home she did come , And stood like and Image both senseless and dumb ; For she being loath for to loose her sweet Play , This to the Mother the Daughter would say , Ay! marry Sir , etc Alas ! quoth the Woman , my other poor Daughter , for she is bewitched as I greatly fear ; But I will take care how I send them hereafter , if Millers prove Witches , as it does appear : Then Bessy and Peggy come speak your minds freely , And let not your selves be thus simple and silly , Yet for what she could do by Night or by Day , This it was all that the Daughters would say , Ay! marry Sir , etc Woe's me , cries the Mother , what mean you by this , my Daughters pray tell me for fain I would know ? I'faith if you will not I'le find what it is , for unto the Miller I mean for to go : At which up starts Jenny , the younger o'th three , And said , Nay pray Mother for this time send me , I'le warrant you that I will find out the knack , And bring you the meaning of ( when I come back ) Ay! marry Sir , etc Then cries the old Woman once more I will venture , I know thou art witty , and wilt find no doubt The meaning of all , so on Horseback she sent her , but when Jenny came there , she long held not out ; But under the Stones with much pleasure she fell , While the Miller so merrily work'd in her Wheel ; Where she held him tack till her Grist it was ground , Then home she came jogging , and utter'd this found , Ay! marry Sir , there's a fine Miller indeed . 'Tis sure , cries the Mother , my Daughters are mad , I'le find out the cause on't whatever betide ; At home you shall stay and abroad no more gad , for I to the Miller intend for to Ride : Go Pannel me Dan now , and make no reply , At which Peggy starting , O Mother did cry , ( As loath the Old Woman should know of the Game ) Pray go not for fear you bewitch'd sing the same , Ay! marry , etc Alas my dear Mother , the Miller is wild , and if you shou'd go he may do you much harm ; Nay worse , quoth sweet Betty , you chance may be spoil'd , for he is Distracted when once he is warm : A Spirit does haunt him I know it full well , Which nothing can lay but a Two-legged Spell ? Then shou'd it get power on you I'm afraid , You'l be bewitch'd so to say as we've said , Ay! marry Sir , etc Nay Mother , quoth Jenny , they are in the right , for he's a mad Miller I needs must declare ; So furious he works that the Stones often smite , though the Hopper be fill'd , yet he will not forbear : But heaps it and thrusts it till all the Cogs move , Uds-bobs , quoth the Mother , such Millers I love ; Then tell me the cause , or no longer I'le stay , How he hath bewitch'd you thus only to say , Ay! marry Sir , etc Quoth Jenny I'le go and I'le ask him the cause , nay soft , quoth sweet Betty , I'm older then you ; 'Tis my turn I'le warrant by Birthright and Laws , come , come , hold your prating , quod Peg , 'tis my endue , For I'le not be rob'd I'm resolv'd of my right , But the Grist to the Mill I will carry this night ; In vain you design it , unless we go all , Quoth Jenny , for I'le declare what did befall , Ay! marry Sir , etc The Mother observing the strife grow so hight , ne'r stay'd for her Pannel , but mounting astride , By kicking and whipping of Dun she soon god to the Millers , who seeing her , took her aside , And spreading his Sacks , on her back he then lay'd her , Where in the same Coin on purpose he pay'd her ; While the Stones they run round , and merrily play'd , Till her Grist was well ground , then returning she said , Ay! marry Sir , etc Then long it was not e're their Bellies did swell , Pegg's , Betty's , and Jenny's , the Mother's likewise , But none of them could be persuaded to tell what Champion of Venus 'twas made them to rise ; But still the bold Miller they prais'd for his worth , Who Tole-free would never let Females come forth , But labour'd to serve them by night and by day , While all the brisk Lasses this of him did say , Ay! marry Sir , there's a fine Miller indeed . Finis . Printed for P. Brooksby , in West-smith-field . The Lusty MILLER's Recreation : OR , The Buxom Females chief Delight . Being a most pleasant Design between a certain Miller , the Good-Wife , and her Three Daughters . A most Delectable New Song , etc Fair Peggy first to'th Mill with Grist was sent , Who pleas'd return'd , but would not tell th' event ; Which Betty once perceiving , needs would go , Who sped in the same Tune , returned too ; At which the Mother knew not what to guess , But did her self in admiration bless . Till Jenny , of the Three the Youngest Lass , Would needs go see how all this came to pass , Returns the same ; then forth the Mother set , Who finds the Plot , but ne'r Discover'd it . To a pleasant New Tune . THe Good-Wife her Daughter did send to the Miller , to grind her Grist neatly , and for to come back ; But you little imagine how full he had fill'd her , to fill up her Belly as full as her Sack : And when she came home her Wits were bebrich'd , Her Mother did think she had been bewitch'd ; She ask'd her where she had been loitering all day , But this was all that the Daughter would say , Ay! marry Sir , there's a brave Miller indeed . Quoth Betty to Peggy your Back is all whited , what has the Miller done ? pray tell me truth ; If you have been wronged , then you shall be righted , for I have herd say he's a mad merry Youth : Said Peggy to Betty your suit is in vain , For Peggy o'th Miller would never complain ; For what they could do by Night or by Day , Still this is all that the Daughter would say , Ay! marry Sir , etc Next morning sweet Betty , fair Peggy's own Sister , would venture her Body whatever befell ; But how finely the Miller he hug'd her and kissed her , that in a while after her Belly did swell : And for to come back again home she did come , And stood like and Image both senseless and dumb ; For she being loath for to loose her sweet Play , This to the Mother the Daughter would say , Ay! marry Sir , etc Alas ! quoth the Woman , my other poor Daughter , for she is bewitched as I greatly fear ; But I will take care how I send them hereafter , if Millers prove Witches , as it does appear : Then Bessy and Peggy come speak your minds freely , And let not your selves be thus simple and silly , Yet for what she could do by Night or by Day , This it was all that the Daughters would say , Ay! marry Sir , etc Woe's me , cries the Mother , what mean you by this , my Daughters pray tell me for fain I would know ? I'faith if you will not I'le find what it is , for unto the Miller I mean for to go : At which up starts Jenny , the younger o'th three , And said , Nay pray Mother for this time send me , I'le warrant you that I will find out the knack , And bring you the meaning of ( when I come back ) Ay! marry Sir , etc Then cries the old Woman once more I will venture , I know thou art witty , and wilt find no doubt The meaning of all , so on Horseback she sent her , but when Jenny came there , she long held not out ; But under the Stones with much pleasure she fell , While the Miller so merrily work'd in her Wheel ; Where she held him tack till her Grist it was ground , Then home she came jogging , and utter'd this found , Ay! marry Sir , there's a fine Miller indeed . 'Tis sure , cries the Mother , my Daughters are mad , I'le find out the cause on't whatever betide ; At home you shall stay and abroad no more gad , for I to the Miller intend for to Ride : Go Pannel me Dan now , and make no reply , At which Peggy starting , O Mother did cry , ( As loath the Old Woman should know of the Game ) Pray go not for fear you bewitch'd sing the same , Ay! marry , etc Alas my dear Mother , the Miller is wild , and if you shou'd go he may do you much harm ; Nay worse , quoth sweet Betty , you chance may be spoil'd , for he is Distracted when once he is warm : A Spirit does haunt him I know it full well , Which nothing can lay but a Two-legged Spell ? Then shou'd it get power on you I'm afraid , You'l be bewitch'd so to say as we've said , Ay! marry Sir , etc Nay Mother , quoth Jenny , they are in the right , for he's a mad Miller I needs must declare ; So furious he works that the Stones often smite , though the Hopper be fill'd , yet he will not forbear : But heaps it and thrusts it till all the Cogs move , Uds-bobs , quoth the Mother , such Millers I love ; Then tell me the cause , or no longer I'le stay , How he hath bewitch'd you thus only to say , Ay! marry Sir , etc Quoth Jenny I'le go and I'le ask him the cause , nay soft , quoth sweet Betty , I'm older then you ; 'Tis my turn I'le warrant by Birthright and Laws , come , come , hold your prating , quod Peg , 'tis my endue , For I'le not be rob'd I'm resolv'd of my right , But the Grist to the Mill I will carry this night ; In vain you design it , unless we go all , Quoth Jenny , for I'le declare what did befall , Ay! marry Sir , etc The Mother observing the strife grow so hight , ne'r stay'd for her Pannel , but mounting astride , By kicking and whipping of Dun she soon god to the Millers , who seeing her , took her aside , And spreading his Sacks , on her back he then lay'd her , Where in the same Coin on purpose he pay'd her ; While the Stones they run round , and merrily play'd , Till her Grist was well ground , then returning she said , Ay! marry Sir , etc Then long it was not e're their Bellies did swell , Pegg's , Betty's , and Jenny's , the Mother's likewise , But none of them could be persuaded to tell what Champion of Venus 'twas made them to rise ; But still the bold Miller they prais'd for his worth , Who Tole-free would never let Females come forth , But labour'd to serve them by night and by day , While all the brisk Lasses this of him did say , Ay! marry Sir , there's a fine Miller indeed . Finis . Printed for P. Brooksby , in West-smith-field . 