Loyalty unfeigned , Or , The true Protestants Admonition . Being a Pleasant New SONG . Two dangerous Rocks on either hand appear , We now 'twixt Scilla and Caribdis steer , Our Pilot's Care ( you'l say ) had need be great It had so , for on each hand stands a Fate . On either hand to Sail we suffer wrack , Either to Starboard or the Larboard Tack , Therefore in Wisdom he has thought it best To Sail foreright , for there the danger's least . To the Tune of , Busy Fame , Young Pheon , or , The Father's Exhortation . HOld fast thy Sword & Sceptre Charles sad Times may else come on The murmurs that do daily rise smell Rank of Forty One . When Subject's g [ i ] we their K [ i ] ngs advice what their Expense should be [ It is a sign they love no Kings or Kings themselves would be . ] But mark the Papists wills a while and you will find them great How willing they are to act a new , from forty one to eight ; The world against them does complain , their cruelties abhor . [ That take delight in cursed Plots to raise up civil War. ] They Plotted our late troubles here , though others pushed them on , Fanatics they were in the Rear , but Papists in the Van : While those who first embroyl'd the State did laugh at our sad woes , When they beheld our strong debate turn'd to unfriendly blows . Till three great Nations sweat in blood , and many thousands slave , The bosom of the Earth bestrew'd , like dewy drops of Rain ; Then was the time that Rome laugh'd loud , stand sported with our rage , Till thrusting in among the Crowd , that did fierce Battle wage . Against the Lords anointed King , persuading 'twas the way The Royal Power to nought to bring , by killing him boar sway , This Jesuitick Doctrine soon , ( O fatal for to tell ) Trampl'd upon the sacred Crown , by it the Mitre fell . Thus Church & State bled while Rom's whore the Scarlet Beast did ride , The many headed factions boar her in her greatest Pride ; And patiently sustain'd the Yoke from which they deem [ ' ] worser them free , For then Religion was a Cloak [ to cover Tyranny . ] Nor can it be more grievous sure then when the proud Command Of Usurpation we endure , curb'd by our Equals hands : Princes are noble , and what they impose we can disgust , In their commands we God obey , for they dispense Heav'ns trust . Then let us all beware in time , that Rome don't us deceive , And evermo [ r ] e abhor the crime of such as seek Geneve : Let the bloodthirsty Papists all , and slaughter seeking Crew , Of Schismatics before the fallen , great Monarch just and true . Then will the Nation rest in peace , both Church and State will be Founded on perfect happiness Great Charles's Monarchy Will then its former Lustre gain , France then will stand in awe , Who now does triumph o're the slave , and gives the Nations Law . Remember Kings are gods on Earth , for Heaven 'tis they bear sway , And are most sacred from their Birth , which binds us to obey : Then let such perish who deny obedience to the Laws , That do repine at Majesty , [ or seek the Good Old Cause . ] Loyalty unfeigned , Or , The true Protestants Admonition . Being a Pleasant New SONG . Two dangerous Rocks on either hand appear , We now 'twixt Scilla and Caribdis steer , Our Pilot's Care ( you'l say ) had need be great It had so , for on each hand stands a Fate . On either hand to Sail we suffer wrack , Either to Starboard or the Larboard Tack , Therefore in Wisdom he has thought it best To Sail foreright , for there the danger's least . To the Tune of , Busy Fame , Young Pheon , or , The Father's Exhortation . HOld fast thy Sword & Sceptre Charles sad Times may else come on The murmurs that do daily rise smell Rank of Forty One . When Subject's g [ i ] we their K [ i ] ngs advice what their Expense should be [ It is a sign they love no Kings or Kings themselves would be . ] But mark the Papists wills a while and you will find them great How willing they are to act a new , from forty one to eight ; The world against them does complain , their cruelties abhor . [ That take delight in cursed Plots to raise up civil War. ] They Plotted our late troubles here , though others pushed them on , Fanatics they were in the Rear , but Papists in the Van : While those who first embroyl'd the State did laugh at our sad woes , When they beheld our strong debate turn'd to unfriendly blows . Till three great Nations sweat in blood , and many thousands slave , The bosom of the Earth bestrew'd , like dewy drops of Rain ; Then was the time that Rome laugh'd loud , stand sported with our rage , Till thrusting in among the Crowd , that did fierce Battle wage . Against the Lords anointed King , persuading 'twas the way The Royal Power to nought to bring , by killing him boar sway , This Jesuitick Doctrine soon , ( O fatal for to tell ) Trampl'd upon the sacred Crown , by it the Mitre fell . Thus Church & State bled while Rom's whore the Scarlet Beast did ride , The many headed factions boar her in her greatest Pride ; And patiently sustain'd the Yoke from which they deem [ ' ] worser them free , For then Religion was a Cloak [ to cover Tyranny . ] Nor can it be more grievous sure then when the proud Command Of Usurpation we endure , curb'd by our Equals hands : Princes are noble , and what they impose we can disgust , In their commands we God obey , for they dispense Heav'ns trust . Then let us all beware in time , that Rome don't us deceive , And evermo [ r ] e abhor the crime of such as seek Geneve : Let the bloodthirsty Papists all , and slaughter seeking Crew , Of Schismatics before the fallen , great Monarch just and true . Then will the Nation rest in peace , both Church and State will be Founded on perfect happiness Great Charles's Monarchy Will then its former Lustre gain , France then will stand in awe , Who now does triumph o're the slave , and gives the Nations Law . Remember Kings are gods on Earth , for Heaven 'tis they bear sway , And are most sacred from their Birth , which binds us to obey : Then let such perish who deny obedience to the Laws , That do repine at Majesty , [ or seek the Good Old Cause . ] 