THE Loyal Soldier of Flanders : OR , The Faithless Lass of London . To the Tune of How can I be merry and glad ? Licensed according to Order . YOung Thomas he was a proper Lad , and lov'd Elizabeth as his Life , Four years and a half to serve he had , e'er he could make her his Lawful Wife . When this his Master happen'd to know , he labour'd the Bonds of Love to break ; Then Thomas a Soldier he straight did go , to venture his Life for his Love's sake . Yet they in private often did meet , their seeming hard Fortune to bemoan , And with many Vows and Kisses sweet they solemnly joyn'd their Hearts in one . At length he taking her by the Hand , said he , I must cross the Ocean main , To venture my Life in a Foreign Land , yet Loyal to thee I will still remain . Remember your solemn Vows , she said , by Letters my Mind to thee I'll tell , Let no other Love thy Heart invade , so long as I am alive and well . Said she , by all the Powers above , my Heart I'll give to no one but thee , If e'er I prove false unto my Love , then let me a sad Example be . I'll patiently wait for thy Return , and pray that the Heavens may be my Guide , The Watery Waves in Flames shall burn , before I will break my Vow , she cry'd . He entered on Board and left his Dear , the Winds did rise , and the Seas did roar , Death did in sundry shapes appear , until he arriv'd at the Holland shore . Then like a most true entire Friend , after he had cross'd the Ocean Main , To her he did loving Letters send , and she did return him the like again . But o ! most unfaithful Wretch at last , in little more than a Twelvemonths space , For all those Solemn Vows that were passed , another Lover she did embrace . Now when he return'd and found it so , he then was tormented in his mind , He sighing said , Now full well I know , no creature so false as Womankind . He still from his Heart sad Sighs did fetch , and often in Passion thus said he , Thou false and forsworn Perjur'd Wretch , 'tis thou that alone hast ruin'd me . What solemn Vows to me didst thou make , when first I went from the English Shore ? But seeing thou art false , now for thy sake , I'll never believe a Woman more , Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare J. Back . THE Loyal Soldier of Flanders : OR , The Faithless Lass of London . To the Tune of How can I be merry and glad ? Licensed according to Order . YOung Thomas he was a proper Lad , and lov'd Elizabeth as his Life , Four years and a half to serve he had , e'er he could make her his Lawful Wife . When this his Master happen'd to know , he labour'd the Bonds of Love to break ; Then Thomas a Soldier he straight did go , to venture his Life for his Love's sake . Yet they in private often did meet , their seeming hard Fortune to bemoan , And with many Vows and Kisses sweet they solemnly joyn'd their Hearts in one . At length he taking her by the Hand , said he , I must cross the Ocean main , To venture my Life in a Foreign Land , yet Loyal to thee I will still remain . Remember your solemn Vows , she said , by Letters my Mind to thee I'll tell , Let no other Love thy Heart invade , so long as I am alive and well . Said she , by all the Powers above , my Heart I'll give to no one but thee , If e'er I prove false unto my Love , then let me a sad Example be . I'll patiently wait for thy Return , and pray that the Heavens may be my Guide , The Watery Waves in Flames shall burn , before I will break my Vow , she cry'd . He entered on Board and left his Dear , the Winds did rise , and the Seas did roar , Death did in sundry shapes appear , until he arriv'd at the Holland shore . Then like a most true entire Friend , after he had cross'd the Ocean Main , To her he did loving Letters send , and she did return him the like again . But o ! most unfaithful Wretch at last , in little more than a Twelvemonths space , For all those Solemn Vows that were passed , another Lover she did embrace . Now when he return'd and found it so , he then was tormented in his mind , He sighing said , Now full well I know , no creature so false as Womankind . He still from his Heart sad Sighs did fetch , and often in Passion thus said he , Thou false and forsworn Perjur'd Wretch , 'tis thou that alone hast ruin'd me . What solemn Vows to me didst thou make , when first I went from the English Shore ? But seeing thou art false , now for thy sake , I'll never believe a Woman more , Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare J. Back . 