Modesty Amazed ; Or , The Dorsetshire Damosel importunate with her Mother to know Rogers meaning in Wooing . In which she is fully satisfied by her Mother ; together with Rogers love and loyalty . To and Excellent New Tune , much in request . This may be Printed , R. P. O Mother ! Roger with his kisses , almost stops my breath I vow , Why does he gripe my hand to pieces and yet he says he loves me too : Tell me Mother , pray now do ; pray now do , pray now do ; Tell me mother , pray now do , Pray now , pray now , pray now do , What Roger means when he does so , for ne'r stir , I long to know . Nor yet beside he will not let me , settle to my wheel and spin But upon his knee will set me , mother when you an't within , Tell me mother , etc Although I vow he does provoke me , yet he will not once forbear , But most tenderly did stroke me , till he makes me blush I swear : Tell me Mother , pray now do , pray now do , pray now do , Tell me mother , pray now do , Pray now , pray now , pray now do , What Roger means when he does so , for ne'r stir , I long to know . Thus while he talks of pure affection , Roger on my breast he leans , Mother give me your direction , for I know not what he means : Tell me mother , etc And what he said concerning Wooing now I clearly have forgotten , Yet he fain would have been doing something but I know not wha Tell me mother , etc Although I am both coy and fickle , yet he calls me his delight , And my sides he does so tickle , that he makes me laugh out-righ Tell me mother , pray now do , pray now do , pray now do ; Tell me mother , pray now do , Pray now , pray now , pray now do , What Roger means when he does so , for ne'r stir I long to know . The Mother's direction to her Daughter ; Together with Rogers Loyalty . Dear Daughter that you mayn't miscarry , Rogers courage never cool , Till you marry make him tarry , pray now take your mother's rule : My dear Daughter , pray now then , pray now then , pray now then , Maids are too much slighted when , They have yielded to Youngmen , For they can flatter , cog and lie , and all their promises deny . But if his love be so entire , when the Nuptial Bans are ty'd , You may yield to his desire , being made his lawful Bride : If you cannot this obtain , this obtain , this obtain , Then his company refrain , With your Scorn and high disdain , For should you grant him his delight , then Daughter you are ruin'd quite . But Roger he was something near them in a corner mighty mute , Where he chanc'd to over hear them , while they were in this dispute : Notwithstanding what he herd , what he herd , what he herd , For a while he ne'r appear'd , But at last the case he clear'd , And told them that he did suppose , they did not think him one of those . Now when her Mother found him loyal , by his honest fair intent , Then there needed no denial , soon she gave her free consent , That her Daughter should be wed , should be wed , should be wed , To his lawful bridal bed , All her fears was fully fled ; Then many Damsels fair and gay , did come to celebrate the day . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Guiltspur-street without Newgate . You are desired to beware of a false Counterfeit Song in imitation of this true Copy , which is only Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . Modesty Amazed ; Or , The Dorsetshire Damosel importunate with her Mother to know Rogers meaning in Wooing . In which she is fully satisfied by her Mother ; together with Rogers love and loyalty . To and Excellent New Tune , much in request . This may be Printed , R. P. O Mother ! Roger with his kisses , almost stops my breath I vow , Why does he gripe my hand to pieces and yet he says he loves me too : Tell me Mother , pray now do ; pray now do , pray now do ; Tell me mother , pray now do , Pray now , pray now , pray now do , What Roger means when he does so , for ne'r stir , I long to know . Nor yet beside he will not let me , settle to my wheel and spin But upon his knee will set me , mother when you an't within , Tell me mother , etc Although I vow he does provoke me , yet he will not once forbear , But most tenderly did stroke me , till he makes me blush I swear : Tell me Mother , pray now do , pray now do , pray now do , Tell me mother , pray now do , Pray now , pray now , pray now do , What Roger means when he does so , for ne'r stir , I long to know . Thus while he talks of pure affection , Roger on my breast he leans , Mother give me your direction , for I know not what he means : Tell me mother , etc And what he said concerning Wooing now I clearly have forgotten , Yet he fain would have been doing something but I know not wha Tell me mother , etc Although I am both coy and fickle , yet he calls me his delight , And my sides he does so tickle , that he makes me laugh out-righ Tell me mother , pray now do , pray now do , pray now do ; Tell me mother , pray now do , Pray now , pray now , pray now do , What Roger means when he does so , for ne'r stir I long to know . The Mother's direction to her Daughter ; Together with Rogers Loyalty . Dear Daughter that you mayn't miscarry , Rogers courage never cool , Till you marry make him tarry , pray now take your mother's rule : My dear Daughter , pray now then , pray now then , pray now then , Maids are too much slighted when , They have yielded to Youngmen , For they can flatter , cog and lie , and all their promises deny . But if his love be so entire , when the Nuptial Bans are ty'd , You may yield to his desire , being made his lawful Bride : If you cannot this obtain , this obtain , this obtain , Then his company refrain , With your Scorn and high disdain , For should you grant him his delight , then Daughter you are ruin'd quite . But Roger he was something near them in a corner mighty mute , Where he chanc'd to over hear them , while they were in this dispute : Notwithstanding what he herd , what he herd , what he herd , For a while he ne'r appear'd , But at last the case he clear'd , And told them that he did suppose , they did not think him one of those . Now when her Mother found him loyal , by his honest fair intent , Then there needed no denial , soon she gave her free consent , That her Daughter should be wed , should be wed , should be wed , To his lawful bridal bed , All her fears was fully fled ; Then many Damsels fair and gay , did come to celebrate the day . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Guiltspur-street without Newgate . You are desired to beware of a false Counterfeit Song in imitation of this true Copy , which is only Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . 