A Merry new song wherein you may view The drinking Healths of a Jovial Crew , To 'thappie Return of the Figure of Two. The tune is , Ragged and torn and true . I Have been a Traveller long , and seen the conditions of all , I see how each other they wrong , and the weakest still goes to the wall : And here I'll begin fto relate , the cross condition of those , That hinder our happy state , and now are turned our Foes . Here's a health to the Figure of two , to the rest of the issue renown'd , Wee'l bid all our sorrows adieu , when the Figure of two shall be crown'd . I crossed the Ocean of late . and there I did meet with a cross , But having a pretty estate , I never lamented my loss , I never lamented my harms , and yet I was wondrous sad , I found all the Land up in Arms , and I thought all the folk had been man , Kind Countrymen , how fell you out , I left you all quiet and still , But things are now brought so about ; you nothing but Plunder and Kill : Some do seem seemingly holy , and would be Reformers of men , But wisdom does laugh at their folly , and says , they'l be Children again , Here's a Health , etc But woe to the Figure of one , King Solomon telleth us so , But he shall be wronged by none that hath two strings to his Bow. How I love this Figure of two , among all the Figures that be , I'll moke it appear unto you , if that you will listen to me , Here's a Health to the Figure of two , to the rest of the Issue Renown'd , Wee'l bid all our Sorrows adieu [ when the Figure of two shall be crown'd . ] OBserve when the weather is cold , I wear a Cap on my head , But wish , if I may be so bold the Figure of two in my bed . Two in my bed I do crave , and that is my self and my Mate , But prey do not think I would have two great large horns on my pate . Here's a Health to the Figure of two , to the rest of the Issue Renown'd , Wee'l bid all our Sorrows adue when the Figure of two shall be Crown'd , Since Nature hath given two hands , but when they are foul I might scorn them , Yet people thus much understands two fine white gloves will adorn them : Two feet for to be are up my body , no more had the Knight of the Sun , But people would think me a noddy if two shoes I would not put on . Here's a Health to the Figure of two , to the rest of the Issue Renown'd , Wee'l bid all our Sorrows adieu when the Figure of two shall be Crown'd The Figure of two is a thing that we cannot well live without , No more then without a good King , though we be never so stou And this we may well understand . if ever our Troubles should cease , Two needful things in the Land is a King , and a Justice of Peace . Here's a Health to the Figure of two , to the rest of the Issue Renown'd , Wee'l bid all our Sorrows adieu when the Figure of two shall be Crown'd . And now for to draw to and end , I wish a good happy conclusion , The State would so much stand our friend to end this unhappy Confusion : The which might be done in a trice , in giving of Ceasar his endue , If we were so honest and wise , to think on the Figure of two . Here's a Health to the Figure of two , to the rest of the Issue Renown'd , Wee'l bid all our Sorrows adieu when the Figure of tow shall be Crown'd If any desire to know this Riddle I now will unfold , It is a Man wrapped in woe , whose Father is wrapped in mould : So now to conclude my Song , I mention him so much the rather , Because he hath suff'red some wrong ; and bears up the name of his Father . Here's a Health to the Figure of two , to the rest of the Issue Renown'd , Wee'l bid all our Sorrows adieu when the Figure of two shall be Crown'd . A Merry new song wherein you may view The drinking Healths of a Jovial Crew , To 'thappie Return of the Figure of Two. The tune is , Ragged and torn and true . I Have been a Traveller long , and seen the conditions of all , I see how each other they wrong , and the weakest still goes to the wall : And here I'll begin fto relate , the cross condition of those , That hinder our happy state , and now are turned our Foes . Here's a health to the Figure of two , to the rest of the issue renown'd , Wee'l bid all our sorrows adieu , when the Figure of two shall be crown'd . I crossed the Ocean of late . and there I did meet with a cross , But having a pretty estate , I never lamented my loss , I never lamented my harms , and yet I was wondrous sad , I found all the Land up in Arms , and I thought all the folk had been man , Kind Countrymen , how fell you out , I left you all quiet and still , But things are now brought so about ; you nothing but Plunder and Kill : Some do seem seemingly holy , and would be Reformers of men , But wisdom does laugh at their folly , and says , they'l be Children again , Here's a Health , etc But woe to the Figure of one , King Solomon telleth us so , But he shall be wronged by none that hath two strings to his Bow. How I love this Figure of two , among all the Figures that be , I'll moke it appear unto you , if that you will listen to me , Here's a Health to the Figure of two , to the rest of the Issue Renown'd , Wee'l bid all our Sorrows adieu [ when the Figure of two shall be crown'd . ] OBserve when the weather is cold , I wear a Cap on my head , But wish , if I may be so bold the Figure of two in my bed . Two in my bed I do crave , and that is my self and my Mate , But prey do not think I would have two great large horns on my pate . Here's a Health to the Figure of two , to the rest of the Issue Renown'd , Wee'l bid all our Sorrows adue when the Figure of two shall be Crown'd , Since Nature hath given two hands , but when they are foul I might scorn them , Yet people thus much understands two fine white gloves will adorn them : Two feet for to be are up my body , no more had the Knight of the Sun , But people would think me a noddy if two shoes I would not put on . Here's a Health to the Figure of two , to the rest of the Issue Renown'd , Wee'l bid all our Sorrows adieu when the Figure of two shall be Crown'd The Figure of two is a thing that we cannot well live without , No more then without a good King , though we be never so stou And this we may well understand . if ever our Troubles should cease , Two needful things in the Land is a King , and a Justice of Peace . Here's a Health to the Figure of two , to the rest of the Issue Renown'd , Wee'l bid all our Sorrows adieu when the Figure of two shall be Crown'd . And now for to draw to and end , I wish a good happy conclusion , The State would so much stand our friend to end this unhappy Confusion : The which might be done in a trice , in giving of Ceasar his endue , If we were so honest and wise , to think on the Figure of two . Here's a Health to the Figure of two , to the rest of the Issue Renown'd , Wee'l bid all our Sorrows adieu when the Figure of tow shall be Crown'd If any desire to know this Riddle I now will unfold , It is a Man wrapped in woe , whose Father is wrapped in mould : So now to conclude my Song , I mention him so much the rather , Because he hath suff'red some wrong ; and bears up the name of his Father . Here's a Health to the Figure of two , to the rest of the Issue Renown'd , Wee'l bid all our Sorrows adieu when the Figure of two shall be Crown'd . 