THE May-Day Country Mirth : OR , The Young Lads and Lasses Innocent Recreation . Which is to be priz'd before Courtly Pomp and Pastime . To and excellent New Tune . Licensed according to Order . JOan to the Maypole away let's run , The time is swift and will be gone , There go the Lasses away to the Green , Where their Beauty's may be seen : Nan , Noll , Kate and Moll , Brave Lasses have Lads to attend 'um , Hodge , Neck , Tom , Dick , Brave Dancers , who can amend 'um ? Did you not see the Lord of the May , Walk along in his rich array ; There goes the Lass that is only his , See how they meet and how they kiss ! Come Will , run Gill , Or dost thou list to loose thy labour ? Kit Crowd , scrape aloud , Tickle her Tom , with a Pipe and Tabor . Lately I went to a Mask at Court , Where I see Dances of every sort ; There they did prance with time and measure , But none like Country Dance for pleasure : There they did Dance just as in France , Not like the English lofty manner , And every she , must furnished be With a feather'd knack when she sweats for to fan her . But we when we Dance , and do happen to sweat , Have a Napkin in Hand for to wipe off the wet , And we with our Doxies do Jig it about , Not like the Court which often are out ; If the Tabor do play , we thump it away , And turn and meet our Lasses to kiss 'em ; Nay they will be as ready as we , That hardly at any time can miss 'em . Yonder comes Dolly over the Down , And Roger he gives her a fair green Gown , See how he hands her up again , And how they trip along amain ; They pass , o'er the Grass , And at every Style they are Billing , He gives , she receives , Being youthful , ready and willing . There is not any that shall outvie , My little pretty Joan and I ; For I'm sure I can dance as well , As Robin , Jenny , Tom , or Nell : Last Year , we were here , When ruff Ralph he play'd us a Boree , And we , merrily Thumpt it about and gain'd the Glory . Come sweet Joan let us call a new Dance , That we before them may advance , Let it be what you desire and crave , And sure the same sweet Joan shall have : She cry'd and reply'd , If to please me thou wilt endeavour , Sweet big , the Wedding Jig , Then , my Dear , I'll love thee for ever . Sure I will grant thee thy request , And learn thee that among the rest ; For e'er it be long we'll Marry'd be , And then my pretty Joan shall see Fine Toys , sweet Joys , And soft Kisses too out of measure , Sweet Charms , in my Arms , This will be a Fountain of Pleasure . And if we hold on as we begin , Joan thee and I the Garland shall win : Nay , if thou live till another day , I'll make thee Lady of the May ; Dance about , in and out , Turn and kiss , and then for greeting ; Now Joan , we have done , Fare thee well till the next merry meeting . THE May-Day Country Mirth : OR , The Young Lads and Lasses Innocent Recreation . Which is to be priz'd before Courtly Pomp and Pastime . To and excellent New Tune . Licensed according to Order . JOan to the Maypole away let's run , The time is swift and will be gone , There go the Lasses away to the Green , Where their Beauty's may be seen : Nan , Noll , Kate and Moll , Brave Lasses have Lads to attend 'um , Hodge , Neck , Tom , Dick , Brave Dancers , who can amend 'um ? Did you not see the Lord of the May , Walk along in his rich array ; There goes the Lass that is only his , See how they meet and how they kiss ! Come Will , run Gill , Or dost thou list to loose thy labour ? Kit Crowd , scrape aloud , Tickle her Tom , with a Pipe and Tabor . Lately I went to a Mask at Court , Where I see Dances of every sort ; There they did prance with time and measure , But none like Country Dance for pleasure : There they did Dance just as in France , Not like the English lofty manner , And every she , must furnished be With a feather'd knack when she sweats for to fan her . But we when we Dance , and do happen to sweat , Have a Napkin in Hand for to wipe off the wet , And we with our Doxies do Jig it about , Not like the Court which often are out ; If the Tabor do play , we thump it away , And turn and meet our Lasses to kiss 'em ; Nay they will be as ready as we , That hardly at any time can miss 'em . Yonder comes Dolly over the Down , And Roger he gives her a fair green Gown , See how he hands her up again , And how they trip along amain ; They pass , o'er the Grass , And at every Style they are Billing , He gives , she receives , Being youthful , ready and willing . There is not any that shall outvie , My little pretty Joan and I ; For I'm sure I can dance as well , As Robin , Jenny , Tom , or Nell : Last Year , we were here , When ruff Ralph he play'd us a Boree , And we , merrily Thumpt it about and gain'd the Glory . Come sweet Joan let us call a new Dance , That we before them may advance , Let it be what you desire and crave , And sure the same sweet Joan shall have : She cry'd and reply'd , If to please me thou wilt endeavour , Sweet big , the Wedding Jig , Then , my Dear , I'll love thee for ever . Sure I will grant thee thy request , And learn thee that among the rest ; For e'er it be long we'll Marry'd be , And then my pretty Joan shall see Fine Toys , sweet Joys , And soft Kisses too out of measure , Sweet Charms , in my Arms , This will be a Fountain of Pleasure . And if we hold on as we begin , Joan thee and I the Garland shall win : Nay , if thou live till another day , I'll make thee Lady of the May ; Dance about , in and out , Turn and kiss , and then for greeting ; Now Joan , we have done , Fare thee well till the next merry meeting . 