Mark Noble's Frolic ; Who Being Stopp'd by the Constable near the Tower , was examin'd where he had been ; whither he was going ; and his Name and Place where he dwell to which he answer - read , where the Constable would have been glad to have been , and where he was going he dare not go for his Ears ; as likewise his Name , which he called Twenty Shillings ; with and Account of what followed , and how he came off . To the Tune of The New Rend . Licensed according to Order . ONe night at a very late hour , a Watch maker home did repair ; When coming along by the Tower , was stopp'd by the Constable there . Friend , come before Mr. Constable , to see what his Worship will say ; You'd have me do more than I'm able , I fear I shall fallen by the way . Sir , tell me , and do not deceive me , where have you been playing your part ? Kind Mr. Constable believe me , where you'd have been with [ all ] l your Heart . Sweet Bacchus in Bumpers were flowing , which Liquour all mortal Men cheers , And now after all I am going , where you dare not come for your Ears . Your Words they are saucy and evil , this may be a Charge to your Purse : For why ? you are something uncivil , to answer a Constable thus . O , where do you dwell with a whennion ? cross Humours we will not allow , Sir , out of the King's own Dominion , pray , what can you say to me now ? prey what is your Name , you cross Villain ; be sure that you answer me true ; Why Sir , It is just Twenty Shilling , I think I have satisfied you . What Trade are you , Brewer or Baker ? or do you a Waterman ply ? No Sir , I'm and honest Watchmaker , my Trade I will never deny . Have you e'er a Watch you can show , Sir ? we'll see how it suits with our Clocks ; Yes , Faith and a Constable too , Sir , I wish you were all in the Stocks . You Saucy impertinent Fellow , because you have answer'd me so , Although your mad Brains they be mellow , this Night to a Prison you go . Therefore without any more dodging , the Lanthorns was lighted straightway ; They guarded him to his strong Lodging , to lie there while Nine the next day . Next Morning the Constable brought him before a Justice to appear , And earnestly then he besought him , a Sorrowful Story to hear . [ So ] all the Transactions he told him , to which the good Justice reply'd , From Liberty he would withhold him , till the Naked Truth should be try'd . The Tradesman returned this Answer , the Truth I will never deny ; If I may speak without Offence , Sir , I scorn'd to be catch'd in a Lie . I said nothing which was unfitting , as solemnly here I profess ; The King he is King of Great Britain , and I live in Britain the less . The next thing that causes the Trouble , my Name he would have me to show , The which is right honest Mark-Noble , and that's Twenty Shillings you know . Then asking me where I was going , and I being void of all Fears , Right readily made him this Answer , where he dare not go for his Ears . I rambl'd all day , yet the Centre , at night was to lie by my Wife , Instead of his Ears should he venture , I'Faith it might cost him his Life . Now when he had given this Relation , of all that had passed in the night , It yielded most pleasant Diversion , the Justice he laughed outright . It seems that a Glass of Canary conducted the Gallant along ; I find that he's nothing but merry , intending no manner of wrong . Therefore I will free him from Prison , without any Charges or F [ ees , ] It being no more than right [ reason , ] you watch not for such M [ en as these . ] Printed for B. WORSER [ eacon , ] at the [ A ] nge [ l ] in Gilt-spur-stree [ tO . ] Mark Noble's Frolic ; Who Being Stopp'd by the Constable near the Tower , was examin'd where he had been ; whither he was going ; and his Name and Place where he dwell to which he answer - read , where the Constable would have been glad to have been , and where he was going he dare not go for his Ears ; as likewise his Name , which he called Twenty Shillings ; with and Account of what followed , and how he came off . To the Tune of The New Rend . Licensed according to Order . ONe night at a very late hour , a Watch maker home did repair ; When coming along by the Tower , was stopp'd by the Constable there . Friend , come before Mr. Constable , to see what his Worship will say ; You'd have me do more than I'm able , I fear I shall fallen by the way . Sir , tell me , and do not deceive me , where have you been playing your part ? Kind Mr. Constable believe me , where you'd have been with [ all ] l your Heart . Sweet Bacchus in Bumpers were flowing , which Liquour all mortal Men cheers , And now after all I am going , where you dare not come for your Ears . Your Words they are saucy and evil , this may be a Charge to your Purse : For why ? you are something uncivil , to answer a Constable thus . O , where do you dwell with a whennion ? cross Humours we will not allow , Sir , out of the King's own Dominion , pray , what can you say to me now ? prey what is your Name , you cross Villain ; be sure that you answer me true ; Why Sir , It is just Twenty Shilling , I think I have satisfied you . What Trade are you , Brewer or Baker ? or do you a Waterman ply ? No Sir , I'm and honest Watchmaker , my Trade I will never deny . Have you e'er a Watch you can show , Sir ? we'll see how it suits with our Clocks ; Yes , Faith and a Constable too , Sir , I wish you were all in the Stocks . You Saucy impertinent Fellow , because you have answer'd me so , Although your mad Brains they be mellow , this Night to a Prison you go . Therefore without any more dodging , the Lanthorns was lighted straightway ; They guarded him to his strong Lodging , to lie there while Nine the next day . Next Morning the Constable brought him before a Justice to appear , And earnestly then he besought him , a Sorrowful Story to hear . [ So ] all the Transactions he told him , to which the good Justice reply'd , From Liberty he would withhold him , till the Naked Truth should be try'd . The Tradesman returned this Answer , the Truth I will never deny ; If I may speak without Offence , Sir , I scorn'd to be catch'd in a Lie . I said nothing which was unfitting , as solemnly here I profess ; The King he is King of Great Britain , and I live in Britain the less . The next thing that causes the Trouble , my Name he would have me to show , The which is right honest Mark-Noble , and that's Twenty Shillings you know . Then asking me where I was going , and I being void of all Fears , Right readily made him this Answer , where he dare not go for his Ears . I rambl'd all day , yet the Centre , at night was to lie by my Wife , Instead of his Ears should he venture , I'Faith it might cost him his Life . Now when he had given this Relation , of all that had passed in the night , It yielded most pleasant Diversion , the Justice he laughed outright . It seems that a Glass of Canary conducted the Gallant along ; I find that he's nothing but merry , intending no manner of wrong . Therefore I will free him from Prison , without any Charges or F [ ees , ] It being no more than right [ reason , ] you watch not for such M [ en as these . ] Printed for B. WORSER [ eacon , ] at the [ A ] nge [ l ] in Gilt-spur-stree [ tO . ] 