A Mad MARRIAGE ; Or , The Female Fancy of Debtford . Being and Account of one Margaret a Carpenters Wife , ( who to salve up the Credit of a servant nam Marry , who had been dabbling with Changed ---- Parsons a Seaman , who soon after left her and went to Sea ) dressed her self in men Clothes and was Married to the said Marry ; to prevent the shame of a cracked Maidenhead . To the Tune of , Moggies Jealousy . YOu Lasses of London attend me , while I a true Project shall tell , Which lately was acted in Debtford , and known by the Neighbourhood well : Such things were ne'r herd of before , as will by my ditty be shown , Nor Women's inventions no more like to this will for ever be known . A Maiden whose name it was Mary , at the Sign of the Kings-Head did dwell , Who lately we hear did miscarry , for her belly began for to swell : Her Mistress soon smelled out the matter , and took her to task for the same , When after some sullen denials she freely confessed her shame . And said that Changed ----- Parsons a Seaman , had been with her something too bold , Who Courted and promis'd her Marriage , and by consent rummidg'd her hold : And how he had left her dejected , and unto the Indies was gone And she by her Mistress neglected , who gave her no ease to her moan . She therefore repair'd to the Mother , of him that had trust up her Wem And pray'd her to look up some Linen , to swaddle the Bantling in : Her Son she protested was Father , and married they were in the Church , But since he is gone to the Indies , and leaveth me here in the Lurch . THe Old woman hereat amazed , to find a new Daughter in-Law , Desir'd to know when they marry'd , whereby her affections to draw : And also the Certificate she then did desire to see , For if that you tell a false Story , you lodge not your Bastard with me . These words did so nettle our Marry she could not tell what to devise , She saw the Old woman was careful and would not be put off with lies : She on the Rack stretch'd her invention , and unto a Neighbour did go , And opened all her intention , and pray'd her some favour to show . Says the Neighbour Marget , assist me , and hear this my pitiful case , I know that you may much befriend me , and smother my woeful disgrace : If you in men habit will dress you , and take up Changed ----- Parsons his name , We then in the Church will be married and neither of us shall have blame . The Carpenters wife soon consented , a Suit of her Husbands she god The Wedding-day also appointed , when she was to act in the Plo To Saint Georges Church they repaired , and thereof the Clerk did inform Who soon had procured the Parson , that they might be married that morn . So soon as these Females were wedded , the Clerk he was called aside , Then Margaret whisper'd unto him ; and said she had wronged the Bride : By dabbling with her before hand and therefore the Certificate , Abundance of kindness you'l do me if that you will it Antedate . What is it that money won't do , soon answered was the request , Then homeward they straight way did go , a great deal of joy they express The Mother of Parsons was joyed , a Daughter-in-Law for to find The Certificate being produced , the Mother was loving and kind . Providing all things that were needful , her Grandchild when't came to receive , And thought her self blessed in her Daughter , and did all her stories believe : Till on a time Marget and Marry with some other Neighbours did meet , Carousing full Bumpers of Brandy , themselves did discover the Cheat . The which being noised through Debtford , the Parson soon of it did hear , Who straightway acquainted the Justice and caused them both to appear : Who having examin'd the matter , and found in 'um nothing but lies , He unto the Round-House did send 'um to remain there till the next Assize . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , without Newgate . A Mad MARRIAGE ; Or , The Female Fancy of Debtford . Being and Account of one Margaret a Carpenters Wife , ( who to salve up the Credit of a servant nam Marry , who had been dabbling with Changed ---- Parsons a Seaman , who soon after left her and went to Sea ) dressed her self in men Clothes and was Married to the said Marry ; to prevent the shame of a cracked Maidenhead . To the Tune of , Moggies Jealousy . YOu Lasses of London attend me , while I a true Project shall tell , Which lately was acted in Debtford , and known by the Neighbourhood well : Such things were ne'r herd of before , as will by my ditty be shown , Nor Women's inventions no more like to this will for ever be known . A Maiden whose name it was Mary , at the Sign of the Kings-Head did dwell , Who lately we hear did miscarry , for her belly began for to swell : Her Mistress soon smelled out the matter , and took her to task for the same , When after some sullen denials she freely confessed her shame . And said that Changed ----- Parsons a Seaman , had been with her something too bold , Who Courted and promis'd her Marriage , and by consent rummidg'd her hold : And how he had left her dejected , and unto the Indies was gone And she by her Mistress neglected , who gave her no ease to her moan . She therefore repair'd to the Mother , of him that had trust up her Wem And pray'd her to look up some Linen , to swaddle the Bantling in : Her Son she protested was Father , and married they were in the Church , But since he is gone to the Indies , and leaveth me here in the Lurch . THe Old woman hereat amazed , to find a new Daughter in-Law , Desir'd to know when they marry'd , whereby her affections to draw : And also the Certificate she then did desire to see , For if that you tell a false Story , you lodge not your Bastard with me . These words did so nettle our Marry she could not tell what to devise , She saw the Old woman was careful and would not be put off with lies : She on the Rack stretch'd her invention , and unto a Neighbour did go , And opened all her intention , and pray'd her some favour to show . Says the Neighbour Marget , assist me , and hear this my pitiful case , I know that you may much befriend me , and smother my woeful disgrace : If you in men habit will dress you , and take up Changed ----- Parsons his name , We then in the Church will be married and neither of us shall have blame . The Carpenters wife soon consented , a Suit of her Husbands she god The Wedding-day also appointed , when she was to act in the Plo To Saint Georges Church they repaired , and thereof the Clerk did inform Who soon had procured the Parson , that they might be married that morn . So soon as these Females were wedded , the Clerk he was called aside , Then Margaret whisper'd unto him ; and said she had wronged the Bride : By dabbling with her before hand and therefore the Certificate , Abundance of kindness you'l do me if that you will it Antedate . What is it that money won't do , soon answered was the request , Then homeward they straight way did go , a great deal of joy they express The Mother of Parsons was joyed , a Daughter-in-Law for to find The Certificate being produced , the Mother was loving and kind . Providing all things that were needful , her Grandchild when't came to receive , And thought her self blessed in her Daughter , and did all her stories believe : Till on a time Marget and Marry with some other Neighbours did meet , Carousing full Bumpers of Brandy , themselves did discover the Cheat . The which being noised through Debtford , the Parson soon of it did hear , Who straightway acquainted the Justice and caused them both to appear : Who having examin'd the matter , and found in 'um nothing but lies , He unto the Round-House did send 'um to remain there till the next Assize . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , without Newgate . 