The Northern Lad : OR , The Fair Maids Choice . Who Refus'd all for a Plowman , counting her self therein most Happy . A Country Lass who many suitors had , Some good , some mean , the worst of them not bad ; A Weaver , Taylor , Shoemaker , first came , With many more of ample note and fame : A Barber , Baker , Miller , and the like , Yet unto none of those her Sails she'd strike : But in a Rustic she is only pleas'd , A Plowman only has her fancy eas'd . To the Tune of , There was a Lass in Cumberland , etc I Am a Lass o'th North Country , and I was born and bred a whom ; Many a Lad has Courted me , and swore that they to woo me come : But to bed to me , to bed to me , the Lad that gangs to bed with me ; A jovial Plowman must he be , the Lad that comes to bed to me . The first that came with Breeches trim , a Weaver was most neatly dressed , But I alas wou'd none of him , while Weavers on Sheep-heads do feast . But to bed to me , etc For Heads and Horns are wemish meat , to serve a Lass of my degree ; Who Beef and Bacon always eat , therefore he is no meat for me : But to bed to me , etc The next a Taylor was so fine , with Slash , and Slits , and Cap-a-pee , Who scrap'd , & cring'd , & said he's mine , and that he fain would ligg with me : But to bed to me , to bed to me , the Lad that comes to bed to me , A lusty Plowman may he be , the Lad that bumps the bed with me . HE whispering told me he wou'd mend , a slit I had to my content , But saucy Pricklouse did offend , so to be stitch'd I'se not consen For to bed to me , to bed to me , the Lad that gangs to bed to me , A bonny Plowman must he be , the Lad that shakes the Sheets with me . A Shoemaker came jumping in , who plainly did his suit declare , And did my foot to squeeze begin , and on them press'd of Shoes a pair : But to bed to me , etc He tickled me about the Knee , and told me it was his request , To live , to love , and wa'd with me , and I'se shou'd be of wealth poss But to bed to me , etc But these fine toys did not prevail , tho' spruce and fine with powder'd Locks Nay , tho' he Twopence spent in Ale , he cou'd no catch me in his stocks : For to bed to me , etc A Barber-Surgeon came to me , whom I did take in great disdain , He said his art I soon should see , for he would prick my master-Vein : But to bed to me , etc But I repell'd his rude address , and told him 'twas my greatest cares , If wa'd a lousy A-Snip , alas , when he's incens'd should keep my ea [ rs . ] But to bed to me , to bed to me , the man that comes bed to me , And honest Plowman must he be , the Lad that is embrac'd by me . A Baker next who call'd me Cozen , did beg for one salute of me , Presenting straight French Roals a dozen but's Neck was warp'd with Pillory : Oh! to bed to me , etc And then a Miller who for cogging , for thieving and such like with's Bowl Upon his Horse came softly jogging , who lighting straight demanded Tole . But to bed to me , etc He told me I was his by right , whereat I smil'd disdainfully ; Your Stones said I are ruin'd quite , therefore expect no more of me . But to bed to me , etc A Plowman is the jovial Lad , who still despises grief and care , With him content and pleasure's had , with him a Rustic life I'le share : 'Tis he shall came to bed to me , etc I'se grasp him in my arms all night , and when the shades shall disappear , In pleasing Groves we'l take delight , and with sweet Songs each other cheer O to bed to me , etc Come my dear when Nelly calls , Oh let us in this shady Grove , Now venture on what e're befalls , and quench the passion of my Love : Oh! to bed to me , to bed to me , when thou art come to bed to me , How happy then will Nelly be , when thou art come to bed to she . FINIs . The Northern Lad : OR , The Fair Maids Choice . Who Refus'd all for a Plowman , counting her self therein most Happy . A Country Lass who many suitors had , Some good , some mean , the worst of them not bad ; A Weaver , Taylor , Shoemaker , first came , With many more of ample note and fame : A Barber , Baker , Miller , and the like , Yet unto none of those her Sails she'd strike : But in a Rustic she is only pleas'd , A Plowman only has her fancy eas'd . To the Tune of , There was a Lass in Cumberland , etc I Am a Lass o'th North Country , and I was born and bred a whom ; Many a Lad has Courted me , and swore that they to woo me come : But to bed to me , to bed to me , the Lad that gangs to bed with me ; A jovial Plowman must he be , the Lad that comes to bed to me . The first that came with Breeches trim , a Weaver was most neatly dressed , But I alas wou'd none of him , while Weavers on Sheep-heads do feast . But to bed to me , etc For Heads and Horns are wemish meat , to serve a Lass of my degree ; Who Beef and Bacon always eat , therefore he is no meat for me : But to bed to me , etc The next a Taylor was so fine , with Slash , and Slits , and Cap-a-pee , Who scrap'd , & cring'd , & said he's mine , and that he fain would ligg with me : But to bed to me , to bed to me , the Lad that comes to bed to me , A lusty Plowman may he be , the Lad that bumps the bed with me . HE whispering told me he wou'd mend , a slit I had to my content , But saucy Pricklouse did offend , so to be stitch'd I'se not consen For to bed to me , to bed to me , the Lad that gangs to bed to me , A bonny Plowman must he be , the Lad that shakes the Sheets with me . A Shoemaker came jumping in , who plainly did his suit declare , And did my foot to squeeze begin , and on them press'd of Shoes a pair : But to bed to me , etc He tickled me about the Knee , and told me it was his request , To live , to love , and wa'd with me , and I'se shou'd be of wealth poss But to bed to me , etc But these fine toys did not prevail , tho' spruce and fine with powder'd Locks Nay , tho' he Twopence spent in Ale , he cou'd no catch me in his stocks : For to bed to me , etc A Barber-Surgeon came to me , whom I did take in great disdain , He said his art I soon should see , for he would prick my master-Vein : But to bed to me , etc But I repell'd his rude address , and told him 'twas my greatest cares , If wa'd a lousy A-Snip , alas , when he's incens'd should keep my ea [ rs . ] But to bed to me , to bed to me , the man that comes bed to me , And honest Plowman must he be , the Lad that is embrac'd by me . A Baker next who call'd me Cozen , did beg for one salute of me , Presenting straight French Roals a dozen but's Neck was warp'd with Pillory : Oh! to bed to me , etc And then a Miller who for cogging , for thieving and such like with's Bowl Upon his Horse came softly jogging , who lighting straight demanded Tole . But to bed to me , etc He told me I was his by right , whereat I smil'd disdainfully ; Your Stones said I are ruin'd quite , therefore expect no more of me . But to bed to me , etc A Plowman is the jovial Lad , who still despises grief and care , With him content and pleasure's had , with him a Rustic life I'le share : 'Tis he shall came to bed to me , etc I'se grasp him in my arms all night , and when the shades shall disappear , In pleasing Groves we'l take delight , and with sweet Songs each other cheer O to bed to me , etc Come my dear when Nelly calls , Oh let us in this shady Grove , Now venture on what e're befalls , and quench the passion of my Love : Oh! to bed to me , to bed to me , when thou art come to bed to me , How happy then will Nelly be , when thou art come to bed to she . FINIs . 