The Noble Prodigal , OR , The young Heir newly come to his Estate . Who very kindly does invite you all , To feast upon his Father's funeral . A new Medley of six Airs . First Ayr. The Jews Corant . LEt's call and drink the Cellar dry , There's nothing sober underneath the sky The greatest Kingdoms in confusion lie , Since all the world grow mad , why may not I ? my Father's dead , and I am free he left no children in the world but me . the Devil drank him down with usury and I'll repine in liberality . When first the English war began He was precisely a politic man , That gain'd his state by Sequestration till Oliver began to come with sword in hand and put him to the run Then jovial Lads who are undone So by the Father come home to the Son , Whom wine and music now do wait upon he'l tipple up a tun , and drink your woes away , folly hearts come on come on Second Ayr. Princess Royal. Here's a health to him that may do a trick that shall advance you all And beget a very jovial day . Fill another bowl to he who hath drank by stealth his Landlords health If his spirit and his tongue agree the Land shall celebrate his fame , all the world enbalm his name , not a right good fellow , but will satisfy the same . The bells' full merrily shall ring All the town shall dance and sing more delights then I can tell you When we see this noble Spring , wee'l have Ladies by the belly and snatch at at o'ther thing . The third Air . Come hither my own sweet Duck . WEe's awe be merry and jolly , quaff carouse and reel Wee's play with Peggy and Molly dance , and kiss , and feel , Wee's put up the Bagpipes & Organ , and make the Welch Harper to play , Till Mauris ap Shon ap Morgan fisk as on St. Taffies day . Hold up Jinny . Piper come play us up a Spring all you that have music in you Tipple , dance , and sing . Fourth Air . French Tricatees . Let de French Mounseiur come and swear Begar Mounseiur , Dis is de ting vee long to hear So many a year , Dancing will be looked upon , Now the man of Iron is gone , Me glad his dancing day be done . When the flower de luces grows With the Enlish Crown and Rose Dat's very good as we suppose De French can live without de nose , Fifth Ayr. French Tricatees . Spain and England then , like men , Shall love and make a League again , Holland Boors shall quaff , and laugh , Poor Irish swim in Usquebaugh , James and Jinnikin touch the Minnikin Drink till all the Sky look blue , by this sweet change Wonders shall ensue . almost as strange As Scotland to be true . Sixth Ayr. A new Country-dance , No Drayman shall with his dul feed appear Lord in the Commonweal , Or Jesuite in the Pulpit appear ; under a Cloak of zeal Mucician never be noted for wandering men of ease , But they shall be finely Coated & permitted to sing what they please If all things do but hit well as who knows but so t'may be , Though now you be very zealous then you'l laugh and be merry as we The Noble Prodigal , OR , The young Heir newly come to his Estate . Who very kindly does invite you all , To feast upon his Father's funeral . A new Medley of six Airs . First Ayr. The Jews Corant . LEt's call and drink the Cellar dry , There's nothing sober underneath the sky The greatest Kingdoms in confusion lie , Since all the world grow mad , why may not I ? my Father's dead , and I am free he left no children in the world but me . the Devil drank him down with usury and I'll repine in liberality . When first the English war began He was precisely a politic man , That gain'd his state by Sequestration till Oliver began to come with sword in hand and put him to the run Then jovial Lads who are undone So by the Father come home to the Son , Whom wine and music now do wait upon he'l tipple up a tun , and drink your woes away , folly hearts come on come on Second Ayr. Princess Royal. Here's a health to him that may do a trick that shall advance you all And beget a very jovial day . Fill another bowl to he who hath drank by stealth his Landlords health If his spirit and his tongue agree the Land shall celebrate his fame , all the world enbalm his name , not a right good fellow , but will satisfy the same . The bells' full merrily shall ring All the town shall dance and sing more delights then I can tell you When we see this noble Spring , wee'l have Ladies by the belly and snatch at at o'ther thing . The third Air . Come hither my own sweet Duck . WEe's awe be merry and jolly , quaff carouse and reel Wee's play with Peggy and Molly dance , and kiss , and feel , Wee's put up the Bagpipes & Organ , and make the Welch Harper to play , Till Mauris ap Shon ap Morgan fisk as on St. Taffies day . Hold up Jinny . Piper come play us up a Spring all you that have music in you Tipple , dance , and sing . Fourth Air . French Tricatees . Let de French Mounseiur come and swear Begar Mounseiur , Dis is de ting vee long to hear So many a year , Dancing will be looked upon , Now the man of Iron is gone , Me glad his dancing day be done . When the flower de luces grows With the Enlish Crown and Rose Dat's very good as we suppose De French can live without de nose , Fifth Ayr. French Tricatees . Spain and England then , like men , Shall love and make a League again , Holland Boors shall quaff , and laugh , Poor Irish swim in Usquebaugh , James and Jinnikin touch the Minnikin Drink till all the Sky look blue , by this sweet change Wonders shall ensue . almost as strange As Scotland to be true . Sixth Ayr. A new Country-dance , No Drayman shall with his dul feed appear Lord in the Commonweal , Or Jesuite in the Pulpit appear ; under a Cloak of zeal Mucician never be noted for wandering men of ease , But they shall be finely Coated & permitted to sing what they please If all things do but hit well as who knows but so t'may be , Though now you be very zealous then you'l laugh and be merry as we 