The New Germane Doctor : OR , And Infallible Cure for a Scolding Wife : Performed by this most Excellent Operator , the like was never known in all Ages . To the Tune of , Here I love , there I love , or , The English Travellers . Licensed according to Order . YOu Men that are married , I pray now attend , Good tidings I bring you , this day as a Friend ; It will be of use to all young Men and old , Whoever are troubl'd with Women that scold . A Doctor of late , from the Emperor's Court , A Person of dextrous Skill by report , Hath taken a Chamber in London lof late , And cures scolding Wives at a wondered rate . This Doctor has travell'd all Poland and Spain , And now to Great-Britain he crossed the Main : To one Land and Nation he'll not be confin'd , But travels the World for the good of mankind . That Man that is plagu'd with a cross scolding Wife , Whose railing does make him quite weary of Life ; Pray what would he give for and absolute cure , Before such a terrible Life he'd endure ? 'Tis like ev'ry Morning when Daylight appears , She rings him a thundering Peal in his Ears ; And makes him be glad to rouse out of the Bed , And all by the violent noise of her Head. Sometime a good Husband may meet with a Friend , And happen a penny or two pence to spend ; Then in comes the Wife , who do's thunder and bawl , And with the Quart-flaggon his Noddle does maul . Her Tongue is more keen than a two-edged Sword , Nay louder than Thunder she Peals will afford ; Instead of found Pleasures , kind Love and Delight , She is like a fierce Tiger , both Morning and Night . It is and unspeakable Torment I know , You cannot imagine what they undergo : Who with such cross Women , their Lives now do led , But bring them away to the Doctor with speed . Nay let them be never so aged or young , This Doctor he takes out the Sting of the Tongue ; Which is the main Cause of that violent noise , And likewise all modest Behaviour destroys . A Balsom he has of a moderate price , Which takes off the frowns of the Face in a trice , And makes her as mild as the innocent Dove , And instead of railing , she's all over Love . He hath been above seven Weeks in the Town , And yet of young Scolds who was given to frown , He has cur'd above Seven hundred indeed : And some full as bad as the Billingsgate-Breed . There's one I will mention , liv'd near Tower-Hill , Who would be both fighting and quarreling still : From night to next morning , from morning to noon , Her Pipes I must tell you , was always in tune . Her Husband he herd of this Doctor of fame , Without longer tarry , faith thither he came , With she that was call'd The invincible Shrow , Fast bound in a Basket , for she would not go . This Doctor he cur'd her in less than a Week , And made her as modest , as mild , and as meek , As any sweet Lady this day in the Land , And so he do's all , that he e'er takes in hand . We hear of some Quacks are for curing of Claps , And some other common Diseases , perhaps ; But when did you hear on our vast British shore , Of one that cou'd cure this Distemper before ! Whoever is troubl'd this day with a Scold , Altho' she be youthful , or fourscore years old , 'Tis all one to him , if the Cure he don't do , He'll not have so much as one penny of you . Now rather than any that pain shall endure , The Poor he for little or nothing will cure ; All day at his Chamber he is to be found , Next Door to the Eel's-foot in Sallengers-Round . The New Germane Doctor : OR , And Infallible Cure for a Scolding Wife : Performed by this most Excellent Operator , the like was never known in all Ages . To the Tune of , Here I love , there I love , or , The English Travellers . Licensed according to Order . YOu Men that are married , I pray now attend , Good tidings I bring you , this day as a Friend ; It will be of use to all young Men and old , Whoever are troubl'd with Women that scold . A Doctor of late , from the Emperor's Court , A Person of dextrous Skill by report , Hath taken a Chamber in London lof late , And cures scolding Wives at a wondered rate . This Doctor has travell'd all Poland and Spain , And now to Great-Britain he crossed the Main : To one Land and Nation he'll not be confin'd , But travels the World for the good of mankind . That Man that is plagu'd with a cross scolding Wife , Whose railing does make him quite weary of Life ; Pray what would he give for and absolute cure , Before such a terrible Life he'd endure ? 'Tis like ev'ry Morning when Daylight appears , She rings him a thundering Peal in his Ears ; And makes him be glad to rouse out of the Bed , And all by the violent noise of her Head. Sometime a good Husband may meet with a Friend , And happen a penny or two pence to spend ; Then in comes the Wife , who do's thunder and bawl , And with the Quart-flaggon his Noddle does maul . Her Tongue is more keen than a two-edged Sword , Nay louder than Thunder she Peals will afford ; Instead of found Pleasures , kind Love and Delight , She is like a fierce Tiger , both Morning and Night . It is and unspeakable Torment I know , You cannot imagine what they undergo : Who with such cross Women , their Lives now do led , But bring them away to the Doctor with speed . Nay let them be never so aged or young , This Doctor he takes out the Sting of the Tongue ; Which is the main Cause of that violent noise , And likewise all modest Behaviour destroys . A Balsom he has of a moderate price , Which takes off the frowns of the Face in a trice , And makes her as mild as the innocent Dove , And instead of railing , she's all over Love . He hath been above seven Weeks in the Town , And yet of young Scolds who was given to frown , He has cur'd above Seven hundred indeed : And some full as bad as the Billingsgate-Breed . There's one I will mention , liv'd near Tower-Hill , Who would be both fighting and quarreling still : From night to next morning , from morning to noon , Her Pipes I must tell you , was always in tune . Her Husband he herd of this Doctor of fame , Without longer tarry , faith thither he came , With she that was call'd The invincible Shrow , Fast bound in a Basket , for she would not go . This Doctor he cur'd her in less than a Week , And made her as modest , as mild , and as meek , As any sweet Lady this day in the Land , And so he do's all , that he e'er takes in hand . We hear of some Quacks are for curing of Claps , And some other common Diseases , perhaps ; But when did you hear on our vast British shore , Of one that cou'd cure this Distemper before ! Whoever is troubl'd this day with a Scold , Altho' she be youthful , or fourscore years old , 'Tis all one to him , if the Cure he don't do , He'll not have so much as one penny of you . Now rather than any that pain shall endure , The Poor he for little or nothing will cure ; All day at his Chamber he is to be found , Next Door to the Eel's-foot in Sallengers-Round . 