The New Way of Marriage . OR , A Pleasant Contract between John and Kate . Marriage that simple Contract still does bind , And mitigate the freedom of the mind : Kate for prevention of that endless strife , Will be a Mistress rather then a Wife . To a Pleasant New Tune . With Allowance . John. DEarest do , You easily may , The place is agreeing to't , And no one can see us do't ; then don't delay : The torment is so great , that I endure ; That you must immediately kill or cure : For time admits of no demur , in such a case as this : I'de rather die , Then be so nigh , and not reap bliss . Kate . O kind John , why so fast ? Yet for all this clatter , I know no such matter , there's no has I'm not at leisure yet to be undone , Though you languish Still in pain , and make moan : Let the Parson speak some words , and we shall soon agree ; For my mind is to be kind , only to thee . John. DEarest Love , Think what you say , If once the Parson prove it , You never can remove it , night nor day . Marriage is a tie , does fools confine , They no sooner enter in , but repine : Then who would feed In one poor Dish , and that unwholesome dres When he is sure , He can procure , a nobler Feast ? Then dear Kate , my only joy ; I have a way more easy , And that I know will please thee , mark what I say : We will the modish way of love pursue , Love and lie without a tie , yet still be true . Thus in each others joys will we receive the rapting bliss , And this shall all the contract be , seal'd with a kiss . Kate . But dear John , it is well known , Youngmen their love does last No longer then the pleasure's past , and so be gone . Therefore if you mean with me , to ease your mind : To this you must immediately be confin'd . That you on none but me do built , your faith and love alone : Then I will thus enviting yield , come dear John. John. Dearest since you thus comply , I plighted my faith in trust , And to it will be just , until I die : My fancy shall no more a roving fly , But to thee I constantly my self will tie : Till we have acted what we meant , and cloy'd each others heart , Then as we came , with joint consent , we'l kiss and part . Kate . Well kind John , my love you have wone , I like this indefferent well , When either with enjoyment swell , to stay , or be gone . Then don't with Courtship sue , you've gain'd the field , But to pleasure pay it's due , I freely yield . Being thus agreed , they went away all sorrow to remove : Within each other to enjoy , the sweets of Love . FINIS . Printed for P. Prooksby , at the G [ olden ] Ball , in West-smith-field . The New Way of Marriage . OR , A Pleasant Contract between John and Kate . Marriage that simple Contract still does bind , And mitigate the freedom of the mind : Kate for prevention of that endless strife , Will be a Mistress rather then a Wife . To a Pleasant New Tune . With Allowance . John. DEarest do , You easily may , The place is agreeing to't , And no one can see us do't ; then don't delay : The torment is so great , that I endure ; That you must immediately kill or cure : For time admits of no demur , in such a case as this : I'de rather die , Then be so nigh , and not reap bliss . Kate . O kind John , why so fast ? Yet for all this clatter , I know no such matter , there's no has I'm not at leisure yet to be undone , Though you languish Still in pain , and make moan : Let the Parson speak some words , and we shall soon agree ; For my mind is to be kind , only to thee . John. DEarest Love , Think what you say , If once the Parson prove it , You never can remove it , night nor day . Marriage is a tie , does fools confine , They no sooner enter in , but repine : Then who would feed In one poor Dish , and that unwholesome dres When he is sure , He can procure , a nobler Feast ? Then dear Kate , my only joy ; I have a way more easy , And that I know will please thee , mark what I say : We will the modish way of love pursue , Love and lie without a tie , yet still be true . Thus in each others joys will we receive the rapting bliss , And this shall all the contract be , seal'd with a kiss . Kate . But dear John , it is well known , Youngmen their love does last No longer then the pleasure's past , and so be gone . Therefore if you mean with me , to ease your mind : To this you must immediately be confin'd . That you on none but me do built , your faith and love alone : Then I will thus enviting yield , come dear John. John. Dearest since you thus comply , I plighted my faith in trust , And to it will be just , until I die : My fancy shall no more a roving fly , But to thee I constantly my self will tie : Till we have acted what we meant , and cloy'd each others heart , Then as we came , with joint consent , we'l kiss and part . Kate . Well kind John , my love you have wone , I like this indefferent well , When either with enjoyment swell , to stay , or be gone . Then don't with Courtship sue , you've gain'd the field , But to pleasure pay it's due , I freely yield . Being thus agreed , they went away all sorrow to remove : Within each other to enjoy , the sweets of Love . FINIS . Printed for P. Prooksby , at the G [ olden ] Ball , in West-smith-field . 