The Old Pudding-pie Woman set forth in her colours , etc Of all the rare and various London cries , There's none that does excel Hight Pudding-Pyes : Each one that hears it , being bit with hunger , Would wish himself to be a Pudding Monger ; For many likes such Victuals for the nonce , Because in Pudding-Pyes there is no bones . To a rare new Tune much in use , or , There was and Old Wife . THere was a Old wife and she sold Pudding-pies , She went to the Mill and the dust blew into her eyes : She has Hight Puddings and Cold Puddings to fell , Where ever she goes you may follow her by the smell . Betimes in the morning out of her bed she will pack , And give you all warning with a loud thundering crack : Then coughing and spitting , & Rubbing , & Scrubbing her thighs , She hangs on her Clothes and away to fell Pudding-pies . She calls up her Neighbours for to go and fuddle a Pot , Because to go fasting Oh she likes it not ; Her Bub she does tipple and then having cleared her eyes She goes to the Oven to fetch her Pudding-pies . O Baker quoth she I prithee do not me cozen , I am and Old wife tell fifteen to the dozen ; For by that means my profit does fairly rise , Or else I must never more cry Pudding-pies . AT every Corner and in every street , This Pudding-pye-woman be sure you oft shall meet ; With Basket on head and hand on her Butock she cries , Come here all away that will buy Hight Pudding-pies . She hath a long Nose and often the same does drop , A piece of Hight Pudding would make a dainty Sop , Her Beetle-brow forehead hangs quite over her eyes , She scarcely can see to fell her Pudding-pies , Her hands she does wash but twice three times in a year , The print of her fingers does fair on her Puddings appear She's two yards about , which you [ ' ] l say is a pretty size , For and Old wife that does fell Hight Pudding-pies . In Winter you may behold her dragled Tail , And lagging she goes along just like a Snail , All sprinkled with mire a handful about her thighs , You that have good stomachs come buy her Pudding-pies . At Noon and at Night this Firkin of stuff does wag , Some money to take to put in her greasy bag : I wish she would make me her Heir when ever she dies , Then I shall have money for all her Pudding-pies . Her Puddings are fat , in Summer they use to fry With heat of the Sun , or else she hath to [ l ] worser a lie : But what she puts in them I swear I cannot devise , Then buy and you'l try how you like her Pudding-pies . She had a young Daughter that takes after her Mother , And will be as like her as one Pea's like another ; If any young Man have a mind to such a Rare prize , He shall have her Daughter and all her Pudding-pies . And thus you may see how I this Woman describe , 'Tis nothing to me I'm sure she'l give me no Bribe , But I am content since that I have told no lies ; Then farewell to those that do cry Hight Pudding-pies . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clark . The Old Pudding-pie Woman set forth in her colours , etc Of all the rare and various London cries , There's none that does excel Hight Pudding-Pyes : Each one that hears it , being bit with hunger , Would wish himself to be a Pudding Monger ; For many likes such Victuals for the nonce , Because in Pudding-Pyes there is no bones . To a rare new Tune much in use , or , There was and Old Wife . THere was a Old wife and she sold Pudding-pies , She went to the Mill and the dust blew into her eyes : She has Hight Puddings and Cold Puddings to fell , Where ever she goes you may follow her by the smell . Betimes in the morning out of her bed she will pack , And give you all warning with a loud thundering crack : Then coughing and spitting , & Rubbing , & Scrubbing her thighs , She hangs on her Clothes and away to fell Pudding-pies . She calls up her Neighbours for to go and fuddle a Pot , Because to go fasting Oh she likes it not ; Her Bub she does tipple and then having cleared her eyes She goes to the Oven to fetch her Pudding-pies . O Baker quoth she I prithee do not me cozen , I am and Old wife tell fifteen to the dozen ; For by that means my profit does fairly rise , Or else I must never more cry Pudding-pies . AT every Corner and in every street , This Pudding-pye-woman be sure you oft shall meet ; With Basket on head and hand on her Butock she cries , Come here all away that will buy Hight Pudding-pies . She hath a long Nose and often the same does drop , A piece of Hight Pudding would make a dainty Sop , Her Beetle-brow forehead hangs quite over her eyes , She scarcely can see to fell her Pudding-pies , Her hands she does wash but twice three times in a year , The print of her fingers does fair on her Puddings appear She's two yards about , which you [ ' ] l say is a pretty size , For and Old wife that does fell Hight Pudding-pies . In Winter you may behold her dragled Tail , And lagging she goes along just like a Snail , All sprinkled with mire a handful about her thighs , You that have good stomachs come buy her Pudding-pies . At Noon and at Night this Firkin of stuff does wag , Some money to take to put in her greasy bag : I wish she would make me her Heir when ever she dies , Then I shall have money for all her Pudding-pies . Her Puddings are fat , in Summer they use to fry With heat of the Sun , or else she hath to [ l ] worser a lie : But what she puts in them I swear I cannot devise , Then buy and you'l try how you like her Pudding-pies . She had a young Daughter that takes after her Mother , And will be as like her as one Pea's like another ; If any young Man have a mind to such a Rare prize , He shall have her Daughter and all her Pudding-pies . And thus you may see how I this Woman describe , 'Tis nothing to me I'm sure she'l give me no Bribe , But I am content since that I have told no lies ; Then farewell to those that do cry Hight Pudding-pies . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clark . 