The Religious men Exhortation to all Persons of what Degree soever , Especially Youth ; that they may Fear God and Honour their Parents . Reform thy Life then free from strife , thou wouldst be perfect free , When e're you Die , assuredly , to true Felicity . To the Tune of , The Young-man's Legacy : Or , Sinners Redemption . BOth young and old I pray attend , unto the Counsel which I give , And learn your sinful Lives to mend , so may you here in comfort live . since is the cause of trouble here , as we by true experience find , But if the Lord we serve and fear , it will bring comfort to our mind . Let us our Lives begin anew , to God in true obedience stand , Let Envy now be turned to pure love & friendship through the Land. For where we find this bears that sway , in no ways will they disagree , But strive all anger to allay , and bear with any Injury . Young men and Maids to you likewise , I have a word or two to say , See that these Lines you highly prize , 'twill be your own another day . First God alone you ought to fear , and let not Satan you ensnare , Next honour your kind Parents dear , who brought you up in tender care . Be sure you never do offend your loving Parents meek and mild , For sure no blessing can attend a disobedient stubborn Child . Respect to them you ought to show , you can't too much in duty do ; You are not able now to know , what they in love have done for you . Let Reason be your rule and guide , to all your actions take good heed , And mind Religion more then Pride , for it will stand you in more stead . Prize Virtue here far more then Vice , and think upon thy future state , Let not strange fashions you entice , they are but as Golden Bait , For to betray the minds of Youth , but in the end this sorrow brings , Oh harken to the word of truth , which soon will learn you better things . For should you spend your Youthful prime , in taking sinful Liberty , It is but as a moments time , compared to Eternity . For when thy Glass of Life is run , and that thou must resign thy breath , Thou wilt be ruin'd and undone , if thou art not prepar'd for Death . The Lord our Person does protect , from him why should you go astray ? No longer now your time neglect , repent while it is call'd to day . Seek to the Lord thy Soul to save , death neither old nor young will spare , For many drops into the Grave , while in their blooming years they are . Then to the Lord for Mercy cry , who will his Grace and Favour give , And then being prepar'd to die , we are the fitter then to Live : Consider well what I have said , then may you all be happy still , And never in the least afraid of Death let him come when he will . FINIS . This may be Printed , R. P. Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner . The Religious men Exhortation to all Persons of what Degree soever , Especially Youth ; that they may Fear God and Honour their Parents . Reform thy Life then free from strife , thou wouldst be perfect free , When e're you Die , assuredly , to true Felicity . To the Tune of , The Young-man's Legacy : Or , Sinners Redemption . BOth young and old I pray attend , unto the Counsel which I give , And learn your sinful Lives to mend , so may you here in comfort live . since is the cause of trouble here , as we by true experience find , But if the Lord we serve and fear , it will bring comfort to our mind . Let us our Lives begin anew , to God in true obedience stand , Let Envy now be turned to pure love & friendship through the Land. For where we find this bears that sway , in no ways will they disagree , But strive all anger to allay , and bear with any Injury . Young men and Maids to you likewise , I have a word or two to say , See that these Lines you highly prize , 'twill be your own another day . First God alone you ought to fear , and let not Satan you ensnare , Next honour your kind Parents dear , who brought you up in tender care . Be sure you never do offend your loving Parents meek and mild , For sure no blessing can attend a disobedient stubborn Child . Respect to them you ought to show , you can't too much in duty do ; You are not able now to know , what they in love have done for you . Let Reason be your rule and guide , to all your actions take good heed , And mind Religion more then Pride , for it will stand you in more stead . Prize Virtue here far more then Vice , and think upon thy future state , Let not strange fashions you entice , they are but as Golden Bait , For to betray the minds of Youth , but in the end this sorrow brings , Oh harken to the word of truth , which soon will learn you better things . For should you spend your Youthful prime , in taking sinful Liberty , It is but as a moments time , compared to Eternity . For when thy Glass of Life is run , and that thou must resign thy breath , Thou wilt be ruin'd and undone , if thou art not prepar'd for Death . The Lord our Person does protect , from him why should you go astray ? No longer now your time neglect , repent while it is call'd to day . Seek to the Lord thy Soul to save , death neither old nor young will spare , For many drops into the Grave , while in their blooming years they are . Then to the Lord for Mercy cry , who will his Grace and Favour give , And then being prepar'd to die , we are the fitter then to Live : Consider well what I have said , then may you all be happy still , And never in the least afraid of Death let him come when he will . FINIS . This may be Printed , R. P. Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner . 