The BRISTOL Garland . In FOUR PARTS , PART I . A Merchant's son of worthy fame , From the town of BRISTOL came , Unto a sweet and pleasant green , Where little girls are to be seen . Who usher'd in the month of May , With flow'ry garlands fresh and gay . With music for to entertain The youthful charming rural plain . among these youthful laidies bright , None did exceed for read or white Lucy , a shepherd's daughter fair , She like and angel did appear . The Merchant's son , who never knew Before that time what love could do , Began to f [ e ] el and inward flame So with these words to her he came : Thou charming beauty of the day , Who far exceeds the month of May , And all the beauty's of the plain , Do not my humble suit disdain . She answer'd with a modest voice . Sir , you're mistaken in your choice , Don't set your heart and love on me , Who am one of a mean degree . But a poor shepherd's daughter , Sir . With that he strait saluted her . He did these words to her express , My dear , I love you ne'ertheless . How many men of worthy fame , [ I ] n former days , that I could name , Who made it their employ to keep Their mighty flock of lambs and sheep . Then let us to thy father go ; And if he's willing to bestow His daughter to me I'll rejoice , And be well pleased with the choice . Accordingly she gave consent , And to her father straightway he went ; Here he then treated long of love , And that he would right constant prove . The shepherd made him this reply , Your suit I cannot well deny . But let me tell you , worthy sir , I nothing have to give with her . But if you love for loves desert , Then take her with all my hear All parties then were soon agreed , So that they married were with speed . PART II NOW the wedding rites being done ? Beloved the wealthy merchant's son To his dear parents brought his bride , Who were it seems dissatisfy'd . Because they understood that she Descended from a mean degree , And was not worthy to be made His bride , so they did her degrade . Then to their son in wrath they spoke , Saying How dar'd you thus provoke Your loving f [ r ] iend and parents dear ? Oh! it will break our hearts we fear , He to his parents thus did say , Hear me a word or two I pray , She is my bride , my joy , and dear , Oh! do not break her heart with grief , Dear friends I cannot bear to hear . My wife , my love , my joy , my dear , Revil'd at such a rate as this , Alas ! she has not done amiss . His parents said , since it must be so , Pray take your jewel now and go Out of doors , our hands we'll clear , You shall not think to harbour here . Be gone , I say , depart the house , I'll give you not one single souse Not any thing alive or dead . Altho' you starve for want of bred , Said he , 'Tis very hard indeed , That in the greatest time and need , You'll not relieve nor help your son , So now farewell , you will be done . Returning back with weeping eyes , With bitter sobs and mournful cries I'm grieved at the heart , said she , That I was born to ruin thee Let not such thoughts disturb thy mind Not sighs nor sobs , for thou shalt find I'll get my bred with pains and care , And my crosses with patience bear Be thou content , and all is well , We'll with thy loving parents dwell , And in reg [ a ] rd we have no land , I'll freely earn with my own hand . I'll from [ el ] y go to blow and cart Ill freely earn with my whole heart As thy poor father he has done , Farewell the name of Merchant's son . He did not only say , but behold , In summer hight , and winter cold . He'd reap and mow and till the earth , As if he came to it by his birth . PART III . BUT here's a wonder now at last , When eight years were gone & passed , He did to mighty riches rise , And how it came none could devise . But thus it was we understand , He bought a little piece of land , On which their was some stump of trees The which he dug up by degrees . Upon a day by chance he found , When digging deep within the ground , A lusty pot with ancient gold . As full as ever it could hold . Tho' he was lusty , stout and strong , He scarce could lug the same along For there was many a thousand pound , Which he by mighty fortune found , He purchased a vast estate , And in those parts appeared great , As any Knight of worthy fame , None knew as yet from whence it came While he grew rich , his parents they Reduced were to sad decay , By losses which they did substain , By land as well as ocean main . They ow'd a thousand pound and more , The cruel creditors therefore On all that e'er they had then seiz'd Yet ne'ertheless they were not pleas'd . But would have his body too , So that for fear , alas , he flew And forced was to hide his head , While he and she wanted bred . PART . IV. NOW while they were in this distress , And nothing had wherewith to bless Themselves withal , glad tidings came Of their son's estate and wealthy fame , The woman to her husband cry'd Let's to our son , he will provide A place for us , we need not fear , Why should we lie and languish here . If he shou'd do so good a deed , Now in our want and time of need , 'Tis more then we may expect , Remember how we did reflect On him and his beloved wife . And said in wrath , that during life By me they never should be fed Altho' they starv'd for want of bred . This was my fault this was my since . How can I think he'll take us in . Who did him throw quite out of door , And bid him see my face no more . But loving hu [ s ] band you shall find He's of a courteous heart and mind , And shall receive us both in love . Just as she said , so it did prove , For coming to his mansion-place , The son he thought it no disgrace To fallen upon their bent knee , So worser [ i ] worser his wife as well as he . As from the [ i ] r knees they did arise ; His parents dear with weeping eyes , Their grief and sorrow did relate , Who had been most unfortunate , Said he , most welcome parents dear , Unto my habitation here . Let not these tears or sorrow fallen , , I have enough to serve us all . Father , your debts I'll freely pay The word shall never have to say , That e'er they lost a groat by you , So bid their sorrows quite adieu . Then did he feast and cloth them both And said , My parents , pray henceforth , In plenty live and take some ease , At home with me , or where you please . If here you are not free to live . One hundred pounds a year I'll give , If that won't serve you shall have two , God gave it me thus to serve you . Thus was he dutiful and kind , Now sons and daughter's bear in mind How tender he was to his friends , And thus my mournful ditty ends . The BRISTOL Garland . In FOUR PARTS , PART I . A Merchant's son of worthy fame , From the town of BRISTOL came , Unto a sweet and pleasant green , Where little girls are to be seen . Who usher'd in the month of May , With flow'ry garlands fresh and gay . With music for to entertain The youthful charming rural plain . among these youthful laidies bright , None did exceed for read or white Lucy , a shepherd's daughter fair , She like and angel did appear . The Merchant's son , who never knew Before that time what love could do , Began to f [ e ] el and inward flame So with these words to her he came : Thou charming beauty of the day , Who far exceeds the month of May , And all the beauty's of the plain , Do not my humble suit disdain . She answer'd with a modest voice . Sir , you're mistaken in your choice , Don't set your heart and love on me , Who am one of a mean degree . But a poor shepherd's daughter , Sir . With that he strait saluted her . He did these words to her express , My dear , I love you ne'ertheless . How many men of worthy fame , [ I ] n former days , that I could name , Who made it their employ to keep Their mighty flock of lambs and sheep . Then let us to thy father go ; And if he's willing to bestow His daughter to me I'll rejoice , And be well pleased with the choice . Accordingly she gave consent , And to her father straightway he went ; Here he then treated long of love , And that he would right constant prove . The shepherd made him this reply , Your suit I cannot well deny . But let me tell you , worthy sir , I nothing have to give with her . But if you love for loves desert , Then take her with all my hear All parties then were soon agreed , So that they married were with speed . PART II NOW the wedding rites being done ? Beloved the wealthy merchant's son To his dear parents brought his bride , Who were it seems dissatisfy'd . Because they understood that she Descended from a mean degree , And was not worthy to be made His bride , so they did her degrade . Then to their son in wrath they spoke , Saying How dar'd you thus provoke Your loving f [ r ] iend and parents dear ? Oh! it will break our hearts we fear , He to his parents thus did say , Hear me a word or two I pray , She is my bride , my joy , and dear , Oh! do not break her heart with grief , Dear friends I cannot bear to hear . My wife , my love , my joy , my dear , Revil'd at such a rate as this , Alas ! she has not done amiss . His parents said , since it must be so , Pray take your jewel now and go Out of doors , our hands we'll clear , You shall not think to harbour here . Be gone , I say , depart the house , I'll give you not one single souse Not any thing alive or dead . Altho' you starve for want of bred , Said he , 'Tis very hard indeed , That in the greatest time and need , You'll not relieve nor help your son , So now farewell , you will be done . Returning back with weeping eyes , With bitter sobs and mournful cries I'm grieved at the heart , said she , That I was born to ruin thee Let not such thoughts disturb thy mind Not sighs nor sobs , for thou shalt find I'll get my bred with pains and care , And my crosses with patience bear Be thou content , and all is well , We'll with thy loving parents dwell , And in reg [ a ] rd we have no land , I'll freely earn with my own hand . I'll from [ el ] y go to blow and cart Ill freely earn with my whole heart As thy poor father he has done , Farewell the name of Merchant's son . He did not only say , but behold , In summer hight , and winter cold . He'd reap and mow and till the earth , As if he came to it by his birth . PART III . BUT here's a wonder now at last , When eight years were gone & passed , He did to mighty riches rise , And how it came none could devise . But thus it was we understand , He bought a little piece of land , On which their was some stump of trees The which he dug up by degrees . Upon a day by chance he found , When digging deep within the ground , A lusty pot with ancient gold . As full as ever it could hold . Tho' he was lusty , stout and strong , He scarce could lug the same along For there was many a thousand pound , Which he by mighty fortune found , He purchased a vast estate , And in those parts appeared great , As any Knight of worthy fame , None knew as yet from whence it came While he grew rich , his parents they Reduced were to sad decay , By losses which they did substain , By land as well as ocean main . They ow'd a thousand pound and more , The cruel creditors therefore On all that e'er they had then seiz'd Yet ne'ertheless they were not pleas'd . But would have his body too , So that for fear , alas , he flew And forced was to hide his head , While he and she wanted bred . PART . IV. NOW while they were in this distress , And nothing had wherewith to bless Themselves withal , glad tidings came Of their son's estate and wealthy fame , The woman to her husband cry'd Let's to our son , he will provide A place for us , we need not fear , Why should we lie and languish here . If he shou'd do so good a deed , Now in our want and time of need , 'Tis more then we may expect , Remember how we did reflect On him and his beloved wife . And said in wrath , that during life By me they never should be fed Altho' they starv'd for want of bred . This was my fault this was my since . How can I think he'll take us in . Who did him throw quite out of door , And bid him see my face no more . But loving hu [ s ] band you shall find He's of a courteous heart and mind , And shall receive us both in love . Just as she said , so it did prove , For coming to his mansion-place , The son he thought it no disgrace To fallen upon their bent knee , So worser [ i ] worser his wife as well as he . As from the [ i ] r knees they did arise ; His parents dear with weeping eyes , Their grief and sorrow did relate , Who had been most unfortunate , Said he , most welcome parents dear , Unto my habitation here . Let not these tears or sorrow fallen , , I have enough to serve us all . Father , your debts I'll freely pay The word shall never have to say , That e'er they lost a groat by you , So bid their sorrows quite adieu . Then did he feast and cloth them both And said , My parents , pray henceforth , In plenty live and take some ease , At home with me , or where you please . If here you are not free to live . One hundred pounds a year I'll give , If that won't serve you shall have two , God gave it me thus to serve you . Thus was he dutiful and kind , Now sons and daughter's bear in mind How tender he was to his friends , And thus my mournful ditty ends . 