The Royal Recreation ; Or , A Second Part , Containing the Passages between the Farmer and his Wife at their Return home , where they found the King with his noble Retinue . Tune of Let Caesar live long . Licensed according to Order . THe most Royal Frolic of William our King , Is put into Metre for Subject's to sing , Concerning his feasting at the Farmer's , where He fed upon honest good Country Fare ; Now the Second Part here is Printed to show , What passed when the Farmer he homeward did go . He then having been at a Country Town , To see Great K. William , of Fame and Renown ; But finding at length that he came not that way , The Farmer resolved no longer to stay , Yet with his kind Wife he did homeward repair ; But little he thought that K. William was there . As soon as the King with his Nobles had din'd , The Farmer returning , and happen'd to find Three Gallant fine Coaches before his own door , The like which he never had seen there before ; As soon as this Wondered sighed he beheld , Good Man he was straight with astonishment fill'd . The Farmer was troubled and trembled for fear , He knew not what Course in the World for to Steer ; Concluding some Robbers had rifled his Farm : 'Tush , quoth the good Woman , I fear no such harm ; Sweet Husband then be of good Courage , said she , I'll tell you in short what I think it may be . [ ? ] that our Daughter is youthful and fair , [ ? ] her for sweet Beauty there's few can compare ; Some Gallant is come for to Court her this day , As knowing that we were both out of the way , And if he should come with and honest intent I hope , my good Man , you will give your consent . Alas ! my sweet Honey , the Farmer reply'd , If any young Noble would make her his Bride , And I were unwilling to yield to the same , The World would conclude I were highly to blame ; My Heart would be joyfu that Wedding to see , Which makes her a Lady in e'ery degree . While they were disputing a Neighbour came by , Who unto the Farmer did presently cry , You have Royal Guest at your Table this day , K. William with Nobles both Gallant and Gay : This daunted the Farmer and his Wife also , That into the House they were fearful to go . Then come forth K. William and his Royal Train , In order to pass on their Journey again ; And the Farmer's Daughter did wait on their side , Oh! here is my Father and Mother she cry'd : Our Monarch then smiling , commanded that they Should both be brought into his Presence , straighway . He bid them be cheerful and void of all fear , Rewarding them too for their Country cheer , Which pleased his Nobles , as Fame do's report , Beyond all the dainty choice Dishes at Court ; And taking his leave of the Farmer that day K. William for London straight posted away . The jolly old Farmer was pleas'd at the Heart That Fortune to him would such Favours impart , While he went to meet the King seven long mile , His Majesty came for to see him the while And likewise was pleased to dine at his Board , With such wholesome Food as his Farm would afford . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . The Royal Recreation ; Or , A Second Part , Containing the Passages between the Farmer and his Wife at their Return home , where they found the King with his noble Retinue . Tune of Let Caesar live long . Licensed according to Order . THe most Royal Frolic of William our King , Is put into Metre for Subject's to sing , Concerning his feasting at the Farmer's , where He fed upon honest good Country Fare ; Now the Second Part here is Printed to show , What passed when the Farmer he homeward did go . He then having been at a Country Town , To see Great K. William , of Fame and Renown ; But finding at length that he came not that way , The Farmer resolved no longer to stay , Yet with his kind Wife he did homeward repair ; But little he thought that K. William was there . As soon as the King with his Nobles had din'd , The Farmer returning , and happen'd to find Three Gallant fine Coaches before his own door , The like which he never had seen there before ; As soon as this Wondered sighed he beheld , Good Man he was straight with astonishment fill'd . The Farmer was troubled and trembled for fear , He knew not what Course in the World for to Steer ; Concluding some Robbers had rifled his Farm : 'Tush , quoth the good Woman , I fear no such harm ; Sweet Husband then be of good Courage , said she , I'll tell you in short what I think it may be . [ ? ] that our Daughter is youthful and fair , [ ? ] her for sweet Beauty there's few can compare ; Some Gallant is come for to Court her this day , As knowing that we were both out of the way , And if he should come with and honest intent I hope , my good Man , you will give your consent . Alas ! my sweet Honey , the Farmer reply'd , If any young Noble would make her his Bride , And I were unwilling to yield to the same , The World would conclude I were highly to blame ; My Heart would be joyfu that Wedding to see , Which makes her a Lady in e'ery degree . While they were disputing a Neighbour came by , Who unto the Farmer did presently cry , You have Royal Guest at your Table this day , K. William with Nobles both Gallant and Gay : This daunted the Farmer and his Wife also , That into the House they were fearful to go . Then come forth K. William and his Royal Train , In order to pass on their Journey again ; And the Farmer's Daughter did wait on their side , Oh! here is my Father and Mother she cry'd : Our Monarch then smiling , commanded that they Should both be brought into his Presence , straighway . He bid them be cheerful and void of all fear , Rewarding them too for their Country cheer , Which pleased his Nobles , as Fame do's report , Beyond all the dainty choice Dishes at Court ; And taking his leave of the Farmer that day K. William for London straight posted away . The jolly old Farmer was pleas'd at the Heart That Fortune to him would such Favours impart , While he went to meet the King seven long mile , His Majesty came for to see him the while And likewise was pleased to dine at his Board , With such wholesome Food as his Farm would afford . Printed for P. Brooksby , J. Deacon , J. Blare , J. Back . 