The Spanish Ladies Love . [ To a pleasant new tune . ] WIll you hear a Spanish Lady , how she woo'd and English man Garments gay as rich as may be , bedcckt with jewels had she on : Of a comely countenance and grace was she ; Both by birth and Parentage , of high degree . As his prisoner there he kept her , in his hands her life did lie ; Cupid's hands did tie them faster . by the liking of and eye : In his courteous company was all her joy ; To favour him in any thing , she was not coy . But at last there came commandment for to set all ladies free : With their jewels still adorned ; none to do them injury : Oh then said this Lady gay , full woe is me Oh let me still sustain this kind Captivity . Gallant captain take some pity , on a woman in distress ; Leave me not within this City , for to die in heaviness : Thou hast set this present day my body free ; But my heart in prison still remains with thee . How should'st thou fair Lady love me whom thou knowest thy Country hat [ es ] Thy fair words make me suspect thee Serpents lie where flowers grow : All the harm I think on thee , most courteous Kngiht , God grant upon my head the same may fully light ! Blessed be the time and season that thou came on Spanish ground If you may our foes be termed gentle foes we have you found : With our City you have wone our hearts each one Then to your country bear away that is your own . The second Part , to the same Tune . REst you still most gallant Lady , rest you still and weep no more Of fair flowers you have plenty , Spain does yield you wondrous store Spaniards fought with Jealousy , we oft do find , But English-men throughout the world are counted kind . Leave me not unto a Spaniard , thou alone enjoy'st my heart , I am lovely young and tender , love is like wise my desert Still to save thee day and night , my mind is pressed , The wife of every English-man , is counted blessed . It would be a shame fair Lady , for to bear a Woman hence , English Soldiers never carry any such without offence I will quickly change my self , if it be so , And like a page will follow thee , where e're thou go . I have neither gold nor silver , to maintain thee in this case , And to travel is great charges , as you know in every place . My chains and jewels every one shell be thy own , And eke a hundred pound in gold , that lies unknown . On the seas are many dangers , many storms do there arise , Which will be to Ladies dreadful , and force tears from watery eyes , Well in worth I shall endure extremity , For I could find in heart to loose my life for thee . Courteous Lady , leave this folly , here comes all that breeds the strife I in England have already a sweet woman to my wife ; I will not falsify my vow for gold nor gain ; Nor yet for all the fairest dams that live in Spain . O how happy is that woman that enjoys so true a friend , Many happy days God send her , and of my suit i [ ' ] ll make and end : On my knees I pardon crave for my offence , Which love and true affection did first commence : Commend me to that gallant Lady , hear to her this chain of gold ; With these bracelets for a token , grieving that I was so bold ; All my jewels in like sort take thou with thee , For they are fitting for thy wife but not for me . I will spend my days in prayer , love and all her laws defy , In a nunnery I will shroud me far from any company ; But e're my prayer have and end , be sure of this , To pray for thee and for thy love , I will not miss . Thus farewell most gallant Captain , farewell to my hearts content ; Count not Spanish Ladies wanton , tho' to thee my mind was ben Joy and true prosperity remain with thee . The like fallen unto thy share , most fair Lady . [ FINIS . ] [ Printed for W. Thackeray and T. Passenger . ] The Spanish Ladies Love . [ To a pleasant new tune . ] WIll you hear a Spanish Lady , how she woo'd and English man Garments gay as rich as may be , bedcckt with jewels had she on : Of a comely countenance and grace was she ; Both by birth and Parentage , of high degree . As his prisoner there he kept her , in his hands her life did lie ; Cupid's hands did tie them faster . by the liking of and eye : In his courteous company was all her joy ; To favour him in any thing , she was not coy . But at last there came commandment for to set all ladies free : With their jewels still adorned ; none to do them injury : Oh then said this Lady gay , full woe is me Oh let me still sustain this kind Captivity . Gallant captain take some pity , on a woman in distress ; Leave me not within this City , for to die in heaviness : Thou hast set this present day my body free ; But my heart in prison still remains with thee . How should'st thou fair Lady love me whom thou knowest thy Country hat [ es ] Thy fair words make me suspect thee Serpents lie where flowers grow : All the harm I think on thee , most courteous Kngiht , God grant upon my head the same may fully light ! Blessed be the time and season that thou came on Spanish ground If you may our foes be termed gentle foes we have you found : With our City you have wone our hearts each one Then to your country bear away that is your own . The second Part , to the same Tune . REst you still most gallant Lady , rest you still and weep no more Of fair flowers you have plenty , Spain does yield you wondrous store Spaniards fought with Jealousy , we oft do find , But English-men throughout the world are counted kind . Leave me not unto a Spaniard , thou alone enjoy'st my heart , I am lovely young and tender , love is like wise my desert Still to save thee day and night , my mind is pressed , The wife of every English-man , is counted blessed . It would be a shame fair Lady , for to bear a Woman hence , English Soldiers never carry any such without offence I will quickly change my self , if it be so , And like a page will follow thee , where e're thou go . I have neither gold nor silver , to maintain thee in this case , And to travel is great charges , as you know in every place . My chains and jewels every one shell be thy own , And eke a hundred pound in gold , that lies unknown . On the seas are many dangers , many storms do there arise , Which will be to Ladies dreadful , and force tears from watery eyes , Well in worth I shall endure extremity , For I could find in heart to loose my life for thee . Courteous Lady , leave this folly , here comes all that breeds the strife I in England have already a sweet woman to my wife ; I will not falsify my vow for gold nor gain ; Nor yet for all the fairest dams that live in Spain . O how happy is that woman that enjoys so true a friend , Many happy days God send her , and of my suit i [ ' ] ll make and end : On my knees I pardon crave for my offence , Which love and true affection did first commence : Commend me to that gallant Lady , hear to her this chain of gold ; With these bracelets for a token , grieving that I was so bold ; All my jewels in like sort take thou with thee , For they are fitting for thy wife but not for me . I will spend my days in prayer , love and all her laws defy , In a nunnery I will shroud me far from any company ; But e're my prayer have and end , be sure of this , To pray for thee and for thy love , I will not miss . Thus farewell most gallant Captain , farewell to my hearts content ; Count not Spanish Ladies wanton , tho' to thee my mind was ben Joy and true prosperity remain with thee . The like fallen unto thy share , most fair Lady . [ FINIS . ] [ Printed for W. Thackeray and T. Passenger . ] 