The Old men Complain OR , The Unequal Matched Couple . She pines and grieves , because he cannot ease her , He's old and feeble , therefore cannot please her ; She's young and wanton , and would have it fain , And that's the cause why he does thus complain . To the Tune of , I prithee love turn to me . O What a pitiful passion it is to be sick for love , I now have a Girl in the fashion , but I fear she will wanton prove : For ever she cries , Oh turn , turn . and I will turn to thee ; She would have the thing that I have not , for the cramp lies in my knee . My Wife is a neat young woman , and I am and aged man ; I cannot tell how to please her , do I the best I can : For ever she cries , Oh turn , turn , and I will turn to thee ; She looks for the thing that I have not , the cramp lies in my knee . What hap had I for to woo her , I being so old and tough , All that I can do unto her , she thinks it not half enough : For ever she cries , Oh turn , turn , and I will turn to thee , She looks for a thing that I have not , the cramp lies in my knee . She sits all the day a knitting , earning of a penny , While I abroad am getting four groats of ready money : And still she cries , Oh turn , turn , I prithee Love turn to me ; She wants the thing that I have not , Oh the cramp lies in my knee When I come home full weary , and fain would go to rest , My wife she makes me tarry , to do what she thinks bes And ever she cries , Oh turn , turn , and I prithee Love turn to me ; She would have the thing that I have not , for the cramp lies in my knee . By four a clock in the morning when I my rest woul take , My wife she keeps a turning , and causes me to wake : For still she cries , Oh turn , turn , and I will turn to thee ; She looks for the thing that I have not , for the cramp lies in my knee . The Second Part , to the same Tune . WHen I seem to be sleepy , she calls me drowsy Ass ; And then for sorrow weep I , to think of my hard task : For ever she cries , Oh turn , turn , I prithee now turn to me , She looks for the thing that I have not , Oh the cramp lies in my knee . But now alas I am weary of this my wretched life , Before I lived full merry , when I had never a wife : For still she cries , Oh turn , turn , I prithee now turn to me ; She wants the thing that I have not , and alas what remedy ! I simple old fool must be doting upon a young dainty bit , But now alas I have nothing that can her humour fi For ever she cries , Oh turn , turn , I prithee now turn to me ; She wants the thing that I have not , the cramp lies in my knee . I bought her a Petticoat , to keep her from the cold , And she bought me a Nightcap , because that I was old : But ever she cries , Oh turn , turn , and I will turn to thee ; She would have the thing that I have not , for the cramp lies in my knee . For certain I was bewitched , to marry a Girl so young , She hoped for to be enriched , but now I have done her wrong : For ever she cries , Oh turn , turn , and I will turn to thee , She wants the thing that I have not , for the cramp lies in my knee . But now I must be contented , and bear it all patiently , Though I am enough tormented , yet must I not angry be ; For still she cries , Oh turn , turn , I prithee now turn to me ; She wants the thing that I have not , for the cramp lies in my knee . If that I may live at quiet , and have what ever I lack , Indifferent good diet , and clothing to my back : Oh then let her cry turn , turn , and I will turn to she ; She shall have all that I can do , since there is no remedy . Then would I not care greatly , if horning were my lot , So that she would carry it neatly , my neighbours knew it no Then let her cry , Oh turn , turn , and I will turn to she ; She shall have all that I can do , do the rest who will for me . Finis , London , Printed for Richard Burton , at the Horshooe in Smithfield . The Old men Complain OR , The Unequal Matched Couple . She pines and grieves , because he cannot ease her , He's old and feeble , therefore cannot please her ; She's young and wanton , and would have it fain , And that's the cause why he does thus complain . To the Tune of , I prithee love turn to me . O What a pitiful passion it is to be sick for love , I now have a Girl in the fashion , but I fear she will wanton prove : For ever she cries , Oh turn , turn . and I will turn to thee ; She would have the thing that I have not , for the cramp lies in my knee . My Wife is a neat young woman , and I am and aged man ; I cannot tell how to please her , do I the best I can : For ever she cries , Oh turn , turn , and I will turn to thee ; She looks for the thing that I have not , the cramp lies in my knee . What hap had I for to woo her , I being so old and tough , All that I can do unto her , she thinks it not half enough : For ever she cries , Oh turn , turn , and I will turn to thee , She looks for a thing that I have not , the cramp lies in my knee . She sits all the day a knitting , earning of a penny , While I abroad am getting four groats of ready money : And still she cries , Oh turn , turn , I prithee Love turn to me ; She wants the thing that I have not , Oh the cramp lies in my knee When I come home full weary , and fain would go to rest , My wife she makes me tarry , to do what she thinks bes And ever she cries , Oh turn , turn , and I prithee Love turn to me ; She would have the thing that I have not , for the cramp lies in my knee . By four a clock in the morning when I my rest woul take , My wife she keeps a turning , and causes me to wake : For still she cries , Oh turn , turn , and I will turn to thee ; She looks for the thing that I have not , for the cramp lies in my knee . The Second Part , to the same Tune . WHen I seem to be sleepy , she calls me drowsy Ass ; And then for sorrow weep I , to think of my hard task : For ever she cries , Oh turn , turn , I prithee now turn to me , She looks for the thing that I have not , Oh the cramp lies in my knee . But now alas I am weary of this my wretched life , Before I lived full merry , when I had never a wife : For still she cries , Oh turn , turn , I prithee now turn to me ; She wants the thing that I have not , and alas what remedy ! I simple old fool must be doting upon a young dainty bit , But now alas I have nothing that can her humour fi For ever she cries , Oh turn , turn , I prithee now turn to me ; She wants the thing that I have not , the cramp lies in my knee . I bought her a Petticoat , to keep her from the cold , And she bought me a Nightcap , because that I was old : But ever she cries , Oh turn , turn , and I will turn to thee ; She would have the thing that I have not , for the cramp lies in my knee . For certain I was bewitched , to marry a Girl so young , She hoped for to be enriched , but now I have done her wrong : For ever she cries , Oh turn , turn , and I will turn to thee , She wants the thing that I have not , for the cramp lies in my knee . But now I must be contented , and bear it all patiently , Though I am enough tormented , yet must I not angry be ; For still she cries , Oh turn , turn , I prithee now turn to me ; She wants the thing that I have not , for the cramp lies in my knee . If that I may live at quiet , and have what ever I lack , Indifferent good diet , and clothing to my back : Oh then let her cry turn , turn , and I will turn to she ; She shall have all that I can do , since there is no remedy . Then would I not care greatly , if horning were my lot , So that she would carry it neatly , my neighbours knew it no Then let her cry , Oh turn , turn , and I will turn to she ; She shall have all that I can do , do the rest who will for me . Finis , London , Printed for Richard Burton , at the Horshooe in Smithfield . 