The Scolding WIFE To a pleasant new Tune . THere was youngman for lucre of gain , He lov'd a Widow well , His Friends did tell him often and plain , in scolding she did excel . Why that is no matter , quoth he , so I may have her Bags of Gold , let her not spare to Brawl and Scold , For I'll be as merry as merry may be . This Woodcock wedded his hearts desire , a Widow with Money enough ; They was not so soon out of the Choir e'er she began to snuff : Methink you be very fine , you can no quicker get you hence , without such large and great expense , Of sugared Sops and music to dine . They was not all at supper set , or at the board sat down , E'er she began to brawl and scold , and call'd him a peaking Clown : That nothing he could do that was pleasing in her sighed ; but still she scolded day and night , Which made this merry man's heart full of woe . If he had provided any good cheer for him and her alone , Then she wou'd a said , with words more hight , you might a done this of your own . If sparingly he will be , then she would have said with words more hight I will not be pinch'd of what I brought ; But of mine own I will be free . That nothing he could do That was pleasing in his sighed , But still she scolded day and night , Which made this merry man's hearts full of woe . O God in his Prayer he did beseech To take his Life away , A hundred times he cursed The Priest , the Clerk , the Sexton too , And tongue that did the Widow woe , And legs that brought him first . It fell out upon a day that with his friends he did devise to brake her of her scolding guise , And what they did they shall be weary : They god and ty'd her Arms She could not them undo , And many other pretty Charms they used her unto , Her Petticoat was rend and torn , Upon her Back they did put on , They tore her Smock sleeves all along , As if a Bedlam she had been born ; Her hair about her head they shook , All with a bramble Bush. They ring her Arms in every crook Till out the blood did gush , And with and Iron Chain Fast by the Leg he did her tie , There within and old dark House by : So soon he went away again , And with a Countenance so sad , He did his Neighbours call : Quoth he , my Wife is Mad , She does so rave and brawl : Help Neighbours all therefore , To see if that you can reclaim My Wife into her Wits again For she is troubled wondrous soar . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . The Scolding WIFE To a pleasant new Tune . THere was youngman for lucre of gain , He lov'd a Widow well , His Friends did tell him often and plain , in scolding she did excel . Why that is no matter , quoth he , so I may have her Bags of Gold , let her not spare to Brawl and Scold , For I'll be as merry as merry may be . This Woodcock wedded his hearts desire , a Widow with Money enough ; They was not so soon out of the Choir e'er she began to snuff : Methink you be very fine , you can no quicker get you hence , without such large and great expense , Of sugared Sops and music to dine . They was not all at supper set , or at the board sat down , E'er she began to brawl and scold , and call'd him a peaking Clown : That nothing he could do that was pleasing in her sighed ; but still she scolded day and night , Which made this merry man's heart full of woe . If he had provided any good cheer for him and her alone , Then she wou'd a said , with words more hight , you might a done this of your own . If sparingly he will be , then she would have said with words more hight I will not be pinch'd of what I brought ; But of mine own I will be free . That nothing he could do That was pleasing in his sighed , But still she scolded day and night , Which made this merry man's hearts full of woe . O God in his Prayer he did beseech To take his Life away , A hundred times he cursed The Priest , the Clerk , the Sexton too , And tongue that did the Widow woe , And legs that brought him first . It fell out upon a day that with his friends he did devise to brake her of her scolding guise , And what they did they shall be weary : They god and ty'd her Arms She could not them undo , And many other pretty Charms they used her unto , Her Petticoat was rend and torn , Upon her Back they did put on , They tore her Smock sleeves all along , As if a Bedlam she had been born ; Her hair about her head they shook , All with a bramble Bush. They ring her Arms in every crook Till out the blood did gush , And with and Iron Chain Fast by the Leg he did her tie , There within and old dark House by : So soon he went away again , And with a Countenance so sad , He did his Neighbours call : Quoth he , my Wife is Mad , She does so rave and brawl : Help Neighbours all therefore , To see if that you can reclaim My Wife into her Wits again For she is troubled wondrous soar . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . 