The Lovers Fancy . Or True Love requited with Constancy : Being a Civil Discourse between John and Anne . The Young man he was constant unto the end , The Maid at last she prov'd his loving friend : Young Men and Maids that stand to hear this Song , Then mind it well , do not each other wrong : Young Men , prove constant , faithful , true and just , And then the Maids may better to you trust . To the tune of Loves Fancy . AS lately abroad I was walking , it was in the prime of the spring , I spied two Lovers were talking the birds they did sweetly sing : I listened a while unto them to hear what these Lovers did say : The young man he kindly woo'd her and call'd her his Love and his joy , And often he said sweet Nancy I love thee as dear as my life And constant i'le prove unto thee if thou wilt but be my wife . The young man was handsome & pretty the maid she was wondrous fair There is not two more in the City I think , that can with them compare , Then listen a while you Lovers to what in my Ditty is pen'd , And see that you prove as constant and faithful unto the end : And he began to woo her to tell her some part of his mind And often he said unto her I prithee sweet Nancy be kind . Come hither my amorous Girl , I prithee come fit down by me ; I love thee far better than Pearl , if that we two can but agree : Long time I have truly lov'd thee , but never till now could I find A place that was more convenient to tell thee some part of my mind : Then prithee fit down , sweet Nancy , I love thee as dear as my life , And constan i'le prove unto thee , if thou wilt but be my wife . Maid . O sir ! you have been a stranger , I have not seen you a great while , What fortune had I for to meet thee thou makest my worship to smile : Surely you do come for to woo me your tongue it so nimbly does run , But if that you should dissemble , then surely I were undone For young men will cog & dissemble also they will flatter & lie And speak much in praise of maids beauty only their humours to try . Man. TO spoke Love in praise of thy Beauty it is but a needless thing For it is for pure love that I woo thee and Love it will conquer a King : Brave Lords they submit unto it and Ladies are forc'd to obey . Then prithee love , prove not cruel nor cast not a man away Then prithee fit down sweet Nancy I love thee as dear as my life , And constant i'le prove unto thee if thou wilt but be my wife . Maid . To tell me of love is but folly for which I do plainly see When as a young couple are married and fallen into Poverty ; Then Love it is quickly fading my true love it falls to decay , Then prithee do not dissemble nor seek a maid to betray : For my mother hath often told me , and sometime hath beaten me And swears she will never abide me if that I should marry with thee . Man. I fear not thy friends displeasure nor yet if thy mother do frown For thou art my chiefest treasure of [ a ] ll the maids in the town : I pri [ z ] e thee far better then Rubies or Pearl that is placed in Gold , Thy sighed it does so rejoice me when as I thy person behold Then prithee fit down sweet Nancy I love thee as dear as my life and constant I will prove to thee if thou wilt but be my wife . Maid . You say you will prove constant and love me as dear as your life Also you do vow to be faithful if that I will but be thy wife : But what hast thou for to maintain me that's a thing to be consider'd on ? Come tell me & do not dissemble or else prithee let me be gone . For young men will proffer great matters when as they a wooing do go But when that they once are married , maids find it is nothing so . Man , To tell thee of Lands or livings , I need not the same to repeat For truly love I have none for thee but what with my hands I must get Yet labour I will to maintain thee , and work till my fingers are soar : Then prithee love do not disdain me why canst thou desire more ? Then turn to me Nancy & kiss me and grant me a loving reply , For if that thou prove cruel surely for love I shall die . I scorn for to cog or to flatter , or promise thee more then I have Yet truly I'le do my endeavour love , all that I c [ a ] n get for to save , I'll give it to thee my Honey to buy the what ere thou dost lack Provision to nourish thy body and clothes to put on thy back : Then turn to me Nancy & kiss me and grant me a loving reply For if that thou provest cruel surely for love , etc Maid . You speak very honest and civi [ l ] but yet I am loath for to yield ; But many a stouthearted Soldier is forc't for to give up the field , And if I should yield unto thee to marry thee and be thy wife , And that I should not live in quiet and peace all the days of my life , Then sure my heart would be broken ; nay , Maidens would laugh and would say That there goes as harmless a Girl , as ever Young man did betray . Man. No Woman that lives in the City shall live a more peaceable life , I'le do my endeavour to please thee too , if thou wilt but be my Wife : Thou ner'e shalt have cause to be angry with any thing that I do say , Then prithee , Love , prove not cruel , nor cast not a man away , Then turn to me , Nancy , and kiss me , I love thee as dear as my life , And constant I will prove to thee , if thou wilt but be my Wife . Maid . Well , seeing thou wilt prove constant , as faithful i [ ' ] le prove unto thee ; Lets point a day then for certain when as our Wedding shall be : Then prithee , Love , cast away sorrow , to morrow shall be the day , On Thursday we mean to be married , on Fryday we mean for to play , On Saturday go to the Market , and on Sunday we'l go to the Church , And on Monday we'l fallen to our labour to put the young Children to Nurse . Man. And these two Lovers departed , and homeward they went with all spee [ worser ] Whereafter I hear of their Neighbou [ r ] this couple they lovingly agreed : I wish them much joy together , a long and a peaceable life , That he prove a careful Husband , and she prove a loving Wife . Then all You that hear my Ditty , come buy it and hear it away , The price of it is but a penny , then take it home with You , I pray London Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . The Lovers Fancy . Or True Love requited with Constancy : Being a Civil Discourse between John and Anne . The Young man he was constant unto the end , The Maid at last she prov'd his loving friend : Young Men and Maids that stand to hear this Song , Then mind it well , do not each other wrong : Young Men , prove constant , faithful , true and just , And then the Maids may better to you trust . To the tune of Loves Fancy . AS lately abroad I was walking , it was in the prime of the spring , I spied two Lovers were talking the birds they did sweetly sing : I listened a while unto them to hear what these Lovers did say : The young man he kindly woo'd her and call'd her his Love and his joy , And often he said sweet Nancy I love thee as dear as my life And constant i'le prove unto thee if thou wilt but be my wife . The young man was handsome & pretty the maid she was wondrous fair There is not two more in the City I think , that can with them compare , Then listen a while you Lovers to what in my Ditty is pen'd , And see that you prove as constant and faithful unto the end : And he began to woo her to tell her some part of his mind And often he said unto her I prithee sweet Nancy be kind . Come hither my amorous Girl , I prithee come fit down by me ; I love thee far better than Pearl , if that we two can but agree : Long time I have truly lov'd thee , but never till now could I find A place that was more convenient to tell thee some part of my mind : Then prithee fit down , sweet Nancy , I love thee as dear as my life , And constan i'le prove unto thee , if thou wilt but be my wife . Maid . O sir ! you have been a stranger , I have not seen you a great while , What fortune had I for to meet thee thou makest my worship to smile : Surely you do come for to woo me your tongue it so nimbly does run , But if that you should dissemble , then surely I were undone For young men will cog & dissemble also they will flatter & lie And speak much in praise of maids beauty only their humours to try . Man. TO spoke Love in praise of thy Beauty it is but a needless thing For it is for pure love that I woo thee and Love it will conquer a King : Brave Lords they submit unto it and Ladies are forc'd to obey . Then prithee love , prove not cruel nor cast not a man away Then prithee fit down sweet Nancy I love thee as dear as my life , And constant i'le prove unto thee if thou wilt but be my wife . Maid . To tell me of love is but folly for which I do plainly see When as a young couple are married and fallen into Poverty ; Then Love it is quickly fading my true love it falls to decay , Then prithee do not dissemble nor seek a maid to betray : For my mother hath often told me , and sometime hath beaten me And swears she will never abide me if that I should marry with thee . Man. I fear not thy friends displeasure nor yet if thy mother do frown For thou art my chiefest treasure of [ a ] ll the maids in the town : I pri [ z ] e thee far better then Rubies or Pearl that is placed in Gold , Thy sighed it does so rejoice me when as I thy person behold Then prithee fit down sweet Nancy I love thee as dear as my life and constant I will prove to thee if thou wilt but be my wife . Maid . You say you will prove constant and love me as dear as your life Also you do vow to be faithful if that I will but be thy wife : But what hast thou for to maintain me that's a thing to be consider'd on ? Come tell me & do not dissemble or else prithee let me be gone . For young men will proffer great matters when as they a wooing do go But when that they once are married , maids find it is nothing so . Man , To tell thee of Lands or livings , I need not the same to repeat For truly love I have none for thee but what with my hands I must get Yet labour I will to maintain thee , and work till my fingers are soar : Then prithee love do not disdain me why canst thou desire more ? Then turn to me Nancy & kiss me and grant me a loving reply , For if that thou prove cruel surely for love I shall die . I scorn for to cog or to flatter , or promise thee more then I have Yet truly I'le do my endeavour love , all that I c [ a ] n get for to save , I'll give it to thee my Honey to buy the what ere thou dost lack Provision to nourish thy body and clothes to put on thy back : Then turn to me Nancy & kiss me and grant me a loving reply For if that thou provest cruel surely for love , etc Maid . You speak very honest and civi [ l ] but yet I am loath for to yield ; But many a stouthearted Soldier is forc't for to give up the field , And if I should yield unto thee to marry thee and be thy wife , And that I should not live in quiet and peace all the days of my life , Then sure my heart would be broken ; nay , Maidens would laugh and would say That there goes as harmless a Girl , as ever Young man did betray . Man. No Woman that lives in the City shall live a more peaceable life , I'le do my endeavour to please thee too , if thou wilt but be my Wife : Thou ner'e shalt have cause to be angry with any thing that I do say , Then prithee , Love , prove not cruel , nor cast not a man away , Then turn to me , Nancy , and kiss me , I love thee as dear as my life , And constant I will prove to thee , if thou wilt but be my Wife . Maid . Well , seeing thou wilt prove constant , as faithful i [ ' ] le prove unto thee ; Lets point a day then for certain when as our Wedding shall be : Then prithee , Love , cast away sorrow , to morrow shall be the day , On Thursday we mean to be married , on Fryday we mean for to play , On Saturday go to the Market , and on Sunday we'l go to the Church , And on Monday we'l fallen to our labour to put the young Children to Nurse . Man. And these two Lovers departed , and homeward they went with all spee [ worser ] Whereafter I hear of their Neighbou [ r ] this couple they lovingly agreed : I wish them much joy together , a long and a peaceable life , That he prove a careful Husband , and she prove a loving Wife . Then all You that hear my Ditty , come buy it and hear it away , The price of it is but a penny , then take it home with You , I pray London Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . 