A sweet Sonnet , wherein the Lover Exclaimeth against Fortune , for the loss of his Ladies favour , almost passed hope to get again , and in the end receives a comfortable answer and attains his desire , as may here appear . The tune is , Fortune my Foe . The Lovers complaint for the loss of his Love . FOrtune my Foe why dost thou frown on me ? And will thy favour never better be ? Wilt thou I say for over bred my pain ? And wilt thou not restore my joys again ? Fortune hath wrought my grief and great decay Fortune hath falsely stolen my Love away , My love and joy whose sighed did make me glad , Such great misfortunes never Youngman had . Had Fortune took my treasure and my store , Fortune had never griev'd me half so soar , But taking her whereon my heart did stay . Fortune thereby hath took my life away . Far worse then death my life I led in woe , With bitter thoughts still tossed to and from . O cruel chance thou breeder of my pain , Take life or else restore my love again . In vain I sighs in vain I wail and weep , In vain mine eyes refrain from quiet sleep . In vain I shed my tears both night and day , In vain my sobs my sorrows do bewray . My love does not my piteous plaint espy , Nor feels my love what gripping grief I try , Full well may I falls Fortune's deeds reprove Fortune that so unkindly keeps my love . Where should I seek or search my Love to find , When Fortune fleets and wavers as the wind , Sometime aloft sometime again below , Thus tottering Fortune totter-th too and from , Then will I leave my love in Fortune's hands , My dearest Love in most unconstant bans , And only serve the sorrow due to me , Sorrow hereafter thou shalt my mistress be . And only joy that sometime conquers Kings , Fortune thus rules on earth and earthly things , So that alone I live not in this woe , For many more hath Fortune served so . No man alive can Fortune's spite withstand , By wisdom skill or mighty strength of hand . In midst of mirth she brings bitter moan , And woe to me that hath her hatred known If wisdoms eyes had but blind Fortune seen . Then had my Love my Love for ever been , Then love farewell though fortune conquer thee No Fortune frail shall ever conq [ u ] er me . The Ladies comfortable and pleasant Answer AH silly Soul art thou so soar afraid , Mourn not my Dear nor be not so dismayed Fortune cannot with all her power nor skill , Enforce my heart to think thee any ill . Blame not thy chance nor envy not thy choice No cause thou hast to curse but to rejoice . Fortune shall not thy joy and love deprive . If by my love it may remain alive . Receive therefore thy life again to thee Thy life and love shall not be lost by me And while thy heart upon thy life does stay Fortune shall never steal the same away ; Live thou in bliss and banish death to hell All careful thoughts see thou from thee expel : As thou dost wish thy Love agrees to be , For proof thereof behold I come to thee : In vain therefore do neither wail nor weep , In vain therefore break not thy quiet sleep : Wast not in vain thy time in sorrow so : For why thy love delights to ease thy woe Full well thy love thy privy pangs does see , And soon thy love will send to succour thee . Tho well thou mayest false Fortune's deeds reprove Yet cannot Fortune keep away thy love . Nor will thy love at Fortune's back abide , Whose fickle wheel does often slip aside . And never think that Fortune bears sway . If Virtue watch and will not her obey , Pluck up thy heart suppressed with brinish tears , Torment thee not but take away thy fears . Thy Mistress mind brooks no unconstant bans , Much less to live in ruling fortune's hands . Though mighty Kings by Fortune get the soil Losing thereby their travel and th [ e ] ir toil , Though Fortune be to them a cruel Foe , Fortune shall not make me to serve thee so , For Fortune's spite thou needest not care a pin For thou thereby shalt neither lose nor win , If faithful love and favour I do find My recompense shall not remain behind , Die not in fear nor live not discontent , Be thou not slave where never blood was meant , Revive again to faint thou hast no need . The less afraid the better thou shalt speed , A sweet Sonnet , wherein the Lover Exclaimeth against Fortune , for the loss of his Ladies favour , almost passed hope to get again , and in the end receives a comfortable answer and attains his desire , as may here appear . The tune is , Fortune my Foe . The Lovers complaint for the loss of his Love . FOrtune my Foe why dost thou frown on me ? And will thy favour never better be ? Wilt thou I say for over bred my pain ? And wilt thou not restore my joys again ? Fortune hath wrought my grief and great decay Fortune hath falsely stolen my Love away , My love and joy whose sighed did make me glad , Such great misfortunes never Youngman had . Had Fortune took my treasure and my store , Fortune had never griev'd me half so soar , But taking her whereon my heart did stay . Fortune thereby hath took my life away . Far worse then death my life I led in woe , With bitter thoughts still tossed to and from . O cruel chance thou breeder of my pain , Take life or else restore my love again . In vain I sighs in vain I wail and weep , In vain mine eyes refrain from quiet sleep . In vain I shed my tears both night and day , In vain my sobs my sorrows do bewray . My love does not my piteous plaint espy , Nor feels my love what gripping grief I try , Full well may I falls Fortune's deeds reprove Fortune that so unkindly keeps my love . Where should I seek or search my Love to find , When Fortune fleets and wavers as the wind , Sometime aloft sometime again below , Thus tottering Fortune totter-th too and from , Then will I leave my love in Fortune's hands , My dearest Love in most unconstant bans , And only serve the sorrow due to me , Sorrow hereafter thou shalt my mistress be . And only joy that sometime conquers Kings , Fortune thus rules on earth and earthly things , So that alone I live not in this woe , For many more hath Fortune served so . No man alive can Fortune's spite withstand , By wisdom skill or mighty strength of hand . In midst of mirth she brings bitter moan , And woe to me that hath her hatred known If wisdoms eyes had but blind Fortune seen . Then had my Love my Love for ever been , Then love farewell though fortune conquer thee No Fortune frail shall ever conq [ u ] er me . The Ladies comfortable and pleasant Answer AH silly Soul art thou so soar afraid , Mourn not my Dear nor be not so dismayed Fortune cannot with all her power nor skill , Enforce my heart to think thee any ill . Blame not thy chance nor envy not thy choice No cause thou hast to curse but to rejoice . Fortune shall not thy joy and love deprive . If by my love it may remain alive . Receive therefore thy life again to thee Thy life and love shall not be lost by me And while thy heart upon thy life does stay Fortune shall never steal the same away ; Live thou in bliss and banish death to hell All careful thoughts see thou from thee expel : As thou dost wish thy Love agrees to be , For proof thereof behold I come to thee : In vain therefore do neither wail nor weep , In vain therefore break not thy quiet sleep : Wast not in vain thy time in sorrow so : For why thy love delights to ease thy woe Full well thy love thy privy pangs does see , And soon thy love will send to succour thee . Tho well thou mayest false Fortune's deeds reprove Yet cannot Fortune keep away thy love . Nor will thy love at Fortune's back abide , Whose fickle wheel does often slip aside . And never think that Fortune bears sway . If Virtue watch and will not her obey , Pluck up thy heart suppressed with brinish tears , Torment thee not but take away thy fears . Thy Mistress mind brooks no unconstant bans , Much less to live in ruling fortune's hands . Though mighty Kings by Fortune get the soil Losing thereby their travel and th [ e ] ir toil , Though Fortune be to them a cruel Foe , Fortune shall not make me to serve thee so , For Fortune's spite thou needest not care a pin For thou thereby shalt neither lose nor win , If faithful love and favour I do find My recompense shall not remain behind , Die not in fear nor live not discontent , Be thou not slave where never blood was meant , Revive again to faint thou hast no need . The less afraid the better thou shalt speed , 