The Sailors only Delight Showing the brave Fight between the George-Aloe , the Sweep - stake , and certain Frenchmen at Sea. To the tune of , The Sailors joy . THe George-Aloe and the Sweepstake too , with heigh , with hoe , for and a nony no , Oh they were Merchant men , and bound for Safee , and alongst the Coast of Barbary . The George-Aloe to Anchor came , with heigh , with hoe , for and a nony no , But the jolly Sweepstake kept on her way , and alongst the Coast of Barbary . They had not sailed leagues two or three , with heigh , with hoe , etc But they met with a Frenchman of war upon the Sea , and alongst , etc All hail all hail you lusty Gallants , with heigh , with hoe , etc Of whence is your fair Ship , or whither are you bound and alongst , etc We are Englishmen , and bound for Safee , with heigh , with hoe , etc Of whence is your fair Ship , or whither are you bound ? and alongst , etc Amaine , amain , you gallant Englishmen , with heigh , with hoe , etc Come you French Swads , and strike down your sails , and alongst , etc They laid us aboard on the Starboard side , with heigh , with hoe , etc And they overthrew us into the Sea so wide , and longest , etc When tidings to the George-Aloe came , with heigh , with hoe etc That the jolly Sweepstake by a Frenchman was taken , and alongst , etc To top , To top , thou little Shipboy , with heigh , with hoe , etc And see if this Frenchman of war thou canst descry , and alongst , etc A Sail , a Sail , under our lee , with heigh , with hoe , etc Yea , and another under her obey , and alongst , etc Weigh anchor , Weigh anchor , Oh jolly Boatswain , with heigh , with hoe , etc We will take this Frenchman if we can , and alongst ; etc We had not sailed leagues two or three , with heigh , with hoe , for and a nony no . But we met the Frenchman of war upon the Sea and alongst the Coast of Barbary . ALL would [ i ] l [ e , ] all hail , you lusty Gallants , with heigh with hoe for and a nony no , Of whence is your fair Ship and whither are you bound ? and alongst that [ e ] Coast of Barbary . O we are Merchant men , and bound for Safee , with heigh with hoe , etc I , and we are French-men and war upon the Sea , and alongst , etc Amaine , amain , you English Dogs , with heigh , with hoe , etc Come aboard you French rogus & strike down your sails and alongst , etc The first good shot the George Aloe shot , with heigh , with hoe , etc He made the French-mans hearts soar afraid , and alongst , etc The second shot the George Aloe did afford , with heigh , with ho [ e ] , etc He struck their Mainmast over the board , and alongst , etc Have mercy have mercy you brave English-men , with heigh , etc O what have you done with our Brothers on shore , as they sailed in Barbarie ? we laid them aboard on the Starboard side , with heigh , etc And we through them into the Sea so wide , and alongst , etc Such mercy as you have showed unto them , with heigh , etc Then the like mercy shall you have again , and alongst , etc we laid them aboard on the Larboard side , with heigh , etc And we threw them into the Sea so wide , and alon [ g ] st , etc Lord how it grieves our hearts full soar , with heigh , etc To see the drowned French-men swim along the shore . and alongst , etc Now gallant Seamen all adieu , with heigh , etc This is the last news that I can write to you , to Englands Coast from Barbarie . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , J. Wright , Tho. Vere , W. Gilbertson . The Sailors only Delight Showing the brave Fight between the George-Aloe , the Sweep - stake , and certain Frenchmen at Sea. To the tune of , The Sailors joy . THe George-Aloe and the Sweepstake too , with heigh , with hoe , for and a nony no , Oh they were Merchant men , and bound for Safee , and alongst the Coast of Barbary . The George-Aloe to Anchor came , with heigh , with hoe , for and a nony no , But the jolly Sweepstake kept on her way , and alongst the Coast of Barbary . They had not sailed leagues two or three , with heigh , with hoe , etc But they met with a Frenchman of war upon the Sea , and alongst , etc All hail all hail you lusty Gallants , with heigh , with hoe , etc Of whence is your fair Ship , or whither are you bound and alongst , etc We are Englishmen , and bound for Safee , with heigh , with hoe , etc Of whence is your fair Ship , or whither are you bound ? and alongst , etc Amaine , amain , you gallant Englishmen , with heigh , with hoe , etc Come you French Swads , and strike down your sails , and alongst , etc They laid us aboard on the Starboard side , with heigh , with hoe , etc And they overthrew us into the Sea so wide , and longest , etc When tidings to the George-Aloe came , with heigh , with hoe etc That the jolly Sweepstake by a Frenchman was taken , and alongst , etc To top , To top , thou little Shipboy , with heigh , with hoe , etc And see if this Frenchman of war thou canst descry , and alongst , etc A Sail , a Sail , under our lee , with heigh , with hoe , etc Yea , and another under her obey , and alongst , etc Weigh anchor , Weigh anchor , Oh jolly Boatswain , with heigh , with hoe , etc We will take this Frenchman if we can , and alongst ; etc We had not sailed leagues two or three , with heigh , with hoe , for and a nony no . But we met the Frenchman of war upon the Sea and alongst the Coast of Barbary . ALL would [ i ] l [ e , ] all hail , you lusty Gallants , with heigh with hoe for and a nony no , Of whence is your fair Ship and whither are you bound ? and alongst that [ e ] Coast of Barbary . O we are Merchant men , and bound for Safee , with heigh with hoe , etc I , and we are French-men and war upon the Sea , and alongst , etc Amaine , amain , you English Dogs , with heigh , with hoe , etc Come aboard you French rogus & strike down your sails and alongst , etc The first good shot the George Aloe shot , with heigh , with hoe , etc He made the French-mans hearts soar afraid , and alongst , etc The second shot the George Aloe did afford , with heigh , with ho [ e ] , etc He struck their Mainmast over the board , and alongst , etc Have mercy have mercy you brave English-men , with heigh , etc O what have you done with our Brothers on shore , as they sailed in Barbarie ? we laid them aboard on the Starboard side , with heigh , etc And we through them into the Sea so wide , and alongst , etc Such mercy as you have showed unto them , with heigh , etc Then the like mercy shall you have again , and alongst , etc we laid them aboard on the Larboard side , with heigh , etc And we threw them into the Sea so wide , and alon [ g ] st , etc Lord how it grieves our hearts full soar , with heigh , etc To see the drowned French-men swim along the shore . and alongst , etc Now gallant Seamen all adieu , with heigh , etc This is the last news that I can write to you , to Englands Coast from Barbarie . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , J. Wright , Tho. Vere , W. Gilbertson . 