The Repulsive MAID , WHO Once to a youngman but now cannot win , To open the door and let him come in , To a pleasant new tune : Or , Open the door and let me come in . Youngman . SWeet open the door and let me come in , For to be a Wooer I now begin , And say thy Lover I yet have been , I'll Love thee and no more . Maid . To open the door Love that could I do , And if it were , for and hour or two , But if that my father or mother should know , I should be beaten soar . Youngman . To be beaten for me Love that were a since , Sweet open the door and let me come in , Thy Father or mother nor none of thy Kin , shall never beatrice thee more . Maid . To open the door Love I have been bold , And many false tales I have been told , But another man hath my heart in hold , I cannot Love the therefore . Youngman . Thou knowest before when the time hath been , Thou hast open'd the door and let me come in But now my love is not worth a pin , I prithee Love tell me wherefore . Maid . I am not disposed to tell the now , Go walk a Knave as thou knowest how , For I can no entrance to the allow , adiu for evermor . Youngman . To knock and to call I will never lin , Till thou open the door and let me come in , With coming I fell , and I broke my shin , which grieves me very soar . Maid . If thou hast broken thy shin my Love sorry am I Yet cannot I find in my heart for to cry , I'll give thee a Plaster for it by and by , shall pain the ten times more . The Second part , To the same tune . Youngmen . I Prithee Love do not to jeer begin , But open the door and let me come in I'll be more kind then ever I have been , I prithee Love open the door . Maid . Two words to a bargain my small friend , To open the door I do not intend , My Father and Mother I oft did offend , I'll never offend them more . Youngman . Of Father and Mother do not tell me , For I am come alone to visit thee , And if my face thou wilt not see , then show me a reason wherefore . Maid . A reason just I can thee tell , To do it now does not like me well , I hate thee as much as the Devil of Hell , then adieu for evermore . Youngman . How comes it to pass my love thou art cursed , And wertenberg so kind to me at first , Of all Men living my luck is the worst , to be hated and know not wherefore . Maid . Alas Sir I have found out your tricks , You love do crave of five or six , Yet take who you will , it shall me never vex adieu for evermore . Youngman . What though I have choice of six or seven , Nay , what if I had nine , ten or eleven , Yet thou mayest make the dozen even , and do as thou hast done before . Maid . I am not the first that hath done amiss . Nor shall be the last that a Knave will kiss , I pray pick English out of this , you shall never kiss me more . Youngman . The Rose is read , and the leaves are green , And the days are passed which I have seen , Another man may be where I have been , for now I am thrust out of door . Maid . Walk Knave is a Parrats note , And if the Hangman don't get your coat , I'll meet you at Holborn-hill in a Boat , if ever I love you more . Finis . London Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and W. Gilbertson . The Repulsive MAID , WHO Once to a youngman but now cannot win , To open the door and let him come in , To a pleasant new tune : Or , Open the door and let me come in . Youngman . SWeet open the door and let me come in , For to be a Wooer I now begin , And say thy Lover I yet have been , I'll Love thee and no more . Maid . To open the door Love that could I do , And if it were , for and hour or two , But if that my father or mother should know , I should be beaten soar . Youngman . To be beaten for me Love that were a since , Sweet open the door and let me come in , Thy Father or mother nor none of thy Kin , shall never beatrice thee more . Maid . To open the door Love I have been bold , And many false tales I have been told , But another man hath my heart in hold , I cannot Love the therefore . Youngman . Thou knowest before when the time hath been , Thou hast open'd the door and let me come in But now my love is not worth a pin , I prithee Love tell me wherefore . Maid . I am not disposed to tell the now , Go walk a Knave as thou knowest how , For I can no entrance to the allow , adiu for evermor . Youngman . To knock and to call I will never lin , Till thou open the door and let me come in , With coming I fell , and I broke my shin , which grieves me very soar . Maid . If thou hast broken thy shin my Love sorry am I Yet cannot I find in my heart for to cry , I'll give thee a Plaster for it by and by , shall pain the ten times more . The Second part , To the same tune . Youngmen . I Prithee Love do not to jeer begin , But open the door and let me come in I'll be more kind then ever I have been , I prithee Love open the door . Maid . Two words to a bargain my small friend , To open the door I do not intend , My Father and Mother I oft did offend , I'll never offend them more . Youngman . Of Father and Mother do not tell me , For I am come alone to visit thee , And if my face thou wilt not see , then show me a reason wherefore . Maid . A reason just I can thee tell , To do it now does not like me well , I hate thee as much as the Devil of Hell , then adieu for evermore . Youngman . How comes it to pass my love thou art cursed , And wertenberg so kind to me at first , Of all Men living my luck is the worst , to be hated and know not wherefore . Maid . Alas Sir I have found out your tricks , You love do crave of five or six , Yet take who you will , it shall me never vex adieu for evermore . Youngman . What though I have choice of six or seven , Nay , what if I had nine , ten or eleven , Yet thou mayest make the dozen even , and do as thou hast done before . Maid . I am not the first that hath done amiss . Nor shall be the last that a Knave will kiss , I pray pick English out of this , you shall never kiss me more . Youngman . The Rose is read , and the leaves are green , And the days are passed which I have seen , Another man may be where I have been , for now I am thrust out of door . Maid . Walk Knave is a Parrats note , And if the Hangman don't get your coat , I'll meet you at Holborn-hill in a Boat , if ever I love you more . Finis . London Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and W. Gilbertson . 