Dead and Alive . This Ditty out of Glocestershire was sent To London , for to have it put in print , Therefore draw near and listen unto this , It does concern a man that did amiss , And so to shun the anger of his wife , He thought with poison for to end his life But in the stead of poison he drunk Sack , For which his wife did soundly pay his back To the Tune of , Old flesh . THere was a shaving Royster as I herd many tell , In Michael Deans fair Forest in Glostershire did dwell , Some call'd him William Wiseman but in that they were to blame . Some call'd him Leonard Lackwit but that was not his name , His name was Simple Simon , as it is well approv'd , and among his friends & kinsfolks he dearly was belov'd , He capored and vapoured , and liv'd a merry life . But yet good man at all times he could not rule his wife . His wife she was a woman that loved a cup of Sack And she would tipple soundly behind her husbands back , A bottle she had got that would hold two quarts or more , Well fill'd with wine , she hang'd it behind her Chamber door , And she told unto her husband , that it was poison strong , And bade him not to touch it for fear of doing wrong , If thou drink but one drop on't , quoth she , 'twill cost thy life , Therefore in time take heed , and be ruled by thy wife . This Simons wife had plenty of fatting Hogs and Pigs , With Geese , Ducks , Hens , & Turkeys that laid great store of eggs Both Sheep and such like Cattle fine Ewes , and pretty Lambs , Which up and down the Forest did feed , and suck their Dams , She put trust to her husband , to look unto them all , To keep them safe from danger , now mark what did befall , He did his best endeavour to shun all kind of strife , And yet through st [ r ] ange misfortune he could not please his wife . One morning she sent him to field to keep her sheep , And charg'd him to be watchful , and take heed he did not sleep , A piece of bred and butter she gave him in his hand , Whereby she made him promise to do as she did command , But see what happened to him , when he came to the field . He fell asleep while Foxes three of his Lambs had kill'd , This bred a great dissension , and raised a world of strife , Till Simon for his fault had beg'd pardon of his wife . The second part to the same Tune . ANother day she sent him her Ducks and Geese to tend And charged him on her blessing he should no more offend , Her Goslings and her Chickens with him she put in trust , Who took a stick and told them , so they were twenty just , But a woeful chance befell to poor Simon before night , For seven of his best Chickens , were took prisoners by the Kite , This vexed him , and it made him half weary of his life , For he knew not what answer to make unto his wife . Next morning when that Simon was sent to milk the Cow , Another strange mishap there was done him by the Sow , For while that he was driving the little Pigs away , The Sow came into the dary-house and swig'd up all the whey , The Cheese out of the Cheesefat she did both tear and hail , And so threw down the Cream-pot and made and end of all , Whereby she burst her belly , and so she lost her life , And poor Simon knew not what answer to make unto his wife . when's wife came in the daryhouse and saw what there was done A strong and fierce encounter she presently begun . She pull'd him by the ears , and she wrung him by the nose , And she kicked him on the belly , while the tears run down his hose . And she vowed to be revenged before to morrow day For all her brood of Chickens which the Kite had carried away Poor Simon stood amazed being weary of his life , For he good man was tired with his unruly wife . For when that he perceived his wife in such a rage Not knowing how nor which way her fury to assuage , He cunningly god from her , and to the Chamber went . Thinking himself to poison , for that was his intent , So coming to the Bottle which I spoke of before , He thought it to be poison which hung behind the door . He vow'd to drink it all up and end his wretched life Rather than live in thraldom , with such a cursed wife . So opening of a window which stood towards the South He took the Bottle of Sack and set it to his mouth , Now will I drink this poison quoth he with all my heart , So that the first draught he drank on't he swallowed near a quart . The second time that he set the bottle to his snout , He never left off swigging till he had sucked all out , Which done he fell down backward like one bereft of life , Crying out , I now am poisoned by means of my cursed wife . Quoth he , I feel the poison now run through every vain , It rumbles in my belly , and it tickles in my brain , It wambles in my stomach , and it malifies my heart It pierces through my members , and yet I feel no smart , Would all that have cursed wives , would example take hereby , For I die as sweet a death sure , as ever man did die , 'Tis better with such poison to end a wretched life , Than to live and be tormented with such a wicked wife . Now see what followed after , his wife by chance did walk , And coming by the window , she herd her Simon talk And thinking on her bottle , she up the stairs did run , And came into the Chamber to see what he had done . When as she saw her husband lying drunk upon his back And the bottle lying by him but never a drop of Sack I am poisoned I am poisoned quoth he long of my wife I hope I shall be at quiet , now I have lost my life . Pox take you are you poisoned quoth she I now will strive And do my best endeavour to make you run alive With that a quill of powder she blew up in his nose Then like a man turn'd frantic he presently arose So down the stairs he run straight into the open street With hooping and with hallowing to all that he did meet . And with a loud voice cried out I am raised from death to life By virtue of a powder that was given me by my wife . Some folks that did behold him were in a grievous fear For seeing of a mad man they durst not come him near He leapt and he skipped thorough fair and thorough foul While the people gaz'd upon him like Pies upon and Owl His wife she followed after thorough thick and thorough thin And with a basting cudgel she soundly badg'd his skin And thus poor Simon cried out , I am raised from death to life , By virtue of a powder [ tO ] hat was given me by my w [ i ] fe . At last a friend of Simons which was to him some kin By fair and kind persuasions open'd door and let him in He sent for Simons wife , and so made them both good friends , Who kindly kissed each other , and so all discord ends . The neighbours all rejoiced to see them thus agree'd And like a loving couple to bed they went with speed . No doubt but simple Simon that night well pleased his wife For ever since that time , he hath lived a quiet life . London , Printed for F. G. on Snow-hill . Entered according to Order . FINIS . L. P. Dead and Alive . This Ditty out of Glocestershire was sent To London , for to have it put in print , Therefore draw near and listen unto this , It does concern a man that did amiss , And so to shun the anger of his wife , He thought with poison for to end his life But in the stead of poison he drunk Sack , For which his wife did soundly pay his back To the Tune of , Old flesh . THere was a shaving Royster as I herd many tell , In Michael Deans fair Forest in Glostershire did dwell , Some call'd him William Wiseman but in that they were to blame . Some call'd him Leonard Lackwit but that was not his name , His name was Simple Simon , as it is well approv'd , and among his friends & kinsfolks he dearly was belov'd , He capored and vapoured , and liv'd a merry life . But yet good man at all times he could not rule his wife . His wife she was a woman that loved a cup of Sack And she would tipple soundly behind her husbands back , A bottle she had got that would hold two quarts or more , Well fill'd with wine , she hang'd it behind her Chamber door , And she told unto her husband , that it was poison strong , And bade him not to touch it for fear of doing wrong , If thou drink but one drop on't , quoth she , 'twill cost thy life , Therefore in time take heed , and be ruled by thy wife . This Simons wife had plenty of fatting Hogs and Pigs , With Geese , Ducks , Hens , & Turkeys that laid great store of eggs Both Sheep and such like Cattle fine Ewes , and pretty Lambs , Which up and down the Forest did feed , and suck their Dams , She put trust to her husband , to look unto them all , To keep them safe from danger , now mark what did befall , He did his best endeavour to shun all kind of strife , And yet through st [ r ] ange misfortune he could not please his wife . One morning she sent him to field to keep her sheep , And charg'd him to be watchful , and take heed he did not sleep , A piece of bred and butter she gave him in his hand , Whereby she made him promise to do as she did command , But see what happened to him , when he came to the field . He fell asleep while Foxes three of his Lambs had kill'd , This bred a great dissension , and raised a world of strife , Till Simon for his fault had beg'd pardon of his wife . The second part to the same Tune . ANother day she sent him her Ducks and Geese to tend And charged him on her blessing he should no more offend , Her Goslings and her Chickens with him she put in trust , Who took a stick and told them , so they were twenty just , But a woeful chance befell to poor Simon before night , For seven of his best Chickens , were took prisoners by the Kite , This vexed him , and it made him half weary of his life , For he knew not what answer to make unto his wife . Next morning when that Simon was sent to milk the Cow , Another strange mishap there was done him by the Sow , For while that he was driving the little Pigs away , The Sow came into the dary-house and swig'd up all the whey , The Cheese out of the Cheesefat she did both tear and hail , And so threw down the Cream-pot and made and end of all , Whereby she burst her belly , and so she lost her life , And poor Simon knew not what answer to make unto his wife . when's wife came in the daryhouse and saw what there was done A strong and fierce encounter she presently begun . She pull'd him by the ears , and she wrung him by the nose , And she kicked him on the belly , while the tears run down his hose . And she vowed to be revenged before to morrow day For all her brood of Chickens which the Kite had carried away Poor Simon stood amazed being weary of his life , For he good man was tired with his unruly wife . For when that he perceived his wife in such a rage Not knowing how nor which way her fury to assuage , He cunningly god from her , and to the Chamber went . Thinking himself to poison , for that was his intent , So coming to the Bottle which I spoke of before , He thought it to be poison which hung behind the door . He vow'd to drink it all up and end his wretched life Rather than live in thraldom , with such a cursed wife . So opening of a window which stood towards the South He took the Bottle of Sack and set it to his mouth , Now will I drink this poison quoth he with all my heart , So that the first draught he drank on't he swallowed near a quart . The second time that he set the bottle to his snout , He never left off swigging till he had sucked all out , Which done he fell down backward like one bereft of life , Crying out , I now am poisoned by means of my cursed wife . Quoth he , I feel the poison now run through every vain , It rumbles in my belly , and it tickles in my brain , It wambles in my stomach , and it malifies my heart It pierces through my members , and yet I feel no smart , Would all that have cursed wives , would example take hereby , For I die as sweet a death sure , as ever man did die , 'Tis better with such poison to end a wretched life , Than to live and be tormented with such a wicked wife . Now see what followed after , his wife by chance did walk , And coming by the window , she herd her Simon talk And thinking on her bottle , she up the stairs did run , And came into the Chamber to see what he had done . When as she saw her husband lying drunk upon his back And the bottle lying by him but never a drop of Sack I am poisoned I am poisoned quoth he long of my wife I hope I shall be at quiet , now I have lost my life . Pox take you are you poisoned quoth she I now will strive And do my best endeavour to make you run alive With that a quill of powder she blew up in his nose Then like a man turn'd frantic he presently arose So down the stairs he run straight into the open street With hooping and with hallowing to all that he did meet . And with a loud voice cried out I am raised from death to life By virtue of a powder that was given me by my wife . Some folks that did behold him were in a grievous fear For seeing of a mad man they durst not come him near He leapt and he skipped thorough fair and thorough foul While the people gaz'd upon him like Pies upon and Owl His wife she followed after thorough thick and thorough thin And with a basting cudgel she soundly badg'd his skin And thus poor Simon cried out , I am raised from death to life , By virtue of a powder [ tO ] hat was given me by my w [ i ] fe . At last a friend of Simons which was to him some kin By fair and kind persuasions open'd door and let him in He sent for Simons wife , and so made them both good friends , Who kindly kissed each other , and so all discord ends . The neighbours all rejoiced to see them thus agree'd And like a loving couple to bed they went with speed . No doubt but simple Simon that night well pleased his wife For ever since that time , he hath lived a quiet life . London , Printed for F. G. on Snow-hill . Entered according to Order . FINIS . L. P. 