The Maidens of Londons brave adventures , OR . A Boon Voyage intended for the Sea , Some gone before , and some to follow : Their Sweethearts are resolv'd also This noble Voyage for to go . Because they hold their Love so dear , As in this Ditty you shall hear . Tune is , a Taylor is a man : Or , Wet and weary . COme all you very merry London Girls , that are disposed to Travel , Here is a Voyage now at hand , will save your feet from gravel , If you have shoes you need not fear for wearing out the Leather For why you shall on shipboard go , like Loving Rogues together , Some are already gone before the rest must after follow Then come away and do not stay Your guide shall be Apollo . Peg , Nell , and Sisse , Kate , Doll , and Besse Sue , Rachel , and sweet Sara one , Prudence & Grace have took their place with Debora , Jane , and Marry , Fair Winifright , and Bridget bright , sweet Rose and pretty Nany , With Ursely neat and Alice complete that had the love of many All these brave Girls and others more conducted by Apollo , Have taken their leaves and are gone before And their Loves will after follow . Then why should those that are behind slink back and dare not venture For you shall prove the Seamen kind , if once the ships you enter You shall be fed with good strong fare according to the season Biscuit salt-Beef , and English Beer and Pork well boiled with Peason And since that some are gone before the rest with Joy may follow To bear each other company Conducted by Apollo . When you come to the appointed place your minds you need not trouble For every groat that you god here you shall have three times double For there are Gold and Silver Mines and treasures much abounding , As plenty as New-Castle Coals at some parts may be founding , Then come away make no delay all you that mean to follow The Ships are ready bound to go Conducted by Apollo . The second part to the same Tune . FOr victuals when as you come there you shall have choice and plenty Pigs , Turkeys , Geese , Cocks , Hens , and Ducks , and other fare most dainty , Also be sure that you shall have enough sold for your money A good fat Capon for a groat and eighteen eggs a penny Then come brave Lasses come away , if you desire to follow , Your sisters that are gone before Conducted by Apollo . Thin clothing then may serve your [ tO ] urn when as you do come thither , For there the Sun is hight enough , and very warm the weather , All that you'le have to care for there is very little or nothing , For there is all things at cheap rates both meat and drink and clothing Then come brave Lasses come away you need not fear to follow , Those that are newly gone I say Conducted by Apollo , If any of you have sweethearts , let that not greatly grieve you , This very like they shall be sent , soon after to relieve you , And when they come where as you are and sees your lovely faces , You will rejoice to meet them there , with kisses and embraces Make haste away use no delay , conducted by Apollo If that the Maidens go before the Young men they will follow . The Reason as I understand why you go to that Nation , Is to inhabit that fair Land and make a new plantation Where you shall h [ a ] we good ground enough , for Planting and for Tilling Which never shall be taken away , so long as you there are living ; Then come brave lasses come away , conducted by Apollo , Although that you do go before , your sweethearts they will follow , The Young men's Resolution to follow their Sweethearts , and seek till they find them . Seeing our sweethearts are gone before great cause we have to mind them , And we are firmly now resolved to seek until we find them Wee'le cross the curled Ocean main , our minds shall no way waver , Till we have found our Loves again , and god into their favour For since that they are gone before , with speed we will them follow For fear their foes should do them wrong , If they should miss Apollo , Sweet Neptune be our safe convey , and Jove we pray befriend us , That we our true loves may enjoy , great Mars such Fortune send us , That no false Spaniard may betray , our loves to keep them from us , Then shall we meet with them once more according to our promise , For since that they are passed away , we cannot choose but follow Through fire or Water , heat or cold , Conducted by Apollo . Take courage now my noble hearts , let not Jack Spaniard Jeer us , If we but take each others parts , the Infidels will fear us , This neither Pagan , Turk , nor Jew , nor any proud Philistians , That can our English men subdue , nor wrong us that are Christians , Our Sweethearts they are gone before and we'le make haste to follow For it is suppos'd they are bound to Sea , Conducted by Apollo . So now dear hearts we come , we come , ther's nothing will dismay us , I hope there is no friend of ours , that will desire to stay us , Our foreign foes we do not fear , God and good Angels guide us , For you we'le venture far and near what chance so ever betide us , Through old America or Spain Conducted by Apollo We'le search to find you out again , so closely will we follow . FINIS . L.P. London Printed for Fran. Grove on Snow-hill . The Maidens of Londons brave adventures , OR . A Boon Voyage intended for the Sea , Some gone before , and some to follow : Their Sweethearts are resolv'd also This noble Voyage for to go . Because they hold their Love so dear , As in this Ditty you shall hear . Tune is , a Taylor is a man : Or , Wet and weary . COme all you very merry London Girls , that are disposed to Travel , Here is a Voyage now at hand , will save your feet from gravel , If you have shoes you need not fear for wearing out the Leather For why you shall on shipboard go , like Loving Rogues together , Some are already gone before the rest must after follow Then come away and do not stay Your guide shall be Apollo . Peg , Nell , and Sisse , Kate , Doll , and Besse Sue , Rachel , and sweet Sara one , Prudence & Grace have took their place with Debora , Jane , and Marry , Fair Winifright , and Bridget bright , sweet Rose and pretty Nany , With Ursely neat and Alice complete that had the love of many All these brave Girls and others more conducted by Apollo , Have taken their leaves and are gone before And their Loves will after follow . Then why should those that are behind slink back and dare not venture For you shall prove the Seamen kind , if once the ships you enter You shall be fed with good strong fare according to the season Biscuit salt-Beef , and English Beer and Pork well boiled with Peason And since that some are gone before the rest with Joy may follow To bear each other company Conducted by Apollo . When you come to the appointed place your minds you need not trouble For every groat that you god here you shall have three times double For there are Gold and Silver Mines and treasures much abounding , As plenty as New-Castle Coals at some parts may be founding , Then come away make no delay all you that mean to follow The Ships are ready bound to go Conducted by Apollo . The second part to the same Tune . FOr victuals when as you come there you shall have choice and plenty Pigs , Turkeys , Geese , Cocks , Hens , and Ducks , and other fare most dainty , Also be sure that you shall have enough sold for your money A good fat Capon for a groat and eighteen eggs a penny Then come brave Lasses come away , if you desire to follow , Your sisters that are gone before Conducted by Apollo . Thin clothing then may serve your [ tO ] urn when as you do come thither , For there the Sun is hight enough , and very warm the weather , All that you'le have to care for there is very little or nothing , For there is all things at cheap rates both meat and drink and clothing Then come brave Lasses come away you need not fear to follow , Those that are newly gone I say Conducted by Apollo , If any of you have sweethearts , let that not greatly grieve you , This very like they shall be sent , soon after to relieve you , And when they come where as you are and sees your lovely faces , You will rejoice to meet them there , with kisses and embraces Make haste away use no delay , conducted by Apollo If that the Maidens go before the Young men they will follow . The Reason as I understand why you go to that Nation , Is to inhabit that fair Land and make a new plantation Where you shall h [ a ] we good ground enough , for Planting and for Tilling Which never shall be taken away , so long as you there are living ; Then come brave lasses come away , conducted by Apollo , Although that you do go before , your sweethearts they will follow , The Young men's Resolution to follow their Sweethearts , and seek till they find them . Seeing our sweethearts are gone before great cause we have to mind them , And we are firmly now resolved to seek until we find them Wee'le cross the curled Ocean main , our minds shall no way waver , Till we have found our Loves again , and god into their favour For since that they are gone before , with speed we will them follow For fear their foes should do them wrong , If they should miss Apollo , Sweet Neptune be our safe convey , and Jove we pray befriend us , That we our true loves may enjoy , great Mars such Fortune send us , That no false Spaniard may betray , our loves to keep them from us , Then shall we meet with them once more according to our promise , For since that they are passed away , we cannot choose but follow Through fire or Water , heat or cold , Conducted by Apollo . Take courage now my noble hearts , let not Jack Spaniard Jeer us , If we but take each others parts , the Infidels will fear us , This neither Pagan , Turk , nor Jew , nor any proud Philistians , That can our English men subdue , nor wrong us that are Christians , Our Sweethearts they are gone before and we'le make haste to follow For it is suppos'd they are bound to Sea , Conducted by Apollo . So now dear hearts we come , we come , ther's nothing will dismay us , I hope there is no friend of ours , that will desire to stay us , Our foreign foes we do not fear , God and good Angels guide us , For you we'le venture far and near what chance so ever betide us , Through old America or Spain Conducted by Apollo We'le search to find you out again , so closely will we follow . FINIS . L.P. London Printed for Fran. Grove on Snow-hill . 