A Match at a Venture : OR , Time & Opportunity wone the day . Being , A Discourse of wooing between Two Lovers . The Youngman Courted her with Compliments most rare , And all his mind to her he boldly did declare ; She still held off , and was so stiff inclin'd , And would not quickly let him know her mind : Until that Cupid with his Golden Dart Had made a wound , and pierc'd her tender hear And then she yielded his true Love to be , They now are Married , and live most gallantly . Tune of , Jenny come tie my bonny Cravat . AS I in the Fields was walking along , I herd a young couple was talking anon , I do love thee most dearly , fair Maiden , said he , And thou shalt be my true love until I do die ; For Cupid has wounded my poor love sick heart , I must break my mind now before we depart . I will buy thee Scarfs , & I will buy thee Gloves , That is fitting for suitors to give to their loves , And jewels and bracelets that shall be most rare , If thou wilt but be my true love and my dear ; I am thy true lover , thou'st be my own dear , I'le ne'r be false to thee thou needest not fear . Maid . KInd Youngman I thank you for your good will , Yet poor silly Maidens had need try their skill , You promise more in and hour then you do in 7 year , Its hard for to trust any Man I do swear ; They be so falsehearted , and given to lie , They've caus'd many a Maiden to weep and to cry . Its not your cunning baits , nor your nimble tongue Such words as those has done many Maids wrong Therefore honest youngman you are not for me , A good Service is better than a Wife for to be : I take great delight for to live a Maids life , There's far greater trouble belongs to a Wife . Youngman . Sweetheart now thou mak'st me smile in conceit , Now hear me a word more I do thee entreat ; If thou wilt but love me as I do love thee , And join now in wedlock my Wife for to be : There's never a woman in England I swear , Shall ha' more content then thou shalt have my dear . Tho' some be falsehearted , and often do swear , Oh do not blame all men for one my own dear : He is worse than a Jew that has a good wife , And loves her not as dear as he loves his own life : And let her want nothing that she does require , But be loving and faithful unto her desire . Maid . Indeed honest Man , I tell you now true , There's many Men more I say beside you , That has said and sworn as much as you say , And have proved knaves to their wives the first day : That never takes care for one thing or other , Their wife and their children may starve altogether . It behoves all Maidens that live single lives , How they Marry with Men for to be their wives ; Some will misuse them both sober and drunk , And use them no better then the whore their Punk , We see enough every day of those which are wed , How barely they go , and how hardly they'r fed . Man. Indeed pretty Maiden thy words are most true , But do not believe it shall be so with you : My state and my purse shall be at thy command , Say what shall be done , and thy word it shall stand ; And grant but thy favour my wife for to be , Nothing shall be wanting that can pleasure thee . Maid . Why then honest young-Man you shall be my dear , I'le venture in Marriage without any fear ; You shall be my Husband , I will be your wife , And live loving together all days of our life : The Young-Man rejoiced the same for to hear , when she had yielded to be both his wife & his Dear . Now in the conclusion , they appointed a day , And went to the Church & were marry'd straightway ; With consent of their friends , & to end my Ditty , They live loving together in Londons fair City ; And loving and gallantly they do agree , And a pattern to other true lovers may be . FINIS . Printed for J . Deacon , at the Rainbow in Hol - born , near St. Andrews Church . A Match at a Venture : OR , Time & Opportunity wone the day . Being , A Discourse of wooing between Two Lovers . The Youngman Courted her with Compliments most rare , And all his mind to her he boldly did declare ; She still held off , and was so stiff inclin'd , And would not quickly let him know her mind : Until that Cupid with his Golden Dart Had made a wound , and pierc'd her tender hear And then she yielded his true Love to be , They now are Married , and live most gallantly . Tune of , Jenny come tie my bonny Cravat . AS I in the Fields was walking along , I herd a young couple was talking anon , I do love thee most dearly , fair Maiden , said he , And thou shalt be my true love until I do die ; For Cupid has wounded my poor love sick heart , I must break my mind now before we depart . I will buy thee Scarfs , & I will buy thee Gloves , That is fitting for suitors to give to their loves , And jewels and bracelets that shall be most rare , If thou wilt but be my true love and my dear ; I am thy true lover , thou'st be my own dear , I'le ne'r be false to thee thou needest not fear . Maid . KInd Youngman I thank you for your good will , Yet poor silly Maidens had need try their skill , You promise more in and hour then you do in 7 year , Its hard for to trust any Man I do swear ; They be so falsehearted , and given to lie , They've caus'd many a Maiden to weep and to cry . Its not your cunning baits , nor your nimble tongue Such words as those has done many Maids wrong Therefore honest youngman you are not for me , A good Service is better than a Wife for to be : I take great delight for to live a Maids life , There's far greater trouble belongs to a Wife . Youngman . Sweetheart now thou mak'st me smile in conceit , Now hear me a word more I do thee entreat ; If thou wilt but love me as I do love thee , And join now in wedlock my Wife for to be : There's never a woman in England I swear , Shall ha' more content then thou shalt have my dear . Tho' some be falsehearted , and often do swear , Oh do not blame all men for one my own dear : He is worse than a Jew that has a good wife , And loves her not as dear as he loves his own life : And let her want nothing that she does require , But be loving and faithful unto her desire . Maid . Indeed honest Man , I tell you now true , There's many Men more I say beside you , That has said and sworn as much as you say , And have proved knaves to their wives the first day : That never takes care for one thing or other , Their wife and their children may starve altogether . It behoves all Maidens that live single lives , How they Marry with Men for to be their wives ; Some will misuse them both sober and drunk , And use them no better then the whore their Punk , We see enough every day of those which are wed , How barely they go , and how hardly they'r fed . Man. Indeed pretty Maiden thy words are most true , But do not believe it shall be so with you : My state and my purse shall be at thy command , Say what shall be done , and thy word it shall stand ; And grant but thy favour my wife for to be , Nothing shall be wanting that can pleasure thee . Maid . Why then honest young-Man you shall be my dear , I'le venture in Marriage without any fear ; You shall be my Husband , I will be your wife , And live loving together all days of our life : The Young-Man rejoiced the same for to hear , when she had yielded to be both his wife & his Dear . Now in the conclusion , they appointed a day , And went to the Church & were marry'd straightway ; With consent of their friends , & to end my Ditty , They live loving together in Londons fair City ; And loving and gallantly they do agree , And a pattern to other true lovers may be . FINIS . Printed for J . Deacon , at the Rainbow in Hol - born , near St. Andrews Church . A Match at a Venture : OR , Time & Opportunity wone the day . Being , A Discourse of wooing between Two Lovers . The Youngman Courted her with Compliments most rare , And all his mind to her he boldly did declare ; She still held off , and was so stiff inclin'd , And would not quickly let him know her mind : Until that Cupid with his Golden Dart Had made a wound , and pierc'd her tender hear And then she yielded his true Love to be , They now are Married , and live most gallantly . Tune of , Jenny come tie my bonny Cravat . AS I in the Fields was walking along , I herd a young couple was talking anon , I do love thee most dearly , fair Maiden , said he , And thou shalt be my true love until I do die ; For Cupid has wounded my poor love sick heart , I must break my mind now before we depart . I will buy thee Scarfs , & I will buy thee Gloves , That is fitting for suitors to give to their loves , And jewels and bracelets that shall be most rare , If thou wilt but be my true love and my dear ; I am thy true lover , thou'st be my own dear , I'le ne'r be false to thee thou needest not fear . Maid . KInd Youngman I thank you for your good will , Yet poor silly Maidens had need try their skill , You promise more in and hour then you do in 7 year , Its hard for to trust any Man I do swear ; They be so falsehearted , and given to lie , They've caus'd many a Maiden to weep and to cry . Its not your cunning baits , nor your nimble tongue Such words as those has done many Maids wrong Therefore honest youngman you are not for me , A good Service is better than a Wife for to be : I take great delight for to live a Maids life , There's far greater trouble belongs to a Wife . Youngman . Sweetheart now thou mak'st me smile in conceit , Now hear me a word more I do thee entreat ; If thou wilt but love me as I do love thee , And join now in wedlock my Wife for to be : There's never a woman in England I swear , Shall ha' more content then thou shalt have my dear . Tho' some be falsehearted , and often do swear , Oh do not blame all men for one my own dear : He is worse than a Jew that has a good wife , And loves her not as dear as he loves his own life : And let her want nothing that she does require , But be loving and faithful unto her desire . Maid . Indeed honest Man , I tell you now true , There's many Men more I say beside you , That has said and sworn as much as you say , And have proved knaves to their wives the first day : That never takes care for one thing or other , Their wife and their children may starve altogether . It behoves all Maidens that live single lives , How they Marry with Men for to be their wives ; Some will misuse them both sober and drunk , And use them no better then the whore their Punk , We see enough every day of those which are wed , How barely they go , and how hardly they'r fed . Man. Indeed pretty Maiden thy words are most true , But do not believe it shall be so with you : My state and my purse shall be at thy command , Say what shall be done , and thy word it shall stand ; And grant but thy favour my wife for to be , Nothing shall be wanting that can pleasure thee . Maid . Why then honest young-Man you shall be my dear , I'le venture in Marriage without any fear ; You shall be my Husband , I will be your wife , And live loving together all days of our life : The Young-Man rejoiced the same for to hear , when she had yielded to be both his wife & his Dear . Now in the conclusion , they appointed a day , And went to the Church & were marry'd straightway ; With consent of their friends , & to end my Ditty , They live loving together in Londons fair City ; And loving and gallantly they do agree , And a pattern to other true lovers may be . FINIS . Printed for J . Deacon , at the Rainbow in Hol - born , near St. Andrews Church . A Match at a Venture : OR , Time & Opportunity wone the day . Being , A Discourse of wooing between Two Lovers . The Youngman Courted her with Compliments most rare , And all his mind to her he boldly did declare ; She still held off , and was so stiff inclin'd , And would not quickly let him know her mind : Until that Cupid with his Golden Dart Had made a wound , and pierc'd her tender hear And then she yielded his true Love to be , They now are Married , and live most gallantly . Tune of , Jenny come tie my bonny Cravat . AS I in the Fields was walking along , I herd a young couple was talking anon , I do love thee most dearly , fair Maiden , said he , And thou shalt be my true love until I do die ; For Cupid has wounded my poor love sick heart , I must break my mind now before we depart . I will buy thee Scarfs , & I will buy thee Gloves , That is fitting for suitors to give to their loves , And jewels and bracelets that shall be most rare , If thou wilt but be my true love and my dear ; I am thy true lover , thou'st be my own dear , I'le ne'r be false to thee thou needest not fear . Maid . KInd Youngman I thank you for your good will , Yet poor silly Maidens had need try their skill , You promise more in and hour then you do in 7 year , Its hard for to trust any Man I do swear ; They be so falsehearted , and given to lie , They've caus'd many a Maiden to weep and to cry . Its not your cunning baits , nor your nimble tongue Such words as those has done many Maids wrong Therefore honest youngman you are not for me , A good Service is better than a Wife for to be : I take great delight for to live a Maids life , There's far greater trouble belongs to a Wife . Youngman . Sweetheart now thou mak'st me smile in conceit , Now hear me a word more I do thee entreat ; If thou wilt but love me as I do love thee , And join now in wedlock my Wife for to be : There's never a woman in England I swear , Shall ha' more content then thou shalt have my dear . Tho' some be falsehearted , and often do swear , Oh do not blame all men for one my own dear : He is worse than a Jew that has a good wife , And loves her not as dear as he loves his own life : And let her want nothing that she does require , But be loving and faithful unto her desire . Maid . Indeed honest Man , I tell you now true , There's many Men more I say beside you , That has said and sworn as much as you say , And have proved knaves to their wives the first day : That never takes care for one thing or other , Their wife and their children may starve altogether . It behoves all Maidens that live single lives , How they Marry with Men for to be their wives ; Some will misuse them both sober and drunk , And use them no better then the whore their Punk , We see enough every day of those which are wed , How barely they go , and how hardly they'r fed . Man. Indeed pretty Maiden thy words are most true , But do not believe it shall be so with you : My state and my purse shall be at thy command , Say what shall be done , and thy word it shall stand ; And grant but thy favour my wife for to be , Nothing shall be wanting that can pleasure thee . Maid . Why then honest young-Man you shall be my dear , I'le venture in Marriage without any fear ; You shall be my Husband , I will be your wife , And live loving together all days of our life : The Young-Man rejoiced the same for to hear , when she had yielded to be both his wife & his Dear . Now in the conclusion , they appointed a day , And went to the Church & were marry'd straightway ; With consent of their friends , & to end my Ditty , They live loving together in Londons fair City ; And loving and gallantly they do agree , And a pattern to other true lovers may be . FINIS . Printed for J . Deacon , at the Rainbow in Hol - born , near St. Andrews Church . 