The famous Woman-Drummer Or the valiant proceedings of a Maid which was in love with a Soldier , and how she went with him to the wars , and also of many brave actions that she performed after he had made her his wife , shall here be expressed in this ensuing Ditty . to the tune of wet and weary . OF a Maiden that was deep in love with a Soldier brave and bold sir , I'll tell you here as true a tale as ever hath been told sir : And what brave actions she perform'd after she was his wife sir . And how she did behave her self to save her husbands life sir : She marched with him in wet and dry , in Winter and in Summer , For he was then a Musketier , and she became a Drummer . When first this couple fell in love , a bargain she did make sir , That when that he had need of her she would not him forsake sir : And so they went for two Comrades most lovingly together , And played their parts most actively , like two Birds of one feather : she marched with him in wet and dry , in winter , etc She had god men apparel on , gay doublet and brave hose sir , And manfully she beatrice her Drum , her enemies to oppose sir : And she was daintily bedecked , according to her Colours , And she was like a man indeed , just to great Mars his followers : she marched with him in wet and dry , etc They have been both in Ireland , in Spain and famous France sir , where lustily she beatrice her Drum , her honour to advance sir . Whil'st Canons roar'd and Bullets fly , as thick as hail from Sky sir , She never fear'd her foreign Foes when her Comrade was nigh sir ; She stood the brunts in heat and cold , in winter and in summer , Her husband was a Muskettier , and she was then a Drummer . In every place where she did come , she showed herself so valiant , And few men might , compare with her , her actions were so gallan She manage could her sword full well , and to advance a pike sir ; But for the beating of a Drum , you seldom saw the like sir : In frost and snow , in wet and dry , in winter and in summer , Her husband was a Muskettier , and she a famous Drummer . She beatrice with three men at one time , and wone of them a wager , And had not one strange chance befell , she should have been Drummajor : Her belly it began to swell and she grew plum and jolly But she us'd all the means she could , whereby to hide her folly : She marched by day and watched by night , in winter and in summer , And still they took her for a man , she was so stout a Drummer . In company she would merry be , and sometime sing a song sir , And take Todacco oftentimes , and drink strong Beer among sir : If any one had angered her , or done her any evil , Shee'd quickly make them for to know they were better cross the Devil : Near Towerhill sho quartered was in famous London City , But more strange news I have to tell before I end my Ditty . For she was grown so big with child , which made her fellows wonder , And in a short time after that , poor soul she fell asunder : But when her painful hour approached , I do not lie nor flatter , The women cut her Codpiece point , to see what was the matter . But to be brief , it came to pass , as I must tell you truly , She was delivered of a son the sixteenth day of July : The women all were kind to her while that she was in labour , Because she was a Soldiers wife , they showed to her much favour : They [ f ] urnisht her with every thing , as [ m ] eat and drink and clothing , For childbed linen and the like , they let her want for nothing : Her husband was a Muskettier , and she a lusty Drummer , It seems they soundly played their parts in winter and in Summer . Let no man nor no woman think that she hath been dishonest , But what she did was done in love , as she before had promised . To keep her husband comany , the truth of all was so sir , And pleasure him both day and night where ever they did go sir : Her husband was a Musketier , and she a famous Drummer , It seems they ply'd their business well in winter and in summer . You Maidens all that hear this Song , consider what is told here . Concerning of this woman kind , that dearly lov'd a Soldier : If you with Soldiers be in love , I wish you to be loyal , For they to you will faithful prove , if you put them to the trial : Her husband was a Musketier , and she a famous Drummer , etc For love is such a powerful thing , if it be rightly given , There cannot be a better gift under the ropes of Heaven ; So now brave Soldiers all adieu , remember what is spoken , Come buy my songs and send them to your Sweethearts for a token : Her husband was a Musketier , and she a warlike Drummer , I would that I had such a Mate , to walk with me this Summer . Finis . L.P. London printed for F. Coals , J. Wright , T. Vere , and W. Gilbertson . The famous Woman-Drummer Or the valiant proceedings of a Maid which was in love with a Soldier , and how she went with him to the wars , and also of many brave actions that she performed after he had made her his wife , shall here be expressed in this ensuing Ditty . to the tune of wet and weary . OF a Maiden that was deep in love with a Soldier brave and bold sir , I'll tell you here as true a tale as ever hath been told sir : And what brave actions she perform'd after she was his wife sir . And how she did behave her self to save her husbands life sir : She marched with him in wet and dry , in Winter and in Summer , For he was then a Musketier , and she became a Drummer . When first this couple fell in love , a bargain she did make sir , That when that he had need of her she would not him forsake sir : And so they went for two Comrades most lovingly together , And played their parts most actively , like two Birds of one feather : she marched with him in wet and dry , in winter , etc She had god men apparel on , gay doublet and brave hose sir , And manfully she beatrice her Drum , her enemies to oppose sir : And she was daintily bedecked , according to her Colours , And she was like a man indeed , just to great Mars his followers : she marched with him in wet and dry , etc They have been both in Ireland , in Spain and famous France sir , where lustily she beatrice her Drum , her honour to advance sir . Whil'st Canons roar'd and Bullets fly , as thick as hail from Sky sir , She never fear'd her foreign Foes when her Comrade was nigh sir ; She stood the brunts in heat and cold , in winter and in summer , Her husband was a Muskettier , and she was then a Drummer . In every place where she did come , she showed herself so valiant , And few men might , compare with her , her actions were so gallan She manage could her sword full well , and to advance a pike sir ; But for the beating of a Drum , you seldom saw the like sir : In frost and snow , in wet and dry , in winter and in summer , Her husband was a Muskettier , and she a famous Drummer . She beatrice with three men at one time , and wone of them a wager , And had not one strange chance befell , she should have been Drummajor : Her belly it began to swell and she grew plum and jolly But she us'd all the means she could , whereby to hide her folly : She marched by day and watched by night , in winter and in summer , And still they took her for a man , she was so stout a Drummer . In company she would merry be , and sometime sing a song sir , And take Todacco oftentimes , and drink strong Beer among sir : If any one had angered her , or done her any evil , Shee'd quickly make them for to know they were better cross the Devil : Near Towerhill sho quartered was in famous London City , But more strange news I have to tell before I end my Ditty . For she was grown so big with child , which made her fellows wonder , And in a short time after that , poor soul she fell asunder : But when her painful hour approached , I do not lie nor flatter , The women cut her Codpiece point , to see what was the matter . But to be brief , it came to pass , as I must tell you truly , She was delivered of a son the sixteenth day of July : The women all were kind to her while that she was in labour , Because she was a Soldiers wife , they showed to her much favour : They [ f ] urnisht her with every thing , as [ m ] eat and drink and clothing , For childbed linen and the like , they let her want for nothing : Her husband was a Muskettier , and she a lusty Drummer , It seems they soundly played their parts in winter and in Summer . Let no man nor no woman think that she hath been dishonest , But what she did was done in love , as she before had promised . To keep her husband comany , the truth of all was so sir , And pleasure him both day and night where ever they did go sir : Her husband was a Musketier , and she a famous Drummer , It seems they ply'd their business well in winter and in summer . You Maidens all that hear this Song , consider what is told here . Concerning of this woman kind , that dearly lov'd a Soldier : If you with Soldiers be in love , I wish you to be loyal , For they to you will faithful prove , if you put them to the trial : Her husband was a Musketier , and she a famous Drummer , etc For love is such a powerful thing , if it be rightly given , There cannot be a better gift under the ropes of Heaven ; So now brave Soldiers all adieu , remember what is spoken , Come buy my songs and send them to your Sweethearts for a token : Her husband was a Musketier , and she a warlike Drummer , I would that I had such a Mate , to walk with me this Summer . Finis . L.P. London printed for F. Coals , J. Wright , T. Vere , and W. Gilbertson . 