Room for a Jovial Tinker old Brass to mend ; OR , Here is a Tinker full of mettle The which can mend pot pan or Kettle , For stopping of holes is his delight His work goes forward day and night If there be any women brave , whose Coldrons need of mending have Send for this Tinker never deny him He'l do your work well if you try him . A proof of him I'll forthwith show Cause you his workmanship may know The tune is ; Behold the man , etc IT was a Lady of the North , she lov'd a Gentleman . And knew not well what course to take to use him now and than , Wherefore she writ a Letter , and seal'd it with her hand , And bid him be a Tinker to mend both pot and pan . with a heigh ho heigh derry derry down with hey trey down down derry . And when the merry Gentleman the Letter he did read , He god a budget on his back and Apron with all speed , His pretty shears and pincers so well they did agree , With a long pike staff upon his back came tripping o're the Lee. with a heigh , etc When he came to the Ladies house , he knocked at the gate , Then answered this Lady gay who knocketh there so late ? This I Madam the Tinker said , I work for gold and fee . If you have any broken pots or pans come bring them all to me , with a heigh , etc , I am the bravest Tinker that lives beneath the Sun , If you have any work to do you shall have it well done . I have brass within my budget . and punching under my Apron , I'm come unto your Ladyship and mean to mend your Coldron . with heigh . I prithee said the Lady gay . bring now thy budget in , I have store of work for thee to do if thou wilt once begin , Now when the Tinker he came in that did the budget bear , God bless quoth he your Ladyship God save you Madam fair . with heigh etc But when the Lady knew his face , she then began to wink , Hast lusty Butler then quoth she , to fetch the man some drink . Give him such meat as we do eat , and drink as we do use , It is not for a Tinkers Trad [ e ] good liquour to refuse . with heigh ho heigh derry derry down with hey tre down down derry . BUt when that he had eat and drunk the truth of all is so , The Lady took him by the sleeve her work to him to show . Set up thy Tools Tinker quoth she and see there be none lost , And mend my Kittle handsomely what ere it does me cost . with heigh , etc Your work Madam shall be well done if you will pay me for't , For every nail that I do drive you shall give me a mark . If I do not drive the nail to 'th head I'll have nothing for my pain And what I do receive of you , shall be return'd again . with heigh , etc At last being come into the Room where he the work should do The Lady lay down on the bed so did the Tinker too : Although the Tinker knocked amain the Lady was not offended , But before that she rose from the bed her Coldron was well mended with heigh , etc But when his work was at and end wh [ i ] changed he did in the dark She put her hand into her purse , and gave him twenty mark . Heres money for thy work said she and I thank thee for thy pain , And when my Coldron mending lacks I'll send for thee again . with heigh , etc The Tinker he was well content for that which he had done , So took his budget on his back and quickly he was gone . Then the Lady to her husband went O my dear Lord quoth she I have set the bravest Tinker at work that ever you did see . with heigh , etc No fault at all this Tinker hath but he takes dear for his work , That little time that he wrought here it cost me twenty mark If you had been so wise quoth he for to have held your own , Before you set him to his work the price you might have known with heigh , etc Pray hold your peace my Lord quoth she and think it not too dear , If you could doo't so well twould save you forty pound a year . With that the Lord most lovingly to make all things amends , He kindly kissed his Lady gay and so they both were friends . with heigh , etc You merry Tinkers every one that hear this new made Sonnet When as you do a Ladies work be sure you think upon it , Drive home your nails to the very head and do your work prefoundly . And then no doubt your Mistress's will pay you for it soundly . with heigh etc Printed for F. Coles T. Vere , and W Gilbertson Room for a Jovial Tinker old Brass to mend ; OR , Here is a Tinker full of mettle The which can mend pot pan or Kettle , For stopping of holes is his delight His work goes forward day and night If there be any women brave , whose Coldrons need of mending have Send for this Tinker never deny him He'l do your work well if you try him . A proof of him I'll forthwith show Cause you his workmanship may know The tune is ; Behold the man , etc IT was a Lady of the North , she lov'd a Gentleman . And knew not well what course to take to use him now and than , Wherefore she writ a Letter , and seal'd it with her hand , And bid him be a Tinker to mend both pot and pan . with a heigh ho heigh derry derry down with hey trey down down derry . And when the merry Gentleman the Letter he did read , He god a budget on his back and Apron with all speed , His pretty shears and pincers so well they did agree , With a long pike staff upon his back came tripping o're the Lee. with a heigh , etc When he came to the Ladies house , he knocked at the gate , Then answered this Lady gay who knocketh there so late ? This I Madam the Tinker said , I work for gold and fee . If you have any broken pots or pans come bring them all to me , with a heigh , etc , I am the bravest Tinker that lives beneath the Sun , If you have any work to do you shall have it well done . I have brass within my budget . and punching under my Apron , I'm come unto your Ladyship and mean to mend your Coldron . with heigh . I prithee said the Lady gay . bring now thy budget in , I have store of work for thee to do if thou wilt once begin , Now when the Tinker he came in that did the budget bear , God bless quoth he your Ladyship God save you Madam fair . with heigh etc But when the Lady knew his face , she then began to wink , Hast lusty Butler then quoth she , to fetch the man some drink . Give him such meat as we do eat , and drink as we do use , It is not for a Tinkers Trad [ e ] good liquour to refuse . with heigh ho heigh derry derry down with hey tre down down derry . BUt when that he had eat and drunk the truth of all is so , The Lady took him by the sleeve her work to him to show . Set up thy Tools Tinker quoth she and see there be none lost , And mend my Kittle handsomely what ere it does me cost . with heigh , etc Your work Madam shall be well done if you will pay me for't , For every nail that I do drive you shall give me a mark . If I do not drive the nail to 'th head I'll have nothing for my pain And what I do receive of you , shall be return'd again . with heigh , etc At last being come into the Room where he the work should do The Lady lay down on the bed so did the Tinker too : Although the Tinker knocked amain the Lady was not offended , But before that she rose from the bed her Coldron was well mended with heigh , etc But when his work was at and end wh [ i ] changed he did in the dark She put her hand into her purse , and gave him twenty mark . Heres money for thy work said she and I thank thee for thy pain , And when my Coldron mending lacks I'll send for thee again . with heigh , etc The Tinker he was well content for that which he had done , So took his budget on his back and quickly he was gone . Then the Lady to her husband went O my dear Lord quoth she I have set the bravest Tinker at work that ever you did see . with heigh , etc No fault at all this Tinker hath but he takes dear for his work , That little time that he wrought here it cost me twenty mark If you had been so wise quoth he for to have held your own , Before you set him to his work the price you might have known with heigh , etc Pray hold your peace my Lord quoth she and think it not too dear , If you could doo't so well twould save you forty pound a year . With that the Lord most lovingly to make all things amends , He kindly kissed his Lady gay and so they both were friends . with heigh , etc You merry Tinkers every one that hear this new made Sonnet When as you do a Ladies work be sure you think upon it , Drive home your nails to the very head and do your work prefoundly . And then no doubt your Mistress's will pay you for it soundly . with heigh etc Printed for F. Coles T. Vere , and W Gilbertson 