The Royal Recreation Of jovial ANGLERS . Proving that all Men are Intanglers , And all Professions are turn'd Anglers . To the Tune of , Amarillis . OF all the Recreations which attend on Humane Nature , There's nothing sores so high a pitch , or is of such a Stature , As is a Subtle Anglers life , in all Men's Approbation : For Anglers tricks , do daily mix , with every Corporation . When Eve and Adam liv'd by love , and had no cause for Jangling , The Devil did the Waters move , the Serpent fell to Angling : He Baits his Hook , with Godlike look , quoth he , this will entangle her : The woman Chops , and down she drops : the Devil was first and Angler . Physicians , Lawyers , and Divines , are most ingenious Janglers ; And he that tries , shall find in fine that all of them are Anglers : While grave Divines do fish for souls Physicians , like Cormudgeons , Do bait with Health to fish for Wealth ; and Lawyers fish for Gudgeons , A Politician , too , is One , concern'd in Piscatory ; He Writs , and Fights , Units & Slights to Purchase Wealth , and Glory ; His Plumets Sounds , the Kingdoms Bounds to make the Fish Nibble ; He draws 'em with a Past of Lies , and he blinds them with the Bible . The second Part , to the same Tune . A Fisherman Subdued a Place in spite of Locks and Staples , The Warlike Massianello was a Fisherman of Naples , Commanded forty thousand Men , and prov'd a Royal Wrangler : You ne're shall see the like again , of such a famous Angler . Upon the Exchange , 'twixt twelve & one meets many a neat intangler ; Most Merchantmen , not one in ten but is a cunning Angler , And ( like the Fish in the Brook , ) Brother does fish for Brother ; A golden Bait hangs at the Hook , and they Fish for one another . A Shopkeeper I next prefer , a Formal Man in black , sir . That throws his Angle every where , and cries What is't you lack , sir , Fine Silks and Stuffs , or Hoods & Muffs but if a Courtier prove the Intangler , My Citizen must look too't then , or the Fish will catch the Angler . A Lover is and Angler too , and Baits his Hook with Kisses ; He plays and toys , and fain would do , but often times he misses : He gives her Rings , and such fine things as Fan or Muff , or Night-hood : But if you'l Cheat , a City Peat , you must bait her with a Knighthood . There is no Angler like a Wench stark-naked in the Water , She'l make you leave both Trowt and Tench and throw your self in after : Your Hook and Line , she will confine , the Entangled is the Intangler ? And this I fear , hath spoyl'd the Ware of many a jovial Angler . If you will trowl , for a Scriveners soul cast in a rich young Gallan To take a Courtier by the powl , throw out a golden Talent ; And yet I doubt , the draught will not Compound for half the charge on' But if you'l catch , the Devil at a snatch go bait him with a Sergeant . Thus have I made the Anglers Trade to stand above defiance , For like the Mathematic Art , It runs through every Science , If with my Angling Song , I can with Mirth and Pleasure seize ye , I'le bait my Hook with Wit again , and Angle still to please you . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , W. Gilbertson , and J. Wright . The Royal Recreation Of jovial ANGLERS . Proving that all Men are Intanglers , And all Professions are turn'd Anglers . To the Tune of , Amarillis . OF all the Recreations which attend on Humane Nature , There's nothing sores so high a pitch , or is of such a Stature , As is a Subtle Anglers life , in all Men's Approbation : For Anglers tricks , do daily mix , with every Corporation . When Eve and Adam liv'd by love , and had no cause for Jangling , The Devil did the Waters move , the Serpent fell to Angling : He Baits his Hook , with Godlike look , quoth he , this will entangle her : The woman Chops , and down she drops : the Devil was first and Angler . Physicians , Lawyers , and Divines , are most ingenious Janglers ; And he that tries , shall find in fine that all of them are Anglers : While grave Divines do fish for souls Physicians , like Cormudgeons , Do bait with Health to fish for Wealth ; and Lawyers fish for Gudgeons , A Politician , too , is One , concern'd in Piscatory ; He Writs , and Fights , Units & Slights to Purchase Wealth , and Glory ; His Plumets Sounds , the Kingdoms Bounds to make the Fish Nibble ; He draws 'em with a Past of Lies , and he blinds them with the Bible . The second Part , to the same Tune . A Fisherman Subdued a Place in spite of Locks and Staples , The Warlike Massianello was a Fisherman of Naples , Commanded forty thousand Men , and prov'd a Royal Wrangler : You ne're shall see the like again , of such a famous Angler . Upon the Exchange , 'twixt twelve & one meets many a neat intangler ; Most Merchantmen , not one in ten but is a cunning Angler , And ( like the Fish in the Brook , ) Brother does fish for Brother ; A golden Bait hangs at the Hook , and they Fish for one another . A Shopkeeper I next prefer , a Formal Man in black , sir . That throws his Angle every where , and cries What is't you lack , sir , Fine Silks and Stuffs , or Hoods & Muffs but if a Courtier prove the Intangler , My Citizen must look too't then , or the Fish will catch the Angler . A Lover is and Angler too , and Baits his Hook with Kisses ; He plays and toys , and fain would do , but often times he misses : He gives her Rings , and such fine things as Fan or Muff , or Night-hood : But if you'l Cheat , a City Peat , you must bait her with a Knighthood . There is no Angler like a Wench stark-naked in the Water , She'l make you leave both Trowt and Tench and throw your self in after : Your Hook and Line , she will confine , the Entangled is the Intangler ? And this I fear , hath spoyl'd the Ware of many a jovial Angler . If you will trowl , for a Scriveners soul cast in a rich young Gallan To take a Courtier by the powl , throw out a golden Talent ; And yet I doubt , the draught will not Compound for half the charge on' But if you'l catch , the Devil at a snatch go bait him with a Sergeant . Thus have I made the Anglers Trade to stand above defiance , For like the Mathematic Art , It runs through every Science , If with my Angling Song , I can with Mirth and Pleasure seize ye , I'le bait my Hook with Wit again , and Angle still to please you . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , W. Gilbertson , and J. Wright . 