The dainty Damsels Dream : OR , Cupids Visions . The Maid saw such strange Visions in her sleep , When she a wak'd it forc'd her for to weep ; She dreaming lay , and thought her Love lay by , But he alas was not at that time nigh . Then lift and you shall hear the Damsels Dream , And afterwards what followed the same To the Tune of , As she lay sleeping in her bed . AS I lay on my lovely head , I fell into a dream , God Cupid he attended me , and straight upon the same . The Chamber where I lodged in me thought was all on fire , Then Mars and Jupiter came in with wrath and furious ire . After came Venus with her train , of Nymph's most fair and bright , And pricked my heart in every vain much like to kill me quite ; I knew no reason why their rage and anger should be so , Why then quoth Venus to thy self , thou art a mortal foe . There is a young man loves thee deer , and now is like to die , Because for him thou dost not care that is the reason why , That thou art punished so soar here in thy naked bed , And if thou wilt not yield to love , we mean to kill thee dead . Fair Queen , quoth I , grant me this boon I may so happy be For to present him to my view , that I the man may see , And if that I can fancy him , there is no more to do ; But I will yield to be his love , and kiss and hug him too . With that the flames all qenched was and all the coasts was clear , And then a proper handsome youth , did in my sighed appear ; Like young Adonis in his prime , this gallant seem's to be Of courage bold , and valour brave , and fortitude was he . The second Part , To the same Tune . HIs face like to and Angels was his eyes like stars did shine , In every part from top to toe , he seemed a Saint divine , His sweet perfumed honeyed breath did bear so rare a smell , The richest Odours in the world , for sent it did excel . With courtly words and compliments he did me kindly greet , Crossing my lips ten thousand times , with kisses soft and sweet ; In his right hand a purse of gold he had , and did me give , And told me I should never want such Coin whilst I did live . It ravished my senses all , and set my heart on fire , His countenance for to behold , it made me to admire ? So that I much desired then to have his company , His comely person to embrace as I in bed did lie . His hose and doublet he stripped off , and came into my bed , Saying that he must master be , and have my maiden head ; Good lack , how willing then was I his love to entertain . The thought of actium moved me in every limb and vain . When all my vitals thus were rais'd , and ready for the sport , Cupid , and Venus stole away and so broke up the sport ; Even so departed all the Nymph's , and straight upon the same I wak'd and wep , because I saw all things was but a dream . Fie upon dreams and found delights , which thus desturbs the mind 'Tis better for to be awak'd , and exercise by kind ; When as I dream'd I had a love , and gold , and pleasure store ; But when I wak'd I saw none such which makes me grieve the more . FINIS . L.P. London Printed for John Andrews , at the White-Lyon , in Pie-corner . The dainty Damsels Dream : OR , Cupids Visions . The Maid saw such strange Visions in her sleep , When she a wak'd it forc'd her for to weep ; She dreaming lay , and thought her Love lay by , But he alas was not at that time nigh . Then lift and you shall hear the Damsels Dream , And afterwards what followed the same To the Tune of , As she lay sleeping in her bed . AS I lay on my lovely head , I fell into a dream , God Cupid he attended me , and straight upon the same . The Chamber where I lodged in me thought was all on fire , Then Mars and Jupiter came in with wrath and furious ire . After came Venus with her train , of Nymph's most fair and bright , And pricked my heart in every vain much like to kill me quite ; I knew no reason why their rage and anger should be so , Why then quoth Venus to thy self , thou art a mortal foe . There is a young man loves thee deer , and now is like to die , Because for him thou dost not care that is the reason why , That thou art punished so soar here in thy naked bed , And if thou wilt not yield to love , we mean to kill thee dead . Fair Queen , quoth I , grant me this boon I may so happy be For to present him to my view , that I the man may see , And if that I can fancy him , there is no more to do ; But I will yield to be his love , and kiss and hug him too . With that the flames all qenched was and all the coasts was clear , And then a proper handsome youth , did in my sighed appear ; Like young Adonis in his prime , this gallant seem's to be Of courage bold , and valour brave , and fortitude was he . The second Part , To the same Tune . HIs face like to and Angels was his eyes like stars did shine , In every part from top to toe , he seemed a Saint divine , His sweet perfumed honeyed breath did bear so rare a smell , The richest Odours in the world , for sent it did excel . With courtly words and compliments he did me kindly greet , Crossing my lips ten thousand times , with kisses soft and sweet ; In his right hand a purse of gold he had , and did me give , And told me I should never want such Coin whilst I did live . It ravished my senses all , and set my heart on fire , His countenance for to behold , it made me to admire ? So that I much desired then to have his company , His comely person to embrace as I in bed did lie . His hose and doublet he stripped off , and came into my bed , Saying that he must master be , and have my maiden head ; Good lack , how willing then was I his love to entertain . The thought of actium moved me in every limb and vain . When all my vitals thus were rais'd , and ready for the sport , Cupid , and Venus stole away and so broke up the sport ; Even so departed all the Nymph's , and straight upon the same I wak'd and wep , because I saw all things was but a dream . Fie upon dreams and found delights , which thus desturbs the mind 'Tis better for to be awak'd , and exercise by kind ; When as I dream'd I had a love , and gold , and pleasure store ; But when I wak'd I saw none such which makes me grieve the more . FINIS . L.P. London Printed for John Andrews , at the White-Lyon , in Pie-corner . 