A Farewell to Gravesend . Where Noble Seamen spend their Coin , Why should they be abus'd : Then let them stay from thence away , where they are strangely us'd . Tune of , Heigh Boys up go we . THe wanton Girls of Gravesend Town have now quite lost my heart ; Maintained by the Seamen brave , but ne're will take their par They'r foolish , I and simple too , yea , pampered also , I'le nothing have with them to do , for a trick that I do know . The first that ever came to town , she was right Pintle bred , A Girl that true and constant is , to please men in the Bed : While you have Gold and Silver store , she'l any whither go , But now I will trust her no more , for a trick that I do know . There is a bonny handsome Girl , that Lives beneath the Sun , A wench that's kind and willing too , and ready for a run : She'l walk with you from place to place , where e're you please to go , She'l kiss and play , both night and day , for a trick , etc Another Girl there is also , as Fierce as any Dragon , She kindness will unto you show , if you call for your Flagon : And when your money does fallen short , she'l say 'tis time to go , And there you must no longer sport , for a trick , etc Over the way , I dare to say , if you do think it fit , There you may have a Girl most brave , has neither fear nor wi From ten pound to a shilling , she will stoop , though 'tis too low Her Love I will no longer be , for a trick , etc There is another Daulting School , that is within the Town , Of any man they'l make a fool , when drink gets in his Crown : But now I think , by Loving Chink , the Sign is pull'd full Low , Then have a care , and come not there , for a trick , etc Another house is in the Town , that I shall ne'r forget ; There Fortune once on me did frown , I lost both Coin and wi My head was brought down to the ground , methought exceeding low , But I'le come there no more , I swear , for a trick , etc There's more that live in Gravesend town , that here I will not name , To their disgrace it would redound , and be much to their shame : About Koa they most do dwell , I am informed so , I'le ne'r come there , into their Snare , for a trick , etc Neptunes brave Boys now look about , that venture lives for money , And why should you that are so stout , thus dote upon a Conney : When this too late you may repent , and some have found it so , Gravesend ne'r will your Pockets fill , for a trick , etc He that is wise , let him despise , such wenches as are there , And you that had your pockets picked , I hope will have a care : And come no more , upon that Shore , where you were served so , Be your own friend , and leave Gravesend , for a trick that I do know . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur street , without Newgate . A Farewell to Gravesend . Where Noble Seamen spend their Coin , Why should they be abus'd : Then let them stay from thence away , where they are strangely us'd . Tune of , Heigh Boys up go we . THe wanton Girls of Gravesend Town have now quite lost my heart ; Maintained by the Seamen brave , but ne're will take their par They'r foolish , I and simple too , yea , pampered also , I'le nothing have with them to do , for a trick that I do know . The first that ever came to town , she was right Pintle bred , A Girl that true and constant is , to please men in the Bed : While you have Gold and Silver store , she'l any whither go , But now I will trust her no more , for a trick that I do know . There is a bonny handsome Girl , that Lives beneath the Sun , A wench that's kind and willing too , and ready for a run : She'l walk with you from place to place , where e're you please to go , She'l kiss and play , both night and day , for a trick , etc Another Girl there is also , as Fierce as any Dragon , She kindness will unto you show , if you call for your Flagon : And when your money does fallen short , she'l say 'tis time to go , And there you must no longer sport , for a trick , etc Over the way , I dare to say , if you do think it fit , There you may have a Girl most brave , has neither fear nor wi From ten pound to a shilling , she will stoop , though 'tis too low Her Love I will no longer be , for a trick , etc There is another Daulting School , that is within the Town , Of any man they'l make a fool , when drink gets in his Crown : But now I think , by Loving Chink , the Sign is pull'd full Low , Then have a care , and come not there , for a trick , etc Another house is in the Town , that I shall ne'r forget ; There Fortune once on me did frown , I lost both Coin and wi My head was brought down to the ground , methought exceeding low , But I'le come there no more , I swear , for a trick , etc There's more that live in Gravesend town , that here I will not name , To their disgrace it would redound , and be much to their shame : About Koa they most do dwell , I am informed so , I'le ne'r come there , into their Snare , for a trick , etc Neptunes brave Boys now look about , that venture lives for money , And why should you that are so stout , thus dote upon a Conney : When this too late you may repent , and some have found it so , Gravesend ne'r will your Pockets fill , for a trick , etc He that is wise , let him despise , such wenches as are there , And you that had your pockets picked , I hope will have a care : And come no more , upon that Shore , where you were served so , Be your own friend , and leave Gravesend , for a trick that I do know . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur street , without Newgate . A Farewell to Gravesend . Where Noble Seamen spend their Coin , Why should they be abus'd : Then let them stay from thence away , where they are strangely us'd . Tune of , Heigh Boys up go we . THe wanton Girls of Gravesend Town have now quite lost my heart ; Maintained by the Seamen brave , but ne're will take their par They'r foolish , I and simple too , yea , pampered also , I'le nothing have with them to do , for a trick that I do know . The first that ever came to town , she was right Pintle bred , A Girl that true and constant is , to please men in the Bed : While you have Gold and Silver store , she'l any whither go , But now I will trust her no more , for a trick that I do know . There is a bonny handsome Girl , that Lives beneath the Sun , A wench that's kind and willing too , and ready for a run : She'l walk with you from place to place , where e're you please to go , She'l kiss and play , both night and day , for a trick , etc Another Girl there is also , as Fierce as any Dragon , She kindness will unto you show , if you call for your Flagon : And when your money does fallen short , she'l say 'tis time to go , And there you must no longer sport , for a trick , etc Over the way , I dare to say , if you do think it fit , There you may have a Girl most brave , has neither fear nor wi From ten pound to a shilling , she will stoop , though 'tis too low Her Love I will no longer be , for a trick , etc There is another Daulting School , that is within the Town , Of any man they'l make a fool , when drink gets in his Crown : But now I think , by Loving Chink , the Sign is pull'd full Low , Then have a care , and come not there , for a trick , etc Another house is in the Town , that I shall ne'r forget ; There Fortune once on me did frown , I lost both Coin and wi My head was brought down to the ground , methought exceeding low , But I'le come there no more , I swear , for a trick , etc There's more that live in Gravesend town , that here I will not name , To their disgrace it would redound , and be much to their shame : About Koa they most do dwell , I am informed so , I'le ne'r come there , into their Snare , for a trick , etc Neptunes brave Boys now look about , that venture lives for money , And why should you that are so stout , thus dote upon a Conney : When this too late you may repent , and some have found it so , Gravesend ne'r will your Pockets fill , for a trick , etc He that is wise , let him despise , such wenches as are there , And you that had your pockets picked , I hope will have a care : And come no more , upon that Shore , where you were served so , Be your own friend , and leave Gravesend , for a trick that I do know . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur street , without Newgate . A Farewell to Gravesend . Where Noble Seamen spend their Coin , Why should they be abus'd : Then let them stay from thence away , where they are strangely us'd . Tune of , Heigh Boys up go we . THe wanton Girls of Gravesend Town have now quite lost my heart ; Maintained by the Seamen brave , but ne're will take their par They'r foolish , I and simple too , yea , pampered also , I'le nothing have with them to do , for a trick that I do know . The first that ever came to town , she was right Pintle bred , A Girl that true and constant is , to please men in the Bed : While you have Gold and Silver store , she'l any whither go , But now I will trust her no more , for a trick that I do know . There is a bonny handsome Girl , that Lives beneath the Sun , A wench that's kind and willing too , and ready for a run : She'l walk with you from place to place , where e're you please to go , She'l kiss and play , both night and day , for a trick , etc Another Girl there is also , as Fierce as any Dragon , She kindness will unto you show , if you call for your Flagon : And when your money does fallen short , she'l say 'tis time to go , And there you must no longer sport , for a trick , etc Over the way , I dare to say , if you do think it fit , There you may have a Girl most brave , has neither fear nor wi From ten pound to a shilling , she will stoop , though 'tis too low Her Love I will no longer be , for a trick , etc There is another Daulting School , that is within the Town , Of any man they'l make a fool , when drink gets in his Crown : But now I think , by Loving Chink , the Sign is pull'd full Low , Then have a care , and come not there , for a trick , etc Another house is in the Town , that I shall ne'r forget ; There Fortune once on me did frown , I lost both Coin and wi My head was brought down to the ground , methought exceeding low , But I'le come there no more , I swear , for a trick , etc There's more that live in Gravesend town , that here I will not name , To their disgrace it would redound , and be much to their shame : About Koa they most do dwell , I am informed so , I'le ne'r come there , into their Snare , for a trick , etc Neptunes brave Boys now look about , that venture lives for money , And why should you that are so stout , thus dote upon a Conney : When this too late you may repent , and some have found it so , Gravesend ne'r will your Pockets fill , for a trick , etc He that is wise , let him despise , such wenches as are there , And you that had your pockets picked , I hope will have a care : And come no more , upon that Shore , where you were served so , Be your own friend , and leave Gravesend , for a trick that I do know . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur street , without Newgate . 