A Strange Apparition : OR , The second Meeting of two self-murdering Lovers . Phillis and Phillander . Mistaken Phillis Kill'd her self , thinking Philander Slave ; Philander quickly followed her , and now they'r met again . To the Tune of , O Cruel bloody Fate . Sitting beneath the Shade , of the Myrtle blooming Tree , My self to Recreate , a Noise surprised me : Such pleasant Music I did hear , the world were strangers too , with Notes so sweet , I ne'r could meet , no mortal ever knew . I hearkened to his Charms , and gave attentive ear , I then could fear no harm , each minute cost a tear From my poor eyes , & then such groans as eccho'd through the Air , with sighs so sad , said she I'm glad , far worse then with Despair . Ah my Philander dear , I never more shall see , What , have I left thee here : who fled from hence for thee ? & through the shades I went to search for thee my hearts Delight , but now I fear , I left thee here , I'm come for th'other sighed . The world i'le compass quite , Philander for to find , Since I have took this flight , to ease my troubled mind : I'le search each corner of the World , and wander through the Air , since it is so , he's not below , i'le seek to find him there . My Spirit cannot rest , till him again I find , He thinks I die in jest , else would not be unkind : But had he seen my desperate wound , made with a willing stroke , he'd then confess in bitterness , despair did it provoke . Like a true lover then , he would have followed me , And overtook again , my Spirit that did flee : But since he is not yet come there , where I did him expect , I cannot stay , but must away you powers my course derect . Just as she fled away , this found I then did hear , My lovely phillis stay , philander's drawing near : The Music then began again , so pleasant to my ear , I stood amaz'd , about me gaz'd , and saw their meeting there . And in each Lovers breast , I did perceive a Wound , My Soul was then oppressed , and I was like to swoon : She opens then her bloody arms , and him she caught between , I chid mine eyes , for telling Lies , and thought it was a dream . Philander art thou come ? did Phillis Spirit say , Now to Elizium , with joy let's haste away , Ah Phillis , 'twas thy great mistake , caus'd thee to pierce thy breast , which when I found , mine I did wound , with sorrow then oppressed . But since we're met again , we never more shall part , To grieve now is in vain , we're now beyond all smar In folded arms they fled away , with such a Harmony , no mortal e're , did ever hear , but I that was thereby . They posted to the shade , which Lovers entertain , These joys are great , they said , that we should meet again : Were we to live on earth again , such joys we could not find , as the sweet shade , For Lovers made , who never prov'd unkind . Printed for Jo. Wright , J. Clarke W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . A Strange Apparition : OR , The second Meeting of two self-murdering Lovers . Phillis and Phillander . Mistaken Phillis Kill'd her self , thinking Philander Slave ; Philander quickly followed her , and now they'r met again . To the Tune of , O Cruel bloody Fate . Sitting beneath the Shade , of the Myrtle blooming Tree , My self to Recreate , a Noise surprised me : Such pleasant Music I did hear , the world were strangers too , with Notes so sweet , I ne'r could meet , no mortal ever knew . I hearkened to his Charms , and gave attentive ear , I then could fear no harm , each minute cost a tear From my poor eyes , & then such groans as eccho'd through the Air , with sighs so sad , said she I'm glad , far worse then with Despair . Ah my Philander dear , I never more shall see , What , have I left thee here : who fled from hence for thee ? & through the shades I went to search for thee my hearts Delight , but now I fear , I left thee here , I'm come for th'other sighed . The world i'le compass quite , Philander for to find , Since I have took this flight , to ease my troubled mind : I'le search each corner of the World , and wander through the Air , since it is so , he's not below , i'le seek to find him there . My Spirit cannot rest , till him again I find , He thinks I die in jest , else would not be unkind : But had he seen my desperate wound , made with a willing stroke , he'd then confess in bitterness , despair did it provoke . Like a true lover then , he would have followed me , And overtook again , my Spirit that did flee : But since he is not yet come there , where I did him expect , I cannot stay , but must away you powers my course derect . Just as she fled away , this found I then did hear , My lovely phillis stay , philander's drawing near : The Music then began again , so pleasant to my ear , I stood amaz'd , about me gaz'd , and saw their meeting there . And in each Lovers breast , I did perceive a Wound , My Soul was then oppressed , and I was like to swoon : She opens then her bloody arms , and him she caught between , I chid mine eyes , for telling Lies , and thought it was a dream . Philander art thou come ? did Phillis Spirit say , Now to Elizium , with joy let's haste away , Ah Phillis , 'twas thy great mistake , caus'd thee to pierce thy breast , which when I found , mine I did wound , with sorrow then oppressed . But since we're met again , we never more shall part , To grieve now is in vain , we're now beyond all smar In folded arms they fled away , with such a Harmony , no mortal e're , did ever hear , but I that was thereby . They posted to the shade , which Lovers entertain , These joys are great , they said , that we should meet again : Were we to live on earth again , such joys we could not find , as the sweet shade , For Lovers made , who never prov'd unkind . Printed for Jo. Wright , J. Clarke W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 