The Soldiers Fortune : OR The Taking of MARDIKE . WHen first Mardike was made a Prey , 'Twas Courage that carry'd the Fort away ; Then do not loose your Valours Prize , By gazing on your Mistress Eyes ; But put off your Petticoat-Parley ; Potting and sotting , & laughing and quaffing Canary , Will make a good Soldier miscarry , And never Travel for true Renown : Then turn to your Martial Mistress , Fair Minerva the Soldiers Sister is ; Rallying & sallying , with gashing & slashing of Wounds , With turning and burning of Towns , Sir , Is a high step to a great men Throne . Let bold Bellona's Brewer frown , And his Tun shall overflow the Town ; And give the Cobbler Sword and Fate , And a Tinker may trappan the State : Such fortunate Foes as these be , Turn'd the Crown to a Cross at Naseby : Father and Mother , and Sister & Brother confounded , And many a good Family wounded By a terrible turn of Fate . He that can kill a Man , thunder and plunder the town , sir , And pull his Enemies down , Sir , In time may be and Officer great . It is the Sword do's order all , Makes Peasants rise , and Princes fallen ; All Syllogisms in vain are spilled , No Logic like a Basket-Hilt ; It handles 'em joint by joint Sir ; Quilling & drilling , and spilling and killing profoundly , Until the Disputers on Ground lie , And have never a word to say : Unless it be quarter , quarter , truth is confuted by a Carter , By stripping & nipping , & ripping and quipping Evasions , Does Conquer a power of Persuasions , Aristotle hath lost the Day . The Musket bears so great a Force , To Learning it has no remorse ; The Priest , the Layman , and the Lord , Find no distinction from the Sword ; Tan-tarra , Tan-tarra , the Trumpet , Has blown away Babylon's Strumpe Now the Walls begin to crack , The Counsellors are struck dumb too , By the Parchment upon the Drum too ; Dub-a-dub , dub-a-dub , dub-a-dub , dub-a-dub , and Alarm , Each Corporal now can outdare 'um , Learned Littleton goes to rack . Then since the Sword so bright does shine , We'll leave our Wenches and our Wine , And follow Mars where ere he runs , And turn our Pots and Pipes to Guns : The Bottles shall be Granades , We'll bounce about the Bravadoes , By huffing and puffing , and snuffing and cuffing the French Boys , Whose Brows has been dy'd in a Trench Boys ; Well god Fame is a Warrier's Wife , The Drawer shall be the Drummer , We'll be Colonels all next Summer ; By hilting and tilting , and pointing and jointing like brave Boys , We shall have Gold , or a Grave Boys , And there's and end of a Soldiers Life . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden Ball in Pye-Corner . The Soldiers Fortune : OR The Taking of MARDIKE . WHen first Mardike was made a Prey , 'Twas Courage that carry'd the Fort away ; Then do not loose your Valours Prize , By gazing on your Mistress Eyes ; But put off your Petticoat-Parley ; Potting and sotting , & laughing and quaffing Canary , Will make a good Soldier miscarry , And never Travel for true Renown : Then turn to your Martial Mistress , Fair Minerva the Soldiers Sister is ; Rallying & sallying , with gashing & slashing of Wounds , With turning and burning of Towns , Sir , Is a high step to a great men Throne . Let bold Bellona's Brewer frown , And his Tun shall overflow the Town ; And give the Cobbler Sword and Fate , And a Tinker may trappan the State : Such fortunate Foes as these be , Turn'd the Crown to a Cross at Naseby : Father and Mother , and Sister & Brother confounded , And many a good Family wounded By a terrible turn of Fate . He that can kill a Man , thunder and plunder the town , sir , And pull his Enemies down , Sir , In time may be and Officer great . It is the Sword do's order all , Makes Peasants rise , and Princes fallen ; All Syllogisms in vain are spilled , No Logic like a Basket-Hilt ; It handles 'em joint by joint Sir ; Quilling & drilling , and spilling and killing profoundly , Until the Disputers on Ground lie , And have never a word to say : Unless it be quarter , quarter , truth is confuted by a Carter , By stripping & nipping , & ripping and quipping Evasions , Does Conquer a power of Persuasions , Aristotle hath lost the Day . The Musket bears so great a Force , To Learning it has no remorse ; The Priest , the Layman , and the Lord , Find no distinction from the Sword ; Tan-tarra , Tan-tarra , the Trumpet , Has blown away Babylon's Strumpe Now the Walls begin to crack , The Counsellors are struck dumb too , By the Parchment upon the Drum too ; Dub-a-dub , dub-a-dub , dub-a-dub , dub-a-dub , and Alarm , Each Corporal now can outdare 'um , Learned Littleton goes to rack . Then since the Sword so bright does shine , We'll leave our Wenches and our Wine , And follow Mars where ere he runs , And turn our Pots and Pipes to Guns : The Bottles shall be Granades , We'll bounce about the Bravadoes , By huffing and puffing , and snuffing and cuffing the French Boys , Whose Brows has been dy'd in a Trench Boys ; Well god Fame is a Warrier's Wife , The Drawer shall be the Drummer , We'll be Colonels all next Summer ; By hilting and tilting , and pointing and jointing like brave Boys , We shall have Gold , or a Grave Boys , And there's and end of a Soldiers Life . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden Ball in Pye-Corner . 