The Shoemakers delight . Or. A New Dialogue betwixt a West Country Shoemaker & his Love . Who after five years' Travel for her sake He bask return'd and she amends did make , For after he to her had told his mind She seemed not at all to him unkind , Young men & maids then read these lines and see How they in love did lovingly agree . To the Tune of , When Soll will cast no light . ON Midsummer day as I abroad was walking , A young man and a maid I herd a talking . Near to a shady Grove flowers were springing , And the brave Nightingale sweetly was singing . The youngman brisk and bold thus fell to woeing , And with his fair maid fain would be doing , With speeches meek and mild and kind entreating , Saying his heart would break if she forsake him . My joy and only dear pray thee believe me , If thou wilt be my wife isle never deceive thee No store of means I have I tell thee plainly , But i'le work day and night for to maintain thee . What I do promise thee shall be performed , By no one in the world thou shalt be wronged . I'll venture life or Limbs for thee my Jewel , Then be not thou unkind nor prove not cruel . I am not one of those that keeps a bragging , And of their house and land their tongues are wagging . My love is faithful bent then be contented , If thou wilt be my wife thou't ne'r repent it . My trade it still will hold this I am certain , A good Husband I will be my dearest darling , I am of Crispins trade a brave Shoemaker , He loved a princess dear and ne'r forsak't her , Nor i'le not thee forsake my dearest Betty , Thy smiling countenance shines so pretty , If I five thousand pound had in my keeping , Thou shouldst it all command my dearest sweating . So if thou canst but find in heart to love me , Speak freely now thy mind as it behooves thee , Speak freely from thy heart if thou wilt have me , And to thee i'le prove true as God shall save me . The Maids loving reply . My love and only dear , I joy to see thee . For when you absent were o ! how it did grieve me , Both day and night i'le swear I thought upon thee , I wondered in my heart what was come on thee . The Young man . These five long years my dear thou know'st I wander , In City and in Town like any stranger , And am return'd again once more to try thee , How can'st find in thy heart for to deny me . The Maid . Well seeing thou art returned thou art welcome to me , By all the powers above i'le not forgo thee . Though Father frown at me and mother murmur , All the friends that I have shall not part's in sunder . Because I find thee plain in words and speeches , You tell me that you have no store of riches , Me to maintain my dear be not thou fearful , I have five hundred pound if thou will be careful . Therefore be not dismayed but be contented , All the friends that I have shall not prevent it , But I will be thy wife and will endeavour To led a quiet life with thee for ever , The Young man . Oh! how my heart with joy , my dear hath filled , Because to my request kindly she yielded , Now we will live in peace and love together , As the old Proverb goes , like birds of a Feather . Thus you may plainly see that time and leisure , Many things brings to pass therefore Endeavour . Young men prove constant still maids do not dissemble , And then you need not fear for to live single . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in West Smithfield . The Shoemakers delight . Or. A New Dialogue betwixt a West Country Shoemaker & his Love . Who after five years' Travel for her sake He bask return'd and she amends did make , For after he to her had told his mind She seemed not at all to him unkind , Young men & maids then read these lines and see How they in love did lovingly agree . To the Tune of , When Soll will cast no light . ON Midsummer day as I abroad was walking , A young man and a maid I herd a talking . Near to a shady Grove flowers were springing , And the brave Nightingale sweetly was singing . The youngman brisk and bold thus fell to woeing , And with his fair maid fain would be doing , With speeches meek and mild and kind entreating , Saying his heart would break if she forsake him . My joy and only dear pray thee believe me , If thou wilt be my wife isle never deceive thee No store of means I have I tell thee plainly , But i'le work day and night for to maintain thee . What I do promise thee shall be performed , By no one in the world thou shalt be wronged . I'll venture life or Limbs for thee my Jewel , Then be not thou unkind nor prove not cruel . I am not one of those that keeps a bragging , And of their house and land their tongues are wagging . My love is faithful bent then be contented , If thou wilt be my wife thou't ne'r repent it . My trade it still will hold this I am certain , A good Husband I will be my dearest darling , I am of Crispins trade a brave Shoemaker , He loved a princess dear and ne'r forsak't her , Nor i'le not thee forsake my dearest Betty , Thy smiling countenance shines so pretty , If I five thousand pound had in my keeping , Thou shouldst it all command my dearest sweating . So if thou canst but find in heart to love me , Speak freely now thy mind as it behooves thee , Speak freely from thy heart if thou wilt have me , And to thee i'le prove true as God shall save me . The Maids loving reply . My love and only dear , I joy to see thee . For when you absent were o ! how it did grieve me , Both day and night i'le swear I thought upon thee , I wondered in my heart what was come on thee . The Young man . These five long years my dear thou know'st I wander , In City and in Town like any stranger , And am return'd again once more to try thee , How can'st find in thy heart for to deny me . The Maid . Well seeing thou art returned thou art welcome to me , By all the powers above i'le not forgo thee . Though Father frown at me and mother murmur , All the friends that I have shall not part's in sunder . Because I find thee plain in words and speeches , You tell me that you have no store of riches , Me to maintain my dear be not thou fearful , I have five hundred pound if thou will be careful . Therefore be not dismayed but be contented , All the friends that I have shall not prevent it , But I will be thy wife and will endeavour To led a quiet life with thee for ever , The Young man . Oh! how my heart with joy , my dear hath filled , Because to my request kindly she yielded , Now we will live in peace and love together , As the old Proverb goes , like birds of a Feather . Thus you may plainly see that time and leisure , Many things brings to pass therefore Endeavour . Young men prove constant still maids do not dissemble , And then you need not fear for to live single . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in West Smithfield . 