The Sorrowful Mother , OR , The Pious Daughters Last Farewell . She patiently did run her Raze , believ'd the Word of Truth ; And Death did willingly embrace , tho' in her blooming Youth . To the Tune of , Troy Town . This may be Printed , R. P. DEar Mother , I alas ! must leave the pleasures of this life , and you , Yet never seem to sighs or grieve , although I bid the world adieu ; Though Death now my life destroy , Yet we shall meet again in joy . My Daughter dear , and is it so ? that I indeed must part with thee ; This fills my heart with grief and woe ; from sorrow I shall ne'r be free ; , But languish here in deep despair , My grief is more then I can bear . Dear Mother , do not thus lament , my jays abundantly increase , To leave this world I am content , for I shall now lie down in peace , Such moan for me you need not make , Sure he that gives may freely take . To his good will I ought agree , but as thou art my Daughter dear , I weep and do lament to see : that Heavens hand is so severe ; To send thee to the silent Grave , No greater sorrow can I have . O that I could but you enjoin to exercise your patience still , And never murmur nor repine , against the Lords most gracious will ; For if he say , it shall be so , Why should I not be free to go ? My feeble Carcase now is weak , therefore I say my dearest friends , Unto the Lord alone I seek , to gain a pardon for my Sins : That so my Conscience may be clear , Death's cruel Dart i'de never fear . For it will me from grief release , as soon as he the stroke shall give , I having made my perfect peace , I now had rather die then live : Alas ! what is this present Life , But sorrow , trouble , care and strife . Her Friends was fill'd with grief and woe , so that they could not well refrain From tears which did in sorrow flow , they wrung their hands and wept amain With fainting voice , Oh then said she , Weep for your Sins and not for me . For I am going where I shall be happy to Eternity , Therefore to God for Mercy call , as knowing you must follow me : No Mortal in the world is free From Death's Usurping Tyranny . Tho' some you see in Pride appears , adorn'd in Silk and sweet Perfume . Altho' they flourish many year , yet Death at last will be their Doom they then must change their garments sweet [ eet ] For a poor Shroud or Winding-Sheet . Consider well what I have said , for I must leave you now , said she For here behold all round my Bed , sweet Messengers that waits for me Who on their Wings will me convey , Where peace and joys will ne'r decay . This does much comfort now afford , as knowing they my Soul will bring Into the presence of the Lord , where blessed Saints and Angels Si [ ng ; ] Then with a dying sighs , said she , Sweet Saviour now I come to thee . When she out of this world did go , her Mother's sorrow was not small , Each Friend did manifest her woe , by tears , which did like showers fallen : No tongue is able to express , Their sorrow , grief , and heaviness . A tender Mother did express those words unto her friends , and sai [ worser ; ] My grief and sorrow is the less , to see the happy end she made : A worthy pattern may she be , To Damsels now of each degree . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Gilded spur-street . The Sorrowful Mother , OR , The Pious Daughters Last Farewell . She patiently did run her Raze , believ'd the Word of Truth ; And Death did willingly embrace , tho' in her blooming Youth . To the Tune of , Troy Town . This may be Printed , R. P. DEar Mother , I alas ! must leave the pleasures of this life , and you , Yet never seem to sighs or grieve , although I bid the world adieu ; Though Death now my life destroy , Yet we shall meet again in joy . My Daughter dear , and is it so ? that I indeed must part with thee ; This fills my heart with grief and woe ; from sorrow I shall ne'r be free ; , But languish here in deep despair , My grief is more then I can bear . Dear Mother , do not thus lament , my jays abundantly increase , To leave this world I am content , for I shall now lie down in peace , Such moan for me you need not make , Sure he that gives may freely take . To his good will I ought agree , but as thou art my Daughter dear , I weep and do lament to see : that Heavens hand is so severe ; To send thee to the silent Grave , No greater sorrow can I have . O that I could but you enjoin to exercise your patience still , And never murmur nor repine , against the Lords most gracious will ; For if he say , it shall be so , Why should I not be free to go ? My feeble Carcase now is weak , therefore I say my dearest friends , Unto the Lord alone I seek , to gain a pardon for my Sins : That so my Conscience may be clear , Death's cruel Dart i'de never fear . For it will me from grief release , as soon as he the stroke shall give , I having made my perfect peace , I now had rather die then live : Alas ! what is this present Life , But sorrow , trouble , care and strife . Her Friends was fill'd with grief and woe , so that they could not well refrain From tears which did in sorrow flow , they wrung their hands and wept amain With fainting voice , Oh then said she , Weep for your Sins and not for me . For I am going where I shall be happy to Eternity , Therefore to God for Mercy call , as knowing you must follow me : No Mortal in the world is free From Death's Usurping Tyranny . Tho' some you see in Pride appears , adorn'd in Silk and sweet Perfume . Altho' they flourish many year , yet Death at last will be their Doom they then must change their garments sweet [ eet ] For a poor Shroud or Winding-Sheet . Consider well what I have said , for I must leave you now , said she For here behold all round my Bed , sweet Messengers that waits for me Who on their Wings will me convey , Where peace and joys will ne'r decay . This does much comfort now afford , as knowing they my Soul will bring Into the presence of the Lord , where blessed Saints and Angels Si [ ng ; ] Then with a dying sighs , said she , Sweet Saviour now I come to thee . When she out of this world did go , her Mother's sorrow was not small , Each Friend did manifest her woe , by tears , which did like showers fallen : No tongue is able to express , Their sorrow , grief , and heaviness . A tender Mother did express those words unto her friends , and sai [ worser ; ] My grief and sorrow is the less , to see the happy end she made : A worthy pattern may she be , To Damsels now of each degree . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Gilded spur-street . 