Colonel Sidney's Overthrow ; OR , And account of his Execution upon Tower-Hill , on Friday the 7th . of December , 1683. who was Condemned for High Treason against His Sacred Majesty , for endeavouring the Subversion of the Government , etc To the Tune of , Now , now the Fight's done . GOod People adieu , and fair England farewell , And you that Survive me pray never Rebel ; Be true to your Prince ; who's a Monarch indeed , And does not desire that a Subject should bleed : Be Loyal and true that your lives you may save , And bring not grey hairs with shame to the Grave . Take warning by me that am now on the brink Of Death , and my Spirits are ready to sink ; But that which most troubles me now I must die , Is , that I was guilty of Disloyalty : To your Prince then be Loyal , your lives seek to save , And bring not grey hairs with shame to the Grave . Poor I that have flourish'd in credit and fame , Now finish my days with dishonour and shame ; The name of a Sidney long famous hath been , But is somewhat Eclips'd by my weakness again : Then you that desire to live splendid and brave , bring not your grey hairs with grief to the Grave . Could I but redeem what is past and is gone , I would find other thoughts to be thinking upon ; Yea , and strive to reverse what will now prove my doom My happiness blast , and my Glory consume : Then you that desire your lives for to save , Bring not your grey hairs with grief to the Grave . But in vain I lament , and my Sentence is past , And now I am ready to breath out my las Be kind blessed Saviour , let me happy be , That I may live with thee to Eternity : Oh that I could now be so happy to save Poor Sidney's grey hairs with shame from the Grave . 'Twas the Pollick Pates that once pleaded for States , That brought me to this , and my Glory abates ; But now I do find it is all but in vain , My case to lament , or of sorrow complain : All you that desire your lives for to save , Be true , and with Glory you'l go to the Grave . Ther's some that before me already are gone , That many had mighty opinions on ; But yet when they looked pale death in the face , Methought I was moved to pity their case Yet now the same fate I must certainly have , And bring , etc God prosper and keep our most Sovereign King , And all that from his Royal Loins ever spring Oh let him in Glory still fit in his Throne , Whose mercy's admired by every one : but you that endeavour your lives for to save , be true to your King ; never matter the Grave . Now out of the World I am ready to go , To bliss or to pain , there is no man does know ; But I hope that my peace I have now made so well , That with my Creator I ever may dwell : but you that desire your lives for to save , be true , etc Thrice happy's the man that is Loyal and true , He freely when death comes bids all things adieu , He goes to the Grave with such quiet and rest , Because he believes he shall ever be blessed , That he will not endeavour his life for to save , Since Loyalty ever will bloom in the Grave . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . Colonel Sidney's Overthrow ; OR , And account of his Execution upon Tower-Hill , on Friday the 7th . of December , 1683. who was Condemned for High Treason against His Sacred Majesty , for endeavouring the Subversion of the Government , etc To the Tune of , Now , now the Fight's done . GOod People adieu , and fair England farewell , And you that Survive me pray never Rebel ; Be true to your Prince ; who's a Monarch indeed , And does not desire that a Subject should bleed : Be Loyal and true that your lives you may save , And bring not grey hairs with shame to the Grave . Take warning by me that am now on the brink Of Death , and my Spirits are ready to sink ; But that which most troubles me now I must die , Is , that I was guilty of Disloyalty : To your Prince then be Loyal , your lives seek to save , And bring not grey hairs with shame to the Grave . Poor I that have flourish'd in credit and fame , Now finish my days with dishonour and shame ; The name of a Sidney long famous hath been , But is somewhat Eclips'd by my weakness again : Then you that desire to live splendid and brave , bring not your grey hairs with grief to the Grave . Could I but redeem what is past and is gone , I would find other thoughts to be thinking upon ; Yea , and strive to reverse what will now prove my doom My happiness blast , and my Glory consume : Then you that desire your lives for to save , Bring not your grey hairs with grief to the Grave . But in vain I lament , and my Sentence is past , And now I am ready to breath out my las Be kind blessed Saviour , let me happy be , That I may live with thee to Eternity : Oh that I could now be so happy to save Poor Sidney's grey hairs with shame from the Grave . 'Twas the Pollick Pates that once pleaded for States , That brought me to this , and my Glory abates ; But now I do find it is all but in vain , My case to lament , or of sorrow complain : All you that desire your lives for to save , Be true , and with Glory you'l go to the Grave . Ther's some that before me already are gone , That many had mighty opinions on ; But yet when they looked pale death in the face , Methought I was moved to pity their case Yet now the same fate I must certainly have , And bring , etc God prosper and keep our most Sovereign King , And all that from his Royal Loins ever spring Oh let him in Glory still fit in his Throne , Whose mercy's admired by every one : but you that endeavour your lives for to save , be true to your King ; never matter the Grave . Now out of the World I am ready to go , To bliss or to pain , there is no man does know ; But I hope that my peace I have now made so well , That with my Creator I ever may dwell : but you that desire your lives for to save , be true , etc Thrice happy's the man that is Loyal and true , He freely when death comes bids all things adieu , He goes to the Grave with such quiet and rest , Because he believes he shall ever be blessed , That he will not endeavour his life for to save , Since Loyalty ever will bloom in the Grave . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . Colonel Sidney's Overthrow ; OR , And account of his Execution upon Tower-Hill , on Friday the 7th . of December , 1683. who was Condemned for High Treason against His Sacred Majesty , for endeavouring the Subversion of the Government , etc To the Tune of , Now , now the Fight's done . GOod People adieu , and fair England farewell , And you that Survive me pray never Rebel ; Be true to your Prince ; who's a Monarch indeed , And does not desire that a Subject should bleed : Be Loyal and true that your lives you may save , And bring not grey hairs with shame to the Grave . Take warning by me that am now on the brink Of Death , and my Spirits are ready to sink ; But that which most troubles me now I must die , Is , that I was guilty of Disloyalty : To your Prince then be Loyal , your lives seek to save , And bring not grey hairs with shame to the Grave . Poor I that have flourish'd in credit and fame , Now finish my days with dishonour and shame ; The name of a Sidney long famous hath been , But is somewhat Eclips'd by my weakness again : Then you that desire to live splendid and brave , bring not your grey hairs with grief to the Grave . Could I but redeem what is past and is gone , I would find other thoughts to be thinking upon ; Yea , and strive to reverse what will now prove my doom My happiness blast , and my Glory consume : Then you that desire your lives for to save , Bring not your grey hairs with grief to the Grave . But in vain I lament , and my Sentence is past , And now I am ready to breath out my las Be kind blessed Saviour , let me happy be , That I may live with thee to Eternity : Oh that I could now be so happy to save Poor Sidney's grey hairs with shame from the Grave . 'Twas the Pollick Pates that once pleaded for States , That brought me to this , and my Glory abates ; But now I do find it is all but in vain , My case to lament , or of sorrow complain : All you that desire your lives for to save , Be true , and with Glory you'l go to the Grave . Ther's some that before me already are gone , That many had mighty opinions on ; But yet when they looked pale death in the face , Methought I was moved to pity their case Yet now the same fate I must certainly have , And bring , etc God prosper and keep our most Sovereign King , And all that from his Royal Loins ever spring Oh let him in Glory still fit in his Throne , Whose mercy's admired by every one : but you that endeavour your lives for to save , be true to your King ; never matter the Grave . Now out of the World I am ready to go , To bliss or to pain , there is no man does know ; But I hope that my peace I have now made so well , That with my Creator I ever may dwell : but you that desire your lives for to save , be true , etc Thrice happy's the man that is Loyal and true , He freely when death comes bids all things adieu , He goes to the Grave with such quiet and rest , Because he believes he shall ever be blessed , That he will not endeavour his life for to save , Since Loyalty ever will bloom in the Grave . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . Colonel Sidney's Overthrow ; OR , And account of his Execution upon Tower-Hill , on Friday the 7th . of December , 1683. who was Condemned for High Treason against His Sacred Majesty , for endeavouring the Subversion of the Government , etc To the Tune of , Now , now the Fight's done . GOod People adieu , and fair England farewell , And you that Survive me pray never Rebel ; Be true to your Prince ; who's a Monarch indeed , And does not desire that a Subject should bleed : Be Loyal and true that your lives you may save , And bring not grey hairs with shame to the Grave . Take warning by me that am now on the brink Of Death , and my Spirits are ready to sink ; But that which most troubles me now I must die , Is , that I was guilty of Disloyalty : To your Prince then be Loyal , your lives seek to save , And bring not grey hairs with shame to the Grave . Poor I that have flourish'd in credit and fame , Now finish my days with dishonour and shame ; The name of a Sidney long famous hath been , But is somewhat Eclips'd by my weakness again : Then you that desire to live splendid and brave , bring not your grey hairs with grief to the Grave . Could I but redeem what is past and is gone , I would find other thoughts to be thinking upon ; Yea , and strive to reverse what will now prove my doom My happiness blast , and my Glory consume : Then you that desire your lives for to save , Bring not your grey hairs with grief to the Grave . But in vain I lament , and my Sentence is past , And now I am ready to breath out my las Be kind blessed Saviour , let me happy be , That I may live with thee to Eternity : Oh that I could now be so happy to save Poor Sidney's grey hairs with shame from the Grave . 'Twas the Pollick Pates that once pleaded for States , That brought me to this , and my Glory abates ; But now I do find it is all but in vain , My case to lament , or of sorrow complain : All you that desire your lives for to save , Be true , and with Glory you'l go to the Grave . Ther's some that before me already are gone , That many had mighty opinions on ; But yet when they looked pale death in the face , Methought I was moved to pity their case Yet now the same fate I must certainly have , And bring , etc God prosper and keep our most Sovereign King , And all that from his Royal Loins ever spring Oh let him in Glory still fit in his Throne , Whose mercy's admired by every one : but you that endeavour your lives for to save , be true to your King ; never matter the Grave . Now out of the World I am ready to go , To bliss or to pain , there is no man does know ; But I hope that my peace I have now made so well , That with my Creator I ever may dwell : but you that desire your lives for to save , be true , etc Thrice happy's the man that is Loyal and true , He freely when death comes bids all things adieu , He goes to the Grave with such quiet and rest , Because he believes he shall ever be blessed , That he will not endeavour his life for to save , Since Loyalty ever will bloom in the Grave . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . 