Gallantry All-a-Mode : Or , The Bully to the Life Here Fops & Boisterous Bully-Rocks are shown , The Gallant Feats they Practice in the Town ; They pass their Golden hours away in pleasure , Detest those doting Fools that live by measure . To a New Playhouse Tune : Viz. Let the Traitors Plot on . LEt the Cinick Zealots , Impose on Dull Sots , Rub Brothers' Gumbs with false Corals , Let the Dull Bearded Crowd , Insult and grow proud , And Preach up their Wheedling Morals : Let the Grave Blockheads fit , Muster up all their Wit , To Poach on the Sniveling Sister ; While that Stout Hectors we Do court , the jolly she That with fiery sparkling Carbuncle do's glister . Cho. Let Bumpers go round , Let Bumpers go round , While thus double armed we stand to our ground , And the dull Rogue that dare , Bawk his Liquour and spare ; Kick him out , Kick him out , While Bumpers go round . Let the Rascals declaim , Show the gay punks their shame Cry down their Paint & their patch-boxes Let the Blockheads repine At our brisk sparkling Wine , And covet our Goddess like Doxes : Let each whining dull Rogue , Fawn , Decoy , and Cologue , And wish to depose his old Gown Sir , Quit all Order , turn Bully , And at length prove a Cully , And like Bullyrocks to go roar about town Sir : Cho. Let Bumpers go round , Let Bumpers go round , While thus double armed we stand to our ground And the dull Rogue that dare , Bawk his Liquour and spare , Kick him out , Kick him out While Bumpers go round . While like Rockets we rove , We do imitate Jove , Both handsome and ugly we plunder , With drawn trusty Steel , The streets we do Reel , Like Cannons with shouts we do thunder : Our sole joys are Kisses , Bestow'd by brisk Misses , We Lavish and wallow in Pleasure , We detest the dull Fool , That does moap like and Owl , whose poor prisoner soul is confined by measure : Ch. Let Bumpers , etc We scorn the fools track , While we Revel in Sack , And in nature's full plenty do lavish , Our labouring Souls , We refresh with full Bowls , While other poor Mortals live slavish : All the night we do play , And sleep all the day , And we know no end of our Horning . Our full Bowls do weep , Every each Star asleep , And with dr [ oh ] wzy bowls we salute the dull Morning : Cho. Let Bumpers , etc Bright jewels we have , Then why should we crave The treasuries of the Magull , Boys , Our Noses do swell , With pure Tarbuncle , Then why do we fit all so dull Boys ? If the Moon hide her head , Our Noses so Read , Directs our light heels as we stagger , And while that we're Drunk With a brisk bouncing Punk , Like the young jolly God , we look big & do swagger Cho. Let Bumpers go round , Let Bumpers go round , While thus double armed we stand to our ground And the dull Rogue that dare Bawk his Liquour and spare , Kick him out , Kick him out , While Bumpers go round . To the Playhouse we reel , Then about we do wheel , And All-a-amode of the brisk Monsieur , In the midst of the Pit , Like our selves we do fit , That is right Bullyrocks of the town sir We cringe and then show , Shapes Proteus ne'r knew , And with Volley shots we do thunder : Glass windows in rage , We oft do engage , And a piping-hot Quean we do hire to lie under . Cho. Let Bumpers go round , Let Bumpers go round , While thus double armed we stand to our ground And the dull Rogue that dare Bawk his Liquour and spare , Kick him out , Kick him out , While Bumpers go round . Then oftimes the Watch Us Hectors does catch , And nabs us in this late Ren'counter , With Swords and with stones , We break the Loons bones , And so fly the Cage or the Compter : Thus like Pirates o'th town , We rome up and down , And scour the main Sea of the City , And he that durst beatrice The late Watch in the street , Among us Bullyrocks , is accounted for witty . Cho. Let Bumpers go round , Let Bumpers go round , While thus double armed we stand to our ground And the dull Rogue that dare Bawk his Liquour and spare , Kick him out , Kick him out , While Bumpers go round . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . Gallantry All-a-Mode : Or , The Bully to the Life Here Fops & Boisterous Bully-Rocks are shown , The Gallant Feats they Practice in the Town ; They pass their Golden hours away in pleasure , Detest those doting Fools that live by measure . To a New Playhouse Tune : Viz. Let the Traitors Plot on . LEt the Cinick Zealots , Impose on Dull Sots , Rub Brothers' Gumbs with false Corals , Let the Dull Bearded Crowd , Insult and grow proud , And Preach up their Wheedling Morals : Let the Grave Blockheads fit , Muster up all their Wit , To Poach on the Sniveling Sister ; While that Stout Hectors we Do court , the jolly she That with fiery sparkling Carbuncle do's glister . Cho. Let Bumpers go round , Let Bumpers go round , While thus double armed we stand to our ground , And the dull Rogue that dare , Bawk his Liquour and spare ; Kick him out , Kick him out , While Bumpers go round . Let the Rascals declaim , Show the gay punks their shame Cry down their Paint & their patch-boxes Let the Blockheads repine At our brisk sparkling Wine , And covet our Goddess like Doxes : Let each whining dull Rogue , Fawn , Decoy , and Cologue , And wish to depose his old Gown Sir , Quit all Order , turn Bully , And at length prove a Cully , And like Bullyrocks to go roar about town Sir : Cho. Let Bumpers go round , Let Bumpers go round , While thus double armed we stand to our ground And the dull Rogue that dare , Bawk his Liquour and spare , Kick him out , Kick him out While Bumpers go round . While like Rockets we rove , We do imitate Jove , Both handsome and ugly we plunder , With drawn trusty Steel , The streets we do Reel , Like Cannons with shouts we do thunder : Our sole joys are Kisses , Bestow'd by brisk Misses , We Lavish and wallow in Pleasure , We detest the dull Fool , That does moap like and Owl , whose poor prisoner soul is confined by measure : Ch. Let Bumpers , etc We scorn the fools track , While we Revel in Sack , And in nature's full plenty do lavish , Our labouring Souls , We refresh with full Bowls , While other poor Mortals live slavish : All the night we do play , And sleep all the day , And we know no end of our Horning . Our full Bowls do weep , Every each Star asleep , And with dr [ oh ] wzy bowls we salute the dull Morning : Cho. Let Bumpers , etc Bright jewels we have , Then why should we crave The treasuries of the Magull , Boys , Our Noses do swell , With pure Tarbuncle , Then why do we fit all so dull Boys ? If the Moon hide her head , Our Noses so Read , Directs our light heels as we stagger , And while that we're Drunk With a brisk bouncing Punk , Like the young jolly God , we look big & do swagger Cho. Let Bumpers go round , Let Bumpers go round , While thus double armed we stand to our ground And the dull Rogue that dare Bawk his Liquour and spare , Kick him out , Kick him out , While Bumpers go round . To the Playhouse we reel , Then about we do wheel , And All-a-amode of the brisk Monsieur , In the midst of the Pit , Like our selves we do fit , That is right Bullyrocks of the town sir We cringe and then show , Shapes Proteus ne'r knew , And with Volley shots we do thunder : Glass windows in rage , We oft do engage , And a piping-hot Quean we do hire to lie under . Cho. Let Bumpers go round , Let Bumpers go round , While thus double armed we stand to our ground And the dull Rogue that dare Bawk his Liquour and spare , Kick him out , Kick him out , While Bumpers go round . Then oftimes the Watch Us Hectors does catch , And nabs us in this late Ren'counter , With Swords and with stones , We break the Loons bones , And so fly the Cage or the Compter : Thus like Pirates o'th town , We rome up and down , And scour the main Sea of the City , And he that durst beatrice The late Watch in the street , Among us Bullyrocks , is accounted for witty . Cho. Let Bumpers go round , Let Bumpers go round , While thus double armed we stand to our ground And the dull Rogue that dare Bawk his Liquour and spare , Kick him out , Kick him out , While Bumpers go round . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . Gallantry All-a-Mode : Or , The Bully to the Life Here Fops & Boisterous Bully-Rocks are shown , The Gallant Feats they Practice in the Town ; They pass their Golden hours away in pleasure , Detest those doting Fools that live by measure . To a New Playhouse Tune : Viz. Let the Traitors Plot on . LEt the Cinick Zealots , Impose on Dull Sots , Rub Brothers' Gumbs with false Corals , Let the Dull Bearded Crowd , Insult and grow proud , And Preach up their Wheedling Morals : Let the Grave Blockheads fit , Muster up all their Wit , To Poach on the Sniveling Sister ; While that Stout Hectors we Do court , the jolly she That with fiery sparkling Carbuncle do's glister . Cho. Let Bumpers go round , Let Bumpers go round , While thus double armed we stand to our ground , And the dull Rogue that dare , Bawk his Liquour and spare ; Kick him out , Kick him out , While Bumpers go round . Let the Rascals declaim , Show the gay punks their shame Cry down their Paint & their patch-boxes Let the Blockheads repine At our brisk sparkling Wine , And covet our Goddess like Doxes : Let each whining dull Rogue , Fawn , Decoy , and Cologue , And wish to depose his old Gown Sir , Quit all Order , turn Bully , And at length prove a Cully , And like Bullyrocks to go roar about town Sir : Cho. Let Bumpers go round , Let Bumpers go round , While thus double armed we stand to our ground And the dull Rogue that dare , Bawk his Liquour and spare , Kick him out , Kick him out While Bumpers go round . While like Rockets we rove , We do imitate Jove , Both handsome and ugly we plunder , With drawn trusty Steel , The streets we do Reel , Like Cannons with shouts we do thunder : Our sole joys are Kisses , Bestow'd by brisk Misses , We Lavish and wallow in Pleasure , We detest the dull Fool , That does moap like and Owl , whose poor prisoner soul is confined by measure : Ch. Let Bumpers , etc We scorn the fools track , While we Revel in Sack , And in nature's full plenty do lavish , Our labouring Souls , We refresh with full Bowls , While other poor Mortals live slavish : All the night we do play , And sleep all the day , And we know no end of our Horning . Our full Bowls do weep , Every each Star asleep , And with dr [ oh ] wzy bowls we salute the dull Morning : Cho. Let Bumpers , etc Bright jewels we have , Then why should we crave The treasuries of the Magull , Boys , Our Noses do swell , With pure Tarbuncle , Then why do we fit all so dull Boys ? If the Moon hide her head , Our Noses so Read , Directs our light heels as we stagger , And while that we're Drunk With a brisk bouncing Punk , Like the young jolly God , we look big & do swagger Cho. Let Bumpers go round , Let Bumpers go round , While thus double armed we stand to our ground And the dull Rogue that dare Bawk his Liquour and spare , Kick him out , Kick him out , While Bumpers go round . To the Playhouse we reel , Then about we do wheel , And All-a-amode of the brisk Monsieur , In the midst of the Pit , Like our selves we do fit , That is right Bullyrocks of the town sir We cringe and then show , Shapes Proteus ne'r knew , And with Volley shots we do thunder : Glass windows in rage , We oft do engage , And a piping-hot Quean we do hire to lie under . Cho. Let Bumpers go round , Let Bumpers go round , While thus double armed we stand to our ground And the dull Rogue that dare Bawk his Liquour and spare , Kick him out , Kick him out , While Bumpers go round . Then oftimes the Watch Us Hectors does catch , And nabs us in this late Ren'counter , With Swords and with stones , We break the Loons bones , And so fly the Cage or the Compter : Thus like Pirates o'th town , We rome up and down , And scour the main Sea of the City , And he that durst beatrice The late Watch in the street , Among us Bullyrocks , is accounted for witty . Cho. Let Bumpers go round , Let Bumpers go round , While thus double armed we stand to our ground And the dull Rogue that dare Bawk his Liquour and spare , Kick him out , Kick him out , While Bumpers go round . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . Gallantry All-a-Mode : Or , The Bully to the Life Here Fops & Boisterous Bully-Rocks are shown , The Gallant Feats they Practice in the Town ; They pass their Golden hours away in pleasure , Detest those doting Fools that live by measure . To a New Playhouse Tune : Viz. Let the Traitors Plot on . LEt the Cinick Zealots , Impose on Dull Sots , Rub Brothers' Gumbs with false Corals , Let the Dull Bearded Crowd , Insult and grow proud , And Preach up their Wheedling Morals : Let the Grave Blockheads fit , Muster up all their Wit , To Poach on the Sniveling Sister ; While that Stout Hectors we Do court , the jolly she That with fiery sparkling Carbuncle do's glister . Cho. Let Bumpers go round , Let Bumpers go round , While thus double armed we stand to our ground , And the dull Rogue that dare , Bawk his Liquour and spare ; Kick him out , Kick him out , While Bumpers go round . Let the Rascals declaim , Show the gay punks their shame Cry down their Paint & their patch-boxes Let the Blockheads repine At our brisk sparkling Wine , And covet our Goddess like Doxes : Let each whining dull Rogue , Fawn , Decoy , and Cologue , And wish to depose his old Gown Sir , Quit all Order , turn Bully , And at length prove a Cully , And like Bullyrocks to go roar about town Sir : Cho. Let Bumpers go round , Let Bumpers go round , While thus double armed we stand to our ground And the dull Rogue that dare , Bawk his Liquour and spare , Kick him out , Kick him out While Bumpers go round . While like Rockets we rove , We do imitate Jove , Both handsome and ugly we plunder , With drawn trusty Steel , The streets we do Reel , Like Cannons with shouts we do thunder : Our sole joys are Kisses , Bestow'd by brisk Misses , We Lavish and wallow in Pleasure , We detest the dull Fool , That does moap like and Owl , whose poor prisoner soul is confined by measure : Ch. Let Bumpers , etc We scorn the fools track , While we Revel in Sack , And in nature's full plenty do lavish , Our labouring Souls , We refresh with full Bowls , While other poor Mortals live slavish : All the night we do play , And sleep all the day , And we know no end of our Horning . Our full Bowls do weep , Every each Star asleep , And with dr [ oh ] wzy bowls we salute the dull Morning : Cho. Let Bumpers , etc Bright jewels we have , Then why should we crave The treasuries of the Magull , Boys , Our Noses do swell , With pure Tarbuncle , Then why do we fit all so dull Boys ? If the Moon hide her head , Our Noses so Read , Directs our light heels as we stagger , And while that we're Drunk With a brisk bouncing Punk , Like the young jolly God , we look big & do swagger Cho. Let Bumpers go round , Let Bumpers go round , While thus double armed we stand to our ground And the dull Rogue that dare Bawk his Liquour and spare , Kick him out , Kick him out , While Bumpers go round . To the Playhouse we reel , Then about we do wheel , And All-a-amode of the brisk Monsieur , In the midst of the Pit , Like our selves we do fit , That is right Bullyrocks of the town sir We cringe and then show , Shapes Proteus ne'r knew , And with Volley shots we do thunder : Glass windows in rage , We oft do engage , And a piping-hot Quean we do hire to lie under . Cho. Let Bumpers go round , Let Bumpers go round , While thus double armed we stand to our ground And the dull Rogue that dare Bawk his Liquour and spare , Kick him out , Kick him out , While Bumpers go round . Then oftimes the Watch Us Hectors does catch , And nabs us in this late Ren'counter , With Swords and with stones , We break the Loons bones , And so fly the Cage or the Compter : Thus like Pirates o'th town , We rome up and down , And scour the main Sea of the City , And he that durst beatrice The late Watch in the street , Among us Bullyrocks , is accounted for witty . Cho. Let Bumpers go round , Let Bumpers go round , While thus double armed we stand to our ground And the dull Rogue that dare Bawk his Liquour and spare , Kick him out , Kick him out , While Bumpers go round . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . 