The Tradesman's Complaint Upon the Hardness of the Times , Deadness of Trade , and scarcity of Money . Wherein he sighs and makes great moan , How trading is ( almost ) fled and gone : He intreats all men in each degree , For help in this his want and misery . To the Tune of , In Summer time , etc Or , Fancies Phoenix . O where are now these golden times When gold was counted needless things ? None loved his Neighbour for a self end , But once and always stood his friend : But now through want times altered are , Each in himself a man of War : Trading being dead and Money scant , Is the subject of this sad Complaint . The time has been , that in this Land , A men word was as good as his Band : The time is now as you may see , New Faith hath kill'd Old Honesty : There is so much hatred one to'th other , That there is none that loves his brother : O all good Men of each degree , Learn to live in Love and Unity . The time has been in this City round , A man might in a morning take a pound : The time is now , though in's shop he stay , Yet scarce takes twelve pence all the day : Tradings so dead , and money scant , Is subject of this sad complain O all good men of each degree , Redress our Countries misery . The times have been what tradesmen gained , Hath decently their Charge maintain'd ; The time is now through trades decay , In street they beg , o welladay ! Trading is so dead , and money scant , Is subject of this sad Complain O all good men of each degree , Help to redress our misery . THe time has been each Rich men door , Was seldom shut against the poor ; The time is now , some wives go fine , They care not though the beggar pine : Trading being dead makes times so hard , Poor people cry without regard : O all good men of each degree , Help to regard our misery . In elder times it was indeed , The Rich would help the poor men need : The time is now , so themselves be serv'd , They care not if poor people be starv'd : Trading being dead , makes times so hard , The Rich the Poor do not regard : O all good men of each degree , Help to redress our misery . For dearth of trade all men complain , How can poor men their Charge maintain ? Hardness of times makes many rue , How can we give Ceasar his due : Money's so scant through trades decay , Which makes poor tradesmen sighs and say ; O all good men of each degree , Help to release our misery . The Courtier he complains for gold ; To whom the tradesmen wares hath sold , And having run so on his score , He's forced alas to shut up door : times being so hard through trades decay , It makes poor tradesmen sign and say ; O all good Men of each degree , Help us in our necessity . The poor Country-Man he does complain , Of the loss of his Cattle and Grain , Rents being so dear , and Money scant , Makes him mourn forth this sad complain Which makes him sighs and make great moan , Whose grief would melt a heart of stone : O all good men of each degree , Help , help , us in our poverty . That trade may fleurish here again , That plenty may among us reign , That great men's charity may show , And pay poor men what they do owe : It is my prayer , and let all men , To this Petition , say , Amen : O all good men of each degree , Learn to live in Love and Unity . FINIS . Printed for J. Conniers , near the Marshalses in Southwark . The Tradesman's Complaint Upon the Hardness of the Times , Deadness of Trade , and scarcity of Money . Wherein he sighs and makes great moan , How trading is ( almost ) fled and gone : He intreats all men in each degree , For help in this his want and misery . To the Tune of , In Summer time , etc Or , Fancies Phoenix . O where are now these golden times When gold was counted needless things ? None loved his Neighbour for a self end , But once and always stood his friend : But now through want times altered are , Each in himself a man of War : Trading being dead and Money scant , Is the subject of this sad Complaint . The time has been , that in this Land , A men word was as good as his Band : The time is now as you may see , New Faith hath kill'd Old Honesty : There is so much hatred one to'th other , That there is none that loves his brother : O all good Men of each degree , Learn to live in Love and Unity . The time has been in this City round , A man might in a morning take a pound : The time is now , though in's shop he stay , Yet scarce takes twelve pence all the day : Tradings so dead , and money scant , Is subject of this sad complain O all good men of each degree , Redress our Countries misery . The times have been what tradesmen gained , Hath decently their Charge maintain'd ; The time is now through trades decay , In street they beg , o welladay ! Trading is so dead , and money scant , Is subject of this sad Complain O all good men of each degree , Help to redress our misery . THe time has been each Rich men door , Was seldom shut against the poor ; The time is now , some wives go fine , They care not though the beggar pine : Trading being dead makes times so hard , Poor people cry without regard : O all good men of each degree , Help to regard our misery . In elder times it was indeed , The Rich would help the poor men need : The time is now , so themselves be serv'd , They care not if poor people be starv'd : Trading being dead , makes times so hard , The Rich the Poor do not regard : O all good men of each degree , Help to redress our misery . For dearth of trade all men complain , How can poor men their Charge maintain ? Hardness of times makes many rue , How can we give Ceasar his due : Money's so scant through trades decay , Which makes poor tradesmen sighs and say ; O all good men of each degree , Help to release our misery . The Courtier he complains for gold ; To whom the tradesmen wares hath sold , And having run so on his score , He's forced alas to shut up door : times being so hard through trades decay , It makes poor tradesmen sign and say ; O all good Men of each degree , Help us in our necessity . The poor Country-Man he does complain , Of the loss of his Cattle and Grain , Rents being so dear , and Money scant , Makes him mourn forth this sad complain Which makes him sighs and make great moan , Whose grief would melt a heart of stone : O all good men of each degree , Help , help , us in our poverty . That trade may fleurish here again , That plenty may among us reign , That great men's charity may show , And pay poor men what they do owe : It is my prayer , and let all men , To this Petition , say , Amen : O all good men of each degree , Learn to live in Love and Unity . FINIS . Printed for J. Conniers , near the Marshalses in Southwark . 