THE TRAPPAND VIRGIN Or good Advice to Maidens , that they may not be drawn into Priminaryes by the specious Pretences of their seeming Amorist's , who having once obtained their Wills , leave & forsake their betray'd Mistress's . Take my Advice while you are free , And Young-Men do not trust , They promise fare as fare can be , But mean what is unjust . Tune , When busy Fame . COme mourn with me you Ladies all , whom Young men have betrayed , I was belov'd of great and small , and thought a virtuous Maid : At length a Young-Man to me came and he did me much wrong , For he betray'd a harmless Maid with his deluding Tongue . Such vows and Protestations he did to me often use , With sighs , and Sobs that pitied me , so that I could not choose But condescend to his desire , by which I me ruin'd quite , In a hapless hour he crop't the Flower wherein I took delight . My Virgins Name I must disown . which grieves me to the Heart , And since my Maidenhead is flown I feel such deadly smart , That makes me oft desire to die to be freed from that shame , All will bestow on me I know whoever hear the same . But this may somewhat me excuse , which brings me some content , Obstinately I did Refuse , and would not give consent , Till he did vow and swear to me he would make me his Wife , But now I find , he hath chang'd his mind , I am weary of my life . ANd he from me is fled and gone a false and perjur'd wretch , While by my self I make my moan , and many a sighs do fetch , But 'tis in vain I plainly find since nothing will avail , Why should I sighs away my life unless I could prevail . Take warning by me Maidens fair and do not be Trappand , To their pretences give no Ear , for if they understand You'r of a gentle Nature , and begin to them to yield , They'l flatter on till you'r undone and they have wone the Field . When they have god what they desire their passion's at and End , They'l cool that seeming fervent fire and you shall loose your Friend , But keep them at a distance , and you'l find them stoop amain , So you may be from dangers free , and need not to complain . Such good Advice I once did want which makes me now lament , And when too late I think upon't it breeds such discontent , That I do wish ten thousand times I had his Suit deny'd , Who now I find does prove unkind , and me hath terrified . False hearted men where e're you be think not for to Escape , For what you gain by Treachery is next kinn to a Rape , And will in time requited be with some most just reward Hereafter then prove honest Men , and faithful to your word . Printed for , F. Cole . T. Vere . J Wright . J Clarke . W. Thackery . and T. Passenger . THE TRAPPAND VIRGIN Or good Advice to Maidens , that they may not be drawn into Priminaryes by the specious Pretences of their seeming Amorist's , who having once obtained their Wills , leave & forsake their betray'd Mistress's . Take my Advice while you are free , And Young-Men do not trust , They promise fare as fare can be , But mean what is unjust . Tune , When busy Fame . COme mourn with me you Ladies all , whom Young men have betrayed , I was belov'd of great and small , and thought a virtuous Maid : At length a Young-Man to me came and he did me much wrong , For he betray'd a harmless Maid with his deluding Tongue . Such vows and Protestations he did to me often use , With sighs , and Sobs that pitied me , so that I could not choose But condescend to his desire , by which I me ruin'd quite , In a hapless hour he crop't the Flower wherein I took delight . My Virgins Name I must disown . which grieves me to the Heart , And since my Maidenhead is flown I feel such deadly smart , That makes me oft desire to die to be freed from that shame , All will bestow on me I know whoever hear the same . But this may somewhat me excuse , which brings me some content , Obstinately I did Refuse , and would not give consent , Till he did vow and swear to me he would make me his Wife , But now I find , he hath chang'd his mind , I am weary of my life . ANd he from me is fled and gone a false and perjur'd wretch , While by my self I make my moan , and many a sighs do fetch , But 'tis in vain I plainly find since nothing will avail , Why should I sighs away my life unless I could prevail . Take warning by me Maidens fair and do not be Trappand , To their pretences give no Ear , for if they understand You'r of a gentle Nature , and begin to them to yield , They'l flatter on till you'r undone and they have wone the Field . When they have god what they desire their passion's at and End , They'l cool that seeming fervent fire and you shall loose your Friend , But keep them at a distance , and you'l find them stoop amain , So you may be from dangers free , and need not to complain . Such good Advice I once did want which makes me now lament , And when too late I think upon't it breeds such discontent , That I do wish ten thousand times I had his Suit deny'd , Who now I find does prove unkind , and me hath terrified . False hearted men where e're you be think not for to Escape , For what you gain by Treachery is next kinn to a Rape , And will in time requited be with some most just reward Hereafter then prove honest Men , and faithful to your word . Printed for , F. Cole . T. Vere . J Wright . J Clarke . W. Thackery . and T. Passenger . 