The True-Lovers Holidays : OR , The Wooing , Winning , and Wedding of a fair Damosel ; performed by a lusty Soldier , being one of the Auxiliaries . The Soldier Woo'd the Maid with words most kind , She Answered him according to his mind . To the Tune of , Nobody else shall plunder but I . MY sweetest , my fairest , My rarest , my dearest , Come fit thee down by me and let's chat a while , It does my heart good , when I see thee most nearest , That we with pleasant talk the sad times may beguile If thou'lt have the patience to stay in this Bower , That I may discourse with thee just half and hour , I'le show thee a Ticket from Cupids Commission , Which Venus set hand to , upon this condition , that no body else shall enjoy thee but I. the Summer is come , and the time is in season , That each pretty bird have made choice of his Mate , now I being a young man of judgement and reason , Have cause to be doing o're time's out of date , Hark , hark how I hear the sweet Nightingales verses Whose echos records what true-lovers rehearses ; The truehearted Turtle-Doves now are a billing , And so will I do my Love , if thou art willing that no body else shall enjoy thee but I . I pray thee Love leave me not , though I am a Soldier , And want skill in wooing to deal with a Maid ; yet if thou wilt kiss me , and make me the bolder , Mark well and consider what here shall be said , My hand and my sword shall from danger defend thee , My purse and my person shall stoutly attend thee ; I'l buy thee a new kirtle , wrought waistcoat & beaver A dainty silk Apron , my mind shall not waver , So no body else shall enjoy thee but I. if thou wilt consent , that things shall be so carried , Before this day fortnight I'l make thee my wife , and we in the Church will be lawfully married , So shalt thou live bravely all days of thy life ; Thou shalt have thy servants to wait on thy leisure , thy purse shall be cram'd with gold crowns , & rich treasure Nothing shall be wanting that I can procure thee , So thou wilt be constant and thus much assure me , that no body else shall enjoy thee but I . make answer sweet honey to what I have spoken That I may the better know whereon to trust , receive this Gold Ring as and eminent token , My love shall be permanent , loyal and just ; One lovely look from thee , for aye will revive me , But a frown of thine will of life straight deprive me , Then answer me kindly at this time dear sweating , That I may find comfort by this happy meeting , and no body else shall enjoy thee but I. The Second Part to the same Tune . Being the Maids Loving Answer to the Soldier . I'Le leave all my kindred both father and mother , My Uncle , my Aunt , and my Grandam also , my nearest acquaintance , my Sister and Brother , For 'tis my desire with a Soldier to go , In weal and in woe I will with my Love travel , While some at my service and toil do much marvel So long as my life lasts , if fortune will guide me I'le march with thee bravely , what ever betide me . And I'le be thy true Love until I die . [ 'tis not the ] great Ordance when they do rattle , Shall make me fly from thee , [ my min ] de is so stout , for when [ I percei ] we thee preparing for battle , [ I'le ] clos [ ely stick ] to thee , of that [ at ] make no doubt , and when thou [ would ] st drawn thy brave blade to befriend me For courage and valour and skill I'le commend thee In peace and in wars if thou pleasest to prove me , By day and by night thou shalt find how I love thee , I'le still take thy part till the day that I die . moreover sweet Soldier thus much I must tell thee , When I understood you took me for your choice , It made the very heart of me Leap in my belly , And all the merry veins in my body rejoice ; You also requested of me certain kisses , The which you accounted as true-Lovers blisses , Instead of one kiss , now I'le give thee full twenty , So thou wilt repay me again with like plenty . and I'le be thy true love until I do die . this Ring which thou gavest me , shall serve for a token , I'le keep it for thy sake while heaven lends me life , the promise betwixt us shall never be broken , Be thou my sweet Husband , I'le be thy kind Wife : Then serve Cupids warrant upon me and spare not , For what thou canst do with thy Ticket I fear no Let Vulcan and Venus with Cupid conspire , To kindle Loves fuel , or quench Lovers fire , yet I'le love my Soldier until that I die . you said in a fortnight that we should be married , But I am unwilling to stay for't so long : beside in my mind I have over much tarried ; Delays among Lovers does oftentimes wrong . Pray make all things ready 'twixt this and Sunday , That we may be married on the next Munday , So we in the Holy-days may make us merry , With Banquets and Pastimes until we be weary . and I'le be thy true-Love until that I die . FINIS . L.P. The True-Lovers Holidays : OR , The Wooing , Winning , and Wedding of a fair Damosel ; performed by a lusty Soldier , being one of the Auxiliaries . The Soldier Woo'd the Maid with words most kind , She Answered him according to his mind . To the Tune of , Nobody else shall plunder but I . MY sweetest , my fairest , My rarest , my dearest , Come fit thee down by me and let's chat a while , It does my heart good , when I see thee most nearest , That we with pleasant talk the sad times may beguile If thou'lt have the patience to stay in this Bower , That I may discourse with thee just half and hour , I'le show thee a Ticket from Cupids Commission , Which Venus set hand to , upon this condition , that no body else shall enjoy thee but I. the Summer is come , and the time is in season , That each pretty bird have made choice of his Mate , now I being a young man of judgement and reason , Have cause to be doing o're time's out of date , Hark , hark how I hear the sweet Nightingales verses Whose echos records what true-lovers rehearses ; The truehearted Turtle-Doves now are a billing , And so will I do my Love , if thou art willing that no body else shall enjoy thee but I . I pray thee Love leave me not , though I am a Soldier , And want skill in wooing to deal with a Maid ; yet if thou wilt kiss me , and make me the bolder , Mark well and consider what here shall be said , My hand and my sword shall from danger defend thee , My purse and my person shall stoutly attend thee ; I'l buy thee a new kirtle , wrought waistcoat & beaver A dainty silk Apron , my mind shall not waver , So no body else shall enjoy thee but I. if thou wilt consent , that things shall be so carried , Before this day fortnight I'l make thee my wife , and we in the Church will be lawfully married , So shalt thou live bravely all days of thy life ; Thou shalt have thy servants to wait on thy leisure , thy purse shall be cram'd with gold crowns , & rich treasure Nothing shall be wanting that I can procure thee , So thou wilt be constant and thus much assure me , that no body else shall enjoy thee but I . make answer sweet honey to what I have spoken That I may the better know whereon to trust , receive this Gold Ring as and eminent token , My love shall be permanent , loyal and just ; One lovely look from thee , for aye will revive me , But a frown of thine will of life straight deprive me , Then answer me kindly at this time dear sweating , That I may find comfort by this happy meeting , and no body else shall enjoy thee but I. The Second Part to the same Tune . Being the Maids Loving Answer to the Soldier . I'Le leave all my kindred both father and mother , My Uncle , my Aunt , and my Grandam also , my nearest acquaintance , my Sister and Brother , For 'tis my desire with a Soldier to go , In weal and in woe I will with my Love travel , While some at my service and toil do much marvel So long as my life lasts , if fortune will guide me I'le march with thee bravely , what ever betide me . And I'le be thy true Love until I die . [ 'tis not the ] great Ordance when they do rattle , Shall make me fly from thee , [ my min ] de is so stout , for when [ I percei ] we thee preparing for battle , [ I'le ] clos [ ely stick ] to thee , of that [ at ] make no doubt , and when thou [ would ] st drawn thy brave blade to befriend me For courage and valour and skill I'le commend thee In peace and in wars if thou pleasest to prove me , By day and by night thou shalt find how I love thee , I'le still take thy part till the day that I die . moreover sweet Soldier thus much I must tell thee , When I understood you took me for your choice , It made the very heart of me Leap in my belly , And all the merry veins in my body rejoice ; You also requested of me certain kisses , The which you accounted as true-Lovers blisses , Instead of one kiss , now I'le give thee full twenty , So thou wilt repay me again with like plenty . and I'le be thy true love until I do die . this Ring which thou gavest me , shall serve for a token , I'le keep it for thy sake while heaven lends me life , the promise betwixt us shall never be broken , Be thou my sweet Husband , I'le be thy kind Wife : Then serve Cupids warrant upon me and spare not , For what thou canst do with thy Ticket I fear no Let Vulcan and Venus with Cupid conspire , To kindle Loves fuel , or quench Lovers fire , yet I'le love my Soldier until that I die . you said in a fortnight that we should be married , But I am unwilling to stay for't so long : beside in my mind I have over much tarried ; Delays among Lovers does oftentimes wrong . Pray make all things ready 'twixt this and Sunday , That we may be married on the next Munday , So we in the Holy-days may make us merry , With Banquets and Pastimes until we be weary . and I'le be thy true-Love until that I die . FINIS . L.P. 