True Love Requited : Or , The Bailiff's Daughter of Islington . The young-man's Friends the Maid did scorn , 'Cause she was poor and left forlorn ; They sent the Esquire to London fair , To be and Apprentice seven year . And when he out on's time was come , He met his Love a going home , And then to end all farther strife , He took the Maid to be his Wife . To a North-Country Tune . Or , I have a good old Mother at home . THere was a youth , and a well-belov'd youth and he was a Esquires Son , He loved the Bailiffs daughter dear that lived in Islington . She was coy , and she would not believe that he did love her so ; No , nor at any time she would any countenance to him show . But when his friends did understand his found and foolish mind , They sent him up to fair London and Apprentice for to bind . And when he had been seven long years and his Love he had not seen , Many a tear have I shed for her sake when she little thought of me . All the Maids of Islington went forth to sport and play ; All but the Bailiffs Daughter dear , she secretly stole away . She put off her Gown of grey , and put on her puggish Attire ; She's up to fair London gone her true Love to require . As she went along the Road , the weather being hight and dry , There was she aware of her true Love , at length came riding by . She stepped to him as read as any Rose , and took him by the Bridal Ring , I pray you kind Sir give me one penny to ease my weary Limb. I prithee sweetheart canst thou tell me where that thou wast born ? At Islington kind Sir , said she , where I have had many a scorn . I prithee sweetheart canst thou tell me whither thou dost know The Bailiffs Daughter of Islington ? she's dead , Sir , long ago . Then will I fell my goodly Steed , my Saddle , and my Bow , I will into some far Country , where no man does me know . O stay , Oh stay , thou goodly Youth she's alive , she is not dead ; Here she stands by thy side , and is ready to be thy Bride . O farewell grief , and welcome joy , ten thousand times and more ; For now I have seen my own true Love , that I thought I should have seen no more . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . True Love Requited : Or , The Bailiff's Daughter of Islington . The young-man's Friends the Maid did scorn , 'Cause she was poor and left forlorn ; They sent the Esquire to London fair , To be and Apprentice seven year . And when he out on's time was come , He met his Love a going home , And then to end all farther strife , He took the Maid to be his Wife . To a North-Country Tune . Or , I have a good old Mother at home . THere was a youth , and a well-belov'd youth and he was a Esquires Son , He loved the Bailiffs daughter dear that lived in Islington . She was coy , and she would not believe that he did love her so ; No , nor at any time she would any countenance to him show . But when his friends did understand his found and foolish mind , They sent him up to fair London and Apprentice for to bind . And when he had been seven long years and his Love he had not seen , Many a tear have I shed for her sake when she little thought of me . All the Maids of Islington went forth to sport and play ; All but the Bailiffs Daughter dear , she secretly stole away . She put off her Gown of grey , and put on her puggish Attire ; She's up to fair London gone her true Love to require . As she went along the Road , the weather being hight and dry , There was she aware of her true Love , at length came riding by . She stepped to him as read as any Rose , and took him by the Bridal Ring , I pray you kind Sir give me one penny to ease my weary Limb. I prithee sweetheart canst thou tell me where that thou wast born ? At Islington kind Sir , said she , where I have had many a scorn . I prithee sweetheart canst thou tell me whither thou dost know The Bailiffs Daughter of Islington ? she's dead , Sir , long ago . Then will I fell my goodly Steed , my Saddle , and my Bow , I will into some far Country , where no man does me know . O stay , Oh stay , thou goodly Youth she's alive , she is not dead ; Here she stands by thy side , and is ready to be thy Bride . O farewell grief , and welcome joy , ten thousand times and more ; For now I have seen my own true Love , that I thought I should have seen no more . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . 