News for Youngmen and Maids . Who now may weep , their joy is fled , For Love is dead and buried . To a curious New Tune . FRom Fairy Land I hear it is reported That love is dead and in his grave laid , And she that hath been often times courted , Shall for her coyness now die a Maid ; Now Bess , and Nell , with Susan , and Marry , In hope of Suitors long may tarry . For Love is dead and buried , And with him all true joys are fled . Youngmen and maids shall not go a walking As in the former time they have done , Nor yet in shady Bowers fit a talking , For Venus now hath lost her Son , And she that fifteen years hath known , Shall now in corners weep alone . For Love is dead and buried , And with him all true joy is fled . No courtly Language shall now be used , [ P ] lain-dealing shall be counted a Jewel , And she that hath her Suitor refus'd , Shall wish she had not prov'd so cruel , And she that hath the time delay'd , Must be content to die a Maid . For with him love is dead and buried , And with him all true joy is fled . The Shepherds that do fit on the Mountains Will all be sorry this News for to hear ; The Nymphs that do resort to the Fountains , When they do know it , will shed a tear , For they shall now not Garlands make Of flowers for their Lover's sake . For Love is dead and buried , And with him all true joy is fled . The country Lads that were full of kindness To give their Lasses what they did require , Shall wonder greatly at their own blindness And leave of all their former desire ; THey shall not take them out to dance , Nor yet in Songs their praise advance For Love is dead and buried , And with him all true Love is fled . All Creatures shall express their own sorrow The Birds shall drop away with grief , The Pelican , men tears shall borrow , In hope thereby to find some relief , The Turtle Dove shall loose her Mate , And pine away disconsolate . For Love is dead and buried , And with him all true joy is fled . Young men shall now repent their expenses , Which they on Maids did use to bestow Who in like manner did seek fair pretences , That with their sweethearts abroad might go But those same days are past and gone , And Maidens now shall stay at home . For Love is dead and buried , And with him all true Love is fled . All the whole World hath cause to be grieved , For this same News which I do relate , Which I do think may well be believ'd , Since Love you see is grown out of date , And Mistress Money his place does take , While she her self does matches make . For Love is dead , etc For Mistress Money is grown to such credit , That she does rule all things here below , And who can marry if she do forbid it ? Since wealth is most esteemed you know ; The Mother now will fell her daughter , Although she do repent hereafter . For Love is dead , etc For if a Maid her fancy have placed , By the direction of her own own will , Yet is her purpose always defaced , By those who seek to cross her love still , And she at last is bought and sold , For lucre of some wealth or Gold , For Love is dead , etc In ancient times they often did marry , For love which then was most highly prized ; But now alas , long time they may tarry If that some other way be not devised , For Portions now do bear the sway , And will do more still every day . For Love is dead , etc Well fare those days when shepherds delighted , With the young Nymphs to dance on a green , Where all their love was kindly requited , In such due manner as might them be seem , But these same days will ner'e come again , When Shepherds live thus on the Plain . For Love is dead , etc Good Qualities now and virtuous carriage , Is nothing without Money beside , Nor did I ever yet see a Marriage , Wherein a true Lovers knot was tide : For they no sooner Married once be , But both of them do disagree . For Love is dead , etc For when to marry they have been inforced , What can ensue but strife and debate : And then they seek how to be Divorced And wish to be in their former state , But those which marry thus I dare say , Shall never know contented day . For Love is dead , etc Therefore let all young Maidens take warn-ing , How they do grant their Love unto any , Or be allured with their sweet charming , By which they have deceived so many , For all this year I do foresee , That Weddings shall unhappy be . For Love is dead , etc Now to conclude and shut up my Ditty , This news I know most strange will appear , Both in the Country and in the City , For yet the like they never did hear , The Country Lasses I do believe , When they hear this news they will grieve . For Love is dead and buried , And with him all true joys are fled . London , Printed for W. Thacery , and W. Whitwood . News for Youngmen and Maids . Who now may weep , their joy is fled , For Love is dead and buried . To a curious New Tune . FRom Fairy Land I hear it is reported That love is dead and in his grave laid , And she that hath been often times courted , Shall for her coyness now die a Maid ; Now Bess , and Nell , with Susan , and Marry , In hope of Suitors long may tarry . For Love is dead and buried , And with him all true joys are fled . Youngmen and maids shall not go a walking As in the former time they have done , Nor yet in shady Bowers fit a talking , For Venus now hath lost her Son , And she that fifteen years hath known , Shall now in corners weep alone . For Love is dead and buried , And with him all true joy is fled . No courtly Language shall now be used , [ P ] lain-dealing shall be counted a Jewel , And she that hath her Suitor refus'd , Shall wish she had not prov'd so cruel , And she that hath the time delay'd , Must be content to die a Maid . For with him love is dead and buried , And with him all true joy is fled . The Shepherds that do fit on the Mountains Will all be sorry this News for to hear ; The Nymphs that do resort to the Fountains , When they do know it , will shed a tear , For they shall now not Garlands make Of flowers for their Lover's sake . For Love is dead and buried , And with him all true joy is fled . The country Lads that were full of kindness To give their Lasses what they did require , Shall wonder greatly at their own blindness And leave of all their former desire ; THey shall not take them out to dance , Nor yet in Songs their praise advance For Love is dead and buried , And with him all true Love is fled . All Creatures shall express their own sorrow The Birds shall drop away with grief , The Pelican , men tears shall borrow , In hope thereby to find some relief , The Turtle Dove shall loose her Mate , And pine away disconsolate . For Love is dead and buried , And with him all true joy is fled . Young men shall now repent their expenses , Which they on Maids did use to bestow Who in like manner did seek fair pretences , That with their sweethearts abroad might go But those same days are past and gone , And Maidens now shall stay at home . For Love is dead and buried , And with him all true Love is fled . All the whole World hath cause to be grieved , For this same News which I do relate , Which I do think may well be believ'd , Since Love you see is grown out of date , And Mistress Money his place does take , While she her self does matches make . For Love is dead , etc For Mistress Money is grown to such credit , That she does rule all things here below , And who can marry if she do forbid it ? Since wealth is most esteemed you know ; The Mother now will fell her daughter , Although she do repent hereafter . For Love is dead , etc For if a Maid her fancy have placed , By the direction of her own own will , Yet is her purpose always defaced , By those who seek to cross her love still , And she at last is bought and sold , For lucre of some wealth or Gold , For Love is dead , etc In ancient times they often did marry , For love which then was most highly prized ; But now alas , long time they may tarry If that some other way be not devised , For Portions now do bear the sway , And will do more still every day . For Love is dead , etc Well fare those days when shepherds delighted , With the young Nymphs to dance on a green , Where all their love was kindly requited , In such due manner as might them be seem , But these same days will ner'e come again , When Shepherds live thus on the Plain . For Love is dead , etc Good Qualities now and virtuous carriage , Is nothing without Money beside , Nor did I ever yet see a Marriage , Wherein a true Lovers knot was tide : For they no sooner Married once be , But both of them do disagree . For Love is dead , etc For when to marry they have been inforced , What can ensue but strife and debate : And then they seek how to be Divorced And wish to be in their former state , But those which marry thus I dare say , Shall never know contented day . For Love is dead , etc Therefore let all young Maidens take warn-ing , How they do grant their Love unto any , Or be allured with their sweet charming , By which they have deceived so many , For all this year I do foresee , That Weddings shall unhappy be . For Love is dead , etc Now to conclude and shut up my Ditty , This news I know most strange will appear , Both in the Country and in the City , For yet the like they never did hear , The Country Lasses I do believe , When they hear this news they will grieve . For Love is dead and buried , And with him all true joys are fled . London , Printed for W. Thacery , and W. Whitwood . 