LONDONS WONDER ; Being a Description of God's Mercy and Goodness , in the breaking of this late mighty Frost which began about the beginning of December , 1683. and continued till the 4th . of February following . Great Rich Men hoardeth up their store as we may plainly see , In hope's to grind and gripe the poor in their Extremity . To the Tune of Packingtons Pound . THis Winter was sharp it did plainly appear , The like has not been for this many a year : The River of Thames was congeal'd to a Rock And people in multitudes thither did flock ; Thus many poor Tradesmen was out of employ , Te Truth I am certain there's none can deny : Then let us be thankful and praise God therefore , For he in good time herd the cry of the Poor . The Frost it was sharp most bitter and cold , It pierced all people the time it did hold : Great Cole-Merchants they that had laid in their store Was void of all pity , and grinded the poor And in their extremity it did appear , They bought 'em in cheap , but they sold 'em out dear Then let us be thankful , and praise God therefore , For he in good time herd the cry of the Poor . Poor Tradesmen that great charge maintain I needs must confess they had cause to complain Their hearts was oppressed with sorrow and care ; They walked up and down , but most bleak was the air And Charity that was as cold as the wind , By woeful experience some hundreds did find ; Then let us be thankful , etc On this mighty River they there did invent , All kind of vain pastime to reap their content ; They acted all rudeness there with one accord , And little regarded the hand of the Lord : Many poor Families suffered this time , While some drowned sorrow in Glasses of Wine ; Then let us be thankful , etc From Westminster-Hall , to the Temple each day , The River of Thames , 'twas made a Highway ; For Footmen and Horsemen , and Coaches beside , And many brave Gentlemen in them did Ride ; But all this great Triumph we justly might fear , Might make our sad Judgement to fallen more severe ; Then let us be thankful , etc Then during this Frost there they followed their blows , In Music and Gaming , and acting of Shows ; On this mighty River they Roasted and Ox , They Bated the Bull , and they Hunted the Fox : But yet I was troubled those pleasures to see , For fear that our Lord he should angry be ; Then let us be thankful , etc But when they perceived the great Frost it did break , They were forc'd to pack up , and thee Thames to forsake : The Wind and the Tide it has brok it in sunder ; And now we will leave them to talk of the wonder : Then let us rejoice still , and be of good cheer , We hope we may have a most plentiful year ; Then let us be thankful , etc The Watermen now at all Stairs they shall Ply , Next Oars and next Sculler , let this be their Cry : For now you may see they have changed their Noats , They pull'd down their Tents , and they Row in their Boats It the works of the Lord we may well un-derstand He made mighty Rivers as firm as the Land ; Then let us be thankful , and praise God therefore , For he in good time herd the cry of the Poor . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street LONDONS WONDER ; Being a Description of God's Mercy and Goodness , in the breaking of this late mighty Frost which began about the beginning of December , 1683. and continued till the 4th . of February following . Great Rich Men hoardeth up their store as we may plainly see , In hope's to grind and gripe the poor in their Extremity . To the Tune of Packingtons Pound . THis Winter was sharp it did plainly appear , The like has not been for this many a year : The River of Thames was congeal'd to a Rock And people in multitudes thither did flock ; Thus many poor Tradesmen was out of employ , Te Truth I am certain there's none can deny : Then let us be thankful and praise God therefore , For he in good time herd the cry of the Poor . The Frost it was sharp most bitter and cold , It pierced all people the time it did hold : Great Cole-Merchants they that had laid in their store Was void of all pity , and grinded the poor And in their extremity it did appear , They bought 'em in cheap , but they sold 'em out dear Then let us be thankful , and praise God therefore , For he in good time herd the cry of the Poor . Poor Tradesmen that great charge maintain I needs must confess they had cause to complain Their hearts was oppressed with sorrow and care ; They walked up and down , but most bleak was the air And Charity that was as cold as the wind , By woeful experience some hundreds did find ; Then let us be thankful , etc On this mighty River they there did invent , All kind of vain pastime to reap their content ; They acted all rudeness there with one accord , And little regarded the hand of the Lord : Many poor Families suffered this time , While some drowned sorrow in Glasses of Wine ; Then let us be thankful , etc From Westminster-Hall , to the Temple each day , The River of Thames , 'twas made a Highway ; For Footmen and Horsemen , and Coaches beside , And many brave Gentlemen in them did Ride ; But all this great Triumph we justly might fear , Might make our sad Judgement to fallen more severe ; Then let us be thankful , etc Then during this Frost there they followed their blows , In Music and Gaming , and acting of Shows ; On this mighty River they Roasted and Ox , They Bated the Bull , and they Hunted the Fox : But yet I was troubled those pleasures to see , For fear that our Lord he should angry be ; Then let us be thankful , etc But when they perceived the great Frost it did break , They were forc'd to pack up , and thee Thames to forsake : The Wind and the Tide it has brok it in sunder ; And now we will leave them to talk of the wonder : Then let us rejoice still , and be of good cheer , We hope we may have a most plentiful year ; Then let us be thankful , etc The Watermen now at all Stairs they shall Ply , Next Oars and next Sculler , let this be their Cry : For now you may see they have changed their Noats , They pull'd down their Tents , and they Row in their Boats It the works of the Lord we may well un-derstand He made mighty Rivers as firm as the Land ; Then let us be thankful , and praise God therefore , For he in good time herd the cry of the Poor . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street LONDONS WONDER ; Being a Description of God's Mercy and Goodness , in the breaking of this late mighty Frost which began about the beginning of December , 1683. and continued till the 4th . of February following . Great Rich Men hoardeth up their store as we may plainly see , In hope's to grind and gripe the poor in their Extremity . To the Tune of Packingtons Pound . THis Winter was sharp it did plainly appear , The like has not been for this many a year : The River of Thames was congeal'd to a Rock And people in multitudes thither did flock ; Thus many poor Tradesmen was out of employ , Te Truth I am certain there's none can deny : Then let us be thankful and praise God therefore , For he in good time herd the cry of the Poor . The Frost it was sharp most bitter and cold , It pierced all people the time it did hold : Great Cole-Merchants they that had laid in their store Was void of all pity , and grinded the poor And in their extremity it did appear , They bought 'em in cheap , but they sold 'em out dear Then let us be thankful , and praise God therefore , For he in good time herd the cry of the Poor . Poor Tradesmen that great charge maintain I needs must confess they had cause to complain Their hearts was oppressed with sorrow and care ; They walked up and down , but most bleak was the air And Charity that was as cold as the wind , By woeful experience some hundreds did find ; Then let us be thankful , etc On this mighty River they there did invent , All kind of vain pastime to reap their content ; They acted all rudeness there with one accord , And little regarded the hand of the Lord : Many poor Families suffered this time , While some drowned sorrow in Glasses of Wine ; Then let us be thankful , etc From Westminster-Hall , to the Temple each day , The River of Thames , 'twas made a Highway ; For Footmen and Horsemen , and Coaches beside , And many brave Gentlemen in them did Ride ; But all this great Triumph we justly might fear , Might make our sad Judgement to fallen more severe ; Then let us be thankful , etc Then during this Frost there they followed their blows , In Music and Gaming , and acting of Shows ; On this mighty River they Roasted and Ox , They Bated the Bull , and they Hunted the Fox : But yet I was troubled those pleasures to see , For fear that our Lord he should angry be ; Then let us be thankful , etc But when they perceived the great Frost it did break , They were forc'd to pack up , and thee Thames to forsake : The Wind and the Tide it has brok it in sunder ; And now we will leave them to talk of the wonder : Then let us rejoice still , and be of good cheer , We hope we may have a most plentiful year ; Then let us be thankful , etc The Watermen now at all Stairs they shall Ply , Next Oars and next Sculler , let this be their Cry : For now you may see they have changed their Noats , They pull'd down their Tents , and they Row in their Boats It the works of the Lord we may well un-derstand He made mighty Rivers as firm as the Land ; Then let us be thankful , and praise God therefore , For he in good time herd the cry of the Poor . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street LONDONS WONDER ; Being a Description of God's Mercy and Goodness , in the breaking of this late mighty Frost which began about the beginning of December , 1683. and continued till the 4th . of February following . Great Rich Men hoardeth up their store as we may plainly see , In hope's to grind and gripe the poor in their Extremity . To the Tune of Packingtons Pound . THis Winter was sharp it did plainly appear , The like has not been for this many a year : The River of Thames was congeal'd to a Rock And people in multitudes thither did flock ; Thus many poor Tradesmen was out of employ , Te Truth I am certain there's none can deny : Then let us be thankful and praise God therefore , For he in good time herd the cry of the Poor . The Frost it was sharp most bitter and cold , It pierced all people the time it did hold : Great Cole-Merchants they that had laid in their store Was void of all pity , and grinded the poor And in their extremity it did appear , They bought 'em in cheap , but they sold 'em out dear Then let us be thankful , and praise God therefore , For he in good time herd the cry of the Poor . Poor Tradesmen that great charge maintain I needs must confess they had cause to complain Their hearts was oppressed with sorrow and care ; They walked up and down , but most bleak was the air And Charity that was as cold as the wind , By woeful experience some hundreds did find ; Then let us be thankful , etc On this mighty River they there did invent , All kind of vain pastime to reap their content ; They acted all rudeness there with one accord , And little regarded the hand of the Lord : Many poor Families suffered this time , While some drowned sorrow in Glasses of Wine ; Then let us be thankful , etc From Westminster-Hall , to the Temple each day , The River of Thames , 'twas made a Highway ; For Footmen and Horsemen , and Coaches beside , And many brave Gentlemen in them did Ride ; But all this great Triumph we justly might fear , Might make our sad Judgement to fallen more severe ; Then let us be thankful , etc Then during this Frost there they followed their blows , In Music and Gaming , and acting of Shows ; On this mighty River they Roasted and Ox , They Bated the Bull , and they Hunted the Fox : But yet I was troubled those pleasures to see , For fear that our Lord he should angry be ; Then let us be thankful , etc But when they perceived the great Frost it did break , They were forc'd to pack up , and thee Thames to forsake : The Wind and the Tide it has brok it in sunder ; And now we will leave them to talk of the wonder : Then let us rejoice still , and be of good cheer , We hope we may have a most plentiful year ; Then let us be thankful , etc The Watermen now at all Stairs they shall Ply , Next Oars and next Sculler , let this be their Cry : For now you may see they have changed their Noats , They pull'd down their Tents , and they Row in their Boats It the works of the Lord we may well un-derstand He made mighty Rivers as firm as the Land ; Then let us be thankful , and praise God therefore , For he in good time herd the cry of the Poor . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street 