The Wine-Cooper's Delight , To the Tune of , The Delights of the Bottle . The Delights of the Bottle are turn'd out of doors , by Factious Fanati-cal sons of damn'd Whores . French Wines Prohibition meant not other thing , but to poison the Subject , and beggar the King . Good Nature's suggested with Dregs like to choke her , of fulsome stum'd Wine by the cursed Wine-Cooper Our plaguy Wine-Cooper has tamper'd so much , To find out the subtlety of the false Dutch . He tinctures pricked White-w [ i ] ne , that never was good , Till it mantles , and sparkles , and looks like Bulls blood ; But when it declines , and its Spirit [ s ] expire , He adds more Ingredients and makes it look higher . His old rotten Pipes , where he keeps all this Trash , For fear they should burst , Sir , he hoops them with Ash. When the Sophistication begins for to froth , And boils on the Fret , Sir , he wisely pulls forth A Tap , which gives vent to the grounds of the Cause , And then is to vamp up a second Read Nose . Then this dungy Wine-Cooper stops it up again , And keeps it unvended till 't's all on a stame . The Intelligences then were invented to show , Where Wine of strange Virtues in plently did flow . People from all parts of the Nation did come , Both Lords , Knights and Gentlemen , Doctor and Bum The Cooper then pulls the Tap out of his side , And drinks to the Elders of all his good Tribe . But when they had gusl'd about all their Bowls , They found a strange Freedom it gave to their Souls , Of secrets in Nature , that never were known , It gave Inspiration from Beggar to Throne . The Second Part to the same Tune . For the Cooper himself full Brimmers did draw , And all the whole Gang were oblig'd to do so . among these Cabals there was no such a thing , As a health once propos'd to the Duke or the King . But drank to that Idol of Hope's , in their Powers , And Sons of most Infamous Hackney old Whores . Then the Rabble had notice from Smith and from Ben , What a heavenly Liquour was sent among men . Both Tinkers and Cobblers , the Broom-men and Sweep , Before this Wine-Cooper in Flocks they did meet ; And each under foot stamped his old greasy Bonnet , To drink M ------ th's Health , Sir , whatever came on it . The Cooper perceiving his Trade to approach , He then was resolved once more to debauch . To encourage the Rabble , and show himself stout , He pull'd out the Spigot among the whole Rout ; Which kindness provoked them to swear they would bring Such Trade to his House as wou'd make him a King . A Hat or a Pottle was still at the Tap , But Zealots some times laid their Mouths to the Fat . They charg'd their brisk Bumpers so many times round , Till part of the Mobile sprawl'd on the ground : But when this damn'd Liquour was god in their pates , They fell to Bombasting , Disord'ring of States . They began to cant Dangers by formal Sedition , And swear lawful Allegiance 'gainst lawful Succession . When these Propositions began to take Fire , They screw'd their Presumptions a hold or two higher : But still they keep under Hugh Peters's Cloak , To bring in the Devil , to drive out the Pope . But then they began for to pick at the Crown , Each thinking that he deserv'd one of his own . Then all the King's Guards they thought fit to Indict , Swear Treason 'gainst all that maintain'd the King's Right . Both Papist and Protestant no matter whither , They are not of our party , let's hang 'em together . Next the chief of our Game is to keep the King poor , And our Senators must the Militia secure . The Navy and Cinque-Ports we'll have in our hands , And then we'l make th'Kingdom obey our Commands : Then if Charles do withstand us , we need not to fight , To make Eighty one to outdo Forty eight . Whatever Objections great Loyalists bring , Old Adam liv'd happy without e're a King . Then why may not we , that are much wiser than he , Subdue the whole World , Sir , by our Sov'reignty ? If one man alone can keep three Nations under , Then why may not we that are Kings without number ? Right , said the Cooper , and shak'd his old Noddle , Three Kingdoms we'l toss , like a Child in a Cradle . Stick close to this Liquour which I do prepare , 'Twill make us as splendid as Noll in his Chair . We'l kindle old Plots , by inventing of new , Till none shall be safe but the Cooper and You. O brave Boys ! O brave Boys ! the Rabble did roar , Tantivies and Tories shall Hector no more ; By Us they're out-acted , to Us they shall bend , While we to our Dignities freely ascend . Then they were dead-drunk as the Devil could make 'em , And fell fast asleep , as ten Drums could not wake 'em . In the Piss and the Spew the poor Cooper did paddle , To stop up his Tap , but the Knave was not able . For his Limbs like a Tortoise did shrivle and crease , Down drops the Wine-Cooper with the other Beasts . And there the whole Litter as yet does abide , At the Sign of the Butt , with the Tap in one side . LONDON , Printed for the Protestant Ballad-Singers . 1681 The Wine-Cooper's Delight , To the Tune of , The Delights of the Bottle . The Delights of the Bottle are turn'd out of doors , by Factious Fanati-cal sons of damn'd Whores . French Wines Prohibition meant not other thing , but to poison the Subject , and beggar the King . Good Nature's suggested with Dregs like to choke her , of fulsome stum'd Wine by the cursed Wine-Cooper Our plaguy Wine-Cooper has tamper'd so much , To find out the subtlety of the false Dutch . He tinctures pricked White-w [ i ] ne , that never was good , Till it mantles , and sparkles , and looks like Bulls blood ; But when it declines , and its Spirit [ s ] expire , He adds more Ingredients and makes it look higher . His old rotten Pipes , where he keeps all this Trash , For fear they should burst , Sir , he hoops them with Ash. When the Sophistication begins for to froth , And boils on the Fret , Sir , he wisely pulls forth A Tap , which gives vent to the grounds of the Cause , And then is to vamp up a second Read Nose . Then this dungy Wine-Cooper stops it up again , And keeps it unvended till 't's all on a stame . The Intelligences then were invented to show , Where Wine of strange Virtues in plently did flow . People from all parts of the Nation did come , Both Lords , Knights and Gentlemen , Doctor and Bum The Cooper then pulls the Tap out of his side , And drinks to the Elders of all his good Tribe . But when they had gusl'd about all their Bowls , They found a strange Freedom it gave to their Souls , Of secrets in Nature , that never were known , It gave Inspiration from Beggar to Throne . The Second Part to the same Tune . For the Cooper himself full Brimmers did draw , And all the whole Gang were oblig'd to do so . among these Cabals there was no such a thing , As a health once propos'd to the Duke or the King . But drank to that Idol of Hope's , in their Powers , And Sons of most Infamous Hackney old Whores . Then the Rabble had notice from Smith and from Ben , What a heavenly Liquour was sent among men . Both Tinkers and Cobblers , the Broom-men and Sweep , Before this Wine-Cooper in Flocks they did meet ; And each under foot stamped his old greasy Bonnet , To drink M ------ th's Health , Sir , whatever came on it . The Cooper perceiving his Trade to approach , He then was resolved once more to debauch . To encourage the Rabble , and show himself stout , He pull'd out the Spigot among the whole Rout ; Which kindness provoked them to swear they would bring Such Trade to his House as wou'd make him a King . A Hat or a Pottle was still at the Tap , But Zealots some times laid their Mouths to the Fat . They charg'd their brisk Bumpers so many times round , Till part of the Mobile sprawl'd on the ground : But when this damn'd Liquour was god in their pates , They fell to Bombasting , Disord'ring of States . They began to cant Dangers by formal Sedition , And swear lawful Allegiance 'gainst lawful Succession . When these Propositions began to take Fire , They screw'd their Presumptions a hold or two higher : But still they keep under Hugh Peters's Cloak , To bring in the Devil , to drive out the Pope . But then they began for to pick at the Crown , Each thinking that he deserv'd one of his own . Then all the King's Guards they thought fit to Indict , Swear Treason 'gainst all that maintain'd the King's Right . Both Papist and Protestant no matter whither , They are not of our party , let's hang 'em together . Next the chief of our Game is to keep the King poor , And our Senators must the Militia secure . The Navy and Cinque-Ports we'll have in our hands , And then we'l make th'Kingdom obey our Commands : Then if Charles do withstand us , we need not to fight , To make Eighty one to outdo Forty eight . Whatever Objections great Loyalists bring , Old Adam liv'd happy without e're a King . Then why may not we , that are much wiser than he , Subdue the whole World , Sir , by our Sov'reignty ? If one man alone can keep three Nations under , Then why may not we that are Kings without number ? Right , said the Cooper , and shak'd his old Noddle , Three Kingdoms we'l toss , like a Child in a Cradle . Stick close to this Liquour which I do prepare , 'Twill make us as splendid as Noll in his Chair . We'l kindle old Plots , by inventing of new , Till none shall be safe but the Cooper and You. O brave Boys ! O brave Boys ! the Rabble did roar , Tantivies and Tories shall Hector no more ; By Us they're out-acted , to Us they shall bend , While we to our Dignities freely ascend . Then they were dead-drunk as the Devil could make 'em , And fell fast asleep , as ten Drums could not wake 'em . In the Piss and the Spew the poor Cooper did paddle , To stop up his Tap , but the Knave was not able . For his Limbs like a Tortoise did shrivle and crease , Down drops the Wine-Cooper with the other Beasts . And there the whole Litter as yet does abide , At the Sign of the Butt , with the Tap in one side . LONDON , Printed for the Protestant Ballad-Singers . 1681 