Sir Thomas Armstrong's Farewell : Who for High-Treason ( conspiring against the Life of the King , and his Royal Brother , and the subversion of the Government ; ) was on the 14th . day of June , 1684. condemned to be Drawn , Hang'd , and Quarter'd ; and was accordingly executed at Tyburn , on the 20th . of the said Month , in the view of many Spectators . Tune of , Digbys Farewell : Or , Packingtons Pound . FArewel Worldly Pleasures and fading delight , For now all my days must be turn'd into night , Now suffer I must , and the raze I have run , Has shortened my days , and my thread it is spun : O wretch that I was for to Plot or Conspire Against that good Prince , who the world do admire ! And now for the same I am in a sad plighted , A poor , and distressed , unfortunate Knight . How might I have lived in splendour and fame , That now by true Subject's am greatly to blame : No pity I find there is falls to my share , My spirits decay , and I fallen in despair , : But how could I expect any favour to find , That harboured such thoughts in my treacherous mind All you that in mercy do fix your delight , Now pity etc My days , that long time I in pleasure did spend , In shame and disgrace like a Traitor I end ; Though it grieves me to think , yet confess it I must , The Sentence passed on me is nothing but just ; For the deeds I have done , & the words I have said , Were I to be punish'd by losing my Head , Grim death would the less then my senses affright , That am a distressed etc But the thoughts of a Rope are most dreadful to me , That must hang for my Crimes at the 3 corner'd tree , And there in the view of a thousand , or more , Receive what I long had deserved before . O Justice severe ! how swift are thy wings To pursue the Bloodsuckers of merciful Kings ; Who in thoughts are oppressed by day and by night , Like me a distressed etc Though I had god over and crossed the Seas , My mind was afflicted , my soul not at ease , My conscience was filled with horror and worser [ r ] ead , That Vengeance would follow where ever I fled ; And now to my sorrow most certain I find That which so long time hath afflicted my mind , And w [ i ] ll now put and end to my joy and delight , Than [ tO ] am a distressed unfortunate Knight . The Second Part , to the same Tune . My Crimes are so great and so heinous indeed , That the thoughts of them now make my soul for to bleed ; & now 'tis high time for to mourn & lament , That my precious time have so wickedly spent ; O now let me mourn in showers of tears That I have so wickedly spent all my Years ; Now Death is eontinually in my sighed ; O pity a poor and unfortunate Knight . My griefs and my sorrows what tongue can express ? And few there is pity me in my distress ; But all will allow it is nothing but reason That Traitors should die for their hatching of Treason : For I must confess 'tis by Heaven forbid , And like unto Murder long never lies hid , But one time or other it comes to ligh O pity etc And bloody designs seldom take their effect ; Because they'r unjust , and their course in direct Let others beware by my sorrowful end , That did on the hope's of preferment depend ; But now you may see by my Pride and Ambition I've brought my self into a woeful condition : All you that do come for to see this sad sighed , Pray pity a poor etc Let reason prevail , and your conscience convince That you ought to obey your most Sovereign Prince , For I do confess at this minute of death , A more merciful Prince never yet did draw breath , Than Brittains great Charles , who Rules in the nation True Subject's delight , and the World's admiration : Tho' by doing of things too unjust , and not right , I now am etc And now all my friends I must bid you adieu , The time is but short I can tarry with you . O learn to be wise and take warning by me ; The fruits of High-Treason are bad you may see ; And now 'tis too late , I in sorrow lament That I like a Traitor my lifetime have spent . Let your actions be just , and your dealing uprigh Not like this same poor and unfortunate Knight . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackery , and T. Passenger . Sir Thomas Armstrong's Farewell : Who for High-Treason ( conspiring against the Life of the King , and his Royal Brother , and the subversion of the Government ; ) was on the 14th . day of June , 1684. condemned to be Drawn , Hang'd , and Quarter'd ; and was accordingly executed at Tyburn , on the 20th . of the said Month , in the view of many Spectators . Tune of , Digbys Farewell : Or , Packingtons Pound . FArewel Worldly Pleasures and fading delight , For now all my days must be turn'd into night , Now suffer I must , and the raze I have run , Has shortened my days , and my thread it is spun : O wretch that I was for to Plot or Conspire Against that good Prince , who the world do admire ! And now for the same I am in a sad plighted , A poor , and distressed , unfortunate Knight . How might I have lived in splendour and fame , That now by true Subject's am greatly to blame : No pity I find there is falls to my share , My spirits decay , and I fallen in despair , : But how could I expect any favour to find , That harboured such thoughts in my treacherous mind All you that in mercy do fix your delight , Now pity etc My days , that long time I in pleasure did spend , In shame and disgrace like a Traitor I end ; Though it grieves me to think , yet confess it I must , The Sentence passed on me is nothing but just ; For the deeds I have done , & the words I have said , Were I to be punish'd by losing my Head , Grim death would the less then my senses affright , That am a distressed etc But the thoughts of a Rope are most dreadful to me , That must hang for my Crimes at the 3 corner'd tree , And there in the view of a thousand , or more , Receive what I long had deserved before . O Justice severe ! how swift are thy wings To pursue the Bloodsuckers of merciful Kings ; Who in thoughts are oppressed by day and by night , Like me a distressed etc Though I had god over and crossed the Seas , My mind was afflicted , my soul not at ease , My conscience was filled with horror and worser [ r ] ead , That Vengeance would follow where ever I fled ; And now to my sorrow most certain I find That which so long time hath afflicted my mind , And w [ i ] ll now put and end to my joy and delight , Than [ tO ] am a distressed unfortunate Knight . The Second Part , to the same Tune . My Crimes are so great and so heinous indeed , That the thoughts of them now make my soul for to bleed ; & now 'tis high time for to mourn & lament , That my precious time have so wickedly spent ; O now let me mourn in showers of tears That I have so wickedly spent all my Years ; Now Death is eontinually in my sighed ; O pity a poor and unfortunate Knight . My griefs and my sorrows what tongue can express ? And few there is pity me in my distress ; But all will allow it is nothing but reason That Traitors should die for their hatching of Treason : For I must confess 'tis by Heaven forbid , And like unto Murder long never lies hid , But one time or other it comes to ligh O pity etc And bloody designs seldom take their effect ; Because they'r unjust , and their course in direct Let others beware by my sorrowful end , That did on the hope's of preferment depend ; But now you may see by my Pride and Ambition I've brought my self into a woeful condition : All you that do come for to see this sad sighed , Pray pity a poor etc Let reason prevail , and your conscience convince That you ought to obey your most Sovereign Prince , For I do confess at this minute of death , A more merciful Prince never yet did draw breath , Than Brittains great Charles , who Rules in the nation True Subject's delight , and the World's admiration : Tho' by doing of things too unjust , and not right , I now am etc And now all my friends I must bid you adieu , The time is but short I can tarry with you . O learn to be wise and take warning by me ; The fruits of High-Treason are bad you may see ; And now 'tis too late , I in sorrow lament That I like a Traitor my lifetime have spent . Let your actions be just , and your dealing uprigh Not like this same poor and unfortunate Knight . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackery , and T. Passenger . 