Merry Boys of Christmas OR , The Milk-Maids New-Years-Gift . When Lads and Lasses take delight , together for to be ; They pass away the Winter Night , and live most Merrily . To the Tune of , Heigh Boys up go we . COme , come my roaring ranting Boys , let's never be cast down , We'l never mind the Female Toys , but Loyal be to th' Crown : We'l never break our hearts with Care , nor be cast down with fear , Our bells then let us prepare , to drink some Christmas Beer . Then here's a Health to Charles our King , throughout the world admir'd , [ L ] et us his great applauses sing , that we so much desir'd , And wished among us for to Reign , when Oliver rul'd here , But since he's home return'd again , come fill some Christmas Beer . These Holidays we'l briskly drink , all mirth we will devise , No Treason we will speak or think , then bring us brave minc'd Pies : Roast Beef and brave Plum-Porridge our Loyal hearts to cheer , Then prithee make no more ado , but bring us Christmas Beer . Merry Boys of Christmas OR , The Milk-Maids New-Years-Gift . When Lads and Lasses take delight , together for to be ; They pass away the Winter Night , and live most Merrily . To the Tune of , Heigh Boys up go we . COme , come my roaring ranting Boys , let's never be cast down , We'l never mind the Female Toys , but Loyal be to th' Crown : We'l never break our hearts with Care , nor be cast down with fear , Our bells then let us prepare , to drink some Christmas Beer . Then here's a Health to Charles our King , throughout the world admir'd , [ L ] et us his great applauses sing , that we so much desir'd , And wished among us for to Reign , when Oliver rul'd here , But since he's home return'd again , come fill some Christmas Beer . These Holidays we'l briskly drink , all mirth we will devise , No Treason we will speak or think , then bring us brave minc'd Pies : Roast Beef and brave Plum-Porridge our Loyal hearts to cheer , Then prithee make no more ado , but bring us Christmas Beer . 