True LOVE without DECEIT ; Poor Strephon sadly does lament 'Cause Phillis is unkind , Yet vows that she shall never see , In him a change of Mind . To the Tune of , over Hills and High Mountains . UNfortunate Strephon Well mayest thou complain Since thy cruel Phillis Thy Suit does disdain But let her persist In her fierce Tyranny Yet I will be faithful To her till I die . Through Woods & through Deserts I'le privately walk And there of my Phillis I'le mournfully talk , Where the pretty sweet Birds With my moan shall comply For I will be faithful , To her and , Ah Phillis Remember That thou art unkind Ah Phillis remember Thou art still in my mind , Ah Phillis remember My true Constancy , For I will , To thee , But mind for thy sake How the World I do range , And though thou art cruel Yet I will not change , For thou like and Angel Dost seem in mine eye And I will , To thee , Sometime in a Dream I slumbering do lie , And then my dear Phillis Appears to mine Eye , And straight all my Senses Away from me fly , And I vow to be . To her etc But when I awake and Do find 'twas a Dream , Just like one distracted , I presently seem , And cry that a hapless Poor Lover am I . Yet vow , To thee etc What canst thou propose To thy self for to gain , By keeping thy Lover Fast lock'd in a Chain ? Or why dost thou send me Such Darts from thine Eye Who Vow , To thee etc No Prayers nor Tears With thee can prevail Till Death by Commission Takes me to his Jail , For while I do live This shall be my cry , That I will be To , etc , Since nothing can move thee . I still must despair , Since thou wilt not love me It adds to my Care Since I for thy sake still In Fetters must lie Yet I will , To thee etc Thus Strephon continu'd His Making complaint But he wanting breath then Began for to Faint And with the last Breath That ere from him did fly Still said hee'd be faithful Until he did die . Printed for P. Brooksby at the golden ball in Pye-Corner . True LOVE without DECEIT ; Poor Strephon sadly does lament 'Cause Phillis is unkind , Yet vows that she shall never see , In him a change of Mind . To the Tune of , over Hills and High Mountains . UNfortunate Strephon Well mayest thou complain Since thy cruel Phillis Thy Suit does disdain But let her persist In her fierce Tyranny Yet I will be faithful To her till I die . Through Woods & through Deserts I'le privately walk And there of my Phillis I'le mournfully talk , Where the pretty sweet Birds With my moan shall comply For I will be faithful , To her and , Ah Phillis Remember That thou art unkind Ah Phillis remember Thou art still in my mind , Ah Phillis remember My true Constancy , For I will , To thee , But mind for thy sake How the World I do range , And though thou art cruel Yet I will not change , For thou like and Angel Dost seem in mine eye And I will , To thee , Sometime in a Dream I slumbering do lie , And then my dear Phillis Appears to mine Eye , And straight all my Senses Away from me fly , And I vow to be . To her etc But when I awake and Do find 'twas a Dream , Just like one distracted , I presently seem , And cry that a hapless Poor Lover am I . Yet vow , To thee etc What canst thou propose To thy self for to gain , By keeping thy Lover Fast lock'd in a Chain ? Or why dost thou send me Such Darts from thine Eye Who Vow , To thee etc No Prayers nor Tears With thee can prevail Till Death by Commission Takes me to his Jail , For while I do live This shall be my cry , That I will be To , etc , Since nothing can move thee . I still must despair , Since thou wilt not love me It adds to my Care Since I for thy sake still In Fetters must lie Yet I will , To thee etc Thus Strephon continu'd His Making complaint But he wanting breath then Began for to Faint And with the last Breath That ere from him did fly Still said hee'd be faithful Until he did die . Printed for P. Brooksby at the golden ball in Pye-Corner . 