THE True Lovers Knot Untied , Being the right PATH whereby to advice Princely Vergins how to Behave themselves , by the Example of the Renowned Princess , the Lady ARABELLA , and the Second SON of the Lord Seymore , late Earl of Hartford . To the Tune of , Frogs Galliard , etc Licensed and Entered according to Order . AS I to Ireland did pass , I saw a Ship at anchor lay , Another Ship likewise there was which from fair England took her way . This Ship that sail'd from fair England , unknown unto our gracious King , The Lord Chief Justice did command , that they to London should her bring . I drew more near and saw more plain , Lady Arabella in distress , She wrung her hands and wept amain , bewailing of her heaviness . When near fair London tower she came , whereas her landing place should be , The King & Queen with all their train did meet this Lady gallantly : How now Arabella , said our King , unto this Lady straight did say , Who hath first ty'd you to this thing , that you from England took your way . None but my self , my gracious lieg , these ten long years i've been in love With the lord Seymor's second son , the Earl of Hartford so we prove . Though he be not the mightiest Man , of goods and livings in the land , Yet I have lands us maintain , so much your grace does understand : My lands and livings are well known unto your books of Majesty , Amounts to twelvescore pound a week , beside what I do give , quoth she . In Gallant Derbyshire likewise , I ninescore beadsmen maintain there , With Hats and Gowns , & House-rent free , and every man five marks a year . I never raised Rend , said she , nor yet oppressed the Tenant poor , I never took no bribes for fines , for why I had enough before . Whom of your Nobles will do so , for to maintain the Commonalty ? Such multitudes would never grow , nor be such store of Poverty . I would I had a Milkmaid been , or born of some more low Degree , Then I might have loved where I like , and no man could have kindred me , Or would I were some Yeomans Child , for to Receive my portion now , According unto my Degree , as other Virgins as I know . The highest branch that soars aloft , needs must beshade the Myrtle-tree , Needs must the shadow of them both , shadow the third in his degree . But when the tree is cut and gone , and from the ground is boar away , The lowest tree that there does stand , in time may grow as high as they . Once when I thought to have been Queen but yet that still I do deny , I knew your grace had right to th' crown , before Elizabeth did die , You of the eldest Sister came , I of the second in degree , The Earl of Hartford of the third , a man of Royal blood was he . And to good night my Sovereign Liege , since in the tower I must lie , I hope your grace will condescend that I may have my liberty . Lady Arabella ( said our King ) I to your freedom would consent , If you would turn and go to Church there to receive the Sacrament . And so good night Arabella fair Our King reply'd to her again , I will take counsel of my Nobility that you your freedom may obtain . Once more to Prison must I go , Lady Arabella then did say , to leave my love breeds all my woe , the which will be our lives decay . Love is a knot none can unknit , Fancy a liking of the heart , Him whom I love I cannot forget , though from his presence I must part . the meanest people enjoy their Mates but I was born unhappily , For being crossed by cruel fates I want both love and liberty . But death I hope will end the strife , farewell farewell my love ( quoth she ) Once I had thought to have been thy wife , but now am forc'd to part with thee . at this sad Meeting she had cause in heart and mind to grieve full soar , after that time Arabella fair did never see lord Seymor more . Printed by and for A. M. and sold by the Booksellers of London . THE True Lovers Knot Untied , Being the right PATH whereby to advice Princely Vergins how to Behave themselves , by the Example of the Renowned Princess , the Lady ARABELLA , and the Second SON of the Lord Seymore , late Earl of Hartford . To the Tune of , Frogs Galliard , etc Licensed and Entered according to Order . AS I to Ireland did pass , I saw a Ship at anchor lay , Another Ship likewise there was which from fair England took her way . This Ship that sail'd from fair England , unknown unto our gracious King , The Lord Chief Justice did command , that they to London should her bring . I drew more near and saw more plain , Lady Arabella in distress , She wrung her hands and wept amain , bewailing of her heaviness . When near fair London tower she came , whereas her landing place should be , The King & Queen with all their train did meet this Lady gallantly : How now Arabella , said our King , unto this Lady straight did say , Who hath first ty'd you to this thing , that you from England took your way . None but my self , my gracious lieg , these ten long years i've been in love With the lord Seymor's second son , the Earl of Hartford so we prove . Though he be not the mightiest Man , of goods and livings in the land , Yet I have lands us maintain , so much your grace does understand : My lands and livings are well known unto your books of Majesty , Amounts to twelvescore pound a week , beside what I do give , quoth she . In Gallant Derbyshire likewise , I ninescore beadsmen maintain there , With Hats and Gowns , & House-rent free , and every man five marks a year . I never raised Rend , said she , nor yet oppressed the Tenant poor , I never took no bribes for fines , for why I had enough before . Whom of your Nobles will do so , for to maintain the Commonalty ? Such multitudes would never grow , nor be such store of Poverty . I would I had a Milkmaid been , or born of some more low Degree , Then I might have loved where I like , and no man could have kindred me , Or would I were some Yeomans Child , for to Receive my portion now , According unto my Degree , as other Virgins as I know . The highest branch that soars aloft , needs must beshade the Myrtle-tree , Needs must the shadow of them both , shadow the third in his degree . But when the tree is cut and gone , and from the ground is boar away , The lowest tree that there does stand , in time may grow as high as they . Once when I thought to have been Queen but yet that still I do deny , I knew your grace had right to th' crown , before Elizabeth did die , You of the eldest Sister came , I of the second in degree , The Earl of Hartford of the third , a man of Royal blood was he . And to good night my Sovereign Liege , since in the tower I must lie , I hope your grace will condescend that I may have my liberty . Lady Arabella ( said our King ) I to your freedom would consent , If you would turn and go to Church there to receive the Sacrament . And so good night Arabella fair Our King reply'd to her again , I will take counsel of my Nobility that you your freedom may obtain . Once more to Prison must I go , Lady Arabella then did say , to leave my love breeds all my woe , the which will be our lives decay . Love is a knot none can unknit , Fancy a liking of the heart , Him whom I love I cannot forget , though from his presence I must part . the meanest people enjoy their Mates but I was born unhappily , For being crossed by cruel fates I want both love and liberty . But death I hope will end the strife , farewell farewell my love ( quoth she ) Once I had thought to have been thy wife , but now am forc'd to part with thee . at this sad Meeting she had cause in heart and mind to grieve full soar , after that time Arabella fair did never see lord Seymor more . Printed by and for A. M. and sold by the Booksellers of London . 