The Ladies Vindication : BEING The Women's Answer , TO Your humble Servant Madame . To the same Tune . THe City has , No Knave so base , In all the Stock of Freemen ; Thou art a Rogue , And dost Collogue , To cousin simple Women ; You will follow on you'r Trade , Till some Lady gets a Blade , That in rage shall run thee through ; Then the World will bid adieu , To your Comple [ m ] ent and you , For a Saucy Rascal Sirrrah . You wear the Scars , Of Venus Wars , but never saw bolder Battle , Unless it were , To Domineer , and Plunder Plow-men's Cattle : Though you think you live alone , You are infamously known , in City , Town and Borough ; With your Compliments and Oaths , You get Meat and Drink and Clothes , Like a cheating Rascal Sirrah . Should you rely , On Honesty , your Chops would quickly starve on't Such Knaves as you , Makes Princes rue , for keeping such a Servant ; Though you have a Place at Court , 'Twill not hide your ill Report ; you are fain to beg and borrow , Bee't of Women or of Men , You do never pay't again , Like a cheating Rascal Sirrah . The second part , to the same Tune . YOur Compliment , In vain is spent . the Ladies all are sick on't ; Your flattering Trade , Will quickly fade , for Women have found the trick on't Wheresoever you have been , You must never come again , to Blow , nor yet to Harrow ; They shall put you to disgrace , And will tell you to your face . You'r a saucy Rascal Sirrah . Each Royalist . Does bend his Fist , and vows he means to beatrice you ; The Russian Swears , He'l send for Bears , to tear , torment , and eat you : You are grown a very shame , To the Nature and the Name , of the Womb that thou slipp'st thorrough If you come but in their way , Every Kitchen-wench will say , You'r a saucy Rascal Sirrah . Both Maids and Wives , That led good Lives , do all resolve to hang thee , And Squire Don Vows , Hee'l by a Noose , at his own charge to hang thee : If you do not bring the Rings , And the other pretty Things , that your flattering tongue did borrow , They will have you by the Bones , And will batter you with Stones . For a cheating Rascal Sirrah . Those Women that , You have been at , detestably abhor you , And never a Whore , Though old and poor , will give a Turnupp for you : If you could be made a Knight , You'l not get a penny by't , your Wit is grown too narrow ; You will pitifully Fade , Every Taylor hath your Trade , You'r a simple Coxcomb Sirrah . The Devil and you , Have made a vow , and laid your heads together , How to Trappan , Each weak Woman , with powdered Hair and Feather : 'Twas the Devil at the first , Made the Woman be accursed , and caused all her sorrow , Which hath made us all to rue , Such another Devil are you , And a Cheating Rascal Sirrah . Finis . London , Printed for William Gilbertson dwelling at the Bible in Giltspurstreet . 1662. The Ladies Vindication : BEING The Women's Answer , TO Your humble Servant Madame . To the same Tune . THe City has , No Knave so base , In all the Stock of Freemen ; Thou art a Rogue , And dost Collogue , To cousin simple Women ; You will follow on you'r Trade , Till some Lady gets a Blade , That in rage shall run thee through ; Then the World will bid adieu , To your Comple [ m ] ent and you , For a Saucy Rascal Sirrrah . You wear the Scars , Of Venus Wars , but never saw bolder Battle , Unless it were , To Domineer , and Plunder Plow-men's Cattle : Though you think you live alone , You are infamously known , in City , Town and Borough ; With your Compliments and Oaths , You get Meat and Drink and Clothes , Like a cheating Rascal Sirrah . Should you rely , On Honesty , your Chops would quickly starve on't Such Knaves as you , Makes Princes rue , for keeping such a Servant ; Though you have a Place at Court , 'Twill not hide your ill Report ; you are fain to beg and borrow , Bee't of Women or of Men , You do never pay't again , Like a cheating Rascal Sirrah . The second part , to the same Tune . YOur Compliment , In vain is spent . the Ladies all are sick on't ; Your flattering Trade , Will quickly fade , for Women have found the trick on't Wheresoever you have been , You must never come again , to Blow , nor yet to Harrow ; They shall put you to disgrace , And will tell you to your face . You'r a saucy Rascal Sirrah . Each Royalist . Does bend his Fist , and vows he means to beatrice you ; The Russian Swears , He'l send for Bears , to tear , torment , and eat you : You are grown a very shame , To the Nature and the Name , of the Womb that thou slipp'st thorrough If you come but in their way , Every Kitchen-wench will say , You'r a saucy Rascal Sirrah . Both Maids and Wives , That led good Lives , do all resolve to hang thee , And Squire Don Vows , Hee'l by a Noose , at his own charge to hang thee : If you do not bring the Rings , And the other pretty Things , that your flattering tongue did borrow , They will have you by the Bones , And will batter you with Stones . For a cheating Rascal Sirrah . Those Women that , You have been at , detestably abhor you , And never a Whore , Though old and poor , will give a Turnupp for you : If you could be made a Knight , You'l not get a penny by't , your Wit is grown too narrow ; You will pitifully Fade , Every Taylor hath your Trade , You'r a simple Coxcomb Sirrah . The Devil and you , Have made a vow , and laid your heads together , How to Trappan , Each weak Woman , with powdered Hair and Feather : 'Twas the Devil at the first , Made the Woman be accursed , and caused all her sorrow , Which hath made us all to rue , Such another Devil are you , And a Cheating Rascal Sirrah . Finis . London , Printed for William Gilbertson dwelling at the Bible in Giltspurstreet . 1662. 