The Young men Answer : Or , his Dying Breath , Lamenting for his fair Cordelias Death . To a Delightful New Tune . Come on thou fat [ a ] l messenger from her that's gone lest I alone Within that quenchless flame for ever fry ; The Lake Of love being kindled , wherein none can take rest , but wake , Where slumber would [ tO ] h no power to close the eye ; While I That by my fair Cordelia desire to take asleep , With lids wide spread upon my bed am forc'd a watch to keep : And she That waited many tedious hours , my constancy to try , Is now at rest , while I oppressed , fain would but cannot die . Dispatch Thou scorching fury , quickly now dispatch , by Death I watch . To be released from this tormenting flame ; The Dart Sent from dread Cupid , sticks fast in my heart , I wanting art , Had not the power for to resist the same Though she Who by her late acknowledgment , professed thou hadst no craft , Yet from thy bow thou madest her know what power lay in the shaf Yut then Bhou sent'st another arrow which me of hope's bereft , Most like a foe to wound me so , for whom no cure is left . Wherefore Did you Physicians give my mistress o're ? had you no more Experience , but what you in books have read ? Or why ( You learned Doctors ) did you cease to try your skills , when I Might have reviv'd her if she'd not been dead ? And yet Suppose that I in Person had present been to view her ; Is there such grace in any face to work so great a cure ? But now I'm come too late to kiss her , which were it not in vain , After her death I'd spend my breath to fetch her back again . Unto The fair Elizium thither will I go , whereas I know She is among these sacred ones prefer'd , When I Shall be admitted for to come so nigh , pardon i'll cry For my long absence , wherein I have err'd : And since By her I was esteem'd so much on earth being here , Hence for her sake no rest I'll take , till I have found her there . No more , But only I desire to hear my passing bell ; That Virgins may lament the day of Gerhards last farewell . Printed by and for Alex. Milbourn at the Stationers-Arms in Green-Arbor-Court in the Little Old-Baily . The Young men Answer : Or , his Dying Breath , Lamenting for his fair Cordelias Death . To a Delightful New Tune . Come on thou fat [ a ] l messenger from her that's gone lest I alone Within that quenchless flame for ever fry ; The Lake Of love being kindled , wherein none can take rest , but wake , Where slumber would [ tO ] h no power to close the eye ; While I That by my fair Cordelia desire to take asleep , With lids wide spread upon my bed am forc'd a watch to keep : And she That waited many tedious hours , my constancy to try , Is now at rest , while I oppressed , fain would but cannot die . Dispatch Thou scorching fury , quickly now dispatch , by Death I watch . To be released from this tormenting flame ; The Dart Sent from dread Cupid , sticks fast in my heart , I wanting art , Had not the power for to resist the same Though she Who by her late acknowledgment , professed thou hadst no craft , Yet from thy bow thou madest her know what power lay in the shaf Yut then Bhou sent'st another arrow which me of hope's bereft , Most like a foe to wound me so , for whom no cure is left . Wherefore Did you Physicians give my mistress o're ? had you no more Experience , but what you in books have read ? Or why ( You learned Doctors ) did you cease to try your skills , when I Might have reviv'd her if she'd not been dead ? And yet Suppose that I in Person had present been to view her ; Is there such grace in any face to work so great a cure ? But now I'm come too late to kiss her , which were it not in vain , After her death I'd spend my breath to fetch her back again . Unto The fair Elizium thither will I go , whereas I know She is among these sacred ones prefer'd , When I Shall be admitted for to come so nigh , pardon i'll cry For my long absence , wherein I have err'd : And since By her I was esteem'd so much on earth being here , Hence for her sake no rest I'll take , till I have found her there . No more , But only I desire to hear my passing bell ; That Virgins may lament the day of Gerhards last farewell . Printed by and for Alex. Milbourn at the Stationers-Arms in Green-Arbor-Court in the Little Old-Baily . 