The Ranting Whores Resolution : Wherein you will find that her only Treasure Consisteth in being a Lady of Pleasure . To the Tune of , General Monks March . O ! fie upon care Why should we despair , Give me the Lad that will frolic , There is no disease , But Music will please , If it were the stone or the cholic . The Lad that drinks Wine , Shall only be mine , He that calls for a Cup of Canary , That will tipple and sing , Kiss , caper , and spring , And calls for his Mab , and his Marry . Such sinners as these My palate will please , For this is a Lad that will knock it , Provided he be Not Niggard to me , But carry good gilded in his pocket ; I care not from whence He gets his expense , Nor how he comes by his treasure , So I have the sweets When he and I meets , For I am a Lady of pleasure . I love a young Heir , Whose fortune is fair , And frolic in Fishstreet-dinners , Who boldly does call , And in private pays all , These Boys are the noble beginners , For what the old Father In long time did gather , He toaps it away without measure , Hee'l lie in my lap , Like a Bird in a trap , And call me his Lady of pleasure . He wears gallant clothes And studies new Oaths and gets pretty words from the players He swaggers and roars , He calls the next Oars , And cries , here's a piece for your fairs , Thus we in delight From morning till night , Do study to cast away treasure , At night in my arms I secure him from harms , For I am a Lady of pleasure . The second part to the same Tune WHen this Gallant's broke , I've another bespoke , And he hath my protestation , I call him my Love , My Jewel , my Dove , And swear by my reputation , That I never did know What love was till now , Though I have had men beyond measure With such tricks as these All Coxcombs I please , For I am a Lady of pleasure . When they're in the Jail , They wretchedly rail And at me they cast all their curses , Let them laugh that win , I care not a pin , When I have confounded their purses , While they have disgraces , I know not their faces , When Warriors of Woodstreet make seizure But when they'r whole men I'l know them again For I am a Lady of pleasure . I live by the quick And not by the sick , Or such whose estates lie a bleeding My waste must be bound By men that are found , For I am a Lass of high feeding If once they grow poor , No money , no Whore , And yet they shall wait on my leisure , I only fulfil My fancy and will , Which shows me a Lady of pleasure . I laugh when they tell Me stories of Hell I think there is no such Cavern , If Heaven there be ( As some will tell me ) I am sure it must be in the Tavern , Where there is no Wine , There's nothing divine ; Wee'l think of a grave at more leisure . Boy fill th' other glass For I am a Lass That will be a Lady of pleasure . In freedom and joys I'l spend all my days , For there is no greater blessing Than music and meat Good Wine and the feat , And nothing to pay for the dressing ; Let Sisters precise Go turn up their eyes , And speak words by line and by leisure ; If death come at last , And take me in haste , Then there lies a Lady of pleasure . FINIS . London , Printed for F. Coals , M. Wright , T. Vere , and W. Gilbertson . 1662 / 3 The Ranting Whores Resolution : Wherein you will find that her only Treasure Consisteth in being a Lady of Pleasure . To the Tune of , General Monks March . O ! fie upon care Why should we despair , Give me the Lad that will frolic , There is no disease , But Music will please , If it were the stone or the cholic . The Lad that drinks Wine , Shall only be mine , He that calls for a Cup of Canary , That will tipple and sing , Kiss , caper , and spring , And calls for his Mab , and his Marry . Such sinners as these My palate will please , For this is a Lad that will knock it , Provided he be Not Niggard to me , But carry good gilded in his pocket ; I care not from whence He gets his expense , Nor how he comes by his treasure , So I have the sweets When he and I meets , For I am a Lady of pleasure . I love a young Heir , Whose fortune is fair , And frolic in Fishstreet-dinners , Who boldly does call , And in private pays all , These Boys are the noble beginners , For what the old Father In long time did gather , He toaps it away without measure , Hee'l lie in my lap , Like a Bird in a trap , And call me his Lady of pleasure . He wears gallant clothes And studies new Oaths and gets pretty words from the players He swaggers and roars , He calls the next Oars , And cries , here's a piece for your fairs , Thus we in delight From morning till night , Do study to cast away treasure , At night in my arms I secure him from harms , For I am a Lady of pleasure . The second part to the same Tune WHen this Gallant's broke , I've another bespoke , And he hath my protestation , I call him my Love , My Jewel , my Dove , And swear by my reputation , That I never did know What love was till now , Though I have had men beyond measure With such tricks as these All Coxcombs I please , For I am a Lady of pleasure . When they're in the Jail , They wretchedly rail And at me they cast all their curses , Let them laugh that win , I care not a pin , When I have confounded their purses , While they have disgraces , I know not their faces , When Warriors of Woodstreet make seizure But when they'r whole men I'l know them again For I am a Lady of pleasure . I live by the quick And not by the sick , Or such whose estates lie a bleeding My waste must be bound By men that are found , For I am a Lass of high feeding If once they grow poor , No money , no Whore , And yet they shall wait on my leisure , I only fulfil My fancy and will , Which shows me a Lady of pleasure . I laugh when they tell Me stories of Hell I think there is no such Cavern , If Heaven there be ( As some will tell me ) I am sure it must be in the Tavern , Where there is no Wine , There's nothing divine ; Wee'l think of a grave at more leisure . Boy fill th' other glass For I am a Lass That will be a Lady of pleasure . In freedom and joys I'l spend all my days , For there is no greater blessing Than music and meat Good Wine and the feat , And nothing to pay for the dressing ; Let Sisters precise Go turn up their eyes , And speak words by line and by leisure ; If death come at last , And take me in haste , Then there lies a Lady of pleasure . FINIS . London , Printed for F. Coals , M. Wright , T. Vere , and W. Gilbertson . 1662 / 3 