The King enjoys his own again . To be joyfully sung , with its own proper Tune . WHat Booker can Prognosticat ? or speak of our Kingdoms present state ? I think my self to be as wise , ae he that most looks in the Skies : My skill goes beyond the depths of the Pond , or River in the greatest Rain : By thee which I can tell , that all things will be well , when the King comes home in peace again , There is no Astrologer , then I say , can search more deep in this then I , To give you a reason from the Stars , what causeth peace , or civil Wars : The man in the Moon , may wear out his shoone , in ru [ n ] ning after Charles his Wain , But all to no end , for the times they will mend when the King comes home in peace again . Though for a time you may see White-Hall , with cobwebs hanging over the wall , Instead of silk , and silver brave , as formerly it used to have : In every Room , the sweet perfume , delightful for that Princely-Train , The which you shall see , when the time it shall be , that the King comes home in peace again . Full fourty years the Royal Crown , hath been his Father's and his own , And I am sure ther's none but he hath right to that sovereignty : Then who better may the Sceptre to sway , then he that hath such right to reign : The hope's of your peace , for the wars will then cease , when the King comes home in peace again . Till then upon Ararats-hill , my hope's shall cast her Anchor still ; Until I see some peaceful Dove , bring home the branch , which I do love ; Still will I wait till the waters abate . which most disturbs my troubled brain , For I'le never rejoice , till I hear that voice , that the King comes home in peace again , Oxford and Cambridge shall agree , crowned with honour and dignity , Learned men shall then take place , and bad men silenced with disgrace : They's know it then to be a shameful strain , that hath so long disturbed their brain . For I can surely tell , that all things shall go well when the King comes home in peace again . Church Government shall settled be , and then I hope we shall agree ; Without their help whose high-brain-zeal have long disturbed our Common-well : Greed out of date , and Cobblers that do prate , of Wars that still disturb'd their brain , The which you shall see when the time it shall be that the King comes home in peace again . Tho many men are much in debt , and many Shops are to be set ; A golden time is drawing near , men shall take Shops to hold their Ware : And then all our Trade shall flourish alamode , the which ere long we shall obtain : By the which I can tell all things will be well , when the King comes home in peace again . Maidens shall enjoy their Maike , and honest men their lost estates Women shall have what they do lake , their husbands who are coming back . When the Wars have and end , then I and my fry [ and ] all Subject's freedom shall obtain , By the which I can tell , all things will be well , when we enjoy sweet peace again : Though people now walk in great fear , alongst the Country every where , Thieves shall then tremble at the Law , and justice shall keep them in awe ; The Frenches shall flee with their treachery , and the Kings foes a shamed remain , The which you shall see , when the time it shall be , that the King comes home in peace again . The Parliament must willing be , that all the world may plainly see , How they do labour still for peace , that now these bloody Wars may cease : For they will gladly spend their lives , to defend the King in all his right to reign , So then I can tell all things will be well , when we enjoy sweet peace again . When all these things to pass shall come , then farewell Musket , Pick and Drum , The Lamb shall with the Lion feed , which were a happy time indeed ; Oh let us all pray , we may see the day , that peace may govern in his name , For then I can tell all things will be well , when the King comes home in peace again . GOD SAVE THE KING , AMEN . The King enjoys his own again . To be joyfully sung , with its own proper Tune . WHat Booker can Prognosticat ? or speak of our Kingdoms present state ? I think my self to be as wise , ae he that most looks in the Skies : My skill goes beyond the depths of the Pond , or River in the greatest Rain : By thee which I can tell , that all things will be well , when the King comes home in peace again , There is no Astrologer , then I say , can search more deep in this then I , To give you a reason from the Stars , what causeth peace , or civil Wars : The man in the Moon , may wear out his shoone , in ru [ n ] ning after Charles his Wain , But all to no end , for the times they will mend when the King comes home in peace again . Though for a time you may see White-Hall , with cobwebs hanging over the wall , Instead of silk , and silver brave , as formerly it used to have : In every Room , the sweet perfume , delightful for that Princely-Train , The which you shall see , when the time it shall be , that the King comes home in peace again . Full fourty years the Royal Crown , hath been his Father's and his own , And I am sure ther's none but he hath right to that sovereignty : Then who better may the Sceptre to sway , then he that hath such right to reign : The hope's of your peace , for the wars will then cease , when the King comes home in peace again . Till then upon Ararats-hill , my hope's shall cast her Anchor still ; Until I see some peaceful Dove , bring home the branch , which I do love ; Still will I wait till the waters abate . which most disturbs my troubled brain , For I'le never rejoice , till I hear that voice , that the King comes home in peace again , Oxford and Cambridge shall agree , crowned with honour and dignity , Learned men shall then take place , and bad men silenced with disgrace : They's know it then to be a shameful strain , that hath so long disturbed their brain . For I can surely tell , that all things shall go well when the King comes home in peace again . Church Government shall settled be , and then I hope we shall agree ; Without their help whose high-brain-zeal have long disturbed our Common-well : Greed out of date , and Cobblers that do prate , of Wars that still disturb'd their brain , The which you shall see when the time it shall be that the King comes home in peace again . Tho many men are much in debt , and many Shops are to be set ; A golden time is drawing near , men shall take Shops to hold their Ware : And then all our Trade shall flourish alamode , the which ere long we shall obtain : By the which I can tell all things will be well , when the King comes home in peace again . Maidens shall enjoy their Maike , and honest men their lost estates Women shall have what they do lake , their husbands who are coming back . When the Wars have and end , then I and my fry [ and ] all Subject's freedom shall obtain , By the which I can tell , all things will be well , when we enjoy sweet peace again : Though people now walk in great fear , alongst the Country every where , Thieves shall then tremble at the Law , and justice shall keep them in awe ; The Frenches shall flee with their treachery , and the Kings foes a shamed remain , The which you shall see , when the time it shall be , that the King comes home in peace again . The Parliament must willing be , that all the world may plainly see , How they do labour still for peace , that now these bloody Wars may cease : For they will gladly spend their lives , to defend the King in all his right to reign , So then I can tell all things will be well , when we enjoy sweet peace again . When all these things to pass shall come , then farewell Musket , Pick and Drum , The Lamb shall with the Lion feed , which were a happy time indeed ; Oh let us all pray , we may see the day , that peace may govern in his name , For then I can tell all things will be well , when the King comes home in peace again . GOD SAVE THE KING , AMEN . 