Your humble Servant Madam : BEING The flattering Courtier . OR , The Cheating Lover ; To a very fine Northern Tune . I Am a Blade , That from and old Trade , Have taken out a new one , This only this , To Court and Kiss Swear Oaths and never a true one I can tell and hundred lies , And a thousand more devise , Never was the like since Adam , I can Fetter whom I please , With a Flattering disease , And your humble Servant Madame . The Wars are done , And I must run A Course that may Preserve me , Should I rely , On Honesty , It were the way to starve me : I ha' giv'n away my Buff ; For a Perriwigg and Muff . And and Art no Wit can Fathom : I have god a Place at Court , Never paid a Penny for't , But your humble Servant Madame . While a Cavelier Both lean and bear , And almost like to Starve is , A Ladies Letter , Shall do better Then all his Iron Service . When I found out what would doo't ; Straight I put a Lady too't , What things I lacked I had um , Nothing did I give for this , But a promise and a Kiss , With your humble Servant Madam MY Courtiers Place , Does give me grace , And Pimp unto my Trade is ; The Devil and I , In Ambush lie To Catch all kind of Ladies ; I can call 'um pretty Souls , Though they be as old as Pouls , Then I a bonny Lad am ; Thus the Women I Trappan , Fetch 'um off and bring 'um on , With your humble Servant Madam . Some give me Rings , And better Things , So cunning is my Carriage , To every soul , Both fair and fowl I promise lawful Marriage . I have god so many Wives , If I had as many Lives , I should be as old as Adam , But before we go to Church , I still leave them in the lurch , With your humble Servant Madam . When I find a Face : Of a stately Grace , That would have all adore her , A Knighthood I Get presently , And that I spread before her : So I may get something by't ; I can quickly be a Knight ! ; If a Title will persuade 'um , I can tell um that they shall , Answer to no other call But your humble Servant Madam . If I see one that Is given to chat , I praise her Ingenuity : When I take a Prize With two black Eyes , I call her Queen of Beauty : If another merry be , I can laugh as well as she , When she sighs , I monstrous sad am But if I find her in a heat , I can fit her for the feat , With your humble Servant Madam . All Passion I , Can falsify , Hypocrisy my Trade is , I have of late , Gain'd and Estate By humouring of Ladies ; And I very well do find , That I fit them in their kind , For Eve begiuled Adam ; Women first did cousin Men But I cousin them again , With your humble Servant Madam . London , Printed for William Gilbertson , dwelling at the Bible in Giltspurstreet . FINIS made in you year 1662. Your humble Servant Madam : BEING The flattering Courtier . OR , The Cheating Lover ; To a very fine Northern Tune . I Am a Blade , That from and old Trade , Have taken out a new one , This only this , To Court and Kiss Swear Oaths and never a true one I can tell and hundred lies , And a thousand more devise , Never was the like since Adam , I can Fetter whom I please , With a Flattering disease , And your humble Servant Madame . The Wars are done , And I must run A Course that may Preserve me , Should I rely , On Honesty , It were the way to starve me : I ha' giv'n away my Buff ; For a Perriwigg and Muff . And and Art no Wit can Fathom : I have god a Place at Court , Never paid a Penny for't , But your humble Servant Madame . While a Cavelier Both lean and bear , And almost like to Starve is , A Ladies Letter , Shall do better Then all his Iron Service . When I found out what would doo't ; Straight I put a Lady too't , What things I lacked I had um , Nothing did I give for this , But a promise and a Kiss , With your humble Servant Madam MY Courtiers Place , Does give me grace , And Pimp unto my Trade is ; The Devil and I , In Ambush lie To Catch all kind of Ladies ; I can call 'um pretty Souls , Though they be as old as Pouls , Then I a bonny Lad am ; Thus the Women I Trappan , Fetch 'um off and bring 'um on , With your humble Servant Madam . Some give me Rings , And better Things , So cunning is my Carriage , To every soul , Both fair and fowl I promise lawful Marriage . I have god so many Wives , If I had as many Lives , I should be as old as Adam , But before we go to Church , I still leave them in the lurch , With your humble Servant Madam . When I find a Face : Of a stately Grace , That would have all adore her , A Knighthood I Get presently , And that I spread before her : So I may get something by't ; I can quickly be a Knight ! ; If a Title will persuade 'um , I can tell um that they shall , Answer to no other call But your humble Servant Madam . If I see one that Is given to chat , I praise her Ingenuity : When I take a Prize With two black Eyes , I call her Queen of Beauty : If another merry be , I can laugh as well as she , When she sighs , I monstrous sad am But if I find her in a heat , I can fit her for the feat , With your humble Servant Madam . All Passion I , Can falsify , Hypocrisy my Trade is , I have of late , Gain'd and Estate By humouring of Ladies ; And I very well do find , That I fit them in their kind , For Eve begiuled Adam ; Women first did cousin Men But I cousin them again , With your humble Servant Madam . London , Printed for William Gilbertson , dwelling at the Bible in Giltspurstreet . FINIS made in you year 1662. 