Two-penny-worth of Wit For a PENNY . OR , The bad Husband turn'd Thrifty This Man that wrought his own decay , And spent his Money night and day ; Is turn'd so saving I do swear , There's few that with him can compare : And lives so civil in his ways , That all his neighbours give him Praise , And does repent his wicked Crime , And desires good Fellows to turn in time ; There's many a Man Runs himself clear out , When Ale's in his Head , then Wit is out . To the Tune of , Packingtons Pound . ALL Company-Keepers come hear what I say Here's a Notable Song if you please for to stay , It will Learn you good council , be ru'ld by a friend , If you go to and alehouse your money to spend : For fourpence or Sixpence , you may spend I do say , If you call any higher it's all thrown away ; Then Barnaby will begin to work in your head , There's many does forget that their Children want Bred Observe a good hour and lose not your time , If you meet with a friend that you needs must go drink I desire you to take this council of mine , Keep wit in your Noddle , and your Pockets some Chink : Then your wife will pleased , your Children glad , And a great deal of comfort there will to be had : But if you spend all your money and make your self poor , Then your rend will be wanting you'l be turn'd out of door . To see some men when they are full of drink , What a Beastly condition it is we may think , That they hardly can know one man from another , They abuse their best friend if it be their own Brother . They'l tumble it'h dirt , and they'l stagger i'th street , And affront e'ry man and woman they meet , That when they are sober will Scorn to do so , For they hardly can know their friend from their foe . For I my own self have been in the same way , And wasted my money by night and by day , And never did think how my Children was serv'd , Till Neighbours did say that they [ all ] most were starv [ 'd ] If my wife chance to say that any thing she did lack , I would call her base whore and besure pay her back : That was the best comfort I could her afford , Then I out to the Alehouse , and spent like a Lord . I sold all my goods , and I wasted my store , And at the Long run I was grown very poor , A hundred and fifty good pounds I have spent , As long as any was left I could not be conten My hostess she would be so merry with me , When I call'd for Liquour and paid for't too free ; And with slabering and kissing she pleased me to t'h life [ e ] Thus I like a villain did wrong my poor wife . At last I consider'd and did think in my mind , How to my own family I had been too unkind ; Which troubles my conscience to think on the same , That with drinking and swilling I was much to blame , My Children was bore , and hard they did fare , And I of their misery never took care , But now i'le begin for to live a new life , And take pains to maintain both my Children and wife . For I to the Alehouse have been too kind , Which to my undoing I plainly do find , My poor little Children are fallen into want , Which grieves me to see them full soar I repent , That I had such fortune for to be so led , With Drunken companions which caus'd me be bad , But he runs a long Raze , that ne'r has and end , I make much of my money that God does me send . I'le be careful of my Children and make much of my wife And provide meat and drink for to preserve their life , That little that's left I hope to make it more , With taking of pains , and with working full soar : And alewifes go hang themselves with what they have god , No more of my money shall fallen to their lot ; I have sow'd my wild Oats and I will have a care , Of drunken companions that made me so bore . It is a brave thing when a Winter comes cold , To have something in store , with that a man may be bold , Either Land men or Seamen what ever they be , All Youngmen consider be ruled by me , For Hostesses and tap houses will fill you no beer , No longer then your money holds out you may swear , For I my own self now do find it too true , Which makes me to speak , for what I spent I do rue . Since I took a good course and forsaken the bad , With my wife and my Children there is enough to be had , But while I kept drinking and losing my time , All my whole household was ready to pine : But it is a long day that ne'r has and end , Therefore all good-fellows be rul'd by a Friend , Keep money in your pockets and good Clothes to your back . Drink to do your selves good , but take heed of a Crack , Now in the conclusion that man is well blessed , That lives sober , and quietly , and foregoes Drunkenness , He never will be out of reason with his wife , If God give him a blessing he's free from all strife , It is a brave thing if a man do take pains , If he work ne'r so hard if he bring home the gains ; Therefore take this council I pray you of mine , It's a penny well bestow'd , he that takes up in time . FNIS Printed for J. Deacon . at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . Two-penny-worth of Wit For a PENNY . OR , The bad Husband turn'd Thrifty This Man that wrought his own decay , And spent his Money night and day ; Is turn'd so saving I do swear , There's few that with him can compare : And lives so civil in his ways , That all his neighbours give him Praise , And does repent his wicked Crime , And desires good Fellows to turn in time ; There's many a Man Runs himself clear out , When Ale's in his Head , then Wit is out . To the Tune of , Packingtons Pound . ALL Company-Keepers come hear what I say Here's a Notable Song if you please for to stay , It will Learn you good council , be ru'ld by a friend , If you go to and alehouse your money to spend : For fourpence or Sixpence , you may spend I do say , If you call any higher it's all thrown away ; Then Barnaby will begin to work in your head , There's many does forget that their Children want Bred Observe a good hour and lose not your time , If you meet with a friend that you needs must go drink I desire you to take this council of mine , Keep wit in your Noddle , and your Pockets some Chink : Then your wife will pleased , your Children glad , And a great deal of comfort there will to be had : But if you spend all your money and make your self poor , Then your rend will be wanting you'l be turn'd out of door . To see some men when they are full of drink , What a Beastly condition it is we may think , That they hardly can know one man from another , They abuse their best friend if it be their own Brother . They'l tumble it'h dirt , and they'l stagger i'th street , And affront e'ry man and woman they meet , That when they are sober will Scorn to do so , For they hardly can know their friend from their foe . For I my own self have been in the same way , And wasted my money by night and by day , And never did think how my Children was serv'd , Till Neighbours did say that they [ all ] most were starv [ 'd ] If my wife chance to say that any thing she did lack , I would call her base whore and besure pay her back : That was the best comfort I could her afford , Then I out to the Alehouse , and spent like a Lord . I sold all my goods , and I wasted my store , And at the Long run I was grown very poor , A hundred and fifty good pounds I have spent , As long as any was left I could not be conten My hostess she would be so merry with me , When I call'd for Liquour and paid for't too free ; And with slabering and kissing she pleased me to t'h life [ e ] Thus I like a villain did wrong my poor wife . At last I consider'd and did think in my mind , How to my own family I had been too unkind ; Which troubles my conscience to think on the same , That with drinking and swilling I was much to blame , My Children was bore , and hard they did fare , And I of their misery never took care , But now i'le begin for to live a new life , And take pains to maintain both my Children and wife . For I to the Alehouse have been too kind , Which to my undoing I plainly do find , My poor little Children are fallen into want , Which grieves me to see them full soar I repent , That I had such fortune for to be so led , With Drunken companions which caus'd me be bad , But he runs a long Raze , that ne'r has and end , I make much of my money that God does me send . I'le be careful of my Children and make much of my wife And provide meat and drink for to preserve their life , That little that's left I hope to make it more , With taking of pains , and with working full soar : And alewifes go hang themselves with what they have god , No more of my money shall fallen to their lot ; I have sow'd my wild Oats and I will have a care , Of drunken companions that made me so bore . It is a brave thing when a Winter comes cold , To have something in store , with that a man may be bold , Either Land men or Seamen what ever they be , All Youngmen consider be ruled by me , For Hostesses and tap houses will fill you no beer , No longer then your money holds out you may swear , For I my own self now do find it too true , Which makes me to speak , for what I spent I do rue . Since I took a good course and forsaken the bad , With my wife and my Children there is enough to be had , But while I kept drinking and losing my time , All my whole household was ready to pine : But it is a long day that ne'r has and end , Therefore all good-fellows be rul'd by a Friend , Keep money in your pockets and good Clothes to your back . Drink to do your selves good , but take heed of a Crack , Now in the conclusion that man is well blessed , That lives sober , and quietly , and foregoes Drunkenness , He never will be out of reason with his wife , If God give him a blessing he's free from all strife , It is a brave thing if a man do take pains , If he work ne'r so hard if he bring home the gains ; Therefore take this council I pray you of mine , It's a penny well bestow'd , he that takes up in time . FNIS Printed for J. Deacon . at the Angel in Guiltspur-street . 