The Tyrannical Beauty . Beauty fades like a Flower , Then fair Ladies be not Proud , Time and Sickness may Devour , What at present you'r allow'd . To a Pleasant Tune ; called , Prodigious Fate . SInce her Beauty's grown a Snare , And by that I'm deeply Wounded , Yet my hope's are quite confounded , cause my Love I can't declare : If my passion I discover , and my Love should me deny , She'l destroy a faithful Lover , and her Martyr I shall die . To the Grave then shall I post , While her beauty is admired , And by all men much desired , yet i'le strive to love her mos When my Body is Interred , she perhaps of me will say , There's the faithfull'st Lover buried , that e're saw the Sun shine day . On my Tomb these Lines i'le have , And i'le get some loving Poet , Who before I die shall know it , that she brought me to my Grave : And these words i'le have Inserted that she broke my tender heart , First my reason she perverted , then she sent her Killing Dart. Then the world shall justly say , They must blame her charming beauty Which of all commanded Duty , with this preceipt , you must pay : And account your selves befriended , if for me you pains endure , For before your days are ended , I perhaps may grant a Cure . By this means she does command , And they must by force obey her , Who so bold as to gainsay her , or who can her power withstand : No man yet could e're oppose her , in the strictest of her Charge , For all mortal men that knows her , ne'r shall keep their minds at large . You that ne'r did see her face , Keep your freedom while you have it , 'Tis in vain to hope to save it , such will be your hapless case : If at any time you view her , whose fair eye commands the world , In a moment to be sure , into passion you'l be whirl'd . Where a Prisoner you'l remain , And for certain be confined , As her Cruelty designed , till your heart is broke with pain : Though a thousand she hath wounded , and for love of her they dy'd , And in Seas of sorrow Drowned , yet is she unsatisfied . Killing Beauty now give o're , Be no more so deadly Cruel , To Loves fires add no more Fuel , tyrannise o're men no more : 'Tis unjust they should be used , for their Loves as they have been , For their kindness much abused , this is sure a deadly Sin. You in time may be repay'd , When your Beauty's are disbanded , Which have you so much befriended , and so many Captives made : Then your power will be deminsht , and your pride will sure abate , When your Tyranny is finished , then your Captives will you hate . Take my Counsel then in time , And forbear to use severely , Those poor souls that love you dearly while your beauty is in prime : For in time you may lament you when perhaps 'twill be too late , Former pride may discontent you , causing you to Curse your fate . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The Tyrannical Beauty . Beauty fades like a Flower , Then fair Ladies be not Proud , Time and Sickness may Devour , What at present you'r allow'd . To a Pleasant Tune ; called , Prodigious Fate . SInce her Beauty's grown a Snare , And by that I'm deeply Wounded , Yet my hope's are quite confounded , cause my Love I can't declare : If my passion I discover , and my Love should me deny , She'l destroy a faithful Lover , and her Martyr I shall die . To the Grave then shall I post , While her beauty is admired , And by all men much desired , yet i'le strive to love her mos When my Body is Interred , she perhaps of me will say , There's the faithfull'st Lover buried , that e're saw the Sun shine day . On my Tomb these Lines i'le have , And i'le get some loving Poet , Who before I die shall know it , that she brought me to my Grave : And these words i'le have Inserted that she broke my tender heart , First my reason she perverted , then she sent her Killing Dart. Then the world shall justly say , They must blame her charming beauty Which of all commanded Duty , with this preceipt , you must pay : And account your selves befriended , if for me you pains endure , For before your days are ended , I perhaps may grant a Cure . By this means she does command , And they must by force obey her , Who so bold as to gainsay her , or who can her power withstand : No man yet could e're oppose her , in the strictest of her Charge , For all mortal men that knows her , ne'r shall keep their minds at large . You that ne'r did see her face , Keep your freedom while you have it , 'Tis in vain to hope to save it , such will be your hapless case : If at any time you view her , whose fair eye commands the world , In a moment to be sure , into passion you'l be whirl'd . Where a Prisoner you'l remain , And for certain be confined , As her Cruelty designed , till your heart is broke with pain : Though a thousand she hath wounded , and for love of her they dy'd , And in Seas of sorrow Drowned , yet is she unsatisfied . Killing Beauty now give o're , Be no more so deadly Cruel , To Loves fires add no more Fuel , tyrannise o're men no more : 'Tis unjust they should be used , for their Loves as they have been , For their kindness much abused , this is sure a deadly Sin. You in time may be repay'd , When your Beauty's are disbanded , Which have you so much befriended , and so many Captives made : Then your power will be deminsht , and your pride will sure abate , When your Tyranny is finished , then your Captives will you hate . Take my Counsel then in time , And forbear to use severely , Those poor souls that love you dearly while your beauty is in prime : For in time you may lament you when perhaps 'twill be too late , Former pride may discontent you , causing you to Curse your fate . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 