A Warning to all lewd Livers . By the Example of a disobedient Child , who riotously wasted and consumed his Father's and Mother's goods , and also his own , among strumpets and other Lewd Livers , and after died most miserably on a Dunghill . To the Tune of , Sir Andrew Barton . MY bleeding heart with grief and care does wish all young men to beware That they not such like steps may tread nor led the life which I have led . My Father was a Gentleman as many Gallants witness can He had no sons but only I , which made his gold and silver fly . When as my Father had me sent to fell his goods and take up rend I did consume and waste the same . in drinking or unlawful game . The Cards and Dice were my delight , I haunted Taverns Day and Night Lewd Women were my chiefest Joys and my consorts were cutpurse boys . Gods holy Word I disobey'd I car'd not what the Preacher said For quaffing cans of Ale and Beer , was all the service I would hear . Thus acting my ungracioue part I broke my aged father's heart When gashly death on him did seize I thought my self in happy case . What he had left I thought well god , but now the shame falls to my lot Five hundred pound in good read Gold , for wine and beer I quickly sold . Then was I pressed to serve the King , that might my name to honour bring A Soldiers life I hold it base and always took it in disgrace . And having thus consum'd my store , I to my Mother went for more Who sold and morgag'd all her land , and put the money in my hand . And then with tears these words she said thou knowest my Son thy father's dead No more is left but I and thee therefore dear Son be good to me . If that thy love from me should fallen I have no friend on earth at all Therefore good Son to me prove kind and thou reward in heaven shalt find . Then on my bent knees fell I desiring of the Lord on high A shameful death might be his end , that would his Mother once offend . All you that do no reckoning make of swearing when your words you speak Give ear to that which I'll you tell lewd livers seldom died well You disobedient children all draw near and listen to my fallen . Example take , repent in time lest that your woes be like to mine The second part to the same Tune . YOu father's deer and mother's kind , bear you this lesson in your mind Trust not too much a wicked Child , for oft times men are so beguil'd . When twigs are green you may them ply but let them grow till they be dry They will so stiff and stubborn stand you cannot bend them with your hand . So I that ran a wicked raze and to amend had not the grace Sixteen score pound in good read gold [ i ] unto my hand my mother told But in the compass of one year I spent it all as may appear And having left no means at all , I unto robbing straight did fallen Then did I steal my mother's Rings , her brass , her pewter , and such things , The very bed whereon she lay I like a villain stole away . What ever I could get or take I thereof straight would money make My flinty heart did feel no grief , to see my mother want relief . At last she grew exceeding poor and beg'd relief from door to door , No Infidel nor Pagan vild could bring to light so bad a child . At last my mother lost her breath as she constrained was by death Who yields r [ e ] lief when friends grow and eases those that are in want From place to place then was I tossed by every man and woman crossed , No harbour could I get whereby I might at night in safeguard lie My dearest kinsfolks do me chide my nearest friends mock and deride Those that were my consorts of late their love is turned into hate . Those that have feasted many a time and fed upon that which was mine Despise at me a long the street as if they should a Serpent meet . Both Old and Young , both great & small , both rich and poor despise me all No friend to take my part have I but was constrain'd in field to lie . In this my extreme misery , my grief , and my necessity No creature gave for my relief one piece of bred to ease my grief But like a poor despised wretch his latest gasp that he did fetch Was on a Dunghill in the night when as no creature was in sighed . But in the morning he was found , as cold as clay upon the ground Thus was he born in shame to die and end his days in misery . Take warning young men by this vice learn to avoid both Cards and Dice Lewd women's company forbear they are the highway unto care All Parents while your babes be young look to their ways in hand and tongue Then wickedness will not abound but Grace in children may be found . FINIS . M.P. London , Printed for Fra. Grove on Snow - hill , Entered according to Order . A Warning to all lewd Livers . By the Example of a disobedient Child , who riotously wasted and consumed his Father's and Mother's goods , and also his own , among strumpets and other Lewd Livers , and after died most miserably on a Dunghill . To the Tune of , Sir Andrew Barton . MY bleeding heart with grief and care does wish all young men to beware That they not such like steps may tread nor led the life which I have led . My Father was a Gentleman as many Gallants witness can He had no sons but only I , which made his gold and silver fly . When as my Father had me sent to fell his goods and take up rend I did consume and waste the same . in drinking or unlawful game . The Cards and Dice were my delight , I haunted Taverns Day and Night Lewd Women were my chiefest Joys and my consorts were cutpurse boys . Gods holy Word I disobey'd I car'd not what the Preacher said For quaffing cans of Ale and Beer , was all the service I would hear . Thus acting my ungracioue part I broke my aged father's heart When gashly death on him did seize I thought my self in happy case . What he had left I thought well god , but now the shame falls to my lot Five hundred pound in good read Gold , for wine and beer I quickly sold . Then was I pressed to serve the King , that might my name to honour bring A Soldiers life I hold it base and always took it in disgrace . And having thus consum'd my store , I to my Mother went for more Who sold and morgag'd all her land , and put the money in my hand . And then with tears these words she said thou knowest my Son thy father's dead No more is left but I and thee therefore dear Son be good to me . If that thy love from me should fallen I have no friend on earth at all Therefore good Son to me prove kind and thou reward in heaven shalt find . Then on my bent knees fell I desiring of the Lord on high A shameful death might be his end , that would his Mother once offend . All you that do no reckoning make of swearing when your words you speak Give ear to that which I'll you tell lewd livers seldom died well You disobedient children all draw near and listen to my fallen . Example take , repent in time lest that your woes be like to mine The second part to the same Tune . YOu father's deer and mother's kind , bear you this lesson in your mind Trust not too much a wicked Child , for oft times men are so beguil'd . When twigs are green you may them ply but let them grow till they be dry They will so stiff and stubborn stand you cannot bend them with your hand . So I that ran a wicked raze and to amend had not the grace Sixteen score pound in good read gold [ i ] unto my hand my mother told But in the compass of one year I spent it all as may appear And having left no means at all , I unto robbing straight did fallen Then did I steal my mother's Rings , her brass , her pewter , and such things , The very bed whereon she lay I like a villain stole away . What ever I could get or take I thereof straight would money make My flinty heart did feel no grief , to see my mother want relief . At last she grew exceeding poor and beg'd relief from door to door , No Infidel nor Pagan vild could bring to light so bad a child . At last my mother lost her breath as she constrained was by death Who yields r [ e ] lief when friends grow and eases those that are in want From place to place then was I tossed by every man and woman crossed , No harbour could I get whereby I might at night in safeguard lie My dearest kinsfolks do me chide my nearest friends mock and deride Those that were my consorts of late their love is turned into hate . Those that have feasted many a time and fed upon that which was mine Despise at me a long the street as if they should a Serpent meet . Both Old and Young , both great & small , both rich and poor despise me all No friend to take my part have I but was constrain'd in field to lie . In this my extreme misery , my grief , and my necessity No creature gave for my relief one piece of bred to ease my grief But like a poor despised wretch his latest gasp that he did fetch Was on a Dunghill in the night when as no creature was in sighed . But in the morning he was found , as cold as clay upon the ground Thus was he born in shame to die and end his days in misery . Take warning young men by this vice learn to avoid both Cards and Dice Lewd women's company forbear they are the highway unto care All Parents while your babes be young look to their ways in hand and tongue Then wickedness will not abound but Grace in children may be found . FINIS . M.P. London , Printed for Fra. Grove on Snow - hill , Entered according to Order . 