Robin Hoods Progress to Nottingham . Where he met with fifteen Forristers all on a row . And he desired of them some news to Know : But with cross-grain'd words they did him thwart , For which at last he made them for to smart . To the Tune of , Bold Robin Hood RObin Hood he was a tall young man , Derry derry down . And fifteen Winter's old ; And Robin Hood he was a proper young man Of courage stout and bold : Heigh down derry derry down . Robin Hood he would unto fair Notingham , Derry derry down . With the General for to dine : There was he aware of fifteen Foresters , And a drinking Beer , Ale and Wine : Heigh down derry derry down . What news , what news , said bold Robin Hood Derry derry down . What news fain wouldst thou know ? Our King hath provided a shooting match And I'm ready with my Bow : Heigh down , etc We hold it in scorn , then said the Foresters Derry derry down . That ever a Boy so young , Should bear a Bow before our King , That's not able to draw one string : Heigh down , etc I'll hold you twenty marks , said bold Robin Hood Derry derry down , By the leave of our Lady , That I'll hit a mark a hundred Rod , And I'le cause a Heart to die : Heigh down , etc We'l hold you twenty mark then said the Foresters , Derry derry down . By the leave of our Lady , Thou hit'st not the mark and hundred Rod , Nor causest a Heart to die : Heigh down , etc Robin Hood he bent up a noble Bow , Derry derry down , And a Broad-Arrow he let fly , He hit the mark and hundred Rod , And he caused and heart to die : Heigh down , etc Some said he brake ribs one or two , Derry derry down . And some said he brake three : The Arrow in the Heart would not abide , But it glanced in two or three : Heigh down derry derry down . THe Heart did skip , and the Heart did leap Derry derry down . And the Heart lay on the ground : The wager is mine , said bold Robin Hood If 'twere for a thousand pound : Heigh down derry derry down . The wager's none of thine , then said the Foresters derry derry down . Although thou best in haste , Take up thy Bow and get thee hence Lest we thy sides do bas Heigh down , etc Robin Hood he took up his noble Bow , Derry derry down . And his Broad-arrows all amain , And Robin he laughed , and began to smile , As he went over the Plain , Heigh down , etc Then Robin Hood he bent his noble Bow , Derry derry down . And his Broad-arrows he let fly , Till fourteen of the fifteen Foresters Upon the ground did lie : Heigh down , etc He that did this quarrel first begin , Derry derry down . Went tripping over the plain , But Robin Hood he bent his noble Bow And he fetched him back again , Heigh down , etc You said I was no Archer , said bold Robin Hood Derry derry down . But say so now again : With that he sent another Arrow Which split his head in twain . Hey down , etc You have found me and Archer , said Robin Hood Derry derry down . Which will make your wives for to wring , And wish that you had never spoke the word That I could not draw one String : Heigh down , etc The people that lived in fair Nottingham , Derry derry down . Came running out amain Supposing to have taken [ bo ] ld Robin Hood , With the Foresters that were slave : Heigh down , etc Some lost Legs and some lost A [ rms ] Derry derry down . And some did loose their blood : But Robin Hood he took up his n [ oble Bow ] And is gone to the merry Green - [ wood ] Heigh down , etc They carried these Foresters int [ oh fair Nottingham ] Derry derry down . As many there did know , They dig'd them graves in their [ Churchyards ] And they buried them all on a row . Hey down derry derr [ y ] down . London . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . Robin Hoods Progress to Nottingham . Where he met with fifteen Forristers all on a row . And he desired of them some news to Know : But with cross-grain'd words they did him thwart , For which at last he made them for to smart . To the Tune of , Bold Robin Hood RObin Hood he was a tall young man , Derry derry down . And fifteen Winter's old ; And Robin Hood he was a proper young man Of courage stout and bold : Heigh down derry derry down . Robin Hood he would unto fair Notingham , Derry derry down . With the General for to dine : There was he aware of fifteen Foresters , And a drinking Beer , Ale and Wine : Heigh down derry derry down . What news , what news , said bold Robin Hood Derry derry down . What news fain wouldst thou know ? Our King hath provided a shooting match And I'm ready with my Bow : Heigh down , etc We hold it in scorn , then said the Foresters Derry derry down . That ever a Boy so young , Should bear a Bow before our King , That's not able to draw one string : Heigh down , etc I'll hold you twenty marks , said bold Robin Hood Derry derry down , By the leave of our Lady , That I'll hit a mark a hundred Rod , And I'le cause a Heart to die : Heigh down , etc We'l hold you twenty mark then said the Foresters , Derry derry down . By the leave of our Lady , Thou hit'st not the mark and hundred Rod , Nor causest a Heart to die : Heigh down , etc Robin Hood he bent up a noble Bow , Derry derry down , And a Broad-Arrow he let fly , He hit the mark and hundred Rod , And he caused and heart to die : Heigh down , etc Some said he brake ribs one or two , Derry derry down . And some said he brake three : The Arrow in the Heart would not abide , But it glanced in two or three : Heigh down derry derry down . THe Heart did skip , and the Heart did leap Derry derry down . And the Heart lay on the ground : The wager is mine , said bold Robin Hood If 'twere for a thousand pound : Heigh down derry derry down . The wager's none of thine , then said the Foresters derry derry down . Although thou best in haste , Take up thy Bow and get thee hence Lest we thy sides do bas Heigh down , etc Robin Hood he took up his noble Bow , Derry derry down . And his Broad-arrows all amain , And Robin he laughed , and began to smile , As he went over the Plain , Heigh down , etc Then Robin Hood he bent his noble Bow , Derry derry down . And his Broad-arrows he let fly , Till fourteen of the fifteen Foresters Upon the ground did lie : Heigh down , etc He that did this quarrel first begin , Derry derry down . Went tripping over the plain , But Robin Hood he bent his noble Bow And he fetched him back again , Heigh down , etc You said I was no Archer , said bold Robin Hood Derry derry down . But say so now again : With that he sent another Arrow Which split his head in twain . Hey down , etc You have found me and Archer , said Robin Hood Derry derry down . Which will make your wives for to wring , And wish that you had never spoke the word That I could not draw one String : Heigh down , etc The people that lived in fair Nottingham , Derry derry down . Came running out amain Supposing to have taken [ bo ] ld Robin Hood , With the Foresters that were slave : Heigh down , etc Some lost Legs and some lost A [ rms ] Derry derry down . And some did loose their blood : But Robin Hood he took up his n [ oble Bow ] And is gone to the merry Green - [ wood ] Heigh down , etc They carried these Foresters int [ oh fair Nottingham ] Derry derry down . As many there did know , They dig'd them graves in their [ Churchyards ] And they buried them all on a row . Hey down derry derr [ y ] down . London . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . 