Tragical HISTORY of King LEAR , and his three DAUGHTE [ RS ] First , Showing how he gave the two Eldest the full and , whole Possession of his Crown . Second , How he banish'd the Youngest his Court and Presence , who fled into France , and married the French King . Third , How his two eldest Daughters , in some Time after , took away his Attendance , and turn'd him out of Court , when being destitute , he traveled into France , where his youngest Daughter relieved him , rai [ s ] ed and Army to restore him to the Pos - session of his Crown , in the Attempt of which she was kill'd in the Field of Battle , and her Father immediately died with Grief for the Loss of his Daughter . PART . II A Certain great King once did rule over this Land , Who had all the Pleasure a King cold commend And liv'd in great Splendour with Honour and Peae , He reign'd many Years not without great Increase . He had three fine Daughters of Beauty most bright , In whom this same King he did take much Delight ; For Virtue and Wisdom none could them come near , Which caused their Father to love them most dear . The King had a Fancy to try all their Love , Which pleased him well then this Question to move , To see which of them then did love him the best , So call'd them before him the Truth to protest . For unto my Joy and Comfort I see Three beautiful Children do stand before me : 'Now which of you three will do most for my Sake , Suppose that my Life now should lie at the Stake ? ' To which then the Elder did make this Reply , 'The worst of all Death's for thy Sake I could die , With the greatest of Tortures that Nature can name ; Oh this I will bear for your Majesty's Fame ! ' The second made Answer , 'My Love is more dear Than ever my Sister's , as it shall appear ; Although she expresses much Fidelity , My Love shall be seen unto your Majesty ! ' 'Well spoke , my dear Daughters , the aged King said , My Heart is enamour'd , and merely betray'd : But what says my youngest Girl ? Prithee tell me , I want to hear thy Love among all the Three . ' 'My Love , said the Youngest , that I to you owe , Is the abundant Duty a Child ought to show ; To honour my Father until that I die , And ne'er in Extremity from you will fly . ' 'Thy Love is but small , said the King , I do find , That you'll show no more than what Nature does bind ; I thought you had Reason to be as sincere As your eldest Sister , who loves me most dear . Henceforth I do banish you quite from my Court , And charge you no more in my Presence resor I justly may say , thou art no Child of mine , Because you in Love from the Rest do decline . So I will make over my Sceptre and Crown To your eldest Sisters of Fame and Renown ; And they shall be Heirs to my whole Land , For all that I have shall be at their Command . My pompous Estate , nay , and my noble Train , For those thy two Sisters shall be to maintain ; That peaceable now I may pass my Time away , And live with my Daughters till my dying Day . ' PART II The youngest Daughter's Misfortune ; of her traveling into France ; and how the King of France made her his Queen , THEIR flatt'ring Speeches at length wone his Heart , But now mind at length how he had his Desert ; For his youngest Daughter's causeless Banishment , The which he had Reason ee'r long to repent . For his poor young Daughter he wander'd up and down , Through many a Village and brave English Town ; Because that her Father held her in Disdain , She then did resolve for to cross o'er the Main . At length to fair France then this fair Lady came , The King then perceiving this beautiful Dame , He quickly was wounded by young Cupid's Dart , Which deeply did wound him to the very Heart . Likewise the King of her Virtues had herd , His Heart was more and more to her endear'd : Said he , 'That my Love to her shall be seen , Before my whole Court I will make her my Queen . ' Her aged old Father is now all the While With his eldest Daughters , who soon did beguile Him of his whole Kingdom , nay , Sceptre and Crown , And quickly their aged old Father pull'd down . The King for a While in his Court did remain , But his eldest Daughter soon lessen'd his Train : Then after so done , she did quickly contrive Him of all his Riches and Means to deprive . Whereas twenty Men he was wont for to have , To wait and attend on his Majesty grave : She lessen'd his Number , and brought him to ten , And quickly reduc'd them to only three Men . Nay , one she thought much for her Father to have , So took him away , that her Father m [ i ] ght leave The Court and be gone , and there no longer stay , Which grieved the King , and made him thus say , 'Am I thus rewarded , the King then reply'd , To be of my own at this Rate so deny'd ? It grieveth my Heart to think what I've done , But now to my second Child I'll make my Moan . PART III . How the King was dethron'd by his two eldest Daughters ; and how his youngest Daughter restored him again . 'MY second dear Daughter with Pity I know , Will quickly consider my Sorrow and Woe ; I'll go now unto her , and tell her my Grief , I make no Doubt but she'll afford me Relief . ' The King he full fast to the Court then did go , Desiring his Sorrows for to let her know : She made him this Answer , 'That she was much griev'd For all these Repulses that he had receiv'd , But no Ways could help him in this his Distress , Nor yet in the least could afford him Redress ; But if he a While in the Kitchen would stay , She'd order him such as the Scullions give away . ' The King made this Answer to his Daughter then , 'Surely I am served the worst of all Men ; For doing as I did by my Daughter dear , Which makes me lament , and shed many a Tear . To my eldest Daughter again I'll return , Perhaps she'll give Ear to my pitiful Moan . ' Then straightway he went again to the Court , In Hope's to find her in a better Sort. And when he came there she straightway gave Command , For to have him sent away out of Hand ; And order'd them quickly to drive him away , Saying , 'That in her Court he not long should stay . ' Then he to his second Child again did high , To eat of her Scraps that her Scullion set by , For such as for Charity ask'd at the Door Which grieved the King to the Heart more and more . But there of her Promise he then was deny'd , Which caused the King to be dissatisfy'd For on his refusing her Offer most kind , She said , 'At her Gate he small Comfort ; tO should find . Calling to Remembrance his young Daughter's Word . It did to his Grief new Sorrow afford ; To think how he had this poor Creature beguil'd Of all her whole Fortune , and ruin'd the Child . Which made him be troubled , nay , to rave a [ n ] worser tear , And rending the Locks of his Silver Hair ; Which was such and Ornament to his old Age , Yet nothing at all could his Trouble assuage . To Rocks , and to Rivers , and wat'ry Founts , To Hills , and to Woods , and [ tO ] he highest of Mounts He made his Complaint , and his hourly Moan , Until at length all those Things seem'd to Then being thus possessed with Discontent , Being fully resolv'd , he over Sea [ ? ] went , And soon found his Daughter , being Queen of Frnce , Which made him amazed at her noble Chance . Most virtuous Lady ! when this she did hear , She sent for her Father in Duty most dear : 'Most welcome are you , my reverend Lord , To what my whole Kingdom and Court does afford . ' Then her noble King , for to grace his Queen , Shew'd him all the Honour and Love could be seen : He for his whole Court then of Noblemen sent , For great Acclamations of Joy they were bent . But as they in Banqueting merrily were , She said , 'My dear Father how goes your Affairs ? ' 'Indeed , my dear Daughter , I quite am disown'd By your eldest Sisters , who have me dethron'd . ' Then she started up from the Table , and said , 'Of my cruel Sisters , who have the betray'd , I will be revenged , and that instantly , If that I am sure in the Battle to die . ' The King and his Nobles did soon Answer make , 'My honoured Queen , for your dear Father's Sake , We'll venture our Lives to see him on the Throne In Spite of all those that do him disown . ' Then straight unto England they came in great Haste , But now comes the Tragedy here at the last ; The Fight was no sooner begun , to be plain , But this noble Queen in the Battle was slave . The Queen being dead , then her Father espy'd , He laid himself by her , and instantly dy'd : Then straightway Tragical HISTORY of King LEAR , and his three DAUGHTE [ RS ] First , Showing how he gave the two Eldest the full and , whole Possession of his Crown . Second , How he banish'd the Youngest his Court and Presence , who fled into France , and married the French King . Third , How his two eldest Daughters , in some Time after , took away his Attendance , and turn'd him out of Court , when being destitute , he traveled into France , where his youngest Daughter relieved him , rai [ s ] ed and Army to restore him to the Pos - session of his Crown , in the Attempt of which she was kill'd in the Field of Battle , and her Father immediately died with Grief for the Loss of his Daughter . PART . II A Certain great King once did rule over this Land , Who had all the Pleasure a King cold commend And liv'd in great Splendour with Honour and Peae , He reign'd many Years not without great Increase . He had three fine Daughters of Beauty most bright , In whom this same King he did take much Delight ; For Virtue and Wisdom none could them come near , Which caused their Father to love them most dear . The King had a Fancy to try all their Love , Which pleased him well then this Question to move , To see which of them then did love him the best , So call'd them before him the Truth to protest . For unto my Joy and Comfort I see Three beautiful Children do stand before me : 'Now which of you three will do most for my Sake , Suppose that my Life now should lie at the Stake ? ' To which then the Elder did make this Reply , 'The worst of all Death's for thy Sake I could die , With the greatest of Tortures that Nature can name ; Oh this I will bear for your Majesty's Fame ! ' The second made Answer , 'My Love is more dear Than ever my Sister's , as it shall appear ; Although she expresses much Fidelity , My Love shall be seen unto your Majesty ! ' 'Well spoke , my dear Daughters , the aged King said , My Heart is enamour'd , and merely betray'd : But what says my youngest Girl ? Prithee tell me , I want to hear thy Love among all the Three . ' 'My Love , said the Youngest , that I to you owe , Is the abundant Duty a Child ought to show ; To honour my Father until that I die , And ne'er in Extremity from you will fly . ' 'Thy Love is but small , said the King , I do find , That you'll show no more than what Nature does bind ; I thought you had Reason to be as sincere As your eldest Sister , who loves me most dear . Henceforth I do banish you quite from my Court , And charge you no more in my Presence resor I justly may say , thou art no Child of mine , Because you in Love from the Rest do decline . So I will make over my Sceptre and Crown To your eldest Sisters of Fame and Renown ; And they shall be Heirs to my whole Land , For all that I have shall be at their Command . My pompous Estate , nay , and my noble Train , For those thy two Sisters shall be to maintain ; That peaceable now I may pass my Time away , And live with my Daughters till my dying Day . ' PART II The youngest Daughter's Misfortune ; of her traveling into France ; and how the King of France made her his Queen , THEIR flatt'ring Speeches at length wone his Heart , But now mind at length how he had his Desert ; For his youngest Daughter's causeless Banishment , The which he had Reason ee'r long to repent . For his poor young Daughter he wander'd up and down , Through many a Village and brave English Town ; Because that her Father held her in Disdain , She then did resolve for to cross o'er the Main . At length to fair France then this fair Lady came , The King then perceiving this beautiful Dame , He quickly was wounded by young Cupid's Dart , Which deeply did wound him to the very Heart . Likewise the King of her Virtues had herd , His Heart was more and more to her endear'd : Said he , 'That my Love to her shall be seen , Before my whole Court I will make her my Queen . ' Her aged old Father is now all the While With his eldest Daughters , who soon did beguile Him of his whole Kingdom , nay , Sceptre and Crown , And quickly their aged old Father pull'd down . The King for a While in his Court did remain , But his eldest Daughter soon lessen'd his Train : Then after so done , she did quickly contrive Him of all his Riches and Means to deprive . Whereas twenty Men he was wont for to have , To wait and attend on his Majesty grave : She lessen'd his Number , and brought him to ten , And quickly reduc'd them to only three Men . Nay , one she thought much for her Father to have , So took him away , that her Father m [ i ] ght leave The Court and be gone , and there no longer stay , Which grieved the King , and made him thus say , 'Am I thus rewarded , the King then reply'd , To be of my own at this Rate so deny'd ? It grieveth my Heart to think what I've done , But now to my second Child I'll make my Moan . PART III . How the King was dethron'd by his two eldest Daughters ; and how his youngest Daughter restored him again . 'MY second dear Daughter with Pity I know , Will quickly consider my Sorrow and Woe ; I'll go now unto her , and tell her my Grief , I make no Doubt but she'll afford me Relief . ' The King he full fast to the Court then did go , Desiring his Sorrows for to let her know : She made him this Answer , 'That she was much griev'd For all these Repulses that he had receiv'd , But no Ways could help him in this his Distress , Nor yet in the least could afford him Redress ; But if he a While in the Kitchen would stay , She'd order him such as the Scullions give away . ' The King made this Answer to his Daughter then , 'Surely I am served the worst of all Men ; For doing as I did by my Daughter dear , Which makes me lament , and shed many a Tear . To my eldest Daughter again I'll return , Perhaps she'll give Ear to my pitiful Moan . ' Then straightway he went again to the Court , In Hope's to find her in a better Sort. And when he came there she straightway gave Command , For to have him sent away out of Hand ; And order'd them quickly to drive him away , Saying , 'That in her Court he not long should stay . ' Then he to his second Child again did high , To eat of her Scraps that her Scullion set by , For such as for Charity ask'd at the Door Which grieved the King to the Heart more and more . But there of her Promise he then was deny'd , Which caused the King to be dissatisfy'd For on his refusing her Offer most kind , She said , 'At her Gate he small Comfort ; tO should find . Calling to Remembrance his young Daughter's Word . It did to his Grief new Sorrow afford ; To think how he had this poor Creature beguil'd Of all her whole Fortune , and ruin'd the Child . Which made him be troubled , nay , to rave a [ n ] worser tear , And rending the Locks of his Silver Hair ; Which was such and Ornament to his old Age , Yet nothing at all could his Trouble assuage . To Rocks , and to Rivers , and wat'ry Founts , To Hills , and to Woods , and [ tO ] he highest of Mounts He made his Complaint , and his hourly Moan , Until at length all those Things seem'd to Then being thus possessed with Discontent , Being fully resolv'd , he over Sea [ ? ] went , And soon found his Daughter , being Queen of Frnce , Which made him amazed at her noble Chance . Most virtuous Lady ! when this she did hear , She sent for her Father in Duty most dear : 'Most welcome are you , my reverend Lord , To what my whole Kingdom and Court does afford . ' Then her noble King , for to grace his Queen , Shew'd him all the Honour and Love could be seen : He for his whole Court then of Noblemen sent , For great Acclamations of Joy they were bent . But as they in Banqueting merrily were , She said , 'My dear Father how goes your Affairs ? ' 'Indeed , my dear Daughter , I quite am disown'd By your eldest Sisters , who have me dethron'd . ' Then she started up from the Table , and said , 'Of my cruel Sisters , who have the betray'd , I will be revenged , and that instantly , If that I am sure in the Battle to die . ' The King and his Nobles did soon Answer make , 'My honoured Queen , for your dear Father's Sake , We'll venture our Lives to see him on the Throne In Spite of all those that do him disown . ' Then straight unto England they came in great Haste , But now comes the Tragedy here at the last ; The Fight was no sooner begun , to be plain , But this noble Queen in the Battle was slave . The Queen being dead , then her Father espy'd , He laid himself by her , and instantly dy'd : Then straightway seeing this sudden Event , They put the two Daughters to Death by Consent . The Crown was left vacant , for Want of and Heir , There being none equal the Crown for to wear : The Crown was left useless , being without King , So sad Disobedience is the wost of all Sin. seeing this sudden Event , They put the two Daughters to Death by Consent . The Crown was left vacant , for Want of and Heir , There being none equal the Crown for to wear : The Crown was left useless , being without King , So sad Disobedience is the wost of all Sin. 