Sir Hugh and the Maiden . NEVER to Carleile there dwells a Knight Of good and comely meine , If I this story tell aright , And folks take what I mean . His Castle is as fair a one As any in the Land , And round about bedight with Towers , Near Engishe wood did stand . Sir Hugh this Knight was called , A bold Knight's son was he , That ever fault with shynand brand , Or ever bent on a knee . His Lady was of goodly make , Her Cheeks were of red and white , A comelier face was never seen With glimmering eyn so bright . Her Fathir he had many a Tower , Of Lineage proud was he , And many a house with costly Bowere , He geide for a Dowry . Ella she keeped a false woman , For that was our Ladie's name , A falser woman sure never was born , Than into this Castle came . She would have lain by her ain Master , If she thought he would not say nay , For she wished to ruin her good Lady , And get her a turned away . So traitory Stories she often would telle , Her Mystress to undo , Which coming to the Knight's hearing , Did cause him very soar woe . He writhed his mind baithe back and from , And aye he doubled his brow , For he wished to would that wily Knight Who crackened his wife's false vow . And He offered to them , whoever would telle Who this Knight should be That wrought him wroth in his Castle , Should have land and golden fee , Glad was the Maiden when she did find The Knight was stricken with bail , Then slily she hied her till his Bowere , And spoke her falsing tail . I come frae your Wife as I would life , Your Wife who is false to thee , And if I mayest tell what I would seen , I sertenly killed should be . Speak on , speak on my maiden dear , Be it truei thou telleist to me , A Boon thou shall would , and to boot I will grant Much Gold and good Country . O never will I sleep till I would wreked My Sweard's point in his blood , The micklest Vilane that ever has went Tween this and Engish wood . 'O Sir , quoth the Maiden , he is nae Knight , 'But a Man of low degree , 'And when the Sun is slepein our the hill , 'At thy Ladies Bower Window he'll be . 'Ycladd in your best grain doublet 'And your hod he is bedight , 'To make the folk think he is Sir Hugh , 'And not a stranger knight . ' Now anger and crumpling jeelousie Did our Knight's heart torment , He swore to the Maiden by the Holyrood , That his fere he would would brent . 'Helle taken thee thou carlish thief , 'To night I wrought shall be , 'Bathe of Thee and my aine false wife , 'That I once loved tenderly . ' The Knight he stricken his heid and his briest , And moaned most woefully , He grindled his teeth and rolled his eyn , And jumpted most myghtilie . For many a wondrous syhe he guide , His heart was grieved so , The case of which he though it truei , As you shall speedily knoe . Then away sped the Maiden , like a braid arrow Shotten frae a trusty Bow , For liken till , whilk always doth scathe Where ever it may go . She sped to her Mistress her for to telle , Her Mistress once so deer , A false leasing tail of her own dear Knight , Which you shall quickly here . 'O Lady quoth she , what I speak to thee 'Leeve it is very truei , 'This eene thy Knight at eventide 'I trow another will wou . 'O woe till you quoth the Knight's Lady , 'Grammercye on your soul , 'If it be false what I this day trow , 'You shall die ere the Curfeu knowles . 'O Lady deer as I hope to would fear , 'The hour I am going to die , 'It is not false , but true as I live , 'What I would telled to thee . 'And more , at night they would agreed 'In your best bower to meet , 'To pass the time unkenned to you , 'And brok with kisses sweet . ' Fair Ella was grieved to the hearts life , And soar perplexed was she , She vowede to Saint Johne that if it be so I sertanelye wrought will be . Here said the Maiden taken my cleadinge , And till your little bowere high , For there you will wit what is doing Thrueghe the window secretly . The suthe had changedd either cleadinge , The Mistress the Maiden's did wear , And proud was the false one so bedecked All in her Ladies geer . This wicked jaide had thereto biddenn One more of her varletts vile , To go to her Ladies little bowere And murdeir her the while . When it was dark the menn did cum , As the Maiden telled to they , For they were as wicked as she herselle In the wills of lechery They all been come and the Knight also , Under the green wood Tre , He stopped awhile with his Sword in his hand , Till he his fere might see . The Maiden to the window did go , To stand there for awhile And show her face to the carlish man , The Knight for to beguile . The Knight when he saw his Ladies face , He at the carlish man slew , And he strickened him with his Sword edge , And thrusten him threugh and through . Lie there and die said the angry Knight , Whose Lege-man ever you be , Such much never went on earth , As two like you and she . At the same time all in the bowere , The like was doing also But instead of the Mistress the man did strike The Maiden a woeful blow . Sir Hugh cummin in to catch his wife , Astounded he was to see That she was all bluidye , and on the Ground Moaning most pitioueslye . But when he kenned that it was the Maiden Y Busked in his Ladies Gear , Where is my fere , what man is this , Some traitorye I do fear . 'Ha mercy , would mercy , said the Maiden , 'On my poor dying Shrive , 'For I am the wickedeste of woman , 'That ever was born alive . 'Forgive , forgive before I die , 'And I will tell you all , 'I do forgive you you wicked maiden , 'As ever came in a Hall . 'O then , Sir Knight , your Lady deer 'The Carle was to have Slain , 'In hope that when you lost your fere 'I should would been your aine . 'Or if she had not killed been , 'I wanted to torment 'Your heart , with falsinge tailles of her , 'And so to would her brent . ' The Lady all this while stood buy , Busked in the Maid's attire , Nor could she speak a single motte , She choked so with ire . Here taken thy Lady good Sir Hugh , For a truere one never can be , There is never a Knight in all Englande Has one fairer or more comely . The Knight he clasped her in his arms , My Wife , my sweet Lady , See this vile Maidden gets the panem She meened for you and me . Mayest always syke luck the willy have , My prayers shall always be , That themselves may alike be catcheatt In their on treachorye . Sir Hugh and the Maiden . NEVER to Carleile there dwells a Knight Of good and comely meine , If I this story tell aright , And folks take what I mean . His Castle is as fair a one As any in the Land , And round about bedight with Towers , Near Engishe wood did stand . Sir Hugh this Knight was called , A bold Knight's son was he , That ever fault with shynand brand , Or ever bent on a knee . His Lady was of goodly make , Her Cheeks were of red and white , A comelier face was never seen With glimmering eyn so bright . Her Fathir he had many a Tower , Of Lineage proud was he , And many a house with costly Bowere , He geide for a Dowry . Ella she keeped a false woman , For that was our Ladie's name , A falser woman sure never was born , Than into this Castle came . She would have lain by her ain Master , If she thought he would not say nay , For she wished to ruin her good Lady , And get her a turned away . So traitory Stories she often would telle , Her Mystress to undo , Which coming to the Knight's hearing , Did cause him very soar woe . He writhed his mind baithe back and from , And aye he doubled his brow , For he wished to would that wily Knight Who crackened his wife's false vow . And He offered to them , whoever would telle Who this Knight should be That wrought him wroth in his Castle , Should have land and golden fee , Glad was the Maiden when she did find The Knight was stricken with bail , Then slily she hied her till his Bowere , And spoke her falsing tail . I come frae your Wife as I would life , Your Wife who is false to thee , And if I mayest tell what I would seen , I sertenly killed should be . Speak on , speak on my maiden dear , Be it truei thou telleist to me , A Boon thou shall would , and to boot I will grant Much Gold and good Country . O never will I sleep till I would wreked My Sweard's point in his blood , The micklest Vilane that ever has went Tween this and Engish wood . 'O Sir , quoth the Maiden , he is nae Knight , 'But a Man of low degree , 'And when the Sun is slepein our the hill , 'At thy Ladies Bower Window he'll be . 'Ycladd in your best grain doublet 'And your hod he is bedight , 'To make the folk think he is Sir Hugh , 'And not a stranger knight . ' Now anger and crumpling jeelousie Did our Knight's heart torment , He swore to the Maiden by the Holyrood , That his fere he would would brent . 'Helle taken thee thou carlish thief , 'To night I wrought shall be , 'Bathe of Thee and my aine false wife , 'That I once loved tenderly . ' The Knight he stricken his heid and his briest , And moaned most woefully , He grindled his teeth and rolled his eyn , And jumpted most myghtilie . For many a wondrous syhe he guide , His heart was grieved so , The case of which he though it truei , As you shall speedily knoe . Then away sped the Maiden , like a braid arrow Shotten frae a trusty Bow , For liken till , whilk always doth scathe Where ever it may go . She sped to her Mistress her for to telle , Her Mistress once so deer , A false leasing tail of her own dear Knight , Which you shall quickly here . 'O Lady quoth she , what I speak to thee 'Leeve it is very truei , 'This eene thy Knight at eventide 'I trow another will wou . 'O woe till you quoth the Knight's Lady , 'Grammercye on your soul , 'If it be false what I this day trow , 'You shall die ere the Curfeu knowles . 'O Lady deer as I hope to would fear , 'The hour I am going to die , 'It is not false , but true as I live , 'What I would telled to thee . 'And more , at night they would agreed 'In your best bower to meet , 'To pass the time unkenned to you , 'And brok with kisses sweet . ' Fair Ella was grieved to the hearts life , And soar perplexed was she , She vowede to Saint Johne that if it be so I sertanelye wrought will be . Here said the Maiden taken my cleadinge , And till your little bowere high , For there you will wit what is doing Thrueghe the window secretly . The suthe had changedd either cleadinge , The Mistress the Maiden's did wear , And proud was the false one so bedecked All in her Ladies geer . This wicked jaide had thereto biddenn One more of her varletts vile , To go to her Ladies little bowere And murdeir her the while . When it was dark the menn did cum , As the Maiden telled to they , For they were as wicked as she herselle In the wills of lechery They all been come and the Knight also , Under the green wood Tre , He stopped awhile with his Sword in his hand , Till he his fere might see . The Maiden to the window did go , To stand there for awhile And show her face to the carlish man , The Knight for to beguile . The Knight when he saw his Ladies face , He at the carlish man slew , And he strickened him with his Sword edge , And thrusten him threugh and through . Lie there and die said the angry Knight , Whose Lege-man ever you be , Such much never went on earth , As two like you and she . At the same time all in the bowere , The like was doing also But instead of the Mistress the man did strike The Maiden a woeful blow . Sir Hugh cummin in to catch his wife , Astounded he was to see That she was all bluidye , and on the Ground Moaning most pitioueslye . But when he kenned that it was the Maiden Y Busked in his Ladies Gear , Where is my fere , what man is this , Some traitorye I do fear . 'Ha mercy , would mercy , said the Maiden , 'On my poor dying Shrive , 'For I am the wickedeste of woman , 'That ever was born alive . 'Forgive , forgive before I die , 'And I will tell you all , 'I do forgive you you wicked maiden , 'As ever came in a Hall . 'O then , Sir Knight , your Lady deer 'The Carle was to have Slain , 'In hope that when you lost your fere 'I should would been your aine . 'Or if she had not killed been , 'I wanted to torment 'Your heart , with falsinge tailles of her , 'And so to would her brent . ' The Lady all this while stood buy , Busked in the Maid's attire , Nor could she speak a single motte , She choked so with ire . Here taken thy Lady good Sir Hugh , For a truere one never can be , There is never a Knight in all Englande Has one fairer or more comely . The Knight he clasped her in his arms , My Wife , my sweet Lady , See this vile Maidden gets the panem She meened for you and me . Mayest always syke luck the willy have , My prayers shall always be , That themselves may alike be catcheatt In their on treachorye . 