The Benjamin's Lamentation for their sad loss at Sea , by Storms and Tempests . Being a brief Narrative of one of his Majesties Ships , called the Benjamin , that was drove into Harbour at Plimouth , and received no small harm by this Tempest . To the Tune of , The poor Benjamin . CAptain Chilver's gone to Sea , I Boys , Oh Boys , With all his company , I , Captain Chilver's gone to Sea , With all his company , In the brave Benjamin Oh , Thirty Guns this Ship did bear , I Boys , Oh Boys , They were bound for Veni [ c ] e fair , I , Thirty Guns this Ship did bear , And a hundred men so-clear , in the brave Benjamin Oh , But by ill storms at at Sea , I boys , Oh boys , Which bred our misery , I , But by ill storms at Sea , We were drove out o'th way , in the brave Benjamin Oh , We had more wind then we could bear I boys , Oh boys , Our ship it would not steer , I , We had more wind then we could bear Our Masts and Sails did tear , in the poor Benjamin Oh , The first harm that we had , I boys Oh boys , It makes my heart so sad , I ; The first harm that we had We lost our foremast head , Oh the poor Benjamin , O. The Seas aloud did roar , I boys , Oh boys , We being far from shore , I , The Seas no favour shows , Unto friends nor foes , Oh the poor Benjamin , O. THe next harm that we spy'd I boys , Oh boys , Then we to heaven cry'd High , Down fell our Mainmast head , Which struck our senses dead , in the poor Benjamin , O. Thus we with Seas were crossed , I boys , Oh boys , And on the Ocean tossed , High , Thus we with Seas was tossed , Many a brave man was lost , in the poor Benjamin , O. The next harm that we had , I boys , Oh boys , We had cause to be sad , I , The next harm that we had , We lost four men from the Yard , in the poor Benjamin , O. Disabled as I name , I boys , Oh boys , We were drove on the Main , I , So the next harm we had , We lost our Rudders head , in the poor Benjamin , O. Then we fell all to Prayer , I boys , Oh boys , The Lord our lives would spare , I , Then we fell all to Prayer , And he at last did hear Us in the Benjamin , O. Althousth we sail'd in fear , I Boys , Oh boys , The Lord our Ship did steer , I , Our Prayers so frevent were , That we had passage clear , into brave Plimouth found , O. We came in Plimouth found , I Boys , Oh boys , Our hearts did then resound , I , When we came to Plymouth found ; Our grief with joy was crown'd . in the poor Benjamin , O. When we came all on shore , I boys , Oh boys , Every man at his door , High , When we came all on shore , Our grief we did deplore , in the poor Benjamin , O. You gallant Youngmen all , I Boys , Oh boys , 'Tis unto you I call , I , Likewise brave Seamen all , Lament the loss and fallen , Of the poor Benjamin , O. Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The Benjamin's Lamentation for their sad loss at Sea , by Storms and Tempests . Being a brief Narrative of one of his Majesties Ships , called the Benjamin , that was drove into Harbour at Plimouth , and received no small harm by this Tempest . To the Tune of , The poor Benjamin . CAptain Chilver's gone to Sea , I Boys , Oh Boys , With all his company , I , Captain Chilver's gone to Sea , With all his company , In the brave Benjamin Oh , Thirty Guns this Ship did bear , I Boys , Oh Boys , They were bound for Veni [ c ] e fair , I , Thirty Guns this Ship did bear , And a hundred men so-clear , in the brave Benjamin Oh , But by ill storms at at Sea , I boys , Oh boys , Which bred our misery , I , But by ill storms at Sea , We were drove out o'th way , in the brave Benjamin Oh , We had more wind then we could bear I boys , Oh boys , Our ship it would not steer , I , We had more wind then we could bear Our Masts and Sails did tear , in the poor Benjamin Oh , The first harm that we had , I boys Oh boys , It makes my heart so sad , I ; The first harm that we had We lost our foremast head , Oh the poor Benjamin , O. The Seas aloud did roar , I boys , Oh boys , We being far from shore , I , The Seas no favour shows , Unto friends nor foes , Oh the poor Benjamin , O. THe next harm that we spy'd I boys , Oh boys , Then we to heaven cry'd High , Down fell our Mainmast head , Which struck our senses dead , in the poor Benjamin , O. Thus we with Seas were crossed , I boys , Oh boys , And on the Ocean tossed , High , Thus we with Seas was tossed , Many a brave man was lost , in the poor Benjamin , O. The next harm that we had , I boys , Oh boys , We had cause to be sad , I , The next harm that we had , We lost four men from the Yard , in the poor Benjamin , O. Disabled as I name , I boys , Oh boys , We were drove on the Main , I , So the next harm we had , We lost our Rudders head , in the poor Benjamin , O. Then we fell all to Prayer , I boys , Oh boys , The Lord our lives would spare , I , Then we fell all to Prayer , And he at last did hear Us in the Benjamin , O. Althousth we sail'd in fear , I Boys , Oh boys , The Lord our Ship did steer , I , Our Prayers so frevent were , That we had passage clear , into brave Plimouth found , O. We came in Plimouth found , I Boys , Oh boys , Our hearts did then resound , I , When we came to Plymouth found ; Our grief with joy was crown'd . in the poor Benjamin , O. When we came all on shore , I boys , Oh boys , Every man at his door , High , When we came all on shore , Our grief we did deplore , in the poor Benjamin , O. You gallant Youngmen all , I Boys , Oh boys , 'Tis unto you I call , I , Likewise brave Seamen all , Lament the loss and fallen , Of the poor Benjamin , O. Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 