CUPID's REVENGE ; OR And Account of a KING , who slighted all Women And at length was forced to marry a BEGGAR . A King once reign'd beyond the seas , As we in ancient story find , Whom no face could ever please , He cared not for women kind . He despis'd the fairest beauty's , And the greatest fortune's too , At length he marry'd to a beggar ! See what Cupid's darts can do . The blinded boy that shoots so trim , Did to his closet window steal , Then drew a dart , and shot at him , And made him soon his power feel . He that ne'er car'd for woman kind , But did females ever hate . At length was smitten , wounded , swooned For a Beggar at his gate . But mark what happened on a day , As he look'd from window high , He spy'd a beggar all in gray , With two more in her company . She his fancy soon inflamed , And his heart was grieved soar ; Must I have her , court her , crave her , I that never lov'd before . This noble prince of high renown , Did to his chamber strait repair , And on his couch he laid him down , Oppressed with lovesick grief and care . Ne'er was monarch so surprised , Here I lay a captive slave ; But I'll to her , court her , woo her , She must heal the wound she gave . Then to his palace gate he goes , The beggars crav'd his charity , A purse of gold to them he throws , With thankfulness away they fly . But the King call'd her to him , Tho' she was but poor and mean : His hand did hold her , while he told her , She should be his stately Queen . At this she blush scrlet read And on this mighty king did gaze ; Then strait again as pale as led , Alas ! she was in such a maze . Hand in hand they walk'd together , And the King did kindly say , He'd respect her . --- Strait they deck'd her , In most sumptuous rich array . He did appoint the wedding day , And likewise them commanded strait That noble Lords and Ladies gay Upon this gracious Queen should wait She appeared a splendid beauty , All the court did her adore ; She in marriage shew'd a carriage , As if she'd been a Queen before . Her fame through all the world did ring Altho' she came of parents poor ; She by her sov'reign Lord the King Did bear one son , and eke no more , All the nobles were well pleased , And the ladies frank and free , For her behaviour always gave her A title to her dignity . At length the King and Queen were laid Together in the silent tomb , Their royal son the scheptre sway'd , Who govern'd in his father's room . Long in glory did he flourish , Wealth and honour to increaase , Still possessing such a blessing . That he liv'd and reign'd in peace . CUPID's REVENGE ; OR And Account of a KING , who slighted all Women And at length was forced to marry a BEGGAR . A King once reign'd beyond the seas , As we in ancient story find , Whom no face could ever please , He cared not for women kind . He despis'd the fairest beauty's , And the greatest fortune's too , At length he marry'd to a beggar ! See what Cupid's darts can do . The blinded boy that shoots so trim , Did to his closet window steal , Then drew a dart , and shot at him , And made him soon his power feel . He that ne'er car'd for woman kind , But did females ever hate . At length was smitten , wounded , swooned For a Beggar at his gate . But mark what happened on a day , As he look'd from window high , He spy'd a beggar all in gray , With two more in her company . She his fancy soon inflamed , And his heart was grieved soar ; Must I have her , court her , crave her , I that never lov'd before . This noble prince of high renown , Did to his chamber strait repair , And on his couch he laid him down , Oppressed with lovesick grief and care . Ne'er was monarch so surprised , Here I lay a captive slave ; But I'll to her , court her , woo her , She must heal the wound she gave . Then to his palace gate he goes , The beggars crav'd his charity , A purse of gold to them he throws , With thankfulness away they fly . But the King call'd her to him , Tho' she was but poor and mean : His hand did hold her , while he told her , She should be his stately Queen . At this she blush scrlet read And on this mighty king did gaze ; Then strait again as pale as led , Alas ! she was in such a maze . Hand in hand they walk'd together , And the King did kindly say , He'd respect her . --- Strait they deck'd her , In most sumptuous rich array . He did appoint the wedding day , And likewise them commanded strait That noble Lords and Ladies gay Upon this gracious Queen should wait She appeared a splendid beauty , All the court did her adore ; She in marriage shew'd a carriage , As if she'd been a Queen before . Her fame through all the world did ring Altho' she came of parents poor ; She by her sov'reign Lord the King Did bear one son , and eke no more , All the nobles were well pleased , And the ladies frank and free , For her behaviour always gave her A title to her dignity . At length the King and Queen were laid Together in the silent tomb , Their royal son the scheptre sway'd , Who govern'd in his father's room . Long in glory did he flourish , Wealth and honour to increaase , Still possessing such a blessing . That he liv'd and reign'd in peace . 