PARADISE Lost , and PARADISE Regain'd ; BY The Wondered WORKS of GOD . SHOWING , How his heavenly Majesty was graciously pleased to create Heaven and Earth : Also how he made Man , and placed him in the Garden of Eden : How God formed him a Mate out of one of his Ribs : How the fallen Angel ( Satan ) tempted Eve to eat of the forbidden Frui How Adam and Eve were drove out of Paradise : How Adam and Eve , by their since and Transgression , lost of God the following Gifts ; First , Adam lost his Innocency ; Secondly , He was thrust out of Paradise ; Thirdly , He was forced to earn his Bred with the Sweat of his Brow all the Days of his Life ; and Fourthly , The Earth was made barren for his Sake . Eve lost these Gifts of God ; First , She was to bring forth her Children in Sorrow ; and Secondly , She was to live in Subjection to her Husband . How Cain murdered his Brother Abel : How God seeing the Sins of the World grow too great , caused it to rain forty Day [ s ] and Nights , and the World was destroyed by Water : And how our blessed Lord and Saviour JESUS CHRIST took upon him the Nature of Man , and came into the World to save lost and undone Sinners . ADAM and EVE . CAIN slaying ABEL . NOAH's Prayer . NOAH's Ark. The Creation of the World . ALL Christian People , pray attend , A worthy Poem I have penn'd , Relating how the World began , And also the first Fallen of Man. When God did Heav'n and Earth create , The Waters he divided straight , All by his mighty , blessed Hand ; Thus God divided Sea and Land. He gave Command , and there was Light . The Sun by Day , and Moon by Night ; The Stars and Planets to withal , Were placed in a spacious Ball . The Cattle , Beasts , and Birds with Wings , And every Kind of creeping Things ; All Fruits and Herbs of yielding Seed , Was by the Hand of God decreed . He saw 'twas good , and lik'd it well , As we from Holy Word can tell ; He in six Days , we understand , Perform'd the Work he took i [ n ] Hand : For when the sixth Day was begun , God said , Come let us now make Man ; In our own Image shall he be , To glorify our Majesty . Man created , and Woman taken out of his Side , being in the Garden of Eden . THEN Man was made upright and fair , For to adore the heavenly Air ; God having breathed on the same , Man straight a living Soul became . The seventh Day our Lord did rest , Which Day he sanctify'd and blessed ; To keep it holy , we therefore , Should on that Day his Name adore . Thus Man was framed out of Dust , And nam Adam at the firs Then every Thing which God had fram'd , He gave to Adam to be nam'd . Adam nam'd them as he thought fit , The Lord was pleas'd , and lik'd of it ; And then did make this strict Decree ; All Things to Man should subject be . In Eden's Garden plac'd they were , Adorn'd with Trees of Fruits most rare : God gave these Fruits to Adam's Will , Saving that of knowing Good and Ill. God said , Man is alone I see , A Helpmate now for him must be : He took one of his Ribs , we know , And formed him a Mate also . Now when the Lord he had her fram'd , Woman , by Adam , she was nam'd ; Saying , This is Flesh and Bone of me , So Man and Wife one Flesh must be . The Fallen of Man , by ADAM and EVE's eating the forbidden Fruit. BEFORE the World created was , Satan rebell'd against God's Laws : Legions of Angels with him fell , For Pride , down to the Lake of Hell . Because the Lord did him deny , Man's Happiness he did envy ; He thought the World to overthrow , And bring Man to his Gulf and Woe , The Serpent then , I do protest , More subtle was than any Beas With Eve he held a long Dispute , To taste of the forbidden Fruit. The Serpent said , Be rul'd by me , And pluck the Fruit from off the Tree : You'll be as Gods then , ( said the Devil ) And you will know both Good and Evil. She pluck'd the Fruit , it tasted sweet , And gave to Adam for to ea The which did all their Glory blast , They out of Paradise were cast . God said , The Woman shall be still Subject unto her Husband's Will : Also , I will decree that thou Shall work with Sweat upon thy Brow. Nevertheless the Woman's Seed , Shall break the Serpent's Head indeed , And thou shalt bruise his Heel . Behold ! Thus was our Saviour's Birth foretold , CAIN slaying his Brother ABEL . TWO Sons had Adam by his Wife , Subject to Trouble , Care , and Strife , Both Cain and Abel ; and I say , Cain being eldest , boar the Sway. For Cain a wretched sinful Man , The first of Murders he began : He did obey the Devil's Will , His Brother's Abel's Blood to spill . God was offended very soar , And set a Mark on Cain the [ r ] efore : Murder do cry , we do record , Aloud for Vengeance to the Lord . The World increased full of Evil , Men took Delight to serve the Devil ; Seeing Men's Ways , the Lord began To grieve that he at first made Man. God drowns all the World , except NOAH , And what was in the Ark with him . MAN's Wickedness did God annoy , He said , I will all Flesh destroy ; Full forty Days I'll cause a Rain , That no Flesh may alive remain ; But Noah and his Family , In Favour was with God on high : Three Sons he had when the Flood came , Shem , Ham , and Japhet , call'd by Name . God gave Command as he thought good , To built and Ark of Gopher Wood : I shall declare from Holy Writ , The Length , the Breadth , and Height of it . 'Twas pitch'd and made secure and strong , And full three Hundred Cubits long ; Full thirty high , and fifty wide , A Door was placed on the Side . Full Stories three , as we do write , A Window made to give them Ligh God then thought fit to save the Lives Of Noah , his Wife , his Sons , their Wives . This Ark , in building it appears , Was the Space of one Hundred Years : Both Male and Female of each Kind , Were n the Ark preserv'd we find . Above the highest Hills we know , This mighty Flood did overthrow ; And boar the Ark up by the same , That they might praise God's holy Name . How the Ark rested after the Waters were gone off the Earth . IN the sixth Month to give Account , The Ark did rest upon a Moun Then Noah saw the Rain was ceas'd , And that the Waters were decreas'd . Now when the Flood was more declin'd , He sent a Raven forth we find , And next a Dove , who stayed short Space . For they could find no Restingplace . Then he once more sent forth the same , Back with and Olive-leaf it came : His Joy was then exceeding great , Finding the Waters did abate . He sent his Dove , but to be plain , It never did return again : A Twelvemonth's Space , or very nigh , It was before the Ear [ tO ] h was dry . God said to Noah , Come forth in Peace , And let all Things once more increase ; He plac'd his Bow to show therefore , That he the World would drown no more . The World was multiply'd once more , But full of Evil as before ; They rather chosen more greater Evil , And took Delight to serve the Devil . For all that Time Men were so vile , Their Daughters dear for to defile ; Which great Abomination was Unto God's holy , righteous Laws . The World redeemed by our SAVIOUR's Crumb - cifixion . SOME holy , righteous Men there were Who glorify'd the Lord by Pray'r , God blessed their Seed , and did afford Them Gifts to preach his holy Word . And for these righteous People's Sake , God did on us Compassion take ; And sent his Son on Earth we find , To take the Nature of Mankind . To tell you true , all must have fell Down to the lowest Pit of Hell ; Had not our Saviour Christ been slave , Man's blessed Redemption to obtain . When buried down to Hell he passed , To triumph and chain Satan fast ; Who goes no farther than his Chain , The third Day Christ did rise again . Christ is ascended up to Heaven , The Comforter to us is given ; One God divided into Three , Without which none can saved be . Address yourselves to Christ Divine , And in his blessed Communion join ; Shake off your Sins , your Life renew , Be one with Christ , and Christ with you . A Christian's Duty I'll impart , To bear no Malice in his Heart ; But love his Neighbour as himself , And never covet worldly Pelf . Endeavour still ne'er to transgress , And shun the since of Drunkenness ; When such a filthy since takes Place , All other Sins comes on apace . So to conclude and make and End , Help us , good Lord , for to amend : That when our sinful Bodies die , Our Souls may reign with Christ on high . Newcastle upon Tyne : Printed and sold by J. WHITE ; where Chapmen and others may be furnished with small Histories , Sermons , etc PARADISE Lost , and PARADISE Regain'd ; BY The Wondered WORKS of GOD . SHOWING , How his heavenly Majesty was graciously pleased to create Heaven and Earth : Also how he made Man , and placed him in the Garden of Eden : How God formed him a Mate out of one of his Ribs : How the fallen Angel ( Satan ) tempted Eve to eat of the forbidden Frui How Adam and Eve were drove out of Paradise : How Adam and Eve , by their since and Transgression , lost of God the following Gifts ; First , Adam lost his Innocency ; Secondly , He was thrust out of Paradise ; Thirdly , He was forced to earn his Bred with the Sweat of his Brow all the Days of his Life ; and Fourthly , The Earth was made barren for his Sake . Eve lost these Gifts of God ; First , She was to bring forth her Children in Sorrow ; and Secondly , She was to live in Subjection to her Husband . How Cain murdered his Brother Abel : How God seeing the Sins of the World grow too great , caused it to rain forty Day [ s ] and Nights , and the World was destroyed by Water : And how our blessed Lord and Saviour JESUS CHRIST took upon him the Nature of Man , and came into the World to save lost and undone Sinners . ADAM and EVE . CAIN slaying ABEL . NOAH's Prayer . NOAH's Ark. The Creation of the World . ALL Christian People , pray attend , A worthy Poem I have penn'd , Relating how the World began , And also the first Fallen of Man. When God did Heav'n and Earth create , The Waters he divided straight , All by his mighty , blessed Hand ; Thus God divided Sea and Land. He gave Command , and there was Light . The Sun by Day , and Moon by Night ; The Stars and Planets to withal , Were placed in a spacious Ball . The Cattle , Beasts , and Birds with Wings , And every Kind of creeping Things ; All Fruits and Herbs of yielding Seed , Was by the Hand of God decreed . He saw 'twas good , and lik'd it well , As we from Holy Word can tell ; He in six Days , we understand , Perform'd the Work he took i [ n ] Hand : For when the sixth Day was begun , God said , Come let us now make Man ; In our own Image shall he be , To glorify our Majesty . Man created , and Woman taken out of his Side , being in the Garden of Eden . THEN Man was made upright and fair , For to adore the heavenly Air ; God having breathed on the same , Man straight a living Soul became . The seventh Day our Lord did rest , Which Day he sanctify'd and blessed ; To keep it holy , we therefore , Should on that Day his Name adore . Thus Man was framed out of Dust , And nam Adam at the firs Then every Thing which God had fram'd , He gave to Adam to be nam'd . Adam nam'd them as he thought fit , The Lord was pleas'd , and lik'd of it ; And then did make this strict Decree ; All Things to Man should subject be . In Eden's Garden plac'd they were , Adorn'd with Trees of Fruits most rare : God gave these Fruits to Adam's Will , Saving that of knowing Good and Ill. God said , Man is alone I see , A Helpmate now for him must be : He took one of his Ribs , we know , And formed him a Mate also . Now when the Lord he had her fram'd , Woman , by Adam , she was nam'd ; Saying , This is Flesh and Bone of me , So Man and Wife one Flesh must be . The Fallen of Man , by ADAM and EVE's eating the forbidden Fruit. BEFORE the World created was , Satan rebell'd against God's Laws : Legions of Angels with him fell , For Pride , down to the Lake of Hell . Because the Lord did him deny , Man's Happiness he did envy ; He thought the World to overthrow , And bring Man to his Gulf and Woe , The Serpent then , I do protest , More subtle was than any Beas With Eve he held a long Dispute , To taste of the forbidden Fruit. The Serpent said , Be rul'd by me , And pluck the Fruit from off the Tree : You'll be as Gods then , ( said the Devil ) And you will know both Good and Evil. She pluck'd the Fruit , it tasted sweet , And gave to Adam for to ea The which did all their Glory blast , They out of Paradise were cast . God said , The Woman shall be still Subject unto her Husband's Will : Also , I will decree that thou Shall work with Sweat upon thy Brow. Nevertheless the Woman's Seed , Shall break the Serpent's Head indeed , And thou shalt bruise his Heel . Behold ! Thus was our Saviour's Birth foretold , CAIN slaying his Brother ABEL . TWO Sons had Adam by his Wife , Subject to Trouble , Care , and Strife , Both Cain and Abel ; and I say , Cain being eldest , boar the Sway. For Cain a wretched sinful Man , The first of Murders he began : He did obey the Devil's Will , His Brother's Abel's Blood to spill . God was offended very soar , And set a Mark on Cain the [ r ] efore : Murder do cry , we do record , Aloud for Vengeance to the Lord . The World increased full of Evil , Men took Delight to serve the Devil ; Seeing Men's Ways , the Lord began To grieve that he at first made Man. God drowns all the World , except NOAH , And what was in the Ark with him . MAN's Wickedness did God annoy , He said , I will all Flesh destroy ; Full forty Days I'll cause a Rain , That no Flesh may alive remain ; But Noah and his Family , In Favour was with God on high : Three Sons he had when the Flood came , Shem , Ham , and Japhet , call'd by Name . God gave Command as he thought good , To built and Ark of Gopher Wood : I shall declare from Holy Writ , The Length , the Breadth , and Height of it . 'Twas pitch'd and made secure and strong , And full three Hundred Cubits long ; Full thirty high , and fifty wide , A Door was placed on the Side . Full Stories three , as we do write , A Window made to give them Ligh God then thought fit to save the Lives Of Noah , his Wife , his Sons , their Wives . This Ark , in building it appears , Was the Space of one Hundred Years : Both Male and Female of each Kind , Were n the Ark preserv'd we find . Above the highest Hills we know , This mighty Flood did overthrow ; And boar the Ark up by the same , That they might praise God's holy Name . How the Ark rested after the Waters were gone off the Earth . IN the sixth Month to give Account , The Ark did rest upon a Moun Then Noah saw the Rain was ceas'd , And that the Waters were decreas'd . Now when the Flood was more declin'd , He sent a Raven forth we find , And next a Dove , who stayed short Space . For they could find no Restingplace . Then he once more sent forth the same , Back with and Olive-leaf it came : His Joy was then exceeding great , Finding the Waters did abate . He sent his Dove , but to be plain , It never did return again : A Twelvemonth's Space , or very nigh , It was before the Ear [ tO ] h was dry . God said to Noah , Come forth in Peace , And let all Things once more increase ; He plac'd his Bow to show therefore , That he the World would drown no more . The World was multiply'd once more , But full of Evil as before ; They rather chosen more greater Evil , And took Delight to serve the Devil . For all that Time Men were so vile , Their Daughters dear for to defile ; Which great Abomination was Unto God's holy , righteous Laws . The World redeemed by our SAVIOUR's Crumb - cifixion . SOME holy , righteous Men there were Who glorify'd the Lord by Pray'r , God blessed their Seed , and did afford Them Gifts to preach his holy Word . And for these righteous People's Sake , God did on us Compassion take ; And sent his Son on Earth we find , To take the Nature of Mankind . To tell you true , all must have fell Down to the lowest Pit of Hell ; Had not our Saviour Christ been slave , Man's blessed Redemption to obtain . When buried down to Hell he passed , To triumph and chain Satan fast ; Who goes no farther than his Chain , The third Day Christ did rise again . Christ is ascended up to Heaven , The Comforter to us is given ; One God divided into Three , Without which none can saved be . Address yourselves to Christ Divine , And in his blessed Communion join ; Shake off your Sins , your Life renew , Be one with Christ , and Christ with you . A Christian's Duty I'll impart , To bear no Malice in his Heart ; But love his Neighbour as himself , And never covet worldly Pelf . Endeavour still ne'er to transgress , And shun the since of Drunkenness ; When such a filthy since takes Place , All other Sins comes on apace . So to conclude and make and End , Help us , good Lord , for to amend : That when our sinful Bodies die , Our Souls may reign with Christ on high . Newcastle upon Tyne : Printed and sold by J. WHITE ; where Chapmen and others may be furnished with small Histories , Sermons , etc 