The West Country Wooing , OR , The Merry conceited Couple . In pleasant terms , he lets her know his mind , And fairly wooes her , for to make her kind : At first she seemed coy to his persuasion , And put him off , with many a sly evasion : But finding at the last his love was constant , Her heart she did resign from that same instant . Tune of , When Sol will cast no ligh Or , My pretty little Rogue . MY Joy and only Dear : come fit down by me , For thou shalt plainly hear I mean to try thee , If thou canst love a Lad brisk , young and lively , I'le make thy heart full glad , thou shalt live finely . Thy pretty rolling eye , and waste so slender , Thy forehead smooth and high thy lips so tender Hath so ensnar'd my heart that I must love thee Therefore i'le not depart , till pity move thee . Alas kind Sir , she said , what hath possessed you , For to delude a Maid , be not so hasty , Your flattering words that passed , can no ways move me ; For to repent at last , or yield to love you , The second Part , To the same Tune . WE know that youngmen can cog , lie , and flatter , And make vows , now and then , to mend the matter ; With such slights cunningly they do deceive us , Bring us to beggary , and then they leave us . Fear not my Dear , ( quoth he ) that I dissemble , Or that such false young men , I do resemble , I have both house and land good gold and riches , And all at thy command : pray mark my speeches . Your house and land perhaps , you think may move me , But I fear after claps , if I should love you , Therefore my Maidenhead , I will make much on't , For ne're a false youngman shall have a touch on't . O stay my Love he said , make further trial , Be not so resolute in your denial , Fear not but you shall find , I will content thee , And bravely please thy mind , none shall prevent me . What pleasure can a Maid find in your dealing , When you her kindness think , not worth concealing , Youngmen are apt to blab what's done in private , And well I understand what 'tis you drive at . My pretty Rogue , he said , do not misdoubt me , Why should you live a Maid , and think I flout you , In my love , I promise , for to persever , And seal it with a kiss , to last for ever . If that you love as much as you profess it , And that your truth is such , as you express it , Quoth she take hand and heart , and use your pleasure , For I will never part , from such a treasure . O how it Joys my mind , ( quoth he my jewel , That thou wilt now be kind , and no more cruel , Venus that Goddess she will smile to know it , How we in love agree , when we shall show it . So from that happy hour , they were united , And to a pleasant Bower , he her invited , Where they with sport and play , kindly embracing , There passed the time away , Lovers Joys tracing , London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . The West Country Wooing , OR , The Merry conceited Couple . In pleasant terms , he lets her know his mind , And fairly wooes her , for to make her kind : At first she seemed coy to his persuasion , And put him off , with many a sly evasion : But finding at the last his love was constant , Her heart she did resign from that same instant . Tune of , When Sol will cast no ligh Or , My pretty little Rogue . MY Joy and only Dear : come fit down by me , For thou shalt plainly hear I mean to try thee , If thou canst love a Lad brisk , young and lively , I'le make thy heart full glad , thou shalt live finely . Thy pretty rolling eye , and waste so slender , Thy forehead smooth and high thy lips so tender Hath so ensnar'd my heart that I must love thee Therefore i'le not depart , till pity move thee . Alas kind Sir , she said , what hath possessed you , For to delude a Maid , be not so hasty , Your flattering words that passed , can no ways move me ; For to repent at last , or yield to love you , The second Part , To the same Tune . WE know that youngmen can cog , lie , and flatter , And make vows , now and then , to mend the matter ; With such slights cunningly they do deceive us , Bring us to beggary , and then they leave us . Fear not my Dear , ( quoth he ) that I dissemble , Or that such false young men , I do resemble , I have both house and land good gold and riches , And all at thy command : pray mark my speeches . Your house and land perhaps , you think may move me , But I fear after claps , if I should love you , Therefore my Maidenhead , I will make much on't , For ne're a false youngman shall have a touch on't . O stay my Love he said , make further trial , Be not so resolute in your denial , Fear not but you shall find , I will content thee , And bravely please thy mind , none shall prevent me . What pleasure can a Maid find in your dealing , When you her kindness think , not worth concealing , Youngmen are apt to blab what's done in private , And well I understand what 'tis you drive at . My pretty Rogue , he said , do not misdoubt me , Why should you live a Maid , and think I flout you , In my love , I promise , for to persever , And seal it with a kiss , to last for ever . If that you love as much as you profess it , And that your truth is such , as you express it , Quoth she take hand and heart , and use your pleasure , For I will never part , from such a treasure . O how it Joys my mind , ( quoth he my jewel , That thou wilt now be kind , and no more cruel , Venus that Goddess she will smile to know it , How we in love agree , when we shall show it . So from that happy hour , they were united , And to a pleasant Bower , he her invited , Where they with sport and play , kindly embracing , There passed the time away , Lovers Joys tracing , London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood . 