The West-Country Jig : OR , Love in Due Season . A Longing Maid which had a mind to marry , Complaining was , that she so long should tarry ; At length a brisk young Lad did chance to spy her , And liking of her well , resolv'd to try her : And courting her , and vowing to be constant , They there clapped up a bargain in and instant . To a pleasant New Tune , called , New Exeter . With Allowance . WHen Soll with his Beams , Had guilded the Streams , And Nymphs , and Young Shepherd's awaked from their Dreams : I herd a Sad Moan In a Neighbouring Grove from a Voice all alone . A Languishing Maid , By Cupid Betray'd ; Was Sighing , and Sobbing , And often she said : Love ! Cruel to me : When shall I be Eas'd Of my Misery . 'Tis known I am Fair , And Brisk as the Air ; Not one in a thousand With Me can Compare : Yet ne'r a Youngman Will ease me of Sadness , to help me ! that can . My time I do spend , Yet want I a Friend To Rally , and Dally , And please me toth' End : Which makes me to say , Oh Cupid ! Great Cupid ! I love no Delay . ALL Night in my Bed , With Cares in my Head , And weeping , and wailing , I wish I were Wed : And yet no Relief I find in the Morning For all my sad Grief . How happy's the Birds Which Mate in the Woods ? Enjoying most freely , Their Love without words ; While I do complain Of Youngman's Unkindness And Cruel Disdain . A Youngman hard by , This Maid did Espy ; Admiring her Beauty , He to her did high : Quoth he , pretty Saint , It grieves my Heart for to hear your Complaint . What think you of me ? I'm active and free ; And willing to serve you In every Degree : And by this sweet Kiss , To proffer my Service It is not amiss . The Bonny Young Maid was nothing afraid ; But modestly Blushing , unto him , she said : Since you are so free , If you will be Constant , We two may agree . Quoth he , thou shalt find Me Loyal , and Kind , And Ready , and willing , To pleasure thy Mind : then do you not fear But I will be Constant My Joy and my Dear . this made her Rejoice , And with Cheerful Voice , Quoth she , mine own Dearest , thou shalt be my Choice : take Heart and take Hand , I always will be at thy will and Command . then did they retire , With Longing Desire ; Expecting , and waiting For quenching Loves fire : And now lives most free , Although a Quick Bargain was made as you see . [ FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-ball , near the Hospital-gate in West-smithfield . ] The West-Country Jig : OR , Love in Due Season . A Longing Maid which had a mind to marry , Complaining was , that she so long should tarry ; At length a brisk young Lad did chance to spy her , And liking of her well , resolv'd to try her : And courting her , and vowing to be constant , They there clapped up a bargain in and instant . To a pleasant New Tune , called , New Exeter . With Allowance . WHen Soll with his Beams , Had guilded the Streams , And Nymphs , and Young Shepherd's awaked from their Dreams : I herd a Sad Moan In a Neighbouring Grove from a Voice all alone . A Languishing Maid , By Cupid Betray'd ; Was Sighing , and Sobbing , And often she said : Love ! Cruel to me : When shall I be Eas'd Of my Misery . 'Tis known I am Fair , And Brisk as the Air ; Not one in a thousand With Me can Compare : Yet ne'r a Youngman Will ease me of Sadness , to help me ! that can . My time I do spend , Yet want I a Friend To Rally , and Dally , And please me toth' End : Which makes me to say , Oh Cupid ! Great Cupid ! I love no Delay . ALL Night in my Bed , With Cares in my Head , And weeping , and wailing , I wish I were Wed : And yet no Relief I find in the Morning For all my sad Grief . How happy's the Birds Which Mate in the Woods ? Enjoying most freely , Their Love without words ; While I do complain Of Youngman's Unkindness And Cruel Disdain . A Youngman hard by , This Maid did Espy ; Admiring her Beauty , He to her did high : Quoth he , pretty Saint , It grieves my Heart for to hear your Complaint . What think you of me ? I'm active and free ; And willing to serve you In every Degree : And by this sweet Kiss , To proffer my Service It is not amiss . The Bonny Young Maid was nothing afraid ; But modestly Blushing , unto him , she said : Since you are so free , If you will be Constant , We two may agree . Quoth he , thou shalt find Me Loyal , and Kind , And Ready , and willing , To pleasure thy Mind : then do you not fear But I will be Constant My Joy and my Dear . this made her Rejoice , And with Cheerful Voice , Quoth she , mine own Dearest , thou shalt be my Choice : take Heart and take Hand , I always will be at thy will and Command . then did they retire , With Longing Desire ; Expecting , and waiting For quenching Loves fire : And now lives most free , Although a Quick Bargain was made as you see . [ FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-ball , near the Hospital-gate in West-smithfield . ] 