The West-Country Weaver : CONTAINING His Sorrowful Lamentation for the Hardship which he undergoes by a Proud Imperious WIFE : Together , With his Resolution to reclaim Her by the Well-approved Oil of HOLLY . To the Tune of If Love's a sweet Passion , etc Licensed according to Order . GOod People I marry'd a turbulent Wife , Who with railing has made me quite weary of Life ; Tho' I do my endeavour to give her content , Yet my Labour , alas ! to no purpose is spen On her Errands , Peel-garlic her Husband she sends ; You may see what it is to be marry'd , dear Friends . When I was a Bachelor gallant and gay , Then at Stoolball , or Cricket , I freely might play , Nay , and sometime with Margery ride to a Fair ; But , alas ! now my Head is encumbered with Care : I must tarry at home for to feed my Wife's H [ ? ] You may see what it is to be marry'd , dear Friends . If I and Acquaintance do happen to meet Any time in the Day , as I pass through the Street , And that we for one Flagon together should go , Strait she comes like a loud and invincible shrow ; At my Noddle the Pipe and the Flagon she sends : You may see what , etc All Winter betimes I am forced to rise For to make her a Fire and Caudle likewise , Which I bring her each morning with care to her Bed , Which perhaps in her Passion she'll fling at my Head : This I often have had for to make me amends . You may see what , etc She set me one morning to hang on the Pot , And I needs must acknowledge I clearly forgotten For to put in the Water , but saunter'd about Till the Porridge-Pot bottom was clearly burned ou At my Noddle the Ladle she presently sends , You may see what it is to be marry'd , dear Friends . One morning she left me at home to be Nurse , While she walk'd with her Gallant , whom often I'd curse : Now as I was sat rocking , and winding of Silk , O the Cat came and eat up the Child's sugar'd Milk : But when this sad Disaster was known to my Wife , Honest People I thought 'twould have cost me my Life . Now when she had thrash'd me , up Stairs she did go With her Gallant , and charg'd me to tarry below ; But I cunningly follow'd , up Stairs I did creep , Ay , and through the Keyhole in troth I did peep : But her Gallant he herd me , and presently swore He wou'd kick me down Stairs , if he came to the Door . With courage I told him , I fear'd not his Blows , I wou'd peep through the Keyhole in spite of his Nose ; Then the Spark in a Passion his Rapier he drew , Straight away from the Door of the Chamber I flew ; For I knowing young Gallants are desperate Men : And thought I , shou'd he kill me , 'faith where am I then . I took her to task when the Gallant was gone ; And I said , Love consider but what you have done : It was all that I said , when she flew with disdain , Ay , and call'd me poor Wittal , and Cuckold in grain ; And a three-legged Stool at my Noddle she sends : You may see what it is to be marry'd , my Friends . Before any longer this Life I will led , I am fully resolv'd to Chastise her with speed , With the sweet Oil of Holly I'll chafe her proud Hide , Which will supple and make her a diligent Bride : And when thus she's reclaim'd , to the World I will tell How in Love , Peace and Comfort , together we dwell . Printed for C. Bates , at the Bible and [ ? ] Pie-corner The West-Country Weaver : CONTAINING His Sorrowful Lamentation for the Hardship which he undergoes by a Proud Imperious WIFE : Together , With his Resolution to reclaim Her by the Well-approved Oil of HOLLY . To the Tune of If Love's a sweet Passion , etc Licensed according to Order . GOod People I marry'd a turbulent Wife , Who with railing has made me quite weary of Life ; Tho' I do my endeavour to give her content , Yet my Labour , alas ! to no purpose is spen On her Errands , Peel-garlic her Husband she sends ; You may see what it is to be marry'd , dear Friends . When I was a Bachelor gallant and gay , Then at Stoolball , or Cricket , I freely might play , Nay , and sometime with Margery ride to a Fair ; But , alas ! now my Head is encumbered with Care : I must tarry at home for to feed my Wife's H [ ? ] You may see what it is to be marry'd , dear Friends . If I and Acquaintance do happen to meet Any time in the Day , as I pass through the Street , And that we for one Flagon together should go , Strait she comes like a loud and invincible shrow ; At my Noddle the Pipe and the Flagon she sends : You may see what , etc All Winter betimes I am forced to rise For to make her a Fire and Caudle likewise , Which I bring her each morning with care to her Bed , Which perhaps in her Passion she'll fling at my Head : This I often have had for to make me amends . You may see what , etc She set me one morning to hang on the Pot , And I needs must acknowledge I clearly forgotten For to put in the Water , but saunter'd about Till the Porridge-Pot bottom was clearly burned ou At my Noddle the Ladle she presently sends , You may see what it is to be marry'd , dear Friends . One morning she left me at home to be Nurse , While she walk'd with her Gallant , whom often I'd curse : Now as I was sat rocking , and winding of Silk , O the Cat came and eat up the Child's sugar'd Milk : But when this sad Disaster was known to my Wife , Honest People I thought 'twould have cost me my Life . Now when she had thrash'd me , up Stairs she did go With her Gallant , and charg'd me to tarry below ; But I cunningly follow'd , up Stairs I did creep , Ay , and through the Keyhole in troth I did peep : But her Gallant he herd me , and presently swore He wou'd kick me down Stairs , if he came to the Door . With courage I told him , I fear'd not his Blows , I wou'd peep through the Keyhole in spite of his Nose ; Then the Spark in a Passion his Rapier he drew , Straight away from the Door of the Chamber I flew ; For I knowing young Gallants are desperate Men : And thought I , shou'd he kill me , 'faith where am I then . I took her to task when the Gallant was gone ; And I said , Love consider but what you have done : It was all that I said , when she flew with disdain , Ay , and call'd me poor Wittal , and Cuckold in grain ; And a three-legged Stool at my Noddle she sends : You may see what it is to be marry'd , my Friends . Before any longer this Life I will led , I am fully resolv'd to Chastise her with speed , With the sweet Oil of Holly I'll chafe her proud Hide , Which will supple and make her a diligent Bride : And when thus she's reclaim'd , to the World I will tell How in Love , Peace and Comfort , together we dwell . Printed for C. Bates , at the Bible and [ ? ] Pie-corner 