Robin Hood and the Shepherd . Showing how Robin Hood , Little John , and the Shepherd , fought a soar COMBAT . Tune , Robin Hood & Queen Catherine ALL Gentlemen and Yeomen good , Down , a down , a down , I wish you to draw near ; For a story of bold Robin Hood Unto you I will declcare ; Down , a down , a down . As Robin Hood walk'd the Forest along some Pastime for to spy , There was he aware of a jolly Shepherd , that on the ground did lie . Arise , arise , said jolly Robin , and now come let me see What is in thy Bag and thy Bottle , I say , come , tell it unto me . What's that to thee , thou proud Fellow tell me as I do stand , What hast thou to do with my bottle and Bag let me see at thy command My Sword that hangs by my Side is my command I know , Come let me taste of thy Bottle or it may bleed thee Woe The Devil a Drop , thou proud Fellow of my Bottle thou shalt see Until thy Valour here be try'd whither thou wilt fight or flee . What shall we fight for ? said Robbin Hood come quickly tell it unto me : Here's twenty Pounds in good read Gold win it , and take it thee . The Shepherd stood all in amaze , and knew not what to say I have no Money thou proud Fellow but Bottle and Bag I'll lay I am contentedly [ e ] nt , thou Shepherd Swain fling them down on the Ground , But it will breeh thee much Pain to win my twenty Pound . Come draw thy Sword , thou proud Fellow thou standest too long to prate , This Hook of mine shall let thee know a Coward I do hate , So they fell to it full hard and soar it was on a Summer's Day From Ten 'till Four in the Afternoon the Shepherd held him in Play Robin's Buckler proved his chief Defence and saved him many a bang ; For every Blow the Shepherd gave , made Robin's sword cry Twang . Many a sturdy blow the Shepherd gave , and that bold Robin found ; 'Til the Blood ran trickling from his Head then he fell to the Ground , [ A ] rise , arise , thou proud Fellow , and thou shalt have fair play , If thou wilt yield before thou go , that I have wone the Day . A Boon , a Boon , cry'd bold Robin , if that a Man thou be , Then let me take my bugle Horn , and blow out Blasts three . Then said the Shepherd to bold Robin , To that I will agree ! For if thou should'st blow 'till to morrow Morn I scorn one Foot to flee . Then Robin he set his Horn to his Mouth , and he blew with Might and Main , Until he espied Little John , come tripping over the Plain . Who is yonder , thou proud Fellow , that comes down yonder Hill ? Yonder is John , bold Robin Hood's Man , shall fighat thee with thy Fill . What is the Matter , said Little John , Master , come tell unto me My Case is bad , said Robin Hood , for the Shepherd hath conquer'd me . I am glad of that , cries Little John , Shepherd , turn't thou to me , For a Bout with thee I mean to heave , either come fight or flee : With all may Heart , thou proud Fellow , for it shall never be said , That a Shepherd's Hook at thy sturdy Look , Will one Jot be dismay'd . So they fell to it full hard and soar , striving for Victory : I Will know ( says John ) e're we give or , whither thou wilt fight or flee . The Shepherd gave John a sturdy Blow , With the Hook under his Chin , Beshrew thy Hereat , said Little John , thou basely dost begin : Nay , that is nothing , said the Shepherd , either yield to me the Day , Or I will bang thy Back and Sides , before thou goest thy Way . What dost thou think , thou proud Fellow , that thou can'st conquer me ; Nay , thou shalt know before thou go , I'll fight before I'll flee . Again the Shepherd laid on him the Shepherd he begun Hold thy Hand , cry'd jolly Robin I will yield the Wager wone . With all my Heart , said little John , to that I will agree For he is the Flower of Shepherd's Swain the like I ne'er did see . Thus have you herd of Robin Hood also of little John How a Shepherd swain did conquer them the like was never known ? LONDON , Printed for M. Beauchampe , & S. Swan , in Summerset street near White Chapple Barrs Robin Hood and the Shepherd . Showing how Robin Hood , Little John , and the Shepherd , fought a soar COMBAT . Tune , Robin Hood & Queen Catherine ALL Gentlemen and Yeomen good , Down , a down , a down , I wish you to draw near ; For a story of bold Robin Hood Unto you I will declcare ; Down , a down , a down . As Robin Hood walk'd the Forest along some Pastime for to spy , There was he aware of a jolly Shepherd , that on the ground did lie . Arise , arise , said jolly Robin , and now come let me see What is in thy Bag and thy Bottle , I say , come , tell it unto me . What's that to thee , thou proud Fellow tell me as I do stand , What hast thou to do with my bottle and Bag let me see at thy command My Sword that hangs by my Side is my command I know , Come let me taste of thy Bottle or it may bleed thee Woe The Devil a Drop , thou proud Fellow of my Bottle thou shalt see Until thy Valour here be try'd whither thou wilt fight or flee . What shall we fight for ? said Robbin Hood come quickly tell it unto me : Here's twenty Pounds in good read Gold win it , and take it thee . The Shepherd stood all in amaze , and knew not what to say I have no Money thou proud Fellow but Bottle and Bag I'll lay I am contentedly [ e ] nt , thou Shepherd Swain fling them down on the Ground , But it will breeh thee much Pain to win my twenty Pound . Come draw thy Sword , thou proud Fellow thou standest too long to prate , This Hook of mine shall let thee know a Coward I do hate , So they fell to it full hard and soar it was on a Summer's Day From Ten 'till Four in the Afternoon the Shepherd held him in Play Robin's Buckler proved his chief Defence and saved him many a bang ; For every Blow the Shepherd gave , made Robin's sword cry Twang . Many a sturdy blow the Shepherd gave , and that bold Robin found ; 'Til the Blood ran trickling from his Head then he fell to the Ground , [ A ] rise , arise , thou proud Fellow , and thou shalt have fair play , If thou wilt yield before thou go , that I have wone the Day . A Boon , a Boon , cry'd bold Robin , if that a Man thou be , Then let me take my bugle Horn , and blow out Blasts three . Then said the Shepherd to bold Robin , To that I will agree ! For if thou should'st blow 'till to morrow Morn I scorn one Foot to flee . Then Robin he set his Horn to his Mouth , and he blew with Might and Main , Until he espied Little John , come tripping over the Plain . Who is yonder , thou proud Fellow , that comes down yonder Hill ? Yonder is John , bold Robin Hood's Man , shall fighat thee with thy Fill . What is the Matter , said Little John , Master , come tell unto me My Case is bad , said Robin Hood , for the Shepherd hath conquer'd me . I am glad of that , cries Little John , Shepherd , turn't thou to me , For a Bout with thee I mean to heave , either come fight or flee : With all may Heart , thou proud Fellow , for it shall never be said , That a Shepherd's Hook at thy sturdy Look , Will one Jot be dismay'd . So they fell to it full hard and soar , striving for Victory : I Will know ( says John ) e're we give or , whither thou wilt fight or flee . The Shepherd gave John a sturdy Blow , With the Hook under his Chin , Beshrew thy Hereat , said Little John , thou basely dost begin : Nay , that is nothing , said the Shepherd , either yield to me the Day , Or I will bang thy Back and Sides , before thou goest thy Way . What dost thou think , thou proud Fellow , that thou can'st conquer me ; Nay , thou shalt know before thou go , I'll fight before I'll flee . Again the Shepherd laid on him the Shepherd he begun Hold thy Hand , cry'd jolly Robin I will yield the Wager wone . With all my Heart , said little John , to that I will agree For he is the Flower of Shepherd's Swain the like I ne'er did see . Thus have you herd of Robin Hood also of little John How a Shepherd swain did conquer them the like was never known ? LONDON , Printed for M. Beauchampe , & S. Swan , in Summerset street near White Chapple Barrs 