Win at First , loose at Las Or , A New Game at Cards . Wherein the King recovered his Crown , and Traitors lost their Heads . To the Tune of ; You Gallants that delight to play . you merry hearts that love to play At Cards , see who hath wone the day , You that once did sadly sing , The Knave o'th Clubs hath wone the King : Now more happy times you have , The King hath overcome the Knave ; The King hath overcome the Knave . Not long ago a Game was play'd , When three Crowns at the stake was lay'd , England had no cause to boast , Knaves wone that which Kings had los Coaches gave the way to Carts , And Clubs were better Cards than Hearts ; etc Old Noll was the Knave o'th Clubs , And Dad of such as Preach in Tubs : Bradshaw , Ireton , and Pride , Were three other Knaves beside : And they play'd with half the Pack , Throwing out all Cards but Black ; etc But the just Fates threw these four out , Which made the Loyal Party shout , The Pope would fain have had the Stock , And with these Cards have whip'd his Dock , But soon the Devil these Carded snatches , To dip in Brimstone and make Matches ; To dip ; etc But still the sport for to maintain , Lambert , Haslerige , and Vain , And one-ey'd Hewson , took their places , Knaves were better Cards then Ances : But Fleetwood he himself did save , Because he was More Fool than Knave ; etc Cromwell , though he so much had wone , Yet he had and unlucky Son : He sits still and not regards , While cunning Gamesters set the Cards , And thus alas , poor silly Dick , He played a while ; but lost the Trick ; etc The Rumpers that had wone whole Towns , The spoils of Martyrs , and of Crowns : Were not contented but grew rough , As though they had not wone enough : They kept the Cards still in their hands , To play for Tithes and College Lands ; To play ; etc The Presbyters began to fret , That they were like to lose the set , Unto the Rump they did appeal , And said it was their turns to deal , Then dealt the Presbyterians , but , The Army sware that they will cut ; The Army sware that they will cut . THe Foreign Lands began to wonder , To see what Gallants we lived under , That they which Christmas did forswear , Should follow Gaming all the Year : Nay more , which was the strangest thing , To play so long without a King ; To play so long without a King . The bold Fanatics present were , Like Butlers , with their boxes there : Not doubting but that every Game Some profit would redound to them : Because they were the Gamesters Minions , And every day broached new Opinions ; etc But Cheshire Men ( as stories say ) Began to show them Gamesters play : Brave Booth , and all his Army strives To save the stakes or loose their lives : But O sad fate , they were undone , By playing of their Cards too soon : etc Thus all the while a Club was trump , There's none could ever beatrice the Rump : Until a noble General came , And gave the Cheaters a clear slam : His finger did outwit their noddy , And screw'd up poor Jack Lamberts body , etc Then Hasllrige began to scowl , And said the General played foul : Look to him Partners , for I tell you , This Monk has god a King in's belly : Not so , quoth Monk , but I believe Sir Arthur has a Knave in's sleeve , etc When General Monk did understand The Rump were peeping into's hand : He wisely kept his Cards from sighed , Which put the Rump into a frigh He saw how many were betray'd . That shew'd their Cards before they play'd , etc At length , quoth he , some Cards we lack , I will not play with half a Pack : What you cast out , I will bring in , And a new Game we will begin : With that the standers by did say , They never yet saw fairer play ; etc But presently this Game was passed , And for a second Knaves were cast ; All new Cards , not stain'd with spots , As was the Rumpers and the Scots : Here good Gamesters played their parts , They turned up the King of Hearts ; etc After this Game was done , I think The Standers by had cause to drink : And the Loyal Subject's sing , Farewell Knaves , and welcome King : For till we saw the King return'd , We Wish'd the Cards had all been burn'd ; We wish'd the Cards had all been burn'd . FINIS . L. P. London , Printed for Fra. Coals ; Tho. Vere ; Jo. Wright and Jo. Clarke . 1680. Win at First , loose at Las Or , A New Game at Cards . Wherein the King recovered his Crown , and Traitors lost their Heads . To the Tune of ; You Gallants that delight to play . you merry hearts that love to play At Cards , see who hath wone the day , You that once did sadly sing , The Knave o'th Clubs hath wone the King : Now more happy times you have , The King hath overcome the Knave ; The King hath overcome the Knave . Not long ago a Game was play'd , When three Crowns at the stake was lay'd , England had no cause to boast , Knaves wone that which Kings had los Coaches gave the way to Carts , And Clubs were better Cards than Hearts ; etc Old Noll was the Knave o'th Clubs , And Dad of such as Preach in Tubs : Bradshaw , Ireton , and Pride , Were three other Knaves beside : And they play'd with half the Pack , Throwing out all Cards but Black ; etc But the just Fates threw these four out , Which made the Loyal Party shout , The Pope would fain have had the Stock , And with these Cards have whip'd his Dock , But soon the Devil these Carded snatches , To dip in Brimstone and make Matches ; To dip ; etc But still the sport for to maintain , Lambert , Haslerige , and Vain , And one-ey'd Hewson , took their places , Knaves were better Cards then Ances : But Fleetwood he himself did save , Because he was More Fool than Knave ; etc Cromwell , though he so much had wone , Yet he had and unlucky Son : He sits still and not regards , While cunning Gamesters set the Cards , And thus alas , poor silly Dick , He played a while ; but lost the Trick ; etc The Rumpers that had wone whole Towns , The spoils of Martyrs , and of Crowns : Were not contented but grew rough , As though they had not wone enough : They kept the Cards still in their hands , To play for Tithes and College Lands ; To play ; etc The Presbyters began to fret , That they were like to lose the set , Unto the Rump they did appeal , And said it was their turns to deal , Then dealt the Presbyterians , but , The Army sware that they will cut ; The Army sware that they will cut . THe Foreign Lands began to wonder , To see what Gallants we lived under , That they which Christmas did forswear , Should follow Gaming all the Year : Nay more , which was the strangest thing , To play so long without a King ; To play so long without a King . The bold Fanatics present were , Like Butlers , with their boxes there : Not doubting but that every Game Some profit would redound to them : Because they were the Gamesters Minions , And every day broached new Opinions ; etc But Cheshire Men ( as stories say ) Began to show them Gamesters play : Brave Booth , and all his Army strives To save the stakes or loose their lives : But O sad fate , they were undone , By playing of their Cards too soon : etc Thus all the while a Club was trump , There's none could ever beatrice the Rump : Until a noble General came , And gave the Cheaters a clear slam : His finger did outwit their noddy , And screw'd up poor Jack Lamberts body , etc Then Hasllrige began to scowl , And said the General played foul : Look to him Partners , for I tell you , This Monk has god a King in's belly : Not so , quoth Monk , but I believe Sir Arthur has a Knave in's sleeve , etc When General Monk did understand The Rump were peeping into's hand : He wisely kept his Cards from sighed , Which put the Rump into a frigh He saw how many were betray'd . That shew'd their Cards before they play'd , etc At length , quoth he , some Cards we lack , I will not play with half a Pack : What you cast out , I will bring in , And a new Game we will begin : With that the standers by did say , They never yet saw fairer play ; etc But presently this Game was passed , And for a second Knaves were cast ; All new Cards , not stain'd with spots , As was the Rumpers and the Scots : Here good Gamesters played their parts , They turned up the King of Hearts ; etc After this Game was done , I think The Standers by had cause to drink : And the Loyal Subject's sing , Farewell Knaves , and welcome King : For till we saw the King return'd , We Wish'd the Cards had all been burn'd ; We wish'd the Cards had all been burn'd . FINIS . L. P. London , Printed for Fra. Coals ; Tho. Vere ; Jo. Wright and Jo. Clarke . 1680. 