The WILTSHIRE Wedding , Between Daniel Do-well , and Doll the Dairy-Maid . With the Consent of her old Father Leather-Coat , and her dear and tender Mother Plodwell . To and excellent Tune . ALL in a misty Morning , So cloudy was the Weather , I meeting with and old Man , Who was clothed all in Leather , With ne'er a Shirt unto his Back , But Woollen to his Skin . With how do you do , and how do you do , And how do you do again . The Rustic was a Thresher , And on the Way he hy'd , And with a Leather Bottle Fast buckled by his Side ; And with a Cap of Woollen , That cover'd Cheek and Chin. With how do you do , etc I went a little farther , And there I met a Maid , Was going then a Milking . A Milking , Sir , she said . Then I began to compliment , And she began to sing . With how do you do , etc This Maiden's Name was Dolly , Clothed in a Gown of Gray . I being somewhat jolly , Persuaded her to stay ; Then strait I fell to courting her , In hope's her Love to win . With how do you do , and how do you do , And how do you do again ? Then having Time and Leisure , I spent a vacant Hour , Telling of my Treasure , While sitting in the Bower ; With many kind Embraces , I stroak'd her double Chin , With how do you do , etc I told her I would marry , And she should be my Bride , And long we should not tarry , With twenty Things beside : I'll blow and sow , and reap and mow , While thou shalt fit and spin . With how do you do , etc Did not you meet my Father , The Damsel then reply'd ; His Jerkin was of Leather , A Bottle by his Side . Yes , I did meet him trudging As fast as he could win . With , etc Kind Sir , I have a Mother , Beside a Father still ; Those Friends , above all others , You must ask their Goodwill : For if I be undutiful To them , it is a Sin. With , etc Now there we left the Milkpail , And to her Mother went , And when we were come thither , I asked her Consent , And doffed my Hat , and made a Leg , For why she was within . With , etc My Husband is a Threshing , Who is her Father dear , He'll give with her his Blessing , Kind Sir , you need not fear . He is of such Good-nature , That he could never lin . With , etc For by your courteous Carriage You seem and honest Man ; You may have her in Marriage . My Husband he anon Will bid you very welcome , Though he be poor and thin . With , etc Her Dad came home full weary , Alas ! he could not choose . Her Mother being merry , She told him all the News . Then being mighty jolly too , His Song did soon begin . With , etc Her Parents being willing , All Parties were agreed ; Her Portion Thirty Shillings , They married were with Speed . Then Will the Piper he did play , While they did dance and sing . With , etc In pleasant Recreation They pass'd away the Night ; And also by relation , With her he takes Delight , To walk abroad on Holidays , To visit Kiff and Kin . With , etc Then lusty Ralph and Robin , With many Damsels gay , Did ride on Roan and Dobbin , To celebrate the Day . When being met together , Their Caps they off did fling . With how do you do , and how do you do , And how do you do again ? Printed and sold in Bow-Church Yard , London . The WILTSHIRE Wedding , Between Daniel Do-well , and Doll the Dairy-Maid . With the Consent of her old Father Leather-Coat , and her dear and tender Mother Plodwell . To and excellent Tune . ALL in a misty Morning , So cloudy was the Weather , I meeting with and old Man , Who was clothed all in Leather , With ne'er a Shirt unto his Back , But Woollen to his Skin . With how do you do , and how do you do , And how do you do again . The Rustic was a Thresher , And on the Way he hy'd , And with a Leather Bottle Fast buckled by his Side ; And with a Cap of Woollen , That cover'd Cheek and Chin. With how do you do , etc I went a little farther , And there I met a Maid , Was going then a Milking . A Milking , Sir , she said . Then I began to compliment , And she began to sing . With how do you do , etc This Maiden's Name was Dolly , Clothed in a Gown of Gray . I being somewhat jolly , Persuaded her to stay ; Then strait I fell to courting her , In hope's her Love to win . With how do you do , and how do you do , And how do you do again ? Then having Time and Leisure , I spent a vacant Hour , Telling of my Treasure , While sitting in the Bower ; With many kind Embraces , I stroak'd her double Chin , With how do you do , etc I told her I would marry , And she should be my Bride , And long we should not tarry , With twenty Things beside : I'll blow and sow , and reap and mow , While thou shalt fit and spin . With how do you do , etc Did not you meet my Father , The Damsel then reply'd ; His Jerkin was of Leather , A Bottle by his Side . Yes , I did meet him trudging As fast as he could win . With , etc Kind Sir , I have a Mother , Beside a Father still ; Those Friends , above all others , You must ask their Goodwill : For if I be undutiful To them , it is a Sin. With , etc Now there we left the Milkpail , And to her Mother went , And when we were come thither , I asked her Consent , And doffed my Hat , and made a Leg , For why she was within . With , etc My Husband is a Threshing , Who is her Father dear , He'll give with her his Blessing , Kind Sir , you need not fear . He is of such Good-nature , That he could never lin . With , etc For by your courteous Carriage You seem and honest Man ; You may have her in Marriage . My Husband he anon Will bid you very welcome , Though he be poor and thin . With , etc Her Dad came home full weary , Alas ! he could not choose . Her Mother being merry , She told him all the News . Then being mighty jolly too , His Song did soon begin . With , etc Her Parents being willing , All Parties were agreed ; Her Portion Thirty Shillings , They married were with Speed . Then Will the Piper he did play , While they did dance and sing . With , etc In pleasant Recreation They pass'd away the Night ; And also by relation , With her he takes Delight , To walk abroad on Holidays , To visit Kiff and Kin . With , etc Then lusty Ralph and Robin , With many Damsels gay , Did ride on Roan and Dobbin , To celebrate the Day . When being met together , Their Caps they off did fling . With how do you do , and how do you do , And how do you do again ? Printed and sold in Bow-Church Yard , London . 