The Sinner's Redemption : Wherein is discovered the Nativity of our blessed Lord and Saviour JESUS CHRIST ; together with his Life on Earth , and Death upon the Cross for lost Mankind . To the Tune of , My bleeding Heart . ALL you that are to Mirth inclin'd Consider well and bear in Mind , What our great God for us hath done , In sending his beloved Son. Let all our Songs and Praises be , Unto his heavenly Majesty ; And evermore among our Mirth , Remember Christ and his bless'd Birth . The Five and Twentieth of December , Good Cause have we for to remember , In Bethlehem , upon that Morn , There was our bless'd Messias born . The Night before that hapy Tide , The spotless Virgin and her Guide , Were long Time seeking up and down , To find them Lodging in the Town . And mark how all Things came to pass , The Inn and Lodging so fill'd was , That they could have no Room at all , But a poor hungry Ox's Stall . This Night the Virgin Marry mild , Was safe delivered of a Child , According high Heaven's Decree , Man's sweet Salvation for to be . Near Bethlehem did Shepherd's keep Their Herds and Flocks of feeding Sheep ; To whom God's Angels did appear , Which put the Shepherd's in great Fear . Prepare and go , the Angel said , To Bethlehem , be not afraid ; There shall you see this blessed Morn , The Princely Babe , JESUS born . With thankful Hearts and joyful Minds , The Shepherd's went this babe to find : And as the heavenly Angel told , They did our Saviour Christ behold . Within a Manger he was laid , The Virgin Marry by him stay'd , Attending on the Lord of Life , Being both Mother , Maid and Wife . Three Eastern Wisemen from afar , Directed by a glorious Star , Came boldly on , and made no Stay , Until they came where JESUS lay . And being come into the Place , Where the blessed Messias was They humbly laid before his Feet , Their Gifts of Gold and Odours sweet . See how the Lord of Heaven and Earth Shew'd himself lowly in his Birth , A sweet Example for Mankind , To learn to bear in humble Mind . No costly Robes nor rich Attire , Did JESUS CHRIST our Lord desire ; No Music , nor sweet Harmony ; Till glorious Angels from on High , Did in melodious Manner sing , Praises unto our heavenly King , All Honour , Glory , Might and Power , And unto CHRIST , our Saviour . If Choirs of Angels did rejoice , Well may Mankind with heart and voice , Sing Praises to the God of Heaven , He unto us a Son hath given . Moreover , let every one , Call unto Mind , and think upon , His righteous Life , and how he dy'd , To have poor Sinners justify'd . Suppose , Oh Man ! that thou shouldst lie In prison strong , condemn'd to die , And had no friend upon the Earth , Could ransom thee from cruel Death . Except you could some Person find That for your Sake should be so kind His own Heart's Blood for to dispense , And lose his Life in your Defence . Such was the Love of Christ , when we Were lost to Hell perpetually ; To save us from the Gulf of Woe , Himself much Pain did undergo . While in this World he did remain , He ne'er did spend one Hour in vain : In Fasting , and in Prayer Divine , He daily spent away the Time . He in the Temple daily taught , And many Wonders strange he wrought He gave the Blind their perfect Sighed , And made the Lame to walk upright . He cur'd the Lepers of their Evils , And by his Power he cast out Devils : He raised Lazarus from the Grave , And to Sick their Health he gave . But yet for all these Wonders wrought , The Jews his dire Destruction sought ; The Traitor Judas was the Man , That with a kiss betray'd him then . Then he was led to Justice Hall , Like one despised among them all , And had the Sentence given that he Should suffer death upon a Tree . Unto the Execution-place , They brought him on with much Disgrace With vile reproachful taunts and Scorns , They crown'd him with a wreathe of thorns . Then to the Cross through Hand and Feet They nailed our bless'd Redeemer sweet ; And further to augment his Smart , With bloody Spear they pierc'd his Heart . Thus have you seen and herd aright , The Love of Christ the Lord of might , And how he shed his precious Blood , Only to do us Sinners good . Newcastle upon Tyne : Printed in this present Year . The Sinner's Redemption : Wherein is discovered the Nativity of our blessed Lord and Saviour JESUS CHRIST ; together with his Life on Earth , and Death upon the Cross for lost Mankind . To the Tune of , My bleeding Heart . ALL you that are to Mirth inclin'd Consider well and bear in Mind , What our great God for us hath done , In sending his beloved Son. Let all our Songs and Praises be , Unto his heavenly Majesty ; And evermore among our Mirth , Remember Christ and his bless'd Birth . The Five and Twentieth of December , Good Cause have we for to remember , In Bethlehem , upon that Morn , There was our bless'd Messias born . The Night before that hapy Tide , The spotless Virgin and her Guide , Were long Time seeking up and down , To find them Lodging in the Town . And mark how all Things came to pass , The Inn and Lodging so fill'd was , That they could have no Room at all , But a poor hungry Ox's Stall . This Night the Virgin Marry mild , Was safe delivered of a Child , According high Heaven's Decree , Man's sweet Salvation for to be . Near Bethlehem did Shepherd's keep Their Herds and Flocks of feeding Sheep ; To whom God's Angels did appear , Which put the Shepherd's in great Fear . Prepare and go , the Angel said , To Bethlehem , be not afraid ; There shall you see this blessed Morn , The Princely Babe , JESUS born . With thankful Hearts and joyful Minds , The Shepherd's went this babe to find : And as the heavenly Angel told , They did our Saviour Christ behold . Within a Manger he was laid , The Virgin Marry by him stay'd , Attending on the Lord of Life , Being both Mother , Maid and Wife . Three Eastern Wisemen from afar , Directed by a glorious Star , Came boldly on , and made no Stay , Until they came where JESUS lay . And being come into the Place , Where the blessed Messias was They humbly laid before his Feet , Their Gifts of Gold and Odours sweet . See how the Lord of Heaven and Earth Shew'd himself lowly in his Birth , A sweet Example for Mankind , To learn to bear in humble Mind . No costly Robes nor rich Attire , Did JESUS CHRIST our Lord desire ; No Music , nor sweet Harmony ; Till glorious Angels from on High , Did in melodious Manner sing , Praises unto our heavenly King , All Honour , Glory , Might and Power , And unto CHRIST , our Saviour . If Choirs of Angels did rejoice , Well may Mankind with heart and voice , Sing Praises to the God of Heaven , He unto us a Son hath given . Moreover , let every one , Call unto Mind , and think upon , His righteous Life , and how he dy'd , To have poor Sinners justify'd . Suppose , Oh Man ! that thou shouldst lie In prison strong , condemn'd to die , And had no friend upon the Earth , Could ransom thee from cruel Death . Except you could some Person find That for your Sake should be so kind His own Heart's Blood for to dispense , And lose his Life in your Defence . Such was the Love of Christ , when we Were lost to Hell perpetually ; To save us from the Gulf of Woe , Himself much Pain did undergo . While in this World he did remain , He ne'er did spend one Hour in vain : In Fasting , and in Prayer Divine , He daily spent away the Time . He in the Temple daily taught , And many Wonders strange he wrought He gave the Blind their perfect Sighed , And made the Lame to walk upright . He cur'd the Lepers of their Evils , And by his Power he cast out Devils : He raised Lazarus from the Grave , And to Sick their Health he gave . But yet for all these Wonders wrought , The Jews his dire Destruction sought ; The Traitor Judas was the Man , That with a kiss betray'd him then . Then he was led to Justice Hall , Like one despised among them all , And had the Sentence given that he Should suffer death upon a Tree . Unto the Execution-place , They brought him on with much Disgrace With vile reproachful taunts and Scorns , They crown'd him with a wreathe of thorns . Then to the Cross through Hand and Feet They nailed our bless'd Redeemer sweet ; And further to augment his Smart , With bloody Spear they pierc'd his Heart . Thus have you seen and herd aright , The Love of Christ the Lord of might , And how he shed his precious Blood , Only to do us Sinners good . Newcastle upon Tyne : Printed in this present Year . 