Witchcraft discovered and punished . Or , the Trials and Condemnation of three Notorious Witches , who were Tried the last Assizes , held at the Castle of Exeter , in the County of Devon : where they received Sentence for Death , for bewitching several Persons , destroying Ships at Sea , and Cattle by Land , etc To the Tune of , Doctor Faustus : or , Fortune my Foe . NOw listen to my Song good People all , And I shall tell what lately did befall , At Exeter , a place in Devonshire , The like whereof of late you never did hear . At the last Assizes held at Exeter , Three Aged Women that Imprisoned were For Witches , and that many had destroy'd ; Were thither brought in order to be try'd . For Witchcraft , that Old Wicked since , Which they for long time had continued in : And joyn'd with Satan , to destroy the good , Hurt Innocents , and shed their harmless blood . But now it most apparent does appear , That they will now for such their deeds pay dear : For Satan having lull'd their Souls asleep , Refuses Company with them to keep . A known deceiver he long time has been , To help Poor Mortals into dangerous since ; Thereby to cut them off , that so they may , Be plung'd in Hell , and there be made his Prey . So these Malicious Women at the last , Having done mischiefs , were by Justice case For it appear'd they Children had destroy'd , Lamed Cattle , and the Aged much annoy'd . Having Familiars always at their beck , Their Wicked Rage on Mortals for to wreck : It being prov'd they used Wicked Charms , To Murder Men , and bring about sad harms . And that they had about their Bodies strange And Proper Tokens of their Wicked Change : As Pledges that to have their cruel will , Their Souls they gave unto the Prince of Hell . The Country round where they did live came in , And all at once their sad complaints begin : One lost a Child , the other lost a Kine , This his brave Horses , that his hopeful Swine . One had his Wife bewitched , the other his Friend , Because in some things they the Witch offend : For which they labour under cruel pain , In vain seek remedy , but none can gain . But Roar in cruel sort , and loudly cry , Destroy the Witch , and end our misery : Some used Charms by Mountabanks set down , Those cheating Quacks , that swarm in every Town . But all's in vain , no rest at all they find , For why ? all Witches to cruelty are enclin'd : And do delight to hear sad dying groans , And such laments , as wou'd pierre Marble Stones . But now the Hand of Heaven has found them out , And they to Justice must pay Lives , passed doub One of these Wicked Wretches did confess , She Four Score Years of Age was , and no less . And that she had deserved long before , To be sent packing to the Stigian shore : For the great mischiefs she so oft had done , And wondered that her Life so long had run . She said the Devil came with her along , Through Crouds of People , and bid her be strong : And she no hand should have , but like a Liar , At the Prison Door he fled , and ne're came nigh her . The rest aloud , crav'd Mercy for their Sins , Or else the great deceiver her Soul gains ; For they had been lewd Livers many a day , And therefore did desire that all would Pray To God , to Pardon them , while thus they lie Condemned for their Wicked Deeds to Die : Which may each Christian do , that they may find Rest for their Souls , though Wicked once inclin'd . FINIS . Witchcraft discovered and punished . Or , the Trials and Condemnation of three Notorious Witches , who were Tried the last Assizes , held at the Castle of Exeter , in the County of Devon : where they received Sentence for Death , for bewitching several Persons , destroying Ships at Sea , and Cattle by Land , etc To the Tune of , Doctor Faustus : or , Fortune my Foe . NOw listen to my Song good People all , And I shall tell what lately did befall , At Exeter , a place in Devonshire , The like whereof of late you never did hear . At the last Assizes held at Exeter , Three Aged Women that Imprisoned were For Witches , and that many had destroy'd ; Were thither brought in order to be try'd . For Witchcraft , that Old Wicked since , Which they for long time had continued in : And joyn'd with Satan , to destroy the good , Hurt Innocents , and shed their harmless blood . But now it most apparent does appear , That they will now for such their deeds pay dear : For Satan having lull'd their Souls asleep , Refuses Company with them to keep . A known deceiver he long time has been , To help Poor Mortals into dangerous since ; Thereby to cut them off , that so they may , Be plung'd in Hell , and there be made his Prey . So these Malicious Women at the last , Having done mischiefs , were by Justice case For it appear'd they Children had destroy'd , Lamed Cattle , and the Aged much annoy'd . Having Familiars always at their beck , Their Wicked Rage on Mortals for to wreck : It being prov'd they used Wicked Charms , To Murder Men , and bring about sad harms . And that they had about their Bodies strange And Proper Tokens of their Wicked Change : As Pledges that to have their cruel will , Their Souls they gave unto the Prince of Hell . The Country round where they did live came in , And all at once their sad complaints begin : One lost a Child , the other lost a Kine , This his brave Horses , that his hopeful Swine . One had his Wife bewitched , the other his Friend , Because in some things they the Witch offend : For which they labour under cruel pain , In vain seek remedy , but none can gain . But Roar in cruel sort , and loudly cry , Destroy the Witch , and end our misery : Some used Charms by Mountabanks set down , Those cheating Quacks , that swarm in every Town . But all's in vain , no rest at all they find , For why ? all Witches to cruelty are enclin'd : And do delight to hear sad dying groans , And such laments , as wou'd pierre Marble Stones . But now the Hand of Heaven has found them out , And they to Justice must pay Lives , passed doub One of these Wicked Wretches did confess , She Four Score Years of Age was , and no less . And that she had deserved long before , To be sent packing to the Stigian shore : For the great mischiefs she so oft had done , And wondered that her Life so long had run . She said the Devil came with her along , Through Crouds of People , and bid her be strong : And she no hand should have , but like a Liar , At the Prison Door he fled , and ne're came nigh her . The rest aloud , crav'd Mercy for their Sins , Or else the great deceiver her Soul gains ; For they had been lewd Livers many a day , And therefore did desire that all would Pray To God , to Pardon them , while thus they lie Condemned for their Wicked Deeds to Die : Which may each Christian do , that they may find Rest for their Souls , though Wicked once inclin'd . FINIS . 