And Excellent BALLAD OF A Noble Marquis and Patient Grissel . To the Tune of , The Bride's Good-morrow , etc A Noble Marquis , As he did ride a Hunting , hard by a Forest side , A Fair and comely Maiden , As she did fit a Spinning , his gentle Eye espy'd : Most fair and lovely And of comely grace was she , although in simple attire , She sung full sweetly , With pleasant Voice melodiously , which set the Lord's heart on fire . The more he looked , the more he might , Beauty bred his Heart's deligh And to his Damsel then he went with speed , God speed , quod he , thou famous Flower , Fair Mistress of this homely Bower , Where Love and Virtue dwells with sweet content . With comely Gesture And modest mild Behaviour , she bids him welcome then , She entertained him In faithful friendly manner , and all his Gentlemen : The Noble Marquis In his Heart felt such a flame , which set his Senses all at strife , Quoth he , Fair Maiden , Show me soon what is thy Name , I mean to make thee my Wife . Grissel is my Name , quoth she , Far unfit for your degree , A silly Maiden , and of Parents poor . Nay , Grissel thou art rich , he said , A virtuous fair and comely Maid ; Grant me thy love , and I will ask no more . At length she consented , And being both contented , they married were with speed ; Her Country russet Was chang'd to Silk and Velvet , as to her state agreed : And when that she Was timely tried in the same , her Beauty shin'd most bright , Far staining every other Fair and Princely Dame , that did appear in sighs Many envied her therefore , Because she was of Parents poor , And 'twixt her Lord and she great strife did raise : Some said this , and some said that , And some did call her Begger's Brat , And to her Lord they would her of't dispraise . O Noble Marquis , Quoth they , why dost thou wrong us , thus basely for to wed , Who might have got And honourable Lady into your Princely Bed ? Who will not now Your noble Issue soon deride , which shall hereafter be born , That are of Blood so base Born by the Mother's side ? the which shall bring them in score Put her therefore quite away , And take to you a Lady gay , Whereby your Lineage may renowned be . Thus every day they seem'd to prate , That malic'd Grissel's good Estate ; Who all this while took it most patiently . And Excellent BALLAD OF A Noble Marquis and Patient Grissel . To the Tune of , The Bride's Good-morrow , etc A Noble Marquis , As he did ride a Hunting , hard by a Forest side , A Fair and comely Maiden , As she did fit a Spinning , his gentle Eye espy'd : Most fair and lovely And of comely grace was she , although in simple attire , She sung full sweetly , With pleasant Voice melodiously , which set the Lord's heart on fire . The more he looked , the more he might , Beauty bred his Heart's deligh And to his Damsel then he went with speed , God speed , quod he , thou famous Flower , Fair Mistress of this homely Bower , Where Love and Virtue dwells with sweet content . With comely Gesture And modest mild Behaviour , she bids him welcome then , She entertained him In faithful friendly manner , and all his Gentlemen : The Noble Marquis In his Heart felt such a flame , which set his Senses all at strife , Quoth he , Fair Maiden , Show me soon what is thy Name , I mean to make thee my Wife . Grissel is my Name , quoth she , Far unfit for your degree , A silly Maiden , and of Parents poor . Nay , Grissel thou art rich , he said , A virtuous fair and comely Maid ; Grant me thy love , and I will ask no more . At length she consented , And being both contented , they married were with speed ; Her Country russet Was chang'd to Silk and Velvet , as to her state agreed : And when that she Was timely tried in the same , her Beauty shin'd most bright , Far staining every other Fair and Princely Dame , that did appear in sighs Many envied her therefore , Because she was of Parents poor , And 'twixt her Lord and she great strife did raise : Some said this , and some said that , And some did call her Begger's Brat , And to her Lord they would her of't dispraise . O Noble Marquis , Quoth they , why dost thou wrong us , thus basely for to wed , Who might have got And honourable Lady into your Princely Bed ? Who will not now Your noble Issue soon deride , which shall hereafter be born , That are of Blood so base Born by the Mother's side ? the which shall bring them in score Put her therefore quite away , And take to you a Lady gay , Whereby your Lineage may renowned be . Thus every day they seem'd to prate , That malic'd Grissel's good Estate ; Who all this while took it most patiently . 