A Sorrowful Lamentation and last Farewell of all the Prisoners to be Executed on Tuesday , Wednesday and Thursday next , with and Account of the Places where the un - happy people are to Suffer . ATtend a while good people pray . To what I shall relate , A warning take both old and young , By our unhappy fate . Here's many of us doom'd to die , Just in our prime of years , Alas ! the time draws very nigh , As it will soon appear . William Macdonald . I must die , Marry Roberts also , And Charlot Gardner , so must I , Which fills our hearts with woe , Near Tower Hill will be the place , Where we our End must make , And Tuesday next will be the day , We must this World forsake . William Pateman and William Brown , Both of us cast for death , And Tuesday next will be the day , We must resign our breath , In Bishopsgate Street , I , Brown must die , Pateman in Coleman-Street , The Lord look down on us from high , In heaven may we meet . Richard Roberts and Taplin too , We surely must be hang'd , I Thomas Taplin still'd myself , The captain of the gang . The time it is now very nigh , Our folly is seen too late , On Wednesday near Bow-street we die , Oh! hard is our fate . James Henry , I unhappy man , Must soon this life depart , Oh little did I think to come , Up Holborn in a cart . But now in Holborn I must die , And Wednesday is the day , But on the Lord , I do rely , To the o ! Lord I pray . Fleming and Plumley we must die , The one on Tyburn tree , And the other in Oxford-street , A dismal sighed to see . And Thursday is the day we die , Which makes our hearts to ach , To thee we pray o ! Lord on high Our precious souls to take . Unhappy wicked wretches sure , We all of us h [ a ] we been , In riot and in drunkenness , Which is a great since ; We struck terror where'er we come , And did them soar affright , But now alas ! our eyes will soon Be closed in endless night . O Lord forgive us all our sins , We thee most humbly pray , Incessantly we call upon thee , Lord , both night and day . Repenting sinners now behold , And on them pity take , Preserve us from the dreadful gulf , When we this world forsake : Printed by J. SHARP , in Holborn . A Sorrowful Lamentation and last Farewell of all the Prisoners to be Executed on Tuesday , Wednesday and Thursday next , with and Account of the Places where the un - happy people are to Suffer . ATtend a while good people pray . To what I shall relate , A warning take both old and young , By our unhappy fate . Here's many of us doom'd to die , Just in our prime of years , Alas ! the time draws very nigh , As it will soon appear . William Macdonald . I must die , Marry Roberts also , And Charlot Gardner , so must I , Which fills our hearts with woe , Near Tower Hill will be the place , Where we our End must make , And Tuesday next will be the day , We must this World forsake . William Pateman and William Brown , Both of us cast for death , And Tuesday next will be the day , We must resign our breath , In Bishopsgate Street , I , Brown must die , Pateman in Coleman-Street , The Lord look down on us from high , In heaven may we meet . Richard Roberts and Taplin too , We surely must be hang'd , I Thomas Taplin still'd myself , The captain of the gang . The time it is now very nigh , Our folly is seen too late , On Wednesday near Bow-street we die , Oh! hard is our fate . James Henry , I unhappy man , Must soon this life depart , Oh little did I think to come , Up Holborn in a cart . But now in Holborn I must die , And Wednesday is the day , But on the Lord , I do rely , To the o ! Lord I pray . Fleming and Plumley we must die , The one on Tyburn tree , And the other in Oxford-street , A dismal sighed to see . And Thursday is the day we die , Which makes our hearts to ach , To thee we pray o ! Lord on high Our precious souls to take . Unhappy wicked wretches sure , We all of us h [ a ] we been , In riot and in drunkenness , Which is a great since ; We struck terror where'er we come , And did them soar affright , But now alas ! our eyes will soon Be closed in endless night . O Lord forgive us all our sins , We thee most humbly pray , Incessantly we call upon thee , Lord , both night and day . Repenting sinners now behold , And on them pity take , Preserve us from the dreadful gulf , When we this world forsake : Printed by J. SHARP , in Holborn . 