A Dialogue between his Grace the Duke of Argyle , and the Earl of Mar Or and Excellent New Song , to the Tune of the Hare Merchant's Rant , etc ARGYLE and Mar are gone to War Which hath breed great Confusion For Church & State they do debate Through Difference and Division , And yet while I know not that , I hope I Speak no Treason , Some say its Self , some say its Pelf , And some say it's Religion , Which e're it be I tell to thee , And that I will not Spare Sir , Though Blades come from the Braes of Mar That [ ey ] have us every where Sir . Argyle , Say's great Argyle within a while , I'le make Mar for to Rue Sir , That such great Folly in his Brain , Did happen for to Brew Sir , Tho' Mar's Men now do ramble throw The North both here and there Sir , I'le make them to draw up there True And whip their Buttocks bore Sir , Mar , Say's good Lord Mar do you so dare , Both me yea , and my Men Sir While I have might I will you Fight , From Strling Flit your Den Sir . Argyle The last time that I Flited it , You had no cause to Boast Sir , For any thing that then you won , It was unto your Coast Sir , When at Dumblain unto your Pain . We Fought it very Fair Sir . When that Mars Men were Forc'd and Fain , To Run like any Hare Sir , Some to the Hills , some to the Haughs And [ worser ] some to Allen Water , And [ worser ] unto some it was no mov's . TO [ he ] ir Sculls were made to Clatter . And those that did escape the Sword ; Did we not them Surround Sir , When that Fourscore of Highland Men Were in the water Drown'd Sir , Mar. Through my Men do Ramble through The North both here and there Sir , The half of what's said is not true , The Truth I do Declare Sir , It's said they Pillage and Plunder all , In places where they come Sir , But by this they soon would catch a Fallen And unto Ruin run Sir And as for that was at Dumblain , We Lost so many Men Sir , Perhaps we may Recruit again , And that we'll let you ken Sir , If that once more we shall Engage , We shall know how it goes Sir , Whisky shall put our Brains in Rage , And Snuff shall Prime our Nose Sir , W [ ? ] Swords and Guns into our Hands We'll stoutly Venture on Sir , Y [ ? ] a Ducks and Targets at Command , Of these we shall want none Sir , Arg [ y ] le , Do what you can to prove the Man , Your Attempts shall prove in vain Sir For sure Argyle shall led the Van , And the Victory shall [ l ] gain Sir , Tho' like a Cock Mar in the North , Abroad hath sent his Crow Sir , Clapping his Wings now beyond Forth Perhaps he'l get a Blow Sir . Argyle like to a Lion Bold , [ Will ] Grasp him in his Paws Sir , And that perhaps e're it be long , He'll make him stand in aw Sir , For lo a Conjunct Company , Both of Scots and Dutch Men , They're at a Call on Mar to fallen , They're almost all none such Men . Beside great Nubmers oh [ f ] Gentlemen , Whom they call Volunteers Sir , The most and best whereof Consist , Of Valiant Scotish Peers Sir . FINIS . A Dialogue between his Grace the Duke of Argyle , and the Earl of Mar Or and Excellent New Song , to the Tune of the Hare Merchant's Rant , etc ARGYLE and Mar are gone to War Which hath breed great Confusion For Church & State they do debate Through Difference and Division , And yet while I know not that , I hope I Speak no Treason , Some say its Self , some say its Pelf , And some say it's Religion , Which e're it be I tell to thee , And that I will not Spare Sir , Though Blades come from the Braes of Mar That [ ey ] have us every where Sir . Argyle , Say's great Argyle within a while , I'le make Mar for to Rue Sir , That such great Folly in his Brain , Did happen for to Brew Sir , Tho' Mar's Men now do ramble throw The North both here and there Sir , I'le make them to draw up there True And whip their Buttocks bore Sir , Mar , Say's good Lord Mar do you so dare , Both me yea , and my Men Sir While I have might I will you Fight , From Strling Flit your Den Sir . Argyle The last time that I Flited it , You had no cause to Boast Sir , For any thing that then you won , It was unto your Coast Sir , When at Dumblain unto your Pain . We Fought it very Fair Sir . When that Mars Men were Forc'd and Fain , To Run like any Hare Sir , Some to the Hills , some to the Haughs And [ worser ] some to Allen Water , And [ worser ] unto some it was no mov's . TO [ he ] ir Sculls were made to Clatter . And those that did escape the Sword ; Did we not them Surround Sir , When that Fourscore of Highland Men Were in the water Drown'd Sir , Mar. Through my Men do Ramble through The North both here and there Sir , The half of what's said is not true , The Truth I do Declare Sir , It's said they Pillage and Plunder all , In places where they come Sir , But by this they soon would catch a Fallen And unto Ruin run Sir And as for that was at Dumblain , We Lost so many Men Sir , Perhaps we may Recruit again , And that we'll let you ken Sir , If that once more we shall Engage , We shall know how it goes Sir , Whisky shall put our Brains in Rage , And Snuff shall Prime our Nose Sir , W [ ? ] Swords and Guns into our Hands We'll stoutly Venture on Sir , Y [ ? ] a Ducks and Targets at Command , Of these we shall want none Sir , Arg [ y ] le , Do what you can to prove the Man , Your Attempts shall prove in vain Sir For sure Argyle shall led the Van , And the Victory shall [ l ] gain Sir , Tho' like a Cock Mar in the North , Abroad hath sent his Crow Sir , Clapping his Wings now beyond Forth Perhaps he'l get a Blow Sir . Argyle like to a Lion Bold , [ Will ] Grasp him in his Paws Sir , And that perhaps e're it be long , He'll make him stand in aw Sir , For lo a Conjunct Company , Both of Scots and Dutch Men , They're at a Call on Mar to fallen , They're almost all none such Men . Beside great Nubmers oh [ f ] Gentlemen , Whom they call Volunteers Sir , The most and best whereof Consist , Of Valiant Scotish Peers Sir . FINIS . 