THE Clans Lamentation , Against Mar and their own Folly . To the Tune of , Bony Katharine Ogie . AS I did Travel in the North , I in Discourse took Pleasure , To talk with those that were our Foes , when that we could get leisure : What was the Reason I did ask , that they rose in Rebellion ? And what Great Madness moved them , for to work such Great Treason ? Against both King and Parliament , and Government all over , And would not join to George our King , the great Prince of Hanover . They answer'd me with one Accord , we may think shame to tell you , That we such simple Fools have been , to join with such a Fellow . He did send Letters unto Us , and falsely did us Flatter , Desiring us for to arise , and Hanoverians Scatter , And that he would bring o're our King , and would put off Hanover , And that our King he should possess both North and South all over . But now alas ! we suffer for , our Folly in this Matter , For now we risen are , and we shall never be the better , For we did once encounter with , that Mighty Man of Valour , Who's like a Lion in his Strength , but comely in his Feature . Even Great Argyle your General will make us to Repent it , That we so foolishly should have even unto Mar Consented : And tho' many of us fell ev'n at the same Engagement Yet we did go along with him , by his false To [ ? ] [ E ] nticement . He told us we should see our King e're we were two Months older , But now we see it is a Lie which makes our Hearts the Colder : For he did bring a Man to us , that might have been his Father , Who said , he he would not Pop'ry quite , but want our Kindness rather . It had been better for us all , that Mar had ne're been born , For now , alas ! we are become , all the whole Nations Scorn : For now we have left all our Lands , likewise our Life's in Danger Alas ! that e're we did agree , for to fetch in a Stranger . But now we're forc'd to take flight before King George's Army , Of Soldiers Brisk , and Volunteers , like them there are not many , That made us from Saint Johnstoun run , and likewise from Dundee Sir , And also thorough all the Towns , into the North Country Sir . Alas ! alas ! we are undone , for now and evermore then ; We know not where to hide our selves , neither in Hold nor Boar then : For like a Partridge they do hunt , us both o're Hills and Glens Sir , Which makes us for to rue the day , that we were Nam Clans Sir . But now alas ! we cannot help what we have done amiss Sir , But now we're like to end our days , in Grief and Heaviness Sir , O and alas ! we leave our Lands , with Lamentation Sir , Likewise our Wives and Children all , have pity them upon Sir . FINIS . THE Clans Lamentation , Against Mar and their own Folly . To the Tune of , Bony Katharine Ogie . AS I did Travel in the North , I in Discourse took Pleasure , To talk with those that were our Foes , when that we could get leisure : What was the Reason I did ask , that they rose in Rebellion ? And what Great Madness moved them , for to work such Great Treason ? Against both King and Parliament , and Government all over , And would not join to George our King , the great Prince of Hanover . They answer'd me with one Accord , we may think shame to tell you , That we such simple Fools have been , to join with such a Fellow . He did send Letters unto Us , and falsely did us Flatter , Desiring us for to arise , and Hanoverians Scatter , And that he would bring o're our King , and would put off Hanover , And that our King he should possess both North and South all over . But now alas ! we suffer for , our Folly in this Matter , For now we risen are , and we shall never be the better , For we did once encounter with , that Mighty Man of Valour , Who's like a Lion in his Strength , but comely in his Feature . Even Great Argyle your General will make us to Repent it , That we so foolishly should have even unto Mar Consented : And tho' many of us fell ev'n at the same Engagement Yet we did go along with him , by his false To [ ? ] [ E ] nticement . He told us we should see our King e're we were two Months older , But now we see it is a Lie which makes our Hearts the Colder : For he did bring a Man to us , that might have been his Father , Who said , he he would not Pop'ry quite , but want our Kindness rather . It had been better for us all , that Mar had ne're been born , For now , alas ! we are become , all the whole Nations Scorn : For now we have left all our Lands , likewise our Life's in Danger Alas ! that e're we did agree , for to fetch in a Stranger . But now we're forc'd to take flight before King George's Army , Of Soldiers Brisk , and Volunteers , like them there are not many , That made us from Saint Johnstoun run , and likewise from Dundee Sir , And also thorough all the Towns , into the North Country Sir . Alas ! alas ! we are undone , for now and evermore then ; We know not where to hide our selves , neither in Hold nor Boar then : For like a Partridge they do hunt , us both o're Hills and Glens Sir , Which makes us for to rue the day , that we were Nam Clans Sir . But now alas ! we cannot help what we have done amiss Sir , But now we're like to end our days , in Grief and Heaviness Sir , O and alas ! we leave our Lands , with Lamentation Sir , Likewise our Wives and Children all , have pity them upon Sir . FINIS . 