THE Gelding of the DEVIL . The prettiest Jest that ever was known , The Baker's Wife her Skill has shown ; Then listen awhile , and the news I'll tell , Betwixt a Baker and the Devil of Hell . A Pretty Jest I will you tell , Of the Gelding of the Devil of Hell ; There was a Baker of Mansfield Town , To Nottingham Market he was bound , And riding under the willow clear , The Baker sung with a merry cheer . And riding , etc The Baker's horse was lusty and found , Well worth in Judgement full ten pound His skin was smooth , his flesh was fat . His master was well pleas'd at that ; Which made him sing most merrily , As he was riding along the way , Which , etc But as he rid over the hill , Oh there he met with the Devil of Hell : Oh Baker ! Baker ! then cry'd he , How came thy horse so fat to be ? These be the words the Baker did say , Because his stones are cut away . These be , etc Then said the Devil it may be so , Thou shalt geld me before thou dost go , First tie thy horse to yonder tree , And with thy knife come and geld me : The Baker had a knife for the nounce , Wherewith he cut out the Devil's stones . The Baker , etc The Baker as it came to pass . In haste alighted from his horse ; And the Devil on his back he lay , While the Baker cut his stones away ; Which put the Devil to great pain , And made him to cry out amain . Which put , etc O said the Devil , beshrew thy heart ; Thou dost not feel how I do smart , And for the deed that thou hast done , I'll be reveng'd on thee anon , And underneath this greenwood tree , Next market day I will Geld thee , And underneath , etc The Baker then but little said , Yet in his heart was soar afraid , He durst no longer then to stay , But he road home another way ? And coming home to his wife did tell , How he had gelded the Devil of Hell . And coming , etc Moreover to his wife he told , A tale as made her heart run cold ; How the Devil he did say , He would geld him next market day : Oh said the good wife without doubt , I had rather both thy eyes were out , Oh said , etc For then all people far and near , As know thee will both mock and jeer , And good wives they will rail and bawl , And stoneless Gelding will thee call : Then hold , content , and be thou wise , And I'll some pretty trick devise , Then hold , etc I'll makes the Devil changes his note , Give me my hat , my band and coat , Thy hose and doublet eke also , And I like to a man will go I'll warrant thee next market day , I'll fright the Devil quite away . I'll warrant . etc When the Baker's wife she was so dressed , With all the bred upon the beast , Unto Nottingham Market that fine town , To fell her bred both white and brown ; And riding merrily over the hill , Oh there she espy'd two Devils of Hell . And riding , etc A little Devil and another , As they were playing both together ; O quoth the Devil then right fain , Here comes the Baker riding amain ; Now be thou well , or be thou woe , I will geld thee before thou dost go . I will geld , etc The Baker's Wife to the Devil did say , Sir , I was gelded yesterday ; O quoth the Devil I mean to see , And pulling her coats up to her knee , And looking upward from the ground , Oh there I espy'd a terrible wound . And so looking , etc O quoth the Devil now I see , He was not cunning that gelded thee : For when he had cut out thy stones , He should have closed up the wounds ; But if you'll stay some little space . I'll fetch some salve to heal the place . But if you'll , etc She had not rid but a little way , But up her belly crept a flay , The little Devil seeing that , He up with his hand and gave it a pat , Which made the good wife for to start , With that she let a rouzing fart . Which made , etc O said the Devil thy life's not long , Thy breath it smells so horribly strong ; Therefore go thy way and make thy will , Thy wounds are passed all human Skill , Be gone , be gone , make no delay , For here thou shalt no longer stay , Be gone , etc The good wife of this news was glad , So she left the Devil almost mad , And when she to her husband came , With joyful heart she told the same : The story pleas'd him wond'rous well , How she had couzen'd the Devil of Hell . How she had , etc Printed and Sold in Aldermary-Church - Yard , Bow Lane , London . THE Gelding of the DEVIL . The prettiest Jest that ever was known , The Baker's Wife her Skill has shown ; Then listen awhile , and the news I'll tell , Betwixt a Baker and the Devil of Hell . A Pretty Jest I will you tell , Of the Gelding of the Devil of Hell ; There was a Baker of Mansfield Town , To Nottingham Market he was bound , And riding under the willow clear , The Baker sung with a merry cheer . And riding , etc The Baker's horse was lusty and found , Well worth in Judgement full ten pound His skin was smooth , his flesh was fat . His master was well pleas'd at that ; Which made him sing most merrily , As he was riding along the way , Which , etc But as he rid over the hill , Oh there he met with the Devil of Hell : Oh Baker ! Baker ! then cry'd he , How came thy horse so fat to be ? These be the words the Baker did say , Because his stones are cut away . These be , etc Then said the Devil it may be so , Thou shalt geld me before thou dost go , First tie thy horse to yonder tree , And with thy knife come and geld me : The Baker had a knife for the nounce , Wherewith he cut out the Devil's stones . The Baker , etc The Baker as it came to pass . In haste alighted from his horse ; And the Devil on his back he lay , While the Baker cut his stones away ; Which put the Devil to great pain , And made him to cry out amain . Which put , etc O said the Devil , beshrew thy heart ; Thou dost not feel how I do smart , And for the deed that thou hast done , I'll be reveng'd on thee anon , And underneath this greenwood tree , Next market day I will Geld thee , And underneath , etc The Baker then but little said , Yet in his heart was soar afraid , He durst no longer then to stay , But he road home another way ? And coming home to his wife did tell , How he had gelded the Devil of Hell . And coming , etc Moreover to his wife he told , A tale as made her heart run cold ; How the Devil he did say , He would geld him next market day : Oh said the good wife without doubt , I had rather both thy eyes were out , Oh said , etc For then all people far and near , As know thee will both mock and jeer , And good wives they will rail and bawl , And stoneless Gelding will thee call : Then hold , content , and be thou wise , And I'll some pretty trick devise , Then hold , etc I'll makes the Devil changes his note , Give me my hat , my band and coat , Thy hose and doublet eke also , And I like to a man will go I'll warrant thee next market day , I'll fright the Devil quite away . I'll warrant . etc When the Baker's wife she was so dressed , With all the bred upon the beast , Unto Nottingham Market that fine town , To fell her bred both white and brown ; And riding merrily over the hill , Oh there she espy'd two Devils of Hell . And riding , etc A little Devil and another , As they were playing both together ; O quoth the Devil then right fain , Here comes the Baker riding amain ; Now be thou well , or be thou woe , I will geld thee before thou dost go . I will geld , etc The Baker's Wife to the Devil did say , Sir , I was gelded yesterday ; O quoth the Devil I mean to see , And pulling her coats up to her knee , And looking upward from the ground , Oh there I espy'd a terrible wound . And so looking , etc O quoth the Devil now I see , He was not cunning that gelded thee : For when he had cut out thy stones , He should have closed up the wounds ; But if you'll stay some little space . I'll fetch some salve to heal the place . But if you'll , etc She had not rid but a little way , But up her belly crept a flay , The little Devil seeing that , He up with his hand and gave it a pat , Which made the good wife for to start , With that she let a rouzing fart . Which made , etc O said the Devil thy life's not long , Thy breath it smells so horribly strong ; Therefore go thy way and make thy will , Thy wounds are passed all human Skill , Be gone , be gone , make no delay , For here thou shalt no longer stay , Be gone , etc The good wife of this news was glad , So she left the Devil almost mad , And when she to her husband came , With joyful heart she told the same : The story pleas'd him wond'rous well , How she had couzen'd the Devil of Hell . How she had , etc Printed and Sold in Aldermary-Church - Yard , Bow Lane , London . 