St BERRNAD'S Vision ; or , a brief Discourse between the SOUL and the BODY of a wicked Man lately deceased , blaming each other . With a SPEECH from the Devil in Hell . To the Tune of Flying Fame , etc , The WRITER speaks . AS I lay slumbering in my Bed one Night , A fearful Vision did me soar affrigh Me thought I say a Soul departed late , By it the Body in a poor Estate . Wailing with Sighs the Soul aloud did cry , Upon the Body in the Coffin by : And thus the Soul to her did make her Moan , With grievous Sobs , and many a bitter Groan . The SOUL speaks . Oh! sinful Flesh , which now so low does lie , Whom Yesterday the World esteem'd so high : It was but Yesterday the World was thine , The sun is set , which Yesterday did shine . Where is thy Train that did attend on thee ? Where is thy Mirth ? Where is thy Jollity ? Where are thy sumptuous Buildings and thy Treasure ? Thy pleasant Walks wherein thou tookest Pleasure . Gone is thy Train , thy Mirth to Mourning turn'd , Thou in a Coffin in a Shrine art turn'd ; For thy rich Clothes thou hast a Winding-sheet , Thy high built Roof now with thy Mouth does meet . But I , poor Soul ! was fram'd a noble Creature , In likeness to GOD , of heavenly Feature ; But by thy since when we on Earth abided , I am made fouler than the loathsome Toad . Oh! wretched Flesh with me thou art forlorn , That well may wish thou ne'er hadst been born : Thou ne'er would'st to any one agree , For which we evermore shall damned be . I am and must for ever be in Pain , No Tongue can tell the Torments I sustain ; But thou and I we must descend to Hell , Were we , in frying Flames , must for ever dwell . It was thy Pride , Deceit , Luxury , Hath brought these Torments both on me and thee : Thy Wife , Children , and Friends , whom thou dost trust , Does loath thy Carcase lying in the Dust. The Bound of God , which is both true and sure , Witness at large what Sinners shall endure : Thou that within the Bed of Death art laid , Arise and answer to the Words I've said . The BODY speaks . I know thee well , my Soul , who from me fled , Which left my Body senseless , cold , and dead ! Cease thou to say the Fault was all in me , When I will prove the Fault was more in thee . Thou say'st , that I have led thee oft astray , And from welldoing drawn thee quite away : For if the Flesh the Spirits Power can move , The Fault is thine , as I will plainly prove . God , thou didst know , created thee most fair , And of celestial Knowledge gave you Share : I was your Servant made of Earth and Clay , You to Command , and I for to obey 'Twas in your Power for to restrain my Will , And hinder me from doing Things that's ill : The Body's Works are from the Soul divided , And by the Soul the Body should be guided . The Body of itself no Ill hath known , If I did what thou didst the Guilt's thy own ? For without thee the Body rests dead , The Soul commands , it rests upon thy Head. So to conclude thy Gilded exceeds mine , Oh! how the Worms no tear me in my Shrine ; And , therefore fare thee well , poor sinful Soul ! Thy Sins surpass even mine , though they are foul . The SOUL speaks . Most wretched Flesh , which in the Time of Life , Was foolish , idle , vain , and full of Strife : Though of thy Substance thou didst speak to me , I do confess I should have bridled thee . But thou , through Love of Pleasure , foul and ill , Still me resisted , and would have thy Will : When I would thee , Oh Body ! have control'd , Straight the World's Vanities did thee withhold . So thou of me didst gain the Upper-hand , Alluring me with worldly Pleasures Band ; That thou and I eternally are drown'd In Hell , when glorious Saints in Heaven are crown'd . But flattering Fancy did thy Mind so please , Thou never thought to die till Death did seize : This was your Fault , and cursed was our Fate , Which we repent , but now , alas ! too late . The BODY speaks . Oh! now I weep , being scourg'd with my own Rod , And guilty stand before the face of God , Both are in Fault , but not do [ tO ] h equally , The greater Burden , Soul , on the does lie . No Wit so mean , bu [ tO ] this for Truth it knows , That where most Give [ tO ] s of Virtue God bestows , There is due , and ought repaid to be , And unto this there's none but will agree . But foolishly thou yielded unto me , And unto my vain Desire soon did agree ; But O! I knew not at the latter Hour , But thou and I should find a Death more sure . I greatly fear and everlasting Fire , Yet one Thing more of thee I do desire ? Hast thou been yet among the Friends of Hell ! Are no Hope's left , that we with Christ may dwell . The SOUL speaks . False Flesh , remember DIVES was deny'd , When for one Drop of Water loud he cry'd : Thy Question senseless Body wants Reason , Redemption now is hopeless out of Season . Vile Body , go and rot in Bed of Clay , Until the great and general Judgement Day : Then thou shalt rise and be with me condemn'd . To Hell's hight Lake for ever without End. So fare thee well , I will no longer stay , Hark! how the Fiends of Hell call me away : The Loss of Heavenly Joys torments me , More than all Tortures that in Hell can be . The DEVIL speaks . 'Oh ! are you come whom we expected long , 'Now will we make you sing another Song : 'Howling and Yelling still shall be your Note , 'And melting Led be powered down your Throat . 'Such Horror we do on our Servants load , 'Now thou art worse than is the crawling Toad : 'Ten thousand Torments thou shalt now abide , 'When thou in flaming Sulphur shall be fry'd . 'Thou art a Soldier of our Camp enroll'd , 'Never henceforth shalt thou the Light behold : 'The Pains prepar'd for thee no Tongue can tell , 'Welcome ! O welcome to the Pit of Hell ! ' The WRITER speaks . At this the groaning Soul did weep full soar , And sure the Friends did make a hideous Roar , The Devils seem'd more black than Pitch at Night , Whose horrid Shapes did sorely me affright . Sharp steel Forks each in their Hands did bear , Tusked their Teeth , like crooked Mattocks were : Fire and Brimstone then they breathed out , And from their Nostrils Snakes crawl'd all about . Foul filthy Horns on their black Brows they were , Their Nails were like the Tusks of a Boar : Those hellish Friends fast bound this wretched Soul , And dragg'd him in , who gre [ iv ] ously did howl . Then straight , me thought , appeared in my Sighed , A beauteous young Man clothed all white : His Face did shine most glorious to behold , Wings like the Rain Bow , and his Hair like Gold . With a sweet Voice , All hail ! all hail ! ( quoth he ) Arise and write whate'er thou now dost see . Most heavenly Music seemed then to play , And in a Cloud he vanish'd quite away . Awaking , straight I took my Pen in Hand , To write these Lines the young Man did command ; And abroad so into the World them sent , That each great Sinner may in Time repent . Then let us fear the Lord both Night and Day , Preserve our Souls and Bodies I thus pray : God grant we may so run this mortal Raze , That we in Heaven may have a Restingplace . God bless the King , the Prince , and Progeny ; The Clergy , Council , and Nobility : Preserve our Souls and Bodies , I thee pray ; Amen , with me . let all good Christians say . St BERRNAD'S Vision ; or , a brief Discourse between the SOUL and the BODY of a wicked Man lately deceased , blaming each other . With a SPEECH from the Devil in Hell . To the Tune of Flying Fame , etc , The WRITER speaks . AS I lay slumbering in my Bed one Night , A fearful Vision did me soar affrigh Me thought I say a Soul departed late , By it the Body in a poor Estate . Wailing with Sighs the Soul aloud did cry , Upon the Body in the Coffin by : And thus the Soul to her did make her Moan , With grievous Sobs , and many a bitter Groan . The SOUL speaks . Oh! sinful Flesh , which now so low does lie , Whom Yesterday the World esteem'd so high : It was but Yesterday the World was thine , The sun is set , which Yesterday did shine . Where is thy Train that did attend on thee ? Where is thy Mirth ? Where is thy Jollity ? Where are thy sumptuous Buildings and thy Treasure ? Thy pleasant Walks wherein thou tookest Pleasure . Gone is thy Train , thy Mirth to Mourning turn'd , Thou in a Coffin in a Shrine art turn'd ; For thy rich Clothes thou hast a Winding-sheet , Thy high built Roof now with thy Mouth does meet . But I , poor Soul ! was fram'd a noble Creature , In likeness to GOD , of heavenly Feature ; But by thy since when we on Earth abided , I am made fouler than the loathsome Toad . Oh! wretched Flesh with me thou art forlorn , That well may wish thou ne'er hadst been born : Thou ne'er would'st to any one agree , For which we evermore shall damned be . I am and must for ever be in Pain , No Tongue can tell the Torments I sustain ; But thou and I we must descend to Hell , Were we , in frying Flames , must for ever dwell . It was thy Pride , Deceit , Luxury , Hath brought these Torments both on me and thee : Thy Wife , Children , and Friends , whom thou dost trust , Does loath thy Carcase lying in the Dust. The Bound of God , which is both true and sure , Witness at large what Sinners shall endure : Thou that within the Bed of Death art laid , Arise and answer to the Words I've said . The BODY speaks . I know thee well , my Soul , who from me fled , Which left my Body senseless , cold , and dead ! Cease thou to say the Fault was all in me , When I will prove the Fault was more in thee . Thou say'st , that I have led thee oft astray , And from welldoing drawn thee quite away : For if the Flesh the Spirits Power can move , The Fault is thine , as I will plainly prove . God , thou didst know , created thee most fair , And of celestial Knowledge gave you Share : I was your Servant made of Earth and Clay , You to Command , and I for to obey 'Twas in your Power for to restrain my Will , And hinder me from doing Things that's ill : The Body's Works are from the Soul divided , And by the Soul the Body should be guided . The Body of itself no Ill hath known , If I did what thou didst the Guilt's thy own ? For without thee the Body rests dead , The Soul commands , it rests upon thy Head. So to conclude thy Gilded exceeds mine , Oh! how the Worms no tear me in my Shrine ; And , therefore fare thee well , poor sinful Soul ! Thy Sins surpass even mine , though they are foul . The SOUL speaks . Most wretched Flesh , which in the Time of Life , Was foolish , idle , vain , and full of Strife : Though of thy Substance thou didst speak to me , I do confess I should have bridled thee . But thou , through Love of Pleasure , foul and ill , Still me resisted , and would have thy Will : When I would thee , Oh Body ! have control'd , Straight the World's Vanities did thee withhold . So thou of me didst gain the Upper-hand , Alluring me with worldly Pleasures Band ; That thou and I eternally are drown'd In Hell , when glorious Saints in Heaven are crown'd . But flattering Fancy did thy Mind so please , Thou never thought to die till Death did seize : This was your Fault , and cursed was our Fate , Which we repent , but now , alas ! too late . The BODY speaks . Oh! now I weep , being scourg'd with my own Rod , And guilty stand before the face of God , Both are in Fault , but not do [ tO ] h equally , The greater Burden , Soul , on the does lie . No Wit so mean , bu [ tO ] this for Truth it knows , That where most Give [ tO ] s of Virtue God bestows , There is due , and ought repaid to be , And unto this there's none but will agree . But foolishly thou yielded unto me , And unto my vain Desire soon did agree ; But O! I knew not at the latter Hour , But thou and I should find a Death more sure . I greatly fear and everlasting Fire , Yet one Thing more of thee I do desire ? Hast thou been yet among the Friends of Hell ! Are no Hope's left , that we with Christ may dwell . The SOUL speaks . False Flesh , remember DIVES was deny'd , When for one Drop of Water loud he cry'd : Thy Question senseless Body wants Reason , Redemption now is hopeless out of Season . Vile Body , go and rot in Bed of Clay , Until the great and general Judgement Day : Then thou shalt rise and be with me condemn'd . To Hell's hight Lake for ever without End. So fare thee well , I will no longer stay , Hark! how the Fiends of Hell call me away : The Loss of Heavenly Joys torments me , More than all Tortures that in Hell can be . The DEVIL speaks . 'Oh ! are you come whom we expected long , 'Now will we make you sing another Song : 'Howling and Yelling still shall be your Note , 'And melting Led be powered down your Throat . 'Such Horror we do on our Servants load , 'Now thou art worse than is the crawling Toad : 'Ten thousand Torments thou shalt now abide , 'When thou in flaming Sulphur shall be fry'd . 'Thou art a Soldier of our Camp enroll'd , 'Never henceforth shalt thou the Light behold : 'The Pains prepar'd for thee no Tongue can tell , 'Welcome ! O welcome to the Pit of Hell ! ' The WRITER speaks . At this the groaning Soul did weep full soar , And sure the Friends did make a hideous Roar , The Devils seem'd more black than Pitch at Night , Whose horrid Shapes did sorely me affright . Sharp steel Forks each in their Hands did bear , Tusked their Teeth , like crooked Mattocks were : Fire and Brimstone then they breathed out , And from their Nostrils Snakes crawl'd all about . Foul filthy Horns on their black Brows they were , Their Nails were like the Tusks of a Boar : Those hellish Friends fast bound this wretched Soul , And dragg'd him in , who gre [ iv ] ously did howl . Then straight , me thought , appeared in my Sighed , A beauteous young Man clothed all white : His Face did shine most glorious to behold , Wings like the Rain Bow , and his Hair like Gold . With a sweet Voice , All hail ! all hail ! ( quoth he ) Arise and write whate'er thou now dost see . Most heavenly Music seemed then to play , And in a Cloud he vanish'd quite away . Awaking , straight I took my Pen in Hand , To write these Lines the young Man did command ; And abroad so into the World them sent , That each great Sinner may in Time repent . Then let us fear the Lord both Night and Day , Preserve our Souls and Bodies I thus pray : God grant we may so run this mortal Raze , That we in Heaven may have a Restingplace . God bless the King , the Prince , and Progeny ; The Clergy , Council , and Nobility : Preserve our Souls and Bodies , I thee pray ; Amen , with me . let all good Christians say . 