Fair Margaret's Misfortunes ; OR , Sweet William's Dream on his Wedding Night With the sudden Death and Burial of those noble Lovers . AS it fell out upon a day , Two lovers they set on a hill ; They set together a long summer's day , And could not take their fill . I see no harm by you Margaret , And you see none by me ; Before tomorrow at eight o'clock A rich wedding you shall see . Fair Margaret set in her bower window , A combing of her hair ; And there she espy'd Sweet William and bride , As they were a riding near . Down she laid her ivory comb , And up she bound her hair ; She went away forth from the bower , But never more came there . When day was gone , and night was come And all men fast asleep , There came the spirit of fair Margaret , And stood at William's bed-feet . God give you Joy you true lovers , In bridebed fast asleep ; Lo ! I am going to my green-grass Grove , And I am in my winding-sheet . When day was come , and night was gone And all men wak'd from sleep ; Sweet William to his Lady said , My dear I've cause to weep . I dream'd a dream , my dear lady , Such dreams are never good ; I dream'd thy bower was full of read swine And my bridebed full of blood . Such dreams , such dreams my honour-ed Sir , They never do prove good ; To dream thy bower was full of swine , And thy bridebed full of blood . He called his merry men all , By one , by two , and by three ; Saying , I'll away to Fair Margaret's Bower , By the leave of my Lady . And when he came to Fair Margaret's Bower , He knocked at the ring ; So ready were her Seven Brothers To let Sweet William in . The he turn'd up the covering sheet , Pray let me see the dead , Methinks she looks both pale and van , She has lost her cherry read . I'll do no more for thee Margaret , Than any of thy kin ; For I will kiss thy pale van lips , Tho' a smile I cannot win . With that bespoke the seven brothers , Making most piteous moan , You may go kiss your jolly brown dame , And let our sister alone . If I do kiss my jolly brown dame , I do but what is right ; For I made no vow to your sister dear , By day nor yet by night . Pray tell me then how much you'll deal , Of white bred and your wine ? So much as is dealt at her Funeral Today , To morrow shall be dealt at mine . Fair Margaret dy'd Today , Today , Sweet William he dy'd the morrow ; Fair Margaret dy'd for pure truelove , Sweet William he dy'd for sorrow . Margaret was bury'd in the Lower Chancel , And William in the higher ; Out of her breast there sprang a Rose , And out of his a briar . They grew as high as the church top , 'Till they could grow no higher ; And there they grew in a True Lover's Knot , That made all people admire . Then came the clerk of the parish , As you this truth shall hear , And by misfortune cut them down , Or they had now been there . Printed and Sold in Aldermary Church - Yard , Bow-Lane , London . Fair Margaret's Misfortunes ; OR , Sweet William's Dream on his Wedding Night With the sudden Death and Burial of those noble Lovers . AS it fell out upon a day , Two lovers they set on a hill ; They set together a long summer's day , And could not take their fill . I see no harm by you Margaret , And you see none by me ; Before tomorrow at eight o'clock A rich wedding you shall see . Fair Margaret set in her bower window , A combing of her hair ; And there she espy'd Sweet William and bride , As they were a riding near . Down she laid her ivory comb , And up she bound her hair ; She went away forth from the bower , But never more came there . When day was gone , and night was come And all men fast asleep , There came the spirit of fair Margaret , And stood at William's bed-feet . God give you Joy you true lovers , In bridebed fast asleep ; Lo ! I am going to my green-grass Grove , And I am in my winding-sheet . When day was come , and night was gone And all men wak'd from sleep ; Sweet William to his Lady said , My dear I've cause to weep . I dream'd a dream , my dear lady , Such dreams are never good ; I dream'd thy bower was full of read swine And my bridebed full of blood . Such dreams , such dreams my honour-ed Sir , They never do prove good ; To dream thy bower was full of swine , And thy bridebed full of blood . He called his merry men all , By one , by two , and by three ; Saying , I'll away to Fair Margaret's Bower , By the leave of my Lady . And when he came to Fair Margaret's Bower , He knocked at the ring ; So ready were her Seven Brothers To let Sweet William in . The he turn'd up the covering sheet , Pray let me see the dead , Methinks she looks both pale and van , She has lost her cherry read . I'll do no more for thee Margaret , Than any of thy kin ; For I will kiss thy pale van lips , Tho' a smile I cannot win . With that bespoke the seven brothers , Making most piteous moan , You may go kiss your jolly brown dame , And let our sister alone . If I do kiss my jolly brown dame , I do but what is right ; For I made no vow to your sister dear , By day nor yet by night . Pray tell me then how much you'll deal , Of white bred and your wine ? So much as is dealt at her Funeral Today , To morrow shall be dealt at mine . Fair Margaret dy'd Today , Today , Sweet William he dy'd the morrow ; Fair Margaret dy'd for pure truelove , Sweet William he dy'd for sorrow . Margaret was bury'd in the Lower Chancel , And William in the higher ; Out of her breast there sprang a Rose , And out of his a briar . They grew as high as the church top , 'Till they could grow no higher ; And there they grew in a True Lover's Knot , That made all people admire . Then came the clerk of the parish , As you this truth shall hear , And by misfortune cut them down , Or they had now been there . Printed and Sold in Aldermary Church - Yard , Bow-Lane , London . 