A Lamentable BALLAD Of Little Musgrove and the Lady BARNET . AS it fell out on a high holiday , As many there be in a year ; Musgrove he would to the church to pray , To see the ladies there . Gallants they were of good degree , For beauty exceeding fair ; Most wondrous lovely to the eye , Which did to church repair . Some came down in read velvet , And some came down in pall ; The next came down my Lady Barnet , The fairest among them all . She cast a look at Little Musgrove , As bright as the summer's sun , Full right then perceiv'd Little Musgrove , Lady Barnet's love he had wone . The Lady Barnet meek and mild , Saluted Little Musgrove ; Who did repay her courtesy With favour and gentle love . I have a bower in merry Barnet , Bestrew'd with cowslips sweet , If that you please my little Musgrove , In love me there to meet . With [ i ] n my arms one night to lie , For you my love have wone ; You need not fear my suspicious Lord , For he from home is gone . Betide me life , betide me death , This night I will lie with thee ; And for thy sake I will hazard my breath , So dear is my love to thee . What shall we do with this little foot page ? Our council for to keep , And watch for fear Lord Barnet comes , While we together meet . Rich gold shall be his hire , said she , And silver shall be his fee ; If he our council will but keep , That I may sleep with thee . I will have none of your gold , said he , Nor none of your silver fee ; If I should keep your council madam , 'Twere great disloyalty . I'll not be false unto my Lord , For house , nor yet for land ; But if my Lady proves untrue , Lord Barnet shall understand . Then swiftly ran this little foot-page , Unto his Lord with speed , He then was feasting with his friends , Not dreaming of that deed . Most speedily the page did haste , Most swiftly he did run ; And when he came to the broken bridge He bent his breast and swam . The page did make no stay at all , But went to his Lord with speed ; That he the truth might tell to him , Concerning this wicked deed . He found his Lord at supper then , Great metriment they did keep ; My Lord said she , this night on my word , Musgrove with my Lady does sleep . If this be true my little foot-page , And true which thou tellest to me ; My eldest daughter I will thee give , And wedded thou shalt be . If this be a lie thou little foot-page , And a lie thou tellest me ; A new gallows shall be set up , And hanged thou shalt be . If that be a lie , my Lord he said , And a lie which I tell unto thee , Never stay a new gallows to make , But hang me upon the next tree . Lord Barnet call'd his merry men all , Away with speed he would go ; His heart was soar perplex'd with grief , The truth of this he must know . Saddle your horses with speed he said , And saddle my milkwhite steed , If this be true as the page hath said , Musgrove shall repent the deed . He charged his men to make no noise , As they road along the way ; Wind no horn , quoth he for your life , Lest our coming you betray . But one of them that Musgrove did love , And respected his friendship dear ; To give him notice Lord Barnet was come , Did wind his bugle horn clear . And evermore as he did found , Away Musgrove , and away ; For if he take you with his Lady , Thou shalt be slave today . O hark fair Lady , your Lord is near , I hear his little horn blow : And if he find me in your arms , Then hang'd I shall be I know . O lie still , lie still , my Little Musgrove , And keep my back from the cold ; I know it is my father's shepherd , A driving sheep to fold . Musgrove did turn himself about , Sweet slumber his eyes did greet , And when he awoke there did he espy Lord Barnet at the bed's feet . Rise up , rise up , thou little Musgrove , And put thy clothing on ; It ne'er shall be said in England fair , That I slew a naked man . Here are two swords Lord Barnet said , Musgrove thy choice now make , The best of them thyself shalt have , And I the worst shalt take . The first blow Musgrove did strike , He wounded Lord Baroet soar ; The second blow Lord Barnet gave , Musgrove could strike no more . He took his Lady by the white hand , All love to rage convert ; And with his sword in furious sort , He pierc'd her tender heart . A grave , a grave , Lord Barnet said , Prepare us to lie in ; My Lady shall lie on the upper side , Because she has the better skin . Then suddenly he slew himself , Which griev'd his friends full soar ; The death of these three lovely Wights , With tears they did deplore . This sad mischief by lust was wrought , Then let us call for Grace : That we may shun such wicked deeds , And fly from since apace . Printed and Sold in Aldermary Church-Yard Bow Lane , London . A Lamentable BALLAD Of Little Musgrove and the Lady BARNET . AS it fell out on a high holiday , As many there be in a year ; Musgrove he would to the church to pray , To see the ladies there . Gallants they were of good degree , For beauty exceeding fair ; Most wondrous lovely to the eye , Which did to church repair . Some came down in read velvet , And some came down in pall ; The next came down my Lady Barnet , The fairest among them all . She cast a look at Little Musgrove , As bright as the summer's sun , Full right then perceiv'd Little Musgrove , Lady Barnet's love he had wone . The Lady Barnet meek and mild , Saluted Little Musgrove ; Who did repay her courtesy With favour and gentle love . I have a bower in merry Barnet , Bestrew'd with cowslips sweet , If that you please my little Musgrove , In love me there to meet . With [ i ] n my arms one night to lie , For you my love have wone ; You need not fear my suspicious Lord , For he from home is gone . Betide me life , betide me death , This night I will lie with thee ; And for thy sake I will hazard my breath , So dear is my love to thee . What shall we do with this little foot page ? Our council for to keep , And watch for fear Lord Barnet comes , While we together meet . Rich gold shall be his hire , said she , And silver shall be his fee ; If he our council will but keep , That I may sleep with thee . I will have none of your gold , said he , Nor none of your silver fee ; If I should keep your council madam , 'Twere great disloyalty . I'll not be false unto my Lord , For house , nor yet for land ; But if my Lady proves untrue , Lord Barnet shall understand . Then swiftly ran this little foot-page , Unto his Lord with speed , He then was feasting with his friends , Not dreaming of that deed . Most speedily the page did haste , Most swiftly he did run ; And when he came to the broken bridge He bent his breast and swam . The page did make no stay at all , But went to his Lord with speed ; That he the truth might tell to him , Concerning this wicked deed . He found his Lord at supper then , Great metriment they did keep ; My Lord said she , this night on my word , Musgrove with my Lady does sleep . If this be true my little foot-page , And true which thou tellest to me ; My eldest daughter I will thee give , And wedded thou shalt be . If this be a lie thou little foot-page , And a lie thou tellest me ; A new gallows shall be set up , And hanged thou shalt be . If that be a lie , my Lord he said , And a lie which I tell unto thee , Never stay a new gallows to make , But hang me upon the next tree . Lord Barnet call'd his merry men all , Away with speed he would go ; His heart was soar perplex'd with grief , The truth of this he must know . Saddle your horses with speed he said , And saddle my milkwhite steed , If this be true as the page hath said , Musgrove shall repent the deed . He charged his men to make no noise , As they road along the way ; Wind no horn , quoth he for your life , Lest our coming you betray . But one of them that Musgrove did love , And respected his friendship dear ; To give him notice Lord Barnet was come , Did wind his bugle horn clear . And evermore as he did found , Away Musgrove , and away ; For if he take you with his Lady , Thou shalt be slave today . O hark fair Lady , your Lord is near , I hear his little horn blow : And if he find me in your arms , Then hang'd I shall be I know . O lie still , lie still , my Little Musgrove , And keep my back from the cold ; I know it is my father's shepherd , A driving sheep to fold . Musgrove did turn himself about , Sweet slumber his eyes did greet , And when he awoke there did he espy Lord Barnet at the bed's feet . Rise up , rise up , thou little Musgrove , And put thy clothing on ; It ne'er shall be said in England fair , That I slew a naked man . Here are two swords Lord Barnet said , Musgrove thy choice now make , The best of them thyself shalt have , And I the worst shalt take . The first blow Musgrove did strike , He wounded Lord Baroet soar ; The second blow Lord Barnet gave , Musgrove could strike no more . He took his Lady by the white hand , All love to rage convert ; And with his sword in furious sort , He pierc'd her tender heart . A grave , a grave , Lord Barnet said , Prepare us to lie in ; My Lady shall lie on the upper side , Because she has the better skin . Then suddenly he slew himself , Which griev'd his friends full soar ; The death of these three lovely Wights , With tears they did deplore . This sad mischief by lust was wrought , Then let us call for Grace : That we may shun such wicked deeds , And fly from since apace . Printed and Sold in Aldermary Church-Yard Bow Lane , London . 