The LIFE and DEATH of Sir Hugh-in-the-Grime . AS it fell out upon one time , About Midsummer of the Year ; Every Man was tax'd of his Crime , For stealing the good Lord Bishop's Mare . The good Lord S [ c ] rew saddled a Horse , And after the same Scrime , Before he could get over the Moss , There was he aware of Sir Hugh-in-the-Grime . Turn , Oh turn , thou false Traitor , Turn and yield thy self unto me ; Thou hast stolen the Lord Bishop's Mare , And now thou thinkest away to flee . No , soft Lord Screw , that may not be , Here is a broad Sword by my Side , And if that thou can'st Conquer me , The Victory will soon be try'd . I ne'er was afraid of a Traitor bold , Altho' my Name be Hugh in the Grime , I'll make thee repent thy Speeches foul , If Day and Life but give me Time . Then do thy worst good Lord Screw , And deal your blows as fast as you can , It will be tried between me and you , Which of us Two shall be the best Man. Thus they dealt their Blows so free , And both so bloody at that time , Over the Moss ten Yeomen they see Come for to take Sir Hugh-in the-Grime . Sir Hugh set his Back against a Tree , And then the Men compassed him round , His much Sword from his Hand did flee , And then they brought Sir Hugh to the Ground . Sir Hugh-in-the-Grime now taken is , And brought back to Garland Town , Then cry'd the good Wives all in Garland Town , Sir Hugh-in-the Grime thou'st ne'er gang down . The good Lord Bishop is come to Town , And on the Bench is set so high , And every Man was tax'd to his Crime , At length he call'd to Sir Hugh in-the-Grime . Here am I , thou false Bishop , Thy humours all for to fulfil , I do not think my Fact so great , But thou may'st put it into thy own Will . The Quest of Jurymen was call'd , The best that was in Garland Town ; Eleven of them spoke all in a Breast , Sir Hugh-in-the-Grime thou'st ne'er gang down . Then other Questry-men was call'd , The best that was in Rumary , Twelve of them spoke all in a Breast , Sir Hugh-in-the-Grime thou'st now guilty . Then came down my good Lord Bowls , Falling down upon his Knee ; Five hundred Pieces of Gold will I give , To grant Sir Hugh-in-the-Grime to me . Peace , peace , my good Lord Bowls , And of your Speeches set them by , If there be Eleven Grime's all of a Name , Then by my own Honour they all should die . Then came down my good Lady Ward , Falling low upon her Knee , Five hundred Measures of Gold I'll give , To grant Sir Hugh-in-the-Grime to me . Peace , peace , my good Lady Ward , None of your Proffers shall him buy , For if there be twelve Grime's all of a Name , By my own Honour they all should die . Sir Hugh in-the-Grime's Condemn'd to die , And of his Friends he had no lack , Fourteen Foot he leapt in his Ward , With his Hands bound fast upon his Back . Then he look'd over his left Shoulder , To see whom he could see or spy , There was he aware of his Father dear , Come tearing his Hair most pitifully . Peace , peace , my Father dear , And of your Speeches set them by , Though they have bereav'd me of my Life , They cannot bereave me of Heaven so high . He look'd over his right Shoulder , To see whom he could see or spy , There was he aware of his Mother dear , Came tearing her Hair most pitifully . Pray have me remember'd to Peggy my Wife , As she and I walk'd over the Moor , She was the Causer of the Loss of my Life , And with the old Bishop she play'd the Whore . Here Johnny Armstrong take thou my Sword That is made of the Metal so fine , And when thou com'st to the Border-side , Remember the Death of Sir Hugh-in-the-Grime . The LIFE and DEATH of Sir Hugh-in-the-Grime . AS it fell out upon one time , About Midsummer of the Year ; Every Man was tax'd of his Crime , For stealing the good Lord Bishop's Mare . The good Lord S [ c ] rew saddled a Horse , And after the same Scrime , Before he could get over the Moss , There was he aware of Sir Hugh-in-the-Grime . Turn , Oh turn , thou false Traitor , Turn and yield thy self unto me ; Thou hast stolen the Lord Bishop's Mare , And now thou thinkest away to flee . No , soft Lord Screw , that may not be , Here is a broad Sword by my Side , And if that thou can'st Conquer me , The Victory will soon be try'd . I ne'er was afraid of a Traitor bold , Altho' my Name be Hugh in the Grime , I'll make thee repent thy Speeches foul , If Day and Life but give me Time . Then do thy worst good Lord Screw , And deal your blows as fast as you can , It will be tried between me and you , Which of us Two shall be the best Man. Thus they dealt their Blows so free , And both so bloody at that time , Over the Moss ten Yeomen they see Come for to take Sir Hugh-in the-Grime . Sir Hugh set his Back against a Tree , And then the Men compassed him round , His much Sword from his Hand did flee , And then they brought Sir Hugh to the Ground . Sir Hugh-in-the-Grime now taken is , And brought back to Garland Town , Then cry'd the good Wives all in Garland Town , Sir Hugh-in-the Grime thou'st ne'er gang down . The good Lord Bishop is come to Town , And on the Bench is set so high , And every Man was tax'd to his Crime , At length he call'd to Sir Hugh in-the-Grime . Here am I , thou false Bishop , Thy humours all for to fulfil , I do not think my Fact so great , But thou may'st put it into thy own Will . The Quest of Jurymen was call'd , The best that was in Garland Town ; Eleven of them spoke all in a Breast , Sir Hugh-in-the-Grime thou'st ne'er gang down . Then other Questry-men was call'd , The best that was in Rumary , Twelve of them spoke all in a Breast , Sir Hugh-in-the-Grime thou'st now guilty . Then came down my good Lord Bowls , Falling down upon his Knee ; Five hundred Pieces of Gold will I give , To grant Sir Hugh-in-the-Grime to me . Peace , peace , my good Lord Bowls , And of your Speeches set them by , If there be Eleven Grime's all of a Name , Then by my own Honour they all should die . Then came down my good Lady Ward , Falling low upon her Knee , Five hundred Measures of Gold I'll give , To grant Sir Hugh-in-the-Grime to me . Peace , peace , my good Lady Ward , None of your Proffers shall him buy , For if there be twelve Grime's all of a Name , By my own Honour they all should die . Sir Hugh in-the-Grime's Condemn'd to die , And of his Friends he had no lack , Fourteen Foot he leapt in his Ward , With his Hands bound fast upon his Back . Then he look'd over his left Shoulder , To see whom he could see or spy , There was he aware of his Father dear , Come tearing his Hair most pitifully . Peace , peace , my Father dear , And of your Speeches set them by , Though they have bereav'd me of my Life , They cannot bereave me of Heaven so high . He look'd over his right Shoulder , To see whom he could see or spy , There was he aware of his Mother dear , Came tearing her Hair most pitifully . Pray have me remember'd to Peggy my Wife , As she and I walk'd over the Moor , She was the Causer of the Loss of my Life , And with the old Bishop she play'd the Whore . Here Johnny Armstrong take thou my Sword That is made of the Metal so fine , And when thou com'st to the Border-side , Remember the Death of Sir Hugh-in-the-Grime . 