A homely Dialogue betwixt a young woe - man and her sweet - heart . To a pleasant new Tune , Alace poor thing . AS I was walking forth , I chanced for to see A young man , and a maid , but they not knew of me : She being in the merry vein , did chick him under the Chin , And smiling in his face , she cry'd , Alace poor thing . She by his love and compliments , did understand and find . That she might safely let him know , and understand her mind ; Pretending for to stumble , on the ground her self did fling , And said , sweetheart , I fell by chance , Alace , poor thing . This young man standing still a while , ev'n for a little space ; Then finding opportunity , and a convenient place : Underneath his Shadow bowers , close by a pleasant Spring ; Upon the Maid , himself he threw , Alace Poor thing . I could not choose but laugh to see these two so close imploy'd ; This young men was contented , the maid was overjoy'd : Expressing of her love to him . she close did to him cling ; Then smiling in his face , she said , Alace , poor thing , It was not long before this youth was tired with that sport ; And laid him down to rest a while , and drew his breath full shor She turn'd to him , and kissed him , and close to him did cling , Then smiling in his face , she cry'd , Alace , poor thing . She finding him in fainting fitts , then she began to weep ; And with her hands she rub'd his Joints to keep this youth from sleep : Thy weakness , said she to him , does make my veins to sting , Come fie for shame , rouse up thy self , Alace , poor thing . The Soldier that does venture , he ventures in the Field ; Although that first repulse he get , the day he will not yield ; But cast about , and charge again , and take the other fling , I'le do my best to second thee , Alace , poor thing . FINIS . A homely Dialogue betwixt a young woe - man and her sweet - heart . To a pleasant new Tune , Alace poor thing . AS I was walking forth , I chanced for to see A young man , and a maid , but they not knew of me : She being in the merry vein , did chick him under the Chin , And smiling in his face , she cry'd , Alace poor thing . She by his love and compliments , did understand and find . That she might safely let him know , and understand her mind ; Pretending for to stumble , on the ground her self did fling , And said , sweetheart , I fell by chance , Alace , poor thing . This young man standing still a while , ev'n for a little space ; Then finding opportunity , and a convenient place : Underneath his Shadow bowers , close by a pleasant Spring ; Upon the Maid , himself he threw , Alace Poor thing . I could not choose but laugh to see these two so close imploy'd ; This young men was contented , the maid was overjoy'd : Expressing of her love to him . she close did to him cling ; Then smiling in his face , she said , Alace , poor thing , It was not long before this youth was tired with that sport ; And laid him down to rest a while , and drew his breath full shor She turn'd to him , and kissed him , and close to him did cling , Then smiling in his face , she cry'd , Alace , poor thing . She finding him in fainting fitts , then she began to weep ; And with her hands she rub'd his Joints to keep this youth from sleep : Thy weakness , said she to him , does make my veins to sting , Come fie for shame , rouse up thy self , Alace , poor thing . The Soldier that does venture , he ventures in the Field ; Although that first repulse he get , the day he will not yield ; But cast about , and charge again , and take the other fling , I'le do my best to second thee , Alace , poor thing . FINIS . 