A TURN-COAT of the TIMES . Who does by Experience , profess and protect ; That of all professions a Turn-coat's the best . To a pleasant Tune much in request . AS I was a walking through , Hide-Park , as I us'd to do , Some two or thrhe Months ago , I laid me all along , Without any Fear or Wrong , And lisned unto a Song : It came from a powder'd Thing , As fine as a Lord or a King , He knew not that I Was god so nigh , And thus began to sing . I am a turn coat Knave , Although I do bear it brave , And do not show all I have : I can with Tongue and Pen , Court every sort of Men , And kill 'em fast again : With Zealots I can pray , With Cavileers I can play , With Shopkeepers I Can Cog and lie , And Cozen as fast as they . When first the Wars began , And Prentices led the Van , 'Twas I that did set them on : When they cry'd Bishops down In Country , Court or Town , Quoth I and have at the Crown . The Covenant I did take , For forms and fashions sake : But when it would not Support my Plot , 'Twas like and old Almanac . When Independency Had superiority , I was of the same degree : When keepers did command ; I then had a Holy Land , In Deans and in Chapters Land , But when I began to spy Protectorship so nigh , And keepers were , Thrown o're the Bar , Old Oliver then cry'd I . When Sectories god the Day , I used my Yea and Nay , To flatter them and betray , In Parliament I god , And there a Member sat To tumble down Church and State , For I was a trusty Trout , In all that I went about , And there we did Vow , To fit till now , But Oliver turn'd us out . We put down the House of Peers , We killed the Cavileers , And tippled the Widows Tears : We sequestered Men's Estates , And made 'em pay Monthly rates , To Trumpeters and their Mates ; Rebellion we did Print , And alter'd all the Mint , No Knavery then Was done by Men , But I had a Finger in't . When Charles was put to flight , Then I was at Worster fight , And god a good booty by't , At that most fatal fallen , I kill'd and plunder'd all , The weakest went to the Wall , While my merry Men fell on , To piliaging I was gone There is manr thought I , Dill come by and by , And why should not I be one . We triumph'd like the Turk , We crippled the scottish kirk , That sets us first to work : When Cromwel did but frown , They yielded every Town , St. Andrews Cross went down : But when old Nol did die , And Richard his Son put by , I knew not how To guide my Plough , Where now shall I be ? thought I . I must confess the Rump , Did put me in a Dump , I knew not what wruld be a trump When Dick had lost the Day , My gaming was at a stay , I could not tell what to play ; When Monk was upon that score , I though I would play on more , I did not think what He would be at , I ne'er was so mumpt before . But now I am at Court , With Men of better sort , To purchase a good report ; I have the Eyes and Ears Of many brave noble Peers , And fright the Covileers . Poor Knaves they know not how ; To flatter cringe and bow . For he that is wise And means to rise , He must be a turncoat too A TURN-COAT of the TIMES . Who does by Experience , profess and protect ; That of all professions a Turn-coat's the best . To a pleasant Tune much in request . AS I was a walking through , Hide-Park , as I us'd to do , Some two or thrhe Months ago , I laid me all along , Without any Fear or Wrong , And lisned unto a Song : It came from a powder'd Thing , As fine as a Lord or a King , He knew not that I Was god so nigh , And thus began to sing . I am a turn coat Knave , Although I do bear it brave , And do not show all I have : I can with Tongue and Pen , Court every sort of Men , And kill 'em fast again : With Zealots I can pray , With Cavileers I can play , With Shopkeepers I Can Cog and lie , And Cozen as fast as they . When first the Wars began , And Prentices led the Van , 'Twas I that did set them on : When they cry'd Bishops down In Country , Court or Town , Quoth I and have at the Crown . The Covenant I did take , For forms and fashions sake : But when it would not Support my Plot , 'Twas like and old Almanac . When Independency Had superiority , I was of the same degree : When keepers did command ; I then had a Holy Land , In Deans and in Chapters Land , But when I began to spy Protectorship so nigh , And keepers were , Thrown o're the Bar , Old Oliver then cry'd I . When Sectories god the Day , I used my Yea and Nay , To flatter them and betray , In Parliament I god , And there a Member sat To tumble down Church and State , For I was a trusty Trout , In all that I went about , And there we did Vow , To fit till now , But Oliver turn'd us out . We put down the House of Peers , We killed the Cavileers , And tippled the Widows Tears : We sequestered Men's Estates , And made 'em pay Monthly rates , To Trumpeters and their Mates ; Rebellion we did Print , And alter'd all the Mint , No Knavery then Was done by Men , But I had a Finger in't . When Charles was put to flight , Then I was at Worster fight , And god a good booty by't , At that most fatal fallen , I kill'd and plunder'd all , The weakest went to the Wall , While my merry Men fell on , To piliaging I was gone There is manr thought I , Dill come by and by , And why should not I be one . We triumph'd like the Turk , We crippled the scottish kirk , That sets us first to work : When Cromwel did but frown , They yielded every Town , St. Andrews Cross went down : But when old Nol did die , And Richard his Son put by , I knew not how To guide my Plough , Where now shall I be ? thought I . I must confess the Rump , Did put me in a Dump , I knew not what wruld be a trump When Dick had lost the Day , My gaming was at a stay , I could not tell what to play ; When Monk was upon that score , I though I would play on more , I did not think what He would be at , I ne'er was so mumpt before . But now I am at Court , With Men of better sort , To purchase a good report ; I have the Eyes and Ears Of many brave noble Peers , And fright the Covileers . Poor Knaves they know not how ; To flatter cringe and bow . For he that is wise And means to rise , He must be a turncoat too 