A Pleasant New BALLAD to sing Ev'ning and Morn , Of the Bloody Murder of Sir JOHN BARLEY CORN . To the Tune of , Shall I lie beyond thee . AS I went through the North Country , I herd a Merry meeting , A pleasant Toy , and full of Joy , Two Noble Men were greeting . And as they walked forth to Sport , Upon a Summer's Day ; They met another Noble Man , With whom they had a Fray. His Name was Sir John Barley-Corn , He dwelled down in a Vale , And had a Kinsman dwelled with him , They call'd him Thomas Good-Ale . The one nam Sir Richard Beer , Was ready at that Time , And likewise came a busy Peer , Call'd Sir William White-Wine . Some of them fought in a Black-Jack , Some of them in a Can ; But yet the Chiefest in a Black-Pot , Fought like a Noble Man. Sir Barley-Corn fought in a Bowl , Who wone the Victory ; Which made them all to Chafe and Swear , That Barley-Corn must die . Some said kill him , some said him drown , Some wish'd to hang him high ; For those that follow Barley-Corn , They said would Beggars die . Then with a Blow they Blow'd him up , And thus they did devise , To bury him within the Earth , And swore he should not rise . With Harrows long they came to him , And burst Clods on his Head ; A joyful Banquet then was made , When Barley-Corn was dead . He rested still within the Earth , 'Till Rain from Sky did fallen ; Then he grew up on Branches green , Which soar amaz'd them all . Increasing thus 'till Midsummer , He made them all afraid ; For he sprung up on high , And had a goodly Beard . When ripening at St. James's Tide , His Countenance waxed wan , Yet now full grown in Part of Strength , And thus became a Man. Wherefore with Hooks and Sickles keen , Unto the Field they hy'd , They cut his Legs off by the Knees , And Limb from Limb divide . Then bloodily they cut him down , From Place where he did stand , And like a Thief for Treachery , They bound him in a Band . So then they took him up again , According to his kind , And plac'd him up in several Stacks , To wither with the Wind. Then with a Pitchfork sharp and long , They rend him to the Heart , And Traitor like , for Treason vile , They bound him in a Cart. And tending him with Weapons strong , Unto the Town they high , Whereas they mow'd him in a Mow , And so they let him lie . They left him groaning by the Walls , 'Till all his Bones were soar , And having took him up again , They cast him on the Floor . And hired two with Holly Clubs To beatrice on him at once ; Who thwack'd so hard on Barley-Corn , The Flesh fell from his Bones . Then after took him up again , To please some Women's Mind , Yea , dusted , fann'd , and sifted him , 'Till he was almost blind . Full fast they knit him in a Sack , Which griev'd him very soar , And soundly steep'd him in a Fat , For three Days space and more . From whence again they took him out , And laid him forth to dry ; Then cast him on the Chamber-Floor , And swore that he should die . They rub'd and stir'd him up and down , And oft did toil and ture , The Maltman likewise vows his Death , His Body should be sure . They pull'd and haul'd him up in Spite ; And threw him on a Kiln , Yea , dry'd him o'er a Fire hight , The more to work their Will . Then to the Mill they forc'd him straight , Whereas they bruis'd his Bones , The Miller swore to Murder him Betwixt a Pair of Stones . The last Time they took him up , They serv'd him worse than that , For with hight scalding Liquour store , They wash'd him in a Fat . But not content with this , I wot , They wrought him so much Harm , With cruel threat they promise next , To beatrice him to a Barm . And lying in this Danger deep , For fear that he should Quarrel , They heav'd him straight out of the Fat , And turn'd him into the Barrel . They goar'd and broach'd it with a Tap , So thus his Death began , And drew out every Drop of Blood , While any Drop would run . Some brought in Jacks upon their Backs , Some brought in Bowls and Pails ; Yea , every Man some Weapon had , Poor Barley-Corn to kill . When Sir John Good-Ale herd of this , He came with much might , And took by Strength their Tongues away , Their Legs , and eke their Sighed . Sir John at last in this respect , So paid them all their hire , That some lay bleeding by the Walls , Some tumbling in the Mire . Some lay groaning by the Walls , Some fell i'th' Street down right ; The wisest of them scarcely knew What he had done o'er Night . All you good Wives that brew good Ale , Heav'n keep you from since , But if you put too much Water in , The De'il put out your Eyes . The End of the First PART . A Pleasant New BALLAD to sing Ev'ning and Morn , Of the Bloody Murder of Sir JOHN BARLEY CORN . To the Tune of , Shall I lie beyond thee . AS I went through the North Country , I herd a Merry meeting , A pleasant Toy , and full of Joy , Two Noble Men were greeting . And as they walked forth to Sport , Upon a Summer's Day ; They met another Noble Man , With whom they had a Fray. His Name was Sir John Barley-Corn , He dwelled down in a Vale , And had a Kinsman dwelled with him , They call'd him Thomas Good-Ale . The one nam Sir Richard Beer , Was ready at that Time , And likewise came a busy Peer , Call'd Sir William White-Wine . Some of them fought in a Black-Jack , Some of them in a Can ; But yet the Chiefest in a Black-Pot , Fought like a Noble Man. Sir Barley-Corn fought in a Bowl , Who wone the Victory ; Which made them all to Chafe and Swear , That Barley-Corn must die . Some said kill him , some said him drown , Some wish'd to hang him high ; For those that follow Barley-Corn , They said would Beggars die . Then with a Blow they Blow'd him up , And thus they did devise , To bury him within the Earth , And swore he should not rise . With Harrows long they came to him , And burst Clods on his Head ; A joyful Banquet then was made , When Barley-Corn was dead . He rested still within the Earth , 'Till Rain from Sky did fallen ; Then he grew up on Branches green , Which soar amaz'd them all . Increasing thus 'till Midsummer , He made them all afraid ; For he sprung up on high , And had a goodly Beard . When ripening at St. James's Tide , His Countenance waxed wan , Yet now full grown in Part of Strength , And thus became a Man. Wherefore with Hooks and Sickles keen , Unto the Field they hy'd , They cut his Legs off by the Knees , And Limb from Limb divide . Then bloodily they cut him down , From Place where he did stand , And like a Thief for Treachery , They bound him in a Band . So then they took him up again , According to his kind , And plac'd him up in several Stacks , To wither with the Wind. Then with a Pitchfork sharp and long , They rend him to the Heart , And Traitor like , for Treason vile , They bound him in a Cart. And tending him with Weapons strong , Unto the Town they high , Whereas they mow'd him in a Mow , And so they let him lie . They left him groaning by the Walls , 'Till all his Bones were soar , And having took him up again , They cast him on the Floor . And hired two with Holly Clubs To beatrice on him at once ; Who thwack'd so hard on Barley-Corn , The Flesh fell from his Bones . Then after took him up again , To please some Women's Mind , Yea , dusted , fann'd , and sifted him , 'Till he was almost blind . Full fast they knit him in a Sack , Which griev'd him very soar , And soundly steep'd him in a Fat , For three Days space and more . From whence again they took him out , And laid him forth to dry ; Then cast him on the Chamber-Floor , And swore that he should die . They rub'd and stir'd him up and down , And oft did toil and ture , The Maltman likewise vows his Death , His Body should be sure . They pull'd and haul'd him up in Spite ; And threw him on a Kiln , Yea , dry'd him o'er a Fire hight , The more to work their Will . Then to the Mill they forc'd him straight , Whereas they bruis'd his Bones , The Miller swore to Murder him Betwixt a Pair of Stones . The last Time they took him up , They serv'd him worse than that , For with hight scalding Liquour store , They wash'd him in a Fat . But not content with this , I wot , They wrought him so much Harm , With cruel threat they promise next , To beatrice him to a Barm . And lying in this Danger deep , For fear that he should Quarrel , They heav'd him straight out of the Fat , And turn'd him into the Barrel . They goar'd and broach'd it with a Tap , So thus his Death began , And drew out every Drop of Blood , While any Drop would run . Some brought in Jacks upon their Backs , Some brought in Bowls and Pails ; Yea , every Man some Weapon had , Poor Barley-Corn to kill . When Sir John Good-Ale herd of this , He came with much might , And took by Strength their Tongues away , Their Legs , and eke their Sighed . Sir John at last in this respect , So paid them all their hire , That some lay bleeding by the Walls , Some tumbling in the Mire . Some lay groaning by the Walls , Some fell i'th' Street down right ; The wisest of them scarcely knew What he had done o'er Night . All you good Wives that brew good Ale , Heav'n keep you from since , But if you put too much Water in , The De'il put out your Eyes . The End of the First PART . 