King Henry V. his Conquest of France , In Revenge for the Affront offered by the French King ; In sending Him ( instead of the Tribute ) a Tun of TENNIS-BALLS . AS our King lay musing on his bed , He bethought himself upon a time , Of a tribute that was due from France , Had not been paid for so long a time . Fal , lal , etc He called for his lovely page , His lovely page then called he ; Saying , You must go to the King of France , To the King of France , sir , ride speedily . O then went away this lovely page , This lovely page then away went he ; Low he came to the King of France , And when fell down on his bent knee . My master greets you , worthy sir , Ten tun of Gold that is due to he , That you will send him his tribute home , Or in French land you soon will him see . Fal , lal , etc Your master's young and of tender years , Not fit to come into my degree : And I will send him three Tennis-Balls , That with them he may learn to play . O then returned this lovely page , This lovely page then returned he , And when he came to our gracious King , Low he fell down on his bent knee . [ ? ] What is the news you have brought to me I have brought such news from the King of France , That he and you will ne'er agree . He says , You're young and of tender years , Not fit to come into his degree ; And he will send you three Tennis-Balls , That with them you may learn to play . Recruit me Cheshire and Lancashire , And Derby Hills that are so free : No marry'd man or widow's son , For no widow's curse shall go with me . They recruited Cheshire and Lancashire , And Derby Hills that are so free : No marry'd man , not no widow's son , Yet there was a jovial bold company . O then we march'd into the French land , With drums and trumpets so merrily ; And then bespoke the King of France . Lo yonder comes proud King Henry . The first shot that the Frenchmen gave , They kill'd our Englishmen so free . We kill'd ten thousand of the French , And the rest of them they run away . And then we marched to Paris gates , With drums and trumpets so merrily , Oh then bespoke the King of France , The Lord have mercy on my men and me Oh I will send him his tribute home , Ten tun of Gold that is due to he , And the finest flower that is in all France , To the Rose of England I will give free . Printed and Sold in Aldermary Church Yard , Bow Lane , London . st King Henry V. his Conquest of France , In Revenge for the Affront offered by the French King ; In sending Him ( instead of the Tribute ) a Tun of TENNIS-BALLS . AS our King lay musing on his bed , He bethought himself upon a time , Of a tribute that was due from France , Had not been paid for so long a time . Fal , lal , etc He called for his lovely page , His lovely page then called he ; Saying , You must go to the King of France , To the King of France , sir , ride speedily . O then went away this lovely page , This lovely page then away went he ; Low he came to the King of France , And when fell down on his bent knee . My master greets you , worthy sir , Ten tun of Gold that is due to he , That you will send him his tribute home , Or in French land you soon will him see . Fal , lal , etc Your master's young and of tender years , Not fit to come into my degree : And I will send him three Tennis-Balls , That with them he may learn to play . O then returned this lovely page , This lovely page then returned he , And when he came to our gracious King , Low he fell down on his bent knee . [ ? ] What is the news you have brought to me I have brought such news from the King of France , That he and you will ne'er agree . He says , You're young and of tender years , Not fit to come into his degree ; And he will send you three Tennis-Balls , That with them you may learn to play . Recruit me Cheshire and Lancashire , And Derby Hills that are so free : No marry'd man or widow's son , For no widow's curse shall go with me . They recruited Cheshire and Lancashire , And Derby Hills that are so free : No marry'd man , not no widow's son , Yet there was a jovial bold company . O then we march'd into the French land , With drums and trumpets so merrily ; And then bespoke the King of France . Lo yonder comes proud King Henry . The first shot that the Frenchmen gave , They kill'd our Englishmen so free . We kill'd ten thousand of the French , And the rest of them they run away . And then we marched to Paris gates , With drums and trumpets so merrily , Oh then bespoke the King of France , The Lord have mercy on my men and me Oh I will send him his tribute home , Ten tun of Gold that is due to he , And the finest flower that is in all France , To the Rose of England I will give free . Printed and Sold in Aldermary Church Yard , Bow Lane , London . st 