The LOYAL BRITISH Fighting in FLANDERS : Or , A New SONG , made by a Protestant Centinel of the British Forces . To and excellent new Tune much in Request . AS I was at a merry Meeting , being in a merry vein ; Where I herd a Soldier singing , true blue will never stain . I have been in France and Flanders , where I've seen great numbers slave ; Colonels , Captains , chief Commanders , true blue will never stain . Last Summer it was dirty weather , we march'd through Corn with all our train , We march'd , and fought two days together , true blood will never stain . We at Walcot had a Battle , for five hours it did remain ; The British made their Guns to rattle , true blue will never stain . Little else but Smoke and Fire , cou'd we see all round the Plain ; Yet we made the French retire , true blue will never stain . At Charleroy our Cannons roar'd , and our Bullets flew amain : We laid the French-men in their gore , true blue will never stain . Not a Soldier feared dying , though some thousands there lay slave , Shot as thick as Hail was flying , true blue will never stain . At length some of our men was wounded , ay , and other some was slave : This at all we never valu'd , true blue will never stain . Under the Surgeons hand we tarry'd , till our wounds was heal'd again : Brave British hearts were carry'd , true blue will never stain , My Captain was a Prisoner taken , and our Lieutenant Colonel slave , Yet we'd ne'r fight against our Conscience true blue will never stain . He that strikes , he may be stricken , He that fights he may be slave : He that's beaten , is not eaten , true blue will never stain . While we in a Land of Strangers , did in Camp of Field remain ; We were still beset with dangers , true blue will never stain . 'Tis the wars that we delight in , and a Cowards name disdain ; British Boys the best for fighting , true blue will never stain . Let not one despise a Soldier , for he does our Rights maintain , Proving still the Lands upholder , true blue will never stain . Thus we've been all Europe over , Britains honour to maintain , And now we're set ashore at Dover , true blue will never stain . For King William and Queen Marry , If need be , we'l fight again , The mean while Boys , let's be merry , true blue will never stain . FINIS . The LOYAL BRITISH Fighting in FLANDERS : Or , A New SONG , made by a Protestant Centinel of the British Forces . To and excellent new Tune much in Request . AS I was at a merry Meeting , being in a merry vein ; Where I herd a Soldier singing , true blue will never stain . I have been in France and Flanders , where I've seen great numbers slave ; Colonels , Captains , chief Commanders , true blue will never stain . Last Summer it was dirty weather , we march'd through Corn with all our train , We march'd , and fought two days together , true blood will never stain . We at Walcot had a Battle , for five hours it did remain ; The British made their Guns to rattle , true blue will never stain . Little else but Smoke and Fire , cou'd we see all round the Plain ; Yet we made the French retire , true blue will never stain . At Charleroy our Cannons roar'd , and our Bullets flew amain : We laid the French-men in their gore , true blue will never stain . Not a Soldier feared dying , though some thousands there lay slave , Shot as thick as Hail was flying , true blue will never stain . At length some of our men was wounded , ay , and other some was slave : This at all we never valu'd , true blue will never stain . Under the Surgeons hand we tarry'd , till our wounds was heal'd again : Brave British hearts were carry'd , true blue will never stain , My Captain was a Prisoner taken , and our Lieutenant Colonel slave , Yet we'd ne'r fight against our Conscience true blue will never stain . He that strikes , he may be stricken , He that fights he may be slave : He that's beaten , is not eaten , true blue will never stain . While we in a Land of Strangers , did in Camp of Field remain ; We were still beset with dangers , true blue will never stain . 'Tis the wars that we delight in , and a Cowards name disdain ; British Boys the best for fighting , true blue will never stain . Let not one despise a Soldier , for he does our Rights maintain , Proving still the Lands upholder , true blue will never stain . Thus we've been all Europe over , Britains honour to maintain , And now we're set ashore at Dover , true blue will never stain . For King William and Queen Marry , If need be , we'l fight again , The mean while Boys , let's be merry , true blue will never stain . FINIS . 