And Excellet New BALLAD , Entitled , The Gallant GRAHAMS of SCOTLAND Tune of , I will away , and I will not tarry , etc BETRAYED me how can this be ? When by Daylight upon a Day ; I met Prince Charles our Royal King , And all the Grahams in their Array . They were all dress'd in Armour keen , Upon the pleasant Banks of Tay : Before a King they might be seen , Those gallant Grahams in their Array . I have no Gold , I have no Land , Nor have I Pearl nor precious Stones ; But I would fell my silken Snood , To see these Grahams but well come home To speak of these Grahams , I think it best , They're Men among good Company ; Into the Lands where we did walk , They're Lords into the South Country . They won the Praise in Wallace's Days , For the Summer Flowers did never spring ; But the gallant Graham's in Armour clear Did then appear before the King . At the Goukhead we set our Camp , Our Rigour down there for to stay , Upon a dainty Summer's Day , We road our white Horse and our Gray . For they were then in Armour seen , As Gold shines on a Summer's Day , The gallant Grahams were assembled there , Before King Charles , his Majesty . I'll crown them Night , I'll crown them Day . And above great Lords of high Degree , For all the Lords that I have seen . The Grahams are the bravest Company . As I came by the Bunche's Park , I herd my true Love's Sister's Son ; We loos'd our Cannon on every Side , Even for the Honour of our King . Our false Commander has betray'd our King And sold him to his Enemy , By a Nobleman , to Cromwel then , So I care not what they do with me . For he strives to subdue the Land , And over England to be King , Fair Scotland by him to be govern'd , And over the Nations for to reign . They have betray'd our Noble Prince , And banished him from his Royal Crown ; But the gallant Grahams have ta'en in Hand , For to command that Traitor Lown . Now Dalgitie was stout and bold , Courageous in high Degree ; At the Cavaliers they were all sold , And young Harthil , a Cavalier too . Nathaniel Gordon , both stout and keen , Newton Gordon , Burd alone ; Upon the Green he might be seen ; For a bolder Face was never known . A Braver Man was never seen , Neither in Kent or Christendom : To fight now for his Royal King , Lord give his Enemies their Doom . At Bogle baugh , where we did advance , Our Parliament there for to stay , But our Nobles they were banish'd off , At Goln-Yle where we advance . Glemproson , where we randezvous'd To Glenshie we march'd both night and Day , And of Bredainlie we took the Town , And met the Campbelis in their Deray . Ten Thousand Men in Armour strong , Did meet the gallant Grahams to play , At Inverlochie where they began , And about two thousand Men were they . And tho' their Number did far exceed , The gallant Grahams upon that Day , Yet their Hearts were true , they did not fear , To meet the Campbells in their Deray . For the Gordons then did give a while , To face the Campbells upon that Day ; Who from their Friends fell far aback , Unto their Enemies for ever and ay . Gallant Montrose , then that Chiefton bold , Courageous in high Degree : Did for the King fight valiantly , The Lord preserve his Majesty . Now fare you well , you Innerdale . , Lord Keeth , and Kindred I bid adieu ; And I shall away and I shall not stay , To some uncouth Land that I never knew . To wear the Blue I think it best , By any Colonel that I see ; her up your Hearts , brave Cavaliers , For the the Grahams are gone to Germany . To France and Flanders , where they advanc'd , And Germany , who gave Fame : For my Lord Albion is to the Sea , Young Huntly is his noble Name . He went to France for his Royal King , King Charles then , and above Degree I'll give the Honour to the gallant Grahams , For they are a brave Company . Montrose then our Chieftain bold , To Scotland free is come again ; For to redeem fair Scotland's Land , The pleasant , gallant , worthy Grahams . At the Water of Ensdale they did begin , And fought a Battle to and End ; Where there were kill'd for our Noble King , Two thousand of our Donish Men . Gilbert Menzies , and of high Degree , The King's Baron bold was born , For a brave Cavalier was he , But now into Glory he's gone . The King's Banner in Hand he boar , For he was a brave valiant Man ; Betrayed was he a Night before , By Colonel Hacket and Strachen then . To the Colonel Hacket now , And Strachen ill Death may thou die , For you have betray'd our gallant Grahams Who were true to his Majesty . The Laird of Ashen has catch'd Montrose And had him into Edinburgh Town ; And from his Body ta'en his Head , And quarter'd him upon a Throne . Now Huntley's gone that same Way , Prince Charles also our Royal King , Hath suffer'd Death for our Nation , Our mourning Tears can ne'er be done . Our gallant young King is now come Home , Prince Charles the Second , and above Degree The Lord send Peace in his Time And God preserve his Majesty . Now fare you well you Innerdale , Kith and Kin that you may well ken ; For I will fell my silken Snood , To the gallant Grahams came Home . Since Wallace's Days that we began , Sir John the Graham did bear the Green ; For the Honour of our Royal King , The Lord preserve his Majesty . For all the Lords in fair Scotland , From the highest to the lowest Degree The noble Grahams are to be prais'd , So God preserve Charles his Majesty . And Excellet New BALLAD , Entitled , The Gallant GRAHAMS of SCOTLAND Tune of , I will away , and I will not tarry , etc BETRAYED me how can this be ? When by Daylight upon a Day ; I met Prince Charles our Royal King , And all the Grahams in their Array . They were all dress'd in Armour keen , Upon the pleasant Banks of Tay : Before a King they might be seen , Those gallant Grahams in their Array . I have no Gold , I have no Land , Nor have I Pearl nor precious Stones ; But I would fell my silken Snood , To see these Grahams but well come home To speak of these Grahams , I think it best , They're Men among good Company ; Into the Lands where we did walk , They're Lords into the South Country . They won the Praise in Wallace's Days , For the Summer Flowers did never spring ; But the gallant Graham's in Armour clear Did then appear before the King . At the Goukhead we set our Camp , Our Rigour down there for to stay , Upon a dainty Summer's Day , We road our white Horse and our Gray . For they were then in Armour seen , As Gold shines on a Summer's Day , The gallant Grahams were assembled there , Before King Charles , his Majesty . I'll crown them Night , I'll crown them Day . And above great Lords of high Degree , For all the Lords that I have seen . The Grahams are the bravest Company . As I came by the Bunche's Park , I herd my true Love's Sister's Son ; We loos'd our Cannon on every Side , Even for the Honour of our King . Our false Commander has betray'd our King And sold him to his Enemy , By a Nobleman , to Cromwel then , So I care not what they do with me . For he strives to subdue the Land , And over England to be King , Fair Scotland by him to be govern'd , And over the Nations for to reign . They have betray'd our Noble Prince , And banished him from his Royal Crown ; But the gallant Grahams have ta'en in Hand , For to command that Traitor Lown . Now Dalgitie was stout and bold , Courageous in high Degree ; At the Cavaliers they were all sold , And young Harthil , a Cavalier too . Nathaniel Gordon , both stout and keen , Newton Gordon , Burd alone ; Upon the Green he might be seen ; For a bolder Face was never known . A Braver Man was never seen , Neither in Kent or Christendom : To fight now for his Royal King , Lord give his Enemies their Doom . At Bogle baugh , where we did advance , Our Parliament there for to stay , But our Nobles they were banish'd off , At Goln-Yle where we advance . Glemproson , where we randezvous'd To Glenshie we march'd both night and Day , And of Bredainlie we took the Town , And met the Campbelis in their Deray . Ten Thousand Men in Armour strong , Did meet the gallant Grahams to play , At Inverlochie where they began , And about two thousand Men were they . And tho' their Number did far exceed , The gallant Grahams upon that Day , Yet their Hearts were true , they did not fear , To meet the Campbells in their Deray . For the Gordons then did give a while , To face the Campbells upon that Day ; Who from their Friends fell far aback , Unto their Enemies for ever and ay . Gallant Montrose , then that Chiefton bold , Courageous in high Degree : Did for the King fight valiantly , The Lord preserve his Majesty . Now fare you well , you Innerdale . , Lord Keeth , and Kindred I bid adieu ; And I shall away and I shall not stay , To some uncouth Land that I never knew . To wear the Blue I think it best , By any Colonel that I see ; her up your Hearts , brave Cavaliers , For the the Grahams are gone to Germany . To France and Flanders , where they advanc'd , And Germany , who gave Fame : For my Lord Albion is to the Sea , Young Huntly is his noble Name . He went to France for his Royal King , King Charles then , and above Degree I'll give the Honour to the gallant Grahams , For they are a brave Company . Montrose then our Chieftain bold , To Scotland free is come again ; For to redeem fair Scotland's Land , The pleasant , gallant , worthy Grahams . At the Water of Ensdale they did begin , And fought a Battle to and End ; Where there were kill'd for our Noble King , Two thousand of our Donish Men . Gilbert Menzies , and of high Degree , The King's Baron bold was born , For a brave Cavalier was he , But now into Glory he's gone . The King's Banner in Hand he boar , For he was a brave valiant Man ; Betrayed was he a Night before , By Colonel Hacket and Strachen then . To the Colonel Hacket now , And Strachen ill Death may thou die , For you have betray'd our gallant Grahams Who were true to his Majesty . The Laird of Ashen has catch'd Montrose And had him into Edinburgh Town ; And from his Body ta'en his Head , And quarter'd him upon a Throne . Now Huntley's gone that same Way , Prince Charles also our Royal King , Hath suffer'd Death for our Nation , Our mourning Tears can ne'er be done . Our gallant young King is now come Home , Prince Charles the Second , and above Degree The Lord send Peace in his Time And God preserve his Majesty . Now fare you well you Innerdale , Kith and Kin that you may well ken ; For I will fell my silken Snood , To the gallant Grahams came Home . Since Wallace's Days that we began , Sir John the Graham did bear the Green ; For the Honour of our Royal King , The Lord preserve his Majesty . For all the Lords in fair Scotland , From the highest to the lowest Degree The noble Grahams are to be prais'd , So God preserve Charles his Majesty . 