MAUDLIN , The Merchant's Daughter of Bristol . There is one Passage in this Song much carp'd at , and that is the Time Maudlin's Lover lay under Condemnation , but you may remark that People lie many Years in the Inquisition Prisons . But there is another Objection I cannot so readily answer which is the Mercy shown by the Judges , since we have not another Instance extant . BEhold the Touchstone of true Love . Maudlin , the Merchant's Daughter of Bri-stol Town . Whose firm Affections nought could move , Her Favour bears the lovely Brown . A gallant Youth was dwelling by , Who long had born this Maid Goodwill . She loved him most faithfully , But all her Friends withstood it still . The young Man now perceiving well , He could not get the Favour of her Friends . His Force of Sorrow to expel . And to view strange Countries he intends , And no [ w ] to take his last Farewell , Of his true Love , and constant Maudlin . With Music sweet that did excel . He play'd under her Window then . Farewell , quoth he , my own true Love , Farewell the chiefest Delight of my Heart . Thro' Fortune's spite that false did prove . I am forced from thee to part . Into the Land of fair Italy here will I weary out my Life in Woe . Seeing my true Love is kept from me , I hold my Love a Mortal Foe . Fair Bristol Town therefore adieu . For Padua shall be my Habitation now . Altho' my Love does rest in thee , Unto whom alone my Heart I vow . With trickling tears thus he did sing , Sighs and Sobs coming from his heart full soar . He said when he his hands did wring , Farewell sweet Love for evermore . Fair Maudlin from a Window high Saw her true Love where he lamenting stood , But not a Word did she reply . Fearing her Parents angry Mood . In tears she spent that woeful Night Wishing herself tho' naked with her Friend . She blames her Friends and Fortune's spite . That wrought her Love such luckless End. And in her Heart she made a Vow To forsake her Country and Kindred all . And for to follow her own true Love , To abide all Chance that might befall . The Night is gone , and the Day is come . And in the Morning early did she arise . She gets down in the lower Room , Where sundry Seamen she espies . A gallant Master among them all , The Master of a goodly Ship was he , Who were then waiting in the Hall , To speak with her Father if it might be . She kindly takes him by the Hand . Good Sir , would you speak with any here ? Quoth he , fair Maid , for that I stand . Then gentle Sir I pray draw near . Into a pleasant Parlour by , Hand-in-hand she brings the Seaman along . Sighing to him most piteously , She thus to him did make her Moan . She falls upon her bent Knee , Good Sir , said she , pity a Woman's Moan . And prove a faithful Friend to me , That I to you my Grief may show . Sir you repose your trust , he said . In me unknown and eke a Stranger here . Be you assured , most proper Maid , Most faithful still I will appear . I have a Brother then quoth she , Whom as my Life I love most tenderly In Padua alas ! is he , full sick God-wot and like to die . Full fain I would my Brother see , But my Father will not let me go , Therefore good Sir be kind to me . And unto me this Favour show , Some Ship-Boy's Garments bring to me , That I disguis'd may go unknown . And unto Sea I'll go with thee . If thus much Favour might be shown . Fair Maid , quoth he , take here my Hand . I will fulfil each thing that you desire . And see you safe in that same Land. And in the Place that you require . She gave to him a tender Kiss , And said your Servant I will be : And prove your faithful Friend for this , Sweet Master then forget not me . This done , as they had both agreed , Soon after that by Break of Day . He brings her Garments then with speed , Therein herself she did array . And e'er her Father did arise . She meets her Master walking in the Hall . She did attend on him likewise , Until her Father did him call . But here the Merchant made and End Of these his weighty Matters all . His Wife came weeping in with speed , Crying our Daughter's gone away . The Father then amaz'd in Mind , Yonder vile Rogue entic'd my Child away , But I well wot I shall him find , In Italy , in Padua With that bespoke the Master brave . Worshipful Merchant thither goes this Youth And any thing that you will crave , He will perform , and write the truth . Sweet Youth , quoth he , if it be so , Bear me a Letter to the English there . And Gold on thee I will bestow , My Daughter's Welfare I do fear . Her Mother took her by the hand , Fair Youth if thou dost my Daughter see . Let me soon thereof understand , And there is twenty Crowns for thee . Thus thro' the Daughter's strange Disguise . Her Mother knew not when she spoke to her . So after the Master strait she hies , Taking her Leave with Countenance mild . Thus to the Sea sweet Maudlin is gone , With her Master God send a fair Wind. Where we awhile must leave them alone , Till you the second Part do find . PART II WElcome sweet Maudlin , from the Seas , Where bitter storms and tempests rise . The pleasant Banks of Italy . You may behold with Mortal Eye . Thanks gentle Master then said she , A faithful Friend in Sorrow thou hast been . If Fortune once does smile on me , My Gratitude shall soon be seen . Bless'd be the Land that feeds my Love , Bless'd be the Place where he does abide . No Trial I will stick to prove , Whereby my true Love may be try'd . Now I will walk with a joyful Heart , To view the Town whereat he does remain . And seek him out in e [ v ] ery Part , Until his Sighed I do obtain . And I quoth he will not forsake Sweet Maudlin in her troubles up and down , In Wealth or Woe thy Part I'll take , And bring thee safe to Padua Town . And after many weary Steps , In Padua they arriv'd at last . For very Joy her Heart did leap , Forgetting all the Sorrows past . Condemn'd he was to die , alas ! Except he would his Religion turn . But rather than he would go to Mass , In fiery Flames he vow'd to burn . Now does sweet Maudlin weep and wail . Her Joy is turn'd to Grief and Care . For nothing could her Plaints relieve , Since Death alone must be her Share . She walks under the Prison-walls , Where her Love languish'd in Distress . Then woefully for Bred he calls , When hunger did his heart oppress He sighs and sobs and makes great Moan , Farewell Sweetheart for evermore . And all my Friends that have me known , In Bristol Town with wealth and store . But most of all , farewell said he , My own sweet Maudlin whom I left behind , For never more thou wilt me see , Woe to thy Father most unkind , How well should I be if you was here , With thy fair Hands to close my Eyes , My torments easy would appear My Soul with Joy would scale the Skies . When Maudlin herd her Lover's Moan , Her Eyes with tears soon filled was To speak with him no Means were found , Such grievous Doom on him did pass . Then she put off her Lad's Attire , Her Maiden's Weeds upon her seemly sat . At the Judge's House she did inquire . And there she did a Service get . She did her Duty there so well , And so well she did behave . With her in Love her Master fell , His Servants Favour he does crave . Maudlin , quoth he , my Heart's Delight , To whom my Heart is so inclin'd . Breed not my Death thro' thy Despite , A faithful Friend thou shalt me find Grant me thy Love , fair Maid , quoth he , And then desire what thou canst desire . And I will grant it unto thee , Whereby thy Credit may arise . I have a Brother Sir said she , For his Religion is condemn'd to die , In loathsome Prison he is cast . Oppress'd with Grief and Misery . Grant me my Brother's Life she said , And unto you I will my Liking give . That may not be , fair Maid he said , Except he turn he surely cannot live . And English Friar there is she said , Of Learning great , and passing pure of Life . Let him to my Brother be sent , And he will finish soon the Strife , Her Master granted her Request , The Mariner in Friar's Weeds she did array , And to her Love that lay distressed , She soon a Letter did convey . When he had read these gentle Lines , His Heart was ravished with pleasant Joys , Where now she is full well he knew The Friar likewise was not coy . But did declare to him at large , The Enterprise his Love had taken in Hand . The Youngman did the Friar charge , His Love should strait depart that Land. Here is no Place for her he said , B MAUDLIN , The Merchant's Daughter of Bristol . There is one Passage in this Song much carp'd at , and that is the Time Maudlin's Lover lay under Condemnation , but you may remark that People lie many Years in the Inquisition Prisons . But there is another Objection I cannot so readily answer which is the Mercy shown by the Judges , since we have not another Instance extant . BEhold the Touchstone of true Love . Maudlin , the Merchant's Daughter of Bri-stol Town . Whose firm Affections nought could move , Her Favour bears the lovely Brown . A gallant Youth was dwelling by , Who long had born this Maid Goodwill . She loved him most faithfully , But all her Friends withstood it still . The young Man now perceiving well , He could not get the Favour of her Friends . His Force of Sorrow to expel . And to view strange Countries he intends , And no [ w ] to take his last Farewell , Of his true Love , and constant Maudlin . With Music sweet that did excel . He play'd under her Window then . Farewell , quoth he , my own true Love , Farewell the chiefest Delight of my Heart . Thro' Fortune's spite that false did prove . I am forced from thee to part . Into the Land of fair Italy here will I weary out my Life in Woe . Seeing my true Love is kept from me , I hold my Love a Mortal Foe . Fair Bristol Town therefore adieu . For Padua shall be my Habitation now . Altho' my Love does rest in thee , Unto whom alone my Heart I vow . With trickling tears thus he did sing , Sighs and Sobs coming from his heart full soar . He said when he his hands did wring , Farewell sweet Love for evermore . Fair Maudlin from a Window high Saw her true Love where he lamenting stood , But not a Word did she reply . Fearing her Parents angry Mood . In tears she spent that woeful Night Wishing herself tho' naked with her Friend . She blames her Friends and Fortune's spite . That wrought her Love such luckless End. And in her Heart she made a Vow To forsake her Country and Kindred all . And for to follow her own true Love , To abide all Chance that might befall . The Night is gone , and the Day is come . And in the Morning early did she arise . She gets down in the lower Room , Where sundry Seamen she espies . A gallant Master among them all , The Master of a goodly Ship was he , Who were then waiting in the Hall , To speak with her Father if it might be . She kindly takes him by the Hand . Good Sir , would you speak with any here ? Quoth he , fair Maid , for that I stand . Then gentle Sir I pray draw near . Into a pleasant Parlour by , Hand-in-hand she brings the Seaman along . Sighing to him most piteously , She thus to him did make her Moan . She falls upon her bent Knee , Good Sir , said she , pity a Woman's Moan . And prove a faithful Friend to me , That I to you my Grief may show . Sir you repose your trust , he said . In me unknown and eke a Stranger here . Be you assured , most proper Maid , Most faithful still I will appear . I have a Brother then quoth she , Whom as my Life I love most tenderly In Padua alas ! is he , full sick God-wot and like to die . Full fain I would my Brother see , But my Father will not let me go , Therefore good Sir be kind to me . And unto me this Favour show , Some Ship-Boy's Garments bring to me , That I disguis'd may go unknown . And unto Sea I'll go with thee . If thus much Favour might be shown . Fair Maid , quoth he , take here my Hand . I will fulfil each thing that you desire . And see you safe in that same Land. And in the Place that you require . She gave to him a tender Kiss , And said your Servant I will be : And prove your faithful Friend for this , Sweet Master then forget not me . This done , as they had both agreed , Soon after that by Break of Day . He brings her Garments then with speed , Therein herself she did array . And e'er her Father did arise . She meets her Master walking in the Hall . She did attend on him likewise , Until her Father did him call . But here the Merchant made and End Of these his weighty Matters all . His Wife came weeping in with speed , Crying our Daughter's gone away . The Father then amaz'd in Mind , Yonder vile Rogue entic'd my Child away , But I well wot I shall him find , In Italy , in Padua With that bespoke the Master brave . Worshipful Merchant thither goes this Youth And any thing that you will crave , He will perform , and write the truth . Sweet Youth , quoth he , if it be so , Bear me a Letter to the English there . And Gold on thee I will bestow , My Daughter's Welfare I do fear . Her Mother took her by the hand , Fair Youth if thou dost my Daughter see . Let me soon thereof understand , And there is twenty Crowns for thee . Thus thro' the Daughter's strange Disguise . Her Mother knew not when she spoke to her . So after the Master strait she hies , Taking her Leave with Countenance mild . Thus to the Sea sweet Maudlin is gone , With her Master God send a fair Wind. Where we awhile must leave them alone , Till you the second Part do find . PART II WElcome sweet Maudlin , from the Seas , Where bitter storms and tempests rise . The pleasant Banks of Italy . You may behold with Mortal Eye . Thanks gentle Master then said she , A faithful Friend in Sorrow thou hast been . If Fortune once does smile on me , My Gratitude shall soon be seen . Bless'd be the Land that feeds my Love , Bless'd be the Place where he does abide . No Trial I will stick to prove , Whereby my true Love may be try'd . Now I will walk with a joyful Heart , To view the Town whereat he does remain . And seek him out in e [ v ] ery Part , Until his Sighed I do obtain . And I quoth he will not forsake Sweet Maudlin in her troubles up and down , In Wealth or Woe thy Part I'll take , And bring thee safe to Padua Town . And after many weary Steps , In Padua they arriv'd at last . For very Joy her Heart did leap , Forgetting all the Sorrows past . Condemn'd he was to die , alas ! Except he would his Religion turn . But rather than he would go to Mass , In fiery Flames he vow'd to burn . Now does sweet Maudlin weep and wail . Her Joy is turn'd to Grief and Care . For nothing could her Plaints relieve , Since Death alone must be her Share . She walks under the Prison-walls , Where her Love languish'd in Distress . Then woefully for Bred he calls , When hunger did his heart oppress He sighs and sobs and makes great Moan , Farewell Sweetheart for evermore . And all my Friends that have me known , In Bristol Town with wealth and store . But most of all , farewell said he , My own sweet Maudlin whom I left behind , For never more thou wilt me see , Woe to thy Father most unkind , How well should I be if you was here , With thy fair Hands to close my Eyes , My torments easy would appear My Soul with Joy would scale the Skies . When Maudlin herd her Lover's Moan , Her Eyes with tears soon filled was To speak with him no Means were found , Such grievous Doom on him did pass . Then she put off her Lad's Attire , Her Maiden's Weeds upon her seemly sat . At the Judge's House she did inquire . And there she did a Service get . She did her Duty there so well , And so well she did behave . With her in Love her Master fell , His Servants Favour he does crave . Maudlin , quoth he , my Heart's Delight , To whom my Heart is so inclin'd . Breed not my Death thro' thy Despite , A faithful Friend thou shalt me find Grant me thy Love , fair Maid , quoth he , And then desire what thou canst desire . And I will grant it unto thee , Whereby thy Credit may arise . I have a Brother Sir said she , For his Religion is condemn'd to die , In loathsome Prison he is cast . Oppress'd with Grief and Misery . Grant me my Brother's Life she said , And unto you I will my Liking give . That may not be , fair Maid he said , Except he turn he surely cannot live . And English Friar there is she said , Of Learning great , and passing pure of Life . Let him to my Brother be sent , And he will finish soon the Strife , Her Master granted her Request , The Mariner in Friar's Weeds she did array , And to her Love that lay distressed , She soon a Letter did convey . When he had read these gentle Lines , His Heart was ravished with pleasant Joys , Where now she is full well he knew The Friar likewise was not coy . But did declare to him at large , The Enterprise his Love had taken in Hand . The Youngman did the Friar charge , His Love should strait depart that Land. Here is no Place for her he said , But wiful Death and Danger of her Life . Professing Truth , I was betray'd . And frightful Flames must end the Strife . For e [ ' ] er I will my Faith deny , And swear to follow damned Antichrist . I'll yield my Body for to die . To live in Heaven with the Highest . O Sir , the gentle Friar said , Consent thereto , and quickly end the Strife , A woeful Match quoth he is made , Where Christ is left to gain a Wife . When she had us'd all Means she might , To save his Life , but all would not be , Then of the Judge she claim'd her Right , To die the same Death as well as he . When no Persuasion would prevail . Nor change her Mind in what she said . She was with him condemn'd to die , And for them both one Fire was made . Yea Arm in Arm most joyfully , These Lovers twain unto the Fire did go . The Mariner most faithfully Was likewise Partner of their Woe . But when the Judges understood , The faithful Friendship did in them remain , They sav [ ' ] worser their Lives , and afterwards To England sent them back again : Now was their Sorrow turn'd to Joy , And faithful Lovers had their Hearts Desire . Their Pains they did employ so well , God granted what they did require . And when they did to England come . And in fair Bristol they arriv'd at last . Great Joy there was to One and All , That herd the Dangers they had passed . Her Father was dead , God-wot , Her Mother she was joyful at the Sighed , Their Wishes then she denied not , But wedded them to their Heart [ ' ] s Delight , Her gentle Master she then desired To be her Father and at Church give her then . It was fulfilled as she required Unto the Joy of all good honest Men . ut wiful Death and Danger of her Life . Professing Truth , I was betray'd . And frightful Flames must end the Strife . For e [ ' ] er I will my Faith deny , And swear to follow damned Antichrist . I'll yield my Body for to die . To live in Heaven with the Highest . O Sir , the gentle Friar said , Consent thereto , and quickly end the Strife , A woeful Match quoth he is made , Where Christ is left to gain a Wife . When she had us'd all Means she might , To save his Life , but all would not be , Then of the Judge she claim'd her Right , To die the same Death as well as he . When no Persuasion would prevail . Nor change her Mind in what she said . She was with him condemn'd to die , And for them both one Fire was made . Yea Arm in Arm most joyfully , These Lovers twain unto the Fire did go . The Mariner most faithfully Was likewise Partner of their Woe . But when the Judges understood , The faithful Friendship did in them remain , They sav [ ' ] worser their Lives , and afterwards To England sent them back again : Now was their Sorrow turn'd to Joy , And faithful Lovers had their Hearts Desire . Their Pains they did employ so well , God granted what they did require . And when they did to England come . And in fair Bristol they arriv'd at last . Great Joy there was to One and All , That herd the Dangers they had passed . Her Father was dead , God-wot , Her Mother she was joyful at the Sighed , Their Wishes then she denied not , But wedded them to their Heart [ ' ] s Delight , Her gentle Master she then desired To be her Father and at Church give her then . It was fulfilled as she required Unto the Joy of all good honest Men . 