A New Hunting Song , Made on a FOX Chase . COME all you Foxhunters when ever you be , Repair to the Leven if Sportsmen you'd see Such hounds and such horses of mettle and game ; As are worthy to be recorded in Fame . Sing Ballinamona oro , Ballinamona oro , Ballinamona oro , the Lads of old Cleveland for me . Dexter and Delver and Dido for speed , All sprung from the Raze of Charles Turner's fam'd breed A sportsman so rare , and the first in renown , As witness the match over Feldom he wone . Rover and Rally and Minor likewise , Old Spanker , so fierce the thick Cover he tries . Matcham and Merrylass Reynard's sworn foe ; He must be unkenneld , hark ! I hear Tally O. Now my Lads spur your Horses and smoke 'em away , Jolly Bacchus and Sampson will show you some play , Squire Hall , on his Wakefield that pampered Nag , Comes Neck over heels , and yet of him will brag . Burdon , so proud of his high mettled Steeds , And the Annals of fame record their great deeds , Yet in hunting he's bet soar against his desire , He sticks in the dirt , and he's pass'd by the Squire . George Baker , on Blacklegs how determined his looks , He defies the whole field over hedge , ditch , or brooks He keeps him quite tied and he only desires , A three hours chase I'll be damn'd if he tires . See thumping along goes jolly old Walker , While close at his heels lay the Gisborough Prior , With Powder and sweat , Lord ! how awful he looks , Damn you Matt did you mind how I leap'd yonder brook . Watson , so fierce how he rides and so keen , He thinks he's well mounted and sure to be in , But if he keep running at this gallant pace , 'Tis twenty to one he's thrown out in the Chase . The first in the burst was Scroop on old Match'em , Straining hard to get in Tom swore he would catch 'em , While screwing along see Smith only mind him , He's top'd the barr'd Gate leaving numbers behind him Yonder goes Stockdale so tied and so trim How he strokes down his mare which he fancies so slim He nicks in and out 'till he's starv'd with the cold , Go bid him but thirty and then he'll ride bold . Preston , so brave with his heart full of glee , On his Gaylass well mounted as he'd wish to be , He swears that he'll ride 'till he die in the field , As a true honest Sportsman he never will yield . Coates , on his Tyrant he creeps like a snail , He puffs and he blows , and how he rolls his Tail ; Yet a Sportsman so bold he attempts at a flyer , Old Tyrant leaps short and he's down in the mire . The Baronet cautious is pass'd by his Brother , As like you woul'd swear as one Egg's like another , When fully intending to led the whole field A damn'd Stell held 'em both 'till the Fox he was kill'd . The Doctor , you scarcely know where you have him , For sometime he's dodging and sometime he's dashing , But yet to the Chase will he eagerly rush And loose a good Patient for bold Reynard's brush . Rowntree , a noted old Sporteman as good Who brags of his Greytail that choice bit of Blood , How at Stockesly so clever she wone e'ery Raze . And now that she's equally fam'd for the Chase . Flounders , the younger with Eyelids of Glass , So prim on his Stallion and found of his flash , One single good run finish'd off the gay Quaker , And now he's gone dumb with intent to turn speaker . Now our sport being over let's home wihout fail , And drown those misfortunes in Punch and good Ale ; And if we're thrown out we'll draw close to the fire And drink a good health to the Baronet and Squire . FINIS . A New Hunting Song , Made on a FOX Chase . COME all you Foxhunters when ever you be , Repair to the Leven if Sportsmen you'd see Such hounds and such horses of mettle and game ; As are worthy to be recorded in Fame . Sing Ballinamona oro , Ballinamona oro , Ballinamona oro , the Lads of old Cleveland for me . Dexter and Delver and Dido for speed , All sprung from the Raze of Charles Turner's fam'd breed A sportsman so rare , and the first in renown , As witness the match over Feldom he wone . Rover and Rally and Minor likewise , Old Spanker , so fierce the thick Cover he tries . Matcham and Merrylass Reynard's sworn foe ; He must be unkenneld , hark ! I hear Tally O. Now my Lads spur your Horses and smoke 'em away , Jolly Bacchus and Sampson will show you some play , Squire Hall , on his Wakefield that pampered Nag , Comes Neck over heels , and yet of him will brag . Burdon , so proud of his high mettled Steeds , And the Annals of fame record their great deeds , Yet in hunting he's bet soar against his desire , He sticks in the dirt , and he's pass'd by the Squire . George Baker , on Blacklegs how determined his looks , He defies the whole field over hedge , ditch , or brooks He keeps him quite tied and he only desires , A three hours chase I'll be damn'd if he tires . See thumping along goes jolly old Walker , While close at his heels lay the Gisborough Prior , With Powder and sweat , Lord ! how awful he looks , Damn you Matt did you mind how I leap'd yonder brook . Watson , so fierce how he rides and so keen , He thinks he's well mounted and sure to be in , But if he keep running at this gallant pace , 'Tis twenty to one he's thrown out in the Chase . The first in the burst was Scroop on old Match'em , Straining hard to get in Tom swore he would catch 'em , While screwing along see Smith only mind him , He's top'd the barr'd Gate leaving numbers behind him Yonder goes Stockdale so tied and so trim How he strokes down his mare which he fancies so slim He nicks in and out 'till he's starv'd with the cold , Go bid him but thirty and then he'll ride bold . Preston , so brave with his heart full of glee , On his Gaylass well mounted as he'd wish to be , He swears that he'll ride 'till he die in the field , As a true honest Sportsman he never will yield . Coates , on his Tyrant he creeps like a snail , He puffs and he blows , and how he rolls his Tail ; Yet a Sportsman so bold he attempts at a flyer , Old Tyrant leaps short and he's down in the mire . The Baronet cautious is pass'd by his Brother , As like you woul'd swear as one Egg's like another , When fully intending to led the whole field A damn'd Stell held 'em both 'till the Fox he was kill'd . The Doctor , you scarcely know where you have him , For sometime he's dodging and sometime he's dashing , But yet to the Chase will he eagerly rush And loose a good Patient for bold Reynard's brush . Rowntree , a noted old Sporteman as good Who brags of his Greytail that choice bit of Blood , How at Stockesly so clever she wone e'ery Raze . And now that she's equally fam'd for the Chase . Flounders , the younger with Eyelids of Glass , So prim on his Stallion and found of his flash , One single good run finish'd off the gay Quaker , And now he's gone dumb with intent to turn speaker . Now our sport being over let's home wihout fail , And drown those misfortunes in Punch and good Ale ; And if we're thrown out we'll draw close to the fire And drink a good health to the Baronet and Squire . FINIS . 