Simple SIMON's Misfortunes , And his Wife MARGERY'S Cruelty ; Who Poisoned Him with a Bottle of Sack . Tune -- Delights of the Bottle . COME listen a while and here I will relate , A ditty of Simon's poor sorrowful fate : His wife was to anger most cruelly bent , That seldom , poor man , he could give her content . But she for her own part so loved Sack , That often she tippl'd behind Simon's back . A bottle she god , which held two quarts or more , Well fill'd with canary , hung behind the door : Then telling of Simon it was poison strong , And said , If he touch'd it , it would do him wrong ; Therefore I'd have you be rul'd by your wife , One drop is enough to cost you your life . The wife of poor Simon had a sow and pigs , Beside hens and turkeys , that had store of eggs ; With ewes and weathers , nay innocent lambs , Who in the forest did sport with their dams . To Simon she gave the charge of them all , But see what hard fortune did to him befall : He did his endeavour to live free from strife , Yet still thro' misfortunes he anger's his wife : As by this new ditty I will make appear , If you will be pleased to lend me and ear . His losses and crosses they came on so fast , That he of his wife was weary at last . One morning she sent him to tend the sheep , And bid bim be careful he did not sleep ; Some victuals she gave him in his hand , That he might the better obey her command ; But he fell asleep by his sheep on the plain , While six of the lambs by the foxes were slave . This caused distraction betwixt them for a time , Till Simon begg'd pardon for his cruel crime . Next morning she sent him the goslings to tend , And said , On my favour , see you don't offend . But mark the misfortune that happen'd 'ere night , Five of the best goslings were seiz'd by a kite . Poor Simon was ne'er so dismay'd in his life , He knew not what answer to make to his wife . Next morning she sent him to milk the cow , And then a disaster was done by the sow ; For while he was driving the young pigs away , The sow in the dairy was swigging the whey . The cheese from the what she did tear and haul ; And threw down the cream , destroying it all : Poor Simon he wept , and made piteous moan : The sow burst her belly , and so lost her life , This was the renewal of sorrow and strife . Now as she happened to see this sad sighed , To Simon she straightway flew like a spright ; Then lugging his ears , and wringing his nose , She beatrice him till tears run out at his hose ; At every blow she to Simon did say , Remember the goslings the kite stole away . Now seeing what life he was like to led , He unto the chamber did hasten with speed , To seize on the bottle I mention'd before , Which he thought was poison behind the door ; And vow'd he would drink it to finish his life , Rather than live with so cruel a wife . He open'd the window that stood to the south , And setting the bottle of sack to his mouth , Said he , I this poison drink with all my heart , And at the first draught he drank down a quar Then setting the bottle once more to his snout , He never left swigging till it was all out . Then he fell down like one bereft of life . I'm poison'd says he , by the means of my wife ; I now feel it flowing in every vein , The strength is so great it tickles my brain , My stomach , my belly , nay every part , And tho' I am poison'd I feel no great smart . His wife by the window did happen to walk , And hearing Simon how he did talk , In se [ are ] changed of her bottle she up stairs did run , To see in the chamber what Simon had done . He lay by the bottle , as if of life bereft , But never a drop of sack had he left . I'm poison'd , said he , by the means of my wife , Let me be at quiet now I've lost my life . Cotso ! if you're poison'd then I will contrive , A medicine straightway to fetch you alive ; A powder she presently blew up his nose , Then like one frantic he straightway arose ; Down stairs he run in the open street , All people were frighted that Simon did meet ; His wife run after thro' thick and thin , And with a cudgel belabour'd his skin . The weight of her cudgel made Simon to roar , At length a kind neighbour let him in a-door ; They sent for his wife , who came without fail , Their peace was made over a jug of good ale : Now Simon was freed from all care and dread , The neighbours in merriment god them to bed . That night , no doubt he pleased his wife , For now he leads a happy life . Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office , Bow Church-Yard , London . Simple SIMON's Misfortunes , And his Wife MARGERY'S Cruelty ; Who Poisoned Him with a Bottle of Sack . Tune -- Delights of the Bottle . COME listen a while and here I will relate , A ditty of Simon's poor sorrowful fate : His wife was to anger most cruelly bent , That seldom , poor man , he could give her content . But she for her own part so loved Sack , That often she tippl'd behind Simon's back . A bottle she god , which held two quarts or more , Well fill'd with canary , hung behind the door : Then telling of Simon it was poison strong , And said , If he touch'd it , it would do him wrong ; Therefore I'd have you be rul'd by your wife , One drop is enough to cost you your life . The wife of poor Simon had a sow and pigs , Beside hens and turkeys , that had store of eggs ; With ewes and weathers , nay innocent lambs , Who in the forest did sport with their dams . To Simon she gave the charge of them all , But see what hard fortune did to him befall : He did his endeavour to live free from strife , Yet still thro' misfortunes he anger's his wife : As by this new ditty I will make appear , If you will be pleased to lend me and ear . His losses and crosses they came on so fast , That he of his wife was weary at last . One morning she sent him to tend the sheep , And bid bim be careful he did not sleep ; Some victuals she gave him in his hand , That he might the better obey her command ; But he fell asleep by his sheep on the plain , While six of the lambs by the foxes were slave . This caused distraction betwixt them for a time , Till Simon begg'd pardon for his cruel crime . Next morning she sent him the goslings to tend , And said , On my favour , see you don't offend . But mark the misfortune that happen'd 'ere night , Five of the best goslings were seiz'd by a kite . Poor Simon was ne'er so dismay'd in his life , He knew not what answer to make to his wife . Next morning she sent him to milk the cow , And then a disaster was done by the sow ; For while he was driving the young pigs away , The sow in the dairy was swigging the whey . The cheese from the what she did tear and haul ; And threw down the cream , destroying it all : Poor Simon he wept , and made piteous moan : The sow burst her belly , and so lost her life , This was the renewal of sorrow and strife . Now as she happened to see this sad sighed , To Simon she straightway flew like a spright ; Then lugging his ears , and wringing his nose , She beatrice him till tears run out at his hose ; At every blow she to Simon did say , Remember the goslings the kite stole away . Now seeing what life he was like to led , He unto the chamber did hasten with speed , To seize on the bottle I mention'd before , Which he thought was poison behind the door ; And vow'd he would drink it to finish his life , Rather than live with so cruel a wife . He open'd the window that stood to the south , And setting the bottle of sack to his mouth , Said he , I this poison drink with all my heart , And at the first draught he drank down a quar Then setting the bottle once more to his snout , He never left swigging till it was all out . Then he fell down like one bereft of life . I'm poison'd says he , by the means of my wife ; I now feel it flowing in every vein , The strength is so great it tickles my brain , My stomach , my belly , nay every part , And tho' I am poison'd I feel no great smart . His wife by the window did happen to walk , And hearing Simon how he did talk , In se [ are ] changed of her bottle she up stairs did run , To see in the chamber what Simon had done . He lay by the bottle , as if of life bereft , But never a drop of sack had he left . I'm poison'd , said he , by the means of my wife , Let me be at quiet now I've lost my life . Cotso ! if you're poison'd then I will contrive , A medicine straightway to fetch you alive ; A powder she presently blew up his nose , Then like one frantic he straightway arose ; Down stairs he run in the open street , All people were frighted that Simon did meet ; His wife run after thro' thick and thin , And with a cudgel belabour'd his skin . The weight of her cudgel made Simon to roar , At length a kind neighbour let him in a-door ; They sent for his wife , who came without fail , Their peace was made over a jug of good ale : Now Simon was freed from all care and dread , The neighbours in merriment god them to bed . That night , no doubt he pleased his wife , For now he leads a happy life . Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office , Bow Church-Yard , London . 