Robin Hood newly Reviv'd : OR , HIS Meeting and Fighting with his Cousin SCARLET . To a new Tune . COME listen awhile you Gentlemen all , With a heigh down , down and a down . That are this Bower within ; For a story of gallant Robin Hood , I mean now to begin . What time of Day ? quoth Robin Hood , quoth Little John , 'tis in the prime ; Why then we will to the Green wood go , for we have no Victuals to dine . As Robin walk'd the forest along , it was in the midst of the day ; There was he aware of a deft young man , as ever walk'd on the way . His Doublet was of silk he said , his stockings like scarlet shone , And bravely he walk'd along the way , to Robin Hood then unknown . A heard of Deer was then in the bend , all feeding before his face ; Now the best of you I'll have to my Dinner , and that in a little space . Now the Stranger he made no much ado , but he bent a right good Bow , And the best of all the Heard he slew , full forty Yards him from . Well shot , well shot , said Robin Hood then , that Shot it was in Time ; And if thou wilt accept of the Place , thou shalt be a bold Yeoman of mine . Go play the Chiven , the Stranger then said , make haste and quickly go , Or with my fist , be sure of this , I'll give thee Buffets store . Thou had'st not best buffet me , quoth Robin Hood , for altho' I am forlorn , Yet i have those will take my part , if I do blow my Horn . Thou had'st not best wind thy horn the Stranger said , be'st thou never so much in haste ; for i can draw a good broad Sword , and quickly cut the Blast . Then Robin Hood bent a very good Bow , to shoot and that he would fain , The Stranger he bent a very good Bow , to shoot at bold Robin again . O hold thy hand , hold thy hand , quoth Robin Hood to Shoot it would be in vain ; For if we shoot the One at the other , the One of us be slave . But let's take our Swords and our broad Bucklers , and gang under yonder Tree . As i hope to be sav'd the Stranger he said , One foot i will not flee . Then Robin Hood lent the Stranger a blow , most fear'd him out of his Wits ; Thou never felt Blow the Stranger he said , that shall be better quit . The Stranger he then with a good broad sword , hit Robin Hood on the Crown , That from every hair of bold Robin's Head , the Blood it run trickling down . God-a-mercy good Fellow , quoth Robin Hood then , and for this thou hast done ; Tell me good Fellow , what thou art , tell me where thou do'st wone . The Stranger then answer'd bold Robin Hood , I'll tell thee where I do dwell : In Maxfield Town I was born and bred , my Name is young Gamwell . For killing of my Father's Steward , am forc'd to this English Wood , And for to seek and Uncle of mine , some call him Robin Hood . But art thou a Cousin of Robin Hood then ? the sooner we should have done . As I hope to be sav'd , the Stranger then said , I am his own Sister's Son. But Laud , what kissing and courting was there , when these two Cousin's did meet ! And they went all that Summer's Day , and Little John did not meet . But when they met with Little John , he then unto him did say ; Oh Master , pray , where have you been , you have tarry'd so long away ; I met with a Stranger , quoth Robin Hood then , full soar he hath beaten me ; Then I'll have a bout with him , quoth Little John , and try if he can beatrice me . O no , Oh no , quoth Robin Hood then , Little John it may not be so ; For he is my own dear Sister's Son , and Cousin's I have no more . But he shall be a bold Yeoman of mine , my chief Man next to thee ; And I Robin Hood , and thou Little John , and Scarlet he shall be ; And we'll be three of the bravest Outlaws , that live in the North Country . If thou wilt hear more of bold Robin Hood , in the second part it will be . Then bold Robin Hood to the North he would go , with Valour and much might , With sword by his side which oft had been try'd , to fight and recover his right . The first that he met was a bonny bold scot , his servant he said he would be , No , quoth Robin Hood , it cannot be good , for thou wilt prove false unto me , Thou hast not been true to Sire nor Cuz , nay , marry the scot he said , As true as your heart , I'll never part , geud master , be not afraid . Then Robin Hood turn'd his face to the east , fight on my merry men stout ; Our case is good , quoth brave Robin Hood , and we shall not be beaten out . The battle grows hight on every side , the Scotchmen made great moan , Quoth Jockey , geud faith , they fight on each side , would I were with my Wife Joan. The Enemy 'compass'd brave Robin about , 'tis long e'er the battle ends ; Their's neither will yield , nor give up the field , for both are supplied with friends ; This song it was made in Robin Hoods Days : lets pray unto Jove above . To give us true Peace , that mischief may cease , and War may give place unto Love . LONDON : Printed and sold by L. How , in Petti - coat Lane . Robin Hood newly Reviv'd : OR , HIS Meeting and Fighting with his Cousin SCARLET . To a new Tune . COME listen awhile you Gentlemen all , With a heigh down , down and a down . That are this Bower within ; For a story of gallant Robin Hood , I mean now to begin . What time of Day ? quoth Robin Hood , quoth Little John , 'tis in the prime ; Why then we will to the Green wood go , for we have no Victuals to dine . As Robin walk'd the forest along , it was in the midst of the day ; There was he aware of a deft young man , as ever walk'd on the way . His Doublet was of silk he said , his stockings like scarlet shone , And bravely he walk'd along the way , to Robin Hood then unknown . A heard of Deer was then in the bend , all feeding before his face ; Now the best of you I'll have to my Dinner , and that in a little space . Now the Stranger he made no much ado , but he bent a right good Bow , And the best of all the Heard he slew , full forty Yards him from . Well shot , well shot , said Robin Hood then , that Shot it was in Time ; And if thou wilt accept of the Place , thou shalt be a bold Yeoman of mine . Go play the Chiven , the Stranger then said , make haste and quickly go , Or with my fist , be sure of this , I'll give thee Buffets store . Thou had'st not best buffet me , quoth Robin Hood , for altho' I am forlorn , Yet i have those will take my part , if I do blow my Horn . Thou had'st not best wind thy horn the Stranger said , be'st thou never so much in haste ; for i can draw a good broad Sword , and quickly cut the Blast . Then Robin Hood bent a very good Bow , to shoot and that he would fain , The Stranger he bent a very good Bow , to shoot at bold Robin again . O hold thy hand , hold thy hand , quoth Robin Hood to Shoot it would be in vain ; For if we shoot the One at the other , the One of us be slave . But let's take our Swords and our broad Bucklers , and gang under yonder Tree . As i hope to be sav'd the Stranger he said , One foot i will not flee . Then Robin Hood lent the Stranger a blow , most fear'd him out of his Wits ; Thou never felt Blow the Stranger he said , that shall be better quit . The Stranger he then with a good broad sword , hit Robin Hood on the Crown , That from every hair of bold Robin's Head , the Blood it run trickling down . God-a-mercy good Fellow , quoth Robin Hood then , and for this thou hast done ; Tell me good Fellow , what thou art , tell me where thou do'st wone . The Stranger then answer'd bold Robin Hood , I'll tell thee where I do dwell : In Maxfield Town I was born and bred , my Name is young Gamwell . For killing of my Father's Steward , am forc'd to this English Wood , And for to seek and Uncle of mine , some call him Robin Hood . But art thou a Cousin of Robin Hood then ? the sooner we should have done . As I hope to be sav'd , the Stranger then said , I am his own Sister's Son. But Laud , what kissing and courting was there , when these two Cousin's did meet ! And they went all that Summer's Day , and Little John did not meet . But when they met with Little John , he then unto him did say ; Oh Master , pray , where have you been , you have tarry'd so long away ; I met with a Stranger , quoth Robin Hood then , full soar he hath beaten me ; Then I'll have a bout with him , quoth Little John , and try if he can beatrice me . O no , Oh no , quoth Robin Hood then , Little John it may not be so ; For he is my own dear Sister's Son , and Cousin's I have no more . But he shall be a bold Yeoman of mine , my chief Man next to thee ; And I Robin Hood , and thou Little John , and Scarlet he shall be ; And we'll be three of the bravest Outlaws , that live in the North Country . If thou wilt hear more of bold Robin Hood , in the second part it will be . Then bold Robin Hood to the North he would go , with Valour and much might , With sword by his side which oft had been try'd , to fight and recover his right . The first that he met was a bonny bold scot , his servant he said he would be , No , quoth Robin Hood , it cannot be good , for thou wilt prove false unto me , Thou hast not been true to Sire nor Cuz , nay , marry the scot he said , As true as your heart , I'll never part , geud master , be not afraid . Then Robin Hood turn'd his face to the east , fight on my merry men stout ; Our case is good , quoth brave Robin Hood , and we shall not be beaten out . The battle grows hight on every side , the Scotchmen made great moan , Quoth Jockey , geud faith , they fight on each side , would I were with my Wife Joan. The Enemy 'compass'd brave Robin about , 'tis long e'er the battle ends ; Their's neither will yield , nor give up the field , for both are supplied with friends ; This song it was made in Robin Hoods Days : lets pray unto Jove above . To give us true Peace , that mischief may cease , and War may give place unto Love . LONDON : Printed and sold by L. How , in Petti - coat Lane . 