The Memorable BATTLE fought at KILLY CRANKIE . By Chief CLAVERS and his HIGHLAND MEN . To the Tune call'd , Killy Cranky . CLAVERS and his Highland Men Came down upon the Raw then , Who being stout gave many a Clout , The Lads began to claw then : With Sword and Targets in their Hands , Wherewith they were not slavum then , And Clinkin Clankin on their Crowns , The Lads began to claw then . O'er Brink and Brank , o'er Ditch and Stank , He staik among them a' then , The Butterbox god many Knocks , The Riggans pay'd for a' then They god their Paiks with sudden Straiks , Which to their Grief they saw then , And double Dunts upon their Rumps , The Lads began to fa' then . Her skip'd about , and leap'd about , Her flang among them a' then , The English Blades god Broken Heads , Their Crowns her clave in twa there , The Durk and Door made their last Hour , Such was their final fa' then , They thought the WORSER --- l had been there , That gave them such a Paw then . Jock Presbyter an's Covenant Came whigging up Hill then , Though Highland Trews would not refuse , For to subscribe the Bill then ; In William's Name he thought na Shame , Would stop the Deed at a' then ; But her nane fell Stock , with many a Knock , Cry'd furich Whigs awa' then . Sir Hugh Macdow with his Men true , Came skipping o'er the Brink then , The Hogan Dutch that feared such , They bred a horrid Stink then , The true Maclain his Gate has gane , And came upon a Raw then ; None could withstand his heavy Hand , He stake with such a Paw then . The Memorable BATTLE fought at KILLY CRANKIE . By Chief CLAVERS and his HIGHLAND MEN . To the Tune call'd , Killy Cranky . CLAVERS and his Highland Men Came down upon the Raw then , Who being stout gave many a Clout , The Lads began to claw then : With Sword and Targets in their Hands , Wherewith they were not slavum then , And Clinkin Clankin on their Crowns , The Lads began to claw then . O'er Brink and Brank , o'er Ditch and Stank , He staik among them a' then , The Butterbox god many Knocks , The Riggans pay'd for a' then They god their Paiks with sudden Straiks , Which to their Grief they saw then , And double Dunts upon their Rumps , The Lads began to fa' then . Her skip'd about , and leap'd about , Her flang among them a' then , The English Blades god Broken Heads , Their Crowns her clave in twa there , The Durk and Door made their last Hour , Such was their final fa' then , They thought the WORSER --- l had been there , That gave them such a Paw then . Jock Presbyter an's Covenant Came whigging up Hill then , Though Highland Trews would not refuse , For to subscribe the Bill then ; In William's Name he thought na Shame , Would stop the Deed at a' then ; But her nane fell Stock , with many a Knock , Cry'd furich Whigs awa' then . Sir Hugh Macdow with his Men true , Came skipping o'er the Brink then , The Hogan Dutch that feared such , They bred a horrid Stink then , The true Maclain his Gate has gane , And came upon a Raw then ; None could withstand his heavy Hand , He stake with such a Paw then . 