THE SOUTH SEA BALLAD , Set by a LADY . ( 1 ) CHange Alley's so thin that a Man may now walk , And if he'll but listen , may hear himself talk : For , since the Suppression of Bubbles in June , Those clamorous Catches are quite out of Tune . No more of the Hubbles nor Bubbles we see , But all the whole Nation attends the South Sea. ( 2 ) The Salts and the Fisherys likewise are gone ; All the Stock of the Bubbles is swallow'd in one , Which ( barring the Ruin of all other Trade ) Is the cleverest Project that ever was made : For now the Contrivers are tipped with a Fee , If they Souse the Subscribers into the South Sea. ( 3 ) What Numbers have god that insatiable Itch , And endless Ambition of still growing rich ? The Man that was formerly worth but a Plumb Till he makes it a Million , keeps gnawing his Thumb ; For that is the least , as the Wisemen agree Can content and Adventurer in the South Sea. ( 4 ) All the Town is so eager their Fortune to try , That no body can the Temptation deny : So craftily laid is the Scheme of the Gin , That some of the Parsons themselves are drawn in , Which of these would choose and Archbishop to be , To refuse a Directorship in the South Sea. ( 5 ) What Numbers of upstart Figures we meet Set up by Stockjobbing in every Street ? They're so found of their Arms when they come to approach They can hardly for Staring , get into their Coach ; But when we examine their true Pedigree , We trace their Original from the South Sea. ( 6 ) This Gold sanded Ocean is not like the rest But is quite of a different Nature possessed , It is such as no other Sea yet ever had , Instead of preventing , 'twill make People mad , Distracting their Reason to such a Degree , That headlong they throw themselves in the South Sea. ( 7 ) 'Tis a comical Sighed to behold the Deceit Of all Ranks of Men met each other to cheat , To see my L --- worser Duke make a Rout and ado In a Coffee-house Crowd with a politic Jew , The most Orthodox now a Days reckoned is He Whose Stock is all Capital in the South Sea. ( 8 ) This Mystery some would pretend to explain , While those that get Money but laugh at their Pain The wisest of all with their Racket and Rout , Find it just like a Tub with the Bottom knocked out ; The Cream of the Jest is with those that make free , With the general Scramble amid the South Sea. ( 9 ) Like Pharaoh's lean Kine that devoured the fat , It has knock'd down the puny Contrivances flat , But if I mistake not , I've read that his Host , And himself in the Read Sea were utterly los He thought to get Riches , and why should not we , Remember the Read , when we cross the South Sea ? FINIS . THE SOUTH SEA BALLAD , Set by a LADY . ( 1 ) CHange Alley's so thin that a Man may now walk , And if he'll but listen , may hear himself talk : For , since the Suppression of Bubbles in June , Those clamorous Catches are quite out of Tune . No more of the Hubbles nor Bubbles we see , But all the whole Nation attends the South Sea. ( 2 ) The Salts and the Fisherys likewise are gone ; All the Stock of the Bubbles is swallow'd in one , Which ( barring the Ruin of all other Trade ) Is the cleverest Project that ever was made : For now the Contrivers are tipped with a Fee , If they Souse the Subscribers into the South Sea. ( 3 ) What Numbers have god that insatiable Itch , And endless Ambition of still growing rich ? The Man that was formerly worth but a Plumb Till he makes it a Million , keeps gnawing his Thumb ; For that is the least , as the Wisemen agree Can content and Adventurer in the South Sea. ( 4 ) All the Town is so eager their Fortune to try , That no body can the Temptation deny : So craftily laid is the Scheme of the Gin , That some of the Parsons themselves are drawn in , Which of these would choose and Archbishop to be , To refuse a Directorship in the South Sea. ( 5 ) What Numbers of upstart Figures we meet Set up by Stockjobbing in every Street ? They're so found of their Arms when they come to approach They can hardly for Staring , get into their Coach ; But when we examine their true Pedigree , We trace their Original from the South Sea. ( 6 ) This Gold sanded Ocean is not like the rest But is quite of a different Nature possessed , It is such as no other Sea yet ever had , Instead of preventing , 'twill make People mad , Distracting their Reason to such a Degree , That headlong they throw themselves in the South Sea. ( 7 ) 'Tis a comical Sighed to behold the Deceit Of all Ranks of Men met each other to cheat , To see my L --- worser Duke make a Rout and ado In a Coffee-house Crowd with a politic Jew , The most Orthodox now a Days reckoned is He Whose Stock is all Capital in the South Sea. ( 8 ) This Mystery some would pretend to explain , While those that get Money but laugh at their Pain The wisest of all with their Racket and Rout , Find it just like a Tub with the Bottom knocked out ; The Cream of the Jest is with those that make free , With the general Scramble amid the South Sea. ( 9 ) Like Pharaoh's lean Kine that devoured the fat , It has knock'd down the puny Contrivances flat , But if I mistake not , I've read that his Host , And himself in the Read Sea were utterly los He thought to get Riches , and why should not we , Remember the Read , when we cross the South Sea ? FINIS . A Song in Praise of our Forces . Cheer up your Hearts bold Britons , Our Troops are now advancing , The Rebels must retreat , Or quickly die a dancing ; Brave Marshal Wade is at the Head , To give us his Command , Sir , The Chevalier you need not fear , We'll put him to a Stand , Sir . The Clans they have begun it , To pillage and to plunder , I hope to see them run yet , When e'r out Cannons thunder , Then Horse and Foot , let's quickly to't , The Country now does call , Sir , To mend some Brogues for Highland Rogues , With Powder and with Ball , Sir The Time has been their own , For Want of good Commanders , And that will soon be known , By those that's come from Flanders ; Our British Foot are hard put to't , To march through Mud and Mire , But all agreed they'll not be rid , By Capaucheens and Friars . Although the Nights are cold . Not very fit for camping , The Troops will march up bold , Being always us'd to tramping ; The Blues and Buffs , are old and tough , The Greens they ne'er will start , Sir , The Yellow Boys don't fear no Noise , Their Colours ne'er will part , Sir , Therefore let us prepare , And be ready for a Battle , We'll see their Arses bore , When once our Cannons rattle : The Yorkshire Blue are bold and true , Brave Gentlemen no Doubt , Sir ; When e'er 'tis o'er you'll here more , What they have been about , Sir , A Song in Praise of our Forces . Cheer up your Hearts bold Britons , Our Troops are now advancing , The Rebels must retreat , Or quickly die a dancing ; Brave Marshal Wade is at the Head , To give us his Command , Sir , The Chevalier you need not fear , We'll put him to a Stand , Sir . The Clans they have begun it , To pillage and to plunder , I hope to see them run yet , When e'r out Cannons thunder , Then Horse and Foot , let's quickly to't , The Country now does call , Sir , To mend some Brogues for Highland Rogues , With Powder and with Ball , Sir The Time has been their own , For Want of good Commanders , And that will soon be known , By those that's come from Flanders ; Our British Foot are hard put to't , To march through Mud and Mire , But all agreed they'll not be rid , By Capaucheens and Friars . Although the Nights are cold . Not very fit for camping , The Troops will march up bold , Being always us'd to tramping ; The Blues and Buffs , are old and tough , The Greens they ne'er will start , Sir , The Yellow Boys don't fear no Noise , Their Colours ne'er will part , Sir , Therefore let us prepare , And be ready for a Battle , We'll see their Arses bore , When once our Cannons rattle : The Yorkshire Blue are bold and true , Brave Gentlemen no Doubt , Sir ; When e'er 'tis o'er you'll here more , What they have been about , Sir , 