The BRIDES's BURIAL . Tune of The Lady's Fallen . COME mourn , come mourn with me , You loyal lovers all , Lament my loss in weeping woe , Whom gripping grief does thrall . Like to the drooping vine , Cut by the gardener's knife ; Even so my heart with sorrow slave , Does bleed for my sweet wife . By death , that grisly ghost , My turtle dove is slave ; And I am left unhappy man ! To spend my days in vain . Her beauty , late so bright , Like roses in their prime , I wasted [ l ] ike the summer's snow , By force of Phebus' shine . Her fair and colour'd cheeks , Now pale , and won h [ e ] r eyes , Which late did shine like crystal stars , All [ a ] s ! their light it die . Her petty lily hands , With fingers long and small , In colour like the earthly clay , Yea , cold and stiff withal . When as the morningstar Her golden gates had spread , And the bright glittering sun arose Forth from fair Thetis' bed . Then did my lover wake , Most like a lily flower , And as the lovely queen of May , So shone she in her bower . Attired was she then Like Flora in her pride ; As fair as any of Diana's nynphs , So look'd my lovely bride . And as fair Helen's face Gave Grecian dams the lurch , So did my dear exceed in sighed All virgins in the church . When we had knit the knot Of holy wed [ l ] ock's band , Like alabaster join'd to jet , So stood we hand in hand . When , lo ? a chilling cold Struck every vital part , And gripping grief , like pangs of death , Seiz'd on my true love's heart . Down in a swoon she fell , As cold as any stone ; Like Venus' picture lacking life , So was my love brought home . At length the rosy read , Throughout her comely face , As Phebus' beams with watery clouds Are cover'd for a space . When with a grievous groan , And voice both hoarse and dry , Farewell , said she , my loving friend , For I this day must die . The messenger of God , With golden trump , I see , With many other angels more , Who found and call for me . Instead of music sweet Go toil my passing-boll , And with sweet flowers strew my grave , Which in my chamber smell . Strip off my bright array , My cork shoes from my feet ; And , gentle mother , be so kind To bring my winding-sheet . My wedding dinner dress , Bestow upon the poor , And on the hungry , needy , maim'd , Which beggeth at the door . Instead of virgins young , My bridemaids for to be , Go cause some curious carpenter , To make a chest for me . My bride laces of silk Bestow'd on maidens meek , May fitly serve when I am dead , To tie my hands and feet . And thou , my lover true , My husband , and my friend , Let me entreat you here to stay Until my life does end . Now leave to talk of love , And humbly on your knee , Direct your prayers unto God , But moan no more for me . In love , as we have liv'd , In love too , let us part ; And as a token of my love , Do kiss thee with my heart . Oh? staunch those briny tears . Your weeping is in vain . I am not lost , for we in Heaven One day shall meet again . With that she turn'd aside , As one dispos'd to sleep , And as a lamb departed life , While friends did sorely weep . Her true love seeing this , Did fetch a grievous groan , As tho' his heart was burst in twain , And thus he made his moan . O dismal , and unhappy day ? A day of grief and care : Which hath bereft the sun so high , Whose beams refresh the air . Now woe unto the world , And all that therein dwell . Oh? that I were with thee in Heaven , For now I live in Hell . And now this lover lives A discontented life ; Whose Bride was brought unto the grave , A maiden and a wife . A garland fresh and fair , Of lilies there was made . In sign of her virginity , And on her coffin laid . Six maidens all in white Did bear her to the ground ; The bells' did ring in solemn sort , And made a doleful found . In earth they laid her then , For hungry worms a prey . So shall the fairest face alive At length be brought to clay . Printed and sold in Aldermary Church-Yard Bow-Lane , London . st The BRIDES's BURIAL . Tune of The Lady's Fallen . COME mourn , come mourn with me , You loyal lovers all , Lament my loss in weeping woe , Whom gripping grief does thrall . Like to the drooping vine , Cut by the gardener's knife ; Even so my heart with sorrow slave , Does bleed for my sweet wife . By death , that grisly ghost , My turtle dove is slave ; And I am left unhappy man ! To spend my days in vain . Her beauty , late so bright , Like roses in their prime , I wasted [ l ] ike the summer's snow , By force of Phebus' shine . Her fair and colour'd cheeks , Now pale , and won h [ e ] r eyes , Which late did shine like crystal stars , All [ a ] s ! their light it die . Her petty lily hands , With fingers long and small , In colour like the earthly clay , Yea , cold and stiff withal . When as the morningstar Her golden gates had spread , And the bright glittering sun arose Forth from fair Thetis' bed . Then did my lover wake , Most like a lily flower , And as the lovely queen of May , So shone she in her bower . Attired was she then Like Flora in her pride ; As fair as any of Diana's nynphs , So look'd my lovely bride . And as fair Helen's face Gave Grecian dams the lurch , So did my dear exceed in sighed All virgins in the church . When we had knit the knot Of holy wed [ l ] ock's band , Like alabaster join'd to jet , So stood we hand in hand . When , lo ? a chilling cold Struck every vital part , And gripping grief , like pangs of death , Seiz'd on my true love's heart . Down in a swoon she fell , As cold as any stone ; Like Venus' picture lacking life , So was my love brought home . At length the rosy read , Throughout her comely face , As Phebus' beams with watery clouds Are cover'd for a space . When with a grievous groan , And voice both hoarse and dry , Farewell , said she , my loving friend , For I this day must die . The messenger of God , With golden trump , I see , With many other angels more , Who found and call for me . Instead of music sweet Go toil my passing-boll , And with sweet flowers strew my grave , Which in my chamber smell . Strip off my bright array , My cork shoes from my feet ; And , gentle mother , be so kind To bring my winding-sheet . My wedding dinner dress , Bestow upon the poor , And on the hungry , needy , maim'd , Which beggeth at the door . Instead of virgins young , My bridemaids for to be , Go cause some curious carpenter , To make a chest for me . My bride laces of silk Bestow'd on maidens meek , May fitly serve when I am dead , To tie my hands and feet . And thou , my lover true , My husband , and my friend , Let me entreat you here to stay Until my life does end . Now leave to talk of love , And humbly on your knee , Direct your prayers unto God , But moan no more for me . In love , as we have liv'd , In love too , let us part ; And as a token of my love , Do kiss thee with my heart . Oh? staunch those briny tears . Your weeping is in vain . I am not lost , for we in Heaven One day shall meet again . With that she turn'd aside , As one dispos'd to sleep , And as a lamb departed life , While friends did sorely weep . Her true love seeing this , Did fetch a grievous groan , As tho' his heart was burst in twain , And thus he made his moan . O dismal , and unhappy day ? A day of grief and care : Which hath bereft the sun so high , Whose beams refresh the air . Now woe unto the world , And all that therein dwell . Oh? that I were with thee in Heaven , For now I live in Hell . And now this lover lives A discontented life ; Whose Bride was brought unto the grave , A maiden and a wife . A garland fresh and fair , Of lilies there was made . In sign of her virginity , And on her coffin laid . Six maidens all in white Did bear her to the ground ; The bells' did ring in solemn sort , And made a doleful found . In earth they laid her then , For hungry worms a prey . So shall the fairest face alive At length be brought to clay . Printed and sold in Aldermary Church-Yard Bow-Lane , London . st 