A New Song call'd the Farmer's Son , To which is added , Alice Marley . The Distracted Maiden's Love to the Farmer's Son , To the Tune of , Attend you Boatmen and give ear . COme Maidens all , and pity me . And now my Grief condole , who am perplex'd in my mind . And vexed to the Soul ; 'Tis Love has caused my Overthrow , And my ruin now began , For I fix'd my Heart , and it never shall part , From a Farmer's only Son. He vow'd for ever to be true , And I did him believe , But a Press Gang haul'd him away , So my Joy they did deceive ; For which my Senses fled away , And I distracted run , And now in Bedlam lie confin'd , For a Farmers only Son. Had I the Golden Indies store , I'd freely with it part , To see him whom I love so dear , That has god my tender Heart , So Maids that hear my sad Complaint , Come Mourn as I have done , For sad is my Grief without Relief , For a Farmers only Son. So I'll a Garland make of Straw , And to the Walls complain , For nothing e'er shall ease my Grief , Till John comes back again , The boards shall my Bedfellow be , Since all Comforts from me sprung , And the Chains my true Love e'er shall be , This returns my Farmers Son. Come Great George to Bedlam , And me a Commission give , I'll kill the French and Spaniards all , My Truelove to relieve ; Their Forts and Castles I will storm , And their Towns I will burn , And the Crown I'll bring to George my King , To set free my Farmers Son. No Fire nor Balls shall me surprise , No Danger I will fear , I will fill the World with great out cries , When my Valour they do hear , Eliza's Name shall be forgotten , For the great Things I have done , For the Globe I will turn up side down , To revenge my Farmers Son. So Maids that true love ever boar , Advance and go with me , I'll make all Foes i e'er do meet , Tremble by Land and Sea , i will to no one Quarter give , But only Sword and Gun , For i'll down with all both great and small , To preserve my Farmers Son. As soon as my Commissions sign'd , To Bedlam I'll bid adieu , My Sword and Gun shall clear the Seas , Of French and Spaniards too ; All England Foes my Rage shall feel , And when all this i've done , in Triumph i'll return again , And be wed to my Farmers Son. Alice Marley , A New SONG . ALice Marley is grown so fine , She won't get up to serve her Swine But lies in Bed till Eight or Nine , And surely she does take her Time , And do you ken Alice Marley Honey , The Wife that sells the Barley-honey , Has lost her Pocket and all her Money , And do you ken Alice Marley Honey . Alice Marley is so neat , I'ts herd for one to walk the Street , But every Lad and Lass they meet , Cries doe you ken Alice Marley Honey , And do you ken , etc Alice keeps Wine , Gin and Ale , And likewise Plays a good Game with her Tail , When her R ---------- ll goes she does him nail , And do you ken , etc From Wear Water upon this Town , There's never a Tradesman up or down , But would freely give a Crown , To play with Alice Marley Honey , And do you ken , etc The Farmers they do come that way , They drink with Alice every Day , And calls the Fiddlers for to play , The Tune of Alice Marley Honey , And do you ken , etc The Pitman and Keelman trim , They drink Bombo made of Gin , And for to dance they do begin , The Tune of Alice Marley Honey , And do you ken , etc The Sailors they do call for Flip , As soon as they come from their Ship , And then begins to Dance and skip , The Tune of Alice Marley Honey , And do you ken , etc Those Gentlemen that goes so fine , They'll treat her with a Bottle of Wine , And freely they'll fit down and dine , Along with Alice Marley Honey , And do you ken , etc Alice went up the Butchers Bank , The Butcher click by the Flank , He gave her a hold of his Mutton shank , And do you ken , etc Soon after god into the Loft , And she began to kittle and Coff , The Butcher he god on and could not get off , And do you ken , etc In came the Lad with his stripped Cap , And he laid somebody on her Back , He stopped a thorn into her Gap , And do you ken , etc In came the Lad that lived down by , And he with somebody used to lie , He gave her a pint when she was dry , And do you ken , etc At Durham Races you might have seen , Alice Marley dress'd like a Queen . With her Jockey Cap and Whip so keen , And do you ken , etc Alice Marley had a Horse , And it was book'd at C ------ r Cross , There was two to one that it would Loss , and do you ken , etc So conclude those Lines I've Penn'd , Hoping there's none i do offend , and thus my merry Joke does End , Concerning Alice Marley Honey , and do you ken , etc A New Song call'd the Farmer's Son , To which is added , Alice Marley . The Distracted Maiden's Love to the Farmer's Son , To the Tune of , Attend you Boatmen and give ear . COme Maidens all , and pity me . And now my Grief condole , who am perplex'd in my mind . And vexed to the Soul ; 'Tis Love has caused my Overthrow , And my ruin now began , For I fix'd my Heart , and it never shall part , From a Farmer's only Son. He vow'd for ever to be true , And I did him believe , But a Press Gang haul'd him away , So my Joy they did deceive ; For which my Senses fled away , And I distracted run , And now in Bedlam lie confin'd , For a Farmers only Son. Had I the Golden Indies store , I'd freely with it part , To see him whom I love so dear , That has god my tender Heart , So Maids that hear my sad Complaint , Come Mourn as I have done , For sad is my Grief without Relief , For a Farmers only Son. So I'll a Garland make of Straw , And to the Walls complain , For nothing e'er shall ease my Grief , Till John comes back again , The boards shall my Bedfellow be , Since all Comforts from me sprung , And the Chains my true Love e'er shall be , This returns my Farmers Son. Come Great George to Bedlam , And me a Commission give , I'll kill the French and Spaniards all , My Truelove to relieve ; Their Forts and Castles I will storm , And their Towns I will burn , And the Crown I'll bring to George my King , To set free my Farmers Son. No Fire nor Balls shall me surprise , No Danger I will fear , I will fill the World with great out cries , When my Valour they do hear , Eliza's Name shall be forgotten , For the great Things I have done , For the Globe I will turn up side down , To revenge my Farmers Son. So Maids that true love ever boar , Advance and go with me , I'll make all Foes i e'er do meet , Tremble by Land and Sea , i will to no one Quarter give , But only Sword and Gun , For i'll down with all both great and small , To preserve my Farmers Son. As soon as my Commissions sign'd , To Bedlam I'll bid adieu , My Sword and Gun shall clear the Seas , Of French and Spaniards too ; All England Foes my Rage shall feel , And when all this i've done , in Triumph i'll return again , And be wed to my Farmers Son. Alice Marley , A New SONG . ALice Marley is grown so fine , She won't get up to serve her Swine But lies in Bed till Eight or Nine , And surely she does take her Time , And do you ken Alice Marley Honey , The Wife that sells the Barley-honey , Has lost her Pocket and all her Money , And do you ken Alice Marley Honey . Alice Marley is so neat , I'ts herd for one to walk the Street , But every Lad and Lass they meet , Cries doe you ken Alice Marley Honey , And do you ken , etc Alice keeps Wine , Gin and Ale , And likewise Plays a good Game with her Tail , When her R ---------- ll goes she does him nail , And do you ken , etc From Wear Water upon this Town , There's never a Tradesman up or down , But would freely give a Crown , To play with Alice Marley Honey , And do you ken , etc The Farmers they do come that way , They drink with Alice every Day , And calls the Fiddlers for to play , The Tune of Alice Marley Honey , And do you ken , etc The Pitman and Keelman trim , They drink Bombo made of Gin , And for to dance they do begin , The Tune of Alice Marley Honey , And do you ken , etc The Sailors they do call for Flip , As soon as they come from their Ship , And then begins to Dance and skip , The Tune of Alice Marley Honey , And do you ken , etc Those Gentlemen that goes so fine , They'll treat her with a Bottle of Wine , And freely they'll fit down and dine , Along with Alice Marley Honey , And do you ken , etc Alice went up the Butchers Bank , The Butcher click by the Flank , He gave her a hold of his Mutton shank , And do you ken , etc Soon after god into the Loft , And she began to kittle and Coff , The Butcher he god on and could not get off , And do you ken , etc In came the Lad with his stripped Cap , And he laid somebody on her Back , He stopped a thorn into her Gap , And do you ken , etc In came the Lad that lived down by , And he with somebody used to lie , He gave her a pint when she was dry , And do you ken , etc At Durham Races you might have seen , Alice Marley dress'd like a Queen . With her Jockey Cap and Whip so keen , And do you ken , etc Alice Marley had a Horse , And it was book'd at C ------ r Cross , There was two to one that it would Loss , and do you ken , etc So conclude those Lines I've Penn'd , Hoping there's none i do offend , and thus my merry Joke does End , Concerning Alice Marley Honey , and do you ken , etc 