And Excellent New SONNET On the Goddess DIANA and ACTEON : SHOWING , How the Goddess Diana transformed Acteon into the Shape of a Hart. To and excellent North Country Tune . DIANA and her Darlings dear , Went walking on a Day , Througouht the Woods and Waters clear , For their Disport and Play ; The Leaves aloft were very green , And pleasant to behold , These Nymphs they walk'd the Trees between , Under the Shadows cold . So long at last they found a Place , Of Springs and Waters clear , A fairer Bath there never was Found out this thousand Year : Wherein Diana wantonly Herself began to bathe , And all her Virgins fair and pure , Themselves did wash and lave . And as the Nymphs in Water stood , Acteon passed by , As he came runing through the Wood , On them he cast his Eye : And eke hehold their Bodies bore , Then presently that Tide , And as the Nymphs of him were aware , With Voice aloud they cry'd . And clos'd Diana round about , To hide her Body small ; But she was highest of the Rout , And seen above them all . And when Diana did perceive , Where Acteon did stand , A furious Look to him she gave , And took her Bow in Hand . And as she went about to shoot , Acteon began to run , To hide he thought he was no boot , His former Sighed was done : And as he thought from her to 'scape , She brought it so to pass , Incontinently chang'd his Shape , Even running as he was . Each Goddess took Diana's Part , Acteon to transform , To make of him a huge wild Heart , There they did all determ : His Skin that was so fine and fair , Was made a tawny Red. His Body overgrown with Hair , From Feet unto the Head. And on his Head great Horns were set , Most wond'rous to behold , A larger Heart was never met , Nor seen upon the Mould , His Ears and Eyes that were so fair , Transformed were full strange ; His Hands and Feet compelled were , Throughout the Woods to range . Thus was he made a perfect Heart , And waxed fierce and grim , His former Shape did quite depart , From every Joint and Limb : But still his Memory did remain , Although he could not speak , Nor yet among his Friends complain , His woeful Mind to break . At length he thought for to repair , Home to his Dwelling-place , Anon of him his Hounds were aware , And began to cry apace : Then Acteon was soar aghast , His Hounds would him devour , And from them then he fled full fast , With all his Might and Power . He spared neither Bush nor Brake , But run through thick and thin , With all the Swiftness he could make , In Hope's to save his Skin ; Yet were his Hounds so near his Tail , And followed him so fast , That running might not him avail , For all his Speed and Haste . For why his Hounds would never lin , Till they him overtook , And then they rend and tore his Skin , And all his Body shook : I am your Master Acteon , Then cry'd he to his Hounds , And made unto them rueful Moans , With sad lamenting Sounds . I have been he which gave you Food , Wherein I took delight , Therefore suck not your Master's Blood , His Friendship to requite : But those Curs of a cursed Kind , On him had no remorse , Although he was their dearest Friend , They pull'd him down by Force . There was no Man to take his Part , The Story telleth plain , Thus Acteon a huge wild Heart , Among the Does were slave : You Hunter's all that range the Woods , Although you rise up rathe , Beware you come not nigh the Flood , Where Virgins use to bathe . For if Diana you espy , Among her Darlings dear , Your former Shape she will disguise , And make you Horns to wear : And so I do conclude my Song , Have nothing to allege , If Acteon acted right or wrong , Let all true Virgins judge . Newcastle upon Tyne : Printed and Sold by JOHN WHITE . And Excellent New SONNET On the Goddess DIANA and ACTEON : SHOWING , How the Goddess Diana transformed Acteon into the Shape of a Hart. To and excellent North Country Tune . DIANA and her Darlings dear , Went walking on a Day , Througouht the Woods and Waters clear , For their Disport and Play ; The Leaves aloft were very green , And pleasant to behold , These Nymphs they walk'd the Trees between , Under the Shadows cold . So long at last they found a Place , Of Springs and Waters clear , A fairer Bath there never was Found out this thousand Year : Wherein Diana wantonly Herself began to bathe , And all her Virgins fair and pure , Themselves did wash and lave . And as the Nymphs in Water stood , Acteon passed by , As he came runing through the Wood , On them he cast his Eye : And eke hehold their Bodies bore , Then presently that Tide , And as the Nymphs of him were aware , With Voice aloud they cry'd . And clos'd Diana round about , To hide her Body small ; But she was highest of the Rout , And seen above them all . And when Diana did perceive , Where Acteon did stand , A furious Look to him she gave , And took her Bow in Hand . And as she went about to shoot , Acteon began to run , To hide he thought he was no boot , His former Sighed was done : And as he thought from her to 'scape , She brought it so to pass , Incontinently chang'd his Shape , Even running as he was . Each Goddess took Diana's Part , Acteon to transform , To make of him a huge wild Heart , There they did all determ : His Skin that was so fine and fair , Was made a tawny Red. His Body overgrown with Hair , From Feet unto the Head. And on his Head great Horns were set , Most wond'rous to behold , A larger Heart was never met , Nor seen upon the Mould , His Ears and Eyes that were so fair , Transformed were full strange ; His Hands and Feet compelled were , Throughout the Woods to range . Thus was he made a perfect Heart , And waxed fierce and grim , His former Shape did quite depart , From every Joint and Limb : But still his Memory did remain , Although he could not speak , Nor yet among his Friends complain , His woeful Mind to break . At length he thought for to repair , Home to his Dwelling-place , Anon of him his Hounds were aware , And began to cry apace : Then Acteon was soar aghast , His Hounds would him devour , And from them then he fled full fast , With all his Might and Power . He spared neither Bush nor Brake , But run through thick and thin , With all the Swiftness he could make , In Hope's to save his Skin ; Yet were his Hounds so near his Tail , And followed him so fast , That running might not him avail , For all his Speed and Haste . For why his Hounds would never lin , Till they him overtook , And then they rend and tore his Skin , And all his Body shook : I am your Master Acteon , Then cry'd he to his Hounds , And made unto them rueful Moans , With sad lamenting Sounds . I have been he which gave you Food , Wherein I took delight , Therefore suck not your Master's Blood , His Friendship to requite : But those Curs of a cursed Kind , On him had no remorse , Although he was their dearest Friend , They pull'd him down by Force . There was no Man to take his Part , The Story telleth plain , Thus Acteon a huge wild Heart , Among the Does were slave : You Hunter's all that range the Woods , Although you rise up rathe , Beware you come not nigh the Flood , Where Virgins use to bathe . For if Diana you espy , Among her Darlings dear , Your former Shape she will disguise , And make you Horns to wear : And so I do conclude my Song , Have nothing to allege , If Acteon acted right or wrong , Let all true Virgins judge . Newcastle upon Tyne : Printed and Sold by JOHN WHITE . 