Robin Hoods Chase , Or , A merry Progress between Robin Hood and King Henry . Tune --- Robin Hood and the Beggar . COME you Gallants all , to you I call , With a heigh down , down , and a down . that are now in this Place ; For a Song I will sing of Henry our King , how he did bold Robin Hood chase . Queen Katherine she then a match did make , as plainly does appear , For three hundred Tun of good Read Wine . and three hundred Tun of Beer : But she had her Archers to seek . with their Bows and Arrows so good , But her mind it was bent , with a full intent , to send for bold Robin Hood . But when bold Robin Hood he came there , Queen Katherine she did say ; Thou art welcome Locksly unto me , and thou on my part must be . If I miss the Mark , be it light or dark , and all my Yeoman gay , For a Match of Shooting I have made , then hanged will I be . But when the Game was to be play'd , Bold Robin Hood wone it with a Grace ; But after the King was angry with him , and vowed he would him chase , What tho' his Pardon granted was , while he with them did stay . But yet the King was vex'd with him , when he was gone away . Soon after the King from Court did high , in a furious angry mood , And often enquireth both far and near , after bold Robin Hood . But when the King to Nottingham came , bold Robin Hood was in the Wood : Oh come , said he , and let me see who can find bold Robin Hood . But when bold Robin Hood he did hear the King had him in chase ; Then said Little John , 'tis time to be gone , and go to some other Place . Then away they went from merry Sherwood , and into Yorkshire did high , And the King did follow with a hoop and a hollow , but could not him come nigh . Yet jolly Robin he passed along , and went strait to Newcastle Town , And there he stay'd hours two or three , and then he for Berwick was gone . When the King he did see how Robin Hood did flee , he was vexed wondrous soar ; With a hoop and a hollow he vowed to follow , and take him , or never give o'er . Come , now let's away , said Little John , let any Man follow that dare ; To Carlisle we'll high with our Company , and so then to Lancaste [ r ] From Lancaster then to Chester they went , and so did good King Henry : But Robin went away for he durst not stay , for fear of some Treachery . Says Robin , come let us to London go , to see our noble Queen's face ; It may be she wants our company , which makes the King us so chase . When Robin he came Queen Katherine before , he fell upon his Knee ; May it please your Grace , I am come to this place , to speak with King Henry . Queen Katherine she answer'd bold Robin again , the King is gone to merry Sherwood , And when he went away to me he said , he would go and seek Robin Hood . Then fare you well , my gracious Queen , for to Sherwood I will high apace ; For fain I would see what he'd have with me , if I could but meet with his Grace . But when King Henry he came home , full weary and vexed in mind ; And that he did hear Robin had been there , he blamed Dame Fortune unkind . You're welcome home , Queen Katherine cry'd , Henry , my Sovereign Liege ; Bold Robin Hood , the Archer good , your Person hath been to seek . A boon , a boon , Queen Katherine cry'd , I beg it here of your Grace , To pardon his Life , and seek not strife , and so ends Robin Hood's Chase . London : Printed by L. How in Petticoat-lane Robin Hoods Chase , Or , A merry Progress between Robin Hood and King Henry . Tune --- Robin Hood and the Beggar . COME you Gallants all , to you I call , With a heigh down , down , and a down . that are now in this Place ; For a Song I will sing of Henry our King , how he did bold Robin Hood chase . Queen Katherine she then a match did make , as plainly does appear , For three hundred Tun of good Read Wine . and three hundred Tun of Beer : But she had her Archers to seek . with their Bows and Arrows so good , But her mind it was bent , with a full intent , to send for bold Robin Hood . But when bold Robin Hood he came there , Queen Katherine she did say ; Thou art welcome Locksly unto me , and thou on my part must be . If I miss the Mark , be it light or dark , and all my Yeoman gay , For a Match of Shooting I have made , then hanged will I be . But when the Game was to be play'd , Bold Robin Hood wone it with a Grace ; But after the King was angry with him , and vowed he would him chase , What tho' his Pardon granted was , while he with them did stay . But yet the King was vex'd with him , when he was gone away . Soon after the King from Court did high , in a furious angry mood , And often enquireth both far and near , after bold Robin Hood . But when the King to Nottingham came , bold Robin Hood was in the Wood : Oh come , said he , and let me see who can find bold Robin Hood . But when bold Robin Hood he did hear the King had him in chase ; Then said Little John , 'tis time to be gone , and go to some other Place . Then away they went from merry Sherwood , and into Yorkshire did high , And the King did follow with a hoop and a hollow , but could not him come nigh . Yet jolly Robin he passed along , and went strait to Newcastle Town , And there he stay'd hours two or three , and then he for Berwick was gone . When the King he did see how Robin Hood did flee , he was vexed wondrous soar ; With a hoop and a hollow he vowed to follow , and take him , or never give o'er . Come , now let's away , said Little John , let any Man follow that dare ; To Carlisle we'll high with our Company , and so then to Lancaste [ r ] From Lancaster then to Chester they went , and so did good King Henry : But Robin went away for he durst not stay , for fear of some Treachery . Says Robin , come let us to London go , to see our noble Queen's face ; It may be she wants our company , which makes the King us so chase . When Robin he came Queen Katherine before , he fell upon his Knee ; May it please your Grace , I am come to this place , to speak with King Henry . Queen Katherine she answer'd bold Robin again , the King is gone to merry Sherwood , And when he went away to me he said , he would go and seek Robin Hood . Then fare you well , my gracious Queen , for to Sherwood I will high apace ; For fain I would see what he'd have with me , if I could but meet with his Grace . But when King Henry he came home , full weary and vexed in mind ; And that he did hear Robin had been there , he blamed Dame Fortune unkind . You're welcome home , Queen Katherine cry'd , Henry , my Sovereign Liege ; Bold Robin Hood , the Archer good , your Person hath been to seek . A boon , a boon , Queen Katherine cry'd , I beg it here of your Grace , To pardon his Life , and seek not strife , and so ends Robin Hood's Chase . London : Printed by L. How in Petticoat-lane 