A NEW SONG . DEAR Reverend sirs if I on you may call , The advice that you give us is nothing at all , Tho' to you these few lines may appear somewhat odd , Only think of the case now of good Doctor Dodd . Who'd think that the shepherd should led us astray When thumping the cushion and loudly would pray , And tell us so gravely we all must fear God , But the devil I fear will have good Doctor Dodd . The lambs at the Magdalen good he would teach , And turn up his eyes and against since would preach , If he see'd you but smile why he'd give you a nod , The sanctified reverend good Doctor Dodd . But money poor soul led the Doctor astray , Four thousand two hundred good Lord let us pray That the Doctor himself may receive his reward , And Jack-ketch poor soul tuck him up in a cord . When before my lord Mayor his defence he did make , The tears flow'd so fast , he hardly could speak , Let mercy rule justice in that you'll serve god , So great was the prayers of the good Doctor Dodd . Robinson the Broker here made his defence , Do me justice good doctor prove my innocence , I do , I do , I do , then heaving a sob , So penitent truly is good Doctor Dodd . But for trial alas ! the good Doctor is sent , For forgery a halter must be the event , For a time the [ r ] e we'll leave him to feast on salt cod May all rogues have their endue , so I wish Doctor Dodd . A NEW SONG . DEAR Reverend sirs if I on you may call , The advice that you give us is nothing at all , Tho' to you these few lines may appear somewhat odd , Only think of the case now of good Doctor Dodd . Who'd think that the shepherd should led us astray When thumping the cushion and loudly would pray , And tell us so gravely we all must fear God , But the devil I fear will have good Doctor Dodd . The lambs at the Magdalen good he would teach , And turn up his eyes and against since would preach , If he see'd you but smile why he'd give you a nod , The sanctified reverend good Doctor Dodd . But money poor soul led the Doctor astray , Four thousand two hundred good Lord let us pray That the Doctor himself may receive his reward , And Jack-ketch poor soul tuck him up in a cord . When before my lord Mayor his defence he did make , The tears flow'd so fast , he hardly could speak , Let mercy rule justice in that you'll serve god , So great was the prayers of the good Doctor Dodd . Robinson the Broker here made his defence , Do me justice good doctor prove my innocence , I do , I do , I do , then heaving a sob , So penitent truly is good Doctor Dodd . But for trial alas ! the good Doctor is sent , For forgery a halter must be the event , For a time the [ r ] e we'll leave him to feast on salt cod May all rogues have their endue , so I wish Doctor Dodd . 