Queen ELIZABETH's Champion ; OR , GREAT-BRITAIN's Glory . BEING A Victory obtained by the young Earl of ESSEX , over the old Emperor of Germany , by a Fight at Sea , in which he took the Emperor's Son , and brought him a Prisoner to Queen ELIZABETH . COME found up your Trumpets and beatrice up your Drums , And let's go to Sea with a valiant good Cheer , In search of a mighty vast Navy of Ships , The like has not been for these fifty long Years . Raderer two , tandaro te , Raderer tandorer , ran do re . The Queen she provided a Navy of Ships , With sweet flying Streamers so glorious to see Rich Top and Top-Gallants , Captains and Lieutenants , Some forty , some fifty Brass-Pieces and three . Raderer two , tandato te , Raderer , tandorer , tan do re . They had not sail'd passed a Week on the Seas , Not passing a Week and Days two or three , But they were aware of the proud Emperor , Both him and all his proud Company . Raderer two , etc When he beheld our powerful Fleet , Sailing a long in their Glory and pride , He was amazed at their Valour and Fame , Then to his warlike Commands he cry'd . Raderer two , etc These were the Words of the old Emperor , Pray who is this that is sailing to me , If he be King that weareth a Crown , Yet I am a better Man than he . Raderer two , etc It is not a King nor Lord of a Crown , Which now to the Seas with his Navy is come , But the young Earl of Essex , the Queen's Lieutenant , Who fears no Foes in Christendom . Raderer two , etc Oh! is that Lord then come to the Seas Let us tack about , and be steering away , I have herd so much of his Father before , That I will not fight with young Essex Today . Rederer two , etc Oh! then bespoke the Emperor's Son , As they were tacking and steering away , Give me , Royal Father , this Navy of Sips , And I will go fight with Essex To day . Raderer two , etc Take them with all my Heart , loving Son , Most of them are of a capital Size , But should he do as his Father has done , Farewell thine Honour and mine likewise . Raderer two , tandaro te , Raderer two , tandorer , tan do re . With Cannons hight , and thundering Shot , These two Gallants fought on the Main , And as it was young Essex's Lot , The Emperor's Son by him was ta'en . Raderer two , etc Give me my Son the Emperor cry'd , Who you this Day have taken from me , And I'll give to the three Keys of Gold , The one shall be of High Germany . Raderer two , etc I care not for thy three Keys of Gold , Which thou hast proffer'd to set him free , But thy Son he shall to England sail , And go before the Queen with me . Raderer two , etc Then have I fifty good Ships of the best , As good as ever were sent to the Sea , And e'er my Son into England sail , They shall go all for good Company . Raderer two , etc They had not fought this famous Battle , They had not fought it Hours three , But some lost Legs , and some lost Arms , And some lay tumbling in the Sea. Raderer two , etc Essex he god this Battle likewise , Tho' 'twas the hottest that ever was seen , Home he return'd with a wondered Prize , And brought the Emperor's Son to the Queen ; Raderer two , etc O then bespoke the Prentices all , Living in London both proper and tall , In a kind Letter sent straight to the Queen ; For Essex's Sake they would fight all , Raderer two , tandero te , Raderer , tandarer , tan do re . Queen ELIZABETH's Champion ; OR , GREAT-BRITAIN's Glory . BEING A Victory obtained by the young Earl of ESSEX , over the old Emperor of Germany , by a Fight at Sea , in which he took the Emperor's Son , and brought him a Prisoner to Queen ELIZABETH . COME found up your Trumpets and beatrice up your Drums , And let's go to Sea with a valiant good Cheer , In search of a mighty vast Navy of Ships , The like has not been for these fifty long Years . Raderer two , tandaro te , Raderer tandorer , ran do re . The Queen she provided a Navy of Ships , With sweet flying Streamers so glorious to see Rich Top and Top-Gallants , Captains and Lieutenants , Some forty , some fifty Brass-Pieces and three . Raderer two , tandato te , Raderer , tandorer , tan do re . They had not sail'd passed a Week on the Seas , Not passing a Week and Days two or three , But they were aware of the proud Emperor , Both him and all his proud Company . Raderer two , etc When he beheld our powerful Fleet , Sailing a long in their Glory and pride , He was amazed at their Valour and Fame , Then to his warlike Commands he cry'd . Raderer two , etc These were the Words of the old Emperor , Pray who is this that is sailing to me , If he be King that weareth a Crown , Yet I am a better Man than he . Raderer two , etc It is not a King nor Lord of a Crown , Which now to the Seas with his Navy is come , But the young Earl of Essex , the Queen's Lieutenant , Who fears no Foes in Christendom . Raderer two , etc Oh! is that Lord then come to the Seas Let us tack about , and be steering away , I have herd so much of his Father before , That I will not fight with young Essex Today . Rederer two , etc Oh! then bespoke the Emperor's Son , As they were tacking and steering away , Give me , Royal Father , this Navy of Sips , And I will go fight with Essex To day . Raderer two , etc Take them with all my Heart , loving Son , Most of them are of a capital Size , But should he do as his Father has done , Farewell thine Honour and mine likewise . Raderer two , tandaro te , Raderer two , tandorer , tan do re . With Cannons hight , and thundering Shot , These two Gallants fought on the Main , And as it was young Essex's Lot , The Emperor's Son by him was ta'en . Raderer two , etc Give me my Son the Emperor cry'd , Who you this Day have taken from me , And I'll give to the three Keys of Gold , The one shall be of High Germany . Raderer two , etc I care not for thy three Keys of Gold , Which thou hast proffer'd to set him free , But thy Son he shall to England sail , And go before the Queen with me . Raderer two , etc Then have I fifty good Ships of the best , As good as ever were sent to the Sea , And e'er my Son into England sail , They shall go all for good Company . Raderer two , etc They had not fought this famous Battle , They had not fought it Hours three , But some lost Legs , and some lost Arms , And some lay tumbling in the Sea. Raderer two , etc Essex he god this Battle likewise , Tho' 'twas the hottest that ever was seen , Home he return'd with a wondered Prize , And brought the Emperor's Son to the Queen ; Raderer two , etc O then bespoke the Prentices all , Living in London both proper and tall , In a kind Letter sent straight to the Queen ; For Essex's Sake they would fight all , Raderer two , tandero te , Raderer , tandarer , tan do re . 