THE Noble LORD's Cruelty ; OR , A Pattern of True LOVE . A Pattern of true Love to you I will recite , Between a beautiful Lady and a courteous Knight . DEar Love regard my Grief , Do not my Suit disdain , Oh yield me some Relief , That am with Sorrow slave : These seven long Years and more , Have I still loved thee : Do thou my Joys restore , Fair Lady pity me . Pity my grievous Pain , Long suffer'd for thy Sake , Do not my Suit disdain , That no Time Rest can take : These seven long Years and more , Have I still loved thee ; Do thou my Joys restore , Fair Lady pity me . How should I pity thee , This Lady then reply'd , Thou art no Match for me , Thy Suit must be deny'd : I am of noble Blood , You but of mean Degree , It stands not for my Good Fondly to match with thee . This Answer had he most , Which cut his Heart so deep , That on his Bed full oft , Would he lie down and weep , With Tears he did lament His froward Destiny ; With Sighs yet would he say , Fair Lady pity me . While I live I must love , So Fancy urged me , My Mind cannot remove , Such is my Constancy : My Mind is only bent , Tho' I of low Degree , Sweet Lady give Consent To love and pity me . The Lady hearing now The Moan that he did make , Did of his Suit allow , And thus to him she spoke , Sir Knight , mourn thou no more , My Faith I plighted to thee , May this thy Joys restore , Thou hast thy Wish of me . But first sweet Love , quoth she , What shift then wilt thou make With speed to marry me , And thy Delight to take ; It were a Bargain bad , To get a wanton Wife , And loose with Sorrow great , Thy sweet distressed Life . If that my Father knew The Love I bear to thee , We both the same should rue , Therefore be rul'd by me : When my Father's in Bed , And all his Waiting-men , Through Window will I get , See that you meet me then . Content Lady , he said , He's but a Cowardly Knight , Whom ought shall make afraid , To win a Lady bright . Thus then they went away , But by the Master Cook , Coming thro' the Window wide , Was this fair Lady took . O gentle Cook , quoth she , Do not my Deed bewray , Some Favour to me show , And let me pass away : Love that does conquer Kings Forc'd me to do this Deed , While others fit and sing Make not my Heart to bleed . Not so , then said the Cook , Fair Lady pardon me , Who can this Trespass brook , Committed thus by thee ; My Lord , your Father , shall The Matter understand , For false I will not be , Neither for House nor Land. Then from the Lady's Face , Fell down the Tears amain ; She was in woeful Case , And thus she made her Moan : Alas ! my own dear Love , Little know'st thou my Grief , Great Sorrows must we prove , Hope yielding no Relief . Her Father in a Spleen , Lock'd up his Daughter bright , And set forth armed Men To take the worthy Knight ; Who then was judged to be Quite banish'd from the Land Never his Love to see , So strict was the Command . And at the Sessions next , After the Knight was gone , To his Daughter full of Woe , They brought a hanged Man , Whose Head was smitten off , The Maiden's Truth to prove , Quoth her Father , wanton Dame , Now take thee here thy Love . Her Tears fell down amain , When the Sighed she did see , And sorely did complain Of her Father's Cruelty ; His Body she did wash , With Tears that she did shed , And hundred Times she kissed His Body being dead . Alas my Love , she said , Dear haste thou paid for me , Oh! that in Heaven's Bliss , My Soul were with thee ; But while that I do live , A Vow I here do make , Seven long Years to live unwed For my true Lover's Sake . Her Father hearing this , Was grieved inwardly , He pardon'd her amiss , And prais'd her Constancy , And to this courteous Knight , Her Father did her wed : God grant the like Success , Where perfect Love is bred . Newcastle upon Tyne : Printed and sold by John White . THE Noble LORD's Cruelty ; OR , A Pattern of True LOVE . A Pattern of true Love to you I will recite , Between a beautiful Lady and a courteous Knight . DEar Love regard my Grief , Do not my Suit disdain , Oh yield me some Relief , That am with Sorrow slave : These seven long Years and more , Have I still loved thee : Do thou my Joys restore , Fair Lady pity me . Pity my grievous Pain , Long suffer'd for thy Sake , Do not my Suit disdain , That no Time Rest can take : These seven long Years and more , Have I still loved thee ; Do thou my Joys restore , Fair Lady pity me . How should I pity thee , This Lady then reply'd , Thou art no Match for me , Thy Suit must be deny'd : I am of noble Blood , You but of mean Degree , It stands not for my Good Fondly to match with thee . This Answer had he most , Which cut his Heart so deep , That on his Bed full oft , Would he lie down and weep , With Tears he did lament His froward Destiny ; With Sighs yet would he say , Fair Lady pity me . While I live I must love , So Fancy urged me , My Mind cannot remove , Such is my Constancy : My Mind is only bent , Tho' I of low Degree , Sweet Lady give Consent To love and pity me . The Lady hearing now The Moan that he did make , Did of his Suit allow , And thus to him she spoke , Sir Knight , mourn thou no more , My Faith I plighted to thee , May this thy Joys restore , Thou hast thy Wish of me . But first sweet Love , quoth she , What shift then wilt thou make With speed to marry me , And thy Delight to take ; It were a Bargain bad , To get a wanton Wife , And loose with Sorrow great , Thy sweet distressed Life . If that my Father knew The Love I bear to thee , We both the same should rue , Therefore be rul'd by me : When my Father's in Bed , And all his Waiting-men , Through Window will I get , See that you meet me then . Content Lady , he said , He's but a Cowardly Knight , Whom ought shall make afraid , To win a Lady bright . Thus then they went away , But by the Master Cook , Coming thro' the Window wide , Was this fair Lady took . O gentle Cook , quoth she , Do not my Deed bewray , Some Favour to me show , And let me pass away : Love that does conquer Kings Forc'd me to do this Deed , While others fit and sing Make not my Heart to bleed . Not so , then said the Cook , Fair Lady pardon me , Who can this Trespass brook , Committed thus by thee ; My Lord , your Father , shall The Matter understand , For false I will not be , Neither for House nor Land. Then from the Lady's Face , Fell down the Tears amain ; She was in woeful Case , And thus she made her Moan : Alas ! my own dear Love , Little know'st thou my Grief , Great Sorrows must we prove , Hope yielding no Relief . Her Father in a Spleen , Lock'd up his Daughter bright , And set forth armed Men To take the worthy Knight ; Who then was judged to be Quite banish'd from the Land Never his Love to see , So strict was the Command . And at the Sessions next , After the Knight was gone , To his Daughter full of Woe , They brought a hanged Man , Whose Head was smitten off , The Maiden's Truth to prove , Quoth her Father , wanton Dame , Now take thee here thy Love . Her Tears fell down amain , When the Sighed she did see , And sorely did complain Of her Father's Cruelty ; His Body she did wash , With Tears that she did shed , And hundred Times she kissed His Body being dead . Alas my Love , she said , Dear haste thou paid for me , Oh! that in Heaven's Bliss , My Soul were with thee ; But while that I do live , A Vow I here do make , Seven long Years to live unwed For my true Lover's Sake . Her Father hearing this , Was grieved inwardly , He pardon'd her amiss , And prais'd her Constancy , And to this courteous Knight , Her Father did her wed : God grant the like Success , Where perfect Love is bred . Newcastle upon Tyne : Printed and sold by John White . 