Sir Hugh in the Grimes Downfall . OR A New Song made on Sir Hugh in the Grime , who was Hang'd for stealing the Bishops Mare . GOOD Lord John is a hunting gone , Over the Hills and Dales so far , For to take Sir Hugh in the Grime . For stealing of the Bishops Mare - He derry derry down . Hugh in the Grime was taken then , And Carried to Carlisle town ; the merry Women came out amain , Saying the name of Grime shall never go down He derry derry dow Oh then a Jury of Women was brought , Of the best that could be found Eleven of them spoke all at once , Saying the name of Grime shall never go down he derry derry down And then a Jury of men was brought , More the pity for to be ; Eleven of them spoke all at once , Saying Hugh in the Grime you are guilty etc Hugh in the Grime was Cast to be hang'd , Many of his Friends did for him leet , For 15 foot in the Prisin he did Jump , With his hands tied fast behind his back etc then bespoke our good lady Ward , As she set on the Bench so high , A peck of white penny's i'll give to my lord If he'll grant Hugh Grime to me , he etc And if it be not full enough , I'll stroke it up with my Silver Fan , And if it be not full enough , I'll heap it up with my own hand , etc Hold your tongue now lady Ward , And of Your talkitive let it be there is never a Grime came in this Court That at thy biding shall saved be , then bespoke our good lady Moor , As she sat on the Bench so high A Yoke of Fat Oxen i'll give to my lord If he'll grant Hugh Grime to me , etc Hold Your tongue now good lady Moor , and of Your talkitive let it be , there is never a Grime came to this Court , that at thy biding shall saved be , etc Sir Hugh in the Grime look'd out of the door With his hand out of the Bar , there he spy'd his Father dear tearing of his Golden Hair . he derry , etc Hold your Tongue good Father dear , And of your weeping let it be For if they hereave me of my life ; they cannot bereave me of the Heavens so high Sir Hugh in the Grime look'd out at the door Oh! what a sorry heart had he There spy'd his Mother dear , Weeping and wailing Oh! woe is me , etc Hold Your tongue now Mother dear And of Your weeping let it be ; For if they bereave me of my life , they cannot bereave me of Heavens Fee , etc I'll leave my Sword to Johnny Armstrong That is made of Metal so fine : That when he comes to the Border side ; he may think of Hugh in the Grime . he derry etc London : Printed and sold by L How . Sir Hugh in the Grimes Downfall . OR A New Song made on Sir Hugh in the Grime , who was Hang'd for stealing the Bishops Mare . GOOD Lord John is a hunting gone , Over the Hills and Dales so far , For to take Sir Hugh in the Grime . For stealing of the Bishops Mare - He derry derry down . Hugh in the Grime was taken then , And Carried to Carlisle town ; the merry Women came out amain , Saying the name of Grime shall never go down He derry derry dow Oh then a Jury of Women was brought , Of the best that could be found Eleven of them spoke all at once , Saying the name of Grime shall never go down he derry derry down And then a Jury of men was brought , More the pity for to be ; Eleven of them spoke all at once , Saying Hugh in the Grime you are guilty etc Hugh in the Grime was Cast to be hang'd , Many of his Friends did for him leet , For 15 foot in the Prisin he did Jump , With his hands tied fast behind his back etc then bespoke our good lady Ward , As she set on the Bench so high , A peck of white penny's i'll give to my lord If he'll grant Hugh Grime to me , he etc And if it be not full enough , I'll stroke it up with my Silver Fan , And if it be not full enough , I'll heap it up with my own hand , etc Hold your tongue now lady Ward , And of Your talkitive let it be there is never a Grime came in this Court That at thy biding shall saved be , then bespoke our good lady Moor , As she sat on the Bench so high A Yoke of Fat Oxen i'll give to my lord If he'll grant Hugh Grime to me , etc Hold Your tongue now good lady Moor , and of Your talkitive let it be , there is never a Grime came to this Court , that at thy biding shall saved be , etc Sir Hugh in the Grime look'd out of the door With his hand out of the Bar , there he spy'd his Father dear tearing of his Golden Hair . he derry , etc Hold your Tongue good Father dear , And of your weeping let it be For if they hereave me of my life ; they cannot bereave me of the Heavens so high Sir Hugh in the Grime look'd out at the door Oh! what a sorry heart had he There spy'd his Mother dear , Weeping and wailing Oh! woe is me , etc Hold Your tongue now Mother dear And of Your weeping let it be ; For if they bereave me of my life , they cannot bereave me of Heavens Fee , etc I'll leave my Sword to Johnny Armstrong That is made of Metal so fine : That when he comes to the Border side ; he may think of Hugh in the Grime . he derry etc London : Printed and sold by L How . 