The Low-Country Soldier : Or , His humble Petition at his return into England , after his bold Adventures in Bloody Battles . GOod Your Worship cast and Eye , Upon a Soldiers misery ; Let not these lean Cheeks I pray , Your Worship's Bounty from me stay , but like a noble Friend , some silver Lend , And Jove shall pay You in the End : But I will pray that Fate , May make You Fortunate , In Heaven or in some Earthly state , To beg I ne'er was bred , kind sir , Which makes me blush , to keep this stir But tho' I rove from place to place , For to make known my woeful case : For I am none of those , that a Roving goes ; and in rambling show their drunken blows for all that they have god . is by banging of the Pot , in wrangling who should pay the Shot . Olympic Games i oft have seen , And in brave Battles have i been ; The Cannons there aloud did Roar , My proffer high was evermore : for out of a Bravado , when in a Barricado , by tossing of a Hand-Granado , Death then was very near , When it took away this Ear ; But Yet , thank God , i'm here , i'm here , And at the siega of Buda , there , i was blown up into the Air , from whence i tumbled down again , and lay a while among the slave , Yet rather than be beatrice , i god upon my feet , and made the Enemy retreat ; Myself and seven more , We fought Eleven score , The Rogues were ne'er so thrash'd before . I have at least a Dozen times , been blown up by these Roguish Mines , Twice thro' the Skull have i been shot , That my brains do boil like any Pot , such Dangers have i passed , at first and at last , as would make Your Worship soar aghast And there i lay for dead , 'till the Enemy were fled , And then they carried me home to Bed At push of Pike i lost this Eye , And at Birgam Siege i broke this Thigh ; At Ostend like a warlike Lad , i laid about as i were mad : but little would You think that e'er i had been , such a Good old Soldier of the Queen's : But if Sir Francis Vere Were living now and here , He would tell You hnow i flash'd 'em there . The Hollanders my fury know , full oft with them i've dealt a blow , Then did i take a warlike Dance , Quite thro' Spain and into france ; and there i spent a flood of very Noble Blood , Yet all would do but little good , for Now i am come home , With my rags upon my Bum , And crave of Your worship one small Sum. AND Now my case You understand , Pray lend to me Your helping hand , A little thing would Pleasure me , To keep in mind Your Charity ; it is Not Bred and Cheese , Nor Barley Lees , Or any such like Scraps as these , But what i beg of You , is a Shilling ONE or two , Kind Sir , Your Purse Strings pray undo . EPILOGUE . HAVE i spent all MY Days in bloody Wars , thus slash'd carbonado'd & cut out in scars Have i danced o'er the ice march'd thro' the dirt Without either Hat , Hose , Shoe , or Shirt ; And must i now Beg , Bow , troop , trud and trot , To every Pagan and poor Peasant Sot ? No! by this Hand and Sword Not i That Man's not fit to live , that fears to Die , i'll Purse it then , the Highway is MY hope ; His Heart's Not big , that fears a little Rope , -- Stand , & Deliver , sir -- Here boy , take MY Horse , walk him if thou'rt able , Led him a turn or two , and put him into stable As for You Mrs. Minks , don't at me Jeer . To Night for supper let me have good Cheer ; MY Pheasant MY fowls , choice of other Birds , i'll Not be fed with Apple-PYE Cheese & Curds As for Your Swine's flesh i'll eat None , Unless it be a Roast big , & then i may pick a bone The rest my Boy shall transport into his Snapsack , and so we are prepared for the next Rendez - vous . The Low-Country Soldier : Or , His humble Petition at his return into England , after his bold Adventures in Bloody Battles . GOod Your Worship cast and Eye , Upon a Soldiers misery ; Let not these lean Cheeks I pray , Your Worship's Bounty from me stay , but like a noble Friend , some silver Lend , And Jove shall pay You in the End : But I will pray that Fate , May make You Fortunate , In Heaven or in some Earthly state , To beg I ne'er was bred , kind sir , Which makes me blush , to keep this stir But tho' I rove from place to place , For to make known my woeful case : For I am none of those , that a Roving goes ; and in rambling show their drunken blows for all that they have god . is by banging of the Pot , in wrangling who should pay the Shot . Olympic Games i oft have seen , And in brave Battles have i been ; The Cannons there aloud did Roar , My proffer high was evermore : for out of a Bravado , when in a Barricado , by tossing of a Hand-Granado , Death then was very near , When it took away this Ear ; But Yet , thank God , i'm here , i'm here , And at the siega of Buda , there , i was blown up into the Air , from whence i tumbled down again , and lay a while among the slave , Yet rather than be beatrice , i god upon my feet , and made the Enemy retreat ; Myself and seven more , We fought Eleven score , The Rogues were ne'er so thrash'd before . I have at least a Dozen times , been blown up by these Roguish Mines , Twice thro' the Skull have i been shot , That my brains do boil like any Pot , such Dangers have i passed , at first and at last , as would make Your Worship soar aghast And there i lay for dead , 'till the Enemy were fled , And then they carried me home to Bed At push of Pike i lost this Eye , And at Birgam Siege i broke this Thigh ; At Ostend like a warlike Lad , i laid about as i were mad : but little would You think that e'er i had been , such a Good old Soldier of the Queen's : But if Sir Francis Vere Were living now and here , He would tell You hnow i flash'd 'em there . The Hollanders my fury know , full oft with them i've dealt a blow , Then did i take a warlike Dance , Quite thro' Spain and into france ; and there i spent a flood of very Noble Blood , Yet all would do but little good , for Now i am come home , With my rags upon my Bum , And crave of Your worship one small Sum. AND Now my case You understand , Pray lend to me Your helping hand , A little thing would Pleasure me , To keep in mind Your Charity ; it is Not Bred and Cheese , Nor Barley Lees , Or any such like Scraps as these , But what i beg of You , is a Shilling ONE or two , Kind Sir , Your Purse Strings pray undo . EPILOGUE . HAVE i spent all MY Days in bloody Wars , thus slash'd carbonado'd & cut out in scars Have i danced o'er the ice march'd thro' the dirt Without either Hat , Hose , Shoe , or Shirt ; And must i now Beg , Bow , troop , trud and trot , To every Pagan and poor Peasant Sot ? No! by this Hand and Sword Not i That Man's not fit to live , that fears to Die , i'll Purse it then , the Highway is MY hope ; His Heart's Not big , that fears a little Rope , -- Stand , & Deliver , sir -- Here boy , take MY Horse , walk him if thou'rt able , Led him a turn or two , and put him into stable As for You Mrs. Minks , don't at me Jeer . To Night for supper let me have good Cheer ; MY Pheasant MY fowls , choice of other Birds , i'll Not be fed with Apple-PYE Cheese & Curds As for Your Swine's flesh i'll eat None , Unless it be a Roast big , & then i may pick a bone The rest my Boy shall transport into his Snapsack , and so we are prepared for the next Rendez - vous . 