The KENTISH Garland . GOOD people now I pray give ear , And also true attention . Unto these lines , which you shall hear , And words which I shall mention . Within this book as I shall write , As true it is reported , How a young squire ruin'd quite A damsel whom he courted . She was his father's servant-maid , And daughter to a brazier , He often would her heart invade , At every turn and leisure . With all the argument of love , Which passion might discover , Portesting to the powers above , How dearly he did love her . With modest blushes she reply'd , Sir , pray stop your proceeding , For I am no ways qualify'd , Neither for birth nor breeding , You can have choice of ladies , From noble loins descended , Therefore let me alone I pray , Your friends will be offended . Well met , the jewel of my heart , Fear not my friends displeasure , Let who will frown I'll take thy part , And love thee out of measure . No one that's born of noble blood Does stand within my favour . I honour thee , with what is good , For you I love for ever , With modest blushes she reply'd , Sir , stop those found pretences , For if your friends should it know , Then they would be offended . Discourse to me of love no more , But strive to please your parents , I'd rather wed with one that's poor , Than wed to live at variance . Farewell the jewel of my heart , Fear not my friends displeasure ; Let who will frown , I'll take thy part , I'll love thee out of measure . Therefore cheer up , my lovely dear , If parents they should slight me , Till I my breath and life resign , Dear jewel I will right thee . Kind sir , you promise more to me , Than can be now expected ; While you possess such riches store , Then love may be perfected ; But if your parents should now stand Against you with denial , To disinherit you of all , Then there will come the trial . That is the work which they can do , Let them use their pleasure : I must be loyal , just and true , And love thee out of measure , If they would wrong their darling son , For such a poor transgression , Then let them go , when that is done I have a large possession , The which was left to me of late , 'Twas by a near relation . Let father frown , and mother hate , I'm in a happy station : Therefore cheer up my dearest dear , If parents should disdain us . I hope two thousand pounds a year , Will modestly maintain us . These arguments and many more He used to obtain her . She gave consent to wed , wherefore There's none alive can blame her . For she was made his lawful wife , By their portested marriage , But soon she lost her precious life . By his ungrateful carriage . Unknown to friends and parents dear , This couple they were wedded , And in the space of half a year After they both were bedded , It seem'd she proved young with child , Her locks began to show it , Until his friends were reconcil'd . He would not let them know it , But up to famous London-town , Immediately he brought her , And to behave with modesty And decency he taught her . Much like a youthful lady gay , She seem'd , all in her beauty ; And while he with her there did stay , He shew'd a husband's duty . As they were charm'd with mutual love , Which for a season lasted ; At length they herd a dismal noise , Which all their pleasure blasted , His parents come to understand , By private Information , That he had lodgings in the Strand , And fill'd with recreation . They sent a letter full of wrath , And threatn'd her with ruin . Which he receiv'd , while she stood by , And at the same stood viewing . Tears from his eyes did flow amain , She asked him the reason : Said he , my friends do me disdain . They both wept for a season . She read these lines as well as he , And found them harsh and cruel : Said she , my dear be kind to me , Be kind my dearest jewel , Let me not suffer for thy sake , Consider my condition . For if you don't , my heart will break , It was not my Ambition To be a lady , well you known , 'Twas long e'er I consented . Why do they seem to threaten so ? I strove for to prevent it . But now I am your lawful wife , Which you was pleas'd to make me , Your smiles perhaps may save my life , I die if you forsake me . He took her by the hand , and said , My dear , my joy and sweating , Within my lodgings pray abide , Till our next happy meeting . With kissess sweet and solemn vows , They from each other parted , But grief appeared on her brows , For she was brokenhearted . He promised to take her part , And certainly excuse her , To father , nay , and mother too , That they might not abuse her : To make the matter fair and clear , And in all cases clear her . He went , but ne'er return'd again , And never more eame near her , But when she came unto the town , They told her he was marry'd , To a young lady of renown , With grief she then miscarried . But when his parents came to find , That she was with their neighbour , To whom she did her conscience clear , Within the time of labour , They threatened her with banishment , For tricking of the squire , But fatal death did them prevent , For she did soon expire . But some minutes before she died , In friends and neighbours hearing . She wrung her hands , and weeping said , what is there not appearing ? Will you not come near me then ? Oh! husband most falsehearted , With just revenge I'll haunt you when My wronged soul's departed ; Adcordingly as she had said , within three nights after , Come to the room where he laid The wronged brazier's daughter . When in the midst of their joy , To their amazing wonder , The room was fill'd with dreadful noise Like roaring claps of thunder . To crown the stately marriage bed , They saw a flash of fire , And herd a dismal voice that said , Oh! most ungrateful squire . The lady that lies by your side , She shall not long enjoy you , It was I that was your lawful bride , Just vengeance must destroy you : Within her arms like ice or clay , The spirit did unfold him : By force she took him quite away , His lady could not hold him . She shriek'd and cry'd , but all in vain , For then the spirit gave him That very night his fatal bane , There's none alive could save him . The lady then rose up with speed , At this sad consternation , Where on his breast they plain did read These words of lamentation . In perfect roman letters blue , This wretch was my undoing , He being false , has brought me to My death and utter ruin . For making me his lawful wife , The deed he then to smother , And for the cursed golden prize , He married with another . His faithless tongue seduc'd my soul ; And easily deceived me , His perjer'd words pierced my herd . And of my life bereav'd me , Leaving his wife and child to fallen , A sacrifice together . He makes a third that caused the ill , So now farewell together . Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office in Aldermary Church-Yard , London st The KENTISH Garland . GOOD people now I pray give ear , And also true attention . Unto these lines , which you shall hear , And words which I shall mention . Within this book as I shall write , As true it is reported , How a young squire ruin'd quite A damsel whom he courted . She was his father's servant-maid , And daughter to a brazier , He often would her heart invade , At every turn and leisure . With all the argument of love , Which passion might discover , Portesting to the powers above , How dearly he did love her . With modest blushes she reply'd , Sir , pray stop your proceeding , For I am no ways qualify'd , Neither for birth nor breeding , You can have choice of ladies , From noble loins descended , Therefore let me alone I pray , Your friends will be offended . Well met , the jewel of my heart , Fear not my friends displeasure , Let who will frown I'll take thy part , And love thee out of measure . No one that's born of noble blood Does stand within my favour . I honour thee , with what is good , For you I love for ever , With modest blushes she reply'd , Sir , stop those found pretences , For if your friends should it know , Then they would be offended . Discourse to me of love no more , But strive to please your parents , I'd rather wed with one that's poor , Than wed to live at variance . Farewell the jewel of my heart , Fear not my friends displeasure ; Let who will frown , I'll take thy part , I'll love thee out of measure . Therefore cheer up , my lovely dear , If parents they should slight me , Till I my breath and life resign , Dear jewel I will right thee . Kind sir , you promise more to me , Than can be now expected ; While you possess such riches store , Then love may be perfected ; But if your parents should now stand Against you with denial , To disinherit you of all , Then there will come the trial . That is the work which they can do , Let them use their pleasure : I must be loyal , just and true , And love thee out of measure , If they would wrong their darling son , For such a poor transgression , Then let them go , when that is done I have a large possession , The which was left to me of late , 'Twas by a near relation . Let father frown , and mother hate , I'm in a happy station : Therefore cheer up my dearest dear , If parents should disdain us . I hope two thousand pounds a year , Will modestly maintain us . These arguments and many more He used to obtain her . She gave consent to wed , wherefore There's none alive can blame her . For she was made his lawful wife , By their portested marriage , But soon she lost her precious life . By his ungrateful carriage . Unknown to friends and parents dear , This couple they were wedded , And in the space of half a year After they both were bedded , It seem'd she proved young with child , Her locks began to show it , Until his friends were reconcil'd . He would not let them know it , But up to famous London-town , Immediately he brought her , And to behave with modesty And decency he taught her . Much like a youthful lady gay , She seem'd , all in her beauty ; And while he with her there did stay , He shew'd a husband's duty . As they were charm'd with mutual love , Which for a season lasted ; At length they herd a dismal noise , Which all their pleasure blasted , His parents come to understand , By private Information , That he had lodgings in the Strand , And fill'd with recreation . They sent a letter full of wrath , And threatn'd her with ruin . Which he receiv'd , while she stood by , And at the same stood viewing . Tears from his eyes did flow amain , She asked him the reason : Said he , my friends do me disdain . They both wept for a season . She read these lines as well as he , And found them harsh and cruel : Said she , my dear be kind to me , Be kind my dearest jewel , Let me not suffer for thy sake , Consider my condition . For if you don't , my heart will break , It was not my Ambition To be a lady , well you known , 'Twas long e'er I consented . Why do they seem to threaten so ? I strove for to prevent it . But now I am your lawful wife , Which you was pleas'd to make me , Your smiles perhaps may save my life , I die if you forsake me . He took her by the hand , and said , My dear , my joy and sweating , Within my lodgings pray abide , Till our next happy meeting . With kissess sweet and solemn vows , They from each other parted , But grief appeared on her brows , For she was brokenhearted . He promised to take her part , And certainly excuse her , To father , nay , and mother too , That they might not abuse her : To make the matter fair and clear , And in all cases clear her . He went , but ne'er return'd again , And never more eame near her , But when she came unto the town , They told her he was marry'd , To a young lady of renown , With grief she then miscarried . But when his parents came to find , That she was with their neighbour , To whom she did her conscience clear , Within the time of labour , They threatened her with banishment , For tricking of the squire , But fatal death did them prevent , For she did soon expire . But some minutes before she died , In friends and neighbours hearing . She wrung her hands , and weeping said , what is there not appearing ? Will you not come near me then ? Oh! husband most falsehearted , With just revenge I'll haunt you when My wronged soul's departed ; Adcordingly as she had said , within three nights after , Come to the room where he laid The wronged brazier's daughter . When in the midst of their joy , To their amazing wonder , The room was fill'd with dreadful noise Like roaring claps of thunder . To crown the stately marriage bed , They saw a flash of fire , And herd a dismal voice that said , Oh! most ungrateful squire . The lady that lies by your side , She shall not long enjoy you , It was I that was your lawful bride , Just vengeance must destroy you : Within her arms like ice or clay , The spirit did unfold him : By force she took him quite away , His lady could not hold him . She shriek'd and cry'd , but all in vain , For then the spirit gave him That very night his fatal bane , There's none alive could save him . The lady then rose up with speed , At this sad consternation , Where on his breast they plain did read These words of lamentation . In perfect roman letters blue , This wretch was my undoing , He being false , has brought me to My death and utter ruin . For making me his lawful wife , The deed he then to smother , And for the cursed golden prize , He married with another . His faithless tongue seduc'd my soul ; And easily deceived me , His perjer'd words pierced my herd . And of my life bereav'd me , Leaving his wife and child to fallen , A sacrifice together . He makes a third that caused the ill , So now farewell together . Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office in Aldermary Church-Yard , London st 