The LEEDS Tragedy : OR , The BLOODY BROTHER . GOOD Christian people all I pray , a while to me draw near ; And such a story I will tell , you ne'er before did hear . For ever since the world began , such a thing was never known , When you have herd it , you will say . 'twill melt a heart of stone . At Leeds in Yorkshire , as we hear , a noble Lord did dwell : He had a son and daughter fair , as many know full well . His lady happening to die , each was his chiefest care ; His daughter he lov'd best , they say , both dutiful and fair . Lords and knights they courted her , but she did them deny ; Saying , I am resolved a maid to live and die . Her fame among the country rang , so dutiful was she ; Her brother fell in love with her , which caus'd this tragedy . So was he struck in love with her , as to his bed he went ; He'd many things , but all in vain , he could have no content . For to speak he was asham'd , and so he well might be ; Sure such a thing was never known , nor herd by none but me , One day he to his sister sent , so up to him she came ; Cries he , dear sister , 'tis for you I'm in this burning flame . She hearing him say so , reply'd , come , Brother , tell to me , What I can get to save your life , and I will get it free . Poor soul , she little thinking then what was his base intent , Kept urging him to tell her strait , what would give him content . At last this wicked rogue he said , If I could lie with thee , Of my pains I should be free , and satisfied well be . Your beauty has so charmed me , if you do me deny , By gazing at thy fair body , I instantly must die . Soon as these words to her he spoke , unto him she did say . You wicked , vile , and cruel wretch , forbear these words I pray . O brother , once I lov'd you well , as any sister sure : But now my love is turn'd to hate , I cannot you endure . You are the worst of creatures sure , And so deserve to burn ; And was not you my brother dear , you out of doors should turn . For now you're hateful in God's sighed , and all will you disdain . How can you thus offend the Lord , in being so profane ? So from him then she quickly goes , but yet lov'd him so well , That of the thing which he had said , her father would not tell . When she was gone , he then did say , Reveng'd on her I'll be ; For I will get my will of her the first opportunity . She hearing him for to say so , No rest at all could take ; With grief and woe her tender heart was ready then to break . And to the Lord , poor soul , she pray'd upon her bent knees , For to turn this ingrate's heart , that she might be at ease . Niw he was plotting all the time , of her to get his will . And afterwards he was resolv'd her precious blood to spill . Her father kept a noble park , one evening she did go , And as her brother was gone out , she walked to and fro' Long in the park she had not been , before that he came in ; And missing of his sister dear , he to the park did run . If she is there I'm safe enough , reveng'd on her I'll be : When I have had my will of her , I'll murder her , said he . But as he came unto the place , where this poor creature sat . With a dissembling smile he said , my sister dear , well met . But when she turn'd , and found him there , the rose her face forsook ; And trembling to him she did say , I do not like your look . For you have mischief in your heart , as I can plainly see ; But your desire you shall not have , I am resolv'd , of me . He said , sister , you do guess right , to lie with you I'm come ; So this base wretch most eagerly unto her arms did run . But she cry'd out with might and main , good Lord , look down I pray ; She struggled till her strength was spent , and then swooned a way . This cursed stony hearted wretch , of her did get his will ; And afterwards he was resolv'd her precious blood to spill . As soon as e'ver she did revive , said he , I'll end the strife ; For thou shalt ne'er tell what I've done but here I'll end thy life . Crying , this knife shall end the smart , and none shall know the truth ; I'll stab it in the strumpet's heart , so pray make no dispute . His sister hearing him say so , unto the Lord she cry'd . O had it been thy blessed will , that I before had dy'd . Sure I should never then have felt the torments I go through ; Sure thou can'st ne'er my brother be , and thus to use me so . I that am your flesh and blood , don't use me so severe ; Since you've defil'd me , spare my life , for Christ's sake , brother dear . He said , these words will not prevail , but here I'll have your life : Then to her breast as white as snow , he put the hateful knife . The tears did trickle down her cheeks , her life of him she crav'd ; O don't forget the judgement day , how will you then be sav'd ? No longer will I stay , he said , then gave the fatal blow ; Her precious blood upon her breast , did like a fountain flow ; This did not turn his stony heart , undaunted still was he ; He straightway went and dug a grave , to hid her fair body . Now when that he this grave had dug , and laid her in the ground . He went and covered her blood , for fear it should be found . Such heinous things cannot be hid , from God's most piercing sighed ; For in short this wicked crime was brought to open light . Her aged father long did mourn , for her , but could not hear , What was become of his sweet child , whom he did love so dear . The wicked wretch , her brother , he did with him seem [ tO ] oh mourn : His father little thought that he the wicked deed had done . His father said to him one day , we will a hunting go ; Since thy dear sister can't be found , I'll strive to ease my woe . Full six months her body lay there , cover'd with dust and mould ; And most strangely , as you shall hear the murder it was told . Just as the sport it did begin , and in this place did come , The hounds all on a sudden stopp'd , and would no further run . Now he then amazed stood , so did the nobles all ; And the son turn'd as pale as Death , and from his horse did fallen . The lord he to the rest did say , what ails my dearest son ? My heart does flutter in my breast , sure some bad mischief's done . The place was open'd instantly , where they soon her found The body of his daughter dear laid in that spot of ground . At last , when they had him reviv'd , and to his senses came , His father said , I fear you have this cursed actium done . So straightway to the corpse he went , and kiss'd her lips like clay ; Saying , this is my child , of whom I took such care always . He kiss'd htr lips till floods of tears down from his eyes did flow ; Since her dear body now is found , I mean the truth to know . But when he tax'd him with the same , he could it not deny ; And when he had the story told , he made them for to cry . Father , where shall I go , said he ? or whither shall I run ? You shall to prison go , said he , And there receive your doom . No compassion at all you had Upon your sister dear . The worst of death's you do deserve , For being so severe . She was to me as dear as you , nay , I did love her best . The Lord receive my soul , said he , for here I cannot rest . He order'd him for to be seiz'd , and unto prison sent . Until the Assizes there he lies , Lord send he may repent . His father instantly ran mad , and in his bed was ty'd : None did expect him for to live , until his son was try'd ; We hope this will a warning be , to wicked lustful Men ; For such a thing sure ne'er was known , since first the world began . The LEEDS Tragedy : OR , The BLOODY BROTHER . GOOD Christian people all I pray , a while to me draw near ; And such a story I will tell , you ne'er before did hear . For ever since the world began , such a thing was never known , When you have herd it , you will say . 'twill melt a heart of stone . At Leeds in Yorkshire , as we hear , a noble Lord did dwell : He had a son and daughter fair , as many know full well . His lady happening to die , each was his chiefest care ; His daughter he lov'd best , they say , both dutiful and fair . Lords and knights they courted her , but she did them deny ; Saying , I am resolved a maid to live and die . Her fame among the country rang , so dutiful was she ; Her brother fell in love with her , which caus'd this tragedy . So was he struck in love with her , as to his bed he went ; He'd many things , but all in vain , he could have no content . For to speak he was asham'd , and so he well might be ; Sure such a thing was never known , nor herd by none but me , One day he to his sister sent , so up to him she came ; Cries he , dear sister , 'tis for you I'm in this burning flame . She hearing him say so , reply'd , come , Brother , tell to me , What I can get to save your life , and I will get it free . Poor soul , she little thinking then what was his base intent , Kept urging him to tell her strait , what would give him content . At last this wicked rogue he said , If I could lie with thee , Of my pains I should be free , and satisfied well be . Your beauty has so charmed me , if you do me deny , By gazing at thy fair body , I instantly must die . Soon as these words to her he spoke , unto him she did say . You wicked , vile , and cruel wretch , forbear these words I pray . O brother , once I lov'd you well , as any sister sure : But now my love is turn'd to hate , I cannot you endure . You are the worst of creatures sure , And so deserve to burn ; And was not you my brother dear , you out of doors should turn . For now you're hateful in God's sighed , and all will you disdain . How can you thus offend the Lord , in being so profane ? So from him then she quickly goes , but yet lov'd him so well , That of the thing which he had said , her father would not tell . When she was gone , he then did say , Reveng'd on her I'll be ; For I will get my will of her the first opportunity . She hearing him for to say so , No rest at all could take ; With grief and woe her tender heart was ready then to break . And to the Lord , poor soul , she pray'd upon her bent knees , For to turn this ingrate's heart , that she might be at ease . Niw he was plotting all the time , of her to get his will . And afterwards he was resolv'd her precious blood to spill . Her father kept a noble park , one evening she did go , And as her brother was gone out , she walked to and fro' Long in the park she had not been , before that he came in ; And missing of his sister dear , he to the park did run . If she is there I'm safe enough , reveng'd on her I'll be : When I have had my will of her , I'll murder her , said he . But as he came unto the place , where this poor creature sat . With a dissembling smile he said , my sister dear , well met . But when she turn'd , and found him there , the rose her face forsook ; And trembling to him she did say , I do not like your look . For you have mischief in your heart , as I can plainly see ; But your desire you shall not have , I am resolv'd , of me . He said , sister , you do guess right , to lie with you I'm come ; So this base wretch most eagerly unto her arms did run . But she cry'd out with might and main , good Lord , look down I pray ; She struggled till her strength was spent , and then swooned a way . This cursed stony hearted wretch , of her did get his will ; And afterwards he was resolv'd her precious blood to spill . As soon as e'ver she did revive , said he , I'll end the strife ; For thou shalt ne'er tell what I've done but here I'll end thy life . Crying , this knife shall end the smart , and none shall know the truth ; I'll stab it in the strumpet's heart , so pray make no dispute . His sister hearing him say so , unto the Lord she cry'd . O had it been thy blessed will , that I before had dy'd . Sure I should never then have felt the torments I go through ; Sure thou can'st ne'er my brother be , and thus to use me so . I that am your flesh and blood , don't use me so severe ; Since you've defil'd me , spare my life , for Christ's sake , brother dear . He said , these words will not prevail , but here I'll have your life : Then to her breast as white as snow , he put the hateful knife . The tears did trickle down her cheeks , her life of him she crav'd ; O don't forget the judgement day , how will you then be sav'd ? No longer will I stay , he said , then gave the fatal blow ; Her precious blood upon her breast , did like a fountain flow ; This did not turn his stony heart , undaunted still was he ; He straightway went and dug a grave , to hid her fair body . Now when that he this grave had dug , and laid her in the ground . He went and covered her blood , for fear it should be found . Such heinous things cannot be hid , from God's most piercing sighed ; For in short this wicked crime was brought to open light . Her aged father long did mourn , for her , but could not hear , What was become of his sweet child , whom he did love so dear . The wicked wretch , her brother , he did with him seem [ tO ] oh mourn : His father little thought that he the wicked deed had done . His father said to him one day , we will a hunting go ; Since thy dear sister can't be found , I'll strive to ease my woe . Full six months her body lay there , cover'd with dust and mould ; And most strangely , as you shall hear the murder it was told . Just as the sport it did begin , and in this place did come , The hounds all on a sudden stopp'd , and would no further run . Now he then amazed stood , so did the nobles all ; And the son turn'd as pale as Death , and from his horse did fallen . The lord he to the rest did say , what ails my dearest son ? My heart does flutter in my breast , sure some bad mischief's done . The place was open'd instantly , where they soon her found The body of his daughter dear laid in that spot of ground . At last , when they had him reviv'd , and to his senses came , His father said , I fear you have this cursed actium done . So straightway to the corpse he went , and kiss'd her lips like clay ; Saying , this is my child , of whom I took such care always . He kiss'd htr lips till floods of tears down from his eyes did flow ; Since her dear body now is found , I mean the truth to know . But when he tax'd him with the same , he could it not deny ; And when he had the story told , he made them for to cry . Father , where shall I go , said he ? or whither shall I run ? You shall to prison go , said he , And there receive your doom . No compassion at all you had Upon your sister dear . The worst of death's you do deserve , For being so severe . She was to me as dear as you , nay , I did love her best . The Lord receive my soul , said he , for here I cannot rest . He order'd him for to be seiz'd , and unto prison sent . Until the Assizes there he lies , Lord send he may repent . His father instantly ran mad , and in his bed was ty'd : None did expect him for to live , until his son was try'd ; We hope this will a warning be , to wicked lustful Men ; For such a thing sure ne'er was known , since first the world began . 