The Jolly Gentleman's FROLIC ; OR , THE City Ramble . Being and Account of a Gentleman who wager'd to pass by the Watch , and give no Answer , but was stop'd by a Constable , and sent to the Counter , and next Day clear'd before my Lord Mayor , by the Intercession of his Daughter . GIVE Ear to a Frolicsome Ditty , Of one that a Wager would lay , He'd pass e'ery Watch in the City , and never a Word he would say , But , Doll Ra Roll , etc The Constable spoke to his Watchmen , brave Boys , it is my Delight , And Order I have to catch Men who ramble too late in the Night , The Humour , etc The Streets do ecchoe we hear , Boys with Madmen coming along ; My Staff is ready , ne'er fear Boys , we'll make them altar their Song . The Humour , etc Stand , stand , said the Watchman , the Constable now come before , And if a just Story you'll tell Man , I'll light you home to your own Door . The Humour , etc This is a very late Season , which surely no honest Men keep , And therefore it is but just Reason that you in the Counter should sleep , The Humour , etc Take away this same Fellow , and him to the Counter convey : Although his Frolic is mellow , he something Tomorrow will say . The Humour , etc Open the Gate , make no Scorning , take Charge of the Prisoner there ; And we will soon in the Morning appear before my Lord-Mayor . The Humour , etc A Bottle of Claret I'll fill , Sir , some Pipes of Tobacco beside ; And if that it now be your Will , Sir , a Bed for you soon we'll provide . The Humour , etc The Frolic soon eccho'd the Prison , the Debtors his Garnish would have , Without demanding the Reason , whate'er they requir'd he gave . The Humour , etc The Constable soon the next Day , Sir , this comical Matter to clear ; The Gentleman hurries straitways , Sir , before my Lord-Mayor to appear . The Humour , etc My Lord , give Ear to my Story , while I the Truth do relate , The Gentleman who stands before you , was seiz'd by me at Cripplegate . The Humour , etc I nothing could hear but his Singing , wherefore in the Counter he lay , And therefore this Morning I bring him , to hear what your Lordship would say . The Humour , etc Come , Friend , the Case does appear now , that You was in a mad Fi I hope that you may be clear now , since Sleep has restored your Wit . The Humour etc This Gentleman sure is distracted , he has overheated his Brain ; Since he in this manner has acted , to the Counter I'll send him again . The Humour , etc A Prison sure it will tame him , and bring him soon to his Sense ; There's nothing else can reclaim him , from this his notorious Offence . The Humour , etc O then bespoke my Lord's Daughter , and thus for him did intercede , Dear Father , You'll hear that hereafter this was but a Wager indeed . The Humour , etc Therefore be pleased kind Father , to hear one Word more of me , And show to me so much Favour , this Gentleman may be set free . The Humour , etc Well , Daughter , I grant the Petition , the Gentleman Home may repair ; But then 'tis upon this Condition , of paying my Officers there . The Humour , etc Come , Sir , your Fees we require , you now are freed by the Court , And all that we do desire , you'll find out some other new Sport . The Humour , etc Thus seeing he might be released , if he his Fees did but pay ; He then was very well pleased , and so he went singing away . The Humour , etc Printed in Bow-Church-Yard , London , where may be had all sorts of Old and New Ballads . The Jolly Gentleman's FROLIC ; OR , THE City Ramble . Being and Account of a Gentleman who wager'd to pass by the Watch , and give no Answer , but was stop'd by a Constable , and sent to the Counter , and next Day clear'd before my Lord Mayor , by the Intercession of his Daughter . GIVE Ear to a Frolicsome Ditty , Of one that a Wager would lay , He'd pass e'ery Watch in the City , and never a Word he would say , But , Doll Ra Roll , etc The Constable spoke to his Watchmen , brave Boys , it is my Delight , And Order I have to catch Men who ramble too late in the Night , The Humour , etc The Streets do ecchoe we hear , Boys with Madmen coming along ; My Staff is ready , ne'er fear Boys , we'll make them altar their Song . The Humour , etc Stand , stand , said the Watchman , the Constable now come before , And if a just Story you'll tell Man , I'll light you home to your own Door . The Humour , etc This is a very late Season , which surely no honest Men keep , And therefore it is but just Reason that you in the Counter should sleep , The Humour , etc Take away this same Fellow , and him to the Counter convey : Although his Frolic is mellow , he something Tomorrow will say . The Humour , etc Open the Gate , make no Scorning , take Charge of the Prisoner there ; And we will soon in the Morning appear before my Lord-Mayor . The Humour , etc A Bottle of Claret I'll fill , Sir , some Pipes of Tobacco beside ; And if that it now be your Will , Sir , a Bed for you soon we'll provide . The Humour , etc The Frolic soon eccho'd the Prison , the Debtors his Garnish would have , Without demanding the Reason , whate'er they requir'd he gave . The Humour , etc The Constable soon the next Day , Sir , this comical Matter to clear ; The Gentleman hurries straitways , Sir , before my Lord-Mayor to appear . The Humour , etc My Lord , give Ear to my Story , while I the Truth do relate , The Gentleman who stands before you , was seiz'd by me at Cripplegate . The Humour , etc I nothing could hear but his Singing , wherefore in the Counter he lay , And therefore this Morning I bring him , to hear what your Lordship would say . The Humour , etc Come , Friend , the Case does appear now , that You was in a mad Fi I hope that you may be clear now , since Sleep has restored your Wit . The Humour etc This Gentleman sure is distracted , he has overheated his Brain ; Since he in this manner has acted , to the Counter I'll send him again . The Humour , etc A Prison sure it will tame him , and bring him soon to his Sense ; There's nothing else can reclaim him , from this his notorious Offence . The Humour , etc O then bespoke my Lord's Daughter , and thus for him did intercede , Dear Father , You'll hear that hereafter this was but a Wager indeed . The Humour , etc Therefore be pleased kind Father , to hear one Word more of me , And show to me so much Favour , this Gentleman may be set free . The Humour , etc Well , Daughter , I grant the Petition , the Gentleman Home may repair ; But then 'tis upon this Condition , of paying my Officers there . The Humour , etc Come , Sir , your Fees we require , you now are freed by the Court , And all that we do desire , you'll find out some other new Sport . The Humour , etc Thus seeing he might be released , if he his Fees did but pay ; He then was very well pleased , and so he went singing away . The Humour , etc Printed in Bow-Church-Yard , London , where may be had all sorts of Old and New Ballads . 