The unsatisfied LOVERS Lamentation . This hapless lass in discontent Laments and makes her moan , & is with sorrow almost spent , Because she lies alone . Tune of , Heigh boys up go we . THis twenty years and more that I have liv'd a single life , Wanting a youngman's company , and can't be made a Wife . Oh! could I find some brisk young Lad one bout with me to try , Twould ease my heart that now is sad , and hey boys down I'le lie . Unfortunate indeed am I , unmarried to remain , Ten thousand sighs at least have I spent , sent , but all in vain , And whosoever asks me , 'tis sure I'll ne'r deny , Who am in necessity , and hey boys down I'le lie . Had I ten thousand pounds in Gold , I'd give it for a touch , Or Jewels , more than e're were sold , I'd think them not too much . But freely I would give them all to ease my Malady , Come Jack or Will and take your fill , for heigh boys down I'le lie . And sport as long as you think good , then lie you down and rest , If this by me were understood , I then should sure be blessed . Then come away for pity sake , one bout with me to try , With my soft hand isle make it stand , then heigh boys down isle lie . With kisses and embraces sweet your Courage I'll refresh , To make my happiness complete , by tasting of the flesh . Come , come with speed and do the deed or else for love I die , I sighs and mourn and sadly groan , that hey boys down would lie . Was ever any loving Girls , like me left in distress , The thing which some do count a Pearl there's nothing I love less . My Maidenhead I do not esteem , would it were gone say I , I shall be vexed and much perplexed , till heigh boys down I lie . There's not a Lass I do believe in Country or in City , That wanting man did so much grieve , and yet did find less pity , My very sheets each night I knaw , and like one mad am I , Yet shall not rest but be oppressed , till heigh boys down I lie . It better I had been unborn , then such a life to live , That youngmen all both great and small deny relief to give . By Nature I am not so foul or shapeless to the Eye , Then give some ease to this disease , and hey boys down isle lie . Such wanton thoughts possess my mind by night and eke by day , That sometime I am half inclin'd to make my self away . Then I these thoughts do check again , in time I hope say I , May find a friend that may extend his love , then down lie I . As yet I hapless do remain , and quite bereav'd of hope , Were I in either France or Spain , idem ask leave of the Pope . That I might Trade with some young blade he could not me deny , Then should I be from Torment free , and hey boys down i'de lie . Printed for , J. Wright J. Clark W. Thackery , and T. Passenger . The unsatisfied LOVERS Lamentation . This hapless lass in discontent Laments and makes her moan , & is with sorrow almost spent , Because she lies alone . Tune of , Heigh boys up go we . THis twenty years and more that I have liv'd a single life , Wanting a youngman's company , and can't be made a Wife . Oh! could I find some brisk young Lad one bout with me to try , Twould ease my heart that now is sad , and hey boys down I'le lie . Unfortunate indeed am I , unmarried to remain , Ten thousand sighs at least have I spent , sent , but all in vain , And whosoever asks me , 'tis sure I'll ne'r deny , Who am in necessity , and hey boys down I'le lie . Had I ten thousand pounds in Gold , I'd give it for a touch , Or Jewels , more than e're were sold , I'd think them not too much . But freely I would give them all to ease my Malady , Come Jack or Will and take your fill , for heigh boys down I'le lie . And sport as long as you think good , then lie you down and rest , If this by me were understood , I then should sure be blessed . Then come away for pity sake , one bout with me to try , With my soft hand isle make it stand , then heigh boys down isle lie . With kisses and embraces sweet your Courage I'll refresh , To make my happiness complete , by tasting of the flesh . Come , come with speed and do the deed or else for love I die , I sighs and mourn and sadly groan , that hey boys down would lie . Was ever any loving Girls , like me left in distress , The thing which some do count a Pearl there's nothing I love less . My Maidenhead I do not esteem , would it were gone say I , I shall be vexed and much perplexed , till heigh boys down I lie . There's not a Lass I do believe in Country or in City , That wanting man did so much grieve , and yet did find less pity , My very sheets each night I knaw , and like one mad am I , Yet shall not rest but be oppressed , till heigh boys down I lie . It better I had been unborn , then such a life to live , That youngmen all both great and small deny relief to give . By Nature I am not so foul or shapeless to the Eye , Then give some ease to this disease , and hey boys down isle lie . Such wanton thoughts possess my mind by night and eke by day , That sometime I am half inclin'd to make my self away . Then I these thoughts do check again , in time I hope say I , May find a friend that may extend his love , then down lie I . As yet I hapless do remain , and quite bereav'd of hope , Were I in either France or Spain , idem ask leave of the Pope . That I might Trade with some young blade he could not me deny , Then should I be from Torment free , and hey boys down i'de lie . Printed for , J. Wright J. Clark W. Thackery , and T. Passenger . 