The Young Farmer's Answer TO HIS SWEET-HEART NANNY . WHO Much complained of her undergoing the weary Burden of a Troublesome Maidenhead . To the Tune of , The Scotch Haymakers . WHat's this my dearest Nanny , that fain would be a bride , And Frank is pitched upon to lie by Nannys side : In truth my Love with thee , I do presently agree , That thou art known in years full grown , a bedfellow to be : Wherefore then should thy Mother deny , That thou art old enough with a Bedfellow to lie . Come Nanny , never fear , I'll rid thee of that care , For the burden of thy Maidenhead no longer thou shalt bear . Near mind thy mother's prating against a married life , For she her self when single was mad to be a Wife , Because that she was barred , till Nineteen ere she Married , Yet e'ry day , I dare to say , she thought a year she tarried ; Though now my Nanny she does advice To live a single life if she means for to be wise : Yet Nanny never fear , I'll rid thee of that ear , For the burden of thy Maidenhead no longer thou shalt bear . But now thy only Mother does give her free Consent , That you as length should Marry unto your hearts conten Then Nanny take the minute , while thy mother's Humour's in it , lest like the wind she change her mind , and then she be again it . Come then dear Nanny and go to bed , I burn like Coal of Fire for want of being wed : Therefore you need not fear , I'll rid thee of that care , For the burden of thy Maidenhead no longer thou shalt bear . NANNYS Reply . But Francis , what if troubles should fallen upon our head , When we come to Housekeeping after that we are wed : Let it be well or ill , I'm resolv'd to have my will ; And to morrow my Frank I'll be thine , For we will go to church and be wedded all betime . So Maidenhead adieu , no more I'll think of you , But other pleasure out of measure , which I have to do . But my dearest Francis one question I must crave , The first night I am Married my Maidenhead to save ; 'Tis a vow I lately taken , yet I valve not the same ; I'll leave't to you , what ere you do , for you are not to blame , Come then let's to the Parson away , For this I do design shall be our wedding day . So Maidenhead adieu , no more I'll think of you , But in the night much more delight there is I have to do . Frank . Then Nanny here's my hand , and to Church I'll straight with thee And William and brisk Johnny they shall your bride-men be , There's Katherine and sweet Betty , who both are likewise pritey , Will dance & sing , at night will fling the Stocking for to hit you , But why do I talk of such sport as this , When I shall wish them fareher that Nanny I may kiss , O then my dear delight , I'll hug thee all the night , And the burden of thy Maidenhead Girl soon shall take its flight With that brisk Nanny smiled , and turn'd her head aside , For blushes , like to Roses , appeared in the bride : but the morning drawing on then to church went e'ery one , Since it a fancy that dear Nancy should not lie alone : And when the Parson had done the trick , The bride-men were for Garters , and likewise for a lick ; And wished her joy good store , that she might never more Complain o'th burden , heavy burden as she did before . When Dinner it was over , and wine it went about , With music and with dancing there was a heavy rou but when the day was spent to each Guests hearts content , About ten at night , with much delight , to bed the Couple went , Where they were lost for to ease the Pain Of a burden , which young Nanny did oftentimes complain , but in the dead o'th night , to Nannys hearts delight , This burden of a Maidenhead from Nanny took its flight . London : Printed by and for A.M. 1696. The Young Farmer's Answer TO HIS SWEET-HEART NANNY . WHO Much complained of her undergoing the weary Burden of a Troublesome Maidenhead . To the Tune of , The Scotch Haymakers . WHat's this my dearest Nanny , that fain would be a bride , And Frank is pitched upon to lie by Nannys side : In truth my Love with thee , I do presently agree , That thou art known in years full grown , a bedfellow to be : Wherefore then should thy Mother deny , That thou art old enough with a Bedfellow to lie . Come Nanny , never fear , I'll rid thee of that care , For the burden of thy Maidenhead no longer thou shalt bear . Near mind thy mother's prating against a married life , For she her self when single was mad to be a Wife , Because that she was barred , till Nineteen ere she Married , Yet e'ry day , I dare to say , she thought a year she tarried ; Though now my Nanny she does advice To live a single life if she means for to be wise : Yet Nanny never fear , I'll rid thee of that ear , For the burden of thy Maidenhead no longer thou shalt bear . But now thy only Mother does give her free Consent , That you as length should Marry unto your hearts conten Then Nanny take the minute , while thy mother's Humour's in it , lest like the wind she change her mind , and then she be again it . Come then dear Nanny and go to bed , I burn like Coal of Fire for want of being wed : Therefore you need not fear , I'll rid thee of that care , For the burden of thy Maidenhead no longer thou shalt bear . NANNYS Reply . But Francis , what if troubles should fallen upon our head , When we come to Housekeeping after that we are wed : Let it be well or ill , I'm resolv'd to have my will ; And to morrow my Frank I'll be thine , For we will go to church and be wedded all betime . So Maidenhead adieu , no more I'll think of you , But other pleasure out of measure , which I have to do . But my dearest Francis one question I must crave , The first night I am Married my Maidenhead to save ; 'Tis a vow I lately taken , yet I valve not the same ; I'll leave't to you , what ere you do , for you are not to blame , Come then let's to the Parson away , For this I do design shall be our wedding day . So Maidenhead adieu , no more I'll think of you , But in the night much more delight there is I have to do . Frank . Then Nanny here's my hand , and to Church I'll straight with thee And William and brisk Johnny they shall your bride-men be , There's Katherine and sweet Betty , who both are likewise pritey , Will dance & sing , at night will fling the Stocking for to hit you , But why do I talk of such sport as this , When I shall wish them fareher that Nanny I may kiss , O then my dear delight , I'll hug thee all the night , And the burden of thy Maidenhead Girl soon shall take its flight With that brisk Nanny smiled , and turn'd her head aside , For blushes , like to Roses , appeared in the bride : but the morning drawing on then to church went e'ery one , Since it a fancy that dear Nancy should not lie alone : And when the Parson had done the trick , The bride-men were for Garters , and likewise for a lick ; And wished her joy good store , that she might never more Complain o'th burden , heavy burden as she did before . When Dinner it was over , and wine it went about , With music and with dancing there was a heavy rou but when the day was spent to each Guests hearts content , About ten at night , with much delight , to bed the Couple went , Where they were lost for to ease the Pain Of a burden , which young Nanny did oftentimes complain , but in the dead o'th night , to Nannys hearts delight , This burden of a Maidenhead from Nanny took its flight . London : Printed by and for A.M. 1696. 