The witty Western Lass : OR , You Maids , that with your friends whole nights have spent , Beware back-fallings , for fear of the event . To a new tune , called the Beggar Boy . SWeet Lucina lend me thy aid , thou art my helper and no other , Pity the state of a Teeming Maid , that never was Wife , yet must be a Mother : By my presage it should be a Boy , that thus lies tumbling in my belly , Yield me some ease to cure my annoy , and list to the grief I now shall tell you . I was beloved every where , and much admired for my beauty , Young men thought they happy were , who best to me could show their duty : But now alack , pained in my back , and cruel gripings in my belly , Do force me to cry , Oh sick am I , I fear I shall die , alack , and welly . Instead of mirth now may I weep , and sadly for to fit lamenting , Since he I loved , no faith does keep , nor seeks no means for my contenting : But all regardless of my moan , or that lies tumbling in my belly , He into Sweathland now is gone , and left me to cry , alack , and welly . It does the Proverb verify , folly it were to complain me , Those that desired my company , scornfully they now they disdain me : Wanting his sighed , was my delight , and cruel gripings in my belly , Do force me to cry , Oh sick am I , I fear I shall die , alack , and welly . Thus am I to the World a scorn , my dearest friends will not come nigh me : Shall I then for his absence mourn , that for his dearest does deny me ? No , no , no , I will not do so , with patience I my grief will smother , And as he hath cozened me , so will I by cunning gull another . Incontinent to Troynovant , for my content I'll thither high me , Where privately , from company , obscurely I'll lie , where none shall descry me : And when I am eased of my pain , and cruel gripings in my belly , I for a Maid will pass again , and need not to cry , alack , and welly . The second part , To the same tune . SOme Tradesman there I will deceive , by my modesty and carriage , And I will so my self behave , as by some trick to get a Marriage : And when I am married , I will so carry it , as none shall know it by my belly , That ever I have formerly had cause to cry , alack , and welly . And if he be a Husband kind , I'll true and constant be unto him : Obedient still he shall me find , with good respect I'll duty owe him : But if he crabbed be , and cross , and basely beatrice me , back and belly , As Vulcans Knight , I'll fit him right , and scorn to cry , alack , and welly . A secret friend I'll keep in store , for my content and delectation , And now and then in the Tavern roar , with jovial Gallants , men of fashion : Sack , or Claret , I will call for it , I'll scorn to want , or pinch my belly , But merry will be in company , no more I will cry , alack , and welly . And if I cannot to my mind a Husband get , that will maintain me , I'll show my self to each man kind , in hope , that it some love will gain me : But yet so wary I will be , I'll shun from ought may wrong my belly , Through misery , to cause me cry , as formerly , alack , and welly . Had he I lov'd , but constant prov'd , and not have been to me deceitful , No subtle Sinon should have mov'd me to these odious courses hateful : But since that he proves false to me , not pitying that is in my belly , No more I will grieve , but merry will be , and cry no more , alack , and welly . With resolution firmly bent , I'll cast off care and melancholy , Sorrow and grief , and disconten to fret , and vex , it is but a folly , Or seek by woe to overthrow , or wrong the first fruits of my belly : No , no , no , no , I'll not do so , no more will I cry , alack , and welly . FINIS . Robert Guy . Printed at London for J.W. The witty Western Lass : OR , You Maids , that with your friends whole nights have spent , Beware back-fallings , for fear of the event . To a new tune , called the Beggar Boy . SWeet Lucina lend me thy aid , thou art my helper and no other , Pity the state of a Teeming Maid , that never was Wife , yet must be a Mother : By my presage it should be a Boy , that thus lies tumbling in my belly , Yield me some ease to cure my annoy , and list to the grief I now shall tell you . I was beloved every where , and much admired for my beauty , Young men thought they happy were , who best to me could show their duty : But now alack , pained in my back , and cruel gripings in my belly , Do force me to cry , Oh sick am I , I fear I shall die , alack , and welly . Instead of mirth now may I weep , and sadly for to fit lamenting , Since he I loved , no faith does keep , nor seeks no means for my contenting : But all regardless of my moan , or that lies tumbling in my belly , He into Sweathland now is gone , and left me to cry , alack , and welly . It does the Proverb verify , folly it were to complain me , Those that desired my company , scornfully they now they disdain me : Wanting his sighed , was my delight , and cruel gripings in my belly , Do force me to cry , Oh sick am I , I fear I shall die , alack , and welly . Thus am I to the World a scorn , my dearest friends will not come nigh me : Shall I then for his absence mourn , that for his dearest does deny me ? No , no , no , I will not do so , with patience I my grief will smother , And as he hath cozened me , so will I by cunning gull another . Incontinent to Troynovant , for my content I'll thither high me , Where privately , from company , obscurely I'll lie , where none shall descry me : And when I am eased of my pain , and cruel gripings in my belly , I for a Maid will pass again , and need not to cry , alack , and welly . The second part , To the same tune . SOme Tradesman there I will deceive , by my modesty and carriage , And I will so my self behave , as by some trick to get a Marriage : And when I am married , I will so carry it , as none shall know it by my belly , That ever I have formerly had cause to cry , alack , and welly . And if he be a Husband kind , I'll true and constant be unto him : Obedient still he shall me find , with good respect I'll duty owe him : But if he crabbed be , and cross , and basely beatrice me , back and belly , As Vulcans Knight , I'll fit him right , and scorn to cry , alack , and welly . A secret friend I'll keep in store , for my content and delectation , And now and then in the Tavern roar , with jovial Gallants , men of fashion : Sack , or Claret , I will call for it , I'll scorn to want , or pinch my belly , But merry will be in company , no more I will cry , alack , and welly . And if I cannot to my mind a Husband get , that will maintain me , I'll show my self to each man kind , in hope , that it some love will gain me : But yet so wary I will be , I'll shun from ought may wrong my belly , Through misery , to cause me cry , as formerly , alack , and welly . Had he I lov'd , but constant prov'd , and not have been to me deceitful , No subtle Sinon should have mov'd me to these odious courses hateful : But since that he proves false to me , not pitying that is in my belly , No more I will grieve , but merry will be , and cry no more , alack , and welly . With resolution firmly bent , I'll cast off care and melancholy , Sorrow and grief , and disconten to fret , and vex , it is but a folly , Or seek by woe to overthrow , or wrong the first fruits of my belly : No , no , no , no , I'll not do so , no more will I cry , alack , and welly . FINIS . Robert Guy . Printed at London for J.W. 