A true and Tragical SONG , concerning Captain JOHN BOLTON , of Bulmer , near Castle-Howard , who after a Trial of Nine Hours , at York-Castle , on Monday the 27th of March , 1775 , for the wilful Murder of ELIZABETH RAIN - BOW , and Ackworth Girl , his Apprentice ; was found Guilty , and immediately received Sentence to be executed at Tyburn near York on Wednesday following , but on the same morning he strangled himself in the Cell where he was confined , and so put a perjod to his wicked and desperate Life . His Body was then pursuant to his Sentence , given to the Surgeons at York Infirmary to be dissected and anatomized . To the Tune of 'Fair Lady lay your costly Robes aside' GOOD Christian people all , both old and young , Pray give attention to this tragic song : My days are short'ned by my vicious life , And I must leave my children and my wife . When I was prisoner to York-Castle brought , My mind was fill'd with dismal , pensive thought ; Conscious of guilt , it filled my heart with woe ; Such terrors I before did never know . When at the bar of justice I did stand , With guilty conscience and uplifted hand , The Court straightway then unto me they said , What say you Bolton to the charge here laid ? In my defence I for a while did plead , Sad sentence to evade ( which I did dread ) But my efforts did me no kind of good , For I must suffer , and pay blood for blood . To take her life I did premeditate ; Which now has brought me to this wretched fate . And may my death on all a terror strike , That none may ever after do the like . Murder prepense it is the worst of crimes , And calls aloud for vengeance at all times , May none hereafter be like me undone , But always strive the Tempter's snares to shun . By me she was seduc'd in her lifetime , Which adds guilt to guilt , and crime to crime . By me she was debauched and defil'd , And then by me was murder'd , and her child . Inhuman and unparallel'd the case , I pray God give all mortal men more grace , None's been more vile , more guilty in the land , How shall I at the great Tribunal stand ? I should have been her guardian and her friend , I did and orphan take her for that end , But Satan did my morals so subdue , That I did take her life and infant's too . To poison her it was my full intent , But Providence did that design prevent , Then by a rope , fast twisted with a fife , I strangled her , and took her precious life . My Counsel I did hope would get me clear , But such a train of proofs there did appear , Which made the Court and Jury for to cry He's guilty , let the wicked culprit die . When I in fetters in York-Castle lay , The morning of my execution day , For to prevent the multitude to see Myself exposed on the fatal tree . I then did perpetrate my last vile crime , And put a final end unto my time , Myself I strangled in the lonesome cell , And ceased in this transit world to dwell . A true and Tragical SONG , concerning Captain JOHN BOLTON , of Bulmer , near Castle-Howard , who after a Trial of Nine Hours , at York-Castle , on Monday the 27th of March , 1775 , for the wilful Murder of ELIZABETH RAIN - BOW , and Ackworth Girl , his Apprentice ; was found Guilty , and immediately received Sentence to be executed at Tyburn near York on Wednesday following , but on the same morning he strangled himself in the Cell where he was confined , and so put a perjod to his wicked and desperate Life . His Body was then pursuant to his Sentence , given to the Surgeons at York Infirmary to be dissected and anatomized . To the Tune of 'Fair Lady lay your costly Robes aside' GOOD Christian people all , both old and young , Pray give attention to this tragic song : My days are short'ned by my vicious life , And I must leave my children and my wife . When I was prisoner to York-Castle brought , My mind was fill'd with dismal , pensive thought ; Conscious of guilt , it filled my heart with woe ; Such terrors I before did never know . When at the bar of justice I did stand , With guilty conscience and uplifted hand , The Court straightway then unto me they said , What say you Bolton to the charge here laid ? In my defence I for a while did plead , Sad sentence to evade ( which I did dread ) But my efforts did me no kind of good , For I must suffer , and pay blood for blood . To take her life I did premeditate ; Which now has brought me to this wretched fate . And may my death on all a terror strike , That none may ever after do the like . Murder prepense it is the worst of crimes , And calls aloud for vengeance at all times , May none hereafter be like me undone , But always strive the Tempter's snares to shun . By me she was seduc'd in her lifetime , Which adds guilt to guilt , and crime to crime . By me she was debauched and defil'd , And then by me was murder'd , and her child . Inhuman and unparallel'd the case , I pray God give all mortal men more grace , None's been more vile , more guilty in the land , How shall I at the great Tribunal stand ? I should have been her guardian and her friend , I did and orphan take her for that end , But Satan did my morals so subdue , That I did take her life and infant's too . To poison her it was my full intent , But Providence did that design prevent , Then by a rope , fast twisted with a fife , I strangled her , and took her precious life . My Counsel I did hope would get me clear , But such a train of proofs there did appear , Which made the Court and Jury for to cry He's guilty , let the wicked culprit die . When I in fetters in York-Castle lay , The morning of my execution day , For to prevent the multitude to see Myself exposed on the fatal tree . I then did perpetrate my last vile crime , And put a final end unto my time , Myself I strangled in the lonesome cell , And ceased in this transit world to dwell . 