r The Westminster Frolic : Or , The Cuckold of his own procuring . Being a true Relation of a Vintner , who for a considerable quantity of Guienies undertook to persuade his Servant Maid to prostitute her self to a young Spark , pretending to her that it was no other but himself ; whereupon she seemingly complying , discovered it to her Mistress , who supplying her place , grafted her Husbands Head. Thus may we see how scurvy ill-Star'd fate Does cross some men , nay how they do create Their own misfortunes , yet for to be bold The Vintner god his Horns well tipped with Gold . Tune of , Heigh boys up go we . A Frolic strange I'le to you tell , the like you ne'r did hear : A Vintner at Westminster ( as it will plain appear ) A handsome servant Maid did keep , which makes him now to rue , For by mistake his head was Horn'd ; this story it is true . This beauteous maid inflam'd a Spark both comely , rich , and gay , Who her in vain solicited with him to go astray , And offer'd her great store of Gold but all that would not do , [ S ] he would not yield to Lawless Love : [ this story it is true . ] Which he perceiving , was the more desirous of his will ; And many ways he cast about his purpose to fulfil : At length he thought her Master might oblige her to come to , Though by it he did Horn his head : this story it is true . To him he then reveal'd his mind with promises of Wealth ; If that he could his Maid persuade to yield him love by stealth . After some pause and Gold in hand he undertook to do The thing that after Horn'd his pate : [ the story it is true . ] Then kindly to his Maid he spoke , and often on her smil'd , That she the better by such means might quickly be beguil'd ; Watching his time he undertakes then for himself to woo , By which design he Horn'd his pate : this story it is true : At first she mighty strange did seem , as coy as coy could be ; But after many tempting words he seemed to agree : But what he did it was resolv'd in darkness he should do ; And there alas he Horned was : the story it is true . For while he to the Gallant went to tell him how he sped , The Crafty Lass her Mistress told what proffers he had made ; Who highly did commend her for't , and undertook to do The thing which horned her husbands head the story it is true . The Room appointed private was , and made exceeding dark , When at the hour appointed came the overjoiful Spark His long-wished joys for to possess , and pleasure to pursue ; But by mistake the Vintner Horn'd ; the story it is true . For why ? The Mistress was conveyed upon the bed there place'd ; And feigned the Virgins voice so well , that kindly he embrac'd His suppos'd lovely Charmer fast , and sport did oft renew , He bravely Horned the Vintners head , the story it is true . While in one corner of the Room the Virgin she did stand And herd what passed , the Vintner eke was ready there at hand To keep the door but little thought what after he did rue ; Which was the Horning of his pate : the story it is true . For why ? with oft embraces tired , at last they taking rest , The Lady who had sported long her self in words express I plainly see , said she aloud , you if you list can do The feats of love , though not with me : the story it is true . I find you can ; ungrateful man , see how you are deceiv'd : You thought your Maid was in your arms when you so closely cleav'd , But you'r mistaken it is plain ; at this the Gallant knew That he the Vintner Horned had : the story it is true . When between pleased and vexd he called him straightway in to see How he had finely fool'd himself in such a high degree ; At which Horn-mad he cursed and swore and much distracted grew , Because he by mistake was horn'd the story it is true . But seeing that his Horns were tipped he rested satisfied , And pocketed them instantly his infamy to hide : And vowed he'd never more procure , what ever he did doe , Since by his own procurement Horns upon his Forehead grew . [ Printed for J. Wright W. Thackery & T. Passenger ] r The Westminster Frolic : Or , The Cuckold of his own procuring . Being a true Relation of a Vintner , who for a considerable quantity of Guienies undertook to persuade his Servant Maid to prostitute her self to a young Spark , pretending to her that it was no other but himself ; whereupon she seemingly complying , discovered it to her Mistress , who supplying her place , grafted her Husbands Head. Thus may we see how scurvy ill-Star'd fate Does cross some men , nay how they do create Their own misfortunes , yet for to be bold The Vintner god his Horns well tipped with Gold . Tune of , Heigh boys up go we . A Frolic strange I'le to you tell , the like you ne'r did hear : A Vintner at Westminster ( as it will plain appear ) A handsome servant Maid did keep , which makes him now to rue , For by mistake his head was Horn'd ; this story it is true . This beauteous maid inflam'd a Spark both comely , rich , and gay , Who her in vain solicited with him to go astray , And offer'd her great store of Gold but all that would not do , [ S ] he would not yield to Lawless Love : [ this story it is true . ] Which he perceiving , was the more desirous of his will ; And many ways he cast about his purpose to fulfil : At length he thought her Master might oblige her to come to , Though by it he did Horn his head : this story it is true . To him he then reveal'd his mind with promises of Wealth ; If that he could his Maid persuade to yield him love by stealth . After some pause and Gold in hand he undertook to do The thing that after Horn'd his pate : [ the story it is true . ] Then kindly to his Maid he spoke , and often on her smil'd , That she the better by such means might quickly be beguil'd ; Watching his time he undertakes then for himself to woo , By which design he Horn'd his pate : this story it is true : At first she mighty strange did seem , as coy as coy could be ; But after many tempting words he seemed to agree : But what he did it was resolv'd in darkness he should do ; And there alas he Horned was : the story it is true . For while he to the Gallant went to tell him how he sped , The Crafty Lass her Mistress told what proffers he had made ; Who highly did commend her for't , and undertook to do The thing which horned her husbands head the story it is true . The Room appointed private was , and made exceeding dark , When at the hour appointed came the overjoiful Spark His long-wished joys for to possess , and pleasure to pursue ; But by mistake the Vintner Horn'd ; the story it is true . For why ? The Mistress was conveyed upon the bed there place'd ; And feigned the Virgins voice so well , that kindly he embrac'd His suppos'd lovely Charmer fast , and sport did oft renew , He bravely Horned the Vintners head , the story it is true . While in one corner of the Room the Virgin she did stand And herd what passed , the Vintner eke was ready there at hand To keep the door but little thought what after he did rue ; Which was the Horning of his pate : the story it is true . For why ? with oft embraces tired , at last they taking rest , The Lady who had sported long her self in words express I plainly see , said she aloud , you if you list can do The feats of love , though not with me : the story it is true . I find you can ; ungrateful man , see how you are deceiv'd : You thought your Maid was in your arms when you so closely cleav'd , But you'r mistaken it is plain ; at this the Gallant knew That he the Vintner Horned had : the story it is true . When between pleased and vexd he called him straightway in to see How he had finely fool'd himself in such a high degree ; At which Horn-mad he cursed and swore and much distracted grew , Because he by mistake was horn'd the story it is true . But seeing that his Horns were tipped he rested satisfied , And pocketed them instantly his infamy to hide : And vowed he'd never more procure , what ever he did doe , Since by his own procurement Horns upon his Forehead grew . [ Printed for J. Wright W. Thackery & T. Passenger ] 