The Christian Conquest . Being and Account of the great overthrow of the Turks before thee Im - perial City of Vienna , in Germany , who , by Gods Blessing and the happy Conduct of the King of Poland , the Duke of Lorain , etc were totally rou [ tO ] ed ; having lost near One hundred thousand Men in the Field , Sixty thousand Tents , and two Millions of Money in the Grand Viziers Tent. etc Tune of , When the King enjoys his own again . GOod people all sing and rejoice , And praise the Lord with heart and voice , Such a Deliverance he hath shown The like before scarce e're was known , For the Infidels and Turks Had raised mighty works Before Vienna's stately walls ; But God did them defend , And will prove a certain friend To such as for help on him calls . With a hundred and fifty thousand strong The Infidels did vaunt along , And for to take this City fair This Army great they did prepare : But it proved all in vain , For they beatrice tO [ h ] em back again , And like brave Christians they did fight , Such resistance they did meet , Did frighten them to see't , At last they were enforced to flight . The valiant King of Poland he Led on his Men courageously , So that with Trumpet and with Drum Before the Infidels they'r come . The Duke of Lorain Came prancing o're the Plain , And like a noble Hero fought , Till fearing the defeat , They began to retreat , And at last they put them to the rout . And of so many thousand men There's very few return'd again , They met with such and overthrow , The like before they ne'r did know ; For the Christians did fight In a Cause that was right . So great Jehovah did them bless ; The Grand Visier he is slave , And will ne'r return again , His mournful ditty to express . These Infidels were insolent , And nothing could their minds content , But vaunting , said that they were come To overrun all Christendome : Such reckoning they did make , But it prov'd a great mistake , They now unto their sorrow find , And it makes them very sad That their fortune was so bad To leave Grand Visier here behind . The Valour of the Polish King Throughout all Christendome does ring ; Likewise the brave Duke of Lorain , Who next the King did led the Van : The brave Barbarian Duke Did there insolence Rebuke , And the Elector of great Saxony , While the Noble Prince Waldeck , There insolence did check , Who all did fight courageously . Sure Mahomet was fast asleep When Christians Canon made them weep , Like mighty thunder they did roar The like they never did hear before ; Bravely the Fight begun , And as well was carried on With resolution stout and bold , And now they do lament They lost their Leaders Tent , Which was worth two millions of Gold . And threescore thousand Tents beside They left behind for all their Pride , Beside so many thousands slave , Not half so many alive remain ; For the Christians , brave & stout , Did put them to the rout That did such lofty Language use , There will not be many men That will ere get [ h ] ome again To tell this lamentable News . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackery , and T. Passenger . The Christian Conquest . Being and Account of the great overthrow of the Turks before thee Im - perial City of Vienna , in Germany , who , by Gods Blessing and the happy Conduct of the King of Poland , the Duke of Lorain , etc were totally rou [ tO ] ed ; having lost near One hundred thousand Men in the Field , Sixty thousand Tents , and two Millions of Money in the Grand Viziers Tent. etc Tune of , When the King enjoys his own again . GOod people all sing and rejoice , And praise the Lord with heart and voice , Such a Deliverance he hath shown The like before scarce e're was known , For the Infidels and Turks Had raised mighty works Before Vienna's stately walls ; But God did them defend , And will prove a certain friend To such as for help on him calls . With a hundred and fifty thousand strong The Infidels did vaunt along , And for to take this City fair This Army great they did prepare : But it proved all in vain , For they beatrice tO [ h ] em back again , And like brave Christians they did fight , Such resistance they did meet , Did frighten them to see't , At last they were enforced to flight . The valiant King of Poland he Led on his Men courageously , So that with Trumpet and with Drum Before the Infidels they'r come . The Duke of Lorain Came prancing o're the Plain , And like a noble Hero fought , Till fearing the defeat , They began to retreat , And at last they put them to the rout . And of so many thousand men There's very few return'd again , They met with such and overthrow , The like before they ne'r did know ; For the Christians did fight In a Cause that was right . So great Jehovah did them bless ; The Grand Visier he is slave , And will ne'r return again , His mournful ditty to express . These Infidels were insolent , And nothing could their minds content , But vaunting , said that they were come To overrun all Christendome : Such reckoning they did make , But it prov'd a great mistake , They now unto their sorrow find , And it makes them very sad That their fortune was so bad To leave Grand Visier here behind . The Valour of the Polish King Throughout all Christendome does ring ; Likewise the brave Duke of Lorain , Who next the King did led the Van : The brave Barbarian Duke Did there insolence Rebuke , And the Elector of great Saxony , While the Noble Prince Waldeck , There insolence did check , Who all did fight courageously . Sure Mahomet was fast asleep When Christians Canon made them weep , Like mighty thunder they did roar The like they never did hear before ; Bravely the Fight begun , And as well was carried on With resolution stout and bold , And now they do lament They lost their Leaders Tent , Which was worth two millions of Gold . And threescore thousand Tents beside They left behind for all their Pride , Beside so many thousands slave , Not half so many alive remain ; For the Christians , brave & stout , Did put them to the rout That did such lofty Language use , There will not be many men That will ere get [ h ] ome again To tell this lamentable News . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clark , W. Thackery , and T. Passenger . 