The Virtuous MAID's RESOLUTION : OR , The two Honest LOVERS . Showing what Unconstant Men there be , That use Deceit and Flattery ; They'll cog , dissemble , swear and lie , A Harmless MAIDEN's Life to try ; To all such Lovers [ s ] he'll be coy , And says , My Freedom's all my Joy . To the Tune of , I am a poor and harmless Maid , etc IN a melancholy passion I was walking up a river side , A gallant Damsel I did spy , a lute she would [ worser ] lay by her side , Which up she took and did sing and play , That in her freedom was all her joy , Oh in my freedom's all my joy . I stepped aside , because I'd hear the full conclusion of her Song , Her music ravish'd so mine ear , as on the ground I lay along , Then did she sweetly play , Oh in my freedom's all my joy . I am a young and harmless Maid , and some are pleas'd to style me fair , There's no Man yet hath ambush laid , to catch me , but I broke the snare : What though they count me nice and coy , Yet in my freedom's all my joy . M [ ost ] young Men have alluring words , poor silly Maidens to betray , Such compliments they can afford , that we can hardly say them nay : But let them term me nice and coy , Oh in my freedom's all my joy . With oaths and protestations great , sometime they seek to [ tO ] ry their skill , When all the while they mean deceit , for to obtain their wanton will : And seek their utmost to destroy , Our utmost and our chifest joy . With amorous words and speeches fair , they'll promise that they ne'r will do , But of such Youngsters i'll beware , for fear I afterwards should rue : What though they count me nice and coy , Yet in my freedom's all my joy , Yet in my freedom's all my joy . Alluring baits also they have , as silver bodkins , gloves , and rings , With girdles , scarves , and jewels brave , and many other costly things : But those silver hooks shall ne'r destro [ y , ] For in my freedom's all my joy . Whatsoever they give , talk , or say , i'll ne'r believe them e'er the more , Their smoothing words shall not me betray , i'll stand to what I said before , Although they count me nice and coy , etc Yet I could quickly be in love , if I and honest Man could find , That would once true and constant prove and not be wavering like the wind ; A little time I will be coy , etc Here in this second Part you'l find , a Husband pleasing to her mind ; This virtuous Maid hath one obtain'd , though long , at last her love was gain'd , She says her Husband she'll obey , And in his love shall be her joy . And thus she did conclude her Song , which having done , I up did rise , My heart was struck with love so strong , her beauty dazzled both mine eyes , My freedom then she did destroy , For in her love was all my joy . When she espy'd me where I was , she rose and would no longer stay , I stepped unto then , because my heart she boar with her away : Fair Maid , said I , do not destroy My freedom , and my chiefest joy . She blushing then , to me did say , I do desire no company . Fair Maid , said I , Oh say not nay , to him that means no flattery : You have my heart , Oh be not coy , In you is all my earthly joy . Sweetheart , said I , few words I use , but what I speak is from my heart , I scorn your virtue to abuse , then grant me love e'er I depar Your freedom I will not destroy , For in your love is all my joy . With that she took me by the hand , and led me up by the river side , If that you true and constant prove , quoth she , perhaps I'll be your Bride . Then on her lute did sing and play , Be constant , and i'll be thy joy . I then made bold to crave a kiss , which modestly she to me gave , I took it for a heavenly bliss , her comely gesture was so brave : I thought it long to see the day , Wherein I might my Love enjoy . But to conclude , we married were , I have obtain'd a virtuous Wife ; And at the last I brought to pass , what she to others had deny'd : Although at first she seemed coy , She calls me now her only joy . Young Men and Maids where e'er you be , that hear this Song , i'd wish you learn A Pattern by our civility , then Lovers true you may discern , For them that seek for to destroy , Your freedom , etc Virtue beyond all beauty goes , but he that gains them both is rare , Only for wealth let [ no ma ] n choose , for constant love [ is void of ] care ; A virtuous Wife will ne'r destroy , Your freedom ; but will be your joy . LONDON : Printed by and for W.O. for A.M. and are sold by J. Deacon . The Virtuous MAID's RESOLUTION : OR , The two Honest LOVERS . Showing what Unconstant Men there be , That use Deceit and Flattery ; They'll cog , dissemble , swear and lie , A Harmless MAIDEN's Life to try ; To all such Lovers [ s ] he'll be coy , And says , My Freedom's all my Joy . To the Tune of , I am a poor and harmless Maid , etc IN a melancholy passion I was walking up a river side , A gallant Damsel I did spy , a lute she would [ worser ] lay by her side , Which up she took and did sing and play , That in her freedom was all her joy , Oh in my freedom's all my joy . I stepped aside , because I'd hear the full conclusion of her Song , Her music ravish'd so mine ear , as on the ground I lay along , Then did she sweetly play , Oh in my freedom's all my joy . I am a young and harmless Maid , and some are pleas'd to style me fair , There's no Man yet hath ambush laid , to catch me , but I broke the snare : What though they count me nice and coy , Yet in my freedom's all my joy . M [ ost ] young Men have alluring words , poor silly Maidens to betray , Such compliments they can afford , that we can hardly say them nay : But let them term me nice and coy , Oh in my freedom's all my joy . With oaths and protestations great , sometime they seek to [ tO ] ry their skill , When all the while they mean deceit , for to obtain their wanton will : And seek their utmost to destroy , Our utmost and our chifest joy . With amorous words and speeches fair , they'll promise that they ne'r will do , But of such Youngsters i'll beware , for fear I afterwards should rue : What though they count me nice and coy , Yet in my freedom's all my joy , Yet in my freedom's all my joy . Alluring baits also they have , as silver bodkins , gloves , and rings , With girdles , scarves , and jewels brave , and many other costly things : But those silver hooks shall ne'r destro [ y , ] For in my freedom's all my joy . Whatsoever they give , talk , or say , i'll ne'r believe them e'er the more , Their smoothing words shall not me betray , i'll stand to what I said before , Although they count me nice and coy , etc Yet I could quickly be in love , if I and honest Man could find , That would once true and constant prove and not be wavering like the wind ; A little time I will be coy , etc Here in this second Part you'l find , a Husband pleasing to her mind ; This virtuous Maid hath one obtain'd , though long , at last her love was gain'd , She says her Husband she'll obey , And in his love shall be her joy . And thus she did conclude her Song , which having done , I up did rise , My heart was struck with love so strong , her beauty dazzled both mine eyes , My freedom then she did destroy , For in her love was all my joy . When she espy'd me where I was , she rose and would no longer stay , I stepped unto then , because my heart she boar with her away : Fair Maid , said I , do not destroy My freedom , and my chiefest joy . She blushing then , to me did say , I do desire no company . Fair Maid , said I , Oh say not nay , to him that means no flattery : You have my heart , Oh be not coy , In you is all my earthly joy . Sweetheart , said I , few words I use , but what I speak is from my heart , I scorn your virtue to abuse , then grant me love e'er I depar Your freedom I will not destroy , For in your love is all my joy . With that she took me by the hand , and led me up by the river side , If that you true and constant prove , quoth she , perhaps I'll be your Bride . Then on her lute did sing and play , Be constant , and i'll be thy joy . I then made bold to crave a kiss , which modestly she to me gave , I took it for a heavenly bliss , her comely gesture was so brave : I thought it long to see the day , Wherein I might my Love enjoy . But to conclude , we married were , I have obtain'd a virtuous Wife ; And at the last I brought to pass , what she to others had deny'd : Although at first she seemed coy , She calls me now her only joy . Young Men and Maids where e'er you be , that hear this Song , i'd wish you learn A Pattern by our civility , then Lovers true you may discern , For them that seek for to destroy , Your freedom , etc Virtue beyond all beauty goes , but he that gains them both is rare , Only for wealth let [ no ma ] n choose , for constant love [ is void of ] care ; A virtuous Wife will ne'r destroy , Your freedom ; but will be your joy . LONDON : Printed by and for W.O. for A.M. and are sold by J. Deacon . 