R2 . 557 The Zealous Lover . He strives for to illustrate her Perfection who now hath brought him under Loves subjection , No task so hard he will undergo if that she will but Love unto him show What ever can be had , shall be her own if she will yield to fancy him alone . To the Tune of , Underneath the Green wood Tree , etc COme prithee Love let me prepare , my zealous affection to declare , And set forth thy admired parts , which captivates so many hearts , Thou art the Phoenix of our days , and shall for beauty bear the praise . Then prithee fairest fancy me , and let me not languish in misery . Thy pretty rolling sparkling eyes of my poor heart hath made a prize , Thy Che [ r ] ry Cheeks & dimpled Chin affection from all hearts do win : Thy hair like Amber does appear or threads of Gold which shine so clear , TO [ he ] n prithee dearest , etc Each smile that does proceed from thee ; debars me of my liberty , Since every word that thou canst say might led a thousand hearts astray , Thy beauty in each part does shine where all the Graces do combine , Then prithee fairest , etc When first I did thy face admire , my senses all were set on fire : My heart with Love was soar inflam'd , when as I herd thee once but nam'd ; No happiness on Earth could be like to enjoy a kiss from thee , Then prithee , etc I'le Crown thy joys with hearts content , if thou to love me wilt consent And all delights that ere can be , shall daily wait and tend on thee . Thou shalt have pleasures at command , and servants ready at thy hand : Then prithee fairest fancy me and let me not languish in misery . No Lady that in Court does dwell , in rich attire shall thee excel For Silks & Satins fine and brave and costly jewels thou shalt have ; All sorts of Music thou shalt hear sweet pleasures harmony to the ear Then prithee fairest fancy etc All in a pleasant shady Grove , we'l walk to recreate my Love , And fit down by a Crystal Spring while pretty birds do chirp and sing , With hand in hand we'l pass the time in Summer when flowers are in the prime . Then prithee , etc I'l range throughout the world so wide for Pearls of price to please my Bride And what new fashions may be had isle bring thee home to make thee glad , Thou shalt be like the Indian Queen so rich and costly to be seen . Then , Why should thy Maidenhead do thee wrong by keeping of the same too long Since that by marriage thou wilt be complete and live most happily . Who die a maid ( this spoke right well ) must ever expect to led Apes in Hell , Then , etc If little Cupid bend his Bow , 'twill be in vain to resist you know The god of Love will angry be if you despise his Deity : It were far better for to yield and sport your time in Venus field . Then etc There is no joys in single life compared to a married wife , Where Pleasures all completed are beyond your expectation far : What heart can wish may there be had to make a loving couple glad . Then prithee , etc Therefore my dear be not afraid to change the title of a maid But let me hear your answer kind to satisfy your longing mind With open arms il'e thee embrace , when we encounter face to face Then prithee fairest fancy me and let me not languish in misery . Printed for R.H. & J Williamson in Cannon street and at the Bible on London Bridge . R2 . 557 The Zealous Lover . He strives for to illustrate her Perfection who now hath brought him under Loves subjection , No task so hard he will undergo if that she will but Love unto him show What ever can be had , shall be her own if she will yield to fancy him alone . To the Tune of , Underneath the Green wood Tree , etc COme prithee Love let me prepare , my zealous affection to declare , And set forth thy admired parts , which captivates so many hearts , Thou art the Phoenix of our days , and shall for beauty bear the praise . Then prithee fairest fancy me , and let me not languish in misery . Thy pretty rolling sparkling eyes of my poor heart hath made a prize , Thy Che [ r ] ry Cheeks & dimpled Chin affection from all hearts do win : Thy hair like Amber does appear or threads of Gold which shine so clear , TO [ he ] n prithee dearest , etc Each smile that does proceed from thee ; debars me of my liberty , Since every word that thou canst say might led a thousand hearts astray , Thy beauty in each part does shine where all the Graces do combine , Then prithee fairest , etc When first I did thy face admire , my senses all were set on fire : My heart with Love was soar inflam'd , when as I herd thee once but nam'd ; No happiness on Earth could be like to enjoy a kiss from thee , Then prithee , etc I'le Crown thy joys with hearts content , if thou to love me wilt consent And all delights that ere can be , shall daily wait and tend on thee . Thou shalt have pleasures at command , and servants ready at thy hand : Then prithee fairest fancy me and let me not languish in misery . No Lady that in Court does dwell , in rich attire shall thee excel For Silks & Satins fine and brave and costly jewels thou shalt have ; All sorts of Music thou shalt hear sweet pleasures harmony to the ear Then prithee fairest fancy etc All in a pleasant shady Grove , we'l walk to recreate my Love , And fit down by a Crystal Spring while pretty birds do chirp and sing , With hand in hand we'l pass the time in Summer when flowers are in the prime . Then prithee , etc I'l range throughout the world so wide for Pearls of price to please my Bride And what new fashions may be had isle bring thee home to make thee glad , Thou shalt be like the Indian Queen so rich and costly to be seen . Then , Why should thy Maidenhead do thee wrong by keeping of the same too long Since that by marriage thou wilt be complete and live most happily . Who die a maid ( this spoke right well ) must ever expect to led Apes in Hell , Then , etc If little Cupid bend his Bow , 'twill be in vain to resist you know The god of Love will angry be if you despise his Deity : It were far better for to yield and sport your time in Venus field . Then etc There is no joys in single life compared to a married wife , Where Pleasures all completed are beyond your expectation far : What heart can wish may there be had to make a loving couple glad . Then prithee , etc Therefore my dear be not afraid to change the title of a maid But let me hear your answer kind to satisfy your longing mind With open arms il'e thee embrace , when we encounter face to face Then prithee fairest fancy me and let me not languish in misery . Printed for R.H. & J Williamson in Cannon street and at the Bible on London Bridge . 