Young Jemmy , OR , The Princely Shepherd . Being a most pleasant and Delightful New Song . In blessed Arcadia , where each Shepherd feeds His numerous Flocks , and tunes on slender Reeds ; His song of Love , while the fair nymphs trip round , The chief among 'um was young Jemmy found : For he with glances could enslave each heart , But found Ambition made him to depart The Fields to Court , led on by such as sought To blast his Virtues which much sorrow brought To a pleasant New Playhouse Tune . Or , In January last , Or , The Gowlin . YOung Jemmy was a Lad , of Royal birth and Breeding : With every Beauty clad , and every Swain exceeding . A face and shape so wondrous fine , so charming every par That every Lass upon the Green , for Jemmy had a heart . In Jemmy's powerful Eyes young Gods of Love are playing , And on his face there lies a thousand smiles betraying : But Oh he dances with a grace , none like him e're was seen : No God that ever fancied was , had so divine a meen . To Jemmy every Swain did lowly worser [ oh ] ft his Bonne And every Lass did strain , to praise him in her Son The pride of all the Youths he was , the Glory of the Groves : The pleasure of each tender Lass , and theme of all their Loves . BUt O unlucky fate , ah Curse upon Ambition : The busy Fops of State , have ruin'd his condition : For glittering hope he left his shade , his glorious hours are gone : By flattering Fools and Knaves betray'd , poor Jemmy is undone . Then Jemmy none more kind , and courteous had been ever : Thinking the like to find , but he as yet did never : For the false Swains that led him forth to expectations high : Design'd but to Eclipse his worth , brave Jemmy to outvie . But Jemmy saw not this , when in the Groves delighting , Nor thought to tread amiss , at such a fair inviting : But Jemmy was mistaken there , for he was led astray ; While each kind Swain and Nymph so fair , for Jemmy sigh'd all day . For Jemmy's lass the streams ran hoarse , as if with mourning ; The birds forgot their Leams and Flowers so late adorning . The pleasant Plains hung down their heads as bearing part o'th grief , And wishing he had longer stayed , but Jemmy'd no belief . For Jemmy's strutting veins , with youthful blood were flowing , Which made him raise his strains , to his almost undoing . Though each kind Villager did pray he would again return : And tread still in the pleasant Way , but Jemmy it did scorn . For jemmy in fierce Arms , more then his Crook delighting : Dispis'd the Wood-Nymphs charms , that were so much inviting . And dreams of digging Trenches deep , storming each Fort and Town ; Ambition still disturb'd his sleep , while jemmy sought renown . But jemmy now may see , that he was led to ruin , By such as glad would be of his utter undoing . Yet that his Wandering he'd retrieve , the wish is of the Swains : And in Arcadia happy live , where his great Father reigns . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-ba [ ll ] , in West-smithfield . Young Jemmy , OR , The Princely Shepherd . Being a most pleasant and Delightful New Song . In blessed Arcadia , where each Shepherd feeds His numerous Flocks , and tunes on slender Reeds ; His song of Love , while the fair nymphs trip round , The chief among 'um was young Jemmy found : For he with glances could enslave each heart , But found Ambition made him to depart The Fields to Court , led on by such as sought To blast his Virtues which much sorrow brought To a pleasant New Playhouse Tune . Or , In January last , Or , The Gowlin . YOung Jemmy was a Lad , of Royal birth and Breeding : With every Beauty clad , and every Swain exceeding . A face and shape so wondrous fine , so charming every par That every Lass upon the Green , for Jemmy had a heart . In Jemmy's powerful Eyes young Gods of Love are playing , And on his face there lies a thousand smiles betraying : But Oh he dances with a grace , none like him e're was seen : No God that ever fancied was , had so divine a meen . To Jemmy every Swain did lowly worser [ oh ] ft his Bonne And every Lass did strain , to praise him in her Son The pride of all the Youths he was , the Glory of the Groves : The pleasure of each tender Lass , and theme of all their Loves . BUt O unlucky fate , ah Curse upon Ambition : The busy Fops of State , have ruin'd his condition : For glittering hope he left his shade , his glorious hours are gone : By flattering Fools and Knaves betray'd , poor Jemmy is undone . Then Jemmy none more kind , and courteous had been ever : Thinking the like to find , but he as yet did never : For the false Swains that led him forth to expectations high : Design'd but to Eclipse his worth , brave Jemmy to outvie . But Jemmy saw not this , when in the Groves delighting , Nor thought to tread amiss , at such a fair inviting : But Jemmy was mistaken there , for he was led astray ; While each kind Swain and Nymph so fair , for Jemmy sigh'd all day . For Jemmy's lass the streams ran hoarse , as if with mourning ; The birds forgot their Leams and Flowers so late adorning . The pleasant Plains hung down their heads as bearing part o'th grief , And wishing he had longer stayed , but Jemmy'd no belief . For Jemmy's strutting veins , with youthful blood were flowing , Which made him raise his strains , to his almost undoing . Though each kind Villager did pray he would again return : And tread still in the pleasant Way , but Jemmy it did scorn . For jemmy in fierce Arms , more then his Crook delighting : Dispis'd the Wood-Nymphs charms , that were so much inviting . And dreams of digging Trenches deep , storming each Fort and Town ; Ambition still disturb'd his sleep , while jemmy sought renown . But jemmy now may see , that he was led to ruin , By such as glad would be of his utter undoing . Yet that his Wandering he'd retrieve , the wish is of the Swains : And in Arcadia happy live , where his great Father reigns . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-ba [ ll ] , in West-smithfield . 