The Unfortunate Lover : OR , Merry ANDREW's sad and woeful Lamentati - on for the Loss of his Sweetheart JOAN . To the Tune of , I marry and thank you too . Licensed according to Order . ALas I am come to Town , and here make pitiful moan , For having rambled up and down can't find out my true Love Joan. I came to Bartholomew Fair , and search'd that Place alone , Expecting to have found her there , my delicate Sweetheart Joan. I am in a pitiful Case , and shall be overhthrow , I have made many a sour Face , for want of my true Love Joan. In Bed I can take no rest , but tumble and toss alone , A thousand Torments in my Breast for want of my Sweetheart Joan. To Love I am so enclin'd , and daily do make sad moan , And quite distracted in my mind , for want of my true Love Joan. She's as sweet as a sucking big , for her I do make my moan ; I long to Dance the Wedding-Jig along with my Sweetheart Joan. I wander the silent Grove , and make most piteous moan , I am over head and ears in Love , and all for my Sweetheart Joan. For she was as sweet a bit , as ever by me was known , Her precious Smiles I can't forget , O , where is my Sweetheart Joan. Her Lips they were Cherry read , she had but one fault alone , A little Child e'er she was Wed , my delicate Sweetheart Joan. I like her never the worse , the Child's a Champion grown , By being well brought up at Nurse , But where is my Sweetheart Joan. To speak of her Beauty bright , there hardly is such a One , Her pleasant Charms do's dim my sighed , my delicate Sweetheart Joan. At once she looks North and South , her Beauty I needs must own , She has a pretty Sparrows Mouth , my delicate Sweetheart Joan. Her pretty sweet Beetle-brow , but Teeth she has not one ; She is as slender as a Cow , my delicate Sweetheart Joan. Her Hair's as black as a Coal , for her I do make sad moan , I fear some Lord or Earl has stole my delicate Sweetheart Joan. Printed for P. Brooksby . J. Deacon . J. Blare . J. Back . The Unfortunate Lover : OR , Merry ANDREW's sad and woeful Lamentati - on for the Loss of his Sweetheart JOAN . To the Tune of , I marry and thank you too . Licensed according to Order . ALas I am come to Town , and here make pitiful moan , For having rambled up and down can't find out my true Love Joan. I came to Bartholomew Fair , and search'd that Place alone , Expecting to have found her there , my delicate Sweetheart Joan. I am in a pitiful Case , and shall be overhthrow , I have made many a sour Face , for want of my true Love Joan. In Bed I can take no rest , but tumble and toss alone , A thousand Torments in my Breast for want of my Sweetheart Joan. To Love I am so enclin'd , and daily do make sad moan , And quite distracted in my mind , for want of my true Love Joan. She's as sweet as a sucking big , for her I do make my moan ; I long to Dance the Wedding-Jig along with my Sweetheart Joan. I wander the silent Grove , and make most piteous moan , I am over head and ears in Love , and all for my Sweetheart Joan. For she was as sweet a bit , as ever by me was known , Her precious Smiles I can't forget , O , where is my Sweetheart Joan. Her Lips they were Cherry read , she had but one fault alone , A little Child e'er she was Wed , my delicate Sweetheart Joan. I like her never the worse , the Child's a Champion grown , By being well brought up at Nurse , But where is my Sweetheart Joan. To speak of her Beauty bright , there hardly is such a One , Her pleasant Charms do's dim my sighed , my delicate Sweetheart Joan. At once she looks North and South , her Beauty I needs must own , She has a pretty Sparrows Mouth , my delicate Sweetheart Joan. Her pretty sweet Beetle-brow , but Teeth she has not one ; She is as slender as a Cow , my delicate Sweetheart Joan. Her Hair's as black as a Coal , for her I do make sad moan , I fear some Lord or Earl has stole my delicate Sweetheart Joan. Printed for P. Brooksby . J. Deacon . J. Blare . J. Back . 