The Stout and Loving Seaman's Heart - Tocken , to his Sweet and Lovely ISABEL . To be Sung with a Pleasant New Tune . FAir Isabel of Beauty bright , To thee in Love these lines I write , Hoping thou art alive and well , As I am now , as I am now , Fair Isabel . On Board on the Beauty bold , I have the Fortune to behold , The sweet delightsome banks of Spain , While in the Straits , while in the Straits , We do remain . The Spanish Lords of high Renown , And Gentre come swarming down , To see the British Royal Fleet , With swelling Sails , with swelling Sails , And Streams so sweet . While we appear'd in all our Pride , The Seas was ne're so beautifi'd With Able Men of War before , Along the Straits , along the Straits , Of Spanish Shore , We have no Storms , nor Weather foul , To make the Roaring Billows Role , But pleasant breathing , gentle-gales , Enough to fill , enough to fill , Our swelling Sales . Along the Coast of Barbarie , The Algereens they flot to see , Our Royal Fleet of Noble Fame , And stood amaz'd , and stood amaz'd , To see the same . The longer they the Fleet beheld , The more they were with wonder fil'd , As knowing we were Brittan bold , And that the French , and that the French , False Tales have told . For Turvyl made the Turk believe That they no damage could receive , For of a Truth he did declare , That Master's of , that Master's of , The Seas they were . This will for Truth no longer go , For Turvyl fears Great Russel so , That from Toulon they stear'd away , Had not forgotten , had not forgotten the Month of May . With Russel he is loath to deal , For fear a second Warlike Real , Should shake the whole foundation , That it might prove , that it might prove their overthrow . Once more my Dear , and tender Dove , Fair Isabel , and my Loyal Love , Except of these few lines I send , Who will remain , who will remain Your Faithful Friend . Tho we are separated now , I'le not forget that Solemn Vow Made , when I left my Native Land , I'le go on board , I'le go on board , under Command . My Dearest do not grieve nor mourn , With Patience wait my safe Return , And then we'le both united be , In lasting Bonds , in lasting Bonds Of Loalty . The Figure of a Heart , I send , And round the same these lines are pen'd The Chain of Love has link it fast , So long as Life , so song as Life And Breath does last . FINIS . The Stout and Loving Seaman's Heart - Tocken , to his Sweet and Lovely ISABEL . To be Sung with a Pleasant New Tune . FAir Isabel of Beauty bright , To thee in Love these lines I write , Hoping thou art alive and well , As I am now , as I am now , Fair Isabel . On Board on the Beauty bold , I have the Fortune to behold , The sweet delightsome banks of Spain , While in the Straits , while in the Straits , We do remain . The Spanish Lords of high Renown , And Gentre come swarming down , To see the British Royal Fleet , With swelling Sails , with swelling Sails , And Streams so sweet . While we appear'd in all our Pride , The Seas was ne're so beautifi'd With Able Men of War before , Along the Straits , along the Straits , Of Spanish Shore , We have no Storms , nor Weather foul , To make the Roaring Billows Role , But pleasant breathing , gentle-gales , Enough to fill , enough to fill , Our swelling Sales . Along the Coast of Barbarie , The Algereens they flot to see , Our Royal Fleet of Noble Fame , And stood amaz'd , and stood amaz'd , To see the same . The longer they the Fleet beheld , The more they were with wonder fil'd , As knowing we were Brittan bold , And that the French , and that the French , False Tales have told . For Turvyl made the Turk believe That they no damage could receive , For of a Truth he did declare , That Master's of , that Master's of , The Seas they were . This will for Truth no longer go , For Turvyl fears Great Russel so , That from Toulon they stear'd away , Had not forgotten , had not forgotten the Month of May . With Russel he is loath to deal , For fear a second Warlike Real , Should shake the whole foundation , That it might prove , that it might prove their overthrow . Once more my Dear , and tender Dove , Fair Isabel , and my Loyal Love , Except of these few lines I send , Who will remain , who will remain Your Faithful Friend . Tho we are separated now , I'le not forget that Solemn Vow Made , when I left my Native Land , I'le go on board , I'le go on board , under Command . My Dearest do not grieve nor mourn , With Patience wait my safe Return , And then we'le both united be , In lasting Bonds , in lasting Bonds Of Loalty . The Figure of a Heart , I send , And round the same these lines are pen'd The Chain of Love has link it fast , So long as Life , so song as Life And Breath does last . FINIS . 