The Great TRIBUNAL ; or , CHRIST's glorious appearing in Judgement . Being , a contemplative Description of Resurrection . HERE Christians may bohold as in a Glass , What will e'er long surely be brought to pass , The great Appearance of our blessed Lord , On his bright Throne the Righteous to reward . With Cherubims of Angels compass'd round , No murmuring , but a sweet harmonious Found , Of Hallelujahs to the King of Kings , Under the shadow of his blessed Wings . Care of his twelve Apostles he did take , And all that ever suffered for his Sake , Shall taste his Love , those are the Saints he'll own , And place them nearest to his blessed Throne . Behold ! he sends his Angels out before , To reap and gather in his Winter-store , Of blessed Saints prepar'd for glory bright , In whom our Lord has Joy , and great Delight . The weighty Wheat shall be preserv'd with Care , It cannot be blown away with breathing Air : But for the Chaff , hight Fire will it consume , The non-repenting stubborn Sinners Doom . Before this mighty Judge , the Quick and Dead , Must all appear , and as their Lives they led , In Righteousness they shall rewarded be , In lasting Joy , or endless Misery . At this Tribunal-seat in the last Day , No Fear or Favour shall be found to sway , That Judge , but all must answer for their Sins , Committed against God , the best of Friends . The greatest Princess both of Birth and Fame , And all that would not harken to his Name : When at the Bar at last they shall appear , How will they tremble with a slavish Fear . Before this mighty Judge two Flocks shall stand , One on his Right , the other on his Lefthand ; For to receive their Sentence good or bad , Consider this while Grace is to be had . The Just he calls with Bowels of his Love , Unto the everlasting Joys above , Prepar'd for them ; but the Wicked they , To endless Sorrows shall be forc'd away , The Mouth of burning Tophet open stands , While Furies with hight Scourges in their Hands , Drive howling Sinners to the gloomy Cell , Where Lucifer does with his Legions dwell . What dreadful Howling , Shrieks , and dismal Cries , Would then be herd when just before their Eyes , One sees another dragg'd down by the Hair , Into the burning Pit of sad Despair . To groan under the fearful Wrath of God , The sharpest Scourge , the most severest Rod , That ever Justice to the World might deal , Dreadful it is to hear , but worse to feel . While the Archangels do the Trumpet found , The Dead arises up then from the Ground : Are taken up into the Clouds above , There to enjoy the blessed Lord of Love . The lonesome Grave , and eke the silent Tomb , That narrow Space of unconfined Room , Shall open , that the Dead may all arise , For their appearing at the great Assize . The roaring Seas , with Waters overspread , In the last Day shall yield up all their Dead ; That they may come to the Tribunal-seat , Where Justice shall that mighty Work complete . Men's Hearts shall tremble in that dreadful Day , The Heavens melt , the Earth shall pass away With all the Pleasure , Pomp , and worldly Store , But Grace and Truth shall last for evermore . In this last Day the Sun shall give no Light , The Stars shall fallen the Moon be darkn'd quite ; And Men with wringing Hands be str [ oh ] ngly hurl'd , To see the Revolution of the World . Some will to lofty Hills and Mountains call , And craggy Rocks , beseeching them to fallen , Upon their Heads , to hide them from his Face , Who comes to Judge them for their sinful Raze . But those who are by Faith seal'd to their God , Those that the Paths of Righteousness have trod , By Angels shall be carefully convey'd , From Grace to Glory , for their Peace is made . Clouds of the Lord's Elect with Patience wait , And find the Way to the Celestial-gate ; By Angels guided , where they enter in , With Joy to think they never more shall sin . The Church of Christ , his dear beloved Spouse , Tho' Grief may be sometime upon her Brows , And eke her Sweets be mix'd with bitter Gall , A Crown of Glory makes amends for all . Since here we have presented to our View , A Shadow of those Things that must ensue : The Laws of God let us no more transgress , That we may live and die in Righteousness . Licensed and entered according to Order , FINIS . The Great TRIBUNAL ; or , CHRIST's glorious appearing in Judgement . Being , a contemplative Description of Resurrection . HERE Christians may bohold as in a Glass , What will e'er long surely be brought to pass , The great Appearance of our blessed Lord , On his bright Throne the Righteous to reward . With Cherubims of Angels compass'd round , No murmuring , but a sweet harmonious Found , Of Hallelujahs to the King of Kings , Under the shadow of his blessed Wings . Care of his twelve Apostles he did take , And all that ever suffered for his Sake , Shall taste his Love , those are the Saints he'll own , And place them nearest to his blessed Throne . Behold ! he sends his Angels out before , To reap and gather in his Winter-store , Of blessed Saints prepar'd for glory bright , In whom our Lord has Joy , and great Delight . The weighty Wheat shall be preserv'd with Care , It cannot be blown away with breathing Air : But for the Chaff , hight Fire will it consume , The non-repenting stubborn Sinners Doom . Before this mighty Judge , the Quick and Dead , Must all appear , and as their Lives they led , In Righteousness they shall rewarded be , In lasting Joy , or endless Misery . At this Tribunal-seat in the last Day , No Fear or Favour shall be found to sway , That Judge , but all must answer for their Sins , Committed against God , the best of Friends . The greatest Princess both of Birth and Fame , And all that would not harken to his Name : When at the Bar at last they shall appear , How will they tremble with a slavish Fear . Before this mighty Judge two Flocks shall stand , One on his Right , the other on his Lefthand ; For to receive their Sentence good or bad , Consider this while Grace is to be had . The Just he calls with Bowels of his Love , Unto the everlasting Joys above , Prepar'd for them ; but the Wicked they , To endless Sorrows shall be forc'd away , The Mouth of burning Tophet open stands , While Furies with hight Scourges in their Hands , Drive howling Sinners to the gloomy Cell , Where Lucifer does with his Legions dwell . What dreadful Howling , Shrieks , and dismal Cries , Would then be herd when just before their Eyes , One sees another dragg'd down by the Hair , Into the burning Pit of sad Despair . To groan under the fearful Wrath of God , The sharpest Scourge , the most severest Rod , That ever Justice to the World might deal , Dreadful it is to hear , but worse to feel . While the Archangels do the Trumpet found , The Dead arises up then from the Ground : Are taken up into the Clouds above , There to enjoy the blessed Lord of Love . The lonesome Grave , and eke the silent Tomb , That narrow Space of unconfined Room , Shall open , that the Dead may all arise , For their appearing at the great Assize . The roaring Seas , with Waters overspread , In the last Day shall yield up all their Dead ; That they may come to the Tribunal-seat , Where Justice shall that mighty Work complete . Men's Hearts shall tremble in that dreadful Day , The Heavens melt , the Earth shall pass away With all the Pleasure , Pomp , and worldly Store , But Grace and Truth shall last for evermore . In this last Day the Sun shall give no Light , The Stars shall fallen the Moon be darkn'd quite ; And Men with wringing Hands be str [ oh ] ngly hurl'd , To see the Revolution of the World . Some will to lofty Hills and Mountains call , And craggy Rocks , beseeching them to fallen , Upon their Heads , to hide them from his Face , Who comes to Judge them for their sinful Raze . But those who are by Faith seal'd to their God , Those that the Paths of Righteousness have trod , By Angels shall be carefully convey'd , From Grace to Glory , for their Peace is made . Clouds of the Lord's Elect with Patience wait , And find the Way to the Celestial-gate ; By Angels guided , where they enter in , With Joy to think they never more shall sin . The Church of Christ , his dear beloved Spouse , Tho' Grief may be sometime upon her Brows , And eke her Sweets be mix'd with bitter Gall , A Crown of Glory makes amends for all . Since here we have presented to our View , A Shadow of those Things that must ensue : The Laws of God let us no more transgress , That we may live and die in Righteousness . Licensed and entered according to Order , FINIS . 