R3 . 465 THE Beau's Receipt for a Lady's Dress . HANG a small bugle cap on , as big as a crown , Snout it off with a flow'r , vulgo dict . a Pompoou , Let your powder be gay , and braid up your hair , Like the mane of a colt to be sold at a fair . Like the mane , etc A short pair of jumps , half and ell from your chin , To make you appear like one just lying-in ; Before your breast pin a stomacher bib on , Ragout it with curlets of silver and ribbon . Your neck and your shoulders both naked should be , Alamode de Vandyke , blown with chevaux de freeze , Let your gown be a sack , blue , yellow , or green , And frizzle your elbows with ruffles sixteen . Furl off your lawn apron with flounces in rows , Puff and pucker up knots on your arms and your toes , Make your petticoats short , that a hoop 8 yards wide May decently show how your garters are ty'd . With fringes of knotting your dicky cabob , On slippers of velvet set gold a-la-daube ; But mount on french heels when you go to a ball , 'Tis the fashion to totter , and show you can fallen . Throw modesty out from your manners and face , A la-mode de francois , you're a bit for his Grace . The Lady's Receipt for a Beau's Dress . SINCE , Sir , you have made it your study to vex , And audaciously laugh at the dress of our sex , Pray don't be so blind to the faults of your own , But let them , I say , in the next lines be shown . Instead of small caps , you must then add small wigs , The tail of which mostly resembles a pig's ; Put a hat upon that , and point it up high , Just like to and arrow that's aim'd at the sky . At the corner of which , I pray don't forget , Hang a tassel of silver , to make it complete ; Let the stock be well plaited , in fanciful forms , While a fine diamond heart the shirt bosom adorns . Let the swordhilt be cover'd with ribbon good store , Lest the roughness around make the tender hand soar ; Yet no need is for that , for they'll certainly fly The place where they think any danger is nigh . His coat is to be but a foot from his waist , And fix'd as tied too as if it were lac'd ; In his pocket a housewife and pincushion place , Not forgetting a glass to show his sweet face . With stockings of silk , nothing less can such please , Bind his legs round with silver and inch above knees , Hang a tassel to that , or else it won't do , And in length it must reach half way to his shoe . His bright buckles of stone , of five guineas price , To adorn his neat feet , and make him more nice : Thus dressed and equipped , 'tis plain to be seen , He's not one jot better than monsieur Pantin . R3 . 465 THE Beau's Receipt for a Lady's Dress . HANG a small bugle cap on , as big as a crown , Snout it off with a flow'r , vulgo dict . a Pompoou , Let your powder be gay , and braid up your hair , Like the mane of a colt to be sold at a fair . Like the mane , etc A short pair of jumps , half and ell from your chin , To make you appear like one just lying-in ; Before your breast pin a stomacher bib on , Ragout it with curlets of silver and ribbon . Your neck and your shoulders both naked should be , Alamode de Vandyke , blown with chevaux de freeze , Let your gown be a sack , blue , yellow , or green , And frizzle your elbows with ruffles sixteen . Furl off your lawn apron with flounces in rows , Puff and pucker up knots on your arms and your toes , Make your petticoats short , that a hoop 8 yards wide May decently show how your garters are ty'd . With fringes of knotting your dicky cabob , On slippers of velvet set gold a-la-daube ; But mount on french heels when you go to a ball , 'Tis the fashion to totter , and show you can fallen . Throw modesty out from your manners and face , A la-mode de francois , you're a bit for his Grace . The Lady's Receipt for a Beau's Dress . SINCE , Sir , you have made it your study to vex , And audaciously laugh at the dress of our sex , Pray don't be so blind to the faults of your own , But let them , I say , in the next lines be shown . Instead of small caps , you must then add small wigs , The tail of which mostly resembles a pig's ; Put a hat upon that , and point it up high , Just like to and arrow that's aim'd at the sky . At the corner of which , I pray don't forget , Hang a tassel of silver , to make it complete ; Let the stock be well plaited , in fanciful forms , While a fine diamond heart the shirt bosom adorns . Let the swordhilt be cover'd with ribbon good store , Lest the roughness around make the tender hand soar ; Yet no need is for that , for they'll certainly fly The place where they think any danger is nigh . His coat is to be but a foot from his waist , And fix'd as tied too as if it were lac'd ; In his pocket a housewife and pincushion place , Not forgetting a glass to show his sweet face . With stockings of silk , nothing less can such please , Bind his legs round with silver and inch above knees , Hang a tassel to that , or else it won't do , And in length it must reach half way to his shoe . His bright buckles of stone , of five guineas price , To adorn his neat feet , and make him more nice : Thus dressed and equipped , 'tis plain to be seen , He's not one jot better than monsieur Pantin . 