And Unhappy Memorable SONG of the Hunting on CHEVY CHACE , between the Earl PIERCY of England and Earl DOUGLAS of Scotiand . To the Tune , of Flying Fame . GOD prosper long our noble King , Our Lives and Safeties all ; A woeful Hunting once there did , In Chevy Chase befall . To drive the Deer with Hound and Horn Earl Piercy took his way : The Child may rue that was unborn ; The Hunting of that Day . The stout Earl of Northumberland , A Vow to God did make , His Pleasure in the Scottish woods , Three Summer-Days to take . The chiefest Heart in Chevy Chase , To kill and bear away . These Tidings to Earl Deuglas came , In Scotland where he lay ; Who sent Earl Piercy present Word , He would prevent his Sport ; The English Earl not fearing this , Did to the woods resort , With fifteen Hundred Bowmen bold , All chosen Men of Might ; Who knew full well in Time of Need , To aim their Shafts aright . The gallant Greyhound swiftly ran , To chase the Fallow Deer : On Monday they began to hunt , When Daylight did appear ; And long before high Noon they had , A hundred fat bucks slave : And having din'd , the Drovers went , To rouse them up again . The Bowmen muster'd on the Hills Well able to endure ; Their Backsides all with special Care , That Day were guarded sure . The Hounds ran swiftly through the Wood The nimble Deer to take , And with their Cries the Hills and Dales , And echo shrill did make Earl Piercy to the Quarry went , To view the tender Deer : Quoth he , Earl Douglas promised , This Day to meet me here : But if I thought he would not come , No longer would I stay : With that a brave young Gentleman , Thus to the Earl did say ; Lo ! yonder does Earl Douglas come , His Men in Armour bright ; Full twenty hundred Scotish Peers , All marching in our Sighed . All pleasant Men of Tividale , Fast by the River Tweed : Then cease your Sport , Earl Piercy said , And take your Bows with Speed . And now with me my Country Men , Your courage forth ad [ van ] ce , For never was there Champions yet , In Scotland or in France , That ever did on Horseback come , But since my Hap it were , I durst encounter Man for Man , With him to break a Spear . Earl Douglas on a Milkwhite Steed , Most like a baron bold , Road foremost of the Company , Whose Armour shone like Gold . Show me , said he , whose Men you be , That hunt so boldly oers , That without my consent do chase , And kill my fallow Deer ? The Man that first did Answer make , Was the noble Piercy he , Who said , we list not to declare , Nor show whose men we be . Yet we will spend our dearest blood , The chiefest Heart to slay : Then Douglas swore a solemn Oath , And thus in Rage did say : E'er thus I will outbraved be , One of us two shall die , I know thee well , and Earl thou art , Lord Piercy so am I . But trust me Piercy pity it were , And great Offence to kill , Any of these our harmless Men , For they have done no Ill : Let thou and I the Battle try , And set our Men aside . Accurs'd be he Lord Piercy said , By whom this is deny'd . Then stepped a gallant Squire forth , Windrington was his Name ; Who said , He would not have it told To Henry his King for Shame , That e'er his Captain fought on Foot And he stood looking on : You be two Earl said Widdrinton , And I a Squire alone . I'll do the best that I can do , While I have power to stand ; While I have power to wield my Sword , I'll fight with Heart and Hand . Our English Archers bent their bows , Their Hearts were good and true ; At the first flight of Arrows sent Full threescore Scots they stew . To drive the Deer with Hound and Horn Earl Douglas bit the Bent ; A Captain mov'd with meikle Pride , Their Spears to shivers went . They clos'd full fast on every Side , No slackness there was found , And many a gallant Gntleman , Lay gasping on the ground . Alas ! it was great Grief to see , And likewise for to hear , The Cries of Men lying in their Gore , And scattered here and there . At last these two stout Earls did meet , Like Captains of great Might , Like Lions mov'd their Blows they laid , And made a cruel Fight . They fought until they both did sweat , With Swords of temper'd Steel , Until the Blood like Drops of Rain , They trickling down did feel . Yield thee , Lord Piercy , Douglas said , In faith I will thee bring , Where thou shalt high advanced be , By James our Scottish King ; A Ransom I will freely give , And this Report of thee , Thou art the most courageous Knight , That ever I did see . No , Douglas , quoth Earl Piercy then , Thy Proffer I do scorn ; I will not yield to any Scot , That ever yet was born . With that there came and Arrow keen , Out of and English Bow , Which struck Earl Douglas to the Heart , A deep and deadly Blow . Who never spoke more words then these Fight on my merry Men all , For why my Life is at and End , Lord Piercy sees my Fallen . Then leaving Life Earl Piercy took , The dead Man by the Hand , And said Earl Douglas , for thy Life , Would I had lost my Land. Alas ! my very heart does bleed , With Sorrow for thy Sake , For sure a more renowned knight , Mischance did never take . A Knight among the Scots there was , Who saw Earl Douglas die , Who straight in Wrath did now Revenge . Upon the Earl Piercy Sir Hugh Montgomery , he was call'd , Who with a Spear most bright , Well mounted on a gallant Steed , Ran fiercely thro' the Fight , And passed our English Archers all , Without all Dread or Fear , And through Earl Piercy's Body then , He thrust his hateful Spear : With such vehement Force and Might , He did his Body gore ; The Spear went through the other Side A large Cloth Yard and more . So thus did both these Nobles die , Whose Courage none could stain ; And English Archer then perceiv'd , The noble Earl was stain : He had a Bow bent in his Hand , Made of a trusty Tree , And Arrow of a Cloth Yard long , Unto the Head drew he , Against Sir Hugh Montgomery ; So right his Shaft he set , The gray Goose wings thas were theron In his Hearts Blood were wet . The Fight did last from break of day , Till setting of the Sun ; For when they rang the Evening Bell , The Battle scarce was done . With the Earl Piercy there was slave , Sir John of Oggerton , Sir Robert Radcliffe and Sir John , Sir James that bold Baron . And with Sir George and good Sir James Both Knights of good Account , Good Sir Ralph Raby there was slave , Whose Prowess did surmount . For Widdrington needs must I wail , As one in doleful Dumps , For when his Legs were smitten off , He fought upon his Stumps . And with Earl Douglas there was slave , Sir Hugh Montgimory , Sir Charles Murray that from the Field , One Foot would never fly Sir Charles Murray of Radcliffe too , His Sisters Son was he : Sir David Lamb so well esteemed , Yet saved could not be : And the Lord Maxwell , he likewise , Did with Earl Douglas die ; Oft twenty Hundred Scottish Peers , Scarce fifty-five did fly ; Of twneta Hundred Englishmen , Went Home but fifty-three , The rest were slave in Chevy Chase , Under the Greenwood Tree . Next Day did many Widows come , Their Husband to bewail , They wash their wounds in brenish Tears But all would not prevail . Their Bodies bath'd in purple Blood , They boar with them away ; They kiss'd them dead a thousand Times When they were cold as Clay . This News was brought to Edinburgh Where Scotland's King did reign , That brave Earl Douglas suddenly , Was with and Arrow slave . O heavy News King James did say , Scotland can witness be , I have not any Captain more , Of such Account as he . Like Tidings to King Henry came , Within as short a Space , That Piercy of Northumberland , Was slave in Chevy Chase . Now God be with him said our King , Since 'twill not better be , I trust I have within my Realm , Five hundred as good as he . Yet shall not Scot or Scotland say , But I will Vengeance take , And be revenged on them all , For brave Earl Piercy's Sake . This Vow the King full well perform'd , After one humble Down , In one Day fifty Knights were slave , And Lords of high Renown : And of the Rest of small Account , Did many Hundreds die ; Thus ends the Hunting of Chevy Chase Made by the Earl Piercy . God save the King , and bless the Land , In Plenty Joy and Peace ; And grant henceforth that foul Debate , T'wixt Noblemen may cease . And Unhappy Memorable SONG of the Hunting on CHEVY CHACE , between the Earl PIERCY of England and Earl DOUGLAS of Scotiand . To the Tune , of Flying Fame . GOD prosper long our noble King , Our Lives and Safeties all ; A woeful Hunting once there did , In Chevy Chase befall . To drive the Deer with Hound and Horn Earl Piercy took his way : The Child may rue that was unborn ; The Hunting of that Day . The stout Earl of Northumberland , A Vow to God did make , His Pleasure in the Scottish woods , Three Summer-Days to take . The chiefest Heart in Chevy Chase , To kill and bear away . These Tidings to Earl Deuglas came , In Scotland where he lay ; Who sent Earl Piercy present Word , He would prevent his Sport ; The English Earl not fearing this , Did to the woods resort , With fifteen Hundred Bowmen bold , All chosen Men of Might ; Who knew full well in Time of Need , To aim their Shafts aright . The gallant Greyhound swiftly ran , To chase the Fallow Deer : On Monday they began to hunt , When Daylight did appear ; And long before high Noon they had , A hundred fat bucks slave : And having din'd , the Drovers went , To rouse them up again . The Bowmen muster'd on the Hills Well able to endure ; Their Backsides all with special Care , That Day were guarded sure . The Hounds ran swiftly through the Wood The nimble Deer to take , And with their Cries the Hills and Dales , And echo shrill did make Earl Piercy to the Quarry went , To view the tender Deer : Quoth he , Earl Douglas promised , This Day to meet me here : But if I thought he would not come , No longer would I stay : With that a brave young Gentleman , Thus to the Earl did say ; Lo ! yonder does Earl Douglas come , His Men in Armour bright ; Full twenty hundred Scotish Peers , All marching in our Sighed . All pleasant Men of Tividale , Fast by the River Tweed : Then cease your Sport , Earl Piercy said , And take your Bows with Speed . And now with me my Country Men , Your courage forth ad [ van ] ce , For never was there Champions yet , In Scotland or in France , That ever did on Horseback come , But since my Hap it were , I durst encounter Man for Man , With him to break a Spear . Earl Douglas on a Milkwhite Steed , Most like a baron bold , Road foremost of the Company , Whose Armour shone like Gold . Show me , said he , whose Men you be , That hunt so boldly oers , That without my consent do chase , And kill my fallow Deer ? The Man that first did Answer make , Was the noble Piercy he , Who said , we list not to declare , Nor show whose men we be . Yet we will spend our dearest blood , The chiefest Heart to slay : Then Douglas swore a solemn Oath , And thus in Rage did say : E'er thus I will outbraved be , One of us two shall die , I know thee well , and Earl thou art , Lord Piercy so am I . But trust me Piercy pity it were , And great Offence to kill , Any of these our harmless Men , For they have done no Ill : Let thou and I the Battle try , And set our Men aside . Accurs'd be he Lord Piercy said , By whom this is deny'd . Then stepped a gallant Squire forth , Windrington was his Name ; Who said , He would not have it told To Henry his King for Shame , That e'er his Captain fought on Foot And he stood looking on : You be two Earl said Widdrinton , And I a Squire alone . I'll do the best that I can do , While I have power to stand ; While I have power to wield my Sword , I'll fight with Heart and Hand . Our English Archers bent their bows , Their Hearts were good and true ; At the first flight of Arrows sent Full threescore Scots they stew . To drive the Deer with Hound and Horn Earl Douglas bit the Bent ; A Captain mov'd with meikle Pride , Their Spears to shivers went . They clos'd full fast on every Side , No slackness there was found , And many a gallant Gntleman , Lay gasping on the ground . Alas ! it was great Grief to see , And likewise for to hear , The Cries of Men lying in their Gore , And scattered here and there . At last these two stout Earls did meet , Like Captains of great Might , Like Lions mov'd their Blows they laid , And made a cruel Fight . They fought until they both did sweat , With Swords of temper'd Steel , Until the Blood like Drops of Rain , They trickling down did feel . Yield thee , Lord Piercy , Douglas said , In faith I will thee bring , Where thou shalt high advanced be , By James our Scottish King ; A Ransom I will freely give , And this Report of thee , Thou art the most courageous Knight , That ever I did see . No , Douglas , quoth Earl Piercy then , Thy Proffer I do scorn ; I will not yield to any Scot , That ever yet was born . With that there came and Arrow keen , Out of and English Bow , Which struck Earl Douglas to the Heart , A deep and deadly Blow . Who never spoke more words then these Fight on my merry Men all , For why my Life is at and End , Lord Piercy sees my Fallen . Then leaving Life Earl Piercy took , The dead Man by the Hand , And said Earl Douglas , for thy Life , Would I had lost my Land. Alas ! my very heart does bleed , With Sorrow for thy Sake , For sure a more renowned knight , Mischance did never take . A Knight among the Scots there was , Who saw Earl Douglas die , Who straight in Wrath did now Revenge . Upon the Earl Piercy Sir Hugh Montgomery , he was call'd , Who with a Spear most bright , Well mounted on a gallant Steed , Ran fiercely thro' the Fight , And passed our English Archers all , Without all Dread or Fear , And through Earl Piercy's Body then , He thrust his hateful Spear : With such vehement Force and Might , He did his Body gore ; The Spear went through the other Side A large Cloth Yard and more . So thus did both these Nobles die , Whose Courage none could stain ; And English Archer then perceiv'd , The noble Earl was stain : He had a Bow bent in his Hand , Made of a trusty Tree , And Arrow of a Cloth Yard long , Unto the Head drew he , Against Sir Hugh Montgomery ; So right his Shaft he set , The gray Goose wings thas were theron In his Hearts Blood were wet . The Fight did last from break of day , Till setting of the Sun ; For when they rang the Evening Bell , The Battle scarce was done . With the Earl Piercy there was slave , Sir John of Oggerton , Sir Robert Radcliffe and Sir John , Sir James that bold Baron . And with Sir George and good Sir James Both Knights of good Account , Good Sir Ralph Raby there was slave , Whose Prowess did surmount . For Widdrington needs must I wail , As one in doleful Dumps , For when his Legs were smitten off , He fought upon his Stumps . And with Earl Douglas there was slave , Sir Hugh Montgimory , Sir Charles Murray that from the Field , One Foot would never fly Sir Charles Murray of Radcliffe too , His Sisters Son was he : Sir David Lamb so well esteemed , Yet saved could not be : And the Lord Maxwell , he likewise , Did with Earl Douglas die ; Oft twenty Hundred Scottish Peers , Scarce fifty-five did fly ; Of twneta Hundred Englishmen , Went Home but fifty-three , The rest were slave in Chevy Chase , Under the Greenwood Tree . Next Day did many Widows come , Their Husband to bewail , They wash their wounds in brenish Tears But all would not prevail . Their Bodies bath'd in purple Blood , They boar with them away ; They kiss'd them dead a thousand Times When they were cold as Clay . This News was brought to Edinburgh Where Scotland's King did reign , That brave Earl Douglas suddenly , Was with and Arrow slave . O heavy News King James did say , Scotland can witness be , I have not any Captain more , Of such Account as he . Like Tidings to King Henry came , Within as short a Space , That Piercy of Northumberland , Was slave in Chevy Chase . Now God be with him said our King , Since 'twill not better be , I trust I have within my Realm , Five hundred as good as he . Yet shall not Scot or Scotland say , But I will Vengeance take , And be revenged on them all , For brave Earl Piercy's Sake . This Vow the King full well perform'd , After one humble Down , In one Day fifty Knights were slave , And Lords of high Renown : And of the Rest of small Account , Did many Hundreds die ; Thus ends the Hunting of Chevy Chase Made by the Earl Piercy . God save the King , and bless the Land , In Plenty Joy and Peace ; And grant henceforth that foul Debate , T'wixt Noblemen may cease . 