And Excellant new Song lately composed , ENTITLED , The PEARL of the Irish Nation . To its own proper Tune . HARD was my Lot , for to be shot by Cupid's cunning Arrow ; Both Night and Day , I fallen away through perfect Grief and Sorrow : To the Hill and Dale I oft reveal , and breath forth my Lamentation ; Which I endure for that Virgin pure , the Pearl of the Irish Nation . Her Beauty so bright has dazl'd my Sighed , and alas ! my poor Heart it is wounded : No Way can I find for ease my Mind , by Cup [ id ] I am so wounded : Great is my Pain that I sustain , and sad is my Grief and Vexation ; And all for the Sake of a beautiful Dame , the Pearl of the Irish Nation . Though many there be that daily I see , of beautiful charming Creatures , With read rosy Cheeks and ruby Lips , and likewise comely Features : But yet there is none abroad or at home , in Country , Town , or Plantation , That can compare with that Virgin fair , the Pearl of the Irish Nation . No Way can I find to ease my Mind , but speends my Time in weeping : I sighs and I groan , I sob , and moan while others lie by me asleeping . To some lonesome Place I'll go for a Space , and there I'll make my Habitation ; Since I cannot gain that beautiful Dame , the pearl of the Irish Nation . I know there is some that think that I mourn , and make my whole Moan for the Lily ; Perhaps is so , but the Case of Wo. is for the Rose that grows in the Valley : She's rare to be seen like Venus the Queen , for Modesty , Virtue , and Patience : My Heart is inlink'd with that beautiful Pink , the Pearl of the Irish Nation . Alas ! there is none can ease my Moan , but only that charming Creature ; Her Cheeks like the Rose which sweetly grows hard by the Banks of the Cedar ; Her Name to declare this Time I forbear , tho' my Heart be fill'd with Vexation . Yet you may suppose , she's called the Rose . the Pearl of the Irish Nation . These Lines I intended for to have pen'd , and send to my dearest Jewel , To let her know how great is my Woe , and if that she chance to prove cruel : Like a Pilgrim I'll go through Frost and through Snow I'll forsake my former Station ; Since I cannot gain that beautiful Dame , the Pearl of the Irish Nation . I'd transport to Spain , from thence to Lorain , I'll oftimes cross the wide Ocean ; Since Sorrow and Pain through her Disdain , hath happen'd to be my Fortune ; If Hunger and Cold should on me take hold , or cause me to die in the Station ; The Woods shall not ring , nor hear me to sing of the Pearl of the Irish Nation . Though I am sad , yet if that I had but Part of the Gifts of Ovid , With a willing Mind to what I'm inclin'd , and freely I have disclosed ; My Name I'll rehearse and put it in Verse , since I have made a Declaration : For I vow , and I swear , my Heart is insnar'd by the Pearl of the Irish Nation . P is a Part , and A is and Art , and TO is a Teacher of Strangers : R , I , C. is the Number of Three , and K is the Keeper of Chambers ; The K shall be King when E cannot reign and L most lie by in his Station ; The Y shall be young when it is new sung , she's the Pearl of the Irish Nation . Virgins most kind , when you read these Lines , and you have the same perused ; If I have said ought out of the Way , pray you let me be excused . And Answer pray send to what I have penn'd , since I have mad a Declaration ; For I vow and swear , my Heart is insnar'd by the Pearl of the Irish Nation . The Second Part. O Then replied this beautiful Bride , her Answer it was with Discretion . My Parents they say , will turn me away , if I join with your Procession Out of this Land , as I understand , they'l turn me where I will see no Man , If I attempt without their Consent to marry a Man that's a Roman . My Dear , said he , if you will agree this Day with me to marry ; There's Gold and Land at your Command , therefore let us not tarry ; For let your Friends say what they can ; I am obliged to no Man : There's Gold and Land at your Command ; altho' I am a Roman . Alas ! why do you slight me so ? is it for my Religion ? You are ungrateful if you do hold me in such Derision : For if all the Grecian Gold were mine , on you I would bestow i Therefore your Heart to me resign , before your Parents know of't . O then ! she said , as I am a Maid , this Day I'll freely marry , Therefore let us not be afraid , let us no longer tarry : For let my Friends say what they can ; I'll never be rul'd no Man ; My Heart and Hand's at thy Command altho' thou be a Roman . This loving Couple married were , in Plenty , Peace , and Pleasure ; Near Castleblany as we hear , enjoying Store and Treasure : This young Man free from Care and Strife , enjoys his charming Jewel ; She proves a virtuous loving Wife , altho' her Friends were cruel . FINIS . And Excellant new Song lately composed , ENTITLED , The PEARL of the Irish Nation . To its own proper Tune . HARD was my Lot , for to be shot by Cupid's cunning Arrow ; Both Night and Day , I fallen away through perfect Grief and Sorrow : To the Hill and Dale I oft reveal , and breath forth my Lamentation ; Which I endure for that Virgin pure , the Pearl of the Irish Nation . Her Beauty so bright has dazl'd my Sighed , and alas ! my poor Heart it is wounded : No Way can I find for ease my Mind , by Cup [ id ] I am so wounded : Great is my Pain that I sustain , and sad is my Grief and Vexation ; And all for the Sake of a beautiful Dame , the Pearl of the Irish Nation . Though many there be that daily I see , of beautiful charming Creatures , With read rosy Cheeks and ruby Lips , and likewise comely Features : But yet there is none abroad or at home , in Country , Town , or Plantation , That can compare with that Virgin fair , the Pearl of the Irish Nation . No Way can I find to ease my Mind , but speends my Time in weeping : I sighs and I groan , I sob , and moan while others lie by me asleeping . To some lonesome Place I'll go for a Space , and there I'll make my Habitation ; Since I cannot gain that beautiful Dame , the pearl of the Irish Nation . I know there is some that think that I mourn , and make my whole Moan for the Lily ; Perhaps is so , but the Case of Wo. is for the Rose that grows in the Valley : She's rare to be seen like Venus the Queen , for Modesty , Virtue , and Patience : My Heart is inlink'd with that beautiful Pink , the Pearl of the Irish Nation . Alas ! there is none can ease my Moan , but only that charming Creature ; Her Cheeks like the Rose which sweetly grows hard by the Banks of the Cedar ; Her Name to declare this Time I forbear , tho' my Heart be fill'd with Vexation . Yet you may suppose , she's called the Rose . the Pearl of the Irish Nation . These Lines I intended for to have pen'd , and send to my dearest Jewel , To let her know how great is my Woe , and if that she chance to prove cruel : Like a Pilgrim I'll go through Frost and through Snow I'll forsake my former Station ; Since I cannot gain that beautiful Dame , the Pearl of the Irish Nation . I'd transport to Spain , from thence to Lorain , I'll oftimes cross the wide Ocean ; Since Sorrow and Pain through her Disdain , hath happen'd to be my Fortune ; If Hunger and Cold should on me take hold , or cause me to die in the Station ; The Woods shall not ring , nor hear me to sing of the Pearl of the Irish Nation . Though I am sad , yet if that I had but Part of the Gifts of Ovid , With a willing Mind to what I'm inclin'd , and freely I have disclosed ; My Name I'll rehearse and put it in Verse , since I have made a Declaration : For I vow , and I swear , my Heart is insnar'd by the Pearl of the Irish Nation . P is a Part , and A is and Art , and TO is a Teacher of Strangers : R , I , C. is the Number of Three , and K is the Keeper of Chambers ; The K shall be King when E cannot reign and L most lie by in his Station ; The Y shall be young when it is new sung , she's the Pearl of the Irish Nation . Virgins most kind , when you read these Lines , and you have the same perused ; If I have said ought out of the Way , pray you let me be excused . And Answer pray send to what I have penn'd , since I have mad a Declaration ; For I vow and swear , my Heart is insnar'd by the Pearl of the Irish Nation . The Second Part. O Then replied this beautiful Bride , her Answer it was with Discretion . My Parents they say , will turn me away , if I join with your Procession Out of this Land , as I understand , they'l turn me where I will see no Man , If I attempt without their Consent to marry a Man that's a Roman . My Dear , said he , if you will agree this Day with me to marry ; There's Gold and Land at your Command , therefore let us not tarry ; For let your Friends say what they can ; I am obliged to no Man : There's Gold and Land at your Command ; altho' I am a Roman . Alas ! why do you slight me so ? is it for my Religion ? You are ungrateful if you do hold me in such Derision : For if all the Grecian Gold were mine , on you I would bestow i Therefore your Heart to me resign , before your Parents know of't . O then ! she said , as I am a Maid , this Day I'll freely marry , Therefore let us not be afraid , let us no longer tarry : For let my Friends say what they can ; I'll never be rul'd no Man ; My Heart and Hand's at thy Command altho' thou be a Roman . This loving Couple married were , in Plenty , Peace , and Pleasure ; Near Castleblany as we hear , enjoying Store and Treasure : This young Man free from Care and Strife , enjoys his charming Jewel ; She proves a virtuous loving Wife , altho' her Friends were cruel . FINIS . 