The Kind VIRGIN's Complaint AGAINST A Young MAN's Unkindness . Of young Man's Falsehood she does complain , Resolving never to love Man again ; Experience tells her Men love but for Fashion , That makes her rail against them in such a Passion . To the Tune of , Cupid's Courtesy , etc I AM so deep in Love , I cannot hide it , It breaks me of my Rest , And of my Quie For when I see his Face , It so inflames me , That I must love him still , Though the World blame me . O fie upon this Love , It will undo me ; I'll never love Man again , Should the Gods woo me : Now if that once I can , Shake off this Passion , I'll ne'er love Man again , Only for Fashion . There's no Belief in Man , Though they seem civil ; For when they fit like Saints , They think most Evil : Therefore be rul'd by me , Never trust a Man ; But if you needs must love , Pray love a Woman . I wish blind Cupid had Been found a sleeping , When like a crafty Lad He came so creeping , To wound my tender Heart , And pierce my Marrow , I felt his fatal Dart , To my great Sorrow . Never poor Virgin was In such a Taking , I oft look'd in my Glass , Pleasure forsaking : My Cheeks were pale and wan , My Lips did tremble , Because I lov'd a Man That did dissemble . Oh! what a simple Girl I was for certain , For to love Lord or Earl , I would not harken : Not one in twenty Score , But is deceitful ; Therefore I'll love no more , Men are ungrateful . It is their constant Trade To cog and flatter ; Or to delude a Maid , Her for to banter : But if they prate and lie , I'll not believe them ; Such Love I'll never try , Although it grieves them . They'll profess , and pretend Much of Affection , Until they make you bend To Love's Subjection : Of your Hearts craftily They will bereave you , Till a new Face they 'spy , Then they will leave you . Their Words they are but Wind , Like Winter Weather , Unconstant and unkind , Light as a Feather : I tell you flat and plain , I'll not abide it , To love a Man again , Once having try'd it . Blame me not , though I be Something in Passion ; For now I plainly see , It is the Fashion , For such falsehearted Men , Are grown so common , That when I love again , I'll love a Woman . Why should a Woman dote On such a Bubble , That's good for nothing , but To procure Trouble : Every Day I will pray For to live single , That my Affections may With no Man's mingle . Ladies , take my Advice , You have rare Features , Always be coy and nice To such false Creatures ; No Man will constant prove , No not my Brother , Then if you need must love , Love one another . The Kind VIRGIN's Complaint AGAINST A Young MAN's Unkindness . Of young Man's Falsehood she does complain , Resolving never to love Man again ; Experience tells her Men love but for Fashion , That makes her rail against them in such a Passion . To the Tune of , Cupid's Courtesy , etc I AM so deep in Love , I cannot hide it , It breaks me of my Rest , And of my Quie For when I see his Face , It so inflames me , That I must love him still , Though the World blame me . O fie upon this Love , It will undo me ; I'll never love Man again , Should the Gods woo me : Now if that once I can , Shake off this Passion , I'll ne'er love Man again , Only for Fashion . There's no Belief in Man , Though they seem civil ; For when they fit like Saints , They think most Evil : Therefore be rul'd by me , Never trust a Man ; But if you needs must love , Pray love a Woman . I wish blind Cupid had Been found a sleeping , When like a crafty Lad He came so creeping , To wound my tender Heart , And pierce my Marrow , I felt his fatal Dart , To my great Sorrow . Never poor Virgin was In such a Taking , I oft look'd in my Glass , Pleasure forsaking : My Cheeks were pale and wan , My Lips did tremble , Because I lov'd a Man That did dissemble . Oh! what a simple Girl I was for certain , For to love Lord or Earl , I would not harken : Not one in twenty Score , But is deceitful ; Therefore I'll love no more , Men are ungrateful . It is their constant Trade To cog and flatter ; Or to delude a Maid , Her for to banter : But if they prate and lie , I'll not believe them ; Such Love I'll never try , Although it grieves them . They'll profess , and pretend Much of Affection , Until they make you bend To Love's Subjection : Of your Hearts craftily They will bereave you , Till a new Face they 'spy , Then they will leave you . Their Words they are but Wind , Like Winter Weather , Unconstant and unkind , Light as a Feather : I tell you flat and plain , I'll not abide it , To love a Man again , Once having try'd it . Blame me not , though I be Something in Passion ; For now I plainly see , It is the Fashion , For such falsehearted Men , Are grown so common , That when I love again , I'll love a Woman . Why should a Woman dote On such a Bubble , That's good for nothing , but To procure Trouble : Every Day I will pray For to live single , That my Affections may With no Man's mingle . Ladies , take my Advice , You have rare Features , Always be coy and nice To such false Creatures ; No Man will constant prove , No not my Brother , Then if you need must love , Love one another . 