The Tombs in Westminster Abbey , As Sung by Brother Popplewell in the manner of Chanting in a Cathedral . HERE lies William of Valence , a right good Earl of Pembroke , And this is his monument which you see I'll swear upon a book , He was earl marshal of England , when Henry the third did reign , About five hundred years ago , but never will be so again , Here the Lord Talbot lies , the Town of Shrewsbury's earl Together with his countess fair who was almost delicate girl Next to him there lies one Sir Richard Peckshall hight , Of whom we only this do say that he was a Hampshire Knight Here lies the third King Edward's brother , of whom our records tell , Nothing of note , nor say they whither he be in Heaven or Hell ; This same was John of Elderstone , he was no Costermonger But Cornwall's Earl ; and here's one died because he could live no longer . Now think your penny well spent good folks and that you're not beguil'd , Within this cup does lie the heart , of a French Ambassador's child , But how the Dev'l it came to pass , on purpose or by chance The bowels they lie underneath , but the body is in France . Here lies Oxford countess , and there also the Lady Burleigh her mother , And there her Daughter a countess too , lie close by one another ; These once were bonny dams , and though there were no coaches then , Yet cou'd they jog their tails themselves , or get them jogg'd by the men . Oh! who is me those high born sinners , that now do pray so stoutly , Living they never pray'd at all , yet their statues pray devoutly ; This fair monument which you see , I'd have you to under - stand , It is of a virtuous lady fair who died of a prick in her hand . In this fair monument which you see , adorned with so many pillars , Does lie the countess of Buckingham , and her husband Sir George Villiers ; This old Sir George was Grandfather , and the Countess she was Granny , To the great Duke of Buckingham , who led by the nose King Jamy . Here lies Sir Robert Eatam a Scootish Knight , this man was secretary , He scribbled compliments for two Queen's , Queen Ann and Queen Marry : This same was Marry Queen of Scots , whom Buchanan does so bespatter , She lost her head at Fotheingay , whatever was the matter . Henry the seventh lies here entomb'd with his fair Queen beside him , He was the founder of this Chapel , Oh! may no ill betide him And here they stand upright in a press , with their bodies made of wax , A globe and a wand in either hand , and their robes upon their backs . To another Chapel now come we , the people follow and chat This is the Lady Cottington , the people cry who's that ; Why Sir Thomas Bromley lies here , Death wou'd not him reprieve , With his four sons , and daughters four , that once were all alive . Here lies Sir John Fullerton and that is his Lady I trow , And that is Sir John Pickering whom none of you did know , Here lies the earl of Torrington , the world ne'er saw a madder , His Countess fair she lies beside him , and now you go up a ladder , Richard the second lies here entomb'd , with his fair Queen , Queen Ann , Edward the third lies here hard by , and he was a gallant Man ; This is the sword of John of Gaunt , a blade both true and trusty : The Frenchman's blood was ne'er wiped off which makes it look so rusty . Harry the fifth lies here entomb'd with his fair Queen , Queen Eleanor , To our fifth Edward she was wife that's more than you knew before Now down the ladder come we again , the man goes first with a staff , Two or three tumble down the stairs , and all the people laugh . Sir Robert Vere lies here entomb'd , who the Spaniards hide so curried , Four colonels brave support his tomb , and here his bodies buried ; That statue up against the wall with one eye , is Major General Nor [ r ] is , He bang'd the French most cruelly , as affirm'd in stories . Here lies Sir John Holles , who was a Major General , To Sir John Morris that brave blade , and now you may depart all , For now the show is at and end , all things are done and said , The Citizens pay for their Wives , and the Apprentices kiss the Maids . The Tombs in Westminster Abbey , As Sung by Brother Popplewell in the manner of Chanting in a Cathedral . HERE lies William of Valence , a right good Earl of Pembroke , And this is his monument which you see I'll swear upon a book , He was earl marshal of England , when Henry the third did reign , About five hundred years ago , but never will be so again , Here the Lord Talbot lies , the Town of Shrewsbury's earl Together with his countess fair who was almost delicate girl Next to him there lies one Sir Richard Peckshall hight , Of whom we only this do say that he was a Hampshire Knight Here lies the third King Edward's brother , of whom our records tell , Nothing of note , nor say they whither he be in Heaven or Hell ; This same was John of Elderstone , he was no Costermonger But Cornwall's Earl ; and here's one died because he could live no longer . Now think your penny well spent good folks and that you're not beguil'd , Within this cup does lie the heart , of a French Ambassador's child , But how the Dev'l it came to pass , on purpose or by chance The bowels they lie underneath , but the body is in France . Here lies Oxford countess , and there also the Lady Burleigh her mother , And there her Daughter a countess too , lie close by one another ; These once were bonny dams , and though there were no coaches then , Yet cou'd they jog their tails themselves , or get them jogg'd by the men . Oh! who is me those high born sinners , that now do pray so stoutly , Living they never pray'd at all , yet their statues pray devoutly ; This fair monument which you see , I'd have you to under - stand , It is of a virtuous lady fair who died of a prick in her hand . In this fair monument which you see , adorned with so many pillars , Does lie the countess of Buckingham , and her husband Sir George Villiers ; This old Sir George was Grandfather , and the Countess she was Granny , To the great Duke of Buckingham , who led by the nose King Jamy . Here lies Sir Robert Eatam a Scootish Knight , this man was secretary , He scribbled compliments for two Queen's , Queen Ann and Queen Marry : This same was Marry Queen of Scots , whom Buchanan does so bespatter , She lost her head at Fotheingay , whatever was the matter . Henry the seventh lies here entomb'd with his fair Queen beside him , He was the founder of this Chapel , Oh! may no ill betide him And here they stand upright in a press , with their bodies made of wax , A globe and a wand in either hand , and their robes upon their backs . To another Chapel now come we , the people follow and chat This is the Lady Cottington , the people cry who's that ; Why Sir Thomas Bromley lies here , Death wou'd not him reprieve , With his four sons , and daughters four , that once were all alive . Here lies Sir John Fullerton and that is his Lady I trow , And that is Sir John Pickering whom none of you did know , Here lies the earl of Torrington , the world ne'er saw a madder , His Countess fair she lies beside him , and now you go up a ladder , Richard the second lies here entomb'd , with his fair Queen , Queen Ann , Edward the third lies here hard by , and he was a gallant Man ; This is the sword of John of Gaunt , a blade both true and trusty : The Frenchman's blood was ne'er wiped off which makes it look so rusty . Harry the fifth lies here entomb'd with his fair Queen , Queen Eleanor , To our fifth Edward she was wife that's more than you knew before Now down the ladder come we again , the man goes first with a staff , Two or three tumble down the stairs , and all the people laugh . Sir Robert Vere lies here entomb'd , who the Spaniards hide so curried , Four colonels brave support his tomb , and here his bodies buried ; That statue up against the wall with one eye , is Major General Nor [ r ] is , He bang'd the French most cruelly , as affirm'd in stories . Here lies Sir John Holles , who was a Major General , To Sir John Morris that brave blade , and now you may depart all , For now the show is at and end , all things are done and said , The Citizens pay for their Wives , and the Apprentices kiss the Maids . 