Poor ROBIN's DREAM : Commonly called POOR CHARITY . Tune The New Pack of Cards . HOW now ! good Fellow , what all amort ? I prithee tell me what is the news ? Trading is dead , and I'm sorry for't . Which makes me look worse than I use . If a Man has no Employment whereby to get a Penny , He has no Enjoyment , if that he wants Money , And Charity is not us'd by any . I have nothing to spend , nor I've nothing to lend , Having nothing to do , I tarried are home , Sitting in my Chair . I drew near to the Fire , Where I fell asleep like and idle Drone . And as I slept , I fell into a Dream , I saw a Play acted without e'er a Theme , But I could not tell what the Play did mean . But afterwards I did plainly perceive , And something more I did understand ; The Stage was the World wherein we live , And the Actors were all Mankind . And when the Play's ended , the Stage down they fling . There will be no Difference in this Thing Between a Beggar and a King . The first that acted I do protest Was Time with a Glass and a Scythe in his Hand , With the Globe of the World upon his Breast , To show how the same he could command . There's a Time for to work , and a Time for to play , A Time for to borrow , and a Time for to pay , And a Time that will call us all away . Conscience in Order first takes Place , And very gallantly plays his Par He fears not to fly in a Ruler's Face , Although it cuts him to the Hear He tell them all , that this is the latter Age , Which put the Actors into such a Rage , That they kick'd poor Conscience off the Stage . Plain-Dealing presently appears , In Habit like to a simple Man. The Actors at him did mock and jeer ; Pointing their Fingers as they ran . How came this Fellow into our Company ? Away with him , many a gallant did cry , For Plain-Dealing will a Beggar die . Dissimulation mounted the Stage , But he was clothed in gallant Attire . He was acquainted with Youth and Age ; Many his Company did desire : And they entertain'd him in their very Breast , For there he could have Harbour , and quietly rest , Since Dissemblers and Turn-Coats fare the best . Then comes in poor Charity : Methought she looked very old . She quiver'd and quak'd most piteously . It griev'd me to think she look'd so cold . She had been in the City , and in the Country , among the Lawyers , and the Nobility , But there was no Room for poor Charity . Then comes in Truth , not clothed in Wool , But like unto a Youth in his Lawn Sleeves . And said the Land it it full , full , full , Too full of Rebels , worse than Thieves . The City's full of Poverty , the Country full of Pride . Fanatics full of Envy , who Order can't abide , And the Usurer's Bags are full beside . Hark! how Bellona's Drums they do beatrice , Methinks they go rattling through the Town . Hark! how they thunder through the Street , As though they'd shake the Chimneys down . Then came in Mars , the great God of War. And bid us Face about , and be as we were . But when I awoke , I sat in my Chair . Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office in Bow Church-Yard , London . Where may be had , The greatest Choice of Histories , Old and New Ballads , Patters , etc better printed than at any other Place . Poor ROBIN's DREAM : Commonly called POOR CHARITY . Tune The New Pack of Cards . HOW now ! good Fellow , what all amort ? I prithee tell me what is the news ? Trading is dead , and I'm sorry for't . Which makes me look worse than I use . If a Man has no Employment whereby to get a Penny , He has no Enjoyment , if that he wants Money , And Charity is not us'd by any . I have nothing to spend , nor I've nothing to lend , Having nothing to do , I tarried are home , Sitting in my Chair . I drew near to the Fire , Where I fell asleep like and idle Drone . And as I slept , I fell into a Dream , I saw a Play acted without e'er a Theme , But I could not tell what the Play did mean . But afterwards I did plainly perceive , And something more I did understand ; The Stage was the World wherein we live , And the Actors were all Mankind . And when the Play's ended , the Stage down they fling . There will be no Difference in this Thing Between a Beggar and a King . The first that acted I do protest Was Time with a Glass and a Scythe in his Hand , With the Globe of the World upon his Breast , To show how the same he could command . There's a Time for to work , and a Time for to play , A Time for to borrow , and a Time for to pay , And a Time that will call us all away . Conscience in Order first takes Place , And very gallantly plays his Par He fears not to fly in a Ruler's Face , Although it cuts him to the Hear He tell them all , that this is the latter Age , Which put the Actors into such a Rage , That they kick'd poor Conscience off the Stage . Plain-Dealing presently appears , In Habit like to a simple Man. The Actors at him did mock and jeer ; Pointing their Fingers as they ran . How came this Fellow into our Company ? Away with him , many a gallant did cry , For Plain-Dealing will a Beggar die . Dissimulation mounted the Stage , But he was clothed in gallant Attire . He was acquainted with Youth and Age ; Many his Company did desire : And they entertain'd him in their very Breast , For there he could have Harbour , and quietly rest , Since Dissemblers and Turn-Coats fare the best . Then comes in poor Charity : Methought she looked very old . She quiver'd and quak'd most piteously . It griev'd me to think she look'd so cold . She had been in the City , and in the Country , among the Lawyers , and the Nobility , But there was no Room for poor Charity . Then comes in Truth , not clothed in Wool , But like unto a Youth in his Lawn Sleeves . And said the Land it it full , full , full , Too full of Rebels , worse than Thieves . The City's full of Poverty , the Country full of Pride . Fanatics full of Envy , who Order can't abide , And the Usurer's Bags are full beside . Hark! how Bellona's Drums they do beatrice , Methinks they go rattling through the Town . Hark! how they thunder through the Street , As though they'd shake the Chimneys down . Then came in Mars , the great God of War. And bid us Face about , and be as we were . But when I awoke , I sat in my Chair . Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office in Bow Church-Yard , London . Where may be had , The greatest Choice of Histories , Old and New Ballads , Patters , etc better printed than at any other Place . 