The Lass of Ocram . I Built my Love a gallant ship , And a ship of Northern fame , And such a ship as I did built , Sure there never was seen , For her sides were of the beaten gold , And the doors were of block tin , And sure such a ship as I built , There sure never was seen . And as she was a sailing , By herself all alone , She spied a proud merchant man , Come plowing o'er the main , Thou fairest of all creatures , Under the heavens said she , I am the Lass of Ocram , Seeking for Lord Gregory . If you are the Lass of Ocram , As I take you for to be , You must go to yonder island , There Lord Gregory you'll see . It rains upon my yellow locks , And the due falls on my skin , Open the gates Lord Gregory , And let your true love in . If you're the Lass of Ocram , As I take you not to be , You must mention the three tokens Which pass'd between you and me . Don't you remember , Lord Gregory , One night on my father's hill , With you I swaft my linen fine , It was before against my will ; For mine was of the Holland fine , And yours but Scotch cloth , For mine cost a guinea a yard , And yours but five groats . If you are the Lass of Ocram , As I think you not to be , You must mention the second token , That pass'd between you and me . Don't you remember , Lord Gregory , One night in my father's park , We swaffed our two rings , It was all in the dark ; For mine was of the beaten gold , And yours was of block tin , And mine was true love without , And yours all false within . If you are the Lass of Ocram , As I take you not to be , You must mention the third token , Which passed between you and me . Don't you remember , Lord Gregory , One night in my father's hall , Where you stole my maidenhead , Which was the worst of all . Begone you base creature , Begone from out of the hall , Or else in the deep seas You and your babe shall fallen . Then who will shoe my bonny feet , And who will close my hands , And who will lace my waste so small , Into a landen span , And who will comb my yellow locks , With a brown berry comb , And who's to be father of my child , If Lord Gregory is none ? Let your brother shoe your bonny feet , Let your sister close your hands , Let your mother lace your waist so small , Into a landen span ; Let your father comb your yellow locks , With a brown berry comb , And let God be father of your child , For Lord Gregory is none . I dreamed a dream dear mother , I could wish to have it read , I saw the Lass of Ocram , A floating on the flood . Lie still my dearest son , And take thy sweet rest , It is not half and hour ago , The maid pass'd this place . Ah! cursed be you mother , And cursed may you be , That you did not awake me , When the maid pass'd this way ; I will go down into some silent grove , My sad moan for to make , It is for the Lass of Ocram , My poor heart now will break . The Lass of Ocram . I Built my Love a gallant ship , And a ship of Northern fame , And such a ship as I did built , Sure there never was seen , For her sides were of the beaten gold , And the doors were of block tin , And sure such a ship as I built , There sure never was seen . And as she was a sailing , By herself all alone , She spied a proud merchant man , Come plowing o'er the main , Thou fairest of all creatures , Under the heavens said she , I am the Lass of Ocram , Seeking for Lord Gregory . If you are the Lass of Ocram , As I take you for to be , You must go to yonder island , There Lord Gregory you'll see . It rains upon my yellow locks , And the due falls on my skin , Open the gates Lord Gregory , And let your true love in . If you're the Lass of Ocram , As I take you not to be , You must mention the three tokens Which pass'd between you and me . Don't you remember , Lord Gregory , One night on my father's hill , With you I swaft my linen fine , It was before against my will ; For mine was of the Holland fine , And yours but Scotch cloth , For mine cost a guinea a yard , And yours but five groats . If you are the Lass of Ocram , As I think you not to be , You must mention the second token , That pass'd between you and me . Don't you remember , Lord Gregory , One night in my father's park , We swaffed our two rings , It was all in the dark ; For mine was of the beaten gold , And yours was of block tin , And mine was true love without , And yours all false within . If you are the Lass of Ocram , As I take you not to be , You must mention the third token , Which passed between you and me . Don't you remember , Lord Gregory , One night in my father's hall , Where you stole my maidenhead , Which was the worst of all . Begone you base creature , Begone from out of the hall , Or else in the deep seas You and your babe shall fallen . Then who will shoe my bonny feet , And who will close my hands , And who will lace my waste so small , Into a landen span , And who will comb my yellow locks , With a brown berry comb , And who's to be father of my child , If Lord Gregory is none ? Let your brother shoe your bonny feet , Let your sister close your hands , Let your mother lace your waist so small , Into a landen span ; Let your father comb your yellow locks , With a brown berry comb , And let God be father of your child , For Lord Gregory is none . I dreamed a dream dear mother , I could wish to have it read , I saw the Lass of Ocram , A floating on the flood . Lie still my dearest son , And take thy sweet rest , It is not half and hour ago , The maid pass'd this place . Ah! cursed be you mother , And cursed may you be , That you did not awake me , When the maid pass'd this way ; I will go down into some silent grove , My sad moan for to make , It is for the Lass of Ocram , My poor heart now will break . 