The WEAVER and CHAMBERMAID . I Am a weaver by my trade , And fell in love with a chambermaid : And if I could but her favour win , Then I would weave and she should spin . My father scornfully to me said , How could I fancy a chambermaid ? Where there were ladies both fine and gay , Dress'd like some goddess or queen of may . What care I for a lady gay , Had I but my chambermaid , A chambermaid altho' she be , Happy is the man that enjoyeth she . I slip'd up to my love's chamber door , Where oft times I had been before ; But I neither durst speak , nor yet go in , To that pleasant bed that my love lies in . How can you call it a pleasant bed ? Where no one is but a chambermaid ; A chambermaid altho' she be , Bless'd is the man that enjoyeth she : Shall I go , love , or shall I stay ? Shall I tarry till the break of day ? With heavy sighs to me she said , Why was I born to die a maid ? So I put my shuttle into her hand , And bid her use it at her command , She took it kindly , and used it free , So she learn'd to weave along with me . When that she had learned her trade , Smiling unto me she said , My loom is ready you may begin , You shall weave , and I will spin . The WEAVER and CHAMBERMAID . I Am a weaver by my trade , And fell in love with a chambermaid : And if I could but her favour win , Then I would weave and she should spin . My father scornfully to me said , How could I fancy a chambermaid ? Where there were ladies both fine and gay , Dress'd like some goddess or queen of may . What care I for a lady gay , Had I but my chambermaid , A chambermaid altho' she be , Happy is the man that enjoyeth she . I slip'd up to my love's chamber door , Where oft times I had been before ; But I neither durst speak , nor yet go in , To that pleasant bed that my love lies in . How can you call it a pleasant bed ? Where no one is but a chambermaid ; A chambermaid altho' she be , Bless'd is the man that enjoyeth she : Shall I go , love , or shall I stay ? Shall I tarry till the break of day ? With heavy sighs to me she said , Why was I born to die a maid ? So I put my shuttle into her hand , And bid her use it at her command , She took it kindly , and used it free , So she learn'd to weave along with me . When that she had learned her trade , Smiling unto me she said , My loom is ready you may begin , You shall weave , and I will spin . 