THE Swaggering Man. I AM a blade that hath no trade , Most people do adore me , And I can hector , swagger , and lie , And drive a town before me . I have a wife of wanton strife , She drives me to trepan , Sir , I nothing say , but hike my way , There goes the Swaggering Man , Sir . With my silk hose , and square toed shoes , I hector , swear , and swagger ; And every coxcomb that I meet , I push him with my dagger . At cards and dice I am the man , I am the noted gamester ; I love my health , and cock my felt , There goes the Swaggering Man , Sir . O then I go to the Royal Exchange , Where merchant's they are walking ; All this seems something odd to me , They idly are talking ; But if a purse , or a gold watch , Come by the slight of hand , Sir , I nothing say , but hike my way , There goes the swaggering Man , Sir . From thence I to the tavern go , Where a waiter does attend me , I call for liquour of the best , The ladies do commend me . Behind the door there stands my score , The shot they do demand , Sir , I nothing say , but hike my way , There goes the Swaggering Man , Sir . From thence I go to Pater-noster-row , Where they deal in silk and satin ; I pay for one and hike off three , All this is no false latin ; But if I am catch'd , Oh then I'm snatch'd , And obliged to give and answer , I'm guilty found , and must come down , From being a Swaggering Man , Sir . But now I have spent , all my means , Among those rakish fellows ; And am at last condemn'd and cast , To hang upon yond gallows : I sail to Tyburn in a cart , My body to advance , Sir , The ladies cry as I pass by , Don't hang the Swaggering Man , Sir . THE Swaggering Man. I AM a blade that hath no trade , Most people do adore me , And I can hector , swagger , and lie , And drive a town before me . I have a wife of wanton strife , She drives me to trepan , Sir , I nothing say , but hike my way , There goes the Swaggering Man , Sir . With my silk hose , and square toed shoes , I hector , swear , and swagger ; And every coxcomb that I meet , I push him with my dagger . At cards and dice I am the man , I am the noted gamester ; I love my health , and cock my felt , There goes the Swaggering Man , Sir . O then I go to the Royal Exchange , Where merchant's they are walking ; All this seems something odd to me , They idly are talking ; But if a purse , or a gold watch , Come by the slight of hand , Sir , I nothing say , but hike my way , There goes the swaggering Man , Sir . From thence I to the tavern go , Where a waiter does attend me , I call for liquour of the best , The ladies do commend me . Behind the door there stands my score , The shot they do demand , Sir , I nothing say , but hike my way , There goes the Swaggering Man , Sir . From thence I go to Pater-noster-row , Where they deal in silk and satin ; I pay for one and hike off three , All this is no false latin ; But if I am catch'd , Oh then I'm snatch'd , And obliged to give and answer , I'm guilty found , and must come down , From being a Swaggering Man , Sir . But now I have spent , all my means , Among those rakish fellows ; And am at last condemn'd and cast , To hang upon yond gallows : I sail to Tyburn in a cart , My body to advance , Sir , The ladies cry as I pass by , Don't hang the Swaggering Man , Sir . 