The forlorn Lovers La - meant . To the Tune of the bony Broom . SIr , do not think these Lines have flow'd from youthful hearts or hands But from a friend , who's thrice conjoin'd in Hymens holy bans : Nor Charidora did not prove , by half so much unkind To Diaphanits , since his love , could never match my mind . Nor Coradon , who turn'd his song , and sorrows to the Broom , Could never march with me in wrong , which shores me to consume : Poor lovers in this loveless age , are left to mourn alone , And wondered at by such as rage , my love to look upon . Even as the Lily in the Hedge , is prick'd on either side , So I'm tormented by the rage , of those who swell with pride : The surgies of the swelling tide , and the walls broad that be , As yet they never could divide , my heart from loving thee . I live in anguish grief and smart , for thou enjoyest mine , And I must live without and heart , until thou send me thine : Which if thou could incline to do , it should such comfort send To me , who comfortless am now , and like my life to end . For I should take it as a pledge , since thou hast mine from me , lest I should die without and heart , let me have thine from thee : Then might we both together live , as one by hearts exchang'd , But keeping both , if thou survive , just heavens will be aveng'd . But I will rest , in hope that thou , will send me answer kind , To me who lives in torment now , until I know thy mind . I do expect no frowns from thee , because I did presume , To send these lines , when minding me to sing them as the Broom . FINIS . The forlorn Lovers La - meant . To the Tune of the bony Broom . SIr , do not think these Lines have flow'd from youthful hearts or hands But from a friend , who's thrice conjoin'd in Hymens holy bans : Nor Charidora did not prove , by half so much unkind To Diaphanits , since his love , could never match my mind . Nor Coradon , who turn'd his song , and sorrows to the Broom , Could never march with me in wrong , which shores me to consume : Poor lovers in this loveless age , are left to mourn alone , And wondered at by such as rage , my love to look upon . Even as the Lily in the Hedge , is prick'd on either side , So I'm tormented by the rage , of those who swell with pride : The surgies of the swelling tide , and the walls broad that be , As yet they never could divide , my heart from loving thee . I live in anguish grief and smart , for thou enjoyest mine , And I must live without and heart , until thou send me thine : Which if thou could incline to do , it should such comfort send To me , who comfortless am now , and like my life to end . For I should take it as a pledge , since thou hast mine from me , lest I should die without and heart , let me have thine from thee : Then might we both together live , as one by hearts exchang'd , But keeping both , if thou survive , just heavens will be aveng'd . But I will rest , in hope that thou , will send me answer kind , To me who lives in torment now , until I know thy mind . I do expect no frowns from thee , because I did presume , To send these lines , when minding me to sing them as the Broom . FINIS . 