A PROPER NEW BALLAD , Being the Regrate of a true Lover , for his Mistress Unkindness . To a new Tune , I'le ever love the more . I Wish I were those Gloves , dear heart , which could thy hands inshrine ; Then should no sorrow grief nor smart , molest this heart of mine : But since the Fates does this deny , which leaves me to deplore , My dribbling eyes shall never dry , until thou love me more . But Oh that I might shrouded be within [ these ] arms of thine , And that my soul might say of thee , that thou were freely mine : [ Then prostrate at thy ] feet I would , thee doub [ tO ] less still and [ oh ] re , And so in spite of Fate I should , assay to love thee more . I shall defy that mortal Wight , enjoy thee w [ h ] oh so will , Then I to soar and higher flight in love , or mount me till : But since to one I must resign , thee quite and give thee o're , I'le love him , for that face of thine , which made me love thee more . Nay sure some sacred Angel haunts , within that heart of thine , Whose secret power my soul enchants , which from thy eyes do shine : But Oh that I could thee inflame , I did him implore , That so by reason of the same , thou yet might love me more . But happy is thy servient sure , that such a love enjoys , Whose smiles does all disasters cure , whose [ e ] frowns breeds all annoys : As Phebus breaking through the cloud , gives heat and light in store , So when thou does thine eyes unshrude , they make me love thee more . I wish I were a Hauk to soar within the sky of love , And that thou metamorphos'd were into a turtle Dove : There would I catch thee with delight , with pleasure plum thee o're , And so should none beneath our flight , attempt to love thee more . Thy face is as a heaven which holds two shining suns of love , The which thine eyelids clouds enfold , in ivory Orbs they move : Their absence makes me like to die , their presence burns me soar , So still in these extremes I lie , and yet must love thee more . To lodge betwixt these ivory hills , which in thy bosom dwells , From whence the sugared nectar trils in sweetness that excels : There would I surfeit with delight , my self , and ne're give o're , Till love should so our souls unite , as ay to love thee more . I like the Salamander am , that in the fire remains , And not consumed with the flame , I live in pleasant pains : Oh that these bodies were to act , as free as minds to soar , Then surely I at length would make my Lass to love me more . Since of the days desires our dreams , the true ideas are , I wish that of mine eyes , the beams in sleep enclosed were : That slumbering I might thee possess , whom daily I adore , For waking I dare scarce transgress , and yet must love thee more . But yet if thou would condescend unto my dear request . And suffer me my health to spend , upon thy candid breas Then surely I , or ever let , imperiously would soar , As praising thee at highest rate , and so would love thee more . Some comfort unto those belong , who come lovers be , Since they upon surmise of wrong , can set their fancy free : But should I die by thy disdain , which others would abhor , My pure affection shall unstain'd , aspire to love thee more . Then let not black ingratitude , so dear a Saint disgrace , For it would taint the finest blood , and stain the fairest face : Since thou mayest love , and yet be chaste , and still behind have store , Then slight not him , who does attest the gods , he'l love thee more . FINIS . A PROPER NEW BALLAD , Being the Regrate of a true Lover , for his Mistress Unkindness . To a new Tune , I'le ever love the more . I Wish I were those Gloves , dear heart , which could thy hands inshrine ; Then should no sorrow grief nor smart , molest this heart of mine : But since the Fates does this deny , which leaves me to deplore , My dribbling eyes shall never dry , until thou love me more . But Oh that I might shrouded be within [ these ] arms of thine , And that my soul might say of thee , that thou were freely mine : [ Then prostrate at thy ] feet I would , thee doub [ tO ] less still and [ oh ] re , And so in spite of Fate I should , assay to love thee more . I shall defy that mortal Wight , enjoy thee w [ h ] oh so will , Then I to soar and higher flight in love , or mount me till : But since to one I must resign , thee quite and give thee o're , I'le love him , for that face of thine , which made me love thee more . Nay sure some sacred Angel haunts , within that heart of thine , Whose secret power my soul enchants , which from thy eyes do shine : But Oh that I could thee inflame , I did him implore , That so by reason of the same , thou yet might love me more . But happy is thy servient sure , that such a love enjoys , Whose smiles does all disasters cure , whose [ e ] frowns breeds all annoys : As Phebus breaking through the cloud , gives heat and light in store , So when thou does thine eyes unshrude , they make me love thee more . I wish I were a Hauk to soar within the sky of love , And that thou metamorphos'd were into a turtle Dove : There would I catch thee with delight , with pleasure plum thee o're , And so should none beneath our flight , attempt to love thee more . Thy face is as a heaven which holds two shining suns of love , The which thine eyelids clouds enfold , in ivory Orbs they move : Their absence makes me like to die , their presence burns me soar , So still in these extremes I lie , and yet must love thee more . To lodge betwixt these ivory hills , which in thy bosom dwells , From whence the sugared nectar trils in sweetness that excels : There would I surfeit with delight , my self , and ne're give o're , Till love should so our souls unite , as ay to love thee more . I like the Salamander am , that in the fire remains , And not consumed with the flame , I live in pleasant pains : Oh that these bodies were to act , as free as minds to soar , Then surely I at length would make my Lass to love me more . Since of the days desires our dreams , the true ideas are , I wish that of mine eyes , the beams in sleep enclosed were : That slumbering I might thee possess , whom daily I adore , For waking I dare scarce transgress , and yet must love thee more . But yet if thou would condescend unto my dear request . And suffer me my health to spend , upon thy candid breas Then surely I , or ever let , imperiously would soar , As praising thee at highest rate , and so would love thee more . Some comfort unto those belong , who come lovers be , Since they upon surmise of wrong , can set their fancy free : But should I die by thy disdain , which others would abhor , My pure affection shall unstain'd , aspire to love thee more . Then let not black ingratitude , so dear a Saint disgrace , For it would taint the finest blood , and stain the fairest face : Since thou mayest love , and yet be chaste , and still behind have store , Then slight not him , who does attest the gods , he'l love thee more . FINIS . 