My Wife will be my master . OR , The Married-Mans Complaint against his Unruly Wife , being a warning for all Unmarried persons , to have a special care in choosing their Mai [ tO ] e , lest they meet with such a Myre-snype , as this poor-man did . To the Tune of , A Tailor is no Man. Tune Pigie I most love thee AS I was walking forth of late , I herd a Man complaining , With that I drew me near to him , to know the cause and meaning Of this his Sorrow , Pain and Grief , which bred him such disaster , Alace , quoth he , what shall I do ? my Wife will be my Master . If I should give her fourty pound within her Apron-folding , No longer then she telling on't her tongue leaves never scolding : As Aesop's Dog barked at the Moon , thinking for to distate her , So does my Wife scold without cause , and strives to be my Master . Were I so strong as Hercules , or wiser then Apollo ; [ O ] r had I Icarus wings to flee , my Wife would after follow : [ Or ] should I live as many Years as never did King Nestor , [ You ] tO do I greatly stand in fear , my Wife would be my Master . [ I ] know no cause nor reason why that she with me should jangle , [ I ] never gave her cause at all to make her with me wrangle : [ I ] please her still in what I may , and do no jot distate her ; [ Y ] et she does strive both night and day always to be my Master . [ I ] every morning make a fire , all which is done to ease her ; I get a Nutmug , make a tossed , in hope therewith to please her : With a cup of nappy Ale and Spice , of which she is first taster , And yet this cross-grain'd quean will scold and strive to be my Master . I wash the dishes , sweeps the house ; I dress the wholesome diet ; I humour her in every thing ; because I would be quye Of every several dish of meat [ she'l ] surely be first taster , And I am glade to pick the bones , she is so much my Master . Sometime she'l fit while day be light , in company with good fellows , In Taverns and in [ bo ] wsing Tents , or in some pimping Alehouse : And when she comes home drunk at night , though I do not distate her , She'l fling , she'l throw , she'l scratch , she'l bite , and strive to be my Master . Her bed I made both soft and fine , and put on shoes completely ; Her shoes and stockings I pull off , and lay her down most neatly : I cover her and keep her warm , for fear I should offend her , I hug her kindly in my Arms , yet still she'l be my Master . And when I am with her in Bed , she does not use me well Sir , She'l wring my Nose , and pull my Ears , a pitiful tale to tell Sir : And when I am with her in Bed , not meaning to molest her , She'l kick me out at her Beds-feet and so become my Master . And thus you hear how cruelly my Wife does still abuse me , At Bed , at Board , at Noon , at Night , she always does misuse me : But if I were a lusty man , and able for to baste her , Then would I surely use a means , that she should not be my Master . You Bachelors that sweet hearts have , when as you are a wooing , Be sure you look before you leap , for fear of your undoing : The after Wit is not the best , and he that weds in haste Sir , May like to me bewail his case , if his Wife do prove his Master . You married Men that have good wives , I pray you make much of them , For they more precious are then gold , if once you come to try them : A good Wife makes a Husband glade , then let him not offend her ; But a Scold will make a man run mad , if once she prove his Master . FINIS . My Wife will be my master . OR , The Married-Mans Complaint against his Unruly Wife , being a warning for all Unmarried persons , to have a special care in choosing their Mai [ tO ] e , lest they meet with such a Myre-snype , as this poor-man did . To the Tune of , A Tailor is no Man. Tune Pigie I most love thee AS I was walking forth of late , I herd a Man complaining , With that I drew me near to him , to know the cause and meaning Of this his Sorrow , Pain and Grief , which bred him such disaster , Alace , quoth he , what shall I do ? my Wife will be my Master . If I should give her fourty pound within her Apron-folding , No longer then she telling on't her tongue leaves never scolding : As Aesop's Dog barked at the Moon , thinking for to distate her , So does my Wife scold without cause , and strives to be my Master . Were I so strong as Hercules , or wiser then Apollo ; [ O ] r had I Icarus wings to flee , my Wife would after follow : [ Or ] should I live as many Years as never did King Nestor , [ You ] tO do I greatly stand in fear , my Wife would be my Master . [ I ] know no cause nor reason why that she with me should jangle , [ I ] never gave her cause at all to make her with me wrangle : [ I ] please her still in what I may , and do no jot distate her ; [ Y ] et she does strive both night and day always to be my Master . [ I ] every morning make a fire , all which is done to ease her ; I get a Nutmug , make a tossed , in hope therewith to please her : With a cup of nappy Ale and Spice , of which she is first taster , And yet this cross-grain'd quean will scold and strive to be my Master . I wash the dishes , sweeps the house ; I dress the wholesome diet ; I humour her in every thing ; because I would be quye Of every several dish of meat [ she'l ] surely be first taster , And I am glade to pick the bones , she is so much my Master . Sometime she'l fit while day be light , in company with good fellows , In Taverns and in [ bo ] wsing Tents , or in some pimping Alehouse : And when she comes home drunk at night , though I do not distate her , She'l fling , she'l throw , she'l scratch , she'l bite , and strive to be my Master . Her bed I made both soft and fine , and put on shoes completely ; Her shoes and stockings I pull off , and lay her down most neatly : I cover her and keep her warm , for fear I should offend her , I hug her kindly in my Arms , yet still she'l be my Master . And when I am with her in Bed , she does not use me well Sir , She'l wring my Nose , and pull my Ears , a pitiful tale to tell Sir : And when I am with her in Bed , not meaning to molest her , She'l kick me out at her Beds-feet and so become my Master . And thus you hear how cruelly my Wife does still abuse me , At Bed , at Board , at Noon , at Night , she always does misuse me : But if I were a lusty man , and able for to baste her , Then would I surely use a means , that she should not be my Master . You Bachelors that sweet hearts have , when as you are a wooing , Be sure you look before you leap , for fear of your undoing : The after Wit is not the best , and he that weds in haste Sir , May like to me bewail his case , if his Wife do prove his Master . You married Men that have good wives , I pray you make much of them , For they more precious are then gold , if once you come to try them : A good Wife makes a Husband glade , then let him not offend her ; But a Scold will make a man run mad , if once she prove his Master . FINIS . 