And Excellent BALLAD of KING JOHN AND THE ABBOT of CANTERBURY . To the Tune of , The King and Lord Abbot . I Will tell you a Story , a Story anon , Of a noble Prince , and his Name was King John : For he was a Prince , and a Prince of great Might , He held up great Wrongs , and he put down great Rights . Derry down , down , heigh derry down . I'll tell you a Story , a Story so merry , Concerning the Abbot of Canterbury : And of his Housekeeping , and high Renown , Which made him repair to fair London Town . Derry down , etc Now ! now ! Brother Abbot , it's told unto me , That thou keepest a far better House than I : And for thy Housekeeping , and high Renown , I fear thou hast Treason against my Crown . Derry down , etc I hope , my Liege , that you owe me not Grudge , or spending of my true got Goods . If thou do not Answer me Questions Three , Thy Head shall be taken from thy Body . Derry down , etc When I am set so high on my Steed , With my Crown of Gold upon my Head , among all my Nobility with Joy and much Mirth , Thou must tell me to one Penny what I am worth ? Derry down , etc And the next Question you must not flout , How long I shall be riding the World about ? And the next Question thou must not shrink , But tell to me truly what I do think ? Derry down , etc Oh! these are hard Questions for my shallow Wit , For I cannot Answer your Grace as you But if you will give me but three Days Space , I'll do my Endeavour to answer your Grace . Derry down , etc O three Days Space I will thee give , For that is the longest Day thou hast to live : And if thou dost not Answer these Questions right , Thy Head shall be taken from thy Body quite . Derry down , etc And as the Shepherd was going his Sheep among , He espy'd the old Abbot came riding along ; How now ! Master Abbot , you are welcome home , What News have you brought from good King John ? Derry down , etc Sad News , sad News , I have thee to give , For I have but three Days Space for to live ; If I do not Answer him Questions Three , My Head shall be taken from my Body . Derry down , etc When he is set so high on his Steed , With his Crown of Gold upon his Head ; among all his Nobility with Joy and much Mirth , I must tell him to one Penny what he is worth . Derry down , etc And the next Question I must not flout , How long he shall be riding the World abou And the third Question I must not shrink , But tell him truly what he does think . Derry down , etc O Master , did you never hear it yet , That a Fool may learn a wise Man With Lend me but your Horse and your Apparel , I'll ride to fair London and answer the Quarrel . Derry down , etc Now I am set so high on my Steed , With my Crown of Gold upon my Head , among all my Nobility with Joy and much Mirth , Now tell me to one Penny what I am worth ? Derry down , etc For thirty Pence our Saviour was sold , among the false Jews as you have been told ; And Nine and Twenty's the Worth of thee , For I think thou art one Penny worse than he . Derry down , etc And the next Question thou may'st not flout , How long I shall be riding the World about ? You must rise with the Sun , and ride with the same , Until the next Morning he rises again . Derry down , etc And then I'm sure you need not doubt , But in Twenty-four Hours you'll ride it abou And at the third Number thou must not shrink , But tell to me truly what I do think ? Derry down , etc All that I can do , and 'twill make your Heart merry , For you think I'm the Abbot Canterbury , But I'm his poor Shepherd , as you may see , And am come to beg Pardon for him and me . Derry down , etc The King he turned him about and did smile , Saying , Thou shalt be Abbot the other while . Oh! no , my Liege , there is no such need , For I can neither Write nor Read . Derry down , etc Then four Pounds a Week will I give unto thee , For this merry true Jest thou hast told to me : And tell the old Abbot when thou comest home , Thou hast brought him a Pardon from good King John. Derry down , down , heigh derry down . Newcastle upon Tyne : Printed and Sold by John White . And Excellent BALLAD of KING JOHN AND THE ABBOT of CANTERBURY . To the Tune of , The King and Lord Abbot . I Will tell you a Story , a Story anon , Of a noble Prince , and his Name was King John : For he was a Prince , and a Prince of great Might , He held up great Wrongs , and he put down great Rights . Derry down , down , heigh derry down . I'll tell you a Story , a Story so merry , Concerning the Abbot of Canterbury : And of his Housekeeping , and high Renown , Which made him repair to fair London Town . Derry down , etc Now ! now ! Brother Abbot , it's told unto me , That thou keepest a far better House than I : And for thy Housekeeping , and high Renown , I fear thou hast Treason against my Crown . Derry down , etc I hope , my Liege , that you owe me not Grudge , or spending of my true got Goods . If thou do not Answer me Questions Three , Thy Head shall be taken from thy Body . Derry down , etc When I am set so high on my Steed , With my Crown of Gold upon my Head , among all my Nobility with Joy and much Mirth , Thou must tell me to one Penny what I am worth ? Derry down , etc And the next Question you must not flout , How long I shall be riding the World about ? And the next Question thou must not shrink , But tell to me truly what I do think ? Derry down , etc Oh! these are hard Questions for my shallow Wit , For I cannot Answer your Grace as you But if you will give me but three Days Space , I'll do my Endeavour to answer your Grace . Derry down , etc O three Days Space I will thee give , For that is the longest Day thou hast to live : And if thou dost not Answer these Questions right , Thy Head shall be taken from thy Body quite . Derry down , etc And as the Shepherd was going his Sheep among , He espy'd the old Abbot came riding along ; How now ! Master Abbot , you are welcome home , What News have you brought from good King John ? Derry down , etc Sad News , sad News , I have thee to give , For I have but three Days Space for to live ; If I do not Answer him Questions Three , My Head shall be taken from my Body . Derry down , etc When he is set so high on his Steed , With his Crown of Gold upon his Head ; among all his Nobility with Joy and much Mirth , I must tell him to one Penny what he is worth . Derry down , etc And the next Question I must not flout , How long he shall be riding the World abou And the third Question I must not shrink , But tell him truly what he does think . Derry down , etc O Master , did you never hear it yet , That a Fool may learn a wise Man With Lend me but your Horse and your Apparel , I'll ride to fair London and answer the Quarrel . Derry down , etc Now I am set so high on my Steed , With my Crown of Gold upon my Head , among all my Nobility with Joy and much Mirth , Now tell me to one Penny what I am worth ? Derry down , etc For thirty Pence our Saviour was sold , among the false Jews as you have been told ; And Nine and Twenty's the Worth of thee , For I think thou art one Penny worse than he . Derry down , etc And the next Question thou may'st not flout , How long I shall be riding the World about ? You must rise with the Sun , and ride with the same , Until the next Morning he rises again . Derry down , etc And then I'm sure you need not doubt , But in Twenty-four Hours you'll ride it abou And at the third Number thou must not shrink , But tell to me truly what I do think ? Derry down , etc All that I can do , and 'twill make your Heart merry , For you think I'm the Abbot Canterbury , But I'm his poor Shepherd , as you may see , And am come to beg Pardon for him and me . Derry down , etc The King he turned him about and did smile , Saying , Thou shalt be Abbot the other while . Oh! no , my Liege , there is no such need , For I can neither Write nor Read . Derry down , etc Then four Pounds a Week will I give unto thee , For this merry true Jest thou hast told to me : And tell the old Abbot when thou comest home , Thou hast brought him a Pardon from good King John. Derry down , down , heigh derry down . Newcastle upon Tyne : Printed and Sold by John White . 