A Voyage to Virginia : OR , The Valiant Souldier's Farewell to his Love . Unto Virginia he's resolv'd to go , She begs of him , that he would not do so ; But her Entreaties they are all in vain , For he must blow the curled Ocean Main : At length ( with sorrow ) he does take his leave And leaves his dearest Love at home to grieve . To the Tune of , She's gone and left me here alone . MY pretty Betty I now must leave thee , the Drums does summon me away I must confess it soar does grieve me , I can with the no longer stay : When we are parted , be thou true hearted thou wilt not change thy mind I know . From thee my favour , shall never waver , though i must to Virginia go . When first I did behold thy feature , my senses all were set on fire . Thy beauty bright , and comely Stature , which caused me for to admire : But fates prevent me , for to content thee , which fills my heart so full of woe ; I cannot tarry , with thee to marry , for i must to Virginia go . Long time I have been true and constant , as thou thy self didst , always find . I never proved false one instant , nor never was to thee unkind : My dear believe me , and do not grieve me , since thou dost see it must be so . My fortune I , will now go try , for i must to Virginia go . Had I a thousand pounds to leave thee , although it were in good read Gold . Not half so much it now would grieve me , to speak the truth I may be bold : What ever thou requir'dst of me , thou never heardst me answer no : Therefore content thee , do not prevent me for i must to Virginia go . This for Promotion and for Honour , that I must sail upon thee Flood . Il'e venture under Englands Banner ; although I loose my dearest Blood : For unto danger I am no stranger , when stormy winds aloud do blow . I'le not forget the my dearest Betty , though i must to Virginia go . When betty herd his Resolution , and tO [ h ] at he was so fully bent . Her senses all were in Confusion , and thus with sorrow she did lamen Oh stay quoth she and do not venture , lest that thou break my heart with woe Leave not this City , but take some pity , and do not to Virginia go I prithee dearest do not forsake me , thou knowest I love thee more then life . According to thy promise take me , and let me be thy Wedded wife : Leave bloody wars , and wounds and scars , to them who love did never know . While I will ease thee and strive to please thee then do not to Virginia go But if thou be resolv'd to wander , and nothing can thy fancy turn . I [ ' ] le march under the same Commander , and never stay at home to mourn : 'Tis my desire in men attire , thy Comrade to appear in show . And day and night yield you delight , as you unto Virginia go . O no quoth he , my dearest Jewel , that may not be in any wise . Upon the Seas are dangers Cruel , and many Storms arise : To stay at home then be contented , while I do fight against my Foe . And ease thy mourning , till my returning for i must to Virginia go . Take here this Ring which I do give thee , my dearest and do not complain For with the same my heart I leave thee , until that I return again : I hope here after for to embrace thee , then suffer not those Tears to flow : For when I am absent , I will be constant , although i do to Virginia go . And so farewell my dearest betty , a thousand times farewell my sweet , I now afford the Kisses plenty , for to remember till we me If cruel Death of Life deprive us i'le meet thee in the shades below , Where we together , shall be for ever , although i do to Virginia go . When betty saw her Lover parted , she senseless for a time remain'd , Being so kind and tender-hearted , at length her Spirits she regain [ ' ] worser And then a thousand happy wishes , she after sent her Love to show : Then home returned and there she mourned while he did to Virginia go . A Voyage to Virginia : OR , The Valiant Souldier's Farewell to his Love . Unto Virginia he's resolv'd to go , She begs of him , that he would not do so ; But her Entreaties they are all in vain , For he must blow the curled Ocean Main : At length ( with sorrow ) he does take his leave And leaves his dearest Love at home to grieve . To the Tune of , She's gone and left me here alone . MY pretty Betty I now must leave thee , the Drums does summon me away I must confess it soar does grieve me , I can with the no longer stay : When we are parted , be thou true hearted thou wilt not change thy mind I know . From thee my favour , shall never waver , though i must to Virginia go . When first I did behold thy feature , my senses all were set on fire . Thy beauty bright , and comely Stature , which caused me for to admire : But fates prevent me , for to content thee , which fills my heart so full of woe ; I cannot tarry , with thee to marry , for i must to Virginia go . Long time I have been true and constant , as thou thy self didst , always find . I never proved false one instant , nor never was to thee unkind : My dear believe me , and do not grieve me , since thou dost see it must be so . My fortune I , will now go try , for i must to Virginia go . Had I a thousand pounds to leave thee , although it were in good read Gold . Not half so much it now would grieve me , to speak the truth I may be bold : What ever thou requir'dst of me , thou never heardst me answer no : Therefore content thee , do not prevent me for i must to Virginia go . This for Promotion and for Honour , that I must sail upon thee Flood . Il'e venture under Englands Banner ; although I loose my dearest Blood : For unto danger I am no stranger , when stormy winds aloud do blow . I'le not forget the my dearest Betty , though i must to Virginia go . When betty herd his Resolution , and tO [ h ] at he was so fully bent . Her senses all were in Confusion , and thus with sorrow she did lamen Oh stay quoth she and do not venture , lest that thou break my heart with woe Leave not this City , but take some pity , and do not to Virginia go I prithee dearest do not forsake me , thou knowest I love thee more then life . According to thy promise take me , and let me be thy Wedded wife : Leave bloody wars , and wounds and scars , to them who love did never know . While I will ease thee and strive to please thee then do not to Virginia go But if thou be resolv'd to wander , and nothing can thy fancy turn . I [ ' ] le march under the same Commander , and never stay at home to mourn : 'Tis my desire in men attire , thy Comrade to appear in show . And day and night yield you delight , as you unto Virginia go . O no quoth he , my dearest Jewel , that may not be in any wise . Upon the Seas are dangers Cruel , and many Storms arise : To stay at home then be contented , while I do fight against my Foe . And ease thy mourning , till my returning for i must to Virginia go . Take here this Ring which I do give thee , my dearest and do not complain For with the same my heart I leave thee , until that I return again : I hope here after for to embrace thee , then suffer not those Tears to flow : For when I am absent , I will be constant , although i do to Virginia go . And so farewell my dearest betty , a thousand times farewell my sweet , I now afford the Kisses plenty , for to remember till we me If cruel Death of Life deprive us i'le meet thee in the shades below , Where we together , shall be for ever , although i do to Virginia go . When betty saw her Lover parted , she senseless for a time remain'd , Being so kind and tender-hearted , at length her Spirits she regain [ ' ] worser And then a thousand happy wishes , she after sent her Love to show : Then home returned and there she mourned while he did to Virginia go . 