A PATTERN of true LOVE to you I will recitr , Between a Beautiful Lady and a Courteous Knight . To the Tune of , Dainty come thou to me , etc Licensd and Entered according to Order . DEar Love regard my grief , do not my suit disdain , Oh yield me some relief , that am with sorrow slave : These long seven years and more have I still loved thee ; Do thou my joys restore , fair Lady pity me . Pity my grievous pain , long suffered for thy sake , Do not my suit disdain , that no time rest can take ; These seven long years and more , have I still loved thee : Do thou my joys restore fair Lady pity me . How should I pity thee ? this Lady then reply'd , Thou art no match for me , thy suit must be deny'd : I am of noble blood , you but of mean degree , It stands not for my good fondly to match with thee . This answer had he most , which cut his heart so deep , That on his bed full oft would he lie down and weep , With tears he did lament his froward destiny ; With sights yet would he say , Fair Lady pity me . While I live , I must love , so fancy urges me , My mind cannot remove , such is my constancy : My mind is nobly bent though I of low degree , Sweet Lady give consent to love and pity me . The Lady hearing now the moan that he did make , Did of his suit allow , and thus to him she spoke , Ser Knight , mourn thou no more , my faith I plighted to thee , May this thy joys restore , thou stast thy wish of me . But first sweet Love ( quoth she ) what shift then wilt thou make , With speed to marry me , and thy delight to take : It were a bargain bade to get a wanton Wife , And loose with sorrow great thy sweet distressed life . If that my Father knew the love I bear to thee , We both the same should rue , therefore be rul'd by me : When my Father is in bed and all his waiting-men , Brought the window will I get see that you meet me then . Content Lady , ( he said ) he's but a Coward knight Whom ought shall make afraid to win a Lady brigh Thus then they went away but by the master-cook Coming throuht thee window wide , was this fair Lady took . O gentle cook , ( quoth she ) do not my deed bewray , Some favour to me show and let me pass away : Love that does conquer Kings forc'd me to do this deed , Wilt others sits and sings make not my heart to bleed Not so , ( then said the cook ) fair Lady pardon me , Who can this trespass brook , committed thus by thee ? My Lord , your Father shall the matter understand , For false I will not be , neither for house nor land . Then from the Lady's face , fell down the tears amain She was in woeful case and thus she made her moan : Ah , my own dear Love , little know'st thou my grief , Great sorrows must we prove , hope yielding no relief . Her Father in a spleen , lock'd up his Daughter bright And sent forth armed men to take this worthy Knight . Who then was judg'd to be quite banish'd from the land Never his Love to see , so strict was the command . And at the sessions next , after the Knight was gone , To his Daughter , full of woe , they brought a hanged man , Whose head was smitten off , the Maiden's truth to prove , Quoth her Father , Wanton Dame now take thee here thy Love . Her tears fell down again , when this sighed she did see And sorely did complain of Father's cruelty , His body she did wash with tears that she did shed , And hundree times she kissed his body being dead . Alas , my Love , ( she said ) dear hast thou paid for me , Would God in heaven's bliss , my soul were onw with this But while that I do live , a vow I here do make , Seven years to live unwed for my true Lover's sake Her Father hearing this , was grieved inwardly , He pardon'd her amiss , and prais'd her constancy : And to this courteous Knight , her Father did her wed . God grant the like success : where perfect love is breed . FINIS . A PATTERN of true LOVE to you I will recitr , Between a Beautiful Lady and a Courteous Knight . To the Tune of , Dainty come thou to me , etc Licensd and Entered according to Order . DEar Love regard my grief , do not my suit disdain , Oh yield me some relief , that am with sorrow slave : These long seven years and more have I still loved thee ; Do thou my joys restore , fair Lady pity me . Pity my grievous pain , long suffered for thy sake , Do not my suit disdain , that no time rest can take ; These seven long years and more , have I still loved thee : Do thou my joys restore fair Lady pity me . How should I pity thee ? this Lady then reply'd , Thou art no match for me , thy suit must be deny'd : I am of noble blood , you but of mean degree , It stands not for my good fondly to match with thee . This answer had he most , which cut his heart so deep , That on his bed full oft would he lie down and weep , With tears he did lament his froward destiny ; With sights yet would he say , Fair Lady pity me . While I live , I must love , so fancy urges me , My mind cannot remove , such is my constancy : My mind is nobly bent though I of low degree , Sweet Lady give consent to love and pity me . The Lady hearing now the moan that he did make , Did of his suit allow , and thus to him she spoke , Ser Knight , mourn thou no more , my faith I plighted to thee , May this thy joys restore , thou stast thy wish of me . But first sweet Love ( quoth she ) what shift then wilt thou make , With speed to marry me , and thy delight to take : It were a bargain bade to get a wanton Wife , And loose with sorrow great thy sweet distressed life . If that my Father knew the love I bear to thee , We both the same should rue , therefore be rul'd by me : When my Father is in bed and all his waiting-men , Brought the window will I get see that you meet me then . Content Lady , ( he said ) he's but a Coward knight Whom ought shall make afraid to win a Lady brigh Thus then they went away but by the master-cook Coming throuht thee window wide , was this fair Lady took . O gentle cook , ( quoth she ) do not my deed bewray , Some favour to me show and let me pass away : Love that does conquer Kings forc'd me to do this deed , Wilt others sits and sings make not my heart to bleed Not so , ( then said the cook ) fair Lady pardon me , Who can this trespass brook , committed thus by thee ? My Lord , your Father shall the matter understand , For false I will not be , neither for house nor land . Then from the Lady's face , fell down the tears amain She was in woeful case and thus she made her moan : Ah , my own dear Love , little know'st thou my grief , Great sorrows must we prove , hope yielding no relief . Her Father in a spleen , lock'd up his Daughter bright And sent forth armed men to take this worthy Knight . Who then was judg'd to be quite banish'd from the land Never his Love to see , so strict was the command . And at the sessions next , after the Knight was gone , To his Daughter , full of woe , they brought a hanged man , Whose head was smitten off , the Maiden's truth to prove , Quoth her Father , Wanton Dame now take thee here thy Love . Her tears fell down again , when this sighed she did see And sorely did complain of Father's cruelty , His body she did wash with tears that she did shed , And hundree times she kissed his body being dead . Alas , my Love , ( she said ) dear hast thou paid for me , Would God in heaven's bliss , my soul were onw with this But while that I do live , a vow I here do make , Seven years to live unwed for my true Lover's sake Her Father hearing this , was grieved inwardly , He pardon'd her amiss , and prais'd her constancy : And to this courteous Knight , her Father did her wed . God grant the like success : where perfect love is breed . FINIS . 