A New BALLAD Of the Three Merry Butchers , And ten Highway Men , how three Butchers went to pay Five Hundred Pounds away , and hearing a Woman crying in the Wood , went to Relieve her , and was there set upon by these ten Highway Men ; and how only stout Johnson fought with them all , who killed eight of the ten ; and at last was killed by the Woman he went to save in the Wood . To and Excellent New Tune . I'LL tell you of a Story of lovely Butchers three , There's Wilson , Gibson , Johnson , mark well what I shall say , For they took Five Hundred Pounds , Sir , to pay it all away , for they took Five Hundred Pounds , sir , to pay it all away . As they rid on the road , and as fast as they could trig , Strike up your hearts , says Johnson , we'll have a merry jig : With a high ding ding , with a ho ding ding , with a high ding , Ding dee , and God bless all good People from evil Company . As they rid on the Road , Sir , as fast as they could high , Strike up your hearts , says Johnson , for I hear a Woman c [ ry ] With that he stepped into the Wood and looks himself all rou [ and ] And there he spy'd a Woman with her hair bound to the gro [ und . ] O Woman , Oh Woman , quod Johnson , hast thou no evil Comp [ any ] O no , Oh no , says the Woman and alas , how can that be ? For there came ten swaggering Blades by , and thus abused [ me , ] For there came ten swaggering Blades by , and thus abused [ me . ] Johnson being of a valiant heart , he boar a valiant mind . He wrapped his Cloak about her for to keep her from the wind , With a high ding ding , with a ho ding ding , with high ding , Ding dee , and God bless all good People from evil Company . Strike up your hearts , says Johnson , for it's dark all in the sky , she put her finger in her Ear and gave a screeching cry ; with that there came ten swaggering blades with their weapons ready drawn , And they boldly came to Johnson , and bolder bid him stand . I will not fight , says Wilson , for I had rather die ; Or I to fight , says Gibson , for I had rather fly , Come on , come on , says Johnson , and fight a man so free , Or stand you still behind my back and i'll win the victory . then Johnson's pistols they flew off till five of them was slave , and then he drew his hanger out with all his might and main , And played it about so manfully , 'till three more he had slave , And played it , etc Come on , come on , says the other two , and let us make away , For if we do not hold him to't our lives he takes away , Oh no , Oh no , quoth the Woman and alas , how can that be , for if you do not hold him to't then hanged you shall be Johnson fighting these two thieves before , the woman he did not mind , And fighting these two thieves before , she knocked him down behind , Oh woman , Oh woman , quoth Johnson , alas , what have you done ; You have kill'd the bravest Butcher that ever England wone . Just as she had killed him there came one Riding by , and saw the deed that she had done , and seiz'd her presently , she was condemn'd for to be hang'd in Iron chains so strong , at the place where she did Johnson that great and mighty wrong . London , Printed for J. Bissel , and Sold by J. Foster , at the Sign of the Golden Ball in Pye-Corner . A New BALLAD Of the Three Merry Butchers , And ten Highway Men , how three Butchers went to pay Five Hundred Pounds away , and hearing a Woman crying in the Wood , went to Relieve her , and was there set upon by these ten Highway Men ; and how only stout Johnson fought with them all , who killed eight of the ten ; and at last was killed by the Woman he went to save in the Wood . To and Excellent New Tune . I'LL tell you of a Story of lovely Butchers three , There's Wilson , Gibson , Johnson , mark well what I shall say , For they took Five Hundred Pounds , Sir , to pay it all away , for they took Five Hundred Pounds , sir , to pay it all away . As they rid on the road , and as fast as they could trig , Strike up your hearts , says Johnson , we'll have a merry jig : With a high ding ding , with a ho ding ding , with a high ding , Ding dee , and God bless all good People from evil Company . As they rid on the Road , Sir , as fast as they could high , Strike up your hearts , says Johnson , for I hear a Woman c [ ry ] With that he stepped into the Wood and looks himself all rou [ and ] And there he spy'd a Woman with her hair bound to the gro [ und . ] O Woman , Oh Woman , quod Johnson , hast thou no evil Comp [ any ] O no , Oh no , says the Woman and alas , how can that be ? For there came ten swaggering Blades by , and thus abused [ me , ] For there came ten swaggering Blades by , and thus abused [ me . ] Johnson being of a valiant heart , he boar a valiant mind . He wrapped his Cloak about her for to keep her from the wind , With a high ding ding , with a ho ding ding , with high ding , Ding dee , and God bless all good People from evil Company . Strike up your hearts , says Johnson , for it's dark all in the sky , she put her finger in her Ear and gave a screeching cry ; with that there came ten swaggering blades with their weapons ready drawn , And they boldly came to Johnson , and bolder bid him stand . I will not fight , says Wilson , for I had rather die ; Or I to fight , says Gibson , for I had rather fly , Come on , come on , says Johnson , and fight a man so free , Or stand you still behind my back and i'll win the victory . then Johnson's pistols they flew off till five of them was slave , and then he drew his hanger out with all his might and main , And played it about so manfully , 'till three more he had slave , And played it , etc Come on , come on , says the other two , and let us make away , For if we do not hold him to't our lives he takes away , Oh no , Oh no , quoth the Woman and alas , how can that be , for if you do not hold him to't then hanged you shall be Johnson fighting these two thieves before , the woman he did not mind , And fighting these two thieves before , she knocked him down behind , Oh woman , Oh woman , quoth Johnson , alas , what have you done ; You have kill'd the bravest Butcher that ever England wone . Just as she had killed him there came one Riding by , and saw the deed that she had done , and seiz'd her presently , she was condemn'd for to be hang'd in Iron chains so strong , at the place where she did Johnson that great and mighty wrong . London , Printed for J. Bissel , and Sold by J. Foster , at the Sign of the Golden Ball in Pye-Corner . 