THE Fair MAID of the WEST ; Who sold her Maidenhead for a High-crown'd Hat . I Pray attend unto this Jest , A youthful Maiden in the West , She was gay and handsome too , As I truth may tell to you . And therefore now I pray attend , Unto these lines which I have penn'd , And if you do not say the same , I think you will be much to blame . Upon a day it happened so , That she would to market go , Taking her money great and small , To buy a high-crown'd hat withal . As soon as e'er she did come there , Unto a shop she did repair ; Where soon a youthful bachelor , Did fix his wanton eyes on her . Kind Sir , said she , a hat I'd have , And pray let me have what I crave , One that is fine and light to wear ; He strait did fit her to a hair . What is the price ? she then reply'd , Seven Shillings I have deny'd ; I will fit you well he said , Because you are a handsome Maid . I'll let you have it for a crown , If that you'll let me lay you down Upon my soft and downy bed , There to enjoy your Maidenhead . She seem'd to blush and stand a while , At length she answered with a smile , What Maidenhead and money too , No , kind sir , that will not do . He strait did whisper in her ear , I will befriend thee now my dear , Let me enjoy my heart's delight , And you shall have the Hat outright . This maid she did not longer stand , But struck the bargain out of hand : And having given the youth content , She took her Hat and away she went . Now as she passed along the way , She to herself these words did say , With a fine Hat I now am sped , And all for a silly Maidenhead . Then coming to her mother strait , This hopeful bargain to relate , Oh Mother ! O mother ! as I'm true , I have a Hat and Money too Why Hussey , her Mother then reply'd , How was the haberdasher paid ? He had my Maidenhead said she , Which was a great plague unto me . The good old wife flew in a rage , And nothing could her wrath assuage , Thrusting her daughter out of doors , And said , she'd never own her more . If this same Hat she did not take , And to the town again make haste , And give it him with whom she had lain , And bring her Maidenhead back again . With sighs and tears she did lament , As to the market town she went , To tell the shopkeeper therefore , He must her Maidenhead restore . For why , my mother won't agree , That I should part with it , said she . Why then come in , I will freely part With it to thee with all my heart . As soon as she did it receive , Poor heart she did not longer grieve , But made a curtsy to the ground , Because she had this kindness found . Then home again this lass did high , And told her mother presently , And honest man he seem'd to be , For he restor'd it willingly . Well daughter had it not been so , It might have been your overthrow ; But since he did it you restore , See that you play the fool no more . Printed and Sold in Aldermary Church-Yard , Bow Lane , London . THE Fair MAID of the WEST ; Who sold her Maidenhead for a High-crown'd Hat . I Pray attend unto this Jest , A youthful Maiden in the West , She was gay and handsome too , As I truth may tell to you . And therefore now I pray attend , Unto these lines which I have penn'd , And if you do not say the same , I think you will be much to blame . Upon a day it happened so , That she would to market go , Taking her money great and small , To buy a high-crown'd hat withal . As soon as e'er she did come there , Unto a shop she did repair ; Where soon a youthful bachelor , Did fix his wanton eyes on her . Kind Sir , said she , a hat I'd have , And pray let me have what I crave , One that is fine and light to wear ; He strait did fit her to a hair . What is the price ? she then reply'd , Seven Shillings I have deny'd ; I will fit you well he said , Because you are a handsome Maid . I'll let you have it for a crown , If that you'll let me lay you down Upon my soft and downy bed , There to enjoy your Maidenhead . She seem'd to blush and stand a while , At length she answered with a smile , What Maidenhead and money too , No , kind sir , that will not do . He strait did whisper in her ear , I will befriend thee now my dear , Let me enjoy my heart's delight , And you shall have the Hat outright . This maid she did not longer stand , But struck the bargain out of hand : And having given the youth content , She took her Hat and away she went . Now as she passed along the way , She to herself these words did say , With a fine Hat I now am sped , And all for a silly Maidenhead . Then coming to her mother strait , This hopeful bargain to relate , Oh Mother ! O mother ! as I'm true , I have a Hat and Money too Why Hussey , her Mother then reply'd , How was the haberdasher paid ? He had my Maidenhead said she , Which was a great plague unto me . The good old wife flew in a rage , And nothing could her wrath assuage , Thrusting her daughter out of doors , And said , she'd never own her more . If this same Hat she did not take , And to the town again make haste , And give it him with whom she had lain , And bring her Maidenhead back again . With sighs and tears she did lament , As to the market town she went , To tell the shopkeeper therefore , He must her Maidenhead restore . For why , my mother won't agree , That I should part with it , said she . Why then come in , I will freely part With it to thee with all my heart . As soon as she did it receive , Poor heart she did not longer grieve , But made a curtsy to the ground , Because she had this kindness found . Then home again this lass did high , And told her mother presently , And honest man he seem'd to be , For he restor'd it willingly . Well daughter had it not been so , It might have been your overthrow ; But since he did it you restore , See that you play the fool no more . Printed and Sold in Aldermary Church-Yard , Bow Lane , London . 