The West-Country Lawyer OR , The Witty Maid's Good Fortune ; Who wisely maintain'd her Virginity against the Golden Assaults of the Lawyer , who at length Married her to her hearts Content . To the Tune of the Balsied Knight , A Youthful Lawyer fine and gay was Riding unto the City , Who met a Damsel on the way , right beautiful , fair and witty . Good morrow then the Lawyer cry'd I prithee where art thou going , Quoth she , to yonder Meadows side , my father is there a Mowing . Straight from his Horse he did alight and as he was going to her , The Maid immediately took flight , for fear he would undo her , But he run like a Nimble Deer , until he did overtake her ; And then he [ ' ] worser whisper [ ' ] worser in her Ear , a Lady he surely make her , If he might but enjoy the Bliss , a mintuit or two of Pleasure ; Then as a Pledge I'll give thee this , a handful of Golden Treasure . Said she , I valve not your Gold . and therefore I pray be civil , My Maidens-head shall ne'er be Sold for Moneys the root of all evil . I [ ' ] worser sooner be a Ploughs-mans Bride , and fit at my Wheel a Spinning : Than be a Lawyer's Jlt she cry'd , to live by the Trade of Sinning . Tush , said the Lawyer be not coy , let's fallen to our Loves Embraces A Silken Gown thou shalt enjoy , with Bracelets , Rings and Laces , your Silken Gown I do disdain , although I have mean Relation , I am resolved to maintain my Innocent Reputation If thou wilt but to London go I [ ' ] ll honour the like a Lady , But still the damsel answer'd no I am happy enough already . you talk of Glory State and Fame , and how I shall be attended ; But Sir I am not for your Game , so let the Discourse be ended . Pray save your Breath and Money too , I like not your way of Wooing There is too many suc [ h a ] s you that brings the young Maids to Ruin . I'll keep my pure Virginity , till Marraige is my Pleasure : For Sir said she it is more to me Then Millions of Gold and Treasure He found her so discreet and wise , in every ready Answer , That he her Charms did highly prize . and vow'd he would soon advance her , Unto her Parents he did go , where he did their Love require : Then was she cloath'd from top to Toe , in costly Rich Attire . Next day the Gordian Knot was ty'd , and many was at the Marriage : Then she appear'd and Angel bright , for Beauty and comely Carriage . you Lasses all I pray you mind , to whom I have told this Story , Be careful that you a'not too kind , for fear you should blast your Glory , Had she been soon to Folly led , and for a small Spell Consented , She might have lost her Maidens-head , and when it was gone Lamented . But now she is a Lawyers Wife , her Husband do's dearly Love her , So that she leads a happy Life , there [ ' ] s few in the Town above her . FINIS . The West-Country Lawyer OR , The Witty Maid's Good Fortune ; Who wisely maintain'd her Virginity against the Golden Assaults of the Lawyer , who at length Married her to her hearts Content . To the Tune of the Balsied Knight , A Youthful Lawyer fine and gay was Riding unto the City , Who met a Damsel on the way , right beautiful , fair and witty . Good morrow then the Lawyer cry'd I prithee where art thou going , Quoth she , to yonder Meadows side , my father is there a Mowing . Straight from his Horse he did alight and as he was going to her , The Maid immediately took flight , for fear he would undo her , But he run like a Nimble Deer , until he did overtake her ; And then he [ ' ] worser whisper [ ' ] worser in her Ear , a Lady he surely make her , If he might but enjoy the Bliss , a mintuit or two of Pleasure ; Then as a Pledge I'll give thee this , a handful of Golden Treasure . Said she , I valve not your Gold . and therefore I pray be civil , My Maidens-head shall ne'er be Sold for Moneys the root of all evil . I [ ' ] worser sooner be a Ploughs-mans Bride , and fit at my Wheel a Spinning : Than be a Lawyer's Jlt she cry'd , to live by the Trade of Sinning . Tush , said the Lawyer be not coy , let's fallen to our Loves Embraces A Silken Gown thou shalt enjoy , with Bracelets , Rings and Laces , your Silken Gown I do disdain , although I have mean Relation , I am resolved to maintain my Innocent Reputation If thou wilt but to London go I [ ' ] ll honour the like a Lady , But still the damsel answer'd no I am happy enough already . you talk of Glory State and Fame , and how I shall be attended ; But Sir I am not for your Game , so let the Discourse be ended . Pray save your Breath and Money too , I like not your way of Wooing There is too many suc [ h a ] s you that brings the young Maids to Ruin . I'll keep my pure Virginity , till Marraige is my Pleasure : For Sir said she it is more to me Then Millions of Gold and Treasure He found her so discreet and wise , in every ready Answer , That he her Charms did highly prize . and vow'd he would soon advance her , Unto her Parents he did go , where he did their Love require : Then was she cloath'd from top to Toe , in costly Rich Attire . Next day the Gordian Knot was ty'd , and many was at the Marriage : Then she appear'd and Angel bright , for Beauty and comely Carriage . you Lasses all I pray you mind , to whom I have told this Story , Be careful that you a'not too kind , for fear you should blast your Glory , Had she been soon to Folly led , and for a small Spell Consented , She might have lost her Maidens-head , and when it was gone Lamented . But now she is a Lawyers Wife , her Husband do's dearly Love her , So that she leads a happy Life , there [ ' ] s few in the Town above her . FINIS . 