The happy Pair . A new Song , sung by Mr. Abell , IANTHE the Lovely , the Joy of her Swain , By Iphis was lov'd , and lov'd Iphis again : She liv'd in the Youth , and the Youth in the Fair : Their Pleasures were Equal , and Equal their Care : No Time nor Enjoyment their Dotage withdrew ; But the longer they liv'd , But the longer they liv'd , Still the Kinder they grew . A Passion so Happy , allarm'd all the Plain ; Some Envy'd the Nymph , but more Envy'd the Swain ; Some swore 'twould be pity their Love's to invade ; That the Lovers each one , for each other were Made : But All All consented , That none e'er yet knew , A Nymph half so Fair , A Nymph half so Fair , Nor a Shepherd so True . For in their Beginning of Love we did find They strove , in their Love , who should still prove more kind : The Swain and the Nymph , by the Dawn of the Day In Innocent Love passed the Minutes away , In each others Arms. Give the Lovers their endue , They always were Constant , They always were Constant , And always were True . And several Years their True Love has gone on , And they are as good as when first they began : No End's of our Loving ! ( the Nymph she did cry ) No! No! ( says the Shepherd ) I'll Love 'till I Die . So Constant this Pair was , so Faithful and True . That the longer they liv'd , That the longer they liv'd , Still the Fonder they grew . Love saw them , with Pleasure , and vow'd to take Care Of the Constant , the Faithful , the Innocent Pair ; What Either do want , I'll bid Either to move . But they wanted nothing , but Ever to Love . It was all that to Bless them , God Cupid could do , That they still might be Kind , That they still might be Kind , And they still might be True . FINIS . The happy Pair . A new Song , sung by Mr. Abell , IANTHE the Lovely , the Joy of her Swain , By Iphis was lov'd , and lov'd Iphis again : She liv'd in the Youth , and the Youth in the Fair : Their Pleasures were Equal , and Equal their Care : No Time nor Enjoyment their Dotage withdrew ; But the longer they liv'd , But the longer they liv'd , Still the Kinder they grew . A Passion so Happy , allarm'd all the Plain ; Some Envy'd the Nymph , but more Envy'd the Swain ; Some swore 'twould be pity their Love's to invade ; That the Lovers each one , for each other were Made : But All All consented , That none e'er yet knew , A Nymph half so Fair , A Nymph half so Fair , Nor a Shepherd so True . For in their Beginning of Love we did find They strove , in their Love , who should still prove more kind : The Swain and the Nymph , by the Dawn of the Day In Innocent Love passed the Minutes away , In each others Arms. Give the Lovers their endue , They always were Constant , They always were Constant , And always were True . And several Years their True Love has gone on , And they are as good as when first they began : No End's of our Loving ! ( the Nymph she did cry ) No! No! ( says the Shepherd ) I'll Love 'till I Die . So Constant this Pair was , so Faithful and True . That the longer they liv'd , That the longer they liv'd , Still the Fonder they grew . Love saw them , with Pleasure , and vow'd to take Care Of the Constant , the Faithful , the Innocent Pair ; What Either do want , I'll bid Either to move . But they wanted nothing , but Ever to Love . It was all that to Bless them , God Cupid could do , That they still might be Kind , That they still might be Kind , And they still might be True . FINIS . 