.2 A CARROUSE To The Emperor , the Royal Pole , And the much-wrong'd DUKE of LORRAIN . TO a new Tune , at the PLAY-HOUSE . HArk I hear the Cannons roar , Echoing from the Germane Shore , And the joyful news comes over , that the Turks are all confounded ; Lorrain comes they run they run , Charge with your Horse through the grand Halfmoon And give Quarter unto none , since Starenberg is Wounded . Close your Ranks and each brave Soul Fill a lusty flowing Bowl , A grand Carouse to the Royal Pole , the Emperor's brave defender : Let no man leave his Post by stealth , Plunder the Barbarous Viziers Wealth : We'l drink a Helmet full , the Health . of Second Alexander . Fill the Helmet once again , To the Emperor's happy Reign , And the much wrong'd Duke Lorrain . but when the [ y ] we beatrice the Turks home , Not a Soul the Field will leave , Till they do again retrieve . What the Moonsier does detrieve , and fix him in his Dukedom . Then will be the Schen of war , When such drinking Crowns prepare , Those that love the Monsieurs fear , their Courage will be shrinking ; Loyal hearts inspir'd with Hock , Who can from a better Rock ; The French will never stand the Shock , for all their Claret drinking , Mahomet was a senseless Dog , A Coffee-drinking drowsy Rogue , The use of the Grape so much in vogue , to deny to those adore him : Had he allow'd the fruits of the vine , And gave them leave to carouse in wine , They had freely passed the Rhine . and conquer'd all before them , Coffee Rallies no retreat , Vind can only do the fear , Had their force been twice as great , and all of Janazaries . Though he had drank the Danube dry , And all their profit could supply , By his interest from the Sky , brisk Langoon ne'r miscarry'd . Infidels are now overcome , The most Christian Turk at home , Watched the Fate of Christendom , but all his hope's are shallow : Since the Poles have led the Dance . If Englands Monarch will advance . And if he'l send a Fleet to Fr [ ance ] he's a Whig that will not follow . FINIS . .2 A CARROUSE To The Emperor , the Royal Pole , And the much-wrong'd DUKE of LORRAIN . TO a new Tune , at the PLAY-HOUSE . HArk I hear the Cannons roar , Echoing from the Germane Shore , And the joyful news comes over , that the Turks are all confounded ; Lorrain comes they run they run , Charge with your Horse through the grand Halfmoon And give Quarter unto none , since Starenberg is Wounded . Close your Ranks and each brave Soul Fill a lusty flowing Bowl , A grand Carouse to the Royal Pole , the Emperor's brave defender : Let no man leave his Post by stealth , Plunder the Barbarous Viziers Wealth : We'l drink a Helmet full , the Health . of Second Alexander . Fill the Helmet once again , To the Emperor's happy Reign , And the much wrong'd Duke Lorrain . but when the [ y ] we beatrice the Turks home , Not a Soul the Field will leave , Till they do again retrieve . What the Moonsier does detrieve , and fix him in his Dukedom . Then will be the Schen of war , When such drinking Crowns prepare , Those that love the Monsieurs fear , their Courage will be shrinking ; Loyal hearts inspir'd with Hock , Who can from a better Rock ; The French will never stand the Shock , for all their Claret drinking , Mahomet was a senseless Dog , A Coffee-drinking drowsy Rogue , The use of the Grape so much in vogue , to deny to those adore him : Had he allow'd the fruits of the vine , And gave them leave to carouse in wine , They had freely passed the Rhine . and conquer'd all before them , Coffee Rallies no retreat , Vind can only do the fear , Had their force been twice as great , and all of Janazaries . Though he had drank the Danube dry , And all their profit could supply , By his interest from the Sky , brisk Langoon ne'r miscarry'd . Infidels are now overcome , The most Christian Turk at home , Watched the Fate of Christendom , but all his hope's are shallow : Since the Poles have led the Dance . If Englands Monarch will advance . And if he'l send a Fleet to Fr [ ance ] he's a Whig that will not follow . FINIS . 