The Court and Kingdoms in Tears : Or , The Sorrowful Subject's Lamentation for the Death of her Majesty Queen MARY Who departed this Life , the 28th . of December , 1694 ; To the Unspeakable Grief of his Majesty , and all his Loyal and Loving Subject's . To the Tune of , If Love's a sweet Passion , etc IN Mourning , in Mourning the Kingdoms appears , And the Eyes of true Subject's are flowing with Tears , For our Grief and our Sorrow , alas , it is great , Since our Gracious Queen Marry departed of late ; By the hand of cold Death she was snatch'd from the Throne , Having left our most gracious King William alone . The loss of our Queen , we have cause to lament , In the prime of her Years , from the World she is sent , While her Sorrowful Subject's , do weeping complain , Knowing that they shall never behold her again : By the hand of cold Death , etc O! what and unspeakable Change is there wrought ? From a Throne , Crown and Septer , Queen Marie is brought , For to take up her Lodging , now , now in the Grave ; So uncertain is Honour and all that we have : By the hand of cold Death , etc She in the Kings absence , did Govern the Realm , With Discreation and Wisdom , she sat at the Helm , While her Subject's in Loyal Obedience did stand , For a publict Blessing she was to the Land ; To our Sorrow and Grief she is snatch'd from the Throne , And our Monarch King William , now Governs alone . There's nothing but Sorrow and Grief to be seen , Thro' the Court and the Kingdoms for loss of the Queen Who in less than a week , was Alive , Well , and Dead ; And with her all our Joys and our Comforts are fled : By the hand of cold Death , etc O! who would have thought , when from Flanders he came , And the Queen she did meet him in Triumph and Fame , That her time was so near , yet , alas , it is so , She is gone and hath left us in Sorrow and Woe [ e ] : By the hand of cold Death , etc The learned Physician was sent for with speed She was dangerous ill , there was never more need ; But , alas , all the Skill in the World was in vain , For the Doctors they could not restore her again : By the hand of cold Death , etc Her Soul is convey'd to the Regions of Joy , Where there's nothing her Comfort and Peace can annoy , It is we that are left in sad sorrowful Fears , For the loss of a Queen in the prime of her Years ; By the hand of cold Death , etc For gracious King William let's send up our Prayers , That the LORD would support him in all his Affairs ; That he still may be able our Laws to defend , He has been to the Nation a Fatherly Friend ; Therefore Heaven , we hope , will establish his Throne , In the spite of his Foes , tho' he Governs alone . FINIS . The Court and Kingdoms in Tears : Or , The Sorrowful Subject's Lamentation for the Death of her Majesty Queen MARY Who departed this Life , the 28th . of December , 1694 ; To the Unspeakable Grief of his Majesty , and all his Loyal and Loving Subject's . To the Tune of , If Love's a sweet Passion , etc IN Mourning , in Mourning the Kingdoms appears , And the Eyes of true Subject's are flowing with Tears , For our Grief and our Sorrow , alas , it is great , Since our Gracious Queen Marry departed of late ; By the hand of cold Death she was snatch'd from the Throne , Having left our most gracious King William alone . The loss of our Queen , we have cause to lament , In the prime of her Years , from the World she is sent , While her Sorrowful Subject's , do weeping complain , Knowing that they shall never behold her again : By the hand of cold Death , etc O! what and unspeakable Change is there wrought ? From a Throne , Crown and Septer , Queen Marie is brought , For to take up her Lodging , now , now in the Grave ; So uncertain is Honour and all that we have : By the hand of cold Death , etc She in the Kings absence , did Govern the Realm , With Discreation and Wisdom , she sat at the Helm , While her Subject's in Loyal Obedience did stand , For a publict Blessing she was to the Land ; To our Sorrow and Grief she is snatch'd from the Throne , And our Monarch King William , now Governs alone . There's nothing but Sorrow and Grief to be seen , Thro' the Court and the Kingdoms for loss of the Queen Who in less than a week , was Alive , Well , and Dead ; And with her all our Joys and our Comforts are fled : By the hand of cold Death , etc O! who would have thought , when from Flanders he came , And the Queen she did meet him in Triumph and Fame , That her time was so near , yet , alas , it is so , She is gone and hath left us in Sorrow and Woe [ e ] : By the hand of cold Death , etc The learned Physician was sent for with speed She was dangerous ill , there was never more need ; But , alas , all the Skill in the World was in vain , For the Doctors they could not restore her again : By the hand of cold Death , etc Her Soul is convey'd to the Regions of Joy , Where there's nothing her Comfort and Peace can annoy , It is we that are left in sad sorrowful Fears , For the loss of a Queen in the prime of her Years ; By the hand of cold Death , etc For gracious King William let's send up our Prayers , That the LORD would support him in all his Affairs ; That he still may be able our Laws to defend , He has been to the Nation a Fatherly Friend ; Therefore Heaven , we hope , will establish his Throne , In the spite of his Foes , tho' he Governs alone . FINIS . 