The CRUEL KNIGHT , And the Fortunate Farmer's Daughter . PART I . IN fa [ m ] ous York city a farmer did dwell , Who was belov'd by his neighbours well , He had a wife that was virtuous and fair , And by her he had a young child every year . In seven years six children he had , Which made their parents hearts full glad , But in short time , as we do hear say , This farmer in wealth and stock did decay . Altho' at once he had riches store , In a little time he grew very poor , He strove all he could , but alas ! could not thrive . Nor hardly could keep his children alive . For children came faster than silver or gold , And his wife conceived again , we are told , And when the time came , in hard labour she fell ; But if you will mind , and odd story I'll tell . A noble rich knight by chance did ride by , And hearing this woman shriek and cry , He being well learn'd in the planets and signs , Did look in the book , which puzzled his mind . For the more he did look , the more he did read , And found that the fate the child had decreed , Who was in that house , that same tide , He found that it was she that must be his bride . But judge how the knight was disturbed in mind , When he in that book his fortune did find , He quickly road home , and was sorely oppressed , From that sad moment he could take no rest , At night he did tumble and toss in his bed , And very strange projects came into his head , Then he was resolved , and soon try'd indeed . To altar the fortune he found was decreed . With a vexing heart next morning he rose , And so to the house of the farmer he goes ; And asked the man with a heart full of spite , If the child was alive that was born the last night . Worthy sir said the farmer , altho' I am poor , I had one born last night , and six before : Four sons and three daughters I now have alive , They are in good health and are likely to thrive . The knight reply'd , if that seven you have , Let me have the youngest , I'll keep it most brave , For you very well one daughter may spare , And when I die I'll make her my heir , For I am a knight of a noble degree , And if you will part with the child unto me , Full three thousand pounds I'll unto thee give , When I from your hand your daughter receive . The father and mother with tears in their eyes , Did hear this kind offer , and were in surprise ; And seeing the knight was so noble and gay , Presented the Infant unto him that day . But they spoke to him with words most mild . We beseech thee , good sir , be kind to our child ; You need not fear , the knight he did say , For I will maintain her both gallant and gay . So with this sweet babe away he did ride , Until he came to a broad river's side ; Being cruelly bent , he resolved indeed , To drown the young Infant that day with speed . Saying , if you live you must be my wife , But I am resolved to bereave you of life : For 'till you are dead I not comfort can have , Therefore you shall lie in a watery grave . In saying of this , that moment , they say , He flung the babe into the river straightway , And being well pleas'd , when this he had done , He leapt on his horse , and strait he road home , But mind how good fortune on her did provide , She was drove safe on her back by the tide , Where a man was fishing , as fortune would have , When she was a floating along with the waves . He took her up , and was in amaze , He kiss'd her and press'd her , and on her did gaze , And he having ne'er a child in his life , He strait did carry her home to his wife . His wife was pleased the child to see , And said , my dear husband , be ruled by me , Since we have no child , if you'll let me alone , We will keep this , and call it our own . The good man consented , as we have been told , And spared for neither silver nor gold , Until she was eleven full years , And then her sweet beauty began to appear , PART II THE fisherman was one day at and inn , And several gentlemen drinking with him , His wife sent this girl to call her husband home , But when she into the drinking room came . The gentlemen there were amazed to see , The fisherman's daughter so full of beauty , They asked him then , if she was his own ? And he told them the story before he went home . As I was a fishing within my own bound , One Monday morning , this sweet babe I found , Or else she had lain in a watery grave , And this was the account which now he gave . The cruel knight was in the company , And hearing the fisherman tell this story , He was vex'd at the heart to see her alive , And how to destroy her he again did contrive . Then spoke the knight , and unto him said , If you will but part with this sweet maid , I'll give you whatever your heart can devise , For she in time to great riches may rise . The fisherman answer'd with a modest grace , I cannot , unless my dear wife were in place . Get first her consent , you shall have mine of me , And then to go with you , sir , she is free . The wife she did also as freely consent . But little they thought of his evil inten He kept her a month most gallant they say , And then he contrived to make her away . He had a great brother in fair Lancashire , A noble rich man , worth ten thousands a year , And he sent this girl unto him with speed , In hope's he would act a most cruel deed . He sent a man with her likewise , they say , But as they did lodge at and Inn on the way , A thief in the house , with and evil intent , To rob the portmanteau immediately went . But the thief was amazed , when he could not find , Either silver or gold , or ought to his mind ; But only a letter , the which he did read . And soon put and end to this tragical deed . The knight had wrote to his brother that day , To make the poor innocent damsel away With sword or with poison ; that very same night , And not let her live till the morning light . The thief read the letter , and had so much grace , To tear it , and wrote in the very same place , Dear brother receive this maiden from me , And bring her up well , as a maiden should be . Let her be esteem'd , dear brother , I pray , Let servants attend her by night and by day . For she is a lady of noble worth . A nobler lady ne'er liv'd in the North . Let her have good learning , dear brother I pray . And for the same I will sufficiently pay , And so loving brother this letter I send , Subscribing myself your dear brother and friend . The servant and maid were still innocent , And onward their journey next day they went , Before sun set to the knight's house they came , Where the servant left her and came home again . The girl was attended most nobly indeed , With men and maids servants to serve her with speed , Where she did continue a twelvemonth's space , Till this cruel knight came to this place , As he and his brother together did talk , He spy'd the young maid in the garden to walk ; She looked most beautiful , pleasant and gay , Like to sweet Aurora the goddess of May . He was in a passion when he did her 'spy , And said most angry , Why brother why , Did not you do as in the letter I writ ? His brother reply'd , it is done every bit . No , no , said the knight it is not so I see , Therefore she shall back again go with me , But his brother shew'd him the letter that day , Then he was amazed but nothing did say . PART . III . SOON after , the knight took this maiden away , And with her did ride 'till they came to the sea , Then looking upon her , with anger and spite . He spoke to this maiden , and bid her alight . The maid from the horse immediately went , And trembling to think what was his intent , Ne'er tremble said he , for this hour's your last , So pull off your clothes , I command you in haste . This virgin with tears on her knees did reply , Oh! what have I done , sir , that now I must die ! Oh! let me but know how I do offend , I'll study each hour to make you amends . Oh! spare my life , and I'll wander the earth ; And never come near you while I have breath , He hearing the pitiful moan she did make , Strait from his finger a ring did take . And then to this maiden these words he did say , This ring in the water I'll now throw away . Pray look on it well , for the posey is plain , That you , when you see it may know it again . I charge you for life , never come in my sighed , For if you do I shall owe you a spigte , Unless you do bring the same unto me , With that , he let the ring drop in the sea . Which when he had done , away he did go , And The CRUEL KNIGHT , And the Fortunate Farmer's Daughter . PART I . IN fa [ m ] ous York city a farmer did dwell , Who was belov'd by his neighbours well , He had a wife that was virtuous and fair , And by her he had a young child every year . In seven years six children he had , Which made their parents hearts full glad , But in short time , as we do hear say , This farmer in wealth and stock did decay . Altho' at once he had riches store , In a little time he grew very poor , He strove all he could , but alas ! could not thrive . Nor hardly could keep his children alive . For children came faster than silver or gold , And his wife conceived again , we are told , And when the time came , in hard labour she fell ; But if you will mind , and odd story I'll tell . A noble rich knight by chance did ride by , And hearing this woman shriek and cry , He being well learn'd in the planets and signs , Did look in the book , which puzzled his mind . For the more he did look , the more he did read , And found that the fate the child had decreed , Who was in that house , that same tide , He found that it was she that must be his bride . But judge how the knight was disturbed in mind , When he in that book his fortune did find , He quickly road home , and was sorely oppressed , From that sad moment he could take no rest , At night he did tumble and toss in his bed , And very strange projects came into his head , Then he was resolved , and soon try'd indeed . To altar the fortune he found was decreed . With a vexing heart next morning he rose , And so to the house of the farmer he goes ; And asked the man with a heart full of spite , If the child was alive that was born the last night . Worthy sir said the farmer , altho' I am poor , I had one born last night , and six before : Four sons and three daughters I now have alive , They are in good health and are likely to thrive . The knight reply'd , if that seven you have , Let me have the youngest , I'll keep it most brave , For you very well one daughter may spare , And when I die I'll make her my heir , For I am a knight of a noble degree , And if you will part with the child unto me , Full three thousand pounds I'll unto thee give , When I from your hand your daughter receive . The father and mother with tears in their eyes , Did hear this kind offer , and were in surprise ; And seeing the knight was so noble and gay , Presented the Infant unto him that day . But they spoke to him with words most mild . We beseech thee , good sir , be kind to our child ; You need not fear , the knight he did say , For I will maintain her both gallant and gay . So with this sweet babe away he did ride , Until he came to a broad river's side ; Being cruelly bent , he resolved indeed , To drown the young Infant that day with speed . Saying , if you live you must be my wife , But I am resolved to bereave you of life : For 'till you are dead I not comfort can have , Therefore you shall lie in a watery grave . In saying of this , that moment , they say , He flung the babe into the river straightway , And being well pleas'd , when this he had done , He leapt on his horse , and strait he road home , But mind how good fortune on her did provide , She was drove safe on her back by the tide , Where a man was fishing , as fortune would have , When she was a floating along with the waves . He took her up , and was in amaze , He kiss'd her and press'd her , and on her did gaze , And he having ne'er a child in his life , He strait did carry her home to his wife . His wife was pleased the child to see , And said , my dear husband , be ruled by me , Since we have no child , if you'll let me alone , We will keep this , and call it our own . The good man consented , as we have been told , And spared for neither silver nor gold , Until she was eleven full years , And then her sweet beauty began to appear , PART II THE fisherman was one day at and inn , And several gentlemen drinking with him , His wife sent this girl to call her husband home , But when she into the drinking room came . The gentlemen there were amazed to see , The fisherman's daughter so full of beauty , They asked him then , if she was his own ? And he told them the story before he went home . As I was a fishing within my own bound , One Monday morning , this sweet babe I found , Or else she had lain in a watery grave , And this was the account which now he gave . The cruel knight was in the company , And hearing the fisherman tell this story , He was vex'd at the heart to see her alive , And how to destroy her he again did contrive . Then spoke the knight , and unto him said , If you will but part with this sweet maid , I'll give you whatever your heart can devise , For she in time to great riches may rise . The fisherman answer'd with a modest grace , I cannot , unless my dear wife were in place . Get first her consent , you shall have mine of me , And then to go with you , sir , she is free . The wife she did also as freely consent . But little they thought of his evil inten He kept her a month most gallant they say , And then he contrived to make her away . He had a great brother in fair Lancashire , A noble rich man , worth ten thousands a year , And he sent this girl unto him with speed , In hope's he would act a most cruel deed . He sent a man with her likewise , they say , But as they did lodge at and Inn on the way , A thief in the house , with and evil intent , To rob the portmanteau immediately went . But the thief was amazed , when he could not find , Either silver or gold , or ought to his mind ; But only a letter , the which he did read . And soon put and end to this tragical deed . The knight had wrote to his brother that day , To make the poor innocent damsel away With sword or with poison ; that very same night , And not let her live till the morning light . The thief read the letter , and had so much grace , To tear it , and wrote in the very same place , Dear brother receive this maiden from me , And bring her up well , as a maiden should be . Let her be esteem'd , dear brother , I pray , Let servants attend her by night and by day . For she is a lady of noble worth . A nobler lady ne'er liv'd in the North . Let her have good learning , dear brother I pray . And for the same I will sufficiently pay , And so loving brother this letter I send , Subscribing myself your dear brother and friend . The servant and maid were still innocent , And onward their journey next day they went , Before sun set to the knight's house they came , Where the servant left her and came home again . The girl was attended most nobly indeed , With men and maids servants to serve her with speed , Where she did continue a twelvemonth's space , Till this cruel knight came to this place , As he and his brother together did talk , He spy'd the young maid in the garden to walk ; She looked most beautiful , pleasant and gay , Like to sweet Aurora the goddess of May . He was in a passion when he did her 'spy , And said most angry , Why brother why , Did not you do as in the letter I writ ? His brother reply'd , it is done every bit . No , no , said the knight it is not so I see , Therefore she shall back again go with me , But his brother shew'd him the letter that day , Then he was amazed but nothing did say . PART . III . SOON after , the knight took this maiden away , And with her did ride 'till they came to the sea , Then looking upon her , with anger and spite . He spoke to this maiden , and bid her alight . The maid from the horse immediately went , And trembling to think what was his intent , Ne'er tremble said he , for this hour's your last , So pull off your clothes , I command you in haste . This virgin with tears on her knees did reply , Oh! what have I done , sir , that now I must die ! Oh! let me but know how I do offend , I'll study each hour to make you amends . Oh! spare my life , and I'll wander the earth ; And never come near you while I have breath , He hearing the pitiful moan she did make , Strait from his finger a ring did take . And then to this maiden these words he did say , This ring in the water I'll now throw away . Pray look on it well , for the posey is plain , That you , when you see it may know it again . I charge you for life , never come in my sighed , For if you do I shall owe you a spigte , Unless you do bring the same unto me , With that , he let the ring drop in the sea . Which when he had done , away he did go , And left her to wander in sorrow and woe , She rambled all night , and at length did espy A homely poor cottage , and to it did high . Being hungry and cold , and her heart full of grief She went to this cottage to ask some relief , The people reliev'd her , and the next day , They god her a service , as I do hear say . At a nobleman's house not far from the place , Where she did behave with a modest grace , She was a cook maid and forgotten all times past , But observe a wonder that comes at last . PART . IV. AS she a fish dinner was dressing one day And open'd the head of a cod , as they say , She found such a ring , and was in amaze , And she in great wonder upon it did gaze . And viewing it well , she found it to be , The very same ring the knight dropped in the sea , She smil'd when she saw it , and blessed her kind fate ; But did to no creature the secret relate . This maid in her place did all maidens excel , That the lady took notice , and lik'd her so well ; Saying , she was born of some noble degree , And took her for her companion to be . This hard hearted knight to this palace came , A little time after with persons of fame ; But was struck to the soul when he did behold , This beautiful creature in trappings of gold Then he ask'd the lady to grant him a boon , And said it was to walk with that virgin alone , The lady consent'd , telling the young maid , By him she need not fear to be betray'd . When he first met her , thou strumpet , said he , Did not I charge thee never more to see me ? Thy [ s ] hour's your last , to the world bid good night . For being so bold to appear in my sighed . Said she , in the sea , sir , you flung your ring , And bid me not see you , unless I did bring , The same unto you : now I have it , cries she , Behold ! this the same you flung in the sea . When the knight say it he flew to her arms , He kiss'd her and said , thou hast a million of charms Said he , Charming creature , pray pardon me , Who often contrived the ruin of thee , This in vain to altar what fate has decreed , For I find you are born my wife for to be , Then wedded they were , as I do hear say , And now she's a lady both gallant and gay . They quickly unto he [ r ] parents did haste , Where the knight told the story of what had pass But asked their pardon upon his bore knee , Who gave it , and rejoiced their daughter to see . Then they for the fisherman and his wife sent , And for their past troubles did them content , So their was great joy unto all that did see , The farmer's young daughter a lady to be . London : Printed and Sold in Stonecutter-Street , Fleet-Market . worser left her to wander in sorrow and woe , She rambled all night , and at length did espy A homely poor cottage , and to it did high . Being hungry and cold , and her heart full of grief She went to this cottage to ask some relief , The people reliev'd her , and the next day , They god her a service , as I do hear say . At a nobleman's house not far from the place , Where she did behave with a modest grace , She was a cook maid and forgotten all times past , But observe a wonder that comes at last . PART . IV. AS she a fish dinner was dressing one day And open'd the head of a cod , as they say , She found such a ring , and was in amaze , And she in great wonder upon it did gaze . And viewing it well , she found it to be , The very same ring the knight dropped in the sea , She smil'd when she saw it , and blessed her kind fate ; But did to no creature the secret relate . This maid in her place did all maidens excel , That the lady took notice , and lik'd her so well ; Saying , she was born of some noble degree , And took her for her companion to be . This hard hearted knight to this palace came , A little time after with persons of fame ; But was struck to the soul when he did behold , This beautiful creature in trappings of gold Then he ask'd the lady to grant him a boon , And said it was to walk with that virgin alone , The lady consent'd , telling the young maid , By him she need not fear to be betray'd . When he first met her , thou strumpet , said he , Did not I charge thee never more to see me ? Thy [ s ] hour's your last , to the world bid good night . For being so bold to appear in my sighed . Said she , in the sea , sir , you flung your ring , And bid me not see you , unless I did bring , The same unto you : now I have it , cries she , Behold ! this the same you flung in the sea . When the knight say it he flew to her arms , He kiss'd her and said , thou hast a million of charms Said he , Charming creature , pray pardon me , Who often contrived the ruin of thee , This in vain to altar what fate has decreed , For I find you are born my wife for to be , Then wedded they were , as I do hear say , And now she's a lady both gallant and gay . They quickly unto he [ r ] parents did haste , Where the knight told the story of what had pass But asked their pardon upon his bore knee , Who gave it , and rejoiced their daughter to see . Then they for the fisherman and his wife sent , And for their past troubles did them content , So their was great joy unto all that did see , The farmer's young daughter a lady to be . London : Printed and Sold in Stonecutter-Street , Fleet-Market . 