JEMMY & ANTHONY . To the Tune of , Young Jemmy . ( 1 ) MONMOUTH is a Brave Lad , the like's not in our City ; He is no TORY Blade , give ear unto my Ditty ; Long may he live in happy Years , Victorious may he be ; And prosper long those Noble Peers , Monmouth and Shaftsbury . ( 2 ) We care not for such Sots , as are the Crew of Papish ; They with their Cursed Plots and Treasons , are so Apish ; But all our City knows them well , bad Subject's for to be ; Then prosper long those Noble Peers , Monmouth and Shaftsbury . ( 3 ) Some say they was bad Men , that Swore against the Earl ; Which hath to England been a costly precious Pearl : But may they be convinced , that their Errors do not see ; And prosper long those Noble Peers , Monmouth and Shaftsbury . ( 4 ) Some say the Papists think to work their overthrow ; And they so closely link , and Plotting was also ; But God , who brings all things to light , his Eyes still open be ; Then prosper long those Noble Peers , Monmouth and Shaftsbury . ( 5 ) If that their Popish Plots had not soon come to light , Then all Good Protestants had been put to the flight ; But God does bring them all to light , as you may plainly see ; Then prosper long those Noble Peers , Monmouth and Shaftsbury . ( 6 ) Great Monmouth they've Abus'd , and likewise Shaftsbury ; And with their Tongue misus'd , have said they Traitors be : But they that answer to the Laws , are Subject's good and free ; Then prosper long those Noble Peers , Monmouth and Shaftsbury . ( 7 ) And now the simple Men , they are at it again ; They are not like to Men , they are more like to Swine : And now they think they are to prove self-Murder of Godfry ; Then prosper long those Noble Peers , Monmouth and Shaftsbury . ( 8 ) And now methinks 'tis strange , that he himself should Murder ; No , no , 'tis but a Shamm , that came from Rome , or further : For Godfry was a Loyal Man to his King and Country ; Then prosper long those Noble Peers , Monmouth and Shaftsbury . ( 9 ) But these they know it well , it was their Popish Crew ; By some of them he fell , for this Good Man they slew : But yet for all their cursed Plots , we fear not Popery ; But prosper long our Noble King , Monmouth and Shaftsbury . ( 10 ) And now for to Conclude , I think it is no matter , If the Popish Plotting Crew was Hang'd up in a Halter ; Which makes strife in this our Land , as you may plainly see ; Then prosper long those Noble Peers , Monmouth and Shaftsbury . FINIS . Printed for R. Shuter , Anno MDCLXXXII . JEMMY & ANTHONY . To the Tune of , Young Jemmy . ( 1 ) MONMOUTH is a Brave Lad , the like's not in our City ; He is no TORY Blade , give ear unto my Ditty ; Long may he live in happy Years , Victorious may he be ; And prosper long those Noble Peers , Monmouth and Shaftsbury . ( 2 ) We care not for such Sots , as are the Crew of Papish ; They with their Cursed Plots and Treasons , are so Apish ; But all our City knows them well , bad Subject's for to be ; Then prosper long those Noble Peers , Monmouth and Shaftsbury . ( 3 ) Some say they was bad Men , that Swore against the Earl ; Which hath to England been a costly precious Pearl : But may they be convinced , that their Errors do not see ; And prosper long those Noble Peers , Monmouth and Shaftsbury . ( 4 ) Some say the Papists think to work their overthrow ; And they so closely link , and Plotting was also ; But God , who brings all things to light , his Eyes still open be ; Then prosper long those Noble Peers , Monmouth and Shaftsbury . ( 5 ) If that their Popish Plots had not soon come to light , Then all Good Protestants had been put to the flight ; But God does bring them all to light , as you may plainly see ; Then prosper long those Noble Peers , Monmouth and Shaftsbury . ( 6 ) Great Monmouth they've Abus'd , and likewise Shaftsbury ; And with their Tongue misus'd , have said they Traitors be : But they that answer to the Laws , are Subject's good and free ; Then prosper long those Noble Peers , Monmouth and Shaftsbury . ( 7 ) And now the simple Men , they are at it again ; They are not like to Men , they are more like to Swine : And now they think they are to prove self-Murder of Godfry ; Then prosper long those Noble Peers , Monmouth and Shaftsbury . ( 8 ) And now methinks 'tis strange , that he himself should Murder ; No , no , 'tis but a Shamm , that came from Rome , or further : For Godfry was a Loyal Man to his King and Country ; Then prosper long those Noble Peers , Monmouth and Shaftsbury . ( 9 ) But these they know it well , it was their Popish Crew ; By some of them he fell , for this Good Man they slew : But yet for all their cursed Plots , we fear not Popery ; But prosper long our Noble King , Monmouth and Shaftsbury . ( 10 ) And now for to Conclude , I think it is no matter , If the Popish Plotting Crew was Hang'd up in a Halter ; Which makes strife in this our Land , as you may plainly see ; Then prosper long those Noble Peers , Monmouth and Shaftsbury . FINIS . Printed for R. Shuter , Anno MDCLXXXII . 