THE GANG OR THE NINE WORTHIES AND CHAMPIONS , LAMBERT , etc To the Tune of ROBIN HOOD IT was at the Birth of a Winter's morn , With a Heigh down down a down down , Before the Crow had pist , That nine Hero's in scorn Of a Parliament forlorn , Walk'd out with Sword in fist . Johnne Lambert was First , a dapper Squire , With a Heigh down , etc A mickler man of might was ne're in Yorkshire ; And he did conspire With Vane Sir Harry a Knight . Desborow next , a goodlier swain , With a Heigh down , etc And Easter Sun never see ; He drove on amain Without any brain , Such a jolthead knave was he . Kelsey was a brave button-maker , With a Heigh down , etc As ever set mould upon scewer ; And this wise-Aker Was a great pains taker , T' make Lamberts Nose look blewer . The Devout and Holy Major Creed , With a Heigh down , etc I known't of what Faith or Sect , Had mounted a Steed , And vow'd he would bleed 'Fore Lambert should be checked . Duckenfield ( Steel was never so true , ) With a Heigh down , etc And as wife as ere was Toby Lay in the Purlew . The Cockpit Avenue , To hinder the Speakers Go-by . A man of Stomach in the next Deal , With a Heigh down , etc Was hungry Colonel Cobbet , He would eat at a Meal , A whole Commonweal , And make a Joint but a Gobbet . The following Champion is Barrow , With a Heigh down , etc And Ominous name for a Swine-Herd , He flew like and Arrow , Thither , whence Lord Harry But durst not draw his Whinyeard . Room for Packer a toiling Ditcher , With a Heigh down , etc He had set his Spade on edge , He hop't to be Richer By being a Britcher And Lambert his Stake in the hedge . For Nobilities sake we may not forget , With a Heigh down , etc That Valiant Mars his true Son , His Cobbling Feat , Lack't a Parliament Seat That Marksman one eyed Hewson . These being aided with Read Coat & Creepers , With a Heigh down , etc After a short Dispute The Liberty Keepers , Were made boo-peepers And the Speaker strucken Mute . But well said Sir Arthur , what time of the day ? With a Heigh down , etc The Parliament's now in their Prime They stand at a Bay , And have missed their Prey And Cowardly curse the time , The second Part. Now Johnne is gone to the North Country . With a Heigh down , etc And glad he is to Retire , He cries Cramme Oh Cree , Have mercy on me My tail is set a Fire , And Desborough got into his Farm . With a Heigh down , etc Until they do him need 'Meant the House no harm , But took it for a Barn His Lord & he's not agreed . Kelsey is praying for the Dole , With a Heigh down , etc Of the Hospital thats Suttons He is out of the Roll , And hath ne're a Loap-Hole And now his Arse makes Buttons . And Creed will now believe Sir Arthur , With a Heigh down , etc His Steed is Chop't for a Jade He will be a Carter , Before a Martyr , And is turned Renegade . Duckenfeld's in a pitiful Case , With a Heigh down , etc The Speakers Horses and Coach , Were at stake with the Mace , And he's thrown Aums Ace Tyburn owes him a reproach . By being too greedy Colonel Cobbet , With a Heigh down , etc H'es god a Bone in his throat He hath sighed and sobbed And grievously throbbed , But it will not help the choke . Pray take your turn too Mr. Barrow , With a Heigh down , etc What think you of your Plot ? Your Sow would not Farrow , The Hangmans Harrow That Hurdle will be your Lot . Tye him up DON , 'tis Goodman Packer , With a Heigh down , etc That would set up another Nose Had he been a Backer As Colonel Hacker , H'ad liv'd in spite of his Foes . Hewson's Companions as scabby as Coots , With a Heigh down down a down down . Have infected him with the mange , They have pist in his boots , He must cry roots , And TURN OUT to Turnup must change . London , Printed for Charls Gustavus . THE GANG OR THE NINE WORTHIES AND CHAMPIONS , LAMBERT , etc To the Tune of ROBIN HOOD IT was at the Birth of a Winter's morn , With a Heigh down down a down down , Before the Crow had pist , That nine Hero's in scorn Of a Parliament forlorn , Walk'd out with Sword in fist . Johnne Lambert was First , a dapper Squire , With a Heigh down , etc A mickler man of might was ne're in Yorkshire ; And he did conspire With Vane Sir Harry a Knight . Desborow next , a goodlier swain , With a Heigh down , etc And Easter Sun never see ; He drove on amain Without any brain , Such a jolthead knave was he . Kelsey was a brave button-maker , With a Heigh down , etc As ever set mould upon scewer ; And this wise-Aker Was a great pains taker , T' make Lamberts Nose look blewer . The Devout and Holy Major Creed , With a Heigh down , etc I known't of what Faith or Sect , Had mounted a Steed , And vow'd he would bleed 'Fore Lambert should be checked . Duckenfield ( Steel was never so true , ) With a Heigh down , etc And as wife as ere was Toby Lay in the Purlew . The Cockpit Avenue , To hinder the Speakers Go-by . A man of Stomach in the next Deal , With a Heigh down , etc Was hungry Colonel Cobbet , He would eat at a Meal , A whole Commonweal , And make a Joint but a Gobbet . The following Champion is Barrow , With a Heigh down , etc And Ominous name for a Swine-Herd , He flew like and Arrow , Thither , whence Lord Harry But durst not draw his Whinyeard . Room for Packer a toiling Ditcher , With a Heigh down , etc He had set his Spade on edge , He hop't to be Richer By being a Britcher And Lambert his Stake in the hedge . For Nobilities sake we may not forget , With a Heigh down , etc That Valiant Mars his true Son , His Cobbling Feat , Lack't a Parliament Seat That Marksman one eyed Hewson . These being aided with Read Coat & Creepers , With a Heigh down , etc After a short Dispute The Liberty Keepers , Were made boo-peepers And the Speaker strucken Mute . But well said Sir Arthur , what time of the day ? With a Heigh down , etc The Parliament's now in their Prime They stand at a Bay , And have missed their Prey And Cowardly curse the time , The second Part. Now Johnne is gone to the North Country . With a Heigh down , etc And glad he is to Retire , He cries Cramme Oh Cree , Have mercy on me My tail is set a Fire , And Desborough got into his Farm . With a Heigh down , etc Until they do him need 'Meant the House no harm , But took it for a Barn His Lord & he's not agreed . Kelsey is praying for the Dole , With a Heigh down , etc Of the Hospital thats Suttons He is out of the Roll , And hath ne're a Loap-Hole And now his Arse makes Buttons . And Creed will now believe Sir Arthur , With a Heigh down , etc His Steed is Chop't for a Jade He will be a Carter , Before a Martyr , And is turned Renegade . Duckenfeld's in a pitiful Case , With a Heigh down , etc The Speakers Horses and Coach , Were at stake with the Mace , And he's thrown Aums Ace Tyburn owes him a reproach . By being too greedy Colonel Cobbet , With a Heigh down , etc H'es god a Bone in his throat He hath sighed and sobbed And grievously throbbed , But it will not help the choke . Pray take your turn too Mr. Barrow , With a Heigh down , etc What think you of your Plot ? Your Sow would not Farrow , The Hangmans Harrow That Hurdle will be your Lot . Tye him up DON , 'tis Goodman Packer , With a Heigh down , etc That would set up another Nose Had he been a Backer As Colonel Hacker , H'ad liv'd in spite of his Foes . Hewson's Companions as scabby as Coots , With a Heigh down down a down down . Have infected him with the mange , They have pist in his boots , He must cry roots , And TURN OUT to Turnup must change . London , Printed for Charls Gustavus . 