The Debtford Frolic , OR , A Hue-and-Cry after Shag-Breeches Young women all , both great and small , That handleth Pot or Pail ; For some I hear , and greatly fear , Do oft play with their Tayl. Tune of , the fair one let me in . ONe Night when blustering winds blew cold , and dusky was the Sky , Tho' I was feeble , weak , and old , a watching then went I : But cruel fate did prove unkind , my grief did then begin ; And quite contrary to my mind a Stranger he god in . Two Keys unto my Door I had , as I did think it fit ; But now it makes me almost mad I had so little wit ; For when a watching I was gone my sorrow did begin : A wanton and lascivious man unknown to me god in . Into the Bed straightway he went and hug'd my loving Wife , Who us'd to give me hearts content ; I lov'd her as my Life , And grieve to thin [ k ] she should commit so foul and gross a since , And let him do what was not fit when she had let him in . AS they in sweet embraces lay I chanced to return , And spoil'd the Game which they did play for which my Wife did mourn ; She told me she was monstrous ill , and thus she did begin , With shrieks & groans she made her moans 'cause she had let him in . I willing was to go to Bed , and off my Breeches threw ; She told me she was almost dead , and knew not what to do : Dear Love ( quoth she ) a Cordial get , my pains afresh begin : I little thought she was so nought to let another in Away went I most willingly for my dear Spouses sake , A pair of Breeches on put I , which proved a mistake ; I to the Apothecaries went , thinking her love to win , A Cordial brave I ask'd to have , not thinking who god in . A Cordial was prepar'd for me , then thus I did reply : At present I cannot pay thee , but yet assuredly To morrow I will come and pay : my Pocket I felt in , And there behold was store of Gold the Youngster had brought in . The Apothecary he did view the Breeches I had on , And them he said full well he knew , then him I star'd upon ; How I by these Shag-Breeches came , to pause I did begin At last thought I assuredly she let some Gallant in . Away went I most furiously this trick to think upon , But when I came with grief and shame , the Youngster he was gone : I had his Watch and Money too , and I the Horns did win ; But I am mad and monstrous sad , that she did let him in . Take warning all , both great and small , in women ne'r confide , For some pretend to their lives end they constant will abide . Passed all Relief unto my grief , I know they are prove to since ; And when you'r gone , some other Man sometime may happen in . Printed for P. brooksby at the Harp in Py Corner . The Debtford Frolic , OR , A Hue-and-Cry after Shag-Breeches Young women all , both great and small , That handleth Pot or Pail ; For some I hear , and greatly fear , Do oft play with their Tayl. Tune of , the fair one let me in . ONe Night when blustering winds blew cold , and dusky was the Sky , Tho' I was feeble , weak , and old , a watching then went I : But cruel fate did prove unkind , my grief did then begin ; And quite contrary to my mind a Stranger he god in . Two Keys unto my Door I had , as I did think it fit ; But now it makes me almost mad I had so little wit ; For when a watching I was gone my sorrow did begin : A wanton and lascivious man unknown to me god in . Into the Bed straightway he went and hug'd my loving Wife , Who us'd to give me hearts content ; I lov'd her as my Life , And grieve to thin [ k ] she should commit so foul and gross a since , And let him do what was not fit when she had let him in . AS they in sweet embraces lay I chanced to return , And spoil'd the Game which they did play for which my Wife did mourn ; She told me she was monstrous ill , and thus she did begin , With shrieks & groans she made her moans 'cause she had let him in . I willing was to go to Bed , and off my Breeches threw ; She told me she was almost dead , and knew not what to do : Dear Love ( quoth she ) a Cordial get , my pains afresh begin : I little thought she was so nought to let another in Away went I most willingly for my dear Spouses sake , A pair of Breeches on put I , which proved a mistake ; I to the Apothecaries went , thinking her love to win , A Cordial brave I ask'd to have , not thinking who god in . A Cordial was prepar'd for me , then thus I did reply : At present I cannot pay thee , but yet assuredly To morrow I will come and pay : my Pocket I felt in , And there behold was store of Gold the Youngster had brought in . The Apothecary he did view the Breeches I had on , And them he said full well he knew , then him I star'd upon ; How I by these Shag-Breeches came , to pause I did begin At last thought I assuredly she let some Gallant in . Away went I most furiously this trick to think upon , But when I came with grief and shame , the Youngster he was gone : I had his Watch and Money too , and I the Horns did win ; But I am mad and monstrous sad , that she did let him in . Take warning all , both great and small , in women ne'r confide , For some pretend to their lives end they constant will abide . Passed all Relief unto my grief , I know they are prove to since ; And when you'r gone , some other Man sometime may happen in . Printed for P. brooksby at the Harp in Py Corner . 