The Scotch Lasses Constancy : OR , JENNY's Lamentation for the Death of JOCKEY . Who for her sake was Unfortunately Kill'd by SAWNY in a Duel . Being a most pleasant New Song , to a New Tune . It Bonny Lads were Sawny and Jockey , But Jockey was Lo'd and Sawny unlucky ; Yet Sawny was tall , well-favour'd and witty , But I's in my heart thought Jockey more pretty : For when he view'd me , su'd me , woo'd me , never was Ladd so like to undo me : Fie I cry'd , and almost dy'd , least Jockey wou'd gang and come no mere to me . ( 2 ) Jockey would Love , but he would not Marry , And I was afraid that I shou'd miscarry ; For his cunning Tongue with Wit was so guilded , That I had a dread my heart wou'd a yielded : Daily he pressed me , blessed me , kissed me , Lost was the hour methought when he missed me ; Crying , denying , and sighing , I woo'd him , And much ado I had to get from him . ( 3 ) But unlucky Fate robb'd me of my Jewel , For Sawny would make him fight in a Duel ; Then down in a Dale with Cyprus surrounded , Oh! there in my sighed poor Jockey was wounded : But when he thrill'd him , fell'd him , kill'd him , Who can express my grief that beheld him ? Raging , I tore my Hair to bind him , And vowed and swore I'de ne'r stay behind him . ( 4 ) I'se shriek'd and I'se cry'd , wae's me so unhappy ; For I'se now have lost mine nene sweet Jockey Sawny I cursed , and bid him to fly me , I vow'd and I swore he shou'd ne'r come nigh me , But I'd spite him , hate him , fight him , And never again wou'd Jenny like him : Though he did sighs and almost die , He cry'd fie on me , cause I did slight him . ( 5 ) And from me I'se bid him straightway be ganging , When with arms a cross , and head down hanging : While that my poor Jockey was a dying , He to the Woods then departed sighing : And his breath wanted , panted , fainted , While that for him my tears were not scanted : I'se beatrice my breast , and my grief expressed , Wae's me that Death my joy has suppressed . ( 6 ) At which my Jockey a little reviving , And with Death as it were he lay then striving , Open'd his Eyes and looked upon me , And faintly sigh'd , Ah! Death has undone me : Jenny my Honey I'se must part from thee , But when I'm dead , sure there's none will wrong thee , I did love thee , and that did move me To Fight , that so a man I'se might prove me . ( 7 ) But ah cruel Fate to Death I am wounded , Oh! and with that again he then swooned ; While for to dress his wound I apply'd me , But uvae alas his Life was deny'd me : Death had appaul'd him , gaul'd him , thrall'd him , So that he dy'd , with grief I beheld him : And left poor Jenny all a mourning , And cruel Sawny cursing and scorning . ( 8 ) From Jockies cold Lips I often stole Kisses , The which while he lived were still my blisses : A thousand times I did sob , sighs it , And much ado I'se had to be quie For as I ey'd him , spy'd him , ply'd him , Never a thought could then pass beside him : I'se ban the Fates that Life denying , Had robb'd me of Jockey , and long I sat sighing . ( 9 ) Till I'se at last with Cyprus crown'd him , And with my tears I'se almost drown'd him : The Turtles about us then came flying , And mourning , coo'd , to seem a sighing : I'se view'd him , ru'd him , with flowers strew'd him , And with my love to the last pursu'd him : Resolving that I'se not stay behind him , But sighing , die , and seek for to find him . Printed for P. Brooksby , in West-Smithfield . 1682. The Scotch Lasses Constancy : OR , JENNY's Lamentation for the Death of JOCKEY . Who for her sake was Unfortunately Kill'd by SAWNY in a Duel . Being a most pleasant New Song , to a New Tune . It Bonny Lads were Sawny and Jockey , But Jockey was Lo'd and Sawny unlucky ; Yet Sawny was tall , well-favour'd and witty , But I's in my heart thought Jockey more pretty : For when he view'd me , su'd me , woo'd me , never was Ladd so like to undo me : Fie I cry'd , and almost dy'd , least Jockey wou'd gang and come no mere to me . ( 2 ) Jockey would Love , but he would not Marry , And I was afraid that I shou'd miscarry ; For his cunning Tongue with Wit was so guilded , That I had a dread my heart wou'd a yielded : Daily he pressed me , blessed me , kissed me , Lost was the hour methought when he missed me ; Crying , denying , and sighing , I woo'd him , And much ado I had to get from him . ( 3 ) But unlucky Fate robb'd me of my Jewel , For Sawny would make him fight in a Duel ; Then down in a Dale with Cyprus surrounded , Oh! there in my sighed poor Jockey was wounded : But when he thrill'd him , fell'd him , kill'd him , Who can express my grief that beheld him ? Raging , I tore my Hair to bind him , And vowed and swore I'de ne'r stay behind him . ( 4 ) I'se shriek'd and I'se cry'd , wae's me so unhappy ; For I'se now have lost mine nene sweet Jockey Sawny I cursed , and bid him to fly me , I vow'd and I swore he shou'd ne'r come nigh me , But I'd spite him , hate him , fight him , And never again wou'd Jenny like him : Though he did sighs and almost die , He cry'd fie on me , cause I did slight him . ( 5 ) And from me I'se bid him straightway be ganging , When with arms a cross , and head down hanging : While that my poor Jockey was a dying , He to the Woods then departed sighing : And his breath wanted , panted , fainted , While that for him my tears were not scanted : I'se beatrice my breast , and my grief expressed , Wae's me that Death my joy has suppressed . ( 6 ) At which my Jockey a little reviving , And with Death as it were he lay then striving , Open'd his Eyes and looked upon me , And faintly sigh'd , Ah! Death has undone me : Jenny my Honey I'se must part from thee , But when I'm dead , sure there's none will wrong thee , I did love thee , and that did move me To Fight , that so a man I'se might prove me . ( 7 ) But ah cruel Fate to Death I am wounded , Oh! and with that again he then swooned ; While for to dress his wound I apply'd me , But uvae alas his Life was deny'd me : Death had appaul'd him , gaul'd him , thrall'd him , So that he dy'd , with grief I beheld him : And left poor Jenny all a mourning , And cruel Sawny cursing and scorning . ( 8 ) From Jockies cold Lips I often stole Kisses , The which while he lived were still my blisses : A thousand times I did sob , sighs it , And much ado I'se had to be quie For as I ey'd him , spy'd him , ply'd him , Never a thought could then pass beside him : I'se ban the Fates that Life denying , Had robb'd me of Jockey , and long I sat sighing . ( 9 ) Till I'se at last with Cyprus crown'd him , And with my tears I'se almost drown'd him : The Turtles about us then came flying , And mourning , coo'd , to seem a sighing : I'se view'd him , ru'd him , with flowers strew'd him , And with my love to the last pursu'd him : Resolving that I'se not stay behind him , But sighing , die , and seek for to find him . Printed for P. Brooksby , in West-Smithfield . 1682. 