A New SONG call'd The Churlish Husband . ITS of and ancient Farmer you hear without delay , And he went out unto his blow upon a stormy day , The rain and wind did blow so hard he could no longer stay , But home he ran like one stark mad and to his wife did say ; Dear wife you and your children do live at home in ease , You little think of any work you do just as you please , But you shall take it turn about or I will break your bones , For in the morning you shall go to blow with my man John. His wife she was contented her husband for to please , So she to blow with John did go to keep the house at ease , She says John you shall hold the blow and I the team will drive , My husband he shall stay at home no fear but we shall thrive . She rose up early in the morn to blow with John she went , And left her husband warm in bed the children for to tent ; But presently he did get up to give the child a clout , The sow and pigs they all god in and shed the house about . The pigs they wanted serving as we have often seen , They god into the dairy and fill'd themselves with cream ; The milk pans and the cream pots they knocked them about , Beside the churn they did drive down before he god 'em out . O then he god the churn-staff to drive out all the pigs , Some he hit , and some he miss'd , and some he broke their legs , But still he drove them on , swore death should be their doom , The sow she turn'd her head about and bit him by the thumb . He went into the parlour for to tie up his hand , The children they lay squalling and calling out for mam , Your mammy she is gone to blow and I am almost dead , One child fell out upon the floor the other foul'd the bed . When he had clean'd the child again and put it into bed , He then fetched the spinning-wheel for to begin his trade , But while he washed a clout and hung the same to dry , His tow took fire and burned the wfieel his work went all awry . This tired him of women's work it went with him so cross , He swore he would to blow again he would no more be nurse ; When out he ran like one stark mad to call his wife from blow , But John he was kissing her behind the barley-mow . Come all you churlish husbands a warning take by me , Content yourselves with your own work or Cuckolds you will be , For I have try'd the woman's work and like my own the best , So be not churls unto your wives tho' you do see them rest . A New SONG call'd The Churlish Husband . ITS of and ancient Farmer you hear without delay , And he went out unto his blow upon a stormy day , The rain and wind did blow so hard he could no longer stay , But home he ran like one stark mad and to his wife did say ; Dear wife you and your children do live at home in ease , You little think of any work you do just as you please , But you shall take it turn about or I will break your bones , For in the morning you shall go to blow with my man John. His wife she was contented her husband for to please , So she to blow with John did go to keep the house at ease , She says John you shall hold the blow and I the team will drive , My husband he shall stay at home no fear but we shall thrive . She rose up early in the morn to blow with John she went , And left her husband warm in bed the children for to tent ; But presently he did get up to give the child a clout , The sow and pigs they all god in and shed the house about . The pigs they wanted serving as we have often seen , They god into the dairy and fill'd themselves with cream ; The milk pans and the cream pots they knocked them about , Beside the churn they did drive down before he god 'em out . O then he god the churn-staff to drive out all the pigs , Some he hit , and some he miss'd , and some he broke their legs , But still he drove them on , swore death should be their doom , The sow she turn'd her head about and bit him by the thumb . He went into the parlour for to tie up his hand , The children they lay squalling and calling out for mam , Your mammy she is gone to blow and I am almost dead , One child fell out upon the floor the other foul'd the bed . When he had clean'd the child again and put it into bed , He then fetched the spinning-wheel for to begin his trade , But while he washed a clout and hung the same to dry , His tow took fire and burned the wfieel his work went all awry . This tired him of women's work it went with him so cross , He swore he would to blow again he would no more be nurse ; When out he ran like one stark mad to call his wife from blow , But John he was kissing her behind the barley-mow . Come all you churlish husbands a warning take by me , Content yourselves with your own work or Cuckolds you will be , For I have try'd the woman's work and like my own the best , So be not churls unto your wives tho' you do see them rest . 