A Pretty Ballad of the Lord of Lorn , and the false Steward . The Tune is , Green Sleeves IT was a worthy Lord of Lorn , a Lord of high degree , He sent his Son unto the School , to learn Civility . He Learned more in one Day , than other Children did in Three , And then bespoke the School-Master unto him tenderly : In Faith thou art the honestest Boy that e're I look'd on with my Eye , I hope thou art some Easterling Born , the Holy Ghost is within thee . He said he was no Easterling born , the Child thus answered courteously , My Father is the Lord of Lorn , and I his Son perdy . The School-Master turned round about , his angry Mood then he did suage : He marveled the Child could speak so wise , he being of so tender and Age . He girded the Saddle to the Steed , the Bridle of the best Gold shone , He took his leave of his Fellows all , and quickly he was gone . And when he came to his Father dear , he kneeled down upon his Knee , I'm come to you , Father , he said , God's Blessing give you me . Thou art welcome my Son , he said , God's Blessing I give thee ; What Tidings hast thou brought my Son , being come so hastily ? I've brought Tidings , Father , he said , if that well liked it may be , There's ne'er a Book in all Scotland , but I can read it truly . And there's ne'r a Doctor in all the Realm , for all he goes in rich array , I can write him a Letter soon , to learn in seven Years Day . That is good Tidings , said the Lord , all in the place where I do stand . My Son , thou shalt to France go , to learn the Speeches of that Land. Who shall go with him , said the Lady husband we have none but he , Madam , said he , my head Steward , he hath been ever true to me . She called the Steward to and account , a thousand Pounds she gave him anon , Says , good Steward be good to my Child , when he is far from home . If I be false to my young Lord , then God be like to me indeed ; And now to France they both are gone , and God be their good speed . They had not been in France's Land not three Weeks to and end , But Meat and Drink the Child god none , nor Money in his Purse to spend . The Child runs to the River side , he was fain to drink Water then , And after followed the false Steward , to put the Child therein : But nay marry said the Child , he asked mercy pitifully , Good Steward let me have my Life , what e'er betide my Body . Now put off thy fair Clothing , and give it unto me anon , So put thee off thy Silken Shirt , with many a Golden Seam . But when the Child was stripped naked , his Body , white as the Lily Flower , He might have been seen for his Body , a Princess Paramour . He put him on and old kelter Coat , and Hose of the same above the Knee , He bid him go to the Shepherd's House , and keep Sheep on a love lovely The Child said what shall be my Name , good Steward tell to me , Thy Name shall be , Poor dost thou wear , that thy Name shall be . The Child came to the Shepheard's House , and asked mercy piteously , Says , good Shepherd take me in , to keep your Sheep on a love lovely . But when the Shepherd saw the Child , he was so pleasant to the Eye , I have no Child , I'll make thee my Heir , thou shalt have my Goods perdy , And then bespoke the Shepherd's Wife , unto the Child so tenderly , Thou must take the Sheep , and to the Field , and get them on a love lovely . Now let us leave talking of the Child , that is keeping of Sheep on a love lovely , And we'll talk more of the false Steward and of his false treachery , He bought himself three suits of Apparel , that any Lord might seem to worn , He went a wooing to the Duke's Daughter , and called himself the Lord of Lorn . The Duke he welcomes the young Lord , with three baked Stags anon , If he had wist him the false Steward , to the Devil he should have gone : But when they were at Supper sat , with dainty delicates that were there , The Duke said , if thou wilt wed my Daughter , I'le give thee a thousand Pound a year . The Lady would see the Read Buck run and also for to hunt the Doe , And with and hundred lusty Men , the Lady did a hunting go , The Lady is a hunting gone , over Eeansel that is so high , There was she aware of a Shepherd's Boy , with Sheep on a love lovely : And often he sigh'd and made great moan , and cried out piteously : My Father is the Lord of Lorn , and knows not what's become of me And then bespoke the Lady gay , and to her Maid she spoke anon . O fetch me hither the Shepherd's Boy , why makes he all this moan ? But when he came before the Lady , he was not to learn his Courtesy . Where was't thou born thou bonny Child , for whose sake mak'st thou all this moan ? My dearest Friend Lady , he said , is dead many Years agon . Tell thou to me thou bonny Child , tell me truth and don't lie , Know'st thou not the young Lord of Lorn , he is come a Wooing unto me ? Yes forsooth , said the Child , I know the Lord then verily : The young Lord is a valiant Lord , at home in his own Country . Wilt leave thy Sheep thou bonny Child , and come in Service unto me ? Yes forsooth , then said the Child , at your bidding will I be . When the Steward looked upon the Child , he bewail'd him Villanously , Where was't thou born thou Vagabond , or where is thy Country ? Would down , would down , said the Lady , she call'd the Steward then presently , Without you bear him more Goodwill , you get no love of me : Then bespoke the false Steward , unto the Lady hastily : At Aberdine beyond the Seas , his Father robbed thousands three . But then bespoke the Lady gay , unto her Father courteously , Saying I have found a bonny Child , my Chamberlain to be : Not so , not so , then said the Duke , for so it may not be , For that young Lord of Lord that comes , will think no good of thee and me . When the Duke had looked upon the Child , he seem'd so pleasant to the Eye : Child , because thou lovest Horses well , my Groom of Stable thou shalt be . The Child plied the Horses well , a Twelvemonth to and end , He was so courteous and so true , every Man becomes his Friend : He led a fair Gelding to the Water , where he may drink Water verily , The Gelding up with his Head , and hit the Child above the Eye : Woe worth the Horse then said the Child , that ever Mare foled thee , Thou little know'st what thou hast done , thou hast stricken a Lord of High degree . The Duke's Daughter was in her Garden Green , she herd the Child make great moan , She ran to the Child all weeping , and left her Maidens all alone . Sing on thy Song thou bonny Child , I will release thee of thy Pain , I have made and Oath Lady , he said , I dare not tell my Tale again : Tell the Horse thy Tale thou bonny Child , and so thy Oath shall saved be ; But when he told the Horse his Tale , the Lady wept most tenderly . I'le do for thee my bonny Child , in faith I will do more for thee , And for thy sake thou bonny Child , I'le put my Wedding off Months three , The Lady did write a Letter then , full pitiful with her own Hand : She sent it to the Lord of Lorn , whereas he dwelled in fair Scotland . But when the Lord did read the Letter , his Lady wept most tenderly , I knew what would become of my Child , in such a far Country : The old Lord call'd up his merry Men , and all that he gave Cloth and Fee ; With seven Lords by his side , and into France rides he : The Wind serv'd , and they did Sail , so far into France Land : They were aware of the Lord of Lorn , with a Porters Staff in his Hand : The Lords they moved Hat and Hand , the Serving-Men fell on their Knees , What Folks be yonder said the Steward , that makes the Porters courtesy ? Thou art a false Thief , quoth the Lord of Lorn , no longer might I bear with thee ; By the Law of France thou shalt be judg'd , whither it be to live or die . A Quest of Lords there chosen was , to Bench they came hastily , But when the Quest was ended , false Steward must Die . First they did him half hang , and then they took him down anon , And then put him in boiling Led : and then was sodden Breast and Bone . And then bespoke the Lord of Lorn , with many Lords more : Sir Duke if you be as willing as we , we'll have a Marriage before you go , These Children both they did rejoice , to hear the Lord his Tale so ended : They had rather to Day then to Morrow , so we would not be offended . But when the Wedding ended was , there was delicate dainty cheer , I'le tell you how long the Wedding did last , full three Quarters of a Year . Such a Banque A Pretty Ballad of the Lord of Lorn , and the false Steward . The Tune is , Green Sleeves IT was a worthy Lord of Lorn , a Lord of high degree , He sent his Son unto the School , to learn Civility . He Learned more in one Day , than other Children did in Three , And then bespoke the School-Master unto him tenderly : In Faith thou art the honestest Boy that e're I look'd on with my Eye , I hope thou art some Easterling Born , the Holy Ghost is within thee . He said he was no Easterling born , the Child thus answered courteously , My Father is the Lord of Lorn , and I his Son perdy . The School-Master turned round about , his angry Mood then he did suage : He marveled the Child could speak so wise , he being of so tender and Age . He girded the Saddle to the Steed , the Bridle of the best Gold shone , He took his leave of his Fellows all , and quickly he was gone . And when he came to his Father dear , he kneeled down upon his Knee , I'm come to you , Father , he said , God's Blessing give you me . Thou art welcome my Son , he said , God's Blessing I give thee ; What Tidings hast thou brought my Son , being come so hastily ? I've brought Tidings , Father , he said , if that well liked it may be , There's ne'er a Book in all Scotland , but I can read it truly . And there's ne'r a Doctor in all the Realm , for all he goes in rich array , I can write him a Letter soon , to learn in seven Years Day . That is good Tidings , said the Lord , all in the place where I do stand . My Son , thou shalt to France go , to learn the Speeches of that Land. Who shall go with him , said the Lady husband we have none but he , Madam , said he , my head Steward , he hath been ever true to me . She called the Steward to and account , a thousand Pounds she gave him anon , Says , good Steward be good to my Child , when he is far from home . If I be false to my young Lord , then God be like to me indeed ; And now to France they both are gone , and God be their good speed . They had not been in France's Land not three Weeks to and end , But Meat and Drink the Child god none , nor Money in his Purse to spend . The Child runs to the River side , he was fain to drink Water then , And after followed the false Steward , to put the Child therein : But nay marry said the Child , he asked mercy pitifully , Good Steward let me have my Life , what e'er betide my Body . Now put off thy fair Clothing , and give it unto me anon , So put thee off thy Silken Shirt , with many a Golden Seam . But when the Child was stripped naked , his Body , white as the Lily Flower , He might have been seen for his Body , a Princess Paramour . He put him on and old kelter Coat , and Hose of the same above the Knee , He bid him go to the Shepherd's House , and keep Sheep on a love lovely The Child said what shall be my Name , good Steward tell to me , Thy Name shall be , Poor dost thou wear , that thy Name shall be . The Child came to the Shepheard's House , and asked mercy piteously , Says , good Shepherd take me in , to keep your Sheep on a love lovely . But when the Shepherd saw the Child , he was so pleasant to the Eye , I have no Child , I'll make thee my Heir , thou shalt have my Goods perdy , And then bespoke the Shepherd's Wife , unto the Child so tenderly , Thou must take the Sheep , and to the Field , and get them on a love lovely . Now let us leave talking of the Child , that is keeping of Sheep on a love lovely , And we'll talk more of the false Steward and of his false treachery , He bought himself three suits of Apparel , that any Lord might seem to worn , He went a wooing to the Duke's Daughter , and called himself the Lord of Lorn . The Duke he welcomes the young Lord , with three baked Stags anon , If he had wist him the false Steward , to the Devil he should have gone : But when they were at Supper sat , with dainty delicates that were there , The Duke said , if thou wilt wed my Daughter , I'le give thee a thousand Pound a year . The Lady would see the Read Buck run and also for to hunt the Doe , And with and hundred lusty Men , the Lady did a hunting go , The Lady is a hunting gone , over Eeansel that is so high , There was she aware of a Shepherd's Boy , with Sheep on a love lovely : And often he sigh'd and made great moan , and cried out piteously : My Father is the Lord of Lorn , and knows not what's become of me And then bespoke the Lady gay , and to her Maid she spoke anon . O fetch me hither the Shepherd's Boy , why makes he all this moan ? But when he came before the Lady , he was not to learn his Courtesy . Where was't thou born thou bonny Child , for whose sake mak'st thou all this moan ? My dearest Friend Lady , he said , is dead many Years agon . Tell thou to me thou bonny Child , tell me truth and don't lie , Know'st thou not the young Lord of Lorn , he is come a Wooing unto me ? Yes forsooth , said the Child , I know the Lord then verily : The young Lord is a valiant Lord , at home in his own Country . Wilt leave thy Sheep thou bonny Child , and come in Service unto me ? Yes forsooth , then said the Child , at your bidding will I be . When the Steward looked upon the Child , he bewail'd him Villanously , Where was't thou born thou Vagabond , or where is thy Country ? Would down , would down , said the Lady , she call'd the Steward then presently , Without you bear him more Goodwill , you get no love of me : Then bespoke the false Steward , unto the Lady hastily : At Aberdine beyond the Seas , his Father robbed thousands three . But then bespoke the Lady gay , unto her Father courteously , Saying I have found a bonny Child , my Chamberlain to be : Not so , not so , then said the Duke , for so it may not be , For that young Lord of Lord that comes , will think no good of thee and me . When the Duke had looked upon the Child , he seem'd so pleasant to the Eye : Child , because thou lovest Horses well , my Groom of Stable thou shalt be . The Child plied the Horses well , a Twelvemonth to and end , He was so courteous and so true , every Man becomes his Friend : He led a fair Gelding to the Water , where he may drink Water verily , The Gelding up with his Head , and hit the Child above the Eye : Woe worth the Horse then said the Child , that ever Mare foled thee , Thou little know'st what thou hast done , thou hast stricken a Lord of High degree . The Duke's Daughter was in her Garden Green , she herd the Child make great moan , She ran to the Child all weeping , and left her Maidens all alone . Sing on thy Song thou bonny Child , I will release thee of thy Pain , I have made and Oath Lady , he said , I dare not tell my Tale again : Tell the Horse thy Tale thou bonny Child , and so thy Oath shall saved be ; But when he told the Horse his Tale , the Lady wept most tenderly . I'le do for thee my bonny Child , in faith I will do more for thee , And for thy sake thou bonny Child , I'le put my Wedding off Months three , The Lady did write a Letter then , full pitiful with her own Hand : She sent it to the Lord of Lorn , whereas he dwelled in fair Scotland . But when the Lord did read the Letter , his Lady wept most tenderly , I knew what would become of my Child , in such a far Country : The old Lord call'd up his merry Men , and all that he gave Cloth and Fee ; With seven Lords by his side , and into France rides he : The Wind serv'd , and they did Sail , so far into France Land : They were aware of the Lord of Lorn , with a Porters Staff in his Hand : The Lords they moved Hat and Hand , the Serving-Men fell on their Knees , What Folks be yonder said the Steward , that makes the Porters courtesy ? Thou art a false Thief , quoth the Lord of Lorn , no longer might I bear with thee ; By the Law of France thou shalt be judg'd , whither it be to live or die . A Quest of Lords there chosen was , to Bench they came hastily , But when the Quest was ended , false Steward must Die . First they did him half hang , and then they took him down anon , And then put him in boiling Led : and then was sodden Breast and Bone . And then bespoke the Lord of Lorn , with many Lords more : Sir Duke if you be as willing as we , we'll have a Marriage before you go , These Children both they did rejoice , to hear the Lord his Tale so ended : They had rather to Day then to Morrow , so we would not be offended . But when the Wedding ended was , there was delicate dainty cheer , I'le tell you how long the Wedding did last , full three Quarters of a Year . Such a Banquet there was wrought , the like was never seen ; The King of France brought with him then , a hundred Tun of good Wine . Five set of Musicians were to be seen , that never rested Night nor Day : Also Italians there did Sing full pleasantly with great joy . Thus have you herd what trouble great , unto successive joys did turn , And happy News among the rest , unto the worthy Lord of Lorn . Let Rebels therefore warned be , mischief once they do pretend . For God may suffer for a time , but will disclose it in the end . FINIS . tO there was wrought , the like was never seen ; The King of France brought with him then , a hundred Tun of good Wine . Five set of Musicians were to be seen , that never rested Night nor Day : Also Italians there did Sing full pleasantly with great joy . Thus have you herd what trouble great , unto successive joys did turn , And happy News among the rest , unto the worthy Lord of Lorn . Let Rebels therefore warned be , mischief once they do pretend . For God may suffer for a time , but will disclose it in the end . FINIS . 