THE Careful WIFE's Good Counsel ; AND The HUSBAND's firm Resolution to reform his Course of Life , In order to lay up something against a Rainy-Day , To the Tune of , The Spinning-wheel , etc KIND Husband if you mean to thrive , Some other Way you must contrive And not consume and waste your Store , It will be hard to work for more ; Therefore be rul'd by me , I pray , Save something for a Rainy-day . I in the Yoke will draw with you , And what I can will freely do If you the like will do again , Our Charge I'm sure we may maintain , Thus by our Labour , then we may , Save something for a Rainy-day . Behold ! we see the painful be , Lays up by his Industry , A Stock to serve in Winter cold , And so should Man 'gainst he grows Old ; Therefore , Kind Husband , now , I pray , Lay up against a Rainy-day . If Man has nothing of his own . Alas ! he then may make his Moan , And yet at length be not so near , For Friends like Strangers will appear , When as you fallen into Decay , Remember then the Rainy-day . The Alewives they go fine and gay , Deck'd in their Silks and rich Array , When as the poor Man's Wife may lack , Both Food and Clothing to her Back : Goodman , consider this , I pray , Save something for a Rainy-day . The Hostess she will flout at thee , Or any Man in Misery , When as you have no Money to spend , She'll show no Pity , give , nor lend : Consider this without Delay , Save something for a Rainy-day . Your jovial boon Companions too , Will likewise take their Leave of you : They'll know you not in Time of Need , And won't this make your Heart to bleed Therefore take up in Time , I pray , Save something for a Rainy-day . A Man may waste his youthful Strength , And bring himself to Want at length , When feeble Age his Limbs shall seize , And he hath nought to take his Ease , Will find the World as cold as Clay , Then think upon the Rainy-day . Grey-headed Men are often seen , Here in this World both poor and mean , Having scarce Meat , or Clothes to wear And this has been for want of Care , Oh! think of this , Goodman , I pray , Lay up against a Rainy-day . Consider we are Man and Wife , And ought to led a careful Life ; I'll do my best to get and save , That we another Day may have . Something to help old Age , I say , Is what I call a Rainy-day . Oh! loving Wife , he then reply'd , I will endeavour to provide , Henceforth for our poor Family , Thy Words have so prvail'd on me , No longer will I run astray , But think upon a Rainy-day . I needs must own thy Words are true , Therefore I will my Life renew , And all my feigned Friends Forsake , Nay , likewise some other Courses take . No longer will I run astray , But lay up for a Rainy-day . With Care I'll follow my Concerns , That Man goes far that ne'er returns , I do resolve to mend my Ways , And hope to see brave golden Days : And that we both may happy be , And live in Love and Unity . According to my Promise , Love , I swear by all the Powers above , I will be loving , kind and true . And ever faithful unto you : No longer will I run astray , But think upon a Rainy-day . Newcastle upon Tyne : Printed and Sold by John White in Pilgrim streets worser till might be true . he Innocent Pair ; more undead ! THE Careful WIFE's Good Counsel ; AND The HUSBAND's firm Resolution to reform his Course of Life , In order to lay up something against a Rainy-Day , To the Tune of , The Spinning-wheel , etc KIND Husband if you mean to thrive , Some other Way you must contrive And not consume and waste your Store , It will be hard to work for more ; Therefore be rul'd by me , I pray , Save something for a Rainy-day . I in the Yoke will draw with you , And what I can will freely do If you the like will do again , Our Charge I'm sure we may maintain , Thus by our Labour , then we may , Save something for a Rainy-day . Behold ! we see the painful be , Lays up by his Industry , A Stock to serve in Winter cold , And so should Man 'gainst he grows Old ; Therefore , Kind Husband , now , I pray , Lay up against a Rainy-day . If Man has nothing of his own . Alas ! he then may make his Moan , And yet at length be not so near , For Friends like Strangers will appear , When as you fallen into Decay , Remember then the Rainy-day . The Alewives they go fine and gay , Deck'd in their Silks and rich Array , When as the poor Man's Wife may lack , Both Food and Clothing to her Back : Goodman , consider this , I pray , Save something for a Rainy-day . The Hostess she will flout at thee , Or any Man in Misery , When as you have no Money to spend , She'll show no Pity , give , nor lend : Consider this without Delay , Save something for a Rainy-day . Your jovial boon Companions too , Will likewise take their Leave of you : They'll know you not in Time of Need , And won't this make your Heart to bleed Therefore take up in Time , I pray , Save something for a Rainy-day . A Man may waste his youthful Strength , And bring himself to Want at length , When feeble Age his Limbs shall seize , And he hath nought to take his Ease , Will find the World as cold as Clay , Then think upon the Rainy-day . Grey-headed Men are often seen , Here in this World both poor and mean , Having scarce Meat , or Clothes to wear And this has been for want of Care , Oh! think of this , Goodman , I pray , Lay up against a Rainy-day . Consider we are Man and Wife , And ought to led a careful Life ; I'll do my best to get and save , That we another Day may have . Something to help old Age , I say , Is what I call a Rainy-day . Oh! loving Wife , he then reply'd , I will endeavour to provide , Henceforth for our poor Family , Thy Words have so prvail'd on me , No longer will I run astray , But think upon a Rainy-day . I needs must own thy Words are true , Therefore I will my Life renew , And all my feigned Friends Forsake , Nay , likewise some other Courses take . No longer will I run astray , But lay up for a Rainy-day . With Care I'll follow my Concerns , That Man goes far that ne'er returns , I do resolve to mend my Ways , And hope to see brave golden Days : And that we both may happy be , And live in Love and Unity . According to my Promise , Love , I swear by all the Powers above , I will be loving , kind and true . And ever faithful unto you : No longer will I run astray , But think upon a Rainy-day . Newcastle upon Tyne : Printed and Sold by John White in Pilgrim streets worser till might be true . he Innocent Pair ; more undead ! 