The Happy Pair . A Song Sung by Mr. Abe I'ANTHE the Lovely , the Joy of our Swain , By Iphis was lov'd , and lov'd Iphis again : She liv'd in the Youth ; and the Youth in the Fair ; Their Pleasures were Equal , and Equal their Care : No Time nor Enjoyment their Dotage withdrew , But the longer they liv'd . But the longer they liv'd , Still the Kinder they grew . A Passion so Happy , allarm'd all the Plain Some Envy'd the Nymph , but more Envy'd the Swain Some swore 'twould be pity their Love's to invade ; That the Lovers each one , for each other were Made : But All All consented , That none e're yet knew A Nymph half so Fair , A Nymph half so Fair , Nor a Shepherd so True . For in their Beginning of Love , we did find They strove , in their Love , who should still prove more Kind : The swain and the Nymph , by the Dawn of the Day In Innocent Love , passed the Minutes away In each others Arms , gave the Lovers their Endue : They always were Constant , They always were Constant , And always were True . And sev'ral Years this True Love has gone on , And they are as good as when first thy began : No End's of our Loving ! ( the Nymph she did cry ) No! no! ( says the Shepherd ) I Love 'till I Die . So Constant this Pair was , so Faithful and True , That the longer they liv'd , That the longer they liv'd , Still the Fonder they grew . Love saw them , with Pleasure , and vow'd to take Care Of the Constant , the Faithful the Innocent Pair ; What Either do want , I'll bid of her to move . But they wanted nothing , but Ever to Love , was all that to Bless them , god Cupid could do , That they still might be Kind , That they still might be Kind , And they still might be true . FINIS . The Happy Pair . A Song Sung by Mr. Abe I'ANTHE the Lovely , the Joy of our Swain , By Iphis was lov'd , and lov'd Iphis again : She liv'd in the Youth ; and the Youth in the Fair ; Their Pleasures were Equal , and Equal their Care : No Time nor Enjoyment their Dotage withdrew , But the longer they liv'd . But the longer they liv'd , Still the Kinder they grew . A Passion so Happy , allarm'd all the Plain Some Envy'd the Nymph , but more Envy'd the Swain Some swore 'twould be pity their Love's to invade ; That the Lovers each one , for each other were Made : But All All consented , That none e're yet knew A Nymph half so Fair , A Nymph half so Fair , Nor a Shepherd so True . For in their Beginning of Love , we did find They strove , in their Love , who should still prove more Kind : The swain and the Nymph , by the Dawn of the Day In Innocent Love , passed the Minutes away In each others Arms , gave the Lovers their Endue : They always were Constant , They always were Constant , And always were True . And sev'ral Years this True Love has gone on , And they are as good as when first thy began : No End's of our Loving ! ( the Nymph she did cry ) No! no! ( says the Shepherd ) I Love 'till I Die . So Constant this Pair was , so Faithful and True , That the longer they liv'd , That the longer they liv'd , Still the Fonder they grew . Love saw them , with Pleasure , and vow'd to take Care Of the Constant , the Faithful the Innocent Pair ; What Either do want , I'll bid of her to move . But they wanted nothing , but Ever to Love , was all that to Bless them , god Cupid could do , That they still might be Kind , That they still might be Kind , And they still might be true . FINIS . 