The Loyal Tories Delight , Or , A Pill for FANATICS . Being a most pleasant and new Song . To the Tune of , Great York has been debar'd of late , etc , GReat York has been debar'd of late , from Court by some accursed Fate ; but e're long we do not fear , We shall have him , have him here , We shall have him , have him here . ( 2 ) The Makers of the Plot we see , By damn'd Old Tony's treachery , How they would have brought it about , To have given great York the rou To have given etc ( 3 ) God preserve our gracious King , And safe tidings to us bring , Defend us from the sham black Box , And all damn'd Fanatic Plots , And all damn'd etc ( 4 ) Here Charles's Health I drink to thee , And wish him all Prosperity ; God grant that he long time may Reign , To bring us home great York again : to bring us home etc ( 5 ) That he in spite of all his Foes , Who Loyalty and Laws oppose , May long remain in health and peace , While Plots and Plotters all shall cease : While etc ( 6 ) Let Whigs go down to Erebus , And not stay here to trouble us With noisy Cant , and needless fear , Of Ills to come they know not where . Of Ills to come etc ( 7 ) When our Chief trouble they create , For plain we see what they'd be a Cou'd they but push great York once down , They'd next attempt to snatch the Crown . they'd next attempt etc ( 8 ) But Heaven preserve our gracious King , May all good Subject's loudly sing ; And Royal James preserve likewise , From such as do against him rise , From such as do etc ( 9 ) Then come again fill round our Glass , And Loyal Tories less it pass , Fill up , fill up unto the Brim , And let each Boul with Necture swim , And let each Boul etc ( 10 ) Though Cloakmen that seem much precise 'Gainst Wine exclaim , with turn'd-up eyes ; Yet in a corner they'l be drunk , With drinking Healths unto the RUMP , With drinking etc ( 11 ) In hope's that once more they shall tear Both Church and State , which is their Prayer But Heaven does still protect the Throne , While Tyburn for such Slaves does groan . While Tyburn etc ( 12 ) For now 'tis plain , most men abhor What some so strongly voted for : Great York in Favour does remain , In spite of all the Whigish train . In spite etc ( 13 ) And now the Old Cause goes to wrack , Sedition Maugre Cloth in black , Do greatly dread the Triple Tree , While we rejoice in Loyalty . While we etc ( 14 ) Then come let's take another Round , And still in Loyalty abound , And wish our King he long may Reign , To bring us home great York again , To bring us home great York again . LONDON Printed for R. Shuter . The Loyal Tories Delight , Or , A Pill for FANATICS . Being a most pleasant and new Song . To the Tune of , Great York has been debar'd of late , etc , GReat York has been debar'd of late , from Court by some accursed Fate ; but e're long we do not fear , We shall have him , have him here , We shall have him , have him here . ( 2 ) The Makers of the Plot we see , By damn'd Old Tony's treachery , How they would have brought it about , To have given great York the rou To have given etc ( 3 ) God preserve our gracious King , And safe tidings to us bring , Defend us from the sham black Box , And all damn'd Fanatic Plots , And all damn'd etc ( 4 ) Here Charles's Health I drink to thee , And wish him all Prosperity ; God grant that he long time may Reign , To bring us home great York again : to bring us home etc ( 5 ) That he in spite of all his Foes , Who Loyalty and Laws oppose , May long remain in health and peace , While Plots and Plotters all shall cease : While etc ( 6 ) Let Whigs go down to Erebus , And not stay here to trouble us With noisy Cant , and needless fear , Of Ills to come they know not where . Of Ills to come etc ( 7 ) When our Chief trouble they create , For plain we see what they'd be a Cou'd they but push great York once down , They'd next attempt to snatch the Crown . they'd next attempt etc ( 8 ) But Heaven preserve our gracious King , May all good Subject's loudly sing ; And Royal James preserve likewise , From such as do against him rise , From such as do etc ( 9 ) Then come again fill round our Glass , And Loyal Tories less it pass , Fill up , fill up unto the Brim , And let each Boul with Necture swim , And let each Boul etc ( 10 ) Though Cloakmen that seem much precise 'Gainst Wine exclaim , with turn'd-up eyes ; Yet in a corner they'l be drunk , With drinking Healths unto the RUMP , With drinking etc ( 11 ) In hope's that once more they shall tear Both Church and State , which is their Prayer But Heaven does still protect the Throne , While Tyburn for such Slaves does groan . While Tyburn etc ( 12 ) For now 'tis plain , most men abhor What some so strongly voted for : Great York in Favour does remain , In spite of all the Whigish train . In spite etc ( 13 ) And now the Old Cause goes to wrack , Sedition Maugre Cloth in black , Do greatly dread the Triple Tree , While we rejoice in Loyalty . While we etc ( 14 ) Then come let's take another Round , And still in Loyalty abound , And wish our King he long may Reign , To bring us home great York again , To bring us home great York again . LONDON Printed for R. Shuter . 