Queen Elizabeth's Day : OR , The Downfall of the Devil , Pope , and Pretender To the Tune of Bonny Dun-dee . I . LET us sing to the Mem'ry of glorious Queen Bess , Who long did the Hearts of her Subject's possess , And whose mighty Actions did to us secure Those many great Blessings which now do endu [ re ] For she then did lay that solid Foundation , On which our Religion is fixed in this Nation ; For Pop'ry was put into utter Disgrace , And Protestantism set up in its place . II But could she have lived as a Looker-on , Until this good Time , to see how she's outdone ; She must have acknowledg'd that nothing she dar'd , Could be with the present great Actions compar'd : For although she did reign in Times that were evil , She never did seize the Pope or the Devil , Nor save the Priests or Pretender from Flame , Nor Right unto any such Images claim . III . But now , God be thanked , we know what we do , Which many wise Governments never did know ; For we have discover'd a damn'd Whiggish Plot , To burn the Pope , and the Devil knows what , Beside the Pretender , and four Jesuits , Four Cardinals also , and four other Priests , In all fifteen Images , made up of Straw , Which are not allowed by any known Law . IV. And therefore a Council was call'd , for to know What in this Conjuncture was fit for to do ; And after a long and a learned Debate , Order were given to a Secr'tary of State , That he shou'd a Messenger at dead of Night send , With some Grenadeers , to secure and defend These dangerous Figures from Fighting and Thrall , And lodge them in's Office adjoining Whitehall . V. Where will fit a Committee t'enquire the Reason , And know if the Pris'ners are guilty of Treason ; Who made the fine Clothes ; and if by any Law They dar'd to make such Statues of Straw : And if they cannot prove themselves innocent , O , then they'll be had before the P -- And Justice will there be impartially had , Which will make the Nation rejoice and be glad . 1711 Queen Elizabeth's Day : OR , The Downfall of the Devil , Pope , and Pretender To the Tune of Bonny Dun-dee . I . LET us sing to the Mem'ry of glorious Queen Bess , Who long did the Hearts of her Subject's possess , And whose mighty Actions did to us secure Those many great Blessings which now do endu [ re ] For she then did lay that solid Foundation , On which our Religion is fixed in this Nation ; For Pop'ry was put into utter Disgrace , And Protestantism set up in its place . II But could she have lived as a Looker-on , Until this good Time , to see how she's outdone ; She must have acknowledg'd that nothing she dar'd , Could be with the present great Actions compar'd : For although she did reign in Times that were evil , She never did seize the Pope or the Devil , Nor save the Priests or Pretender from Flame , Nor Right unto any such Images claim . III . But now , God be thanked , we know what we do , Which many wise Governments never did know ; For we have discover'd a damn'd Whiggish Plot , To burn the Pope , and the Devil knows what , Beside the Pretender , and four Jesuits , Four Cardinals also , and four other Priests , In all fifteen Images , made up of Straw , Which are not allowed by any known Law . IV. And therefore a Council was call'd , for to know What in this Conjuncture was fit for to do ; And after a long and a learned Debate , Order were given to a Secr'tary of State , That he shou'd a Messenger at dead of Night send , With some Grenadeers , to secure and defend These dangerous Figures from Fighting and Thrall , And lodge them in's Office adjoining Whitehall . V. Where will fit a Committee t'enquire the Reason , And know if the Pris'ners are guilty of Treason ; Who made the fine Clothes ; and if by any Law They dar'd to make such Statues of Straw : And if they cannot prove themselves innocent , O , then they'll be had before the P -- And Justice will there be impartially had , Which will make the Nation rejoice and be glad . 1711 