The GLORY of MAN's Redemption : BEING A new and lively Emblem of the BIRTH , LIVES , SUFFERINGS , RESURRECTION , and glorious ASCENTION of our blessed Lord and Saviour JESUS CHRIST , and his Holy Apostles : Written by the most Reverend Father in God Edward , Lord Archbishop of Tewham . ( Very necessary to be had in all Christian Families . ) LET all the Faith rejoice with pious Mirth , And celebrate our blessed Saviour's Birth , Who at this Time left all the Joys above , To visit Sinners in eternal Love . Therefore let all the whole Creation ring , With Songs of Praise , to God , and Christ our King , The Saints and Angels do it now in Heaven : Let us unite , because a Son is given . How gracious was the Lord of Glory bright , To send his Son in whom he took Delight , To take our Nature , and be basely us'd , And yet alas ! this Goodness still abus'd . No Pomp no Grandeur did our Lord require , For great Ones to behold , or Rich admire : To Poor and Low the great Messiah came , Then let the Poor extol his glorious Name . What Preparations and what vast Expense , At bringing forth a Mortal earthly Prince ; Yet see the King of Kings is void of all , And first drew Breath within and Ox's Stall . His Virgin Mother , though belov'd of God , Had neither Court , or Palace for Abided ; But in a Manger free from Noise and Strife , She there brought forth the precious Lord of Life . Mankind were Strangers to those glorious Things , 'Till joyful Angels with expanded Wings , Brought Tidings to the Shepherd's in the Field , Who were with Rapture and Amazement fill'd . They were surrounded with refulgent Rays , The heavenly Host were singing Songs of Praise ; Those pious kindly Shepherd's strait agree , To leave their flocks , the blessed Babe to see . Then by a glorious Star they guided were , To pay their Homage to the heavenly Heir , But cursed Herod Juda's cruel King , Did plot and strive to work a hellish Thing . Sending the Wise men would not him inform , Where Jesus Christ , the Son of God was born ; Three thousand infants strait he put to Death , In Hope's that Christ with them might loose his Breath ; But God on high frustrated his Intent , For why , his Parents into AEgypt went , And kept our Saviour from the Tyrant's Power , 'Till odious mice , his Carcase did devour ! Consider Christians how this Prince of Peace , Was forc'd to wander thus from Place to Place ; And though a guiltless Lamb , yet doom'd to die , Oh then rejoice in your Adversity . And envy not the Great , the High and Rich , Whom Bags of Gold do oftentimes bewitch ; For those that follow Christ have Crosses here , But shall be crown'd hereafter , never fear . Our Saviour then returned Home again , And wrought for his own Bred with Sweat and Pain ; Until in Age to Thirty he did reach , Then went about the Gospel for to preach . He heal'd the Sick , gave Sighed unto the Blind , Lame god their Feet , the Deaf their Hearing find ; The Dead he rais'd , but did no Physic use , All this and more he did among the Jews . Thus doing Good three Years and Half , went he , The wicked Jews then held Conspiracy , To take his Life , while Judas does him fell For Thirty Pence , poor Soul , and went to Hell . And when the cruel bloody minded Jews , Found out our Lord , they did him basely use ; Mock , flout and scoff , and set him all at Scorn , Spit on his Face , and crown'd his Head with Thorns . Betwixt two Thieves he surely was to die , Upon a Cross that was mounted on high ; Unto the same they nail'd his Hands and Feet , Where for our Sins he shed his Blood most sweet . Most barbarous were they in every Part , One took a Spear and pierc'd his tender Hear From whence both Blood and Water strait did flow , All this , and more , the Lamb did undergo . And to complete this woeful Tragedy , They laugh'd and jeer'd , as he hung on a Tree ; What savage Tigers , and far worse were they , To butcher such a harmless Lamb that Way . The Earth did tremble underneath their Feet , The Sun grew dark , went back , and seem'd to weep ; The Rocks they rend , and all Things griev'd and mourn , Yet this would not the Jews Hearts melt to turn . Thus dy'd the Lord of Life for sinful Men , But the third Day he rose to Life again ; Triumphing o'er the Devils , and the Grave , We shed his Blood , and yet that Blood does save . For forty Days on Earth he did converse , With his Disciples , as themselves rehearse ; Then was he taken up by Angels bright , To heavenly Joys , in his Apostle's Sighed . St. Matthew did our Saviour's Actions write , And most of his wise Sayings did indite , At last he was in AEthiopia slave , Whose Soul with Christ in Heaven does remain . St. Thomas had and unbelieving Heart , Touching his Master's Side did him convert , This Saint was murder'd by a bloody Crew , For with a Spear they pierc'd his Body through . In Hierapolis , as some do report , St. Philip martyr'd was in barb'rous Sort ; St. James a Bishop in Jerusalem , Who for his Faith was martyr'd by them . St. Peter was a Fisherman at first , And he in Room the Gospel did rehearse ; By Tyrant Herod he was crucify'd , With his Head downward , so this Martyr dy'd . St. Andrew , that Apostle of great Fame , Brother to Simon , Peter call'd by Name , He to the Cross was nail'd and crucify'd , And so this Martyr for the Gospel died . St. John upon our Saviour's Breast did rest , And by the King of Glory was lov'd best ; His Life was sought , but Christ did it defend , St. John at Ephesus his Life did end . St. John outliv'd his Master but nine Years , As by the Holy Scripture it appears ; But cruel Herod then cut off his Head , For which by Worms he was devoured . Blessed St. Mark who did the Gospel preach , And did vast Multitudes in AEgypt teach ; He martyr'd was , and's Flesh in Pieces tore , But now with Christ does reign for evermore . Let every Christian bear this in his Mind , The Love of Christ , the Saviour of Mankind , Who dy'd for us , or else we know right well , All must have perish'd in the Lake of Hell . Behold our Saviour , Lord , and King of Bliss , By wicked Jews thus crucify'd he is : He lay in a Manger , in and Ox's Stall ; He dy'd and rose again to save us all . St. Luke his Gospel wrote , the Acts likewise , His Faith in Christ let every Christian prize : He on and Olive-tree was hang'd in Greece , His Soul does rest now in eternal Peace . St. Paul converted was by dazzling Light , Thirteen most learn'd Epistles he did write ; For many Years he through great Dangers past , And was at Room beheaded at the last . St. Jude he was the Virgin Mary's Brother , He and St. Simon loved one another ; St. Simon dy'd the Gospel to maintain , St , Jude by Herod cruelly was slave . St. Barnabas was stoned barb'rously , By wicked Jews who did our Lord deny ; For which he now enjoys e [ tO ] ernal Love , In holy Mansions there with Christ above . St. Barthol'mew for Martyrdom did strive , And was by cruel Heathens flayed alive : He in his Torture cry'd , I come to thee ; Dear Christ , who once was crucify'd for me . The good Mathias as the Scripture shows , Was in the Room of faithless Judas choose ; In Hierapolis Christ's Words did reveal , The which his glorious Martyrdom did feel . Now Christian Neighbours mind what here is penn'd , If that you hope that Christ will stand your Friend : Let all your Words and Actions be discreet , And deck your Chambers with this godly Sheet , FINIS . The GLORY of MAN's Redemption : BEING A new and lively Emblem of the BIRTH , LIVES , SUFFERINGS , RESURRECTION , and glorious ASCENTION of our blessed Lord and Saviour JESUS CHRIST , and his Holy Apostles : Written by the most Reverend Father in God Edward , Lord Archbishop of Tewham . ( Very necessary to be had in all Christian Families . ) LET all the Faith rejoice with pious Mirth , And celebrate our blessed Saviour's Birth , Who at this Time left all the Joys above , To visit Sinners in eternal Love . Therefore let all the whole Creation ring , With Songs of Praise , to God , and Christ our King , The Saints and Angels do it now in Heaven : Let us unite , because a Son is given . How gracious was the Lord of Glory bright , To send his Son in whom he took Delight , To take our Nature , and be basely us'd , And yet alas ! this Goodness still abus'd . No Pomp no Grandeur did our Lord require , For great Ones to behold , or Rich admire : To Poor and Low the great Messiah came , Then let the Poor extol his glorious Name . What Preparations and what vast Expense , At bringing forth a Mortal earthly Prince ; Yet see the King of Kings is void of all , And first drew Breath within and Ox's Stall . His Virgin Mother , though belov'd of God , Had neither Court , or Palace for Abided ; But in a Manger free from Noise and Strife , She there brought forth the precious Lord of Life . Mankind were Strangers to those glorious Things , 'Till joyful Angels with expanded Wings , Brought Tidings to the Shepherd's in the Field , Who were with Rapture and Amazement fill'd . They were surrounded with refulgent Rays , The heavenly Host were singing Songs of Praise ; Those pious kindly Shepherd's strait agree , To leave their flocks , the blessed Babe to see . Then by a glorious Star they guided were , To pay their Homage to the heavenly Heir , But cursed Herod Juda's cruel King , Did plot and strive to work a hellish Thing . Sending the Wise men would not him inform , Where Jesus Christ , the Son of God was born ; Three thousand infants strait he put to Death , In Hope's that Christ with them might loose his Breath ; But God on high frustrated his Intent , For why , his Parents into AEgypt went , And kept our Saviour from the Tyrant's Power , 'Till odious mice , his Carcase did devour ! Consider Christians how this Prince of Peace , Was forc'd to wander thus from Place to Place ; And though a guiltless Lamb , yet doom'd to die , Oh then rejoice in your Adversity . And envy not the Great , the High and Rich , Whom Bags of Gold do oftentimes bewitch ; For those that follow Christ have Crosses here , But shall be crown'd hereafter , never fear . Our Saviour then returned Home again , And wrought for his own Bred with Sweat and Pain ; Until in Age to Thirty he did reach , Then went about the Gospel for to preach . He heal'd the Sick , gave Sighed unto the Blind , Lame god their Feet , the Deaf their Hearing find ; The Dead he rais'd , but did no Physic use , All this and more he did among the Jews . Thus doing Good three Years and Half , went he , The wicked Jews then held Conspiracy , To take his Life , while Judas does him fell For Thirty Pence , poor Soul , and went to Hell . And when the cruel bloody minded Jews , Found out our Lord , they did him basely use ; Mock , flout and scoff , and set him all at Scorn , Spit on his Face , and crown'd his Head with Thorns . Betwixt two Thieves he surely was to die , Upon a Cross that was mounted on high ; Unto the same they nail'd his Hands and Feet , Where for our Sins he shed his Blood most sweet . Most barbarous were they in every Part , One took a Spear and pierc'd his tender Hear From whence both Blood and Water strait did flow , All this , and more , the Lamb did undergo . And to complete this woeful Tragedy , They laugh'd and jeer'd , as he hung on a Tree ; What savage Tigers , and far worse were they , To butcher such a harmless Lamb that Way . The Earth did tremble underneath their Feet , The Sun grew dark , went back , and seem'd to weep ; The Rocks they rend , and all Things griev'd and mourn , Yet this would not the Jews Hearts melt to turn . Thus dy'd the Lord of Life for sinful Men , But the third Day he rose to Life again ; Triumphing o'er the Devils , and the Grave , We shed his Blood , and yet that Blood does save . For forty Days on Earth he did converse , With his Disciples , as themselves rehearse ; Then was he taken up by Angels bright , To heavenly Joys , in his Apostle's Sighed . St. Matthew did our Saviour's Actions write , And most of his wise Sayings did indite , At last he was in AEthiopia slave , Whose Soul with Christ in Heaven does remain . St. Thomas had and unbelieving Heart , Touching his Master's Side did him convert , This Saint was murder'd by a bloody Crew , For with a Spear they pierc'd his Body through . In Hierapolis , as some do report , St. Philip martyr'd was in barb'rous Sort ; St. James a Bishop in Jerusalem , Who for his Faith was martyr'd by them . St. Peter was a Fisherman at first , And he in Room the Gospel did rehearse ; By Tyrant Herod he was crucify'd , With his Head downward , so this Martyr dy'd . St. Andrew , that Apostle of great Fame , Brother to Simon , Peter call'd by Name , He to the Cross was nail'd and crucify'd , And so this Martyr for the Gospel died . St. John upon our Saviour's Breast did rest , And by the King of Glory was lov'd best ; His Life was sought , but Christ did it defend , St. John at Ephesus his Life did end . St. John outliv'd his Master but nine Years , As by the Holy Scripture it appears ; But cruel Herod then cut off his Head , For which by Worms he was devoured . Blessed St. Mark who did the Gospel preach , And did vast Multitudes in AEgypt teach ; He martyr'd was , and's Flesh in Pieces tore , But now with Christ does reign for evermore . Let every Christian bear this in his Mind , The Love of Christ , the Saviour of Mankind , Who dy'd for us , or else we know right well , All must have perish'd in the Lake of Hell . Behold our Saviour , Lord , and King of Bliss , By wicked Jews thus crucify'd he is : He lay in a Manger , in and Ox's Stall ; He dy'd and rose again to save us all . St. Luke his Gospel wrote , the Acts likewise , His Faith in Christ let every Christian prize : He on and Olive-tree was hang'd in Greece , His Soul does rest now in eternal Peace . St. Paul converted was by dazzling Light , Thirteen most learn'd Epistles he did write ; For many Years he through great Dangers past , And was at Room beheaded at the last . St. Jude he was the Virgin Mary's Brother , He and St. Simon loved one another ; St. Simon dy'd the Gospel to maintain , St , Jude by Herod cruelly was slave . St. Barnabas was stoned barb'rously , By wicked Jews who did our Lord deny ; For which he now enjoys e [ tO ] ernal Love , In holy Mansions there with Christ above . St. Barthol'mew for Martyrdom did strive , And was by cruel Heathens flayed alive : He in his Torture cry'd , I come to thee ; Dear Christ , who once was crucify'd for me . The good Mathias as the Scripture shows , Was in the Room of faithless Judas choose ; In Hierapolis Christ's Words did reveal , The which his glorious Martyrdom did feel . Now Christian Neighbours mind what here is penn'd , If that you hope that Christ will stand your Friend : Let all your Words and Actions be discreet , And deck your Chambers with this godly Sheet , FINIS . 