A Tragical BALLAD on the Unfortunate LOVE OF Ld Thomas and Fair Eleanor : TOGETHER With the downfall of the Brown GIRL . To a pleasant Tune , call'd , Lord Thomas , etc LORD Thomas he was a bold Forester , And a Chaser of the King's Deer ; Fair Eleanor was a fine Woman , And Lord Thomas he lov'd her dear . Come Riddle my Riddle , dear Mother , he said , And Riddle us both as one , Whither I shall marry with fair Eleanor , And let the Brown Girl alone ? The Brown Girl she has god Houses and Lands And fair Eleanor she has god none ; Therefore I char ygeou on my Blessing , Bring me the Brown Girl Home And as it befell on a high Holiday . As many did more beside , Lord Thomas he went to fair Eleanor , That should have been his Bride . But when he came to fair Eleanor's Bower He knocked there at the Ring ; But who was so ready as fair Eleanor , For to let Lord Thomas in . What News , what news , Lord Thomas ? she said What News hast thou brought to me ? I am come to bid thee to my Wedding , And that is bad News for thee . O God forbid , Lord Thomas , she said , That such a Thing should be done ; I thought to have be [ e ] n thy Bride my own self , And you to have been the Bridegroom . Come Riddle my Riddle dear Mother , she said And Riddle it all in one , Whither I shall go to Lord Thomas' Wedding Or whither I shall tarry at Home ? There's many that are your Friends , Daughter , And many that are your Foe ; Therefore I charge you on my Blessing , To Lord Thomas' Wedding don't go . There's many that are my Friends , Mother . If a Thousand more were my Foe ; Betide my Life , betide my Death , To Lord Thomas' Wedding I'll go . She clothed herself in gallant attire , And her merry Men all in Green ; And as they rid through every Town , They took her to have been a Queen , But when she came to Lord Thomas's Gate , She knocked there at the Ring ; But who was so ready as Lord Thomas , To let fair Eleanor in . Is this your Bride ? fair Eleanor she said , Methinks she looks wondrous Brown : Thou might's have had as fair a Woman , As ever trod on the Ground . Despise her not , fair Eleanor , he said , Despise her not unto me : For better I love thy little Finger , Then all her whole Body . This brown Bride had a little Penknife , That was both long and sharp ; And betwixt the short Ribs and the long , Prick'd fair Eleanor to the Heart , Oh! Christ now save thee , Lord Thomas , he said Methinks thou looks wondrous wan : Thou us'd for to look with as fresh a Colour , As ever the Sun shined on . Oh! art thou blind ! Lord Thomas , she said , Or canst thou not very well see ? Oh! dost thou not see my own Hearts Blood Run trickling down my knee . Lord Thomas he had a Sword by his Side , As he walked about the Hall ; He cut off his Brides Head from her Shoulders , And he threw it against the Wall He set the Hilt against the Ground , And the Point against his Heart . There was never three Lovers that ever met , Did e'er so soon depart . Licensed according to Order . FINIS Newcastle upon Tyne Printed and Sold by THOMAS SAINT A Tragical BALLAD on the Unfortunate LOVE OF Ld Thomas and Fair Eleanor : TOGETHER With the downfall of the Brown GIRL . To a pleasant Tune , call'd , Lord Thomas , etc LORD Thomas he was a bold Forester , And a Chaser of the King's Deer ; Fair Eleanor was a fine Woman , And Lord Thomas he lov'd her dear . Come Riddle my Riddle , dear Mother , he said , And Riddle us both as one , Whither I shall marry with fair Eleanor , And let the Brown Girl alone ? The Brown Girl she has god Houses and Lands And fair Eleanor she has god none ; Therefore I char ygeou on my Blessing , Bring me the Brown Girl Home And as it befell on a high Holiday . As many did more beside , Lord Thomas he went to fair Eleanor , That should have been his Bride . But when he came to fair Eleanor's Bower He knocked there at the Ring ; But who was so ready as fair Eleanor , For to let Lord Thomas in . What News , what news , Lord Thomas ? she said What News hast thou brought to me ? I am come to bid thee to my Wedding , And that is bad News for thee . O God forbid , Lord Thomas , she said , That such a Thing should be done ; I thought to have be [ e ] n thy Bride my own self , And you to have been the Bridegroom . Come Riddle my Riddle dear Mother , she said And Riddle it all in one , Whither I shall go to Lord Thomas' Wedding Or whither I shall tarry at Home ? There's many that are your Friends , Daughter , And many that are your Foe ; Therefore I charge you on my Blessing , To Lord Thomas' Wedding don't go . There's many that are my Friends , Mother . If a Thousand more were my Foe ; Betide my Life , betide my Death , To Lord Thomas' Wedding I'll go . She clothed herself in gallant attire , And her merry Men all in Green ; And as they rid through every Town , They took her to have been a Queen , But when she came to Lord Thomas's Gate , She knocked there at the Ring ; But who was so ready as Lord Thomas , To let fair Eleanor in . Is this your Bride ? fair Eleanor she said , Methinks she looks wondrous Brown : Thou might's have had as fair a Woman , As ever trod on the Ground . Despise her not , fair Eleanor , he said , Despise her not unto me : For better I love thy little Finger , Then all her whole Body . This brown Bride had a little Penknife , That was both long and sharp ; And betwixt the short Ribs and the long , Prick'd fair Eleanor to the Heart , Oh! Christ now save thee , Lord Thomas , he said Methinks thou looks wondrous wan : Thou us'd for to look with as fresh a Colour , As ever the Sun shined on . Oh! art thou blind ! Lord Thomas , she said , Or canst thou not very well see ? Oh! dost thou not see my own Hearts Blood Run trickling down my knee . Lord Thomas he had a Sword by his Side , As he walked about the Hall ; He cut off his Brides Head from her Shoulders , And he threw it against the Wall He set the Hilt against the Ground , And the Point against his Heart . There was never three Lovers that ever met , Did e'er so soon depart . Licensed according to Order . FINIS Newcastle upon Tyne Printed and Sold by THOMAS SAINT 