The Church of Seotlands Lamentat - ion Concerning the setting up of Plays and Comedies . March 1715. LET not the News in Gath be told . Nor Streets of Ashkelon , Lest Vile Idolaters Triumph , and mock our Caledon , Where Gospel Light has been Display'd . in Truth and Purity , And strict Engagements made to Serve , the Sovereign Lord most High , That Satan's Synagogue and School , should in her Coasts be found , And wickedness with open Face , should in her Streets be found . These very Nests of since and Vice . which Satan Anciently , Appointed for his special use as Marts for Venery These Chapels Consecrate unto , the Dunghill Idol God's , where they declair themselves well pleased with Plays and interludes , Promiscuous meetings of both Sex , in Revalings by Night , In which these Dunghill Dieties , did mightily Delight , How art thou then Poor Scotland fallen , from thine Excellency , Thy Horn Debas'd into the Dust , and Sunk in Misery . Instead of Solemn Holy Days . of Gospel Sacrifice , In thee are Solemn Pompous show [ s ] of Pagan Vaniries , Concourse of People meet by Night , in Venus School to Play , While Satans Actors on the Stage , his Bonnar there Display , By Commadies and Interludes , Profane and Untrue Jests , Spectators wantonly all round , have up their Naked Breasts , That Lustful Eyes may feed thereon , while they with wanton Glance , Give secret Signals by their Looks , and Am'rous Countenance , Mean while the Male Spectators all , with bussy Eyes do spy , The Jalrs & Neighbours wives for whom They like Fed Horses bray , To blow the Coal of Rampant Lust . the Actors Act their part , By Wanton and Lascivous Jests , set off with all their Art , At once they Batter Ear and Eye , with Hells Artillery , Reciet some wanton Love intrigue or Act of Venery , Show how some Witty Am'rous Miss , Trapan'd a Country Squait , Or how some well accomplish'd Rakes , Deflowr'd a Female Fair , Or how some surrly Usera [ r ] . who kept his wife too near , Was bravely Tricked of his Bags , and god the Horns to wear , Lo , these and many such like things by Gesture and by Speech , With many mimic Antique Arts , they to their Scholars seach . The Scene to Satisfaction ends , all parts fully pleas'd Then Venus School in shade of Night is of her Scholars eas'd . Good Breading does excite the Boaus To wair the Ladys Home Each Picks his Darling at the Door Then through the Street they Rome , Till they come near some propor House the Squair then makes Address Unto his Miss and Courtiously Invits her to a Glass With some sham shyness she at first does seem a little Coy . But with his Rethroick and his Art does her at last Ducoy . When Set. they all the Play Repeat and highly do Commend The Actors and the Actresses , who did the Stage attend . Their pleasant Air and pretty Speech and Lively Acts likewise . The Subject of the Scene also , they mightily do praise . Their Pasions rais'd with wanton thoughts and Hearts inflam'd to Lust , We leave them in a private Room , and guess what follows rixt . Poor Scotish Church what wilt thou do ? canst thou no ways Restrain ? Such Rampant Heaven during Vice and practices profane Has Church Disiplain lost its Force ? alas ! it has , but may Thou not fallen on some happy Course This Raging Devil to slay ? Wilt thou like Lot in Sodom fit still wholly impotent ? Or like the Men of Gelea will not the wrong Resent ? Bestir thy self and still protest , if thou can do no more That thou does hate such wicked ways and do thou Heaven implore T'avenge it self , and Scotland free of such a Wicked Raze . Call Heaven and Earth both to Record and Pray for Sparing Grace . FINIS . The Church of Seotlands Lamentat - ion Concerning the setting up of Plays and Comedies . March 1715. LET not the News in Gath be told . Nor Streets of Ashkelon , Lest Vile Idolaters Triumph , and mock our Caledon , Where Gospel Light has been Display'd . in Truth and Purity , And strict Engagements made to Serve , the Sovereign Lord most High , That Satan's Synagogue and School , should in her Coasts be found , And wickedness with open Face , should in her Streets be found . These very Nests of since and Vice . which Satan Anciently , Appointed for his special use as Marts for Venery These Chapels Consecrate unto , the Dunghill Idol God's , where they declair themselves well pleased with Plays and interludes , Promiscuous meetings of both Sex , in Revalings by Night , In which these Dunghill Dieties , did mightily Delight , How art thou then Poor Scotland fallen , from thine Excellency , Thy Horn Debas'd into the Dust , and Sunk in Misery . Instead of Solemn Holy Days . of Gospel Sacrifice , In thee are Solemn Pompous show [ s ] of Pagan Vaniries , Concourse of People meet by Night , in Venus School to Play , While Satans Actors on the Stage , his Bonnar there Display , By Commadies and Interludes , Profane and Untrue Jests , Spectators wantonly all round , have up their Naked Breasts , That Lustful Eyes may feed thereon , while they with wanton Glance , Give secret Signals by their Looks , and Am'rous Countenance , Mean while the Male Spectators all , with bussy Eyes do spy , The Jalrs & Neighbours wives for whom They like Fed Horses bray , To blow the Coal of Rampant Lust . the Actors Act their part , By Wanton and Lascivous Jests , set off with all their Art , At once they Batter Ear and Eye , with Hells Artillery , Reciet some wanton Love intrigue or Act of Venery , Show how some Witty Am'rous Miss , Trapan'd a Country Squait , Or how some well accomplish'd Rakes , Deflowr'd a Female Fair , Or how some surrly Usera [ r ] . who kept his wife too near , Was bravely Tricked of his Bags , and god the Horns to wear , Lo , these and many such like things by Gesture and by Speech , With many mimic Antique Arts , they to their Scholars seach . The Scene to Satisfaction ends , all parts fully pleas'd Then Venus School in shade of Night is of her Scholars eas'd . Good Breading does excite the Boaus To wair the Ladys Home Each Picks his Darling at the Door Then through the Street they Rome , Till they come near some propor House the Squair then makes Address Unto his Miss and Courtiously Invits her to a Glass With some sham shyness she at first does seem a little Coy . But with his Rethroick and his Art does her at last Ducoy . When Set. they all the Play Repeat and highly do Commend The Actors and the Actresses , who did the Stage attend . Their pleasant Air and pretty Speech and Lively Acts likewise . The Subject of the Scene also , they mightily do praise . Their Pasions rais'd with wanton thoughts and Hearts inflam'd to Lust , We leave them in a private Room , and guess what follows rixt . Poor Scotish Church what wilt thou do ? canst thou no ways Restrain ? Such Rampant Heaven during Vice and practices profane Has Church Disiplain lost its Force ? alas ! it has , but may Thou not fallen on some happy Course This Raging Devil to slay ? Wilt thou like Lot in Sodom fit still wholly impotent ? Or like the Men of Gelea will not the wrong Resent ? Bestir thy self and still protest , if thou can do no more That thou does hate such wicked ways and do thou Heaven implore T'avenge it self , and Scotland free of such a Wicked Raze . Call Heaven and Earth both to Record and Pray for Sparing Grace . FINIS . 