THE Humours of RAG-FAIR : OR , THE Countryman's Description of their several Trades and Callings , LAST Week in Lent I came to town , and having a leisure Hour , I went to see his Majesty's Crown , and the Lyons in the Tower ; But losing my way , I chanced to stray , through a Lane full of second hand Tailors , Till stopped with surprise , at the noise of the cries , of a hundred different dealers . Do you want a Coat or a Vest young Man , to dress in this good Easter ? Here is Breeches ( sellow them if you can , ) you shall have them for a Taster ; And a plain Banjan , for Barber's Man , and Fustian Frocks for Bakers , Cheap left-off Clothes for Spital-field Beaus , and Black for undertakers . Here are ruffled Shirts and Cambrick stocks , for young men to lie clean in , With nice tucker'd Holland Smocks , and choice of Childbed Linen . Likewise clean sheeting for folks to lie sweet in , Girls , a nice dimity dicke A good pair of sleeves you may wash when you [ ? ] and tack them to a foul smicket . Here are stockings for young women too , not darn'd above the quarter , With clocks of white , of read , or blue , all flourish'd to the garter : Knit hose for men , [ ? ] boys from ten , with silk for those who strut it , You may have them whole , with their own soals or neatly darn'd and footed . Come customers , who buys my Shoes , or pumps scarce worse for wearing , I had them a bargain from the Meuss , from a woman who goes a chairing , Five groats a pair , search all the fair , and see if you can match them , The shops are so nice , they'll have a good price , although they clout and patch them . Here's choice of periwigs , who'll buy ? I'll fell you as cheap as any , You're welcome , Sirs , to come and try , Beside I shave for a penny . Do you flaxen lack , or a good coal black , With a buckle as strong as wire ? These left off greys I can surely praise , I'll warrant them to the buyer . Who buys my felt or caroline ? there's none will fell them cheaper , For Sundays here's a beaver fine , brought from a broken draper . You may have them at large at a small charge , for quaker or for curate ; Lac'd hats for those that are quarter-deck beaus , ne'er turn'd but once I assure it . All smoking hight a groat a pound , my plain or sweet plumb pudding , The flour the best in the market found , And all the ingredients good in ; I make it neat , and give good weight , my pound is sixteen ounces , Yet by the buy , she tells you a lie , for all she brags and bounces . Here's pancakes in cooks dripping fry'd , I fell them for a penny ; They're crisp and brown , as has been try'd today by a good many . My sausages and blaek puddings please , I speak it without a vapour ; For a penny a piece you may have what is nice , and I'm sure you can't dine cheaper . Here's household-bread for families large , And stale bred from the city , Come buy all you that have god a charge of me that can't outwit you . To you who buys I warrant the assize , As my Lord Mayor would have it , I hate words many , I'll bore you a penny , you're welcome to take it or leave it . Here's bacon as sweet as any nut , or neighbours never trust me , Altho' they know it was yesterday but they bought it themselves for rusty . See this how fat , how streaky that , though cheat you while they are vending , And surely cheat you and ounce in the weight , Yet swear they give you a mending Here are joints of mutton from Leaden-hall , and beef from Honey lane market ; I always keep what is prime at stall , thus the cunning butchers clark it . A prince may eat my stall-fed meat , though I loose in each pound a farthing , But pray take care his stilliards are fair or you are surely bit in the bargain . Here is measly pork , and vile slink calf in trays at gully-holes selling , I had rather been at home by half at dinner at my own dwelling . To fell such meat for folks to eat , is enough to breed and infection , If such folks were down in our good town , they'd be sent to the house of correction . Here are wondered purging Pills Which Doctor Rock rehearses , Which all the dreadful poison kills , suck'd in by foul embraces . Such plasters for corns , such powder for worms , were never before set on trial , Good people who prize the sighed of your eyes , come purchase my little phial . In watchhouse cage I next did view A strolling black-ey'd Susan , Who only took a guinea or two from a sailor who had to loose them . The impudent whore , the justice before , said in her examination , The money in full she had from a cull , For to please his inclination . Pick-pockets too mix'd in the throng , For hard by live their nurse's , Good people when you pass along , I pray take care of your purses And handkerchiefs for these young thieves ne'er hope for absolution , But proceed in since , till turn'd off with a grin at a tyburn execution . Then here and there you find a stall set up by young beginners ; The houses too are rented all by publicans and sinners . Walk in , sir , here is the alderman's beer , And a clear Newcastle fire , I'll make you a pot of the best gin hight , Which a young man can desire . Some were smoking and some at cards , And some were with chaps dealing ; Some were civil and some black-guards , All people have their failing . I paid off my score and went out of door , maintaining this opinion , That no prince of state , beside Britain the Great hath such a fair in his dominion . LONDON : Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office in Stonecutter-street , Fleet-Market . s worser till might be true . he Innocent Pair ; more undead ! THE Humours of RAG-FAIR : OR , THE Countryman's Description of their several Trades and Callings , LAST Week in Lent I came to town , and having a leisure Hour , I went to see his Majesty's Crown , and the Lyons in the Tower ; But losing my way , I chanced to stray , through a Lane full of second hand Tailors , Till stopped with surprise , at the noise of the cries , of a hundred different dealers . Do you want a Coat or a Vest young Man , to dress in this good Easter ? Here is Breeches ( sellow them if you can , ) you shall have them for a Taster ; And a plain Banjan , for Barber's Man , and Fustian Frocks for Bakers , Cheap left-off Clothes for Spital-field Beaus , and Black for undertakers . Here are ruffled Shirts and Cambrick stocks , for young men to lie clean in , With nice tucker'd Holland Smocks , and choice of Childbed Linen . Likewise clean sheeting for folks to lie sweet in , Girls , a nice dimity dicke A good pair of sleeves you may wash when you [ ? ] and tack them to a foul smicket . Here are stockings for young women too , not darn'd above the quarter , With clocks of white , of read , or blue , all flourish'd to the garter : Knit hose for men , [ ? ] boys from ten , with silk for those who strut it , You may have them whole , with their own soals or neatly darn'd and footed . Come customers , who buys my Shoes , or pumps scarce worse for wearing , I had them a bargain from the Meuss , from a woman who goes a chairing , Five groats a pair , search all the fair , and see if you can match them , The shops are so nice , they'll have a good price , although they clout and patch them . Here's choice of periwigs , who'll buy ? I'll fell you as cheap as any , You're welcome , Sirs , to come and try , Beside I shave for a penny . Do you flaxen lack , or a good coal black , With a buckle as strong as wire ? These left off greys I can surely praise , I'll warrant them to the buyer . Who buys my felt or caroline ? there's none will fell them cheaper , For Sundays here's a beaver fine , brought from a broken draper . You may have them at large at a small charge , for quaker or for curate ; Lac'd hats for those that are quarter-deck beaus , ne'er turn'd but once I assure it . All smoking hight a groat a pound , my plain or sweet plumb pudding , The flour the best in the market found , And all the ingredients good in ; I make it neat , and give good weight , my pound is sixteen ounces , Yet by the buy , she tells you a lie , for all she brags and bounces . Here's pancakes in cooks dripping fry'd , I fell them for a penny ; They're crisp and brown , as has been try'd today by a good many . My sausages and blaek puddings please , I speak it without a vapour ; For a penny a piece you may have what is nice , and I'm sure you can't dine cheaper . Here's household-bread for families large , And stale bred from the city , Come buy all you that have god a charge of me that can't outwit you . To you who buys I warrant the assize , As my Lord Mayor would have it , I hate words many , I'll bore you a penny , you're welcome to take it or leave it . Here's bacon as sweet as any nut , or neighbours never trust me , Altho' they know it was yesterday but they bought it themselves for rusty . See this how fat , how streaky that , though cheat you while they are vending , And surely cheat you and ounce in the weight , Yet swear they give you a mending Here are joints of mutton from Leaden-hall , and beef from Honey lane market ; I always keep what is prime at stall , thus the cunning butchers clark it . A prince may eat my stall-fed meat , though I loose in each pound a farthing , But pray take care his stilliards are fair or you are surely bit in the bargain . Here is measly pork , and vile slink calf in trays at gully-holes selling , I had rather been at home by half at dinner at my own dwelling . To fell such meat for folks to eat , is enough to breed and infection , If such folks were down in our good town , they'd be sent to the house of correction . Here are wondered purging Pills Which Doctor Rock rehearses , Which all the dreadful poison kills , suck'd in by foul embraces . Such plasters for corns , such powder for worms , were never before set on trial , Good people who prize the sighed of your eyes , come purchase my little phial . In watchhouse cage I next did view A strolling black-ey'd Susan , Who only took a guinea or two from a sailor who had to loose them . The impudent whore , the justice before , said in her examination , The money in full she had from a cull , For to please his inclination . Pick-pockets too mix'd in the throng , For hard by live their nurse's , Good people when you pass along , I pray take care of your purses And handkerchiefs for these young thieves ne'er hope for absolution , But proceed in since , till turn'd off with a grin at a tyburn execution . Then here and there you find a stall set up by young beginners ; The houses too are rented all by publicans and sinners . Walk in , sir , here is the alderman's beer , And a clear Newcastle fire , I'll make you a pot of the best gin hight , Which a young man can desire . Some were smoking and some at cards , And some were with chaps dealing ; Some were civil and some black-guards , All people have their failing . I paid off my score and went out of door , maintaining this opinion , That no prince of state , beside Britain the Great hath such a fair in his dominion . LONDON : Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office in Stonecutter-street , Fleet-Market . s worser till might be true . he Innocent Pair ; more undead ! 