THE Lamenting Lady's farewell to the World . Who being in a strange Exile , Bewails her own Misery , Complains upon Fortune and Destiny , Describes the Manner of Her Breeding , Deplores the loss of her Parents , wishing Peace and Happiness to England , which was her Native Country : And withal , Resolved for Death Cheerfully , Commended her Soul to Heaven , and her Body to the Earth , and quietly Departed this Life , Anno 1650. To and Excellent New Tune , Called , O hone , O hone MOurnful Melpomeny , assist my quill , That I may pensively now make my will . Guide thou my hands to write And senses to endite A Ladies last goodnigh O pity me . I that was nobly born , hither am sent , Like to a wretch forlorn , here to lamen In this most strange exile , Here to remain a while , Till heaven be pleas'd to smile and send for me . My friends cannot come nigh me in this place , Nor bear me company such is my case . Poor I , am left alone , But few to regard my moan , All my delights are gone , heaven succour me . Each day with cares and fears I am perplex My drink is brinish tears with sorrow mixed . When others soundly sleep , I sadly sob and weep , Oppressed with dangers deep , Lord comfort me . When England flourished , my Parents dear Tenderly nourish'd me many a year . I was advanced on by In place of dignity , In golden bravery they decked me . THE SECOND PART To the same Tune . MY garments dressed with pearl richly approv'd Never was English girl better belov'd : Old & young great and small Waited upon my call , I had the love of all that did know me . But from my former state I am call'd back , Through destiny and fate , all goes to wrack . Fortune hath lately frown , And catched me by the crown , So pull'd me headlong down O woe is me . My dear friends are decayed which loved me bes Never was harmless maid so much distressed . My father he is dead My mother banished , All joys are from me fled , heaven comfort me . How well are they at ease , and sweetly blessed , That may go when they pleasant and when they list . To see their Parents kind , As Nature does them bind : Such joys I cannot find : O , woe is me . All Earthly joys are gone , I will and must Only in God alone Put my whole trust . O Blessed Trinity , One God and Persons Three , Release my Misery , and comfort me : No Creature on this Earth , can ease my grief , Until such times as death yield me Relief , A Coffing and a Grave Is that which I would have , Sweet Christ my Soul receive ; and succour me : My Enemies that be both great and small , Good Lord , I pray to thee , forgive them all . May England flourish brave When I am laid in grave : So thus I take my leave , Christ sends for me . I have in Heaven above , a Place prepar'd , Never shall I remove , from thence afterwards , Go toll my Passing Bell , While Angels ring my knell : So vain World farewell , Christ sends for me . When she these words had said with cheerful heart , The Noble minded Maid , then did depar No doubt her Souls at rest With them whom God hath blessed , The last words she expressed was , Christ calls for me : FINIS . THE Lamenting Lady's farewell to the World . Who being in a strange Exile , Bewails her own Misery , Complains upon Fortune and Destiny , Describes the Manner of Her Breeding , Deplores the loss of her Parents , wishing Peace and Happiness to England , which was her Native Country : And withal , Resolved for Death Cheerfully , Commended her Soul to Heaven , and her Body to the Earth , and quietly Departed this Life , Anno 1650. To and Excellent New Tune , Called , O hone , O hone MOurnful Melpomeny , assist my quill , That I may pensively now make my will . Guide thou my hands to write And senses to endite A Ladies last goodnigh O pity me . I that was nobly born , hither am sent , Like to a wretch forlorn , here to lamen In this most strange exile , Here to remain a while , Till heaven be pleas'd to smile and send for me . My friends cannot come nigh me in this place , Nor bear me company such is my case . Poor I , am left alone , But few to regard my moan , All my delights are gone , heaven succour me . Each day with cares and fears I am perplex My drink is brinish tears with sorrow mixed . When others soundly sleep , I sadly sob and weep , Oppressed with dangers deep , Lord comfort me . When England flourished , my Parents dear Tenderly nourish'd me many a year . I was advanced on by In place of dignity , In golden bravery they decked me . THE SECOND PART To the same Tune . MY garments dressed with pearl richly approv'd Never was English girl better belov'd : Old & young great and small Waited upon my call , I had the love of all that did know me . But from my former state I am call'd back , Through destiny and fate , all goes to wrack . Fortune hath lately frown , And catched me by the crown , So pull'd me headlong down O woe is me . My dear friends are decayed which loved me bes Never was harmless maid so much distressed . My father he is dead My mother banished , All joys are from me fled , heaven comfort me . How well are they at ease , and sweetly blessed , That may go when they pleasant and when they list . To see their Parents kind , As Nature does them bind : Such joys I cannot find : O , woe is me . All Earthly joys are gone , I will and must Only in God alone Put my whole trust . O Blessed Trinity , One God and Persons Three , Release my Misery , and comfort me : No Creature on this Earth , can ease my grief , Until such times as death yield me Relief , A Coffing and a Grave Is that which I would have , Sweet Christ my Soul receive ; and succour me : My Enemies that be both great and small , Good Lord , I pray to thee , forgive them all . May England flourish brave When I am laid in grave : So thus I take my leave , Christ sends for me . I have in Heaven above , a Place prepar'd , Never shall I remove , from thence afterwards , Go toll my Passing Bell , While Angels ring my knell : So vain World farewell , Christ sends for me . When she these words had said with cheerful heart , The Noble minded Maid , then did depar No doubt her Souls at rest With them whom God hath blessed , The last words she expressed was , Christ calls for me : FINIS . 