THE Complaining Maid . LONG time I've been married , teh most of my grief , Long time I've been marry'd and find no relief , Long time I've been marry'd and still am a maid , I am ruin'd , I am ruin'd , I am ruin'd she said . I gave her fine sugar plumbs every night , And told her there could be no greater delight , No greater delight can be for a bride , I am ruin'd . I'm ruin'd she cry'd . I gave her fine ribbons all gilded with gold , And many a story unto her I told , But still she flew on me like a bird on a tree . I am ruin'd , I am ruin'd , I am ruin'd she said . My father gave me five acres of Land , My mother gave me five hundred pounds , And I kept it all for the sake of a man , I am ruin'd , I am ruin'd , I am ruin'd do all that I can . My husband lies by me like one that's bewitch'd , Fot the hem of my garment he ever will touch , And I do lie by him like a distress'd wife , I am weary , I am weary , I am weary of my life . I wish'd that he'd do as my neighbours have done , To get me a delicate daughter or son , For I long to enjoy the sweet gossiping erew , [ I ] am ruin'd ; I am ruin'd and what shall I do . THE Complaining Maid . LONG time I've been married , teh most of my grief , Long time I've been marry'd and find no relief , Long time I've been marry'd and still am a maid , I am ruin'd , I am ruin'd , I am ruin'd she said . I gave her fine sugar plumbs every night , And told her there could be no greater delight , No greater delight can be for a bride , I am ruin'd . I'm ruin'd she cry'd . I gave her fine ribbons all gilded with gold , And many a story unto her I told , But still she flew on me like a bird on a tree . I am ruin'd , I am ruin'd , I am ruin'd she said . My father gave me five acres of Land , My mother gave me five hundred pounds , And I kept it all for the sake of a man , I am ruin'd , I am ruin'd , I am ruin'd do all that I can . My husband lies by me like one that's bewitch'd , Fot the hem of my garment he ever will touch , And I do lie by him like a distress'd wife , I am weary , I am weary , I am weary of my life . I wish'd that he'd do as my neighbours have done , To get me a delicate daughter or son , For I long to enjoy the sweet gossiping erew , [ I ] am ruin'd ; I am ruin'd and what shall I do . 