A New Song in Praise of the Durham MILITIA . To the Tune of the Lilies of France . MILITIA Boys , for my Theme I now choose , ( your Aid I implore to assist me , my Muse ) While here I relate of the Durham Youths Fame , Who cheerful appear'd , when these new Tidings came , That to Barnard-Castle , they must march away , Embody'd to be , without Stop or Delay . What tho' some Cowards , have betook them to flight , And for their King and Country scorn for to fight ; Yet we Durham Boys , who jovial appear , Right honest we'll be , and we'll banish all Fear , When Head of the Front , how martial we see , Our COLONEL so brave , so gallant and free . Whose generous Hearts by Experience we know , Why need we then dread , along with him to go , Then farewell dear Wives , and each kind Sweetheart , Pray do not repine that from you we must part ; But hark ! the Drums beatrice , and the Fifes sweetly play , We're order'd to march now to Richmond straightway . Where clothed in Read and in Purple Attire , Our Exercise then shall be all our Desire , Which having acquir'd , then we'll merrily sing , Success to great GEORGE , and the Prussian King , Likewise loyal PITT , a Statesman so bold , Who scorns to be false , for Interest or Gold . If then the Monsieurs , should with their crafty Guile , E'er dare to molest us on Britain's fair Isle , We'll laugh at their Fury , and Malice so strong , To Charon below , how we'll hurl them headlong , Do they think that our Muskets useless shall be , When in Numbers great them advancing we see . If they do , they're mista'en , we'll boldly proceed , And conquer or die , e'er ignobly we'll yield ; Then crowned with Laurel , ( for vent'ring our Lives ) Home then we'll return to our Sweethearts and Wives , What Joy will be greater , our Fame will abound , The Bells' then shall ring , and the Trumpets shall found Let each loyal Briton then fill up his Glass , For to drive Care away , so round let it pass , Drink a Health to King George , who sits on his throne , ( Whose Power the French to their Sorrow have known ) May the Heavens above ; preserve him from Harm , And ever defend him from foreign Alarms . A New Song , on the brave General Blakeney , and Admiral Bing . COme all you jolly Soldiers , of Courage stout and bold , There is most of us young Men , and but few of us old We are going to Minorca , to fight for the King , And when then we return , in Claret we will swim Fall , lal , etc Bold Blakeney was valiant ; his Men were very true . If Bing had been the same , Boys , we had made the French to rue , But he refus'd to fight , all for a little Gold So he turn'd his Back upon the French , and thus Minorca was sold . Then adieu to Minorca , as I do suppose The sweet smelling Pink and the fine blooming Rose , The Flowers they were sweet , and the Meadows fresh and gay , But now were left all alone with the French Dogs to play Now if any such News should come into this Land , That we poor [ Soldiers , ] were lost in the Sand It would cause many a fair Maiden's Heart for to [ ache ] And to sighs and lament , for their true Lover's Sake . The young Women or we are all undone , And the old Women cry for the Loss of their Sons , The Widows they do cry ; we are all in Distress , We are all left alone and our Children fatherless . If that our Children , for Bred they do cry , There is none that will relieve them , that is here standing by , There's none that will relieve them from Hunger , Thirst and Cold , While we do cross the Ocean , like jolly Sailors bold . Fal , lal , etc FINIS . A New Song in Praise of the Durham MILITIA . To the Tune of the Lilies of France . MILITIA Boys , for my Theme I now choose , ( your Aid I implore to assist me , my Muse ) While here I relate of the Durham Youths Fame , Who cheerful appear'd , when these new Tidings came , That to Barnard-Castle , they must march away , Embody'd to be , without Stop or Delay . What tho' some Cowards , have betook them to flight , And for their King and Country scorn for to fight ; Yet we Durham Boys , who jovial appear , Right honest we'll be , and we'll banish all Fear , When Head of the Front , how martial we see , Our COLONEL so brave , so gallant and free . Whose generous Hearts by Experience we know , Why need we then dread , along with him to go , Then farewell dear Wives , and each kind Sweetheart , Pray do not repine that from you we must part ; But hark ! the Drums beatrice , and the Fifes sweetly play , We're order'd to march now to Richmond straightway . Where clothed in Read and in Purple Attire , Our Exercise then shall be all our Desire , Which having acquir'd , then we'll merrily sing , Success to great GEORGE , and the Prussian King , Likewise loyal PITT , a Statesman so bold , Who scorns to be false , for Interest or Gold . If then the Monsieurs , should with their crafty Guile , E'er dare to molest us on Britain's fair Isle , We'll laugh at their Fury , and Malice so strong , To Charon below , how we'll hurl them headlong , Do they think that our Muskets useless shall be , When in Numbers great them advancing we see . If they do , they're mista'en , we'll boldly proceed , And conquer or die , e'er ignobly we'll yield ; Then crowned with Laurel , ( for vent'ring our Lives ) Home then we'll return to our Sweethearts and Wives , What Joy will be greater , our Fame will abound , The Bells' then shall ring , and the Trumpets shall found Let each loyal Briton then fill up his Glass , For to drive Care away , so round let it pass , Drink a Health to King George , who sits on his throne , ( Whose Power the French to their Sorrow have known ) May the Heavens above ; preserve him from Harm , And ever defend him from foreign Alarms . A New Song , on the brave General Blakeney , and Admiral Bing . COme all you jolly Soldiers , of Courage stout and bold , There is most of us young Men , and but few of us old We are going to Minorca , to fight for the King , And when then we return , in Claret we will swim Fall , lal , etc Bold Blakeney was valiant ; his Men were very true . If Bing had been the same , Boys , we had made the French to rue , But he refus'd to fight , all for a little Gold So he turn'd his Back upon the French , and thus Minorca was sold . Then adieu to Minorca , as I do suppose The sweet smelling Pink and the fine blooming Rose , The Flowers they were sweet , and the Meadows fresh and gay , But now were left all alone with the French Dogs to play Now if any such News should come into this Land , That we poor [ Soldiers , ] were lost in the Sand It would cause many a fair Maiden's Heart for to [ ache ] And to sighs and lament , for their true Lover's Sake . The young Women or we are all undone , And the old Women cry for the Loss of their Sons , The Widows they do cry ; we are all in Distress , We are all left alone and our Children fatherless . If that our Children , for Bred they do cry , There is none that will relieve them , that is here standing by , There's none that will relieve them from Hunger , Thirst and Cold , While we do cross the Ocean , like jolly Sailors bold . Fal , lal , etc FINIS . 