The Court and Kingdom in Tears : OR , THE Sorrowful Subject's Lamentation for the DEATH OF Her Royal Majesty Queen Marry , Who departed this Life the 28th of this instant December , 1694 ; to the Un - speakable Grief of his Majesty , and all his Loyal and Loving Subject's . To the Tune of , If Love's a sweet Passion , etc IN Mourning , in Mourning the Kingdom appears , And the eyes of true Subject's are flowing with tears , For our Grief and our Sorrow , alas , it is great , Since our gracious Queen Marry departed of late ; By the hand of cold Death she was snatch'd from the Throne , H [ av ] ing left our most gracious King William alone . The loss of the Queen we have cause to lament , In the prime of her Years from the World she is sent , While her sorrowful Subject's do weeping complain , Knswing that they shall never behold her again : By the hand of cold Death she was snatch'd from the Throne , Having left our most gracious King William alone . O! What and unspeakable Change is there wrought ! From a Throne , Crown , and Septer Queen Marry is brought For to take up her Lodging , now , now in the Grave ; So uncertain is Honour and all that we have : By the hand of cold Death she was snatch'd from the Throne , Leaving gracious King William to Govern alone . She in the King's absence did Govern the Realm , With Discreation and wisdom she sat at the Healm , While her Subject's all Loyal Obedience did stand , For a public Blessing she was to the Land : To our Sorrow and Grief she is snatch'd from the Throne , And our Monarch , King William , now Governs alone . There's nothing but Sorrow and Grief to be seen , Thro' the Court and the Kingdom for loss of the Queen , Who in less then a week was alive , well and dead ; And with her all our Joys and our Comforts are fled : By the hand of cold Death she was snatch'd from the Throne , Leaving Gracious King William to Govern alone . O! who would have thought when from Flanders he came , And the Queen she did meet him in triumph and fame , That her time was so near , yet , alas , it is so ; She is gone having left us in Sorrow and Woe : By the hand of cold Death , etc And has left good King William , etc The learned Physicians was sent for with speed , She was dangerous ill , there was never more need ; But , alas , all the Skill in the World was in vain , For the Doctor's they could not restore her again : By the hand of cold Death , etc Leaving gracious King William , etc Her Soul is convey'd to the Regions of Joy , Where there's nothing her Comfort nor Peace can annoy , It is we that are left in sad sorrowful Tears , For the Loss of a Queen in the prime of her Years : By the hand of cold Death , etc Leaving gracious King William , etc For gracious King William let's send up our Prayers , That the Lord would support him in all his Affairs , That he still may be able our Laws to defend ; He has been to the Nation a fatherly Friend : Therefore Heaven , we hope , will establish his Throne , In the spite of his Foes , tho' he Governs alone . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-ball , and C. Gates at the Bible and Sun ; both in Pie-corner . The Court and Kingdom in Tears : OR , THE Sorrowful Subject's Lamentation for the DEATH OF Her Royal Majesty Queen Marry , Who departed this Life the 28th of this instant December , 1694 ; to the Un - speakable Grief of his Majesty , and all his Loyal and Loving Subject's . To the Tune of , If Love's a sweet Passion , etc IN Mourning , in Mourning the Kingdom appears , And the eyes of true Subject's are flowing with tears , For our Grief and our Sorrow , alas , it is great , Since our gracious Queen Marry departed of late ; By the hand of cold Death she was snatch'd from the Throne , H [ av ] ing left our most gracious King William alone . The loss of the Queen we have cause to lament , In the prime of her Years from the World she is sent , While her sorrowful Subject's do weeping complain , Knswing that they shall never behold her again : By the hand of cold Death she was snatch'd from the Throne , Having left our most gracious King William alone . O! What and unspeakable Change is there wrought ! From a Throne , Crown , and Septer Queen Marry is brought For to take up her Lodging , now , now in the Grave ; So uncertain is Honour and all that we have : By the hand of cold Death she was snatch'd from the Throne , Leaving gracious King William to Govern alone . She in the King's absence did Govern the Realm , With Discreation and wisdom she sat at the Healm , While her Subject's all Loyal Obedience did stand , For a public Blessing she was to the Land : To our Sorrow and Grief she is snatch'd from the Throne , And our Monarch , King William , now Governs alone . There's nothing but Sorrow and Grief to be seen , Thro' the Court and the Kingdom for loss of the Queen , Who in less then a week was alive , well and dead ; And with her all our Joys and our Comforts are fled : By the hand of cold Death she was snatch'd from the Throne , Leaving Gracious King William to Govern alone . O! who would have thought when from Flanders he came , And the Queen she did meet him in triumph and fame , That her time was so near , yet , alas , it is so ; She is gone having left us in Sorrow and Woe : By the hand of cold Death , etc And has left good King William , etc The learned Physicians was sent for with speed , She was dangerous ill , there was never more need ; But , alas , all the Skill in the World was in vain , For the Doctor's they could not restore her again : By the hand of cold Death , etc Leaving gracious King William , etc Her Soul is convey'd to the Regions of Joy , Where there's nothing her Comfort nor Peace can annoy , It is we that are left in sad sorrowful Tears , For the Loss of a Queen in the prime of her Years : By the hand of cold Death , etc Leaving gracious King William , etc For gracious King William let's send up our Prayers , That the Lord would support him in all his Affairs , That he still may be able our Laws to defend ; He has been to the Nation a fatherly Friend : Therefore Heaven , we hope , will establish his Throne , In the spite of his Foes , tho' he Governs alone . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-ball , and C. Gates at the Bible and Sun ; both in Pie-corner . 