A Lamentable Ballad of the LADY's Fallen . To the Tune of , In Peascod Time , etc MARK well my heavy doleful tale , You loyal lovers all , And heedfully bear in your breast A gallant Lady's Fallen . Long was she woo'd 'ere she was wone To led a wedded life ; But folly wrought her overthrow , 'Ere she became a wife . Too soon , alas ! she gave consent To yield unto his will ; Tho' he protested to be true , And faithful to her still . She felt her body alter'd quite , Her bright hue waxed pale ; Her fair read cheeks turn'd colour white , Her strength began to fail : So that with many a sorrowful sighs , This beauteous maiden mild , With grievous heart perceiv'd herself To be conceiv'd with child . She kept it from her father's sighed , As close as close might be , And so put on a silken gown , None might her swelling see . Unto her love secretly She did herself bewray ; And walking with him hand in hand , These words to him did say . Behold , said she , a maid's distress , My love brought to thy bow . Behold I go with child by thee , But none thereof does know . The little babe springs in my womb , To hear the father's voice ; Let it not be a bastard call'd , Since I made thee my choice , Come , come , my love , perform thy vow , And wed me out of hand : Oh leave me not in this extreme , In grief always to stand . Think on thy former promise made , Thy vows and oaths each one : Remember with what bitter tears To me thou mad'st thy moan : Convey me to some secret place , And marry me with speed , Or with thy rapier end my life , 'Ere further shame proceed . Alas ! my dearest love , quoth he , My greatest joy on earth ; Which way can I convey thee hence , Without a sudden death . Thy friends they be of high degree , And I of mean estate ; Full hard it is for to get forth Out of thy father's gate . Dread not thyself to save my fame , And if thou taken be , Myself will step between the swords , And take the harm on me . So shall I 'escape dishonour quite , If so I should be slave : What can they say , but that true love , Did work a lady's bane ? And fear not any further harm , Myself will so devise , That I may go away with thee , Unseen of mortal eyes . Disguised like some pretty page , I'll meet thee in the dark And all alone I'll come to thee , Hard by my father's park . And there quoth he , I'll meet , If God does send me life , And this day month , without all fail , I will make thee my wife . Then with a sweet and loving kiss , They parted presently ; And at their parting brinish tears Stood in each other's eye . At length the wish'd for day was come , Whereon this lovely maid , With lovely eyes and strange attire , For her true lover stayed . When any person she espy'd , Come riding o'er the plain , She thought it was her own true love , But all her hope's were vain . Then did she weep , and soar bewail , Her most unhappy state : Then did she speak these mournful words , While succourless she sat . O false , forsworn , and faithless wretch , Disloyal to thy love ; Hast thou forgotten thy promise made ? And wilt thou perjur'd prove ? And hast thou now forsaken me , In this my sad distress ? To end my days in open shame , Which thou might'st well redress : Woe is the day I did believe That flattering tongue of thine , Would God that I had never seen The tears of thy false eyes . And thus with many a bitter sighs , Homeward she went again , No rest came in her watery eyes , She felt such bitter pain . In travail strong she fell that night . With many a bitter throw : What woeful pangs she felt that night , Does each good women know . She called up her waiting maid , That lay at her bed's feet ; Who musing at her mistress' woes Did strait began to weep . Weep not , she said , but shut the doors And windows round abou Let none bewail my wretched case , But keep all persons out . O mistress ! call your mother dear , Of women you have need ; And of some skilful midwife's help , The better you may speed . Call not my mother for thy life , Nor call no woman here ; The midwife's help comes now too late , My death I do not fear . With that the babe sprung from her womb , No creature being nigh ; And with a sighs that broke her heart , This gallant dame did die . The living infant then , The mother being dead , Resign'd his new-received breath , To him that had him made . Next morning came her lover true , Affrighted at this news , And he for sorrow slew himself , Whom each one did accuse . The mother with the newborn babe , Were both laid in one grave ; Their parents overcome with woe , No joy of them could have . Take heed you dainty damsels all , Of flattering words beware ; And of the honour of your names Have you especial care . Too true alas , the story is , As many a one can tell , By other's harms learn to be wise , And you shall do full well . A Lamentable Ballad of the LADY's Fallen . To the Tune of , In Peascod Time , etc MARK well my heavy doleful tale , You loyal lovers all , And heedfully bear in your breast A gallant Lady's Fallen . Long was she woo'd 'ere she was wone To led a wedded life ; But folly wrought her overthrow , 'Ere she became a wife . Too soon , alas ! she gave consent To yield unto his will ; Tho' he protested to be true , And faithful to her still . She felt her body alter'd quite , Her bright hue waxed pale ; Her fair read cheeks turn'd colour white , Her strength began to fail : So that with many a sorrowful sighs , This beauteous maiden mild , With grievous heart perceiv'd herself To be conceiv'd with child . She kept it from her father's sighed , As close as close might be , And so put on a silken gown , None might her swelling see . Unto her love secretly She did herself bewray ; And walking with him hand in hand , These words to him did say . Behold , said she , a maid's distress , My love brought to thy bow . Behold I go with child by thee , But none thereof does know . The little babe springs in my womb , To hear the father's voice ; Let it not be a bastard call'd , Since I made thee my choice , Come , come , my love , perform thy vow , And wed me out of hand : Oh leave me not in this extreme , In grief always to stand . Think on thy former promise made , Thy vows and oaths each one : Remember with what bitter tears To me thou mad'st thy moan : Convey me to some secret place , And marry me with speed , Or with thy rapier end my life , 'Ere further shame proceed . Alas ! my dearest love , quoth he , My greatest joy on earth ; Which way can I convey thee hence , Without a sudden death . Thy friends they be of high degree , And I of mean estate ; Full hard it is for to get forth Out of thy father's gate . Dread not thyself to save my fame , And if thou taken be , Myself will step between the swords , And take the harm on me . So shall I 'escape dishonour quite , If so I should be slave : What can they say , but that true love , Did work a lady's bane ? And fear not any further harm , Myself will so devise , That I may go away with thee , Unseen of mortal eyes . Disguised like some pretty page , I'll meet thee in the dark And all alone I'll come to thee , Hard by my father's park . And there quoth he , I'll meet , If God does send me life , And this day month , without all fail , I will make thee my wife . Then with a sweet and loving kiss , They parted presently ; And at their parting brinish tears Stood in each other's eye . At length the wish'd for day was come , Whereon this lovely maid , With lovely eyes and strange attire , For her true lover stayed . When any person she espy'd , Come riding o'er the plain , She thought it was her own true love , But all her hope's were vain . Then did she weep , and soar bewail , Her most unhappy state : Then did she speak these mournful words , While succourless she sat . O false , forsworn , and faithless wretch , Disloyal to thy love ; Hast thou forgotten thy promise made ? And wilt thou perjur'd prove ? And hast thou now forsaken me , In this my sad distress ? To end my days in open shame , Which thou might'st well redress : Woe is the day I did believe That flattering tongue of thine , Would God that I had never seen The tears of thy false eyes . And thus with many a bitter sighs , Homeward she went again , No rest came in her watery eyes , She felt such bitter pain . In travail strong she fell that night . With many a bitter throw : What woeful pangs she felt that night , Does each good women know . She called up her waiting maid , That lay at her bed's feet ; Who musing at her mistress' woes Did strait began to weep . Weep not , she said , but shut the doors And windows round abou Let none bewail my wretched case , But keep all persons out . O mistress ! call your mother dear , Of women you have need ; And of some skilful midwife's help , The better you may speed . Call not my mother for thy life , Nor call no woman here ; The midwife's help comes now too late , My death I do not fear . With that the babe sprung from her womb , No creature being nigh ; And with a sighs that broke her heart , This gallant dame did die . The living infant then , The mother being dead , Resign'd his new-received breath , To him that had him made . Next morning came her lover true , Affrighted at this news , And he for sorrow slew himself , Whom each one did accuse . The mother with the newborn babe , Were both laid in one grave ; Their parents overcome with woe , No joy of them could have . Take heed you dainty damsels all , Of flattering words beware ; And of the honour of your names Have you especial care . Too true alas , the story is , As many a one can tell , By other's harms learn to be wise , And you shall do full well . 