The Doubting Virgin , AND The Constant Youngman . Observe what here is put in Print , All you that do love merriment ; It's for Youngmen and Maids also Stay and hear't o're before you go . Tune of , The Repriev'd Captive . By Tobias Bowne . O my dearest doe not slight me , for my love to thee is true ; There is none but thee can right me , never change me for a new , You intrude me , and delude me , I think you cannot it deny : Now you leave me and deceive me , but can show no reason why . I wonder youngmen are so crossful , since Virgins are so full of love ? That makes Maids to be so bashful , thinking how Youngmen will prove , But if in proving , they were loving , as they formerly pretend ; Then how neatly and completely , should we live till life does end . The men Answer . O my Dear , why dost thou doubt me , that to thee I'll prove unkind ; I think my self not well without thee , thou art always in my mind ; If I do leave thee , or deceive thee , then I wish nothing may thrive , Nor let never , my endeavour , prosper while I am alive , THou art she whom I love dearly , what can any man say more ; This is my mind I speak it freely , I never said so much before , Then sweet believe me ; for it did grieve me to hear the moan my love did make , My dearest Love I'le constant prove , or believe no man for my sake . The Maids Answer . My dear , what can there be expected , while that we on earth do dwell ? Let not true love be neglected , then will every thing do well : This my speeches , though we have riches , my sweet heart I you call For all money ; my dear honey , true love is the best of all . Suppose that we had all the treasure , that's in England to be seen Or if that we had all the pleasure that belongeth to a Queen ; Observe my speeches , I mean the riches that upon some men do fallen , For all their pleasure , and their treasure , true love is the best of all , The Man. Why do you use such expression , unto me who am your own , My heart you have in your possession , unto you it is well known : Pray never doubt it , nor pause about it my dearest love 'tis thou art she ; Water shall burn , and Wind ne'r turn , if that I prove false to thee . This full glass I hope to drink it in remembrance of my dear , Happy is the hour I think it , that I met my true love here ; Now in pleasure without measure , we will pass the time away , Come my sweet heart , we'l kiss and part , for now we can no longer stay . So they parted for that instant , they both then were firm and true , If all young people were so constant ; what need there be so much ado ? There needs no weeping , nor loose sleeping , if they did in love agree ; Nor no shaking , nor heart breaking , pray observe this thing from me . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . The Doubting Virgin , AND The Constant Youngman . Observe what here is put in Print , All you that do love merriment ; It's for Youngmen and Maids also Stay and hear't o're before you go . Tune of , The Repriev'd Captive . By Tobias Bowne . O my dearest doe not slight me , for my love to thee is true ; There is none but thee can right me , never change me for a new , You intrude me , and delude me , I think you cannot it deny : Now you leave me and deceive me , but can show no reason why . I wonder youngmen are so crossful , since Virgins are so full of love ? That makes Maids to be so bashful , thinking how Youngmen will prove , But if in proving , they were loving , as they formerly pretend ; Then how neatly and completely , should we live till life does end . The men Answer . O my Dear , why dost thou doubt me , that to thee I'll prove unkind ; I think my self not well without thee , thou art always in my mind ; If I do leave thee , or deceive thee , then I wish nothing may thrive , Nor let never , my endeavour , prosper while I am alive , THou art she whom I love dearly , what can any man say more ; This is my mind I speak it freely , I never said so much before , Then sweet believe me ; for it did grieve me to hear the moan my love did make , My dearest Love I'le constant prove , or believe no man for my sake . The Maids Answer . My dear , what can there be expected , while that we on earth do dwell ? Let not true love be neglected , then will every thing do well : This my speeches , though we have riches , my sweet heart I you call For all money ; my dear honey , true love is the best of all . Suppose that we had all the treasure , that's in England to be seen Or if that we had all the pleasure that belongeth to a Queen ; Observe my speeches , I mean the riches that upon some men do fallen , For all their pleasure , and their treasure , true love is the best of all , The Man. Why do you use such expression , unto me who am your own , My heart you have in your possession , unto you it is well known : Pray never doubt it , nor pause about it my dearest love 'tis thou art she ; Water shall burn , and Wind ne'r turn , if that I prove false to thee . This full glass I hope to drink it in remembrance of my dear , Happy is the hour I think it , that I met my true love here ; Now in pleasure without measure , we will pass the time away , Come my sweet heart , we'l kiss and part , for now we can no longer stay . So they parted for that instant , they both then were firm and true , If all young people were so constant ; what need there be so much ado ? There needs no weeping , nor loose sleeping , if they did in love agree ; Nor no shaking , nor heart breaking , pray observe this thing from me . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . The Doubting Virgin , AND The Constant Youngman . Observe what here is put in Print , All you that do love merriment ; It's for Youngmen and Maids also Stay and hear't o're before you go . Tune of , The Repriev'd Captive . By Tobias Bowne . O my dearest doe not slight me , for my love to thee is true ; There is none but thee can right me , never change me for a new , You intrude me , and delude me , I think you cannot it deny : Now you leave me and deceive me , but can show no reason why . I wonder youngmen are so crossful , since Virgins are so full of love ? That makes Maids to be so bashful , thinking how Youngmen will prove , But if in proving , they were loving , as they formerly pretend ; Then how neatly and completely , should we live till life does end . The men Answer . O my Dear , why dost thou doubt me , that to thee I'll prove unkind ; I think my self not well without thee , thou art always in my mind ; If I do leave thee , or deceive thee , then I wish nothing may thrive , Nor let never , my endeavour , prosper while I am alive , THou art she whom I love dearly , what can any man say more ; This is my mind I speak it freely , I never said so much before , Then sweet believe me ; for it did grieve me to hear the moan my love did make , My dearest Love I'le constant prove , or believe no man for my sake . The Maids Answer . My dear , what can there be expected , while that we on earth do dwell ? Let not true love be neglected , then will every thing do well : This my speeches , though we have riches , my sweet heart I you call For all money ; my dear honey , true love is the best of all . Suppose that we had all the treasure , that's in England to be seen Or if that we had all the pleasure that belongeth to a Queen ; Observe my speeches , I mean the riches that upon some men do fallen , For all their pleasure , and their treasure , true love is the best of all , The Man. Why do you use such expression , unto me who am your own , My heart you have in your possession , unto you it is well known : Pray never doubt it , nor pause about it my dearest love 'tis thou art she ; Water shall burn , and Wind ne'r turn , if that I prove false to thee . This full glass I hope to drink it in remembrance of my dear , Happy is the hour I think it , that I met my true love here ; Now in pleasure without measure , we will pass the time away , Come my sweet heart , we'l kiss and part , for now we can no longer stay . So they parted for that instant , they both then were firm and true , If all young people were so constant ; what need there be so much ado ? There needs no weeping , nor loose sleeping , if they did in love agree ; Nor no shaking , nor heart breaking , pray observe this thing from me . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . The Doubting Virgin , AND The Constant Youngman . Observe what here is put in Print , All you that do love merriment ; It's for Youngmen and Maids also Stay and hear't o're before you go . Tune of , The Repriev'd Captive . By Tobias Bowne . O my dearest doe not slight me , for my love to thee is true ; There is none but thee can right me , never change me for a new , You intrude me , and delude me , I think you cannot it deny : Now you leave me and deceive me , but can show no reason why . I wonder youngmen are so crossful , since Virgins are so full of love ? That makes Maids to be so bashful , thinking how Youngmen will prove , But if in proving , they were loving , as they formerly pretend ; Then how neatly and completely , should we live till life does end . The men Answer . O my Dear , why dost thou doubt me , that to thee I'll prove unkind ; I think my self not well without thee , thou art always in my mind ; If I do leave thee , or deceive thee , then I wish nothing may thrive , Nor let never , my endeavour , prosper while I am alive , THou art she whom I love dearly , what can any man say more ; This is my mind I speak it freely , I never said so much before , Then sweet believe me ; for it did grieve me to hear the moan my love did make , My dearest Love I'le constant prove , or believe no man for my sake . The Maids Answer . My dear , what can there be expected , while that we on earth do dwell ? Let not true love be neglected , then will every thing do well : This my speeches , though we have riches , my sweet heart I you call For all money ; my dear honey , true love is the best of all . Suppose that we had all the treasure , that's in England to be seen Or if that we had all the pleasure that belongeth to a Queen ; Observe my speeches , I mean the riches that upon some men do fallen , For all their pleasure , and their treasure , true love is the best of all , The Man. Why do you use such expression , unto me who am your own , My heart you have in your possession , unto you it is well known : Pray never doubt it , nor pause about it my dearest love 'tis thou art she ; Water shall burn , and Wind ne'r turn , if that I prove false to thee . This full glass I hope to drink it in remembrance of my dear , Happy is the hour I think it , that I met my true love here ; Now in pleasure without measure , we will pass the time away , Come my sweet heart , we'l kiss and part , for now we can no longer stay . So they parted for that instant , they both then were firm and true , If all young people were so constant ; what need there be so much ado ? There needs no weeping , nor loose sleeping , if they did in love agree ; Nor no shaking , nor heart breaking , pray observe this thing from me . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden Ball in Pie-corner . 