The Doubting Virgins Satisfaction : OR , The Maids Answer . She who was possessed with fear , is now eas'd of her Doubt ; And she her Sweetheart loves so dear , she can't live him without . To the Tune of , The Repriev'd Captive ; Or , The doubting Virgin . DEarest know I do not slight thee , for my Love is firm and true , My desire is to delight thee , i'le be constant unto you : Do not fear me , Love , but hear me , and believe my constancy , In me put trust , I will be just , I scorn to tell my Love a lie . Some young men may be deceitful , but do not blame all for a few , To be false to me is hateful , you shall not find me untrue : But I will strive while I'm alive , to imitate the constant dove , Thou shalt find , me ever kind , to thee my joy and dearest Love . It would be to me a wonder , if that thee and I should part , And would surely break in sunder , the tender strings of my poor hear But I desire , to admire , the radiant beams of thy fair eye ; Which pierce my breast , & spoil my rest , Oh grant me Love or else I die . In my eyes thou art a jewel , far more precious then pure Gold , If thou dost to me prove cruel , my warm blood will soon be cold : Then shall I , assuredly , be lai'd into my silent grave , 'Tis you that can , preserve a man , then kill me not whom you can save . What is in my lines asserted , nothing is but perfect truth , Never shall be contraverted , pray believe a faithful youth : And if I lie , I wish to die , then never doubt what I do speak , For if you do , you'l find it true , that for your love my heart will break . The Maids kind Answer . I Would put it to the trial , if I thought your Love were pure , And you would be true and Loyal , falseness I cannot endure , But yet indeed my heart does bleed , to hear you make such sad complaint And now I find , I am inclined , to love you by a mean constraint . Then what Love you have professed , and declared unto me , Be but true 'twill make you blessed , all your life you'l happy be , But yet my fear , begets a care , by me cannot well be expressed , Be true to me , and thou shalt see , I'le take a Lodging in thy breast . And we quickly will be marry'd , to complete true Lovers bliss , There shall nothing be miscary'd , come wee'l bind it with a kiss : Embraces then , they chang'd again , and more and more both proved kind , So they at last , were linked fast , you Lovers all my ditty mind . You that oft make great pretences , if you prove not just and true , You will find that great offences , will imputed be to you : But you'l be blessed and live at rest , and when you die depart in peace , While some that prove , unjust in Love , shall meet with pains that never cease . Then let me in Love advice you , to be constant unto death , For you know death will surprise you , and will stop each mortals breath : Then live and be , from dangers free , entail a Blessing while you may , Be sure you prove , so sure in Love , 'tmay be your own another day . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Harp near the Bare-Tavern in Pye-Corner . The Doubting Virgins Satisfaction : OR , The Maids Answer . She who was possessed with fear , is now eas'd of her Doubt ; And she her Sweetheart loves so dear , she can't live him without . To the Tune of , The Repriev'd Captive ; Or , The doubting Virgin . DEarest know I do not slight thee , for my Love is firm and true , My desire is to delight thee , i'le be constant unto you : Do not fear me , Love , but hear me , and believe my constancy , In me put trust , I will be just , I scorn to tell my Love a lie . Some young men may be deceitful , but do not blame all for a few , To be false to me is hateful , you shall not find me untrue : But I will strive while I'm alive , to imitate the constant dove , Thou shalt find , me ever kind , to thee my joy and dearest Love . It would be to me a wonder , if that thee and I should part , And would surely break in sunder , the tender strings of my poor hear But I desire , to admire , the radiant beams of thy fair eye ; Which pierce my breast , & spoil my rest , Oh grant me Love or else I die . In my eyes thou art a jewel , far more precious then pure Gold , If thou dost to me prove cruel , my warm blood will soon be cold : Then shall I , assuredly , be lai'd into my silent grave , 'Tis you that can , preserve a man , then kill me not whom you can save . What is in my lines asserted , nothing is but perfect truth , Never shall be contraverted , pray believe a faithful youth : And if I lie , I wish to die , then never doubt what I do speak , For if you do , you'l find it true , that for your love my heart will break . The Maids kind Answer . I Would put it to the trial , if I thought your Love were pure , And you would be true and Loyal , falseness I cannot endure , But yet indeed my heart does bleed , to hear you make such sad complaint And now I find , I am inclined , to love you by a mean constraint . Then what Love you have professed , and declared unto me , Be but true 'twill make you blessed , all your life you'l happy be , But yet my fear , begets a care , by me cannot well be expressed , Be true to me , and thou shalt see , I'le take a Lodging in thy breast . And we quickly will be marry'd , to complete true Lovers bliss , There shall nothing be miscary'd , come wee'l bind it with a kiss : Embraces then , they chang'd again , and more and more both proved kind , So they at last , were linked fast , you Lovers all my ditty mind . You that oft make great pretences , if you prove not just and true , You will find that great offences , will imputed be to you : But you'l be blessed and live at rest , and when you die depart in peace , While some that prove , unjust in Love , shall meet with pains that never cease . Then let me in Love advice you , to be constant unto death , For you know death will surprise you , and will stop each mortals breath : Then live and be , from dangers free , entail a Blessing while you may , Be sure you prove , so sure in Love , 'tmay be your own another day . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Harp near the Bare-Tavern in Pye-Corner . The Doubting Virgins Satisfaction : OR , The Maids Answer . She who was possessed with fear , is now eas'd of her Doubt ; And she her Sweetheart loves so dear , she can't live him without . To the Tune of , The Repriev'd Captive ; Or , The doubting Virgin . DEarest know I do not slight thee , for my Love is firm and true , My desire is to delight thee , i'le be constant unto you : Do not fear me , Love , but hear me , and believe my constancy , In me put trust , I will be just , I scorn to tell my Love a lie . Some young men may be deceitful , but do not blame all for a few , To be false to me is hateful , you shall not find me untrue : But I will strive while I'm alive , to imitate the constant dove , Thou shalt find , me ever kind , to thee my joy and dearest Love . It would be to me a wonder , if that thee and I should part , And would surely break in sunder , the tender strings of my poor hear But I desire , to admire , the radiant beams of thy fair eye ; Which pierce my breast , & spoil my rest , Oh grant me Love or else I die . In my eyes thou art a jewel , far more precious then pure Gold , If thou dost to me prove cruel , my warm blood will soon be cold : Then shall I , assuredly , be lai'd into my silent grave , 'Tis you that can , preserve a man , then kill me not whom you can save . What is in my lines asserted , nothing is but perfect truth , Never shall be contraverted , pray believe a faithful youth : And if I lie , I wish to die , then never doubt what I do speak , For if you do , you'l find it true , that for your love my heart will break . The Maids kind Answer . I Would put it to the trial , if I thought your Love were pure , And you would be true and Loyal , falseness I cannot endure , But yet indeed my heart does bleed , to hear you make such sad complaint And now I find , I am inclined , to love you by a mean constraint . Then what Love you have professed , and declared unto me , Be but true 'twill make you blessed , all your life you'l happy be , But yet my fear , begets a care , by me cannot well be expressed , Be true to me , and thou shalt see , I'le take a Lodging in thy breast . And we quickly will be marry'd , to complete true Lovers bliss , There shall nothing be miscary'd , come wee'l bind it with a kiss : Embraces then , they chang'd again , and more and more both proved kind , So they at last , were linked fast , you Lovers all my ditty mind . You that oft make great pretences , if you prove not just and true , You will find that great offences , will imputed be to you : But you'l be blessed and live at rest , and when you die depart in peace , While some that prove , unjust in Love , shall meet with pains that never cease . Then let me in Love advice you , to be constant unto death , For you know death will surprise you , and will stop each mortals breath : Then live and be , from dangers free , entail a Blessing while you may , Be sure you prove , so sure in Love , 'tmay be your own another day . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Harp near the Bare-Tavern in Pye-Corner . The Doubting Virgins Satisfaction : OR , The Maids Answer . She who was possessed with fear , is now eas'd of her Doubt ; And she her Sweetheart loves so dear , she can't live him without . To the Tune of , The Repriev'd Captive ; Or , The doubting Virgin . DEarest know I do not slight thee , for my Love is firm and true , My desire is to delight thee , i'le be constant unto you : Do not fear me , Love , but hear me , and believe my constancy , In me put trust , I will be just , I scorn to tell my Love a lie . Some young men may be deceitful , but do not blame all for a few , To be false to me is hateful , you shall not find me untrue : But I will strive while I'm alive , to imitate the constant dove , Thou shalt find , me ever kind , to thee my joy and dearest Love . It would be to me a wonder , if that thee and I should part , And would surely break in sunder , the tender strings of my poor hear But I desire , to admire , the radiant beams of thy fair eye ; Which pierce my breast , & spoil my rest , Oh grant me Love or else I die . In my eyes thou art a jewel , far more precious then pure Gold , If thou dost to me prove cruel , my warm blood will soon be cold : Then shall I , assuredly , be lai'd into my silent grave , 'Tis you that can , preserve a man , then kill me not whom you can save . What is in my lines asserted , nothing is but perfect truth , Never shall be contraverted , pray believe a faithful youth : And if I lie , I wish to die , then never doubt what I do speak , For if you do , you'l find it true , that for your love my heart will break . The Maids kind Answer . I Would put it to the trial , if I thought your Love were pure , And you would be true and Loyal , falseness I cannot endure , But yet indeed my heart does bleed , to hear you make such sad complaint And now I find , I am inclined , to love you by a mean constraint . Then what Love you have professed , and declared unto me , Be but true 'twill make you blessed , all your life you'l happy be , But yet my fear , begets a care , by me cannot well be expressed , Be true to me , and thou shalt see , I'le take a Lodging in thy breast . And we quickly will be marry'd , to complete true Lovers bliss , There shall nothing be miscary'd , come wee'l bind it with a kiss : Embraces then , they chang'd again , and more and more both proved kind , So they at last , were linked fast , you Lovers all my ditty mind . You that oft make great pretences , if you prove not just and true , You will find that great offences , will imputed be to you : But you'l be blessed and live at rest , and when you die depart in peace , While some that prove , unjust in Love , shall meet with pains that never cease . Then let me in Love advice you , to be constant unto death , For you know death will surprise you , and will stop each mortals breath : Then live and be , from dangers free , entail a Blessing while you may , Be sure you prove , so sure in Love , 'tmay be your own another day . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Harp near the Bare-Tavern in Pye-Corner . 