The Dying Lovers Complaint . Daphne laments cause Strephon is unkind , Wanting his love no comfort he can find , And missing that which she desires to have , Poor Daphne sighs her self into the Grave . Tune of Young Phaon . I Am quite undone my cruel one has me forsaken quite , He is the man , in whom I can take pleasure and delight . But he's unkind and now I find my thread is almost spun , here I lament in discontent alas I'me quite undone . Whilst others sleep I mourn and weep in tears I'm almost drowned , When absent he is gone from me , No comfort can be found . In slumbering dreams methinks he seems to be full kind to me , But when I wake this great mistake brings sorrow certainly . The second part , To the same tune . My Golden hair I rend and tear like one outrageous mad , Cupid say I , I thee defy thou wicked wanton Lad. A minute then scarce passed again e're I do him implore , Cupid say I , thy deity I ever will adore . Thus do I pass my days alas and can no pleasure find , I sighs and cry continually he's cruel and unkind . Twice in a breath I wish for death , such torments I endure , Except he's kind I ne'r shall find , nor hope to get a cure . Then down I lie in hope's to die , ere him I see again , But thoughts of him brings life again and thus prolongs my pain . Both cur'd and kill'd , blood shed & spill'd , all in a Moment is , From death could he again fetch me . with one poor smile and kiss , Thus do I turn I freiz and burn in a most strange condition , No Doctors Art can cure my smart except he prove Physician , But hope's of that must be forgotten and I must to the grave . Come welcome death and stop my breath that I some rest may have . Printed for F. Coal . T. Vere . J Wright . J. Clark W. Thackery & T. Passenger , The Dying Lovers Complaint . Daphne laments cause Strephon is unkind , Wanting his love no comfort he can find , And missing that which she desires to have , Poor Daphne sighs her self into the Grave . Tune of Young Phaon . I Am quite undone my cruel one has me forsaken quite , He is the man , in whom I can take pleasure and delight . But he's unkind and now I find my thread is almost spun , here I lament in discontent alas I'me quite undone . Whilst others sleep I mourn and weep in tears I'm almost drowned , When absent he is gone from me , No comfort can be found . In slumbering dreams methinks he seems to be full kind to me , But when I wake this great mistake brings sorrow certainly . The second part , To the same tune . My Golden hair I rend and tear like one outrageous mad , Cupid say I , I thee defy thou wicked wanton Lad. A minute then scarce passed again e're I do him implore , Cupid say I , thy deity I ever will adore . Thus do I pass my days alas and can no pleasure find , I sighs and cry continually he's cruel and unkind . Twice in a breath I wish for death , such torments I endure , Except he's kind I ne'r shall find , nor hope to get a cure . Then down I lie in hope's to die , ere him I see again , But thoughts of him brings life again and thus prolongs my pain . Both cur'd and kill'd , blood shed & spill'd , all in a Moment is , From death could he again fetch me . with one poor smile and kiss , Thus do I turn I freiz and burn in a most strange condition , No Doctors Art can cure my smart except he prove Physician , But hope's of that must be forgotten and I must to the grave . Come welcome death and stop my breath that I some rest may have . Printed for F. Coal . T. Vere . J Wright . J. Clark W. Thackery & T. Passenger , 