The Norfolk GENTLEMAN's Last Will and Testamen WHO On his Death Bed , committed the keeping of his Two CHILDREN , ( a Boy and a Girl ) to his Own BROTHER , who did most wickedly cause them to be destroyed , that so he might possess himself of the Children's Estate , but by the just Judgement of God , the Murder was found out , himself , and all that he had were de - stroyed from off the Face of the Earth . To and excellent New Tune call'd , Rogero : etc NOW ponder well you Parents dear , These Words which I shall write , A doleful Story you shall hear , In Time brought forth to Ligh A Gentleman of good Account , In Norfolk dwelled of late : Whose Wealth and Riches did surmount , Most Men of his Estate . Soar sick he was , and like to die , No Help that he could have , His Wife by him as sick did lie , And both possess'd one Grave : No Love between them two was lost , Each was to other kind : In Love they liv'd , in Love they dy'd , And left two Babes behind . The one a fine and pretty Boy , Not passing five Years old ; The other a Girl more young then he , And made in beauty's Mould The Father left his little Son , As plainly does appear , When he to perfect Age did come , Three hundred Pounds a Year . And to his little Daughter Jane , Five hundred Pounds in Gold , To be paid down on Marriage-day , Which might not be centroul'd : But if the Children chanc'd to die , E'er they to Age should come Their Uncle should possess their Wealth For so the Will did run . Now Brother , said the dying Man , Look to my Children dear , Be good unto my Boy and Girl , No Friends else have I here ; To God and you I do commend , My Children Night and Day ; But little While surely we have , Within this World to stay . You must be Father and Mother both , And Uncle all in one , Who knows what will become of them When I am dead and gone ? With that bespoke the Mother dear , O! Brother kind quoth she , You are the Man must bring my Babes , To Wealth or Misery . If you do keep them carefully , Then God will you reward ; If otherwise you seem to deal , He will your Deeds regard ; With Lips as cold as any Stone , She kiss'd the Children small ; God bless you both my Children dear , With that the Tears did fallen . These Speeches then their Brother spoke , To this sick Couple there , The keeping of your Children dear , Dear Sister do not fear , God never prosper me nor mine , Nor ought else that I have , If I do wrong your Children dear , When you're laid in the Grave . Their Parents being dead and gone , Their Children Home he takes And brings them Home unto the House , And much of them he makes . He had not kept these pretty Babes , A Twelvemonth and a Day , But for their Wealth he did devise , To make them both away . He bargain'd with two Ruffians rude , Who were of furious Mood , That they should take the Children young And slay them in a Wood ; He told his Wife and all he had , He would the children send , To be brought up in fair London , With one that was his Friend . Away went these two pretty Babes , Rejoicing at that Tide , And laughing with a merry Mind , They should on Cockhorse ride ; They talk'd and prattl'd pleasantly As they were on the Way , To those that should their Butchers be , And work their Lives Decay . So that the pretty Speech they had Made the Murderers Hearts relent , And they that took the Deed to do Full soar did it repent ; Yet one of them more hard of Heart , Did vow to do his Charge , Because the Wretch that hired him , Had paid him very large . The other would not agree thereto , So here they fell to Strife , With one another they did fight About the Children's Life ; And he that was of Milder mood , Did slay the Other there , Within and unfrequented Wood , The Babes did quake for fear . He took the Children by the Hands , While Tears stood in their Eyes , And bid them come and go with him And look they did not cry ; And two long Miles he led them thus , Till they for Bred complain'd , Stay here , quoth he , I'll bring you Bred When I do come again . These pretty Babes , with Hand in Hand Went wandering up and down But never more they saw the Man , Approaching from the Town . Their pretty Lips with Blackberries Were all besmear'd and dy'd . And when they saw the darksome Night They sat them down and cry'd . Thus wander'd these two pretty Babes , Till Death did end their Grief , In one another's Arms they dy'd Like Babes wanting Relief : No Burial these pretty Babes Of any Man receives , Till Robin-red-breast painfully , Did cover them with Leaves , And now the heavy Wrath of God , Upon their Uncle fell ; Yea frightful fiends did haunt his House , His Conscience felt in Hell : His barns were fir'd his Goods consum'd His Lands were barren made , His Cattle dy'd within the Field , And Nothing with him stay'd . And in a Voyage to Portugal , Two of his Sons did die , And to conclude himself was brought Unto much Misery : He pawn'd and mortgaged his Land , E'er seven Years came out And now at length this wicked Act Did by this Means come out The Fellow that did take in Hand , These Children for to kill , Was for a Robbery judg'd to die , As was God's blessed Will : Who did confess the very Truth , The whole is here express'd ; Their Uncle dy'd while he for Debt , Did long in Prison rest . All you that are Executors made , And Overseers eke , Of Children that are Fatherless , And Infants mild and meek ; Take now example by this Thing , And yield to each his Right , Lest God with such like Misery , Your wicked Deeds requite . Newcastle upon Tyne printed in this present Year . The Norfolk GENTLEMAN's Last Will and Testamen WHO On his Death Bed , committed the keeping of his Two CHILDREN , ( a Boy and a Girl ) to his Own BROTHER , who did most wickedly cause them to be destroyed , that so he might possess himself of the Children's Estate , but by the just Judgement of God , the Murder was found out , himself , and all that he had were de - stroyed from off the Face of the Earth . To and excellent New Tune call'd , Rogero : etc NOW ponder well you Parents dear , These Words which I shall write , A doleful Story you shall hear , In Time brought forth to Ligh A Gentleman of good Account , In Norfolk dwelled of late : Whose Wealth and Riches did surmount , Most Men of his Estate . Soar sick he was , and like to die , No Help that he could have , His Wife by him as sick did lie , And both possess'd one Grave : No Love between them two was lost , Each was to other kind : In Love they liv'd , in Love they dy'd , And left two Babes behind . The one a fine and pretty Boy , Not passing five Years old ; The other a Girl more young then he , And made in beauty's Mould The Father left his little Son , As plainly does appear , When he to perfect Age did come , Three hundred Pounds a Year . And to his little Daughter Jane , Five hundred Pounds in Gold , To be paid down on Marriage-day , Which might not be centroul'd : But if the Children chanc'd to die , E'er they to Age should come Their Uncle should possess their Wealth For so the Will did run . Now Brother , said the dying Man , Look to my Children dear , Be good unto my Boy and Girl , No Friends else have I here ; To God and you I do commend , My Children Night and Day ; But little While surely we have , Within this World to stay . You must be Father and Mother both , And Uncle all in one , Who knows what will become of them When I am dead and gone ? With that bespoke the Mother dear , O! Brother kind quoth she , You are the Man must bring my Babes , To Wealth or Misery . If you do keep them carefully , Then God will you reward ; If otherwise you seem to deal , He will your Deeds regard ; With Lips as cold as any Stone , She kiss'd the Children small ; God bless you both my Children dear , With that the Tears did fallen . These Speeches then their Brother spoke , To this sick Couple there , The keeping of your Children dear , Dear Sister do not fear , God never prosper me nor mine , Nor ought else that I have , If I do wrong your Children dear , When you're laid in the Grave . Their Parents being dead and gone , Their Children Home he takes And brings them Home unto the House , And much of them he makes . He had not kept these pretty Babes , A Twelvemonth and a Day , But for their Wealth he did devise , To make them both away . He bargain'd with two Ruffians rude , Who were of furious Mood , That they should take the Children young And slay them in a Wood ; He told his Wife and all he had , He would the children send , To be brought up in fair London , With one that was his Friend . Away went these two pretty Babes , Rejoicing at that Tide , And laughing with a merry Mind , They should on Cockhorse ride ; They talk'd and prattl'd pleasantly As they were on the Way , To those that should their Butchers be , And work their Lives Decay . So that the pretty Speech they had Made the Murderers Hearts relent , And they that took the Deed to do Full soar did it repent ; Yet one of them more hard of Heart , Did vow to do his Charge , Because the Wretch that hired him , Had paid him very large . The other would not agree thereto , So here they fell to Strife , With one another they did fight About the Children's Life ; And he that was of Milder mood , Did slay the Other there , Within and unfrequented Wood , The Babes did quake for fear . He took the Children by the Hands , While Tears stood in their Eyes , And bid them come and go with him And look they did not cry ; And two long Miles he led them thus , Till they for Bred complain'd , Stay here , quoth he , I'll bring you Bred When I do come again . These pretty Babes , with Hand in Hand Went wandering up and down But never more they saw the Man , Approaching from the Town . Their pretty Lips with Blackberries Were all besmear'd and dy'd . And when they saw the darksome Night They sat them down and cry'd . Thus wander'd these two pretty Babes , Till Death did end their Grief , In one another's Arms they dy'd Like Babes wanting Relief : No Burial these pretty Babes Of any Man receives , Till Robin-red-breast painfully , Did cover them with Leaves , And now the heavy Wrath of God , Upon their Uncle fell ; Yea frightful fiends did haunt his House , His Conscience felt in Hell : His barns were fir'd his Goods consum'd His Lands were barren made , His Cattle dy'd within the Field , And Nothing with him stay'd . And in a Voyage to Portugal , Two of his Sons did die , And to conclude himself was brought Unto much Misery : He pawn'd and mortgaged his Land , E'er seven Years came out And now at length this wicked Act Did by this Means come out The Fellow that did take in Hand , These Children for to kill , Was for a Robbery judg'd to die , As was God's blessed Will : Who did confess the very Truth , The whole is here express'd ; Their Uncle dy'd while he for Debt , Did long in Prison rest . All you that are Executors made , And Overseers eke , Of Children that are Fatherless , And Infants mild and meek ; Take now example by this Thing , And yield to each his Right , Lest God with such like Misery , Your wicked Deeds requite . Newcastle upon Tyne printed in this present Year . 