I would I were where HELEN lies , To its own Proper Tune . MY sweetest Sweet and fairest Fair , of Birth and Worth beyond compare , Thou art the Causer of my Care since first I loved thee : I would I were where Helen lies , where Helen lies , where Helen lies , For night and day on me she cries in Land where e'er she be . Thy Face is full of Blessedness , thy Lips are full of Comeliness , Thy Countenance is Loveliness , with Heart , Oh pity me ! I would I were , etc Pity and Virtue they do meet , which makes thy Body so complete , The Love of thee my only Sweet can only comfort me . I would I were , etc Yet GOD hath giv'n to me a Mind , the which to thee shall prove as kind , As any one that thou shalt find , of high or low Degree , I would I were , etc Yet ne'er theless I am content , and ne'er a whit my Love repent ; But think the time it was well spent though I disdained be , I would I were , etc Yet Venus lov'd a Shepherd's Swain , whose name is called Ordemain , And Ros'mond and inferior Man , why may not thou love me ? I would I were , etc Shall Contemplation be to me . the Height of my Felicity ? Shall I adore a Deity , can no ways passed be ? I would I were , etc Shall I continue still to love , whom neither Tears nor Sighs can move , Such Constancy will fully prove no Truth but flattery . I would I were , etc The shaldest River makes most Din , the deepest Pool the deadest Lin , The richest Man lest Truth within , though he preferred be . I would I were , etc The Eagle and the Cock a Match , can't stoop the Butterfly to catch . Nor can the Hare feed with the Ratch , no more canst thou love me . I would I were , etc But here I'll swear I'll be as true , as any one shall favour you , The Love I love I'll never rue , until the day I die . I would I were , etc My Heart to thee thou hast in Tie , with thee to live , and also die , I love thee for thy Constancy , and evermore shall do , I would I were , etc No Accident can have the Force , to change my Love , or yet it cross , Nor can the World with it's Dross , hinder my Love from you . I would I were , etc O Helen fair , without compare , let not Despair , nor killing Care , My pure Heart tear , but one word more , and say , thou pities me ! I would I were , etc O Helen Sweet and most complete , my captive Sp'rit pines at thy Feet , Oh think not fit thus for to treat , thy Pris'ner cruelly ! I would I were , etc O Helen brave this still I crave , on thy poor Slave some Pity have , Oh do him save who's near his Grave , and pines for Love of thee ! I would I were , etc , Oh Helen best , discreet , modest , who is possessed with thee , is bles With Happiness thou art increased , O if I were with thee ! I would I were , etc O Helen wise , do not despise the humble Cries of him that dies : Look where he lies , and bid him rise , and live , and hope for thee . I would I were , etc O Helen great in my conceit , my rigid Fate I must regret Rigour abate , do not him hate , who loves thee till he die ! I would I were , etc O Helen coy , my Love my Joy ; do not employ the winged Boy , Me to destroy , or to annoy that Heart , who sighs for thee ! I would I were , etc O Helen chaste , my Wounds bleed fast my Life does waste , and makes great haste , Thou wilt at last when time is past , repent thy Cruelty . I would I were , etc O Helen fair , Oh Helen sweet , Oh Helen brave , Oh Helen best , Oh Helen wise , Oh Helen great , Oh Helen coy and chas I would I were , etc Think on the Place where we have been , embracing of my Love Helen At Venus Game hath been right keen , but now I them deny . I would I were , etc O Helen rare , Oh Helen fair , I'll wear a Garland of thy Hair Shall cover me for evermore , until the day I die . I would I were , etc O that I were where I would be even beneath yond green wood Tree , And my own Deary on my knee so well as we should gree . I would I were where Helen lies , where Helen lies , where Helen lies , For night and day on me she cries , in Land where e'er she be . IFNIS I would I were where HELEN lies , To its own Proper Tune . MY sweetest Sweet and fairest Fair , of Birth and Worth beyond compare , Thou art the Causer of my Care since first I loved thee : I would I were where Helen lies , where Helen lies , where Helen lies , For night and day on me she cries in Land where e'er she be . Thy Face is full of Blessedness , thy Lips are full of Comeliness , Thy Countenance is Loveliness , with Heart , Oh pity me ! I would I were , etc Pity and Virtue they do meet , which makes thy Body so complete , The Love of thee my only Sweet can only comfort me . I would I were , etc Yet GOD hath giv'n to me a Mind , the which to thee shall prove as kind , As any one that thou shalt find , of high or low Degree , I would I were , etc Yet ne'er theless I am content , and ne'er a whit my Love repent ; But think the time it was well spent though I disdained be , I would I were , etc Yet Venus lov'd a Shepherd's Swain , whose name is called Ordemain , And Ros'mond and inferior Man , why may not thou love me ? I would I were , etc Shall Contemplation be to me . the Height of my Felicity ? Shall I adore a Deity , can no ways passed be ? I would I were , etc Shall I continue still to love , whom neither Tears nor Sighs can move , Such Constancy will fully prove no Truth but flattery . I would I were , etc The shaldest River makes most Din , the deepest Pool the deadest Lin , The richest Man lest Truth within , though he preferred be . I would I were , etc The Eagle and the Cock a Match , can't stoop the Butterfly to catch . Nor can the Hare feed with the Ratch , no more canst thou love me . I would I were , etc But here I'll swear I'll be as true , as any one shall favour you , The Love I love I'll never rue , until the day I die . I would I were , etc My Heart to thee thou hast in Tie , with thee to live , and also die , I love thee for thy Constancy , and evermore shall do , I would I were , etc No Accident can have the Force , to change my Love , or yet it cross , Nor can the World with it's Dross , hinder my Love from you . I would I were , etc O Helen fair , without compare , let not Despair , nor killing Care , My pure Heart tear , but one word more , and say , thou pities me ! I would I were , etc O Helen Sweet and most complete , my captive Sp'rit pines at thy Feet , Oh think not fit thus for to treat , thy Pris'ner cruelly ! I would I were , etc O Helen brave this still I crave , on thy poor Slave some Pity have , Oh do him save who's near his Grave , and pines for Love of thee ! I would I were , etc , Oh Helen best , discreet , modest , who is possessed with thee , is bles With Happiness thou art increased , O if I were with thee ! I would I were , etc O Helen wise , do not despise the humble Cries of him that dies : Look where he lies , and bid him rise , and live , and hope for thee . I would I were , etc O Helen great in my conceit , my rigid Fate I must regret Rigour abate , do not him hate , who loves thee till he die ! I would I were , etc O Helen coy , my Love my Joy ; do not employ the winged Boy , Me to destroy , or to annoy that Heart , who sighs for thee ! I would I were , etc O Helen chaste , my Wounds bleed fast my Life does waste , and makes great haste , Thou wilt at last when time is past , repent thy Cruelty . I would I were , etc O Helen fair , Oh Helen sweet , Oh Helen brave , Oh Helen best , Oh Helen wise , Oh Helen great , Oh Helen coy and chas I would I were , etc Think on the Place where we have been , embracing of my Love Helen At Venus Game hath been right keen , but now I them deny . I would I were , etc O Helen rare , Oh Helen fair , I'll wear a Garland of thy Hair Shall cover me for evermore , until the day I die . I would I were , etc O that I were where I would be even beneath yond green wood Tree , And my own Deary on my knee so well as we should gree . I would I were where Helen lies , where Helen lies , where Helen lies , For night and day on me she cries , in Land where e'er she be . IFNIS 