The Wanton Wife of Bath . To the Tune of , Flying Fame , etc IN Bath a wanton wife did dwell , as Chaucer he does write ; Who did in pleasure spend her days , in many found delight ; Upon a time soar sick she was , and at the length did die , Her soul at last to heaven's gate , did knock most mightily . Then Adam came unto the gate , Who knocketh there ? quoth he . I am the Wife of Bath , she said , and fain would counterfeit [ me ] to thee . Thou art a sinner , Adam said , and here no place shall have . Alas , for you good Sir , she said , now g [ ip ] you doting knave ; I will come in , in spite , she said , of all such churls as thee ; Thou were the causer of our woe , and our pain misery : And first broke God's commandments , in pleasure of thy wife . When Adam herd her tell this tale , he ran away for life . Then down came Jacob at the gate , and bids her pack to hell . Thou false deceiver , why , said she , thou mayest be there as well ; For thou deceiv'dst thy father dear , and thine own brother too . Away went Jacob presently , and made no more ado . She knocks again with might and main and Lot he chides her straigh Why then , quoth she , thou drunken ass who bids thee here to wait ? With thy two daughters thou didst lie , on them two bastards god ; And thus most tauntingly she chaste against poor silly Lot . Who knocks there , quoth Judith then , with such shrill sounding notes ? Alas , fine minks you cannot hear , quoth she , for cutting throats . Good Lord , how Judith blushed for shame , when she herd her say so . King David hearing of the same , he to the gate did go , Quod David , Who knocks there so loud , and makes all this strife ? The Wanton Wife of Bath . To the Tune of , Flying Fame , etc IN Bath a wanton wife did dwell , as Chaucer he does write ; Who did in pleasure spend her days , in many found delight ; Upon a time soar sick she was , and at the length did die , Her soul at last to heaven's gate , did knock most mightily . Then Adam came unto the gate , Who knocketh there ? quoth he . I am the Wife of Bath , she said , and fain would counterfeit [ me ] to thee . Thou art a sinner , Adam said , and here no place shall have . Alas , for you good Sir , she said , now g [ ip ] you doting knave ; I will come in , in spite , she said , of all such churls as thee ; Thou were the causer of our woe , and our pain misery : And first broke God's commandments , in pleasure of thy wife . When Adam herd her tell this tale , he ran away for life . Then down came Jacob at the gate , and bids her pack to hell . Thou false deceiver , why , said she , thou mayest be there as well ; For thou deceiv'dst thy father dear , and thine own brother too . Away went Jacob presently , and made no more ado . She knocks again with might and main and Lot he chides her straigh Why then , quoth she , thou drunken ass who bids thee here to wait ? With thy two daughters thou didst lie , on them two bastards god ; And thus most tauntingly she chaste against poor silly Lot . Who knocks there , quoth Judith then , with such shrill sounding notes ? Alas , fine minks you cannot hear , quoth she , for cutting throats . Good Lord , how Judith blushed for shame , when she herd her say so . King David hearing of the same , he to the gate did go , Quod David , Who knocks there so loud , and makes all this strife ? 