The WOODY CHORISTERS ; Or ; The BIRDS Harmony . In TWO PARTS . When Birds could speak , and Women they Had neither Good or Bad to say ; The pretty Birds then fill'd with Pain , Did to each other thus complain . O ! said the Cukow , loud and stout , I fly the country round about ; While other birds my young ones feed , And I myself do stand in need . Then says the sparrow on her nest , I lov'd a Lass , but it was in jest ; And ever since that selfsame thing , I made a wow I ne'er would sing . In came the Robin and thus he said , I loved once and ill-favour'd maid ; Her beauty kindled such a spark , That on my breast I bear the mark . Then said the Lark upon the Grass , I loved once a well-favour'd Lass : But she would not hear her true love sing , Tho' he had a voice would please a king . Then said the Black Bird as he fled , I loved one but she is dead ; And ever since my love I lack , This is the cause I mourn in black . O said the bonny Nightingale , Then I must end my mournful Tale ; While others sing , I fit and mourn , Leaning my breast upon a Thorn . Ah! says the Water-Wag-Tail then , I ne'er shall be myself again ; I loved one , but could not prevail , This is the cause I wag my tail . Then says the party colour'd Jay , My dearest Love is gone away ; And in remembrance of my dear , A feather of each sort I wear . Then says the leather-winged Bat , Mind but my tail , I'll tell you what Is the cause I fly by night , Because I lost my heart's delight . Then said the Green-Finch as she flew , I loved one that prov'd untrue : And since he can no more be seen , Love like a sick-maid I turn to green . Then did begin the chattering Swallow , My love is fled , but I'll not follow , And now upon the chimney high , I sing forth my poor melody . O says the Owl , my love is gone , That I did so much dote upon ; I know not how my love to follow But after her to hoop and hollow . Then says the Lap-Wing as she flies , I search the meadows and the skies : But cannot find my love again , So about I fly in deadly pain . Then says thrush I squeak and sing , Which does to me no comfort bring ; For oftentimes I at midnight Record my love and heart's delight . The Canary Bird she then come in , To tell her tale she did begin : I am of my dear love bereft , So I have my own country left . The Chaff-Finch then begins to speak , For love , quoth she , my heart will break , I grieve for you , it don't appear , I sing but two months in the year . Then quoth the Magpie I was crossed In love , and now my dear is lost ; And warning of my heart's delight , I mourn for him in black and white . O says the Rook , and eke the Crow , The reason why so black we grow ; It is because we are forsook , Come pity us , poor Crow and Rook . The Bull-Finch was in a rage , And nothing could his wrath assuage ; So in the woods he would not dwell , But spend his time in a doleful cell . Thus you have herd the birds complaint Taking delight in their restraint ; Let this to all a pattern be , For to delight in constancy . PART . II DOWN as I lay one morning in May , My hands they were coupled fas My heart did rejoice to hear the pleasant voice Of the Birds in the air as they passed . Then comes the Nightingale , Speaking the words so plain , I prithee kind heart , take it in good part , And love when thou art lov'd again . Then says Tom-Tit-Mouse there be some men That will change nine times a day : Oh then says the Wren there be some Women That will change as often as they . O then says the Crow , if it be so , I'll give you leave to smite off my head ; For a man unjust , no woman will him trust , Until the very day he is dead . O then says the Pie , tell me the reason why You judge so hardly of men ? O then says the Lark I speak it from my heart , That Women are worse than them ? O then says the Dove I once had a love , And she loved me very kind : Oh says the Rook I'll be sworn to a book ! Such another is hard to find . O says the Daw I care not a straw , Altho' I may choose me a mate : Oh then say the Thrush , you shall have her in a rush , And take her a lower rate . O then says the Duck , I wish you better luck Than a man that I do know : When he's from home , there's another in his room , And so says the Cuckoo too . Printed and Sold in Aldermary Church Yard Bow Lane , London . The WOODY CHORISTERS ; Or ; The BIRDS Harmony . In TWO PARTS . When Birds could speak , and Women they Had neither Good or Bad to say ; The pretty Birds then fill'd with Pain , Did to each other thus complain . O ! said the Cukow , loud and stout , I fly the country round about ; While other birds my young ones feed , And I myself do stand in need . Then says the sparrow on her nest , I lov'd a Lass , but it was in jest ; And ever since that selfsame thing , I made a wow I ne'er would sing . In came the Robin and thus he said , I loved once and ill-favour'd maid ; Her beauty kindled such a spark , That on my breast I bear the mark . Then said the Lark upon the Grass , I loved once a well-favour'd Lass : But she would not hear her true love sing , Tho' he had a voice would please a king . Then said the Black Bird as he fled , I loved one but she is dead ; And ever since my love I lack , This is the cause I mourn in black . O said the bonny Nightingale , Then I must end my mournful Tale ; While others sing , I fit and mourn , Leaning my breast upon a Thorn . Ah! says the Water-Wag-Tail then , I ne'er shall be myself again ; I loved one , but could not prevail , This is the cause I wag my tail . Then says the party colour'd Jay , My dearest Love is gone away ; And in remembrance of my dear , A feather of each sort I wear . Then says the leather-winged Bat , Mind but my tail , I'll tell you what Is the cause I fly by night , Because I lost my heart's delight . Then said the Green-Finch as she flew , I loved one that prov'd untrue : And since he can no more be seen , Love like a sick-maid I turn to green . Then did begin the chattering Swallow , My love is fled , but I'll not follow , And now upon the chimney high , I sing forth my poor melody . O says the Owl , my love is gone , That I did so much dote upon ; I know not how my love to follow But after her to hoop and hollow . Then says the Lap-Wing as she flies , I search the meadows and the skies : But cannot find my love again , So about I fly in deadly pain . Then says thrush I squeak and sing , Which does to me no comfort bring ; For oftentimes I at midnight Record my love and heart's delight . The Canary Bird she then come in , To tell her tale she did begin : I am of my dear love bereft , So I have my own country left . The Chaff-Finch then begins to speak , For love , quoth she , my heart will break , I grieve for you , it don't appear , I sing but two months in the year . Then quoth the Magpie I was crossed In love , and now my dear is lost ; And warning of my heart's delight , I mourn for him in black and white . O says the Rook , and eke the Crow , The reason why so black we grow ; It is because we are forsook , Come pity us , poor Crow and Rook . The Bull-Finch was in a rage , And nothing could his wrath assuage ; So in the woods he would not dwell , But spend his time in a doleful cell . Thus you have herd the birds complaint Taking delight in their restraint ; Let this to all a pattern be , For to delight in constancy . PART . II DOWN as I lay one morning in May , My hands they were coupled fas My heart did rejoice to hear the pleasant voice Of the Birds in the air as they passed . Then comes the Nightingale , Speaking the words so plain , I prithee kind heart , take it in good part , And love when thou art lov'd again . Then says Tom-Tit-Mouse there be some men That will change nine times a day : Oh then says the Wren there be some Women That will change as often as they . O then says the Crow , if it be so , I'll give you leave to smite off my head ; For a man unjust , no woman will him trust , Until the very day he is dead . O then says the Pie , tell me the reason why You judge so hardly of men ? O then says the Lark I speak it from my heart , That Women are worse than them ? O then says the Dove I once had a love , And she loved me very kind : Oh says the Rook I'll be sworn to a book ! Such another is hard to find . O says the Daw I care not a straw , Altho' I may choose me a mate : Oh then say the Thrush , you shall have her in a rush , And take her a lower rate . O then says the Duck , I wish you better luck Than a man that I do know : When he's from home , there's another in his room , And so says the Cuckoo too . Printed and Sold in Aldermary Church Yard Bow Lane , London . 