The Unhappy VOYAGE . Giving and Account of the Royal Anne Galley , Captain Willis Commander which was split to Pieces on the Stag Rocks on the Lizard the 10th of November , 1721. having on board the Lord Belhaven , who was going as Governor to Barbadoes , with several other Persons of Distinction , the whole Number on board being 210 , out of which there were only three saved ; whose Names are George Hain , William Godfrey , and Thomas Laurence , a Boy . To the Tune of , Women's Work is never done , etc O ! the sad and dismal Story , Brought from off the Lizard Rocks , The Royal Anne in all her Glory , There receiv'd a fatal Shock : The Winds and Waves did both conspire , For to ruin all therein : O Belhaven ! brave Belhaven ! Most unhappy hast thou been . Governor unto Barbadoes , He was sailing bold and brave , Little dreaming it was his Fortune , For to have a watery Grave ; With many more brave noble Persons , Which were put in Place of Trust , But o ! their Sands were just expiring , Their Time was come and die they must . Above two hundred Souls were perish'd , In and Instant all were lost , By furious Winds and Waves were driven , On the Stag Rocks they were cast ; Oh! the dismal Cries and Scriekings , 'Twould have pierc'd a Heart of Stone , When the Galley split to Pieces , For to hear their piteous Moan . Of all that were on board the Vessel , Only three could reach the Shore , Who on a Wreck by the Winds were carried , Thro' the Waves and Billows roar : Then praise the Lord for his great Mercy , You that thus have been preserv'd , Adore and magnify his Goodness , Willingly your Maker serve . Captain Willis was Commander , At this most unhappy Time , Savage to be Attorney General , With many more just in their Prime , Where going over for to settle , At Barbadoes we do hear . But by the Ocean they were follow'd , As they did their Courses steer . What a Scene of dismal Horror , There was seen when this was o're , Bodies floating on the Ocean , By the Waves were drove on Shore , And the Country People running , Striving who should get the most , Stripping all without Distinction , 'Tis the Custom of the Coast . One Gentleman was drove on Shore , 'Bout whom they found a thousand Pound , Whose Name's supposed to be Crosier , By Writings in his Pockets found : Likewise they say the Lord Belhaven , Having on a Diamond Ring , His Shirt mark'd B. the floating Ocean , Did to Shore his Body bring . Oh! the Grief and sad Distraction , Which this Accident hath brought , On the Wives and near Relations , Of the Persons that are lost ; Some for Husbands , other Father's , Brother's , Kinsmen , do lament , With aching Hearts , and weeping Eyes , To think how from them they are rend . But now observe the dismal Story , Given by these three that's sav'd , George Hain , likewise William Godfrey , And Thomas Laurence , a Boy 'tis said , As to Barbadoes we were sailing , Lord Belhaven , he did say , Come noble Boys and jovial Sailors , Happy may our Voyage be . But drawing near unto the Lizard , There the Storm began to rise , Nothing then but Desolation , Did appear before our Eyes , Such a dreadful Scene of Sorrow , Sure before was never seen , O Belhaven ! brave Belhaven ! Most unhappy hast thou been . Captain Willis cry'd brave Sailors , Do your best , or die we must , Lord have Mercy , now relieve us , In thy Providence we trust . Save us in the Time of Danger , For Death before our Eyes appear , And when they found all Hope were over , In Tears they all fell down to Prayer . Then against the fatal Rocks , The Royal Galley split in twain , Two hundred Souls aloud were crying , Lord save us from the watery Main , To see each for his Life a shifting , As the Waves tossed Mountains high , The Galley in the Deep a sinking , While dying Groans did pierce the Sky . I see the Noble Lord Belhaven , Climbing to the Top-Mast high , With many more of Birth and Breeding , Who likewise in the Waves did die , At length the Galley split in Pieces , Death put and End to all their Woe , We three poor Souls upon a Wreck , With Waves was tossed too and from . At length unto the Shore was driven , Where the People took us in ; We prais'd the Lord for his great Mercy , Since we thus preserv'd have been , And sav'd us in the fatal Hour , When the Waves did us surround , And a many Souls did perish , And before our Eyes were drown'd . Oh! the dreadful Grief and Sorrow , That their Wives and Children bear , Wives a weeping for their Husbands , The Children for their Father dear , Let each tender Heart implore them , And pity the Sorrow they are in , And think upon the Lord Belhaven , How unhappy he has been . A noble Lady in the City , Hearing of her Husband's Death , 'Twould have mov'd a Heart of Pity , To hear the Words she did express , Crying , Oh my tender Jewel , Is a watery Wave thy Tomb , I'll search the Deep to find my Dear , Oh cruel Death come seize me soon . Thus she raves in sad Distraction , In her Bed with Cords she's bound , Crying Night and Day my Jewel , He is in the Ocean drown'd : Thus many a mournful Widow , And Babies Fatherless are made , Consider then the many Dangers , Which poor Sailors thro' do wade . Many more that Night did perish , In the Storm as we do hear , As in the Downs the Fleet was riding , Some Lord Belhaven's Fate did share ; Lord keep us from all such Disaster , Deliver us from sudden Death , And give us Grace that we may serve , The mighty God while we have Breath . The Unhappy VOYAGE . Giving and Account of the Royal Anne Galley , Captain Willis Commander which was split to Pieces on the Stag Rocks on the Lizard the 10th of November , 1721. having on board the Lord Belhaven , who was going as Governor to Barbadoes , with several other Persons of Distinction , the whole Number on board being 210 , out of which there were only three saved ; whose Names are George Hain , William Godfrey , and Thomas Laurence , a Boy . To the Tune of , Women's Work is never done , etc O ! the sad and dismal Story , Brought from off the Lizard Rocks , The Royal Anne in all her Glory , There receiv'd a fatal Shock : The Winds and Waves did both conspire , For to ruin all therein : O Belhaven ! brave Belhaven ! Most unhappy hast thou been . Governor unto Barbadoes , He was sailing bold and brave , Little dreaming it was his Fortune , For to have a watery Grave ; With many more brave noble Persons , Which were put in Place of Trust , But o ! their Sands were just expiring , Their Time was come and die they must . Above two hundred Souls were perish'd , In and Instant all were lost , By furious Winds and Waves were driven , On the Stag Rocks they were cast ; Oh! the dismal Cries and Scriekings , 'Twould have pierc'd a Heart of Stone , When the Galley split to Pieces , For to hear their piteous Moan . Of all that were on board the Vessel , Only three could reach the Shore , Who on a Wreck by the Winds were carried , Thro' the Waves and Billows roar : Then praise the Lord for his great Mercy , You that thus have been preserv'd , Adore and magnify his Goodness , Willingly your Maker serve . Captain Willis was Commander , At this most unhappy Time , Savage to be Attorney General , With many more just in their Prime , Where going over for to settle , At Barbadoes we do hear . But by the Ocean they were follow'd , As they did their Courses steer . What a Scene of dismal Horror , There was seen when this was o're , Bodies floating on the Ocean , By the Waves were drove on Shore , And the Country People running , Striving who should get the most , Stripping all without Distinction , 'Tis the Custom of the Coast . One Gentleman was drove on Shore , 'Bout whom they found a thousand Pound , Whose Name's supposed to be Crosier , By Writings in his Pockets found : Likewise they say the Lord Belhaven , Having on a Diamond Ring , His Shirt mark'd B. the floating Ocean , Did to Shore his Body bring . Oh! the Grief and sad Distraction , Which this Accident hath brought , On the Wives and near Relations , Of the Persons that are lost ; Some for Husbands , other Father's , Brother's , Kinsmen , do lament , With aching Hearts , and weeping Eyes , To think how from them they are rend . But now observe the dismal Story , Given by these three that's sav'd , George Hain , likewise William Godfrey , And Thomas Laurence , a Boy 'tis said , As to Barbadoes we were sailing , Lord Belhaven , he did say , Come noble Boys and jovial Sailors , Happy may our Voyage be . But drawing near unto the Lizard , There the Storm began to rise , Nothing then but Desolation , Did appear before our Eyes , Such a dreadful Scene of Sorrow , Sure before was never seen , O Belhaven ! brave Belhaven ! Most unhappy hast thou been . Captain Willis cry'd brave Sailors , Do your best , or die we must , Lord have Mercy , now relieve us , In thy Providence we trust . Save us in the Time of Danger , For Death before our Eyes appear , And when they found all Hope were over , In Tears they all fell down to Prayer . Then against the fatal Rocks , The Royal Galley split in twain , Two hundred Souls aloud were crying , Lord save us from the watery Main , To see each for his Life a shifting , As the Waves tossed Mountains high , The Galley in the Deep a sinking , While dying Groans did pierce the Sky . I see the Noble Lord Belhaven , Climbing to the Top-Mast high , With many more of Birth and Breeding , Who likewise in the Waves did die , At length the Galley split in Pieces , Death put and End to all their Woe , We three poor Souls upon a Wreck , With Waves was tossed too and from . At length unto the Shore was driven , Where the People took us in ; We prais'd the Lord for his great Mercy , Since we thus preserv'd have been , And sav'd us in the fatal Hour , When the Waves did us surround , And a many Souls did perish , And before our Eyes were drown'd . Oh! the dreadful Grief and Sorrow , That their Wives and Children bear , Wives a weeping for their Husbands , The Children for their Father dear , Let each tender Heart implore them , And pity the Sorrow they are in , And think upon the Lord Belhaven , How unhappy he has been . A noble Lady in the City , Hearing of her Husband's Death , 'Twould have mov'd a Heart of Pity , To hear the Words she did express , Crying , Oh my tender Jewel , Is a watery Wave thy Tomb , I'll search the Deep to find my Dear , Oh cruel Death come seize me soon . Thus she raves in sad Distraction , In her Bed with Cords she's bound , Crying Night and Day my Jewel , He is in the Ocean drown'd : Thus many a mournful Widow , And Babies Fatherless are made , Consider then the many Dangers , Which poor Sailors thro' do wade . Many more that Night did perish , In the Storm as we do hear , As in the Downs the Fleet was riding , Some Lord Belhaven's Fate did share ; Lord keep us from all such Disaster , Deliver us from sudden Death , And give us Grace that we may serve , The mighty God while we have Breath . 