The Children in the Wood : OR , THE Norfolk Gentleman's last Will and Testament NOW ponder well , you parents dear , The words which I shall write , A doleful story you shall hear , In time brought forth to light ; A Gentleman of good account , In Norfolk dwelled of late , Who did in honour far surmount , Most men of his estate . Soar sick he was , and like to die , No help his life could save ; His wife by him as sick did lie , And both possessed one grave . No love between these two were lost , Each was to the other kind , In love they liv'd , in love they dy'd , And left two babes behind . The one was a fine and pretty boy , Not passing five years old , The other girl more young than he , And fram'd in beauty's mould . The father left his little son , As plainly does appear , When he to perfect age should come , Three hundred pounds a year . And to his little daughter Jane , Six hundred pounds in gold , To be paid on the marriage day , Which might not be controul'd . But if these children chanc'd to die , E're they to age did come , Their Uncle should possess their wealth , For so the will did run . Now , brother , said the dying man , Look to my children dear , Be kind unto my boy and girl , No friend else have they hear To god and you I recommend , My children dear this day ; But little time we have , 'tis sure , Within this world to stay . You must be father and mother both , And Uncle all in one : God knows what will become of them , When we are dead and gone . And thus bespoke the mother dear , Oh! brother kind quoth she , You are the man must bring our babes , To wealth or misery . And if you keep them carefully , Then God will you reward , But if you otherwise should deal , God will your deeds regard . With lips as cold as any stone , They kiss'd their children small , God bless you both our children dear , Then down the tears did fallen . These speeches then the brother spoke , To this sick couple here , The keeping of your children dear , Dear sister , do not fear . God never prosper me nor mine , Nor ought else that I have , If I do wrong your children dear , When you are laid in the grave . The parents being dead and gone , The children home he takes , And brings them strait unto his house , Where much of them he makes . He had not kept these pretty babes , A twelvemonth and a day , But for their wealth he did devise , To take their lives away . He bargain'd with two ruffians strong , Who were of furious mood , That they should take these children , And slay them in a wood . Then told his wife and all he had , He did the children send , For to be brought up in fair London , By one that was his friend . A way then went these pretty babes , Rejoicing at that tide , Rejoicing with a merry mood , They should on horseback ride . They prate and prattle pleasantly , As they road on the way , To those that should their butchers be , And work their lives decay . So that the pretty speech they made , Made the murderer's heart relent , They who undertook the deed , Full sorely did repent . Yet one of them most hard of heart , Did vow to do his charge , Because the wretch that hired him , Had paid him very large . The other won't thereto agree , So here they went to strife , And then together they did fight , About the children's life . And he that was the mildest mood , Did slay the other there , Within and unfrequented wood , While babes did quake for fear . He took the children by the hand , While tears stood in their eyes , And bid them straightway follow him , And see they did not cry . And two long miles he led them then , While they for bred complain , Stay here , quoth he , I'll bring you bred , When I come back again . These pretty babes went hand in hand , And wander'd up and down , But never more did see the man , Approaching from the town . Their pretty lips with blackberries , Were all besmear'd and dy'd , And when they saw the darksome night , They sat them down and cry'd . Thus wander'd these two pretty babes , 'Till death did end their grief , In one another's arms they dy'd , As babes wanting relief . No burial these two pretty babes , Of any man receives , 'Till Robin read breast painfully , Did cover them with leaves . And now the heavy wrath of God , Upon their Uncle fell : Yea frightful fiends did haunt his house , His conscience felt in hell . His barns were fir'd , his house consum'd , His lands were barren made , His cattle dy'd within his field , And nothing with him stay'd . And in a voyage to Portugal , Two of his sons did die , And to conclude himself was brought , To want and misery . He pawn'd and mortgaged his land , E're seven years were out , Sorrow at length this wicked deed , By this means was found out . The fellow that did take in hand , The children for to kill , Was for a murder judg'd to die , As was God's blessed will . He did confess the very truth , The which is here expressed , Their Uncle dy'd when he for debt , Did long in prison rest . You that executors be made , And overseers eke , Of children that be fatherless , And infants mild and meek . Take you example by this thing , And yield to each his right , Lest God , for such like cruelty , Your wicked minds requite . London : Printed and Sold in Stonecutter-street Fleet Market . The Children in the Wood : OR , THE Norfolk Gentleman's last Will and Testament NOW ponder well , you parents dear , The words which I shall write , A doleful story you shall hear , In time brought forth to light ; A Gentleman of good account , In Norfolk dwelled of late , Who did in honour far surmount , Most men of his estate . Soar sick he was , and like to die , No help his life could save ; His wife by him as sick did lie , And both possessed one grave . No love between these two were lost , Each was to the other kind , In love they liv'd , in love they dy'd , And left two babes behind . The one was a fine and pretty boy , Not passing five years old , The other girl more young than he , And fram'd in beauty's mould . The father left his little son , As plainly does appear , When he to perfect age should come , Three hundred pounds a year . And to his little daughter Jane , Six hundred pounds in gold , To be paid on the marriage day , Which might not be controul'd . But if these children chanc'd to die , E're they to age did come , Their Uncle should possess their wealth , For so the will did run . Now , brother , said the dying man , Look to my children dear , Be kind unto my boy and girl , No friend else have they hear To god and you I recommend , My children dear this day ; But little time we have , 'tis sure , Within this world to stay . You must be father and mother both , And Uncle all in one : God knows what will become of them , When we are dead and gone . And thus bespoke the mother dear , Oh! brother kind quoth she , You are the man must bring our babes , To wealth or misery . And if you keep them carefully , Then God will you reward , But if you otherwise should deal , God will your deeds regard . With lips as cold as any stone , They kiss'd their children small , God bless you both our children dear , Then down the tears did fallen . These speeches then the brother spoke , To this sick couple here , The keeping of your children dear , Dear sister , do not fear . God never prosper me nor mine , Nor ought else that I have , If I do wrong your children dear , When you are laid in the grave . The parents being dead and gone , The children home he takes , And brings them strait unto his house , Where much of them he makes . He had not kept these pretty babes , A twelvemonth and a day , But for their wealth he did devise , To take their lives away . He bargain'd with two ruffians strong , Who were of furious mood , That they should take these children , And slay them in a wood . Then told his wife and all he had , He did the children send , For to be brought up in fair London , By one that was his friend . A way then went these pretty babes , Rejoicing at that tide , Rejoicing with a merry mood , They should on horseback ride . They prate and prattle pleasantly , As they road on the way , To those that should their butchers be , And work their lives decay . So that the pretty speech they made , Made the murderer's heart relent , They who undertook the deed , Full sorely did repent . Yet one of them most hard of heart , Did vow to do his charge , Because the wretch that hired him , Had paid him very large . The other won't thereto agree , So here they went to strife , And then together they did fight , About the children's life . And he that was the mildest mood , Did slay the other there , Within and unfrequented wood , While babes did quake for fear . He took the children by the hand , While tears stood in their eyes , And bid them straightway follow him , And see they did not cry . And two long miles he led them then , While they for bred complain , Stay here , quoth he , I'll bring you bred , When I come back again . These pretty babes went hand in hand , And wander'd up and down , But never more did see the man , Approaching from the town . Their pretty lips with blackberries , Were all besmear'd and dy'd , And when they saw the darksome night , They sat them down and cry'd . Thus wander'd these two pretty babes , 'Till death did end their grief , In one another's arms they dy'd , As babes wanting relief . No burial these two pretty babes , Of any man receives , 'Till Robin read breast painfully , Did cover them with leaves . And now the heavy wrath of God , Upon their Uncle fell : Yea frightful fiends did haunt his house , His conscience felt in hell . His barns were fir'd , his house consum'd , His lands were barren made , His cattle dy'd within his field , And nothing with him stay'd . And in a voyage to Portugal , Two of his sons did die , And to conclude himself was brought , To want and misery . He pawn'd and mortgaged his land , E're seven years were out , Sorrow at length this wicked deed , By this means was found out . The fellow that did take in hand , The children for to kill , Was for a murder judg'd to die , As was God's blessed will . He did confess the very truth , The which is here expressed , Their Uncle dy'd when he for debt , Did long in prison rest . You that executors be made , And overseers eke , Of children that be fatherless , And infants mild and meek . Take you example by this thing , And yield to each his right , Lest God , for such like cruelty , Your wicked minds requite . London : Printed and Sold in Stonecutter-street Fleet Market . 