THE Loyal Martyrs ; or , Bloody Inquisiror . BEING A just Account of the Mercenary and Inhuman Barbarities transacted in the Inquisition of Spain . Showing , How a Gentleman having married , a young Lady in St James's Street , they agreed to travel togteher for the Space of five Years , to see foreign Parts . How as soon as they came to Spain , intending to take a View of the Place , they were both seiz'd by Order of the Inquisitor . Also how they were separately examined and charged with Crimes that they were innocent of . How they underwent their Punishments inflicted on them , in order to exhort a Confession from them . Like - wise , how they were tried by their Court of Justice , and condemn'd to be burned alive . The Manner of their Behaviour at the Place of Execution , where they were tormented near two Hours before they expired , during which Time there continued a dreadful [ s ] torment of Thunder and Light'ning nthose cruel Wretches that came to see them suffer . How a Gentleman and his Lady tra - velled to Spain , and what Misfor - tune happened them . OF all the Nations in the Universe , There's none sure can compare With Spain , for bloody Sentences , As I'll to you declare : The Manner of their Inquisition , Is what I shall relate : A beauteous Couple , as we hear , Fell in their Hands of late . first will let you understand , This 'Squire's Name and Place Of dwelling , when he left this Land , Which prov'd unfortunate . He liv'd in St. James's Street , Arrow Smith was his Name ; He had four hundred Pounds a Year With his Lady of Fame . For Beauty none could her exc [ e ] e [ worser ] She was so lovely fair ; Her Cheeks were like the fragrant Rose Few could with her compare . She was the Beauty of the Age , And he as fine a Youth ; Which did each others Love engage , As we hear for a Truth . He says to his Lady one Day , My Dear , will you agree To go with me to foreign Parts , Their Customs for to see : And about the Space of five Years Time We will return again , Here back into our native Place , Where we will then remain . She answer'd Love , I'm ready to Obey all you [ r ] Commands ; And with you thro' the World will go Freely with Heart and Hand . I am not in the least afraid To travel where you please ; For you are all I valve here , My whole Support and Ease . Then Preparations soon were made , They having both agreed , s That first of all to Spain they'd go , So they set out with Speed . They took with them two serving Men Upon then for to wait ; But now their Scene of Misery , To you I will relate . A spacious Lodging there they took , Some Days in Pleasure spent , In viewing of the Country round , Which was their sole Inten At last a wicked Jesuit , Upon her cast and Eye , Saying , If I do not her enjoy , They surely both shall die . This Villain us'd all Means he could , To gain her Company , But never could obtain his Ends , To stain her Chastity : At last he being swell'd with Rage , And wicked Lust did burn , He gave and Information there Were two that would not turn . The Inquisitor said , then let them Be brought then before me , To answer for their Insolence , I'll soon make them agree : How dare they to withstand our Laws , That are so good and just . If they be stubborn in their Ways , They shall burn to Dust. This beauteous Couple then were seiz'd Not knowing what they meant , The Lady fright'ned to them said , Pray what is your Intent ? I know no Harm that we have done , What means this sudden Strife ? They said to join in our just Cause , Or else you'll loose your Life . The 'Squire before the Inquisitor , He was examined first , To know the Reason why he did Withstand their Laws so just . He answer'd very boldly then , Before that I will turn , From the Religion I profess , I'll sooner choose to burn . The 'Squire and his Lady at the Inqui - sition House examining before the Inquisitor . THE Inquisitor was then enrag'd , Saying , Tortures , Hell , and Fire , You surely , Sir , shall have , Since it is your Desire : You guilty are of many Crimes , Though you do them deny ; But if that you'll confess and turn , I'll use you handsomely . Your Superstition I defy , I've nothing more to say : The Inquisitor gave Order then For to take him away . And punish him as I'll describe , Because he would not plead ; Which when I do relate the same , 'Twill make your Hearts to bleed . Then in a Dungeon dismal dark , They separate were confin'd . Poor Souls they little thought what Death They had for them design'd . The Lady she was frightened much , And seem'd to grieve full soar ; And for to see each other's Face , They did the Lord implore . A Fire quickly was prepar'd , Before it he was brought . And mov'd Feet foremost by Degrees , Till they his Feet had scorch'd . He never seem'd to winch or cry , But still endure the Pain ; And when his Life was almost spent , They brought him back again . The Lady next examin'd was . Of Crimes she did not know : The Judge said , Child if you'll confess I will you Mercy show . Confess what ! O Sir , she did say , I know not what you mean ; To my dear God I will be just , I valve not your Spleen . He said , Child if you'll but understand , You are in a wrong Cause : I'd have you know you're in this Land Submit to our just Laws ; Or else you and your Husband both , Your Trial soon shall take : For Heretics you shall be burn'd , If you don't it forsake . As for your Punishments she said , I valve not a Pin. One Thing of you I have to crave , To see my Dear again ; And grant we both in one Urn , Together may expire ; For this our good and glorious Cause , Is all here I desire . The Inquisitor said , Lady fair , Pray don't so stubborn be , I'll save you if you confess , The Crimes you have done to me . To our good Religion turn , Then happy you may dwell ; But if you don't , you'll surely burn , And both will go to Hell . Undauntedly she Answer made , Your Subtle I defy , All the Torments you can invent , Shall ne'er make me deny The blessed Tracks of my dear Christ That will my Guardian be , Preserve me from tormenting Pains , To all Eternity . To the Secretary then he said , Now I am fully bent , Since my Commands she won't bey , A severe Punishment . She speedily shall undergo , And I will see it done ; She shall severely tortur'd be , Because she will not turn . The 'Squire and his Lady undergoing the Torture the Inquisitor put them to , because they would not turn to be Roman Catholics . THEY tied her down upon her Back Likewise her Hands and Feet , Poor Soul the Cords they tied so tied On her made her swea Then Water through a fine Lawn Cloth , They pour'd down her Throat ; But still to them she'd not comply , Though she was almost choak'd . The Inquisitor gave Order then , That she should be untied , And for their stubborn Insolence , They both should soon be tried . Poor Lady she was almost spent , With their cursed Cruelty ; But the first Word she spoke was this , Before I'll turn , I'll die . You may torment my Body here , But cannot hurt my Soul ; With Patience I'll your Torments bear , You ne'er shall me control : My blessed God is good and just , And will stand by me still ; So I'm resolv'd still to observe His blessed holy Will . Sure such undaunted Courage in Woman's seldom found ; She was sent back unto the Place , Till she receiv'd her Doom . 'Twas in a dismal Dungeon where No Light was to be seen ; She valued not what she endured , For the blessed Cause she stood in . Six Months this 'Squire and his Love , Confin'd was in this Place ; He said , Oh God , grant that I Once more may see her Face : I valve not these Wertches Spleen , Could I preserve my Wife : I all the Torments do defy , I valve not my Life . Poor Souls they had a great Desire , Each other for to see ; The Jailor that attended them , Said , Sir , that cannot be : You will not see your Lady fair , Till you're to Justice brought ; And if you don't turn to our Faith , Your Death's are surely wrought . In about six Weeks after this , There did and Order come , To bring them both to Justice Hall , For to receive their Doom . But when they did each other see , With Ecstasy of Joy , The Lady she fainted away , Who could such Love annoy . Soon as they brought her to herself , Then came on their Trials , And in the Cages they were put , Places for Criminals : Their Accusation being read , The Judge to them did say , You hear Prisoners what is alledg'd , Against you here this Day . The THE Loyal Martyrs ; or , Bloody Inquisiror . BEING A just Account of the Mercenary and Inhuman Barbarities transacted in the Inquisition of Spain . Showing , How a Gentleman having married , a young Lady in St James's Street , they agreed to travel togteher for the Space of five Years , to see foreign Parts . How as soon as they came to Spain , intending to take a View of the Place , they were both seiz'd by Order of the Inquisitor . Also how they were separately examined and charged with Crimes that they were innocent of . How they underwent their Punishments inflicted on them , in order to exhort a Confession from them . Like - wise , how they were tried by their Court of Justice , and condemn'd to be burned alive . The Manner of their Behaviour at the Place of Execution , where they were tormented near two Hours before they expired , during which Time there continued a dreadful [ s ] torment of Thunder and Light'ning nthose cruel Wretches that came to see them suffer . How a Gentleman and his Lady tra - velled to Spain , and what Misfor - tune happened them . OF all the Nations in the Universe , There's none sure can compare With Spain , for bloody Sentences , As I'll to you declare : The Manner of their Inquisition , Is what I shall relate : A beauteous Couple , as we hear , Fell in their Hands of late . first will let you understand , This 'Squire's Name and Place Of dwelling , when he left this Land , Which prov'd unfortunate . He liv'd in St. James's Street , Arrow Smith was his Name ; He had four hundred Pounds a Year With his Lady of Fame . For Beauty none could her exc [ e ] e [ worser ] She was so lovely fair ; Her Cheeks were like the fragrant Rose Few could with her compare . She was the Beauty of the Age , And he as fine a Youth ; Which did each others Love engage , As we hear for a Truth . He says to his Lady one Day , My Dear , will you agree To go with me to foreign Parts , Their Customs for to see : And about the Space of five Years Time We will return again , Here back into our native Place , Where we will then remain . She answer'd Love , I'm ready to Obey all you [ r ] Commands ; And with you thro' the World will go Freely with Heart and Hand . I am not in the least afraid To travel where you please ; For you are all I valve here , My whole Support and Ease . Then Preparations soon were made , They having both agreed , s That first of all to Spain they'd go , So they set out with Speed . They took with them two serving Men Upon then for to wait ; But now their Scene of Misery , To you I will relate . A spacious Lodging there they took , Some Days in Pleasure spent , In viewing of the Country round , Which was their sole Inten At last a wicked Jesuit , Upon her cast and Eye , Saying , If I do not her enjoy , They surely both shall die . This Villain us'd all Means he could , To gain her Company , But never could obtain his Ends , To stain her Chastity : At last he being swell'd with Rage , And wicked Lust did burn , He gave and Information there Were two that would not turn . The Inquisitor said , then let them Be brought then before me , To answer for their Insolence , I'll soon make them agree : How dare they to withstand our Laws , That are so good and just . If they be stubborn in their Ways , They shall burn to Dust. This beauteous Couple then were seiz'd Not knowing what they meant , The Lady fright'ned to them said , Pray what is your Intent ? I know no Harm that we have done , What means this sudden Strife ? They said to join in our just Cause , Or else you'll loose your Life . The 'Squire before the Inquisitor , He was examined first , To know the Reason why he did Withstand their Laws so just . He answer'd very boldly then , Before that I will turn , From the Religion I profess , I'll sooner choose to burn . The 'Squire and his Lady at the Inqui - sition House examining before the Inquisitor . THE Inquisitor was then enrag'd , Saying , Tortures , Hell , and Fire , You surely , Sir , shall have , Since it is your Desire : You guilty are of many Crimes , Though you do them deny ; But if that you'll confess and turn , I'll use you handsomely . Your Superstition I defy , I've nothing more to say : The Inquisitor gave Order then For to take him away . And punish him as I'll describe , Because he would not plead ; Which when I do relate the same , 'Twill make your Hearts to bleed . Then in a Dungeon dismal dark , They separate were confin'd . Poor Souls they little thought what Death They had for them design'd . The Lady she was frightened much , And seem'd to grieve full soar ; And for to see each other's Face , They did the Lord implore . A Fire quickly was prepar'd , Before it he was brought . And mov'd Feet foremost by Degrees , Till they his Feet had scorch'd . He never seem'd to winch or cry , But still endure the Pain ; And when his Life was almost spent , They brought him back again . The Lady next examin'd was . Of Crimes she did not know : The Judge said , Child if you'll confess I will you Mercy show . Confess what ! O Sir , she did say , I know not what you mean ; To my dear God I will be just , I valve not your Spleen . He said , Child if you'll but understand , You are in a wrong Cause : I'd have you know you're in this Land Submit to our just Laws ; Or else you and your Husband both , Your Trial soon shall take : For Heretics you shall be burn'd , If you don't it forsake . As for your Punishments she said , I valve not a Pin. One Thing of you I have to crave , To see my Dear again ; And grant we both in one Urn , Together may expire ; For this our good and glorious Cause , Is all here I desire . The Inquisitor said , Lady fair , Pray don't so stubborn be , I'll save you if you confess , The Crimes you have done to me . To our good Religion turn , Then happy you may dwell ; But if you don't , you'll surely burn , And both will go to Hell . Undauntedly she Answer made , Your Subtle I defy , All the Torments you can invent , Shall ne'er make me deny The blessed Tracks of my dear Christ That will my Guardian be , Preserve me from tormenting Pains , To all Eternity . To the Secretary then he said , Now I am fully bent , Since my Commands she won't bey , A severe Punishment . She speedily shall undergo , And I will see it done ; She shall severely tortur'd be , Because she will not turn . The 'Squire and his Lady undergoing the Torture the Inquisitor put them to , because they would not turn to be Roman Catholics . THEY tied her down upon her Back Likewise her Hands and Feet , Poor Soul the Cords they tied so tied On her made her swea Then Water through a fine Lawn Cloth , They pour'd down her Throat ; But still to them she'd not comply , Though she was almost choak'd . The Inquisitor gave Order then , That she should be untied , And for their stubborn Insolence , They both should soon be tried . Poor Lady she was almost spent , With their cursed Cruelty ; But the first Word she spoke was this , Before I'll turn , I'll die . You may torment my Body here , But cannot hurt my Soul ; With Patience I'll your Torments bear , You ne'er shall me control : My blessed God is good and just , And will stand by me still ; So I'm resolv'd still to observe His blessed holy Will . Sure such undaunted Courage in Woman's seldom found ; She was sent back unto the Place , Till she receiv'd her Doom . 'Twas in a dismal Dungeon where No Light was to be seen ; She valued not what she endured , For the blessed Cause she stood in . Six Months this 'Squire and his Love , Confin'd was in this Place ; He said , Oh God , grant that I Once more may see her Face : I valve not these Wertches Spleen , Could I preserve my Wife : I all the Torments do defy , I valve not my Life . Poor Souls they had a great Desire , Each other for to see ; The Jailor that attended them , Said , Sir , that cannot be : You will not see your Lady fair , Till you're to Justice brought ; And if you don't turn to our Faith , Your Death's are surely wrought . In about six Weeks after this , There did and Order come , To bring them both to Justice Hall , For to receive their Doom . But when they did each other see , With Ecstasy of Joy , The Lady she fainted away , Who could such Love annoy . Soon as they brought her to herself , Then came on their Trials , And in the Cages they were put , Places for Criminals : Their Accusation being read , The Judge to them did say , You hear Prisoners what is alledg'd , Against you here this Day . The 'Squire and his Lady brought be - before the Inquisitor and Judge , to take their Trial. THE 'Squire then he ask'd the Judge , Where was his Accuser ; Sir , that is not the Custom here , Says the Inquisitor : One horrid Crime's laid to your Charge , We well assured be , That you are both guilty of it , Which is damn'd Heresy . And if it's so you will not turn , Unto our heavenly Cause . You and your Wife shall surely burn , According to our Laws : The Judge said to the Lady then , If you will not comply , You may be sure your Soul's are damn'd , To all Eternity . Then with a smiling Countenance , The Lady did reply , Your Idol Worship's what I hate ; I do your Spleen defy : You are a Pack of Hypocrites , I valve not your Laws : I'd lay ten thousand Lives at Stake , For such a glorious Cause . There is a blessed Redeemer dear , That will support us still ; And all the Tortures you invene , Can do our Souls no ill ; Since you have doom'd us both ot die , I valve not my Breath ; With Crowns of Gold we both shall meet In Heaven , after Death . The Inquisitor said to the Judge , I pray the Sentence give , For eight and forty Hours longer They ought not for to live : If we take all this Insolence , And they not punish'd be , To Christ we shall give great Offence , For such Indulgency . The horrid Sentence then was pass'd , that they should burn Talive ; The Executioner was call'd , On Purpose to contrive , How he might die a lingering Death ; They answer soon did make , Leave that to us for Punishment , When they are at the Stake . Unto the Judge with Courage bold , The Lady she did say , I have but one Thing more to crave , The Time we here shall stay : That we may in one Dungeon be . Our Prayers to make to Christ Who for us is preparing now A blessed and happy Feast . The 'Squire and his Lady at Prayers . THIS Favour then granted was , At last , with much Debate , Her Beauty was admired much , By most that round her sa She was not daunted in the least , At whhich she must go through ; Such Courage in a Woman sure , Before I never knew . Then in a Dungeon they were put , Where they could see no Light ; In offering Prayers , and singing Hymns , They pass'd away the Nigh The fatal Morning being come , That they must marty'd be , The Jailor said , now Order's brought , That you must go with me . Says the 'Squire , with all my Hear I long to enjoy the Bliss : Poor Souls they eagerly did meet , To take a parting Kiss : Their Lips , Oh then were loath to part At last he burst in Tears : Saying I valve nothing but This Life of you , my Dear The Manner of the Procession of all the holy Father's , Monks , Jesuits , and Priests , from the Inquisition house to the Place of Execution ; and their horrid Barbarity is called and holy Act of Faith .. YOU need not valve that my Love . We soon shall meet again : Who'd grudge to die , when such a glorious Cause we now maintain ? What are those Tortures we endure , To those blessed Joys above , Which we shall soon in Heaven enjoy , My Dear and only Love ? The trickling Tears bedew'd their Cheek , And loath they were to par The Jailor said , we must away , Which touch'd them most at Heart Then to the Place of Execution , Hand in Hand they went ; While they were ying to the Stake , There was and Order sent , That the Lady should strangled be , Before that she was burned . Hearing , to the Messenger She hastily then turn'd : Go tell your Master now from me , His Favour scorn I shall ; In all that he can me torment , I valve not at all . The 'Squire and his Lady at the Place of Execution . THE Inquisitor hearing of this , Again his Order sent , That they should die the hardest Death That ever could inven When both their Hands with Cords were tied , Up to the fatal Stake , They then did put unto their Feet , A great and mighty Weight . And them they drawed up and down , Near and Hour and more ; Yet notwithstanding all this While , This Pain with Patience boar . They were not seen to shed a Tear , In the Torments they went through , But loud continued singing Psalms , And Hallelujahs too . The Fire and the Fuizes then They did begin to light . And thrust the Fuizes in their Face , Which was a dreadful Sighed . A frightful Storm of Thunder , Hail , And Lightning did descend Upon these wicked Wretches , that Did come to see their End. 'Soon as these blessed Soul's expir'd , The dreadful Storm did cease , And then the Sun his glorious Lustre Greatly did increase , These Wretches seiz'd upon their Wealth And then in Scorn did say Unto their Servants , you to England Now may go away , And tell how we your Heretic Master and Mistress used , Because they remained obstinate , And did our Laws abuse : They thought to do just as they pleas'd But they mistaken were , And all such Heretics as they , That will our Power dare . 'Squire and his Lady brought be - before the Inquisitor and Judge , to take their Trial. THE 'Squire then he ask'd the Judge , Where was his Accuser ; Sir , that is not the Custom here , Says the Inquisitor : One horrid Crime's laid to your Charge , We well assured be , That you are both guilty of it , Which is damn'd Heresy . And if it's so you will not turn , Unto our heavenly Cause . You and your Wife shall surely burn , According to our Laws : The Judge said to the Lady then , If you will not comply , You may be sure your Soul's are damn'd , To all Eternity . Then with a smiling Countenance , The Lady did reply , Your Idol Worship's what I hate ; I do your Spleen defy : You are a Pack of Hypocrites , I valve not your Laws : I'd lay ten thousand Lives at Stake , For such a glorious Cause . There is a blessed Redeemer dear , That will support us still ; And all the Tortures you invene , Can do our Souls no ill ; Since you have doom'd us both ot die , I valve not my Breath ; With Crowns of Gold we both shall meet In Heaven , after Death . The Inquisitor said to the Judge , I pray the Sentence give , For eight and forty Hours longer They ought not for to live : If we take all this Insolence , And they not punish'd be , To Christ we shall give great Offence , For such Indulgency . The horrid Sentence then was pass'd , that they should burn Talive ; The Executioner was call'd , On Purpose to contrive , How he might die a lingering Death ; They answer soon did make , Leave that to us for Punishment , When they are at the Stake . Unto the Judge with Courage bold , The Lady she did say , I have but one Thing more to crave , The Time we here shall stay : That we may in one Dungeon be . Our Prayers to make to Christ Who for us is preparing now A blessed and happy Feast . The 'Squire and his Lady at Prayers . THIS Favour then granted was , At last , with much Debate , Her Beauty was admired much , By most that round her sa She was not daunted in the least , At whhich she must go through ; Such Courage in a Woman sure , Before I never knew . Then in a Dungeon they were put , Where they could see no Light ; In offering Prayers , and singing Hymns , They pass'd away the Nigh The fatal Morning being come , That they must marty'd be , The Jailor said , now Order's brought , That you must go with me . Says the 'Squire , with all my Hear I long to enjoy the Bliss : Poor Souls they eagerly did meet , To take a parting Kiss : Their Lips , Oh then were loath to part At last he burst in Tears : Saying I valve nothing but This Life of you , my Dear The Manner of the Procession of all the holy Father's , Monks , Jesuits , and Priests , from the Inquisition house to the Place of Execution ; and their horrid Barbarity is called and holy Act of Faith .. YOU need not valve that my Love . We soon shall meet again : Who'd grudge to die , when such a glorious Cause we now maintain ? What are those Tortures we endure , To those blessed Joys above , Which we shall soon in Heaven enjoy , My Dear and only Love ? The trickling Tears bedew'd their Cheek , And loath they were to par The Jailor said , we must away , Which touch'd them most at Heart Then to the Place of Execution , Hand in Hand they went ; While they were ying to the Stake , There was and Order sent , That the Lady should strangled be , Before that she was burned . Hearing , to the Messenger She hastily then turn'd : Go tell your Master now from me , His Favour scorn I shall ; In all that he can me torment , I valve not at all . The 'Squire and his Lady at the Place of Execution . THE Inquisitor hearing of this , Again his Order sent , That they should die the hardest Death That ever could inven When both their Hands with Cords were tied , Up to the fatal Stake , They then did put unto their Feet , A great and mighty Weight . And them they drawed up and down , Near and Hour and more ; Yet notwithstanding all this While , This Pain with Patience boar . They were not seen to shed a Tear , In the Torments they went through , But loud continued singing Psalms , And Hallelujahs too . The Fire and the Fuizes then They did begin to light . And thrust the Fuizes in their Face , Which was a dreadful Sighed . A frightful Storm of Thunder , Hail , And Lightning did descend Upon these wicked Wretches , that Did come to see their End. 'Soon as these blessed Soul's expir'd , The dreadful Storm did cease , And then the Sun his glorious Lustre Greatly did increase , These Wretches seiz'd upon their Wealth And then in Scorn did say Unto their Servants , you to England Now may go away , And tell how we your Heretic Master and Mistress used , Because they remained obstinate , And did our Laws abuse : They thought to do just as they pleas'd But they mistaken were , And all such Heretics as they , That will our Power dare . 