THE Merry Cuckold and Kind Wife . O ! I went into the stable , and there for to see , And there I saw three horses stand , by one , by two and by three , Oh I call'd to my loving Wife , and anon , kind Sir , quoth she . O what do these three horses here , without the leave of me ? Why you old Cuckold , blind Cuckold , can't you very well see , These are three milking Cows my mother sent to me ? Heyday ! God-zounds ! milking Cows with bridles and saddles on . The like was never known . Old Wichet a Cuckold went out , and a Cuckold he came home . O I went into the Kitchen , and there for to see , And there I saw three swords hang , by one , by two , and by three , Oh I call'd to my loving Wife , and anon , kind Sir , quoth she , Oh what do these three swords do here , without the leave of me ? Why you old cuckold , blind cuckold , can't you very well see , They are three roasting spits my mother sent to me ? Heyday ! God-zounds ! roasting spits with scabbards on . The like was never known , Old Wichet , etc O I went into the Parlour , and there for to see , And there I saw three cloaks hang , by one , by two , and by three ; Oh call'd to my loving Wife , and anon , kind Sir , quoth she : Oh what do these three cloaks do here , without the leave of me ? Why you old Cuckold , blind Cuckold , can't you very well see , These are three mantuas my mother sent to me : Heyday ! God-zounds ! Mantuas with capes on . The like was never known . Old Witchet , etc I went into the Pantry , and there for to see , And there I saw three pair of boots hang , by one , by two , and by three : Oh I call'd to my loving Wife , and anon , kind Sir , quoth she : Oh what do these three pair of boots do here , without the leave of me ? Why you old Cuckold , blind Cuckold , can't you very well see , These are three pudding bags my mother sent to me ? Heyday ! God-zounds ! pudding bags with spurs on . The like was never known . Old Wichet a Cuckold went out , and a Cuckold he came home . I went into my closet , and there for to see , And there I saw three pair of breeches lie , by one , by one by two , and by three : Oh I call'd to my loving wife , and anon , kind sir , quoth she : Oh what do these three pair of breeches here , without the leave of me ? Why you old Cuckold , blind Cuckold , can't you very well see , These are three petticoats my mother sent to me . Heyday ! God-zounds ! petticoats with waistbadns no . The like was never known -- Old Wichet , etc I went into the Dairy , and there for to see , And there I saw three Hats hang , by one , by two , and by three ; I call'd to my loving wife , and anon kind sir , quoth she ; Pray what do these three hats do here , without the leave of me ? Why you old Cuckold , blind Cuckold , can't you very well see , They are three skimming dishes my mother sent to me . Heyday ! God-zounds ! skimming dishes with hatbands on . The like was never known . Old Wichet , etc I went into the Chamber , and there for to see , And there I saw three Men in bed , lie by one , by two , and by three , I called to my loving Wife , and anon , kind Sir , quoth she . O what do these three Men in bed , without the leave of me ? Why you old Cuckold , blind Cuckold , don't you very well see , These are three milking maids my mother sent to me . Heyday ! God-zounds ! Milking Maids with beards on . The like was never known . Old Wichet a Cuckold went out , and a Cuckold he came home . Printed and Sold in Aldermary Church-Yard , Bow - Lane , London . THE Merry Cuckold and Kind Wife . O ! I went into the stable , and there for to see , And there I saw three horses stand , by one , by two and by three , Oh I call'd to my loving Wife , and anon , kind Sir , quoth she . O what do these three horses here , without the leave of me ? Why you old Cuckold , blind Cuckold , can't you very well see , These are three milking Cows my mother sent to me ? Heyday ! God-zounds ! milking Cows with bridles and saddles on . The like was never known . Old Wichet a Cuckold went out , and a Cuckold he came home . O I went into the Kitchen , and there for to see , And there I saw three swords hang , by one , by two , and by three , Oh I call'd to my loving Wife , and anon , kind Sir , quoth she , Oh what do these three swords do here , without the leave of me ? Why you old cuckold , blind cuckold , can't you very well see , They are three roasting spits my mother sent to me ? Heyday ! God-zounds ! roasting spits with scabbards on . The like was never known , Old Wichet , etc O I went into the Parlour , and there for to see , And there I saw three cloaks hang , by one , by two , and by three ; Oh call'd to my loving Wife , and anon , kind Sir , quoth she : Oh what do these three cloaks do here , without the leave of me ? Why you old Cuckold , blind Cuckold , can't you very well see , These are three mantuas my mother sent to me : Heyday ! God-zounds ! Mantuas with capes on . The like was never known . Old Witchet , etc I went into the Pantry , and there for to see , And there I saw three pair of boots hang , by one , by two , and by three : Oh I call'd to my loving Wife , and anon , kind Sir , quoth she : Oh what do these three pair of boots do here , without the leave of me ? Why you old Cuckold , blind Cuckold , can't you very well see , These are three pudding bags my mother sent to me ? Heyday ! God-zounds ! pudding bags with spurs on . The like was never known . Old Wichet a Cuckold went out , and a Cuckold he came home . I went into my closet , and there for to see , And there I saw three pair of breeches lie , by one , by one by two , and by three : Oh I call'd to my loving wife , and anon , kind sir , quoth she : Oh what do these three pair of breeches here , without the leave of me ? Why you old Cuckold , blind Cuckold , can't you very well see , These are three petticoats my mother sent to me . Heyday ! God-zounds ! petticoats with waistbadns no . The like was never known -- Old Wichet , etc I went into the Dairy , and there for to see , And there I saw three Hats hang , by one , by two , and by three ; I call'd to my loving wife , and anon kind sir , quoth she ; Pray what do these three hats do here , without the leave of me ? Why you old Cuckold , blind Cuckold , can't you very well see , They are three skimming dishes my mother sent to me . Heyday ! God-zounds ! skimming dishes with hatbands on . The like was never known . Old Wichet , etc I went into the Chamber , and there for to see , And there I saw three Men in bed , lie by one , by two , and by three , I called to my loving Wife , and anon , kind Sir , quoth she . O what do these three Men in bed , without the leave of me ? Why you old Cuckold , blind Cuckold , don't you very well see , These are three milking maids my mother sent to me . Heyday ! God-zounds ! Milking Maids with beards on . The like was never known . Old Wichet a Cuckold went out , and a Cuckold he came home . Printed and Sold in Aldermary Church-Yard , Bow - Lane , London . 