THE Hunting of the Hare ; WITH Her Last Will and Testament . As it was perform'd on BANSTEAD DOWNS . By CONEY-CATCHERS and their HOUNDS . To a most pleasant and delightful Tune . OF all Delights that Earth does yield , Give me a Pack of Hounds in Field , Whose Echo shall throughout the Sky , Make Jove admire our Harmony ; And wish that he a Mortal were , To view the Pastime we have here . I will tell you of a rare Scent , Where many a gallant Horse was spen Oh [ n ] Banstead Downs a Hare we found , Which led us all a smoking round ; O'er Hedge and Ditch away she goes , Admiring her approaching Foes . But when she found her Strength to waste , She parly'd with the Hounds at last ; Kind Hounds , quoth she , forbear to kill A harmless Hare that ne'er thought ill : And if your Master Sport do crave , I'll led a Scent as he would have . Hunts. Away ! away ! thou art alone , Make Haste , I say , and get thee gone ; We'll give thee Law for half a Mile , To see if thou can'st us beguile : But then expect a thund'ring Cry , Made by us and our Harmony . Hare . Now since you set my Life so light , I'll make a black Stone turn to White , And Yorkshire Grey that runs at all , I'll make him wish he was in Stall ; And Sorrel , he that seem'd to fly , I'll make him supple e'er I die . And Barnard's Bay , do what you can , Or Baron's Bay , that now and then Did interrupt me , now they say , I'll make them neither Jest nor Play : Or constant Robin , though he lie At his Advantage , what care I . Will . Hutton he hath done me Wrong , He struck me as I run along ; And with one Bat made me so soar , That I ran reeling to and from : But if I die , his Master tell , That Fool shall ring my Passing Bell . Hounds . Alas ! poor Hare , it is our Nature , To kill thee and not other Creature ; For our Master he wants a Bit , And thou will well become the Spi He'll eat thy Flesh , and pick thy Bone , This is thy Doom , so get thee gone . Hare . Your Master may have better Cheer , For I am dry , and Butter's dear ; But if he please to make a Friend , He'd better give a Pudding's End : For being kill'd , he Sport will lack , And I must hang o'er the Huntsman's Back . Hounds . Alas ! poor Hare , we pity thee , If with our Nature 'twould agree : But all thy doubling Shifts , we fear , Will not prevail , thy Death's so near : Then make thy Will , it may be that May save thee , or we know not what . Hare . Then I bequeathe my Body free , Unto your Master's Courtesy ; And if he please my Life to grant , I'll be his Game when Sport is scan But if I die , each greedy Hound Divides my Entrails on the Ground . Imprimis , I bequeathe my Head , To him that a fair Fool does wed , Who hath before her Maidenhead lost ; I would not have the Proverb crossed , Which I've herd among many Quiblets , Set the Hare's Head 'gainst the Goose-giblets . Item , I do give and bequeathe To Men in Debt , ( after my Death ) My subtle Scent , that so they may Beware of such as would betray Them to a miserable Fate , By bloody Hounds from Compter-gate . Item , I to a Turncoat give , That he may more obscurely live , My swift and sudden Doublings , which Will make him politic and rich : Though at the last , with many Wounds , I wish him kill'd by his own Hounds . Item , I give it into their Hands , That purchase Dean and Chapter Lands , My wretched Jealousies and Fears , Mix'd with the Salt of Orphans Tears ; That long Vexations may prosper , To plague them and their Heirs for ever . Before I die , for Life is scant , I would supply their proper Want ; And therefore I bequeathe to you , The Scrivener , give the Devil his endue , That forgeth , swears , and then forswears , To save his Credit , both my Ears . I give to some sequester'd Man , My Skin to make a Jacket on ; And I bequeathe my Feet to they That shortly mean to run away : When Truth is Speaker , Falshood's dumb , Foxes must fly when Lions come . To Fiddlers , for all Trades must live , To serve for Strings , my Guts I give ; For Gamesters that do play at Rut , And love the Sport , I give my Sku But last of all in this sad Dump , To Towerhill I bequeathe my Rump : Hounds . Were ever Hounds so basely crossed , Our Master's call us oft so fast , That we the Scent have almost lost , And they themselves must rule the Roas Therefore , kind Hare , we pardon you . Hare . Thanks , gentle Hounds , and so adieu . And since your Master pardons me , I'll led you all to Bunbury , Where John Turner hath a large Room , To entertain his Guests that come , To laugh and queen [ a ] ff in Wine or Beer , A full Carouse to your Career . Newcastle upon Tyne : Printed and sold by JOHN WHITE . THE Hunting of the Hare ; WITH Her Last Will and Testament . As it was perform'd on BANSTEAD DOWNS . By CONEY-CATCHERS and their HOUNDS . To a most pleasant and delightful Tune . OF all Delights that Earth does yield , Give me a Pack of Hounds in Field , Whose Echo shall throughout the Sky , Make Jove admire our Harmony ; And wish that he a Mortal were , To view the Pastime we have here . I will tell you of a rare Scent , Where many a gallant Horse was spen Oh [ n ] Banstead Downs a Hare we found , Which led us all a smoking round ; O'er Hedge and Ditch away she goes , Admiring her approaching Foes . But when she found her Strength to waste , She parly'd with the Hounds at last ; Kind Hounds , quoth she , forbear to kill A harmless Hare that ne'er thought ill : And if your Master Sport do crave , I'll led a Scent as he would have . Hunts. Away ! away ! thou art alone , Make Haste , I say , and get thee gone ; We'll give thee Law for half a Mile , To see if thou can'st us beguile : But then expect a thund'ring Cry , Made by us and our Harmony . Hare . Now since you set my Life so light , I'll make a black Stone turn to White , And Yorkshire Grey that runs at all , I'll make him wish he was in Stall ; And Sorrel , he that seem'd to fly , I'll make him supple e'er I die . And Barnard's Bay , do what you can , Or Baron's Bay , that now and then Did interrupt me , now they say , I'll make them neither Jest nor Play : Or constant Robin , though he lie At his Advantage , what care I . Will . Hutton he hath done me Wrong , He struck me as I run along ; And with one Bat made me so soar , That I ran reeling to and from : But if I die , his Master tell , That Fool shall ring my Passing Bell . Hounds . Alas ! poor Hare , it is our Nature , To kill thee and not other Creature ; For our Master he wants a Bit , And thou will well become the Spi He'll eat thy Flesh , and pick thy Bone , This is thy Doom , so get thee gone . Hare . Your Master may have better Cheer , For I am dry , and Butter's dear ; But if he please to make a Friend , He'd better give a Pudding's End : For being kill'd , he Sport will lack , And I must hang o'er the Huntsman's Back . Hounds . Alas ! poor Hare , we pity thee , If with our Nature 'twould agree : But all thy doubling Shifts , we fear , Will not prevail , thy Death's so near : Then make thy Will , it may be that May save thee , or we know not what . Hare . Then I bequeathe my Body free , Unto your Master's Courtesy ; And if he please my Life to grant , I'll be his Game when Sport is scan But if I die , each greedy Hound Divides my Entrails on the Ground . Imprimis , I bequeathe my Head , To him that a fair Fool does wed , Who hath before her Maidenhead lost ; I would not have the Proverb crossed , Which I've herd among many Quiblets , Set the Hare's Head 'gainst the Goose-giblets . Item , I do give and bequeathe To Men in Debt , ( after my Death ) My subtle Scent , that so they may Beware of such as would betray Them to a miserable Fate , By bloody Hounds from Compter-gate . Item , I to a Turncoat give , That he may more obscurely live , My swift and sudden Doublings , which Will make him politic and rich : Though at the last , with many Wounds , I wish him kill'd by his own Hounds . Item , I give it into their Hands , That purchase Dean and Chapter Lands , My wretched Jealousies and Fears , Mix'd with the Salt of Orphans Tears ; That long Vexations may prosper , To plague them and their Heirs for ever . Before I die , for Life is scant , I would supply their proper Want ; And therefore I bequeathe to you , The Scrivener , give the Devil his endue , That forgeth , swears , and then forswears , To save his Credit , both my Ears . I give to some sequester'd Man , My Skin to make a Jacket on ; And I bequeathe my Feet to they That shortly mean to run away : When Truth is Speaker , Falshood's dumb , Foxes must fly when Lions come . To Fiddlers , for all Trades must live , To serve for Strings , my Guts I give ; For Gamesters that do play at Rut , And love the Sport , I give my Sku But last of all in this sad Dump , To Towerhill I bequeathe my Rump : Hounds . Were ever Hounds so basely crossed , Our Master's call us oft so fast , That we the Scent have almost lost , And they themselves must rule the Roas Therefore , kind Hare , we pardon you . Hare . Thanks , gentle Hounds , and so adieu . And since your Master pardons me , I'll led you all to Bunbury , Where John Turner hath a large Room , To entertain his Guests that come , To laugh and queen [ a ] ff in Wine or Beer , A full Carouse to your Career . Newcastle upon Tyne : Printed and sold by JOHN WHITE . 