The Merits of PIRACIE OR , A new Song on Captain Green and his bloody CRUE : To the Tune of , My Virgin Treasure . OF all the pirates I've herd or seen , The basest and Bloodiest is Captain Green , To treat our Merchant Ships at such a rate , After Robbery , his Crime to aggravate , Under pretence of setting them a shore : Our Merchant Men them to devore . Which clearly is proven to be very true , He deserves to be hang'd & all his Crew : How great was GOD's providence in discovering This odious Murder , and it to Light bring ! By a Villain pretended to marry a Lass , That Lives in Burntisland , if it had come to pass That he had obtained her to be his Bride , We should never known what did Drummond betid [ e ] As he was from Indies returning home , Whom Green basly murdered , when to Malabra come ; This villain John Hynds , who at first did discover , Deserves to be hanged , for example to other Such Villians hereafter to deny what they say ; once out of reveange , then with both hands to play And as for John Madder , who ought to have rather Preserved his Country , he deserves a Tadder ; And that is too too little if he get his due : He's the Bloodiest Villain of all the Crew . No Murder and Robbery was ever more clear Made evident , than this as does now appear , By their own Declaration after Sentence given , Fearing to be debarred from Heaven If they die so hard hearted as not to confess , Or if by confessing they may have redress : Which if they obtain , they'l fallen to a new , To Robe , to murder , then hang all the base Crew . Except the Chirurgeon , the Cook and the Black , That yet remains of that Bloody pack : Because ingenious they were in their Narrations And constant were to their first Declaration , But for all the rest of so cruel a Crew , Hanging is too little if they get their endue , And more especially Madder and Hinds should be hang'd , draw'n , quarter'd , hung in chains ! Let this to all hellish Villians hereafter prove . A warning from falling into such crimes , lest Jove Pursue them with vengeance as he hath done Green And his Bloody Crew , whose practice has been , Of a long time to live by Piracy , and Murder , which we sufficiently see ; To be most clear and evidently proven Let Green and his Crew to the Gallows be drive [ n . ] FINIS . The Merits of PIRACIE OR , A new Song on Captain Green and his bloody CRUE : To the Tune of , My Virgin Treasure . OF all the pirates I've herd or seen , The basest and Bloodiest is Captain Green , To treat our Merchant Ships at such a rate , After Robbery , his Crime to aggravate , Under pretence of setting them a shore : Our Merchant Men them to devore . Which clearly is proven to be very true , He deserves to be hang'd & all his Crew : How great was GOD's providence in discovering This odious Murder , and it to Light bring ! By a Villain pretended to marry a Lass , That Lives in Burntisland , if it had come to pass That he had obtained her to be his Bride , We should never known what did Drummond betid [ e ] As he was from Indies returning home , Whom Green basly murdered , when to Malabra come ; This villain John Hynds , who at first did discover , Deserves to be hanged , for example to other Such Villians hereafter to deny what they say ; once out of reveange , then with both hands to play And as for John Madder , who ought to have rather Preserved his Country , he deserves a Tadder ; And that is too too little if he get his due : He's the Bloodiest Villain of all the Crew . No Murder and Robbery was ever more clear Made evident , than this as does now appear , By their own Declaration after Sentence given , Fearing to be debarred from Heaven If they die so hard hearted as not to confess , Or if by confessing they may have redress : Which if they obtain , they'l fallen to a new , To Robe , to murder , then hang all the base Crew . Except the Chirurgeon , the Cook and the Black , That yet remains of that Bloody pack : Because ingenious they were in their Narrations And constant were to their first Declaration , But for all the rest of so cruel a Crew , Hanging is too little if they get their endue , And more especially Madder and Hinds should be hang'd , draw'n , quarter'd , hung in chains ! Let this to all hellish Villians hereafter prove . A warning from falling into such crimes , lest Jove Pursue them with vengeance as he hath done Green And his Bloody Crew , whose practice has been , Of a long time to live by Piracy , and Murder , which we sufficiently see ; To be most clear and evidently proven Let Green and his Crew to the Gallows be drive [ n . ] FINIS . 