And Excellent New BALLAD , entitled , The CRIPPLE of CORNWALL . Wherein is shew'n his dissolate LIFE and deserved DEATH . To the Tune of , The Blind Beggar . OF a stout Cripple that kept the Highway , And begg'd for his Living all time of the Day , A Story I'll tell you that pleasant shall be , The Cripple of Cornwall , surnamed was he . He crept on his Hands and his Knees up and down , In a torn Jacket and a ragged torn Gown ; For he had never a Leg to the Knee , The Cripple of Cornwall , surnamed was he . He was of Stomach courageous and stout , For he had no cause to complain of the Gout ; To go upon stilts most cunning was he , With a Staff on his Neck most gallant to see . Yea no good Fellowship would he forsake , Were it in secret a Horse for to take ; His Help was as good as any might be , The Cripple of Cornwall , surnamed was he . When he upon any Service did go , The Crafty young Cripple provided it so , His Stool he kept close in and old hollow Tree , That stood from the City a Mile two or three . Thus all the Day long he begg'd for Relief , And all the Night long he play'd the false Thief , For seven long Years together this Custom kept he , And no Man knew him such a Person to be . There were few Graziers went on the Highway , But unto the Cripple for passage did pay ; And every brave Merchant that he did descry , He empty'd their Purses e'er they passed by . The noble Lord Courtney both Gallant and bold , Road forth with great plenty of Silver and Gold ; At Exeter there a purchase to pay , But that the false Cripple his Journey did stay . For why the false Cripple herd Tidings of late , As he sat for Alms at the Nobleman's Gate ; This is , quoth the Cripple , a Booty for me , And I'll follow it closely , as closely can be . Then to his Companions the Matter he moved , Which their false Actions before had proved ; They make themselves ready , and deeply they swear The Money's our own before they come there . Upon his two Stilts the Cripple did mount , To have the best Share it was his full Account ; All clothed in Canvas down to the Ground , He took up his Place , his Mates with him round . Then came the Lord Courtney with half a Score Men , Yet little suspecting the Thieves in their Den ; And they perceiving them come to their Hand , In a dark Evening they bid them to stand . Deliver thy purse , quoth the Cripple with Speed , We be good Fellows and therefore have Need , Not so , quoth Lord Courtney , but this I'll tell you , Win it and wear it , else get none of me . With that the Lord Courtney stood in his Defence , But so did his Servants ; but e'er they went hence , Two of the true Men were slave in this Fight . And four of the Thieves were put to Flight . But while for their Safeguard they run thus away , The Jolly old Cripple did hold them in Play ; And with his Pike Staff he wounded them so , As they were unable to run or to go . With fighting the Lord Courtney was out of Breath , And most of his Servants were wounded to Death ; Then came other Horsemen riding so fast , The Cripple was forced to fly at the last . And over a River that run there beside , Which was very deep and eighteen Foot wide ; With his long Staff and Stilts leapt he , And shifted himself in and old hollow Tree . Then through the City Hue and Cry was made , To have these Thieves apprehended and stayed ; The Cripple he creeps on his Hands and his Knees , And nigh the Highway great passing he sees , And as they were riding , he begging did say , Oh give me one Penny good Master's , I pray ; And thus unto Exeter creeps he along . No Man suspecting that he had done wrong . Anon , the Lord Courtney he spies in the Street , He comes unto him and kisses his Feet ; God save your Honour , and keep you from ill , And from the Hands of your Enemies still . Amen quoth Lord Courtney , and therewith threw down Unto the poor Cripple and English Crown , Away went the Cripple , and thus he did think Five hundred pound more will make me to drink . In vain that Hue and Cry it was made . They found none of them , though the Country was laid ; But this grieved the Cripple both Night and Day , That he so unluckily miss'd his Prey . Nine hundred Pound this Cripple he god , By Begging and Thieving so good was his Lot ; A Thousand Pound he would make it he said , And then he intended to give over his Trade . But as he striv'd his Mind to fulfil , In following his Actions so lew'd and so Ill , At last he was taken the Law to suffice , Condemned and hanged at Exeter Assize . Which made all Men amazed to see , That such and impudent Cripple as he , Should venture himself to such Actions as these , To rob in such sort upon the Highway . And Excellent New BALLAD , entitled , The CRIPPLE of CORNWALL . Wherein is shew'n his dissolate LIFE and deserved DEATH . To the Tune of , The Blind Beggar . OF a stout Cripple that kept the Highway , And begg'd for his Living all time of the Day , A Story I'll tell you that pleasant shall be , The Cripple of Cornwall , surnamed was he . He crept on his Hands and his Knees up and down , In a torn Jacket and a ragged torn Gown ; For he had never a Leg to the Knee , The Cripple of Cornwall , surnamed was he . He was of Stomach courageous and stout , For he had no cause to complain of the Gout ; To go upon stilts most cunning was he , With a Staff on his Neck most gallant to see . Yea no good Fellowship would he forsake , Were it in secret a Horse for to take ; His Help was as good as any might be , The Cripple of Cornwall , surnamed was he . When he upon any Service did go , The Crafty young Cripple provided it so , His Stool he kept close in and old hollow Tree , That stood from the City a Mile two or three . Thus all the Day long he begg'd for Relief , And all the Night long he play'd the false Thief , For seven long Years together this Custom kept he , And no Man knew him such a Person to be . There were few Graziers went on the Highway , But unto the Cripple for passage did pay ; And every brave Merchant that he did descry , He empty'd their Purses e'er they passed by . The noble Lord Courtney both Gallant and bold , Road forth with great plenty of Silver and Gold ; At Exeter there a purchase to pay , But that the false Cripple his Journey did stay . For why the false Cripple herd Tidings of late , As he sat for Alms at the Nobleman's Gate ; This is , quoth the Cripple , a Booty for me , And I'll follow it closely , as closely can be . Then to his Companions the Matter he moved , Which their false Actions before had proved ; They make themselves ready , and deeply they swear The Money's our own before they come there . Upon his two Stilts the Cripple did mount , To have the best Share it was his full Account ; All clothed in Canvas down to the Ground , He took up his Place , his Mates with him round . Then came the Lord Courtney with half a Score Men , Yet little suspecting the Thieves in their Den ; And they perceiving them come to their Hand , In a dark Evening they bid them to stand . Deliver thy purse , quoth the Cripple with Speed , We be good Fellows and therefore have Need , Not so , quoth Lord Courtney , but this I'll tell you , Win it and wear it , else get none of me . With that the Lord Courtney stood in his Defence , But so did his Servants ; but e'er they went hence , Two of the true Men were slave in this Fight . And four of the Thieves were put to Flight . But while for their Safeguard they run thus away , The Jolly old Cripple did hold them in Play ; And with his Pike Staff he wounded them so , As they were unable to run or to go . With fighting the Lord Courtney was out of Breath , And most of his Servants were wounded to Death ; Then came other Horsemen riding so fast , The Cripple was forced to fly at the last . And over a River that run there beside , Which was very deep and eighteen Foot wide ; With his long Staff and Stilts leapt he , And shifted himself in and old hollow Tree . Then through the City Hue and Cry was made , To have these Thieves apprehended and stayed ; The Cripple he creeps on his Hands and his Knees , And nigh the Highway great passing he sees , And as they were riding , he begging did say , Oh give me one Penny good Master's , I pray ; And thus unto Exeter creeps he along . No Man suspecting that he had done wrong . Anon , the Lord Courtney he spies in the Street , He comes unto him and kisses his Feet ; God save your Honour , and keep you from ill , And from the Hands of your Enemies still . Amen quoth Lord Courtney , and therewith threw down Unto the poor Cripple and English Crown , Away went the Cripple , and thus he did think Five hundred pound more will make me to drink . In vain that Hue and Cry it was made . They found none of them , though the Country was laid ; But this grieved the Cripple both Night and Day , That he so unluckily miss'd his Prey . Nine hundred Pound this Cripple he god , By Begging and Thieving so good was his Lot ; A Thousand Pound he would make it he said , And then he intended to give over his Trade . But as he striv'd his Mind to fulfil , In following his Actions so lew'd and so Ill , At last he was taken the Law to suffice , Condemned and hanged at Exeter Assize . Which made all Men amazed to see , That such and impudent Cripple as he , Should venture himself to such Actions as these , To rob in such sort upon the Highway . 