The galant Seamans return from the Indies , or the happy-meeting of two Faithful lovers . Wherein is showed the loyal constancy of a Seaman to his love , with her kind salutation unto him for his Welcome home . Observe this Song which is both neat and pretty This on a Seaman in his praise of Betty . Tune of Five Sail of Frigates , Or , Shrewsbury By T. L. With Allowance . I am a stout Seaman newly come on shore I have been a long Voyage where I never was before But now I am returned i [ ' ] me resolved to see My own dearest honey whose name is Betty . I have been absent from her full many a day But yet I was constant in every way Though many a beautiful dame I did see Yet none pleased me so well as pretty Betty Now I am intended what ever betide For to go and see her and make her my bride If that she and I can together agree I never will love none but pretty Betty . The Gallant Seamans Song at the meeting of Betty . Well met my pretty Betty my joy and my dear , I now am returned thy heart for to cheer . Though long I have been absent yet I thought on thee O my heart it was always with pretty Betty Then come my own dearest to the Tavern lets go' Whereas wee'll be merry for and hour or two Lovingly together we both will agree And isle drink a good health to my pretty Betty . And when we have done to the hurch we will hy Whereas wee'l be joined in Matrimony , And always isle be a kind husband to thee If that thou wilt be my wife pretty Betty . I will kiss thee and hug thee all night in my arms , I'll be careful of thee and keep thee from harms I will love thee dearly in every degree For my heart it is fixed on pretty Betty . For thee I will rove and sail far and near The dangerous rough sea shall not put me in fear If I do get treasure i'le bring it to thee , And i'le venture my life for my pretty Betty . And more then all this isle tell thee my Dear . I will bring thee home rich Jewels for to wear , And many new fashions I will provide thee So that none shall compare unto pretty Betty . Then come mine own Dearest & grant me thy Love Both Loyal & constant to thee I will prove , If that thou wilt put trust & belief in me I vow here to Love none but pretty Betty . Bettys reply wherein she shows her Love , Promising him always constant to prove . O welcome my Dearest welcome to the shore Thy absence so long hath troubled me soar But since thou art returned this i'le assur thee It is thou art the man that my Husband shall be Although that some Maids now adays proves untrue Yet isle never change my old Love for a new , My promise isle keep while life remains in me For this thou art the man that my husband shall be . I have been courted by many a proper youth If thou wilt believe me isle tell thee the truth But all my affections I have set on thee For thou art the man that my husband shall be Then Dearest , be not discontented in mind , For to thee I'le always prove loving & kind No Lord nor Knight isle have if they would have me For this thou art the man that my husband shall be . If that I might gain a whole Ship-load of money . I would not forsake my true Love & Honey , No wealth nor yet riches shall force or tempt me [ TO ] oh forsake him who ever my true Love shall be . This lusty brave seaman & his dearest Dear Was married full speedily as I did hear , Now they both together do live happily And he vows to love his pretty Betty . He is overjoy'd now he has gain'd his mate They do Love and live without strife and debate , He is kind unto her in every degree So I wish him well to enjoy pretty Betty . All you young men & maidens pray learn by my so [ ng ] , To be true to your sweet hearts & do them no wro [ ng , ] Prove constant and just and not falsehearted be , And so I will now conclude my new ditty Printed for F. Coal , T. Vere , J. Wright and J. Clarke . W. Thackery . T. Passenger . The galant Seamans return from the Indies , or the happy-meeting of two Faithful lovers . Wherein is showed the loyal constancy of a Seaman to his love , with her kind salutation unto him for his Welcome home . Observe this Song which is both neat and pretty This on a Seaman in his praise of Betty . Tune of Five Sail of Frigates , Or , Shrewsbury By T. L. With Allowance . I am a stout Seaman newly come on shore I have been a long Voyage where I never was before But now I am returned i [ ' ] me resolved to see My own dearest honey whose name is Betty . I have been absent from her full many a day But yet I was constant in every way Though many a beautiful dame I did see Yet none pleased me so well as pretty Betty Now I am intended what ever betide For to go and see her and make her my bride If that she and I can together agree I never will love none but pretty Betty . The Gallant Seamans Song at the meeting of Betty . Well met my pretty Betty my joy and my dear , I now am returned thy heart for to cheer . Though long I have been absent yet I thought on thee O my heart it was always with pretty Betty Then come my own dearest to the Tavern lets go' Whereas wee'll be merry for and hour or two Lovingly together we both will agree And isle drink a good health to my pretty Betty . And when we have done to the hurch we will hy Whereas wee'l be joined in Matrimony , And always isle be a kind husband to thee If that thou wilt be my wife pretty Betty . I will kiss thee and hug thee all night in my arms , I'll be careful of thee and keep thee from harms I will love thee dearly in every degree For my heart it is fixed on pretty Betty . For thee I will rove and sail far and near The dangerous rough sea shall not put me in fear If I do get treasure i'le bring it to thee , And i'le venture my life for my pretty Betty . And more then all this isle tell thee my Dear . I will bring thee home rich Jewels for to wear , And many new fashions I will provide thee So that none shall compare unto pretty Betty . Then come mine own Dearest & grant me thy Love Both Loyal & constant to thee I will prove , If that thou wilt put trust & belief in me I vow here to Love none but pretty Betty . Bettys reply wherein she shows her Love , Promising him always constant to prove . O welcome my Dearest welcome to the shore Thy absence so long hath troubled me soar But since thou art returned this i'le assur thee It is thou art the man that my Husband shall be Although that some Maids now adays proves untrue Yet isle never change my old Love for a new , My promise isle keep while life remains in me For this thou art the man that my husband shall be . I have been courted by many a proper youth If thou wilt believe me isle tell thee the truth But all my affections I have set on thee For thou art the man that my husband shall be Then Dearest , be not discontented in mind , For to thee I'le always prove loving & kind No Lord nor Knight isle have if they would have me For this thou art the man that my husband shall be . If that I might gain a whole Ship-load of money . I would not forsake my true Love & Honey , No wealth nor yet riches shall force or tempt me [ TO ] oh forsake him who ever my true Love shall be . This lusty brave seaman & his dearest Dear Was married full speedily as I did hear , Now they both together do live happily And he vows to love his pretty Betty . He is overjoy'd now he has gain'd his mate They do Love and live without strife and debate , He is kind unto her in every degree So I wish him well to enjoy pretty Betty . All you young men & maidens pray learn by my so [ ng ] , To be true to your sweet hearts & do them no wro [ ng , ] Prove constant and just and not falsehearted be , And so I will now conclude my new ditty Printed for F. Coal , T. Vere , J. Wright and J. Clarke . W. Thackery . T. Passenger . 