The true Scots Men's Lament , for the Loss of the Rights of their Ancient Kingdom , SHall Monarchy be quite forgotten , and of it no more herd ; Antiquity be razed out , and Slav'ry put in stead : Is Scots Men's Blood now grown so cold , the Valour of their Mind , That they can never once reflect on old long sine , etc What shall become now of our Crown , we have so long possessed ? Is it no more Fashionable , that we should have it dressed ? Shall we it for Tobacco fell , and never once repine ? Ah , then it's late for to Reflect on old long sine , etc How oft have our Forefathers spent their Blood in it's Defence ; Shall we then have it stol'n away by English Influence ? We'll curse the Actors of the Deed , when under Yoke we pine : Why will you not again reflect on old long sine , etc ? Old Albion , what will come of thee , when England sits thy Judge ? May thou not only then expect Oppression , but Refuge ? It's their Design to ruin thee , as clearly may be seen : Why wilt thou not again reflect , on old long sine , etc How shall our crazy Shoulders bear the Burden of their Tax ? Tho' they be rich , and we but poor , they will not us relax ; Unless some skilful one ov'rturn the Ground of the Design ; But then it's late for to reflect on old long sine , etc The Name of Britain shortly will thy Body hence possess ; England thy Head will flourish great , thy Body will decrease : The Union will thy Ruin be , thou'lt know in future Time ; [ ? ] you seem for to forget good old long sine , etc Was not our Nation sometime brave , invincible and stout ? Conquering Cesar that great King could not it put to Rout ; Nor not so much as Tribute get for all his great Design : These Men I think thought to maintain good old long sine , etc Did not Romish Ambassadors before our King kneel down ? I mean Corbredus Claudius great , most valiant of Renown : And the Proposals of a Peace , unto him did resig [ n ] These Actions may make us reflect on old long sine , etc The Royal Bruce , if now alive , he surely would regret , And blame our Grandees irefully of Scotland's wretched State ; And tell them he priz'd Monarchy , while he was in his Prime , And bid them look right speedily to old long sine , etc May not Experience teach thee well , in Edward Longshank's Reign , How they pretended good to thee , yet since meant no such Thing ; But merely stole from us the Chair we did so high esteem : It's strange to me you should forget good old long sine , etc Yet it was not by their own Strength , that they gain'd such a Prize ; But by our own base Malcontents , who did them well advice ; I mean , the Coming , Kirkpatrick , Vallange of treach'rous Mind : Such Men I fear have now the Cause , that we must now so pine . Do not you mind the Barns of Air , where Eighteen Score were Kill'd , Under the Colour of a Truce , our Worthies Blood was spill'd ? And what by Force they could not win , by Fraud they did obtain : Me wonders you should so forget , good old long sine , etc Remember William Wallace Wight , and his Accomplices ; Scotland they undertook to free , when it was in Distress . Likewise Sir James the Black Douglass , under the Bruce's Reign : These Men spar'd not their Blood to spill , for old long sine , etc Why did thou then thy Union break , thou had of late with France , Where Honours were conferr'd on thee ? but now not so's thy Chance : Thou must subject thy Neck unto and high proud Nation ; And more and more strive to forget good old long sine , etc Was it their seeming Riches that induced thee to fell Thy Honours , which as never yet no Monarch ev'r could quell ; Nor our Integrities once break , in all the bygone Time ? Yet now you seem for to forget good old long sine , etc The elder Brother let him read the Neighbour Margin Line ; The second let him but look back to ruin'd Darien : I'm hopeful then you will remorse , on former Ill that's done ; And strive in Time for to maintain good old long sine , etc Now mark and see what is the Cause of this so great a Fallen ; Contempt of Faith , Falsehood , Deceit , and Villainy withal ; But rouse your selves like Scotish Lads , and quit your selves as Men , And more and more strive to maintain good old long sine , etc FINIS . The true Scots Men's Lament , for the Loss of the Rights of their Ancient Kingdom , SHall Monarchy be quite forgotten , and of it no more herd ; Antiquity be razed out , and Slav'ry put in stead : Is Scots Men's Blood now grown so cold , the Valour of their Mind , That they can never once reflect on old long sine , etc What shall become now of our Crown , we have so long possessed ? Is it no more Fashionable , that we should have it dressed ? Shall we it for Tobacco fell , and never once repine ? Ah , then it's late for to Reflect on old long sine , etc How oft have our Forefathers spent their Blood in it's Defence ; Shall we then have it stol'n away by English Influence ? We'll curse the Actors of the Deed , when under Yoke we pine : Why will you not again reflect on old long sine , etc ? Old Albion , what will come of thee , when England sits thy Judge ? May thou not only then expect Oppression , but Refuge ? It's their Design to ruin thee , as clearly may be seen : Why wilt thou not again reflect , on old long sine , etc How shall our crazy Shoulders bear the Burden of their Tax ? Tho' they be rich , and we but poor , they will not us relax ; Unless some skilful one ov'rturn the Ground of the Design ; But then it's late for to reflect on old long sine , etc The Name of Britain shortly will thy Body hence possess ; England thy Head will flourish great , thy Body will decrease : The Union will thy Ruin be , thou'lt know in future Time ; [ ? ] you seem for to forget good old long sine , etc Was not our Nation sometime brave , invincible and stout ? Conquering Cesar that great King could not it put to Rout ; Nor not so much as Tribute get for all his great Design : These Men I think thought to maintain good old long sine , etc Did not Romish Ambassadors before our King kneel down ? I mean Corbredus Claudius great , most valiant of Renown : And the Proposals of a Peace , unto him did resig [ n ] These Actions may make us reflect on old long sine , etc The Royal Bruce , if now alive , he surely would regret , And blame our Grandees irefully of Scotland's wretched State ; And tell them he priz'd Monarchy , while he was in his Prime , And bid them look right speedily to old long sine , etc May not Experience teach thee well , in Edward Longshank's Reign , How they pretended good to thee , yet since meant no such Thing ; But merely stole from us the Chair we did so high esteem : It's strange to me you should forget good old long sine , etc Yet it was not by their own Strength , that they gain'd such a Prize ; But by our own base Malcontents , who did them well advice ; I mean , the Coming , Kirkpatrick , Vallange of treach'rous Mind : Such Men I fear have now the Cause , that we must now so pine . Do not you mind the Barns of Air , where Eighteen Score were Kill'd , Under the Colour of a Truce , our Worthies Blood was spill'd ? And what by Force they could not win , by Fraud they did obtain : Me wonders you should so forget , good old long sine , etc Remember William Wallace Wight , and his Accomplices ; Scotland they undertook to free , when it was in Distress . Likewise Sir James the Black Douglass , under the Bruce's Reign : These Men spar'd not their Blood to spill , for old long sine , etc Why did thou then thy Union break , thou had of late with France , Where Honours were conferr'd on thee ? but now not so's thy Chance : Thou must subject thy Neck unto and high proud Nation ; And more and more strive to forget good old long sine , etc Was it their seeming Riches that induced thee to fell Thy Honours , which as never yet no Monarch ev'r could quell ; Nor our Integrities once break , in all the bygone Time ? Yet now you seem for to forget good old long sine , etc The elder Brother let him read the Neighbour Margin Line ; The second let him but look back to ruin'd Darien : I'm hopeful then you will remorse , on former Ill that's done ; And strive in Time for to maintain good old long sine , etc Now mark and see what is the Cause of this so great a Fallen ; Contempt of Faith , Falsehood , Deceit , and Villainy withal ; But rouse your selves like Scotish Lads , and quit your selves as Men , And more and more strive to maintain good old long sine , etc FINIS . 