The Honest JURY OR , CALEB TRIUMPHANT . To the Tune of Packingtoun Pond I . REJOICE , you good Writers , your Pens are set free , Your Thoughts and the Press are at full Liberty ; For your King and your Country you safely may write , You may say Black is Black , and prove White is White . Let no Pamphleteers , Be concern'd for their Ears , For every Man now shall be try'd by his Peers . Twelve good honest Men shall decide in each Cause , And be Judges of Facts , tho' not Judges of Laws . II 'Tis said Master Caleb a Paper did print , Which sometime at some Folks look'd slyly asquint , He weekly held forth of no Peace , and no War , So was forc'd from his Trade to appear at the Bar : Thus for talking too free , Master Att -- y Strain'd his Lungs for to set him in the Pillory ; But Pillories now shall be rais'd for the Shame Of some Rogues as yet 'tis not proper to name . III . You may call the Man Fool , who Treaties do's blunder , And style him a Knave , who his Country does plunder ; If the Peace be not good , it can ne'er be a Crime , To wish it were better , in Prose or in Rhime . For Sir Philip well knows , That Innuen -- does , Will serve him no longer in Verse or in Prose , For Twelve honest Men have decided the Cause , And were Judges of Facts , tho' not Judges of Laws . IV. Twelve Judges there are , and twice Twelve Aldermen ; Many Lords , many Members and Bishops , --- what then ? Although you shou'd travel all England around , among them Twelve honester cnanot be found , Than this same Jury , Which set Caleb free , And brought in their Verdict , He was not Guilty . Then let these honest Men , who do pay Scot and Lot , While Ballads are Ballads , be never forgotten . V. This Jury so trusty , and Proof against RHINO I am apt to believe to be Jure Divino , But 'tis true in this Nation ( o ! why is it so ? ) Men the Honester are as the lower you go ; So a Fish when 'tis dead , I have often herd said , May be sweet at the Tail , tho' it stinks at the Head. Oh! may Honesty rise and confound the base Tribe , Will be corrupted by Pension or Bribe . VI . A Jury there was when the Pope was in Power , That brought our seven Bishops alive from the Tower . They sav'd our Religion from Jacobite Fury , Both that and King GEORGE we owe to a Jury ; So those that brought out The Bishops ---- no Doubt Brought in our King George , who's so gallant and st [ out ] Then sure 'tis the Interest of Country and King , That Juries should never be led in a String . VII . Thus far honest Duncan hath prophesy'd right , And prov'd himself bless'd with true Second Sighed , Who tho' Deaf and Dumb , in Astrology famous , As Partridge , poor Robin , or old Nostradamus , Did lately Divine , That Caleb should shine , And prevail o'er his Foes in the Year Twenty nine , For Twelve honest Men have determin'd his Cause , And rescued from Quibbles our old English Laws . VIII . But one Thing remains his Predictions to crown , And that is to see the LEVIATHAN down : Nor let us despair , the Year is not out , And a Month or two more may bring it about . Then in Chorus let's sing , And say , GOD bless the King . And grant that all those who deserve it may swing . If Twelve honest Men were to judge in this Cause , One good Verdict more might secure all our Laws . FINIS . The Honest JURY OR , CALEB TRIUMPHANT . To the Tune of Packingtoun Pond I . REJOICE , you good Writers , your Pens are set free , Your Thoughts and the Press are at full Liberty ; For your King and your Country you safely may write , You may say Black is Black , and prove White is White . Let no Pamphleteers , Be concern'd for their Ears , For every Man now shall be try'd by his Peers . Twelve good honest Men shall decide in each Cause , And be Judges of Facts , tho' not Judges of Laws . II 'Tis said Master Caleb a Paper did print , Which sometime at some Folks look'd slyly asquint , He weekly held forth of no Peace , and no War , So was forc'd from his Trade to appear at the Bar : Thus for talking too free , Master Att -- y Strain'd his Lungs for to set him in the Pillory ; But Pillories now shall be rais'd for the Shame Of some Rogues as yet 'tis not proper to name . III . You may call the Man Fool , who Treaties do's blunder , And style him a Knave , who his Country does plunder ; If the Peace be not good , it can ne'er be a Crime , To wish it were better , in Prose or in Rhime . For Sir Philip well knows , That Innuen -- does , Will serve him no longer in Verse or in Prose , For Twelve honest Men have decided the Cause , And were Judges of Facts , tho' not Judges of Laws . IV. Twelve Judges there are , and twice Twelve Aldermen ; Many Lords , many Members and Bishops , --- what then ? Although you shou'd travel all England around , among them Twelve honester cnanot be found , Than this same Jury , Which set Caleb free , And brought in their Verdict , He was not Guilty . Then let these honest Men , who do pay Scot and Lot , While Ballads are Ballads , be never forgotten . V. This Jury so trusty , and Proof against RHINO I am apt to believe to be Jure Divino , But 'tis true in this Nation ( o ! why is it so ? ) Men the Honester are as the lower you go ; So a Fish when 'tis dead , I have often herd said , May be sweet at the Tail , tho' it stinks at the Head. Oh! may Honesty rise and confound the base Tribe , Will be corrupted by Pension or Bribe . VI . A Jury there was when the Pope was in Power , That brought our seven Bishops alive from the Tower . They sav'd our Religion from Jacobite Fury , Both that and King GEORGE we owe to a Jury ; So those that brought out The Bishops ---- no Doubt Brought in our King George , who's so gallant and st [ out ] Then sure 'tis the Interest of Country and King , That Juries should never be led in a String . VII . Thus far honest Duncan hath prophesy'd right , And prov'd himself bless'd with true Second Sighed , Who tho' Deaf and Dumb , in Astrology famous , As Partridge , poor Robin , or old Nostradamus , Did lately Divine , That Caleb should shine , And prevail o'er his Foes in the Year Twenty nine , For Twelve honest Men have determin'd his Cause , And rescued from Quibbles our old English Laws . VIII . But one Thing remains his Predictions to crown , And that is to see the LEVIATHAN down : Nor let us despair , the Year is not out , And a Month or two more may bring it about . Then in Chorus let's sing , And say , GOD bless the King . And grant that all those who deserve it may swing . If Twelve honest Men were to judge in this Cause , One good Verdict more might secure all our Laws . FINIS . 