Queen ELEANOR's Confession : SHOWING How King HENRY , with the Earl MARTIAL , in Friars Habits came to her , instead of two Friars from France , which she sent for . To a pleasant New Tune . QUEEN Eleanor was a sick Woman , And afraid that she should die ; Then she sent for two Friars of France , For to speak with them speedily . The King call'd down his Nobles all , By One , by Two , and by Three , And sent away for Earl Martial , For to speak with them speedily . When that he came before the King , He fell on his bent Knee , A Boon , a Boon , our gracious King , That you sent so hastily . I'll pawn my Living and my Lands , My Sceptre and my Crown , That whatever Queen Eleanor says , I will not write it down . Do you put on a Friar's Coat , And I'll put on another , And we will to Queen Eleanor go , One Friar like another . Thus both attired then they go , When they came to Whitehall , The Bells' they did ring and Quiristers sing , And the Torches did light them all . When they came before the Queen , They fell on their bent Knee , A Boon , a Boon , our gracious Queen , That you sent so hastily . Are you two Friars of France ? she said , Which I suppose you be ; But if you are two English Friars , Then hanged shall you be . We are two Friars of France , they said , As you suppose we be , We have not been at any Mass Since we came from the Sea , The first vile Thing that e'er I did , I will to you unfold , Earl Martial had my Maidenhead , Under this Cloth of Gold . That's a great since , then said the King , God may forgive it thee , Amen , Amen , quoth Earl Martial , With a heavy Heart then spoke he . The next vile Thing that e'er I did , To you I'll not deny , I made a Box of Poison strong , To poison King Henry . That is a vile since , then said the King , God may forgive it thee , Amen , Amen , quoth Earl Martial , And wish it so may be . The next vile Thing that e'er I did , To you I will discover , I poisoned fair Rosamond , All in fair Woodstock Bower . That is a vile since , then said the King , God may forgive it thee , Amen , Amen , quoth Earl Martial , I wish it so may be . Do you see yonder a little Boy , A tossing of the Ball ? That is Earl Martial's eldest Son , And I love him the best of all . Do you see yonder a little Boy , A catching of the Ball ? That is King Henry's Son , she said , I love him the worst of all , His Head is like unto a Bull , His Nose is like a Boar , No matter for that , King Henry said , I love him the better therefore . The King pull'd of his Friars Coat , And appear all in Read ; She shriek'd , she cry'd , and wrang her Hands , And said she was betray'd . The King look'd over his left Shoulder , And a grim Look looked he : And said , Earl Martial , but for my Oath , Then hanged should thou be . NEWCASTLE : Printed and Sold by ROBERT MARCHBANK , in the Customhouse-Entry . Queen ELEANOR's Confession : SHOWING How King HENRY , with the Earl MARTIAL , in Friars Habits came to her , instead of two Friars from France , which she sent for . To a pleasant New Tune . QUEEN Eleanor was a sick Woman , And afraid that she should die ; Then she sent for two Friars of France , For to speak with them speedily . The King call'd down his Nobles all , By One , by Two , and by Three , And sent away for Earl Martial , For to speak with them speedily . When that he came before the King , He fell on his bent Knee , A Boon , a Boon , our gracious King , That you sent so hastily . I'll pawn my Living and my Lands , My Sceptre and my Crown , That whatever Queen Eleanor says , I will not write it down . Do you put on a Friar's Coat , And I'll put on another , And we will to Queen Eleanor go , One Friar like another . Thus both attired then they go , When they came to Whitehall , The Bells' they did ring and Quiristers sing , And the Torches did light them all . When they came before the Queen , They fell on their bent Knee , A Boon , a Boon , our gracious Queen , That you sent so hastily . Are you two Friars of France ? she said , Which I suppose you be ; But if you are two English Friars , Then hanged shall you be . We are two Friars of France , they said , As you suppose we be , We have not been at any Mass Since we came from the Sea , The first vile Thing that e'er I did , I will to you unfold , Earl Martial had my Maidenhead , Under this Cloth of Gold . That's a great since , then said the King , God may forgive it thee , Amen , Amen , quoth Earl Martial , With a heavy Heart then spoke he . The next vile Thing that e'er I did , To you I'll not deny , I made a Box of Poison strong , To poison King Henry . That is a vile since , then said the King , God may forgive it thee , Amen , Amen , quoth Earl Martial , And wish it so may be . The next vile Thing that e'er I did , To you I will discover , I poisoned fair Rosamond , All in fair Woodstock Bower . That is a vile since , then said the King , God may forgive it thee , Amen , Amen , quoth Earl Martial , I wish it so may be . Do you see yonder a little Boy , A tossing of the Ball ? That is Earl Martial's eldest Son , And I love him the best of all . Do you see yonder a little Boy , A catching of the Ball ? That is King Henry's Son , she said , I love him the worst of all , His Head is like unto a Bull , His Nose is like a Boar , No matter for that , King Henry said , I love him the better therefore . The King pull'd of his Friars Coat , And appear all in Read ; She shriek'd , she cry'd , and wrang her Hands , And said she was betray'd . The King look'd over his left Shoulder , And a grim Look looked he : And said , Earl Martial , but for my Oath , Then hanged should thou be . NEWCASTLE : Printed and Sold by ROBERT MARCHBANK , in the Customhouse-Entry . 