v The Young men Counsellor : OR , A Guide for New Beginners . Which , being put in practice , may prove both acceptable , Useful , and profitable , to a [ ll ] such as are beginning to Deal in the World . With directions how to order their Affairs to the glory of God ; and their own benefit . He that into the Ocean does set sail , Pours forth his Prayers to have a prosperous gale , So likewise he that does the World begin , Must pray to God ; to guide his ways therein . Tune of , Aim not to high , etc ALl you that to begin the World intend , Come take instructions from a loving friend , Some precepts I will here lay down in brief , Which may , in time , of need yield you relief . First be not rash in choosing of a wife , lest that thou dost repent thee all thy life , A portion's good , it cannot be deny'd , But yet be sure let virtue be thy guide . If that too much for riches thou dost go , By doing so thou mayest procure thy woe , But mark the story which hath oft been told , A virtuous wife is worth her weight in gold . According as thy means is great and small , Begin the world and have a care withal For he that aims too high before his time , May chance to fallen in offering for to climb . The counsel of thy friends , at all times take , Their good advice be sure do not forsake , For in thy greatest need it will avail , And help thee out , when troubles do assail . Use conscience in thy dealings every one , For riches they have wings and may be gone , To tell thee as a friend , I dare presume . Ill got goods , thy substance will consume . The second Part to the same Tune . IN selling of thy wares do not exact , But still be just to what thou dost contract . Let not extortion ever bring a curse , Small gains in time will make a heavy purse . Be courteous unto all , do none disdain , And thou thereby great benefit shalt gain . Humility will win thee many a friend , When haughty looks do every one offend , Unto good husbandry , be thou inclin'd , Let thy occasions busy still thy mind , Never repent thee of thy labour past , For thou shalt reap the benefit at last Be sure all sorts of gaming , thou do shun , For thereby many a man hath been undone : 'Twill make thee thy occasions to neglect , And live in scandal , and in disrespect . Immoderate drinking likewise see thou flee , And count it as thy greatest enemy , For thy employment , it will thee unfit . And rob thee of thy reason and thy wit , As in a Looking-glass thou mayest discern , And from the same this Lesson thou mayest learn , That those who steep their brains in beer and wine , Do differ little from the brutish Swine . If God shall bless thy labours in such wise , That to a good estate thou does arise , Do not forget the poor that live in woe , But give them some relief before they go . So shalt thou have the prayers of them that want . And for so doing , blessings God will grant , In his good time , he will increase thy store , And send thee mercies daily more and more . If that a loving wife thou dost possess , And God with children does thy Table bless , To give them education be so kind , And so from them great comfort thou wilt find . Let thy example still before them be , Such as may suit with pleasing modesty , Most commonly what is by Parents shown . They readiest are hereafter for to own . Likewise thy servants , see thou do direct , That they no time , their duty do neglect , If they be just and faithful unto thee , The better for themselves be sure 'twill be . At home and eke abroad , be kind to all , lest that into disgrace thou chance to fallen , Respect thy Neighbours , and then thou wilt find , That unto thee , they will be free and kind . By following of these rules which here are shown . Thou mayest be sure a happy life to own , That every one by thy example may , Know how to govern , and how to obey , Thus have I shown you in my true respect ; Wherefore these precepts , pray do not neglec A good beginning , if you make my friend ; And so continue , doubt not a good end . London , Printed for Richard Hardy , at the Horseshoe in West-Smith-Field . v The Young men Counsellor : OR , A Guide for New Beginners . Which , being put in practice , may prove both acceptable , Useful , and profitable , to a [ ll ] such as are beginning to Deal in the World . With directions how to order their Affairs to the glory of God ; and their own benefit . He that into the Ocean does set sail , Pours forth his Prayers to have a prosperous gale , So likewise he that does the World begin , Must pray to God ; to guide his ways therein . Tune of , Aim not to high , etc ALl you that to begin the World intend , Come take instructions from a loving friend , Some precepts I will here lay down in brief , Which may , in time , of need yield you relief . First be not rash in choosing of a wife , lest that thou dost repent thee all thy life , A portion's good , it cannot be deny'd , But yet be sure let virtue be thy guide . If that too much for riches thou dost go , By doing so thou mayest procure thy woe , But mark the story which hath oft been told , A virtuous wife is worth her weight in gold . According as thy means is great and small , Begin the world and have a care withal For he that aims too high before his time , May chance to fallen in offering for to climb . The counsel of thy friends , at all times take , Their good advice be sure do not forsake , For in thy greatest need it will avail , And help thee out , when troubles do assail . Use conscience in thy dealings every one , For riches they have wings and may be gone , To tell thee as a friend , I dare presume . Ill got goods , thy substance will consume . The second Part to the same Tune . IN selling of thy wares do not exact , But still be just to what thou dost contract . Let not extortion ever bring a curse , Small gains in time will make a heavy purse . Be courteous unto all , do none disdain , And thou thereby great benefit shalt gain . Humility will win thee many a friend , When haughty looks do every one offend , Unto good husbandry , be thou inclin'd , Let thy occasions busy still thy mind , Never repent thee of thy labour past , For thou shalt reap the benefit at last Be sure all sorts of gaming , thou do shun , For thereby many a man hath been undone : 'Twill make thee thy occasions to neglect , And live in scandal , and in disrespect . Immoderate drinking likewise see thou flee , And count it as thy greatest enemy , For thy employment , it will thee unfit . And rob thee of thy reason and thy wit , As in a Looking-glass thou mayest discern , And from the same this Lesson thou mayest learn , That those who steep their brains in beer and wine , Do differ little from the brutish Swine . If God shall bless thy labours in such wise , That to a good estate thou does arise , Do not forget the poor that live in woe , But give them some relief before they go . So shalt thou have the prayers of them that want . And for so doing , blessings God will grant , In his good time , he will increase thy store , And send thee mercies daily more and more . If that a loving wife thou dost possess , And God with children does thy Table bless , To give them education be so kind , And so from them great comfort thou wilt find . Let thy example still before them be , Such as may suit with pleasing modesty , Most commonly what is by Parents shown . They readiest are hereafter for to own . Likewise thy servants , see thou do direct , That they no time , their duty do neglect , If they be just and faithful unto thee , The better for themselves be sure 'twill be . At home and eke abroad , be kind to all , lest that into disgrace thou chance to fallen , Respect thy Neighbours , and then thou wilt find , That unto thee , they will be free and kind . By following of these rules which here are shown . Thou mayest be sure a happy life to own , That every one by thy example may , Know how to govern , and how to obey , Thus have I shown you in my true respect ; Wherefore these precepts , pray do not neglec A good beginning , if you make my friend ; And so continue , doubt not a good end . London , Printed for Richard Hardy , at the Horseshoe in West-Smith-Field . 