The Contented LOVERS : OR , A pleasant Dialogue between a Shepherd and a Nymph . ( 9 ) SHepherd Adonis , being weary of his sport , Return'd to the woods , where he used to resort , He let fallen his crook , and he laid himself down , He envy'd no monarch , nor wish'd for no crown . He drank of the brook , eat the fruit of the tree , Enjoying himself , from all cares was he free : He valu'd no nymph , were she ever so fair ; No pride , no ambition , had he , nor no care . But as it fell out in one evening so clear , A charming sweet voice he chanced to hear : He stood like a stone , nor one foot could he move , He knew not what ail'd him , but fear'd it was love . The nymph she beheld him with a modest grace , Seeing something appear , she disguised her face ; She disguised her face , and unto him did say , How now , Mr. Shepherd , how came you this way ? The Shepherd reply'd , and to her he said , I ne'er was surpriz'd at the sighed of a maid : When first I beheld thee , from all care I was free , But now I am captive , my dearest to thee . O shepherd ! O shepherd ! leave not your free state , For love will entangle you in sorrow that's great , And distract your brain , that you ne'er can have rest Then incline not to love , for as yet you are blessed . Fair nymph of the wood , and thou charmer of man , Thy beauty's so great , that I can't it withstand ; Then pity my case , and yield me some Joy ; Oh pity , Oh pity , a wounded young Boy . The nymph she reply'd , with a languishing look , Saying , Shepherd , alas ! my way I mistook , Or you had never known me , nor I who you were , For now I do pity you , I do declare . Then fit thee down by me , thou beauteous nymph , And let me enjoy thy sweet person , not glimpse Of thy beauty celestial , so charming and fair ; Thy beauty indeed is beyond all compare . O don't prove my downfall ! why will you ? O why Will you let your poor shepherd thus languishing lie ? If you grant me not love , all the world can't me save , Tho' once I did slight you , 'twill bring me to my grave . With that poor Adonis let fallen some few tears , His face looked pale , which discover'd his care : The nymph looked read , and blushing did cry , Oh no , sweet Adonis ! for me you shan't die . Then take your shepherdess , I'll be no more coy , In love let us live , and each other enjoy ; In groves that are pleasant , under trees that are high , In love let us live , and in love let us die . This answer reviv'd poor Adonis's heart , His troubles were fled , and he felt no more smar The nymph she receiv'd him with looks most kind , And from her shepherd she comfort did find . Then close he embrac'd her , and soft laid her down , The sky was their tester , their bed was the ground : He folded her so oft within his found arms , Her face and her features discover'd her charms . As charming as Venus was , when she was took Along with brave Mars , when the Gods at them look . Yet this nymph and this shepherd most beautiful fair , Like the light of the sunbeams so charming were . Thus in sweet enjoyment , free from care and strife , This happy couple do led a sweet life : No wars , nor no battles , no rumours they see , In peace , in great comfort , and pleasure they be . Among the sweet groves thus they pleasant do live , And nothing do want but what nature does give ; It is there , it is there , it is there they do keep Their quiet , contented , and sweet harmless sheep . All the day near to fountains and rivers they rove , At night they return to the peaceable grove ; And thus in the day , as well as the night , They live in great pleasure , in joy , and delight . One sings with her voice , t'other plays with his flute , While one is employed , the other stands mute ; They look at each other so charming and sweet , Sometime interposing their lips they do meet . Thus charming , thus loving , they led a sweet life , So free from all care , and so void of all strife ; If therefore all of you contentment would find , Like this happy couple be loving and kind . The Contented LOVERS : OR , A pleasant Dialogue between a Shepherd and a Nymph . ( 9 ) SHepherd Adonis , being weary of his sport , Return'd to the woods , where he used to resort , He let fallen his crook , and he laid himself down , He envy'd no monarch , nor wish'd for no crown . He drank of the brook , eat the fruit of the tree , Enjoying himself , from all cares was he free : He valu'd no nymph , were she ever so fair ; No pride , no ambition , had he , nor no care . But as it fell out in one evening so clear , A charming sweet voice he chanced to hear : He stood like a stone , nor one foot could he move , He knew not what ail'd him , but fear'd it was love . The nymph she beheld him with a modest grace , Seeing something appear , she disguised her face ; She disguised her face , and unto him did say , How now , Mr. Shepherd , how came you this way ? The Shepherd reply'd , and to her he said , I ne'er was surpriz'd at the sighed of a maid : When first I beheld thee , from all care I was free , But now I am captive , my dearest to thee . O shepherd ! O shepherd ! leave not your free state , For love will entangle you in sorrow that's great , And distract your brain , that you ne'er can have rest Then incline not to love , for as yet you are blessed . Fair nymph of the wood , and thou charmer of man , Thy beauty's so great , that I can't it withstand ; Then pity my case , and yield me some Joy ; Oh pity , Oh pity , a wounded young Boy . The nymph she reply'd , with a languishing look , Saying , Shepherd , alas ! my way I mistook , Or you had never known me , nor I who you were , For now I do pity you , I do declare . Then fit thee down by me , thou beauteous nymph , And let me enjoy thy sweet person , not glimpse Of thy beauty celestial , so charming and fair ; Thy beauty indeed is beyond all compare . O don't prove my downfall ! why will you ? O why Will you let your poor shepherd thus languishing lie ? If you grant me not love , all the world can't me save , Tho' once I did slight you , 'twill bring me to my grave . With that poor Adonis let fallen some few tears , His face looked pale , which discover'd his care : The nymph looked read , and blushing did cry , Oh no , sweet Adonis ! for me you shan't die . Then take your shepherdess , I'll be no more coy , In love let us live , and each other enjoy ; In groves that are pleasant , under trees that are high , In love let us live , and in love let us die . This answer reviv'd poor Adonis's heart , His troubles were fled , and he felt no more smar The nymph she receiv'd him with looks most kind , And from her shepherd she comfort did find . Then close he embrac'd her , and soft laid her down , The sky was their tester , their bed was the ground : He folded her so oft within his found arms , Her face and her features discover'd her charms . As charming as Venus was , when she was took Along with brave Mars , when the Gods at them look . Yet this nymph and this shepherd most beautiful fair , Like the light of the sunbeams so charming were . Thus in sweet enjoyment , free from care and strife , This happy couple do led a sweet life : No wars , nor no battles , no rumours they see , In peace , in great comfort , and pleasure they be . Among the sweet groves thus they pleasant do live , And nothing do want but what nature does give ; It is there , it is there , it is there they do keep Their quiet , contented , and sweet harmless sheep . All the day near to fountains and rivers they rove , At night they return to the peaceable grove ; And thus in the day , as well as the night , They live in great pleasure , in joy , and delight . One sings with her voice , t'other plays with his flute , While one is employed , the other stands mute ; They look at each other so charming and sweet , Sometime interposing their lips they do meet . Thus charming , thus loving , they led a sweet life , So free from all care , and so void of all strife ; If therefore all of you contentment would find , Like this happy couple be loving and kind . 