The King of Good-Fellows : OR , The Merry Toper's Advice . Being a Pleasant New Song much in Request . This is the Man whose Company once had , Will make Men Cheearful , though of late but sad : He hates Curmudgeons , but does Court the Blade , That will spend free , for Drinking is a Trade ; By it long Nights fly swift , and seem but short , No Pastime's like unto true Tippling sport . To a Pleasant New Tune . I Am the King and Prince of Drunkards , Hectoring roaring tippling Boys : I always use to drink whole Bumpers , and the Alehouse fill with noise : In the Tavern I do rant and roar , I drink more Wine then any can : Therefore am I both far and nigh , call'd a Hogshead , not a Man. I rant and roar , and I call for more , I practice drinking night and day : I always boast that I drink most , yet never a Farthing do I pay . But if any falls asleep , to their pockets I do creep , and out their Purses I do draw , The Reckoning I do pay , & so go my way , and I leave them a sighing , You , ho . Some says Drinking does disguise Men , and their wits turns out of doors : Fools they are , & I am sure no wise Men , for they lie like Sons of Whores . For when a man's in drink , he speaks what he thinks he's not drunk , but frank & free , It is not with them , so they'r a cup too low for they are disguiz'd with modesty . The Second part , to the same Tune . All the night I do tipple good Wine , which resists both heat and cold : And pay devotion at Bacchus his shrine , while the Hogshead it does hold . For the meanest slave , by drinking grows brave , & all cares they are lay'd aside : The Prisoner is free , if drunk he be , and no longer does grief abide . 'Twas I that lately drank a Pisspot fill'd with Sack unto the brim , And to my Friend , and he drank his Pot , so merrily went about the Whim : two gaspins at a draught I pour'd down my throat but hang such trifling things as these , I laid me all along , put my nose unto the Bung , and drank out a Hogshead full with ease : I herd of a man that drank whole Tankards , called himself the Prince of Sots , Dam such idle Puny Drunkards , melt their Tankards , break their Pots : A friend and I did join for a Seller full of Wine , and we drank the Vintner out of door , We drank it all up , in a morning at a sup , and greedily stared about for more : With that my friend he made a motion , said , let's not part with such dry Lips , And straight we went unto the Ocean , where we met with a fleet of Ships ; They were laden all with Wine , and they swore 'twas superfine , And they said they had ten thousand Tun : we drank it all at Sea , not a drop sucked the Key And the Vintners swore they were all undone . For a Man that can stoutly tipple , need not fear the World goes well : It will make caper , though a Cripple , and bid sorrows all farewell . Then 'tother round is still the found , come fill us more wine boys with speed : We ne'r ought shall lack , while we hand sack 'tis that which our spirits does feed . Come bring in twenty Gallons more , let us drink till the world it runs round , And twenty to that we'l set o'th score , we can but be put in the Pound . but catch me if they can , for I will be gone , and find out fresh quarters next nigh I'le drink the Town dry , and what care I , I'le do't if it be but for spite . Come wash the Glass , fill a bumper , here's a health to each honest Lad : And a confusion to each Rumper , let's drink while 'tis to be had : while the Stars they look blue , & day again we view for there's nothing that's sober found : The sun sucks the Ocean , the stars in their motion all do carouse it round . FINIS . Printed for J. Jordan , at the Sign of the Angel , in Guiltspur-street , without Newgate . The King of Good-Fellows : OR , The Merry Toper's Advice . Being a Pleasant New Song much in Request . This is the Man whose Company once had , Will make Men Cheearful , though of late but sad : He hates Curmudgeons , but does Court the Blade , That will spend free , for Drinking is a Trade ; By it long Nights fly swift , and seem but short , No Pastime's like unto true Tippling sport . To a Pleasant New Tune . I Am the King and Prince of Drunkards , Hectoring roaring tippling Boys : I always use to drink whole Bumpers , and the Alehouse fill with noise : In the Tavern I do rant and roar , I drink more Wine then any can : Therefore am I both far and nigh , call'd a Hogshead , not a Man. I rant and roar , and I call for more , I practice drinking night and day : I always boast that I drink most , yet never a Farthing do I pay . But if any falls asleep , to their pockets I do creep , and out their Purses I do draw , The Reckoning I do pay , & so go my way , and I leave them a sighing , You , ho . Some says Drinking does disguise Men , and their wits turns out of doors : Fools they are , & I am sure no wise Men , for they lie like Sons of Whores . For when a man's in drink , he speaks what he thinks he's not drunk , but frank & free , It is not with them , so they'r a cup too low for they are disguiz'd with modesty . The Second part , to the same Tune . All the night I do tipple good Wine , which resists both heat and cold : And pay devotion at Bacchus his shrine , while the Hogshead it does hold . For the meanest slave , by drinking grows brave , & all cares they are lay'd aside : The Prisoner is free , if drunk he be , and no longer does grief abide . 'Twas I that lately drank a Pisspot fill'd with Sack unto the brim , And to my Friend , and he drank his Pot , so merrily went about the Whim : two gaspins at a draught I pour'd down my throat but hang such trifling things as these , I laid me all along , put my nose unto the Bung , and drank out a Hogshead full with ease : I herd of a man that drank whole Tankards , called himself the Prince of Sots , Dam such idle Puny Drunkards , melt their Tankards , break their Pots : A friend and I did join for a Seller full of Wine , and we drank the Vintner out of door , We drank it all up , in a morning at a sup , and greedily stared about for more : With that my friend he made a motion , said , let's not part with such dry Lips , And straight we went unto the Ocean , where we met with a fleet of Ships ; They were laden all with Wine , and they swore 'twas superfine , And they said they had ten thousand Tun : we drank it all at Sea , not a drop sucked the Key And the Vintners swore they were all undone . For a Man that can stoutly tipple , need not fear the World goes well : It will make caper , though a Cripple , and bid sorrows all farewell . Then 'tother round is still the found , come fill us more wine boys with speed : We ne'r ought shall lack , while we hand sack 'tis that which our spirits does feed . Come bring in twenty Gallons more , let us drink till the world it runs round , And twenty to that we'l set o'th score , we can but be put in the Pound . but catch me if they can , for I will be gone , and find out fresh quarters next nigh I'le drink the Town dry , and what care I , I'le do't if it be but for spite . Come wash the Glass , fill a bumper , here's a health to each honest Lad : And a confusion to each Rumper , let's drink while 'tis to be had : while the Stars they look blue , & day again we view for there's nothing that's sober found : The sun sucks the Ocean , the stars in their motion all do carouse it round . FINIS . Printed for J. Jordan , at the Sign of the Angel , in Guiltspur-street , without Newgate . The King of Good-Fellows : OR , The Merry Toper's Advice . Being a Pleasant New Song much in Request . This is the Man whose Company once had , Will make Men Cheearful , though of late but sad : He hates Curmudgeons , but does Court the Blade , That will spend free , for Drinking is a Trade ; By it long Nights fly swift , and seem but short , No Pastime's like unto true Tippling sport . To a Pleasant New Tune . I Am the King and Prince of Drunkards , Hectoring roaring tippling Boys : I always use to drink whole Bumpers , and the Alehouse fill with noise : In the Tavern I do rant and roar , I drink more Wine then any can : Therefore am I both far and nigh , call'd a Hogshead , not a Man. I rant and roar , and I call for more , I practice drinking night and day : I always boast that I drink most , yet never a Farthing do I pay . But if any falls asleep , to their pockets I do creep , and out their Purses I do draw , The Reckoning I do pay , & so go my way , and I leave them a sighing , You , ho . Some says Drinking does disguise Men , and their wits turns out of doors : Fools they are , & I am sure no wise Men , for they lie like Sons of Whores . For when a man's in drink , he speaks what he thinks he's not drunk , but frank & free , It is not with them , so they'r a cup too low for they are disguiz'd with modesty . The Second part , to the same Tune . All the night I do tipple good Wine , which resists both heat and cold : And pay devotion at Bacchus his shrine , while the Hogshead it does hold . For the meanest slave , by drinking grows brave , & all cares they are lay'd aside : The Prisoner is free , if drunk he be , and no longer does grief abide . 'Twas I that lately drank a Pisspot fill'd with Sack unto the brim , And to my Friend , and he drank his Pot , so merrily went about the Whim : two gaspins at a draught I pour'd down my throat but hang such trifling things as these , I laid me all along , put my nose unto the Bung , and drank out a Hogshead full with ease : I herd of a man that drank whole Tankards , called himself the Prince of Sots , Dam such idle Puny Drunkards , melt their Tankards , break their Pots : A friend and I did join for a Seller full of Wine , and we drank the Vintner out of door , We drank it all up , in a morning at a sup , and greedily stared about for more : With that my friend he made a motion , said , let's not part with such dry Lips , And straight we went unto the Ocean , where we met with a fleet of Ships ; They were laden all with Wine , and they swore 'twas superfine , And they said they had ten thousand Tun : we drank it all at Sea , not a drop sucked the Key And the Vintners swore they were all undone . For a Man that can stoutly tipple , need not fear the World goes well : It will make caper , though a Cripple , and bid sorrows all farewell . Then 'tother round is still the found , come fill us more wine boys with speed : We ne'r ought shall lack , while we hand sack 'tis that which our spirits does feed . Come bring in twenty Gallons more , let us drink till the world it runs round , And twenty to that we'l set o'th score , we can but be put in the Pound . but catch me if they can , for I will be gone , and find out fresh quarters next nigh I'le drink the Town dry , and what care I , I'le do't if it be but for spite . Come wash the Glass , fill a bumper , here's a health to each honest Lad : And a confusion to each Rumper , let's drink while 'tis to be had : while the Stars they look blue , & day again we view for there's nothing that's sober found : The sun sucks the Ocean , the stars in their motion all do carouse it round . FINIS . Printed for J. Jordan , at the Sign of the Angel , in Guiltspur-street , without Newgate . The King of Good-Fellows : OR , The Merry Toper's Advice . Being a Pleasant New Song much in Request . This is the Man whose Company once had , Will make Men Cheearful , though of late but sad : He hates Curmudgeons , but does Court the Blade , That will spend free , for Drinking is a Trade ; By it long Nights fly swift , and seem but short , No Pastime's like unto true Tippling sport . To a Pleasant New Tune . I Am the King and Prince of Drunkards , Hectoring roaring tippling Boys : I always use to drink whole Bumpers , and the Alehouse fill with noise : In the Tavern I do rant and roar , I drink more Wine then any can : Therefore am I both far and nigh , call'd a Hogshead , not a Man. I rant and roar , and I call for more , I practice drinking night and day : I always boast that I drink most , yet never a Farthing do I pay . But if any falls asleep , to their pockets I do creep , and out their Purses I do draw , The Reckoning I do pay , & so go my way , and I leave them a sighing , You , ho . Some says Drinking does disguise Men , and their wits turns out of doors : Fools they are , & I am sure no wise Men , for they lie like Sons of Whores . For when a man's in drink , he speaks what he thinks he's not drunk , but frank & free , It is not with them , so they'r a cup too low for they are disguiz'd with modesty . The Second part , to the same Tune . All the night I do tipple good Wine , which resists both heat and cold : And pay devotion at Bacchus his shrine , while the Hogshead it does hold . For the meanest slave , by drinking grows brave , & all cares they are lay'd aside : The Prisoner is free , if drunk he be , and no longer does grief abide . 'Twas I that lately drank a Pisspot fill'd with Sack unto the brim , And to my Friend , and he drank his Pot , so merrily went about the Whim : two gaspins at a draught I pour'd down my throat but hang such trifling things as these , I laid me all along , put my nose unto the Bung , and drank out a Hogshead full with ease : I herd of a man that drank whole Tankards , called himself the Prince of Sots , Dam such idle Puny Drunkards , melt their Tankards , break their Pots : A friend and I did join for a Seller full of Wine , and we drank the Vintner out of door , We drank it all up , in a morning at a sup , and greedily stared about for more : With that my friend he made a motion , said , let's not part with such dry Lips , And straight we went unto the Ocean , where we met with a fleet of Ships ; They were laden all with Wine , and they swore 'twas superfine , And they said they had ten thousand Tun : we drank it all at Sea , not a drop sucked the Key And the Vintners swore they were all undone . For a Man that can stoutly tipple , need not fear the World goes well : It will make caper , though a Cripple , and bid sorrows all farewell . Then 'tother round is still the found , come fill us more wine boys with speed : We ne'r ought shall lack , while we hand sack 'tis that which our spirits does feed . Come bring in twenty Gallons more , let us drink till the world it runs round , And twenty to that we'l set o'th score , we can but be put in the Pound . but catch me if they can , for I will be gone , and find out fresh quarters next nigh I'le drink the Town dry , and what care I , I'le do't if it be but for spite . Come wash the Glass , fill a bumper , here's a health to each honest Lad : And a confusion to each Rumper , let's drink while 'tis to be had : while the Stars they look blue , & day again we view for there's nothing that's sober found : The sun sucks the Ocean , the stars in their motion all do carouse it round . FINIS . Printed for J. Jordan , at the Sign of the Angel , in Guiltspur-street , without Newgate . 