A Famous SEA FIGHT . BETWEEN Captain , Ward , and his Majesty's Ship the Rainbow . Tune of , 'Tis when the Seas were roaring , etc STrike up the lusty Gallants , With Music found of Drum ; For we have espy'd a Rover , That to our Seas is come ; His Name you know is Captain Ward , Right well it does appear , There has not been such a Rover , Found out these thousand Years . For he hath sent unto our King , The Sixth of January , Desiring that he might come in , With all his Company ; And if our King will let me come , Till I my Tale have told ; I will bestow for thy Ransom , Full thirty Tun of Gold . O nay ! O nay ! then said our King , Oh nay ! this may not be , To yield to such a vile Rover , Myself cannot agree , He hath deceived the Frenchmen , Likewise the King of Spain , And how can he be true to me , That hath been false to twain . With that our King provided , A Ship of worthy Fame , Rainbow is what she's always call'd , If you would know her Name ; Now the brave and gallant Rainbow . She roves along the Sea , Five hundred gallant Seamen , To bear her Company . The Dutchmen and the bold Spaniards , She made them for to fly ; Also the bonny brisk Frenchmen , As she met them on the Sea , When as this bold gallant Rainbow , Did come where Ward did lie , Where is the Captain of this Ship , This brave Rainbow did cry . Oh! that's I says the Captain Ward , There's no Man bids me lie ; And if thou art the King's fair Ship , Thou art welcome to me ; I'll tell thee what says the Rainbow , Our King is in great Grief , That thou should'st lie upon the Sea , And play the arrant Thief . And will not let our Merchant Ships , Pass as they did before ; Such Tidings to our King is come , Which grieves his Heart full soar : With that this gallant Rainbow , Did shoot out of her Pride , Full fifty gallant Pieces , Charged on every Side . Although these gallant Shooters Prevailed not a Pin ; Though they were Brass on the Outside Yet Ward was Steel within : Shoot on shoot on , says Captain Ward , Your Sport well pleases me ; And he that now first gives o'er , Shall yield unto the Sea. I never wrong'd and English Ship , But Turks , and King of Spain , ; And for the jovial Dutchmen . Which I met on the Main : If I had known who was your King , But one two Years before , I would have sav'd brave Essex's Life , Whose Death did grieve me soar . Go tell the King of England , Go tell him thus from me , If he reigns King of all the Land , I will reign King at Sea. With that the gallant Rainbow shot , And shot and shot in vain , And left the Rover's Company , And returned Home again . Our Royal King of England , Our Ships return'd again ; [ F ] or Wards is stout and strong , And never will be ta'en ; Oh everlasting , says our King , I have lost Jewels Three , Which would have gone unto the Seas , And brought proud Ward to me . The first was the Lord Clifford , Brave Earl of Cumberland ; The second was the Lord Mountjoy , As you shall understand : The third was the valiant Essex , From Field would never flee ; Which would have gone unto the Seas , And brought proud Ward to me . A Famous SEA FIGHT . BETWEEN Captain , Ward , and his Majesty's Ship the Rainbow . Tune of , 'Tis when the Seas were roaring , etc STrike up the lusty Gallants , With Music found of Drum ; For we have espy'd a Rover , That to our Seas is come ; His Name you know is Captain Ward , Right well it does appear , There has not been such a Rover , Found out these thousand Years . For he hath sent unto our King , The Sixth of January , Desiring that he might come in , With all his Company ; And if our King will let me come , Till I my Tale have told ; I will bestow for thy Ransom , Full thirty Tun of Gold . O nay ! O nay ! then said our King , Oh nay ! this may not be , To yield to such a vile Rover , Myself cannot agree , He hath deceived the Frenchmen , Likewise the King of Spain , And how can he be true to me , That hath been false to twain . With that our King provided , A Ship of worthy Fame , Rainbow is what she's always call'd , If you would know her Name ; Now the brave and gallant Rainbow . She roves along the Sea , Five hundred gallant Seamen , To bear her Company . The Dutchmen and the bold Spaniards , She made them for to fly ; Also the bonny brisk Frenchmen , As she met them on the Sea , When as this bold gallant Rainbow , Did come where Ward did lie , Where is the Captain of this Ship , This brave Rainbow did cry . Oh! that's I says the Captain Ward , There's no Man bids me lie ; And if thou art the King's fair Ship , Thou art welcome to me ; I'll tell thee what says the Rainbow , Our King is in great Grief , That thou should'st lie upon the Sea , And play the arrant Thief . And will not let our Merchant Ships , Pass as they did before ; Such Tidings to our King is come , Which grieves his Heart full soar : With that this gallant Rainbow , Did shoot out of her Pride , Full fifty gallant Pieces , Charged on every Side . Although these gallant Shooters Prevailed not a Pin ; Though they were Brass on the Outside Yet Ward was Steel within : Shoot on shoot on , says Captain Ward , Your Sport well pleases me ; And he that now first gives o'er , Shall yield unto the Sea. I never wrong'd and English Ship , But Turks , and King of Spain , ; And for the jovial Dutchmen . Which I met on the Main : If I had known who was your King , But one two Years before , I would have sav'd brave Essex's Life , Whose Death did grieve me soar . Go tell the King of England , Go tell him thus from me , If he reigns King of all the Land , I will reign King at Sea. With that the gallant Rainbow shot , And shot and shot in vain , And left the Rover's Company , And returned Home again . Our Royal King of England , Our Ships return'd again ; [ F ] or Wards is stout and strong , And never will be ta'en ; Oh everlasting , says our King , I have lost Jewels Three , Which would have gone unto the Seas , And brought proud Ward to me . The first was the Lord Clifford , Brave Earl of Cumberland ; The second was the Lord Mountjoy , As you shall understand : The third was the valiant Essex , From Field would never flee ; Which would have gone unto the Seas , And brought proud Ward to me . 