A Famous SEA-FIGHT , BETWEEN Captain Ward and the Rainbow . STRIKE up the lusty gallants , With musics found of drum , For there is such a Rover , Upon the sea is come : His name is Daptain Ward , Full well it does appear , There has not been such a Rover Found out these thousand years . For he hath sent unto the King , The sixth of January , Desiring that he might come in With all his company : And if the King will let me come , Till I my tale have told , I will bestow for my ransom , Full thirty tun of Gold . O nay , Oh nay , then said the King , Oh nay , that must not be , To yield to such a Rover , Myself will not agree . He hath deceiv'd the Frenchmen , Likewise the King of Spain , Then how can he be true to me , Who has been false to twain . With that the King provided A ship of worthy fame , The Rainbow she is call'd . If you would know her name . And now the gallant Rainbow She rolls upon the sea , Five hundred gallent seamen To keep her company : The Dutchmen and the Spaniards , She made them for to flee , Also the bonny Frenchmen , As she met on the seas . When as the gallant Rainbow . Did come where she did lie Where is the Captain of that ship , The Rainbow she did cry : Oh that I am , said Captain Ward , There's no one bids me lie , And if thou art the King's fair ship , Thou'rt welcome unto me . I'll tell thee what , said the Rainbow , Our King is in great grief , That thou shouldst lie upon the seas , And play the errant thief : You will not let your merchantmen Pass as they did before ; Such tidings to our King is come , Which grieves his heart full soar . With that this gallant Rainbow , She shot out of her pride , Full fifty good brass pieces Charged on every side : And yet thse galant shooters revailed not a pin , Though they were brass on the outside , Brave Ward was steel within . Shoot on , shoot on , said Captain Ward , Your sport well pleases me , And he that first gives over , Shall yield unto the sea . I never wrong'd and English ship , But Turk and King of Spain , Likewise the blackguard Dutchmen , Which I met on the main : If I had known your King , But two or three days before , I would have sav'd Lord Essex's life , Whose death does grieve me soar . Go tell the King of England , Go tell him thus from me , If he reigns King of all the land I will reign King at sea : With that the gallant Rainbow She shot and shot in vain ; Then left the Rover company , And home return'd again . Our royal King of England , Your ship's return'd again , For Captain Ward he is so strong , He never will be ta'en : Oh everlasting said the King , I have lost Jewels three , Which would have gone unto the seas , And brought proud Ward to me . The first was Lord Clifford , Great Earl of Cumberland , The second was Lord Mountjoy , As you shall understand : The third was brave Lord Essex , From field would never flee ; Who would have gone unto the sea , And brought proud Ward to me . Printed and Sold in Aldermary Church - Yard , Bow Lane , London , st A Famous SEA-FIGHT , BETWEEN Captain Ward and the Rainbow . STRIKE up the lusty gallants , With musics found of drum , For there is such a Rover , Upon the sea is come : His name is Daptain Ward , Full well it does appear , There has not been such a Rover Found out these thousand years . For he hath sent unto the King , The sixth of January , Desiring that he might come in With all his company : And if the King will let me come , Till I my tale have told , I will bestow for my ransom , Full thirty tun of Gold . O nay , Oh nay , then said the King , Oh nay , that must not be , To yield to such a Rover , Myself will not agree . He hath deceiv'd the Frenchmen , Likewise the King of Spain , Then how can he be true to me , Who has been false to twain . With that the King provided A ship of worthy fame , The Rainbow she is call'd . If you would know her name . And now the gallant Rainbow She rolls upon the sea , Five hundred gallent seamen To keep her company : The Dutchmen and the Spaniards , She made them for to flee , Also the bonny Frenchmen , As she met on the seas . When as the gallant Rainbow . Did come where she did lie Where is the Captain of that ship , The Rainbow she did cry : Oh that I am , said Captain Ward , There's no one bids me lie , And if thou art the King's fair ship , Thou'rt welcome unto me . I'll tell thee what , said the Rainbow , Our King is in great grief , That thou shouldst lie upon the seas , And play the errant thief : You will not let your merchantmen Pass as they did before ; Such tidings to our King is come , Which grieves his heart full soar . With that this gallant Rainbow , She shot out of her pride , Full fifty good brass pieces Charged on every side : And yet thse galant shooters revailed not a pin , Though they were brass on the outside , Brave Ward was steel within . Shoot on , shoot on , said Captain Ward , Your sport well pleases me , And he that first gives over , Shall yield unto the sea . I never wrong'd and English ship , But Turk and King of Spain , Likewise the blackguard Dutchmen , Which I met on the main : If I had known your King , But two or three days before , I would have sav'd Lord Essex's life , Whose death does grieve me soar . Go tell the King of England , Go tell him thus from me , If he reigns King of all the land I will reign King at sea : With that the gallant Rainbow She shot and shot in vain ; Then left the Rover company , And home return'd again . Our royal King of England , Your ship's return'd again , For Captain Ward he is so strong , He never will be ta'en : Oh everlasting said the King , I have lost Jewels three , Which would have gone unto the seas , And brought proud Ward to me . The first was Lord Clifford , Great Earl of Cumberland , The second was Lord Mountjoy , As you shall understand : The third was brave Lord Essex , From field would never flee ; Who would have gone unto the sea , And brought proud Ward to me . Printed and Sold in Aldermary Church - Yard , Bow Lane , London , st 