KEPPEL for ever ! SMILE , smile , Britannia smile , On Admiral Keppel smile , Thy darling son : With laurels crown his head , Go , Fame , his glory spread , His name Monsieurs doe dread , From him they run . Goree , th' Havannah too , Where shot in showers flew , Keppel so bold , In the midst of the fray , He to his men did say , We'll show them British play , And share their gold . Tho' he's been false-accus'd , His character abus'd , Still he's the thing : Keppel , these forty years , Has served in the wars , Fear'd neither wounds nor scars , For George , his king . But Twitcher and his crew , I mean his dupe , Sir You , Wicked their scheme ! To try Keppel did call , Thro' malice , that was all , Luci [ fer ] 's pride must fallen , Like Adm'ral Byng . Bonfires , bells' did ring , Keppel was all the ding , Music did play : Windows with candles in , All for to honour him ; People aloud did sing , Keppel ! huzza ! May he draw his sword again In defence of George his king , And country's righ On board the Victory Again his flag does fly , Monsieurs will feel , by and by , If he will fight . Go , go , thou base Sir You , Vice-adm'ral of the Blue , Pr'ythee be still : O! what a wicked dog , To splice the very log ! Give him , instead of grog , A leaden pill . KEPPEL for ever ! SMILE , smile , Britannia smile , On Admiral Keppel smile , Thy darling son : With laurels crown his head , Go , Fame , his glory spread , His name Monsieurs doe dread , From him they run . Goree , th' Havannah too , Where shot in showers flew , Keppel so bold , In the midst of the fray , He to his men did say , We'll show them British play , And share their gold . Tho' he's been false-accus'd , His character abus'd , Still he's the thing : Keppel , these forty years , Has served in the wars , Fear'd neither wounds nor scars , For George , his king . But Twitcher and his crew , I mean his dupe , Sir You , Wicked their scheme ! To try Keppel did call , Thro' malice , that was all , Luci [ fer ] 's pride must fallen , Like Adm'ral Byng . Bonfires , bells' did ring , Keppel was all the ding , Music did play : Windows with candles in , All for to honour him ; People aloud did sing , Keppel ! huzza ! May he draw his sword again In defence of George his king , And country's righ On board the Victory Again his flag does fly , Monsieurs will feel , by and by , If he will fight . Go , go , thou base Sir You , Vice-adm'ral of the Blue , Pr'ythee be still : O! what a wicked dog , To splice the very log ! Give him , instead of grog , A leaden pill . 