The Proud Pedlar . SO merrily sings the Nightingale , And so merrily sings the Jay : And so merrily singed the proud Pedlar As he walked along the Highway . The Bag at my Back is worth Twenty Pounds , In Gold and in good Money ; And I would freely part with it all , For to kiss a Nigh [ tO ] with a Lady . The Lady look'd out of her window , And hearing the Pedlar sing ; Sing on , sing on , thou proud Pedlar , The Song that thou didst begin . The Pedlar look'd over his Left-shoulder , He looked so neat and so trim ; I never sung a Song in all my whole Life , But I could sing it again . The Bag at my Back is worth Twenty Pounds , In Gold and in good Money ; And I would freely part with it all , For to kiss a Night with a Lady . The Lady took the Pedlar's Hand , And thro' the Hall him led ; Into a large and spacious Room , Where Cushions and Pillows were laid . The Pedlar lay with the Lady all Night , Until it was Break of Day ; And then he thought of his Tom Pack , When he had no Sport to play Here's Twenty Pounds the Pedlar said , Foe to buy Gloves Jewels and Rings . So I may have my little Tom Pack , For to get me my Living . The Lady took the Pedlar's Pack , And set it upon her Knee . If you would give me twice Twenty Pounds , You shall have no Pack of me . I will make Grass grow the Pedlar said , And where there did grow none . And I will stand at the Hall-Gate , Till your wedded Lord comes home . At Night her own wedded Lord came home , And eeing the Pedlar there stand . What dost thou here thou proud Pedlar ? Now this of thee I do demand . Yesterday I made a Feast For Pedlars thirty-and-three . And wanted a Mortar to pound the Spice , And borrow'd one of your Lady . The Mortar was your own Lady's , But the Pestle was my own ; But now she has god my little Tom Pack , And I wish the truth was but known . Come give him his Pack thou proud Pedlar , What makes you here let him stand ? Come give him his Pack , and let him be gone , And this of you I do command . Come take thy Pack , thou proud Pedlar , Come take this Pack of thine . For never a Pedlar for thy sake , Shall pound Spice in a Mortar of mine . Now this is well juggl'd the Pedlar said And it is well juggl'd of me : For now I have god my little Tom Pack , And kissed all Night with a Lady . By my wanton Tricks I lost this Pack , By my Wits I have god it again ; And if I do live these Five hundred Years , I will never come there again . The Proud Pedlar . SO merrily sings the Nightingale , And so merrily sings the Jay : And so merrily singed the proud Pedlar As he walked along the Highway . The Bag at my Back is worth Twenty Pounds , In Gold and in good Money ; And I would freely part with it all , For to kiss a Nigh [ tO ] with a Lady . The Lady look'd out of her window , And hearing the Pedlar sing ; Sing on , sing on , thou proud Pedlar , The Song that thou didst begin . The Pedlar look'd over his Left-shoulder , He looked so neat and so trim ; I never sung a Song in all my whole Life , But I could sing it again . The Bag at my Back is worth Twenty Pounds , In Gold and in good Money ; And I would freely part with it all , For to kiss a Night with a Lady . The Lady took the Pedlar's Hand , And thro' the Hall him led ; Into a large and spacious Room , Where Cushions and Pillows were laid . The Pedlar lay with the Lady all Night , Until it was Break of Day ; And then he thought of his Tom Pack , When he had no Sport to play Here's Twenty Pounds the Pedlar said , Foe to buy Gloves Jewels and Rings . So I may have my little Tom Pack , For to get me my Living . The Lady took the Pedlar's Pack , And set it upon her Knee . If you would give me twice Twenty Pounds , You shall have no Pack of me . I will make Grass grow the Pedlar said , And where there did grow none . And I will stand at the Hall-Gate , Till your wedded Lord comes home . At Night her own wedded Lord came home , And eeing the Pedlar there stand . What dost thou here thou proud Pedlar ? Now this of thee I do demand . Yesterday I made a Feast For Pedlars thirty-and-three . And wanted a Mortar to pound the Spice , And borrow'd one of your Lady . The Mortar was your own Lady's , But the Pestle was my own ; But now she has god my little Tom Pack , And I wish the truth was but known . Come give him his Pack thou proud Pedlar , What makes you here let him stand ? Come give him his Pack , and let him be gone , And this of you I do command . Come take thy Pack , thou proud Pedlar , Come take this Pack of thine . For never a Pedlar for thy sake , Shall pound Spice in a Mortar of mine . Now this is well juggl'd the Pedlar said And it is well juggl'd of me : For now I have god my little Tom Pack , And kissed all Night with a Lady . By my wanton Tricks I lost this Pack , By my Wits I have god it again ; And if I do live these Five hundred Years , I will never come there again . 