THE Unfortunate Concubine OR , ROSAMOND'S Overthrow . Occasioned by her Brother's praising her Beauty to two young Knights of Salisbury , as they rid along the Road. SWeet youthful charming ladies fair , Fram'd of the purest mould ; With rosy cheeks and silken hair , Which shine like threads of gold . Soft tears of pity here bestow , On the unhappy fate , Of Rosamond , who long ago Prov'd most unfortunate . When as the second Henry reign'd , On the imperi [ a ] l throne , How he this beautiful flower gain'd , To you I will make known . With all the circumstances too Which did her Life attend , How first she into favour grew , And of of her fatal end . As three young Knights of Salisbury , Were riding on their way , One boasted of a lady fair , Within her bower so gay . I have a sister Clifford swears , But few men do her know , Upon her face the skin appears Like drops of blood on snow . My sisters locks of curled hair , Outshine the golden over . Her skin for w [ i ] tne [ s ] s may compare , With the fine lily flower . Her breasts were lovely to behold Like to the driven snow , I would not for her weight in gold , King Henry should her know King Henry had a bower near , Where they were riding by , And he his Clifford overhears . Thought he immediately Tho' I her brother should offend , For that [ at ] fair white and read ; For her I am resolv'd to send , To grace my royal bed . The King who was of high renown , Would not his fancy pall ; For having wrote his pleasure down . He did young Clifford call . Come hither to me out of hand , Come hither unto me , I am the King of England , My messenger thou shalt be . I to your sister here have writ , Three letters seal'd with gold , No messenger I think so fit As you . Therefore behold , Convey them to her hand with speed , Make not the least delay , My will and pleasure let her read , And my commands obey . Young Clifford then the letter took , From Henry's royal hand , Tho' with a meloncholly look And mount [ e ] worser out of hand , Soft tears bedew'd his noble sighed , His grieved heart was sad , Altho' he was as brave a knight As ever Henry had . With that this noble knight of fame , Road on without delay , Until he to the bower came , Which was both rich and gay . She said when he knocked at the ring W , ho raps so fierce and bold ? Sister , I have brought from the king , Three letters seal'd with gold : Then with her fingers long and small She broke the seals of gold ; And as she did to reading fallen , At first you might behold . The smiles of pleasant sweet delight , As if well satisfied ; But e'er she had concluded quite , She wrung her hands and cry'd , Why did you go beyond your bounds , When Oxford you did see ? You might have talked of your hounds , And never bragged of me . When by the king I am defil'd , My father's griefs begins , He'll have no comfort of his child , Nor come to my wedding . Go fetch me down my planet book , Strate from my private room , For in the same I mean to look What is decreed my doom . The planet-book to her they brought And laid it on her knee , She found that all would come to nought And poisoned she should be . I cause you brother , then she cry'd , Who caus'd my destiny ; I might have been a Lord's fair bride , But you have ruin'd me . With that she call'd her waiting-mad , To bring her riding weed , And to her groom she likewise said , Saddle my milk white steed . Some road before her to report Her coming to the king , As she approach [ ' ] worser the royal court , Sweet peal of bells' did ring . A garland over her head they boar , To magnify her charms , And as she came before the king , He clasp'd her in her arms . With blushes then she did beseech The king on her bore knee , These words she said , I pray my lihge , What is your will with me ? Said he , I sent for you , my rose To grace my royal bed , Now as he did his mind disclose , She blush'd like scarlet read . Blush not my fairest Rosamond , Fear no disastrous fate ; For by my kindly power I can Place thee in happy state . No lady in this court of mine , Can purchase thy desert , Thy pleasant looks and charms divine , Have wone my royal heart . The gifts and presents of a king Did cause her to comply ; Thinking there was not any thing Like royal dignity . But as her bright and golden scene In court began to shine , The news was brought unto the queen , Of this new concubine . At which she was enraged so , With malice in her breast , That till she wrought her overthrow , She could not be at rest . She felt the fury of a queen , E'er she had flourish'd long . And dy'd , just as she had foreseen By force of poison strong . The angry queen with malice fraught Could not herself contain ; 'Till she had brought fair Rosamond To her sad dismal bane . The said sweet and precious rose , King Henry's chief delight ; The queen she to the bower goes , And wrought her hateful spite . But when she to the bower came Where lady Clifford lay ? Enraged Eleanor by name , She could not find the way . Until the silken clue of thread , Became a fatal guide , Unto the queen , who laid her dead , E'er she was satisfy'd . Alas , it was no small surprise , To Rosamond the fair ; When death appear'd before her eyes , No faithful friend was there . Who could stand up in her defence To put the poison by : Thus by the hand of violence Compell'd she was to die . O most renown'd and gracious Queen Compassion take on me ; I wish that I had never seen This royal dignity . Betray'd I was and by degrees A sad consent I gave ; And now upon my bent knee Your pardon I do crave . I will not pardon you Then take this fatal cup ; And you may well be satisfy'd , I'll see you drink it up . Then with her fair and lily hand , The fatal cug she took ; Which being drunk she could not stand , But soon the world forsook . Now when the [ K ] ing was well inform'd What Eleanor had done ; His breast he smote , in wrath he storm'd As if he would have run beside his senses , and he swore For this inhuman deed , He never would bed with her more , His royal heart did bleed . The king stood not pausing long How to reward her spleen , But straightway in a prison strong He cast this cruel queen . Where she lay six and twenty years , A long captivity ; Bathed in floods of weeping tears , 'Till his death set her free , Now when her son did succeed , His father , Great Henry , His royal mother soon he freed , From her captivity . And she set more at large , Who long for debt had lain ; Her royal pity did discharge Thousands in Richard's reign . Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office , in Aldermary Church-Yard , Bow-Lane , LONDON . THE Unfortunate Concubine OR , ROSAMOND'S Overthrow . Occasioned by her Brother's praising her Beauty to two young Knights of Salisbury , as they rid along the Road. SWeet youthful charming ladies fair , Fram'd of the purest mould ; With rosy cheeks and silken hair , Which shine like threads of gold . Soft tears of pity here bestow , On the unhappy fate , Of Rosamond , who long ago Prov'd most unfortunate . When as the second Henry reign'd , On the imperi [ a ] l throne , How he this beautiful flower gain'd , To you I will make known . With all the circumstances too Which did her Life attend , How first she into favour grew , And of of her fatal end . As three young Knights of Salisbury , Were riding on their way , One boasted of a lady fair , Within her bower so gay . I have a sister Clifford swears , But few men do her know , Upon her face the skin appears Like drops of blood on snow . My sisters locks of curled hair , Outshine the golden over . Her skin for w [ i ] tne [ s ] s may compare , With the fine lily flower . Her breasts were lovely to behold Like to the driven snow , I would not for her weight in gold , King Henry should her know King Henry had a bower near , Where they were riding by , And he his Clifford overhears . Thought he immediately Tho' I her brother should offend , For that [ at ] fair white and read ; For her I am resolv'd to send , To grace my royal bed . The King who was of high renown , Would not his fancy pall ; For having wrote his pleasure down . He did young Clifford call . Come hither to me out of hand , Come hither unto me , I am the King of England , My messenger thou shalt be . I to your sister here have writ , Three letters seal'd with gold , No messenger I think so fit As you . Therefore behold , Convey them to her hand with speed , Make not the least delay , My will and pleasure let her read , And my commands obey . Young Clifford then the letter took , From Henry's royal hand , Tho' with a meloncholly look And mount [ e ] worser out of hand , Soft tears bedew'd his noble sighed , His grieved heart was sad , Altho' he was as brave a knight As ever Henry had . With that this noble knight of fame , Road on without delay , Until he to the bower came , Which was both rich and gay . She said when he knocked at the ring W , ho raps so fierce and bold ? Sister , I have brought from the king , Three letters seal'd with gold : Then with her fingers long and small She broke the seals of gold ; And as she did to reading fallen , At first you might behold . The smiles of pleasant sweet delight , As if well satisfied ; But e'er she had concluded quite , She wrung her hands and cry'd , Why did you go beyond your bounds , When Oxford you did see ? You might have talked of your hounds , And never bragged of me . When by the king I am defil'd , My father's griefs begins , He'll have no comfort of his child , Nor come to my wedding . Go fetch me down my planet book , Strate from my private room , For in the same I mean to look What is decreed my doom . The planet-book to her they brought And laid it on her knee , She found that all would come to nought And poisoned she should be . I cause you brother , then she cry'd , Who caus'd my destiny ; I might have been a Lord's fair bride , But you have ruin'd me . With that she call'd her waiting-mad , To bring her riding weed , And to her groom she likewise said , Saddle my milk white steed . Some road before her to report Her coming to the king , As she approach [ ' ] worser the royal court , Sweet peal of bells' did ring . A garland over her head they boar , To magnify her charms , And as she came before the king , He clasp'd her in her arms . With blushes then she did beseech The king on her bore knee , These words she said , I pray my lihge , What is your will with me ? Said he , I sent for you , my rose To grace my royal bed , Now as he did his mind disclose , She blush'd like scarlet read . Blush not my fairest Rosamond , Fear no disastrous fate ; For by my kindly power I can Place thee in happy state . No lady in this court of mine , Can purchase thy desert , Thy pleasant looks and charms divine , Have wone my royal heart . The gifts and presents of a king Did cause her to comply ; Thinking there was not any thing Like royal dignity . But as her bright and golden scene In court began to shine , The news was brought unto the queen , Of this new concubine . At which she was enraged so , With malice in her breast , That till she wrought her overthrow , She could not be at rest . She felt the fury of a queen , E'er she had flourish'd long . And dy'd , just as she had foreseen By force of poison strong . The angry queen with malice fraught Could not herself contain ; 'Till she had brought fair Rosamond To her sad dismal bane . The said sweet and precious rose , King Henry's chief delight ; The queen she to the bower goes , And wrought her hateful spite . But when she to the bower came Where lady Clifford lay ? Enraged Eleanor by name , She could not find the way . Until the silken clue of thread , Became a fatal guide , Unto the queen , who laid her dead , E'er she was satisfy'd . Alas , it was no small surprise , To Rosamond the fair ; When death appear'd before her eyes , No faithful friend was there . Who could stand up in her defence To put the poison by : Thus by the hand of violence Compell'd she was to die . O most renown'd and gracious Queen Compassion take on me ; I wish that I had never seen This royal dignity . Betray'd I was and by degrees A sad consent I gave ; And now upon my bent knee Your pardon I do crave . I will not pardon you Then take this fatal cup ; And you may well be satisfy'd , I'll see you drink it up . Then with her fair and lily hand , The fatal cug she took ; Which being drunk she could not stand , But soon the world forsook . Now when the [ K ] ing was well inform'd What Eleanor had done ; His breast he smote , in wrath he storm'd As if he would have run beside his senses , and he swore For this inhuman deed , He never would bed with her more , His royal heart did bleed . The king stood not pausing long How to reward her spleen , But straightway in a prison strong He cast this cruel queen . Where she lay six and twenty years , A long captivity ; Bathed in floods of weeping tears , 'Till his death set her free , Now when her son did succeed , His father , Great Henry , His royal mother soon he freed , From her captivity . And she set more at large , Who long for debt had lain ; Her royal pity did discharge Thousands in Richard's reign . Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office , in Aldermary Church-Yard , Bow-Lane , LONDON . 