The Somersetshire TRAGEDY : OR , THE Wronged Lady's Lamentation , and Untimely DEATH . SIR William , a Knight of six thousand a year , He courted fair Susan of Somersetshire : The beautifullest creature that ever was seen , A Lady by birth , tho' her fortune was mean : What passed between them I'll tell you in brief , Who hear it may sighs with a heart full of grief . To her he pretended the greatest of Love , And held her in hand for three months and above ; Inviting her often to feast at his hall , At length he to wanton embraces did fallen ; Which when she perceived , she sighing would say , Don't ruin and innocent Lady I pray . O talk not of ruin , thou Joy of my heart , So long as we live , Love , we never will part ; So sure as I give thee this amorous Kiss : Then let me arrive at this rapture of Bliss : If ever I'm false or disloyal to thee , May God's divine vengeance then fallen upon me . The innocent Lady then struck with surprise , Besought him with sorrowful tears in her eyes , That he would not tempt her to any such thing , The which without question her ruin would bring ; Yet still with new arguments her he assail'd , Tho' long she resisted , at length he prevail'd . He having obtain'd his earnest request , She proved with child , then with sorrows oppressed , He left her , whom once he did seem to adore , And all his rash vows he regarded no more ; No creature so false and deceitful as he , That swears to be true , and yet perjur'd will be . The innocent Lady with sorrows oppressed , With tears in her eyes , with sobs from her breast ; She cry'd there's no sorrow , no sorrow's like mine , Oh why had Sir William so base a design ! Before I consented , Oh that I had dy'd ! I'm ruined , I'm ruin'd , I'm ruin'd , she cry'd . Against you Sir William , I needs must exclaim , You courted for lust , and have cloath'd me with shame , A sorrow which I am unable to bear , My honour is gone : I will die in despair : And haunt you by night with my wandering ghost , That you may not have any reason to boast . You shall have no pleasure , but constantly find , The Cries of your conscience , the trouble of mind : Both sleeping and waking wherever you go , For seeking my Ruin and sad Overthrow ; And breaking the Vows that you solemnly made , Before you my innocent Virtue betray'd . Retir'd from Friends her close chamber she kept , Where for her misfortunes she bitterly wep And finding her folly she no ways could hide , With grief she miscarry'd , in sorrow she dy'd ; Whose wandering Ghost then did often affright Her falsehearted Lover and treacherous Knight . Sometime to his chamber at midnight she came ; The room being fill'd with a terrible flame : Her trembling ghost near the curtains would stand With either a dagger or sword in her hand ; As if she would stab this false Knight where he lay , And then with a shriek she would vanish away . But once above all a strange groaning he hear'd , And strait with a child in her arms she appear'd , Which then in his bed she laid close on his side ; This frighted him so that he sicken'd and dy'd Within a week after the same he beheld ; To all that he told it , with wonder were fill'd . Now as in a frightfu condition he lay , To all his dear friends he was pleased to say I wronged a Lady , I needs must confess , And brought her to sorrow , to shame , and distress : And now since the glass of my life is near run , I'm going to answer for what I have done . I was false to my love , and my oath I have broke , And death now stands ready at one fatal stroke , To send me away , but I cannot tell where , I have done amiss , and must die in despair : Let me be a warning to all that shall hear , Of my death , for being false to my Deear . Printed and Sold in Aldermary Church Yard , London . The Somersetshire TRAGEDY : OR , THE Wronged Lady's Lamentation , and Untimely DEATH . SIR William , a Knight of six thousand a year , He courted fair Susan of Somersetshire : The beautifullest creature that ever was seen , A Lady by birth , tho' her fortune was mean : What passed between them I'll tell you in brief , Who hear it may sighs with a heart full of grief . To her he pretended the greatest of Love , And held her in hand for three months and above ; Inviting her often to feast at his hall , At length he to wanton embraces did fallen ; Which when she perceived , she sighing would say , Don't ruin and innocent Lady I pray . O talk not of ruin , thou Joy of my heart , So long as we live , Love , we never will part ; So sure as I give thee this amorous Kiss : Then let me arrive at this rapture of Bliss : If ever I'm false or disloyal to thee , May God's divine vengeance then fallen upon me . The innocent Lady then struck with surprise , Besought him with sorrowful tears in her eyes , That he would not tempt her to any such thing , The which without question her ruin would bring ; Yet still with new arguments her he assail'd , Tho' long she resisted , at length he prevail'd . He having obtain'd his earnest request , She proved with child , then with sorrows oppressed , He left her , whom once he did seem to adore , And all his rash vows he regarded no more ; No creature so false and deceitful as he , That swears to be true , and yet perjur'd will be . The innocent Lady with sorrows oppressed , With tears in her eyes , with sobs from her breast ; She cry'd there's no sorrow , no sorrow's like mine , Oh why had Sir William so base a design ! Before I consented , Oh that I had dy'd ! I'm ruined , I'm ruin'd , I'm ruin'd , she cry'd . Against you Sir William , I needs must exclaim , You courted for lust , and have cloath'd me with shame , A sorrow which I am unable to bear , My honour is gone : I will die in despair : And haunt you by night with my wandering ghost , That you may not have any reason to boast . You shall have no pleasure , but constantly find , The Cries of your conscience , the trouble of mind : Both sleeping and waking wherever you go , For seeking my Ruin and sad Overthrow ; And breaking the Vows that you solemnly made , Before you my innocent Virtue betray'd . Retir'd from Friends her close chamber she kept , Where for her misfortunes she bitterly wep And finding her folly she no ways could hide , With grief she miscarry'd , in sorrow she dy'd ; Whose wandering Ghost then did often affright Her falsehearted Lover and treacherous Knight . Sometime to his chamber at midnight she came ; The room being fill'd with a terrible flame : Her trembling ghost near the curtains would stand With either a dagger or sword in her hand ; As if she would stab this false Knight where he lay , And then with a shriek she would vanish away . But once above all a strange groaning he hear'd , And strait with a child in her arms she appear'd , Which then in his bed she laid close on his side ; This frighted him so that he sicken'd and dy'd Within a week after the same he beheld ; To all that he told it , with wonder were fill'd . Now as in a frightfu condition he lay , To all his dear friends he was pleased to say I wronged a Lady , I needs must confess , And brought her to sorrow , to shame , and distress : And now since the glass of my life is near run , I'm going to answer for what I have done . I was false to my love , and my oath I have broke , And death now stands ready at one fatal stroke , To send me away , but I cannot tell where , I have done amiss , and must die in despair : Let me be a warning to all that shall hear , Of my death , for being false to my Deear . Printed and Sold in Aldermary Church Yard , London . 