THE Jovial Beggars Merry Crew . When Beggars that have Coin good store , yet still like Vagrants live , They do but only Cheat the Poor , 'tis pity them to give . Tune of , A fig for France . THere was a jovial Beggar bold , Who often lodged in the Cold ; He fram'd himself a Wooden Leg , Which pity mov'd as he did Beg ; And mournfully he did complain , That from his Cradle he was Lame : But tho' the world us Beggars call , A Beggars Trade's the best of all . And several sorts of Bags have we , To serve us in Necessity : There's one for Bred , & one for Salt , When Cripple-like we seem to Hall A Bag for Bred , and one for Cheese , While we do eat of what we please : And tho' the world us Beggars call , A Beggars Trade's the best of all . And when we see a Spark go by , Oh Lord preserve you Sir , we cry ; Take pity on the Fatherless , That God Almighty may you bless : My broken Limbs good Sir , behold , E'ne kill'd with hunger , starv'd with cold But tho' the world us Beggars call , A Beggars Trade's the best of all . 'Tis long since my poor Parents dy'd , That for me used to provide ; And Charity so cold is grown The like before was never known : O pray Sir , pity my distress , I'm Lame , half Blind , and Motherless ; Then let the world us Beggars call , A Beggars Trade's the best of all . If some will not pull out their Purse , In heart we oft lend them a Curse ; Tho' we like Beggars seem to live , We have more coin than some that give If some kind hearts did know our store , They never would relieve us more : And tho' the wor [ l ] worser us Beggars call , A Beggars , etc And some that do like Cripples lie , Have god the art to whine and Cry ; Both Old and Young that do pass by , Take pity on our Poverty : Some do us pity , and are willing , To give us sixpence or a shilling : And tho' the world us Beggars call , A Beggars , etc I was brought up to'th Begging Trade , And I full many a face have made , Whereby I god my Master store , But now for him i'le Beg no more ; I am set up for my own self , By Begging get good store of Pelf : And tho' the world us Beggars call , A Beggars , etc Sometime in Farmers Barns lie we , And sometime in a Hollow Tree ; No Rend we pay , nor none we mean , Each Mort with us lives like a Queen , And when the Sun at Night do [ es ] shine , We go to telling of our Coin : Then let the world us Beggars call , A Beggars , etc No Plots against us can there be , Who Objects seem of Charity ; But should the honest Givers think , How we like Swine sometime do Drink Their Charity they would forbear , Which sometime fills our hearts with care ; And tho' the world us Beggars call , A Beggars , etc : Other Folks Children we do take , And for them beg for pits sake ; But such deceitful Knaves we be , We speak not one word true in three : And tho' like Beggars we do live , Our lives to us Contentment give : Then let the world us Beggars call , A Beggars Life's the best of all . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , without Newgate . THE Jovial Beggars Merry Crew . When Beggars that have Coin good store , yet still like Vagrants live , They do but only Cheat the Poor , 'tis pity them to give . Tune of , A fig for France . THere was a jovial Beggar bold , Who often lodged in the Cold ; He fram'd himself a Wooden Leg , Which pity mov'd as he did Beg ; And mournfully he did complain , That from his Cradle he was Lame : But tho' the world us Beggars call , A Beggars Trade's the best of all . And several sorts of Bags have we , To serve us in Necessity : There's one for Bred , & one for Salt , When Cripple-like we seem to Hall A Bag for Bred , and one for Cheese , While we do eat of what we please : And tho' the world us Beggars call , A Beggars Trade's the best of all . And when we see a Spark go by , Oh Lord preserve you Sir , we cry ; Take pity on the Fatherless , That God Almighty may you bless : My broken Limbs good Sir , behold , E'ne kill'd with hunger , starv'd with cold But tho' the world us Beggars call , A Beggars Trade's the best of all . 'Tis long since my poor Parents dy'd , That for me used to provide ; And Charity so cold is grown The like before was never known : O pray Sir , pity my distress , I'm Lame , half Blind , and Motherless ; Then let the world us Beggars call , A Beggars Trade's the best of all . If some will not pull out their Purse , In heart we oft lend them a Curse ; Tho' we like Beggars seem to live , We have more coin than some that give If some kind hearts did know our store , They never would relieve us more : And tho' the wor [ l ] worser us Beggars call , A Beggars , etc And some that do like Cripples lie , Have god the art to whine and Cry ; Both Old and Young that do pass by , Take pity on our Poverty : Some do us pity , and are willing , To give us sixpence or a shilling : And tho' the world us Beggars call , A Beggars , etc I was brought up to'th Begging Trade , And I full many a face have made , Whereby I god my Master store , But now for him i'le Beg no more ; I am set up for my own self , By Begging get good store of Pelf : And tho' the world us Beggars call , A Beggars , etc Sometime in Farmers Barns lie we , And sometime in a Hollow Tree ; No Rend we pay , nor none we mean , Each Mort with us lives like a Queen , And when the Sun at Night do [ es ] shine , We go to telling of our Coin : Then let the world us Beggars call , A Beggars , etc No Plots against us can there be , Who Objects seem of Charity ; But should the honest Givers think , How we like Swine sometime do Drink Their Charity they would forbear , Which sometime fills our hearts with care ; And tho' the world us Beggars call , A Beggars , etc : Other Folks Children we do take , And for them beg for pits sake ; But such deceitful Knaves we be , We speak not one word true in three : And tho' like Beggars we do live , Our lives to us Contentment give : Then let the world us Beggars call , A Beggars Life's the best of all . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , without Newgate . THE Jovial Beggars Merry Crew . When Beggars that have Coin good store , yet still like Vagrants live , They do but only Cheat the Poor , 'tis pity them to give . Tune of , A fig for France . THere was a jovial Beggar bold , Who often lodged in the Cold ; He fram'd himself a Wooden Leg , Which pity mov'd as he did Beg ; And mournfully he did complain , That from his Cradle he was Lame : But tho' the world us Beggars call , A Beggars Trade's the best of all . And several sorts of Bags have we , To serve us in Necessity : There's one for Bred , & one for Salt , When Cripple-like we seem to Hall A Bag for Bred , and one for Cheese , While we do eat of what we please : And tho' the world us Beggars call , A Beggars Trade's the best of all . And when we see a Spark go by , Oh Lord preserve you Sir , we cry ; Take pity on the Fatherless , That God Almighty may you bless : My broken Limbs good Sir , behold , E'ne kill'd with hunger , starv'd with cold But tho' the world us Beggars call , A Beggars Trade's the best of all . 'Tis long since my poor Parents dy'd , That for me used to provide ; And Charity so cold is grown The like before was never known : O pray Sir , pity my distress , I'm Lame , half Blind , and Motherless ; Then let the world us Beggars call , A Beggars Trade's the best of all . If some will not pull out their Purse , In heart we oft lend them a Curse ; Tho' we like Beggars seem to live , We have more coin than some that give If some kind hearts did know our store , They never would relieve us more : And tho' the wor [ l ] worser us Beggars call , A Beggars , etc And some that do like Cripples lie , Have god the art to whine and Cry ; Both Old and Young that do pass by , Take pity on our Poverty : Some do us pity , and are willing , To give us sixpence or a shilling : And tho' the world us Beggars call , A Beggars , etc I was brought up to'th Begging Trade , And I full many a face have made , Whereby I god my Master store , But now for him i'le Beg no more ; I am set up for my own self , By Begging get good store of Pelf : And tho' the world us Beggars call , A Beggars , etc Sometime in Farmers Barns lie we , And sometime in a Hollow Tree ; No Rend we pay , nor none we mean , Each Mort with us lives like a Queen , And when the Sun at Night do [ es ] shine , We go to telling of our Coin : Then let the world us Beggars call , A Beggars , etc No Plots against us can there be , Who Objects seem of Charity ; But should the honest Givers think , How we like Swine sometime do Drink Their Charity they would forbear , Which sometime fills our hearts with care ; And tho' the world us Beggars call , A Beggars , etc : Other Folks Children we do take , And for them beg for pits sake ; But such deceitful Knaves we be , We speak not one word true in three : And tho' like Beggars we do live , Our lives to us Contentment give : Then let the world us Beggars call , A Beggars Life's the best of all . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , without Newgate . THE Jovial Beggars Merry Crew . When Beggars that have Coin good store , yet still like Vagrants live , They do but only Cheat the Poor , 'tis pity them to give . Tune of , A fig for France . THere was a jovial Beggar bold , Who often lodged in the Cold ; He fram'd himself a Wooden Leg , Which pity mov'd as he did Beg ; And mournfully he did complain , That from his Cradle he was Lame : But tho' the world us Beggars call , A Beggars Trade's the best of all . And several sorts of Bags have we , To serve us in Necessity : There's one for Bred , & one for Salt , When Cripple-like we seem to Hall A Bag for Bred , and one for Cheese , While we do eat of what we please : And tho' the world us Beggars call , A Beggars Trade's the best of all . And when we see a Spark go by , Oh Lord preserve you Sir , we cry ; Take pity on the Fatherless , That God Almighty may you bless : My broken Limbs good Sir , behold , E'ne kill'd with hunger , starv'd with cold But tho' the world us Beggars call , A Beggars Trade's the best of all . 'Tis long since my poor Parents dy'd , That for me used to provide ; And Charity so cold is grown The like before was never known : O pray Sir , pity my distress , I'm Lame , half Blind , and Motherless ; Then let the world us Beggars call , A Beggars Trade's the best of all . If some will not pull out their Purse , In heart we oft lend them a Curse ; Tho' we like Beggars seem to live , We have more coin than some that give If some kind hearts did know our store , They never would relieve us more : And tho' the wor [ l ] worser us Beggars call , A Beggars , etc And some that do like Cripples lie , Have god the art to whine and Cry ; Both Old and Young that do pass by , Take pity on our Poverty : Some do us pity , and are willing , To give us sixpence or a shilling : And tho' the world us Beggars call , A Beggars , etc I was brought up to'th Begging Trade , And I full many a face have made , Whereby I god my Master store , But now for him i'le Beg no more ; I am set up for my own self , By Begging get good store of Pelf : And tho' the world us Beggars call , A Beggars , etc Sometime in Farmers Barns lie we , And sometime in a Hollow Tree ; No Rend we pay , nor none we mean , Each Mort with us lives like a Queen , And when the Sun at Night do [ es ] shine , We go to telling of our Coin : Then let the world us Beggars call , A Beggars , etc No Plots against us can there be , Who Objects seem of Charity ; But should the honest Givers think , How we like Swine sometime do Drink Their Charity they would forbear , Which sometime fills our hearts with care ; And tho' the world us Beggars call , A Beggars , etc : Other Folks Children we do take , And for them beg for pits sake ; But such deceitful Knaves we be , We speak not one word true in three : And tho' like Beggars we do live , Our lives to us Contentment give : Then let the world us Beggars call , A Beggars Life's the best of all . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , without Newgate . 