The Matchless Murder . Giving and Account of the most horrible and bloody murdering of the most worthy Gentleman Thomas Thin Esq ; who was on Sunday February the twelfth 1682 barba - rously killed in his own Coach by some bloodthirsty outlandish Villains , who shot five or six Bullets into his Belly , whereof he quickly died , and the names of the murderers now lying in Newgate , who have confessed the same , are as follows : Capt. Christopher Furatz a Germane , George Boroskie a Polander , John Stern a Germane Frederick Harder , and Amien Berg , accessaries . To the Tune of Troy Town . COme and assist my trembling Pen , while I endeavour to explain The bloody minds of cruel men , That will no wickedness refrain , But bloody Humours to fulfil . Innocent blood they daily spill . Now my sad story I'le begin , The like I think you ne'r did hear , How that Renowned Squire Thin Was murdered it does plain appear ; Their bloody minds for to fulfil , This squire most horridly they kill . On Sunday last this Gentleman Clear of all Scandals or Reproach , At several places he had been With Noble Monmouth in his Coach , This worthy person thought no ill , While Villians sought his blood to spill And thus they pass'd the Streets along Till seven or eight a Clock at night , & then great Monmouth would be gone In whom so much he did delight , Poor soul he little thought of ill , while villains sought his blood to spil . His Grace he was no sooner gone , But this sad accident befell , By Villains he was set upon Near to a place thats call [ ' ] worser Pellmell , Their Hellish minds they did fulfil and there his precious blood did spill . Up to his Coach these Villaies ride , As by his Servants it is said , With Weapons which they did provide While he poor soul was not afraid , For harmless souls ne'r fear no ill . while villains seek their blood to spill Meeting with him as they desired , Their Hellish courage then grew hight , Into his Coach at him they fired , And into his belly him they shot , And so like Villains him they kill'd , & his most precious blood they spill'd . Away like Villains then they fled ; With horror doubtless in their mind , This worthy soul three quarters dead , Bleeding i'th Coach they left behind : Now had the Villains god their will That sought his precious blood to spill When these unwelcome tidings came To Noble Monmouths wondering ear , His courage which none e'r could tame Did on a sudden plain appear , He strait pursu'd those that did spill . His precious blood that thought no ill This Noble Hero did all night Pursue these murderers all in vain , Till Sol with his resplendant light Did to our sighed return again , But could not find those that did kill That harmless soul as thought no ill But Heaven did presently find out What lovely Monmouth could not do , It well he was the Coach gone out , Or he might have been murdered too , I fear that they who this squire killed Poor Jameys blood would feign have spill'd These Villains they were seize [ ' ] worser at last , And brought before his Majesty , This horrid thing they then confessed Now Prisoners they in Newgate lie , And be condemned no doubt they will , that squire Thin's sweet blood did spill Printed for J Conyers at the black Raven in Duck lane The Matchless Murder . Giving and Account of the most horrible and bloody murdering of the most worthy Gentleman Thomas Thin Esq ; who was on Sunday February the twelfth 1682 barba - rously killed in his own Coach by some bloodthirsty outlandish Villains , who shot five or six Bullets into his Belly , whereof he quickly died , and the names of the murderers now lying in Newgate , who have confessed the same , are as follows : Capt. Christopher Furatz a Germane , George Boroskie a Polander , John Stern a Germane Frederick Harder , and Amien Berg , accessaries . To the Tune of Troy Town . COme and assist my trembling Pen , while I endeavour to explain The bloody minds of cruel men , That will no wickedness refrain , But bloody Humours to fulfil . Innocent blood they daily spill . Now my sad story I'le begin , The like I think you ne'r did hear , How that Renowned Squire Thin Was murdered it does plain appear ; Their bloody minds for to fulfil , This squire most horridly they kill . On Sunday last this Gentleman Clear of all Scandals or Reproach , At several places he had been With Noble Monmouth in his Coach , This worthy person thought no ill , While Villians sought his blood to spill And thus they pass'd the Streets along Till seven or eight a Clock at night , & then great Monmouth would be gone In whom so much he did delight , Poor soul he little thought of ill , while villains sought his blood to spil . His Grace he was no sooner gone , But this sad accident befell , By Villains he was set upon Near to a place thats call [ ' ] worser Pellmell , Their Hellish minds they did fulfil and there his precious blood did spill . Up to his Coach these Villaies ride , As by his Servants it is said , With Weapons which they did provide While he poor soul was not afraid , For harmless souls ne'r fear no ill . while villains seek their blood to spill Meeting with him as they desired , Their Hellish courage then grew hight , Into his Coach at him they fired , And into his belly him they shot , And so like Villains him they kill'd , & his most precious blood they spill'd . Away like Villains then they fled ; With horror doubtless in their mind , This worthy soul three quarters dead , Bleeding i'th Coach they left behind : Now had the Villains god their will That sought his precious blood to spill When these unwelcome tidings came To Noble Monmouths wondering ear , His courage which none e'r could tame Did on a sudden plain appear , He strait pursu'd those that did spill . His precious blood that thought no ill This Noble Hero did all night Pursue these murderers all in vain , Till Sol with his resplendant light Did to our sighed return again , But could not find those that did kill That harmless soul as thought no ill But Heaven did presently find out What lovely Monmouth could not do , It well he was the Coach gone out , Or he might have been murdered too , I fear that they who this squire killed Poor Jameys blood would feign have spill'd These Villains they were seize [ ' ] worser at last , And brought before his Majesty , This horrid thing they then confessed Now Prisoners they in Newgate lie , And be condemned no doubt they will , that squire Thin's sweet blood did spill Printed for J Conyers at the black Raven in Duck lane 