The musical Shepherdess , or , Dorinda's lamentation for the loss of Amintas . Amintor all Arcadia's Glory was , A youth so sweet that all he did surpass . But Times all mowing Sith this flower did cut , Fate to his days hath the last perjod pu For music , and for singing , who but he , Was fit to help the Gods with harmony ? His fair Dorinda , seeing he was gone , And she poor mournful Damsel left alone , Invokes the Nymphs to sing his praise , While she a Garland weaves , then ends her days , Resolving not to stay behind her Love , She being deny'd him here , mounts up above . To a pleasant New Tune , called , Amintas farewell : or , Digbys farewell . ADieu to the Pleasures and follies of Love , For a passion more noble my fancy does move , My Shepherd is dead , and I live to proclaim , The sorrowful notes of Amintas his name , The Wood-Nymphs reply when they hear me complain Thou never shalt see thy Amintas again , For death hath befriended him , Fate hath defended him , None , none , alive is so happy a Swain . You Shepherd's and Nymphs that have danc'd to his lays , Come help me to sing forth Amintas his praise , No Swain for the myrtle durst with him dispute , So sweet were his notes while he sung to his Lute , Then come to his Grave and your kindness pursue , To weave him a Garland of Cypress and Yew , For Life hath forsaken him , Death hath o're taken him , No Swain again will be ever so true . Then leave me alone to my wretched estate , I lost him too soon , and I lov'd him too late , You echos and fountains my witnesses prove How deeply I sighs for the loss of my Love , And now of our Pan whom we chiefly adore This favour I never will cease to implore That now I may go above , And there enjoy my Love , And live more happy then ever before . But if that old God should my wishes deny , My Soul through the clouds to my dearest shall fly , So swift that his Deity shall not restrain Me from the delights of so happy a Swain , I'll send my Petitions to Venus so fair , To secure my flight which I take in the air , Surely she'l pity take , And Lovers happy make , For she her self has been catched in loves snare . How pleasantly did our blessed time away creep , When Amintas and I did together keep Sheep , His music and mine did so sweetly agree , When we sat in the vale under a shady tree , The pretty Lambs feeding did to us give ear , And the dainty young kids liv'd secure from fear , But now he is dead and gone , And I am left alone , In the Spring time of life he concluded the year . Now the flocks do lament that their pastor is fled , But I more am griev'd that Amintas is dead , They miss him all day , but I miss him at night , To them he gave safety , but to me sweet delight All day free from danger of ravenous beast , They fed securely , and at night took their rest , But I miss him night and day , Now he is fled away , His lips were to me a continual feast . You pretty kind Nymphs that have herd of his fame I beg your assistance to found forth his name , But if there be any that my Shepherd ne'r knew , His picture i'le draw and present to their view , Though not half so lively the shadow will be , Yet I know 'twill be pleasant some part for to see , Apollo i'le compel , To help me to draw it well , And what there is wanting shall be made up in me . His cheeks read and white being free from all paint , And his looks so divine you would think him a Saint , A language so free , and so pleasant a voice , That I thought my self blessed when I made him my choice , When he sung all the world did admire that song , All sorts for to hear him together did throng , His body strait and tall , With something best of all , Which shall be nameless for fear you should long , His music so sweet that it ravished each Soul , All creatures that herd it his loss do condole , But I most of all do lament for my dear , Who ne'r can enjoy my self while I live here , Two hearts once united by Loves lasting bans , Can ne'r be divided by death's cruel hands ; though he be gone before , he has my heart in store , Hark , Hark , he calls , i [ ' ] le obey his commands , I come , o , I come , my Amintas , my love , My body i'le leave here in this pleasant Grove , This little sharp knife to my heart I will send , To tell it 'tis time to make haste to its friend ; Some kind Nymph will bury me when I am dead , And that my true soul to my Shepherd is fled ; Now all the world adieu , My dearest i'le pursue , This Garland shall crown my Amintas his head . W. P. With Allowance . Printed for J [ . ] W [ . , ] J [ . ] C [ . , ] W [ . ] TO [ . ] and TO [ . ] P [ . ] The musical Shepherdess , or , Dorinda's lamentation for the loss of Amintas . Amintor all Arcadia's Glory was , A youth so sweet that all he did surpass . But Times all mowing Sith this flower did cut , Fate to his days hath the last perjod pu For music , and for singing , who but he , Was fit to help the Gods with harmony ? His fair Dorinda , seeing he was gone , And she poor mournful Damsel left alone , Invokes the Nymphs to sing his praise , While she a Garland weaves , then ends her days , Resolving not to stay behind her Love , She being deny'd him here , mounts up above . To a pleasant New Tune , called , Amintas farewell : or , Digbys farewell . ADieu to the Pleasures and follies of Love , For a passion more noble my fancy does move , My Shepherd is dead , and I live to proclaim , The sorrowful notes of Amintas his name , The Wood-Nymphs reply when they hear me complain Thou never shalt see thy Amintas again , For death hath befriended him , Fate hath defended him , None , none , alive is so happy a Swain . You Shepherd's and Nymphs that have danc'd to his lays , Come help me to sing forth Amintas his praise , No Swain for the myrtle durst with him dispute , So sweet were his notes while he sung to his Lute , Then come to his Grave and your kindness pursue , To weave him a Garland of Cypress and Yew , For Life hath forsaken him , Death hath o're taken him , No Swain again will be ever so true . Then leave me alone to my wretched estate , I lost him too soon , and I lov'd him too late , You echos and fountains my witnesses prove How deeply I sighs for the loss of my Love , And now of our Pan whom we chiefly adore This favour I never will cease to implore That now I may go above , And there enjoy my Love , And live more happy then ever before . But if that old God should my wishes deny , My Soul through the clouds to my dearest shall fly , So swift that his Deity shall not restrain Me from the delights of so happy a Swain , I'll send my Petitions to Venus so fair , To secure my flight which I take in the air , Surely she'l pity take , And Lovers happy make , For she her self has been catched in loves snare . How pleasantly did our blessed time away creep , When Amintas and I did together keep Sheep , His music and mine did so sweetly agree , When we sat in the vale under a shady tree , The pretty Lambs feeding did to us give ear , And the dainty young kids liv'd secure from fear , But now he is dead and gone , And I am left alone , In the Spring time of life he concluded the year . Now the flocks do lament that their pastor is fled , But I more am griev'd that Amintas is dead , They miss him all day , but I miss him at night , To them he gave safety , but to me sweet delight All day free from danger of ravenous beast , They fed securely , and at night took their rest , But I miss him night and day , Now he is fled away , His lips were to me a continual feast . You pretty kind Nymphs that have herd of his fame I beg your assistance to found forth his name , But if there be any that my Shepherd ne'r knew , His picture i'le draw and present to their view , Though not half so lively the shadow will be , Yet I know 'twill be pleasant some part for to see , Apollo i'le compel , To help me to draw it well , And what there is wanting shall be made up in me . His cheeks read and white being free from all paint , And his looks so divine you would think him a Saint , A language so free , and so pleasant a voice , That I thought my self blessed when I made him my choice , When he sung all the world did admire that song , All sorts for to hear him together did throng , His body strait and tall , With something best of all , Which shall be nameless for fear you should long , His music so sweet that it ravished each Soul , All creatures that herd it his loss do condole , But I most of all do lament for my dear , Who ne'r can enjoy my self while I live here , Two hearts once united by Loves lasting bans , Can ne'r be divided by death's cruel hands ; though he be gone before , he has my heart in store , Hark , Hark , he calls , i [ ' ] le obey his commands , I come , o , I come , my Amintas , my love , My body i'le leave here in this pleasant Grove , This little sharp knife to my heart I will send , To tell it 'tis time to make haste to its friend ; Some kind Nymph will bury me when I am dead , And that my true soul to my Shepherd is fled ; Now all the world adieu , My dearest i'le pursue , This Garland shall crown my Amintas his head . W. P. With Allowance . Printed for J [ . ] W [ . , ] J [ . ] C [ . , ] W [ . ] TO [ . ] and TO [ . ] P [ . ] 