The Oxford Health , OR , The Jovial Loyalis A New Song . We will be loyal and Drink off our Wine , Though Pope or Presbyter should both repine ; No State-affairs shall e're turmoil our brain , Let those take care to whom they appertain : We'l love our King , and wish him happy days , And drink to all that daily speak his praise ; We'l loyal prove , and evermore will be With Plotter and their Plots at enmity . To the Tune of , On the Bank of a River : Or , Packington's Pound . HEre's a health to the King and his lawful successors , To Tantivy , Tories , and Loyal Addressers : No matter for those that promoted Petitions , To poison the Nation , and stir up Seditions : Here's a health to the Queen and her Ladies of Honour , A pox on all those who put Sham-plots upon her : Here's a health to the Duke and the Senate of Scotland , And to all Honest Men that from Bishops ne'r god land . Here's a health to L'Estrange , and to boon Heraclitus , A fig for those Whigs that for Papists indict us ; Not forgetting those that continually spite us , For Loyalty still to our King does unite us : Here's a health to our Church , and to all that are for it , A shame take all Papists and Whigs that abhor it ; Safe may she be still from new ways of Refiners , And Justice be done to true Protestant Joiners . Let all the contrivers of this our late trouble , Have their reward at last heap'd on them double ; Here's a health to the downfall of those whose devotion , Does tend to nought else but to raise up commotion : Come round let it go boys , let each drink his Bumper , To all honest Men that yet ne'r lov'd a Rumper : The thirtieth of January let us remember , And let it be joyn'd to the fifth of November . Here's a health to all Loyalists , let us carouse it , For why there is wine to be had in the house you Here's to all those who yet never spoke evil Of Church or of State , but that still have been civil : Come let it go round boys , and fill up our Glasses , We'l now be more merry then Whigs with their Lasses Let Hypocrites who dare in all things dissemble , And by changing shapes the Camelian Resemble . Make twenty wry faces , and all to disguise 'um , Yet from sedition none e're can advice 'um ; Here's to the Confusion of Plots and all Plotters , And here's a good health to him that ne'r alters ; Come let it go round and fill each man his brimmer , For he's no good diver that first en't a swimmer ; And here's to our happiness that we see dawning , In spite of the Plots that Geneva is spawning . A Fig for their policies , they shall ne'r fright us , Do all what they can they shall never more bite us ; For Oliver now and bold Bradshaw are rotten , Tho' their cursed names they shall ne'r be forgotten . Here's a health to all Cavaliers that ne'r were turncoats , We'l drink it in spite of the Pope and his Cutthroats ; Or in spite of those Rebels that envy our blessing , Who once more our Land would so fain be possessing . Here's a health to the Burghers who still in their choices , For eminent Loyalists do give their voices ; And will not be Byas'd whatever betide them , Who fear no Whig-Landlords who for it shall chide them : To the Prince and the Princess of Orange come fill it , To the brim let it flow , but beware how you spill it ; Not forgetting the rest of the Royal Branches , We'l drink our brisk Wine till each his Soul drenches . Here's a health to all those that express their good meaning , And hold to the end as they make their beginning ; Come fill it away Boys , and let us be merry , We'l drink each his Bumper , and never be weary : And no true Subject we'r sure will deny it , For this is the way that we always shall try it ; Come fill it again to the ruin of Rumpers , I'le make no scruple to turn off three Bumpers . Then come all you Loyalists though the Whigs mutter , And about nothing do keep all this clutter : In spite of the Pope or Jack Presbyter either , We will live merry , and will regard neither . Although they Tory or Tantivy name us , We care not a pin there's none honest will blame us : We'l drink to the King and his Lawful Successors , And to all those that prove Loyal Addressers . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , near the Hospital-Gate , in West-smithfield . The Oxford Health , OR , The Jovial Loyalis A New Song . We will be loyal and Drink off our Wine , Though Pope or Presbyter should both repine ; No State-affairs shall e're turmoil our brain , Let those take care to whom they appertain : We'l love our King , and wish him happy days , And drink to all that daily speak his praise ; We'l loyal prove , and evermore will be With Plotter and their Plots at enmity . To the Tune of , On the Bank of a River : Or , Packington's Pound . HEre's a health to the King and his lawful successors , To Tantivy , Tories , and Loyal Addressers : No matter for those that promoted Petitions , To poison the Nation , and stir up Seditions : Here's a health to the Queen and her Ladies of Honour , A pox on all those who put Sham-plots upon her : Here's a health to the Duke and the Senate of Scotland , And to all Honest Men that from Bishops ne'r god land . Here's a health to L'Estrange , and to boon Heraclitus , A fig for those Whigs that for Papists indict us ; Not forgetting those that continually spite us , For Loyalty still to our King does unite us : Here's a health to our Church , and to all that are for it , A shame take all Papists and Whigs that abhor it ; Safe may she be still from new ways of Refiners , And Justice be done to true Protestant Joiners . Let all the contrivers of this our late trouble , Have their reward at last heap'd on them double ; Here's a health to the downfall of those whose devotion , Does tend to nought else but to raise up commotion : Come round let it go boys , let each drink his Bumper , To all honest Men that yet ne'r lov'd a Rumper : The thirtieth of January let us remember , And let it be joyn'd to the fifth of November . Here's a health to all Loyalists , let us carouse it , For why there is wine to be had in the house you Here's to all those who yet never spoke evil Of Church or of State , but that still have been civil : Come let it go round boys , and fill up our Glasses , We'l now be more merry then Whigs with their Lasses Let Hypocrites who dare in all things dissemble , And by changing shapes the Camelian Resemble . Make twenty wry faces , and all to disguise 'um , Yet from sedition none e're can advice 'um ; Here's to the Confusion of Plots and all Plotters , And here's a good health to him that ne'r alters ; Come let it go round and fill each man his brimmer , For he's no good diver that first en't a swimmer ; And here's to our happiness that we see dawning , In spite of the Plots that Geneva is spawning . A Fig for their policies , they shall ne'r fright us , Do all what they can they shall never more bite us ; For Oliver now and bold Bradshaw are rotten , Tho' their cursed names they shall ne'r be forgotten . Here's a health to all Cavaliers that ne'r were turncoats , We'l drink it in spite of the Pope and his Cutthroats ; Or in spite of those Rebels that envy our blessing , Who once more our Land would so fain be possessing . Here's a health to the Burghers who still in their choices , For eminent Loyalists do give their voices ; And will not be Byas'd whatever betide them , Who fear no Whig-Landlords who for it shall chide them : To the Prince and the Princess of Orange come fill it , To the brim let it flow , but beware how you spill it ; Not forgetting the rest of the Royal Branches , We'l drink our brisk Wine till each his Soul drenches . Here's a health to all those that express their good meaning , And hold to the end as they make their beginning ; Come fill it away Boys , and let us be merry , We'l drink each his Bumper , and never be weary : And no true Subject we'r sure will deny it , For this is the way that we always shall try it ; Come fill it again to the ruin of Rumpers , I'le make no scruple to turn off three Bumpers . Then come all you Loyalists though the Whigs mutter , And about nothing do keep all this clutter : In spite of the Pope or Jack Presbyter either , We will live merry , and will regard neither . Although they Tory or Tantivy name us , We care not a pin there's none honest will blame us : We'l drink to the King and his Lawful Successors , And to all those that prove Loyal Addressers . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , near the Hospital-Gate , in West-smithfield . 