Vicar and Moses . AT the sign of the horse , old Spintext of course Each night took his pipe and his Pot , [ Of ] er a jorum of nappy , quite pleasant and happy Was plac'd this canonical [ s ] ot . Tol lol , etc The evening was dark , when in came the clerk , With reverence due , and submission , First stroke'd his cravat , then twirl'd round his hat And bowing preferred his petition . I'm come , sir , says he , to beg , look , do you see , Of your reverend worship and glory , To inter a poor baby with as much speed as may be , And I'll walk with the lantern before you . The body we'll bury , but pray where's the hurry , Why Lord , sir , the corpse it does stay ; You fool hold your peace , since miracles cease , A corpse , Moses , can't run away . Then Moses he smil'd , saying , sir , a small child , Cannot long delay your intentions , Why that's true , by St. Paul , a child that is small , Can never enlarge it's dimensions . Bring Moses some beer , and bring me some doe you hear , I hate to be call'd from my liquour , Come , Moses , the king , 'tis a scanadlous thing , Such a subject should be but a vicar . Then Moses he spoke , sir , 'tis passed twelve o'clock , Beside there's a terrible shower , Why Moses you elf , since the clock has struck twelve , I'm sure it can never strike more . Beside [ m ] y dear friend , this lesson attend , Which to say and to swear I'll be bold , That the corpse , snow or rain , can't endanger that's plain , But perhaps you or I may take cold . Then Moses went on , sir , the clock has struck one , Pray master look up at the hand , Why it ne'er can strike less , 'tis a folly to press , A man for to go that can't stand . At length hat and cloak old Orthodox took , But first cramm'd his jaw with a quid . Each tipped off a gill , for fear they should chill , And then stagger'd away side by side . When come to the grave , the clerk humm'd a stave , While the surplice was wrapp'd round the priest , Where so droll was the figure of Moses and vicar , That the parish still talk of the jest . Good people let's pray , put the corpse t'other way , Or perchance I shall over it stumble , 'Tis best to take care , tho' the sages declare , OF Mortuum caput can't tremble . Woman that's of man born , that's wrong the leave's torn , Oh! man that is born of a woman , Can't continue and hour , but is cut down like a flow'r You see , Moses , death spares no man . Here , Moses , do look , what a confounded book , Sure the letters are turn'd upside down . Such a scandalous print , sure the devil is in't Thas this Basket should print for the crown . Prithee Moses you read , for I cannot proceed , And bury the corpse in my stead , Amen . Amen . Moses , you're wrong , pray hold still your tongue , You've taken the tail for the head . O where's thy sting death , but the corpse in the earth For believe me 'tis terrible weather So the corpse was interr'd without praying a word . And away they both Vicar and Moses . AT the sign of the horse , old Spintext of course Each night took his pipe and his Pot , [ Of ] er a jorum of nappy , quite pleasant and happy Was plac'd this canonical [ s ] ot . Tol lol , etc The evening was dark , when in came the clerk , With reverence due , and submission , First stroke'd his cravat , then twirl'd round his hat And bowing preferred his petition . I'm come , sir , says he , to beg , look , do you see , Of your reverend worship and glory , To inter a poor baby with as much speed as may be , And I'll walk with the lantern before you . The body we'll bury , but pray where's the hurry , Why Lord , sir , the corpse it does stay ; You fool hold your peace , since miracles cease , A corpse , Moses , can't run away . Then Moses he smil'd , saying , sir , a small child , Cannot long delay your intentions , Why that's true , by St. Paul , a child that is small , Can never enlarge it's dimensions . Bring Moses some beer , and bring me some doe you hear , I hate to be call'd from my liquour , Come , Moses , the king , 'tis a scanadlous thing , Such a subject should be but a vicar . Then Moses he spoke , sir , 'tis passed twelve o'clock , Beside there's a terrible shower , Why Moses you elf , since the clock has struck twelve , I'm sure it can never strike more . Beside [ m ] y dear friend , this lesson attend , Which to say and to swear I'll be bold , That the corpse , snow or rain , can't endanger that's plain , But perhaps you or I may take cold . Then Moses went on , sir , the clock has struck one , Pray master look up at the hand , Why it ne'er can strike less , 'tis a folly to press , A man for to go that can't stand . At length hat and cloak old Orthodox took , But first cramm'd his jaw with a quid . Each tipped off a gill , for fear they should chill , And then stagger'd away side by side . When come to the grave , the clerk humm'd a stave , While the surplice was wrapp'd round the priest , Where so droll was the figure of Moses and vicar , That the parish still talk of the jest . Good people let's pray , put the corpse t'other way , Or perchance I shall over it stumble , 'Tis best to take care , tho' the sages declare , OF Mortuum caput can't tremble . Woman that's of man born , that's wrong the leave's torn , Oh! man that is born of a woman , Can't continue and hour , but is cut down like a flow'r You see , Moses , death spares no man . Here , Moses , do look , what a confounded book , Sure the letters are turn'd upside down . Such a scandalous print , sure the devil is in't Thas this Basket should print for the crown . Prithee Moses you read , for I cannot proceed , And bury the corpse in my stead , Amen . Amen . Moses , you're wrong , pray hold still your tongue , You've taken the tail for the head . O where's thy sting death , but the corpse in the earth For believe me 'tis terrible weather So the corpse was interr'd without praying a word . And away they both 