r ROGER's Delight ; OR , The West Country Christ'ning and Gossiping . WHen Sol had left his weary Teams , and turn'd his Steeds a Grazing , Ten Fathom deep in Neptune's Streams , he his Thetis lay Embracing ; The Stars trip in the Firmament , like School-Boys on a Playday ; The Country Lasses a Mumming went , like Milk maids on a May-day . Then apace grew on the Grey-ey'd Morn , when the herds-man's Flocks were Low-ing , And among the Poultry in the Barn , the Plow-Man's Cocks were Crowing : While Roger he Dreamed of Golden Joys , was wak'd by a Revel-Rout , Sir , But Cicely she tells him he needs must rise , for his Juggy was crying out Sir . Not half so merry the Cup went round , at the Tapping of good Ale Firkin , Then Roger his Hose and Shoes had found and button'd his Leather Jerkin ; Gray Mare was Saddled with wondrous speed , with Pillion and Buttock'd aright , Sir , And for and old Midwife away he road , to bring the poor Kid to light , Sir , Oh! good Mother I pray get up , for the Fruits of my Labour it's now come , And there it lies struggling in Juggy's Womb , But it cannot get out till you come , I'll help her quoth the old Hag ne'er doubt thy Juggy shall be well again Boy , And I'm warrant that I'm get the Kid out , as well as thou [ gottest it in Boy . ] Grey Mare they mount , and away they ride , no whip nor Spur was wanting : As soon as the old Hag enter'd the Room , then Hoop cry'd out the Bantling : A Female Chit , so small it was born , you might put it into a Flagon , And it must be Christen'd that very Morn for fear it should die a Pagan . Then Robin and Doll , with constant Kate were Gossips for this great Christening , And the good Wives did merrily prate , While Juggy in bed lay list'ning : They talk'd of this , and they talk'd of that Of Chatting they were not sparing , Some said it was so small a Brat , 'Twas hardly worth the rearing . Then Roger he strutted about the Hall , As great as the Prince of Condey ; What if her Prats they are but small , They will be bigger one Day : What if her Legs and Thighs lie close , As little as any Spider , You need not fear , e'er seventeen Years , She'll lig them a little wider : For then she'll be a Woman grown , I'll lay Five Pounds im Money , And have a little one of her own , As well as Jug my Honey : These will be joyful Days to see , I'll study for to advance her , That Juggy may a Granny be , Then I shall be a Grandsire . Then Nappy Ale went fairly round , as brown as any Berry , With which the good wives being crown'd they all were Brisk and Merry , While Roger he turn'd Cups over his Thumb , to every honest Neighbour , Saying , A Twelve Month hence pray come , once more to my Juggy's Labour . Northampton : Printed by R. Raikes and W. Dicey ; and sold by Matthias Dag - nel in Aylesbury and Leighton , Stephen Dagnel in Chesham , William Ratten in Counterfeit - ventry , Thomas Williams in Tring , Booksellers ; Nathan Ward in Sun-Lane in Reading ; William Royce in St. Clements , Oxford ; Paul Stephens in Bister ; Anthony Thorpe at the White Swan in St. Albans ; Mr. Franks in Wooburne ; William Peachy near St. Benet's Church in Cambridge ; and by Chururd Brady in St. Ives ; at all which Places are Sold all Sorts of Ballads , Broadsheets , and Histories , with finer Cuts , better Print , and as cheap as at any Place in England . r ROGER's Delight ; OR , The West Country Christ'ning and Gossiping . WHen Sol had left his weary Teams , and turn'd his Steeds a Grazing , Ten Fathom deep in Neptune's Streams , he his Thetis lay Embracing ; The Stars trip in the Firmament , like School-Boys on a Playday ; The Country Lasses a Mumming went , like Milk maids on a May-day . Then apace grew on the Grey-ey'd Morn , when the herds-man's Flocks were Low-ing , And among the Poultry in the Barn , the Plow-Man's Cocks were Crowing : While Roger he Dreamed of Golden Joys , was wak'd by a Revel-Rout , Sir , But Cicely she tells him he needs must rise , for his Juggy was crying out Sir . Not half so merry the Cup went round , at the Tapping of good Ale Firkin , Then Roger his Hose and Shoes had found and button'd his Leather Jerkin ; Gray Mare was Saddled with wondrous speed , with Pillion and Buttock'd aright , Sir , And for and old Midwife away he road , to bring the poor Kid to light , Sir , Oh! good Mother I pray get up , for the Fruits of my Labour it's now come , And there it lies struggling in Juggy's Womb , But it cannot get out till you come , I'll help her quoth the old Hag ne'er doubt thy Juggy shall be well again Boy , And I'm warrant that I'm get the Kid out , as well as thou [ gottest it in Boy . ] Grey Mare they mount , and away they ride , no whip nor Spur was wanting : As soon as the old Hag enter'd the Room , then Hoop cry'd out the Bantling : A Female Chit , so small it was born , you might put it into a Flagon , And it must be Christen'd that very Morn for fear it should die a Pagan . Then Robin and Doll , with constant Kate were Gossips for this great Christening , And the good Wives did merrily prate , While Juggy in bed lay list'ning : They talk'd of this , and they talk'd of that Of Chatting they were not sparing , Some said it was so small a Brat , 'Twas hardly worth the rearing . Then Roger he strutted about the Hall , As great as the Prince of Condey ; What if her Prats they are but small , They will be bigger one Day : What if her Legs and Thighs lie close , As little as any Spider , You need not fear , e'er seventeen Years , She'll lig them a little wider : For then she'll be a Woman grown , I'll lay Five Pounds im Money , And have a little one of her own , As well as Jug my Honey : These will be joyful Days to see , I'll study for to advance her , That Juggy may a Granny be , Then I shall be a Grandsire . Then Nappy Ale went fairly round , as brown as any Berry , With which the good wives being crown'd they all were Brisk and Merry , While Roger he turn'd Cups over his Thumb , to every honest Neighbour , Saying , A Twelve Month hence pray come , once more to my Juggy's Labour . Northampton : Printed by R. Raikes and W. Dicey ; and sold by Matthias Dag - nel in Aylesbury and Leighton , Stephen Dagnel in Chesham , William Ratten in Counterfeit - ventry , Thomas Williams in Tring , Booksellers ; Nathan Ward in Sun-Lane in Reading ; William Royce in St. Clements , Oxford ; Paul Stephens in Bister ; Anthony Thorpe at the White Swan in St. Albans ; Mr. Franks in Wooburne ; William Peachy near St. Benet's Church in Cambridge ; and by Chururd Brady in St. Ives ; at all which Places are Sold all Sorts of Ballads , Broadsheets , and Histories , with finer Cuts , better Print , and as cheap as at any Place in England . 