The Politic Wife ; OR , The Devil outwitted by a Woman . OF all the plagues upon the earth , That e'er poor man befall , It's hunger and a scolding wife , These are the worst of all : There was a poor man in our country , Of a poor and low degree , And with both these plagues he was troubled , And the worst of luck had he . He had seven children by one wife , And the times were poor and hard , And his poor toil was grown so bad He scarce could get him bred ; Being discontented in his mind , One day his house he left , And wandered down by a forest side , Of his senses quite bereft . As he was wandering up and down , Betwixt hope and despair , The Devil started out of a bush , And appeared unto him there : Oh what is the matter , the Devil he said , You look so discontent ? Sure you want money to buy you some bred , Or to pay your landlord's rend . Indeed , kind sir , you read me right , And the grounds of my disease , Then what is your name , said the poor man , Pray tell me , if you please ? My name is Dumkin the Devil , quoth he , And the truth to you I do tell , Altho' you see me wandering here , Yet my dwelling it is in hell . Then what willl you give me , said the Devil , To ease you of your want , And you shall have corn and cattle enough , And never partake of scant ? I have nothing to give you , said the poor man , Nor nothing here in hand , But all the service that I can do Shall be at your command . [ Then upon the condition of seven long yours , ] A bargain with you I will frame , You shall bring me a beast unto this place , That I cannot tell its name ; But if I tell its name full right , Then mark what to you I tell , Then you must go along with me Directly unto hell . This poor man went joyfully home , And thrifty he grew therefore , For he had corn and cattle enough , And every thing good store . His neighbours , who did live around ; Did wonder at him much , And thought he had robb'd or stole , He was grown so wondrous rich . Then for the space of seven long years He lived in good cheer , But when the time of his indenture grew near He began to fear ; Oh what is the matter , said his wife , You look so discontent ? Sure you have god some maid with child , And now you begin to repent . Indeed , kind wife , you judge me wrong , To censure so hard of me , Was it for getting a maid with child , That would be no felony ; But I have made a league with the Devil , For seven long years , no more , That I should have corn and cattle enough , And every thing good store . Then for the space of seven long years , A bargain I did frame , I should bring him a beast unto that place , He could not tell its name : But if he tell his name full right , Then mark what to you I tell , Then I must go along with him , Directly unto Hell . Go get you gone , you silly old man , Your cattle go tend and feed ; For a woman's wit is far better than man's ; If us'd in time of need ; Go fetch me down all the birdlime thou hast , And set it down on the floor , When I have pull'd my clothes all off You shall anoint me all o'er . [ Now when he had anointed her ] From the head unto the heel , Zounds ! said the poor man , methinks you look Just like the very De'el . Go fetch me down all the feathers thou hast . And lay them down by me , And I will roll myself therein , 'Till never a place go free . Come tie a string about my neck , And led me to this place , And I will save you from the Devil , If I have but so much grace , The Devil he stood roaring out , And look'd both fierce and bold ; Thou hast brought me a beast unto this place , And the bargain thou dost hold . Come show me the face of this beast , said the devil , Come show it me in a short space ; Then he showed to him his wife's buttocks , And swore it was her face ; She has monstrous cheeks , the Devil he said , And her visage is wondrous grim , She has but one eye in all her whole head , And methinks it looks wondrous dim . Come show me the mouth of this beast , said the devil , Come show it me speedily , Zounds ! said the poor man , if you're not blind , It's and inch just under her eye , And if she stood upon all fours , As now she stands at length . You'd take her to be some monstrous beast Taken by man's main strength . How many more of these beasts , said the Devil , How many more of the kind ? I have seven more such , said the poor man , But have left them all behind . If you have seven more such , said the devil , The truth unto you I tell , You have beasts enough to cheat me And all the Devils in hell . Here take thy bound and indenture both . I'll have nothing to do with thee : So the man and his wife went joyfully hom [ e ] ' And lived full merry . O God send us good merry long lives , Without any sorrow or woe , Now here's a health to all such wives Who can cheat the Devil so . Sold at No. 41 , Long-Lane , West-Smithfield , London . The Politic Wife ; OR , The Devil outwitted by a Woman . OF all the plagues upon the earth , That e'er poor man befall , It's hunger and a scolding wife , These are the worst of all : There was a poor man in our country , Of a poor and low degree , And with both these plagues he was troubled , And the worst of luck had he . He had seven children by one wife , And the times were poor and hard , And his poor toil was grown so bad He scarce could get him bred ; Being discontented in his mind , One day his house he left , And wandered down by a forest side , Of his senses quite bereft . As he was wandering up and down , Betwixt hope and despair , The Devil started out of a bush , And appeared unto him there : Oh what is the matter , the Devil he said , You look so discontent ? Sure you want money to buy you some bred , Or to pay your landlord's rend . Indeed , kind sir , you read me right , And the grounds of my disease , Then what is your name , said the poor man , Pray tell me , if you please ? My name is Dumkin the Devil , quoth he , And the truth to you I do tell , Altho' you see me wandering here , Yet my dwelling it is in hell . Then what willl you give me , said the Devil , To ease you of your want , And you shall have corn and cattle enough , And never partake of scant ? I have nothing to give you , said the poor man , Nor nothing here in hand , But all the service that I can do Shall be at your command . [ Then upon the condition of seven long yours , ] A bargain with you I will frame , You shall bring me a beast unto this place , That I cannot tell its name ; But if I tell its name full right , Then mark what to you I tell , Then you must go along with me Directly unto hell . This poor man went joyfully home , And thrifty he grew therefore , For he had corn and cattle enough , And every thing good store . His neighbours , who did live around ; Did wonder at him much , And thought he had robb'd or stole , He was grown so wondrous rich . Then for the space of seven long years He lived in good cheer , But when the time of his indenture grew near He began to fear ; Oh what is the matter , said his wife , You look so discontent ? Sure you have god some maid with child , And now you begin to repent . Indeed , kind wife , you judge me wrong , To censure so hard of me , Was it for getting a maid with child , That would be no felony ; But I have made a league with the Devil , For seven long years , no more , That I should have corn and cattle enough , And every thing good store . Then for the space of seven long years , A bargain I did frame , I should bring him a beast unto that place , He could not tell its name : But if he tell his name full right , Then mark what to you I tell , Then I must go along with him , Directly unto Hell . Go get you gone , you silly old man , Your cattle go tend and feed ; For a woman's wit is far better than man's ; If us'd in time of need ; Go fetch me down all the birdlime thou hast , And set it down on the floor , When I have pull'd my clothes all off You shall anoint me all o'er . [ Now when he had anointed her ] From the head unto the heel , Zounds ! said the poor man , methinks you look Just like the very De'el . Go fetch me down all the feathers thou hast . And lay them down by me , And I will roll myself therein , 'Till never a place go free . Come tie a string about my neck , And led me to this place , And I will save you from the Devil , If I have but so much grace , The Devil he stood roaring out , And look'd both fierce and bold ; Thou hast brought me a beast unto this place , And the bargain thou dost hold . Come show me the face of this beast , said the devil , Come show it me in a short space ; Then he showed to him his wife's buttocks , And swore it was her face ; She has monstrous cheeks , the Devil he said , And her visage is wondrous grim , She has but one eye in all her whole head , And methinks it looks wondrous dim . Come show me the mouth of this beast , said the devil , Come show it me speedily , Zounds ! said the poor man , if you're not blind , It's and inch just under her eye , And if she stood upon all fours , As now she stands at length . You'd take her to be some monstrous beast Taken by man's main strength . How many more of these beasts , said the Devil , How many more of the kind ? I have seven more such , said the poor man , But have left them all behind . If you have seven more such , said the devil , The truth unto you I tell , You have beasts enough to cheat me And all the Devils in hell . Here take thy bound and indenture both . I'll have nothing to do with thee : So the man and his wife went joyfully hom [ e ] ' And lived full merry . O God send us good merry long lives , Without any sorrow or woe , Now here's a health to all such wives Who can cheat the Devil so . Sold at No. 41 , Long-Lane , West-Smithfield , London . 