Cock-Lane , Humbug . THE town it long has been in pain About the phantom in Cock-Lane , To find it out they strove in vain Not one thing they neglected ; They searched the bed and room complete To see if there was any cheat , While little Miss that looks so sweet , Was not the least suspected . Then soon the knocking it begun And then the scratching it wou'd come 'Twas pleased to answer any one , And that was done by knocking ; If you was poison'd tell us true , For yes knock one , for no knock two , Then she knock'd I tell to you , Which needs must making it shock-ing . On Friday night as many know , A noble Lord did thither go , The Ghost its knocking wou'd not show Which made the Guest to mutter : They being gone then one was there Who always called it my dear , Fanny was pleas'd 'tis very clear , And then began to flutter . The Ghost some Gentlemen did tell , If they would go to Clerkenwell , Into the Vault where she did dwell , That they three knocks should hear sir On Monday night away they went , The man accus'd he was present , But all as death it was silent . The de'll a knock was there sir . The Gentlemen return'd again , And told young missy flat and plain , She was the Agent of Cock-Lane , Who knock'd and scratch'd for Fanny 'Twas false each person did agree , Miss begg'd to go with her daddy And then went into the Country To knock and scratch for Fanny . Cock-Lane , Humbug . THE town it long has been in pain About the phantom in Cock-Lane , To find it out they strove in vain Not one thing they neglected ; They searched the bed and room complete To see if there was any cheat , While little Miss that looks so sweet , Was not the least suspected . Then soon the knocking it begun And then the scratching it wou'd come 'Twas pleased to answer any one , And that was done by knocking ; If you was poison'd tell us true , For yes knock one , for no knock two , Then she knock'd I tell to you , Which needs must making it shock-ing . On Friday night as many know , A noble Lord did thither go , The Ghost its knocking wou'd not show Which made the Guest to mutter : They being gone then one was there Who always called it my dear , Fanny was pleas'd 'tis very clear , And then began to flutter . The Ghost some Gentlemen did tell , If they would go to Clerkenwell , Into the Vault where she did dwell , That they three knocks should hear sir On Monday night away they went , The man accus'd he was present , But all as death it was silent . The de'll a knock was there sir . The Gentlemen return'd again , And told young missy flat and plain , She was the Agent of Cock-Lane , Who knock'd and scratch'd for Fanny 'Twas false each person did agree , Miss begg'd to go with her daddy And then went into the Country To knock and scratch for Fanny . 