Robin Hood's Progress TO Nottingham . RObin Hood he was a tall Young man , derry derry down , And fifteen winter's old , And Robin Hood he was a proper young man Of courage stout and bold : heigh down derry derry down , Robin Hood he would unto Nottingham , derry , derry down , With the General for to Dine , There was he aware of fifteen Foresters And a drinking beer ale ale , and wine , hey down derry derry down . What news , what news , said bold Robin Hood worser [ e ] rry , derry down . What news fain wouldst thou know ? Our King hath provided a shooting match . And I'm ready with my bow , heigh down derry derry down . We hold it in scorn said the fifteen Forester derry , derry down , That ever a boy so young , Should bear a bow before our King , That's not able to draw one string : heigh down derry derry down . I'll hold you twenty marks , said bold Robin Hood derry , derry down , By the leave of our Lady , That I'll hit the mark and hundred rod , And I'll cause one heart to die : heigh down derry derry down . We'll hold you twenty marks , then said the Foresters , derry , derry down . By the leave of our Lady , Thou hit'st not the mark of and hundred rod , Nor causest one heart to worser [ i ] e ; heigh down derry derry down . Robin Hood he bent his noble bow , derry , derry down . And a broad arrow he let fly : He hit the mark and hundred rod , And he caused one heart to die , heigh down derry derry down . Some said he broke ribs one or two , derry , derry down , And some said he broke three ; The arrow in the heart would not abide , But it glanced in two or three : heigh down derry derry down . The heart did skip and the heart did leap , derry , derry down , And the heart lay on the ground , The wager is mine said bold Robin Hood , If it were for a thousand pound : heigh down derry derry down . The wager's none of thine , then said the Foresters , derry , derry down , Although thou be'st in haste ? Take up thy bow and get thee hence , lest we thy sides do baste : heigh down derry derry down . Robin Hood he took up his noble bow , derry , derry down , And his broad arrows amain , And Robin he laugh'd and began to smile , As he went over the plain : heigh down derry derry down . Then Robin Hood he bent up his noble bow , derry , derry down , And his broad arrows he let fly , Till fourteen of these fifteen Foresters , Upon the ground did lie : heigh down derry derry down . He that this Quarrel first began , derry , derry down , Went tripping over the plain , But Robin Hood he bent his noble bow , And he fetched him back-again , heigh down derry derry down . You said I was no Archer , said Robin Hood , derry , derry down , But say so now again : With that he sent another arrow , Which split his head in twain : heigh down derry derry down . You have found me and Archer said Robin Hood , derry , derry down , Which will make your wives to wring , And wish that you ne'er had spoke the word That I could not draw one string : heigh down derry derry down . The People that lived in fair Nottingham , derry , derry down , Came running out amain , Supposing to have take bold Robin Hood , With the Foresters that were slave ; heigh down derry derry down . Some lost legs , and some lost arms , heigh down derry derry down . And some did loose their blood ; But Robin Hood he took up his noble bow , And is gone to the merry green wood : heigh down derry derry down . They carry'd these Foresters to fair Notting-ham derry derry down , As many their did know , hey down derry derry down . They dig'd them graves in their Churchyards And buried them all on a row : heyt down derry derry down . FINIS . Robin Hood's Progress TO Nottingham . RObin Hood he was a tall Young man , derry derry down , And fifteen winter's old , And Robin Hood he was a proper young man Of courage stout and bold : heigh down derry derry down , Robin Hood he would unto Nottingham , derry , derry down , With the General for to Dine , There was he aware of fifteen Foresters And a drinking beer ale ale , and wine , hey down derry derry down . What news , what news , said bold Robin Hood worser [ e ] rry , derry down . What news fain wouldst thou know ? Our King hath provided a shooting match . And I'm ready with my bow , heigh down derry derry down . We hold it in scorn said the fifteen Forester derry , derry down , That ever a boy so young , Should bear a bow before our King , That's not able to draw one string : heigh down derry derry down . I'll hold you twenty marks , said bold Robin Hood derry , derry down , By the leave of our Lady , That I'll hit the mark and hundred rod , And I'll cause one heart to die : heigh down derry derry down . We'll hold you twenty marks , then said the Foresters , derry , derry down . By the leave of our Lady , Thou hit'st not the mark of and hundred rod , Nor causest one heart to worser [ i ] e ; heigh down derry derry down . Robin Hood he bent his noble bow , derry , derry down . And a broad arrow he let fly : He hit the mark and hundred rod , And he caused one heart to die , heigh down derry derry down . Some said he broke ribs one or two , derry , derry down , And some said he broke three ; The arrow in the heart would not abide , But it glanced in two or three : heigh down derry derry down . The heart did skip and the heart did leap , derry , derry down , And the heart lay on the ground , The wager is mine said bold Robin Hood , If it were for a thousand pound : heigh down derry derry down . The wager's none of thine , then said the Foresters , derry , derry down , Although thou be'st in haste ? Take up thy bow and get thee hence , lest we thy sides do baste : heigh down derry derry down . Robin Hood he took up his noble bow , derry , derry down , And his broad arrows amain , And Robin he laugh'd and began to smile , As he went over the plain : heigh down derry derry down . Then Robin Hood he bent up his noble bow , derry , derry down , And his broad arrows he let fly , Till fourteen of these fifteen Foresters , Upon the ground did lie : heigh down derry derry down . He that this Quarrel first began , derry , derry down , Went tripping over the plain , But Robin Hood he bent his noble bow , And he fetched him back-again , heigh down derry derry down . You said I was no Archer , said Robin Hood , derry , derry down , But say so now again : With that he sent another arrow , Which split his head in twain : heigh down derry derry down . You have found me and Archer said Robin Hood , derry , derry down , Which will make your wives to wring , And wish that you ne'er had spoke the word That I could not draw one string : heigh down derry derry down . The People that lived in fair Nottingham , derry , derry down , Came running out amain , Supposing to have take bold Robin Hood , With the Foresters that were slave ; heigh down derry derry down . Some lost legs , and some lost arms , heigh down derry derry down . And some did loose their blood ; But Robin Hood he took up his noble bow , And is gone to the merry green wood : heigh down derry derry down . They carry'd these Foresters to fair Notting-ham derry derry down , As many their did know , hey down derry derry down . They dig'd them graves in their Churchyards And buried them all on a row : heyt down derry derry down . FINIS . 