The Beggars CHORUS IN The Jovial Crew . To and Excellent New Tune . THere was a jovial Beggar , he had a wooden Leg ; Lame from his Cradel , and forced for to beg ; And a Begging we will go , we'll go , we'll go , And a Begging we will go . A Bag for my Oatmeal , another for my Salt , A litt [ l ] e pair of Crutches , to see how I can hall And a Begging , etc A Bag for my Bred , another for my Cheese , A little Dog to follow me to gather what I lose : And a Begging , etc A Bag for my Wheat . another for my Rye , A little Bottle by my side , to drink when I'm a dry : And a Begging we'l go , we'l go , we'l go And a Begging we will go . To Pimlico we'll go , where merry we shall be , With every Man a Can in's Hand , and Wench upon his Knee : And a Begging , etc And when that we're disposed , we tumble on the Grass With long patch'd Coats for to hide a pretty Lass : And a Begging , etc Seven Years I served my old Master Wild ; Seven Years I begged while I was but a Child : And a Begging , etc I had the pretty Knack for to wheedle and to cry ? By young and by old , much pitied was I : And a Begging , etc Fatherless and Motherless still was my Complaint , And none that ever saw me but took me for a Sain And a Begging , etc I begg'd for my Master , and god him store of Pelf , But Jove now be praised , I now beg for my self . And a Begging , etc Within a hollow Tree I live , and pay no Rend ; Providence provides for me , and I am well conten And a Begging , etc Of all Occupations a Beggar lives the best ; For when he is weary he'll lie him down and res And a Begging , etc I fear no Plots against me , but live in open Cell ; Why who wou'd be a King , when a Beggar lives so well . And a begging we will go , we'l go , etc And a Begging we will go . The Beggars CHORUS IN The Jovial Crew . To and Excellent New Tune . THere was a jovial Beggar , he had a wooden Leg ; Lame from his Cradel , and forced for to beg ; And a Begging we will go , we'll go , we'll go , And a Begging we will go . A Bag for my Oatmeal , another for my Salt , A litt [ l ] e pair of Crutches , to see how I can hall And a Begging , etc A Bag for my Bred , another for my Cheese , A little Dog to follow me to gather what I lose : And a Begging , etc A Bag for my Wheat . another for my Rye , A little Bottle by my side , to drink when I'm a dry : And a Begging we'l go , we'l go , we'l go And a Begging we will go . To Pimlico we'll go , where merry we shall be , With every Man a Can in's Hand , and Wench upon his Knee : And a Begging , etc And when that we're disposed , we tumble on the Grass With long patch'd Coats for to hide a pretty Lass : And a Begging , etc Seven Years I served my old Master Wild ; Seven Years I begged while I was but a Child : And a Begging , etc I had the pretty Knack for to wheedle and to cry ? By young and by old , much pitied was I : And a Begging , etc Fatherless and Motherless still was my Complaint , And none that ever saw me but took me for a Sain And a Begging , etc I begg'd for my Master , and god him store of Pelf , But Jove now be praised , I now beg for my self . And a Begging , etc Within a hollow Tree I live , and pay no Rend ; Providence provides for me , and I am well conten And a Begging , etc Of all Occupations a Beggar lives the best ; For when he is weary he'll lie him down and res And a Begging , etc I fear no Plots against me , but live in open Cell ; Why who wou'd be a King , when a Beggar lives so well . And a begging we will go , we'l go , etc And a Begging we will go . 