CUPID's Courtesy : Or , The Young Gallant Foil'd at his own Weapon . He scorned Cupid and his Dart , -- Until he found a wounded Heart To a pleasant New Northern Tune THro' the cool shady Woods As I was ranging : I herd the pretty Birds Notes sweetly changing . Down by a Meadow Side , Where runs a River ; A little Boy I 'spy'd With Bow and Quiver . Little Boy , tell me why Thou art here diving ? Art thou some Runaway , And hast no Biding ? I am no Runaway , Venus , my Mother . She gave me Leave to play , When I came hither . Little Boy , go with me , And be my Servant . I will take Care to see For thy Preferment . If I with thee should go , Venus wouln chide me , She'd take away my Bow , And ne'er abide me . Little Boy , let me know What's thy Name termed , That thou dost wear a Bow , And go'st so armed . You may perceive the same , With often changing : Cupid it is my Name , I live by ranging . I Cupid be thy Name , Which shoots at Rovers , I have herd of thy Fame By wounded Lovers . Should any languish , that Are set on Fire By such a naked Brat , I much admire . If thou do'st but the least At my Laws grumble : I'll pierce thy stubborn Heart , And make thee humble : If I with my Golden Dart Wound thee but surely : There's no Physician's Art That e'er can cure thee . Little Boy , with thy Bow , Why dost thou threaten ? It is not long ago Since thou wast beaten . Thy wanton Mother fair , Venus , will chide thee : When all thy Arrows are gone , Thou may'st go hide thee . Of powerful Shafts you see I am well stored : Which makes my Deity So much adored : With one poor Arrow now I'll make thee shiver : And bend unto my Bow , And fear my Quiver . Dear little Cupid be Courteous and kindly ; I know thou can'st not hit , But shootest blindly : Although thou call'st me blind , Surely I'll hit thee ; That thou shalt quickly find , I'll not forget thee . Then little Cupid caught His Bow so nimble ; And shot a fatal Shaft , Which made him tremble : Go , tell thy Mistress dear , Thou can'st discover What all the Passion are Of a dying Lover , And now his gallant Heart Sorely was bleeding ; And frlt the greatest Smart , From Love proceeding : He did her Help implore , Whom he affected : But found that more and more Him she rejected . For Cupid with his Craft Quickly had chosen : And with a Leaden Daart Her Heart had frozen . Which caus'd this Lover more Sadly to languish ; And Cupid's Aid implore , To heal his Anguish . He humbly Pardon crav'd For his Offence pass And vow'd himself a Slave , And to Love steadfast . His Prayers so ardent were , While his Heart panted : That Cupid lent and Ear , And his Suit granted . For by his present Plaint He was regarded ; And his adored Saint His Love rewarded . And now they live in Joy , Sweetly embracing : And left the little Boy In the Woods chasing . CUPID's Courtesy : Or , The Young Gallant Foil'd at his own Weapon . He scorned Cupid and his Dart , -- Until he found a wounded Heart To a pleasant New Northern Tune THro' the cool shady Woods As I was ranging : I herd the pretty Birds Notes sweetly changing . Down by a Meadow Side , Where runs a River ; A little Boy I 'spy'd With Bow and Quiver . Little Boy , tell me why Thou art here diving ? Art thou some Runaway , And hast no Biding ? I am no Runaway , Venus , my Mother . She gave me Leave to play , When I came hither . Little Boy , go with me , And be my Servant . I will take Care to see For thy Preferment . If I with thee should go , Venus wouln chide me , She'd take away my Bow , And ne'er abide me . Little Boy , let me know What's thy Name termed , That thou dost wear a Bow , And go'st so armed . You may perceive the same , With often changing : Cupid it is my Name , I live by ranging . I Cupid be thy Name , Which shoots at Rovers , I have herd of thy Fame By wounded Lovers . Should any languish , that Are set on Fire By such a naked Brat , I much admire . If thou do'st but the least At my Laws grumble : I'll pierce thy stubborn Heart , And make thee humble : If I with my Golden Dart Wound thee but surely : There's no Physician's Art That e'er can cure thee . Little Boy , with thy Bow , Why dost thou threaten ? It is not long ago Since thou wast beaten . Thy wanton Mother fair , Venus , will chide thee : When all thy Arrows are gone , Thou may'st go hide thee . Of powerful Shafts you see I am well stored : Which makes my Deity So much adored : With one poor Arrow now I'll make thee shiver : And bend unto my Bow , And fear my Quiver . Dear little Cupid be Courteous and kindly ; I know thou can'st not hit , But shootest blindly : Although thou call'st me blind , Surely I'll hit thee ; That thou shalt quickly find , I'll not forget thee . Then little Cupid caught His Bow so nimble ; And shot a fatal Shaft , Which made him tremble : Go , tell thy Mistress dear , Thou can'st discover What all the Passion are Of a dying Lover , And now his gallant Heart Sorely was bleeding ; And frlt the greatest Smart , From Love proceeding : He did her Help implore , Whom he affected : But found that more and more Him she rejected . For Cupid with his Craft Quickly had chosen : And with a Leaden Daart Her Heart had frozen . Which caus'd this Lover more Sadly to languish ; And Cupid's Aid implore , To heal his Anguish . He humbly Pardon crav'd For his Offence pass And vow'd himself a Slave , And to Love steadfast . His Prayers so ardent were , While his Heart panted : That Cupid lent and Ear , And his Suit granted . For by his present Plaint He was regarded ; And his adored Saint His Love rewarded . And now they live in Joy , Sweetly embracing : And left the little Boy In the Woods chasing . 