A GODLY BALLAD , ENTITLED , I will go seek my Saviour ; and let the World be . Tune of , We'll all pluck the Heather , etc THose Poets vain who think no Shame To make those Jigs of Love ; God's holy Word they do profane , Careless of him above : My Mind from Vice I will remove , And in Humility , I will go seek my Saviour , And let the World be . To seek the Lord who dy'd for me , A Voyage I will take : The Devil , the Flesh , and Vanity , I'll utterly forsake : The Cross of Christ I will up take , Until the Day I die ; I will go seek my Saviour , And let the World be . Wherefore should I now depart , Not telling you the Case ; The odious Sins strike up my Heart , I find in every Place : I see most Men are void of Grace , As daily you may see ; I will go seek my Saviour , And let the World be . This World is full of Wickedness , Of Fraud , Deceit , and Guile ; With Lying , Swearing , Drunkenness , Whoredoms , and Thefts most vile : We led our Lives like Beasts most vile , What Shame it is to see : I will go seek my Saviour , And let the World be . My Soul I give unto the Lord , I know he craves no more ; My filthy Flesh to the Churchyard , My Goods unto the Poor : Adieu my loving Friends therefore , In Faith , Lord strengthing me ; I will go seek my Saviour , And let the World be . Now , I am ready for to go . And blessed be my Guide ? The Grace of God , and Love also , These Two are on my Side : With Faith , Hope , and the Fear of God Which bear me Company ; I will go seek my Saviour , And let the World be . SATAN speaks . Then Satan sly , he stood by me , And said , found Fool beware ; Stay thou at Home , and do not go , Thy Voyage it is too far : Take Pleasure while thou art here , Among your Company ; Cleave to the World with all thy Might , And let the Lord be . Be merry still , take Comfort in , Those Things thou dost enjoy ; And do not doubt that any Thing , Shall ever thee annoy : Repentance and all-saving Grace , Shall not bestow'd on thee ; E'er thou depart cleave to the World , And let the Lord be . SPIRIT speaks . The Grace of God in me reply'd , And said , Soul , let's away ; Faith , Love , and Hope , upon us cry , And , say , Let us not stay : Repentance said Make no Delay , If thou that Joy will see ; Turn to the Lord with Heart and Hand , And let the World be . Now to the Lord I will always , Make humble Supplication ; Still hoping for a Drop of Grace , To bring me to Salvation : Deserv'd I have Damnation , Yet his Blood hath set me free ; Therefore I'll go seek my Saviour , And let the World be . Now trusting I am for the Lord , Whene'er he does me call ; And hoping for a blessed Reward , He'll Pity my poor Soul ; God bless us here both one and all , And in Humility , God give us Grace to find our Lord , And let the World be . NEWCASTLE : Printed and sold by JOHN WHITE . A GODLY BALLAD , ENTITLED , I will go seek my Saviour ; and let the World be . Tune of , We'll all pluck the Heather , etc THose Poets vain who think no Shame To make those Jigs of Love ; God's holy Word they do profane , Careless of him above : My Mind from Vice I will remove , And in Humility , I will go seek my Saviour , And let the World be . To seek the Lord who dy'd for me , A Voyage I will take : The Devil , the Flesh , and Vanity , I'll utterly forsake : The Cross of Christ I will up take , Until the Day I die ; I will go seek my Saviour , And let the World be . Wherefore should I now depart , Not telling you the Case ; The odious Sins strike up my Heart , I find in every Place : I see most Men are void of Grace , As daily you may see ; I will go seek my Saviour , And let the World be . This World is full of Wickedness , Of Fraud , Deceit , and Guile ; With Lying , Swearing , Drunkenness , Whoredoms , and Thefts most vile : We led our Lives like Beasts most vile , What Shame it is to see : I will go seek my Saviour , And let the World be . My Soul I give unto the Lord , I know he craves no more ; My filthy Flesh to the Churchyard , My Goods unto the Poor : Adieu my loving Friends therefore , In Faith , Lord strengthing me ; I will go seek my Saviour , And let the World be . Now , I am ready for to go . And blessed be my Guide ? The Grace of God , and Love also , These Two are on my Side : With Faith , Hope , and the Fear of God Which bear me Company ; I will go seek my Saviour , And let the World be . SATAN speaks . Then Satan sly , he stood by me , And said , found Fool beware ; Stay thou at Home , and do not go , Thy Voyage it is too far : Take Pleasure while thou art here , Among your Company ; Cleave to the World with all thy Might , And let the Lord be . Be merry still , take Comfort in , Those Things thou dost enjoy ; And do not doubt that any Thing , Shall ever thee annoy : Repentance and all-saving Grace , Shall not bestow'd on thee ; E'er thou depart cleave to the World , And let the Lord be . SPIRIT speaks . The Grace of God in me reply'd , And said , Soul , let's away ; Faith , Love , and Hope , upon us cry , And , say , Let us not stay : Repentance said Make no Delay , If thou that Joy will see ; Turn to the Lord with Heart and Hand , And let the World be . Now to the Lord I will always , Make humble Supplication ; Still hoping for a Drop of Grace , To bring me to Salvation : Deserv'd I have Damnation , Yet his Blood hath set me free ; Therefore I'll go seek my Saviour , And let the World be . Now trusting I am for the Lord , Whene'er he does me call ; And hoping for a blessed Reward , He'll Pity my poor Soul ; God bless us here both one and all , And in Humility , God give us Grace to find our Lord , And let the World be . NEWCASTLE : Printed and sold by JOHN WHITE . 