The Garland of TRIALS . THIS noble relation which I am to write , Behold , 'tis concerning a great baronet ; Five years he was marry'd , as I do protest , This noble baron with a child was not blessed . At length this fair lady conceived with child , At whilch this said knight and his lady smil'd . When time was expired , a daughter was born , At whose birth the father and mother did mourn . Her nativity he did calculate , And found she was born to suffr by fate , The knight by her ruling planet did see , A whore , thief , and murderer she was born to be . Said he , When she's up to maturity god , For the sake of her portion , some villainous sot , Perhaps my defile her before hand , and so This may be the first step to her everthrow . To prevent all danger this step I will take , Some farmer , a tenant of mine , shall her take ; As a child of his own she shall be confin'd , In which sta [ tO ] e herhaps no one will her mind . To this wise invention the lady agreed , To one of the tenants she was plac'd with speed , Who had for her boarding thirty pound a-year . And good education they gave her , we hear . Dutiful obedience unto them she paid . Thinking them her parents , their will she obey'd , When this knight came thither his rend to receive A guinea to the child he always would give . Fourteen years and upward this child stay'd there , The farmer and his wife went to a fair . And left this young lady at home to stay , But now see what happen'd while they were away . As she was standing that day at the door . And old man begg'd of her who was very poor . My parents are not at home , she to him reply'd , And to give their substance I dare not , she cry'd . With that the old beggar-man , said with a smile , You are kept in ignorance surely my child . They are not your parents who you honour here , You father's a knight of six thousand a-year . Such a man is your father , such a lady your mother , Beside any children they never had other . For this news , she said , here's five shillings to thee , And into this matter I further will see . When the farmer came home at night he smil'd , And said , What's for supper , my dearest child ? Her answer was to him , What's makes you say so ? I'm none of your child you very well know Such a man is my father , and I tell you plain , I'll be satisfy'd ere I sleep again : She took horse , and rid to the nobleman's gate , Where he and his lady stood very great . He said , Girl , how do thy parents do ? And said , Sir , that is best known to you . The girl talks madly , said he ; let me know Upon what account you answer me so ? She said , Sir , a beggar-man came to the door . And he told me you was my father besure ; If this thing be true , sir , he tells unto me , Why was I put off in my infancy ? This I must allow , when I was born first , I then was incapable to give disgust , So far as to be banish'd for fifteen years ; The truth of this matter , good sir , let me hear . Then he shew'd a reason for what he had done . At this news the tears from off her cheeks run . She said , If it be so , then hard is my lot , And in your 'scutcheon it may cast a blot . For fear your own honour I bring to disgrace , Give me a child's part , and I'll quit the place : With tears he embrac'd her , and for her did pray , So with riches on horseback she road away . To the North of England this lady went , Where in a lone cottage she lived with content . Her provisions was brought her by a woman , who Brought it once a week , and away did go . And for a dversion this lady bright Play'd on the spinnet , herself to delight . And as she was playing most sweetly one day , A young 'squire chanced to come that way . Who hearing the music , vow's he would see , Who in the cottage play'd so sweely . The 'squire knock'd , and call'd o'er and o'er , Saying , Open to me , or I'll break the door . For to break it open , he then did begin , At which the young lady strait let him in ; She said , Now be civil , I am a young maid , And am , of all females , of men most afraid . He said , I'll not hurt thee ; then did her embrace . Having sat awhile , he quit the place . This sweet lady's beauty so charm'd him , we find , That this noble 'squire could not rest in mind . From seeing her daily he could not refrain , And by often coming her love did obtain . She promis'd him faithfully to be his bride , For which solemnizing they both did provide . The night beforehand with his lady he lay , And went , protesting to come the next day . Next morning she look'd for the 'squire to come , But he was confin'd to stay at home . A fever that night the young 'squire had seiz'd , And because he came not , she was displeas'd ; Crying . This will make my father's words true . My honour is stained , and what shall I do ? Because he has disappointed me now , If he come tomorrow I'll not have him , I vow . When able to fit up , the young 'squire came . The cause of his tarrying he told her the same . He said , Love , tomorrow I'll make you my bride , Sir , for my oath's sake I'll not have you , she cried My honour is stained , which beings me to shame . No one but myself for this I can blame . He said , Let us marry , to prevent all strife , Her answer was , No , I'll ne'er be your wife , Tho' not join'd in marriage , this young 'squire he Came three times a-week this lady to see . And as her time drew nigh for to lie down , He god her a lodging near to town : When the time expired , she had a son , The 'squire was pleas'd it was over and done . Before this lady began to fit up , He presented the child with a golden cup , On which was his name and coat of arms at large , Of this cup he gave the boy's mother a charge . Saying , See my infant don't loose it , I pray , So then he embrac'd her , and so road away . Now pray mark , good people , and soon you shall hear To this babe the mother she proved severe . She sent the nurse out , and then did provide For to kill the child with a stab in the side . And said , With a stab I am sure it must die . Then stole the gold cup , and away did high . In a window's dress she went to Liverpool , And being well learned , she set up a school . It happen'd the nurse returned with speed , And found the babe living , whose side did bleed . When the 'squire came there , and saw what was done , He griev'd , but thro' mercy , preserved his son , Near the town of Liverpool the 'squire had a farm , For to keep this darling free from all harm . Unto this farmer's wife the babe he did place , Where it was suckled , and grew up apace ; When the dhild was able , to school it did go Unto his own mother , who did not him know . But often she kiss'd him , and said with a smile , I know no reason for loving this child . At eighteen years old he was very tall , Of a sweet complexion and comely withal . Unto the farmer's daughter , who nurs'd him we find , By his father's consent he in wedlock was join'd . Cries he , My schoolmistress in me took delight , For which to my wedding I will her invite . And being invited , as one innocent , Unto his wedding his schoolmistress went . Next morning before the young couple were up , His schoolmistress came , with her golden cup , And unto the bridegroom the cup did give , And said , Keep this as long as you live : He said , That I will , thank you for the same . Just after the 'squire into the room came . The schoolmistress knew him , whose heart did ache , Knowing herself guilty , her joints did shake . At first sighed , the gold cup the 'squire he knew , And said to the bridegroom , who gave it to you ? He said Sir , that woman gave it to me ? I think 'tis the finest that ever I see : And the 'squire he said , A rich cup , I declare , Here's my name and coat of arms , I can swear . The 'squire said , Woman , tell me thy name , And how you at first by this gold cup came . For fear of his wrath she swooned away , When her senses return'd , he to her did say , Come tell me thy name , or else with speed , I will draw my rapier , and stick you indeed . Then she told him her name , which being done , Said he , If it be so , where is your son ? Whom I gave this cup to ? She said , He is dead I stabb'd him , and for fear of hanging I fled . He said , Wicked woman , as I have thee found , Your blood after this shall be spilled on the ground . For stabbing my darling when passion was hight , I'll cut thee as small as herbs to the pot . With trembing joints on her knees she did cry , For st The Garland of TRIALS . THIS noble relation which I am to write , Behold , 'tis concerning a great baronet ; Five years he was marry'd , as I do protest , This noble baron with a child was not blessed . At length this fair lady conceived with child , At whilch this said knight and his lady smil'd . When time was expired , a daughter was born , At whose birth the father and mother did mourn . Her nativity he did calculate , And found she was born to suffr by fate , The knight by her ruling planet did see , A whore , thief , and murderer she was born to be . Said he , When she's up to maturity god , For the sake of her portion , some villainous sot , Perhaps my defile her before hand , and so This may be the first step to her everthrow . To prevent all danger this step I will take , Some farmer , a tenant of mine , shall her take ; As a child of his own she shall be confin'd , In which sta [ tO ] e herhaps no one will her mind . To this wise invention the lady agreed , To one of the tenants she was plac'd with speed , Who had for her boarding thirty pound a-year . And good education they gave her , we hear . Dutiful obedience unto them she paid . Thinking them her parents , their will she obey'd , When this knight came thither his rend to receive A guinea to the child he always would give . Fourteen years and upward this child stay'd there , The farmer and his wife went to a fair . And left this young lady at home to stay , But now see what happen'd while they were away . As she was standing that day at the door . And old man begg'd of her who was very poor . My parents are not at home , she to him reply'd , And to give their substance I dare not , she cry'd . With that the old beggar-man , said with a smile , You are kept in ignorance surely my child . They are not your parents who you honour here , You father's a knight of six thousand a-year . Such a man is your father , such a lady your mother , Beside any children they never had other . For this news , she said , here's five shillings to thee , And into this matter I further will see . When the farmer came home at night he smil'd , And said , What's for supper , my dearest child ? Her answer was to him , What's makes you say so ? I'm none of your child you very well know Such a man is my father , and I tell you plain , I'll be satisfy'd ere I sleep again : She took horse , and rid to the nobleman's gate , Where he and his lady stood very great . He said , Girl , how do thy parents do ? And said , Sir , that is best known to you . The girl talks madly , said he ; let me know Upon what account you answer me so ? She said , Sir , a beggar-man came to the door . And he told me you was my father besure ; If this thing be true , sir , he tells unto me , Why was I put off in my infancy ? This I must allow , when I was born first , I then was incapable to give disgust , So far as to be banish'd for fifteen years ; The truth of this matter , good sir , let me hear . Then he shew'd a reason for what he had done . At this news the tears from off her cheeks run . She said , If it be so , then hard is my lot , And in your 'scutcheon it may cast a blot . For fear your own honour I bring to disgrace , Give me a child's part , and I'll quit the place : With tears he embrac'd her , and for her did pray , So with riches on horseback she road away . To the North of England this lady went , Where in a lone cottage she lived with content . Her provisions was brought her by a woman , who Brought it once a week , and away did go . And for a dversion this lady bright Play'd on the spinnet , herself to delight . And as she was playing most sweetly one day , A young 'squire chanced to come that way . Who hearing the music , vow's he would see , Who in the cottage play'd so sweely . The 'squire knock'd , and call'd o'er and o'er , Saying , Open to me , or I'll break the door . For to break it open , he then did begin , At which the young lady strait let him in ; She said , Now be civil , I am a young maid , And am , of all females , of men most afraid . He said , I'll not hurt thee ; then did her embrace . Having sat awhile , he quit the place . This sweet lady's beauty so charm'd him , we find , That this noble 'squire could not rest in mind . From seeing her daily he could not refrain , And by often coming her love did obtain . She promis'd him faithfully to be his bride , For which solemnizing they both did provide . The night beforehand with his lady he lay , And went , protesting to come the next day . Next morning she look'd for the 'squire to come , But he was confin'd to stay at home . A fever that night the young 'squire had seiz'd , And because he came not , she was displeas'd ; Crying . This will make my father's words true . My honour is stained , and what shall I do ? Because he has disappointed me now , If he come tomorrow I'll not have him , I vow . When able to fit up , the young 'squire came . The cause of his tarrying he told her the same . He said , Love , tomorrow I'll make you my bride , Sir , for my oath's sake I'll not have you , she cried My honour is stained , which beings me to shame . No one but myself for this I can blame . He said , Let us marry , to prevent all strife , Her answer was , No , I'll ne'er be your wife , Tho' not join'd in marriage , this young 'squire he Came three times a-week this lady to see . And as her time drew nigh for to lie down , He god her a lodging near to town : When the time expired , she had a son , The 'squire was pleas'd it was over and done . Before this lady began to fit up , He presented the child with a golden cup , On which was his name and coat of arms at large , Of this cup he gave the boy's mother a charge . Saying , See my infant don't loose it , I pray , So then he embrac'd her , and so road away . Now pray mark , good people , and soon you shall hear To this babe the mother she proved severe . She sent the nurse out , and then did provide For to kill the child with a stab in the side . And said , With a stab I am sure it must die . Then stole the gold cup , and away did high . In a window's dress she went to Liverpool , And being well learned , she set up a school . It happen'd the nurse returned with speed , And found the babe living , whose side did bleed . When the 'squire came there , and saw what was done , He griev'd , but thro' mercy , preserved his son , Near the town of Liverpool the 'squire had a farm , For to keep this darling free from all harm . Unto this farmer's wife the babe he did place , Where it was suckled , and grew up apace ; When the dhild was able , to school it did go Unto his own mother , who did not him know . But often she kiss'd him , and said with a smile , I know no reason for loving this child . At eighteen years old he was very tall , Of a sweet complexion and comely withal . Unto the farmer's daughter , who nurs'd him we find , By his father's consent he in wedlock was join'd . Cries he , My schoolmistress in me took delight , For which to my wedding I will her invite . And being invited , as one innocent , Unto his wedding his schoolmistress went . Next morning before the young couple were up , His schoolmistress came , with her golden cup , And unto the bridegroom the cup did give , And said , Keep this as long as you live : He said , That I will , thank you for the same . Just after the 'squire into the room came . The schoolmistress knew him , whose heart did ache , Knowing herself guilty , her joints did shake . At first sighed , the gold cup the 'squire he knew , And said to the bridegroom , who gave it to you ? He said Sir , that woman gave it to me ? I think 'tis the finest that ever I see : And the 'squire he said , A rich cup , I declare , Here's my name and coat of arms , I can swear . The 'squire said , Woman , tell me thy name , And how you at first by this gold cup came . For fear of his wrath she swooned away , When her senses return'd , he to her did say , Come tell me thy name , or else with speed , I will draw my rapier , and stick you indeed . Then she told him her name , which being done , Said he , If it be so , where is your son ? Whom I gave this cup to ? She said , He is dead I stabb'd him , and for fear of hanging I fled . He said , Wicked woman , as I have thee found , Your blood after this shall be spilled on the ground . For stabbing my darling when passion was hight , I'll cut thee as small as herbs to the pot . With trembing joints on her knees she did cry , For stabbing your infant I deserve to die . He said , Before I take thy life away , I will give you two hours in private to pray , Then in a dark closet she locked up were , The sorrowful lady for death did prepare . Mean time to the bridegroom away he did go , And gave him the truth of the matter to know . He said , She's your mother , who thinks you are dead , I'm one that won't hurt the hair of her head . But unto the closet he goes furiously , And said , Wicked woman , prepare for to die . To see him with glittering sword in his hand , With sighs and groans she before him did stand . And said , Kill me the first stroke be sure , That I may not be tormented long in my gore . To hear these expressions a groan he did bring , And no longer could bear love's piercing sting He said , Be not troubled , thou joy of my life , The bridegroom's your son , you stabb'd with a knife , That this mournful lady might be satisfy'd , They shew'd her the place she stabb'd in his side . For joy to the bridegroom she gave kisses store , And said , Now I hope all my sorrows are o'er . The 'squire said to her , Now since it is so , That our son is alive , will you have me or no ? Tomorrow let's marry , to finish the strife . To this she consented ; he made her his wife . She said to the 'squire , I'll tell thee , my dear , My father's a knight of ten thousand a-year . And whither he's living I cannot well tell , For to ride and see I hold it right well . To her father's house they both rid with speed : When her parents saw her they both smil'd indeed , With joy they embraced her , while tears ran down , And gave her a portion of twelve thousand pound . This worthy 'squire , 'tis very well known . Enjoys five hundred a-year of his own . He gave his estate to his son , and behold , Threescore and ten pieces of broad shining gold . So now I will leave them in joy all to live , Great comfort and joy in this world to receive . abbing your infant I deserve to die . He said , Before I take thy life away , I will give you two hours in private to pray , Then in a dark closet she locked up were , The sorrowful lady for death did prepare . Mean time to the bridegroom away he did go , And gave him the truth of the matter to know . He said , She's your mother , who thinks you are dead , I'm one that won't hurt the hair of her head . But unto the closet he goes furiously , And said , Wicked woman , prepare for to die . To see him with glittering sword in his hand , With sighs and groans she before him did stand . And said , Kill me the first stroke be sure , That I may not be tormented long in my gore . To hear these expressions a groan he did bring , And no longer could bear love's piercing sting He said , Be not troubled , thou joy of my life , The bridegroom's your son , you stabb'd with a knife , That this mournful lady might be satisfy'd , They shew'd her the place she stabb'd in his side . For joy to the bridegroom she gave kisses store , And said , Now I hope all my sorrows are o'er . The 'squire said to her , Now since it is so , That our son is alive , will you have me or no ? Tomorrow let's marry , to finish the strife . To this she consented ; he made her his wife . She said to the 'squire , I'll tell thee , my dear , My father's a knight of ten thousand a-year . And whither he's living I cannot well tell , For to ride and see I hold it right well . To her father's house they both rid with speed : When her parents saw her they both smil'd indeed , With joy they embraced her , while tears ran down , And gave her a portion of twelve thousand pound . This worthy 'squire , 'tis very well known . Enjoys five hundred a-year of his own . He gave his estate to his son , and behold , Threescore and ten pieces of broad shining gold . So now I will leave them in joy all to live , Great comfort and joy in this world to receive . 