ON MAN . A SATYR . By a Person of Honour . TO what Intent and Purpose was Man made , Who is by Birth to Misery betray'd ! That in this slender Course of Life runs through More Plagues than all the Land of Egypt knew . Doctors , Divines , great Dispensations , Punns , Ill-lookt Citizens , and scurvy Dunns ; Conceited Laureates , dull , long Opera's , And those that ne'er were Poets , yet write Plays ; Insipid Squires , fat Bishops , Deans and Chapters , Enthusiasts , Prophecies , new Rants and Raptures ; Pox , Gouts , Catarrhs , old Sores , Cramps , Rheums , and Aches , Half-witted Lords , double-chinn'd Bawds with Patches ; Illiterate Courtiers , Chancery-suits for Life , A tracing Whore , and a most tedious Wife ; Raw Innes-of-Court-men , empty Fops , Buffoons , Bullies Robust , raw Aldermen , and Clowns . Gown-men that argue about , discuss , and prate , And vent dull Notions of a future State ; Sure of another World , and do not know Whither they shall be sav'd , or damn'd , or how . 'Twere better therefore that Men had ne'er been , Than thus Unfortunate . God save the Queen . FINIS . ON MAN . A SATYR . By a Person of Honour . TO what Intent and Purpose was Man made , Who is by Birth to Misery betray'd ! That in this slender Course of Life runs through More Plagues than all the Land of Egypt knew . Doctors , Divines , great Dispensations , Punns , Ill-lookt Citizens , and scurvy Dunns ; Conceited Laureates , dull , long Opera's , And those that ne'er were Poets , yet write Plays ; Insipid Squires , fat Bishops , Deans and Chapters , Enthusiasts , Prophecies , new Rants and Raptures ; Pox , Gouts , Catarrhs , old Sores , Cramps , Rheums , and Aches , Half-witted Lords , double-chinn'd Bawds with Patches ; Illiterate Courtiers , Chancery-suits for Life , A tracing Whore , and a most tedious Wife ; Raw Innes-of-Court-men , empty Fops , Buffoons , Bullies Robust , raw Aldermen , and Clowns . Gown-men that argue about , discuss , and prate , And vent dull Notions of a future State ; Sure of another World , and do not know Whither they shall be sav'd , or damn'd , or how . 'Twere better therefore that Men had ne'er been , Than thus Unfortunate . God save the Queen . FINIS . 