A SATYR AGAINST COFFEE . AVoid , Satanic Tipple ! hence Thou Murderer of Farthings , and of Pence ; And Midwife to all false Intelligence ! Avoid , I say , of Hell thou art , For God no liquour does to man impart , But that which quenches Thirst , or cheers the Heart . Bak'd in a pan , Brew'd in a pot , The third device of him who first begotten The Printing Libels , and the Powder-plot . A Swill that needs must be accursed , And of all sorts of Drink the very worst , By which the Devils Children ( Lies ) are nursed . Now if I fancy not amiss , Vespatian , who impos'd Excise on Piss , Would for no smell of Lucre suffer this . The Sister of the common Sewer , That passes through the Reins with Streams impure ; That Robs the Vintner and undoes the Brewer . For by this poor Arabian Berry , Comes the Neglect of Malago and Sherry , And sooty Surges rise to Charon's Ferry . The Sweat of Negroes , Blood of Moores , The Blot of Signpost , and the Stain of doors , And the last Shift of Publicans and Whores . Give o're you Whisslers then ! enough ; Convert your Powder into Irish Snuff , And lay your Lace upon some richer Stuff . Finis A SATYR AGAINST COFFEE . AVoid , Satanic Tipple ! hence Thou Murderer of Farthings , and of Pence ; And Midwife to all false Intelligence ! Avoid , I say , of Hell thou art , For God no liquour does to man impart , But that which quenches Thirst , or cheers the Heart . Bak'd in a pan , Brew'd in a pot , The third device of him who first begotten The Printing Libels , and the Powder-plot . A Swill that needs must be accursed , And of all sorts of Drink the very worst , By which the Devils Children ( Lies ) are nursed . Now if I fancy not amiss , Vespatian , who impos'd Excise on Piss , Would for no smell of Lucre suffer this . The Sister of the common Sewer , That passes through the Reins with Streams impure ; That Robs the Vintner and undoes the Brewer . For by this poor Arabian Berry , Comes the Neglect of Malago and Sherry , And sooty Surges rise to Charon's Ferry . The Sweat of Negroes , Blood of Moores , The Blot of Signpost , and the Stain of doors , And the last Shift of Publicans and Whores . Give o're you Whisslers then ! enough ; Convert your Powder into Irish Snuff , And lay your Lace upon some richer Stuff . Finis 