And Excellent new Song ENTITLED Captain Glen . CAPTAIN GLEN . THere was a ship and a ship of fame , Launch'd off the stocks bound to the main , With a hundred and fifty brisk young men , Was pick'd and chosen every one . William Glen was our captain's name , He was a tall and a brisk young man ; As good a sailor as went to sea . For he was bound to New Barbary . The first of April when we set sail , Blessed with a sweet and a pleasant gale , For we were bound to New Barbary With all our whole ships company . We had not sailed one day but two , Till all our whole ships jovial crew All fell sick but sixty three As we went to new Barbary . One night the captain he did dream There came a voice and said to him , 'Prepare you and your company , 'Tomorrow night you must be with me . This wak'd the captain in a fright , It being the third watch of the night , Then for his boatswain he did call , And told to him the secret all . When I in England did remain The holy sabbaths I did profane , In drunkenness I took delight , Which does my trembling soul affright . There's one thing more I've to rehearse , Which I shall mention in this verse , A knight I slew in Staffordshire All for the love of a lady fair . Now it's his ghost , I am afraid , That hath to me these tidings bred ; Altho' the king has pardon'd me He's daily in my company . O worthy captain , since its so , No mortal of it e'er shall know : So keep the secret in your breast , And pray to God to give you rest . They had not sailed a league but three , 'Till raging grew the roaring sea There rose a tempest in the skies , Which fill'd our hearts with great surprise . Our main mast sprang by the break of day , Which made our rigging all give way This did our seaman soar affright , The terrors of the fatal night . Up then bespoke our foremast man , As he did by the foreyard stand , He cry'd the Lord receive my soul : So to the bottom he did fallen . The sea did wash both before and aft , Till scarce one soul on board was left , Our yards was split and our rigging tore , The like you never see'd before . The boatswain then he did declare The captain was a murderer , Which did enrage the whole ship's crew , Our captain overboard we threw . Our treacherous captain being gone , Immediately there was a calm , The winds did cease and the raging sea As we went to new Barbary . Now when we came to the Spanish shore Our goodly ship for to repair , The people all amaz'd to see Our dismal case and misery . But when our ship was in repair To fair England our course did steer , And when we came to London town Our dismal case was there made known . Now many wives their husbands lost , Which they lamented to their cost , And caused them weep bitterly , Their tidings from new Barbary . A hundred and sixty brisk young men Did to our goodly ship belong ; Of all our whole ship's company , Our number was but seventy three . Now seamen all where e'er you be , I pray a warning take by me : As you love your lives still have a care You never sail with a murderer . 'Tis never more I do intend For to cross o'er the raging main , But live in peace in my own country . And so I end my tragedy . FINIS . And Excellent new Song ENTITLED Captain Glen . CAPTAIN GLEN . THere was a ship and a ship of fame , Launch'd off the stocks bound to the main , With a hundred and fifty brisk young men , Was pick'd and chosen every one . William Glen was our captain's name , He was a tall and a brisk young man ; As good a sailor as went to sea . For he was bound to New Barbary . The first of April when we set sail , Blessed with a sweet and a pleasant gale , For we were bound to New Barbary With all our whole ships company . We had not sailed one day but two , Till all our whole ships jovial crew All fell sick but sixty three As we went to new Barbary . One night the captain he did dream There came a voice and said to him , 'Prepare you and your company , 'Tomorrow night you must be with me . This wak'd the captain in a fright , It being the third watch of the night , Then for his boatswain he did call , And told to him the secret all . When I in England did remain The holy sabbaths I did profane , In drunkenness I took delight , Which does my trembling soul affright . There's one thing more I've to rehearse , Which I shall mention in this verse , A knight I slew in Staffordshire All for the love of a lady fair . Now it's his ghost , I am afraid , That hath to me these tidings bred ; Altho' the king has pardon'd me He's daily in my company . O worthy captain , since its so , No mortal of it e'er shall know : So keep the secret in your breast , And pray to God to give you rest . They had not sailed a league but three , 'Till raging grew the roaring sea There rose a tempest in the skies , Which fill'd our hearts with great surprise . Our main mast sprang by the break of day , Which made our rigging all give way This did our seaman soar affright , The terrors of the fatal night . Up then bespoke our foremast man , As he did by the foreyard stand , He cry'd the Lord receive my soul : So to the bottom he did fallen . The sea did wash both before and aft , Till scarce one soul on board was left , Our yards was split and our rigging tore , The like you never see'd before . The boatswain then he did declare The captain was a murderer , Which did enrage the whole ship's crew , Our captain overboard we threw . Our treacherous captain being gone , Immediately there was a calm , The winds did cease and the raging sea As we went to new Barbary . Now when we came to the Spanish shore Our goodly ship for to repair , The people all amaz'd to see Our dismal case and misery . But when our ship was in repair To fair England our course did steer , And when we came to London town Our dismal case was there made known . Now many wives their husbands lost , Which they lamented to their cost , And caused them weep bitterly , Their tidings from new Barbary . A hundred and sixty brisk young men Did to our goodly ship belong ; Of all our whole ship's company , Our number was but seventy three . Now seamen all where e'er you be , I pray a warning take by me : As you love your lives still have a care You never sail with a murderer . 'Tis never more I do intend For to cross o'er the raging main , But live in peace in my own country . And so I end my tragedy . FINIS . 