r-835v AND EPITHALAMIUM UPON THE MARRIAGE OF Capt. William Bedloe . Ille ego qui quondam gracili modulatus Avena , Arma virumque Canon . ------------------------------ I , he , who Sung of Humble Oats before , Now sing a Captain and a Man of WAR . GOddess of Rhime , that didst inspire The Captain with Poetic fire , Adding fresh Laurels to that brow Where those of Victory did grow , And statelyer ornaments may flourish now . If thou art well recover'd since The Excommunicated Prince : For that Important Tragedy , Would have kill'd any Muse but Thee ; [ Him ] her with speed , o ! hither move , [ Pull ] l buskin's off , and since to love [ That ] e ground is holy that you tread in , Dance barefoot at the Captains Wedding . See where he comes , and by his side [ H ] is Charming fair Angelick Bride : [ S ] such , or less lovely was the Dame [ S ] oh much Renown'd , Fulvia by name , With whom of old Tully did join , [ TO ] hen when his Art did undermine , The Horrid Popish Plot of Cateline . O fairest Nymph of all great Brittain ( Though thee my Eyes I never set on ) Blush not on thy great Lord to smile , The second Saviour of our Isle ; What nobler Captain could have led , Thee to thy long'd-for marriage bed : For know that thy all-daring Will is As stout a Hero as Achilles ; And as great things for thee has done , As Palmerin or th' Knight of th' Sun , And is himself a whole Romance alone . Let conscious Flanders speak , and be , The Witness of his Chivalry . Yet that's not all , his very word Has slave as many as his sword : Though common Bullies with their Oaths Hurt little till they come to blows , Yet all his Mouth-Granadoes kill And save the pains of drawing steel . This This Hero thy resistless charms Have wone to fly into thy arms , For think not any mean design Or the inglorious itch of coin , Could ever have his breast controlled , Or make him be a slave to Gold ; His Love's as freely given to Thee As to the King his Loyalty . Then o receive thy mighty prize With open arms and wishing eyes , Kiss that dear face where may be seen His worth and parts that skulk within , That face that justly stil'd may be As true a Discoverer as He. Think not he ever false will prove , His well known truth secures his love ; Do you awhile divert his cares From his important grand affairs : Let him have respite now a while From kindling the mad rabbles zeal . Zeal that is hight as fire , yet dark and blind Shows plainly where its birthplace we may find , In hell , where tho' dire flames for ever glow Yet 'tis the place of utter darkness too . But to his bed be sure be true As he to all the World and you , He all your plots will else betray That your She-Machiavills can lay . He all designs you know has found , Though hatch'd in Hell , or under ground ; Did oft to us such secrets show As scarce the Plotters themselves knew , Yet if by chance you hap to since And love while Honour's napping shou'd creep in Yet be discreet and do not boast Oth' treason by the common post . So shalt thou still make him love on All virtues in Discretion . So thou with him shalt shine , and be As great a Patriot as He ; And when , ( as now in Christmass all For a new pack of Cards do call , ) Another Popish Pack comes out To please the Cits , and charm the rout ; Thou mighty Queen shal't whole [ Suit ] Command , A Crown upon thy Head , and Sceptre [ in ] thy Hand . FINIS . r-835v AND EPITHALAMIUM UPON THE MARRIAGE OF Capt. William Bedloe . Ille ego qui quondam gracili modulatus Avena , Arma virumque Canon . ------------------------------ I , he , who Sung of Humble Oats before , Now sing a Captain and a Man of WAR . GOddess of Rhime , that didst inspire The Captain with Poetic fire , Adding fresh Laurels to that brow Where those of Victory did grow , And statelyer ornaments may flourish now . If thou art well recover'd since The Excommunicated Prince : For that Important Tragedy , Would have kill'd any Muse but Thee ; [ Him ] her with speed , o ! hither move , [ Pull ] l buskin's off , and since to love [ That ] e ground is holy that you tread in , Dance barefoot at the Captains Wedding . See where he comes , and by his side [ H ] is Charming fair Angelick Bride : [ S ] such , or less lovely was the Dame [ S ] oh much Renown'd , Fulvia by name , With whom of old Tully did join , [ TO ] hen when his Art did undermine , The Horrid Popish Plot of Cateline . O fairest Nymph of all great Brittain ( Though thee my Eyes I never set on ) Blush not on thy great Lord to smile , The second Saviour of our Isle ; What nobler Captain could have led , Thee to thy long'd-for marriage bed : For know that thy all-daring Will is As stout a Hero as Achilles ; And as great things for thee has done , As Palmerin or th' Knight of th' Sun , And is himself a whole Romance alone . Let conscious Flanders speak , and be , The Witness of his Chivalry . Yet that's not all , his very word Has slave as many as his sword : Though common Bullies with their Oaths Hurt little till they come to blows , Yet all his Mouth-Granadoes kill And save the pains of drawing steel . This This Hero thy resistless charms Have wone to fly into thy arms , For think not any mean design Or the inglorious itch of coin , Could ever have his breast controlled , Or make him be a slave to Gold ; His Love's as freely given to Thee As to the King his Loyalty . Then o receive thy mighty prize With open arms and wishing eyes , Kiss that dear face where may be seen His worth and parts that skulk within , That face that justly stil'd may be As true a Discoverer as He. Think not he ever false will prove , His well known truth secures his love ; Do you awhile divert his cares From his important grand affairs : Let him have respite now a while From kindling the mad rabbles zeal . Zeal that is hight as fire , yet dark and blind Shows plainly where its birthplace we may find , In hell , where tho' dire flames for ever glow Yet 'tis the place of utter darkness too . But to his bed be sure be true As he to all the World and you , He all your plots will else betray That your She-Machiavills can lay . He all designs you know has found , Though hatch'd in Hell , or under ground ; Did oft to us such secrets show As scarce the Plotters themselves knew , Yet if by chance you hap to since And love while Honour's napping shou'd creep in Yet be discreet and do not boast Oth' treason by the common post . So shalt thou still make him love on All virtues in Discretion . So thou with him shalt shine , and be As great a Patriot as He ; And when , ( as now in Christmass all For a new pack of Cards do call , ) Another Popish Pack comes out To please the Cits , and charm the rout ; Thou mighty Queen shal't whole [ Suit ] Command , A Crown upon thy Head , and Sceptre [ in ] thy Hand . FINIS . 