THE NEWCASTLE BEAUTIES . Designed to be sung to the Harpsicord or Sptnet , etc I THO' lofty Bards sublimer sing , And boldly tune their lays ; Not less renown attends the string , Which sounds to beauty's praise . the muses then lend me your aid , While I attempt to prove , That in Newcastle many a maid . Excels the queen of love . II the bards forbear your partial lays , You who so softly sing , Nor longer only Venus praise , But here your numbers bring . No more shall blinded mortals pray , Or bow before her shrine . No more in Cyprus seek the bay , But find it here on Tyne . III . First of yond throng see Delia ( a ) shine , That matchless nonpareil ! All eyes confess her from divine , Such Graces round her dwell . Dame nature has herself outdone , In that most beauteous fair , And lavished all those charms on one , Which thousands only share . IV. Next her behold the lovely Cloe ( b ) , You Gods ! what killing eyes ! See how her charming ringlets flow , Where wanton Cupid lies : The rose , compared to her , shall fade , The lily loose its white : E'en Sol himself must own the maid , And shine with beams less bright . V. Thee , lovely Cynthia ( c ) , next we sing , Charm'd with thy beauteous face , More blooming than the verdant spring , Adorn'd with every grace ; Thy comely shape and genteel air , Our admiration raise , Thou stands confess'd a perfect fair , And worthy all our praise . VI . Thy mein , sweet Daphne ( worser ) , next we view , And as we view , approve , Thy blooming charms all hearts subdue ; And kindle them to love : Those charming breasts , and sparkling eyes , What mortal can oppose ? Still as we gaze new beauty's rise , And still the passion grows . ( a ) Miss P -- y TO -- n . ( b ) Miss H -- le . ( c ) Miss H -- y ( worser ) Miss B -- p. VII . Gay Sylvia ( e ) next appears in sighed , Surrounded by her charms , Her handsome from which shines so bright Each youthful bosom warms . the youths withdraw your wishful eyes , Nor longer on her gaze For were your hearts as cold as ice Her beams would make them blaze . VIII . Sweet Celia ( f ) next demands our care , That lovely nut brown maid ! Behold her charming flowing hair , In jetty locks display [ ' ] worser She fills each Bosom with desire , So graceful is her mein , Her comely features all admire , Where thousand loves are seen . IX . See Flavia ( g ) , the young , the gay , For graceful air renown'd , Her mein more bright than flow'ry May , With ev'ry beauty crown'd . Her beauteous sister ( h ) next appears , Whom wondrous charms adorn The lovely do each bosom cheers , With beauty's like the morn . X. The next we view is Julia's ( i ) face , For comely features lov'd , Her golden locks still add a grace , To what all hearts approv'd . Her friend no less inspires the lay , The lovely Danae ( k ) fair , To whom all tongues their praises pay , Charm [ ' ] worser with her shape . and air XI . Thee , Phoebe ( l ) , with Ophelia ( m ) join'd , We can't too much admire , Your blooming charms it must be owed , All hearts to love inspire . To handsome Pat ( n ) , and lovely Stell ( oh ) , Our praises too belong , These who in various charms excel , Close up the beauteous throng . XII . As now ador'd you pass your bloom , Your autumn you may live , Let me , you beauteous fair , presume , This one advice to give ; Virtue pursue -- or vain ve're bright , 'In vain your eyes may roll ; 'Tis true that charms do strike the sighed , But merit wins the 'soul . ' ( e ) Miss H -- m . ( f ) Miss S -- s . ( g ) Miss F -- tt . ( h ) Miss F -- tt . jun ( i ) Miss H -- h . ( k ) Miss J -- B -- l. ( l ) Miss P -- S -- tO . ( m ) Miss L -- s.l. ( n ) Miss A -- n . ( oh ) Miss M -- G -- n . THE NEWCASTLE BEAUTIES . Designed to be sung to the Harpsicord or Sptnet , etc I THO' lofty Bards sublimer sing , And boldly tune their lays ; Not less renown attends the string , Which sounds to beauty's praise . the muses then lend me your aid , While I attempt to prove , That in Newcastle many a maid . Excels the queen of love . II the bards forbear your partial lays , You who so softly sing , Nor longer only Venus praise , But here your numbers bring . No more shall blinded mortals pray , Or bow before her shrine . No more in Cyprus seek the bay , But find it here on Tyne . III . First of yond throng see Delia ( a ) shine , That matchless nonpareil ! All eyes confess her from divine , Such Graces round her dwell . Dame nature has herself outdone , In that most beauteous fair , And lavished all those charms on one , Which thousands only share . IV. Next her behold the lovely Cloe ( b ) , You Gods ! what killing eyes ! See how her charming ringlets flow , Where wanton Cupid lies : The rose , compared to her , shall fade , The lily loose its white : E'en Sol himself must own the maid , And shine with beams less bright . V. Thee , lovely Cynthia ( c ) , next we sing , Charm'd with thy beauteous face , More blooming than the verdant spring , Adorn'd with every grace ; Thy comely shape and genteel air , Our admiration raise , Thou stands confess'd a perfect fair , And worthy all our praise . VI . Thy mein , sweet Daphne ( worser ) , next we view , And as we view , approve , Thy blooming charms all hearts subdue ; And kindle them to love : Those charming breasts , and sparkling eyes , What mortal can oppose ? Still as we gaze new beauty's rise , And still the passion grows . ( a ) Miss P -- y TO -- n . ( b ) Miss H -- le . ( c ) Miss H -- y ( worser ) Miss B -- p. VII . Gay Sylvia ( e ) next appears in sighed , Surrounded by her charms , Her handsome from which shines so bright Each youthful bosom warms . the youths withdraw your wishful eyes , Nor longer on her gaze For were your hearts as cold as ice Her beams would make them blaze . VIII . Sweet Celia ( f ) next demands our care , That lovely nut brown maid ! Behold her charming flowing hair , In jetty locks display [ ' ] worser She fills each Bosom with desire , So graceful is her mein , Her comely features all admire , Where thousand loves are seen . IX . See Flavia ( g ) , the young , the gay , For graceful air renown'd , Her mein more bright than flow'ry May , With ev'ry beauty crown'd . Her beauteous sister ( h ) next appears , Whom wondrous charms adorn The lovely do each bosom cheers , With beauty's like the morn . X. The next we view is Julia's ( i ) face , For comely features lov'd , Her golden locks still add a grace , To what all hearts approv'd . Her friend no less inspires the lay , The lovely Danae ( k ) fair , To whom all tongues their praises pay , Charm [ ' ] worser with her shape . and air XI . Thee , Phoebe ( l ) , with Ophelia ( m ) join'd , We can't too much admire , Your blooming charms it must be owed , All hearts to love inspire . To handsome Pat ( n ) , and lovely Stell ( oh ) , Our praises too belong , These who in various charms excel , Close up the beauteous throng . XII . As now ador'd you pass your bloom , Your autumn you may live , Let me , you beauteous fair , presume , This one advice to give ; Virtue pursue -- or vain ve're bright , 'In vain your eyes may roll ; 'Tis true that charms do strike the sighed , But merit wins the 'soul . ' ( e ) Miss H -- m . ( f ) Miss S -- s . ( g ) Miss F -- tt . ( h ) Miss F -- tt . jun ( i ) Miss H -- h . ( k ) Miss J -- B -- l. ( l ) Miss P -- S -- tO . ( m ) Miss L -- s.l. ( n ) Miss A -- n . ( oh ) Miss M -- G -- n . 