JUDGE BARKELY HIS PENITENTIAL COMPLAIN Wherein he laments the Condition of his present Imprisonment , and the late Corruptions of violated and enforced JUSTICE . WHat wonder's this , to hear a Term should be Gone off , and yet Vacation still with me ? That I should own the leisure to rehearse My Cause to'th Stones , and plead my Griefs in Verse : That I who ballanc'd Right , and in her Scale Did raise or sink her to make Wrong prevail , Should now lie lost to Justice , and infer My self and Exile to her Hall and her ; Should fear her sentence , and should hide my face ( Where once I sat ) from her Tribunal place . Judgement proves then most happy , when the Law Of Truth and Goodness does the Conscience awe . Nor can he quickly into danger fallen , Who to himself lives a law rational . But when the shows of Honour or of Gain Grow on the heart , and do corrupt the brain , Reason does startle , and th' affections straight Prove conquer'd Captives to that golden bait . Why should those thick and glittering spangle's , that Do dance in glory on the robes of State , Trouble the knowing mind to gaze upon Their flattering splendors , or to put them on ? But that's not all ; for when that fatal Vice ( That Turke 'mongst Christians ) sordid Avarice , Leads her black Army up , and does begin To make the heart and Usurer to since ; Then Peace , Religion , Safety , Justice , all Who own to Grace or Honour , humbled fallen Before that tyrant Fiend , whose ireful doom Breaches nought but ruin , rage , and martyrdom , Who bribes the Law , and what was made so strong To speak our Right , makes Law to speak it Wrong . These were my faults , made happy did they guest But in one Inn , or lodg'd but in my Bres But when that Justice on her knees shall fallen To beg the Judge to do her right , and call Her spotless Ermines to his eye , and wrong'd , Desire that grace to have her Cause prolong'd Until some happy Parliament should raise New strength to her unnerved hand , and praise Her faint and labouring pulses , make her know Holds she the Balance in her hand , or no , To lend her eyes , and from their gracious tongues Infuse new breath to her despairing lungs , When Life and Honour lay upon the stake , And Justice dumb , while Falsehoods tongue did ache , My sadded blood sickens to whay , and while That Right now laughs , I gratulate her smile . That Hand of Justice which I down did bear , Strikes now repentance through me , which no ear Can hear and spare no griefs , nor passing by Can any see but with a bleeding eye . Let all my Laws be broken , let the wheel Of Fortune split , and her Attorneys reel . It is a glad and happy sin would prove It self reform'd to every good men love : Thus much my penitence can do , but this Is good begotten from too much amiss . Though cold my hope's , and my more sad affairs Do pull more winter on my snow-touch'd hairs , I now learn Justice , patient I learn more Then ere her Agent I perform'd before : And shall decree what ever way she's bent , Just is my fate , as just the Parliament . Printed in the year 1641. JUDGE BARKELY HIS PENITENTIAL COMPLAIN Wherein he laments the Condition of his present Imprisonment , and the late Corruptions of violated and enforced JUSTICE . WHat wonder's this , to hear a Term should be Gone off , and yet Vacation still with me ? That I should own the leisure to rehearse My Cause to'th Stones , and plead my Griefs in Verse : That I who ballanc'd Right , and in her Scale Did raise or sink her to make Wrong prevail , Should now lie lost to Justice , and infer My self and Exile to her Hall and her ; Should fear her sentence , and should hide my face ( Where once I sat ) from her Tribunal place . Judgement proves then most happy , when the Law Of Truth and Goodness does the Conscience awe . Nor can he quickly into danger fallen , Who to himself lives a law rational . But when the shows of Honour or of Gain Grow on the heart , and do corrupt the brain , Reason does startle , and th' affections straight Prove conquer'd Captives to that golden bait . Why should those thick and glittering spangle's , that Do dance in glory on the robes of State , Trouble the knowing mind to gaze upon Their flattering splendors , or to put them on ? But that's not all ; for when that fatal Vice ( That Turke 'mongst Christians ) sordid Avarice , Leads her black Army up , and does begin To make the heart and Usurer to since ; Then Peace , Religion , Safety , Justice , all Who own to Grace or Honour , humbled fallen Before that tyrant Fiend , whose ireful doom Breaches nought but ruin , rage , and martyrdom , Who bribes the Law , and what was made so strong To speak our Right , makes Law to speak it Wrong . These were my faults , made happy did they guest But in one Inn , or lodg'd but in my Bres But when that Justice on her knees shall fallen To beg the Judge to do her right , and call Her spotless Ermines to his eye , and wrong'd , Desire that grace to have her Cause prolong'd Until some happy Parliament should raise New strength to her unnerved hand , and praise Her faint and labouring pulses , make her know Holds she the Balance in her hand , or no , To lend her eyes , and from their gracious tongues Infuse new breath to her despairing lungs , When Life and Honour lay upon the stake , And Justice dumb , while Falsehoods tongue did ache , My sadded blood sickens to whay , and while That Right now laughs , I gratulate her smile . That Hand of Justice which I down did bear , Strikes now repentance through me , which no ear Can hear and spare no griefs , nor passing by Can any see but with a bleeding eye . Let all my Laws be broken , let the wheel Of Fortune split , and her Attorneys reel . It is a glad and happy sin would prove It self reform'd to every good men love : Thus much my penitence can do , but this Is good begotten from too much amiss . Though cold my hope's , and my more sad affairs Do pull more winter on my snow-touch'd hairs , I now learn Justice , patient I learn more Then ere her Agent I perform'd before : And shall decree what ever way she's bent , Just is my fate , as just the Parliament . Printed in the year 1641. 