CONSTANCE and ANTHONY : OR , And Admirable Northern STORY . Of two constant Lovers , as I understand , Were born near Appleby in Westmoreland ; The Lad's Name Anthony , Constance the Lass , To Sea they went both , and great Dangers did pass : How they suffer'd Shipwreck on the Coast of Spain , For two Years divided , and then met again , By wondered Fortune , and Care accident , And now both live at Home with Joy and Content . The Tune , I would thou wertenberg in Shrewsbury . TWO Lovers in the North , Constance and Anthony , Of them I will set forth A gallant History ; They lov'd exceeding well , As plainly does appear , But that which I shall tell , The like you ne'er did hear . Still she cries Anthony , My bonny Anthony , Gang thou by Land or Sea , I'll wind along with thee . Anthony must to Sea , His Calling does him bind , My Constance dear , quoth he , I must leave thee behind ; I prithee do not grieve , Thy Tears will not prevail , I'll think on thee my Sweet , When the Ship's under Sail . But still , etc How may that be , said he , Consider well the Case : Quoth she , sweet Anthony , I'll not bide in this Place ; If thou gang , so will I , Of the Means do not doubt , A Woman's Policy Great Matters may find out . My bonny Anthony , etc Gang thou by Land or Sea , I'll wind along with thee . I would be very glad , But prithee tell me how : I'll dress me like a Lad , What say'st thou to me now ? The Sea thou can'st not brook : Yes , very well , quoth she , I'll be Scullion to the Cook , For thy sweet Company . My bonny , etc Anthony's leave she had , And dressed in Man's Array , She seem'd the blithest Lad , Seen on a Summer's Day : Oh! see what Love can do , At Home she would not bide , With her true Love she'll go , Let Weil or Woe betide . My dearest Anthony , etc In the Ship it was her Lot To be the Under-Cook , And at the Fire hight , Wondered Pains she took ; She served every one , Fitting to their Degree , And now and then alone She kissed Anthony . My bonny , etc Alack and welladay , By Tempest on the Main , Their Ship was cast away , Upon the Coast of Spain , To the Mercy of the Waves , They all committed were , Constance her own self saves , Then she cries for her Dear . My bonny , etc Swimming upon a Plank , At Bilboa god ashore , First she did Heaven thank , Then she lamented soar ; Oh! woes me , said she , The saddest Loss alive , My dearest Anthony Now on the Sea does drive . My bonny , etc What will become of me ? Why did I strive for Shore ? Since my sweet Anthony I never shall see more . Fair Constance do not grieve , The same good Providence , Hath sav'd thy Lover sweet , But he is far from hence . Still , etc A Spanish Merchant rich , Saw this fair seeming Lad , That did lament so much , And was so grievous sad ; He had in England been , And English understood , He having herd and seen , He in Amazement stood . Still , etc The Merchant asked her , What was this Anthony ? Quoth she , my Brother , Sir , Who came thence with me . He did her entertain , Thinking she was a Boy , Two Years she did remain , Before she met her Joy . Still , etc Anthony up was ta'en By and English Runagade , With whom he did remain At the Sea roving Trade ; In the Nature of a Slave , He did in the Galley row , Thus he his Life did save , But Constance did not know , Still , etc Now mark what came to pass , See how the Fates did work , A Ship that her Master's was , Surpriz'd this English Turk , And into Bilboa brought , All that aboard her were ; Constance full little thought Anthony was so near . Still , etc When they were come ashore , Anthony and the Rest , She who was sad before , Was now with Joy possess'd , The Merchant much did muse , At this so sudden Change , He did demand the News . Which unto him was strange . Still , etc Upon her Knee she fell , Unto her Master kind , All the Truth she did tell , Nothing she kept behind ; At which he did admire , And in a Ship of Spain , He paying for the Hire , Sent them straight home again , Now she etc The Spanish Merchant rich , Did of his Bounty give , A Sum of Gold , on which They did most bravely live ; And now in Westmoreland , They were join'd Hand in Hand , Constance and Anthony , They live in Mirth and Glee , Still she cries Anthony , My bonny Anthony , Gang thou by Land or Sea , I'll wind along with thee . CONSTANCE and ANTHONY : OR , And Admirable Northern STORY . Of two constant Lovers , as I understand , Were born near Appleby in Westmoreland ; The Lad's Name Anthony , Constance the Lass , To Sea they went both , and great Dangers did pass : How they suffer'd Shipwreck on the Coast of Spain , For two Years divided , and then met again , By wondered Fortune , and Care accident , And now both live at Home with Joy and Content . The Tune , I would thou wertenberg in Shrewsbury . TWO Lovers in the North , Constance and Anthony , Of them I will set forth A gallant History ; They lov'd exceeding well , As plainly does appear , But that which I shall tell , The like you ne'er did hear . Still she cries Anthony , My bonny Anthony , Gang thou by Land or Sea , I'll wind along with thee . Anthony must to Sea , His Calling does him bind , My Constance dear , quoth he , I must leave thee behind ; I prithee do not grieve , Thy Tears will not prevail , I'll think on thee my Sweet , When the Ship's under Sail . But still , etc How may that be , said he , Consider well the Case : Quoth she , sweet Anthony , I'll not bide in this Place ; If thou gang , so will I , Of the Means do not doubt , A Woman's Policy Great Matters may find out . My bonny Anthony , etc Gang thou by Land or Sea , I'll wind along with thee . I would be very glad , But prithee tell me how : I'll dress me like a Lad , What say'st thou to me now ? The Sea thou can'st not brook : Yes , very well , quoth she , I'll be Scullion to the Cook , For thy sweet Company . My bonny , etc Anthony's leave she had , And dressed in Man's Array , She seem'd the blithest Lad , Seen on a Summer's Day : Oh! see what Love can do , At Home she would not bide , With her true Love she'll go , Let Weil or Woe betide . My dearest Anthony , etc In the Ship it was her Lot To be the Under-Cook , And at the Fire hight , Wondered Pains she took ; She served every one , Fitting to their Degree , And now and then alone She kissed Anthony . My bonny , etc Alack and welladay , By Tempest on the Main , Their Ship was cast away , Upon the Coast of Spain , To the Mercy of the Waves , They all committed were , Constance her own self saves , Then she cries for her Dear . My bonny , etc Swimming upon a Plank , At Bilboa god ashore , First she did Heaven thank , Then she lamented soar ; Oh! woes me , said she , The saddest Loss alive , My dearest Anthony Now on the Sea does drive . My bonny , etc What will become of me ? Why did I strive for Shore ? Since my sweet Anthony I never shall see more . Fair Constance do not grieve , The same good Providence , Hath sav'd thy Lover sweet , But he is far from hence . Still , etc A Spanish Merchant rich , Saw this fair seeming Lad , That did lament so much , And was so grievous sad ; He had in England been , And English understood , He having herd and seen , He in Amazement stood . Still , etc The Merchant asked her , What was this Anthony ? Quoth she , my Brother , Sir , Who came thence with me . He did her entertain , Thinking she was a Boy , Two Years she did remain , Before she met her Joy . Still , etc Anthony up was ta'en By and English Runagade , With whom he did remain At the Sea roving Trade ; In the Nature of a Slave , He did in the Galley row , Thus he his Life did save , But Constance did not know , Still , etc Now mark what came to pass , See how the Fates did work , A Ship that her Master's was , Surpriz'd this English Turk , And into Bilboa brought , All that aboard her were ; Constance full little thought Anthony was so near . Still , etc When they were come ashore , Anthony and the Rest , She who was sad before , Was now with Joy possess'd , The Merchant much did muse , At this so sudden Change , He did demand the News . Which unto him was strange . Still , etc Upon her Knee she fell , Unto her Master kind , All the Truth she did tell , Nothing she kept behind ; At which he did admire , And in a Ship of Spain , He paying for the Hire , Sent them straight home again , Now she etc The Spanish Merchant rich , Did of his Bounty give , A Sum of Gold , on which They did most bravely live ; And now in Westmoreland , They were join'd Hand in Hand , Constance and Anthony , They live in Mirth and Glee , Still she cries Anthony , My bonny Anthony , Gang thou by Land or Sea , I'll wind along with thee . 