r-827v A DIALOGUE BETWEEN Duke LAUDERDALE , AND THE LORD DANBY . D. GReat Sir , I cannot but congratulate The just Submission of your stubborn Fate ; Which to your Honour hath a Tyrant been : But now she sees her Folly and her Sin. Still may she prove most constant unto you , And always pay what to your Grace is due . L. Dear Sir , for nought can I commend my Fate , But that she'th made me happy in a Mate . And such I'll prove , even in Extremity , Since we are Brother's in Iniquity . D. My Lord , you very much mistake the Word . We were so once : to that I do accord . But now our Pardons for our sins are Seal'd , I think the Gilded is justly then Repeal'd . Though we were cover'd o'er with Clouds of since , They're vanish'd now , and all our fears therein . Now dare we our Protection claim as Right Of Charles our King ; who surely will , in spite Of all our Foes , resolve to set us free ; Nor will he loose that Right of Majesty , His Royal Word is past , we need not doubt ; His Honour will take care to make it out . L. Right Tom ; and , by my Soul , I'll never fear Before th'insulting Commons to appear , And let them but affront me if they dare . For all their humming noise , I'll make them know , I'll fit above when they sha'n't fit below . There will I still with Courage vindicate Thy Honour , and subvert the unjust Hate Of all thy Foes : nor shall they dare pretend To say thou art not King and Country's Friend . D. Pox on them ; Let them go for a dam'd Crew , While we with Craft their Ruin do pursue . Let them vote on , and we will still devise To make them all a burning Sacrifice To him , 'gainst whom they've made so many Lies . My drooping Soul transported is to think , When he does rise , how all these Rogues will sink . With Vengeance we'll pursue them in Retrea We'll hash them quick , and let our Dogs them eat . For For Heretics we'll damn them while alive ; And then to Hell in Flocks we will them drive . L. Thy Courage bold I cannot but commend , For sure he's both our worthy Duke and Friend . Let's not despair , but briskly carry on The Glorious Work we have so well begun . Let's then once more our Treasons all repeat , And leave the Lovely Duchess then to treat For new Pardons ; to whom we need not fear , The King will lend a gracious heart and ear . Thou know'st how much she is oblig'd to thee , Nor do I doubt but she our Friend will be . D. Thy Counsel bravely elevates my Soul : We'll practice Treason still without Control . But that His Majesty shall ne'er believe ; Or if he do , he quickly shall forgive : My Duchess shall so all his Senses charm , He never shall believe we'll do him harm . L. By my Soul , Man , she's a most powerful Spell ; Wer't not for her , we'd surely been in Hell . She is the strongest Pillar of our Hope ; The surest Friend to our brave Plot and Pope . She is all Power , she is all Command : By her Assistance we'll betray this Land , D. Much Honour to her Goddesship is due ; But I'd sav'd her Labour , Sir , and you , Had my Army , fill'd with lusty Fellows , Not yet been disbanded by the Jealous And mistrustful Parliament , Pox on 'em : Presumptuous Fops , to take that Act upon 'em . But let that pass ; e'er long they'll surely find , They'd better been more Loyal and more Kind . L. Sav'd me the Labour , Sir ? What do you mean ? I never grutch'd my Labour or my Pain . You know I had ten thousand Men at Call , To join with you to work these Nations Fallen . If you compare our Actions in this Plot , You'll find I come not short of you one Jot . What's all the noise the Rebels made of late In Scotland ? Did not I it all create ? Was it not on my Counsel first resolved , The Old New Parliament should be dissolved ? Or we had both in Ruin been involved ? D. My Lord , all this and more I do allow , And do my Faith to my Experience owe . I ne'er meant to detract from your Just Fame ; But to my death I'll still maintain the same , You are a drudging Rebel ; and , by Jove , I'll ne'er forsake you while I stand or move . But now , My Lord , I feel my self not well ; I therefore kiss your hand , and bid farewell . FINIS . r-827v A DIALOGUE BETWEEN Duke LAUDERDALE , AND THE LORD DANBY . D. GReat Sir , I cannot but congratulate The just Submission of your stubborn Fate ; Which to your Honour hath a Tyrant been : But now she sees her Folly and her Sin. Still may she prove most constant unto you , And always pay what to your Grace is due . L. Dear Sir , for nought can I commend my Fate , But that she'th made me happy in a Mate . And such I'll prove , even in Extremity , Since we are Brother's in Iniquity . D. My Lord , you very much mistake the Word . We were so once : to that I do accord . But now our Pardons for our sins are Seal'd , I think the Gilded is justly then Repeal'd . Though we were cover'd o'er with Clouds of since , They're vanish'd now , and all our fears therein . Now dare we our Protection claim as Right Of Charles our King ; who surely will , in spite Of all our Foes , resolve to set us free ; Nor will he loose that Right of Majesty , His Royal Word is past , we need not doubt ; His Honour will take care to make it out . L. Right Tom ; and , by my Soul , I'll never fear Before th'insulting Commons to appear , And let them but affront me if they dare . For all their humming noise , I'll make them know , I'll fit above when they sha'n't fit below . There will I still with Courage vindicate Thy Honour , and subvert the unjust Hate Of all thy Foes : nor shall they dare pretend To say thou art not King and Country's Friend . D. Pox on them ; Let them go for a dam'd Crew , While we with Craft their Ruin do pursue . Let them vote on , and we will still devise To make them all a burning Sacrifice To him , 'gainst whom they've made so many Lies . My drooping Soul transported is to think , When he does rise , how all these Rogues will sink . With Vengeance we'll pursue them in Retrea We'll hash them quick , and let our Dogs them eat . For For Heretics we'll damn them while alive ; And then to Hell in Flocks we will them drive . L. Thy Courage bold I cannot but commend , For sure he's both our worthy Duke and Friend . Let's not despair , but briskly carry on The Glorious Work we have so well begun . Let's then once more our Treasons all repeat , And leave the Lovely Duchess then to treat For new Pardons ; to whom we need not fear , The King will lend a gracious heart and ear . Thou know'st how much she is oblig'd to thee , Nor do I doubt but she our Friend will be . D. Thy Counsel bravely elevates my Soul : We'll practice Treason still without Control . But that His Majesty shall ne'er believe ; Or if he do , he quickly shall forgive : My Duchess shall so all his Senses charm , He never shall believe we'll do him harm . L. By my Soul , Man , she's a most powerful Spell ; Wer't not for her , we'd surely been in Hell . She is the strongest Pillar of our Hope ; The surest Friend to our brave Plot and Pope . She is all Power , she is all Command : By her Assistance we'll betray this Land , D. Much Honour to her Goddesship is due ; But I'd sav'd her Labour , Sir , and you , Had my Army , fill'd with lusty Fellows , Not yet been disbanded by the Jealous And mistrustful Parliament , Pox on 'em : Presumptuous Fops , to take that Act upon 'em . But let that pass ; e'er long they'll surely find , They'd better been more Loyal and more Kind . L. Sav'd me the Labour , Sir ? What do you mean ? I never grutch'd my Labour or my Pain . You know I had ten thousand Men at Call , To join with you to work these Nations Fallen . If you compare our Actions in this Plot , You'll find I come not short of you one Jot . What's all the noise the Rebels made of late In Scotland ? Did not I it all create ? Was it not on my Counsel first resolved , The Old New Parliament should be dissolved ? Or we had both in Ruin been involved ? D. My Lord , all this and more I do allow , And do my Faith to my Experience owe . I ne'er meant to detract from your Just Fame ; But to my death I'll still maintain the same , You are a drudging Rebel ; and , by Jove , I'll ne'er forsake you while I stand or move . But now , My Lord , I feel my self not well ; I therefore kiss your hand , and bid farewell . FINIS . 