THE Gypsie Loddy . THERE was seven gypsies all in a gang , They were brisk and bonny Oh , They road till they came to the Earl of Castle's house , And there they sung most sweetly O. The Earl of Castle's lady came down , With the waiting maid beside her Oh , As soon as her fair face they saw , They called their grandmother over O. They gave to her a nutmeg brown , And a raze of the best ginger Oh , She gave to them a far better thing , It the ring from off her finger O. She pull'd off her high heel'd shoes , They was made of Spanish leather Oh , She put on her highland br [ ? ] oges , To follow the Gypsey Loddy Oh , At night when my good Lord came home , Inquiring for his Lady Oh , The waiting maid made this reply , She's following the Gypsey Loddy O. Come saddle me my milkwhite steed , Come saddle it so bonny Oh , As I may go seek my own wedded wife , That's following the Gypsey Loddy O. Have you been East , have you been West , Or have you been brisk and bonny Oh , Or have you seen a gay lady , A following the Gypsey Loddy O? He road all that summer's night , And part of the next morning Oh At length he spy'd his own wedded wife , She was cold , wet and weary O. Why did you leave your houses and land , Or why did you leave your money O. Or why did you leave your good wedded Lord , To follow the Gypsey Loddy Oh Oh what care I for houses and land , Or what care I for money Oh , So as I have brew'd so will I return , So fare you well my honey O. There was seven Gypsies in a gang , And they was brisk and bonny Oh , And they're to be hanged all on a row , For the Earl of Castle's lady O. THE Gypsie Loddy . THERE was seven gypsies all in a gang , They were brisk and bonny Oh , They road till they came to the Earl of Castle's house , And there they sung most sweetly O. The Earl of Castle's lady came down , With the waiting maid beside her Oh , As soon as her fair face they saw , They called their grandmother over O. They gave to her a nutmeg brown , And a raze of the best ginger Oh , She gave to them a far better thing , It the ring from off her finger O. She pull'd off her high heel'd shoes , They was made of Spanish leather Oh , She put on her highland br [ ? ] oges , To follow the Gypsey Loddy Oh , At night when my good Lord came home , Inquiring for his Lady Oh , The waiting maid made this reply , She's following the Gypsey Loddy O. Come saddle me my milkwhite steed , Come saddle it so bonny Oh , As I may go seek my own wedded wife , That's following the Gypsey Loddy O. Have you been East , have you been West , Or have you been brisk and bonny Oh , Or have you seen a gay lady , A following the Gypsey Loddy O? He road all that summer's night , And part of the next morning Oh At length he spy'd his own wedded wife , She was cold , wet and weary O. Why did you leave your houses and land , Or why did you leave your money O. Or why did you leave your good wedded Lord , To follow the Gypsey Loddy Oh Oh what care I for houses and land , Or what care I for money Oh , So as I have brew'd so will I return , So fare you well my honey O. There was seven Gypsies in a gang , And they was brisk and bonny Oh , And they're to be hanged all on a row , For the Earl of Castle's lady O. 