a LOVE is the Cause of my Mourning . Or , The Despairing Lover . Sung with its own proper Tune . THe week before Easter the day being fair , The Sun shining bright , cold Frost in the Air , I did me to the Orchard some flowers to pull there But Flora could yield me no pleasures . The hills being covered with Midsummers Clouds The white and the read did spring from the Rocks , The Birds they were tuning their Musical Notes , there was neither Coyslips nor Roses . I had not been in this Wood half and hour spent , When for to turn back again was my intent , I herd a young Man who soar did Lament ? for Love was the cause of his Mourning . I Loved a Lass this many long Day , And for to requite me she is Marri'd away , With sighing and sobing Lamenting for ay , which was the cause of his Mourning . Her Face was so fair I loved her well , I hated all those that wished her ill , They said of my Suit I would never prevail , but yet I would never believe them . Her Face was so fair my Joy to behold , Her Love I esteemed more dearer than gold ; For once she had my Heart in her Hold , but yet with disdain she rewards me . When that I did see my Love to the Kirk go , With all her fair Maids she had a fair show , My heart was so grieved I mourned for woe to see her so lowly regarded . When that I did hear the Clerk publicly cry , Is there any contrary , its time to draw nigh , I thought in my Mind good Reason had I . but yet it was best to conceal it . When I did see my Love join hand in hand , With Rings on her Fingers to seal up that Band , He had so enticed her with goods , gear and land , there was nothing but death could separate them . When I did see my Love in her Bed right , My Eyes gushed out of water and blinded my sighed , I took off my Hat and bade her goodnight , pox on her for she will not leave him . FINIS . a LOVE is the Cause of my Mourning . Or , The Despairing Lover . Sung with its own proper Tune . THe week before Easter the day being fair , The Sun shining bright , cold Frost in the Air , I did me to the Orchard some flowers to pull there But Flora could yield me no pleasures . The hills being covered with Midsummers Clouds The white and the read did spring from the Rocks , The Birds they were tuning their Musical Notes , there was neither Coyslips nor Roses . I had not been in this Wood half and hour spent , When for to turn back again was my intent , I herd a young Man who soar did Lament ? for Love was the cause of his Mourning . I Loved a Lass this many long Day , And for to requite me she is Marri'd away , With sighing and sobing Lamenting for ay , which was the cause of his Mourning . Her Face was so fair I loved her well , I hated all those that wished her ill , They said of my Suit I would never prevail , but yet I would never believe them . Her Face was so fair my Joy to behold , Her Love I esteemed more dearer than gold ; For once she had my Heart in her Hold , but yet with disdain she rewards me . When that I did see my Love to the Kirk go , With all her fair Maids she had a fair show , My heart was so grieved I mourned for woe to see her so lowly regarded . When that I did hear the Clerk publicly cry , Is there any contrary , its time to draw nigh , I thought in my Mind good Reason had I . but yet it was best to conceal it . When I did see my Love join hand in hand , With Rings on her Fingers to seal up that Band , He had so enticed her with goods , gear and land , there was nothing but death could separate them . When I did see my Love in her Bed right , My Eyes gushed out of water and blinded my sighed , I took off my Hat and bade her goodnight , pox on her for she will not leave him . FINIS . 