The Lovesick Maid . THE Winter it is past , And the Summer come at last ; And the small Birds sings on every Tree , The Hearts of those is glad , While mine is very sad ; While my true Love is absent from me . I'll put on my Cap of black , And Fringes about my Neck , And Rings on my Fingers I'll wear ; All this I'll undertake , For true Lovers sake , For he Rides at the Curragh of Kildare , A Livery I'll wear , And I'll comb down my Hair , And I'll dress in the Velvet so green : Straiaways I will repair , To the Curragh of Kildare , And 'tis there I will get Tidings of him . With Patience she did wait , 'Till they ran for the Plate , In thinking young Johnston to see ; But Fortune prov'd unkind , To that Sweetheart of mine , For he's gone to Lurgan from me . I should not think it strange , The wide world for to range , If I could obtain my Heart's deligh But here in Cupid's Chains , I'm oblig'd to remain , While in Tears do spend the whole Night . My Love is like the Sun , That in the Firmament does run , Which is always constant and true : But your's is like the Moon , That does wander up and down , And in every Month it's new . All you that are in Love , And cannot it remove , For you pitied are by me : Experience makes me know , That your Heart i [ s ] full of woe , Since my true Love is absent from me . Farewell my Joy and Heart , Since you and I must part , You are the fairest that e'er I did see : And I never do design , For to altar my Mind , Altho' you're below my Degree . The Lovesick Maid . THE Winter it is past , And the Summer come at last ; And the small Birds sings on every Tree , The Hearts of those is glad , While mine is very sad ; While my true Love is absent from me . I'll put on my Cap of black , And Fringes about my Neck , And Rings on my Fingers I'll wear ; All this I'll undertake , For true Lovers sake , For he Rides at the Curragh of Kildare , A Livery I'll wear , And I'll comb down my Hair , And I'll dress in the Velvet so green : Straiaways I will repair , To the Curragh of Kildare , And 'tis there I will get Tidings of him . With Patience she did wait , 'Till they ran for the Plate , In thinking young Johnston to see ; But Fortune prov'd unkind , To that Sweetheart of mine , For he's gone to Lurgan from me . I should not think it strange , The wide world for to range , If I could obtain my Heart's deligh But here in Cupid's Chains , I'm oblig'd to remain , While in Tears do spend the whole Night . My Love is like the Sun , That in the Firmament does run , Which is always constant and true : But your's is like the Moon , That does wander up and down , And in every Month it's new . All you that are in Love , And cannot it remove , For you pitied are by me : Experience makes me know , That your Heart i [ s ] full of woe , Since my true Love is absent from me . Farewell my Joy and Heart , Since you and I must part , You are the fairest that e'er I did see : And I never do design , For to altar my Mind , Altho' you're below my Degree . 