THE BEGGARS CHORUS ; OR , The JOVIAL CREW . To and excellent new Playhouse Tune . THERE was a jovial Beggar , He had a Wooden Leg , And lame from his Cradle , Was forced for to beg : And a Begging we will go , we'll go , we'll go , And a Begging we will go . A Bag for my Oatmeal , Another for my Rye ; A little Bottle by my Side , To drink when I am dry : And a Begging we will go , We'll go , we'll go , And a Begging we will go . A Bag for my Wheat , And another for my Salt , A little Pair of Crutches , To show how I can hall And a Begging we will go , We'll go , we'll go , And a Begging we will go . A Bag for my Bred , And another for my Cheese , A little Dog to follow me , To gather what I leave , And a Begging , etc To Pimblico we'll go , Where we will merry be , With every Man a can in's Hand , And a Wench upon his Knee : And a Begging , etc And when that we are disposed , We tumble on the Grass , With long patch'd Coats , For to hide a pretty Lass : And a Begging , etc Seven Years I served My Good old Master Wild , And seven Years I begged While I was but a Child : And a Begging , etc I had the pretty Knack , For to wheedle and to cry ; By Young and by the Old , Most pity'd e'er was I : And a Begging , etc Fatherless and Motherless , Still was my Complaint , And none that ever saw me , But took me for a Sain And a Begging , etc I begged for my Master , And god him store of Pelf , But Jove now be praised , I now beg for myself : And a Begging , etc Within a Hollow-tree I live , And there I pay no Rend ; Providence provides for me , And I am well conten And a Begging , etc I fear no plots against me , But live in open Cell ; Then who would be a King , When a Beggar lives so well : And a Begging we will go , We'll go , we'll go , And Begging we will go . THE BEGGARS CHORUS ; OR , The JOVIAL CREW . To and excellent new Playhouse Tune . THERE was a jovial Beggar , He had a Wooden Leg , And lame from his Cradle , Was forced for to beg : And a Begging we will go , we'll go , we'll go , And a Begging we will go . A Bag for my Oatmeal , Another for my Rye ; A little Bottle by my Side , To drink when I am dry : And a Begging we will go , We'll go , we'll go , And a Begging we will go . A Bag for my Wheat , And another for my Salt , A little Pair of Crutches , To show how I can hall And a Begging we will go , We'll go , we'll go , And a Begging we will go . A Bag for my Bred , And another for my Cheese , A little Dog to follow me , To gather what I leave , And a Begging , etc To Pimblico we'll go , Where we will merry be , With every Man a can in's Hand , And a Wench upon his Knee : And a Begging , etc And when that we are disposed , We tumble on the Grass , With long patch'd Coats , For to hide a pretty Lass : And a Begging , etc Seven Years I served My Good old Master Wild , And seven Years I begged While I was but a Child : And a Begging , etc I had the pretty Knack , For to wheedle and to cry ; By Young and by the Old , Most pity'd e'er was I : And a Begging , etc Fatherless and Motherless , Still was my Complaint , And none that ever saw me , But took me for a Sain And a Begging , etc I begged for my Master , And god him store of Pelf , But Jove now be praised , I now beg for myself : And a Begging , etc Within a Hollow-tree I live , And there I pay no Rend ; Providence provides for me , And I am well conten And a Begging , etc I fear no plots against me , But live in open Cell ; Then who would be a King , When a Beggar lives so well : And a Begging we will go , We'll go , we'll go , And Begging we will go . 