The Baffled KNIGH OR , The LADY's POLICY . THERE was a knight was drunk with wine , A-riding along the way , sir , And there he met with a lady fine , And among the cooks ef hay , sir , One favour he did crave of her , And ask'd to lay her down , sir , But he had neither cloth nor sheet , To keep her from the ground , sir . There is a great due upon the grass . And if you should lay me down , sir . You would spoil my clothing . That has cost me many a pound , sir . I have a cloak of scarlet read , I'll lay it under thee , love , So you will grant me my request , That I shall ask of thee , love . And if you'll go to my father's hall , That is moated all round about , sir , There you shall have your will of me , Within , sir , and without , sir Oh! yonder stands my milk white steed , And among the cooks of hay , sir , If the king's pinner should chance to come , He'll take my steed away , sir , I have a ring upon my finger , It's made of the finest gold , love . And it shall serve to fetch your steed , Out of the pinner's fold , love . And if you'll go to my [ f ] ather's house , Round which there's many a tree , sir , There you shall have your chamber free , And your chamberlain I will be , sir , He sat her on a milk white steed , Himself upon another , And then they rid along the way , Like sister and like brother . But when she came to her father's house , Which was moated all round about , sir , She slipped herself within the gate , And lock'd the knight without , sir , I thank you , kind knight , for seeing me here , And bringing me home a maiden , sir , But you shall have two of my father's men For to set you back again , sir . He drew his sword out of his scabbard , And whet it upon his Sleeve , sir , Saying curses be to every man That will a maid believe , sir , She drew her handkerchief out of her pocket , And threw it upon the ground , sir , Saying , thrice cursed be every maid That will believe a man , sir . We have a tree in our garden , Some call it rosemary , sir , There's crowing cocks in our town , That will make a capon of thee , sir . We have a flower in our garden , Some calls it marigold , sir . And he that would not when he might , He shall not when he would , sir . But if you chance to meet a maid , A little below the town , sir , You must not fear her gay clothing , Nor the wrinkling of her gown , sir , And if you chance to meet a maid , A little below the hill , sir , You need not fear her shrieking out , For she quickly will lie still , sir . The Baffled Knight was by the lass Ingeniously outwitted , And since that time it came to pass , He was again well fitted . As he was riding across a plain , In boots , spurs , hat and feather , He met that lady fair again ; They talk'd a while together . He said , Tho' you did serve me so , And cunningly decoy me , Yet , now , before you farther go , [ I ] must and will enjoy thee . 'Twas near a spacious river's Tide , Where rushes green were growing , And Neptune's silver streams did slide , Four-fathom waters flowing . The lady blush'd like scarlet read , And trembled at this stranger , How shall I guard my maidenhead . From this approaching danger With a lamenting sighs said she , To die I now am ready ; Must this dishonour fallen on me ? A most unhappy lady ! He from his saddle did alight , In gaudy rich attire , And cay'd , I am a noble knight , Who do your charms admire . He took the lady by the hand , Who seemingly consented ; And would no more discoursing stand , She had a plot invented . How she might baffle him again , With much delight and pleasure . And eke unspotted still remain , With her pure virgin-treasure . Look yonder , good sir knight , I pray , Methinks I do discover Well mounted on a dapple-grey , My true entire lover . The knight was standing on the brink Or the deep floating river . Thought she , Thou now shalt swim or sink , Choose which you fancy rather . Against his back the lady run . The water strait he sounded ; He cry'd out , love ! what have you done ? Help , help , or I am drowned . Said she , Sir Knight , farewell , adieu ! You see what comes of fooling , This is the fittest place for you , Whose courage wanting cooling . Love , help me out , and I'll forgive This fault which you've committed . No , no , says she , as I live , I think you're finely fitted . She rid home to her father house For speedy expedition . While the gay knight was soak'd like souse In a sad wet condition . When he came mounted to the plain , He was in rich attire , Yet when he back return'd again , He was all muck and mire . A solemn vow he there did make , Just as he came from swimming , He'd love no lady for her sake , Nor any other women . The Baffled Knight was fool'd once more , You'll find by this pleasant ditty , For she whose charms he did adore , Was wondered sharp and witty . Returning from her father's park , Just close by a summer bower , She chanc'd to meet her angry spark , Who gave her a frowning lour , The thoughts of what she twice had done , Did cause him to draw his rapier . And at the lady then did run , And thus begun to vapour . You chous'd me at your father's gate , Then tumbled me in the river , I seek for satisfaction strait , Shall I be a fool for ever ? He came with resolution bent That evening to enjoy her , And if she did not give consent , That minute he'd destroy her . I pray , sir knight , and why so hight Against a young foolish woman ? Such crimes as these might be forgotten , For merry intrigues are common . What do you count it mirth , he cry'd , To tumble me in and leave me ? What if I drowned there had dy'd ! A dangerous jest believe me : Well , if I pardon you this day , These injuries out of measure , It is because without delay , I mean to enjoy the pleasure . Your suit , she said , is not deny'd , But think of your boots of leather , And let me pull them off , she cry'd . Before we lie down together . He set him down upon the grass , And violets so sweet and tender . Now by this means it came to pass That she did his purpose hinder . For having pull'd his boots half way , She cry'd now I'm your betters . You shall not make of me your prey , Fit there like a thief in fetters , Now finding she had serv'd him so , He rose , and began to grumble . Yet he could neither stand nor go , But did like a cripple tumble . The boots stuck fast , and would not stir , His folly she soon did mention . And laughing said , I pray , kind sir , How like you my new Invention ? My laughing fit you must excuse , You are but a stingless nettle . You'd ne'er have stood for boots nor shoes , Had you been a man of mettle . Farewell , sir knight , 'tis almost ten , I fear neither wind nor weather , I'll send my father's servingmen , To help off thy boots of leather . She laugh'd outright , as well she might , With merry conceits of scorning . And left him there to stay all night , Until the approaching morning . The fourth part of the baffled Knight The lady hath fairly acted . She did his love and kindness slight Which made him almost distracted . She left him in her father's park , Where none but deer could hear him , While he lay rolling in the dark , There's never a soul came near him . Until the morning break of day , And being warm summer weather . A shepherd chanc'd to come that way , Who pull'd off his boots of leather . Then mounting on his milkwhite steed , He shaking his ears was ready . And whip and spur he road with speed , To find out this crafty lady . If once this lady I come nigh , She shall be releas'd by no man . Why should so brave a Knight as I Be fool'd by a silly woman , Three times has she affronted me , In crimes which I cannot pardon ! But if I ar'n't reveng'd , said he , Let me not be worth a farthing . I valve not her beauty fair , Tho' once I did dote upon her . This trusty sword shall now repair My baffled blasted honour . Unto her father's house he came , Which on every side was moated . The fair , sweet , charming , youthful dame , His angry brows she noted Thought she , I'll have the other bout , And tumble him in the river . And let the devil help him out , Or there he shall soak for ever . He will not let my live at rest , Altho' I have often'd foil'd him . Therefore once more , I do protest . With flattering I'll beguile him , The bridge was drawn , the gates lock'd fast , So that he could no ways enter . She smil'd to him , and cry'd at last . Sir Knight , if you please to venture , A plank lies over the moat heard by . Full seventeen The Baffled KNIGH OR , The LADY's POLICY . THERE was a knight was drunk with wine , A-riding along the way , sir , And there he met with a lady fine , And among the cooks ef hay , sir , One favour he did crave of her , And ask'd to lay her down , sir , But he had neither cloth nor sheet , To keep her from the ground , sir . There is a great due upon the grass . And if you should lay me down , sir . You would spoil my clothing . That has cost me many a pound , sir . I have a cloak of scarlet read , I'll lay it under thee , love , So you will grant me my request , That I shall ask of thee , love . And if you'll go to my father's hall , That is moated all round about , sir , There you shall have your will of me , Within , sir , and without , sir Oh! yonder stands my milk white steed , And among the cooks of hay , sir , If the king's pinner should chance to come , He'll take my steed away , sir , I have a ring upon my finger , It's made of the finest gold , love . And it shall serve to fetch your steed , Out of the pinner's fold , love . And if you'll go to my [ f ] ather's house , Round which there's many a tree , sir , There you shall have your chamber free , And your chamberlain I will be , sir , He sat her on a milk white steed , Himself upon another , And then they rid along the way , Like sister and like brother . But when she came to her father's house , Which was moated all round about , sir , She slipped herself within the gate , And lock'd the knight without , sir , I thank you , kind knight , for seeing me here , And bringing me home a maiden , sir , But you shall have two of my father's men For to set you back again , sir . He drew his sword out of his scabbard , And whet it upon his Sleeve , sir , Saying curses be to every man That will a maid believe , sir , She drew her handkerchief out of her pocket , And threw it upon the ground , sir , Saying , thrice cursed be every maid That will believe a man , sir . We have a tree in our garden , Some call it rosemary , sir , There's crowing cocks in our town , That will make a capon of thee , sir . We have a flower in our garden , Some calls it marigold , sir . And he that would not when he might , He shall not when he would , sir . But if you chance to meet a maid , A little below the town , sir , You must not fear her gay clothing , Nor the wrinkling of her gown , sir , And if you chance to meet a maid , A little below the hill , sir , You need not fear her shrieking out , For she quickly will lie still , sir . The Baffled Knight was by the lass Ingeniously outwitted , And since that time it came to pass , He was again well fitted . As he was riding across a plain , In boots , spurs , hat and feather , He met that lady fair again ; They talk'd a while together . He said , Tho' you did serve me so , And cunningly decoy me , Yet , now , before you farther go , [ I ] must and will enjoy thee . 'Twas near a spacious river's Tide , Where rushes green were growing , And Neptune's silver streams did slide , Four-fathom waters flowing . The lady blush'd like scarlet read , And trembled at this stranger , How shall I guard my maidenhead . From this approaching danger With a lamenting sighs said she , To die I now am ready ; Must this dishonour fallen on me ? A most unhappy lady ! He from his saddle did alight , In gaudy rich attire , And cay'd , I am a noble knight , Who do your charms admire . He took the lady by the hand , Who seemingly consented ; And would no more discoursing stand , She had a plot invented . How she might baffle him again , With much delight and pleasure . And eke unspotted still remain , With her pure virgin-treasure . Look yonder , good sir knight , I pray , Methinks I do discover Well mounted on a dapple-grey , My true entire lover . The knight was standing on the brink Or the deep floating river . Thought she , Thou now shalt swim or sink , Choose which you fancy rather . Against his back the lady run . The water strait he sounded ; He cry'd out , love ! what have you done ? Help , help , or I am drowned . Said she , Sir Knight , farewell , adieu ! You see what comes of fooling , This is the fittest place for you , Whose courage wanting cooling . Love , help me out , and I'll forgive This fault which you've committed . No , no , says she , as I live , I think you're finely fitted . She rid home to her father house For speedy expedition . While the gay knight was soak'd like souse In a sad wet condition . When he came mounted to the plain , He was in rich attire , Yet when he back return'd again , He was all muck and mire . A solemn vow he there did make , Just as he came from swimming , He'd love no lady for her sake , Nor any other women . The Baffled Knight was fool'd once more , You'll find by this pleasant ditty , For she whose charms he did adore , Was wondered sharp and witty . Returning from her father's park , Just close by a summer bower , She chanc'd to meet her angry spark , Who gave her a frowning lour , The thoughts of what she twice had done , Did cause him to draw his rapier . And at the lady then did run , And thus begun to vapour . You chous'd me at your father's gate , Then tumbled me in the river , I seek for satisfaction strait , Shall I be a fool for ever ? He came with resolution bent That evening to enjoy her , And if she did not give consent , That minute he'd destroy her . I pray , sir knight , and why so hight Against a young foolish woman ? Such crimes as these might be forgotten , For merry intrigues are common . What do you count it mirth , he cry'd , To tumble me in and leave me ? What if I drowned there had dy'd ! A dangerous jest believe me : Well , if I pardon you this day , These injuries out of measure , It is because without delay , I mean to enjoy the pleasure . Your suit , she said , is not deny'd , But think of your boots of leather , And let me pull them off , she cry'd . Before we lie down together . He set him down upon the grass , And violets so sweet and tender . Now by this means it came to pass That she did his purpose hinder . For having pull'd his boots half way , She cry'd now I'm your betters . You shall not make of me your prey , Fit there like a thief in fetters , Now finding she had serv'd him so , He rose , and began to grumble . Yet he could neither stand nor go , But did like a cripple tumble . The boots stuck fast , and would not stir , His folly she soon did mention . And laughing said , I pray , kind sir , How like you my new Invention ? My laughing fit you must excuse , You are but a stingless nettle . You'd ne'er have stood for boots nor shoes , Had you been a man of mettle . Farewell , sir knight , 'tis almost ten , I fear neither wind nor weather , I'll send my father's servingmen , To help off thy boots of leather . She laugh'd outright , as well she might , With merry conceits of scorning . And left him there to stay all night , Until the approaching morning . The fourth part of the baffled Knight The lady hath fairly acted . She did his love and kindness slight Which made him almost distracted . She left him in her father's park , Where none but deer could hear him , While he lay rolling in the dark , There's never a soul came near him . Until the morning break of day , And being warm summer weather . A shepherd chanc'd to come that way , Who pull'd off his boots of leather . Then mounting on his milkwhite steed , He shaking his ears was ready . And whip and spur he road with speed , To find out this crafty lady . If once this lady I come nigh , She shall be releas'd by no man . Why should so brave a Knight as I Be fool'd by a silly woman , Three times has she affronted me , In crimes which I cannot pardon ! But if I ar'n't reveng'd , said he , Let me not be worth a farthing . I valve not her beauty fair , Tho' once I did dote upon her . This trusty sword shall now repair My baffled blasted honour . Unto her father's house he came , Which on every side was moated . The fair , sweet , charming , youthful dame , His angry brows she noted Thought she , I'll have the other bout , And tumble him in the river . And let the devil help him out , Or there he shall soak for ever . He will not let my live at rest , Altho' I have often'd foil'd him . Therefore once more , I do protest . With flattering I'll beguile him , The bridge was drawn , the gates lock'd fast , So that he could no ways enter . She smil'd to him , and cry'd at last . Sir Knight , if you please to venture , A plank lies over the moat heard by . Full seventeen feet in measure . There's nobody now at home but I Therefore we'll take our pleasure . This word she had no sooner spoke , But strait he was tripping over , The plank was saw'd , and snapping broke . He prov'd and unhappy lover . feet in measure . There's nobody now at home but I Therefore we'll take our pleasure . This word she had no sooner spoke , But strait he was tripping over , The plank was saw'd , and snapping broke . He prov'd and unhappy lover . 