The Fair Maid of ISLINGTON . THERE was a Lass of Islington , As I've herd many tell , And she would to London go , Fine apples and pears to fell : And as along the streets she flung , With her basket on her arm , Her pears to fell , you may know it well , This fair maid meant no harm . But as she trip along the street , Her pleasant fruit to fell , A vintner did her meet , Who lik'd thie maid full well . Says he , Fair maid , what have you there ? In basket decked brave , Fine pears , quoth she , and if it please you . A taste sir , you shall have . The vintner took a taste , And lik'd it well , for why , The maid he thought of all the rest Most pleasing to the eye . Says he , Fair maid , I have a suit , That you to me must grant , Which if I find you be so kind , There's nothing you shall want . Thy beauty does so please my eye , And dazzles so my sighed , That now of all my liberty I am bereft quite . Then prithee now consent to me , And do not put me by , It is but one small courtesy , All night with you to lie . Sir , if you lie with me all night , As you propose to me , I do expect that you should prove Both coutieous , kind , and free . And for tell you now in short . It will cost you five pound . A match , a match , the vintner said , And so let this go round . When he had lain with her all night , Her money | she did crave , Oh stay quoth he , the other night , And the money thou shalt have , I cannot stay , nor will not stay , I needs must now be gone . Why so thou may'st , thy money go look , For money I'll pay thee none . This maid she made no more ado , But to a Justice went , And unto him she made her moan , Who did her case lament , She said she had her cellar let out To a vintner in the town , And that he did then agree Five pounds to pay her down . But now , quoth she , the case is thus , No rend that he will pay ; Therefore your worship I beseech To send for him strait way . Then strait the Justice to him sent , And asked the reason why , That he would pay this maid no rend , To whicd he did reply . Altho' I hired a cellar of her , And the possession was mine , I never put any thing into it , But one poor pipe of wine , Therefore my bargain it was hard , As you may plainly see ; I from my freedom was debar'd , Then , good sir , favour me . This fair maid being ripe of wit , She strait reply'd again , There were two butts more at the door , Why did not you roll them in ? You had your freedom and your will , As is to you well known , Therefore I do desire still For to receive my own , The Justice hearing of the case , Did then give order strait , That he the money should pay down , She should no longer wait . Withal he told the vintner plain , If he a tenant be , He must expect to pay the same . And not to live rend free . But when the money she had god , She put it in her purse , And clapped her hand on the cellar door , , Saying , 'Tis never the worse , Whioh caus'd the populace all to laugh To see this vintner fine , Outwitted by a country girl , About a pipe of wine . The Fair Maid of ISLINGTON . THERE was a Lass of Islington , As I've herd many tell , And she would to London go , Fine apples and pears to fell : And as along the streets she flung , With her basket on her arm , Her pears to fell , you may know it well , This fair maid meant no harm . But as she trip along the street , Her pleasant fruit to fell , A vintner did her meet , Who lik'd thie maid full well . Says he , Fair maid , what have you there ? In basket decked brave , Fine pears , quoth she , and if it please you . A taste sir , you shall have . The vintner took a taste , And lik'd it well , for why , The maid he thought of all the rest Most pleasing to the eye . Says he , Fair maid , I have a suit , That you to me must grant , Which if I find you be so kind , There's nothing you shall want . Thy beauty does so please my eye , And dazzles so my sighed , That now of all my liberty I am bereft quite . Then prithee now consent to me , And do not put me by , It is but one small courtesy , All night with you to lie . Sir , if you lie with me all night , As you propose to me , I do expect that you should prove Both coutieous , kind , and free . And for tell you now in short . It will cost you five pound . A match , a match , the vintner said , And so let this go round . When he had lain with her all night , Her money | she did crave , Oh stay quoth he , the other night , And the money thou shalt have , I cannot stay , nor will not stay , I needs must now be gone . Why so thou may'st , thy money go look , For money I'll pay thee none . This maid she made no more ado , But to a Justice went , And unto him she made her moan , Who did her case lament , She said she had her cellar let out To a vintner in the town , And that he did then agree Five pounds to pay her down . But now , quoth she , the case is thus , No rend that he will pay ; Therefore your worship I beseech To send for him strait way . Then strait the Justice to him sent , And asked the reason why , That he would pay this maid no rend , To whicd he did reply . Altho' I hired a cellar of her , And the possession was mine , I never put any thing into it , But one poor pipe of wine , Therefore my bargain it was hard , As you may plainly see ; I from my freedom was debar'd , Then , good sir , favour me . This fair maid being ripe of wit , She strait reply'd again , There were two butts more at the door , Why did not you roll them in ? You had your freedom and your will , As is to you well known , Therefore I do desire still For to receive my own , The Justice hearing of the case , Did then give order strait , That he the money should pay down , She should no longer wait . Withal he told the vintner plain , If he a tenant be , He must expect to pay the same . And not to live rend free . But when the money she had god , She put it in her purse , And clapped her hand on the cellar door , , Saying , 'Tis never the worse , Whioh caus'd the populace all to laugh To see this vintner fine , Outwitted by a country girl , About a pipe of wine . 