a A New SONG . THERE was a man in Oxford , He was a 'Squire's son , He kept a handsome housekeeper , Whom he long doted on ; He often takes her by the hand , Fetching a sighs and cry , Oh love me my dear Molly , Its for you love I die . With oaths and protestations He made a solemn vow , With many admirations , But mark good people how ; Then Molly being entangled , In fickle Cupid's snare , He quickly god to bed to her , As you the truth shall hear . Poor Molly prov'd with child , And when he the same did know , He quickly chang'd his mind , And to another he would go : To one that had more wealth than her , And when she knew it then , She said I find unto my grief , Their is deceit in men . Her father was not willing , That she should married be , Because she was and Heiress , And so they did agree ; To marry the next morning , Before the break of day , They were to meet at the church door , Before the hour of three . Then Molly being told ; By one that was her friend , Oh then , says she , if this be true , He'll surely me offend ; But I will come up with him For all his treachery , For all the tricks that he has done , I'll fit him to a tee . Then Molly sent a letter , And seal'd it with her hand , And gave it to the lady , To let her understand ; Her love was taken very sick , Therefore my dear I pray , That you will put the wedding off , Until another day . With a mask upon her head To the church she did repair , Just at the hour appointed , Met the Parson and the 'Squire : He took her into church , They were married speedily , He took her up behind him , And homeward they did high . Then going to his stately steed , To take his lovely bride , Who when he brought her to the door , Oh then he thus replied ; You're welcome now my dear , said he , To your own habitation , Then going to salute her , He started in a passion : Oh! hang me what have I done , And started in a fright , Oh no my dear , said she , You've done the thing that's right ; You cunningly deceived me , When my maidenhead you god , But now if you'll believe me , You're fitted for your plot . a A New SONG . THERE was a man in Oxford , He was a 'Squire's son , He kept a handsome housekeeper , Whom he long doted on ; He often takes her by the hand , Fetching a sighs and cry , Oh love me my dear Molly , Its for you love I die . With oaths and protestations He made a solemn vow , With many admirations , But mark good people how ; Then Molly being entangled , In fickle Cupid's snare , He quickly god to bed to her , As you the truth shall hear . Poor Molly prov'd with child , And when he the same did know , He quickly chang'd his mind , And to another he would go : To one that had more wealth than her , And when she knew it then , She said I find unto my grief , Their is deceit in men . Her father was not willing , That she should married be , Because she was and Heiress , And so they did agree ; To marry the next morning , Before the break of day , They were to meet at the church door , Before the hour of three . Then Molly being told ; By one that was her friend , Oh then , says she , if this be true , He'll surely me offend ; But I will come up with him For all his treachery , For all the tricks that he has done , I'll fit him to a tee . Then Molly sent a letter , And seal'd it with her hand , And gave it to the lady , To let her understand ; Her love was taken very sick , Therefore my dear I pray , That you will put the wedding off , Until another day . With a mask upon her head To the church she did repair , Just at the hour appointed , Met the Parson and the 'Squire : He took her into church , They were married speedily , He took her up behind him , And homeward they did high . Then going to his stately steed , To take his lovely bride , Who when he brought her to the door , Oh then he thus replied ; You're welcome now my dear , said he , To your own habitation , Then going to salute her , He started in a passion : Oh! hang me what have I done , And started in a fright , Oh no my dear , said she , You've done the thing that's right ; You cunningly deceived me , When my maidenhead you god , But now if you'll believe me , You're fitted for your plot . 