THE Lady ISABELLA's Tragedy ; OR , The STEP-MOTHER's Cruelty . BEING , A Relation of a Murder committed on the Body of a young Lady , the only Daughter of a Duke , occasion'd by her Step-Mother , and acted by the Cook . Together with their Confessions and Lamentations . Tune of , The Lady's Fallen , etc THere was a Lord of worthy Fame , And a Hunting he would ride , Attended by a noble Train Of Gentry by his Side ; And while he did in Chase remain , To see both Sport and Play , His Lady went , as she did feign , Unto the Church to pray . This Lord he had a Daughter fair , Whose Beauty shin'd so bright She was belov'd both far and near , Of many a gallant Knigh Fair Isabella was she call'd , A Creature fair was she , She was her Father's only Joy , As you shall plainly see . But yet her cruel Step-Mother , Did envy her so much , That Day by Day she sought her Life , Her Malice it was such : She bargain'd with the Master-Cook , To take her Life away ; And taking of the Daughter's Book , She thus to her did say : Go Home , sweet Daughter , I thee pray , Go hasten presently , And tell unto the Master-Cook , These Words that I tell thee : And bid him dress to Dinner straight , That fair and Milkwhite Doe , That in the Park does shine so bright , There's none so fair to show . This Lady fearing of no Harm , Obey'd her Mother's Will , And presently she hasted home , Her Mind for to fulfil : She Straight into the Kitchen went , Her Message for to tell , And there the Master-Cook she spy'd , Who did with Malice swell . Now Master-Cook , it must be so , Do that which I thee tell ; You needs must dress the Milkwhite Doe , Which you do know full well : Then straight his cruel bloody Hands , He on the Lady laid , Who quivering and shaking stands , While thus to her he said . Thou art the Doe that I must dress , See here , behold my Knife , For it is pointed presently , To rid thee of thy Life . Oh! then cry'd out thee Scullion Boy , As loud as loud might be , Oh save her Life , good Master-Cook , And make your Pies of me . For Pity's Sake do not destroy My Lady with your Knife , You know she is her Father's Joy , For Christ's Sake save her Life . I will not save her Life , said he , Nor make my Pies of thee ; Yet if thou dost the Deed bewray , Thy Butcher I will be . Now when the Lord he did come home , For to fit down and eat , He called for his Daughter dear , To come and carve his Mea Now fit you down , his Lady said , Oh fit you down to Meat , Into some Nunnery she is gone . Your Daughter dear forget . Then solemnly he made a Vow , Before the Company , That he would neither eat nor drink , Until he did her see : Oh! then bespoke the Scullion Boy , With a loud voice so high , If that you will you Daughter see , My Lord cut up that Pie. Wherein her Flesh is minced small , And perched with the Fire ; And caused by her Step-Mother , Who did her Death desire : And cursed be the Master-Cook , O cursed may he be , I profer'd him my own Heart's Blood , From Death to set her free . Then all in black this Lord did mourn , And for his Daughter's Sake , He judged for her Step-Mother , To be burned at a Stake ; Likewise he judg'd the Master-Cook , In boiling Oil to stand : He made the simple Scullion-Boy , The Heir to all his Land. Their LAMENTATIONS . NOW when the wicked Master-Cook , Beheld his Death draw near , And that by Friends he was forsook , He pour'd forth many a Tear , Saying , The Lady whom I serv'd Prompt me to do this Deed , And as a Death I have deserv'd , 'Tis coming on with Speed . I must confess these Hands of mine , Destroy'd the Innocent ; When her dear Breath she did resign ; My Heart did not relent . This said , into the boiling Oil He presently was cast , And then within a little While , The Lady went at Last . From Prison to the burning Stake , And as she pass'd along , She did sad Lamentation make Unto the numerous Throng : These were the very Words she spoke , The Daughter of my Lord I doom'd to Death , the Laws I broke , And shall have my Reward . Then to the burning Stake they ty'd The worst of all Step-Dames , Where by the Laws she fairly dy'd , In Smoke and burning Flames . Now let their Death's a Warning be To all that hear this Song : And thus I end my Tragedy , The Duke he mourned long . FINIS . NEWCASTLE UPON TYNE : Printed and Sold by JOHN WHITE . THE Lady ISABELLA's Tragedy ; OR , The STEP-MOTHER's Cruelty . BEING , A Relation of a Murder committed on the Body of a young Lady , the only Daughter of a Duke , occasion'd by her Step-Mother , and acted by the Cook . Together with their Confessions and Lamentations . Tune of , The Lady's Fallen , etc THere was a Lord of worthy Fame , And a Hunting he would ride , Attended by a noble Train Of Gentry by his Side ; And while he did in Chase remain , To see both Sport and Play , His Lady went , as she did feign , Unto the Church to pray . This Lord he had a Daughter fair , Whose Beauty shin'd so bright She was belov'd both far and near , Of many a gallant Knigh Fair Isabella was she call'd , A Creature fair was she , She was her Father's only Joy , As you shall plainly see . But yet her cruel Step-Mother , Did envy her so much , That Day by Day she sought her Life , Her Malice it was such : She bargain'd with the Master-Cook , To take her Life away ; And taking of the Daughter's Book , She thus to her did say : Go Home , sweet Daughter , I thee pray , Go hasten presently , And tell unto the Master-Cook , These Words that I tell thee : And bid him dress to Dinner straight , That fair and Milkwhite Doe , That in the Park does shine so bright , There's none so fair to show . This Lady fearing of no Harm , Obey'd her Mother's Will , And presently she hasted home , Her Mind for to fulfil : She Straight into the Kitchen went , Her Message for to tell , And there the Master-Cook she spy'd , Who did with Malice swell . Now Master-Cook , it must be so , Do that which I thee tell ; You needs must dress the Milkwhite Doe , Which you do know full well : Then straight his cruel bloody Hands , He on the Lady laid , Who quivering and shaking stands , While thus to her he said . Thou art the Doe that I must dress , See here , behold my Knife , For it is pointed presently , To rid thee of thy Life . Oh! then cry'd out thee Scullion Boy , As loud as loud might be , Oh save her Life , good Master-Cook , And make your Pies of me . For Pity's Sake do not destroy My Lady with your Knife , You know she is her Father's Joy , For Christ's Sake save her Life . I will not save her Life , said he , Nor make my Pies of thee ; Yet if thou dost the Deed bewray , Thy Butcher I will be . Now when the Lord he did come home , For to fit down and eat , He called for his Daughter dear , To come and carve his Mea Now fit you down , his Lady said , Oh fit you down to Meat , Into some Nunnery she is gone . Your Daughter dear forget . Then solemnly he made a Vow , Before the Company , That he would neither eat nor drink , Until he did her see : Oh! then bespoke the Scullion Boy , With a loud voice so high , If that you will you Daughter see , My Lord cut up that Pie. Wherein her Flesh is minced small , And perched with the Fire ; And caused by her Step-Mother , Who did her Death desire : And cursed be the Master-Cook , O cursed may he be , I profer'd him my own Heart's Blood , From Death to set her free . Then all in black this Lord did mourn , And for his Daughter's Sake , He judged for her Step-Mother , To be burned at a Stake ; Likewise he judg'd the Master-Cook , In boiling Oil to stand : He made the simple Scullion-Boy , The Heir to all his Land. Their LAMENTATIONS . NOW when the wicked Master-Cook , Beheld his Death draw near , And that by Friends he was forsook , He pour'd forth many a Tear , Saying , The Lady whom I serv'd Prompt me to do this Deed , And as a Death I have deserv'd , 'Tis coming on with Speed . I must confess these Hands of mine , Destroy'd the Innocent ; When her dear Breath she did resign ; My Heart did not relent . This said , into the boiling Oil He presently was cast , And then within a little While , The Lady went at Last . From Prison to the burning Stake , And as she pass'd along , She did sad Lamentation make Unto the numerous Throng : These were the very Words she spoke , The Daughter of my Lord I doom'd to Death , the Laws I broke , And shall have my Reward . Then to the burning Stake they ty'd The worst of all Step-Dames , Where by the Laws she fairly dy'd , In Smoke and burning Flames . Now let their Death's a Warning be To all that hear this Song : And thus I end my Tragedy , The Duke he mourned long . FINIS . NEWCASTLE UPON TYNE : Printed and Sold by JOHN WHITE . 