The WANDERING JEW : Or , the SHOEMAKER of Jerusalem . Who lived when our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ was Crumb - cified , and by him appointed to Live till his Coming again . WHEN as in fair Jerusalem , Our Saviour Christ did live , And for the sins of all the world His own dear life did give ; The wicked Jews with scoffs and scorns Did daily him molest ; That never till he left this life , Our Saviour could have rest . Repent therefore , Oh England ! Repent while you have space ; And do not like the wicked Jews Despise God's profer'd grace . When they had crown'd his head with thorns , And scourg'd him with disgrace ; In scornful sort they led him forth Unto his dying place . Where thousands thousands in the street Did see him pass along ; Yet not one gentle heart was there , That pity'd this his wrong . Repent , etc Both old and young reviled him , As thro' the streets he went ; And nothing found but churlish taunts , By every one's consent . His own dear cross he boar himself A burden far too great ; Which made him in the streets to faint , With blood and water sweat . Being weary , thus he sought for rest , For to ease his burthen'd soul , Upon a stone ; the which a wretch Did churlishly control . And said , Away , thou king of Jews , You shall not rest you here : Pass on ; your execution-place You see now draws near . And thereupon he thrust him thence , At which our Saviour said , I sure will rest , but thou shalt walk , And have no journey stayed . With that this cursed shoemaker , For offering Christ this wrong , Left wife and children , house , and all , And went from thence along . So when he had the precious blood Of Jesus Christ thus shed , And to the cross his body nail'd Away with speed he fled . Without returning back again Unto his dwelling-place ; And wandereth up and down the world , A renegade most base . No resting could he find at all , Nor ease , nor heart's content ; No house , nor home , nor dwelling-place , But wandering forth he went . From town to town in foreign lands , With grieved conscience , still Repenting for the henious gift Of his forepassed ill . Thus after some ages had passed , With wandering up and down , He once again desired to see Jerusalem's fair town . But finding it was quite destroy'd , He wandered full of woe ; Our Saviour's words which he had spoke , To verify and show : I'll rest , said he , but thou shalt walk , So does this Wandering Jew , From place to place , but cannot stay , For seeing countries new . Declaring still the power of him , Where'er he comes or goes ; And of all things done in the East , Since Christ his death did show . The world he still does compass round , And sees those nations strange , Who hearing of the name of God , Their idol Gods do change . To whom he hath told wond'rous things Of time forepast and gone ; And to the Princes of the world Declar'd his cause of moan . Desiring still to be dissolv'd And yield his mortal breath ; But as the Lord had thus decreed , He must not yet see death . For neither looks he old or young , But as he did those times When Christ did suffer on the cross , For mortal sinners crimes . He passed many foreign lands , Arabia , Egypt , Africa , Greece , Syria , and Great Thrace , And quite thro' Hungary . Where Paul and Peter preached Christ , Those blessed apostles dear , Where he hath told our Savious's words , In the countries far and near . And lately in Bohemia , With many a Germane town ; And now in Flanders , as 'tis thought , He wandereth up and down . Where learned men with him confer , Of those his lingering days , And wonder much to hear him tell His journeys and his ways . If people give this Jew and alms , The most that he will take Is not above a groat a day ; Which he for Jesus sake Does kindly give unto the poor , And therefore makes no spare , Affirming still that Jesus Christ Of him hath daily care . He was not seen to laugh or smile , But weep and make great moan , Lamenting still his misery's , And days far spent and gone . If he hears any one blaspheme , Or take God's name in vain ; He tells them they crucify Our Saviour Christ again . If thou had'st seen grim death , said he , As these mine eyes have done , Ten thousand thousand times would you His torments think upon . And suffer for his sake all pains , All torments , and all woes . These are his words , and this his life , Where'er he comes or goes . Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office in Bow-Church-Yard , London . The WANDERING JEW : Or , the SHOEMAKER of Jerusalem . Who lived when our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ was Crumb - cified , and by him appointed to Live till his Coming again . WHEN as in fair Jerusalem , Our Saviour Christ did live , And for the sins of all the world His own dear life did give ; The wicked Jews with scoffs and scorns Did daily him molest ; That never till he left this life , Our Saviour could have rest . Repent therefore , Oh England ! Repent while you have space ; And do not like the wicked Jews Despise God's profer'd grace . When they had crown'd his head with thorns , And scourg'd him with disgrace ; In scornful sort they led him forth Unto his dying place . Where thousands thousands in the street Did see him pass along ; Yet not one gentle heart was there , That pity'd this his wrong . Repent , etc Both old and young reviled him , As thro' the streets he went ; And nothing found but churlish taunts , By every one's consent . His own dear cross he boar himself A burden far too great ; Which made him in the streets to faint , With blood and water sweat . Being weary , thus he sought for rest , For to ease his burthen'd soul , Upon a stone ; the which a wretch Did churlishly control . And said , Away , thou king of Jews , You shall not rest you here : Pass on ; your execution-place You see now draws near . And thereupon he thrust him thence , At which our Saviour said , I sure will rest , but thou shalt walk , And have no journey stayed . With that this cursed shoemaker , For offering Christ this wrong , Left wife and children , house , and all , And went from thence along . So when he had the precious blood Of Jesus Christ thus shed , And to the cross his body nail'd Away with speed he fled . Without returning back again Unto his dwelling-place ; And wandereth up and down the world , A renegade most base . No resting could he find at all , Nor ease , nor heart's content ; No house , nor home , nor dwelling-place , But wandering forth he went . From town to town in foreign lands , With grieved conscience , still Repenting for the henious gift Of his forepassed ill . Thus after some ages had passed , With wandering up and down , He once again desired to see Jerusalem's fair town . But finding it was quite destroy'd , He wandered full of woe ; Our Saviour's words which he had spoke , To verify and show : I'll rest , said he , but thou shalt walk , So does this Wandering Jew , From place to place , but cannot stay , For seeing countries new . Declaring still the power of him , Where'er he comes or goes ; And of all things done in the East , Since Christ his death did show . The world he still does compass round , And sees those nations strange , Who hearing of the name of God , Their idol Gods do change . To whom he hath told wond'rous things Of time forepast and gone ; And to the Princes of the world Declar'd his cause of moan . Desiring still to be dissolv'd And yield his mortal breath ; But as the Lord had thus decreed , He must not yet see death . For neither looks he old or young , But as he did those times When Christ did suffer on the cross , For mortal sinners crimes . He passed many foreign lands , Arabia , Egypt , Africa , Greece , Syria , and Great Thrace , And quite thro' Hungary . Where Paul and Peter preached Christ , Those blessed apostles dear , Where he hath told our Savious's words , In the countries far and near . And lately in Bohemia , With many a Germane town ; And now in Flanders , as 'tis thought , He wandereth up and down . Where learned men with him confer , Of those his lingering days , And wonder much to hear him tell His journeys and his ways . If people give this Jew and alms , The most that he will take Is not above a groat a day ; Which he for Jesus sake Does kindly give unto the poor , And therefore makes no spare , Affirming still that Jesus Christ Of him hath daily care . He was not seen to laugh or smile , But weep and make great moan , Lamenting still his misery's , And days far spent and gone . If he hears any one blaspheme , Or take God's name in vain ; He tells them they crucify Our Saviour Christ again . If thou had'st seen grim death , said he , As these mine eyes have done , Ten thousand thousand times would you His torments think upon . And suffer for his sake all pains , All torments , and all woes . These are his words , and this his life , Where'er he comes or goes . Printed and Sold at the Printing-Office in Bow-Church-Yard , London . 