A New BALLAD of St. GEORGE and the DRAGON . WHY should we boast of Arthur and his Knights , Knowing how many Men have performed fights ? Or why should we speak of Sir Launcelot du Lake ? Or Sir Tristam du Leon , that fought for ladies sake ? Read old stories , and there you will see How St. George , St. George , he made the Dragon flee . St George he was for England , St. Dennis for France , Sing HONI SOIT QUI MALY PENSE . To speak much of Monarchs it were too long to tell , And likewise of the Roman how far they did excel Hannibal and Scipio in many a fight Orlando Turtoso he was a valiant Knight ; Romulous and Remus were those that Room did built , But St. George , St. George the Dragon he hath kill'd . St. George he was for England , etc Jepthah and Gideon they led their Men to fight ; The Gibeonites and Ammonites they put all to flight ; Hercules his labour was in the Vale of Bass ; And Sampson slew a thousand with the jawbone of and ass ; And when he was blind pull'd the Temple to the ground , But St. George , St. George the Dragon did confound . St. George he was for England , etc Valentine and Orson came of Pepin's blood , Alfred and Alarick they were brave Knights and good ; The four sons of Ammon that fought with Charlemain , Sir Hugh de Bourdeaux , and Godfrey de Bulloign ; These were all French Knights that Pagans did conver But St. George , St. George he pull'd out the Dragon's heart . St. George he was for England , etc Henry the Fifth he conquored all France , He quarter'd their arms , his honour to advance ; He razed their walls , and pull'd their cities down , And he garnish'd his head with a double triple crown ; He thumped the French , and after home he came , But St. George , St. George he made the Dragon tame . St. George he was for England , etc St. David he lov'd leeks and toasted cheese , And Jason was the Man that brought home the Golden Fleece And Patrick you know was St. George's boy , Seven years he kept his horse , and then stele him away , For which knavish act a slave he does remain ; But St. George , St. George he hath the Dragon slave . St. Geotge he was for England , etc Tamerlain the Emperor in iron cage did crown , With his bloody flags display'd before the town , Scanderbeg magnanimous Mahomet's Bashaws did dread , Whose victorious bones was born when he was dead . Old William so fam'd , the Conqueror he was call'd ; But St. George , St. George , he hath the Dragon maul'd . St. George he was for England , etc Ottoman the Tartar he came of Persia's raze , The Great Mogul with his chest full of cloves and mace ; The Grecian youth Bucephalus did manfully bestride , But these with their Worthies nine St. George did deride ; Gustavus Adolphus was Sweden's warlike King , But St. George , St. George he pull'd out the Dragon's sting . St. George he was for England , etc Pendragon and Cadwallader of British blood do boast , Tho' John of Gaunt his foes did daunt , St. George shall rule the roast ; Agamemnon and Cleomedes and Macedon did feats , But compared to our champion , they are but merely cheats ; Brave Malta Knights in Turkish fights their brandish'd swords outdrew ; But St. George , St. George met the Dragon , and thrust him thro' and thro' . St. George he was for England , etc Bedia the Amazon Poet overthrew , As fierce as either Vandal , Goth , Saracen , or Jew ; The potent Hol [ a ] ferness , as he lay in bed , In came wise Judith and stole away his head ; With Jove the Cyclops , altho' she shower'd down thunder , But St. George the Dragon kill'd , and was not that a wonder ? St. George he was for England , etc Mark Anthony I'll warrant you , play'd feats with Egypts queen , Sir Eglemore that valiant Knight , the like was never seen ; Grim Gorgon's might was known in fight ; old Bevis most Men frighted ; The Mirmdons and Prester Johns , why were not these men knighted ? Brave Spinola took in Breda , Nassau did it recover ; But St. George , St. George , turn'd the Dragon over and over St. George he was for England , etc Printed and Sold in Aldermary Church-yard , Bow - Lane , London . A New BALLAD of St. GEORGE and the DRAGON . WHY should we boast of Arthur and his Knights , Knowing how many Men have performed fights ? Or why should we speak of Sir Launcelot du Lake ? Or Sir Tristam du Leon , that fought for ladies sake ? Read old stories , and there you will see How St. George , St. George , he made the Dragon flee . St George he was for England , St. Dennis for France , Sing HONI SOIT QUI MALY PENSE . To speak much of Monarchs it were too long to tell , And likewise of the Roman how far they did excel Hannibal and Scipio in many a fight Orlando Turtoso he was a valiant Knight ; Romulous and Remus were those that Room did built , But St. George , St. George the Dragon he hath kill'd . St. George he was for England , etc Jepthah and Gideon they led their Men to fight ; The Gibeonites and Ammonites they put all to flight ; Hercules his labour was in the Vale of Bass ; And Sampson slew a thousand with the jawbone of and ass ; And when he was blind pull'd the Temple to the ground , But St. George , St. George the Dragon did confound . St. George he was for England , etc Valentine and Orson came of Pepin's blood , Alfred and Alarick they were brave Knights and good ; The four sons of Ammon that fought with Charlemain , Sir Hugh de Bourdeaux , and Godfrey de Bulloign ; These were all French Knights that Pagans did conver But St. George , St. George he pull'd out the Dragon's heart . St. George he was for England , etc Henry the Fifth he conquored all France , He quarter'd their arms , his honour to advance ; He razed their walls , and pull'd their cities down , And he garnish'd his head with a double triple crown ; He thumped the French , and after home he came , But St. George , St. George he made the Dragon tame . St. George he was for England , etc St. David he lov'd leeks and toasted cheese , And Jason was the Man that brought home the Golden Fleece And Patrick you know was St. George's boy , Seven years he kept his horse , and then stele him away , For which knavish act a slave he does remain ; But St. George , St. George he hath the Dragon slave . St. Geotge he was for England , etc Tamerlain the Emperor in iron cage did crown , With his bloody flags display'd before the town , Scanderbeg magnanimous Mahomet's Bashaws did dread , Whose victorious bones was born when he was dead . Old William so fam'd , the Conqueror he was call'd ; But St. George , St. George , he hath the Dragon maul'd . St. George he was for England , etc Ottoman the Tartar he came of Persia's raze , The Great Mogul with his chest full of cloves and mace ; The Grecian youth Bucephalus did manfully bestride , But these with their Worthies nine St. George did deride ; Gustavus Adolphus was Sweden's warlike King , But St. George , St. George he pull'd out the Dragon's sting . St. George he was for England , etc Pendragon and Cadwallader of British blood do boast , Tho' John of Gaunt his foes did daunt , St. George shall rule the roast ; Agamemnon and Cleomedes and Macedon did feats , But compared to our champion , they are but merely cheats ; Brave Malta Knights in Turkish fights their brandish'd swords outdrew ; But St. George , St. George met the Dragon , and thrust him thro' and thro' . St. George he was for England , etc Bedia the Amazon Poet overthrew , As fierce as either Vandal , Goth , Saracen , or Jew ; The potent Hol [ a ] ferness , as he lay in bed , In came wise Judith and stole away his head ; With Jove the Cyclops , altho' she shower'd down thunder , But St. George the Dragon kill'd , and was not that a wonder ? St. George he was for England , etc Mark Anthony I'll warrant you , play'd feats with Egypts queen , Sir Eglemore that valiant Knight , the like was never seen ; Grim Gorgon's might was known in fight ; old Bevis most Men frighted ; The Mirmdons and Prester Johns , why were not these men knighted ? Brave Spinola took in Breda , Nassau did it recover ; But St. George , St. George , turn'd the Dragon over and over St. George he was for England , etc Printed and Sold in Aldermary Church-yard , Bow - Lane , London . 