The Life and Death of Fair ROSAMOND . King HENRY the Second's Concubine , WHEN as king Henry rul'd this land , The second of that name , Beside the queen he loved dear , A fair and comely dame . Most peerless was her beauty found , Her favour and her face ; A sweeter creature in the world , Could never prince embrace . Her crisped locks like threads of gold Appear'd to each man's sighed , Her comely eyes like orient pearl , Did cast a heavenly light . The blood within her crystal cheeks Did such a colour drive , As tho' the lily and the rose For mastership did strive . Fair Rosamond , Fair Rosamond , Her name waa call'd so , To whom dame Eleanor our Queen , Was known a deadly foe . The king therefore , for her defence , Against the furious queen , At Woodstock built such a bower , The like was never seen . Most curiously that bower was built Of stone and timber strong , And hundred and fifty doors Did to this bower belong . And they so cunningly contriv'd , With turnings round about , That none without a clue of thread Could enter in and out . Now for his love and lady's sake , Who was both fair and bright , The keeping of this bower he gave Unto a valiant Knight . But fortune that does often frown Where it before did smile , The king's delight , the lady's joy Full soon she did beguile . For why , the king's ungracious son , Whom he did high advance , Against his father raised wars Within the realms of France . But yet before our gracious king The English land forsook , Of Rosamond his lady fair , His farewell thus he took . My Rosamond , my only Rose , Who pleases best mine eye ; The fairest flower in all the world . To feed my phantasy . The flower of my affected heart , Whose sweetness does excel My royal rose and hundred times , I bid you now farewell . For I must leave my fairest rose , My sweetest rose a space , And cross the ocean into France , Proud rebels to debase . But still my rose , be sure thou shalt My coming shortly see , And in my heart , when hence I am , I'll bear my rose with me . When Rosamond the lady bright , Did hear the king say so , The sorrows of her grieved heart Her outward locks did show , And from her clear and crystal eyes , The tears gush'd out apace . Which like the silver pearly due Ran down her comely face . Her lips like to the coral read , Did wax both wan and pale . And for the sorrow she conceiv'd , Her vital spirits fail And falling down into a swoon Before king Henry's face , Full oft within his princely arms Her body did embrace . And twenty times with watery eyes He kiss'd her tender cheeks , Until he had reviv'd again , Her spirit mild and meek . Why grieves my rose ? my sweetest rose , The king did often say . Because , quoth she , to bloody wars My lord must pass away . But since your grace in foreign coasts among your foes unkind , Must go to hazard life and limb , Why must I stay behind . Nay , rather let me , like a page , Thy sword and target bear , That on my breast the blow may light That shall offend my dear . O let me in your royal tent Prepare your bed at night , And with sweet baths refreshen you , As you return from fight . So I your presence may enjoy , No toil I will refuse : But wanting you my life is death , Which does true love abuse . Content thyself , my dearest love , Thy rest at home shall be , In England's sweet and pleasing court , For travels fit not thee . Fair ladies brook not bloody wars , Sweet peace their pleasure breeds , The now [ r ] isher of heart's content , Whose fancy first did feed . My rose shall rest in Woodstock bower , With music's sweet delight ; While I among the piercing pikes Against my foes do figh My rose in robes of pearl and gold , With diamonds rich and bright , Shall dance the galliards of my love , While I my foes do smite . And you , Sir Thomas , whom I trust To be my love's defence , Be careful of my gallant rose When I am parted hence . And herewithal he fetch'd a sighs , As tho' his heart would break : And Rosamond , for very grief , Not one plain word cou [ l ] worser speak . And at their parting well they might In heart be grieved soar : After that day Fair Rosamond The king did see no more . For when his grace passed the seas , And into France was gone , Queen Eleanor with envious heart To Woodstock came anon . And forth she calls the trusty Knight , Who kept this curious bower , And with a clew of twisted thread Came from this famous flower . And when that they had wounded him , The queen this thread did get , And went where lady | Rosamond Was like and angel set . But when the queen , with steadfast eyes , Beheld his heavenly face , She was amazed in her mind At such exceeding grace . Cast off , said she , these fine robes , That rich and costly be , And drink you up this deadly draught Which I have brought to thee . But presently upon her knees Fair Rosamond did fallen , And pardon of the queen she crav'd For her offences all . Take pity on my youthful years , Fair Rosamond did cry , And let me not with poison strong Be forced for to die . I will renounce my sinful life , And in some cloister bide , Or else be banish'd if you please , To range the world so wide . And for the fault which I have done , Tho' I was forced thereunto , Preserve my life , and punish me , As you think fit to do . And with these words her lily hands She wrung full often there , And down along her comely face , Proceeded many a tear . But nothing could this furious queen Herewith appeased be , The cup of deadly poison strong , Which she held on her knee , She gave this comely dame to drink , Who took it from her hand , And from her bent knees arose , And on her feet did stand . When casting up her eyes to heaven , She did for mercy call , And drinking up the poison strong , She lost her life withal . And when death thro' every limb Had done it's greatest spite , Her chiefest foes could but confess , She was a glorious wight . Her body then they did entomb , When life was fled away , At Woodstock , near to Oxford town , As may be seen this day . Printed and Sold in Bow-Church Yard , London , The Life and Death of Fair ROSAMOND . King HENRY the Second's Concubine , WHEN as king Henry rul'd this land , The second of that name , Beside the queen he loved dear , A fair and comely dame . Most peerless was her beauty found , Her favour and her face ; A sweeter creature in the world , Could never prince embrace . Her crisped locks like threads of gold Appear'd to each man's sighed , Her comely eyes like orient pearl , Did cast a heavenly light . The blood within her crystal cheeks Did such a colour drive , As tho' the lily and the rose For mastership did strive . Fair Rosamond , Fair Rosamond , Her name waa call'd so , To whom dame Eleanor our Queen , Was known a deadly foe . The king therefore , for her defence , Against the furious queen , At Woodstock built such a bower , The like was never seen . Most curiously that bower was built Of stone and timber strong , And hundred and fifty doors Did to this bower belong . And they so cunningly contriv'd , With turnings round about , That none without a clue of thread Could enter in and out . Now for his love and lady's sake , Who was both fair and bright , The keeping of this bower he gave Unto a valiant Knight . But fortune that does often frown Where it before did smile , The king's delight , the lady's joy Full soon she did beguile . For why , the king's ungracious son , Whom he did high advance , Against his father raised wars Within the realms of France . But yet before our gracious king The English land forsook , Of Rosamond his lady fair , His farewell thus he took . My Rosamond , my only Rose , Who pleases best mine eye ; The fairest flower in all the world . To feed my phantasy . The flower of my affected heart , Whose sweetness does excel My royal rose and hundred times , I bid you now farewell . For I must leave my fairest rose , My sweetest rose a space , And cross the ocean into France , Proud rebels to debase . But still my rose , be sure thou shalt My coming shortly see , And in my heart , when hence I am , I'll bear my rose with me . When Rosamond the lady bright , Did hear the king say so , The sorrows of her grieved heart Her outward locks did show , And from her clear and crystal eyes , The tears gush'd out apace . Which like the silver pearly due Ran down her comely face . Her lips like to the coral read , Did wax both wan and pale . And for the sorrow she conceiv'd , Her vital spirits fail And falling down into a swoon Before king Henry's face , Full oft within his princely arms Her body did embrace . And twenty times with watery eyes He kiss'd her tender cheeks , Until he had reviv'd again , Her spirit mild and meek . Why grieves my rose ? my sweetest rose , The king did often say . Because , quoth she , to bloody wars My lord must pass away . But since your grace in foreign coasts among your foes unkind , Must go to hazard life and limb , Why must I stay behind . Nay , rather let me , like a page , Thy sword and target bear , That on my breast the blow may light That shall offend my dear . O let me in your royal tent Prepare your bed at night , And with sweet baths refreshen you , As you return from fight . So I your presence may enjoy , No toil I will refuse : But wanting you my life is death , Which does true love abuse . Content thyself , my dearest love , Thy rest at home shall be , In England's sweet and pleasing court , For travels fit not thee . Fair ladies brook not bloody wars , Sweet peace their pleasure breeds , The now [ r ] isher of heart's content , Whose fancy first did feed . My rose shall rest in Woodstock bower , With music's sweet delight ; While I among the piercing pikes Against my foes do figh My rose in robes of pearl and gold , With diamonds rich and bright , Shall dance the galliards of my love , While I my foes do smite . And you , Sir Thomas , whom I trust To be my love's defence , Be careful of my gallant rose When I am parted hence . And herewithal he fetch'd a sighs , As tho' his heart would break : And Rosamond , for very grief , Not one plain word cou [ l ] worser speak . And at their parting well they might In heart be grieved soar : After that day Fair Rosamond The king did see no more . For when his grace passed the seas , And into France was gone , Queen Eleanor with envious heart To Woodstock came anon . And forth she calls the trusty Knight , Who kept this curious bower , And with a clew of twisted thread Came from this famous flower . And when that they had wounded him , The queen this thread did get , And went where lady | Rosamond Was like and angel set . But when the queen , with steadfast eyes , Beheld his heavenly face , She was amazed in her mind At such exceeding grace . Cast off , said she , these fine robes , That rich and costly be , And drink you up this deadly draught Which I have brought to thee . But presently upon her knees Fair Rosamond did fallen , And pardon of the queen she crav'd For her offences all . Take pity on my youthful years , Fair Rosamond did cry , And let me not with poison strong Be forced for to die . I will renounce my sinful life , And in some cloister bide , Or else be banish'd if you please , To range the world so wide . And for the fault which I have done , Tho' I was forced thereunto , Preserve my life , and punish me , As you think fit to do . And with these words her lily hands She wrung full often there , And down along her comely face , Proceeded many a tear . But nothing could this furious queen Herewith appeased be , The cup of deadly poison strong , Which she held on her knee , She gave this comely dame to drink , Who took it from her hand , And from her bent knees arose , And on her feet did stand . When casting up her eyes to heaven , She did for mercy call , And drinking up the poison strong , She lost her life withal . And when death thro' every limb Had done it's greatest spite , Her chiefest foes could but confess , She was a glorious wight . Her body then they did entomb , When life was fled away , At Woodstock , near to Oxford town , As may be seen this day . Printed and Sold in Bow-Church Yard , London , 