JOCKEYs Escape from bonny Dundee . To it's own proper Tune . WHere god thou the Haver-meal Bannock ? Blind Bubby , can'st thou not see ? I god them out of a Scotch Man's Wallat , As he lay Easing under a Tree . Come fill up my Cup , come fill up my Can , Come Saddle my Horse , and call up my Man , Come open the Gates , and let me go free , And show me the Way to bonny Dundee . For I have neither rob'd nor stolen , Nor have I done any Injury , But I have god a fair Maid with Bairn , The Minister's Daughter of bonny Dundee . Come fill up my Cup , come fill up my Can , Come Saddle my Horse , and call up my Man , Come open the Gates , and let me go free , And I'se gang na mare to bonny Dundee . Altho' I've got her Maidenhead , Good sooth I've given her mine in Lieu , For when at her Daddies I'se gang to Bed , I'se kiss her without any more ado . I'se cuddle her close , and give her a Kiss , Pray tell me now where is the Harm in this ? Then open the Gates and let me go free , And I'se gang no more to bonny Dundee . All Scotland ne'er had such a Lass , So bonny and blithe , as Jenny my Dear , I give her a Gown of Green on the Grass , But now I no longer must tarry here . Then Saddle my Nagg that's bonny and gay , For now it is Time to go hence away , Then open the Gates and let me go free , She's ken me no more in bonny Dundee . In Liberty still I recon to Reign , For why I have done no honest Man Wrong , The Parson may take his Daughter again , For she'll be a Mammy before it's too long . And have a young Lad or Lass of my Bred , For I have done her a general Deed , Then open the Gates , and let me go free , For I'se gang no more to bonny Dundee . Since Jenny the fair was willing and kind , And came to my Arms with right good Will ; A Token of Love I've left her behind , Thus have I requited my Kindness still . Tho' Jenny the fair I often had kiss'd , Another may reap the Harvest I sow'd , Then open the Gates , and let me go free , And I'll never come more to bonny Dundee . Her Dadd would have me to make her my Bride , But to have and to hold , I could never endure , From bonny Dundee this Day I will ride , It being a Place not safe and secure . Then Jenny farewell , my Joy and my Dear , With Sword in my Hand the Passage I'se clear , Then open the Gates and let me go free , For I'se gang no more to bonny Dundee . My Father he is a mukle good Laird , My Mother a Lady bonny and gay , Then while I have Strength to handle a Sword , The Parson's Request I'll never obey . Then Sandy , my Man , be thou of my Mind , In bonny Dundee we's ne'er be confin'd , The Gates we will force to set our selves free , And never come more to bonny Dundee . Then Sandy reply'd , I'll never refuse , To fight for a Laird so valiant and bold , While I have a Drop of Blood for to lose , E're any fickle Lown shall keep me in Hold . With Sword in my Hand , I'll valiantly stand , And fight by your side to kill or be kill'd , For forcing the Gates , and set our selves free , And so bid adieu to bonny Dundee . With Sword ready drawn they road to the Gate , Where being deny'd and Entrance through , The Master and Man they fought at that rate , That some ran away , and others they slew . Thus Jockey the Laird and Sandy the Man , They valiantly fought as Highlanders can , In Sighed of the Lown's they set themselves free , And so bid adieu to bonny Dundee . FINIS . JOCKEYs Escape from bonny Dundee . To it's own proper Tune . WHere god thou the Haver-meal Bannock ? Blind Bubby , can'st thou not see ? I god them out of a Scotch Man's Wallat , As he lay Easing under a Tree . Come fill up my Cup , come fill up my Can , Come Saddle my Horse , and call up my Man , Come open the Gates , and let me go free , And show me the Way to bonny Dundee . For I have neither rob'd nor stolen , Nor have I done any Injury , But I have god a fair Maid with Bairn , The Minister's Daughter of bonny Dundee . Come fill up my Cup , come fill up my Can , Come Saddle my Horse , and call up my Man , Come open the Gates , and let me go free , And I'se gang na mare to bonny Dundee . Altho' I've got her Maidenhead , Good sooth I've given her mine in Lieu , For when at her Daddies I'se gang to Bed , I'se kiss her without any more ado . I'se cuddle her close , and give her a Kiss , Pray tell me now where is the Harm in this ? Then open the Gates and let me go free , And I'se gang no more to bonny Dundee . All Scotland ne'er had such a Lass , So bonny and blithe , as Jenny my Dear , I give her a Gown of Green on the Grass , But now I no longer must tarry here . Then Saddle my Nagg that's bonny and gay , For now it is Time to go hence away , Then open the Gates and let me go free , She's ken me no more in bonny Dundee . In Liberty still I recon to Reign , For why I have done no honest Man Wrong , The Parson may take his Daughter again , For she'll be a Mammy before it's too long . And have a young Lad or Lass of my Bred , For I have done her a general Deed , Then open the Gates , and let me go free , For I'se gang no more to bonny Dundee . Since Jenny the fair was willing and kind , And came to my Arms with right good Will ; A Token of Love I've left her behind , Thus have I requited my Kindness still . Tho' Jenny the fair I often had kiss'd , Another may reap the Harvest I sow'd , Then open the Gates , and let me go free , And I'll never come more to bonny Dundee . Her Dadd would have me to make her my Bride , But to have and to hold , I could never endure , From bonny Dundee this Day I will ride , It being a Place not safe and secure . Then Jenny farewell , my Joy and my Dear , With Sword in my Hand the Passage I'se clear , Then open the Gates and let me go free , For I'se gang no more to bonny Dundee . My Father he is a mukle good Laird , My Mother a Lady bonny and gay , Then while I have Strength to handle a Sword , The Parson's Request I'll never obey . Then Sandy , my Man , be thou of my Mind , In bonny Dundee we's ne'er be confin'd , The Gates we will force to set our selves free , And never come more to bonny Dundee . Then Sandy reply'd , I'll never refuse , To fight for a Laird so valiant and bold , While I have a Drop of Blood for to lose , E're any fickle Lown shall keep me in Hold . With Sword in my Hand , I'll valiantly stand , And fight by your side to kill or be kill'd , For forcing the Gates , and set our selves free , And so bid adieu to bonny Dundee . With Sword ready drawn they road to the Gate , Where being deny'd and Entrance through , The Master and Man they fought at that rate , That some ran away , and others they slew . Thus Jockey the Laird and Sandy the Man , They valiantly fought as Highlanders can , In Sighed of the Lown's they set themselves free , And so bid adieu to bonny Dundee . FINIS . 