A delectable new Ballad , Entitled Leader . Haughs and Yarow . To its own proper Tune . WHen Phoebus bright , the AZure-skies with golden rays enlighteneth , These things sublunar he espies ; Herbs , Trees , and Plants he quick'neth Among all those he makes his choice , and gladly goes he thorough . With radiant beams , and silver streams , through Leader-Haughs and Yarow . When Aries the day and night , in equal length divides ; Old frosty Saturn takes the flight , no longer he abideth : Then Flora Queen , with Mantle green Casts off her former sorrow , And vows to dwell with Caeres fell in Leader-Haughs and Yarow . Pan Playing on his Oaten Reed , with Shepherd's him attending , Does here resort their flocks to feed , the Hills and Haughs commending : With bottle , bag , and staff with knag , and all singing Good morrow , They swear no Fields more pleasure yield : then Leader Haughs and Yarow . One House there stands on Leader side surmounting my descryving : With Ease-rooms rair , and windows fair like Daedalus contriving : Men passing by doe often say in South it has no marrow : It stands as fair on Leader side as New-work does on Yarow . A mile below , who lift to rise , they'l hear the Mavls singing , Into St. Leonard's bank she'l bide , sweet Birks her head o'r-hinging : The Lintwhite loud , and Progne proud , with tender throats and narrow , Into St. Leonards banks do sing , as sweesle as in Yarow . The Lapwing lilteth o're the Lee , with nibble wings she sporteth , But vows she'l not come near the Tree , where Philomel resorteth : By break of day , the Lark can say , I'le bid you all good-morrow , I'le yont and yell , for I may dwell in Leader-Haughs and Yarow . Park Wanton-walls and Wooden-clough , the East and Wester Mainses , The Forest of Lawder's fair enough , the Corns are good in Blainslies : Where Oats are fine , and sold by kind , that if you search all thorough Mearns , Buchati , Mar , none better are ; then Leader Haughs and Yarow . In Burn milne-bog , and Whiteslead Shaws the fearful Hare she haunteth , Bridge-haugh and Broad-wood-shiel she knaws to the Chapel-wood frequenteth Yet when she lrks to Kai [ worser ] sly birks , she runs and sighs for sorrow , That she should leave sweet Leader-haughs and cannot win to Yarow . What sweet [ er Music ] would you hear , then hounds and beigles crying The hare waits not , but flees for [ f ] ear , their hard pursuit defying ; But yet her strength it fails at length , no bielding ca [ n ] sh [ e ] borrow , At Hogs , Clackmay , nor Sorlesfield : but longs to be at Yarow . For Rockwood , Ringwood , Reva , Almer , still thinking for to view her , But Oh to fail her strength begins , no cunning can rescue her . O'r dube and dike , o'r seugh and syke , she'l run the fields all thorough , Yet ends her days in Leader-haughs and bids farewell to Yarow . Thou Erslington and Coldon-Knowes , where Humes had once commanding ; And Dry grange with thy milkwhite ewes 'twixt Tweed and Leader standing : The birds that flees through Red-path and Gladswood banks all thorough , May chant and sing sweet Leader-haughs and the bony banks of Yarow , But Burn cannot his grief assuage , while as his days endureth , To see the changes of this age , which day and time procureth : For many a place stands in hard case , where Burns were blithe besorrow , With Humes that dwelled on Leader side , and Scots that dwelled in Yarow . The Words of Burn The Violer . WHat ? shall my Violent silent be , or leave her wonted scriding ? But choice some sadder Elegy , not sports and mirds deriding : It must be fain with lower strain , then it was wont besorrow , To found the praise of Leader haughs , and the bony banks of Yarow . But floods hath overflown the banks , the greenish Haughs disgracing , And trees in woods grows thin in ranks , about the fields defacing : For waters waxes , woods does wind more , if I could for sorrow , In rurul verse , I could rehearse , of Leader haughs and Yarow . But sighs and sobs o'rsets my breath , soar saltish tears forth sending , All things sublunar here on earth , are subject to and ending : So must my song , though somewhat long , yet late at even and morrow , I'le sing and sing , sweet Leader-haughs , and the bony banks of Yarow . Hic terminus haeret . FINIS . A delectable new Ballad , Entitled Leader . Haughs and Yarow . To its own proper Tune . WHen Phoebus bright , the AZure-skies with golden rays enlighteneth , These things sublunar he espies ; Herbs , Trees , and Plants he quick'neth Among all those he makes his choice , and gladly goes he thorough . With radiant beams , and silver streams , through Leader-Haughs and Yarow . When Aries the day and night , in equal length divides ; Old frosty Saturn takes the flight , no longer he abideth : Then Flora Queen , with Mantle green Casts off her former sorrow , And vows to dwell with Caeres fell in Leader-Haughs and Yarow . Pan Playing on his Oaten Reed , with Shepherd's him attending , Does here resort their flocks to feed , the Hills and Haughs commending : With bottle , bag , and staff with knag , and all singing Good morrow , They swear no Fields more pleasure yield : then Leader Haughs and Yarow . One House there stands on Leader side surmounting my descryving : With Ease-rooms rair , and windows fair like Daedalus contriving : Men passing by doe often say in South it has no marrow : It stands as fair on Leader side as New-work does on Yarow . A mile below , who lift to rise , they'l hear the Mavls singing , Into St. Leonard's bank she'l bide , sweet Birks her head o'r-hinging : The Lintwhite loud , and Progne proud , with tender throats and narrow , Into St. Leonards banks do sing , as sweesle as in Yarow . The Lapwing lilteth o're the Lee , with nibble wings she sporteth , But vows she'l not come near the Tree , where Philomel resorteth : By break of day , the Lark can say , I'le bid you all good-morrow , I'le yont and yell , for I may dwell in Leader-Haughs and Yarow . Park Wanton-walls and Wooden-clough , the East and Wester Mainses , The Forest of Lawder's fair enough , the Corns are good in Blainslies : Where Oats are fine , and sold by kind , that if you search all thorough Mearns , Buchati , Mar , none better are ; then Leader Haughs and Yarow . In Burn milne-bog , and Whiteslead Shaws the fearful Hare she haunteth , Bridge-haugh and Broad-wood-shiel she knaws to the Chapel-wood frequenteth Yet when she lrks to Kai [ worser ] sly birks , she runs and sighs for sorrow , That she should leave sweet Leader-haughs and cannot win to Yarow . What sweet [ er Music ] would you hear , then hounds and beigles crying The hare waits not , but flees for [ f ] ear , their hard pursuit defying ; But yet her strength it fails at length , no bielding ca [ n ] sh [ e ] borrow , At Hogs , Clackmay , nor Sorlesfield : but longs to be at Yarow . For Rockwood , Ringwood , Reva , Almer , still thinking for to view her , But Oh to fail her strength begins , no cunning can rescue her . O'r dube and dike , o'r seugh and syke , she'l run the fields all thorough , Yet ends her days in Leader-haughs and bids farewell to Yarow . Thou Erslington and Coldon-Knowes , where Humes had once commanding ; And Dry grange with thy milkwhite ewes 'twixt Tweed and Leader standing : The birds that flees through Red-path and Gladswood banks all thorough , May chant and sing sweet Leader-haughs and the bony banks of Yarow , But Burn cannot his grief assuage , while as his days endureth , To see the changes of this age , which day and time procureth : For many a place stands in hard case , where Burns were blithe besorrow , With Humes that dwelled on Leader side , and Scots that dwelled in Yarow . The Words of Burn The Violer . WHat ? shall my Violent silent be , or leave her wonted scriding ? But choice some sadder Elegy , not sports and mirds deriding : It must be fain with lower strain , then it was wont besorrow , To found the praise of Leader haughs , and the bony banks of Yarow . But floods hath overflown the banks , the greenish Haughs disgracing , And trees in woods grows thin in ranks , about the fields defacing : For waters waxes , woods does wind more , if I could for sorrow , In rurul verse , I could rehearse , of Leader haughs and Yarow . But sighs and sobs o'rsets my breath , soar saltish tears forth sending , All things sublunar here on earth , are subject to and ending : So must my song , though somewhat long , yet late at even and morrow , I'le sing and sing , sweet Leader-haughs , and the bony banks of Yarow . Hic terminus haeret . FINIS . 