A NEW SONG ENTITLED , The WARMING-PAN . WHEN Jemmy the Second , not Jemmy the First , With Vexation and Poxes and Impotence Curs'd , Saw the good Cause must end , which so well he began , Swore the Church , since he cou'd not , should get him a Son Derry down , down , etc To Work went the Church on her Majesty's Womb , By her true Representations , Friars from Room ; But they well warm'd , her true Catholic Mettle , They never could make the Meat boil in the Kettle . Derry down . But since it was determin'd and Heir must be god , No matter from Kettle , from Pan or from Pot ; In Mettles Fertile , the old JESUITS Clan , Produc'd a brave Boy , from a Brass-Warming Pan. Derry down . But Old England , quite harrass'd with Papists before , The Brat being Spurious , would sure bear no more ; But with little Will's help , kick'd the Spawn of a Fryer , From out of the Warming-Pan , into the Fire . Derry down . Full many a Year , has the Bastard been Nurs'd , By Paris and Rome , who engender'd him first ; And now they have sent to promote their old Plan , The Son of the Son , of the Brass-Warming-Pan . Derry down . Oh! B [ r ] itain's , reflect , why you drove out the One , And dread the same Evils , or worse from the Son ; Quick , to Paris , or Room , make your Perkin retire , Or we're out of the Warming-Pan , into the Fire . Derry down . Sure Scotland remembers , the direful Fate , When they succour'd the Warming-Pan's , Father of late ; How many to Tower , and Newgate , were sent , Some Heads were cut off , and too late did Repent . Derry down . May all be serv'd so , that takes up the Cause , For Rome , or the WORSER --- l , make daily applause ; Let's firmly unite in the Protestant Case , Drive Pretender to the WORSER --- l , keep King George in his place . Derry down . A NEW SONG ENTITLED , The WARMING-PAN . WHEN Jemmy the Second , not Jemmy the First , With Vexation and Poxes and Impotence Curs'd , Saw the good Cause must end , which so well he began , Swore the Church , since he cou'd not , should get him a Son Derry down , down , etc To Work went the Church on her Majesty's Womb , By her true Representations , Friars from Room ; But they well warm'd , her true Catholic Mettle , They never could make the Meat boil in the Kettle . Derry down . But since it was determin'd and Heir must be god , No matter from Kettle , from Pan or from Pot ; In Mettles Fertile , the old JESUITS Clan , Produc'd a brave Boy , from a Brass-Warming Pan. Derry down . But Old England , quite harrass'd with Papists before , The Brat being Spurious , would sure bear no more ; But with little Will's help , kick'd the Spawn of a Fryer , From out of the Warming-Pan , into the Fire . Derry down . Full many a Year , has the Bastard been Nurs'd , By Paris and Rome , who engender'd him first ; And now they have sent to promote their old Plan , The Son of the Son , of the Brass-Warming-Pan . Derry down . Oh! B [ r ] itain's , reflect , why you drove out the One , And dread the same Evils , or worse from the Son ; Quick , to Paris , or Room , make your Perkin retire , Or we're out of the Warming-Pan , into the Fire . Derry down . Sure Scotland remembers , the direful Fate , When they succour'd the Warming-Pan's , Father of late ; How many to Tower , and Newgate , were sent , Some Heads were cut off , and too late did Repent . Derry down . May all be serv'd so , that takes up the Cause , For Rome , or the WORSER --- l , make daily applause ; Let's firmly unite in the Protestant Case , Drive Pretender to the WORSER --- l , keep King George in his place . Derry down . 