And Excellent New Song upon the House and Gardens of DRUMLENRIG . UPon the pleasant Water of Nith there pleasantly does stand A royal Palace beautiful as is in all the Land : For Situation rare and fair and lovely to the Eye , With Woods and [ B ] ours and pleasant Groves around it all does lie . Before this royal Palace there a pleasant Court is seen , A pleasant gravel Walk about a famous oval Green . Upon the Palace Front does stand the Coat of Arms most fair , With flying Horses Heart and Crown just mounting in the Air : And just above the Coat of Arms it's there the Cloak does stand , That every one may know the Hour by looking to the Hand : Also upon this royal Front there Adam and Eve does lie , With them a Guard of Angels great who wait continually ; And down below there Satan stands a Serpent in his Hand , Still tempting Eve the Fruit to pull and answer his Command . And there upon the Pavement stands two Gloudeators rare , With Sword and Targe most curiously acoutred for the War ; And there the War goes boldly on betwixt these Men most strong , But when this War will have and End there is none can tell how long . But in the middle of this Place a Pavement Court does lie , With Marbles rare cut out in Square most lovely to the Eye : And all around this royal Court the Carvings are most bright , With Gold and Glass that there does shine turns Darkness into Light . And now unto the Top I'll climb and walk a little there , And take a View of every Thing that lovely is and fair : I'll put my Prospect to my Eye and first I'll take a View , And then the Beauty's of this Place I'll plainly to you show . And here it is you'll plainly see most pleasant to the Eye , How all around the Bartison the Cannon they does lie . And here it is on the east Hand that pleasant Nith you'll see , On the west Hand with Woods and Boures where Birds sing pleasantly , And on the north Part of this Place there is the Mountains high , And on the south Part of the House the Gardens they does lie . But yet before I do come down I'll take another View , And if any Beauty's I espy I'll tell them all to you : And when I turned myself about some Rarity to see , Then Beauty's rare from every where did dazzle in mine Eye . And on this royal Palace there is sixteen Towers most high , And all upon the Bartison the great led Barrs does lie . But of the outside of the House I think I'll say no mare , For Art and Nature join'd in one none can with it compare : And now I'll go within this Place , Oh who will go with me To see the Beauty's rare and fair and hear the Melody ? For there the Musick-Bells does play most pleasant for to hear , Their Wisdom , Nature , Art and all does in its Prime appear . And from this Music I will go unto the Gallery , Where Beauty's rare from every where did dazzle in mine Eye : And all around this Gallery there Majesties does stand , With Kings and Queen's and crowned Heads the People who command ; Yea all the Nobles of our Land most pleasant to behold , Does stand around this Gallery in Robes of purest Gold : And there his royal Grace does stand with him her Grace also , A nobel Court attending them on their Command to go : Yea all within this Palace rare with Silks and Velvets fine . With Gold embroidered and wrought that makes the Place to shine . And still within this Palace rare the Waters you may see , That still does play most pleasantly and lovely to the Eye ; That from the Fountain still does run all Seasons of the Year , Though from afar by Pipes are brought unto your Hand most near , Yea hear the French Court it does stand as you may plainly see , With Kings and Emperor's who appear in Robes of Majesty . And still the Beauty's of this Place they are so rare and fair , That Time would fail me them to tell therefore I'll say no more , And now I'll take a Walk without anon to take the Air , And view the pleasant Gardens now that lies both fine and fair : And there it is you'll plainly see all Beauty's at a Glance , The seeing of which unto the Blind would make them all to dance . Just as I went the Door without there stands a Dyal rare , And still two Men upholding it upon a pleasant Stair : And down below the Voll'ry is where pleasantly you'll see The charming Birds most pleasantly does sing their Melody : And just before this Stair there stands two great Pavilions high , Two heathen gods with outspread Wings just ready are to fly . And all around this pleasant Place there is a Taris high , With Flour-pots many set in Store the Wall to beautify . And down below this Taris Wall there is two pleasant Boures , Which shades you from the scorching Sun and from tempestuous Showers . And here another Taris is with Grass and Gravel rare ; And down below this Taris grows both Fruits and Flowers most fair , Upon the Right-hand of this Place the east Garden does lie , Where nothing there is to be herd but charming Melody . For there the Harper he does stand assoon as he does hear , He'll tune his Harp and play a Spring the Price he'll ne'er spire . And here it is Diana does with her Gray-hound make sport , And Neptune great the god of Seas the Rivers who resort . And on the Lefthand of this Place the west Garden does stand , Where Herelds great is to be seen the Woods who do command . And there it is the Mar-maid stands with three Men at her Call , And Phoebus rare and Venus fair the Beauty of them all . And just above this pleasant Place the bowling Green does lie , Where Nobles fine appear in State for bowling curiously . And there it is the Ladies does appear in Robes of Gold , Also with them the Damsels young the Sport for to behold . And just beside this bowling Green there stands a pleasant Grove , Where Nymphs resort and Maidens fair for to rehearse their Love . And on the Lefthand of this Place the Wilderness does lie , With Walks and Groves and pleasant Greens where Birds sing pleasantly . In middle of this Wilderness there stands a Basin rare , And one at every Corner set , few can with them compare , And here the Waterworks does play most pleasant for to see , With every Thing that pleasant is and lovely to the Eye . And down below this Wilderness there's the Partare most rare , Where Boras great the Water draws and plays it in the Air . And down below this pleasant Place all Kinds of Flowers appear , In Summer and in Winter both all Seasons of the Year . Yea here it is you'll plainly see all Beauty's in Array , With the Caskcade most pleasantly who doe the Waters play . And down below this fine Caskade there is the Kinnale most rare , With Carpts and Tinch and other Fish both small and great are there Yea all about this royal Place nothing but Wonders are , The Fame of which hath fill'd the Land , brings many from afar To see the Beauty's of this Place and Gardens that does lie , With every Thing that pleasant is and lovely to the Eye . Now by this Time you'll wonder much where such a Place can be , In fair Scotland and Nithisdale there this Palace rare you'll see . Here is a Health to Charles our Duke of princely Majesty , And whoever wants to know who made these Lines most rare , Robert Simson is my Name I am Gardner there . FINIS . And Excellent New Song upon the House and Gardens of DRUMLENRIG . UPon the pleasant Water of Nith there pleasantly does stand A royal Palace beautiful as is in all the Land : For Situation rare and fair and lovely to the Eye , With Woods and [ B ] ours and pleasant Groves around it all does lie . Before this royal Palace there a pleasant Court is seen , A pleasant gravel Walk about a famous oval Green . Upon the Palace Front does stand the Coat of Arms most fair , With flying Horses Heart and Crown just mounting in the Air : And just above the Coat of Arms it's there the Cloak does stand , That every one may know the Hour by looking to the Hand : Also upon this royal Front there Adam and Eve does lie , With them a Guard of Angels great who wait continually ; And down below there Satan stands a Serpent in his Hand , Still tempting Eve the Fruit to pull and answer his Command . And there upon the Pavement stands two Gloudeators rare , With Sword and Targe most curiously acoutred for the War ; And there the War goes boldly on betwixt these Men most strong , But when this War will have and End there is none can tell how long . But in the middle of this Place a Pavement Court does lie , With Marbles rare cut out in Square most lovely to the Eye : And all around this royal Court the Carvings are most bright , With Gold and Glass that there does shine turns Darkness into Light . And now unto the Top I'll climb and walk a little there , And take a View of every Thing that lovely is and fair : I'll put my Prospect to my Eye and first I'll take a View , And then the Beauty's of this Place I'll plainly to you show . And here it is you'll plainly see most pleasant to the Eye , How all around the Bartison the Cannon they does lie . And here it is on the east Hand that pleasant Nith you'll see , On the west Hand with Woods and Boures where Birds sing pleasantly , And on the north Part of this Place there is the Mountains high , And on the south Part of the House the Gardens they does lie . But yet before I do come down I'll take another View , And if any Beauty's I espy I'll tell them all to you : And when I turned myself about some Rarity to see , Then Beauty's rare from every where did dazzle in mine Eye . And on this royal Palace there is sixteen Towers most high , And all upon the Bartison the great led Barrs does lie . But of the outside of the House I think I'll say no mare , For Art and Nature join'd in one none can with it compare : And now I'll go within this Place , Oh who will go with me To see the Beauty's rare and fair and hear the Melody ? For there the Musick-Bells does play most pleasant for to hear , Their Wisdom , Nature , Art and all does in its Prime appear . And from this Music I will go unto the Gallery , Where Beauty's rare from every where did dazzle in mine Eye : And all around this Gallery there Majesties does stand , With Kings and Queen's and crowned Heads the People who command ; Yea all the Nobles of our Land most pleasant to behold , Does stand around this Gallery in Robes of purest Gold : And there his royal Grace does stand with him her Grace also , A nobel Court attending them on their Command to go : Yea all within this Palace rare with Silks and Velvets fine . With Gold embroidered and wrought that makes the Place to shine . And still within this Palace rare the Waters you may see , That still does play most pleasantly and lovely to the Eye ; That from the Fountain still does run all Seasons of the Year , Though from afar by Pipes are brought unto your Hand most near , Yea hear the French Court it does stand as you may plainly see , With Kings and Emperor's who appear in Robes of Majesty . And still the Beauty's of this Place they are so rare and fair , That Time would fail me them to tell therefore I'll say no more , And now I'll take a Walk without anon to take the Air , And view the pleasant Gardens now that lies both fine and fair : And there it is you'll plainly see all Beauty's at a Glance , The seeing of which unto the Blind would make them all to dance . Just as I went the Door without there stands a Dyal rare , And still two Men upholding it upon a pleasant Stair : And down below the Voll'ry is where pleasantly you'll see The charming Birds most pleasantly does sing their Melody : And just before this Stair there stands two great Pavilions high , Two heathen gods with outspread Wings just ready are to fly . And all around this pleasant Place there is a Taris high , With Flour-pots many set in Store the Wall to beautify . And down below this Taris Wall there is two pleasant Boures , Which shades you from the scorching Sun and from tempestuous Showers . And here another Taris is with Grass and Gravel rare ; And down below this Taris grows both Fruits and Flowers most fair , Upon the Right-hand of this Place the east Garden does lie , Where nothing there is to be herd but charming Melody . For there the Harper he does stand assoon as he does hear , He'll tune his Harp and play a Spring the Price he'll ne'er spire . And here it is Diana does with her Gray-hound make sport , And Neptune great the god of Seas the Rivers who resort . And on the Lefthand of this Place the west Garden does stand , Where Herelds great is to be seen the Woods who do command . And there it is the Mar-maid stands with three Men at her Call , And Phoebus rare and Venus fair the Beauty of them all . And just above this pleasant Place the bowling Green does lie , Where Nobles fine appear in State for bowling curiously . And there it is the Ladies does appear in Robes of Gold , Also with them the Damsels young the Sport for to behold . And just beside this bowling Green there stands a pleasant Grove , Where Nymphs resort and Maidens fair for to rehearse their Love . And on the Lefthand of this Place the Wilderness does lie , With Walks and Groves and pleasant Greens where Birds sing pleasantly . In middle of this Wilderness there stands a Basin rare , And one at every Corner set , few can with them compare , And here the Waterworks does play most pleasant for to see , With every Thing that pleasant is and lovely to the Eye . And down below this Wilderness there's the Partare most rare , Where Boras great the Water draws and plays it in the Air . And down below this pleasant Place all Kinds of Flowers appear , In Summer and in Winter both all Seasons of the Year . Yea here it is you'll plainly see all Beauty's in Array , With the Caskcade most pleasantly who doe the Waters play . And down below this fine Caskade there is the Kinnale most rare , With Carpts and Tinch and other Fish both small and great are there Yea all about this royal Place nothing but Wonders are , The Fame of which hath fill'd the Land , brings many from afar To see the Beauty's of this Place and Gardens that does lie , With every Thing that pleasant is and lovely to the Eye . Now by this Time you'll wonder much where such a Place can be , In fair Scotland and Nithisdale there this Palace rare you'll see . Here is a Health to Charles our Duke of princely Majesty , And whoever wants to know who made these Lines most rare , Robert Simson is my Name I am Gardner there . FINIS . 