THE Spanish LADY'S Love to and English Man. To and Excellent Tune . WILL you hear of a Spanish Lady . How she woo'd and English Man ; Garments gay , as rich as may be , Deck'd with Jewels had she on : Of a comely Countenance And Grace was she , Both Birth and Parentage , Of high Degree . As his Prisoner there he kept her , In his Hands her Life did lie : Cupid's Bans did tie them faster , By the twinkling of and Eye : In his courteous Company Was all her Joy , To favour him in any Thing She was not coy . But at last there came Command , For to see all Ladies free , With their Jewels still adorn'd , None to do them injury . Oh! then said this Lady gay , Full woe is me : Oh! let me still sustain this kind Captivity . Gallant Captain , take some pity On a Woman in Distress ; Leave me not within this City , For to die in Heaviness : Thou hast set this present Day My Body free ; But my Heart in Prison still Remains with thee . How shouldst thou fair Lady , love Whom thou know'st thy Country's Foe ? Thy fair Words make me suspect thee , Serpents lie where Flowers grow : All the Harm I think on thee , Most courteous Knight , God grant upon my Head the same May fully light . Blessed be the Time and Season , That you came on Spanish Ground ; If you may our Foes be termed , Gentle Foes we have you found : With our City you have wone Our Hearts each one ; Then to your Country bear away What is our own . Rest you still you gallant Lady , Rest you still and weep no more , Of fair Flowers you have plenty , Spain does yield you wondrous store . Spaniards laugh with Jealousy , We oft does find , But English Men throughout the World Are counted kind . Leave me not unto a Spaniard , Thou alone enjoys my Heart ; I am lovely , young and tender , Love is likewise my desert Still to serve the Day and Night , My Mind is pressed , The Wife of every English Man Is counted blessed . It would be a shame fair Lady , For to bear a Woman hence ; English Soldiers never carry Any without Offence . I will quickly change myself , If it be so , And like a Page will follow thee Where e'er you go . I have neither Gold nor Silver To maintain thee in this Case , And to Travel is great Charges , As you know in every Place . My Chains and Jewels every one , Shall be thy own , And eke and hundred Pound in Gold , That lies unknown . On the Seas are many Dangers , Many Storms do there arise , Which will be to Ladies dreadful , And force tears from their Eyes . Well worth I shall endure Extremely ; For I could find in my Heart to loose My Life for thee . Courteous Lady , leave this Folly , Here comes all that breeds the Strife , I in England have already A sweet Woman to my Wife : I will not falsify my Vow For Gold nor Gain . Nor yet all the fairest Dams That live in Spain . Oh! how happy is that Woman , That enjoys so true a Friend ; Many happy Days God send her And of my Suit I'll make and End : On my Knees I pardon crave For my Offence , Which love and true Affection Did Commence . Commend me to that gallant Lady , Bear to her that Chain of Gold , With these Bracelets for a Token , Grieving that I was so bold : All my Jewels , in like Sort , Take thou with thee ; But they are sitting for thy Wife , But not for me . I will spend my Days in Prayer , Love and all her Laws defy , In a Nunnery I'll shroud me , Far from any Company : But e'er my Prayer have and End , Besure of this , To pray for thee and for thy Love , I will not miss . Thus farewell , most gallant Captain , Farewell to my Heart's content , Count not Spanish Ladies wanton , Though to thee my Mind was bent . Joy and true Prosperity , Remain with thee : The like fallen unto thy Share , Most fair Lady . THE Spanish LADY'S Love to and English Man. To and Excellent Tune . WILL you hear of a Spanish Lady . How she woo'd and English Man ; Garments gay , as rich as may be , Deck'd with Jewels had she on : Of a comely Countenance And Grace was she , Both Birth and Parentage , Of high Degree . As his Prisoner there he kept her , In his Hands her Life did lie : Cupid's Bans did tie them faster , By the twinkling of and Eye : In his courteous Company Was all her Joy , To favour him in any Thing She was not coy . But at last there came Command , For to see all Ladies free , With their Jewels still adorn'd , None to do them injury . Oh! then said this Lady gay , Full woe is me : Oh! let me still sustain this kind Captivity . Gallant Captain , take some pity On a Woman in Distress ; Leave me not within this City , For to die in Heaviness : Thou hast set this present Day My Body free ; But my Heart in Prison still Remains with thee . How shouldst thou fair Lady , love Whom thou know'st thy Country's Foe ? Thy fair Words make me suspect thee , Serpents lie where Flowers grow : All the Harm I think on thee , Most courteous Knight , God grant upon my Head the same May fully light . Blessed be the Time and Season , That you came on Spanish Ground ; If you may our Foes be termed , Gentle Foes we have you found : With our City you have wone Our Hearts each one ; Then to your Country bear away What is our own . Rest you still you gallant Lady , Rest you still and weep no more , Of fair Flowers you have plenty , Spain does yield you wondrous store . Spaniards laugh with Jealousy , We oft does find , But English Men throughout the World Are counted kind . Leave me not unto a Spaniard , Thou alone enjoys my Heart ; I am lovely , young and tender , Love is likewise my desert Still to serve the Day and Night , My Mind is pressed , The Wife of every English Man Is counted blessed . It would be a shame fair Lady , For to bear a Woman hence ; English Soldiers never carry Any without Offence . I will quickly change myself , If it be so , And like a Page will follow thee Where e'er you go . I have neither Gold nor Silver To maintain thee in this Case , And to Travel is great Charges , As you know in every Place . My Chains and Jewels every one , Shall be thy own , And eke and hundred Pound in Gold , That lies unknown . On the Seas are many Dangers , Many Storms do there arise , Which will be to Ladies dreadful , And force tears from their Eyes . Well worth I shall endure Extremely ; For I could find in my Heart to loose My Life for thee . Courteous Lady , leave this Folly , Here comes all that breeds the Strife , I in England have already A sweet Woman to my Wife : I will not falsify my Vow For Gold nor Gain . Nor yet all the fairest Dams That live in Spain . Oh! how happy is that Woman , That enjoys so true a Friend ; Many happy Days God send her And of my Suit I'll make and End : On my Knees I pardon crave For my Offence , Which love and true Affection Did Commence . Commend me to that gallant Lady , Bear to her that Chain of Gold , With these Bracelets for a Token , Grieving that I was so bold : All my Jewels , in like Sort , Take thou with thee ; But they are sitting for thy Wife , But not for me . I will spend my Days in Prayer , Love and all her Laws defy , In a Nunnery I'll shroud me , Far from any Company : But e'er my Prayer have and End , Besure of this , To pray for thee and for thy Love , I will not miss . Thus farewell , most gallant Captain , Farewell to my Heart's content , Count not Spanish Ladies wanton , Though to thee my Mind was bent . Joy and true Prosperity , Remain with thee : The like fallen unto thy Share , Most fair Lady . 