The Distracted Maids Lamentation . YOUNG Maidens all prey pity me , And think of my Extremity , My Love is pressed and gone to Sea , While I am confined in Misery . I am confined in Bedlam you see , With Iron Fetters that are strong , And till my Love Returns from Sea , My Parents they have done me Wrong . My Chains they Rattle Day and Night , My Parents they sent me out of Spite , Because my Love was forced to Sea , To fight against his Enemy . O could I but my Love espy . Swiftly into his Arms I'd fly , And tell him of my Grief and Woe , The Sorrows that I undergo . But if he chance to be slave , Or by his Enemies be taken , Oh then my Heart would burst in twain , I ne'er shall see my Love again . O then my Parents would be pleased , To think he's buried in the Seas , Perhaps he may Return again , And bring me Riches out of Spain . O Pity me you Powers above , Grant that once more I see my Love , To heal me of my grief and Woe , The sorrow which I undergo . But if I have not some Relief . Quickly my tender Art will break , She had no sooner spoke but cries , And so she laid her down and die . The ANSWER . YOung Billy coming home from Sea , Thinking his own true Love to see , Unto her Father's House he goes , Inquiring for his Lovely Rose . Her Father Answering with a frown , He said my Daughters out of Town , I pray unto your Ship Repair , For sure you have no Business here . A Neighbour happened to stand by , Immediately made this Reply , In BEDLAM there she was confined , And for your Sake alone confined . O then he said Revenged I'll be , Uyon her Father's Cruelty , Then from his Pocket drew a Knife . He soon did end her Father's Life . Then strait he run unto the Grave , Wherein his own true Love was laid , And with the same sharp Bloody Knife , He soon did End his Precious Life . Unto you Parents all I write Ne'er strive your Children for to spite , Ne'er Cross them in their Love I pray For fear you Rue another Day . The Bedlam keeper being there , Hearing of all they did declare , With Pen and Ink he took it down , And sent it to her Friends in Town . FINIS . The Distracted Maids Lamentation . YOUNG Maidens all prey pity me , And think of my Extremity , My Love is pressed and gone to Sea , While I am confined in Misery . I am confined in Bedlam you see , With Iron Fetters that are strong , And till my Love Returns from Sea , My Parents they have done me Wrong . My Chains they Rattle Day and Night , My Parents they sent me out of Spite , Because my Love was forced to Sea , To fight against his Enemy . O could I but my Love espy . Swiftly into his Arms I'd fly , And tell him of my Grief and Woe , The Sorrows that I undergo . But if he chance to be slave , Or by his Enemies be taken , Oh then my Heart would burst in twain , I ne'er shall see my Love again . O then my Parents would be pleased , To think he's buried in the Seas , Perhaps he may Return again , And bring me Riches out of Spain . O Pity me you Powers above , Grant that once more I see my Love , To heal me of my grief and Woe , The sorrow which I undergo . But if I have not some Relief . Quickly my tender Art will break , She had no sooner spoke but cries , And so she laid her down and die . The ANSWER . YOung Billy coming home from Sea , Thinking his own true Love to see , Unto her Father's House he goes , Inquiring for his Lovely Rose . Her Father Answering with a frown , He said my Daughters out of Town , I pray unto your Ship Repair , For sure you have no Business here . A Neighbour happened to stand by , Immediately made this Reply , In BEDLAM there she was confined , And for your Sake alone confined . O then he said Revenged I'll be , Uyon her Father's Cruelty , Then from his Pocket drew a Knife . He soon did end her Father's Life . Then strait he run unto the Grave , Wherein his own true Love was laid , And with the same sharp Bloody Knife , He soon did End his Precious Life . Unto you Parents all I write Ne'er strive your Children for to spite , Ne'er Cross them in their Love I pray For fear you Rue another Day . The Bedlam keeper being there , Hearing of all they did declare , With Pen and Ink he took it down , And sent it to her Friends in Town . FINIS . 