The Honour of a LONDON PRENTICE . Being and Account of his matchless Manhood and brave Adventures done in Turkey , and by what means he married the King's Daughter , etc To the Tune of , All you that love Goodfellows , etc OF a worthy London Prentice , my purpose is to speak , And tell his brave adventures , done for his Country sake ; Seek all the world about , and you shall hardly find , A man in valour to exceed a prentice gallant mind : He was born in Cheshire , the chief of men was he , From thence brought up to London , a prentice for to be ; A merchant on the bridge , did like his service so , That for three years his factor , to Turkey he should go . And in that famous country , one year he had not been , E're he by tilt maintained the honour of his Queen ; Elizabeth the Princess , he nobly did make known , To be the Phoenix of the world . and none but she alone . In armour richly guilded , well mounted on a steed , One score of Knights most hardy , one day he made to bleed ; And brought them all to ground , who proudly did deny , Elizabeth to be the Pearl of Princely Majesty . The King of that same country thereat began to frown , And will'd his son , there present , to pull this youngster down ; Who at his father's words , these boasting speeches said , 'Thou art a traitor , English boy , 'and hast the traitor played . 'I am no boy nor traitor , 'thy speeches I defy , 'For which i'll be revenged 'upon thee by and by 'A London Prentice still 'shall prove as good a man , 'As any of your Turkish Knights , 'do all the best you can . And therewithal he gave him a box upon the ear , Which broke his neck asunder , as plainly does appear : 'Now know proud Turk , quoth he , 'I am no English boy , 'That can with one small box o'th ear 'the Prince of Turks destroy . When as the King perceived his son so strangely slave , His soul was soar afflicted with more then mortal pain ; And in revenge thereof , he swore that he should die , The cruel'st death that ever man beheld with mortal eye . Two lyons were prepared this Prentice to devour , Near famish'd up with hunger ten days within the tower , To make them more fierce and eager of their prey , To glut themselves with human gore upon this dreadful day . The appointed time of torment at length grew near at hand , Where all the noble Ladies and Barons of the land Attended on the King , to see this Prentice slave , And buried in the hungry maws of these fierce lyons twain . Then in his shirt of cambrick , with silk most richly wrought , This worthy London Prentice was from the prison brought , And to the lyons given to staunch their hunger great , Which had not eat in ten days space not one small bit of meat . But God that knows all secrets , the matter so contriv'd , That by this young man's valour they were of life depriv'd ; For being faint for food , they scarcely could withstand The nob [ l ] e force , and fortitude , and courage of his hand : For when the hungry lyons had cast on him their eyes , The elements did thunder with the echo of their cries ; And running all amain his body to devour , Into their throats he thrust his arms , with all his might and power ; From thence by manly valour their hearts he tore in sunder , And at the King he threw them , to all the peoples wonder : 'This have I done , quoth he , 'for lovely England's sake , 'And for my Country's Maiden Queen 'much more will undertake . But when the King perceived his wrothful lyons hearts , Afflicted with great terror , his rigor soon reverts ; And turned all his hate into remorse and love , And said , 'It is some angel 'sent down from heaven above . 'No , no , I am no angel , the courteous young man said , 'But born in famous England , 'where God's Word is obey'd ; 'Assisted by the heavens , 'who did me thus befriend , 'Or else they had most cruelly 'brought here my life to end . The King in heart amazed , lift up his eyes to heaven , And for his foul offences , did crave to be forgiven : Believing that no land like England may be seen , No people better governed by virtue of a Queen . So taking up this young man , he pardon'd him his life , And gave his daughter to him to be his wedded wife , Where then they did remain , and live in quiet peace , In spending of their happy days in joy and love's increase . London Printed by and for W.O. and sold by the Booksellers of Pie-corner and London-bridge . The Honour of a LONDON PRENTICE . Being and Account of his matchless Manhood and brave Adventures done in Turkey , and by what means he married the King's Daughter , etc To the Tune of , All you that love Goodfellows , etc OF a worthy London Prentice , my purpose is to speak , And tell his brave adventures , done for his Country sake ; Seek all the world about , and you shall hardly find , A man in valour to exceed a prentice gallant mind : He was born in Cheshire , the chief of men was he , From thence brought up to London , a prentice for to be ; A merchant on the bridge , did like his service so , That for three years his factor , to Turkey he should go . And in that famous country , one year he had not been , E're he by tilt maintained the honour of his Queen ; Elizabeth the Princess , he nobly did make known , To be the Phoenix of the world . and none but she alone . In armour richly guilded , well mounted on a steed , One score of Knights most hardy , one day he made to bleed ; And brought them all to ground , who proudly did deny , Elizabeth to be the Pearl of Princely Majesty . The King of that same country thereat began to frown , And will'd his son , there present , to pull this youngster down ; Who at his father's words , these boasting speeches said , 'Thou art a traitor , English boy , 'and hast the traitor played . 'I am no boy nor traitor , 'thy speeches I defy , 'For which i'll be revenged 'upon thee by and by 'A London Prentice still 'shall prove as good a man , 'As any of your Turkish Knights , 'do all the best you can . And therewithal he gave him a box upon the ear , Which broke his neck asunder , as plainly does appear : 'Now know proud Turk , quoth he , 'I am no English boy , 'That can with one small box o'th ear 'the Prince of Turks destroy . When as the King perceived his son so strangely slave , His soul was soar afflicted with more then mortal pain ; And in revenge thereof , he swore that he should die , The cruel'st death that ever man beheld with mortal eye . Two lyons were prepared this Prentice to devour , Near famish'd up with hunger ten days within the tower , To make them more fierce and eager of their prey , To glut themselves with human gore upon this dreadful day . The appointed time of torment at length grew near at hand , Where all the noble Ladies and Barons of the land Attended on the King , to see this Prentice slave , And buried in the hungry maws of these fierce lyons twain . Then in his shirt of cambrick , with silk most richly wrought , This worthy London Prentice was from the prison brought , And to the lyons given to staunch their hunger great , Which had not eat in ten days space not one small bit of meat . But God that knows all secrets , the matter so contriv'd , That by this young man's valour they were of life depriv'd ; For being faint for food , they scarcely could withstand The nob [ l ] e force , and fortitude , and courage of his hand : For when the hungry lyons had cast on him their eyes , The elements did thunder with the echo of their cries ; And running all amain his body to devour , Into their throats he thrust his arms , with all his might and power ; From thence by manly valour their hearts he tore in sunder , And at the King he threw them , to all the peoples wonder : 'This have I done , quoth he , 'for lovely England's sake , 'And for my Country's Maiden Queen 'much more will undertake . But when the King perceived his wrothful lyons hearts , Afflicted with great terror , his rigor soon reverts ; And turned all his hate into remorse and love , And said , 'It is some angel 'sent down from heaven above . 'No , no , I am no angel , the courteous young man said , 'But born in famous England , 'where God's Word is obey'd ; 'Assisted by the heavens , 'who did me thus befriend , 'Or else they had most cruelly 'brought here my life to end . The King in heart amazed , lift up his eyes to heaven , And for his foul offences , did crave to be forgiven : Believing that no land like England may be seen , No people better governed by virtue of a Queen . So taking up this young man , he pardon'd him his life , And gave his daughter to him to be his wedded wife , Where then they did remain , and live in quiet peace , In spending of their happy days in joy and love's increase . London Printed by and for W.O. and sold by the Booksellers of Pie-corner and London-bridge . 