THE LAMENTATION OF Mr. Page's Wife of Plymouth , who being forced to wed him , consented to his Murder , for the Love of Mr. George Strangwidge , for which they suffer'd Death at Barnstaple in Devonshire . To the Tune of , Fortune my Foe , etc UNHAPPY she whom Fortune hath forlorn , Despised Grace , that proffer'd Grace did scorn : My lawless Love hath luckless wrought my Woe , My discontent , Content did overthrow . My loathed Life too late I do lament , My woeful Deeds in Heart I do repent ; A Wife I was that wilful went a wry , And for that Fault am here prepar'd to die . In blooming Years my Father's greedy Mind , Against my Will , a Match for me did find : Great Wealth there was ; yea , Gold and Silver store , But yet my Heart had chosen one before . Mine Eyes dislik'd my Father's Liking quite , My Heart did loath my Parent's found Delight ; My greedy Mind and Fancy told to me , That with his Age my Youth could not agree . On Knees I pray'd they would not me constrain , With Tears I cry'd their Purpose to refrain , With Sighs and Sobs I did them often move , I might not wed whereas I could not love . But all in vain my Speeches still I spent , My Mother's Will my Wishes did preven Tho' wealthy Page possess'd the outward Part , George Strangwidge still was lodged in my Heart . I wedded was , and wrapped all in Woe , Great Discontent within my Heart did grow : I loath'd to live , yet liv'd in deadly Strife , Because by Force I was made Page's Wife . My chosen Eyes could not his Sighed abide , My tender Youth did loath his aged Side : Scarce could I taste the Meat whereon he fed ; My Legs did loath to lodge within his Bed. Cause knew I none I should despise him so , But such Disdain within my Heart did grow ; Save only this , that Fancy did me move , And told me still George Strangwidge was my Love . Lo , here began my Downfall and Decay , In Mind I mus'd to make him straight away : I , that became a discontented Wife , Contented was he should be rid of Life . Methinks the Heav'ns call Vengeance for my Fact , Methinks the World condemns my monstrous Act ; Methinks within my Conscience tells me true , That for this Deed Hell-fire is my endue . My pensive Soul does sorrow for my since , For which Offence my Soul does bleed within : But Mercy , Lord , for Mercy I do cry , Save thou , my Soul , and let my Body die . Well could I wish that Page enjoy'd his Life , So that he had some other to his Wife : But never could I wish of low or high , A longer Life than see sweet Strangwidge die . O woe is me ! that had no greater Grace , To stay till he had run out Nature's Raze : My Deeds I rue , but more I do repent , That to the same my Strangwidge gave Consent . You Parents found that greedy minded be , And seek to grafted upon the golden Tree ; Consider well , and rightful Judges be , And give your Doom 'twixt Parent's Love and me . I was their Child , and bound for to obey ; Yet not to love , where I no Love could lay : I married was in much sad endless Strife , But Faith before had made me Strangwidge's Wife . O wretched World , whom canker'd Rust does blind , And cursed Men who bear a greedy Mind ; And hapless I whom Parents did force so , To end my Days in Sorrow , Shame , and Wo. You Devonshire Dams , and courteous Cornwal Knights , That here are come to visit woeful Wights , Regard my Grief , and mark my woeful End , And to your Children be a better Friend . And thou , my Dear , which for my Fault must die , Be not afraid the Sting of Death to try : Like as we liv'd and lov'd together true , So both at once let's bid the World adieu . Ulalia , thy Friend , does take her last Farewell , Whose Soul with thee in Heav'n shall ever dwell . Sweet Saviour Christ do thou my Soul receive , The World I do with all my Heart forgive . And Parents now , whose greedy Minds does show , Your Heart's Desire , and inward heavy Woe ; Mourn you no more , for now my Heart does tell Ere Day be done , my Soul shall be full well . And Plymouth proud , I bid thee now farewell ; Take heed you Wives , let not your Hands rebel : And farewell Life , wherein such Sorrow shows , And welcome Death that does my Corpse enclose . And now sweet Lord forgive me my Misdeeds , Repentance cries for my Soul that inward bleeds : My Soul and Body I commend to thee , That with thy Blood from Death redeemed me . Lord bless our King with long and happy Life , And send true Peace betwixt each Man and Wife ; And give all Parents Wisdom to foresee , The Match is marr'd where Minds do not agree . Mrs. PAGE's COMPLAINT For causing her Husband to be murdered for the Love of Mr. George Strangwidge . IF ever Woe did touch a Woman's Heart , Or Grief did gall for since the outward Part ; My Conscience then , and heavy Heart within , Can witness well the Sorrow for my Sin. When Years were young , my Father forc'd me to wed Against my Will , where Fancy was not fed : I was content their Pleasure to obey , Altho' my Heart was link'd another Way . Great were the Gifts they proffer'd in my Sighed , With Wealth they thought to win me to Delight ; But Gold nor Gifts my Mind could not remove , For I was link'd whereas I could not love . Methought his Sighed was loathsome to my Eye , My Heart did grudge against him inwardly : 'Tis Discontent did cause my deadly Strife , And with his Wealth did cause a grievous Life . My constant Love was on young Strangwidge set , And Woe to him that did our Welfare let . His Love so deep a Root in me did take , I would have gone a begging for his Sake . Wronged he was thro' found Desire of Gain , Wronged he was even thro' my Parents Plain : If Faith and Troth a perfect Pledge might be , I had been Wife unto no Man but he . Eternal God forgive my Father's Deed , And grant all Parents may take better heed ; If I had been but constant to my Friend , I had not match'd to make so bad and End. But wanting Grace , I sought my own decay , And was the Cause to make my Friend away ; And he on whom my earthly Joys did lie , Through my amiss , a shameful Death must die . Farewell , sweet George , always my loving Friend , Needs must I laud , and love thee to the End : And albeit that Page possess'd by Due , In sighed of God thou was my Husband true . My watery Eyes unto the Heavens I bend , Craving of Christ his Mercy to extend : My bloody Deed , do me , Oh Lord , forgive , And let my Soul within thy Kingdom live . Farewell , false World , and Friends that fickle be , All Wives farewell , example take by me , Let not the Devil to murder you entice , Seek for to escape such foul and sinful Vice . And now , Oh Christ , to thee I yield my Breath , Strengthen my Faith in bitter Pangs of Death ; Pardon my Faults and Follies , I thee pray , And with thy Blood wash thou my Sins away . Mr. GEORGE STRANGWIDGE'S LAMENTATION For consenting to Mr. PAGE's Death , for the Love of Mrs. Ulalia , Mr. Page's Wife . THE Man that sighs and sorrows for his since , The Corpse with care and woe hath wrapped in , In doleful Sort records her Swain-like Song , That waits for Death , and loathes to live so long . O Glansfield ! cause of my committed Crime , So wed in Wealth , as Birds in Bush of Lime : What Cause had thou to bear such wicked spite Against my Love , and eke my Heart's delight ? I would to God thy Wisdom had been more , Or that I had not enter'd into thy Door ; Or that thou hadst a kinder Father been Unto thy Child , whose Years they are but green . The Match unmeet , which thou for me didst make , When aged Page , thy Daughter home did take : Well may'st thou rue with Tears that cannot dry , Which is the Cause that Four of us must die . Ulalia more brighter than the Summer's Sun , Whose Beauty hath for ever my Love wone : My Soul more sobs to think of thy Disgrace , Than to behold my own untimely Raze . The Deed , late done , in Heart I do repent , But that I lov'd , I cannot yet relen Thy seemly Sighed was ever sweet to me , Would God my Death could thy Excuser be . It was for me , alas ! thou didst the same , On me by right they ought to lay the Blame : My worthless Love hath brought my Life in scorn , And woe is me that ever I was born ! Farewell ! my Love , whose loyal Heart was seen , I would thou hadst not half so constant been : Farewell ! my Love , the Pride of Plymouth Town , Farewell ! the Flower , whose Beauty is cut down . For twenty Years great was the cost I know , Thy unkind Father did on the bestow : Yet afterwards so sour did Fortune lower , He THE LAMENTATION OF Mr. Page's Wife of Plymouth , who being forced to wed him , consented to his Murder , for the Love of Mr. George Strangwidge , for which they suffer'd Death at Barnstaple in Devonshire . To the Tune of , Fortune my Foe , etc UNHAPPY she whom Fortune hath forlorn , Despised Grace , that proffer'd Grace did scorn : My lawless Love hath luckless wrought my Woe , My discontent , Content did overthrow . My loathed Life too late I do lament , My woeful Deeds in Heart I do repent ; A Wife I was that wilful went a wry , And for that Fault am here prepar'd to die . In blooming Years my Father's greedy Mind , Against my Will , a Match for me did find : Great Wealth there was ; yea , Gold and Silver store , But yet my Heart had chosen one before . Mine Eyes dislik'd my Father's Liking quite , My Heart did loath my Parent's found Delight ; My greedy Mind and Fancy told to me , That with his Age my Youth could not agree . On Knees I pray'd they would not me constrain , With Tears I cry'd their Purpose to refrain , With Sighs and Sobs I did them often move , I might not wed whereas I could not love . But all in vain my Speeches still I spent , My Mother's Will my Wishes did preven Tho' wealthy Page possess'd the outward Part , George Strangwidge still was lodged in my Heart . I wedded was , and wrapped all in Woe , Great Discontent within my Heart did grow : I loath'd to live , yet liv'd in deadly Strife , Because by Force I was made Page's Wife . My chosen Eyes could not his Sighed abide , My tender Youth did loath his aged Side : Scarce could I taste the Meat whereon he fed ; My Legs did loath to lodge within his Bed. Cause knew I none I should despise him so , But such Disdain within my Heart did grow ; Save only this , that Fancy did me move , And told me still George Strangwidge was my Love . Lo , here began my Downfall and Decay , In Mind I mus'd to make him straight away : I , that became a discontented Wife , Contented was he should be rid of Life . Methinks the Heav'ns call Vengeance for my Fact , Methinks the World condemns my monstrous Act ; Methinks within my Conscience tells me true , That for this Deed Hell-fire is my endue . My pensive Soul does sorrow for my since , For which Offence my Soul does bleed within : But Mercy , Lord , for Mercy I do cry , Save thou , my Soul , and let my Body die . Well could I wish that Page enjoy'd his Life , So that he had some other to his Wife : But never could I wish of low or high , A longer Life than see sweet Strangwidge die . O woe is me ! that had no greater Grace , To stay till he had run out Nature's Raze : My Deeds I rue , but more I do repent , That to the same my Strangwidge gave Consent . You Parents found that greedy minded be , And seek to grafted upon the golden Tree ; Consider well , and rightful Judges be , And give your Doom 'twixt Parent's Love and me . I was their Child , and bound for to obey ; Yet not to love , where I no Love could lay : I married was in much sad endless Strife , But Faith before had made me Strangwidge's Wife . O wretched World , whom canker'd Rust does blind , And cursed Men who bear a greedy Mind ; And hapless I whom Parents did force so , To end my Days in Sorrow , Shame , and Wo. You Devonshire Dams , and courteous Cornwal Knights , That here are come to visit woeful Wights , Regard my Grief , and mark my woeful End , And to your Children be a better Friend . And thou , my Dear , which for my Fault must die , Be not afraid the Sting of Death to try : Like as we liv'd and lov'd together true , So both at once let's bid the World adieu . Ulalia , thy Friend , does take her last Farewell , Whose Soul with thee in Heav'n shall ever dwell . Sweet Saviour Christ do thou my Soul receive , The World I do with all my Heart forgive . And Parents now , whose greedy Minds does show , Your Heart's Desire , and inward heavy Woe ; Mourn you no more , for now my Heart does tell Ere Day be done , my Soul shall be full well . And Plymouth proud , I bid thee now farewell ; Take heed you Wives , let not your Hands rebel : And farewell Life , wherein such Sorrow shows , And welcome Death that does my Corpse enclose . And now sweet Lord forgive me my Misdeeds , Repentance cries for my Soul that inward bleeds : My Soul and Body I commend to thee , That with thy Blood from Death redeemed me . Lord bless our King with long and happy Life , And send true Peace betwixt each Man and Wife ; And give all Parents Wisdom to foresee , The Match is marr'd where Minds do not agree . Mrs. PAGE's COMPLAINT For causing her Husband to be murdered for the Love of Mr. George Strangwidge . IF ever Woe did touch a Woman's Heart , Or Grief did gall for since the outward Part ; My Conscience then , and heavy Heart within , Can witness well the Sorrow for my Sin. When Years were young , my Father forc'd me to wed Against my Will , where Fancy was not fed : I was content their Pleasure to obey , Altho' my Heart was link'd another Way . Great were the Gifts they proffer'd in my Sighed , With Wealth they thought to win me to Delight ; But Gold nor Gifts my Mind could not remove , For I was link'd whereas I could not love . Methought his Sighed was loathsome to my Eye , My Heart did grudge against him inwardly : 'Tis Discontent did cause my deadly Strife , And with his Wealth did cause a grievous Life . My constant Love was on young Strangwidge set , And Woe to him that did our Welfare let . His Love so deep a Root in me did take , I would have gone a begging for his Sake . Wronged he was thro' found Desire of Gain , Wronged he was even thro' my Parents Plain : If Faith and Troth a perfect Pledge might be , I had been Wife unto no Man but he . Eternal God forgive my Father's Deed , And grant all Parents may take better heed ; If I had been but constant to my Friend , I had not match'd to make so bad and End. But wanting Grace , I sought my own decay , And was the Cause to make my Friend away ; And he on whom my earthly Joys did lie , Through my amiss , a shameful Death must die . Farewell , sweet George , always my loving Friend , Needs must I laud , and love thee to the End : And albeit that Page possess'd by Due , In sighed of God thou was my Husband true . My watery Eyes unto the Heavens I bend , Craving of Christ his Mercy to extend : My bloody Deed , do me , Oh Lord , forgive , And let my Soul within thy Kingdom live . Farewell , false World , and Friends that fickle be , All Wives farewell , example take by me , Let not the Devil to murder you entice , Seek for to escape such foul and sinful Vice . And now , Oh Christ , to thee I yield my Breath , Strengthen my Faith in bitter Pangs of Death ; Pardon my Faults and Follies , I thee pray , And with thy Blood wash thou my Sins away . Mr. GEORGE STRANGWIDGE'S LAMENTATION For consenting to Mr. PAGE's Death , for the Love of Mrs. Ulalia , Mr. Page's Wife . THE Man that sighs and sorrows for his since , The Corpse with care and woe hath wrapped in , In doleful Sort records her Swain-like Song , That waits for Death , and loathes to live so long . O Glansfield ! cause of my committed Crime , So wed in Wealth , as Birds in Bush of Lime : What Cause had thou to bear such wicked spite Against my Love , and eke my Heart's delight ? I would to God thy Wisdom had been more , Or that I had not enter'd into thy Door ; Or that thou hadst a kinder Father been Unto thy Child , whose Years they are but green . The Match unmeet , which thou for me didst make , When aged Page , thy Daughter home did take : Well may'st thou rue with Tears that cannot dry , Which is the Cause that Four of us must die . Ulalia more brighter than the Summer's Sun , Whose Beauty hath for ever my Love wone : My Soul more sobs to think of thy Disgrace , Than to behold my own untimely Raze . The Deed , late done , in Heart I do repent , But that I lov'd , I cannot yet relen Thy seemly Sighed was ever sweet to me , Would God my Death could thy Excuser be . It was for me , alas ! thou didst the same , On me by right they ought to lay the Blame : My worthless Love hath brought my Life in scorn , And woe is me that ever I was born ! Farewell ! my Love , whose loyal Heart was seen , I would thou hadst not half so constant been : Farewell ! my Love , the Pride of Plymouth Town , Farewell ! the Flower , whose Beauty is cut down . For twenty Years great was the cost I know , Thy unkind Father did on the bestow : Yet afterwards so sour did Fortune lower , He lost his Joy and Child within and Hour . My wrong and woe to God I do commit , Who was the Cause of matching them unfit ? And yet I cannot so my Gilded excuse , We gave Consent his Life for to abuse . Wretch that I am , that my Consent did give , Had I deny'd , Ulalia still would live ; Blind Fancy said , This Suit do not deny , Live thou in Bliss , or else in Sorrow die . O Lord , forgive this cruel Deed of mine , Unto my Soul let Beams of Mercy shine : In Justice Lord , do thou not Vengeance take , Forgive us both for Jesus Christ his Sake . Newcastle upon Tyne : Printed and Sold by JOHN WHITE . lost his Joy and Child within and Hour . My wrong and woe to God I do commit , Who was the Cause of matching them unfit ? And yet I cannot so my Gilded excuse , We gave Consent his Life for to abuse . Wretch that I am , that my Consent did give , Had I deny'd , Ulalia still would live ; Blind Fancy said , This Suit do not deny , Live thou in Bliss , or else in Sorrow die . O Lord , forgive this cruel Deed of mine , Unto my Soul let Beams of Mercy shine : In Justice Lord , do thou not Vengeance take , Forgive us both for Jesus Christ his Sake . Newcastle upon Tyne : Printed and Sold by JOHN WHITE . 