The Frolicsome Spark . A NEW SONG . you frolicsome sparks of the game , You misers both wretched and old , Come listen to Billy by name , Who once had his hat full of gold : And seven score acres of land , With corn and cattle in store , But now I have none at command , Yet my heart is as gay as before . My father was clothed in leather , My mother in sheep russel gray , They labour'd in all sorts of weather , That I might go gallant and gay ; With my rapier hat mounted with feather My heart too as light as a cork , And what the old folks scrap'd together , I spread it abroad with my fork . The merchant who trades on the sea , For riches you very well know , His heart can ne'er be at ease , When terrible tempests do blow ; His happiness is v [ e ] rry small , For fear of some terrible news , But he that has god nothing at all , Has little or nothing to loose . Shou'd they make me a justice of peace , And alderman , sheriff , or lord mayor , With riches my cares would increase , And throw me quite into despair ; I love to be jolly and free , I'll ne'er be concern'd in the state , My mind is a kingdom to me , There's danger in being too great . Some say that care kill'd a cat , It starv'd her and caus'd her to die ; But I will be wiser then that , For the devil a care will have I , But to toss of a jolly full bowl , To drive away sorrow and strife , Here's a health to that honest brave soul , Who never knew care in his life . The Frolicsome Spark . A NEW SONG . you frolicsome sparks of the game , You misers both wretched and old , Come listen to Billy by name , Who once had his hat full of gold : And seven score acres of land , With corn and cattle in store , But now I have none at command , Yet my heart is as gay as before . My father was clothed in leather , My mother in sheep russel gray , They labour'd in all sorts of weather , That I might go gallant and gay ; With my rapier hat mounted with feather My heart too as light as a cork , And what the old folks scrap'd together , I spread it abroad with my fork . The merchant who trades on the sea , For riches you very well know , His heart can ne'er be at ease , When terrible tempests do blow ; His happiness is v [ e ] rry small , For fear of some terrible news , But he that has god nothing at all , Has little or nothing to loose . Shou'd they make me a justice of peace , And alderman , sheriff , or lord mayor , With riches my cares would increase , And throw me quite into despair ; I love to be jolly and free , I'll ne'er be concern'd in the state , My mind is a kingdom to me , There's danger in being too great . Some say that care kill'd a cat , It starv'd her and caus'd her to die ; But I will be wiser then that , For the devil a care will have I , But to toss of a jolly full bowl , To drive away sorrow and strife , Here's a health to that honest brave soul , Who never knew care in his life . 