King Charles the Second's Restoration , Tune , Where have you been my lovely Sailor bold . YOU brave loyal Churchmen , That ever stood by the crown , Have you forgotten that noble Prince , Great Charles of high renown , That from his rights was banish'd , By P ------ ns who , Most cruelly his father kill'd , Oh cursed damned crew , So let the Bells' in Steeples ring , and music sweetly play , That loyal tories mayn't forget , The twenty ninth of May , Twelve years was he banish'd , From what was his just due , And forc'd to hide in fields and woods From P ------ n crew , But God did preserve him , As plainly you do see , The blood hounds did surround the Oak . While he was in the tree , So let the bells' in Steeples ring , And Music sweetly play , That loyal tories may not forget , The twenty ninth of May . As providence would have it , The hounds did loose their scent , To spill the blood of this brave Prince It was their whole intent , While that he was in exile , The church they pulled down , The common prayer they burned sir , And trampled on the crown So let , etc They plunder'd at their pleasure , On lords estates they siez'd , The bishops they did send away , They did just as they pleas'd : But General Monk at last rose up , With valiant hearts so bold , Saying , that he no longer , By them would be controul'd . So let , etc So in great splendour , At last he did bring in , Unto every Tories joy , Great Charles our sovereign ; Then loyal hearts so merry , the royal oak did wear , While balconies with tapestry hung , Nothing but joy was there . So let , etc The conduits they with wine did run , the bonfires did blaze , In every street likewise the skies , did right with loud huzzas . Saying God bless our Sovereign , and send him long to reign , Hoping the P ------ n crew , may never rule again . So let , etc Soon as great Charles Our royal king was crown'd , He built the church up again , the meetings were pull'd down . No canting then was in the land , the subject's were at peace , The church again did flourish , and joy did then increase . So let , etc The cursed P ------ n crew , was then put to the flight , Some did fly by day , and others run by night , In barns and stables they did cant , and every place they could , He made them remember , the spilling royal blood . So let , etc May God for ever , bless the church and crown , And never let any subject strive , the king for to dethrone , May churchmen ever flourish , and peace increase again , God for ever bless the king , and send him long to reign , So let , etc King Charles the Second's Restoration , Tune , Where have you been my lovely Sailor bold . YOU brave loyal Churchmen , That ever stood by the crown , Have you forgotten that noble Prince , Great Charles of high renown , That from his rights was banish'd , By P ------ ns who , Most cruelly his father kill'd , Oh cursed damned crew , So let the Bells' in Steeples ring , and music sweetly play , That loyal tories mayn't forget , The twenty ninth of May , Twelve years was he banish'd , From what was his just due , And forc'd to hide in fields and woods From P ------ n crew , But God did preserve him , As plainly you do see , The blood hounds did surround the Oak . While he was in the tree , So let the bells' in Steeples ring , And Music sweetly play , That loyal tories may not forget , The twenty ninth of May . As providence would have it , The hounds did loose their scent , To spill the blood of this brave Prince It was their whole intent , While that he was in exile , The church they pulled down , The common prayer they burned sir , And trampled on the crown So let , etc They plunder'd at their pleasure , On lords estates they siez'd , The bishops they did send away , They did just as they pleas'd : But General Monk at last rose up , With valiant hearts so bold , Saying , that he no longer , By them would be controul'd . So let , etc So in great splendour , At last he did bring in , Unto every Tories joy , Great Charles our sovereign ; Then loyal hearts so merry , the royal oak did wear , While balconies with tapestry hung , Nothing but joy was there . So let , etc The conduits they with wine did run , the bonfires did blaze , In every street likewise the skies , did right with loud huzzas . Saying God bless our Sovereign , and send him long to reign , Hoping the P ------ n crew , may never rule again . So let , etc Soon as great Charles Our royal king was crown'd , He built the church up again , the meetings were pull'd down . No canting then was in the land , the subject's were at peace , The church again did flourish , and joy did then increase . So let , etc The cursed P ------ n crew , was then put to the flight , Some did fly by day , and others run by night , In barns and stables they did cant , and every place they could , He made them remember , the spilling royal blood . So let , etc May God for ever , bless the church and crown , And never let any subject strive , the king for to dethrone , May churchmen ever flourish , and peace increase again , God for ever bless the king , and send him long to reign , So let , etc 