A NEW SONG . CUpid , as you shall understand , Has acted a knavish part , His bow was bent , and arrow sent Quite thro' and old man's heart ; His age was fourscore and sixteen , He had a great mind to wed A plump , young jade ; for why ? 'tis said , He long'd for a maiden's head . Resolv'd he was to court a lass With a black and rolling eye , With milkwhite skin , and double chin , Which caused his courage to rise ; Then this old man brush'd up his beard , By fancies he was led To court a maid ; for why ? 'tis said , He long'd for a maiden's head . Then he did for his crutches call , That a wooing he might go ; And when he came before his dame He made her a bow so low ; He said , Can you fancy a good old man , Who has a great mind to wed ? My charming fair , I do declare I long for a maiden's head . The damsel made him this reply : What makes you in such heat ? So old and gray therefore I pray , Think on your winding she Your age is fourscore and sixteen , With you I'll never wed ; What would you have ? Think on your grave , And not of a maiden's head . Beside the world would think it strange My passion should be so strong , So much in years as it appears Old age cannot tarry long : For women that are both blind and lame They have a great mind to wed ; It's so with me , my dear , said he , I long for a maiden's head . Do you think I am going to marry one That's troubled with stone and gout , Diseas'd , I know , from top to toe , Can hardly crawl abou You cannot please a woman well In the toys of a marriagebed , What would you have ? Think on your grave , And not on a maiden's head . This old man went home in discontent , And troubled very soar , And , like and ape , he hang'd himself , And hundred wanting four ; His crutches did behind him lay , Alone as he lay dead , To testify that he did die For the sake of a maiden's head . This damsel mourns with pleasant smiles , And every tear that falls Would drown a town , or quite wash down And hundred castle-walls : It's said she wrote upon his tomb , So fair for to be read , Here lies one , underneath this stone , Who died for a maiden's head . A NEW SONG . CUpid , as you shall understand , Has acted a knavish part , His bow was bent , and arrow sent Quite thro' and old man's heart ; His age was fourscore and sixteen , He had a great mind to wed A plump , young jade ; for why ? 'tis said , He long'd for a maiden's head . Resolv'd he was to court a lass With a black and rolling eye , With milkwhite skin , and double chin , Which caused his courage to rise ; Then this old man brush'd up his beard , By fancies he was led To court a maid ; for why ? 'tis said , He long'd for a maiden's head . Then he did for his crutches call , That a wooing he might go ; And when he came before his dame He made her a bow so low ; He said , Can you fancy a good old man , Who has a great mind to wed ? My charming fair , I do declare I long for a maiden's head . The damsel made him this reply : What makes you in such heat ? So old and gray therefore I pray , Think on your winding she Your age is fourscore and sixteen , With you I'll never wed ; What would you have ? Think on your grave , And not of a maiden's head . Beside the world would think it strange My passion should be so strong , So much in years as it appears Old age cannot tarry long : For women that are both blind and lame They have a great mind to wed ; It's so with me , my dear , said he , I long for a maiden's head . Do you think I am going to marry one That's troubled with stone and gout , Diseas'd , I know , from top to toe , Can hardly crawl abou You cannot please a woman well In the toys of a marriagebed , What would you have ? Think on your grave , And not on a maiden's head . This old man went home in discontent , And troubled very soar , And , like and ape , he hang'd himself , And hundred wanting four ; His crutches did behind him lay , Alone as he lay dead , To testify that he did die For the sake of a maiden's head . This damsel mourns with pleasant smiles , And every tear that falls Would drown a town , or quite wash down And hundred castle-walls : It's said she wrote upon his tomb , So fair for to be read , Here lies one , underneath this stone , Who died for a maiden's head . 