A Full and Particular ACCOUNT of a most wondered WEDEING ; which was keqt in the Country , near the Town of Falkirk , without a Bridegroom , etc To which is added a Comical Advertisement , and reward for Catching the Runaway Bridegroom . WE hear from Castlecary , that last week 'a young man who had been paying 'his address to a woman for two 'years bypast , at length obtained her con - 'sent to marry him ; in consequence of 'which , she immediately set out for Falkirk , 'in order to procure provisions and other 'accessaries for the wedding , which she for - 'warded in great profusion ; and next day 'she went off attended by all her friends and 'neighbours to the number fifty or more to 'meet the Bridegroom , who , on their near 'approach , should [ worser ] enly altered his mind , slipped 'out at the back door , and run off into the 'adjacent woods . The bride no ways mov - 'ed at this disappointment , immediately dis - 'patched some of her Friends to the woods 'in quest of him , and in the meantime order - 'ed the music to play up Because he was a 'Bonney Lad , I bade him ay come back again . 'Finding on their return , that the bridegroom 'could not be found , she concluded the enter - 'tainment with uncommon spirit , by leading 'down a country dance , to the tune of I lost 'my love and I care na . --- The company were 'so taken with the bride's surprising gaiety on 'this trying occasion . that they raised a hand - 'some subscription for her . ' A SONG to the tune of , I fix'd my fancy on he BRIGHT Stirling's power divinely great , What heart is not obeying ? A thousand Cupids on her wait , And in her eye are playing She seems the queen of love to reign ; For she alone dispenses Such sweets as best can entertain The guest of all the senses . Her face a charming prospect brings , Her breath gives balmy blisses ; I hear and angel when she sings , And taste of heaven in kisses . F [ oh ] ur senses thus he feasts with joy , From n [ at ] ure's rich [ e ] st treasure : Let me then the sense employ , And I shall die with pleasure . The Bride's SONG , to the tune of The kirk would let me be . 'TIS I have seven braw new gowns , And ither seven better to make ; And yet for a' my new gowns , My wooer has turn'd his back . Beside I have seven milk-ky , And L ----- e he has but three ; And yet for a' my good ky , The fellow winna ha'e me . My daddie's a delver oh dikes , My Mither can carded and spin , And I am a fine foge , lass , And the siller comes linking in . The siller comes linking in , And it is f [ ull ] fair to see , And fifty times wow ! O wow ! What ail the fellow at me ? Whenever our B [ e ] tty does bark , Then fast to the door I rin , To see gin only young spark Will light and venture but in : But never a ane will come in , Tho' money a ane gaes by , Sin fur ben the house I rin ; And a weary wight am I . When I was at my first prayers , I pray'd but tuies i' the year , I wish'd for a handsome young lad , And a lad with muckle geer . When I was at my neist prayers , I prayed but now and than , sh'd na my head about gear , I falsto go handsome young man . Now when I'm at my last pray'rs , I p [ r ] ay on both night and day , And O! if a beggar would come , With that same beggar I'd gae . And O! and what'll come o' me ! And O! and what'll I do ? That sie a braw lassie as I Sou'd die for a fellow I trow . ADVERTISEMENT . For the good of the public , and protection of the fair Sex's character , in all time to come , that no hen-hearted Bridegroom's , unless he has the courage of gamecock , and has played the part of a man , be admitted into the proclamation of intended matrimony , without bail , that he'll attend the bridal and bedding thereafter , and that no back doors for the future be kept open on wedding days , whereby they may escape , as this hair brain'd , capon-headed sheep - tai'd Bridegroom's has done ; some thinks he has bewildered himself in the Wood , to avoid the cares of the World , and the plagues of a married life , others , that he lost he Key of the B [ r ] ide's trunk , and afraid to come before her , others , that he had a full issue , and burned his tail on hight haggish the night before , and has fled to East Lothian , to mend the highways , as harvest comes on . So if he can be found out of a hold , or in of a hold , eating or drinking , courting or kissing , or keeping company with any Women young or old set justice up'n him for a Women-hater , a breaker of brides hearts , and you shall obtain reward , the Brides blessing , the prayers of the parish , and a New Song of exaltation to a Troy tune , and high praise a - above your neighbours . A Full and Particular ACCOUNT of a most wondered WEDEING ; which was keqt in the Country , near the Town of Falkirk , without a Bridegroom , etc To which is added a Comical Advertisement , and reward for Catching the Runaway Bridegroom . WE hear from Castlecary , that last week 'a young man who had been paying 'his address to a woman for two 'years bypast , at length obtained her con - 'sent to marry him ; in consequence of 'which , she immediately set out for Falkirk , 'in order to procure provisions and other 'accessaries for the wedding , which she for - 'warded in great profusion ; and next day 'she went off attended by all her friends and 'neighbours to the number fifty or more to 'meet the Bridegroom , who , on their near 'approach , should [ worser ] enly altered his mind , slipped 'out at the back door , and run off into the 'adjacent woods . The bride no ways mov - 'ed at this disappointment , immediately dis - 'patched some of her Friends to the woods 'in quest of him , and in the meantime order - 'ed the music to play up Because he was a 'Bonney Lad , I bade him ay come back again . 'Finding on their return , that the bridegroom 'could not be found , she concluded the enter - 'tainment with uncommon spirit , by leading 'down a country dance , to the tune of I lost 'my love and I care na . --- The company were 'so taken with the bride's surprising gaiety on 'this trying occasion . that they raised a hand - 'some subscription for her . ' A SONG to the tune of , I fix'd my fancy on he BRIGHT Stirling's power divinely great , What heart is not obeying ? A thousand Cupids on her wait , And in her eye are playing She seems the queen of love to reign ; For she alone dispenses Such sweets as best can entertain The guest of all the senses . Her face a charming prospect brings , Her breath gives balmy blisses ; I hear and angel when she sings , And taste of heaven in kisses . F [ oh ] ur senses thus he feasts with joy , From n [ at ] ure's rich [ e ] st treasure : Let me then the sense employ , And I shall die with pleasure . The Bride's SONG , to the tune of The kirk would let me be . 'TIS I have seven braw new gowns , And ither seven better to make ; And yet for a' my new gowns , My wooer has turn'd his back . Beside I have seven milk-ky , And L ----- e he has but three ; And yet for a' my good ky , The fellow winna ha'e me . My daddie's a delver oh dikes , My Mither can carded and spin , And I am a fine foge , lass , And the siller comes linking in . The siller comes linking in , And it is f [ ull ] fair to see , And fifty times wow ! O wow ! What ail the fellow at me ? Whenever our B [ e ] tty does bark , Then fast to the door I rin , To see gin only young spark Will light and venture but in : But never a ane will come in , Tho' money a ane gaes by , Sin fur ben the house I rin ; And a weary wight am I . When I was at my first prayers , I pray'd but tuies i' the year , I wish'd for a handsome young lad , And a lad with muckle geer . When I was at my neist prayers , I prayed but now and than , sh'd na my head about gear , I falsto go handsome young man . Now when I'm at my last pray'rs , I p [ r ] ay on both night and day , And O! if a beggar would come , With that same beggar I'd gae . And O! and what'll come o' me ! And O! and what'll I do ? That sie a braw lassie as I Sou'd die for a fellow I trow . ADVERTISEMENT . For the good of the public , and protection of the fair Sex's character , in all time to come , that no hen-hearted Bridegroom's , unless he has the courage of gamecock , and has played the part of a man , be admitted into the proclamation of intended matrimony , without bail , that he'll attend the bridal and bedding thereafter , and that no back doors for the future be kept open on wedding days , whereby they may escape , as this hair brain'd , capon-headed sheep - tai'd Bridegroom's has done ; some thinks he has bewildered himself in the Wood , to avoid the cares of the World , and the plagues of a married life , others , that he lost he Key of the B [ r ] ide's trunk , and afraid to come before her , others , that he had a full issue , and burned his tail on hight haggish the night before , and has fled to East Lothian , to mend the highways , as harvest comes on . So if he can be found out of a hold , or in of a hold , eating or drinking , courting or kissing , or keeping company with any Women young or old set justice up'n him for a Women-hater , a breaker of brides hearts , and you shall obtain reward , the Brides blessing , the prayers of the parish , and a New Song of exaltation to a Troy tune , and high praise a - above your neighbours . 