The Barnard-Castle Tragedy , Showing how one John Atkinson of Murton near Appleby , Servant to Thomas Howson , Miller , at Barnard-Castle Bridge End , courted the said Howson's Sister ; and after he had gain'd her entire Affection - on by his wheedling Solicitations , left her disconsolate , and made Courtship to another , whom he mar - ried by the treacherous Advice of one Thomas Skelton , who to save the Priest's Fees , etc Perform'd the Ceremony himself ; and upon her hearing the News , broke her Heart , and bled to Death on the Spot , this being both true and tragical , 'tis hop'd 'twill be a Warning to all Lovers . Tune of , Constant Anthony . YOung Men and Maidens all , I pray you now attend , Mark well this Tragedy which you find here pen'd , At Barnard-Castle Bridge End , and honest Man lives there , His Calling grinding Corn , for which few can compare . He had a Sister dear , in whom he took Delight , And Atkinson his Man woo'd her both Day and Night , Till thro' Process of Time , he chain'd fast her Heart , Which prov'd her overthrow by Death's surprising dart . False hearted Atkinson , with his deluding Tongue , And his fair Promises , he's this poor Maid undone ; For when he found he'd caught her fast in Cupid's Snare , Then made he all alike , Betty's no more his Dear . Drinking was his Delight , his Senses to Doze , Keeping loud Company , when he shou'd Repose ; His Money being spent , and they wou'd tick no Score , Then with a Face of Brass , he ask [ ' ] worser poor Betty more . He at length met with one , a serving Maid in Town , Who for good Ale and Beer , often wou'd pawn her Gown And at all Four's she'd play , as many People know , A fairer Gamester , no Man could ever show . Tom Skelton , Ostler , at the King's Arms does dwell , Who this false Atkinson did all his Secrets tell ; He let him understand of a new Love he'd god , And with and Oath he swore , she'd keep full the Pot. Then for the Girl they sent , Betty Hardy was her Name , Who to her Mistress soon and Excuse did frame ; Mistress I have a Friend at the King's Arms does stay , Which I desire to see before he go away . Then she goes to her Friend , who she finds ready there , Who catch'd her in his Arms , how does my only Dear ; She says Boys drink about , and fear no Reckonings large , For she had pawn'd her Smock to defray the Chrage . They did carouse it off , till they began to warm , Says Skelton , make a Match , I pray where's the Harm ? Then with a loving Kiss they straightway did agree , But they no Money had to give the Priest a Fee . Quoth Skelton seriously , the Priest's Fee it is large , I'le marry you my self , and save you all the Charge ; Then they plighted their Troth unto each other there , Went two Miles from the Town , and goes to Bed we hear . Then when the Morning came by breaking of the Day , He had some Corn to grind , he could no longer stay ; My Business is in haste , which I to thee do tell , So took a Gentle Kiss , and bid his Love Farewell . Now when he was come home , and at his Business there His Master's Sister came , who was his former Dear ; Betty , he said , I'm Wed , certainly I protest , Then she smil'd in his Face , surely you do but Jest . Then within few Days Space , his Wife unto him went , And to the Sign o'th th' Last , there she for him sent , The People of the House , finding what was in Hand , Stepped out immediately , let Betty understand . Now this surprising News , caus'd her fallen in a Trance , Like as if she was dead , no Limbs she could advance , Then her dear Brother came , her from the ground he took , And she spoke up and said , Oh my poor heart is broke . Then with all speed they went , for to undo her Lace , While at her Nose & Mouth her heart's blood ran apace , Some stood half dead by her , others for help Inquire , But in a Moments Time , her Life it did expire . False hearted Lovers all , let this a Warning be , For it may well be call'd Betty Howson's Tragedy . Printed for the Author , in the Year 1718. The Barnard-Castle Tragedy , Showing how one John Atkinson of Murton near Appleby , Servant to Thomas Howson , Miller , at Barnard-Castle Bridge End , courted the said Howson's Sister ; and after he had gain'd her entire Affection - on by his wheedling Solicitations , left her disconsolate , and made Courtship to another , whom he mar - ried by the treacherous Advice of one Thomas Skelton , who to save the Priest's Fees , etc Perform'd the Ceremony himself ; and upon her hearing the News , broke her Heart , and bled to Death on the Spot , this being both true and tragical , 'tis hop'd 'twill be a Warning to all Lovers . Tune of , Constant Anthony . YOung Men and Maidens all , I pray you now attend , Mark well this Tragedy which you find here pen'd , At Barnard-Castle Bridge End , and honest Man lives there , His Calling grinding Corn , for which few can compare . He had a Sister dear , in whom he took Delight , And Atkinson his Man woo'd her both Day and Night , Till thro' Process of Time , he chain'd fast her Heart , Which prov'd her overthrow by Death's surprising dart . False hearted Atkinson , with his deluding Tongue , And his fair Promises , he's this poor Maid undone ; For when he found he'd caught her fast in Cupid's Snare , Then made he all alike , Betty's no more his Dear . Drinking was his Delight , his Senses to Doze , Keeping loud Company , when he shou'd Repose ; His Money being spent , and they wou'd tick no Score , Then with a Face of Brass , he ask [ ' ] worser poor Betty more . He at length met with one , a serving Maid in Town , Who for good Ale and Beer , often wou'd pawn her Gown And at all Four's she'd play , as many People know , A fairer Gamester , no Man could ever show . Tom Skelton , Ostler , at the King's Arms does dwell , Who this false Atkinson did all his Secrets tell ; He let him understand of a new Love he'd god , And with and Oath he swore , she'd keep full the Pot. Then for the Girl they sent , Betty Hardy was her Name , Who to her Mistress soon and Excuse did frame ; Mistress I have a Friend at the King's Arms does stay , Which I desire to see before he go away . Then she goes to her Friend , who she finds ready there , Who catch'd her in his Arms , how does my only Dear ; She says Boys drink about , and fear no Reckonings large , For she had pawn'd her Smock to defray the Chrage . They did carouse it off , till they began to warm , Says Skelton , make a Match , I pray where's the Harm ? Then with a loving Kiss they straightway did agree , But they no Money had to give the Priest a Fee . Quoth Skelton seriously , the Priest's Fee it is large , I'le marry you my self , and save you all the Charge ; Then they plighted their Troth unto each other there , Went two Miles from the Town , and goes to Bed we hear . Then when the Morning came by breaking of the Day , He had some Corn to grind , he could no longer stay ; My Business is in haste , which I to thee do tell , So took a Gentle Kiss , and bid his Love Farewell . Now when he was come home , and at his Business there His Master's Sister came , who was his former Dear ; Betty , he said , I'm Wed , certainly I protest , Then she smil'd in his Face , surely you do but Jest . Then within few Days Space , his Wife unto him went , And to the Sign o'th th' Last , there she for him sent , The People of the House , finding what was in Hand , Stepped out immediately , let Betty understand . Now this surprising News , caus'd her fallen in a Trance , Like as if she was dead , no Limbs she could advance , Then her dear Brother came , her from the ground he took , And she spoke up and said , Oh my poor heart is broke . Then with all speed they went , for to undo her Lace , While at her Nose & Mouth her heart's blood ran apace , Some stood half dead by her , others for help Inquire , But in a Moments Time , her Life it did expire . False hearted Lovers all , let this a Warning be , For it may well be call'd Betty Howson's Tragedy . Printed for the Author , in the Year 1718. 