The Unhappy Lady of Hackney . To and Excellent New Tune . YOU youthful charming ladies fair , I pray now give attention , Unto this dismal tragedy , Of which I now shall mention ; At Hackney liv'd a gentleman , Who had three comely daughters , And one was marry'd to a 'Squire , Who caus'd this sad disaster . The youngest sister being fair , And of a comely feature , Her sister's husband night and day , Did tempt this lovely creature . Telling of her it was no since , If she let him embrace her ; Beside he'd take a special care , It never should disgrace her . This innocent unto his bow , Indeed he quickly brought her , Then took her from her father's house , With many tears they sought her . Crying , alas ! where is she gone : My youthful child so tender , Thus in distraction night and day , Her parents did lament her . In all the news both far and near , Her father advertis'd her , Yet he no tidings of her herd , So secret did he hide her . At length she big with child did grow , While this her amorous lover , Did oft frequent her company , None knew it was her brother . At length in travail strong she fell , So great it was her sorrow , That she could not deliver'd be , So sending for her brother ; With wringing hands and weeping eyes , In dreadful lamentation , Oh worst of men ! she then did say , You've wrought my desolation . Your wife my tender sister dear , Does little know my sorrow , My troubled soul will take its flight , From hence before tomorrow ; Oh sister dear , forgive the crime , And heaven show some pity , For heinous was the fault of mine , You wretch that did deceive me . Before my soul forsakes this world , And death's cold arms enfold me , I'll write unto my Parents dear , Who will never more behold me ; And you , vile traitor , while you live , Seek no more Virgin's ruin , Repent , repent , I say in time , For Vengeance is pursuing . See how the pains in ev'ry part , Do rend my heart asunder , Oh Death ! now send thy piercing dart , I can't endure it longer : Seize you the Infants life also , Whose name would be infamous , Because its parents wrong did doe , By acting things incestuous . She being deliver'd of her child , Her life did soon expire , Likewise her tender infant dear , Which thing she did desire . In Covent-Garden-Church , indeed , In private she was bury'd , But Heav'n did bring this thing to light , The lines she wrote were carry'd . Unto her tender parents dear , These words were then expressed , My loving friends all pity me , Whose case is most distressed ; With floods of tears these lines I write , It was my cruel brother , My Sister's loving husband dear , Whose fault I will not smother . He overcome me once with wine , And us'd me at his pleasure , Then took me from my Parent's house , In sorrow out of measure ; I lay surrounded night and day , With child then by my brother ; Which struggling lay within my womb , And I the unhappy mother . At length in travail I did fallen , While many did lament me , It was the cry of one and all , That there was none could help me . And I my precious life must lose , So before my life departed , I wrote these lines to let you know , The traitor proved false hearted . When her dear parents read the same , It scar'd their souls with terror , Her father cry'd , my daughter dear , Would I had known thy sorrow . Her corpse they quickly had took up , And surgeons for to view her , For fear that she had murder'd been , By him that did undo her . Her eldest brother a hopeful youth , Grief burst his heart asunder , And he this life did soon depart , Her sister raves like thunder . To think her husband was so base , To prove her sister's ruin , Her parents said , alas ! my child , Your death is our undoing , London : Printed and Sold at Sympson's in Stonecutter-Street , Fleet Market . The Unhappy Lady of Hackney . To and Excellent New Tune . YOU youthful charming ladies fair , I pray now give attention , Unto this dismal tragedy , Of which I now shall mention ; At Hackney liv'd a gentleman , Who had three comely daughters , And one was marry'd to a 'Squire , Who caus'd this sad disaster . The youngest sister being fair , And of a comely feature , Her sister's husband night and day , Did tempt this lovely creature . Telling of her it was no since , If she let him embrace her ; Beside he'd take a special care , It never should disgrace her . This innocent unto his bow , Indeed he quickly brought her , Then took her from her father's house , With many tears they sought her . Crying , alas ! where is she gone : My youthful child so tender , Thus in distraction night and day , Her parents did lament her . In all the news both far and near , Her father advertis'd her , Yet he no tidings of her herd , So secret did he hide her . At length she big with child did grow , While this her amorous lover , Did oft frequent her company , None knew it was her brother . At length in travail strong she fell , So great it was her sorrow , That she could not deliver'd be , So sending for her brother ; With wringing hands and weeping eyes , In dreadful lamentation , Oh worst of men ! she then did say , You've wrought my desolation . Your wife my tender sister dear , Does little know my sorrow , My troubled soul will take its flight , From hence before tomorrow ; Oh sister dear , forgive the crime , And heaven show some pity , For heinous was the fault of mine , You wretch that did deceive me . Before my soul forsakes this world , And death's cold arms enfold me , I'll write unto my Parents dear , Who will never more behold me ; And you , vile traitor , while you live , Seek no more Virgin's ruin , Repent , repent , I say in time , For Vengeance is pursuing . See how the pains in ev'ry part , Do rend my heart asunder , Oh Death ! now send thy piercing dart , I can't endure it longer : Seize you the Infants life also , Whose name would be infamous , Because its parents wrong did doe , By acting things incestuous . She being deliver'd of her child , Her life did soon expire , Likewise her tender infant dear , Which thing she did desire . In Covent-Garden-Church , indeed , In private she was bury'd , But Heav'n did bring this thing to light , The lines she wrote were carry'd . Unto her tender parents dear , These words were then expressed , My loving friends all pity me , Whose case is most distressed ; With floods of tears these lines I write , It was my cruel brother , My Sister's loving husband dear , Whose fault I will not smother . He overcome me once with wine , And us'd me at his pleasure , Then took me from my Parent's house , In sorrow out of measure ; I lay surrounded night and day , With child then by my brother ; Which struggling lay within my womb , And I the unhappy mother . At length in travail I did fallen , While many did lament me , It was the cry of one and all , That there was none could help me . And I my precious life must lose , So before my life departed , I wrote these lines to let you know , The traitor proved false hearted . When her dear parents read the same , It scar'd their souls with terror , Her father cry'd , my daughter dear , Would I had known thy sorrow . Her corpse they quickly had took up , And surgeons for to view her , For fear that she had murder'd been , By him that did undo her . Her eldest brother a hopeful youth , Grief burst his heart asunder , And he this life did soon depart , Her sister raves like thunder . To think her husband was so base , To prove her sister's ruin , Her parents said , alas ! my child , Your death is our undoing , London : Printed and Sold at Sympson's in Stonecutter-Street , Fleet Market . 