THE Vanity of Vain Glory . With good Advice to those who choose Immediate pleasures here , That they no longer can refuse , The thing which cost so dear . Tune , The Glories of our birth and State . THe glories of our birth and state , are shadows not substantial things There is no armour against our fate death lays his Icy hands on kings ; Sceptre and Crown must tumble down and in the dust be equal laid , With a poor crooked sighs and spade . Some men with swords do reap the field and plant fresh Laurels where they kill , But their strong nerves at length must yield they tame but one another still , Early or late all bend to fate & must yield up their murmuring breath While the pale Captive bleeds to death . The garland withers on your brow then boast no more your mighty deeds For on death's purple Altar now see how the victor victored bleeds , All heads must come to the cold tomb only the Actions of the just Smells sweet and blossoms in the dust . All things in this poor life are vain then for a change let us prepare , We must swim through a sea of pain before we reach that Heaven , where There's joys in store for evermore , and we shall be for ever blessed , From toil and labour then to rest , THen never cease to run that raze which leads to everlasting bliss , among the saints to take a place o ! what encouragement is this , Who would refuse that way to choose which leads to blessed eternity , From pains and sorrows to be free . While in this life to some so sweet all kind of wickedness abound , And with such crosses we do meet as all our comforts do confound , There you shall be from passion free and hear no mournings nor complaints But praises sing among the saints . Infinite joys shall them attend who at that Haven do arrive , Where God himself shall be their friend and nothing ever shall deprive Them of that bliss , which they must miss who will not leave their vanity , But glory in debauchery That path which to destruction leads and loads the soul with heaps of since , To many men more pleasure breeds , and they are more delighted in , Then that which brings all blessed things eternal joy and endless peace , Where bliss abounds and pains do cease . But mortal men are always prove their present pleasures for to choose , Eternal joys they let alone and thus by since they'r soul abuse What pity 'tis that men should miss that happiness which cost so dear , For momentary pleasures here . Learn to be wise found man in time while 'tis to day , your sins repent You may be cut off in your prime and then too late you may lament , In time return for fear you burn and in the lake of torments fry Whose flames will burn perpetually . Printed for F. Coal . T. Vere . J. Wright . J. Clark W. Thackery . and T. Passenger . THE Vanity of Vain Glory . With good Advice to those who choose Immediate pleasures here , That they no longer can refuse , The thing which cost so dear . Tune , The Glories of our birth and State . THe glories of our birth and state , are shadows not substantial things There is no armour against our fate death lays his Icy hands on kings ; Sceptre and Crown must tumble down and in the dust be equal laid , With a poor crooked sighs and spade . Some men with swords do reap the field and plant fresh Laurels where they kill , But their strong nerves at length must yield they tame but one another still , Early or late all bend to fate & must yield up their murmuring breath While the pale Captive bleeds to death . The garland withers on your brow then boast no more your mighty deeds For on death's purple Altar now see how the victor victored bleeds , All heads must come to the cold tomb only the Actions of the just Smells sweet and blossoms in the dust . All things in this poor life are vain then for a change let us prepare , We must swim through a sea of pain before we reach that Heaven , where There's joys in store for evermore , and we shall be for ever blessed , From toil and labour then to rest , THen never cease to run that raze which leads to everlasting bliss , among the saints to take a place o ! what encouragement is this , Who would refuse that way to choose which leads to blessed eternity , From pains and sorrows to be free . While in this life to some so sweet all kind of wickedness abound , And with such crosses we do meet as all our comforts do confound , There you shall be from passion free and hear no mournings nor complaints But praises sing among the saints . Infinite joys shall them attend who at that Haven do arrive , Where God himself shall be their friend and nothing ever shall deprive Them of that bliss , which they must miss who will not leave their vanity , But glory in debauchery That path which to destruction leads and loads the soul with heaps of since , To many men more pleasure breeds , and they are more delighted in , Then that which brings all blessed things eternal joy and endless peace , Where bliss abounds and pains do cease . But mortal men are always prove their present pleasures for to choose , Eternal joys they let alone and thus by since they'r soul abuse What pity 'tis that men should miss that happiness which cost so dear , For momentary pleasures here . Learn to be wise found man in time while 'tis to day , your sins repent You may be cut off in your prime and then too late you may lament , In time return for fear you burn and in the lake of torments fry Whose flames will burn perpetually . Printed for F. Coal . T. Vere . J. Wright . J. Clark W. Thackery . and T. Passenger . 