PRIDE's FALLEN ; or , A Warning to all English Women , by the Ex ample of a strange Monster born by a Merchant's proud Wife at Vienna in Germany . To the Tune of All you that love good Fellows . England's fair dainty Dams , See here the fallen of Pride , Leave Wantonness in Time , That God may be your Guide , I was a Dutchland Frow , Shining in Beauty bright , And a brave Merchant's Wife , In whom he took Delight . All things I had at Will , My Heart , could wish or crave , My Diet , dainty fair , My Garments rich and brave . No Wife in Germany , Where I in Pleasure dwell , For Golden bravery , My Person could excel . My Coaches richly wrought , And deck'd with Pearl and Gold , Carried me up and down , Whereto my Fancy would . The Earth I deem'd too base , My Feet to tread upon ; My blooming Crimson Cheeks , Felt neither Wind nor Sun , My Beauty made me think , Myself and Angel bright , Framed of heavenly Mould , And not and earthly Wight , For my Soul's Happiness , God's Holy Bible Book ; I had my Looking-glass Where I most pleasure took , There was no Fashion found , That might advance my Pirde ; But in my Looking-Glass My Fancy soon espy'd , Every vain foolish Toy , Changing my wanton Mind , And they best pleased me That could new Fashions find . Yet all these earthly Joys , Yielded me small content , In that Dame Nature had , Ne'er a Child to me sent . That makes my Heart to bleed , For which Offence to God , He therefore grievously Scourged me with a Rod . And in my tender Womb , Of so pure Flesh and Blood , Created he , strange to see , A most deformed Brood . That Woman's wanton Pride , May take Example by , How they in Fashion found , Offend the Lord on high . When the Babe came to light , And I brought to my Bed ; No cost was spar'd that Night To serve me in my Need. My Nurse both youth and fair , Fit for a Royal Queen , Gave all Attendance here , As it was daily seen , Never had Merchant's Wife , Of Ladies such a Train . That came in gentle Sort , At the Hour of my Pain . But when my swelling Womb , Yielded up Nature's due , Such a strange Monster then , Never Man hardly knew : For it affrighted so , All the whole Company , That ev'ry one said in Heart , Vengeance now draws nigh . It had two Faces strange , And two heads painted fair , On the Brows curled Locks , Such as our Wantons wear . In one Hand right , the Shape Of a fair Looking-glass , In which I took delight , How my vain Beauty was , Right the Shape of a Rod , Scourging me for my since ; The other seem'd to have Perfectly seen therein . These Women's Wantonness , And their vain foolish Minds , Ne'er contented are , With what things God assigns . Look to it London Dams , God keepeth Plagues in Store ; And now the Second Part Of this Song shows more . PART II GRief and Care kills my Heart , Where God offended is , As the poor Merchant's Wife , Did worldly Comfort miss . Strange were the Misery's , That she so long endur'd , No ease by Woman help , Could be as then procur'd . Hereupon speaks the Child , With a Voice fearfully , Mother your wanton Pride Brings this your Misery . Let your Life soon amend , Or else the mighty God , Will scourge your Wantonness , With a much Sharper Rod . About his Neck a Ruff , It had now gallantly , Starched with white and blue Seeming unto their Eye , With Laces long and broad , As now are Women's Bans ; Thus you have Women's Pride , First in God's Anger stands , The Breasts were planted o'er , As still the Merchant's be , Now as lewd Women wear , To hide Adultery . Every Part , every Limb , Had not true Nature's Frame , But to show to the World , This my great since and Shame . From the Head to the Foot , Monsterlike was it born , Every Part had the Shape Of Fashions daily worn . On the Feet pinked Shoes , In steps had Roses read , Which in Silk now is us'd , So vainly are we led . Thus both my Flesh and Blood , Nourish'd now near my Heart , Put me in Mind of since , And bids me now convert . Oh! let all Women then , Take Heed of wanton Pride , Angels have fallen from Heaven , And for that since have dy'd . No sooner brought to Light Was this Fruit of my Youth , But to the Counsel-house It was brought for a Truth ; Where to the Magistrates In a most fearful Sort , Began aloud to speak , And these words did repor I am a Messenger , And now sent from on High , To bid you all repent , Christ's coming draws nigh . Repent you all with Speed , This is a Message sure , The World seems at and End , And cannot long endure . Pride is the Prince of since , Which is your chief Deligh Mankind repent with Speed , Before the Lord does smite , This is my last Advice , Repentance soon provide Now these were his last Words , And so the Monster dy'd . Great was the Fear of those That these same Speeches herd , God grant all Christians may Have their Mind well prepared , With a true Repentance , God's Mercy to implore , That never Womankind May bring such Fruit forth more . And you fair English Dams , That in Pride do excel , This woeful Misery , In your Heart print full well : Let not Pride be your Guide , For Pride will have a Fallen ; Maid and Wife , let my Life Be a Warning to you all . PRIDE's FALLEN ; or , A Warning to all English Women , by the Ex ample of a strange Monster born by a Merchant's proud Wife at Vienna in Germany . To the Tune of All you that love good Fellows . England's fair dainty Dams , See here the fallen of Pride , Leave Wantonness in Time , That God may be your Guide , I was a Dutchland Frow , Shining in Beauty bright , And a brave Merchant's Wife , In whom he took Delight . All things I had at Will , My Heart , could wish or crave , My Diet , dainty fair , My Garments rich and brave . No Wife in Germany , Where I in Pleasure dwell , For Golden bravery , My Person could excel . My Coaches richly wrought , And deck'd with Pearl and Gold , Carried me up and down , Whereto my Fancy would . The Earth I deem'd too base , My Feet to tread upon ; My blooming Crimson Cheeks , Felt neither Wind nor Sun , My Beauty made me think , Myself and Angel bright , Framed of heavenly Mould , And not and earthly Wight , For my Soul's Happiness , God's Holy Bible Book ; I had my Looking-glass Where I most pleasure took , There was no Fashion found , That might advance my Pirde ; But in my Looking-Glass My Fancy soon espy'd , Every vain foolish Toy , Changing my wanton Mind , And they best pleased me That could new Fashions find . Yet all these earthly Joys , Yielded me small content , In that Dame Nature had , Ne'er a Child to me sent . That makes my Heart to bleed , For which Offence to God , He therefore grievously Scourged me with a Rod . And in my tender Womb , Of so pure Flesh and Blood , Created he , strange to see , A most deformed Brood . That Woman's wanton Pride , May take Example by , How they in Fashion found , Offend the Lord on high . When the Babe came to light , And I brought to my Bed ; No cost was spar'd that Night To serve me in my Need. My Nurse both youth and fair , Fit for a Royal Queen , Gave all Attendance here , As it was daily seen , Never had Merchant's Wife , Of Ladies such a Train . That came in gentle Sort , At the Hour of my Pain . But when my swelling Womb , Yielded up Nature's due , Such a strange Monster then , Never Man hardly knew : For it affrighted so , All the whole Company , That ev'ry one said in Heart , Vengeance now draws nigh . It had two Faces strange , And two heads painted fair , On the Brows curled Locks , Such as our Wantons wear . In one Hand right , the Shape Of a fair Looking-glass , In which I took delight , How my vain Beauty was , Right the Shape of a Rod , Scourging me for my since ; The other seem'd to have Perfectly seen therein . These Women's Wantonness , And their vain foolish Minds , Ne'er contented are , With what things God assigns . Look to it London Dams , God keepeth Plagues in Store ; And now the Second Part Of this Song shows more . PART II GRief and Care kills my Heart , Where God offended is , As the poor Merchant's Wife , Did worldly Comfort miss . Strange were the Misery's , That she so long endur'd , No ease by Woman help , Could be as then procur'd . Hereupon speaks the Child , With a Voice fearfully , Mother your wanton Pride Brings this your Misery . Let your Life soon amend , Or else the mighty God , Will scourge your Wantonness , With a much Sharper Rod . About his Neck a Ruff , It had now gallantly , Starched with white and blue Seeming unto their Eye , With Laces long and broad , As now are Women's Bans ; Thus you have Women's Pride , First in God's Anger stands , The Breasts were planted o'er , As still the Merchant's be , Now as lewd Women wear , To hide Adultery . Every Part , every Limb , Had not true Nature's Frame , But to show to the World , This my great since and Shame . From the Head to the Foot , Monsterlike was it born , Every Part had the Shape Of Fashions daily worn . On the Feet pinked Shoes , In steps had Roses read , Which in Silk now is us'd , So vainly are we led . Thus both my Flesh and Blood , Nourish'd now near my Heart , Put me in Mind of since , And bids me now convert . Oh! let all Women then , Take Heed of wanton Pride , Angels have fallen from Heaven , And for that since have dy'd . No sooner brought to Light Was this Fruit of my Youth , But to the Counsel-house It was brought for a Truth ; Where to the Magistrates In a most fearful Sort , Began aloud to speak , And these words did repor I am a Messenger , And now sent from on High , To bid you all repent , Christ's coming draws nigh . Repent you all with Speed , This is a Message sure , The World seems at and End , And cannot long endure . Pride is the Prince of since , Which is your chief Deligh Mankind repent with Speed , Before the Lord does smite , This is my last Advice , Repentance soon provide Now these were his last Words , And so the Monster dy'd . Great was the Fear of those That these same Speeches herd , God grant all Christians may Have their Mind well prepared , With a true Repentance , God's Mercy to implore , That never Womankind May bring such Fruit forth more . And you fair English Dams , That in Pride do excel , This woeful Misery , In your Heart print full well : Let not Pride be your Guide , For Pride will have a Fallen ; Maid and Wife , let my Life Be a Warning to you all . 