A Terror for TRAITORS Or , Treason Justly punished . [ Be ] ing a Relation of a Damn'd Conspiracy against the life of the King , and the Subversion of the Government , hatch'd and contrived by ill - affected Persons , namely , Captain Thomas Walcot , William Hone , and John Rouse , who were drawn , hang'd , and quarter'd , for High-Trea - son , on Friday the 20. of this instant July : As also , the Lord Russel , who was beheaded in Lincolns-Inn-fields , on the 21. of the same Mo - neth , whose Fatal and deserved Punishments , may be a Warning for all others to avoid the like Crimes . To the Tune of , Digby's Farewell , Or , On the bank of a River , etc YOU Traitors of England how dare you Conspire , Against such a Prince whose love we admire ? And against his dear Brother that Royal brave Spark , Right Heir to the Crown , sweet James Duke of York . But yet I do hope , that they'l ne'r have their will , To touch our dear Princes who ne're thought them ill ; Oh Russel you plotted against a good King . Whose fame through all Nations in AEurope does Reign But Heavens will protect him and still be his guide , And keep him from danger and be on his side ; And all that do plot against him or the Heir , I hope that their Feet will be catched in a snare : By this Conspiration your Ruin you've caught , And under a hatchet your head you have borough Oh Russel you plotted , etc You might have liv'd many a year in much Fame , And added much Honour unto your good Name ; But now this a blot in your Scutcheon will be , For being concerned with this gross Villainy ; But now your dear Parents in heart may lament , Without all dispute they've but little content , To think that you plotted , etc Your Lady may grieve , and lament for her loss , To loose you for Treason it proves a great cross , But it was no more than what was your desert , No reason but that he should taste of the smar [ But ] had you then been [ a ] good S [ ubject ] indeed , You would not have suffer'd , you would have been freed . But Russel you plotted , etc Now let me but ask you a question or two , What would you have had , or intended to do ? The Laws of this Nation you would have thrown down , Then you would have aim'd at the Sceptre and Crown ; But Heaven I hope will all Plotting disclose , And the Laws of the Nation shall punish the Foes Of our great Monarch , and gracious good King , Whose Fame through all Nations in AEurop does Reign . When Persons have Honour and Pleasures great store , Yet still they are having and gruding for more ; Their hearts are deceitful and puffed with pride , And Lucifer certainly stands by their side , To things most unlawful he makes them conspire , But he laughs at them all when they stick in the mire , Oh Russel you plotted , etc True Subject's of England are filled with fears , And for their great Sovereign they shed many tears , To think this no reason will Traitors convince , But still they'le be plotting against a good Prince : Those that should have been a great help to the Land , They sought for our ruin we well understand . But Russel you plotted , etc There was Walcot and Rouse were both in the plot , And Hone I do reckon must not be forgotten ; At Tyburn for certain , each man took his turn , And then in the fire their bowels did burn , A death so deserving , none will deny : For sure they plotted against a good King , Whose Fame through all Nations in AEurop does Reign . Let this be a warning to Rich and to Poor , To be [ true ] to their King , and to plot so no more , And that our good King may have Plenty and P [ eace , ] And the Loyal Subject's may daily increase , There never were People more happy than we , If unto the Government all would agree . Then hang up those Traitors who love not the King , Whose Fame through all Nations in AEurope does Reign . FINIS . A Terror for TRAITORS Or , Treason Justly punished . [ Be ] ing a Relation of a Damn'd Conspiracy against the life of the King , and the Subversion of the Government , hatch'd and contrived by ill - affected Persons , namely , Captain Thomas Walcot , William Hone , and John Rouse , who were drawn , hang'd , and quarter'd , for High-Trea - son , on Friday the 20. of this instant July : As also , the Lord Russel , who was beheaded in Lincolns-Inn-fields , on the 21. of the same Mo - neth , whose Fatal and deserved Punishments , may be a Warning for all others to avoid the like Crimes . To the Tune of , Digby's Farewell , Or , On the bank of a River , etc YOU Traitors of England how dare you Conspire , Against such a Prince whose love we admire ? And against his dear Brother that Royal brave Spark , Right Heir to the Crown , sweet James Duke of York . But yet I do hope , that they'l ne'r have their will , To touch our dear Princes who ne're thought them ill ; Oh Russel you plotted against a good King . Whose fame through all Nations in AEurope does Reign But Heavens will protect him and still be his guide , And keep him from danger and be on his side ; And all that do plot against him or the Heir , I hope that their Feet will be catched in a snare : By this Conspiration your Ruin you've caught , And under a hatchet your head you have borough Oh Russel you plotted , etc You might have liv'd many a year in much Fame , And added much Honour unto your good Name ; But now this a blot in your Scutcheon will be , For being concerned with this gross Villainy ; But now your dear Parents in heart may lament , Without all dispute they've but little content , To think that you plotted , etc Your Lady may grieve , and lament for her loss , To loose you for Treason it proves a great cross , But it was no more than what was your desert , No reason but that he should taste of the smar [ But ] had you then been [ a ] good S [ ubject ] indeed , You would not have suffer'd , you would have been freed . But Russel you plotted , etc Now let me but ask you a question or two , What would you have had , or intended to do ? The Laws of this Nation you would have thrown down , Then you would have aim'd at the Sceptre and Crown ; But Heaven I hope will all Plotting disclose , And the Laws of the Nation shall punish the Foes Of our great Monarch , and gracious good King , Whose Fame through all Nations in AEurop does Reign . When Persons have Honour and Pleasures great store , Yet still they are having and gruding for more ; Their hearts are deceitful and puffed with pride , And Lucifer certainly stands by their side , To things most unlawful he makes them conspire , But he laughs at them all when they stick in the mire , Oh Russel you plotted , etc True Subject's of England are filled with fears , And for their great Sovereign they shed many tears , To think this no reason will Traitors convince , But still they'le be plotting against a good Prince : Those that should have been a great help to the Land , They sought for our ruin we well understand . But Russel you plotted , etc There was Walcot and Rouse were both in the plot , And Hone I do reckon must not be forgotten ; At Tyburn for certain , each man took his turn , And then in the fire their bowels did burn , A death so deserving , none will deny : For sure they plotted against a good King , Whose Fame through all Nations in AEurop does Reign . Let this be a warning to Rich and to Poor , To be [ true ] to their King , and to plot so no more , And that our good King may have Plenty and P [ eace , ] And the Loyal Subject's may daily increase , There never were People more happy than we , If unto the Government all would agree . Then hang up those Traitors who love not the King , Whose Fame through all Nations in AEurope does Reign . FINIS . 