A NEW SONG Or , the Gamblers Fitted . YOU sportsmen all both old and young , Come listen now unto my song , It is of a foot-race which was run , At Drax in Yorkshire by two men , To my fa . da . la , etc One of whose names it was C --- [ s ] W --- r , Not a great runner , but a great talker , 'Tother Eclipse a man of fame , For by his running he god that name . On the twenty f [ ift ] h day of August , The rhyme appointed that run they must , Where a great many people did resort , To Drax to see the famous sport . When many people was come there , They some of them begun to fear , Says they no raze we shall have I think , For C --- s is come without his jink . But soon the money he did produce , Or we shou'd have said it was his excuse , Oh then says they now let's to place , For I believe we shall have a raze . While the company stay'd in town , They cry'd out Eclipse for half a crown , No sooner into the field they came , But the gamblers all chang'd their name . They cry'd out C --- s for a pound or two , Which made Drax people all look blue , O says they our chance is ill , For these must needs be men of skill . They started but had not run half way , Before C --- s begun to show foul play , Oh then says Eclipse if that's the case , I'll let thee see another pace . Then Eclipse made a spring and left him soon , Which made the gamblers to look down , Upon that Drax people gave a shout , And made poor Changed --- s give running out . O brave Eclipse thou hast wone this raze , And brought this Champion to disgrace , Thy name shall be Eclipse for ever , While Changed --- s is nought but a deceives . So to conclude and end my song , I hope the gamblers will think on , And never shout with such a found , To lay a guinea to a pound . If any of you I do offend , With these few lines I now have penn'd , I ask your pardon for the same , But I'll conclude with Eclipse's fame . To my fa , dam , la , dam , la , dam , la . lade , dou , dade , dou , de . A NEW SONG Or , the Gamblers Fitted . YOU sportsmen all both old and young , Come listen now unto my song , It is of a foot-race which was run , At Drax in Yorkshire by two men , To my fa . da . la , etc One of whose names it was C --- [ s ] W --- r , Not a great runner , but a great talker , 'Tother Eclipse a man of fame , For by his running he god that name . On the twenty f [ ift ] h day of August , The rhyme appointed that run they must , Where a great many people did resort , To Drax to see the famous sport . When many people was come there , They some of them begun to fear , Says they no raze we shall have I think , For C --- s is come without his jink . But soon the money he did produce , Or we shou'd have said it was his excuse , Oh then says they now let's to place , For I believe we shall have a raze . While the company stay'd in town , They cry'd out Eclipse for half a crown , No sooner into the field they came , But the gamblers all chang'd their name . They cry'd out C --- s for a pound or two , Which made Drax people all look blue , O says they our chance is ill , For these must needs be men of skill . They started but had not run half way , Before C --- s begun to show foul play , Oh then says Eclipse if that's the case , I'll let thee see another pace . Then Eclipse made a spring and left him soon , Which made the gamblers to look down , Upon that Drax people gave a shout , And made poor Changed --- s give running out . O brave Eclipse thou hast wone this raze , And brought this Champion to disgrace , Thy name shall be Eclipse for ever , While Changed --- s is nought but a deceives . So to conclude and end my song , I hope the gamblers will think on , And never shout with such a found , To lay a guinea to a pound . If any of you I do offend , With these few lines I now have penn'd , I ask your pardon for the same , But I'll conclude with Eclipse's fame . To my fa , dam , la , dam , la , dam , la . lade , dou , dade , dou , de . 