THE DISOBEDIENT SON AND CRUEL HUSBAND . BEING A full and true ACCOUNT of one Mr John Jones , a Gentleman's Son in Wiltshire , whose Father left him and Estate of twelve hundred Pounds a Year , and married a Lady of a great Fortune in the same Place , but being reduced to Poverty and Want with riotous Living , he killed his wife and Children , and afterwards hanged his Mother on a tree in the Orchard . With the last dying Words of this Wretch , who was hanged before his Mother's Door , July 30 last . PROVERBS , Chap. XXX . 17. The Eye that mocks his Father , and despises to obey the Voice of his Mother the Ravens of the Valley shall pick it out , and she young Eagles shall eat it . YOU Parents all that now these Lines do hear , Observe them well , I'm sure you'll shed a Tear , The like of this scarce ever yet was known , The World it is so very wicked grown . In Wiltshire , there a wealthy Man did dwell , He had one only Son , 'tis known full well : His Parents they did greatly him adore , And he indeed was Heir to all their Store . His tender Father , as we understand , Was snatch'd away by Death's most cruel Hand ; Before his Son arriv'd to sixteen Years , Leaving his Loving Wife in Floods of Tears . She very tender was of her Son dear , The best that could be bought this Son must wear , And all he desir'd , she ne'er it deny'd , At length he grew to such a Height of Pride : At Cards and Dice her Substance he'd confound , Nothing but Vice did in this Youth abound ; He oft would curse his Mother to her Face , When she did tell him of his wicked Raze . At last unto a charming Maiden fair , He married was , as I to you declare , Six hundred Pounds he had with her 'tis known , But her dear Parents they were dead and gone . He seemed for to love her as his Life , But now observe what caused all the Strife ; He on a Woman Harlot cast and Eye , And often would frequent her Company . The richest of Attire he wou'd her buy , He spar'd no Cost , but let his Money fly , For to maintain his Harlot in her Pride , Nothing that she did ask must be deny'd . At last his Wife she of the same did hear , And oft would say to him my dearest Dear , These wicked Courses that you do take , in Time , To Poverty they will bring me and mine . Two lovely Children by his Wife he had , Which might have made a Father's Heart full glad , But he was barbarous . cruel and severe , To his Wife , his Mother , and his Children dear . At last his Substance very short did grow , Yet to his wicked Harlot would he go ; And when his Money it grew very scant . His Miss grew cold , and seemed discontent . Saying , this Trade will never do with me , Then to his Wife and Children would he flee , Their Rings and Clothes , and all that he could find , He'd bring to her , their cries he did not mind . At last this Course he could no longer run , His Wife , poor Soul , her Substance it was gone : His aged Mother had but little left , And almost of her Senses was bereft . One Day as Miss and him together were , She in a Passion said , I do declare , If you some Money do not get for me , I will no longer keep your Company . He in a Fury to his Wife went Home , And found her with her Babes making sad Moan , Some Money I will have , to her did say , Or else I'll Murder you this very Day . My Dear , said she , I have none to give you , With that he in a Passion straightway flew , And barring up the Door , to her did come , And threw her on the Floor there along . He gagg'd her Mouth and bound her ev'ry Limb , At last one of the Children said to him , Father , do not my Morher kill , I pray , For a Bit of Bred we have not touch'd Today . He turn'd about , and on the Child did gaze , The Devil did his Reason so amaze . He with a Knife that was so keen and sharp , Did stab this tender Babe unto the Heart . His loving Wife she saw the Deed he'd done , While Tears did from her Eyes like Fountains run What! dost thou weep to see thy Darling die ? I will dispatch thee likewise instantly . Then with the Knife that kill'd her infant dear , Her Throat he straight did cut from Ear to Ear : The other Infant straight aloud did cry , To see his Mother there a bleeding lie . He straightway went and took her by the Hand , While the poor Babe did there a trembling stand : Thy Life I fain would save , to it did say , But I do fear that you would me betray . But three Year's old , this Infant was no more , He also laid it wallowing in it's Gore : And then to search the House he did begin , But no Money he could find therein . So then straightway out of the House he went , The Doors did fasten , being discontent ; Unto his aged Mother he did go , Whose tender Heart was over-whelm'd with Woe His Mother straightway rose her Son to meet , And presently fetch'd him some food to ea Saying , you're melancholy , my dear Son , I'm sorry , he reply'd , for what I've done . For Joy his aged Mother wept amain , And will my Son his wickedness refrain , That I may Comfort have in thee , my Son But little did she think what he had done . At length this cruel Wretch , so void of Grace , He with his Hand did strike her on the Face , And gagg'd her Mouth in dismal Sort also , And by the Hair , he dragg'd her to and from . Unto the Orchard he did drag her there , And on a Tree hang'd her up by the Hair ; Tying her aged Arms likewise behind , Saying , Now thy Money I'll go find . When he had taken all that he could find , Unto his Harlot straightway he did high , And told her all the Things that he had done , And how his Mother on a Tree he'd hung . She answer'd , why did you not kill her too ? Come instantly , to London let us go , He reply'd , my Dear , it shall be so , But God above the Matter all does know . Next Day one of his Neighbours did espy , His Mother hanging on a Tree so high The same did raise the Town , the Sighed to see Who took her breathless Corpse from off the Tree . And running straightway for to call her Son , As soon as e'er unto the House they came , They found it fastened , no Answer made , Which put their Hearts in further Fear and Dread . The Doors they then broke open with all Speed , A Sighed would make a Heart of Stone to bleed , To see the Mother and her Infants dear , Lie in their Gore , Lord ! what a sighed was there . Murder , Oh Lord , is hateful to thy Sighed , Thy divine Providence brings it to Light , The Murderer was taken on the Road , And unto Justice brought with one Accord . He was condemn'd to suffer for thee the same , And after Death for to be hung in Chains : As soon as he came to the fatal Tree , He wept and wrung his hands most bitterly . Saying Christians all , pray for my sinful Soul , My Sins indeed are very gross and foul , My Wife , my Mother , and my Children dear , For Murdering them I now must suffer here . My Infant's Blood for Vengeance now does cry , My virtuous Wife she stands before my Eyes , My aged Mother too , methinks I see : You graceless Children all be rul'd by me . Besure you shun lewd Harlot's Company , You with a virtuous Wife may happy be ; But I , cruel Wretch ! her Blood most dear did spill , That never did nor thought me any Ill. How can I cast my Eyes to Heaven high ? O blessed Saviour do not me deny : I hope good Christians for my Soul you'll pray , When this he spoke , the Cart i [ tO ] drew away . You Parents , and likewise you Children pray , Observe what I do say to you this Day ; You Children mind your Parents , serve the Lord , A Crown of Glory will be your Reward . THE DISOBEDIENT SON AND CRUEL HUSBAND . BEING A full and true ACCOUNT of one Mr John Jones , a Gentleman's Son in Wiltshire , whose Father left him and Estate of twelve hundred Pounds a Year , and married a Lady of a great Fortune in the same Place , but being reduced to Poverty and Want with riotous Living , he killed his wife and Children , and afterwards hanged his Mother on a tree in the Orchard . With the last dying Words of this Wretch , who was hanged before his Mother's Door , July 30 last . PROVERBS , Chap. XXX . 17. The Eye that mocks his Father , and despises to obey the Voice of his Mother the Ravens of the Valley shall pick it out , and she young Eagles shall eat it . YOU Parents all that now these Lines do hear , Observe them well , I'm sure you'll shed a Tear , The like of this scarce ever yet was known , The World it is so very wicked grown . In Wiltshire , there a wealthy Man did dwell , He had one only Son , 'tis known full well : His Parents they did greatly him adore , And he indeed was Heir to all their Store . His tender Father , as we understand , Was snatch'd away by Death's most cruel Hand ; Before his Son arriv'd to sixteen Years , Leaving his Loving Wife in Floods of Tears . She very tender was of her Son dear , The best that could be bought this Son must wear , And all he desir'd , she ne'er it deny'd , At length he grew to such a Height of Pride : At Cards and Dice her Substance he'd confound , Nothing but Vice did in this Youth abound ; He oft would curse his Mother to her Face , When she did tell him of his wicked Raze . At last unto a charming Maiden fair , He married was , as I to you declare , Six hundred Pounds he had with her 'tis known , But her dear Parents they were dead and gone . He seemed for to love her as his Life , But now observe what caused all the Strife ; He on a Woman Harlot cast and Eye , And often would frequent her Company . The richest of Attire he wou'd her buy , He spar'd no Cost , but let his Money fly , For to maintain his Harlot in her Pride , Nothing that she did ask must be deny'd . At last his Wife she of the same did hear , And oft would say to him my dearest Dear , These wicked Courses that you do take , in Time , To Poverty they will bring me and mine . Two lovely Children by his Wife he had , Which might have made a Father's Heart full glad , But he was barbarous . cruel and severe , To his Wife , his Mother , and his Children dear . At last his Substance very short did grow , Yet to his wicked Harlot would he go ; And when his Money it grew very scant . His Miss grew cold , and seemed discontent . Saying , this Trade will never do with me , Then to his Wife and Children would he flee , Their Rings and Clothes , and all that he could find , He'd bring to her , their cries he did not mind . At last this Course he could no longer run , His Wife , poor Soul , her Substance it was gone : His aged Mother had but little left , And almost of her Senses was bereft . One Day as Miss and him together were , She in a Passion said , I do declare , If you some Money do not get for me , I will no longer keep your Company . He in a Fury to his Wife went Home , And found her with her Babes making sad Moan , Some Money I will have , to her did say , Or else I'll Murder you this very Day . My Dear , said she , I have none to give you , With that he in a Passion straightway flew , And barring up the Door , to her did come , And threw her on the Floor there along . He gagg'd her Mouth and bound her ev'ry Limb , At last one of the Children said to him , Father , do not my Morher kill , I pray , For a Bit of Bred we have not touch'd Today . He turn'd about , and on the Child did gaze , The Devil did his Reason so amaze . He with a Knife that was so keen and sharp , Did stab this tender Babe unto the Heart . His loving Wife she saw the Deed he'd done , While Tears did from her Eyes like Fountains run What! dost thou weep to see thy Darling die ? I will dispatch thee likewise instantly . Then with the Knife that kill'd her infant dear , Her Throat he straight did cut from Ear to Ear : The other Infant straight aloud did cry , To see his Mother there a bleeding lie . He straightway went and took her by the Hand , While the poor Babe did there a trembling stand : Thy Life I fain would save , to it did say , But I do fear that you would me betray . But three Year's old , this Infant was no more , He also laid it wallowing in it's Gore : And then to search the House he did begin , But no Money he could find therein . So then straightway out of the House he went , The Doors did fasten , being discontent ; Unto his aged Mother he did go , Whose tender Heart was over-whelm'd with Woe His Mother straightway rose her Son to meet , And presently fetch'd him some food to ea Saying , you're melancholy , my dear Son , I'm sorry , he reply'd , for what I've done . For Joy his aged Mother wept amain , And will my Son his wickedness refrain , That I may Comfort have in thee , my Son But little did she think what he had done . At length this cruel Wretch , so void of Grace , He with his Hand did strike her on the Face , And gagg'd her Mouth in dismal Sort also , And by the Hair , he dragg'd her to and from . Unto the Orchard he did drag her there , And on a Tree hang'd her up by the Hair ; Tying her aged Arms likewise behind , Saying , Now thy Money I'll go find . When he had taken all that he could find , Unto his Harlot straightway he did high , And told her all the Things that he had done , And how his Mother on a Tree he'd hung . She answer'd , why did you not kill her too ? Come instantly , to London let us go , He reply'd , my Dear , it shall be so , But God above the Matter all does know . Next Day one of his Neighbours did espy , His Mother hanging on a Tree so high The same did raise the Town , the Sighed to see Who took her breathless Corpse from off the Tree . And running straightway for to call her Son , As soon as e'er unto the House they came , They found it fastened , no Answer made , Which put their Hearts in further Fear and Dread . The Doors they then broke open with all Speed , A Sighed would make a Heart of Stone to bleed , To see the Mother and her Infants dear , Lie in their Gore , Lord ! what a sighed was there . Murder , Oh Lord , is hateful to thy Sighed , Thy divine Providence brings it to Light , The Murderer was taken on the Road , And unto Justice brought with one Accord . He was condemn'd to suffer for thee the same , And after Death for to be hung in Chains : As soon as he came to the fatal Tree , He wept and wrung his hands most bitterly . Saying Christians all , pray for my sinful Soul , My Sins indeed are very gross and foul , My Wife , my Mother , and my Children dear , For Murdering them I now must suffer here . My Infant's Blood for Vengeance now does cry , My virtuous Wife she stands before my Eyes , My aged Mother too , methinks I see : You graceless Children all be rul'd by me . Besure you shun lewd Harlot's Company , You with a virtuous Wife may happy be ; But I , cruel Wretch ! her Blood most dear did spill , That never did nor thought me any Ill. How can I cast my Eyes to Heaven high ? O blessed Saviour do not me deny : I hope good Christians for my Soul you'll pray , When this he spoke , the Cart i [ tO ] drew away . You Parents , and likewise you Children pray , Observe what I do say to you this Day ; You Children mind your Parents , serve the Lord , A Crown of Glory will be your Reward . 