A New SONG . Call'd the Duke of Cumberland's Victory over the Scotch Rebels at Cullodon-Moor , near Inverness . Made by a Soldier who was in the Engagement . To the Tune of the Earl of ESSEX . YOU Subject's of Britton now you may Rejoice , And pray for King George with Heart and Voice . The Popish Pretender has now run away , Just like his old Daddy no longer could stay . The brave Duke of Cumberland he did command , And happy was we that had such a Hand , He greatly Encouraged his Soldiers that Day , And it was our Care his Command to obey . We followed the Rebels thro' Dirt and thro' Mire , And for to come up with them was our Desire ; At length we did wade through the fresh River Spey , And when we came over they still run away . We still advanc'd after them Four Days , Over Mountains , thro' Rivers , and many rough Ways ; At length we came up with them near Inverness , And there we quickly put them to Distress . They had thirteen Pieces of Cannon that Day , Which quickly upon us began for to Play ; Our Cannon we turned it and levell'd it so True , Which made all the Rebels begin to look Blue . They thought to come in upon Us Sword in Hand , But as we was ordered we firmly did stand ; We poured in our small Shot so when they drew nigh , That many fell Dead and the rest they did fly . They was in such haste they their Cannon did leave , And then the Pretender did weep and did grieve ; They left all their Baggage their haste it was such . And their Ammunition which grieved them much . Our Light horse and Dragoons they did closely pursue With Broad Swords and Pistols great Numbers they slew The Ground it was covered with wounded and slave , So Popish Pretender thy hope's are in Vain . Three thousand that Day we lay dead on the Ground Beside many Skulking in Cabins we found ; And many Deserted their Kale-yards to set , Which put the Pretender into a great Fret . Altho' they had god and Assistance from France , The brave Duke of Cumberland made them to Dance , He took many Prisoners and blasted their hope , For he was not commanded by General Cope . To hang all the Rebels you have my Consent , Because with a good King they are not Content , The World it is come to a very sad Pass , For they want to have Britton be Rul'd by and Ass. Let each Loyal Subject then fill up a Glass , And drink to King George and about let it Pass ; And when your Hand's in let your Liquour not stand , But fill up another to brave CUMBERLAND . For He's a Commander Courageous and bold , In following the Rebels he will not be Controul'd ; I wish he may always have Health and Success , For such a Commander is a great Happiness . England's GLORY ; Or , Duke WILLIAM's Triumph over the Rebels in SCOTLAND . BRITTONS all your Voices Raise , Huzza ! the British Hero ; And found the brave Duke William's Praise And make the Valleys Echo ; For now me Boys we've god the Day , For which we long did wish and Pray , Let every Churchman with me say , God save the brave Duke William . When our Champion Order gave , To march and give them Battle , Our Soldiers gave three loud Huzza's , While Cannon loud did Rattle ; When to the River Spey they came , So eager was they for the Game , They all leapt in and thro' it Swam , Led on by brave Duke William . The Rebels look'd like Men amaz'd , To see the Brittons coming , They 'Spyed the Duke and on him gazed , But soon they all were running ; On Cullodon Moor , they made a stand , Eight thousand Men with Sword in Hand , But all the World must needs commend , The Conduct of brave Duke William . Our Soldiers bravely stood their Ground And briskly they did Fire , The vain Pretender quickly found , 'Twas time for to retire ; Three Sousand slave they left behind , A Thousand more that's now confined , And Monsieur you shall quickly find , A Champion in Duke William . prey God preserve great George our King The Glory of our Nation , Let every Popish Rebel Swing , At TYBURN their old Station ; But Loyal Subject's soon will see , The sweet Effects of Liberty , Preserved from Popish Tyranny , By GOD and brave Duke William . Sheffield : Printed by Francis Lister , near the Shambles , 1746. A New SONG . Call'd the Duke of Cumberland's Victory over the Scotch Rebels at Cullodon-Moor , near Inverness . Made by a Soldier who was in the Engagement . To the Tune of the Earl of ESSEX . YOU Subject's of Britton now you may Rejoice , And pray for King George with Heart and Voice . The Popish Pretender has now run away , Just like his old Daddy no longer could stay . The brave Duke of Cumberland he did command , And happy was we that had such a Hand , He greatly Encouraged his Soldiers that Day , And it was our Care his Command to obey . We followed the Rebels thro' Dirt and thro' Mire , And for to come up with them was our Desire ; At length we did wade through the fresh River Spey , And when we came over they still run away . We still advanc'd after them Four Days , Over Mountains , thro' Rivers , and many rough Ways ; At length we came up with them near Inverness , And there we quickly put them to Distress . They had thirteen Pieces of Cannon that Day , Which quickly upon us began for to Play ; Our Cannon we turned it and levell'd it so True , Which made all the Rebels begin to look Blue . They thought to come in upon Us Sword in Hand , But as we was ordered we firmly did stand ; We poured in our small Shot so when they drew nigh , That many fell Dead and the rest they did fly . They was in such haste they their Cannon did leave , And then the Pretender did weep and did grieve ; They left all their Baggage their haste it was such . And their Ammunition which grieved them much . Our Light horse and Dragoons they did closely pursue With Broad Swords and Pistols great Numbers they slew The Ground it was covered with wounded and slave , So Popish Pretender thy hope's are in Vain . Three thousand that Day we lay dead on the Ground Beside many Skulking in Cabins we found ; And many Deserted their Kale-yards to set , Which put the Pretender into a great Fret . Altho' they had god and Assistance from France , The brave Duke of Cumberland made them to Dance , He took many Prisoners and blasted their hope , For he was not commanded by General Cope . To hang all the Rebels you have my Consent , Because with a good King they are not Content , The World it is come to a very sad Pass , For they want to have Britton be Rul'd by and Ass. Let each Loyal Subject then fill up a Glass , And drink to King George and about let it Pass ; And when your Hand's in let your Liquour not stand , But fill up another to brave CUMBERLAND . For He's a Commander Courageous and bold , In following the Rebels he will not be Controul'd ; I wish he may always have Health and Success , For such a Commander is a great Happiness . England's GLORY ; Or , Duke WILLIAM's Triumph over the Rebels in SCOTLAND . BRITTONS all your Voices Raise , Huzza ! the British Hero ; And found the brave Duke William's Praise And make the Valleys Echo ; For now me Boys we've god the Day , For which we long did wish and Pray , Let every Churchman with me say , God save the brave Duke William . When our Champion Order gave , To march and give them Battle , Our Soldiers gave three loud Huzza's , While Cannon loud did Rattle ; When to the River Spey they came , So eager was they for the Game , They all leapt in and thro' it Swam , Led on by brave Duke William . The Rebels look'd like Men amaz'd , To see the Brittons coming , They 'Spyed the Duke and on him gazed , But soon they all were running ; On Cullodon Moor , they made a stand , Eight thousand Men with Sword in Hand , But all the World must needs commend , The Conduct of brave Duke William . Our Soldiers bravely stood their Ground And briskly they did Fire , The vain Pretender quickly found , 'Twas time for to retire ; Three Sousand slave they left behind , A Thousand more that's now confined , And Monsieur you shall quickly find , A Champion in Duke William . prey God preserve great George our King The Glory of our Nation , Let every Popish Rebel Swing , At TYBURN their old Station ; But Loyal Subject's soon will see , The sweet Effects of Liberty , Preserved from Popish Tyranny , By GOD and brave Duke William . Sheffield : Printed by Francis Lister , near the Shambles , 1746. 