The KING and the FORRESTER . YOU subject's of England , come listen a while ; Here is a new ditty will make you to smile , It is of a king and a keeper also , Who met in a forest some winter's ago . O early , Oh early , all in the morning , King William rose early all in the morning . And a gown of gray russet King William put on , As tho' he had been some silly poor man . The hounds were ready prepar'd for game , No nobles attended of honour and fame : But like a mean subject in homely array , He to his forest was taking his way . O then bespoke Marry , our most royal queen , My gracious lord , pray where are you going ? He answered , I count him to be no wise man , That will his council tell unto a woman . The queen , with a modest behaviour reply'd , I wish that kind providence may be your guide , To keep you from danger , my sovereign lord , Which will the greatest of blessings afford . He went to the forest some pleasure to spy , Where the hounds run swift , the keeper drew nigh , How dare you , bold fellow , how dare you come here Without the King's leave , to chase his fair deer . Here are my three hounds , I will give them to you , And likewise my hawk as good as e'er flew ; Beside I will give you full forty shillings , If thou wilt not betray me to William our King . I am one of his subject's , I am one of his force , And I am come here for to run a course . Get you gone , you bold fellow , you run no course here , Without the leave of King William forbear . All that I have proffer'd , I pr'ythee now take , And do thy endeavour my peace for to make , Beside forty shillings I will give thee a ring , If thou wilt not betray me to William our King . Your three hounds I tell you , I never will take , Nor yet your three hawks your peace to make ; Nor will I be brib'd by your forty shillings , But I will betray you to William our King . As I am a keeper , I will not be unjust , Nor for a gold ring will I forfeit my trust ; I will bring you before him as sure as a gun , And there you shall answer for what you have done . Thou art a bold fellow the King he reply'd , What dost thou not see the star on my side . This forest is mine , I would have you to know , Then what is the reason you threaten me so ? With that the bold keeper he fell on his knees , A trembling fear all his spirits did seize , The picture of death appear'd on his face ; He knew not at first the king was in that place . O pardon , Oh pardon , my sovereign liege , For your royal pardon I beg and beseech . Alas ! my poor heart in my breast is cold ; Oh let me not suffer for being so bold . Get up honest fellow , and shake off thy fears ; In the there is nothing of folly appears : If every one was as faithful as thee , What a blessed prince would King William be ! Because I'd encourage such fellows as you , I'll make thee my ranger : If that will not do , Thou shalt be a captain by sea or by land , And high in my favour thou ever shalt stand . The keeper replied , my soverign lord , Sure I am not worthy of such a reward ; Yet nevertheless your true keeper I'll be , Because I am fearful to venture to sea , At which the King laugh'd till his sides he did hold , And threw him down fifty bright guineas in gold , And bid him make haste to Kensington Court , Where of this jest he would make much sport . And when you come there , pray ask for long Jack , Who wears pomegranates of gold on his back ; Likewise a green pheasant upon his right sleeve , I warrant he's a true man , you may him believe . He's one of my porters who stands at my gate , To let in my nobles both early and late , And therefore good fellow , come up without fear , I'll make thee my ranger of parks far and near . The KING and the FORRESTER . YOU subject's of England , come listen a while ; Here is a new ditty will make you to smile , It is of a king and a keeper also , Who met in a forest some winter's ago . O early , Oh early , all in the morning , King William rose early all in the morning . And a gown of gray russet King William put on , As tho' he had been some silly poor man . The hounds were ready prepar'd for game , No nobles attended of honour and fame : But like a mean subject in homely array , He to his forest was taking his way . O then bespoke Marry , our most royal queen , My gracious lord , pray where are you going ? He answered , I count him to be no wise man , That will his council tell unto a woman . The queen , with a modest behaviour reply'd , I wish that kind providence may be your guide , To keep you from danger , my sovereign lord , Which will the greatest of blessings afford . He went to the forest some pleasure to spy , Where the hounds run swift , the keeper drew nigh , How dare you , bold fellow , how dare you come here Without the King's leave , to chase his fair deer . Here are my three hounds , I will give them to you , And likewise my hawk as good as e'er flew ; Beside I will give you full forty shillings , If thou wilt not betray me to William our King . I am one of his subject's , I am one of his force , And I am come here for to run a course . Get you gone , you bold fellow , you run no course here , Without the leave of King William forbear . All that I have proffer'd , I pr'ythee now take , And do thy endeavour my peace for to make , Beside forty shillings I will give thee a ring , If thou wilt not betray me to William our King . Your three hounds I tell you , I never will take , Nor yet your three hawks your peace to make ; Nor will I be brib'd by your forty shillings , But I will betray you to William our King . As I am a keeper , I will not be unjust , Nor for a gold ring will I forfeit my trust ; I will bring you before him as sure as a gun , And there you shall answer for what you have done . Thou art a bold fellow the King he reply'd , What dost thou not see the star on my side . This forest is mine , I would have you to know , Then what is the reason you threaten me so ? With that the bold keeper he fell on his knees , A trembling fear all his spirits did seize , The picture of death appear'd on his face ; He knew not at first the king was in that place . O pardon , Oh pardon , my sovereign liege , For your royal pardon I beg and beseech . Alas ! my poor heart in my breast is cold ; Oh let me not suffer for being so bold . Get up honest fellow , and shake off thy fears ; In the there is nothing of folly appears : If every one was as faithful as thee , What a blessed prince would King William be ! Because I'd encourage such fellows as you , I'll make thee my ranger : If that will not do , Thou shalt be a captain by sea or by land , And high in my favour thou ever shalt stand . The keeper replied , my soverign lord , Sure I am not worthy of such a reward ; Yet nevertheless your true keeper I'll be , Because I am fearful to venture to sea , At which the King laugh'd till his sides he did hold , And threw him down fifty bright guineas in gold , And bid him make haste to Kensington Court , Where of this jest he would make much sport . And when you come there , pray ask for long Jack , Who wears pomegranates of gold on his back ; Likewise a green pheasant upon his right sleeve , I warrant he's a true man , you may him believe . He's one of my porters who stands at my gate , To let in my nobles both early and late , And therefore good fellow , come up without fear , I'll make thee my ranger of parks far and near . 