A Serious copy of Verses on the late Miss Wray . you tender fair come hear a ditty , Tragical my tale does run , Or a murder more's the pity , Was at Covent Garden , done , On a kind and pretty woman , By a Minister were told , For her constancy he kill'd her , Not to rob her of her gold . It seems he had his education , At the University , And first of all boar a commission , But no promotion like to be , Four years ago the gowned assumed , Persuaded by his friends they say , Then cast his eyes as were informed , On the beauty of Miss Wray . To her he oft paid his addresses , But never could obtain his end , She told the Earl , her noble keeper , Who was to him a worthy friend , But this was nothing all he wanted , Was Miss Wray for whore or wife But as neither could be granted , Was resolv'd to have her life . He with two loaded pistols met her , Just as she came from the play , Rush'd up and not a word did utter , With one he took her life away , The other for himself designed , But his life is spair'd you see , Not worthy of a death so sudden , But a public sighed to be . Now in Newgate is confined , Till his trial does come on , It's hope'd to death he'll be resigned , Alas ! alas ! unhappy man , Who did not look a little further , Solid happiness to see , But must go to do a murder , His own murderer for to be . See a mother none more kinder , From five children robb'd of life , The character she's left behind her , May be copy'd by each wife , Friendly courteous and oblinging , Unto all came in her way , Is the character you fair ones , Of the late worthy Miss Wray . A Serious copy of Verses on the late Miss Wray . you tender fair come hear a ditty , Tragical my tale does run , Or a murder more's the pity , Was at Covent Garden , done , On a kind and pretty woman , By a Minister were told , For her constancy he kill'd her , Not to rob her of her gold . It seems he had his education , At the University , And first of all boar a commission , But no promotion like to be , Four years ago the gowned assumed , Persuaded by his friends they say , Then cast his eyes as were informed , On the beauty of Miss Wray . To her he oft paid his addresses , But never could obtain his end , She told the Earl , her noble keeper , Who was to him a worthy friend , But this was nothing all he wanted , Was Miss Wray for whore or wife But as neither could be granted , Was resolv'd to have her life . He with two loaded pistols met her , Just as she came from the play , Rush'd up and not a word did utter , With one he took her life away , The other for himself designed , But his life is spair'd you see , Not worthy of a death so sudden , But a public sighed to be . Now in Newgate is confined , Till his trial does come on , It's hope'd to death he'll be resigned , Alas ! alas ! unhappy man , Who did not look a little further , Solid happiness to see , But must go to do a murder , His own murderer for to be . See a mother none more kinder , From five children robb'd of life , The character she's left behind her , May be copy'd by each wife , Friendly courteous and oblinging , Unto all came in her way , Is the character you fair ones , Of the late worthy Miss Wray . 