The Northamptonshire Tragedy . In THREE PARTS . YOung Lovers lend and Ear , I'm sure you'll shed a Tear , When you the same shall hear which I unfold . 'Twill make your heart to bleed , when farther I proceed , A dismal Story sure as e'er was told . In fair Northamptonshire , as I to you declare , There liv'd two Noblemen of vast Estates . Each had a Daughter dear , as for a truth we hear , But yet , alas ! unhappy was their Fates . One was of beauteous mould , the other as 'tis told , Was much deformed , and inferior too . The other a Beauty clear , but you soon shall hear , Her Craftiness did this Lady quite undo . A noble Knight of Fame , to court this Beauty came , Protesting if she would not grant him her love , He was ruin'd quite , no Comfort Day or Night , Oh ease me of my pain you Powers above . Why did this lovely fair , my tender heart ensnare ? O Cupid let your tender arrows fly , And wound her heart as mine , and make her be as kind , For if she will not love , for her I die . At last as we do find , he to her told his mind Who courteously to him this answer made . Your suit I must deny , kind sir , I tell you why , I think I am too young as yet to wed . But lovely Maid , said he , can you thus cruel be , Let not those charming eyes such darts let fly ; Oh cure a lovesick heart , and ease me of my smart , Or else for you my dearest love I die . Sir , tell me not of Love , you may unconstant prove , I know such things they are often found ; My years they are too green , I am not yet Fifteen , I'm sure I do not know what Love does mean . Thus night and day [ ? ] th this Lady be , At last she did consent to be his Bride ; First ask my Father pray , let him appoint the Day , And if he's willing I am satisfied . O charming found I hear , that you'll be my Dear , Thou beauteous Goddess whom I do adore ; Since you're constant at last , now my sorrows past , Instead of Grief , I now have comfort store . He to her Father went , and asked his Consent , Immediately to him he thus did say ; She is too young indeed , It must be thus agreed , If that you have her you for her must stay . With all my heart he cried , if she is my Bride ; I do not mind for her how long I stay ; [ ' ] This she I do adore , and shall for evermore . With kisses sweet they pass'd the time away . PART II OBserve the Second Part , how he did her betray , Her Heart he stole away , and then defil'd Her lovely Body too , which prov'd her overthrow , For she alas ! by him did prove with Child . Soon as he knew the same , he left the lovely Dame , And to her Neighbour a courting did go : Tho' Crooked and Deform'd , for her this Beauty scorn'd Which caus'd her lovely Eyes with tears to flow . Letters she oft did send with expressions kind , Saying , what do you mean , dear love I pray , That you do me fly , and will not me come nigh , Oh cruel Man my Heart thus to betray . No answer she received from her Love indeed , At length unto the Coachman she did say , Dear John , one thing I crave , I'll make you fine and brave , If you'll my council keep and not betray . This Diamond Ring so bright , bear to the gallant knight , Brave STANFORD that sweet Name it does bear , Also this Letter pray , give to him this day , Or else my Heart in pieces I must tear . The Coachman was amaz'd , and on his Lady gaz'd : Unto the perjur'd Knight away he went , His message did declare : Go tell your Lady fair , To come to her this Day was my intent . Soon as he did come , he approach'd the room , The charming lady's bloom , like roses sweet , Her crimson cheeks forsook , e're a word she spoke , In a swoon she dropped down at his feet . He strove her to revive , and finding her alive ; What means your grief , I beg now let me hear , Her lily hands she wrung , 'tis a deluding tongue , Oh pity me for my sweet Infant dear . It's striving in my womb , perform your promise , come Blast not my Honour , hide my shame I pray , Look on the Ring I beg , think on the oath you made , Which you swore to me both Night and Day . With Countenance most Grim , he at her cast the Ring , Think not that I vile Wretch , thy case deplore , No more thy Face I'll see , no more send to me , I will not own a Bastard nor a Whore . Good People do but think , what Grief she underwent , To hear this perjured Creature thus degrade , Her charms unto her Face , who did her thus disgrace , Whose flattery at first her Heart betray'd . At last her Father dear , beheld his Daughter fair , With Sorrow overflow'd , to her he said , What ails my Daughter dear , do pray let me hear : The reason I must know this very Day . I'm very ill , she cry'd , let me not be deny'd , One thing that I desire dear Father pray , That I to take the air , may to my Aunt's repair , If not , my Father's will must be obey'd . PART III . HER Father did consent , she to her Aunt's was sent , Her Coach to attend on her also : Her Aunt did quickly spy , wherein her grief did lie , And the truth she quickly then did know . Her Aunt was just and good , her best Friend she stood , At last the time was come , this Lady fair , Must delivered be ; a lovely Son , had she , Which was much cause to her , of grief and care : As she delivered were , she call'd the Coachman there , To Heavens made him swear , for to be true ; Here take these Guineas bright , go to the false Knight , And give to him these Rings and Letter too . Soon to the Knight he went , and gave the things she sent , Who opened the same , it did unfold ; When he read the same , a treacherous laugh did frame , Saying , I do wonder at this Strumpet bold . Me of her Son to tell , I wish they were in Hell , I think it would be well , if they were there ; Go tell her what I say , and come no more I pray , So then in Pieces the Letter he did tear . He to the Lady came , and told her of the same ; Oh Creature most Profane , my Infant dear , May rest in Heaven high , while thy sad Soul does fry , In cruel torment where you wish we were . In bitter Grief she lay , tormented Night and Day , At length her Infant died by her side . This made her grief more and more , she kiss'd it o'er & o'er , My Father I will see , whate'er betide . At length she weary grew , I'll to my Father go , Dear Aunt I pray let none the secret know ; So farewell , she cried , let Heaven be your Guide , I'll seek for him that caus'd my overthrow , She to her Father came , which did her entertain , Most lovingly , saying , my Daughter dear , I'm glad to see you well , strange news I have to tell , Your Love is married this day I do declare . She seemed discontent , and from her Father went , You Furies now come strike unto my Brain , Some cursed invention pray , to take his Life away ; And let me be reveng'd for his disdain . Her Lover as we hear , did each Day repair , To take the air within a silent Grove , To pass the time away , read some diverting Play , He'd fit and let his wandering fancy rove . She understood the same , and calling to her Man , And smiling unto him , she thus did say , Stanford as I do hear , does to a Grove repair , A Project is come in my Head this Day . I'll get a Friar's dress , a visit I protest , I am resolved unto him to pay , And crave his Charity , while he does look on me , I'm sure to speak to him , I'll find a way . Thedre's he did prepare , with things fit and rare , Her Coachman ready in the afternoon ; Drove down a narrow Lane , behind the Grove it came , Now stop , said she , You'll see the fancy soon . Out of the Coach she came , the Fryar's dress put on , And when she had disguis'd herself all or'e , A curious Basket fine , she round her Arm did twine . Then went his charity for to implore . Most noble Knight so brave , your charity I crave , I hope you'll me relieve before you go ; Yes , that I will , said he , but pray now let me see , Methinks I something of that voice do know , She by his side did stand , and took him by the hand , And with the other out a Pistol drew : And let it off with speed , to do this wicked deed , The Bullet went his Body thro' and thro' . He fell down dead indeed , she stripped the Fryar's weed , Now Stanford's worthy Friends behold 'tis I ; Have done this bloody deed , caused thy heart to bleed , Now thou art rewarded for thy treachery . She cast her Friar's weed over her head with speed , Her Coachman saw the thing that she had done ; He trembled every limb , and straightway took her in . And then like lightning homeward he drove . But as they drove along , the Coach did The Northamptonshire Tragedy . In THREE PARTS . YOung Lovers lend and Ear , I'm sure you'll shed a Tear , When you the same shall hear which I unfold . 'Twill make your heart to bleed , when farther I proceed , A dismal Story sure as e'er was told . In fair Northamptonshire , as I to you declare , There liv'd two Noblemen of vast Estates . Each had a Daughter dear , as for a truth we hear , But yet , alas ! unhappy was their Fates . One was of beauteous mould , the other as 'tis told , Was much deformed , and inferior too . The other a Beauty clear , but you soon shall hear , Her Craftiness did this Lady quite undo . A noble Knight of Fame , to court this Beauty came , Protesting if she would not grant him her love , He was ruin'd quite , no Comfort Day or Night , Oh ease me of my pain you Powers above . Why did this lovely fair , my tender heart ensnare ? O Cupid let your tender arrows fly , And wound her heart as mine , and make her be as kind , For if she will not love , for her I die . At last as we do find , he to her told his mind Who courteously to him this answer made . Your suit I must deny , kind sir , I tell you why , I think I am too young as yet to wed . But lovely Maid , said he , can you thus cruel be , Let not those charming eyes such darts let fly ; Oh cure a lovesick heart , and ease me of my smart , Or else for you my dearest love I die . Sir , tell me not of Love , you may unconstant prove , I know such things they are often found ; My years they are too green , I am not yet Fifteen , I'm sure I do not know what Love does mean . Thus night and day [ ? ] th this Lady be , At last she did consent to be his Bride ; First ask my Father pray , let him appoint the Day , And if he's willing I am satisfied . O charming found I hear , that you'll be my Dear , Thou beauteous Goddess whom I do adore ; Since you're constant at last , now my sorrows past , Instead of Grief , I now have comfort store . He to her Father went , and asked his Consent , Immediately to him he thus did say ; She is too young indeed , It must be thus agreed , If that you have her you for her must stay . With all my heart he cried , if she is my Bride ; I do not mind for her how long I stay ; [ ' ] This she I do adore , and shall for evermore . With kisses sweet they pass'd the time away . PART II OBserve the Second Part , how he did her betray , Her Heart he stole away , and then defil'd Her lovely Body too , which prov'd her overthrow , For she alas ! by him did prove with Child . Soon as he knew the same , he left the lovely Dame , And to her Neighbour a courting did go : Tho' Crooked and Deform'd , for her this Beauty scorn'd Which caus'd her lovely Eyes with tears to flow . Letters she oft did send with expressions kind , Saying , what do you mean , dear love I pray , That you do me fly , and will not me come nigh , Oh cruel Man my Heart thus to betray . No answer she received from her Love indeed , At length unto the Coachman she did say , Dear John , one thing I crave , I'll make you fine and brave , If you'll my council keep and not betray . This Diamond Ring so bright , bear to the gallant knight , Brave STANFORD that sweet Name it does bear , Also this Letter pray , give to him this day , Or else my Heart in pieces I must tear . The Coachman was amaz'd , and on his Lady gaz'd : Unto the perjur'd Knight away he went , His message did declare : Go tell your Lady fair , To come to her this Day was my intent . Soon as he did come , he approach'd the room , The charming lady's bloom , like roses sweet , Her crimson cheeks forsook , e're a word she spoke , In a swoon she dropped down at his feet . He strove her to revive , and finding her alive ; What means your grief , I beg now let me hear , Her lily hands she wrung , 'tis a deluding tongue , Oh pity me for my sweet Infant dear . It's striving in my womb , perform your promise , come Blast not my Honour , hide my shame I pray , Look on the Ring I beg , think on the oath you made , Which you swore to me both Night and Day . With Countenance most Grim , he at her cast the Ring , Think not that I vile Wretch , thy case deplore , No more thy Face I'll see , no more send to me , I will not own a Bastard nor a Whore . Good People do but think , what Grief she underwent , To hear this perjured Creature thus degrade , Her charms unto her Face , who did her thus disgrace , Whose flattery at first her Heart betray'd . At last her Father dear , beheld his Daughter fair , With Sorrow overflow'd , to her he said , What ails my Daughter dear , do pray let me hear : The reason I must know this very Day . I'm very ill , she cry'd , let me not be deny'd , One thing that I desire dear Father pray , That I to take the air , may to my Aunt's repair , If not , my Father's will must be obey'd . PART III . HER Father did consent , she to her Aunt's was sent , Her Coach to attend on her also : Her Aunt did quickly spy , wherein her grief did lie , And the truth she quickly then did know . Her Aunt was just and good , her best Friend she stood , At last the time was come , this Lady fair , Must delivered be ; a lovely Son , had she , Which was much cause to her , of grief and care : As she delivered were , she call'd the Coachman there , To Heavens made him swear , for to be true ; Here take these Guineas bright , go to the false Knight , And give to him these Rings and Letter too . Soon to the Knight he went , and gave the things she sent , Who opened the same , it did unfold ; When he read the same , a treacherous laugh did frame , Saying , I do wonder at this Strumpet bold . Me of her Son to tell , I wish they were in Hell , I think it would be well , if they were there ; Go tell her what I say , and come no more I pray , So then in Pieces the Letter he did tear . He to the Lady came , and told her of the same ; Oh Creature most Profane , my Infant dear , May rest in Heaven high , while thy sad Soul does fry , In cruel torment where you wish we were . In bitter Grief she lay , tormented Night and Day , At length her Infant died by her side . This made her grief more and more , she kiss'd it o'er & o'er , My Father I will see , whate'er betide . At length she weary grew , I'll to my Father go , Dear Aunt I pray let none the secret know ; So farewell , she cried , let Heaven be your Guide , I'll seek for him that caus'd my overthrow , She to her Father came , which did her entertain , Most lovingly , saying , my Daughter dear , I'm glad to see you well , strange news I have to tell , Your Love is married this day I do declare . She seemed discontent , and from her Father went , You Furies now come strike unto my Brain , Some cursed invention pray , to take his Life away ; And let me be reveng'd for his disdain . Her Lover as we hear , did each Day repair , To take the air within a silent Grove , To pass the time away , read some diverting Play , He'd fit and let his wandering fancy rove . She understood the same , and calling to her Man , And smiling unto him , she thus did say , Stanford as I do hear , does to a Grove repair , A Project is come in my Head this Day . I'll get a Friar's dress , a visit I protest , I am resolved unto him to pay , And crave his Charity , while he does look on me , I'm sure to speak to him , I'll find a way . Thedre's he did prepare , with things fit and rare , Her Coachman ready in the afternoon ; Drove down a narrow Lane , behind the Grove it came , Now stop , said she , You'll see the fancy soon . Out of the Coach she came , the Fryar's dress put on , And when she had disguis'd herself all or'e , A curious Basket fine , she round her Arm did twine . Then went his charity for to implore . Most noble Knight so brave , your charity I crave , I hope you'll me relieve before you go ; Yes , that I will , said he , but pray now let me see , Methinks I something of that voice do know , She by his side did stand , and took him by the hand , And with the other out a Pistol drew : And let it off with speed , to do this wicked deed , The Bullet went his Body thro' and thro' . He fell down dead indeed , she stripped the Fryar's weed , Now Stanford's worthy Friends behold 'tis I ; Have done this bloody deed , caused thy heart to bleed , Now thou art rewarded for thy treachery . She cast her Friar's weed over her head with speed , Her Coachman saw the thing that she had done ; He trembled every limb , and straightway took her in . And then like lightning homeward he drove . But as they drove along , the Coach did overturn , A most unhappy doom , this Lady she , Her Arm did break in two , the Coachman's Leg also , In misery they lay till afternoon . The first that saw them there , was a Servant we hear , Of the murder'd Knight , a coming there ; To fetch his master dear , fearing this Lady fair , Had by some false Traitors been misus'd . Then turning back again , he found his Master slave , So going home to tell this fatal News , And all that there were , thought this Lady fair , Carried them to her Father I declare . The Lady of this Knight , unto her boar a spite , And had her apprehended out of hand ; She did confess the deed , and soon told with speed , And the whole truth she let them understand . She was Condemn'd to die , her Father's Gold did fly , Like Chaff before the Wind , her Lfie to save ; It would not save her Life , for the Knights cruel Wife , She said , Her Life , Her Life , is all I crave . The fatal Day was come , she must receive her doom , When thousands went to hear what she did say ; When she came to the Tree , both old and young , said she Now warning take by me this very Day , PART IV. FIRST Parents have a care , if e're your Children dear , Think fit to marry , do not them deny , For fear that love at last , should their glory blast , As may be seen by this sad destiny . Next Maidens all beware , and have a special care , Of Men's deceitful Tongues , that flattering train , For if you do consent , to your great discontent , When they have you betray'd , they will you disdain . Likewise false Men I say , beware how you betray , Poor Innocents , it may be your ruin ; When love does turn to hate , the malice is so great , That your destruction does your fancy prove . As for example , I poor wretched Soul must die . The deed I don't deny , for I did kill The Man I lov'd so dear , who scorn'd my Beauty fair , For one that was deform'd , but yet I still Unto the World must own , my Heart is with him gone Oh welcome Death ! come execute I pray ; The tragic part perform , Oh LORD , I come I come , Oh LORD , receive my Soul that's gone astray . After she had spoke , the hangman fix'd the Rope , The Cart it drew away , the Earth it shook , The cries they were so great , that the People did make , Thus this Lady fair the world forsook . Printed and Sold in Bow Church-Yard , London . overturn , A most unhappy doom , this Lady she , Her Arm did break in two , the Coachman's Leg also , In misery they lay till afternoon . The first that saw them there , was a Servant we hear , Of the murder'd Knight , a coming there ; To fetch his master dear , fearing this Lady fair , Had by some false Traitors been misus'd . Then turning back again , he found his Master slave , So going home to tell this fatal News , And all that there were , thought this Lady fair , Carried them to her Father I declare . The Lady of this Knight , unto her boar a spite , And had her apprehended out of hand ; She did confess the deed , and soon told with speed , And the whole truth she let them understand . She was Condemn'd to die , her Father's Gold did fly , Like Chaff before the Wind , her Lfie to save ; It would not save her Life , for the Knights cruel Wife , She said , Her Life , Her Life , is all I crave . The fatal Day was come , she must receive her doom , When thousands went to hear what she did say ; When she came to the Tree , both old and young , said she Now warning take by me this very Day , PART IV. FIRST Parents have a care , if e're your Children dear , Think fit to marry , do not them deny , For fear that love at last , should their glory blast , As may be seen by this sad destiny . Next Maidens all beware , and have a special care , Of Men's deceitful Tongues , that flattering train , For if you do consent , to your great discontent , When they have you betray'd , they will you disdain . Likewise false Men I say , beware how you betray , Poor Innocents , it may be your ruin ; When love does turn to hate , the malice is so great , That your destruction does your fancy prove . As for example , I poor wretched Soul must die . The deed I don't deny , for I did kill The Man I lov'd so dear , who scorn'd my Beauty fair , For one that was deform'd , but yet I still Unto the World must own , my Heart is with him gone Oh welcome Death ! come execute I pray ; The tragic part perform , Oh LORD , I come I come , Oh LORD , receive my Soul that's gone astray . After she had spoke , the hangman fix'd the Rope , The Cart it drew away , the Earth it shook , The cries they were so great , that the People did make , Thus this Lady fair the world forsook . Printed and Sold in Bow Church-Yard , London . 