The CHILDREN's EXAMPLE . Showing , how one Mrs Johnson's Child of Barnet , was tempted by the Devil to forsake GOD , and follow the Ways of other wicked Children , who used to Swear , tell Lies , and disobey their Parents : How this pretty innocent Child resisting Satan , was comforted by and Angel from Heaven , who warned her of her approaching Death : Together with her dying Words , desiring young Children not to forsake God , lest Satan would gain Power over them . To the Tune of Bleeding Heart . you Parents , that love Children dear , To what I shall relate give Ear ; And if you'd have them Heaven partake , You'll buy this Sheet for their sweet Sake . In Barnet liv'd a loving Pair , A tender Wife and Husband dear , Whom cruel Death of Life beguil'd , And left his tender Wife with Child . It prov'd a Daughter , therefore she , Was brought up very tenderly ; And as she did grow up in Time , Her temper seem'd like one divine . So sweet , so modest and so fair , That few could with this Child compare , For when her words had Silence broke , You would have thought and angel spoke . She was her Mother's Darling bright , In Learning she took great Delight , But above all her Mind was given , To find the speedy Way to Heaven . Whatever Time that she could spare , She spent to Heaven in fervent Prayer , If she one Farthing had in Store , She freely gave it to the Poor . Now observe good People , this heavenly Child reproved some wicked Children who were cursing and swearing . AS she did come from School one Day , She saw some Children were at Play , And wickedly they did blaspheme , And take God's holy Name in vain . Says she , dear Children do forbear , What makes you thus to curse and swear ? At School you never learn'd the same , Therefore I think you are to blame . Beside , what will your Parent's say , When they hear how you go astray ? I'm sure their Hearts would troubled be , To know you liv'd so wickedly . Don't you fear that God who gave His Son's dear Blood our Lives to save ; Remembers every sinful Word , You'll answer for before the Lord . Then started up a little Elf , Saying , Mistress , pray go mind yourself , We'll led our Lives this merry Way , In Spite of what you do or say . We valve not our Parents dear , The Church we never will come near : For there's no Heaven to enter in , No Hell to punish us for Sin. A Gentleman has told us so , Who gave us money so to do ; So hold your tongue , and do'nt us tease ; For Madam , we'll do what we please . The tender Infant weeping , said , It is the Devil I'm afraid , That bids you God's Commandments break , That he your precious Souls may take ; But , dear Companions , have a Care , You fallen not in this woeful Snare ; Take this advice , I do implore , Or else I'll not come near you more . One taking this in great Disgrace , Did strike her o'er the pretty Face , Saying , Young Mistress , hence depart , We scorn you from our very Heart . Oh! God foregive you , she did say , Though thus you strike me I will pray , That your Souls may in Heaven dwell , But now I bid you all farewell . Tears from her Cheeks then did glide , Her Mother as'd her why she cry'd ; What! did your Mistress you chastise , That you come Home with weeping Eyes . My dearest Mother , she did say , Some Children I have seen to Day , Who will not God's Commandments keep And 'tis for their poor Souls I weep For when I blam'd them for their Oaths , They gave me many cruel Blows : But let them do whate'er they will , Their precious Souls I'll pray for still . Her Mother took her in her Arms , My dear God keep thee from all Harms , Don't weep , my Child , be not distress'd , They'll answer for their Wickedness . Now observe how the Devil appeared to the Child , and would have enticed her to be as wicked as other Children were . AS this Child went to Church one Day , Thro' the Churchyard she took her way , Where lo ! the Devil came and said , Where are you going , pretty Maid ? To School , I'm going , Sir , said she , Pish , Child don't mind the same , says he ; But hast to your Companions dear , And learn to lie , and curse , and swear . They bravely spend their Time in Play , God they don't valve , no , not they : It is a Fable , Child , he cry'd ; At which his Cloven Foot she 'spy'd . I'm sure there is a God , said she , Who from your Power will keep me free : And if you should this thing deny , Your cloven Foot gives me the Lie . Satan , avoid , hence out of hand , In Name of Jesus I command , At which the Devil instantly , In Flames of fire away did fly . Soon after came and Angel fair , Who says to her , why weeps my Dear , What does your Time too swiftly run , On Dial which you look upon ? If it be so , be not beguil'd , You only die to live my Child ; At which the pretty harmless Maid , Thus to the shining Angel said , Dear Sir , I'm not afraid of Death , For if God took me from the Earth , Satan would then cease to torment , A harmless Child and innocent . O Sir , he was but here just now , Without God's Help what shall I do ? But Heaven , I hope , will hear my Prayers , And dry my Cheeks from weeping Tears . The Angel took her by the Hand , Sweet Child I come by Heaven's Command , To comfort you in this sad Hour , The Devil shall not have a Power To tempt you more while you have breath Too good you are to live on Earth : But dearest Child , Continue on , In Heaven for you there is a Throne , Where Christ does fit in Glory bright ; In such as you he takes delight , May Blessings e'er on you remain , So farewell till we meet again . This pretty Infant straightway went home , And told her Mother what was done , Who wept , because she did foresee , Her Child not long with her to be . In a Month's Time she did complain , That she did feel tormenting Pain : The Doctors were sent for with Speed , To help the Child in time of Need. Her Sickness it was most severe , And yet this pretty harmless Dear , Would never utter one Complaint , But seemed like a dying Saint . And when the Doctors gave her o'er , Nothing could grieve this dear Child more ; Than when her Mother's Tears she'd spy , Dear Mammy for me do not cry . Come kiss your Child and don't complain , We only part to meet again : My Soul does seem in Cage to be , But Death , I hope , will set it free . To my Companions tell this truth , To serve the Lord in time of Youth , That so their Sins may be forgiven , And when they die may go to Heaven . So spoke the dying Infant dear , When lo ! the Angel did appear , Have Mercy , Lord ! she then did cry , And comfort me before I die . Now mark the sweet Behaviour of the Child to her Mother , and the Heavenly Angel , who came to visit her before she died . LOOK Mother dear , I pray behold , My Angel shining bright as Gold , Where is he Child , I cannot him see , Oh there he is , 'tis he , 'tis he ! Speak , lovely Angel , take me hence , Thy words exceed all Eloquence , Sweet Child , said he , thy Days are done , Thy Minutes fly , thy glass in run ; I'm coming Lord , the Child did say , One last Embrace , dear Mother pray Oh! think I am not snatch'd too soon , But love my Memory when I'm gone . Methinks I hear my passing Bell , My Friends all taking their Farewell , Sweet Lord , receive my Soul , she said : Thus died this harmless pretty Maid . When lo ! was herd a charming Found , As though a Saint in Heaven was crown'd , And at her Funeral likewise there Was herd sweet Music in the Air . The People wept for this dear Child . It was so heavenly meek and mild , But God has made her now his own , Where Satan's Power cannot be shown , Now , Children dear , strive piously , Like her to live , like her to die ; Then God will bless you while on Earth , And make you happy after Death . FIFIS . The CHILDREN's EXAMPLE . Showing , how one Mrs Johnson's Child of Barnet , was tempted by the Devil to forsake GOD , and follow the Ways of other wicked Children , who used to Swear , tell Lies , and disobey their Parents : How this pretty innocent Child resisting Satan , was comforted by and Angel from Heaven , who warned her of her approaching Death : Together with her dying Words , desiring young Children not to forsake God , lest Satan would gain Power over them . To the Tune of Bleeding Heart . you Parents , that love Children dear , To what I shall relate give Ear ; And if you'd have them Heaven partake , You'll buy this Sheet for their sweet Sake . In Barnet liv'd a loving Pair , A tender Wife and Husband dear , Whom cruel Death of Life beguil'd , And left his tender Wife with Child . It prov'd a Daughter , therefore she , Was brought up very tenderly ; And as she did grow up in Time , Her temper seem'd like one divine . So sweet , so modest and so fair , That few could with this Child compare , For when her words had Silence broke , You would have thought and angel spoke . She was her Mother's Darling bright , In Learning she took great Delight , But above all her Mind was given , To find the speedy Way to Heaven . Whatever Time that she could spare , She spent to Heaven in fervent Prayer , If she one Farthing had in Store , She freely gave it to the Poor . Now observe good People , this heavenly Child reproved some wicked Children who were cursing and swearing . AS she did come from School one Day , She saw some Children were at Play , And wickedly they did blaspheme , And take God's holy Name in vain . Says she , dear Children do forbear , What makes you thus to curse and swear ? At School you never learn'd the same , Therefore I think you are to blame . Beside , what will your Parent's say , When they hear how you go astray ? I'm sure their Hearts would troubled be , To know you liv'd so wickedly . Don't you fear that God who gave His Son's dear Blood our Lives to save ; Remembers every sinful Word , You'll answer for before the Lord . Then started up a little Elf , Saying , Mistress , pray go mind yourself , We'll led our Lives this merry Way , In Spite of what you do or say . We valve not our Parents dear , The Church we never will come near : For there's no Heaven to enter in , No Hell to punish us for Sin. A Gentleman has told us so , Who gave us money so to do ; So hold your tongue , and do'nt us tease ; For Madam , we'll do what we please . The tender Infant weeping , said , It is the Devil I'm afraid , That bids you God's Commandments break , That he your precious Souls may take ; But , dear Companions , have a Care , You fallen not in this woeful Snare ; Take this advice , I do implore , Or else I'll not come near you more . One taking this in great Disgrace , Did strike her o'er the pretty Face , Saying , Young Mistress , hence depart , We scorn you from our very Heart . Oh! God foregive you , she did say , Though thus you strike me I will pray , That your Souls may in Heaven dwell , But now I bid you all farewell . Tears from her Cheeks then did glide , Her Mother as'd her why she cry'd ; What! did your Mistress you chastise , That you come Home with weeping Eyes . My dearest Mother , she did say , Some Children I have seen to Day , Who will not God's Commandments keep And 'tis for their poor Souls I weep For when I blam'd them for their Oaths , They gave me many cruel Blows : But let them do whate'er they will , Their precious Souls I'll pray for still . Her Mother took her in her Arms , My dear God keep thee from all Harms , Don't weep , my Child , be not distress'd , They'll answer for their Wickedness . Now observe how the Devil appeared to the Child , and would have enticed her to be as wicked as other Children were . AS this Child went to Church one Day , Thro' the Churchyard she took her way , Where lo ! the Devil came and said , Where are you going , pretty Maid ? To School , I'm going , Sir , said she , Pish , Child don't mind the same , says he ; But hast to your Companions dear , And learn to lie , and curse , and swear . They bravely spend their Time in Play , God they don't valve , no , not they : It is a Fable , Child , he cry'd ; At which his Cloven Foot she 'spy'd . I'm sure there is a God , said she , Who from your Power will keep me free : And if you should this thing deny , Your cloven Foot gives me the Lie . Satan , avoid , hence out of hand , In Name of Jesus I command , At which the Devil instantly , In Flames of fire away did fly . Soon after came and Angel fair , Who says to her , why weeps my Dear , What does your Time too swiftly run , On Dial which you look upon ? If it be so , be not beguil'd , You only die to live my Child ; At which the pretty harmless Maid , Thus to the shining Angel said , Dear Sir , I'm not afraid of Death , For if God took me from the Earth , Satan would then cease to torment , A harmless Child and innocent . O Sir , he was but here just now , Without God's Help what shall I do ? But Heaven , I hope , will hear my Prayers , And dry my Cheeks from weeping Tears . The Angel took her by the Hand , Sweet Child I come by Heaven's Command , To comfort you in this sad Hour , The Devil shall not have a Power To tempt you more while you have breath Too good you are to live on Earth : But dearest Child , Continue on , In Heaven for you there is a Throne , Where Christ does fit in Glory bright ; In such as you he takes delight , May Blessings e'er on you remain , So farewell till we meet again . This pretty Infant straightway went home , And told her Mother what was done , Who wept , because she did foresee , Her Child not long with her to be . In a Month's Time she did complain , That she did feel tormenting Pain : The Doctors were sent for with Speed , To help the Child in time of Need. Her Sickness it was most severe , And yet this pretty harmless Dear , Would never utter one Complaint , But seemed like a dying Saint . And when the Doctors gave her o'er , Nothing could grieve this dear Child more ; Than when her Mother's Tears she'd spy , Dear Mammy for me do not cry . Come kiss your Child and don't complain , We only part to meet again : My Soul does seem in Cage to be , But Death , I hope , will set it free . To my Companions tell this truth , To serve the Lord in time of Youth , That so their Sins may be forgiven , And when they die may go to Heaven . So spoke the dying Infant dear , When lo ! the Angel did appear , Have Mercy , Lord ! she then did cry , And comfort me before I die . Now mark the sweet Behaviour of the Child to her Mother , and the Heavenly Angel , who came to visit her before she died . LOOK Mother dear , I pray behold , My Angel shining bright as Gold , Where is he Child , I cannot him see , Oh there he is , 'tis he , 'tis he ! Speak , lovely Angel , take me hence , Thy words exceed all Eloquence , Sweet Child , said he , thy Days are done , Thy Minutes fly , thy glass in run ; I'm coming Lord , the Child did say , One last Embrace , dear Mother pray Oh! think I am not snatch'd too soon , But love my Memory when I'm gone . Methinks I hear my passing Bell , My Friends all taking their Farewell , Sweet Lord , receive my Soul , she said : Thus died this harmless pretty Maid . When lo ! was herd a charming Found , As though a Saint in Heaven was crown'd , And at her Funeral likewise there Was herd sweet Music in the Air . The People wept for this dear Child . It was so heavenly meek and mild , But God has made her now his own , Where Satan's Power cannot be shown , Now , Children dear , strive piously , Like her to live , like her to die ; Then God will bless you while on Earth , And make you happy after Death . FIFIS . 