The COOK-MAID's Garland : Or , The Out-of-the-Way Devil . Showing , How Four Highwaymen were bit by and ingenious Cook-Maid . YOU Gallants all in London , If you will but draw near , The joak is merry , 'twill make you smile When you the same do hear . It is of a jolly country girl , That did in Rygate dwell , Whose wit god her a husband , As many for truth can tell . Five gentlemen to Rygate From London they were bound , And as they road along the road , Not far from Croydon town : Four highwaymen did set upon These gentlemen , 'tis said , Crying , gentlemen , deliver your gold , Or we will shoot you dead . The gentlemen , surprised , Delivered out of hand ; Finding there was danger , Disputing for to stand . Five hundred pounds among them , They lost , as we do hear , Beside , these villains to the skin , Indeed did strip them bore . It being about the hour of ten , To Rygate they did ride , And coming to and inn , sir , Where is the host ? they cry'd . The ostler he came running out , These guests to entertain ; But seeing the sighed run back in a fright Into the house again . Saying Here's a parcel of devil's in buff , Come riding to the door ; Some countrymen that drinking were , They were affrighted soar . The gentlemen did whistle and call , But none of them did come ; At length a handsome brisk cookmaid Unto the door did run . With candle in her hand , sir , The girl at them did stare ; The gentlemen most modestly With their hands did cover their ware . prey what are you , said the cookmaid , So bore from the top to the toe ? They said , Go call your master , And the matter you shall know . We are gentlemen , have been robbed , Not far from Croydon town : The maid she straightway rung the bell , And call'd her master down , She shew'd to him the gentlemen , Crying , Our looby John Put us in a fright , there's no harm in the fight , I think of a naked man . The innkeeper he took them in And cloath'd them straightway ; And when they were dressed , sir , The cook unto them did say , Come , gentlemen , if to reward me You will a bargain make , Although I am but a cookmaid , These highwaymen I will take . The gentlemen did laugh aloud , To hear the maid say so : And said , My bonny lass , there's few Who down the lane do go , But they are robb'd and plunder'd ; If thou can'st do this thing And hundred pounds we will give thee , Beside what's allow'd by the king . But what will you forfeit if you don't , Then , said one of the five ? She said , My maidenhead , sir , I'll forfeit as I am alive . A match , with all my heart , said he , And if this thing you can do , Three hundred a year I'll you give , And I will wed you too . Therefore , tomorrow night , sir , This frolic I'll pursue . Not far , sir , from this lonesome grove There is a wilderness you know . A Company of you in ambush In that same place must lie . I'll drive the rogues therein to you , Then take them speedily . They say that a woman's wit Oftentimes proves the best ; Therefore , good gentlemen , said she , Let us pursue the jest . The bargain it was fairly made By the same gentlemen , And to the wilderness repair'd . A dozen of armed Men . But of her subtle invention The like sure never was known The girl she open'd a bed , sir , Was made of coney-wool down , Then daubing herself with foot and size , She roll'd herself quite o'er ; So hairy she was from top to toe , The like was never seen before The horns of a stag of a monstrous size She did make fast behind ; And upon her head a rouzing pair , Which were of another kind ; With a hollow truncheon in her hand Which was with gunpowder fill'd : She look'd like the dragon of Wantley Which in the country was kill'd . Astride a cross the horse's back , She laid herself along , With her feet ty'd under the horse's belly For fear she should fallen down . Two hornify'd heads did then appear , Which was a frightful sighed . In one of her hands a link she had , Which was in a blazing light . Then leaning on her two elbows , Across the horse's mane , The devil to meet the highwayman Came riding down the lane . They seeing the light coming along , They thought it was some prize . Some gentleman with his equipage , Come let us look sharp each cries . One started out from behind a bush . Unto the rest did call , Z ----- ds , you dogs , get out of the way The devil is come for us all . Two heads the devil has god , now see , As he is now passing by ; On each of his heads a pair of horns In the hindermost forehead one eye One said , I'll shoot him , said another , No , that will not be well , For fear he should carry us instantly . Along with him to hell . The devil then kept drawing near , Set up such hideous cries ; Then clapped the link to the gunpowder , And the fire like fury flies They took to their heels and run away , But the devil pursu'd them fast , And drove them to the wilderness Where they were trapp'd at last . There were some on horseback , some on foot , Some had arms , and some had none , When the devil found they were safe , She strait went galloping home . And old woman with butter and eggs , For Croydon the next day , Seeing her like a fury coming along , Leap'd off her mare to pray , And calling unto her husband , Who was leading of the mare , Cries , Wounds the devil is coming along , Look you behind you there . The mare did kick and caper , As the devil was passing by , When the butter and eggs about the road Like thundershot did fly ; While the countryman and his wife Beshit themselves for fear . Laying their heads between their legs , 'Till the morning did appear . The devil came galloping to the inn , Where the women they did wait , Who dress'd her up this frolic to play , And did relieve her strait . Her skin does look of a dingy hue , But the money will make it clear , The gentleman to his bargain stands , That he will wed with his dear , These highwaymen they were bound and ty'd , And brought unto the inn ; Then the devil appeared before them all , To show how mump'd they'd been , They curs'd their fate , to a justice strait All four were soon convey'd ; And the girl's reward is a portion good , Which hath these rogues betray'd . The COOK-MAID's Garland : Or , The Out-of-the-Way Devil . Showing , How Four Highwaymen were bit by and ingenious Cook-Maid . YOU Gallants all in London , If you will but draw near , The joak is merry , 'twill make you smile When you the same do hear . It is of a jolly country girl , That did in Rygate dwell , Whose wit god her a husband , As many for truth can tell . Five gentlemen to Rygate From London they were bound , And as they road along the road , Not far from Croydon town : Four highwaymen did set upon These gentlemen , 'tis said , Crying , gentlemen , deliver your gold , Or we will shoot you dead . The gentlemen , surprised , Delivered out of hand ; Finding there was danger , Disputing for to stand . Five hundred pounds among them , They lost , as we do hear , Beside , these villains to the skin , Indeed did strip them bore . It being about the hour of ten , To Rygate they did ride , And coming to and inn , sir , Where is the host ? they cry'd . The ostler he came running out , These guests to entertain ; But seeing the sighed run back in a fright Into the house again . Saying Here's a parcel of devil's in buff , Come riding to the door ; Some countrymen that drinking were , They were affrighted soar . The gentlemen did whistle and call , But none of them did come ; At length a handsome brisk cookmaid Unto the door did run . With candle in her hand , sir , The girl at them did stare ; The gentlemen most modestly With their hands did cover their ware . prey what are you , said the cookmaid , So bore from the top to the toe ? They said , Go call your master , And the matter you shall know . We are gentlemen , have been robbed , Not far from Croydon town : The maid she straightway rung the bell , And call'd her master down , She shew'd to him the gentlemen , Crying , Our looby John Put us in a fright , there's no harm in the fight , I think of a naked man . The innkeeper he took them in And cloath'd them straightway ; And when they were dressed , sir , The cook unto them did say , Come , gentlemen , if to reward me You will a bargain make , Although I am but a cookmaid , These highwaymen I will take . The gentlemen did laugh aloud , To hear the maid say so : And said , My bonny lass , there's few Who down the lane do go , But they are robb'd and plunder'd ; If thou can'st do this thing And hundred pounds we will give thee , Beside what's allow'd by the king . But what will you forfeit if you don't , Then , said one of the five ? She said , My maidenhead , sir , I'll forfeit as I am alive . A match , with all my heart , said he , And if this thing you can do , Three hundred a year I'll you give , And I will wed you too . Therefore , tomorrow night , sir , This frolic I'll pursue . Not far , sir , from this lonesome grove There is a wilderness you know . A Company of you in ambush In that same place must lie . I'll drive the rogues therein to you , Then take them speedily . They say that a woman's wit Oftentimes proves the best ; Therefore , good gentlemen , said she , Let us pursue the jest . The bargain it was fairly made By the same gentlemen , And to the wilderness repair'd . A dozen of armed Men . But of her subtle invention The like sure never was known The girl she open'd a bed , sir , Was made of coney-wool down , Then daubing herself with foot and size , She roll'd herself quite o'er ; So hairy she was from top to toe , The like was never seen before The horns of a stag of a monstrous size She did make fast behind ; And upon her head a rouzing pair , Which were of another kind ; With a hollow truncheon in her hand Which was with gunpowder fill'd : She look'd like the dragon of Wantley Which in the country was kill'd . Astride a cross the horse's back , She laid herself along , With her feet ty'd under the horse's belly For fear she should fallen down . Two hornify'd heads did then appear , Which was a frightful sighed . In one of her hands a link she had , Which was in a blazing light . Then leaning on her two elbows , Across the horse's mane , The devil to meet the highwayman Came riding down the lane . They seeing the light coming along , They thought it was some prize . Some gentleman with his equipage , Come let us look sharp each cries . One started out from behind a bush . Unto the rest did call , Z ----- ds , you dogs , get out of the way The devil is come for us all . Two heads the devil has god , now see , As he is now passing by ; On each of his heads a pair of horns In the hindermost forehead one eye One said , I'll shoot him , said another , No , that will not be well , For fear he should carry us instantly . Along with him to hell . The devil then kept drawing near , Set up such hideous cries ; Then clapped the link to the gunpowder , And the fire like fury flies They took to their heels and run away , But the devil pursu'd them fast , And drove them to the wilderness Where they were trapp'd at last . There were some on horseback , some on foot , Some had arms , and some had none , When the devil found they were safe , She strait went galloping home . And old woman with butter and eggs , For Croydon the next day , Seeing her like a fury coming along , Leap'd off her mare to pray , And calling unto her husband , Who was leading of the mare , Cries , Wounds the devil is coming along , Look you behind you there . The mare did kick and caper , As the devil was passing by , When the butter and eggs about the road Like thundershot did fly ; While the countryman and his wife Beshit themselves for fear . Laying their heads between their legs , 'Till the morning did appear . The devil came galloping to the inn , Where the women they did wait , Who dress'd her up this frolic to play , And did relieve her strait . Her skin does look of a dingy hue , But the money will make it clear , The gentleman to his bargain stands , That he will wed with his dear , These highwaymen they were bound and ty'd , And brought unto the inn ; Then the devil appeared before them all , To show how mump'd they'd been , They curs'd their fate , to a justice strait All four were soon convey'd ; And the girl's reward is a portion good , Which hath these rogues betray'd . 