The three Worthy Butchers of the North . I weep , I wail , and Travel much in pain , Now all my youthful days are past , they'l never come again : Once I was a Man , but now alas am none , For all my Companions are from me fled and gone . To a pleasant New Tune . DId you never hear of worthy Butchers three ? And how they spent their days in mirth and jollity ? There was Kitson , Wilson , and Johnson , mark me what I say , They took three hundred pounds worth of Goods upon a day . When as the day of payment began for to draw near , Their money to tO [ h ] eir Creditors intended for to bear ; And riding thorough Blankly-Lane as fast as they could trig , Be merry my hearts , said Johnson , let us sing up a jig : With a heigh down , down , with a down derry dee , God bless all true men out of Thieves Company . Riding then up Blankly-Lane as fast as they could high , Be merry my hearts , said Johnson , I hear a Woman cry . O help , help , help , Oh help , or else I die , Oh help me some good Christians , for my torments they draw nigh ; Oh hark , Oh hark , said Johnson , I hear a Woman cry , Sure I came of a Woman , and shall I see her die ? Don't ride [ on ] neighbour Johnson , now Kitson he did say , For that is some lewd Woman will cast us all away : If you had but rid on this way as oft as we have done , You would have herd this cry before , and now let us be gone . Then Johnson whipped into the Wood with all might and main , Whereas he found the woman with Cords fast ty'd in twain ; With Cords fast ty'd in twain , and hand and foot was bound , And found her there stark naked , with her hair pin'd to the ground Alas , said Johnson , what man hath us'd thee so ? He came not of a Woman that would work a Woman's woe : Hast thou no lewd company ? now Johnson he did say , For here we are come to save thy life , thou may'st cast us all away No I have no lewd Company , the woman she did say , Three Ruffians came riding by , and rob'd me by the way : They took my Clothes from me , and hand and foot me bound , And left me here in woeful sort , with my hair pin'd to the ground . So Johnson he whipped out his sword with all his might and main , And presently the woman's cords , Johnson he cut in twain ; A Shirt out of his Cloak-bag presently plucked he , And put it on the woman to cover her secrecy . I have neither Wife nor Children , Johnson he did say , And thou shalt be Lady of all till death take life away : Johnson being a loving man , and boar a careful mind , He put his Cloak about her to keep her from the wind . Straight upon Horseback presently went he , And they rid all out of the Wood , and rid on gallantly : Riding then up Blankly-Lane as fast as they could trig , Be merry my hearts , said Johnson , let us sing up a Jig : With a heigh down down , with a heigh down derry dee , What if here were ten Thieves so we are true men three : Riding then up Blankly-Lane as fast as they could high , Be merry my hearts , said Johnson , the Lands-end draws nigh . The Woman hearing him say so , presently by and by , She put her finger to her ear , and gave a squeaking cry : Ten Thieves then with weapons drawn in hand , They stepped before Johnson , and quickly bid him stand . What is it so ? said Johnson , since 'twill no better be , I vow that some of you shall die before I killed be : Stand fast , fight men , see that you be not idle , For I vow his hand shall off that lays hold on my Bridle . Alas , said Kitson , to Fight no heart have I , No more have I said Wilson , in faith i'de rather die : Here is three hundred pound that we are bound to pay , And you shall have it all , and let's 'scape with life away . The second Part , to the same Tune . WHat is it so . said Johnson , Fight Men , and be free , And stand but at my back . keep the back-blows from me : Stand fast , fight men , fight men and be free , And by the help of God we shall win the Victory . Five of these Thieves and the Woman they did go To Kitson and to Wilson , and bound them fast in woe : As these ten Thieves play'd before him , & play'd upon the ground , For Johnson had five Pistols with Bullets charged found . With Bullets charged found , presently he let fly , Till five of these Thieves upon the ground did lie : Put up , said the other five , put up without delay , For if that he gets charged , he will kill us all this day . Fight on , said the Woman , fight on I say to you , For if you five don't kill him , I vow your Priest to be : So Johnson he whipped out his Sword with all his might and main , And play'd about him gallantly till three more of them were slave . Put up , said the other two , put up without delay , For if that he continue fight he'l kill us all this day : Fight on , said the Woman , fight on I say to you , For if you two don't kill him , I vow your Priest to be . As these two Thieves play'd before him , alas he did not mind , For presently the woman knocked him down behind : O wretched Woman , wickedly hast thou done ; Thou hast kill'd the bravest Butcher that ever England wone . For had but my fellows , had they prov'd true to me ; They were cowards , said the woman , and as cowards they shall die Two of these Thieves and the Woman they did go To Kitson and to Wilson , where they lay bound in woe : A Club into her hand , as she god all the gains , went to Kitson and to Wilson , and dashed out both their brains : How this murder was discovered , list and you shall hear , It was by a silly Shepherd hid in the Hedge for fear . A Gentleman and his man as they came riding by , Seeing this woeful murder , straight sent forth Hue and Cry : Ay , but do what e're they could , taken they could not be , For they god Ship at Yarmouth , and so went over Sea. This is the trick of Thieves when they have murder done , When they have committed Roguery , full fast away they run . God bless our royal King and Queen , and send them long to reign , In health , wealth , and prosperity , true Justice to maintain : God bless all true men that travel by Land or Sea , And keep all true men out of Thieves Company . FINIS . Paul Burges . Printed for P. Brooksby , in West-Smithfield . The three Worthy Butchers of the North . I weep , I wail , and Travel much in pain , Now all my youthful days are past , they'l never come again : Once I was a Man , but now alas am none , For all my Companions are from me fled and gone . To a pleasant New Tune . DId you never hear of worthy Butchers three ? And how they spent their days in mirth and jollity ? There was Kitson , Wilson , and Johnson , mark me what I say , They took three hundred pounds worth of Goods upon a day . When as the day of payment began for to draw near , Their money to tO [ h ] eir Creditors intended for to bear ; And riding thorough Blankly-Lane as fast as they could trig , Be merry my hearts , said Johnson , let us sing up a jig : With a heigh down , down , with a down derry dee , God bless all true men out of Thieves Company . Riding then up Blankly-Lane as fast as they could high , Be merry my hearts , said Johnson , I hear a Woman cry . O help , help , help , Oh help , or else I die , Oh help me some good Christians , for my torments they draw nigh ; Oh hark , Oh hark , said Johnson , I hear a Woman cry , Sure I came of a Woman , and shall I see her die ? Don't ride [ on ] neighbour Johnson , now Kitson he did say , For that is some lewd Woman will cast us all away : If you had but rid on this way as oft as we have done , You would have herd this cry before , and now let us be gone . Then Johnson whipped into the Wood with all might and main , Whereas he found the woman with Cords fast ty'd in twain ; With Cords fast ty'd in twain , and hand and foot was bound , And found her there stark naked , with her hair pin'd to the ground Alas , said Johnson , what man hath us'd thee so ? He came not of a Woman that would work a Woman's woe : Hast thou no lewd company ? now Johnson he did say , For here we are come to save thy life , thou may'st cast us all away No I have no lewd Company , the woman she did say , Three Ruffians came riding by , and rob'd me by the way : They took my Clothes from me , and hand and foot me bound , And left me here in woeful sort , with my hair pin'd to the ground . So Johnson he whipped out his sword with all his might and main , And presently the woman's cords , Johnson he cut in twain ; A Shirt out of his Cloak-bag presently plucked he , And put it on the woman to cover her secrecy . I have neither Wife nor Children , Johnson he did say , And thou shalt be Lady of all till death take life away : Johnson being a loving man , and boar a careful mind , He put his Cloak about her to keep her from the wind . Straight upon Horseback presently went he , And they rid all out of the Wood , and rid on gallantly : Riding then up Blankly-Lane as fast as they could trig , Be merry my hearts , said Johnson , let us sing up a Jig : With a heigh down down , with a heigh down derry dee , What if here were ten Thieves so we are true men three : Riding then up Blankly-Lane as fast as they could high , Be merry my hearts , said Johnson , the Lands-end draws nigh . The Woman hearing him say so , presently by and by , She put her finger to her ear , and gave a squeaking cry : Ten Thieves then with weapons drawn in hand , They stepped before Johnson , and quickly bid him stand . What is it so ? said Johnson , since 'twill no better be , I vow that some of you shall die before I killed be : Stand fast , fight men , see that you be not idle , For I vow his hand shall off that lays hold on my Bridle . Alas , said Kitson , to Fight no heart have I , No more have I said Wilson , in faith i'de rather die : Here is three hundred pound that we are bound to pay , And you shall have it all , and let's 'scape with life away . The second Part , to the same Tune . WHat is it so . said Johnson , Fight Men , and be free , And stand but at my back . keep the back-blows from me : Stand fast , fight men , fight men and be free , And by the help of God we shall win the Victory . Five of these Thieves and the Woman they did go To Kitson and to Wilson , and bound them fast in woe : As these ten Thieves play'd before him , & play'd upon the ground , For Johnson had five Pistols with Bullets charged found . With Bullets charged found , presently he let fly , Till five of these Thieves upon the ground did lie : Put up , said the other five , put up without delay , For if that he gets charged , he will kill us all this day . Fight on , said the Woman , fight on I say to you , For if you five don't kill him , I vow your Priest to be : So Johnson he whipped out his Sword with all his might and main , And play'd about him gallantly till three more of them were slave . Put up , said the other two , put up without delay , For if that he continue fight he'l kill us all this day : Fight on , said the Woman , fight on I say to you , For if you two don't kill him , I vow your Priest to be . As these two Thieves play'd before him , alas he did not mind , For presently the woman knocked him down behind : O wretched Woman , wickedly hast thou done ; Thou hast kill'd the bravest Butcher that ever England wone . For had but my fellows , had they prov'd true to me ; They were cowards , said the woman , and as cowards they shall die Two of these Thieves and the Woman they did go To Kitson and to Wilson , where they lay bound in woe : A Club into her hand , as she god all the gains , went to Kitson and to Wilson , and dashed out both their brains : How this murder was discovered , list and you shall hear , It was by a silly Shepherd hid in the Hedge for fear . A Gentleman and his man as they came riding by , Seeing this woeful murder , straight sent forth Hue and Cry : Ay , but do what e're they could , taken they could not be , For they god Ship at Yarmouth , and so went over Sea. This is the trick of Thieves when they have murder done , When they have committed Roguery , full fast away they run . God bless our royal King and Queen , and send them long to reign , In health , wealth , and prosperity , true Justice to maintain : God bless all true men that travel by Land or Sea , And keep all true men out of Thieves Company . FINIS . Paul Burges . Printed for P. Brooksby , in West-Smithfield . 