THE Famous Flower of Serving-Men ; Or , The Lady turned Serving-Man . YOU beauteous ladies great and small , I write unto you one and all ; Whereby that you may understand , What I have suffered in this land . I was by birth a Lady fair , My father's chief and only heir ; But when my good old father dy'd - Then I was made a young Knight's bride And then my love built me a bower , Bedeck'd with many a fragrant Flower , A braver bower you ne'er did see ; Than what my love did built for me . But there came thieves late in the night , Who rob'd my bower and slew my knight And after that my Knight was slave , I could no longer there remain . My servants all did from me fly , In the midst of my extremity , And left me by myself alone , With a heart more cold than any stone . Yet tho' my heart was full of care , Heaven would not suffer me to despair ; When in haste I chang'd my name , From fair Eliza to Sweet William . And hereupon I curl'd my hair , And dressed myself in man's attire ; My doublet , hose , and beaver hat , And a golden band about my neck . With a silver rapier by my side , Much like a gallant I did ride ; The thing that I delighted in , It was to be a Serving Man. Thus cloath'd in sumptuous man's array' I nobly rid along the highway , And at last it chanced so , That I to the King's court did go . Then I to the King bow'd most low , My love and duty for to show ; And so much favour I did crave , That I a Serving men place might have . Stand up brave youth , the King reply'd , Thy service shall not be deny'd , But tell me first what thou can'st do ? Thou shalt be fitted thereunto . Wilt thou be usher of my hall , To wait upon my Nobles all , Or wilt thou be tapster of my wine , To wait on me when I do dine ? Or wilt thou be my chamberlain , To make my bed so soft and fine ? Or wilt thou be one of my guard , And I'll give thee a great reward . Sweet William with a smiling face , Said to the king , May it please your Grace To show such favour unto me , Your chamberlain I fain would be . The King did then his Nobles call , For to ask council of them all , Who gave consent Sweet William he , The King's own-chamberlain should be . Now mark what strange things came to pass As the king one day a hunting was With his Lords and noble train , Sweet William did at home remain . Sweet William had no company then , With him at home but and old man , And when he found the house was clear He took a flute that he had near . Upon the flute Sweet William play'd , And to the same he sung and said , With a sweet melodious voice , Which made the old man to rejoice , My father was as brave a Lord , As ever England did afford , My mother was a Lady bright , My husband was a valiant Knight . And I myself a Lady gay , Bedeck'd in glorious rich array , The bravest Lady in the Land , Had no more pleasure at command . I had my music every day , Harmonious lessons for to play ; I had my virgins fair and free , Continually to wait on me . But now alas , my husband's dead , And all my friends are from me fled , My former Joys are past and gone For now I am a Serving Man. At last the King from hunting came , And presently upon the same , He called for his good old man , And thus to speak the king began : What news , what news , old man , said he ? What news hast thou to tell to me ? Brave news , the old man he did say , Sweet William is a Lady gay . If this be true thou tell'st to me , I'll make thee a Lord of high degree ; But if thy words do prove a lie , Thou shalt be hang'd up presently . But when the King the truth he found , His Joys did more and more abound ; According as the old man did say , Sweet William was a Lady gay . Therefore the King without delay , Put on her gallant rich array , And on her head a crown of gold , Which was most famous to behold . And then for fear of farther strife , He took Sweet William for his wife , The like before was never seen , A Serving-Man to become a Quen . Printed and Sold in Aldermary Church Yard Bow Lane , London . THE Famous Flower of Serving-Men ; Or , The Lady turned Serving-Man . YOU beauteous ladies great and small , I write unto you one and all ; Whereby that you may understand , What I have suffered in this land . I was by birth a Lady fair , My father's chief and only heir ; But when my good old father dy'd - Then I was made a young Knight's bride And then my love built me a bower , Bedeck'd with many a fragrant Flower , A braver bower you ne'er did see ; Than what my love did built for me . But there came thieves late in the night , Who rob'd my bower and slew my knight And after that my Knight was slave , I could no longer there remain . My servants all did from me fly , In the midst of my extremity , And left me by myself alone , With a heart more cold than any stone . Yet tho' my heart was full of care , Heaven would not suffer me to despair ; When in haste I chang'd my name , From fair Eliza to Sweet William . And hereupon I curl'd my hair , And dressed myself in man's attire ; My doublet , hose , and beaver hat , And a golden band about my neck . With a silver rapier by my side , Much like a gallant I did ride ; The thing that I delighted in , It was to be a Serving Man. Thus cloath'd in sumptuous man's array' I nobly rid along the highway , And at last it chanced so , That I to the King's court did go . Then I to the King bow'd most low , My love and duty for to show ; And so much favour I did crave , That I a Serving men place might have . Stand up brave youth , the King reply'd , Thy service shall not be deny'd , But tell me first what thou can'st do ? Thou shalt be fitted thereunto . Wilt thou be usher of my hall , To wait upon my Nobles all , Or wilt thou be tapster of my wine , To wait on me when I do dine ? Or wilt thou be my chamberlain , To make my bed so soft and fine ? Or wilt thou be one of my guard , And I'll give thee a great reward . Sweet William with a smiling face , Said to the king , May it please your Grace To show such favour unto me , Your chamberlain I fain would be . The King did then his Nobles call , For to ask council of them all , Who gave consent Sweet William he , The King's own-chamberlain should be . Now mark what strange things came to pass As the king one day a hunting was With his Lords and noble train , Sweet William did at home remain . Sweet William had no company then , With him at home but and old man , And when he found the house was clear He took a flute that he had near . Upon the flute Sweet William play'd , And to the same he sung and said , With a sweet melodious voice , Which made the old man to rejoice , My father was as brave a Lord , As ever England did afford , My mother was a Lady bright , My husband was a valiant Knight . And I myself a Lady gay , Bedeck'd in glorious rich array , The bravest Lady in the Land , Had no more pleasure at command . I had my music every day , Harmonious lessons for to play ; I had my virgins fair and free , Continually to wait on me . But now alas , my husband's dead , And all my friends are from me fled , My former Joys are past and gone For now I am a Serving Man. At last the King from hunting came , And presently upon the same , He called for his good old man , And thus to speak the king began : What news , what news , old man , said he ? What news hast thou to tell to me ? Brave news , the old man he did say , Sweet William is a Lady gay . If this be true thou tell'st to me , I'll make thee a Lord of high degree ; But if thy words do prove a lie , Thou shalt be hang'd up presently . But when the King the truth he found , His Joys did more and more abound ; According as the old man did say , Sweet William was a Lady gay . Therefore the King without delay , Put on her gallant rich array , And on her head a crown of gold , Which was most famous to behold . And then for fear of farther strife , He took Sweet William for his wife , The like before was never seen , A Serving-Man to become a Quen . Printed and Sold in Aldermary Church Yard Bow Lane , London . 