The Young-Mans Labour los He with a fair Maid was in love , But she to him unkind did prove : As by this Ditty you shall hear , If Young men they will but draw near ; And Maidens too it does advice , To learn henceforth for to be wise . To the Tune of , The Jeering Young-Man . AS I passed by a Green-Wood side , A pretty Couple I espy'd , A Youngman and a dainty Lass , But mark what after came to pass : He thought her humours for to fit , But yet she was too ripe a wit ; She would not yield to his desire , As by this Story you shall hear . To Compliment he did begin , The Maids affection for to win , With speeches fair he did entreat , And often said his heart would break ; Quoth he , I am my Father's Heir , And have Threescore Pound a Year , I will maintain you gallantly , If thou wilt yield my Bride to be . Therefore I pray you be not coy , For thou shalt be my only joy ; If thou deny'st thou wilt break my heart , For did'st thou know the deadly smart Which I sustain both day and night For thee which art my hearts delight ; Therefore my dearest pity me , Or I shall die for love of thee . The Maid . GOod Sir , I thank you for your love , Of your discourse I don't approve ; For many now a days I see , Do bring themselves to Poverty , By Marrying while they are so young , But i'le not do my self such wrong : Therefore forbear , thy suit's in vain , I will not Marry I tell thee plain . You say you have threescore pound a year What if thou hast I do not care , I knew those that had three times more , And spent it all upon a Whore : And so may thou for ought I know , For all you make so fair a show : Then be content , and do not prate , For fear that I should break thy pate . The Young-Man . The Youngman standing in amaze , And on the Maid did strangely gaze ; At last he made her this reply , And unto her these words did say : What ails thee for to be so cross , In troth I like thee worse and worse : Of all the Maids that e're I see , I never herd the like of thee . Sweetheart believe me , or else choose , I'de have thee know I am none of those , That spend my means upon a Whore , Or run upon the Alewives score : No , I will better be advis'd , It's good to be merry and wise : For friends I see are very scant , If that a Man do come to want . Maid . My friend , quoth she , what you have said , Is not half true , I am afraid ; I cannot think you'r so precise . One may see plainly by your eyes : Your Hair is of the Colour right , To cozen Maids is your deligh But thou shalt ne'r prove false to me , Or I will ne'r prove true to thee . Therefore forbear my company , And henceforth come not me nigh ; For I am not resolv'd to Wed , Nor yet to loose my Maidenhead : A single life is void of care , For marry'd Wives must pinch and spare Their charge for to maintain I see , Therefore a single life for me . The Man. Seeing thou provest so unkind , I am resolv'd to change my mind : A hundred pound I have in store , And threescore pound a Year and more : If I can find and honest Girl , I'le prize her more then Gold or Pearl , And she shall live a Ladies life , After she's made my wedded wife . And so farewell thou scornful Dame , In time thou may'st repent the same , That thou to me didst prove untrue , In time thou mayest have cause to rue : Before that I will Marry thee , I will be hang'd upon a Tree : Rather I will give my wealth and store To one that begs from door to door . Maid . Farewell , be gone , thou saucy Jack , With thy wealth and money prithee pack , My Portion is and hundred pound , In Silver and good Gold so round : Beside my Mother she does cry , I shall have all when she does die ; Then what need I care for thy wealth , Even as thou said'st , go hang thy self . For I am resolved as I begun , To end and so conclude my Song , A single Life I hold it best , And thereon still my mind is pressed . For Marriage brings sorrow and care , So in it I'le not bore a share : Since Youngmen are so fickle grown , I am resolv'd to hold my own . So Maids of you i'le take my leave , Let no false youngman you deceive ; For many they are hard to trust , Scarce one in twenty proves jus I for my own part will advice , All Maids henceforth for to be wise : And have a care who you do wed , For fear you bring a Knave to bed . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The Young-Mans Labour los He with a fair Maid was in love , But she to him unkind did prove : As by this Ditty you shall hear , If Young men they will but draw near ; And Maidens too it does advice , To learn henceforth for to be wise . To the Tune of , The Jeering Young-Man . AS I passed by a Green-Wood side , A pretty Couple I espy'd , A Youngman and a dainty Lass , But mark what after came to pass : He thought her humours for to fit , But yet she was too ripe a wit ; She would not yield to his desire , As by this Story you shall hear . To Compliment he did begin , The Maids affection for to win , With speeches fair he did entreat , And often said his heart would break ; Quoth he , I am my Father's Heir , And have Threescore Pound a Year , I will maintain you gallantly , If thou wilt yield my Bride to be . Therefore I pray you be not coy , For thou shalt be my only joy ; If thou deny'st thou wilt break my heart , For did'st thou know the deadly smart Which I sustain both day and night For thee which art my hearts delight ; Therefore my dearest pity me , Or I shall die for love of thee . The Maid . GOod Sir , I thank you for your love , Of your discourse I don't approve ; For many now a days I see , Do bring themselves to Poverty , By Marrying while they are so young , But i'le not do my self such wrong : Therefore forbear , thy suit's in vain , I will not Marry I tell thee plain . You say you have threescore pound a year What if thou hast I do not care , I knew those that had three times more , And spent it all upon a Whore : And so may thou for ought I know , For all you make so fair a show : Then be content , and do not prate , For fear that I should break thy pate . The Young-Man . The Youngman standing in amaze , And on the Maid did strangely gaze ; At last he made her this reply , And unto her these words did say : What ails thee for to be so cross , In troth I like thee worse and worse : Of all the Maids that e're I see , I never herd the like of thee . Sweetheart believe me , or else choose , I'de have thee know I am none of those , That spend my means upon a Whore , Or run upon the Alewives score : No , I will better be advis'd , It's good to be merry and wise : For friends I see are very scant , If that a Man do come to want . Maid . My friend , quoth she , what you have said , Is not half true , I am afraid ; I cannot think you'r so precise . One may see plainly by your eyes : Your Hair is of the Colour right , To cozen Maids is your deligh But thou shalt ne'r prove false to me , Or I will ne'r prove true to thee . Therefore forbear my company , And henceforth come not me nigh ; For I am not resolv'd to Wed , Nor yet to loose my Maidenhead : A single life is void of care , For marry'd Wives must pinch and spare Their charge for to maintain I see , Therefore a single life for me . The Man. Seeing thou provest so unkind , I am resolv'd to change my mind : A hundred pound I have in store , And threescore pound a Year and more : If I can find and honest Girl , I'le prize her more then Gold or Pearl , And she shall live a Ladies life , After she's made my wedded wife . And so farewell thou scornful Dame , In time thou may'st repent the same , That thou to me didst prove untrue , In time thou mayest have cause to rue : Before that I will Marry thee , I will be hang'd upon a Tree : Rather I will give my wealth and store To one that begs from door to door . Maid . Farewell , be gone , thou saucy Jack , With thy wealth and money prithee pack , My Portion is and hundred pound , In Silver and good Gold so round : Beside my Mother she does cry , I shall have all when she does die ; Then what need I care for thy wealth , Even as thou said'st , go hang thy self . For I am resolved as I begun , To end and so conclude my Song , A single Life I hold it best , And thereon still my mind is pressed . For Marriage brings sorrow and care , So in it I'le not bore a share : Since Youngmen are so fickle grown , I am resolv'd to hold my own . So Maids of you i'le take my leave , Let no false youngman you deceive ; For many they are hard to trust , Scarce one in twenty proves jus I for my own part will advice , All Maids henceforth for to be wise : And have a care who you do wed , For fear you bring a Knave to bed . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 