The two Faithful LOVERS , OR A merry song in praise of Betty . Young men and Maids I do intend To sing a song that's newly pend , And if you please to have it out 'Twill please your fancies without doubt . To the tune of the Amorous Damsel of Bristol City . By TO B With Allowance . IN a May morning as I was walking I herd two Lovers together talking With words so sweet he spoke unto her And thus he did begin to woe her . Said he well met my dearest Betty , Thou art a Girl that is wondrous pretty , If I could gain but your love and favour I'll be thy dearest love for ever . Slight not sweetheart this loving motion A hundred pound it ts my portion , But if we never enjoy one penny , True love is better then bags of money . The Maids Answer . Good sir your words are kindly spoken But hasty love is soonest broken Its good for you observe your doin And be not you too quick in wooing . If I should grant you my love to marry Perhaps you'd wish you did longer tarry And in one year begin to flout me And wish that you had gone without me . Some men do flout their wives this certain And say they might had better Fortune So this they always frown and Lover And scarcely live one quiet hour . The men Answer . Sweet heart my love on thee is fixed Both night and day I am perplexed Then prithee do not thou deny me But come sweetheart and fit down by me Doubt not sweet heart isle never offend thee . My love is true which I pretend thee I'll not forsake thee for Gold nor Money Then do not slight me my dearest Honey Betty blame me not for my Speeches I do not aim for Gold nor Riches My heart is fixed without moving Sweet Betty be thou kind and loving Grant but to me thy Love and favour Both day and night I hard will labour If that I have but health my honey Thou shalt not want for meat nor Money . The Maids Answer . Young men have such a way in woeing TO vow and swear they'l still be loving Yet in one year there is small regarding Which makes some maids repent their bargain Yet if I thought your love was constant Which you pretend now at this instant Methinks I cannot well deny thee Because with words you satisfy me . For what you said I do commend you And in this cause I will befreind you Ask but the good will of my Father And you and I will join together . The men Answer . O now thy words it does revive me For I did fear thou wouldst deny me While life does last isle never forsake thee Since for my wife I mean to take thee There is never a Maid in London City In my conceit is like my Betty She is so handsome in her favour I think my self a blessed to have her . So to conclude I wish each Lover To prove so constant to each other As those too did of whom Ime speaking There need not be so much heart breaking . FINIS London printed for F. C [ oles ] T. Vere , J. Wright , and J Clark , The two Faithful LOVERS , OR A merry song in praise of Betty . Young men and Maids I do intend To sing a song that's newly pend , And if you please to have it out 'Twill please your fancies without doubt . To the tune of the Amorous Damsel of Bristol City . By TO B With Allowance . IN a May morning as I was walking I herd two Lovers together talking With words so sweet he spoke unto her And thus he did begin to woe her . Said he well met my dearest Betty , Thou art a Girl that is wondrous pretty , If I could gain but your love and favour I'll be thy dearest love for ever . Slight not sweetheart this loving motion A hundred pound it ts my portion , But if we never enjoy one penny , True love is better then bags of money . The Maids Answer . Good sir your words are kindly spoken But hasty love is soonest broken Its good for you observe your doin And be not you too quick in wooing . If I should grant you my love to marry Perhaps you'd wish you did longer tarry And in one year begin to flout me And wish that you had gone without me . Some men do flout their wives this certain And say they might had better Fortune So this they always frown and Lover And scarcely live one quiet hour . The men Answer . Sweet heart my love on thee is fixed Both night and day I am perplexed Then prithee do not thou deny me But come sweetheart and fit down by me Doubt not sweet heart isle never offend thee . My love is true which I pretend thee I'll not forsake thee for Gold nor Money Then do not slight me my dearest Honey Betty blame me not for my Speeches I do not aim for Gold nor Riches My heart is fixed without moving Sweet Betty be thou kind and loving Grant but to me thy Love and favour Both day and night I hard will labour If that I have but health my honey Thou shalt not want for meat nor Money . The Maids Answer . Young men have such a way in woeing TO vow and swear they'l still be loving Yet in one year there is small regarding Which makes some maids repent their bargain Yet if I thought your love was constant Which you pretend now at this instant Methinks I cannot well deny thee Because with words you satisfy me . For what you said I do commend you And in this cause I will befreind you Ask but the good will of my Father And you and I will join together . The men Answer . O now thy words it does revive me For I did fear thou wouldst deny me While life does last isle never forsake thee Since for my wife I mean to take thee There is never a Maid in London City In my conceit is like my Betty She is so handsome in her favour I think my self a blessed to have her . So to conclude I wish each Lover To prove so constant to each other As those too did of whom Ime speaking There need not be so much heart breaking . FINIS London printed for F. C [ oles ] T. Vere , J. Wright , and J Clark , 