TOM Tell-Truth . All you that will not me believe , disprove me if you can ; You by my Story may perceive , I am and Honest Man. To the Tune of , Tanta ra ra ra , Tantivee . TOM Tell-Truth . I Killed a Man and he was dead , fa la la la la la , I killed a Man and he was dead , fa la , etc I killed a Man and he was dead , And run to St. Albans without a head with a fa la , fa la la la , fa la la la la la la . I asked him why he run so wild , fa la , etc I asked him why he run so wild , fa la , etc I asked him why he run so wild . He told me he god a Maid with-Child , with a fa la , etc And in his head there was a Spring , fa la , etc And in his head there was a Spring , fa la , etc And in his head there was a Spring , A thousand great Salmons about there did swim , with a fa la , etc I Saddled a Whore and rid to White-Hall , fa la , etc I Saddled a Whore and rid to White-Hall , fa la , etc I Saddled a Whore and rid to White-Hall , And under the Gatehouse she gave me a fallen , with a fa , etc I lay in a Swoon three and twenty long year , fa la , etc I lay in a Swoon three and twenty long year , fa la , etc I lay in a Swoon three and twenty long year , And when I awak'd I was filled with fear , with a fa la , etc The thing that did fright me I cannot express , fa la , etc The thing that did fright me I cannot express , fa la , etc The thing that did fright me I cannot express , I saw a Man big as the Tower , no less , with a fa la , etc This Man with the Monument would run away , fa la , etc This Man with the Monument would run away , fa la , etc This Man with the Monument would run away , But at Algate Watch they did him stay , with a fa la , etc I god up again and rid to Hide-Park , fa la , etc I god up again and rid to Hide-Park , fa la , etc I god up again and rid to Hide-Park , And made the Old Whore to sneeze and to fart , with a fa la , etc A top of Pauls Steeple there did I see , fa la , etc A top of Pauls Steeple there did I see , fa la , etc A top of Pauls Steeple there did I see A delicate dainty fine Apple-Tree , with a fa la , etc The Apples were ripe and ready to fallen , fa la , etc The Apples were ripe and ready to fallen , fa la , etc The Apples were ripe and ready to fallen , And kill'd seven hundred Men on a Stall , with a fa la , etc The blood did run both too and from , fa la , etc The blood did run both too and from , fa la , etc The blood did run both too and from , Which caused seven Water-Mills all for to go , with a fa la , etc I see Pauls Steeple run upon Wheels , fa la , etc I see Pauls Steeple run upon Wheels , fa la , etc I see Pauls Steeple run upon Wheels , And in the middle of all Moor-fields , with a fa la la la la la , fa la la la la la la . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . TOM Tell-Truth . All you that will not me believe , disprove me if you can ; You by my Story may perceive , I am and Honest Man. To the Tune of , Tanta ra ra ra , Tantivee . TOM Tell-Truth . I Killed a Man and he was dead , fa la la la la la , I killed a Man and he was dead , fa la , etc I killed a Man and he was dead , And run to St. Albans without a head with a fa la , fa la la la , fa la la la la la la . I asked him why he run so wild , fa la , etc I asked him why he run so wild , fa la , etc I asked him why he run so wild . He told me he god a Maid with-Child , with a fa la , etc And in his head there was a Spring , fa la , etc And in his head there was a Spring , fa la , etc And in his head there was a Spring , A thousand great Salmons about there did swim , with a fa la , etc I Saddled a Whore and rid to White-Hall , fa la , etc I Saddled a Whore and rid to White-Hall , fa la , etc I Saddled a Whore and rid to White-Hall , And under the Gatehouse she gave me a fallen , with a fa , etc I lay in a Swoon three and twenty long year , fa la , etc I lay in a Swoon three and twenty long year , fa la , etc I lay in a Swoon three and twenty long year , And when I awak'd I was filled with fear , with a fa la , etc The thing that did fright me I cannot express , fa la , etc The thing that did fright me I cannot express , fa la , etc The thing that did fright me I cannot express , I saw a Man big as the Tower , no less , with a fa la , etc This Man with the Monument would run away , fa la , etc This Man with the Monument would run away , fa la , etc This Man with the Monument would run away , But at Algate Watch they did him stay , with a fa la , etc I god up again and rid to Hide-Park , fa la , etc I god up again and rid to Hide-Park , fa la , etc I god up again and rid to Hide-Park , And made the Old Whore to sneeze and to fart , with a fa la , etc A top of Pauls Steeple there did I see , fa la , etc A top of Pauls Steeple there did I see , fa la , etc A top of Pauls Steeple there did I see A delicate dainty fine Apple-Tree , with a fa la , etc The Apples were ripe and ready to fallen , fa la , etc The Apples were ripe and ready to fallen , fa la , etc The Apples were ripe and ready to fallen , And kill'd seven hundred Men on a Stall , with a fa la , etc The blood did run both too and from , fa la , etc The blood did run both too and from , fa la , etc The blood did run both too and from , Which caused seven Water-Mills all for to go , with a fa la , etc I see Pauls Steeple run upon Wheels , fa la , etc I see Pauls Steeple run upon Wheels , fa la , etc I see Pauls Steeple run upon Wheels , And in the middle of all Moor-fields , with a fa la la la la la , fa la la la la la la . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 