King Charles the Second's Restortation . Tune , The Duke of ORMOND . YOU Tories round the nation , Of every birth and station , The glorious day is coming on , King Charles's Restoration , Therefore this loyal health , Let every churchman sing , Oh blessed twenty ninth of May , That did restore the King , Which did such joy unto a dying nation bring . O Britons most disloyal , To give your King denial , All other nations you've outdone , You brought King Charles to trial You made laws of your own , Your King for to dethrone , And after you cut off his head , You banished his son , As good a prince as ever reign'd in Christendom . When Cromwell the usurper , Had slave the King his master , it he that would the sceptre sway Committing blood and slaughter The churches they pull'd down , While useless lay the crown , Presbyters we shall ne'er forget , The year of fortione , When you your king did banish for a brewer's son . He that was born a prince , sir , To stand Britain's defence , sir Was forced to be under the frowns Of a greasy cook wench , sir , His life for to invade , Their traps for him they laid , At length to Madam Jane Land , This Prince became a page , And forc'd to fly to France his life to save With blood hounds they did seek him But heaven did still keep him And did preserve him in the oak , While his princely heart was aching ; To see himself pursu'd , All by this cursed brood , Who took his Father's life away , And spilled his Royal blood , Who was a prince most justly true A churchman good . Many did their lives surrender , For Charles their good defender , Striving his Cause for to maintain Against the base Pretender ; Many a noble Lord , That ne'er fear'd scar nor sword , On Towerhill did loose their lives , All for their sovereign's good , Thus glorious Britain soon be - came a scene of blood , Heaven rous'd up a hero , Who for no usurper car'd sir , General Monk brought in the king Therefore his loyal health , sirs , Let every Churchman sing , While rogues hang in a string , Oh blessed twenty ninth of May , That did such joy unto a dying Nation bring . The subject's were huzzaing , The drums and trumpets playing The conduits they did run with wine Bonfires too were blazing ; The tories did begin , This loyal health to sing , Oh blessed twenty-ninth of May , When great Charles was crowned His foes he soon confounded , He built the churches up again , Nothing but joy abounded . He paid his father's scores , Upon the sons of whores . In his blessed reign presbyters , Were kicked out of doors , Thus the land did flourish , heaven did increase our store . Now churchmen of each station , Pray that this British nation , By canters ne'er be overcome , The love of feuds and factions ; Let every tory sing ; And strike the music string , Oh blessed twenty-ninth of May , And long live George our King , To his health boys your glasses fill unto the brim . Printed in Stonecutter-street . King Charles the Second's Restortation . Tune , The Duke of ORMOND . YOU Tories round the nation , Of every birth and station , The glorious day is coming on , King Charles's Restoration , Therefore this loyal health , Let every churchman sing , Oh blessed twenty ninth of May , That did restore the King , Which did such joy unto a dying nation bring . O Britons most disloyal , To give your King denial , All other nations you've outdone , You brought King Charles to trial You made laws of your own , Your King for to dethrone , And after you cut off his head , You banished his son , As good a prince as ever reign'd in Christendom . When Cromwell the usurper , Had slave the King his master , it he that would the sceptre sway Committing blood and slaughter The churches they pull'd down , While useless lay the crown , Presbyters we shall ne'er forget , The year of fortione , When you your king did banish for a brewer's son . He that was born a prince , sir , To stand Britain's defence , sir Was forced to be under the frowns Of a greasy cook wench , sir , His life for to invade , Their traps for him they laid , At length to Madam Jane Land , This Prince became a page , And forc'd to fly to France his life to save With blood hounds they did seek him But heaven did still keep him And did preserve him in the oak , While his princely heart was aching ; To see himself pursu'd , All by this cursed brood , Who took his Father's life away , And spilled his Royal blood , Who was a prince most justly true A churchman good . Many did their lives surrender , For Charles their good defender , Striving his Cause for to maintain Against the base Pretender ; Many a noble Lord , That ne'er fear'd scar nor sword , On Towerhill did loose their lives , All for their sovereign's good , Thus glorious Britain soon be - came a scene of blood , Heaven rous'd up a hero , Who for no usurper car'd sir , General Monk brought in the king Therefore his loyal health , sirs , Let every Churchman sing , While rogues hang in a string , Oh blessed twenty ninth of May , That did such joy unto a dying Nation bring . The subject's were huzzaing , The drums and trumpets playing The conduits they did run with wine Bonfires too were blazing ; The tories did begin , This loyal health to sing , Oh blessed twenty-ninth of May , When great Charles was crowned His foes he soon confounded , He built the churches up again , Nothing but joy abounded . He paid his father's scores , Upon the sons of whores . In his blessed reign presbyters , Were kicked out of doors , Thus the land did flourish , heaven did increase our store . Now churchmen of each station , Pray that this British nation , By canters ne'er be overcome , The love of feuds and factions ; Let every tory sing ; And strike the music string , Oh blessed twenty-ninth of May , And long live George our King , To his health boys your glasses fill unto the brim . Printed in Stonecutter-street . 