Wavering NAT and kind SUSAN . Nat it is unkind , quoth Susan , That so strangely you do use one ; You did kindness once pretend , And then I thought you were my Friend : But now too late I plainly find , You have had your will and prove unkind . To the Tune of , The Protestants Prophesy . COme all you brave Sawyers and listen a while , I'le tell you a Story will make you to smile ; Of a lusty young Fellow whose name is call'd Nat , Who Woo'd bonny Susan for a new Lac'd Cravat . Come Roundheaded Sawyers I find you are Wise And deceive pretty Maids like Satan disguis'd ; You flatter the Damosels for this and for that , And all you desire is a new Lac'd Cravat . But hold my dear Nat , if I should make haste , And you would not have me , my labour is waste : I'de make it so neatly if I knew but that , That you should be proud of your new Lac'd Cravat . But now Susan sighs , he has god the Cravat , And makes her his Gossip , she is troubled at that , He left the poor Girl in a fretting Estate , While he like a Cheater did wear the Cravat . The second part , to the same Tune . Alas now I find he's like Olivers Breed , For he was far better to Hang then to Feed : The Fool asked for Money and knew not for what , And cheated the Maid of a new Lac'd Cravat . And thus you may see you Wanton young Maids , How young men Dissemble , and Lasses Invades : You sneak like a Mouse that's afraid of a Cat , And let Cheating Sawyers to wear your Cravat . But now for the future be sure you be Wise , And let not false Youngmen of you make a prize : Ne'r any thing give , except you know for what , Nor promise to make them a new Lac'd Cravat . For many to Maidens most largely pretends , And nothing do aim at but just their own ends : They'l promise you largely , and say this and that , But still they conclude with a new Lac'd Cravat . How many poor Maidens such Youngmen deceive , And afterwards slight them , which makes them to grieve They'l get up their Bells , and such things as that , And then they'l march off with their new Lac'd Cravat . And when these poor Damosels that thus are beguil'd , Have lost their great Belly's , and brought forth a Child : To work then again they must go for the Brat , If a Boy 'tmust be dressed in a bonny Cravat . Then take my advice and be ruled by me , All you pretty Maidens where ever you be : Let no man prevail for a bit for his Cat , Lest he marches off with your new Lac'd Cravat . It grieves us poor Females when men prove unkind , And miss of the thing which they thought for to find : Their hearts are cast down , and their Spirits are flat , To loose a Sweetheart and a new Lac'd Cravat . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Sign of the Rainbow , near Davids-Inn in Holborn . Wavering NAT and kind SUSAN . Nat it is unkind , quoth Susan , That so strangely you do use one ; You did kindness once pretend , And then I thought you were my Friend : But now too late I plainly find , You have had your will and prove unkind . To the Tune of , The Protestants Prophesy . COme all you brave Sawyers and listen a while , I'le tell you a Story will make you to smile ; Of a lusty young Fellow whose name is call'd Nat , Who Woo'd bonny Susan for a new Lac'd Cravat . Come Roundheaded Sawyers I find you are Wise And deceive pretty Maids like Satan disguis'd ; You flatter the Damosels for this and for that , And all you desire is a new Lac'd Cravat . But hold my dear Nat , if I should make haste , And you would not have me , my labour is waste : I'de make it so neatly if I knew but that , That you should be proud of your new Lac'd Cravat . But now Susan sighs , he has god the Cravat , And makes her his Gossip , she is troubled at that , He left the poor Girl in a fretting Estate , While he like a Cheater did wear the Cravat . The second part , to the same Tune . Alas now I find he's like Olivers Breed , For he was far better to Hang then to Feed : The Fool asked for Money and knew not for what , And cheated the Maid of a new Lac'd Cravat . And thus you may see you Wanton young Maids , How young men Dissemble , and Lasses Invades : You sneak like a Mouse that's afraid of a Cat , And let Cheating Sawyers to wear your Cravat . But now for the future be sure you be Wise , And let not false Youngmen of you make a prize : Ne'r any thing give , except you know for what , Nor promise to make them a new Lac'd Cravat . For many to Maidens most largely pretends , And nothing do aim at but just their own ends : They'l promise you largely , and say this and that , But still they conclude with a new Lac'd Cravat . How many poor Maidens such Youngmen deceive , And afterwards slight them , which makes them to grieve They'l get up their Bells , and such things as that , And then they'l march off with their new Lac'd Cravat . And when these poor Damosels that thus are beguil'd , Have lost their great Belly's , and brought forth a Child : To work then again they must go for the Brat , If a Boy 'tmust be dressed in a bonny Cravat . Then take my advice and be ruled by me , All you pretty Maidens where ever you be : Let no man prevail for a bit for his Cat , Lest he marches off with your new Lac'd Cravat . It grieves us poor Females when men prove unkind , And miss of the thing which they thought for to find : Their hearts are cast down , and their Spirits are flat , To loose a Sweetheart and a new Lac'd Cravat . FINIS . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Sign of the Rainbow , near Davids-Inn in Holborn . 