A HYMN To the Victory in SCOTLAND I Sing the Praise of Heroes brave , Whose Warlike Merit conquest gave , And scorn'd to trample on a Foe , But beatrice them first , then let them go : After a Battle sharp and bloody , Beyond the Reach of Humane Study , Obtain'd between strong Rocks & Trenches , By Dint of Sword , and vast Expenses . 'Gainst sturdy Scots , and Spaniards proud , A Victory most Men allow'd . Where all their Foes were quite confounded , While Cannons roar'd , and Trumpets sounded , Beatrice here and there , and God knows whither , Lost in a Fog , in Sunshine Weather : Confusion every where proclaim'd Such Wonders which can ne'er be nam'd Abundance slave , which some call dead , Who in the fright rose up and fled . More stronger yet if News be right , The Fray did last from five till Night , And those who brought the Tsdings hither Say dead and Living fled together . Nay perfect Miracles abounded , The dead Men rise and kill'd the wounded Yet when the Battle it was done , There was not found so much as one Nor None can tell which way they're gone . No ancient History can declare , Such Actions in Feats of War , Great Wills and Carpenter at Preston , Might here have learned a milder Lesson ; for tho' the Victory was complete , Both Dead and Living safe retreat , Here was no tricking feigned Pardon , With Consequences seldom herd on : Deluding Men , and when that's done , Hang , Goal , and Banish every one . When in this fierce and bloody Fray , Our Foes had leave to march away : Without the loss of Man or Gun , Such generous Favoars seldom done , Such Mercy in this Fight was shown , We sav'd Men's Lives and lost our own . A Victory which no Age can show , To let both Dead and Living go : Yet notwithstanding Highland Clans , These mighty Favours still withstands , Reflecting with their bold Bravadoes , Our Men shot only at their Shadows . And give us Reasons very pat , Because they sav'd their Lives by tha Yet if Reports has not bely'd 'em , As Bullets came , they skip'd beside 'em , Which is a Riddle hard and dark . When not one Gunner hits a Mark ; I doubt they've learn'd the Magic Art , And valve not our Guns a Fart Or else the Skins of Highland Scots , Are Proof against both Swords and Shots . Tho' this is is strange , it seems too true , Because none of their Men were slew , And , which our Reason most has shaken , Not one poor single Rebel taken : Three Hours beaten and none die , Yet no Man knows the Reason why , 'Tis very strange 'tween You and I . London , Printed by R. Thomas behind the Royal Exchange . A HYMN To the Victory in SCOTLAND I Sing the Praise of Heroes brave , Whose Warlike Merit conquest gave , And scorn'd to trample on a Foe , But beatrice them first , then let them go : After a Battle sharp and bloody , Beyond the Reach of Humane Study , Obtain'd between strong Rocks & Trenches , By Dint of Sword , and vast Expenses . 'Gainst sturdy Scots , and Spaniards proud , A Victory most Men allow'd . Where all their Foes were quite confounded , While Cannons roar'd , and Trumpets sounded , Beatrice here and there , and God knows whither , Lost in a Fog , in Sunshine Weather : Confusion every where proclaim'd Such Wonders which can ne'er be nam'd Abundance slave , which some call dead , Who in the fright rose up and fled . More stronger yet if News be right , The Fray did last from five till Night , And those who brought the Tsdings hither Say dead and Living fled together . Nay perfect Miracles abounded , The dead Men rise and kill'd the wounded Yet when the Battle it was done , There was not found so much as one Nor None can tell which way they're gone . No ancient History can declare , Such Actions in Feats of War , Great Wills and Carpenter at Preston , Might here have learned a milder Lesson ; for tho' the Victory was complete , Both Dead and Living safe retreat , Here was no tricking feigned Pardon , With Consequences seldom herd on : Deluding Men , and when that's done , Hang , Goal , and Banish every one . When in this fierce and bloody Fray , Our Foes had leave to march away : Without the loss of Man or Gun , Such generous Favoars seldom done , Such Mercy in this Fight was shown , We sav'd Men's Lives and lost our own . A Victory which no Age can show , To let both Dead and Living go : Yet notwithstanding Highland Clans , These mighty Favours still withstands , Reflecting with their bold Bravadoes , Our Men shot only at their Shadows . And give us Reasons very pat , Because they sav'd their Lives by tha Yet if Reports has not bely'd 'em , As Bullets came , they skip'd beside 'em , Which is a Riddle hard and dark . When not one Gunner hits a Mark ; I doubt they've learn'd the Magic Art , And valve not our Guns a Fart Or else the Skins of Highland Scots , Are Proof against both Swords and Shots . Tho' this is is strange , it seems too true , Because none of their Men were slew , And , which our Reason most has shaken , Not one poor single Rebel taken : Three Hours beaten and none die , Yet no Man knows the Reason why , 'Tis very strange 'tween You and I . London , Printed by R. Thomas behind the Royal Exchange . 