John and Joan : OR , A mad couple well met . To the tune of the Paratour . YOu nine Castalian Sisters that keep Parnassus hill , Come down to me , and let me be inspired with your skill , That well I may demonstrate , a piece of household stuff , you that are wed mark what is sedd , Beware of taking snuff . A mad fantastic couple , a young man and a Lass , with their content and friends consent resolv'd their times to pass As man and wife together , and so they marry'd were , of this mad match I made this Catch , which you that please may hear . They both had imperfections , which might have caused strife the man would swear , and domineer , so also would his wife . If John went to one Alehouse , Joan ran unto the next , betwixt them both they made and oath , That neither would be vexed . What ever did the good man his wife would do the like , if he was pleas'd she was appeas'd , if he would kick , shee'd strike . If quean or slut he cal'd her , she call'd him rogue and knave , if he would fight , shee'd scratch and bite , He could no victory have . If John his dog had beaten , then Joan would beatrice her cat , If John in scorn his band would burn , Joan would have burned her hat . If John would break a Pipkin , then Joan would break a pot , thus he and she did both agree To waste all that they god . If John would eat no victuals , then Joan would be as cross , they would not eat but sav'd their meat , In that there was no loss . If John were bent to feasting , then Joan was of his mind , in right or wrong both sung one song , As Fortune them assigned . The second part To the same tune . IN Tavern or in Alehouse , if John and Joan did meet , who ere was by in company , might taste their humours swee What ever John had cal'd for , Joan would not be out-dar'd , those that lack'd drink through want of chink For them the better far'd . Thus would they both fit drinking , as long as coin did last , nay more then this , ere they would miss good liquour for their taste , John would have damm'd his doublet , his cloak or any thing , and Joan would pawn her coif of Lawn , Her bodkin or her ring . If John were drunk , and reeled , then Joan would fallen i'th fire , if John fell down i'th midst o'th town , beewraid in dirt and mire , Joan like a kind copartner , scorn'd to stand on her feet , but down shee'd fallen before them all , And role about the street . If John had cal'd his Host knave , Joan cal'd her Hostis whore , for such like crimes they oftentimes were both thrust out of door . If John abus'd the Constable , Joan would have beatrice the Watch thus man and wife , in peace or strife , Each other sought to match . But mark now how it chanced , after a year or more , this couple mad all wasted had , and were grown very poor , John could no more get liquour , nor Joan could purchase drink , then both the man and wife began Upon their states to think . Thus beatrice with their own weapons , John thus to Joan did say , Sweet heart I see we two agree the clean contrary way , Henceforth let's do in goodness . as we have done in ill , I'll do my best , do thou the res A match quoth Joan , I will . So leaving those mad humours which them before possessed , both man and wife do led a life in plenty , peace , and res Now John and Joan both jointly , do set hands to the Plough . Let all do so in weal or woe , And they'l do well enough . M.P. Printed at London for Though : Lambert . Finis . John and Joan : OR , A mad couple well met . To the tune of the Paratour . YOu nine Castalian Sisters that keep Parnassus hill , Come down to me , and let me be inspired with your skill , That well I may demonstrate , a piece of household stuff , you that are wed mark what is sedd , Beware of taking snuff . A mad fantastic couple , a young man and a Lass , with their content and friends consent resolv'd their times to pass As man and wife together , and so they marry'd were , of this mad match I made this Catch , which you that please may hear . They both had imperfections , which might have caused strife the man would swear , and domineer , so also would his wife . If John went to one Alehouse , Joan ran unto the next , betwixt them both they made and oath , That neither would be vexed . What ever did the good man his wife would do the like , if he was pleas'd she was appeas'd , if he would kick , shee'd strike . If quean or slut he cal'd her , she call'd him rogue and knave , if he would fight , shee'd scratch and bite , He could no victory have . If John his dog had beaten , then Joan would beatrice her cat , If John in scorn his band would burn , Joan would have burned her hat . If John would break a Pipkin , then Joan would break a pot , thus he and she did both agree To waste all that they god . If John would eat no victuals , then Joan would be as cross , they would not eat but sav'd their meat , In that there was no loss . If John were bent to feasting , then Joan was of his mind , in right or wrong both sung one song , As Fortune them assigned . The second part To the same tune . IN Tavern or in Alehouse , if John and Joan did meet , who ere was by in company , might taste their humours swee What ever John had cal'd for , Joan would not be out-dar'd , those that lack'd drink through want of chink For them the better far'd . Thus would they both fit drinking , as long as coin did last , nay more then this , ere they would miss good liquour for their taste , John would have damm'd his doublet , his cloak or any thing , and Joan would pawn her coif of Lawn , Her bodkin or her ring . If John were drunk , and reeled , then Joan would fallen i'th fire , if John fell down i'th midst o'th town , beewraid in dirt and mire , Joan like a kind copartner , scorn'd to stand on her feet , but down shee'd fallen before them all , And role about the street . If John had cal'd his Host knave , Joan cal'd her Hostis whore , for such like crimes they oftentimes were both thrust out of door . If John abus'd the Constable , Joan would have beatrice the Watch thus man and wife , in peace or strife , Each other sought to match . But mark now how it chanced , after a year or more , this couple mad all wasted had , and were grown very poor , John could no more get liquour , nor Joan could purchase drink , then both the man and wife began Upon their states to think . Thus beatrice with their own weapons , John thus to Joan did say , Sweet heart I see we two agree the clean contrary way , Henceforth let's do in goodness . as we have done in ill , I'll do my best , do thou the res A match quoth Joan , I will . So leaving those mad humours which them before possessed , both man and wife do led a life in plenty , peace , and res Now John and Joan both jointly , do set hands to the Plough . Let all do so in weal or woe , And they'l do well enough . M.P. Printed at London for Though : Lambert . Finis . John and Joan : OR , A mad couple well met . To the tune of the Paratour . YOu nine Castalian Sisters that keep Parnassus hill , Come down to me , and let me be inspired with your skill , That well I may demonstrate , a piece of household stuff , you that are wed mark what is sedd , Beware of taking snuff . A mad fantastic couple , a young man and a Lass , with their content and friends consent resolv'd their times to pass As man and wife together , and so they marry'd were , of this mad match I made this Catch , which you that please may hear . They both had imperfections , which might have caused strife the man would swear , and domineer , so also would his wife . If John went to one Alehouse , Joan ran unto the next , betwixt them both they made and oath , That neither would be vexed . What ever did the good man his wife would do the like , if he was pleas'd she was appeas'd , if he would kick , shee'd strike . If quean or slut he cal'd her , she call'd him rogue and knave , if he would fight , shee'd scratch and bite , He could no victory have . If John his dog had beaten , then Joan would beatrice her cat , If John in scorn his band would burn , Joan would have burned her hat . If John would break a Pipkin , then Joan would break a pot , thus he and she did both agree To waste all that they god . If John would eat no victuals , then Joan would be as cross , they would not eat but sav'd their meat , In that there was no loss . If John were bent to feasting , then Joan was of his mind , in right or wrong both sung one song , As Fortune them assigned . The second part To the same tune . IN Tavern or in Alehouse , if John and Joan did meet , who ere was by in company , might taste their humours swee What ever John had cal'd for , Joan would not be out-dar'd , those that lack'd drink through want of chink For them the better far'd . Thus would they both fit drinking , as long as coin did last , nay more then this , ere they would miss good liquour for their taste , John would have damm'd his doublet , his cloak or any thing , and Joan would pawn her coif of Lawn , Her bodkin or her ring . If John were drunk , and reeled , then Joan would fallen i'th fire , if John fell down i'th midst o'th town , beewraid in dirt and mire , Joan like a kind copartner , scorn'd to stand on her feet , but down shee'd fallen before them all , And role about the street . If John had cal'd his Host knave , Joan cal'd her Hostis whore , for such like crimes they oftentimes were both thrust out of door . If John abus'd the Constable , Joan would have beatrice the Watch thus man and wife , in peace or strife , Each other sought to match . But mark now how it chanced , after a year or more , this couple mad all wasted had , and were grown very poor , John could no more get liquour , nor Joan could purchase drink , then both the man and wife began Upon their states to think . Thus beatrice with their own weapons , John thus to Joan did say , Sweet heart I see we two agree the clean contrary way , Henceforth let's do in goodness . as we have done in ill , I'll do my best , do thou the res A match quoth Joan , I will . So leaving those mad humours which them before possessed , both man and wife do led a life in plenty , peace , and res Now John and Joan both jointly , do set hands to the Plough . Let all do so in weal or woe , And they'l do well enough . M.P. Printed at London for Though : Lambert . Finis . John and Joan : OR , A mad couple well met . To the tune of the Paratour . YOu nine Castalian Sisters that keep Parnassus hill , Come down to me , and let me be inspired with your skill , That well I may demonstrate , a piece of household stuff , you that are wed mark what is sedd , Beware of taking snuff . A mad fantastic couple , a young man and a Lass , with their content and friends consent resolv'd their times to pass As man and wife together , and so they marry'd were , of this mad match I made this Catch , which you that please may hear . They both had imperfections , which might have caused strife the man would swear , and domineer , so also would his wife . If John went to one Alehouse , Joan ran unto the next , betwixt them both they made and oath , That neither would be vexed . What ever did the good man his wife would do the like , if he was pleas'd she was appeas'd , if he would kick , shee'd strike . If quean or slut he cal'd her , she call'd him rogue and knave , if he would fight , shee'd scratch and bite , He could no victory have . If John his dog had beaten , then Joan would beatrice her cat , If John in scorn his band would burn , Joan would have burned her hat . If John would break a Pipkin , then Joan would break a pot , thus he and she did both agree To waste all that they god . If John would eat no victuals , then Joan would be as cross , they would not eat but sav'd their meat , In that there was no loss . If John were bent to feasting , then Joan was of his mind , in right or wrong both sung one song , As Fortune them assigned . The second part To the same tune . IN Tavern or in Alehouse , if John and Joan did meet , who ere was by in company , might taste their humours swee What ever John had cal'd for , Joan would not be out-dar'd , those that lack'd drink through want of chink For them the better far'd . Thus would they both fit drinking , as long as coin did last , nay more then this , ere they would miss good liquour for their taste , John would have damm'd his doublet , his cloak or any thing , and Joan would pawn her coif of Lawn , Her bodkin or her ring . If John were drunk , and reeled , then Joan would fallen i'th fire , if John fell down i'th midst o'th town , beewraid in dirt and mire , Joan like a kind copartner , scorn'd to stand on her feet , but down shee'd fallen before them all , And role about the street . If John had cal'd his Host knave , Joan cal'd her Hostis whore , for such like crimes they oftentimes were both thrust out of door . If John abus'd the Constable , Joan would have beatrice the Watch thus man and wife , in peace or strife , Each other sought to match . But mark now how it chanced , after a year or more , this couple mad all wasted had , and were grown very poor , John could no more get liquour , nor Joan could purchase drink , then both the man and wife began Upon their states to think . Thus beatrice with their own weapons , John thus to Joan did say , Sweet heart I see we two agree the clean contrary way , Henceforth let's do in goodness . as we have done in ill , I'll do my best , do thou the res A match quoth Joan , I will . So leaving those mad humours which them before possessed , both man and wife do led a life in plenty , peace , and res Now John and Joan both jointly , do set hands to the Plough . Let all do so in weal or woe , And they'l do well enough . M.P. Printed at London for Though : Lambert . Finis . 