New Mad TOM of Bedlam . OR , The Man in the Moon drinks Clarret , With Powder-beef , Turnip and Carret . Tune is , Grays-Inn-Mask . FOrth from my sad and darksome Cell , Or from the deep abyss of Hell , Mad Tom is come to view the world again , To see if he can ease his distemper'd brain : Fear and care does pierce the Soul , Hark! how the angry Furies howl ! Pluto laughs , and Proserpine is glad , To see poor naked Tom of Bedlam mad : Through the world I wander night and day to find my strangling Senses , In and angry mood I found Old Time with's Pentarchy of Tenches , When me he spies away-he-flies , For time will stay for no man , In vain with cries I rend the Skies , For pity is not common , Cold and Comfortless I lie , Help , Oh help , or else I die . Hark I hear Apollo's Team , The Carman begins to whistle , Chaste Diana bends her bow , The Boar begins to bristle , Come Vulcan with tools and with tackle , Shake off my troublesome shackle , Let Charles make ready his wain To bring me my Senses again . Last night I herd the Dog-Star bark , Mars met Venus in the dark , Leaping Vulcan het and Iron bar , And furiously did run at the God of war , Mars with his weapon laid about , But Vulcan's temples had the gout , His broad Horns did so hang in his sighed , He could not see to aim his blows arigh Mercury , the nimble Post of Heaven stayed still to see the Quarrel , Gorrel bellied Baccus Giant like bestrid a strong beer barrel : To me he drank , I did him thank , but I could get no Sider , He drank whole buts till he cracked his guts , but mine were ne'er the wider . Poor naked Tom is very-dry , A little drink for Charity : Hark I hear Acteons hounds The Huntsman hoops and hollows , Ringing Ryoster , Bowman Jowler , At the Chase now follows , The man in the Moon drinks Clarret ; With Powder-beef , Turnip and Carret , A Cup of old Malago Sack Will fire his bush at his back . New Mad TOM of Bedlam . OR , The Man in the Moon drinks Clarret , With Powder-beef , Turnip and Carret . Tune is , Grays-Inn-Mask . FOrth from my sad and darksome Cell , Or from the deep abyss of Hell , Mad Tom is come to view the world again , To see if he can ease his distemper'd brain : Fear and care does pierce the Soul , Hark! how the angry Furies howl ! Pluto laughs , and Proserpine is glad , To see poor naked Tom of Bedlam mad : Through the world I wander night and day to find my strangling Senses , In and angry mood I found Old Time with's Pentarchy of Tenches , When me he spies away-he-flies , For time will stay for no man , In vain with cries I rend the Skies , For pity is not common , Cold and Comfortless I lie , Help , Oh help , or else I die . Hark I hear Apollo's Team , The Carman begins to whistle , Chaste Diana bends her bow , The Boar begins to bristle , Come Vulcan with tools and with tackle , Shake off my troublesome shackle , Let Charles make ready his wain To bring me my Senses again . Last night I herd the Dog-Star bark , Mars met Venus in the dark , Leaping Vulcan het and Iron bar , And furiously did run at the God of war , Mars with his weapon laid about , But Vulcan's temples had the gout , His broad Horns did so hang in his sighed , He could not see to aim his blows arigh Mercury , the nimble Post of Heaven stayed still to see the Quarrel , Gorrel bellied Baccus Giant like bestrid a strong beer barrel : To me he drank , I did him thank , but I could get no Sider , He drank whole buts till he cracked his guts , but mine were ne'er the wider . Poor naked Tom is very-dry , A little drink for Charity : Hark I hear Acteons hounds The Huntsman hoops and hollows , Ringing Ryoster , Bowman Jowler , At the Chase now follows , The man in the Moon drinks Clarret ; With Powder-beef , Turnip and Carret , A Cup of old Malago Sack Will fire his bush at his back . 