b For a Minister before PREACHING . 1 Oh Dearest SAVIOUR help thou me , To found thy Gospel Word , That I may cry thy Grace is free , Come trust now in the Lord . 2 Perfect thy Strentgh in Weakness now , Show forth thy mighty Power ; For thou art faithful thou art true , Come bless us in this Hour . 3 Oh teach me rightly to divide , Thy Word of Truth always ; That I thy little Flock may feed , And call those back that stray . 4 Load me with Cordials from above , Thy Children for to give ; That faint for more of JESUS Love , Their Hearts for to revive . 5 And give me Plasters , Oh my God! For those that Wounded be ; The blessed Balm of JESUS Blood , Which cures Effectually . 6 Purges are wanting , likewise , LORD , For Souls that are unclean , Thy powerful and unerring Word , Which searches every Vein . 7 Thus teach thou me , Oh LORD my GOD To feed thy Church below , Which thou hast purchas'd with thy Blood Where ever I do go . 8 Prepare the People's Hearts that they , My Message may receive , And for the same praise thee always , The GOD thro' whom we live . b For a Minister before PREACHING . 1 Oh Dearest SAVIOUR help thou me , To found thy Gospel Word , That I may cry thy Grace is free , Come trust now in the Lord . 2 Perfect thy Strentgh in Weakness now , Show forth thy mighty Power ; For thou art faithful thou art true , Come bless us in this Hour . 3 Oh teach me rightly to divide , Thy Word of Truth always ; That I thy little Flock may feed , And call those back that stray . 4 Load me with Cordials from above , Thy Children for to give ; That faint for more of JESUS Love , Their Hearts for to revive . 5 And give me Plasters , Oh my God! For those that Wounded be ; The blessed Balm of JESUS Blood , Which cures Effectually . 6 Purges are wanting , likewise , LORD , For Souls that are unclean , Thy powerful and unerring Word , Which searches every Vein . 7 Thus teach thou me , Oh LORD my GOD To feed thy Church below , Which thou hast purchas'd with thy Blood Where ever I do go . 8 Prepare the People's Hearts that they , My Message may receive , And for the same praise thee always , The GOD thro' whom we live . 