A proper new ballad , entitled , Jepha Judge of Israel . I Read that many years ago , when Jepha Judge of Israel , Had one fair Daughter and no more , whom he loved so passing well . And as by lot God wot , It came to pass most like it was , Great wars there should be , and who should be the chief , but he , but he . When Jepha was appointed now , chief Captain of the company , To God the Lord he made a vow , if he might have the victory , At his return to burn For his offering the first quick thing , Should meet with him then , from his house when he came again , again . It chanced so these wars were done , and home he came with victory , His Daughter out of doors did run , to meet her Father speedily , And all the way did play To Taber and Pipe , and many a stripe , And notes full high . for joy that he was so nigh so nigh . When Jepha did perceive and see his Daughter firm and formostly , He rend his clothes and tore his hair , and shrieked out most piteously . For thou art she ( quoth he ) Hath brought me low , alas for woe , And troubled me so , that I cannot tell what to do to do . For I have made a vow ( quoth he ) which must not be diminished , A sacrifice to God on high , my promise must be finished , As you have spoke , provoke , No further care but to prepare , Your will to fulfil , according to Gods will Gods will . For silence God hath given you might , to overcome your Enemies , Let me be offered up as right , for to perform all promises , And this let be quoth she , As thou hast said be not afraid , Although it be I . keep promise with God on high , on high . But Father do so much for me , as let me go to Wilderness , There to bewail my virginity , three months to bemoan my heaviness , And let there go some more , Like Maids with me . content quoth he , And sent her away , to mourn till her latter day her day . And when that time was come and gone , that she should sacrificed be , This Virgin sacrificed was , for to fulfil all promises ; As some say for aye : The Virgins there three times a year , Like sorrow fulfil , for the Daughter of Jepha still , still , still . Printed for F. Coles T. Vere , and W Gilbertson . A proper new ballad , entitled , Jepha Judge of Israel . I Read that many years ago , when Jepha Judge of Israel , Had one fair Daughter and no more , whom he loved so passing well . And as by lot God wot , It came to pass most like it was , Great wars there should be , and who should be the chief , but he , but he . When Jepha was appointed now , chief Captain of the company , To God the Lord he made a vow , if he might have the victory , At his return to burn For his offering the first quick thing , Should meet with him then , from his house when he came again , again . It chanced so these wars were done , and home he came with victory , His Daughter out of doors did run , to meet her Father speedily , And all the way did play To Taber and Pipe , and many a stripe , And notes full high . for joy that he was so nigh so nigh . When Jepha did perceive and see his Daughter firm and formostly , He rend his clothes and tore his hair , and shrieked out most piteously . For thou art she ( quoth he ) Hath brought me low , alas for woe , And troubled me so , that I cannot tell what to do to do . For I have made a vow ( quoth he ) which must not be diminished , A sacrifice to God on high , my promise must be finished , As you have spoke , provoke , No further care but to prepare , Your will to fulfil , according to Gods will Gods will . For silence God hath given you might , to overcome your Enemies , Let me be offered up as right , for to perform all promises , And this let be quoth she , As thou hast said be not afraid , Although it be I . keep promise with God on high , on high . But Father do so much for me , as let me go to Wilderness , There to bewail my virginity , three months to bemoan my heaviness , And let there go some more , Like Maids with me . content quoth he , And sent her away , to mourn till her latter day her day . And when that time was come and gone , that she should sacrificed be , This Virgin sacrificed was , for to fulfil all promises ; As some say for aye : The Virgins there three times a year , Like sorrow fulfil , for the Daughter of Jepha still , still , still . Printed for F. Coles T. Vere , and W Gilbertson . 