b The CAPING TRADE To its own proper Tune COme all brave Boys o'th' Caping This staitly Vessel we'll invade , We'll pin her Cargo to her Load , No Quarters we'll afford her : But standing Stout is still brave Fate , Although our Seas be rough of late . Come Helm-a-lee and low your Top. I'le lay my Life I'll board her . The first Attempt may prove in vain , Although it be neither Blot nor Stain ; For the Brave may loose as well as gain , We'll do it with Bravado's : We'll wheel about , and undertake To board her under Quarter-deck , With Blunderbush and ported Pick And with two Hand Granados , Cheer up anon , your mad to think That your in danger for to Sink , But with Broadside closs to her clink , Deal Thumps and turn all over ; Your Bline may split upon her Stars , If you receive no greater Harm , your Hearts being warm Then a Cup of Brandy , will soon that loss recover , I have been at the Caping Trade . And Foreign Blood I oft have shed ; But it is true what of Old was said , True honours god by Danger . I'll stay at home put up my Pick , No Prizes more will to me stick ; For a stately Vessels beatrice me back , I'm sure's was in all England . Declining days comes one a pace , How dare I look my Enemy in th' Face , When I came off with great Disgrace ; For lake of store of Powder ? My Ammunitions spent and gone , My little Guns scarce half foot long , And two little Balls are scarce worth one . So I'm no more for Boarding , All you that Caping take in hand . See that your Men they stout do stand , The Soldiers all at your Command , To fire at once make ready , Stand to it then for evermore , See that your Loss be not before ; Style first a Gun to the Cabin Door ; Faint heart ne'er wan fair Lady . FINIS . b The CAPING TRADE To its own proper Tune COme all brave Boys o'th' Caping This staitly Vessel we'll invade , We'll pin her Cargo to her Load , No Quarters we'll afford her : But standing Stout is still brave Fate , Although our Seas be rough of late . Come Helm-a-lee and low your Top. I'le lay my Life I'll board her . The first Attempt may prove in vain , Although it be neither Blot nor Stain ; For the Brave may loose as well as gain , We'll do it with Bravado's : We'll wheel about , and undertake To board her under Quarter-deck , With Blunderbush and ported Pick And with two Hand Granados , Cheer up anon , your mad to think That your in danger for to Sink , But with Broadside closs to her clink , Deal Thumps and turn all over ; Your Bline may split upon her Stars , If you receive no greater Harm , your Hearts being warm Then a Cup of Brandy , will soon that loss recover , I have been at the Caping Trade . And Foreign Blood I oft have shed ; But it is true what of Old was said , True honours god by Danger . I'll stay at home put up my Pick , No Prizes more will to me stick ; For a stately Vessels beatrice me back , I'm sure's was in all England . Declining days comes one a pace , How dare I look my Enemy in th' Face , When I came off with great Disgrace ; For lake of store of Powder ? My Ammunitions spent and gone , My little Guns scarce half foot long , And two little Balls are scarce worth one . So I'm no more for Boarding , All you that Caping take in hand . See that your Men they stout do stand , The Soldiers all at your Command , To fire at once make ready , Stand to it then for evermore , See that your Loss be not before ; Style first a Gun to the Cabin Door ; Faint heart ne'er wan fair Lady . FINIS . 