The Triumph of Namur : OR , The Confederate Army's unspeakable Joy , for their Victory over the French , in the Surrender of the Castle , which they bravely Conquer'd . Tune of , The Evening Ramble . Licens'd according to Order . COme listen , you Protestant Subject's , that have any love for the Land , Here's Tidings of Joy , sing , Vive le Roy , the French are not able to stand Against our Great KING of Renowun , he tramples their Insolence down ; E'er long they shall know him , and willingly show him that Dignity due to his Crown : With Bumpers therefore let us season our Joys , The Castle of Namur surrender'd , brave Boys . Our Canons did bellow like Thunder , and Bombs they did mount in the Air , And while thus we fought , dear Friends you'd have thought the Great God of War had been there ; For why , we encompass'd them round , and Mortars sent Bombs to rebound , So fairly we slung 'em , they fell in among 'em , no manner of Safety they found : With Bumpers therefore let us season our Joys , The Castle of Namur surrender'd , brave Boys . Alas , it was not in their power , that fortify'd place to maintain , Although they were stout , and thought to hold out , King WILLIAM's stout conquering Train Did show tO [ h ] em such thundering play , that still in the heat of the Fray , As fast as we fir'd , the French they retir'd , it was but a folly to stay : Therefore with full Bumpers let's season our Joys , The Castle of Namur surrender'd , brave Boys . The French in their Castle did tremble , to hear how the Canons did roar , Whose battering Balls so shatter'd their walls , they ne'r was so frighted before ; For while this close Siege we did from , with Bombs we supplied them so warm , That , during the Actium , they were in distraction , that just like a fiery storm , They fell on the Castle with thundering noise , This made them be glad to surrender , brave Boys . Right Noble and Valiant Commanders did gallantly led on their Men , Who then did appear , like Strangers to Fear , resolving to scour them then , Bold Britains , with other Allies , the Germanes and Spaniards likewise , And while they contended , smoak-vapours ascended and seemed to darken the Skies ; Saluting the French with a thundering noise , And forc'd them to yield up tO [ he ] [ Cast ] le , brave Boys . The Marquis the Boufflers he sweated with Anger and Passion of Mind , Quoth he , Is it so , Begar , must we go and leave this good Castle behind ? It is a sad ting , I declare , and more den me's able to bear ; When Leues my Master , shall hear this Disaster , Begar in a passion he'll swear . And thus he went on with a sorrowful noise , Before he surrender'd the Castle , brave Boys . Quoth he , If the King of Great Britain is forced to take it by storm , The slaughtering Sword will ruin afford ; therefore it is best to conform . The rest did immediately cry , Yes , let us surrender : For why , If we are serious , King WILLIAM will spare us ; then let us not wilfully die . They're coming we hear with a thundering noise ; This said , they surrender'd the Castle , brave Boys . Their General , with his whole Army , lay looking upon us the while , Yet struck not a blow , because you must know , he knew it was trouble and toil ; But when we the Castle had wone , he pack'd up his Awls and he run ; Unwilling to tarry , lest he should miscarry , he found what King WILLIAM had done . He frighted the French by his thundering noise , And forc'd them to yield up the Castle , brave Boys . London : Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street , without Newgate . The Triumph of Namur : OR , The Confederate Army's unspeakable Joy , for their Victory over the French , in the Surrender of the Castle , which they bravely Conquer'd . Tune of , The Evening Ramble . Licens'd according to Order . COme listen , you Protestant Subject's , that have any love for the Land , Here's Tidings of Joy , sing , Vive le Roy , the French are not able to stand Against our Great KING of Renowun , he tramples their Insolence down ; E'er long they shall know him , and willingly show him that Dignity due to his Crown : With Bumpers therefore let us season our Joys , The Castle of Namur surrender'd , brave Boys . Our Canons did bellow like Thunder , and Bombs they did mount in the Air , And while thus we fought , dear Friends you'd have thought the Great God of War had been there ; For why , we encompass'd them round , and Mortars sent Bombs to rebound , So fairly we slung 'em , they fell in among 'em , no manner of Safety they found : With Bumpers therefore let us season our Joys , The Castle of Namur surrender'd , brave Boys . Alas , it was not in their power , that fortify'd place to maintain , Although they were stout , and thought to hold out , King WILLIAM's stout conquering Train Did show tO [ h ] em such thundering play , that still in the heat of the Fray , As fast as we fir'd , the French they retir'd , it was but a folly to stay : Therefore with full Bumpers let's season our Joys , The Castle of Namur surrender'd , brave Boys . The French in their Castle did tremble , to hear how the Canons did roar , Whose battering Balls so shatter'd their walls , they ne'r was so frighted before ; For while this close Siege we did from , with Bombs we supplied them so warm , That , during the Actium , they were in distraction , that just like a fiery storm , They fell on the Castle with thundering noise , This made them be glad to surrender , brave Boys . Right Noble and Valiant Commanders did gallantly led on their Men , Who then did appear , like Strangers to Fear , resolving to scour them then , Bold Britains , with other Allies , the Germanes and Spaniards likewise , And while they contended , smoak-vapours ascended and seemed to darken the Skies ; Saluting the French with a thundering noise , And forc'd them to yield up tO [ he ] [ Cast ] le , brave Boys . The Marquis the Boufflers he sweated with Anger and Passion of Mind , Quoth he , Is it so , Begar , must we go and leave this good Castle behind ? It is a sad ting , I declare , and more den me's able to bear ; When Leues my Master , shall hear this Disaster , Begar in a passion he'll swear . And thus he went on with a sorrowful noise , Before he surrender'd the Castle , brave Boys . Quoth he , If the King of Great Britain is forced to take it by storm , The slaughtering Sword will ruin afford ; therefore it is best to conform . The rest did immediately cry , Yes , let us surrender : For why , If we are serious , King WILLIAM will spare us ; then let us not wilfully die . They're coming we hear with a thundering noise ; This said , they surrender'd the Castle , brave Boys . Their General , with his whole Army , lay looking upon us the while , Yet struck not a blow , because you must know , he knew it was trouble and toil ; But when we the Castle had wone , he pack'd up his Awls and he run ; Unwilling to tarry , lest he should miscarry , he found what King WILLIAM had done . He frighted the French by his thundering noise , And forc'd them to yield up the Castle , brave Boys . London : Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guiltspur-street , without Newgate . 