The lamentation of Edward Bruton , and James Riley , who for the bloody murder committed on the bodies of Henry Howell , and his wife , upon Queens Down , were execu - ted and hanged in chains , near the same place on the 18. day of March , 1633. To the tune of , Fortune my Foe . KInd Countrymen and our acquaintance all , Example take by this our sudden fallen , Dip not your hands in blood that's innocent , For which offence we both too late repent . The crying sins of murder pierces heaven , And great repentance craves to be forgiven , One bloody deed deserves ten thousand death's : But we bereft diverse of their breathes . The harmless man that did no hurt intend , Most butcher-like we brought unto his end , And that good woman his most loving wife Inhumanely bereft we of life , She great with child ( o how it grieves our hearts That we should act such bloody tragic parts ! ) The harmless infant that was in her womb , We likewise slew , whose mother was its tomb . Their other children sitting by the fire We likewise hurt , who mercy did require , But we no mercy had , nor grace at all , When as these Babes for life did cry and call . And for the same no mercy here we find : Deserved death are for our sins assign'd , Death is our doom , we here our lives must pay , Our glass is out , this is our dying day . A shameless end for our most shameful sin We must receive , that we have lived in , Here on this tree we must resign our breath Yet thats not all , though here we die this death . Our bodies must no burial place possess , This is our doom for our vild wickedness , Betwixt Earth & Heaven we here must hang in chains As long as sinews , flesh or bones remains . Fowls of the air our eyes they forth will pull , Feed on our flesh , and peck upon our scull , We shall be pointing stocks to every one That passes by , though we are dead and gone . Earth scorns to hide our bodies from the light , But in the air must tottering hang in sighed , And here in Kent we ne're shall be forgotten , Although our joints by piecemeal dropping rot , Unto each other Travellers will say , See you those Murderers , as they pass this way , Those are the villains that the blood did spill Of innocents , thats hanging on yond hill . Thus shall we be discourse for aftertimes , Which we deserve most justly for our crimes , And we shall be recorded for this fact , That we so merciless and foul did act . Great God forgive our sins that are so foul , And unto mercy take each sinful Soul , Deal not in Justice with our sins , Oh Lord , But grace and pardon to our souls afford . Thy mercy ( Lord ) is greater than our sin , And if thou please in Heaven to let us in , We do repent us of our wicked deed , The thought of which does make our souls to bleed . But woe to him that was the cause of this , Which did entice us first to do amiss , O bloody Darbie , it was long of thee We did consent to do this villainy . Though thou art fled , yet God will find thee out , And will take vengeance on thee , there's no doubt , Hee'l not let escape so foul and vile a crime , As he hath justly done on us this time . But we confess , we have deserv'd to die , And to the Lord we now for mercy cry : Receive us , Jesus Christ , to thee we pray , Whose precious blood wash all our sins away . Thus have you herd how these same two did die , Ending their lives with shame and infamy , And one of them that was on th'other side , Converted , and a Protestant he died . The Lord ( no doubt ) to them did mercy lend , Who were so penitent before their end , Their souls I hope in Heaven above do dwell . But yet another bloody tale I'll tell . FINIS . Another Bloody murder committed near Ware , in Heart - fordshire , by some notorious offenders , who were execu - ted in the same month . To the same Tune . KInd hearts give ear to that which I shall tell Of a sad story which of late befell , In Hartfordshire near Ware did chance this thing , Which caus'd salt tears from many eyes to spring . Two men were riding in and evening late , That had a charge of money and estate , And homeward they intended for to go , But destiny does oftentimes say no . And for these men foure villains they did watch , Which had waylaid them how they them might catch : At him which was the foremost they did lay , But his swift horse did bear him safe away . The next they hit , and fell'd him to the ground , And rifling him , they gave him many a wound , So leaving him , as they did think for dead , Having his gold , away they straightway fled . Yet one of them did backward cast his eye , And did perceive him stir as he did lie , Saying , I'll back , and give him his death's blo [ w ] For every one of us he well does know . And with his staff his brains he out did beat . Then straight this villain to them did retreat ; But mark how God did bring this thing to light , For blood and murder he will soon requite . One of these thieves a piece of Gold would change With one that knew him , that did thy [ n ] ke it strange [ e ] He should have gold , yet not the value knew , Into suspicion strait his mind it drew . And hearing of the murder done of late , Would understand how he came by this state , And threatening him , he then confessed straiteway , Both him and them which that same man did slay . They were convicted , and by Law were tried , And for the same all foure of the [ m ] tO [ he ] y died , And he that last went b [ a ] cke , did suffer [ de ] ath , Just in the place he spent the true men breath . And at the common Execution place , The other three did end their fatal ra [ c ] e , A just reward for murderers in their kind , That bear so base and foul a bloody mind . For he that sits above the heavenly sky , Views all below with his allseeing eye , And will take vengeance when he sees his will , On all that glories harmless blood to spill , Great God , preserve us from all sudden death , Prepare our souls before we loose our breath , Make us all ready for the day to come , When thou shalt give to every one their doom . FINIS , London , Printed for H. G. The lamentation of Edward Bruton , and James Riley , who for the bloody murder committed on the bodies of Henry Howell , and his wife , upon Queens Down , were execu - ted and hanged in chains , near the same place on the 18. day of March , 1633. To the tune of , Fortune my Foe . KInd Countrymen and our acquaintance all , Example take by this our sudden fallen , Dip not your hands in blood that's innocent , For which offence we both too late repent . The crying sins of murder pierces heaven , And great repentance craves to be forgiven , One bloody deed deserves ten thousand death's : But we bereft diverse of their breathes . The harmless man that did no hurt intend , Most butcher-like we brought unto his end , And that good woman his most loving wife Inhumanely bereft we of life , She great with child ( o how it grieves our hearts That we should act such bloody tragic parts ! ) The harmless infant that was in her womb , We likewise slew , whose mother was its tomb . Their other children sitting by the fire We likewise hurt , who mercy did require , But we no mercy had , nor grace at all , When as these Babes for life did cry and call . And for the same no mercy here we find : Deserved death are for our sins assign'd , Death is our doom , we here our lives must pay , Our glass is out , this is our dying day . A shameless end for our most shameful sin We must receive , that we have lived in , Here on this tree we must resign our breath Yet thats not all , though here we die this death . Our bodies must no burial place possess , This is our doom for our vild wickedness , Betwixt Earth & Heaven we here must hang in chains As long as sinews , flesh or bones remains . Fowls of the air our eyes they forth will pull , Feed on our flesh , and peck upon our scull , We shall be pointing stocks to every one That passes by , though we are dead and gone . Earth scorns to hide our bodies from the light , But in the air must tottering hang in sighed , And here in Kent we ne're shall be forgotten , Although our joints by piecemeal dropping rot , Unto each other Travellers will say , See you those Murderers , as they pass this way , Those are the villains that the blood did spill Of innocents , thats hanging on yond hill . Thus shall we be discourse for aftertimes , Which we deserve most justly for our crimes , And we shall be recorded for this fact , That we so merciless and foul did act . Great God forgive our sins that are so foul , And unto mercy take each sinful Soul , Deal not in Justice with our sins , Oh Lord , But grace and pardon to our souls afford . Thy mercy ( Lord ) is greater than our sin , And if thou please in Heaven to let us in , We do repent us of our wicked deed , The thought of which does make our souls to bleed . But woe to him that was the cause of this , Which did entice us first to do amiss , O bloody Darbie , it was long of thee We did consent to do this villainy . Though thou art fled , yet God will find thee out , And will take vengeance on thee , there's no doubt , Hee'l not let escape so foul and vile a crime , As he hath justly done on us this time . But we confess , we have deserv'd to die , And to the Lord we now for mercy cry : Receive us , Jesus Christ , to thee we pray , Whose precious blood wash all our sins away . Thus have you herd how these same two did die , Ending their lives with shame and infamy , And one of them that was on th'other side , Converted , and a Protestant he died . The Lord ( no doubt ) to them did mercy lend , Who were so penitent before their end , Their souls I hope in Heaven above do dwell . But yet another bloody tale I'll tell . FINIS . Another Bloody murder committed near Ware , in Heart - fordshire , by some notorious offenders , who were execu - ted in the same month . To the same Tune . KInd hearts give ear to that which I shall tell Of a sad story which of late befell , In Hartfordshire near Ware did chance this thing , Which caus'd salt tears from many eyes to spring . Two men were riding in and evening late , That had a charge of money and estate , And homeward they intended for to go , But destiny does oftentimes say no . And for these men foure villains they did watch , Which had waylaid them how they them might catch : At him which was the foremost they did lay , But his swift horse did bear him safe away . The next they hit , and fell'd him to the ground , And rifling him , they gave him many a wound , So leaving him , as they did think for dead , Having his gold , away they straightway fled . Yet one of them did backward cast his eye , And did perceive him stir as he did lie , Saying , I'll back , and give him his death's blo [ w ] For every one of us he well does know . And with his staff his brains he out did beat . Then straight this villain to them did retreat ; But mark how God did bring this thing to light , For blood and murder he will soon requite . One of these thieves a piece of Gold would change With one that knew him , that did thy [ n ] ke it strange [ e ] He should have gold , yet not the value knew , Into suspicion strait his mind it drew . And hearing of the murder done of late , Would understand how he came by this state , And threatening him , he then confessed straiteway , Both him and them which that same man did slay . They were convicted , and by Law were tried , And for the same all foure of the [ m ] tO [ he ] y died , And he that last went b [ a ] cke , did suffer [ de ] ath , Just in the place he spent the true men breath . And at the common Execution place , The other three did end their fatal ra [ c ] e , A just reward for murderers in their kind , That bear so base and foul a bloody mind . For he that sits above the heavenly sky , Views all below with his allseeing eye , And will take vengeance when he sees his will , On all that glories harmless blood to spill , Great God , preserve us from all sudden death , Prepare our souls before we loose our breath , Make us all ready for the day to come , When thou shalt give to every one their doom . FINIS , London , Printed for H. G. 