A New SONG , CALL'D The Bakers Frolic , OR Jenny the Town Jilt . Licensed according to Order . Tune of , The Orange . I . I'Le Sing you a Song and a true one indeed , Of two loving Brother's that were in great need , They were Brother's by Trade and likewise a kin , And they would needs go to the sport In and In Of a Sunday . II Perhaps you will ask what I mean by this sport , This a Game that is us'd both in City and Court , But now I'le come nearer because you shant miss , They wanted a couple of Girls for to kiss Of a Sunday . III . And as for their Trade it begins wit a B , They deal all with Women as oft you may see , The one dwells at Wapping and very well known , The other near Fleetstreet but seldom at home Of a Sunday . IV. Their Wives in the Country were gone for the Air , The Men ( in the good Women's absence I hear ) Did send for two others to serve in their room , But Trading being quick they could get but one Of a Sunday . V. At this the two Brother's look't wondrous sad , I thought in my Conscience they would a gone mad , And the London Town Jilt perceiving them dull , Began for to hug , and to kiss , and to pull Of a Sunday . VI . prey Gentleman Bakers you need not to fear The want of your Sport while that Jenny is here , For though there's but one to hold out with you two , Yet work you will find more than both you can do Of a Sunday . VII . Says one to the other what must be done now , We'l all lie together , cries 'tother , I vow , And Jenny i'th middle shall lie by our side , While we take our turn for each other to Ride Of a Sunday . VIII . Then Jenny was glad to hear the match made , ( For she was as ready as they in the Trade ) And told them some Money she wanted for luck If they did expect that she must with them work Of a Sunday . IX . Then straight they agree'd & to Bed went together , Their Sport it was warm as likewise the weather , And by putting the Fuel so oft to the Spot , Their Oven with using at last prov'd too hight Of a Sunday . X. The Night passed away and business was done , Then some were for rising , nay every one , But Jenny so nimble her Clothes to put on , Cry'd farewell my Loves , but their Money was gone Of a Sunday . XI . I cannot but think how their Wives will complain , When home they do come to their Husbands again , And thinking to have their wonted desire , They'l find the mistake by a great loss by fire Of a Sunday . XII . You Married Wives all that have Husbands like these , Take care how you leave 'em alone at their ease , Or they'l not forsake it this forty to one , Unless that you keep with your Husbands at home Of a Sunday . A New SONG , CALL'D The Bakers Frolic , OR Jenny the Town Jilt . Licensed according to Order . Tune of , The Orange . I . I'Le Sing you a Song and a true one indeed , Of two loving Brother's that were in great need , They were Brother's by Trade and likewise a kin , And they would needs go to the sport In and In Of a Sunday . II Perhaps you will ask what I mean by this sport , This a Game that is us'd both in City and Court , But now I'le come nearer because you shant miss , They wanted a couple of Girls for to kiss Of a Sunday . III . And as for their Trade it begins wit a B , They deal all with Women as oft you may see , The one dwells at Wapping and very well known , The other near Fleetstreet but seldom at home Of a Sunday . IV. Their Wives in the Country were gone for the Air , The Men ( in the good Women's absence I hear ) Did send for two others to serve in their room , But Trading being quick they could get but one Of a Sunday . V. At this the two Brother's look't wondrous sad , I thought in my Conscience they would a gone mad , And the London Town Jilt perceiving them dull , Began for to hug , and to kiss , and to pull Of a Sunday . VI . prey Gentleman Bakers you need not to fear The want of your Sport while that Jenny is here , For though there's but one to hold out with you two , Yet work you will find more than both you can do Of a Sunday . VII . Says one to the other what must be done now , We'l all lie together , cries 'tother , I vow , And Jenny i'th middle shall lie by our side , While we take our turn for each other to Ride Of a Sunday . VIII . Then Jenny was glad to hear the match made , ( For she was as ready as they in the Trade ) And told them some Money she wanted for luck If they did expect that she must with them work Of a Sunday . IX . Then straight they agree'd & to Bed went together , Their Sport it was warm as likewise the weather , And by putting the Fuel so oft to the Spot , Their Oven with using at last prov'd too hight Of a Sunday . X. The Night passed away and business was done , Then some were for rising , nay every one , But Jenny so nimble her Clothes to put on , Cry'd farewell my Loves , but their Money was gone Of a Sunday . XI . I cannot but think how their Wives will complain , When home they do come to their Husbands again , And thinking to have their wonted desire , They'l find the mistake by a great loss by fire Of a Sunday . XII . You Married Wives all that have Husbands like these , Take care how you leave 'em alone at their ease , Or they'l not forsake it this forty to one , Unless that you keep with your Husbands at home Of a Sunday . 