b A New SONG of Paul Jones , the Cumberland Militia , and Scarbrough Volunteers . COME each loyal Briton of courage so bold , As annals can show you would ne'er be controul'd , It vexes my patience I'm sure night and day , To think how that traitor Paul Jones god away . Derry-down , etc As soon as this rebel near our shore did come , From all parts of the town the inhabitants run , They all stood amazed his fire to see , But this never daunted our brave militia . Our two noble colonels they straight gave command , Brave Lowther and Fleming , two Parliament-men ; They marched thro' the ranks , and to the men did say , Brave boys , have your arms in good order , we pray . Our brave officers all , of every degree , Took care every man provided should be , With powder and ball , then each took command , Said , Boys , for the honour of Cumberland . Then strait we on guard to the Spaws sent with speed , To prevent Paul's landing , in case there was need ; They call him Paul Jones , but his name is John Paul , And if ever we catch him he shall pay for all . The Serapis and Countess of Scarbrough brave , Five hours and a half they did bravely behave ; Only two against six the whole time in the fight , And so with reluctance was forced to strike . In Whitehaven this brat serv'd his time to the sea , He was born and bred in the shire of Galloway ; He liv'd with Lord Selkirk a servant some time , But committing murder to gaol was confin'd . He was try'd for the same , and condemned to die , But broke his confinement , by means cunningly ; A traitor he stands for th' American cause , And join'd with the French for to pull down our laws . The inhabitants of Scarbrough to work strait did fallen , In order to protect them from all such as Paul , And rais'd up a volunteer company with speed , To defend the town in case there was need . So now they are provided with every thing new , Their hearts they are good , and their clothing is blue , They'll join our militia without dread or fear , For to flog Jackey Paul , should he chance to come here . I wish every city and town would with speed , Raise a volunteer-company in time of such need ; To assist our militia round the British land , And imitate Scarbrough who has laid them a plan . So here is a health for to drink great and small , Success to our militia and volunteers all May they all prove loyal and true to their king , And all such as Paul in a halter soon swing . b A New SONG of Paul Jones , the Cumberland Militia , and Scarbrough Volunteers . COME each loyal Briton of courage so bold , As annals can show you would ne'er be controul'd , It vexes my patience I'm sure night and day , To think how that traitor Paul Jones god away . Derry-down , etc As soon as this rebel near our shore did come , From all parts of the town the inhabitants run , They all stood amazed his fire to see , But this never daunted our brave militia . Our two noble colonels they straight gave command , Brave Lowther and Fleming , two Parliament-men ; They marched thro' the ranks , and to the men did say , Brave boys , have your arms in good order , we pray . Our brave officers all , of every degree , Took care every man provided should be , With powder and ball , then each took command , Said , Boys , for the honour of Cumberland . Then strait we on guard to the Spaws sent with speed , To prevent Paul's landing , in case there was need ; They call him Paul Jones , but his name is John Paul , And if ever we catch him he shall pay for all . The Serapis and Countess of Scarbrough brave , Five hours and a half they did bravely behave ; Only two against six the whole time in the fight , And so with reluctance was forced to strike . In Whitehaven this brat serv'd his time to the sea , He was born and bred in the shire of Galloway ; He liv'd with Lord Selkirk a servant some time , But committing murder to gaol was confin'd . He was try'd for the same , and condemned to die , But broke his confinement , by means cunningly ; A traitor he stands for th' American cause , And join'd with the French for to pull down our laws . The inhabitants of Scarbrough to work strait did fallen , In order to protect them from all such as Paul , And rais'd up a volunteer company with speed , To defend the town in case there was need . So now they are provided with every thing new , Their hearts they are good , and their clothing is blue , They'll join our militia without dread or fear , For to flog Jackey Paul , should he chance to come here . I wish every city and town would with speed , Raise a volunteer-company in time of such need ; To assist our militia round the British land , And imitate Scarbrough who has laid them a plan . So here is a health for to drink great and small , Success to our militia and volunteers all May they all prove loyal and true to their king , And all such as Paul in a halter soon swing . 