THE Arcadian Lovers OR , Colin and Amarillis . Being a Composure , Richly Illustrated with the endeared expressions of a Shepherd and Shepherdess , for the pleasure and delight of all amorous Fancies . To be sung in a Tune of great rarity . UPon the smooth Arcadian plain Where the Lambs do frisk amain , Fair Amarillis and her Swain , With hand in hand , were walking ; The Sweets to prove , of harmless Love , They Amorously were talking . She was clothed all in green , And surpassed the Fairy Queen , Which made poor Colin for to seem Amazed with her Beauty ; To prize his Dear , beyond compare He took't to be his duty , She for joy did neatly trip , Whilst their flocks about them skip , When Colin sat , a while to prate , She courteously sat by him ; And for to find , if he were kind , Thus prettily she did try him . Amarillis told her Swain , To complete their joys again , That he should love her and be plain , And think not to deceive her ; Then he protested by his troath , That he would never leave her . O Colin if thou constant prove , And that thou wilt not slight my love , There's ne're a Swain upon this plain , That ever shall come near thee ; For Garlands and Embroidered Scrips , O Colin , I love thee dearly . But Colin if thou change thy Love , And seek my fury once to move , A Tigress unto thee i'le prove , When er'e thou dost come near me ; Oh Amarillis fear not that , For I do love thee dearly . The Second Part , to the same Tune . O Colin if thou provest kind , And never more will change thy mind I'le deck thee bowers , with fragrant flowers , Whose pleasure shall invite thee ; With boughs to shroud thee from the showers While Colin I will delight thee . O Amarillis I rejoice , For to hear thy pleasing voice , Then never think my only Dear , That I will er'e deceive thee ; But cast aside such doubts and fear , I vow I will never leave thee . O Colin , how it joys my heart , That our Loves shall never part , Amintas and his Chloris fair , Did ne're enjoy such pleasure ; Nor Coridon and Philis rare , I prize thee above all treasure . O Amarillis change a kiss , In token of a further bliss , While every Swain , upon this plain , Does envy our embraces ; I'le found thy praises in high strain , To keep thee from all disgraces . My Colin if a kiss be all , I'le not refuse what ere befall , I am inclin'd , our Loves to bind , On such a harmless fashion ; Since ne're a Swain , could yet ere stain , My innocent reputation . O my dearest Love quoth he Now our hearts do both agree , No Shepherd on Arcadia's Ground , Shall ever prove so loyal ; Now Amarillis thou hast found , My love will abide the trial . Then Colin straight began to Sing , And made the hills with eccho's ring , In Amarillis lofty praise , He pleasant rhymes composes ; Whil'st she makes garlands of green bays For Colin bedecked with Roses . Thus they passed their time in sport , And still thought it was but short , Till young and old , their flocks did fold , To keep them safe from straying ; And so the night did part them quite , Which merrily had been playing . London , Printed by T. Mabb , for R. Burton , at the Horseshoe in Smith-field THE Arcadian Lovers OR , Colin and Amarillis . Being a Composure , Richly Illustrated with the endeared expressions of a Shepherd and Shepherdess , for the pleasure and delight of all amorous Fancies . To be sung in a Tune of great rarity . UPon the smooth Arcadian plain Where the Lambs do frisk amain , Fair Amarillis and her Swain , With hand in hand , were walking ; The Sweets to prove , of harmless Love , They Amorously were talking . She was clothed all in green , And surpassed the Fairy Queen , Which made poor Colin for to seem Amazed with her Beauty ; To prize his Dear , beyond compare He took't to be his duty , She for joy did neatly trip , Whilst their flocks about them skip , When Colin sat , a while to prate , She courteously sat by him ; And for to find , if he were kind , Thus prettily she did try him . Amarillis told her Swain , To complete their joys again , That he should love her and be plain , And think not to deceive her ; Then he protested by his troath , That he would never leave her . O Colin if thou constant prove , And that thou wilt not slight my love , There's ne're a Swain upon this plain , That ever shall come near thee ; For Garlands and Embroidered Scrips , O Colin , I love thee dearly . But Colin if thou change thy Love , And seek my fury once to move , A Tigress unto thee i'le prove , When er'e thou dost come near me ; Oh Amarillis fear not that , For I do love thee dearly . The Second Part , to the same Tune . O Colin if thou provest kind , And never more will change thy mind I'le deck thee bowers , with fragrant flowers , Whose pleasure shall invite thee ; With boughs to shroud thee from the showers While Colin I will delight thee . O Amarillis I rejoice , For to hear thy pleasing voice , Then never think my only Dear , That I will er'e deceive thee ; But cast aside such doubts and fear , I vow I will never leave thee . O Colin , how it joys my heart , That our Loves shall never part , Amintas and his Chloris fair , Did ne're enjoy such pleasure ; Nor Coridon and Philis rare , I prize thee above all treasure . O Amarillis change a kiss , In token of a further bliss , While every Swain , upon this plain , Does envy our embraces ; I'le found thy praises in high strain , To keep thee from all disgraces . My Colin if a kiss be all , I'le not refuse what ere befall , I am inclin'd , our Loves to bind , On such a harmless fashion ; Since ne're a Swain , could yet ere stain , My innocent reputation . O my dearest Love quoth he Now our hearts do both agree , No Shepherd on Arcadia's Ground , Shall ever prove so loyal ; Now Amarillis thou hast found , My love will abide the trial . Then Colin straight began to Sing , And made the hills with eccho's ring , In Amarillis lofty praise , He pleasant rhymes composes ; Whil'st she makes garlands of green bays For Colin bedecked with Roses . Thus they passed their time in sport , And still thought it was but short , Till young and old , their flocks did fold , To keep them safe from straying ; And so the night did part them quite , Which merrily had been playing . London , Printed by T. Mabb , for R. Burton , at the Horseshoe in Smith-field 