A Ballad entitled , The Old men Complaint against his wretched Son who to advance his marriage did undo himself . ALl you that Father's be , look on my misery , Let not affection found , work your extremity . For to advance my Son , in marriage wealthially , I have my self undone , without all remedy . I that was wont to live , uncontrolled any way , With many checks and taunts , am grieved every day . Alack and woe is me , I that might late command , Cannot have a bit of bred , but at my children's hand . While I was wont to fit , chief at the Table end , Now like a serving slave , must I on them attend . I must not come in place , where their friends merry be , Lest I should my Son disgrace , with my unreverency . My coghing in the night , offends my daughter in Law , My deafness and ill sighed , does much disliking draw . Fie on this doting fool , this crooked churl quoth she , The chimney corner still , must with him troubled be . I must rise from my chair , to give my children place , I must speak Servants fair , this is my woeful case . Unto their friends they tell , I must not say they lie That they do keep me here , even of mere charity . When I am sick in bed , they will not come me nigh , Each day they wish me dead , yet say isle never die . O Lord ant be thy will , look on my woeful case No honest man before ; ever took such disgrace . This was the old men plaint every night and day , With woe he waxed faint , but mark what I must say . This rich and dainty pair , the young man and his wife Though clog'd with golden coin , yet led a grievous life . Seven year they married were , and yet in all this space , God gave them ne'r and heir their Riches to embrace . Thus did their sorrow breed , joy was from them exil'd , Quoth she a hundred pound , would I give for a child . To have a joyful child , of my own body born , Full oft am I Revil'd , of this my barrend womb . Much Physic did she take , to make a fruitful soil , And with excess thereof , she did her body spoil . Full of grief full of pain , full of Ach grew she then , That she cries out amain , seek for some cunning men . That I my health may have , I will no money spare , But that which she did crave , never fell to her share . Alack Alack she said , what Torments I live in , How well are they paid , that truly ease can win . So that I my health had , and from this pain were free [ ; ] I would give all my wealth , that blessed day to see . O that I had my health , though I were ne'r so poor , I car'd not though I went , begging from door to door . Fie on this muck quoth she , it cannot pleasure me , In this my woeful case , and great extremity . Thus liv'd she long in pain , all comfort from her fled , She strangled at the last , her self within her bed . Her husband full of grief , consuming woefully , His body pined away , suddenly he did die . Ere thirty years were passed , dy'd he without a will , And by this means at last , the old man living still . Injoy'd his Land at last , after much misery , Many years after that , liv'd he most happily . Far Richer then before , by this means was he known , He helped the sick and soar , the poor man overthrown . But this was all his Song , let all men understand , Those parents are accursed , live on their children's hand . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and W. Gilbertson . A Ballad entitled , The Old men Complaint against his wretched Son who to advance his marriage did undo himself . ALl you that Father's be , look on my misery , Let not affection found , work your extremity . For to advance my Son , in marriage wealthially , I have my self undone , without all remedy . I that was wont to live , uncontrolled any way , With many checks and taunts , am grieved every day . Alack and woe is me , I that might late command , Cannot have a bit of bred , but at my children's hand . While I was wont to fit , chief at the Table end , Now like a serving slave , must I on them attend . I must not come in place , where their friends merry be , Lest I should my Son disgrace , with my unreverency . My coghing in the night , offends my daughter in Law , My deafness and ill sighed , does much disliking draw . Fie on this doting fool , this crooked churl quoth she , The chimney corner still , must with him troubled be . I must rise from my chair , to give my children place , I must speak Servants fair , this is my woeful case . Unto their friends they tell , I must not say they lie That they do keep me here , even of mere charity . When I am sick in bed , they will not come me nigh , Each day they wish me dead , yet say isle never die . O Lord ant be thy will , look on my woeful case No honest man before ; ever took such disgrace . This was the old men plaint every night and day , With woe he waxed faint , but mark what I must say . This rich and dainty pair , the young man and his wife Though clog'd with golden coin , yet led a grievous life . Seven year they married were , and yet in all this space , God gave them ne'r and heir their Riches to embrace . Thus did their sorrow breed , joy was from them exil'd , Quoth she a hundred pound , would I give for a child . To have a joyful child , of my own body born , Full oft am I Revil'd , of this my barrend womb . Much Physic did she take , to make a fruitful soil , And with excess thereof , she did her body spoil . Full of grief full of pain , full of Ach grew she then , That she cries out amain , seek for some cunning men . That I my health may have , I will no money spare , But that which she did crave , never fell to her share . Alack Alack she said , what Torments I live in , How well are they paid , that truly ease can win . So that I my health had , and from this pain were free [ ; ] I would give all my wealth , that blessed day to see . O that I had my health , though I were ne'r so poor , I car'd not though I went , begging from door to door . Fie on this muck quoth she , it cannot pleasure me , In this my woeful case , and great extremity . Thus liv'd she long in pain , all comfort from her fled , She strangled at the last , her self within her bed . Her husband full of grief , consuming woefully , His body pined away , suddenly he did die . Ere thirty years were passed , dy'd he without a will , And by this means at last , the old man living still . Injoy'd his Land at last , after much misery , Many years after that , liv'd he most happily . Far Richer then before , by this means was he known , He helped the sick and soar , the poor man overthrown . But this was all his Song , let all men understand , Those parents are accursed , live on their children's hand . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and W. Gilbertson . 