The Ballad of the CLOAK : Or , The Cloak's Knavery . To the Tune of , From Hunger and Cold : Or , Packinton's Pound . COme buy my new ballet , I have't in my wallet , But 'twill not I fear please every pall Then mark what insu'th , I swear by my youth , That every line in my Ballad is truth , A ballad of wit , a brave ballad of worth , 'Tis newly printed , and newly come forth : 'Twas made of a Cloak that fell out with a Gown , That cramped all the Kingdom , and crippl'd the Crown . I'll tell you in brief , A story of grief , Which happen'd when Cloak was Commander in chief : It tore Common-prayers , Imprison'd Lord-mayors , In one day it voted down Prelates and Players It made People in point of Obedience , And the Covenant did cut off the Oath of Alleigance . Then let us endeavour to pull the Cloak down , That cramped all the Kingdom , and crippl'd the Crown . It was a black Cloak , In good time be it spoke , That kill'd many thousants , but never struck stroke : With hatchet and rope , The forlorn hope , Did join with the Devil to pull down the Pope ; It set all the Sects in the City to work , And rather then fail , 'twould have brought in the Turk : Then let us endeavour , etc It seiz'd on the Tow'r-guns , Those fierce Demi-gorgons , It brought in the Bagpipes , and pull down the Organs , The Pulpits did smoke , The Churches did choke : And all our Religion was turn'd to a Cloak : It brought in Lay-elders could not write nor read , It set public Faith up , and pull'd down the Creed : Then let us endeavour , etc This pious Imposter , Such fury did foster . It left us no penny , nor no Paternoster ; It threw to the ground , Ten Commandments down , And set up twice twenty times ten of its own : It routed the King , and Villains elected , To plunder all those whom they thought disaffected : Then let us endeavour , etc To blind Peoples eyes , This Cloak was so wise , It took of Shipmoney , but set up Excise ; Men brought in their Plate , For reasons of State , And gave it to Tom Trumpeter and his Mate ; In Pamphlets it writ many specious Epistles , To cozen poor Wenches of badkins and whistles : Then let us endeavour to pullthe Cloak down , That cramped all the Kingdon , and crippl'd the Crown . In Pulpits it moved , And was much approved , For cry'ng out -- Fight the Lord's Battle , Beloved : It bobtayl'd the Gown , Put Prelacy down , It trod on the Mitre to reach at the Crown : And into the field it and Army did bring , To aim at the Council , but shot at the King : Then let us endeavour , etc It raised up States , Whose politic Pates , Do now keep their quarters on the City-gates ; To Father and Mother , To Sister and Brother , It gave a Commission to kill one another : It took up Men's Horses at very low rates ; And plunder'd our Goods to secure our Estates : Then let us endeavour , etc This Cloak did proceed , To a damnable deed , It made the best Mirror of Majesty bleed ; Though Cloak not do't , He set on foot , By rallying and calling his journey-men to' For never had come such a bloody Disaster , If Cloak had not first drawn a sword at his Master : Then let us endeavour , etc Tho' some of them went hence , By sorrowful sentence , This lofty long Cloak is not mov'd to repentance , But he and his Men , Twenty thousand times ten , Are plotting to do their tricks over again ; But let this proud Cloak to Authority stoop , Or Catch will provide him a button and loop : Then let us end [ e ] avour to pull the Cloak down , That basely did sever the Head from the Crown . Let's pray that the King And his Parliament , In sacred and secular things may consen So righteously firm , And religiously free , That Papists and Atheists suppressed may be : And as there's one Deity does over-reign us , One Faith , and one From , and one Church may contain us Then Peace , Truth , and Plenty , our Kingdom will crown And all popish Plots and their Plotters shall down . Printed for A. M. W. O. and T. Thackersy n Duck-lane . The Ballad of the CLOAK : Or , The Cloak's Knavery . To the Tune of , From Hunger and Cold : Or , Packinton's Pound . COme buy my new ballet , I have't in my wallet , But 'twill not I fear please every pall Then mark what insu'th , I swear by my youth , That every line in my Ballad is truth , A ballad of wit , a brave ballad of worth , 'Tis newly printed , and newly come forth : 'Twas made of a Cloak that fell out with a Gown , That cramped all the Kingdom , and crippl'd the Crown . I'll tell you in brief , A story of grief , Which happen'd when Cloak was Commander in chief : It tore Common-prayers , Imprison'd Lord-mayors , In one day it voted down Prelates and Players It made People in point of Obedience , And the Covenant did cut off the Oath of Alleigance . Then let us endeavour to pull the Cloak down , That cramped all the Kingdom , and crippl'd the Crown . It was a black Cloak , In good time be it spoke , That kill'd many thousants , but never struck stroke : With hatchet and rope , The forlorn hope , Did join with the Devil to pull down the Pope ; It set all the Sects in the City to work , And rather then fail , 'twould have brought in the Turk : Then let us endeavour , etc It seiz'd on the Tow'r-guns , Those fierce Demi-gorgons , It brought in the Bagpipes , and pull down the Organs , The Pulpits did smoke , The Churches did choke : And all our Religion was turn'd to a Cloak : It brought in Lay-elders could not write nor read , It set public Faith up , and pull'd down the Creed : Then let us endeavour , etc This pious Imposter , Such fury did foster . It left us no penny , nor no Paternoster ; It threw to the ground , Ten Commandments down , And set up twice twenty times ten of its own : It routed the King , and Villains elected , To plunder all those whom they thought disaffected : Then let us endeavour , etc To blind Peoples eyes , This Cloak was so wise , It took of Shipmoney , but set up Excise ; Men brought in their Plate , For reasons of State , And gave it to Tom Trumpeter and his Mate ; In Pamphlets it writ many specious Epistles , To cozen poor Wenches of badkins and whistles : Then let us endeavour to pullthe Cloak down , That cramped all the Kingdon , and crippl'd the Crown . In Pulpits it moved , And was much approved , For cry'ng out -- Fight the Lord's Battle , Beloved : It bobtayl'd the Gown , Put Prelacy down , It trod on the Mitre to reach at the Crown : And into the field it and Army did bring , To aim at the Council , but shot at the King : Then let us endeavour , etc It raised up States , Whose politic Pates , Do now keep their quarters on the City-gates ; To Father and Mother , To Sister and Brother , It gave a Commission to kill one another : It took up Men's Horses at very low rates ; And plunder'd our Goods to secure our Estates : Then let us endeavour , etc This Cloak did proceed , To a damnable deed , It made the best Mirror of Majesty bleed ; Though Cloak not do't , He set on foot , By rallying and calling his journey-men to' For never had come such a bloody Disaster , If Cloak had not first drawn a sword at his Master : Then let us endeavour , etc Tho' some of them went hence , By sorrowful sentence , This lofty long Cloak is not mov'd to repentance , But he and his Men , Twenty thousand times ten , Are plotting to do their tricks over again ; But let this proud Cloak to Authority stoop , Or Catch will provide him a button and loop : Then let us end [ e ] avour to pull the Cloak down , That basely did sever the Head from the Crown . Let's pray that the King And his Parliament , In sacred and secular things may consen So righteously firm , And religiously free , That Papists and Atheists suppressed may be : And as there's one Deity does over-reign us , One Faith , and one From , and one Church may contain us Then Peace , Truth , and Plenty , our Kingdom will crown And all popish Plots and their Plotters shall down . Printed for A. M. W. O. and T. Thackersy n Duck-lane . 