T'' : And Admirable New Northern Story , Of two constant Lovers as I understand , Were born near Appleby in Westmoreland , The Lads name Anthony , Constance the Lass , To sea they went both and great dangers did pass : How they suffer'd shipwreck on the Coast of Spain For two Years divided and then met again ; By wondered fortune and rare accident , And now both live at home with joy and content . The Tune is I would thou wertenberg in Shrewsbury . TWo Lovers in the North , Constance and Anthony , Of them I will set forth a gallant History : They lov'd exceeding well , as plainly does appear ; But that which I shall tell , the like you ne'er did hear . Still she cries Anthony , my bonny Anthony , Gang thou by land or sea , I'll weened along with thee . Anthony must to Sea , his Calling did him bind , My Constance , Dear , quoth he , I must leave thee behind , I prithee do not grieve , thy tears will not prevail : I'll think on thee my Sweet when the Ships under sail . But still , etc How may that be ? said he , consider well the case : Quoth she sweet Anthony , I'll bide not in this place . If thou gang so will I , of the means do not doub A woman's Policy great matters may find ou My bonny , etc I would be very glad , but prithee tell me how ? I'll dress me like a Lad , what sayest thou to me now ? The Sea thou canst not brook , yes very well ( quoth she ) I'll Scullion to the Cook for thy sweet company . My bonny , etc Anthony's leave she had , and Dressed in men array , She seem'd the blithest Lad seen on a Summer's Day . O see what Love can do , at home she will not bide : With her true Love she'll go , let weal or woe betide . My dearest , etc In the Ship 'twas her lot to be the under Cook ; And at the Fire hight , wondered pains she took : She served e'ery one , fitting to their degree ; And now and then alone , she kissed Anthony . My bonny Anthony , my bonny Anthony , Gang thou by land or sea , I'll weened along with thee . ALack and welladay by tempest on the Main Their Ship was east away upon the Coast of Spain : To th' mercy of the waves , they all committed were , Constance her own self saves , then she cries for her dear . My bonny Anthony , my bonny Anthony , Gang thou by land or sea , I'll weened along with thee . Swimming upon a Plank , at Bilbo she god ashore First she did heaven thank , then she lamented soar , Oh woe is me ( said she ) the saddest Lass alive , My dearest Anthony , now on the Sea does drive . My bonny , etc What shall become of me ? why do I strive for shore , Sith my sweet Anthony , I never shall see more ? Fair Constance do not grieve , the same good providence , Hath sav'd thy lover sweet , but he is far from hence , Still , etc A spanish Merchant rich saw this fair seeming Lad , That did lament so much ; and was so grievous sad : He had in England been and English understood , He having herd and seen he in amazement stood : still she cries Anthony , etc The Merchant asked her what was that Anthony : Quoth she My Brother Sir who came from thence with me . He did her entertain thinking she was a Boy ; Two years she did remain before she met her joy . still she cries etc Anthony up was taken by and English Runagade , With whom he did remain at the Sea-roving trade : I'th nature of a Slave he did i'th Galley row ; Thus he his life did save but Constance did not know : still she cries Anthony , my bonny Anthony , Gang thou by land or sea I'll weened along with thee . Now mark what came to pass ; see how the fates did work : A Ship that her Master's was surprised this English Turk , And into Bilbo brought all that aboard her were ; Constance still little thought Anthony was so near . still she cries etc When they were come on shore Anthony and the rest , She who was sad before was now with joy possessed ; The Merchant much did muse at this so sudden change , He did demand the News , which unto him was strange : Now she , etc Upon her knees she fell unto her Master kind ; And all the truth did tell , nothing she kept behind : At which he did admire , and in a ship of Spain , Not paying for their hire , he sent them home again . Now she , etc The spanish Merchant rich did of his bounty give , A sum of Gold , on which they now most bravely live : And now in Westmoreland they were joyn'd hand in hand , Constancy and Anthony , they live in mirth and glee , Now she cries Anthony , my bonny Anthony , Good Providence we see , hath guarded thee and me . FINIS . Printed by and for A.M. and Sold by the Booksellers of Pye corner and London-Bridge . T'' : And Admirable New Northern Story , Of two constant Lovers as I understand , Were born near Appleby in Westmoreland , The Lads name Anthony , Constance the Lass , To sea they went both and great dangers did pass : How they suffer'd shipwreck on the Coast of Spain For two Years divided and then met again ; By wondered fortune and rare accident , And now both live at home with joy and content . The Tune is I would thou wertenberg in Shrewsbury . TWo Lovers in the North , Constance and Anthony , Of them I will set forth a gallant History : They lov'd exceeding well , as plainly does appear ; But that which I shall tell , the like you ne'er did hear . Still she cries Anthony , my bonny Anthony , Gang thou by land or sea , I'll weened along with thee . Anthony must to Sea , his Calling did him bind , My Constance , Dear , quoth he , I must leave thee behind , I prithee do not grieve , thy tears will not prevail : I'll think on thee my Sweet when the Ships under sail . But still , etc How may that be ? said he , consider well the case : Quoth she sweet Anthony , I'll bide not in this place . If thou gang so will I , of the means do not doub A woman's Policy great matters may find ou My bonny , etc I would be very glad , but prithee tell me how ? I'll dress me like a Lad , what sayest thou to me now ? The Sea thou canst not brook , yes very well ( quoth she ) I'll Scullion to the Cook for thy sweet company . My bonny , etc Anthony's leave she had , and Dressed in men array , She seem'd the blithest Lad seen on a Summer's Day . O see what Love can do , at home she will not bide : With her true Love she'll go , let weal or woe betide . My dearest , etc In the Ship 'twas her lot to be the under Cook ; And at the Fire hight , wondered pains she took : She served e'ery one , fitting to their degree ; And now and then alone , she kissed Anthony . My bonny Anthony , my bonny Anthony , Gang thou by land or sea , I'll weened along with thee . ALack and welladay by tempest on the Main Their Ship was east away upon the Coast of Spain : To th' mercy of the waves , they all committed were , Constance her own self saves , then she cries for her dear . My bonny Anthony , my bonny Anthony , Gang thou by land or sea , I'll weened along with thee . Swimming upon a Plank , at Bilbo she god ashore First she did heaven thank , then she lamented soar , Oh woe is me ( said she ) the saddest Lass alive , My dearest Anthony , now on the Sea does drive . My bonny , etc What shall become of me ? why do I strive for shore , Sith my sweet Anthony , I never shall see more ? Fair Constance do not grieve , the same good providence , Hath sav'd thy lover sweet , but he is far from hence , Still , etc A spanish Merchant rich saw this fair seeming Lad , That did lament so much ; and was so grievous sad : He had in England been and English understood , He having herd and seen he in amazement stood : still she cries Anthony , etc The Merchant asked her what was that Anthony : Quoth she My Brother Sir who came from thence with me . He did her entertain thinking she was a Boy ; Two years she did remain before she met her joy . still she cries etc Anthony up was taken by and English Runagade , With whom he did remain at the Sea-roving trade : I'th nature of a Slave he did i'th Galley row ; Thus he his life did save but Constance did not know : still she cries Anthony , my bonny Anthony , Gang thou by land or sea I'll weened along with thee . Now mark what came to pass ; see how the fates did work : A Ship that her Master's was surprised this English Turk , And into Bilbo brought all that aboard her were ; Constance still little thought Anthony was so near . still she cries etc When they were come on shore Anthony and the rest , She who was sad before was now with joy possessed ; The Merchant much did muse at this so sudden change , He did demand the News , which unto him was strange : Now she , etc Upon her knees she fell unto her Master kind ; And all the truth did tell , nothing she kept behind : At which he did admire , and in a ship of Spain , Not paying for their hire , he sent them home again . Now she , etc The spanish Merchant rich did of his bounty give , A sum of Gold , on which they now most bravely live : And now in Westmoreland they were joyn'd hand in hand , Constancy and Anthony , they live in mirth and glee , Now she cries Anthony , my bonny Anthony , Good Providence we see , hath guarded thee and me . FINIS . Printed by and for A.M. and Sold by the Booksellers of Pye corner and London-Bridge . 