The Age and Life of Man , perfectly showing his Beginning of Life , and the progress of his Days , from Seaven to Seaventy ; Here may you see the Frailty that's in Men , Till they have run the Years threescore and ten . To the Tune of , Jane Shore . When man is born he in a Cradle lies , At one time seven a Hoby-horse devise , At two times seven a Book to Read with all , At three times seven a Bandy and a Ball , At foure times seven a wife he seeks to know , At five times seven the Horn of Strength he blow , At six times seven Time stands by him still , At seven times seven his Bag begins to fill , At eight times seven his Bags are fill'd each nuke , At nine times seven , he to the Earth do stoop , At ten times seven his Glass and time is run , Into the Earth Man falls , and so he's gone . AS I was wandering all alone , A subject then I thought upon : The Muses in my senses ran , That I should show the Age of Man : Man he is clay , that came from Earth , And sinner lives till day of death , From one since to another run , And never leaves till he's undone : Then fear your God , make no delay , For time and tide for none will stay . The first of seaven years in a Cradle , To stand or go , he is not able , While other creatures making scorn , Tramples him down when he is born : So weak he is , he cannot go , And poor is born we all do know , Into this world stark naked he came , And so shall go out of the same . Then fear your God , etc. At two times seven his friends to rule , Provides for keeping him at School , That in his heart it might be told , That for his good when he is old : And he so given is to play , He troants most his time away : When age comes on , he'le then Repent That he his time had so mispen Then fear your God , etc. At three times seven , he is very Idle , That all his friends can't him bridle : His thoughts run wandering too and from Persuade him well , you are his foe In other Countries he will room , And have no mind to stay at home , That all his friends are grieved still And yet he'le have his foolish will . Then fear your God , make no delay , For time and tide for none will stay . The Second Part , to the same Tune . AT four times seven , a wife he gits , Using and mustering up all his wits , How he should thrive , he takes great pains Alas for little or no gains : He then to bend his senses , rouse Things most convenient for his house , Which in time wastes and fades away , Even so must man , that is but clay : Then fear your God , etc. At five times seven , a charge comes on , Which in the world few thinks upon : He labour hard with right good will , Striving like stones against a Hill , Or like the flood that swiftly goes , At one place or another flows : Even so is man that's Rich today Tomorrow God takes all away . Then fear your God , etc. At six times seven then he should leave , And for his folly he does grieve ; His heart is grieved with sobs & sights , For all his former vain delights : Good Husbandry , he then home takes : Bad husbandry he then forsakes , And sober lives and those defy , Such as do hate good husbandry . Then fear your God , etc. At seven times seven a Covetous mind , His only care is still to find : Covetous he is in himself To purchase up all worldly wealth , Gathering up that which is but dross , Which may prove out to be a cross , Except his talent he restore , In charity relieve the poor . Then fear your God , etc. At eight times seven his cunning skill , Striving withal his worldly will , In bargaining and selling then , Making his Children mighty men , Leaving behind him that which he Scarcely hereafter thank't will be : As he did gather and lay it by , The Prodigal does make it fly . Then fear your God , etc. At nine times seven , he waxes old , His limbs benumb'd and veins are cold : His Children glad with much content , Their Father have so good judgement , So knowing is in every Cause , His wit does make young men to pause : Yet all this world he now must leave , And now prepare himself for Grave . Then fear your God , etc. At ten times seven his Glass is run , And he poor soul can no ways shun : No he must leave Children and Wife , To give the world , can't save his life : Happy is he that lives hear , That keeps a Conscience pure & clear , Although his Body in dust lie , His soul shall mount up to the sky . Then fear your God , etc. Thus have I set you here a page , The frailty that is in men Age : From seven to seven we pass while when We reach the years threescore and ten , Let us all join with one accord , And with all reverence fear the Lord . Then may we all rejoice and sing Halalujah to our heavenly King . P.F. FINIS . London , Printed by T. Mabb , for Ric. Burton , at the Horshoe in Smithfield . The Age and Life of Man , perfectly showing his Beginning of Life , and the progress of his Days , from Seaven to Seaventy ; Here may you see the Frailty that's in Men , Till they have run the Years threescore and ten . To the Tune of , Jane Shore . When man is born he in a Cradle lies , At one time seven a Hoby-horse devise , At two times seven a Book to Read with all , At three times seven a Bandy and a Ball , At foure times seven a wife he seeks to know , At five times seven the Horn of Strength he blow , At six times seven Time stands by him still , At seven times seven his Bag begins to fill , At eight times seven his Bags are fill'd each nuke , At nine times seven , he to the Earth do stoop , At ten times seven his Glass and time is run , Into the Earth Man falls , and so he's gone . AS I was wandering all alone , A subject then I thought upon : The Muses in my senses ran , That I should show the Age of Man : Man he is clay , that came from Earth , And sinner lives till day of death , From one since to another run , And never leaves till he's undone : Then fear your God , make no delay , For time and tide for none will stay . The first of seaven years in a Cradle , To stand or go , he is not able , While other creatures making scorn , Tramples him down when he is born : So weak he is , he cannot go , And poor is born we all do know , Into this world stark naked he came , And so shall go out of the same . Then fear your God , etc. At two times seven his friends to rule , Provides for keeping him at School , That in his heart it might be told , That for his good when he is old : And he so given is to play , He troants most his time away : When age comes on , he'le then Repent That he his time had so mispen Then fear your God , etc. At three times seven , he is very Idle , That all his friends can't him bridle : His thoughts run wandering too and from Persuade him well , you are his foe In other Countries he will room , And have no mind to stay at home , That all his friends are grieved still And yet he'le have his foolish will . Then fear your God , make no delay , For time and tide for none will stay . The Second Part , to the same Tune . AT four times seven , a wife he gits , Using and mustering up all his wits , How he should thrive , he takes great pains Alas for little or no gains : He then to bend his senses , rouse Things most convenient for his house , Which in time wastes and fades away , Even so must man , that is but clay : Then fear your God , etc. At five times seven , a charge comes on , Which in the world few thinks upon : He labour hard with right good will , Striving like stones against a Hill , Or like the flood that swiftly goes , At one place or another flows : Even so is man that's Rich today Tomorrow God takes all away . Then fear your God , etc. At six times seven then he should leave , And for his folly he does grieve ; His heart is grieved with sobs & sights , For all his former vain delights : Good Husbandry , he then home takes : Bad husbandry he then forsakes , And sober lives and those defy , Such as do hate good husbandry . Then fear your God , etc. At seven times seven a Covetous mind , His only care is still to find : Covetous he is in himself To purchase up all worldly wealth , Gathering up that which is but dross , Which may prove out to be a cross , Except his talent he restore , In charity relieve the poor . Then fear your God , etc. At eight times seven his cunning skill , Striving withal his worldly will , In bargaining and selling then , Making his Children mighty men , Leaving behind him that which he Scarcely hereafter thank't will be : As he did gather and lay it by , The Prodigal does make it fly . Then fear your God , etc. At nine times seven , he waxes old , His limbs benumb'd and veins are cold : His Children glad with much content , Their Father have so good judgement , So knowing is in every Cause , His wit does make young men to pause : Yet all this world he now must leave , And now prepare himself for Grave . Then fear your God , etc. At ten times seven his Glass is run , And he poor soul can no ways shun : No he must leave Children and Wife , To give the world , can't save his life : Happy is he that lives hear , That keeps a Conscience pure & clear , Although his Body in dust lie , His soul shall mount up to the sky . Then fear your God , etc. Thus have I set you here a page , The frailty that is in men Age : From seven to seven we pass while when We reach the years threescore and ten , Let us all join with one accord , And with all reverence fear the Lord . Then may we all rejoice and sing Halalujah to our heavenly King . P.F. FINIS . London , Printed by T. Mabb , for Ric. Burton , at the Horshoe in Smithfield . 