A Ballad , entitled the Old man's Complaint against his Wretched Son , who to advance his Marriage did undo himself . To the same Tune , ALL you that Father's be , look on my misery , Let not affection found work your extremity : For to advance my Son in marriage wealthily , I have my self undone , without all remedy . I that was wont to live uncontroul'd any way ; With many checks and taunts am grieved every day : Alack and woe is me , I that might late command : Cannot have a bit of bred , but at my children's hand . While I was wont to fit , chief at the tables end ; Now like a Servant slave , must I on them attend : I must not come in place , where their friends merry be : lest I should my Son disgrace with my unreverency . My coughing in the night offends my daughter in Law My deafness and ill sighed , does much disliking draw : Fie on this doting fool . this crooked churl ( quod she ) The Chimney corner still , must with him troubled [ b ] e . I must rise from my chair to give my children place ; I must speak servants fare , this is my woeful case : Unto their friends they tell , I must not say they lie : That they do keep me here even of mere charity . When I am sick in bed they will not come me nigh Each day they wish me dead , yet say i'le never die : Oh Lord an't be thy will , look on my woeful case : No honest man before ever took such disgrace . This was the old men plaint every night and day With woe he waxed faint , but mark what I shall say : This rich and dainty pair , the young man and his wife Though clog'd with golden coin yet led a grievous life . Seven years they married were , and yet in all that space , God sent them ne'r and heir their riches to embrace ; Thus did their sorrow breed , joy was from them exil'd Quoth she a hundred pound would I give for a child , To have a joyful child , of my own body born Full oft I am revil'd of this my barren womb : Much Physic did she take to make a fruitful soil , And with access thereof her body she did spoil . Full of grief , full of pain , full of ache grew she then , That she cries out amain , seek for some cunning men , That I my health may have , I will no money spare , But that which she did crave , [ ? ] fell to her share . Alack , alack , she said , what torments I live in , How well are they paid , that truly ease can win : So that I my health had and from this pain was free I would give all my wealth that blessed day to see : Oh that I my health had , though I were ne'r so poor , I car'd not though I went begging from door to door : Fie on this muck quoth she , it cannot pleasure me , In this my woeful case , and great extremity . Thus liv'd she long in pain , all comfort from her fled , She strangled at the last , her self within her bed : Her Husband full of grief , consumed woefully , His body pin'd away , suddenly he did die . E're thirteen years were passed , dy'd he without a will , And by this means at last , the old man living still : Enjoy'd his Land at last , after much misery , Many years after that liv [ ' ] worser he most happily . Far richer then before , by this means was he known He helped the sick and soar : the poor man overthrown : But this was all his song , let all men understand , Those Parents are accursed live [ ? ] A Ballad , entitled the Old man's Complaint against his Wretched Son , who to advance his Marriage did undo himself . To the same Tune , ALL you that Father's be , look on my misery , Let not affection found work your extremity : For to advance my Son in marriage wealthily , I have my self undone , without all remedy . I that was wont to live uncontroul'd any way ; With many checks and taunts am grieved every day : Alack and woe is me , I that might late command : Cannot have a bit of bred , but at my children's hand . While I was wont to fit , chief at the tables end ; Now like a Servant slave , must I on them attend : I must not come in place , where their friends merry be : lest I should my Son disgrace with my unreverency . My coughing in the night offends my daughter in Law My deafness and ill sighed , does much disliking draw : Fie on this doting fool . this crooked churl ( quod she ) The Chimney corner still , must with him troubled [ b ] e . I must rise from my chair to give my children place ; I must speak servants fare , this is my woeful case : Unto their friends they tell , I must not say they lie : That they do keep me here even of mere charity . When I am sick in bed they will not come me nigh Each day they wish me dead , yet say i'le never die : Oh Lord an't be thy will , look on my woeful case : No honest man before ever took such disgrace . This was the old men plaint every night and day With woe he waxed faint , but mark what I shall say : This rich and dainty pair , the young man and his wife Though clog'd with golden coin yet led a grievous life . Seven years they married were , and yet in all that space , God sent them ne'r and heir their riches to embrace ; Thus did their sorrow breed , joy was from them exil'd Quoth she a hundred pound would I give for a child , To have a joyful child , of my own body born Full oft I am revil'd of this my barren womb : Much Physic did she take to make a fruitful soil , And with access thereof her body she did spoil . Full of grief , full of pain , full of ache grew she then , That she cries out amain , seek for some cunning men , That I my health may have , I will no money spare , But that which she did crave , [ ? ] fell to her share . Alack , alack , she said , what torments I live in , How well are they paid , that truly ease can win : So that I my health had and from this pain was free I would give all my wealth that blessed day to see : Oh that I my health had , though I were ne'r so poor , I car'd not though I went begging from door to door : Fie on this muck quoth she , it cannot pleasure me , In this my woeful case , and great extremity . Thus liv'd she long in pain , all comfort from her fled , She strangled at the last , her self within her bed : Her Husband full of grief , consumed woefully , His body pin'd away , suddenly he did die . E're thirteen years were passed , dy'd he without a will , And by this means at last , the old man living still : Enjoy'd his Land at last , after much misery , Many years after that liv [ ' ] worser he most happily . Far richer then before , by this means was he known He helped the sick and soar : the poor man overthrown : But this was all his song , let all men understand , Those Parents are accursed live [ ? ] 