The Bachelors Forecast , OR , Cupid unblest being and Answer to Cupids Trappan or up the Green Forest . Though many Zelots doe in Love seem holy Yet be accounts it all to be but folly . To the Tune of Cupids Trappan . ONce did I love and a very pretty Girl , Thinking to make her my own , Although she did look like the mother of Pearl , Yet now am I fledg'd and flown brave Boys . yet now am I fledg'd and flown . I wooed her and sued her yet she did deny , She answered she would have none , The humour of love I defy , But now am I fledg'd and flown brave Boys , I try'd my Art to make her to me sure , And still I did call her my own , At last she'd endure to stoop to the lure , But now I am fledg'd and flown brave Boys , Since she does so scorn me , with Sack i'l Adorn me I will be out witted by none , These feminine creatures are absolute cheaters But now am I fledg'd and flown brave Boys . But since I forsook her , what fancy hath took her In the Forest she seeks for her own , She hoops & she howls like woodcocks or Owls Her bonny Birds fledg'd and flown brave Boys My humour some Love , I could not approve , Her humour was single alone ; Now I have another that better than tother , Her bonny Birds fledg'd and flown brave Boys ANd now I do here she fain would draw near , For now she does call me her own , I care not for that i'l keep out of her trap , Her bonny birds fledg'd and flown brave Boys , Why should I be tied her humour to hide . I'l never be linked to one ; Count Maidens and Mauthers twenty to ten , Her bonny birds fledg'd and flown brave Boys I always did wait on my pretty Love Kate , Intending my Love for to marry , But since she is no better , I'm none of her debtor , The Devil shall have her for Harry brave Boys . I might have had all , and have given her the fallen , Ther's nothing that would me hinder , But something that worse Child , Cradle , & Nurse , I never would light the tinder brave Boys . If any one tar me of falsehood in Love . And say i'l prove true to none , I pul'd out my Fickle because she was Fickle , Her bonny birds fledg'd and flown brave boys , If Love hath bewitched her , what is it to me , I wonder blind Cupid would let her , Since she is not s [ mu ] tcht nor her honesty tutcht . Why should she betide in the fetter brave boys , So long as she is free , she cares not for me , Her Maiden head is her honour , If she sing and laugh i'l merrily quaff , And ne're spend and idle thought on her brave boys If she sing and swagger , i'l drink till I stagger . The humour of Love , I defy it , Turn Willow to wine therein I will pine , Better live with it , than by it brave boys . I'm come from the wars without any scars , Although I was most in the Actium , My money does chink , and I must have some drink , And a pox on this foolish love faction , etc Though I am not Cripple yet well I can Tipple , I scorn for to bank my Liquour , The Juice of the Grape tastes better than Kate , To the Tavern I am a close sticker . But yet I advice , let's be merry and wise , To shun many future disasters , Though young men may find that Maidens are kind Yet never let Love be your master's . If I'd not march off , she at me would scoff , I'd rather at Sea for to venture , If I lose Leg or Arm 'tis not so much harm , As steering out Love to the centre , etc 'Tis better for you to live as you be , Then a false hearted maid for to marry , Not all the deceit of Bes Sue and Kate , Could never Trappan honest Harry . FINIS . With Allowance . Printed , by P. L. for R. Burton at the Horseshoe in West-smith-field . The Bachelors Forecast , OR , Cupid unblest being and Answer to Cupids Trappan or up the Green Forest . Though many Zelots doe in Love seem holy Yet be accounts it all to be but folly . To the Tune of Cupids Trappan . ONce did I love and a very pretty Girl , Thinking to make her my own , Although she did look like the mother of Pearl , Yet now am I fledg'd and flown brave Boys . yet now am I fledg'd and flown . I wooed her and sued her yet she did deny , She answered she would have none , The humour of love I defy , But now am I fledg'd and flown brave Boys , I try'd my Art to make her to me sure , And still I did call her my own , At last she'd endure to stoop to the lure , But now I am fledg'd and flown brave Boys , Since she does so scorn me , with Sack i'l Adorn me I will be out witted by none , These feminine creatures are absolute cheaters But now am I fledg'd and flown brave Boys . But since I forsook her , what fancy hath took her In the Forest she seeks for her own , She hoops & she howls like woodcocks or Owls Her bonny Birds fledg'd and flown brave Boys My humour some Love , I could not approve , Her humour was single alone ; Now I have another that better than tother , Her bonny Birds fledg'd and flown brave Boys ANd now I do here she fain would draw near , For now she does call me her own , I care not for that i'l keep out of her trap , Her bonny birds fledg'd and flown brave Boys , Why should I be tied her humour to hide . I'l never be linked to one ; Count Maidens and Mauthers twenty to ten , Her bonny birds fledg'd and flown brave Boys I always did wait on my pretty Love Kate , Intending my Love for to marry , But since she is no better , I'm none of her debtor , The Devil shall have her for Harry brave Boys . I might have had all , and have given her the fallen , Ther's nothing that would me hinder , But something that worse Child , Cradle , & Nurse , I never would light the tinder brave Boys . If any one tar me of falsehood in Love . And say i'l prove true to none , I pul'd out my Fickle because she was Fickle , Her bonny birds fledg'd and flown brave boys , If Love hath bewitched her , what is it to me , I wonder blind Cupid would let her , Since she is not s [ mu ] tcht nor her honesty tutcht . Why should she betide in the fetter brave boys , So long as she is free , she cares not for me , Her Maiden head is her honour , If she sing and laugh i'l merrily quaff , And ne're spend and idle thought on her brave boys If she sing and swagger , i'l drink till I stagger . The humour of Love , I defy it , Turn Willow to wine therein I will pine , Better live with it , than by it brave boys . I'm come from the wars without any scars , Although I was most in the Actium , My money does chink , and I must have some drink , And a pox on this foolish love faction , etc Though I am not Cripple yet well I can Tipple , I scorn for to bank my Liquour , The Juice of the Grape tastes better than Kate , To the Tavern I am a close sticker . But yet I advice , let's be merry and wise , To shun many future disasters , Though young men may find that Maidens are kind Yet never let Love be your master's . If I'd not march off , she at me would scoff , I'd rather at Sea for to venture , If I lose Leg or Arm 'tis not so much harm , As steering out Love to the centre , etc 'Tis better for you to live as you be , Then a false hearted maid for to marry , Not all the deceit of Bes Sue and Kate , Could never Trappan honest Harry . FINIS . With Allowance . Printed , by P. L. for R. Burton at the Horseshoe in West-smith-field . 