The Complaint of the Shepherd Harpalus , To a New Tune . POOR Harpalus oppressed with Love sat by a Christial brook , Thinking his sorrows to remove oft times therein did look : And hearing how on pebble stones the murmuring River ran , As if he had bequeath'd his groans unto it thus he began . Fair streams quoth he that pities me , and hears my matchless moan , If thou be going to the Sea as I now suppone , Attend my plaints passed all relief which dolefully I breath , Acquaint the Sea Nymphs with thee grief which still procures my death . Who sitting in the clifty Rocks may in their Songs express While as they comb their golden locks poor Harpalus distress ; And so perhaps some passengers that passes by the way , May stay and listen for to hear them sing this doleful lay . Poor Harpalus a Shepherd Swain more rich in youth then store , Lov'd fair Philenea hapless man Philenea Oh therefore . Who still remorceless hearted Maid took pleasure in his pain , And his good will poor soul repaid with undeserv'd disdain . Ne'r Shepherd loved Sheperdesse more faithfully then he Ne'r Shepherd yet beloved less of Shepherdess could be . How oft did he with dying looks to her his woes impart , How oft his sighed did testify the dolour of his heart . How oft from Valleys to the Hills did he his grief rehearse , How often echoed they his ills aback again alas . How oft on barks of stately pines , of Beech , of Holly green , Did he engage on mournful lines , the grief he did sustain . Yet all his plaints could have no place , to change Philena's mind , The more his sorrows did increase , the more she prov'd unkind . The thought thereof hath wearied care , poor Harpalus did move , That overcome with high despair he lost both life and love . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and F. Wright . The Complaint of the Shepherd Harpalus , To a New Tune . POOR Harpalus oppressed with Love sat by a Christial brook , Thinking his sorrows to remove oft times therein did look : And hearing how on pebble stones the murmuring River ran , As if he had bequeath'd his groans unto it thus he began . Fair streams quoth he that pities me , and hears my matchless moan , If thou be going to the Sea as I now suppone , Attend my plaints passed all relief which dolefully I breath , Acquaint the Sea Nymphs with thee grief which still procures my death . Who sitting in the clifty Rocks may in their Songs express While as they comb their golden locks poor Harpalus distress ; And so perhaps some passengers that passes by the way , May stay and listen for to hear them sing this doleful lay . Poor Harpalus a Shepherd Swain more rich in youth then store , Lov'd fair Philenea hapless man Philenea Oh therefore . Who still remorceless hearted Maid took pleasure in his pain , And his good will poor soul repaid with undeserv'd disdain . Ne'r Shepherd loved Sheperdesse more faithfully then he Ne'r Shepherd yet beloved less of Shepherdess could be . How oft did he with dying looks to her his woes impart , How oft his sighed did testify the dolour of his heart . How oft from Valleys to the Hills did he his grief rehearse , How often echoed they his ills aback again alas . How oft on barks of stately pines , of Beech , of Holly green , Did he engage on mournful lines , the grief he did sustain . Yet all his plaints could have no place , to change Philena's mind , The more his sorrows did increase , the more she prov'd unkind . The thought thereof hath wearied care , poor Harpalus did move , That overcome with high despair he lost both life and love . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and F. Wright . 