The Cavaliers Comfort ; OR , Long looked for will come at last . Here's good news from Sea now sent to the Shore , And good news on Land , so what would you have more . To the Tune of The King enjoys his own again . CHeer up your hearts , and be not afraid , all you that faithful served the King , What though you long have been dismayed , good news I now intend to bring : Let sorrows depart , And cheer up your heart , and think not on your troubles pas Lets pray for the King , And merrily sing , long looked for may now come at last . The first good news I shall unfold , I'm sure 'twill make you all full glad , 'Tis news of money I am told , I hope it will not make you mad , The old Cavaliers , Shall have their arrears , and some content for their service past . This is truth I declare , Then do not despair , long looked for now will come at last . Your sufferings long hath been this known , asham'd I am for to express , Some part already hath been shown , and yet no comfort nor redress , But now coms the time , Then do not repine , for long you have not to endure : Such want and poverty , For your Faith and Loyalty , long looked for now will come be sure . In every County of the Land , Commissioners will fit be sure , To hear and for to understand , what hands each Soldier can procure , And if they have been , True to the King , and for him stood still firm and fast , Then to their deserts , They shall have their parts , long looked for then will come at last . But let no turncoats then appear , for if they do 'twill be in vain , Nor no dissembling Cavalier , they must be free from any stain , For if they be found , They once turned round , Then all their time they'l spend in waste , None must appear , Then for Cavalier but he that stood for the King to the last . The second part , to the same Tune . MOre news I have to tell you here , I hope 'twil give you all content , Our Royal Queen they say is near , upon the Seas she now is bent , Her Fleet's under Sail , With a brave gallant gale , God send them a fair and pleasant blast , And safe with the King , That we may all sing long looked for now 'tis come at last . The King with all his Noble train , prepared is to go likawise , In Royal pomp to entertain his Consort , and to solemnize , That happy day , Wherein we may , with voices loud be herd and seen , With one accord , Crave all of the Lord , to bless our gracious King and Queen . A happy month of May we had , when as our King to London came , It made all faithful subject's glad , I hope this will produce the same : There is no fear , But this happy year , will make amends for many past Content let us be , And then we shall see , long looked for now will come at last . For to conclude and end my song , some things I do desire to see , In it I shall do none no wrong , who faithful to the King will be , That all may agree , In Love and Unity , To forgive and forget all that is past , Next that we might , Every one have his right , long looked for then would come at last . That Cavaliers may all be paid , and Traitors too have their desert , That have the Kingdom so decayed , I think there's few will take their part , I mean none but , That yet are our foes , and longs to see this Kingdom was But let them beware , Of the Hangmans snare . long looked for then may come at last , FINIS . London , Printed for William Gilbertson dwelling in Giltspur-Street . The Cavaliers Comfort ; OR , Long looked for will come at last . Here's good news from Sea now sent to the Shore , And good news on Land , so what would you have more . To the Tune of The King enjoys his own again . CHeer up your hearts , and be not afraid , all you that faithful served the King , What though you long have been dismayed , good news I now intend to bring : Let sorrows depart , And cheer up your heart , and think not on your troubles pas Lets pray for the King , And merrily sing , long looked for may now come at last . The first good news I shall unfold , I'm sure 'twill make you all full glad , 'Tis news of money I am told , I hope it will not make you mad , The old Cavaliers , Shall have their arrears , and some content for their service past . This is truth I declare , Then do not despair , long looked for now will come at last . Your sufferings long hath been this known , asham'd I am for to express , Some part already hath been shown , and yet no comfort nor redress , But now coms the time , Then do not repine , for long you have not to endure : Such want and poverty , For your Faith and Loyalty , long looked for now will come be sure . In every County of the Land , Commissioners will fit be sure , To hear and for to understand , what hands each Soldier can procure , And if they have been , True to the King , and for him stood still firm and fast , Then to their deserts , They shall have their parts , long looked for then will come at last . But let no turncoats then appear , for if they do 'twill be in vain , Nor no dissembling Cavalier , they must be free from any stain , For if they be found , They once turned round , Then all their time they'l spend in waste , None must appear , Then for Cavalier but he that stood for the King to the last . The second part , to the same Tune . MOre news I have to tell you here , I hope 'twil give you all content , Our Royal Queen they say is near , upon the Seas she now is bent , Her Fleet's under Sail , With a brave gallant gale , God send them a fair and pleasant blast , And safe with the King , That we may all sing long looked for now 'tis come at last . The King with all his Noble train , prepared is to go likawise , In Royal pomp to entertain his Consort , and to solemnize , That happy day , Wherein we may , with voices loud be herd and seen , With one accord , Crave all of the Lord , to bless our gracious King and Queen . A happy month of May we had , when as our King to London came , It made all faithful subject's glad , I hope this will produce the same : There is no fear , But this happy year , will make amends for many past Content let us be , And then we shall see , long looked for now will come at last . For to conclude and end my song , some things I do desire to see , In it I shall do none no wrong , who faithful to the King will be , That all may agree , In Love and Unity , To forgive and forget all that is past , Next that we might , Every one have his right , long looked for then would come at last . That Cavaliers may all be paid , and Traitors too have their desert , That have the Kingdom so decayed , I think there's few will take their part , I mean none but , That yet are our foes , and longs to see this Kingdom was But let them beware , Of the Hangmans snare . long looked for then may come at last , FINIS . London , Printed for William Gilbertson dwelling in Giltspur-Street . 