The Counterfeit Court Lady : Or , And Answer to , Your Humble Servant Madam . Discovering all her cunning knacks and feats , How Wittily she does bestow her Cheats ; By which she does much admiration gain , And in a splendid garb her self maintain . To the Tune of , Your Humble Servant Madam . I Am a Lass That does surpass , the Beauty's of the City : And near the Court , Where Blades resort , i'm counted wondrous witty : I have and oily Tongue , And very well it's hung , if that you will believe me : Your flattering disease , My humour cannot please , for there's none that can deceive me . No vapouring Cheat , Shall do the feat , with such a Girl as I am : I'le fit and smile , And him beguile , and all his oaths defie'um : He that will cog and lie , Gains not my company , when once his plot I faddom : For I scorn that any Man , Should ever me Trappan , with your Humble Servant Madam . The Second part , To the same Tune . AT my first Rise , I was so wise , to gain a great men favour : And by my Art , I wone his Heart , all by my brisk behaviour : Where I had Gold at will , My mind for to fulfil , he willing was to grant i But though that he is gone , And I am left alone , I never fear to want it . My Rich attire , Makes all admire , And by what means I gain i I have a Knack , To drink good Sack , and bravely to maintain i With my Pearl about my neck , And my Gallants at a beck , I us'd to drein their Purses : Before they will not grant , Whatever I do want , they'l fell both Coach and Horses . To train up Youth , I speak the truth , upon my Reputation : I do excel , And do it well , as any in the Nation : If I may gain their Gold , I'le make them free and bold , there's none that shall out vie them : For all the art of Love , You shall of them approve , when e're you please to try them . Young Ladies they Observe my way , they think I am a neat one : If I do glance , Or Sing or Dance , I am a most complete one . Though my breeding was not great , Yet I have learned the Feat , for to delude a Sinner : To fit upon his Lap , And catch him in a Trap , for I am no young beginner . How happy he , Is thought to be , that by his comely carriage : Hath god the Art , To win my heart , and treat with me of Marriage : When I seem to comply , He knows no reason why , but that he may believe me : Thus I get Diamond Rings , And many pretty things , for none could e're deceive me . Thus with my wit , Great benefit , and Riches I have got : Which I in store , Keep for the poor , when I am dead and rotten : He shall be paid full well , That Rings my Passing Bell , and digs my Grave a faddom : Then all that can be said , Here lies one buried , that was a Ranting Madam . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . The Counterfeit Court Lady : Or , And Answer to , Your Humble Servant Madam . Discovering all her cunning knacks and feats , How Wittily she does bestow her Cheats ; By which she does much admiration gain , And in a splendid garb her self maintain . To the Tune of , Your Humble Servant Madam . I Am a Lass That does surpass , the Beauty's of the City : And near the Court , Where Blades resort , i'm counted wondrous witty : I have and oily Tongue , And very well it's hung , if that you will believe me : Your flattering disease , My humour cannot please , for there's none that can deceive me . No vapouring Cheat , Shall do the feat , with such a Girl as I am : I'le fit and smile , And him beguile , and all his oaths defie'um : He that will cog and lie , Gains not my company , when once his plot I faddom : For I scorn that any Man , Should ever me Trappan , with your Humble Servant Madam . The Second part , To the same Tune . AT my first Rise , I was so wise , to gain a great men favour : And by my Art , I wone his Heart , all by my brisk behaviour : Where I had Gold at will , My mind for to fulfil , he willing was to grant i But though that he is gone , And I am left alone , I never fear to want it . My Rich attire , Makes all admire , And by what means I gain i I have a Knack , To drink good Sack , and bravely to maintain i With my Pearl about my neck , And my Gallants at a beck , I us'd to drein their Purses : Before they will not grant , Whatever I do want , they'l fell both Coach and Horses . To train up Youth , I speak the truth , upon my Reputation : I do excel , And do it well , as any in the Nation : If I may gain their Gold , I'le make them free and bold , there's none that shall out vie them : For all the art of Love , You shall of them approve , when e're you please to try them . Young Ladies they Observe my way , they think I am a neat one : If I do glance , Or Sing or Dance , I am a most complete one . Though my breeding was not great , Yet I have learned the Feat , for to delude a Sinner : To fit upon his Lap , And catch him in a Trap , for I am no young beginner . How happy he , Is thought to be , that by his comely carriage : Hath god the Art , To win my heart , and treat with me of Marriage : When I seem to comply , He knows no reason why , but that he may believe me : Thus I get Diamond Rings , And many pretty things , for none could e're deceive me . Thus with my wit , Great benefit , and Riches I have got : Which I in store , Keep for the poor , when I am dead and rotten : He shall be paid full well , That Rings my Passing Bell , and digs my Grave a faddom : Then all that can be said , Here lies one buried , that was a Ranting Madam . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . 