A Memoriable Song on the unhappy hunting in Chevy Chase between Earl Piercy of England and Earle Dowglas of Scoland . To the tune of Flying Fame . GOd prosper long our Noble King , our lives and safeties all , The woeful hunting once there did in Cheevy Chase befaill To drive the Deer with hound and horn Earl Piercy took his way , The child may rue that is unborn the hunting of that day . The stout Earl of Northumberland a vow to God did make , [ Him ] s pleasure in the Scottish woods three summer's days to take : [ The ] chiefest Hearts in Chevychase [ to kill ] and bear away , [ These tid ] ings to Earl Dowglas came , [ in Scot ] and where he lay , [ Who sent Earl Pie ] rcy present word , [ he would preven ] tO his sport , [ The English E ] arl not fearing this , [ did to the w ] oods resort [ With fifee ] n hundred Bowmen bold , [ all chosen m ] en of might , [ Who knew f ] ull well in time of need [ to aim tO ] here shafts aright . [ The gala ] nt Gray-hounds swiftly ran [ to chase the ] Fallow Dear , [ On Monday ] they began to hunt . [ when day - ] light did appear , [ And long befo ] re high noon they had [ and hundred ] fat Bucks slave , [ Then would ] ving din'd the Drovers went [ to row ] se them up again [ The Bow ] men mustered on the Hills [ well able to ] endure [ The backsides ] all with special care [ that day ] were guarded sure : [ TO ] he hounds ran swiftly through the woods [ th ] e nimble Dear to take , [ A ] and with their cries the Hills and Dales and Echo shrill did make [ L ] ord Piercy to the Quarry went To view the tender Dear , [ Queen ] oath he Earl Dowglas promised this day to meet me here : [ B ] ut if I thought he would not come , no longer would I stay , [ W ] ith that a brave young Gentleman thus to the Earl did say , Lo yonder does Earl Dowglas come , his men in armoar bright , Full twenty hundred Scottish spears all marching in our sighed . [ A ] ll men of pleasant Tividale fallen by the Rivers Tweed . Then cease your sport Earl Piercy said , and take your Bows with speed . And now with me my Countrymen your courage forth advance , For never was there Champion yet to Scotland or in France , That ever did on horseback come , but if my hap it were durst encounter man for man with him to break a Spear . Earl Dowglas on a milk white Steed , most like a Baron bold , Road foremost of the company , whose armour shone like gold . Show me he said whose men you be , that hunt so boldly here , That without my consent do chase and kill my fallow Deer ? The man that first did answer make , was noble Piercy he , Who said , we list not to declare nor show whose men we be . Yet will we spend our dearest blood . thy chiefest Hearts to slay Then Dowglas swore a solemn Oath , and thus in rage did say : Ere thus I will outbraved be , one of us two shall die , I know thee well and Earl thou art , Lord Piercy so am I : But trust me Piercy pity it were , and great offence to kill Any of these our guiltless men , for they have done no ill : Let thou and I the battle try , and set our men aside , Accursed be he Lord Piercy said , by whom this is deny'd . Then stepped a gallant Squire forth , Witherington was his name , Who said he would not have it told to Henry our King for shame , That' ever my Captain fought on foot , and I stood looking on : You two be Earls said Witherington , and I a Squire alone : I'll do the best that do I may , while I have power to stand , While I have power to wield my sword , I'll fight with heart and hand . Our English Archers bent their Bows , their hearts were good and true , At the first sighed of Arrows sent , full four score Scots that [ ey ] slew , To ortve the Deer with hound and horn Dowglas had on the bent , A Captain mov'd with much pride . the Spears to shivers went . They clos'd fullfast on every side , no slackness there was found , And many a gallant Gentleman lay gasping on the ground ; Oh Christ it was great grief to see , and likewise for to hear , The cries of men lying in their gore , and scattered here and there . At last these two stout Earls did meet , like Captains of great might , Like Lyons mov'd they laid on load and made a cruel figh They fought until they both did sweat , with swords of tempered steel , Until the blood like drops of rain . they trickling down did feel . Yield thee Lord Piercy Dowglas said , in faith I wilt thee bring Were thou shalt high advanced be , by James the Scottish King . Thy Ransom will I freely give , and thus report of thee , Thou art the most courageous Knight as ever I did see . No Dowglas quoth Earl Piercy then . thy proffer I do scorn , I will not yield to any Scot that ever yet was born , With that there came and Arrow keen out of and English Bow , Which struck Earl Dowglas to the hear a deep and deadly blow . Who never spoke mere words then these Fighr on my merry men all , For why my life is at and end , Lord Piercy sees my fallen . Then leaving life Earl Piercy took the dead man by the hand , And said Earl Dowglas for thy life would I had lost my Land. O Christ my very heart does bleed with sorrow for thy sake , For sure a more renowned Knight mischance did never take . A knight among the Scots there was , which saw Earl Dowglas die Who straight in wrath did vow revenge upon the Earl Piercy The second part , To the same tune , SIr Hugh Mongomery was he call [ ' ] worser , who with a Spear full bright , Well mounted on a gallant Steed , ran fiercely through the fight , And passed the English Archers all , without all dread or fear , And through Earl Piercies body then he thrust his [ would ] teful Spear . With such a vehement force and might , he did his body gore , The Spear went through the other side , a large cloth yard and more . So thus did both those Nobles die , whose courage none could stain , And English Archer then perceiv'd the Noble Earl was stain : He had a Bow bent in his hand . made of a trusty tree , And Arrow of a cloth yard long unto the head drew he : Against Sir Hugh Montgomery then , so right his shaft he set , The gray-goose wing that was thereon , in his heart blood was wet This fight did last from break of day , till setting of the Sun , For when they rung the Evening Bell , the Battle scarce was [ worser ] one . With the Earl Piercy there was slave Sir John of Ogerton Sir Robert Ratliffe and Sir John , Sir James that bold Baron , And with Sir George and good sir James both Knights of good account , Good Sir Ralph Fabby there was slave : whose prowess did surmoun For Witherington needs must I wail , as one in doleful dumps , For when his legs were smitten oft , he fought upon his stumps . And with Earl Dowglas there was slave Sir Hugh Montgomery , Sir Cherles Murrel that from the Field one foot would never fly . Sir Charles Murrel of Ratliffe too , his sisters sisters Son was he , Sir David Lamb so well esteemed yet saves could not be . And the Lord Markwel in likewise , did with Earl Dowglas die Of twenty hundred Scotish peers scarce fiftyfive did fly . Of fifteen hundred English men went home but fifty thre The rest were slave in Cheevy Chase under the green wood tO ree Next day did many widows come their husbands to bewail , They washed their wounds in brinish tears but all would not prevail : Their bodies bath'd in purple blood , they boar with them away , They kissed them dead a thousand times when they were clad in clay . This news was brought to Edenburgh , where Scotlands King did reign , That brave Earl Douglas suddenly was with and Arrow slave . O heavy News King Jomes did say , Scotland can witness be , I have not any Captain more of such account as he . Like tidings to King Henry came within as short a space , That Piercy of Northumbersland was slave in Chevychase . Now God be with him said our King , sith 'twill not better be , I trust I have within my Realm five hundred as good as he . Yet shall not Scots nor Scotland say , but I will vengeance take , And be revenged on them all , for brave Earl Piercies sake : This vow full well the King perform'd , after on Humble Down , In one day fifty Knights were slave , with Lords of great renown . And of the'rest of small account did many hundreds die , TO [ h ] us ended the hunting in Chevy Chase , made by the Earl Piercy . God save the King and bless the Land [ , ] in Plenty , Joy , and Peace , And grant henceforth that fouls debate betwixt Noblemen may cease . FINIS . Prin for F. Coals , T. Vere W Gilberson . A Memoriable Song on the unhappy hunting in Chevy Chase between Earl Piercy of England and Earle Dowglas of Scoland . To the tune of Flying Fame . GOd prosper long our Noble King , our lives and safeties all , The woeful hunting once there did in Cheevy Chase befaill To drive the Deer with hound and horn Earl Piercy took his way , The child may rue that is unborn the hunting of that day . The stout Earl of Northumberland a vow to God did make , [ Him ] s pleasure in the Scottish woods three summer's days to take : [ The ] chiefest Hearts in Chevychase [ to kill ] and bear away , [ These tid ] ings to Earl Dowglas came , [ in Scot ] and where he lay , [ Who sent Earl Pie ] rcy present word , [ he would preven ] tO his sport , [ The English E ] arl not fearing this , [ did to the w ] oods resort [ With fifee ] n hundred Bowmen bold , [ all chosen m ] en of might , [ Who knew f ] ull well in time of need [ to aim tO ] here shafts aright . [ The gala ] nt Gray-hounds swiftly ran [ to chase the ] Fallow Dear , [ On Monday ] they began to hunt . [ when day - ] light did appear , [ And long befo ] re high noon they had [ and hundred ] fat Bucks slave , [ Then would ] ving din'd the Drovers went [ to row ] se them up again [ The Bow ] men mustered on the Hills [ well able to ] endure [ The backsides ] all with special care [ that day ] were guarded sure : [ TO ] he hounds ran swiftly through the woods [ th ] e nimble Dear to take , [ A ] and with their cries the Hills and Dales and Echo shrill did make [ L ] ord Piercy to the Quarry went To view the tender Dear , [ Queen ] oath he Earl Dowglas promised this day to meet me here : [ B ] ut if I thought he would not come , no longer would I stay , [ W ] ith that a brave young Gentleman thus to the Earl did say , Lo yonder does Earl Dowglas come , his men in armoar bright , Full twenty hundred Scottish spears all marching in our sighed . [ A ] ll men of pleasant Tividale fallen by the Rivers Tweed . Then cease your sport Earl Piercy said , and take your Bows with speed . And now with me my Countrymen your courage forth advance , For never was there Champion yet to Scotland or in France , That ever did on horseback come , but if my hap it were durst encounter man for man with him to break a Spear . Earl Dowglas on a milk white Steed , most like a Baron bold , Road foremost of the company , whose armour shone like gold . Show me he said whose men you be , that hunt so boldly here , That without my consent do chase and kill my fallow Deer ? The man that first did answer make , was noble Piercy he , Who said , we list not to declare nor show whose men we be . Yet will we spend our dearest blood . thy chiefest Hearts to slay Then Dowglas swore a solemn Oath , and thus in rage did say : Ere thus I will outbraved be , one of us two shall die , I know thee well and Earl thou art , Lord Piercy so am I : But trust me Piercy pity it were , and great offence to kill Any of these our guiltless men , for they have done no ill : Let thou and I the battle try , and set our men aside , Accursed be he Lord Piercy said , by whom this is deny'd . Then stepped a gallant Squire forth , Witherington was his name , Who said he would not have it told to Henry our King for shame , That' ever my Captain fought on foot , and I stood looking on : You two be Earls said Witherington , and I a Squire alone : I'll do the best that do I may , while I have power to stand , While I have power to wield my sword , I'll fight with heart and hand . Our English Archers bent their Bows , their hearts were good and true , At the first sighed of Arrows sent , full four score Scots that [ ey ] slew , To ortve the Deer with hound and horn Dowglas had on the bent , A Captain mov'd with much pride . the Spears to shivers went . They clos'd fullfast on every side , no slackness there was found , And many a gallant Gentleman lay gasping on the ground ; Oh Christ it was great grief to see , and likewise for to hear , The cries of men lying in their gore , and scattered here and there . At last these two stout Earls did meet , like Captains of great might , Like Lyons mov'd they laid on load and made a cruel figh They fought until they both did sweat , with swords of tempered steel , Until the blood like drops of rain . they trickling down did feel . Yield thee Lord Piercy Dowglas said , in faith I wilt thee bring Were thou shalt high advanced be , by James the Scottish King . Thy Ransom will I freely give , and thus report of thee , Thou art the most courageous Knight as ever I did see . No Dowglas quoth Earl Piercy then . thy proffer I do scorn , I will not yield to any Scot that ever yet was born , With that there came and Arrow keen out of and English Bow , Which struck Earl Dowglas to the hear a deep and deadly blow . Who never spoke mere words then these Fighr on my merry men all , For why my life is at and end , Lord Piercy sees my fallen . Then leaving life Earl Piercy took the dead man by the hand , And said Earl Dowglas for thy life would I had lost my Land. O Christ my very heart does bleed with sorrow for thy sake , For sure a more renowned Knight mischance did never take . A knight among the Scots there was , which saw Earl Dowglas die Who straight in wrath did vow revenge upon the Earl Piercy The second part , To the same tune , SIr Hugh Mongomery was he call [ ' ] worser , who with a Spear full bright , Well mounted on a gallant Steed , ran fiercely through the fight , And passed the English Archers all , without all dread or fear , And through Earl Piercies body then he thrust his [ would ] teful Spear . With such a vehement force and might , he did his body gore , The Spear went through the other side , a large cloth yard and more . So thus did both those Nobles die , whose courage none could stain , And English Archer then perceiv'd the Noble Earl was stain : He had a Bow bent in his hand . made of a trusty tree , And Arrow of a cloth yard long unto the head drew he : Against Sir Hugh Montgomery then , so right his shaft he set , The gray-goose wing that was thereon , in his heart blood was wet This fight did last from break of day , till setting of the Sun , For when they rung the Evening Bell , the Battle scarce was [ worser ] one . With the Earl Piercy there was slave Sir John of Ogerton Sir Robert Ratliffe and Sir John , Sir James that bold Baron , And with Sir George and good sir James both Knights of good account , Good Sir Ralph Fabby there was slave : whose prowess did surmoun For Witherington needs must I wail , as one in doleful dumps , For when his legs were smitten oft , he fought upon his stumps . And with Earl Dowglas there was slave Sir Hugh Montgomery , Sir Cherles Murrel that from the Field one foot would never fly . Sir Charles Murrel of Ratliffe too , his sisters sisters Son was he , Sir David Lamb so well esteemed yet saves could not be . And the Lord Markwel in likewise , did with Earl Dowglas die Of twenty hundred Scotish peers scarce fiftyfive did fly . Of fifteen hundred English men went home but fifty thre The rest were slave in Cheevy Chase under the green wood tO ree Next day did many widows come their husbands to bewail , They washed their wounds in brinish tears but all would not prevail : Their bodies bath'd in purple blood , they boar with them away , They kissed them dead a thousand times when they were clad in clay . This news was brought to Edenburgh , where Scotlands King did reign , That brave Earl Douglas suddenly was with and Arrow slave . O heavy News King Jomes did say , Scotland can witness be , I have not any Captain more of such account as he . Like tidings to King Henry came within as short a space , That Piercy of Northumbersland was slave in Chevychase . Now God be with him said our King , sith 'twill not better be , I trust I have within my Realm five hundred as good as he . Yet shall not Scots nor Scotland say , but I will vengeance take , And be revenged on them all , for brave Earl Piercies sake : This vow full well the King perform'd , after on Humble Down , In one day fifty Knights were slave , with Lords of great renown . And of the'rest of small account did many hundreds die , TO [ h ] us ended the hunting in Chevy Chase , made by the Earl Piercy . God save the King and bless the Land [ , ] in Plenty , Joy , and Peace , And grant henceforth that fouls debate betwixt Noblemen may cease . FINIS . Prin for F. Coals , T. Vere W Gilberson . 