The complaint of the Shepherd Harpalus . To a pleasant new Tune . Poor Harpalus , oppressed with love , sat by a Crystal Brook , Thinking his sorrows to remove , ofttimes therein did look : And hearing how on pebble stones the murmuring River ran , As if it had bewayl'd his groans , unto it thus began . Fair stream ( quoth he ) that pities me , and hears my matchless moan , If thou be going to the Sea , as I do now suppone , Attend my plaints passed all relief , which dolefully I breath , Acquaint the Sea-nymphs with the grief which still procures my death Who sitting in the Cliffy Rocks , may in their songs express , While as they comb their golden locks , poor Harpalus distress : And so perhaps some Passenger , that passes by the way , May stay and listen for to hear , them sing this doleful Lay. Poor Harpalus , a Shepherd Swain , more rich in youth than store ; Lov'd fair Philena' hapless man , Philena , o therefore : Who , still remorceless-hearted Maid , took pleasure in his pains , And his good will , poor soul , repaid with undsserv'd disdain . Near Shepherd loved Shepherdess more faithfully then he , Near Shepherd yet beloved less of Shepherdess could be ; How oft did he with dying looks , to her his woes impart ? How oft his sighs did testify the dolour of his heart ? How oft from Valleys to the Hills did he his grief rehearse ? How oft reechoed they his ills , aback again ( alas ? ) How oft on Barks of stately Pines , of Beech , of Holly-green , Did he engrave in mournful lines , the grief he did sustain ? Yet all his plaints could have no place , to change Philena's mind ; The more his sorrows did increase , the more the prov'd unkind ; The thought thereof with wearied care poor Harpalus did move , That overcome with high despairs , he lost both life and Love . FINIS . D.M. Printed at London for H.G. The complaint of the Shepherd Harpalus . To a pleasant new Tune . Poor Harpalus , oppressed with love , sat by a Crystal Brook , Thinking his sorrows to remove , ofttimes therein did look : And hearing how on pebble stones the murmuring River ran , As if it had bewayl'd his groans , unto it thus began . Fair stream ( quoth he ) that pities me , and hears my matchless moan , If thou be going to the Sea , as I do now suppone , Attend my plaints passed all relief , which dolefully I breath , Acquaint the Sea-nymphs with the grief which still procures my death Who sitting in the Cliffy Rocks , may in their songs express , While as they comb their golden locks , poor Harpalus distress : And so perhaps some Passenger , that passes by the way , May stay and listen for to hear , them sing this doleful Lay. Poor Harpalus , a Shepherd Swain , more rich in youth than store ; Lov'd fair Philena' hapless man , Philena , o therefore : Who , still remorceless-hearted Maid , took pleasure in his pains , And his good will , poor soul , repaid with undsserv'd disdain . Near Shepherd loved Shepherdess more faithfully then he , Near Shepherd yet beloved less of Shepherdess could be ; How oft did he with dying looks , to her his woes impart ? How oft his sighs did testify the dolour of his heart ? How oft from Valleys to the Hills did he his grief rehearse ? How oft reechoed they his ills , aback again ( alas ? ) How oft on Barks of stately Pines , of Beech , of Holly-green , Did he engrave in mournful lines , the grief he did sustain ? Yet all his plaints could have no place , to change Philena's mind ; The more his sorrows did increase , the more the prov'd unkind ; The thought thereof with wearied care poor Harpalus did move , That overcome with high despairs , he lost both life and Love . FINIS . D.M. Printed at London for H.G. 