Cupids Golden Dart. OR , A dainty sonnet here is to be sold , The like whereof was never sung nor told ; Of a brave Girl that had a bag of Gold , Which she delivered into her Sweethearts hold , And now they [ l ] ive together lovingly , In joy , in peace , and true tranquillity : At first they seem'd to be at mortal strife ; But in conclusion , were made Man and Wife . The tune is , Down in and Arbour devoted to Venus . WHen bright Aurora in [ A ] zur was blushing a Nymph of Venus attending the Train Then Noble Mars with his pike fell to pushing , all was to stop [ a ] and to turn her again , That time bold [ C ] upid with his Dart , Peirc [ ' ] worser a young man unto the heart , Which made him sighs , lament and cry , My love is gone , and I know not why . My love is beautiful , gall [ a ] nt and stately , able to give a Man any conten She that hath sported with me very lately , so parted from me which makes me repent That ever such a spoted name , Should come unto so fair a Dame : This makes me sighs , lament and cry , My love is gone and I know not why . I that have clipped her , and oftentimes kissed her , and kindly dan [ worser ] led her on my knee , Though fickle fortune frown , now I have missed her for I perceive she is angry with me . Else would she not in rash despite Have rob'd me of my hearts deligh She never bid me once good boy But went her way I know not why . I never gave my love any occasion , whereby to hold me so much in disdain , Nor can she show me any good reason why she my company thus should refrain ; It only hardness of heart , Which caused her so to depart . Her unkind dealings makes me cry , My love is gone I know not why . Had I been resolute , cross grained or froward as many Bachelors are in their ways Had I been a Prodigal , proud or untoward as many Impudents are now adais , Or had I chosen another Mate , Then had she had just cause to hate : No ill qualities never had I , Yet she is gone I know not why . The second part , to the same Tune . SInce their's no remedy farewell , adieu Love in vain it is any longer to stay . Thou hast been false but isle seek out a true love with all the post haste , and speed that I may , Because thou wast unkind to me , I never again will look on thee : Vow thou mad [ ' ] st , thou didst deny , And went'st away I know not why . The Maids loving Reply Prithee Love Turtle Dove , once again mind me do not so bid me adieu ; Loyal and constant thou ever shall find me , I'm resolved to love no man but you ; Cheer up thy spirits and be not sad I have that for thee will make thee glad : Do not refuse my courtesy , I'll love thee dearly until I die . Of other youngmen I think thee most worthy , though I was absent from thee for a space Yet hold up thy head theres good money bid for thee if thou art willing my lo [ v ] e so embrace , Here is for thee a bag of Gold , Take it and keep it fast in thy hold So thou wilt wed me speedily . Then shall I love thee until I die . If I were worth s whole ship load of money I would bestow that great substance on thee And make thee master of it every penny , if thou wilt c [ a ] st thy affection on me , And more then that I'll undertake , All other Creatures to forsake , If thou the true loves knot will tie , I'll love thee deary until I die . I'll forsake Father and I'll forsake Mother , if thoul't be pleased to m [ a ] ke me thy Bride I'll forsake sister and I'll forsake Brother , and all the kindred that I have beside : The Proverb bold allows it so , TO [ h ] at love will creep where't can [ oh ] tO go , Let me enjoy thy company , For I must love thee until I die . When she those loving words to him had spoken , he stepped to her , and gave to her a kiss , Saying , receive this same as a Loves token , and I'll reward you much better then this , He took the gold , and Married the Maid , The matter was not long delayed , And now they live most lovingly Together in felicity , Cupids Golden Dart. OR , A dainty sonnet here is to be sold , The like whereof was never sung nor told ; Of a brave Girl that had a bag of Gold , Which she delivered into her Sweethearts hold , And now they [ l ] ive together lovingly , In joy , in peace , and true tranquillity : At first they seem'd to be at mortal strife ; But in conclusion , were made Man and Wife . The tune is , Down in and Arbour devoted to Venus . WHen bright Aurora in [ A ] zur was blushing a Nymph of Venus attending the Train Then Noble Mars with his pike fell to pushing , all was to stop [ a ] and to turn her again , That time bold [ C ] upid with his Dart , Peirc [ ' ] worser a young man unto the heart , Which made him sighs , lament and cry , My love is gone , and I know not why . My love is beautiful , gall [ a ] nt and stately , able to give a Man any conten She that hath sported with me very lately , so parted from me which makes me repent That ever such a spoted name , Should come unto so fair a Dame : This makes me sighs , lament and cry , My love is gone and I know not why . I that have clipped her , and oftentimes kissed her , and kindly dan [ worser ] led her on my knee , Though fickle fortune frown , now I have missed her for I perceive she is angry with me . Else would she not in rash despite Have rob'd me of my hearts deligh She never bid me once good boy But went her way I know not why . I never gave my love any occasion , whereby to hold me so much in disdain , Nor can she show me any good reason why she my company thus should refrain ; It only hardness of heart , Which caused her so to depart . Her unkind dealings makes me cry , My love is gone I know not why . Had I been resolute , cross grained or froward as many Bachelors are in their ways Had I been a Prodigal , proud or untoward as many Impudents are now adais , Or had I chosen another Mate , Then had she had just cause to hate : No ill qualities never had I , Yet she is gone I know not why . The second part , to the same Tune . SInce their's no remedy farewell , adieu Love in vain it is any longer to stay . Thou hast been false but isle seek out a true love with all the post haste , and speed that I may , Because thou wast unkind to me , I never again will look on thee : Vow thou mad [ ' ] st , thou didst deny , And went'st away I know not why . The Maids loving Reply Prithee Love Turtle Dove , once again mind me do not so bid me adieu ; Loyal and constant thou ever shall find me , I'm resolved to love no man but you ; Cheer up thy spirits and be not sad I have that for thee will make thee glad : Do not refuse my courtesy , I'll love thee dearly until I die . Of other youngmen I think thee most worthy , though I was absent from thee for a space Yet hold up thy head theres good money bid for thee if thou art willing my lo [ v ] e so embrace , Here is for thee a bag of Gold , Take it and keep it fast in thy hold So thou wilt wed me speedily . Then shall I love thee until I die . If I were worth s whole ship load of money I would bestow that great substance on thee And make thee master of it every penny , if thou wilt c [ a ] st thy affection on me , And more then that I'll undertake , All other Creatures to forsake , If thou the true loves knot will tie , I'll love thee deary until I die . I'll forsake Father and I'll forsake Mother , if thoul't be pleased to m [ a ] ke me thy Bride I'll forsake sister and I'll forsake Brother , and all the kindred that I have beside : The Proverb bold allows it so , TO [ h ] at love will creep where't can [ oh ] tO go , Let me enjoy thy company , For I must love thee until I die . When she those loving words to him had spoken , he stepped to her , and gave to her a kiss , Saying , receive this same as a Loves token , and I'll reward you much better then this , He took the gold , and Married the Maid , The matter was not long delayed , And now they live most lovingly Together in felicity , 