The Crafty Maids Approbation . Wherein she shows either Black or Brown , 'Tis Money makes them straight go down ; When pretty Girls that Gold has none , Their fortune is still to lie alone . To the Tune of , A fig for France . DRaw near to me young Girls so fine , Whose means and portion's like to mine ; If you'l but hear what I have pen'd , 'Twill make you smile before I end : I once had Sweethearts fair and young , Tho' now from me he's fled and gone ; But i'le tell you a very good reason why , 'Twas money did part my Love and I . When first to me a Wooing he came , He did desire to know my name ; I told him that my means was small , He said he valued none at all : So that my favour he could win , He valued nothing else a pin : But now he's gone and I know not why , It money , etc Yet for three years his Love stood fast , And he vow'd for ever it should last ; But when my friends spoke of the same , Then he was for another Dame : Except so much money they'd give me , No wife for him I must not be : His words he clearly did deny , So money did part , etc Thus maids may see , so may I too , It is for money young men Woo : Tho' great store of Love they do pretend , Yet mark what falls out in the end : When they find your Portions are but small , Like to a Snake from you they'l crawl : And to another straight they'l high , So money did part , etc If I had a head like a Horse , Or a body as thick as a Mill-post , So bags came but tumbling in , Then my favour every fool wou'd win ; Or was I long-snouted like a Sow , Or else Crookbacked like our fine Cow : Have at her then , these boys would cry , She's money enough , and what care I . Youngmen don't blush , you know 'tis true , For let her name be Marry or Sue , Tho' she was blabber-lipt , also blear-ey'd , Yet money all those faults will hide ; Nay , were she the nastiest dingiest slut , That a man durst not after her crack a Nut ; Had she but money , house , or Land , I'm sure she would not stick long a hand . Yet we whose portions are but small , Let us not be dismayed at all ; Neither let us grieve , lament , nor swoon , For Beauty's worth a thousand pound : Hang't , though my first true Love be gone , I've the same face for another man ; And i'le prove honest till I die , Tho' money , etc If two youngmen talk of a Wench , As they do fit of and alebench ; She's a good Huswife , the one replies , But has she money , the other cries : If she has none she's not for me , Giveme the Cash , hang Housewifery , I love to finger that , for why , 'Tis money did part my Love and I . By this young Girls may plainly see , How deceitful these youngmen be ; They'l search a Maid from top to toe , Till all her secrets they do know ; Then if her means don't please his mind , He quickly can turn like the wind : I must have a wife with more , he'l cry , So money , etc Such affection did that youngman bear , That he often called me his dear ; Such vows and Oaths he made , 'tis known , But now he does them quite disown : But since he's gone , sing farewell he , I'le slight him more then he does me : I'le ne'r lament , nor weep , nor cry , Tho' money , etc I am full glad we parted in truth , For since I hear he's a cross-grain'd youth ; But had he prov'd true , though ne'r so bore , In wealth or woe i'de bear a share ; But now i'm free , i'le let that slide , And ne'r think more to be a Bride : There's nothing like to Liberty , Since money , etc Thus have I told young Maidens all , How the weakest go to the Wall ; But she that is full , and her Purse well strung , She shall have Sweethearts come ding dung : It's no matter for breeding or sense , So she has but Cash , he'l have the Wench ; Black or brown he looks not o'th die , 'Twas money did part my Love and I . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , & T. Passenger . The Crafty Maids Approbation . Wherein she shows either Black or Brown , 'Tis Money makes them straight go down ; When pretty Girls that Gold has none , Their fortune is still to lie alone . To the Tune of , A fig for France . DRaw near to me young Girls so fine , Whose means and portion's like to mine ; If you'l but hear what I have pen'd , 'Twill make you smile before I end : I once had Sweethearts fair and young , Tho' now from me he's fled and gone ; But i'le tell you a very good reason why , 'Twas money did part my Love and I . When first to me a Wooing he came , He did desire to know my name ; I told him that my means was small , He said he valued none at all : So that my favour he could win , He valued nothing else a pin : But now he's gone and I know not why , It money , etc Yet for three years his Love stood fast , And he vow'd for ever it should last ; But when my friends spoke of the same , Then he was for another Dame : Except so much money they'd give me , No wife for him I must not be : His words he clearly did deny , So money did part , etc Thus maids may see , so may I too , It is for money young men Woo : Tho' great store of Love they do pretend , Yet mark what falls out in the end : When they find your Portions are but small , Like to a Snake from you they'l crawl : And to another straight they'l high , So money did part , etc If I had a head like a Horse , Or a body as thick as a Mill-post , So bags came but tumbling in , Then my favour every fool wou'd win ; Or was I long-snouted like a Sow , Or else Crookbacked like our fine Cow : Have at her then , these boys would cry , She's money enough , and what care I . Youngmen don't blush , you know 'tis true , For let her name be Marry or Sue , Tho' she was blabber-lipt , also blear-ey'd , Yet money all those faults will hide ; Nay , were she the nastiest dingiest slut , That a man durst not after her crack a Nut ; Had she but money , house , or Land , I'm sure she would not stick long a hand . Yet we whose portions are but small , Let us not be dismayed at all ; Neither let us grieve , lament , nor swoon , For Beauty's worth a thousand pound : Hang't , though my first true Love be gone , I've the same face for another man ; And i'le prove honest till I die , Tho' money , etc If two youngmen talk of a Wench , As they do fit of and alebench ; She's a good Huswife , the one replies , But has she money , the other cries : If she has none she's not for me , Giveme the Cash , hang Housewifery , I love to finger that , for why , 'Tis money did part my Love and I . By this young Girls may plainly see , How deceitful these youngmen be ; They'l search a Maid from top to toe , Till all her secrets they do know ; Then if her means don't please his mind , He quickly can turn like the wind : I must have a wife with more , he'l cry , So money , etc Such affection did that youngman bear , That he often called me his dear ; Such vows and Oaths he made , 'tis known , But now he does them quite disown : But since he's gone , sing farewell he , I'le slight him more then he does me : I'le ne'r lament , nor weep , nor cry , Tho' money , etc I am full glad we parted in truth , For since I hear he's a cross-grain'd youth ; But had he prov'd true , though ne'r so bore , In wealth or woe i'de bear a share ; But now i'm free , i'le let that slide , And ne'r think more to be a Bride : There's nothing like to Liberty , Since money , etc Thus have I told young Maidens all , How the weakest go to the Wall ; But she that is full , and her Purse well strung , She shall have Sweethearts come ding dung : It's no matter for breeding or sense , So she has but Cash , he'l have the Wench ; Black or brown he looks not o'th die , 'Twas money did part my Love and I . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , & T. Passenger . 