b1 The Shepherds Delight . To the Tune of Frog Galliard . ON yonder Hill there springs a flower , fair befall those dainty sweets , And by that flower there stands a bower . where all the heavenly Muses meets , And in that Bower there stands a Chair , fringed all about with gold , And therein sits the fairest fair , that ever did mine eyes behold . It was Phillida fair and bright , and the Shepherds only joy , She whom Venus most did spite , and the blinded little Boy . It was she the wisest rich , whom all the world did joy to see . It was Ipsa , quae the which , there was none but only she Thou art the Shepherds Queen , pity me thy woeful Swain . For by thy virtue have been seen , dead men restored to life again : Look on me now with thy fair eyes , one smiling look and I am gone . Look on me for I am he , thy poor afflicted Corridon , Dead am I to all delights , except thy mercy quicken me , Grant o Queen , or else I die . a salve for this my malady : The while we sing with cheerful noise , wood Nymphs and Satires all may play , With silver sounding Musics voice , rejoicing at this happy day . Finis . b1 The Shepherds Delight . To the Tune of Frog Galliard . ON yonder Hill there springs a flower , fair befall those dainty sweets , And by that flower there stands a bower . where all the heavenly Muses meets , And in that Bower there stands a Chair , fringed all about with gold , And therein sits the fairest fair , that ever did mine eyes behold . It was Phillida fair and bright , and the Shepherds only joy , She whom Venus most did spite , and the blinded little Boy . It was she the wisest rich , whom all the world did joy to see . It was Ipsa , quae the which , there was none but only she Thou art the Shepherds Queen , pity me thy woeful Swain . For by thy virtue have been seen , dead men restored to life again : Look on me now with thy fair eyes , one smiling look and I am gone . Look on me for I am he , thy poor afflicted Corridon , Dead am I to all delights , except thy mercy quicken me , Grant o Queen , or else I die . a salve for this my malady : The while we sing with cheerful noise , wood Nymphs and Satires all may play , With silver sounding Musics voice , rejoicing at this happy day . Finis . 