The Covenant . OR , No King but the Old King's Son , OR , A brief Rehearsal of what heretofore was done . All sorts of People of it take a view , You surely will confess that I say true ; Let none mislike the same that cannot mend it , Neither rashly censure him that pen'd it . To the Tune of , True Blue will never Stain . LOng time have I been a Soldier , and have followed the Train , Which does make me now the bolder , the Covenant for to maintain . When first unto the Wars we went , and Essex did us entertain , It was then to a good intent , though since we turn'd our coats again . In every church the covenanting our undertakings did explain , Our endeavours were not wanting , the true Cause for to maintain . By the Parliament it was expressed Kingly Rights for to maintain , And if his Heirs they were distressed , they kindly would them entertain . Since many persons have repented for their kindred that were slave , Since the King this Land absented , and did not return again . Plate into half-crowns was melted to pay the Soldiers for their pain , We then did march till we were swelted , no toil at all we did refrain . Which makes me now call to mind of remembrance this one thing , Which in the Covenant I find , To defend the Person of the KING . But some will say I am a wigeon because the truth I do maintain , It was only for Religion , and Opinions that were vain . Religion it is confessed Did wax then into the Wain , As in the Covenant is expressed , for which many men were slave . We Soldiers that then were listed the Good Old Cause for to maintain , With good hope's we always feasted to bring home the King again . The Second Part , To the same Tune . HOwever that some have boasted , the hazard of it we have run , And through extremities have posted For no King but the old Kings Son. If any man claim Charle's Right for whate're his Father hath done , Death on him hath wrought his spite ; No King but the old Kings Son. If he was of the Roman faction , no favour here he should have wone , But now we are all in great distraction , No King but the old Kings Son. And moreover understand , illuminations did us draw To fight for our freedom , and to keep our enemies in awe . A Proclamation then was made , which no person can deny , And the world they did persuade it was for th'Subjects liberty . And afterwards to make amends , when three Nations were undone , They were for their private ends , the Soldiers lost , that all had won . Then many thousands were disbanded , which before had wone the day ; Great Persons then dealt underhanded , and deceiv'd us of our Pay : Which makes us now live discontented , and repent what we have done ; By poverty we were tormented , For no King but the old Kings Son. If a single Person we must honer , these Lands in union for to bring , And must fight under his Bonner , let us have our lawful King . Great Jove unite our hearts together , our Privileges to maintain , And send us good and pleasant weather , that our Rightful Prince may reign . London , Printed for Charles Tyns on London-Bridge . The Covenant . OR , No King but the Old King's Son , OR , A brief Rehearsal of what heretofore was done . All sorts of People of it take a view , You surely will confess that I say true ; Let none mislike the same that cannot mend it , Neither rashly censure him that pen'd it . To the Tune of , True Blue will never Stain . LOng time have I been a Soldier , and have followed the Train , Which does make me now the bolder , the Covenant for to maintain . When first unto the Wars we went , and Essex did us entertain , It was then to a good intent , though since we turn'd our coats again . In every church the covenanting our undertakings did explain , Our endeavours were not wanting , the true Cause for to maintain . By the Parliament it was expressed Kingly Rights for to maintain , And if his Heirs they were distressed , they kindly would them entertain . Since many persons have repented for their kindred that were slave , Since the King this Land absented , and did not return again . Plate into half-crowns was melted to pay the Soldiers for their pain , We then did march till we were swelted , no toil at all we did refrain . Which makes me now call to mind of remembrance this one thing , Which in the Covenant I find , To defend the Person of the KING . But some will say I am a wigeon because the truth I do maintain , It was only for Religion , and Opinions that were vain . Religion it is confessed Did wax then into the Wain , As in the Covenant is expressed , for which many men were slave . We Soldiers that then were listed the Good Old Cause for to maintain , With good hope's we always feasted to bring home the King again . The Second Part , To the same Tune . HOwever that some have boasted , the hazard of it we have run , And through extremities have posted For no King but the old Kings Son. If any man claim Charle's Right for whate're his Father hath done , Death on him hath wrought his spite ; No King but the old Kings Son. If he was of the Roman faction , no favour here he should have wone , But now we are all in great distraction , No King but the old Kings Son. And moreover understand , illuminations did us draw To fight for our freedom , and to keep our enemies in awe . A Proclamation then was made , which no person can deny , And the world they did persuade it was for th'Subjects liberty . And afterwards to make amends , when three Nations were undone , They were for their private ends , the Soldiers lost , that all had won . Then many thousands were disbanded , which before had wone the day ; Great Persons then dealt underhanded , and deceiv'd us of our Pay : Which makes us now live discontented , and repent what we have done ; By poverty we were tormented , For no King but the old Kings Son. If a single Person we must honer , these Lands in union for to bring , And must fight under his Bonner , let us have our lawful King . Great Jove unite our hearts together , our Privileges to maintain , And send us good and pleasant weather , that our Rightful Prince may reign . London , Printed for Charles Tyns on London-Bridge . 