E1 . 47 Coridon and Parthenia . The Languishing Shepherd made Happy . Or , Faithful Love Rewarded . Being a most Pleasant and Delectable New Play Song . Here mournful Love is turn'd into Delight , To this we a Chaste Amorist Invite ; Where Charming Beauty rales its Pow'rs like Death , To Save or Murder with the self same Breath : The Noble Swain , whose Youthful Love hath wone So many Nymphs , by Loves was here undone ; Languishing faint , on the Cold Ground he lies , Until the Sunshine of Parthenia's eyes , Dissolv'd the Cloud that did benight his Bliss , And turn'd his Torments into Paradise . To the Tune of , When busy Fame , etc WHen busy Fame o're all the Plain , Parthenia's Praises rung , And on the Oaten Pipe each Swain , he matchless Beauty's Sung : The envious Nymphs were forc'd to yield , she had the sweetest face , No Emulor'd Disputes were held , but for the Second place . Young Coridon whose stubborn heart , no Beauty's e're could move , But smil [ e ] worser at Cupids Bow and Dart , and brave the God of Love : He'd view this Nymph , and pleas'd at first , such silent Charms to see , With wonder gaz'd , then sigh'd and Cursed , his Curiosity . CRying alas , I am undone , so Powerful are her eyes , Those killing Charms prevail above , and all my thoughts surprise : In coolest shades fierce favors burn , martyr'd by Love I fry , And now except Parthenia Turn , and smile on me I die . My Hood be here for ever laid , and on this Verdant Plain , Beneath this spreading Myrtle Shade , till death I must remain : My Snowy Flocks may freely stray , while here I gazing lie , And dare not move from hence away , for if I do I die . Parthenia cruel Nymph , no more , turn hence that Angel face , Which Coridon must still adore , as chief of Mortal Raze : Oh! from the Groves sad Eccho's found , and say in vain I try , Nay , still augment the Fatal wound , I must Loves Martyr die . What doleful Tunes 'mongst pleasant Reeds , my [ F ] leeting Flocks complain , While wolves invade them as they feed , all scatter's through the Plain : Here Chain'd by Love , by cruel Love , on earth I mourning lie . And though my Couch sweet Violets prove , yet Languishing I die . While in sad strains the Winged Choir , my doleful Requies Sing , And Chant how I for Love expire , unto the blooming Spring : Let purling streams likewise declare , as they run murmuring by , How for Parthenia I despair , and thus despairing die . Parthenia . Ah hark , what sad Laments are these , what mournful sounds are here ; What dying Sounds my fancy sees ! what sighs invade my Ear ? It's this Myrtle Grove i'le seek , 'tis sure some Lover nigh , I'le find , and to him Comfort speak , before for Love he die . O it is Coridon , kind Swain , from whence proceeds your grief ? Coridon . By you I wounded here remain , 'tis you can yield relief : Conquer'd by your prevailing Charms , and by your starry eyes , For you unless you raise my Arms , a faithful Shepherd die . Parthenia . Alas poor Swain , for me I swear , by Cupid all above , You shall not languish nor despair , but first enjoy my Love : Coridon . Parthenia kind , 'tis sure I dream , Oh Angel from draw nigh , Speak , spoke again that saving Theam , that will not let me die . Parthenia . Rise Shepherd , rise , and freely take , since thou dost constant prove , Those chaste delights , which for thy sake , I have design'd in Love : Coridon . O i'm so Ravished with this voice , that dangers I defy , And in Parthenia's Love rejoice , which will not let me die . Parthenia . Come , come , my Coridon , let's haste unto yond pleasing Bower ; For Lovers should no moments waste , while joys in plenty shower : But folded in each others Arms , loves utmost Forces try ; While warbling noats augment our charms and we in pleasure die . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackery , and T. Passenger . E1 . 47 Coridon and Parthenia . The Languishing Shepherd made Happy . Or , Faithful Love Rewarded . Being a most Pleasant and Delectable New Play Song . Here mournful Love is turn'd into Delight , To this we a Chaste Amorist Invite ; Where Charming Beauty rales its Pow'rs like Death , To Save or Murder with the self same Breath : The Noble Swain , whose Youthful Love hath wone So many Nymphs , by Loves was here undone ; Languishing faint , on the Cold Ground he lies , Until the Sunshine of Parthenia's eyes , Dissolv'd the Cloud that did benight his Bliss , And turn'd his Torments into Paradise . To the Tune of , When busy Fame , etc WHen busy Fame o're all the Plain , Parthenia's Praises rung , And on the Oaten Pipe each Swain , he matchless Beauty's Sung : The envious Nymphs were forc'd to yield , she had the sweetest face , No Emulor'd Disputes were held , but for the Second place . Young Coridon whose stubborn heart , no Beauty's e're could move , But smil [ e ] worser at Cupids Bow and Dart , and brave the God of Love : He'd view this Nymph , and pleas'd at first , such silent Charms to see , With wonder gaz'd , then sigh'd and Cursed , his Curiosity . CRying alas , I am undone , so Powerful are her eyes , Those killing Charms prevail above , and all my thoughts surprise : In coolest shades fierce favors burn , martyr'd by Love I fry , And now except Parthenia Turn , and smile on me I die . My Hood be here for ever laid , and on this Verdant Plain , Beneath this spreading Myrtle Shade , till death I must remain : My Snowy Flocks may freely stray , while here I gazing lie , And dare not move from hence away , for if I do I die . Parthenia cruel Nymph , no more , turn hence that Angel face , Which Coridon must still adore , as chief of Mortal Raze : Oh! from the Groves sad Eccho's found , and say in vain I try , Nay , still augment the Fatal wound , I must Loves Martyr die . What doleful Tunes 'mongst pleasant Reeds , my [ F ] leeting Flocks complain , While wolves invade them as they feed , all scatter's through the Plain : Here Chain'd by Love , by cruel Love , on earth I mourning lie . And though my Couch sweet Violets prove , yet Languishing I die . While in sad strains the Winged Choir , my doleful Requies Sing , And Chant how I for Love expire , unto the blooming Spring : Let purling streams likewise declare , as they run murmuring by , How for Parthenia I despair , and thus despairing die . Parthenia . Ah hark , what sad Laments are these , what mournful sounds are here ; What dying Sounds my fancy sees ! what sighs invade my Ear ? It's this Myrtle Grove i'le seek , 'tis sure some Lover nigh , I'le find , and to him Comfort speak , before for Love he die . O it is Coridon , kind Swain , from whence proceeds your grief ? Coridon . By you I wounded here remain , 'tis you can yield relief : Conquer'd by your prevailing Charms , and by your starry eyes , For you unless you raise my Arms , a faithful Shepherd die . Parthenia . Alas poor Swain , for me I swear , by Cupid all above , You shall not languish nor despair , but first enjoy my Love : Coridon . Parthenia kind , 'tis sure I dream , Oh Angel from draw nigh , Speak , spoke again that saving Theam , that will not let me die . Parthenia . Rise Shepherd , rise , and freely take , since thou dost constant prove , Those chaste delights , which for thy sake , I have design'd in Love : Coridon . O i'm so Ravished with this voice , that dangers I defy , And in Parthenia's Love rejoice , which will not let me die . Parthenia . Come , come , my Coridon , let's haste unto yond pleasing Bower ; For Lovers should no moments waste , while joys in plenty shower : But folded in each others Arms , loves utmost Forces try ; While warbling noats augment our charms and we in pleasure die . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackery , and T. Passenger . 