A Constant wife and a kind wife , A loving wife and a fine wife , Which gives content unto men life . To the tune of Locks and Bolts do hinder YOng-men and Maids lend me your aids to speak of my dear sweating , It shows how fortune hath betray'd , and often spoyl'd our meeting She likely was for to be rich , and I a man but meanly , Wherefore her friedns at me do grudge , and use me most unkindly . Her constancy I will declare , wherein she proves Loyal , But few that will with her compare , when they are put to Trial . Her friends against her did contend , because she lent me favour , They said I quickly all would spend , if that I might but have her . They did convey her from my sighed , because she should exempt me . I could not find my hearts delight , which soar did discontent me . I travell'd over craggy Rocks o're Mountains Hills and Valleys , But she was kept from me with locks only through spite and malice . But love that conquers Kings and Queen's herein did show us favour , I brought to pass and wrought the means in what place I could have her : She had and Uncle did detain , and keep her person from me , Which I had very like t'have slave , because he did so wrong me . I boldly came where she did dwell , and asked for my sweating , They said of her they could not tell , which was to me sad greeting . But presently she herd my voice , and cal'd me at her winder , Oh I would come to thee my love , but doors and locks do hinder , Whereat amazed I did stand , to hear her make that answer , I drew my sword into my hand , as straight the house did enter , And then I made the locks to fly , and doors in pieces shatter , I vow'd to have her company , and quickly I came at her . Her Uncle and some of his men , did after presant follow , Who said I never should out again , but in my blood should wallow . But with some hurt done on both sides , I god my sweetheart from them , Young men to get your selves such brides fight for to overcome them . Then joyn'd we hands in Hymens bans , to love and live together , She lov'd me not for house or Lands , for I had none of either , Her love was pure and does endure , and so shall mine forever , Till death do us so much enjure , as part us from each other . WIth hand and heart I will impart the praise of my dear sweating , Now welcome joys and face well smart , blessed be the time of meeting . With my sweetheart and only dear , in whom is all my pleasure , The like of her does not appear , she is so blessed a creature . O happy is that time and hour , that e're I saw thy feature Sure heavens bliss oh [ n ] me did shower , to send me such a creature . She is so pleasing to my eye , the like was never any , She's virtuous wife and very kind , she far surpasses many . Her comely feature may compare , with any in Town or City . For courtesy she to most rare , likewise she's full of pity . No Virtue that can give consent , in all that hear her praises . But God to her the same hath lent , whereby her glory raises . Her golden locks like threads of gold , her eyes like stars do glister . Her cheeks the Rose and Lillies sold , she may be Venus sister . She hath a dimple in her chin . her neck shines like the crystal , The like hath seldom times been seen , she seems so celestial . Her arms and shoulders are complete , her breast like Alabaster , Her waste and middle is so neat , theres none that e're surpassed her . Her Eloquence gives such content , in all that hear her prases , That freely they'l give their consent , to yield her earthly praises . Her Lily hands are at command , to do me any service , And quickly she will understand , a matter what so ere this . If I bid go , she will not stay , to work me a displeasure , But presently she goes away , and is not this a treasure . Her parts below I'll not descry , for they are very neat ones . A dainty foot , a leg and Thigh , as can be made of flesh and bones . She is so perfect in her parts , that many were inflamed , On her they wholly set their hearts , and at her fully aimed . Thus to conclude and end my Song , I wish well to the Feamale , Or else I should do them much wrong , and prove my self a Telltale , Youngmen adieu prove not untrue , unto your only sweating , Observe your time you need not rue , nor curse the time of meeting . Printed for F. Coals , TO , Vere and W , Gilbertson . A Constant wife and a kind wife , A loving wife and a fine wife , Which gives content unto men life . To the tune of Locks and Bolts do hinder YOng-men and Maids lend me your aids to speak of my dear sweating , It shows how fortune hath betray'd , and often spoyl'd our meeting She likely was for to be rich , and I a man but meanly , Wherefore her friedns at me do grudge , and use me most unkindly . Her constancy I will declare , wherein she proves Loyal , But few that will with her compare , when they are put to Trial . Her friends against her did contend , because she lent me favour , They said I quickly all would spend , if that I might but have her . They did convey her from my sighed , because she should exempt me . I could not find my hearts delight , which soar did discontent me . I travell'd over craggy Rocks o're Mountains Hills and Valleys , But she was kept from me with locks only through spite and malice . But love that conquers Kings and Queen's herein did show us favour , I brought to pass and wrought the means in what place I could have her : She had and Uncle did detain , and keep her person from me , Which I had very like t'have slave , because he did so wrong me . I boldly came where she did dwell , and asked for my sweating , They said of her they could not tell , which was to me sad greeting . But presently she herd my voice , and cal'd me at her winder , Oh I would come to thee my love , but doors and locks do hinder , Whereat amazed I did stand , to hear her make that answer , I drew my sword into my hand , as straight the house did enter , And then I made the locks to fly , and doors in pieces shatter , I vow'd to have her company , and quickly I came at her . Her Uncle and some of his men , did after presant follow , Who said I never should out again , but in my blood should wallow . But with some hurt done on both sides , I god my sweetheart from them , Young men to get your selves such brides fight for to overcome them . Then joyn'd we hands in Hymens bans , to love and live together , She lov'd me not for house or Lands , for I had none of either , Her love was pure and does endure , and so shall mine forever , Till death do us so much enjure , as part us from each other . WIth hand and heart I will impart the praise of my dear sweating , Now welcome joys and face well smart , blessed be the time of meeting . With my sweetheart and only dear , in whom is all my pleasure , The like of her does not appear , she is so blessed a creature . O happy is that time and hour , that e're I saw thy feature Sure heavens bliss oh [ n ] me did shower , to send me such a creature . She is so pleasing to my eye , the like was never any , She's virtuous wife and very kind , she far surpasses many . Her comely feature may compare , with any in Town or City . For courtesy she to most rare , likewise she's full of pity . No Virtue that can give consent , in all that hear her praises . But God to her the same hath lent , whereby her glory raises . Her golden locks like threads of gold , her eyes like stars do glister . Her cheeks the Rose and Lillies sold , she may be Venus sister . She hath a dimple in her chin . her neck shines like the crystal , The like hath seldom times been seen , she seems so celestial . Her arms and shoulders are complete , her breast like Alabaster , Her waste and middle is so neat , theres none that e're surpassed her . Her Eloquence gives such content , in all that hear her prases , That freely they'l give their consent , to yield her earthly praises . Her Lily hands are at command , to do me any service , And quickly she will understand , a matter what so ere this . If I bid go , she will not stay , to work me a displeasure , But presently she goes away , and is not this a treasure . Her parts below I'll not descry , for they are very neat ones . A dainty foot , a leg and Thigh , as can be made of flesh and bones . She is so perfect in her parts , that many were inflamed , On her they wholly set their hearts , and at her fully aimed . Thus to conclude and end my Song , I wish well to the Feamale , Or else I should do them much wrong , and prove my self a Telltale , Youngmen adieu prove not untrue , unto your only sweating , Observe your time you need not rue , nor curse the time of meeting . Printed for F. Coals , TO , Vere and W , Gilbertson . 