A most Excellent Ballad of and Old man and his Wife : Who in their great want and misery sought to their Children for succour , by whom they were disdained , and scornfully sent them away succourless , and Gods vengeance showed on them for the same . The tune is , Priscilla . IT was and old man with his poor wife , in great distress did fallen , They were so feeble with age Got wot , they could not work at all : A gallant Son they had , which lived wealthily , To him they went with a full intent to ease their misery . Alack and alas for woe . A hundred miles when they had gone , with many a weary step , At length they saw their Sons fair house which made their hearts to leap : They sat them on the Green their Hose and Shoes to trim , They put their bans about their necks , against they should enter in . Alack , etc Unto the Door with trembling Joints when these Old couple came , The Woman with a shaking hand , the Old man blind and lame . Full mannerly they knocked , fearing for to offend , At last their Son frowningly came , unto them in the end . Alack , etc Good folks quoth he what would you have ? methinks you are too bold , why get you not home to your own country now you are lame and old ? With that they both reply'd , with sorrow , care and grief , Here are we come to thee our Son for succour and relief . Alack , etc This is thy Father gentle Son , and I thy loving Mother , That brought thee up so tenderly [ , ] and lov'd thee above all other : I boar thee in this womb , these breasts did nourish thee , And as it chanc'd , I often danc'd thee on my tender knee . Alack , etc And humbly now we thee entreat our dear and loving Son , That you will do for us in our age , as we for you have done : Now nay not so he said , your suit is all in vain , 'Tis best for you I tell you true to get you home again . Alack , etc THe world's not now as when I was born all things are grown more dear , My charge of Children likewise is great , as plainly does appear : The best that I can do will hardly them maintain , Therefore I say be packing away , and get thee home again . Alack and alas for woe . The Old m [ a ] n with his hat in hand , full many a Leg did make , The Woman wept and wrung her hands , and prayed for Christ his sake : Not so to send them back , distressed and undone , But let us lie in some Barn here by , quoth she my loving Son. Alack , etc By no means he would thereto consent , but sent them soon away , Quoth he you know the peril of the Law , if long time here you stay : The Stocks and the Whipping-Post shall fallen unto your share , Then take you heed , and with all speed to your Country repair . Alack , etc Away then went this woeful Old Man , full sad in heart and mind [ , ] With weeping tears his Wife did lament , their Son was so unkind : Thou wicked wretch quoth they , for this thy cruel deed , The Lord send thee as little pity when thou dost stand in need . Alack , etc His Children hearing their Father set his Parents thus at nought , In short time after to have his Land his death by subtle wrough What cause have we quoth they more kindness to express , Then he unto his Parents did , in their great wretchedness . Alack , etc They murdered him in piteous sort , they weig'd not his intreats , The more he pray'd compassionately , the greater were his threats : Speak not to us , quoth they , for thou the death shall die , And with that word with a Dagger & sword they mangled him monstrously . Alack , etc When they had god his Silver and Gold , according to their mind , They buried him in a stinking Ditch , where no man should him find : But now behold and see Gods vengeance on them all , To gain their Gold their Cousin came and slew them great and small . Alack , etc He came among them with great Club , in dead time of the night , Yea two of the Sons he brained therewith , and taking of his flight , The Murderer taken was , and suffered for the same , Deserved for that cruelty , this vengeance upon them same . Alack and alas therefore , Alack and alas therefore . FINIS . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and W. Gilbertson . A most Excellent Ballad of and Old man and his Wife : Who in their great want and misery sought to their Children for succour , by whom they were disdained , and scornfully sent them away succourless , and Gods vengeance showed on them for the same . The tune is , Priscilla . IT was and old man with his poor wife , in great distress did fallen , They were so feeble with age Got wot , they could not work at all : A gallant Son they had , which lived wealthily , To him they went with a full intent to ease their misery . Alack and alas for woe . A hundred miles when they had gone , with many a weary step , At length they saw their Sons fair house which made their hearts to leap : They sat them on the Green their Hose and Shoes to trim , They put their bans about their necks , against they should enter in . Alack , etc Unto the Door with trembling Joints when these Old couple came , The Woman with a shaking hand , the Old man blind and lame . Full mannerly they knocked , fearing for to offend , At last their Son frowningly came , unto them in the end . Alack , etc Good folks quoth he what would you have ? methinks you are too bold , why get you not home to your own country now you are lame and old ? With that they both reply'd , with sorrow , care and grief , Here are we come to thee our Son for succour and relief . Alack , etc This is thy Father gentle Son , and I thy loving Mother , That brought thee up so tenderly [ , ] and lov'd thee above all other : I boar thee in this womb , these breasts did nourish thee , And as it chanc'd , I often danc'd thee on my tender knee . Alack , etc And humbly now we thee entreat our dear and loving Son , That you will do for us in our age , as we for you have done : Now nay not so he said , your suit is all in vain , 'Tis best for you I tell you true to get you home again . Alack , etc THe world's not now as when I was born all things are grown more dear , My charge of Children likewise is great , as plainly does appear : The best that I can do will hardly them maintain , Therefore I say be packing away , and get thee home again . Alack and alas for woe . The Old m [ a ] n with his hat in hand , full many a Leg did make , The Woman wept and wrung her hands , and prayed for Christ his sake : Not so to send them back , distressed and undone , But let us lie in some Barn here by , quoth she my loving Son. Alack , etc By no means he would thereto consent , but sent them soon away , Quoth he you know the peril of the Law , if long time here you stay : The Stocks and the Whipping-Post shall fallen unto your share , Then take you heed , and with all speed to your Country repair . Alack , etc Away then went this woeful Old Man , full sad in heart and mind [ , ] With weeping tears his Wife did lament , their Son was so unkind : Thou wicked wretch quoth they , for this thy cruel deed , The Lord send thee as little pity when thou dost stand in need . Alack , etc His Children hearing their Father set his Parents thus at nought , In short time after to have his Land his death by subtle wrough What cause have we quoth they more kindness to express , Then he unto his Parents did , in their great wretchedness . Alack , etc They murdered him in piteous sort , they weig'd not his intreats , The more he pray'd compassionately , the greater were his threats : Speak not to us , quoth they , for thou the death shall die , And with that word with a Dagger & sword they mangled him monstrously . Alack , etc When they had god his Silver and Gold , according to their mind , They buried him in a stinking Ditch , where no man should him find : But now behold and see Gods vengeance on them all , To gain their Gold their Cousin came and slew them great and small . Alack , etc He came among them with great Club , in dead time of the night , Yea two of the Sons he brained therewith , and taking of his flight , The Murderer taken was , and suffered for the same , Deserved for that cruelty , this vengeance upon them same . Alack and alas therefore , Alack and alas therefore . FINIS . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and W. Gilbertson . 