E : 301 The Noble Fisher-Man . Or , Robin Hood's perferment , showing how he wone a Prize on the Sea , and how he gave one half to his Dame , and the other to the building of Alm-houses . The Tune is , In Summer time , etc IN summer time when leaves grow green , when they grow both green and long , Of a bold Outlaw call'd Robin Hood , it is of him I sing this Song . When the Lily Leaf and the Elephant , does bud and spring with a merry cheer , This Outlaw was weary of the Woodside , and chasing of the Fallow-Deer . The Fishermen brave , more money have , than any Merchant two or three , Therefore will I to Scarbrough go , that I a Fisherman brave may be . This Outlaw call'd his merry men all , as they sat under the Green-wood-tree , If any of you have gold to spend , I pray you heartily spend it with me . Now quoth Robin , i'le to Scarbrough go , it seems to be a very fair day , Who took up his Inn at a widow-woman's house hard by upon the waters grey . Who asked him , where wertenberg thou born , or tell to me where dost thou fare , I am a poor Fisherman , said he then , this day entrapped all in care . What is thy Name thou fine Fellow ? I pray thee heartily tell it to me , In mine own Country where I was born , men call me Simon over the Lee. Simon , Simon , said the good Wife , I wish thou mayest well brook thy name , The Outlaw was aware of her courtesy , and rejoyc'd he had god such a Dame . Simon , wilt thou be my man ? and good round wages i'le give thee , I have as good a Ship of mine own , as any sails upon the Sea. Anchors and Planks thou shalt want none , Masts and Ropes that are so long , And if that you thus furnish me , said Simon , nothing shall go wrong . They plucked up Anchor , and away did sail , more of a day than two or three , When others cast in their baited hooks , the bore lines into the Sea cast he . It will be long said the Master then , e're this great luber do thrive on the sea , I'll assure he shall have no part of our fish , for in truth he is no part worthy . The second Part , to the same tune , Oh Woe is me said Simon then , this day that ever I came here , I wish I were in Plomton Park , in chasing of the Fallow Deer . For every Clown laughs me to scorn , and they by me set nothing at all , If I had them in Plomton Park , I would set as little by them all . They plucked up Anchor and away did sail , more of a day then two or three , But Simon espied a ship of war , that sailed towards them valorously . O woe is me , said the Master then , this day that ever I was born ; For all our Fish that we have god , is every bit lost and forlorn . For yond French Robber on the Sea they will not spare of us one man . But carry us to the Coast of France , and lay us in the Prison strong . But Simon said , do not fear them , neither Master , take you any care , Give me my bent bow in my hand , and never a French-man will I spare . Hold thy peace thou long Lubber , for thou art nought but brags and boast , If I should cast thee overboard , there's but a simple Lubber lost . Simon grew angry at these words , and so angry then was he , That he took his bent bow in his hand , and to the Ship-hatch go does he . Master tie me to the Mast he said , that at my mark I may stand fair , And give me my bent bow in my hand , and never a French-man will I spare . He drew his Arrow to the very head , and drew it with all might and main , And straightway in the twinkling of and eye , does the Frenchmans heart the arrow gain . The French-man fell down on the ship-hatch and under the hatches down below , Another French-man that him espy'd , the dead corpse into the Sea does throw . O Master lose me from the Mast he said , and for them all take you no care , And give me my bent bow in my hand , and never a French man will I spare . Then straight they boarded the French ship , they lying all dead in their sighed , They found within the ship of war , twelve thousand pound in money bright . The one half of the ship , said Simon then , i'le give to my Dame and children small , The other half of the ship i'le give , to you that are my fellows all . But now bespoke the Master then , for so Simon it shall not be , For you have wone it with your own hands , and the owner of it you must be . It shall be so as I have said , and with this gold for thee oppressed , And Habitation I will built , where they shall live in peace and rest . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . E : 301 The Noble Fisher-Man . Or , Robin Hood's perferment , showing how he wone a Prize on the Sea , and how he gave one half to his Dame , and the other to the building of Alm-houses . The Tune is , In Summer time , etc IN summer time when leaves grow green , when they grow both green and long , Of a bold Outlaw call'd Robin Hood , it is of him I sing this Song . When the Lily Leaf and the Elephant , does bud and spring with a merry cheer , This Outlaw was weary of the Woodside , and chasing of the Fallow-Deer . The Fishermen brave , more money have , than any Merchant two or three , Therefore will I to Scarbrough go , that I a Fisherman brave may be . This Outlaw call'd his merry men all , as they sat under the Green-wood-tree , If any of you have gold to spend , I pray you heartily spend it with me . Now quoth Robin , i'le to Scarbrough go , it seems to be a very fair day , Who took up his Inn at a widow-woman's house hard by upon the waters grey . Who asked him , where wertenberg thou born , or tell to me where dost thou fare , I am a poor Fisherman , said he then , this day entrapped all in care . What is thy Name thou fine Fellow ? I pray thee heartily tell it to me , In mine own Country where I was born , men call me Simon over the Lee. Simon , Simon , said the good Wife , I wish thou mayest well brook thy name , The Outlaw was aware of her courtesy , and rejoyc'd he had god such a Dame . Simon , wilt thou be my man ? and good round wages i'le give thee , I have as good a Ship of mine own , as any sails upon the Sea. Anchors and Planks thou shalt want none , Masts and Ropes that are so long , And if that you thus furnish me , said Simon , nothing shall go wrong . They plucked up Anchor , and away did sail , more of a day than two or three , When others cast in their baited hooks , the bore lines into the Sea cast he . It will be long said the Master then , e're this great luber do thrive on the sea , I'll assure he shall have no part of our fish , for in truth he is no part worthy . The second Part , to the same tune , Oh Woe is me said Simon then , this day that ever I came here , I wish I were in Plomton Park , in chasing of the Fallow Deer . For every Clown laughs me to scorn , and they by me set nothing at all , If I had them in Plomton Park , I would set as little by them all . They plucked up Anchor and away did sail , more of a day then two or three , But Simon espied a ship of war , that sailed towards them valorously . O woe is me , said the Master then , this day that ever I was born ; For all our Fish that we have god , is every bit lost and forlorn . For yond French Robber on the Sea they will not spare of us one man . But carry us to the Coast of France , and lay us in the Prison strong . But Simon said , do not fear them , neither Master , take you any care , Give me my bent bow in my hand , and never a French-man will I spare . Hold thy peace thou long Lubber , for thou art nought but brags and boast , If I should cast thee overboard , there's but a simple Lubber lost . Simon grew angry at these words , and so angry then was he , That he took his bent bow in his hand , and to the Ship-hatch go does he . Master tie me to the Mast he said , that at my mark I may stand fair , And give me my bent bow in my hand , and never a French-man will I spare . He drew his Arrow to the very head , and drew it with all might and main , And straightway in the twinkling of and eye , does the Frenchmans heart the arrow gain . The French-man fell down on the ship-hatch and under the hatches down below , Another French-man that him espy'd , the dead corpse into the Sea does throw . O Master lose me from the Mast he said , and for them all take you no care , And give me my bent bow in my hand , and never a French man will I spare . Then straight they boarded the French ship , they lying all dead in their sighed , They found within the ship of war , twelve thousand pound in money bright . The one half of the ship , said Simon then , i'le give to my Dame and children small , The other half of the ship i'le give , to you that are my fellows all . But now bespoke the Master then , for so Simon it shall not be , For you have wone it with your own hands , and the owner of it you must be . It shall be so as I have said , and with this gold for thee oppressed , And Habitation I will built , where they shall live in peace and rest . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . 