The Country Lovers conquest . In winning a coy Lass. In Country Terms he uses homely greeting , And says by all means she must be his sweating , He lets her know that he hath riches store And wonders that she can desire more At length she did incline as he does tell And lik't his loving motion wondrous well . To a pleasant new Tune , very much in use . ONce I lov'd a Lass with a Rouiing eye , She was found and fickle so was never I. If you will believe me she was wondrous fair , And it much did grieve me to lose market ware . I began to woe her like a man indeed , Soon as I came to her thus I did proceed . Dearest be not coy but in love agree , I'm my Mother's joy she loves none but me : All her care is for me how to get a wife , And thou know'st I love thee as I do my life , Prithee be not cruel , but be kind and free , Thou shalt be my jewel I'll love none but thee . WHat care I for coin since I have a stock , If thou wilt be mine , I'll take thee in thy smock : Come let's make a bargain while i'm in the mind And I will be constant thou shalt ever find , I am young and lusty and a proper Lad. Come and let me kiss thee for to make me glad . I have House and Land and something else beside : All at thy command if thou will be my Bride , Sheep and Cows and Puen and such riches store , Therefore be not Sullen canst thou wish for more : I have six good Oxen drawing in a blow : If thou canst not love prithee let me know . I have danc't with Sarah and with little Nan , Betty she told Grace I was a handsome man : Doll and Sue and Prudence would not me deny , Frank did smile upon me as she passed by . But it is no matter I will have my mind , For I will not flatter if thou wilt be kind Long did I thus woe . still she did deny , What I then should do or whither live or die I could not imagine , for I scarce could speak . Then I thought for certain that my heart would break Till my Mother told me without all dispute , I must not be daunted , but renew my Suit . To her then I hasted with a good intent , To take no denial I was truly ben Though she call'd me Bumki [ n ] I was ne're the worse , Knowing among Lovers these are words of course , I was so resolved for to win the field , That I would not leave her till I made her yield , Then I leapt for joy as I will might do , She that was so coy and so hard to woe : Willing was to love me , and to be my Bride : Having now forsaken all the world beside : Thus I made a Conquest , of a maiden fair , That with any Girl it'h Country may compare . Printed for R. Burton at the Horseshoe in West-Smithfield . The Country Lovers conquest . In winning a coy Lass. In Country Terms he uses homely greeting , And says by all means she must be his sweating , He lets her know that he hath riches store And wonders that she can desire more At length she did incline as he does tell And lik't his loving motion wondrous well . To a pleasant new Tune , very much in use . ONce I lov'd a Lass with a Rouiing eye , She was found and fickle so was never I. If you will believe me she was wondrous fair , And it much did grieve me to lose market ware . I began to woe her like a man indeed , Soon as I came to her thus I did proceed . Dearest be not coy but in love agree , I'm my Mother's joy she loves none but me : All her care is for me how to get a wife , And thou know'st I love thee as I do my life , Prithee be not cruel , but be kind and free , Thou shalt be my jewel I'll love none but thee . WHat care I for coin since I have a stock , If thou wilt be mine , I'll take thee in thy smock : Come let's make a bargain while i'm in the mind And I will be constant thou shalt ever find , I am young and lusty and a proper Lad. Come and let me kiss thee for to make me glad . I have House and Land and something else beside : All at thy command if thou will be my Bride , Sheep and Cows and Puen and such riches store , Therefore be not Sullen canst thou wish for more : I have six good Oxen drawing in a blow : If thou canst not love prithee let me know . I have danc't with Sarah and with little Nan , Betty she told Grace I was a handsome man : Doll and Sue and Prudence would not me deny , Frank did smile upon me as she passed by . But it is no matter I will have my mind , For I will not flatter if thou wilt be kind Long did I thus woe . still she did deny , What I then should do or whither live or die I could not imagine , for I scarce could speak . Then I thought for certain that my heart would break Till my Mother told me without all dispute , I must not be daunted , but renew my Suit . To her then I hasted with a good intent , To take no denial I was truly ben Though she call'd me Bumki [ n ] I was ne're the worse , Knowing among Lovers these are words of course , I was so resolved for to win the field , That I would not leave her till I made her yield , Then I leapt for joy as I will might do , She that was so coy and so hard to woe : Willing was to love me , and to be my Bride : Having now forsaken all the world beside : Thus I made a Conquest , of a maiden fair , That with any Girl it'h Country may compare . Printed for R. Burton at the Horseshoe in West-Smithfield . 