The Country peoples Felicity . OR , A brief Description of Pleasure . Showing the ready way of sweet content , By them that ply their work with merriment They eat , they drink , they work , and sport at pleasure They pipe and dance , when time and place give leasur , To a dainty new tune , called The Haymakers Mask . DOwn in a Meadow the River running clear , All in the month of July , the prime of the year , Where many a pretty little fish , within the Brook did play , And many a Lad , and many a Lass , abroad were making Hay . In came the Sithes-men , to mow the Meadow down , With their Bags and Bottles , and Ale that was so Brown , The labouring men with courage bold , to each other did reply , Let's work , and blow , and stiffly mow the Grass cuts very dry . Then nimble Tib and Thomas with pitchfork and with Rake , Came in the merry Meadow green , the Hay in Cocks to make . Where each one ply'd their labour , and did no whit repine , The gentle wind blew fair and cool , the Sun did clearly shine . Mary , Bess and Nanny in Scarlet Petticoats , Kept singing at their labors , with sweet and pleasant noats , Sweet jug , jug , jug , jug , jug , jug , jug , the Nightingale did sing , Whose noble voice , made all rejoice , as they were Hay-making , Then Robin , Ned , and Richard , being in a merry vain , To further the Hay-making , run nimbly over the Plain . And came into the Meadow , with courage and delight . And ply'd their business stoutly , while Phoebus shined bright , Rowland and sweet William , and John upon that day , Brought pretty Kate and Bridget , to help them make the Hay . Fair Margret , Sue and Francis , they stayed not long behind , But for to todd and turn the Hay , they were every one inclin'd . The second to the same tune . NOw when those Lads and Lasses were all together that day , In that same gallant Meadow , a making of the Hay : They ply'd their work so closely . and laboured so complete , Until the pretty Maidens brows , did drop a pace with sweat . The youngmen in like manner , drew forth Handkerchiefs then , To wipe the Maidens faces , like loving hearted men . No hurt was done among them , but now and then a kiss , The youngmen gave their sweethearts you know no harm's in this . At last when bright Phoebus , the Sun was going down , A merry disposed Piper , approached from the Town . And with his Pipe and Tabor , he did so trimly play . So that they all laid down their Tools , and left off making Hay . Then each man took his Sweet heart , their fortune's to advance , John with Nell , and Nan with Will , and Tib with Tom did dance , No rare nor braver pastime ; could be under the Sun , Then from the morn to evening was in the Meadow done : Now thus much for the Country folks I dare be bold to say , Which in the merry Meadow , that time were making Hay ; No ill act was committed , nor no ill business wrought , Would every one in London were , as pure in Deed and Though Some of you London Lasses , flants up and doown in jags , With Copper Lace , and painted face ; silk Scarfs , and gay black Bags : In my mind are not so wholesome , so handsome nor so fair : As are the Country Damsels plain that never such toys did wear . FINIS . L . P London , Printed for Francis Grove on Snow-hill . The Country peoples Felicity . OR , A brief Description of Pleasure . Showing the ready way of sweet content , By them that ply their work with merriment They eat , they drink , they work , and sport at pleasure They pipe and dance , when time and place give leasur , To a dainty new tune , called The Haymakers Mask . DOwn in a Meadow the River running clear , All in the month of July , the prime of the year , Where many a pretty little fish , within the Brook did play , And many a Lad , and many a Lass , abroad were making Hay . In came the Sithes-men , to mow the Meadow down , With their Bags and Bottles , and Ale that was so Brown , The labouring men with courage bold , to each other did reply , Let's work , and blow , and stiffly mow the Grass cuts very dry . Then nimble Tib and Thomas with pitchfork and with Rake , Came in the merry Meadow green , the Hay in Cocks to make . Where each one ply'd their labour , and did no whit repine , The gentle wind blew fair and cool , the Sun did clearly shine . Mary , Bess and Nanny in Scarlet Petticoats , Kept singing at their labors , with sweet and pleasant noats , Sweet jug , jug , jug , jug , jug , jug , jug , the Nightingale did sing , Whose noble voice , made all rejoice , as they were Hay-making , Then Robin , Ned , and Richard , being in a merry vain , To further the Hay-making , run nimbly over the Plain . And came into the Meadow , with courage and delight . And ply'd their business stoutly , while Phoebus shined bright , Rowland and sweet William , and John upon that day , Brought pretty Kate and Bridget , to help them make the Hay . Fair Margret , Sue and Francis , they stayed not long behind , But for to todd and turn the Hay , they were every one inclin'd . The second to the same tune . NOw when those Lads and Lasses were all together that day , In that same gallant Meadow , a making of the Hay : They ply'd their work so closely . and laboured so complete , Until the pretty Maidens brows , did drop a pace with sweat . The youngmen in like manner , drew forth Handkerchiefs then , To wipe the Maidens faces , like loving hearted men . No hurt was done among them , but now and then a kiss , The youngmen gave their sweethearts you know no harm's in this . At last when bright Phoebus , the Sun was going down , A merry disposed Piper , approached from the Town . And with his Pipe and Tabor , he did so trimly play . So that they all laid down their Tools , and left off making Hay . Then each man took his Sweet heart , their fortune's to advance , John with Nell , and Nan with Will , and Tib with Tom did dance , No rare nor braver pastime ; could be under the Sun , Then from the morn to evening was in the Meadow done : Now thus much for the Country folks I dare be bold to say , Which in the merry Meadow , that time were making Hay ; No ill act was committed , nor no ill business wrought , Would every one in London were , as pure in Deed and Though Some of you London Lasses , flants up and doown in jags , With Copper Lace , and painted face ; silk Scarfs , and gay black Bags : In my mind are not so wholesome , so handsome nor so fair : As are the Country Damsels plain that never such toys did wear . FINIS . L . P London , Printed for Francis Grove on Snow-hill . 