'''b THE Murderer Justly Condemned , OR , And Account of George Feast , a Butcher of Shoreditch , being found Guilty , at the Sessions-House in the Old Baily , for the Barbarous bloody Murder of his Wife , by [ sta ] bbing her in the Belly , in Leaden-Hall Market , on the 5th of May , 1697. Of which Wound she immediately Died , also some Account of his Penitent Behaviour in Newgate . To the Tune of , Packingtons Pound . With Allowance . COme listen a while and a Story you'll hear , That will strike you with worser [ r ] ead and amazement and fear This of a vile Butcher which with bloody Knife , Without all compassion did murder his wife , In Leaden-Hall Market , who came to reclaim , Him from his Debauchrys and life of ill fame : Then let all be warn'd how they rashly proceed , lest trouble and anguish for them be decreed . He had been long absent which made her suspect , Both her and his business he did much neglect , Which put her in passion , that straightway she went , To know by this usage what to her he meant , In Leaden-Hall Market she found him , and there The cause of her grief she did freely declare : Then let all be warn'd how they rashly proceed , Lest trouble and anguish for them be decreed . Though justly reproved , yet so Angry he grew , That at her with violence his Knife he then threw ; But that little Harming , I Tremble to tell you , He took it and Struck it full Deep in her Belly , At which she Shriek'd and Cry'd out , Oh! I'm Dead But he sought not to Fly , o'recome with the Dread : Then let all be warn'd how they rashly proceed , lest trouble and anguish for them be decreed . Being seiz'd for this Crime he's Committed to Goal , As for Murder we know it admits of no Bail ; And coming to Trial , Not Guilty did plead , But plainly 'twas prov'd that he did the sad deed , [ He ] could not deny that he gave her the Wound , And therefore of Murder he Guilty was found : Then let all be warn'd how they rashly proceed , lest trouble and anguish for them be decreed . This startled him soar , for though unconcern'd he , Could kill his dear wife , yet now death he did see , Was so near approaching him as his sad doom , He trembled for fear of the judgement to come : To Newgate he then was in Irons convey'd , Where piteous sighs and laments he then made : Then let all be warn'd how they rashly proceed , least trouble and anguish for them be decreed . He fancys her blood loud for vengeance does cry , Whom he caus'd on so slight and occasion to die ; Or that all pale her sad Ghost does appear , Which fills him with horror , amazement and fear , Laments and sad Groans now him company keep , And Dreams affrighting disorder his sleep , Then let all be warn'd , etc Blood guiltiness heavy now on him does lie , And makes him to sighs , and to sob , and to cry , Oh that his dear wife he had never thus us'd , Whom often , this plain , he before had abus'd , Because she would tell him of his wicked life , And give him good Counsel like a loving wife : Then let all be warn'd , etc His Drunken Debauchries now swarm in his mind , And how he to her and himself was unkind , By spending his money so idley on those , That Lewdly had brought him to trouble and woes , And though for Repentance it is not too late , Yet death now looks terrible on life's short da [ tO ] e , Then let all be warn'd , etc And Conscience cries loudly still urging the guilt , Of the Innocent blood that he causelessly spilled , He owns his Rash folly and grieves for to find , Himself cou'd be cruel to her that was kind , But no sparing mercy in reason can crave Who with bloody Knife sent his Wife to her Grave , Then let all be warn'd , etc Thus let all Rash men well consider his fallen , How innocence loudly for Vengeance do's call , And govern their passion that bring them to shame , For which when too late they themselves do much blame . Consider how Rashness brings troubles and fears , Shame , Ruin , and death , it oft for them prepares , Then let all be warn'd how they rashly proceed , lest trouble and anguish for them be decreed . Printed for John Foster , at the Grey-Hound , near the Noah's Ark Tavern , over - against Vine-Street , St. Giles's in the Fields . '''b THE Murderer Justly Condemned , OR , And Account of George Feast , a Butcher of Shoreditch , being found Guilty , at the Sessions-House in the Old Baily , for the Barbarous bloody Murder of his Wife , by [ sta ] bbing her in the Belly , in Leaden-Hall Market , on the 5th of May , 1697. Of which Wound she immediately Died , also some Account of his Penitent Behaviour in Newgate . To the Tune of , Packingtons Pound . With Allowance . COme listen a while and a Story you'll hear , That will strike you with worser [ r ] ead and amazement and fear This of a vile Butcher which with bloody Knife , Without all compassion did murder his wife , In Leaden-Hall Market , who came to reclaim , Him from his Debauchrys and life of ill fame : Then let all be warn'd how they rashly proceed , lest trouble and anguish for them be decreed . He had been long absent which made her suspect , Both her and his business he did much neglect , Which put her in passion , that straightway she went , To know by this usage what to her he meant , In Leaden-Hall Market she found him , and there The cause of her grief she did freely declare : Then let all be warn'd how they rashly proceed , Lest trouble and anguish for them be decreed . Though justly reproved , yet so Angry he grew , That at her with violence his Knife he then threw ; But that little Harming , I Tremble to tell you , He took it and Struck it full Deep in her Belly , At which she Shriek'd and Cry'd out , Oh! I'm Dead But he sought not to Fly , o'recome with the Dread : Then let all be warn'd how they rashly proceed , lest trouble and anguish for them be decreed . Being seiz'd for this Crime he's Committed to Goal , As for Murder we know it admits of no Bail ; And coming to Trial , Not Guilty did plead , But plainly 'twas prov'd that he did the sad deed , [ He ] could not deny that he gave her the Wound , And therefore of Murder he Guilty was found : Then let all be warn'd how they rashly proceed , lest trouble and anguish for them be decreed . This startled him soar , for though unconcern'd he , Could kill his dear wife , yet now death he did see , Was so near approaching him as his sad doom , He trembled for fear of the judgement to come : To Newgate he then was in Irons convey'd , Where piteous sighs and laments he then made : Then let all be warn'd how they rashly proceed , least trouble and anguish for them be decreed . He fancys her blood loud for vengeance does cry , Whom he caus'd on so slight and occasion to die ; Or that all pale her sad Ghost does appear , Which fills him with horror , amazement and fear , Laments and sad Groans now him company keep , And Dreams affrighting disorder his sleep , Then let all be warn'd , etc Blood guiltiness heavy now on him does lie , And makes him to sighs , and to sob , and to cry , Oh that his dear wife he had never thus us'd , Whom often , this plain , he before had abus'd , Because she would tell him of his wicked life , And give him good Counsel like a loving wife : Then let all be warn'd , etc His Drunken Debauchries now swarm in his mind , And how he to her and himself was unkind , By spending his money so idley on those , That Lewdly had brought him to trouble and woes , And though for Repentance it is not too late , Yet death now looks terrible on life's short da [ tO ] e , Then let all be warn'd , etc And Conscience cries loudly still urging the guilt , Of the Innocent blood that he causelessly spilled , He owns his Rash folly and grieves for to find , Himself cou'd be cruel to her that was kind , But no sparing mercy in reason can crave Who with bloody Knife sent his Wife to her Grave , Then let all be warn'd , etc Thus let all Rash men well consider his fallen , How innocence loudly for Vengeance do's call , And govern their passion that bring them to shame , For which when too late they themselves do much blame . Consider how Rashness brings troubles and fears , Shame , Ruin , and death , it oft for them prepares , Then let all be warn'd how they rashly proceed , lest trouble and anguish for them be decreed . Printed for John Foster , at the Grey-Hound , near the Noah's Ark Tavern , over - against Vine-Street , St. Giles's in the Fields . 