A most Excellent Ballad of St. George for England , and the Kings Daughter of AEgypt , whom he delivered from death ; and how he slew a Mighty Dragon . The Tune is , Flying Fame . OF Hectors deeds did Homer sing , and of the sack of stately Troy , What grief fair Hellen did them bring , which was Sir Paris only joy . And with my pen I must recite , St. Georges deed and English Knight , Against the Sarazens full rude , fought he full long and many a day , Where many Giants he subdu'd , in honour of the Christian way : After many adventures past , To AEgypt Land he came at last ; And as the story plain does tell , within that Country there did rest , A dreadful Dragon fierce and fell , whereby they were full soar oppress Who by his poisoned breath each day , Did many of the City slay . The grief whereof did grow so great , throughout the limits of the Land , That they their wise men did entreat , to show their cunning out of hand , Which way they might this Dragon stroy That did their Country thus annoy . The wise men all before the King , framed this matter incontinent , The Dragon none to death might bring , by any means they could invent . His skin more hard then brass was found , Their sword or spear can't pierce or wound When this the people understood , they cried out most piteously , The Dragons breath infected their blood , that they each day in heaps did die , among them such a plague it bred , The living scarce could bury the dead . No means there was that they could find for to appease the Dragons rage , But by a Virgin pure and kind , whereby he might his fury suage : Each day he should a Maiden eat , for to allay his hunger great . This thing by art the wise men found , which truly must observed be , Wherefore throughout the City round , a Virgin pure of good degree , Was by the Kings Commission still Cook up to serve the Dragons will : Thus did the Dragon every day , a Maiden of the Town devour , Till all the Maids were worn away , and none were left that present hour , Saving the Kings fair Daughter bright , Her Father's joy and hearts delight . Then came the Officers to the King , this heavy message to declare , Which did his heart with sorrow sting , she is , quoth he , my Kingdoms heir : Oh let us all be poisoned here , Ere she should die that is my dear . Then rose the people presently , and to the King in rage they went , Who said his Daughter dear should die , the Dragons fury to preven Our Daughters all are dead quoth they , And have been made the Dragons prey : And by their blood thou hast been blessed , and thou hast sav'd thy life thereby , And now in justice it does rest , for us thy Daughter so should die : Oh save my Daughter said the King , And let me feel the Dragons sting . Then fell fair Sabrine on her knee , and to her Father then did say , Oh Father strive not thus for me , but let me be the Dragons prey ; It may be for my sake alone , This plague upon the Land was shown . 'Tis better I should die she said , then all your Subject's perish quite , Perhaps the Dragon here was laid , for my offence to work this spite , And after he hath sucked my gore , Your Land shall feel the grief no more . What hast thou done my Daughter dear , for to deserve this heavy scourge ? It is my fault it shall appear , which makes the Gods our state to grudge Then ought I die to stint the strife and to preserve thy happy life . Like Madmen all the people cry'd , thy death to us can do no good , Our safety only does abide , to make thy Daughter Dragons food . Lo here I am then quoth she , Therefore do what you will with me . Nay stay dear Daughter , quoth the Queen as thou art a Virgin bright , That hath for virtue famous been , so let me cloth thee all in white , And crown thy head with f [ l ] oars sweet , And Ornament for Virgins me And when she was attired so , according to her Mother's mind , Unto the stake then she did go , to which they did this Virgin bind , And being bound to stake [ a ] and thrall , She bade farewell unto them all . Farewell dear Father , then quoth she , and my swee [ tO ] Mother meek and mild , Take you no thought nor weep for me , for you may have another child : Here for my Countries good I'le die , Which I receive most willingly . The King and Queen with all their train with weeping eyes then went their way , And let their Daughter there remain , to be the hungry Dragons prey : But as she there did weeping lie , behold St. George came riding by , And seeing there [ e ] a Lady bright , fast tied to the stake that day , Most like unto a valiant Knight , straight unto her did make his way : Tell me sweet Maiden , then quoth he , What Person thus abused thee ? And lo , by Christ his Cross I vow , which here is fugured on my breast , I will revenge it on his brow , and break my Lance upon his Cres And speaking thus whereas he stood , The Dragon issued out of the Wood . The Lady that did first espy , the dreadful Dragon coming so , Unto St. George aloud did cry , and willed him away to go ; Here comes that cursed fiend , quoth she , That soon will make and end of me : St. George then looking round about , the fiery Dragon soon espy'd , And like a Knight of courage stout , against him he did fiercely ride . And with such blows he did him greet , That he fell under his horse feet . FOr with a Lance that was so strong , as he came gaping in his face , In at his mouth he thrust it along , the which could pierce no other place ; And there within this Ladies view , This dreadful Dragon then he slew . The savour of his poisoned breath could this Christian Knight no harm ; Thus did he save the Lady from death , and home he led her by the arm ; Which when King Ptolomy did see , There was great mirth and melody . When as the famous Knight St. George had slave the Dragon in the field : And brought the Lady to the Court , whose sighed with joy their hearts fil'd : He in the Egyptian Court then stayed , Till he most falsely was betray'd : The Lady Sabrine lov'd him well , he counted her his only joy , But when their love was open known , it prov'd St. Georges great annoy . The Morocco King was in the Court , Who to the Orchard did resort ; Daily to take the pleasant air , for pleasures sake he us'd to walk Under a Wall whereas he herd , St. George with Lady Sabrine talk : Their love he revealed to the King , Which to S. George great woe did bring : These Kings together did devise to make this Christian Knight away , With Letters him ambassador they straight way sent to Persia , And wrote to'th Sophy him to kill . And traitorously his blood to spill . Thus they for good did him reward with evil and most subtlety , By such vile means they did devise to work his death most cruelly , While he in Persia abided , He quite destroy'd each Idol God ; Which being done he straight was cast into a Dungeon dark and deep , But when he thought upon his wrong , he bitterly did wail and weep : Yet like a Knight of courage stout Forth of the Dungeon he god out . And in the night three horsekeepers this valiant Knight by power slew , Although he fasted many a day . and then away from thence he flew , On the best steed that Sophy had , Which when he knew he was full sad . Then into Christendome he came , and met a Giant by the way , With him in combat he did fight most valiantly a Summer's day : Who yet for all his bolts of steel , Was forc'd the sting of death to feel . From Christendom this valiant Knight , then with warlike Soldiers passed , Vowing upon that Heathen Land to work revenge , which at the last , E're thrice three years were gone & spent He did unto his great conten Save only AEgypt Land he spar'd , for Sabrine bright her only sake , And ere his rage he did suppress , he meant a trial kind to make : Ptolomy did know his strength in field , And unto him did kindly yield . Then he the Morocco King did kill , and took fair Sabrine to his wife , And afterwards contentedly , with her St. George did led his life , Who by the virtue of a Chain Did still a Virgin pure remain . To England then St. George did bring , this gallant Lady Sabrine bright , And Eunuch also came with him , in whom the Lady did deligh None but these three from AEgypt came , Now let me print St. Georges Fame . When they were in the Forest great , the Lady did desire to rest , And then St. George to kill a Deer , to feed thereon did think it bes Left Sabrine and the Eunuch there , While he A most Excellent Ballad of St. George for England , and the Kings Daughter of AEgypt , whom he delivered from death ; and how he slew a Mighty Dragon . The Tune is , Flying Fame . OF Hectors deeds did Homer sing , and of the sack of stately Troy , What grief fair Hellen did them bring , which was Sir Paris only joy . And with my pen I must recite , St. Georges deed and English Knight , Against the Sarazens full rude , fought he full long and many a day , Where many Giants he subdu'd , in honour of the Christian way : After many adventures past , To AEgypt Land he came at last ; And as the story plain does tell , within that Country there did rest , A dreadful Dragon fierce and fell , whereby they were full soar oppress Who by his poisoned breath each day , Did many of the City slay . The grief whereof did grow so great , throughout the limits of the Land , That they their wise men did entreat , to show their cunning out of hand , Which way they might this Dragon stroy That did their Country thus annoy . The wise men all before the King , framed this matter incontinent , The Dragon none to death might bring , by any means they could invent . His skin more hard then brass was found , Their sword or spear can't pierce or wound When this the people understood , they cried out most piteously , The Dragons breath infected their blood , that they each day in heaps did die , among them such a plague it bred , The living scarce could bury the dead . No means there was that they could find for to appease the Dragons rage , But by a Virgin pure and kind , whereby he might his fury suage : Each day he should a Maiden eat , for to allay his hunger great . This thing by art the wise men found , which truly must observed be , Wherefore throughout the City round , a Virgin pure of good degree , Was by the Kings Commission still Cook up to serve the Dragons will : Thus did the Dragon every day , a Maiden of the Town devour , Till all the Maids were worn away , and none were left that present hour , Saving the Kings fair Daughter bright , Her Father's joy and hearts delight . Then came the Officers to the King , this heavy message to declare , Which did his heart with sorrow sting , she is , quoth he , my Kingdoms heir : Oh let us all be poisoned here , Ere she should die that is my dear . Then rose the people presently , and to the King in rage they went , Who said his Daughter dear should die , the Dragons fury to preven Our Daughters all are dead quoth they , And have been made the Dragons prey : And by their blood thou hast been blessed , and thou hast sav'd thy life thereby , And now in justice it does rest , for us thy Daughter so should die : Oh save my Daughter said the King , And let me feel the Dragons sting . Then fell fair Sabrine on her knee , and to her Father then did say , Oh Father strive not thus for me , but let me be the Dragons prey ; It may be for my sake alone , This plague upon the Land was shown . 'Tis better I should die she said , then all your Subject's perish quite , Perhaps the Dragon here was laid , for my offence to work this spite , And after he hath sucked my gore , Your Land shall feel the grief no more . What hast thou done my Daughter dear , for to deserve this heavy scourge ? It is my fault it shall appear , which makes the Gods our state to grudge Then ought I die to stint the strife and to preserve thy happy life . Like Madmen all the people cry'd , thy death to us can do no good , Our safety only does abide , to make thy Daughter Dragons food . Lo here I am then quoth she , Therefore do what you will with me . Nay stay dear Daughter , quoth the Queen as thou art a Virgin bright , That hath for virtue famous been , so let me cloth thee all in white , And crown thy head with f [ l ] oars sweet , And Ornament for Virgins me And when she was attired so , according to her Mother's mind , Unto the stake then she did go , to which they did this Virgin bind , And being bound to stake [ a ] and thrall , She bade farewell unto them all . Farewell dear Father , then quoth she , and my swee [ tO ] Mother meek and mild , Take you no thought nor weep for me , for you may have another child : Here for my Countries good I'le die , Which I receive most willingly . The King and Queen with all their train with weeping eyes then went their way , And let their Daughter there remain , to be the hungry Dragons prey : But as she there did weeping lie , behold St. George came riding by , And seeing there [ e ] a Lady bright , fast tied to the stake that day , Most like unto a valiant Knight , straight unto her did make his way : Tell me sweet Maiden , then quoth he , What Person thus abused thee ? And lo , by Christ his Cross I vow , which here is fugured on my breast , I will revenge it on his brow , and break my Lance upon his Cres And speaking thus whereas he stood , The Dragon issued out of the Wood . The Lady that did first espy , the dreadful Dragon coming so , Unto St. George aloud did cry , and willed him away to go ; Here comes that cursed fiend , quoth she , That soon will make and end of me : St. George then looking round about , the fiery Dragon soon espy'd , And like a Knight of courage stout , against him he did fiercely ride . And with such blows he did him greet , That he fell under his horse feet . FOr with a Lance that was so strong , as he came gaping in his face , In at his mouth he thrust it along , the which could pierce no other place ; And there within this Ladies view , This dreadful Dragon then he slew . The savour of his poisoned breath could this Christian Knight no harm ; Thus did he save the Lady from death , and home he led her by the arm ; Which when King Ptolomy did see , There was great mirth and melody . When as the famous Knight St. George had slave the Dragon in the field : And brought the Lady to the Court , whose sighed with joy their hearts fil'd : He in the Egyptian Court then stayed , Till he most falsely was betray'd : The Lady Sabrine lov'd him well , he counted her his only joy , But when their love was open known , it prov'd St. Georges great annoy . The Morocco King was in the Court , Who to the Orchard did resort ; Daily to take the pleasant air , for pleasures sake he us'd to walk Under a Wall whereas he herd , St. George with Lady Sabrine talk : Their love he revealed to the King , Which to S. George great woe did bring : These Kings together did devise to make this Christian Knight away , With Letters him ambassador they straight way sent to Persia , And wrote to'th Sophy him to kill . And traitorously his blood to spill . Thus they for good did him reward with evil and most subtlety , By such vile means they did devise to work his death most cruelly , While he in Persia abided , He quite destroy'd each Idol God ; Which being done he straight was cast into a Dungeon dark and deep , But when he thought upon his wrong , he bitterly did wail and weep : Yet like a Knight of courage stout Forth of the Dungeon he god out . And in the night three horsekeepers this valiant Knight by power slew , Although he fasted many a day . and then away from thence he flew , On the best steed that Sophy had , Which when he knew he was full sad . Then into Christendome he came , and met a Giant by the way , With him in combat he did fight most valiantly a Summer's day : Who yet for all his bolts of steel , Was forc'd the sting of death to feel . From Christendom this valiant Knight , then with warlike Soldiers passed , Vowing upon that Heathen Land to work revenge , which at the last , E're thrice three years were gone & spent He did unto his great conten Save only AEgypt Land he spar'd , for Sabrine bright her only sake , And ere his rage he did suppress , he meant a trial kind to make : Ptolomy did know his strength in field , And unto him did kindly yield . Then he the Morocco King did kill , and took fair Sabrine to his wife , And afterwards contentedly , with her St. George did led his life , Who by the virtue of a Chain Did still a Virgin pure remain . To England then St. George did bring , this gallant Lady Sabrine bright , And Eunuch also came with him , in whom the Lady did deligh None but these three from AEgypt came , Now let me print St. Georges Fame . When they were in the Forest great , the Lady did desire to rest , And then St. George to kill a Deer , to feed thereon did think it bes Left Sabrine and the Eunuch there , While he did go and kill a Deer . The mean time in his absence came , two hungry Lyons fierce and fell , And tore the Eunuch presently in pieces small the truth to tell ; Down by the Lady then they laid , Whereby it seem'd she was a Maid . But when S. George from hunting came and did behold this heavy chance , Yet for his lovely Virgin pure , his courage stout he did advance ; And came within the Lyons sighed , Who run at him with all their might , But he being no whit dismayed , but like a stout and valiant Knight , Did kill the hungry Lyons both , within the Lady Sabrines sighed ; But all this while sad and demure , She stood there like a Virgin pure . Then when St. George did truly know , his Lady was a Virgin true , those doleful thoughts that e'r was dumb , began most firmly to renew : He set her on a Palfrey Steed , And towards England came with speed ; Where he arrived in short while , unto his Father's dwelling place , Where with his dearest love he liv'd , when fortune did their Nuptials grace , They many years of joy did see , And led their lives at Coventry . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . did go and kill a Deer . The mean time in his absence came , two hungry Lyons fierce and fell , And tore the Eunuch presently in pieces small the truth to tell ; Down by the Lady then they laid , Whereby it seem'd she was a Maid . But when S. George from hunting came and did behold this heavy chance , Yet for his lovely Virgin pure , his courage stout he did advance ; And came within the Lyons sighed , Who run at him with all their might , But he being no whit dismayed , but like a stout and valiant Knight , Did kill the hungry Lyons both , within the Lady Sabrines sighed ; But all this while sad and demure , She stood there like a Virgin pure . Then when St. George did truly know , his Lady was a Virgin true , those doleful thoughts that e'r was dumb , began most firmly to renew : He set her on a Palfrey Steed , And towards England came with speed ; Where he arrived in short while , unto his Father's dwelling place , Where with his dearest love he liv'd , when fortune did their Nuptials grace , They many years of joy did see , And led their lives at Coventry . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . 