Courage Crowned with Conquest ; OR , [ A ] brief Relation , how that Valiant Knight , and that Heroic Champion Sir Eglamor [ e ] bravely fought with , and manfully slew a terrible huge great Monstrous Dragon . To a pleasant New Tune . SIr Eglamore that valiant Knight with his fa , la , lanctree down dilly , He fetched his sword and he went to fight ; with his fa la lanctre , etc As he went over hill and dale All clothed in his Coat of Male , with his fa la lanctre , etc A huge great Dragon leapt out of his Den with his fa la lanctre , etc Which had killed the Lord knows how many men with his fa la lanctre , etc But when he saw Sir Eglamore Good lack had you seen how this Dragon did roar , with his fa la lanctre , etc This Dragon he had a plaguy hide with his fa la lanctre , etc Which could both sword and spear abide with his fa la lanctre , etc He could not enter with hacks and cuts Which vexed the Knight to the very hearts blood and guts , with his fa la lanctre , etc All the Trees in the Wood did shake with his fa la lanctre , etc Stars did tremble and men did quake , with his fa la lanctre , etc But had you seen how the Birds lay peeping 'Twould have made a men heart to fallen a weeping with his fa la lanctre , etc The second Part , to the same Tune . BUt it was too late to fear , with his fa la lanctre , etc , For now it was come to fight Dog , fight Bore with his fa la lanctre , etc And as a yawning he did fallen He thrust in his Sword hilt and all , with his fa la lanctre , etc But now as the Knight in choler did burn with his fa la lanctre , etc He owed the Dragon a shrew'd good turn with his fa la lanctre , etc In at his mouth the Sword he bent , The hilt appear'd at his fundament , with his fa la lanctre , etc Then the Dragon like a coward began to fly with his fa la lanctre , etc Unto his Den that was hard by with his fa la lanctre , etc And there he laid him down and roar'd The Knight was vexed for his Sword with a fa la lanctre , etc The Sword that was of a right good Blade , with his fa la lanctre , etc As ever Turk or Spaniard made , with his fa la lanctre , etc I for my part do forsake it And he that will fetch it let him take it with his fa la lanctre , etc When all this was dONE to the Alehouse he went with his fa la lanctre , etc And by and by his twopence he spent with his fa la lanctre , etc For he was so hight with tuging with the Dragon That nothing would quench him but a whole Flagon with his fa la lanctre , etc Now God preserve our King and Queen , with his fa la lanctre , etc And eke in London may be seen , with his fa la lanctre , etc As many Knights and as many more , And all so good as Sir Eglamore . with his fa la lantre down dilly . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . Courage Crowned with Conquest ; OR , [ A ] brief Relation , how that Valiant Knight , and that Heroic Champion Sir Eglamor [ e ] bravely fought with , and manfully slew a terrible huge great Monstrous Dragon . To a pleasant New Tune . SIr Eglamore that valiant Knight with his fa , la , lanctree down dilly , He fetched his sword and he went to fight ; with his fa la lanctre , etc As he went over hill and dale All clothed in his Coat of Male , with his fa la lanctre , etc A huge great Dragon leapt out of his Den with his fa la lanctre , etc Which had killed the Lord knows how many men with his fa la lanctre , etc But when he saw Sir Eglamore Good lack had you seen how this Dragon did roar , with his fa la lanctre , etc This Dragon he had a plaguy hide with his fa la lanctre , etc Which could both sword and spear abide with his fa la lanctre , etc He could not enter with hacks and cuts Which vexed the Knight to the very hearts blood and guts , with his fa la lanctre , etc All the Trees in the Wood did shake with his fa la lanctre , etc Stars did tremble and men did quake , with his fa la lanctre , etc But had you seen how the Birds lay peeping 'Twould have made a men heart to fallen a weeping with his fa la lanctre , etc The second Part , to the same Tune . BUt it was too late to fear , with his fa la lanctre , etc , For now it was come to fight Dog , fight Bore with his fa la lanctre , etc And as a yawning he did fallen He thrust in his Sword hilt and all , with his fa la lanctre , etc But now as the Knight in choler did burn with his fa la lanctre , etc He owed the Dragon a shrew'd good turn with his fa la lanctre , etc In at his mouth the Sword he bent , The hilt appear'd at his fundament , with his fa la lanctre , etc Then the Dragon like a coward began to fly with his fa la lanctre , etc Unto his Den that was hard by with his fa la lanctre , etc And there he laid him down and roar'd The Knight was vexed for his Sword with a fa la lanctre , etc The Sword that was of a right good Blade , with his fa la lanctre , etc As ever Turk or Spaniard made , with his fa la lanctre , etc I for my part do forsake it And he that will fetch it let him take it with his fa la lanctre , etc When all this was dONE to the Alehouse he went with his fa la lanctre , etc And by and by his twopence he spent with his fa la lanctre , etc For he was so hight with tuging with the Dragon That nothing would quench him but a whole Flagon with his fa la lanctre , etc Now God preserve our King and Queen , with his fa la lanctre , etc And eke in London may be seen , with his fa la lanctre , etc As many Knights and as many more , And all so good as Sir Eglamore . with his fa la lantre down dilly . Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 