E : 305 Robin Hood newly reviv'd . To a Delightful New TUNE . COme listen a while you Gentlemen all , with a heigh down down a down down , That are in this Bower within , for a story of galland bold Robin Hood I purpose now to begin . What time of the day , quod Robin Hood then , with a heigh down , etc Quoth little John , 'tis in the prime , why then we will to the green wood gang , For we have no victuals to dine . As Robin Hood walked the forest along , with a heigh down , etc It was in the midst of the day , there was he met with a deft youngman , As ever walked on the way . His Doublet was of silk , he said with a heigh down , etc His stockings like scarlet shone , and he walked on along the way , To Robin Hood then unknown . A heard of Deer was in the Bend , with a heigh down , etc All feeding before his face , now the best of you i'le have to my dinner , And that in a little space . Now the stranger he made no much ado with a heigh down , etc But he bends a right good Bow , and the best Buck in the Heard he slew , Forty good Yards him from . Well shot , well shot , quod Robin Hood then , with a heigh down , etc That shot it was shot in time , and if thou wilt accept of the place , Thou shalt be a bold Yeoman of mine . Go play the Chiven , the stranger said , with a heigh down , etc Make haste and quickly go , or with my fist besure of this , I'll give thee buffets store . Thou had'st not best buffet me , said Robin Hood , with a heigh down , etc For though I seem forlorn , yet I can have those that will take my part If I blow but my horn . Thou wast not best wind thy horn , the stranger said , with a heigh down , etc Be'est thou never so much in haste , for I can draw out a good broad sword And quickly cut the blast . Then Robin Hood bent a very good bow , with a heigh down , etc To that shot and he would fain , the stranger he bent up a noble bow To shoot at bold Robin again . O hold thy hand , hold thy hand , quod Robin Hood , with a heigh down , etc To shoot it would be in vain , for if we should shoot the one at the other , The one of us must be slave . The Second Part , to the same Tune . BUt let's take our swords and our broad bucklers , with a heigh down , etc And gang under yonder tree ; as I hope to be sav'd ( the stranger said ) One foot I will not flee . Then Robin Hood lent the stranger a blow with a heigh down , etc Most scared him out of his wit ; thou never felt blow ( the stranger said ) That shall be better quit . The stranger he drew out a good broad sword , with a heigh down , etc And hit Robin on the crown , that from every hair of bold Robins head The blood ran trickling down . God-a-mercy good fellow ( quod Robin Hood then ) with a hey down , etc And for this that thou hast done , tell me good fellow what thou art , Tell me where thou dost won . The stranger then answered bold Robin Hood , with a heigh down , etc I'le tell thee where I did dwell ; in Maxfield was I born and bred , My name is young Gamwel . For killing of my father's Steward , with a heigh down , etc I am forc'd to this English Wood , and for to seek and Uncle of mine , Some call him Robin Hood . But art thou a Cozen of Robin Hoods then ? with a heigh down , etc The sooner we should have done , as I hope to be sav'd ( the stranger then said I am his own sisters son . But Lord what kissing & courting was there with a heigh down , etc When these two Cozens did meet , and they went all that summer's day And little John did meet . But when they met with little John , with a heigh down , etc He thereunto did say : Oh Master where have you been You have tarried so long away ? I met with a stranger ( quod Robin Hood then ) with a hey down , etc Full soar he hath beaten me ; then i'le have about with him ( quod little John ) And try if he can beatrice me . O no , O no ( quoth Robin Hood ) with a hey down , etc Little John it may not be so , for he is my own dear sisters son , And Cozens I have no more . But he shall be a bold Yeoman of mine , with a heigh down , etc My chief Man next to thee , and I Robin Hood , and thou little John , And Scarlet he shall be . And we'll be three of the bravest Outlaws with a hey down , etc That is in the North-Country . if you'll have any more of bold Robin Hood , In this second Part it will be . Then bold Robin Hood to the North he would go , with a heigh down , etc With valour and much might , with sword by his side which oft had been try'd To fight and recover his right . The first that he met with was a bold Scot , with a heigh down , etc His servant he said he would be ; no , quod Robin Hood , it cannot be good , For thou wilt prove false unto me . Thou hast not been true to Sire nor Cuz , with a heigh down , etc Nay , marry , the Scot he said , as true as your heart i'le never part , Good Master be not afraid . Then Robin Hood turn'd his face to the East , with a heigh down , etc Fight on my merry men stout , our case is good , quoth brave Robin Hood , And we shall not be beaten out . The Battle grows hight on every side , with a heigh down , etc The Scotchman made great moan , quoth Jockey good faith they fight on each side , Would I were with my Wife Joan. The Enemy compassed brave Robin about , with a heigh down , etc 'Tis long e're the battle ends , there's neither will yield , nor give up the field For both are supply'd with friends . This song it was made in Robin Hoods days , with a heigh down down a down down , Let's pray unto Jove above , to give us true peace , that mischief may cease , And war may give place unto love . Printed for Alex. Milbourn at the Stationers-Arms in Green-Arbor-Court in the Lit - tle Old-Baily . E : 305 Robin Hood newly reviv'd . To a Delightful New TUNE . COme listen a while you Gentlemen all , with a heigh down down a down down , That are in this Bower within , for a story of galland bold Robin Hood I purpose now to begin . What time of the day , quod Robin Hood then , with a heigh down , etc Quoth little John , 'tis in the prime , why then we will to the green wood gang , For we have no victuals to dine . As Robin Hood walked the forest along , with a heigh down , etc It was in the midst of the day , there was he met with a deft youngman , As ever walked on the way . His Doublet was of silk , he said with a heigh down , etc His stockings like scarlet shone , and he walked on along the way , To Robin Hood then unknown . A heard of Deer was in the Bend , with a heigh down , etc All feeding before his face , now the best of you i'le have to my dinner , And that in a little space . Now the stranger he made no much ado with a heigh down , etc But he bends a right good Bow , and the best Buck in the Heard he slew , Forty good Yards him from . Well shot , well shot , quod Robin Hood then , with a heigh down , etc That shot it was shot in time , and if thou wilt accept of the place , Thou shalt be a bold Yeoman of mine . Go play the Chiven , the stranger said , with a heigh down , etc Make haste and quickly go , or with my fist besure of this , I'll give thee buffets store . Thou had'st not best buffet me , said Robin Hood , with a heigh down , etc For though I seem forlorn , yet I can have those that will take my part If I blow but my horn . Thou wast not best wind thy horn , the stranger said , with a heigh down , etc Be'est thou never so much in haste , for I can draw out a good broad sword And quickly cut the blast . Then Robin Hood bent a very good bow , with a heigh down , etc To that shot and he would fain , the stranger he bent up a noble bow To shoot at bold Robin again . O hold thy hand , hold thy hand , quod Robin Hood , with a heigh down , etc To shoot it would be in vain , for if we should shoot the one at the other , The one of us must be slave . The Second Part , to the same Tune . BUt let's take our swords and our broad bucklers , with a heigh down , etc And gang under yonder tree ; as I hope to be sav'd ( the stranger said ) One foot I will not flee . Then Robin Hood lent the stranger a blow with a heigh down , etc Most scared him out of his wit ; thou never felt blow ( the stranger said ) That shall be better quit . The stranger he drew out a good broad sword , with a heigh down , etc And hit Robin on the crown , that from every hair of bold Robins head The blood ran trickling down . God-a-mercy good fellow ( quod Robin Hood then ) with a hey down , etc And for this that thou hast done , tell me good fellow what thou art , Tell me where thou dost won . The stranger then answered bold Robin Hood , with a heigh down , etc I'le tell thee where I did dwell ; in Maxfield was I born and bred , My name is young Gamwel . For killing of my father's Steward , with a heigh down , etc I am forc'd to this English Wood , and for to seek and Uncle of mine , Some call him Robin Hood . But art thou a Cozen of Robin Hoods then ? with a heigh down , etc The sooner we should have done , as I hope to be sav'd ( the stranger then said I am his own sisters son . But Lord what kissing & courting was there with a heigh down , etc When these two Cozens did meet , and they went all that summer's day And little John did meet . But when they met with little John , with a heigh down , etc He thereunto did say : Oh Master where have you been You have tarried so long away ? I met with a stranger ( quod Robin Hood then ) with a hey down , etc Full soar he hath beaten me ; then i'le have about with him ( quod little John ) And try if he can beatrice me . O no , O no ( quoth Robin Hood ) with a hey down , etc Little John it may not be so , for he is my own dear sisters son , And Cozens I have no more . But he shall be a bold Yeoman of mine , with a heigh down , etc My chief Man next to thee , and I Robin Hood , and thou little John , And Scarlet he shall be . And we'll be three of the bravest Outlaws with a hey down , etc That is in the North-Country . if you'll have any more of bold Robin Hood , In this second Part it will be . Then bold Robin Hood to the North he would go , with a heigh down , etc With valour and much might , with sword by his side which oft had been try'd To fight and recover his right . The first that he met with was a bold Scot , with a heigh down , etc His servant he said he would be ; no , quod Robin Hood , it cannot be good , For thou wilt prove false unto me . Thou hast not been true to Sire nor Cuz , with a heigh down , etc Nay , marry , the Scot he said , as true as your heart i'le never part , Good Master be not afraid . Then Robin Hood turn'd his face to the East , with a heigh down , etc Fight on my merry men stout , our case is good , quoth brave Robin Hood , And we shall not be beaten out . The Battle grows hight on every side , with a heigh down , etc The Scotchman made great moan , quoth Jockey good faith they fight on each side , Would I were with my Wife Joan. The Enemy compassed brave Robin about , with a heigh down , etc 'Tis long e're the battle ends , there's neither will yield , nor give up the field For both are supply'd with friends . This song it was made in Robin Hoods days , with a heigh down down a down down , Let's pray unto Jove above , to give us true peace , that mischief may cease , And war may give place unto love . Printed for Alex. Milbourn at the Stationers-Arms in Green-Arbor-Court in the Lit - tle Old-Baily . 