The Downfall of William Grismond : Or , A Lamentable Murder by him committed at Lainterdine in the Country of Hereford , the 22 of March , 1650 , with his woeful Lamentation . The tune is , Where is my Love ? O Come you wilful young men and hear what I shall tell , My name is William Grismond , at Lainterdine did dwell , Oh there I did a Murder as it is known full well . And for mine offence I must die . There was a neighbours daughter that lived there hard by , Whom I had promised marriage and with her I did lie , I did dissemble with her my lust to satisfy , And for , etc I had my pleasure on her , I had my lewd desire , The using of her body was that I did require ; I was overcome and snared by him that was a Liar , And for , etc She claimed of me marriage and said she was with child , Saying marry me sweet William now you have me defil'd , If you do now forsake me I utterly am spoyl'd , And for , etc When she had us'd these speeches my anger did arise , And then to work her overthrow I quickly did devise ; What though her words were honest yet I did them despise , And for , etc O mark how it did happen this Huswife being poor , And I who was my Father's Heir her words did urge me soar : For I could have another with Gold and Silver store , And for , etc My Father and my Mother I knew would not consent , If I had married with her , I knew I should be shent , Then unto wicked murder my heart was fully bent , And for , etc In flattering sort I brought her into a Field of Broom , And when w [ e ] both together into the field was some , I had my pleasure with her and then I was her doom , And for , etc Then in the Broom I kil'd her with my accursed knife , There hatefully I kil'd her who lov'd me as her life : I cut her throat I kil'd her , who should have been my Wife , And for , etc Three days she lay there murdered before that she was found , But when the neighbours searching within that broomy ground , Did find her there uncovered and with a bloody wound , And for mine offence I must die . THe Neighbours having found her where I did do this deed ; There in the Broom they found her where I her blood did shed : But when I did perceive that I ran away with speed , And for mine offence I must die . No sooner had they found her but I away did go , And thought to go to Ireland the very truth is so ; But God he would suffer me to run my Country through , And for , etc Yet I was god on Shipboard as you may understand , But when the Ship was troubled I must go back to Land , I could not pass away so with guilty heart and hand , And for , etc There is some wicked person the Shipman then did say , Within the Ship we know it that cannot pass away , We must return to Land her and make no more delay , And for , etc Then near unto Westchester I taken was last , And then in Chester Prison I suddenly was case From thence brought into Hereford to answer what is past , And for , etc But then my loving Father his Gold he did not spare , To save me from the Gallows he had of me great care : But it would not be granted the Gallows was my share , And for , etc My fault it was so heinous it would not granted be , I must for and example hang on the Gallow tree , God grant that I a warning for all young men may be , And for etc O my dear loving Father he was to me most kind , He brought me up most costly so was his tender mind , But I indeed to lewdness was too much inclin'd , And for , etc He brought me up in Learning his love was to me still , He thought it all too little he did bestow on Will : But when he looked for comfort his heart I then did kill , And for , etc I might have had a marriage my Father to content , And that my loving Mother would give her hearts consen But I have took such courses does make us all repent , And for , etc Now young men take warning you see my fallen is great , I call to God for mercy , Gods grace do you entreat ; I might have lived bravely and had a gallant seat , And for , etc O Lord I now crave pardon with a relenting heart , I know my sins are heinous I'm very sorry for't ; Alas I have deserved a very hard report . And for mine offences I must die . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , W. Gilbertson , and J. Wright . The Downfall of William Grismond : Or , A Lamentable Murder by him committed at Lainterdine in the Country of Hereford , the 22 of March , 1650 , with his woeful Lamentation . The tune is , Where is my Love ? O Come you wilful young men and hear what I shall tell , My name is William Grismond , at Lainterdine did dwell , Oh there I did a Murder as it is known full well . And for mine offence I must die . There was a neighbours daughter that lived there hard by , Whom I had promised marriage and with her I did lie , I did dissemble with her my lust to satisfy , And for , etc I had my pleasure on her , I had my lewd desire , The using of her body was that I did require ; I was overcome and snared by him that was a Liar , And for , etc She claimed of me marriage and said she was with child , Saying marry me sweet William now you have me defil'd , If you do now forsake me I utterly am spoyl'd , And for , etc When she had us'd these speeches my anger did arise , And then to work her overthrow I quickly did devise ; What though her words were honest yet I did them despise , And for , etc O mark how it did happen this Huswife being poor , And I who was my Father's Heir her words did urge me soar : For I could have another with Gold and Silver store , And for , etc My Father and my Mother I knew would not consent , If I had married with her , I knew I should be shent , Then unto wicked murder my heart was fully bent , And for , etc In flattering sort I brought her into a Field of Broom , And when w [ e ] both together into the field was some , I had my pleasure with her and then I was her doom , And for , etc Then in the Broom I kil'd her with my accursed knife , There hatefully I kil'd her who lov'd me as her life : I cut her throat I kil'd her , who should have been my Wife , And for , etc Three days she lay there murdered before that she was found , But when the neighbours searching within that broomy ground , Did find her there uncovered and with a bloody wound , And for mine offence I must die . THe Neighbours having found her where I did do this deed ; There in the Broom they found her where I her blood did shed : But when I did perceive that I ran away with speed , And for mine offence I must die . No sooner had they found her but I away did go , And thought to go to Ireland the very truth is so ; But God he would suffer me to run my Country through , And for , etc Yet I was god on Shipboard as you may understand , But when the Ship was troubled I must go back to Land , I could not pass away so with guilty heart and hand , And for , etc There is some wicked person the Shipman then did say , Within the Ship we know it that cannot pass away , We must return to Land her and make no more delay , And for , etc Then near unto Westchester I taken was last , And then in Chester Prison I suddenly was case From thence brought into Hereford to answer what is past , And for , etc But then my loving Father his Gold he did not spare , To save me from the Gallows he had of me great care : But it would not be granted the Gallows was my share , And for , etc My fault it was so heinous it would not granted be , I must for and example hang on the Gallow tree , God grant that I a warning for all young men may be , And for etc O my dear loving Father he was to me most kind , He brought me up most costly so was his tender mind , But I indeed to lewdness was too much inclin'd , And for , etc He brought me up in Learning his love was to me still , He thought it all too little he did bestow on Will : But when he looked for comfort his heart I then did kill , And for , etc I might have had a marriage my Father to content , And that my loving Mother would give her hearts consen But I have took such courses does make us all repent , And for , etc Now young men take warning you see my fallen is great , I call to God for mercy , Gods grace do you entreat ; I might have lived bravely and had a gallant seat , And for , etc O Lord I now crave pardon with a relenting heart , I know my sins are heinous I'm very sorry for't ; Alas I have deserved a very hard report . And for mine offences I must die . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , W. Gilbertson , and J. Wright . 