A most notable Example of and Ungracious Son , who in pride of his heart denied his own Father , and how God for his offence turned his meat into loathsome Toads . To the Tune of , Lord Derby . IN searching famous Chronicles , it was my change to read , A worthy story strange and true , whereto I took Good heed ; Betwixt a Father and a Son this rare example stands , Which well may move the hardest hearts to weep and wring their hands . A farmer in the Country liv'd whose substance did excel , He sent therefore his eldest Son in Paris for to dwell : Where he became a Merchant man , and Traffic Great he used , So that he was exceeding rich till he himself abused . For having now the world at will his mind was fully bent , To Gaming , wine , and wantonness , till all his Goods were spent . Yet such excessive riotousness , by him was showed forth , That he was three times more in debt than all his Wealth was worth . At length his credit clean was cracked , and he in prison cast , And every man against him then , did set his actium fas Then he lay locked in Irons strong for ever and for aye , Unable while his life did last this grievous debt to pay . And living in this woeful case , his eyes with tears he spent , The lewdness of his former life too late he did repen And being void of all relief , of help and comfort quite , Unto his Father at the last , he thus began to write . Bow down a while your heedful ear , my loving father dear , And grant I pray in gracious sort , my piteous plaint to hear : Forgive the foul offences all of [ y ] our unworthy Son , Which through the lewdness of his life hath now himself undone . O my good father take remorse , on this my extreme need , And succour his distressed state who [ s ] e heart for woe does bleed , In direful dungeon here I lie , my feet in fetters fast , Where my most cruel Creditors , in prison have me cast . Let pity therefore pierce your breast , and mercy move your mind , And to release my misery some shift dear father find , My chiefest Cheer is bred full brown the boards my softest bed , And flinty stones my pillow serve to rest my troubled head . MY Garmets all are worn to rags , my body starves with cold , And creeping vermin eat my flesh , most grievous to behold : Dear father come therefore with speed , and rid me out of thrall , And let me not in prison die , sith for your help I call . The Good old man no sooner had perus'd this written scrowl , But trickling tears along his cheeks most plenteously did roll . Alas my son , my son quoth he , in whom I joyed most , Thou shalt not long in prison be , what ever it me cost . Two hundred head of well-fed beasts he changed into Gold , Four hundred quarters of Good corn , for silver eke he sold , But all the same could not suffice this hanious fact to pay , Till at the last constrained was to fell his Land away . Then was his Son released quite , his debts discharged clean , And he like as well to Live , as he before had been . Then went his Loving Father home who for to help his Son Had sold his Living quite away , and eke himself undone . So that he Lived poor and bore and in such extreme need , That many times he wanted food his hungry corpse to feed . His son mean time in wealth did swim , whose substance now was such , That sure within the City then few men were found so rich . But as his Goods did still increase , and Riches it did slide , So more and more his hardened heart did swell in hateful pride . But it fell out upon a time , when ten years woe was passed , Unto his Son he did repair for some relief at last . And being come unto his house in very poor array , It chanced so that with his Son great store should dine that day : The poor old man with hat in hand , did then the Porter pray , To show his son that at the Gate his Father there did stay . Whereat this proud disdainful w [ r ] etch with taunting speeches said , That long ago his Father's bones within the Grave was laid . What Rascal then is that quoth he , that stains thus my state : I charge thee Porter present [ l ] y to drive him from my Gate . Which answer when the old man herd he was in mind dismayed , He wept , he wail'd , he wrung his hands , and thus at length he said , Oh cursed wretch , and most unkind , and worker of my woe , Thou monster of humanity , and eke thy father's foe . Have I been careful of thy case , maintaining still thy state , And dost thou now most doggedly enforce me from thy Gate : And have I wrong'd thy brethren all , from thrall to set thee free , And brought myself to beggars state , and all to succour thee . Woe worth the time that first of all thy body I espy'd , Which hath in hardness of thy heart thy father's face deny'd . But now behold how God that time did show a wonder Great , Even when his son and all his friends , were setting down to meat . For when the fairest pie was cut a strange and dreadful case , Most ugly Toads came crawling out and leapt in his face : Then did this wretch his fault confess , and for his father sent , And for his Great ingratitude full soar he did repent . All virtuous Children Learn by this obedient hearts to show , And honour still [ l ] your parents dear , for God commanded so : And think how he did turn his meat to poisonous Toads indeed , Which did his father's face deny because he stood in need . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and I . Wright . A most notable Example of and Ungracious Son , who in pride of his heart denied his own Father , and how God for his offence turned his meat into loathsome Toads . To the Tune of , Lord Derby . IN searching famous Chronicles , it was my change to read , A worthy story strange and true , whereto I took Good heed ; Betwixt a Father and a Son this rare example stands , Which well may move the hardest hearts to weep and wring their hands . A farmer in the Country liv'd whose substance did excel , He sent therefore his eldest Son in Paris for to dwell : Where he became a Merchant man , and Traffic Great he used , So that he was exceeding rich till he himself abused . For having now the world at will his mind was fully bent , To Gaming , wine , and wantonness , till all his Goods were spent . Yet such excessive riotousness , by him was showed forth , That he was three times more in debt than all his Wealth was worth . At length his credit clean was cracked , and he in prison cast , And every man against him then , did set his actium fas Then he lay locked in Irons strong for ever and for aye , Unable while his life did last this grievous debt to pay . And living in this woeful case , his eyes with tears he spent , The lewdness of his former life too late he did repen And being void of all relief , of help and comfort quite , Unto his Father at the last , he thus began to write . Bow down a while your heedful ear , my loving father dear , And grant I pray in gracious sort , my piteous plaint to hear : Forgive the foul offences all of [ y ] our unworthy Son , Which through the lewdness of his life hath now himself undone . O my good father take remorse , on this my extreme need , And succour his distressed state who [ s ] e heart for woe does bleed , In direful dungeon here I lie , my feet in fetters fast , Where my most cruel Creditors , in prison have me cast . Let pity therefore pierce your breast , and mercy move your mind , And to release my misery some shift dear father find , My chiefest Cheer is bred full brown the boards my softest bed , And flinty stones my pillow serve to rest my troubled head . MY Garmets all are worn to rags , my body starves with cold , And creeping vermin eat my flesh , most grievous to behold : Dear father come therefore with speed , and rid me out of thrall , And let me not in prison die , sith for your help I call . The Good old man no sooner had perus'd this written scrowl , But trickling tears along his cheeks most plenteously did roll . Alas my son , my son quoth he , in whom I joyed most , Thou shalt not long in prison be , what ever it me cost . Two hundred head of well-fed beasts he changed into Gold , Four hundred quarters of Good corn , for silver eke he sold , But all the same could not suffice this hanious fact to pay , Till at the last constrained was to fell his Land away . Then was his Son released quite , his debts discharged clean , And he like as well to Live , as he before had been . Then went his Loving Father home who for to help his Son Had sold his Living quite away , and eke himself undone . So that he Lived poor and bore and in such extreme need , That many times he wanted food his hungry corpse to feed . His son mean time in wealth did swim , whose substance now was such , That sure within the City then few men were found so rich . But as his Goods did still increase , and Riches it did slide , So more and more his hardened heart did swell in hateful pride . But it fell out upon a time , when ten years woe was passed , Unto his Son he did repair for some relief at last . And being come unto his house in very poor array , It chanced so that with his Son great store should dine that day : The poor old man with hat in hand , did then the Porter pray , To show his son that at the Gate his Father there did stay . Whereat this proud disdainful w [ r ] etch with taunting speeches said , That long ago his Father's bones within the Grave was laid . What Rascal then is that quoth he , that stains thus my state : I charge thee Porter present [ l ] y to drive him from my Gate . Which answer when the old man herd he was in mind dismayed , He wept , he wail'd , he wrung his hands , and thus at length he said , Oh cursed wretch , and most unkind , and worker of my woe , Thou monster of humanity , and eke thy father's foe . Have I been careful of thy case , maintaining still thy state , And dost thou now most doggedly enforce me from thy Gate : And have I wrong'd thy brethren all , from thrall to set thee free , And brought myself to beggars state , and all to succour thee . Woe worth the time that first of all thy body I espy'd , Which hath in hardness of thy heart thy father's face deny'd . But now behold how God that time did show a wonder Great , Even when his son and all his friends , were setting down to meat . For when the fairest pie was cut a strange and dreadful case , Most ugly Toads came crawling out and leapt in his face : Then did this wretch his fault confess , and for his father sent , And for his Great ingratitude full soar he did repent . All virtuous Children Learn by this obedient hearts to show , And honour still [ l ] your parents dear , for God commanded so : And think how he did turn his meat to poisonous Toads indeed , Which did his father's face deny because he stood in need . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and I . Wright . 