The most Rare and Excellent History , Of the Duchess of Suffolks Calamity . To the Tune of , Queen Dido . WHen God had taken for our since , that prudent Prince K. Edward away , Then bloody Bonner did begin his raging malice to bewray : All those that did Gods word profess , He Prosecuted more or less . Thus while the Lord on us did lower , many in Prison he did throw , Tormenting them in Lollards Tower whereby they might the truth forego : Then Cranmer , Ridley , and the rest , Were burning in the fire , that Christ professed . Smithfield was then with Faggots fill'd , and many places more beside , At Coventry was Saunders kill'd , at Woster eke good Hooper dy'd ; And to escape this bloody da [ y ] , Beyond Sea many fled away . among the rest that sought relief , and for their faith in danger stood Lady Elizabeth was chief , King Henry's Daughter of Royal blood , Which in the Tower did Prisoner lie , Looking each day when she should die . The Duchess of Suffolk seeing this , whose life likewise the tyrant sought , Who in the hope's of Heavenly bliss , within Gods words her comfort wrough For fear of Death was forc'd to fly , and leave their House most secretly . That for the love of God alone , her Land and Goods she left behind ; Seeking still for that precious stone , the word and truth so rare to find : She with her Nurse Husband and Child , in poor array their sighs beguil'd . Thus through London they passed a long each one did take a several street , Thus all along escaping wrong , at Billingsgate they all did meet , Like people poor in Gravesend Barge , They simple went with all their charge . and all along from Graves-end-Town , with journeys short on foot they went , Unto the Seacoast came they down , to pass the Seas was their intent . and God provided so that day , That they took Ship and saill'd away . and with a prosperous gale of wind , in Flanders they did safe arrive This was to their great ease of mind , and from their heavy heart much woe did drive , and so with thanks to God on high , They took their way to Germany . Thus as they travel'd still disguis'd , upon the highway suddenly , By cruel Thieves they were surpriz'd assaling their small company : and all their treasures and their store , They took away and beatrice them soar . The Nurse in midst of all their fight laid down the Child upon the ground , She ran away out of their sighed , and never after that was found , Then did the Duchess make great moan , With her good Husband all alone . The thieves had there their Horses kill'd , and all their money quite had took , The pretty Baby almost spoil'd , was by the Nurse likewise forsook : and they far from their friends did stand , and succourless in a strange Land. The Sky likewise began to scowl , it hail'd and rain'd in piteous soar , The way was long and wondrous foul , then may I now full well report , Their grief and sorrow was not small , When this unhappy chance did fallen . Sometime the Duchess boar the Child , as wet as ever she could be , And when the Lady kind and mild , was weary than the Child boar he , And thus they one another eas'd , And with their fortune's well was pleas'd , And after many a weary step , all wet-shod both in dirt and mire After much grief their hearts yet leaps , for labour does some rest require , A town before them they did see , But lodged there they coul not be . From house to house then they did go , seeking that night where they might lie , But want of Money was their woe , and still their Babe with cold does cry , With Cap and Knee they courtesy make , But one of them would pity take . Loe here a Princess of great blood , does pray a Peasant for relief , With tears bedewed as she stood , yet few or none regard her grief , Her speech they could not understand , But gave [ h ] er money in her hand . When all in vain her speeches spent , and that they could not houseroom get , Into a Church Porch then they went , to stand out of the rain and we Then said the Duchess to her Dear , Oh that we had some fire here . Then did her Husband so provide , that fire and coals they god with speed , She sat down by the fireside , to dress her Daughter that had need : And while she dressed it in her lap , Her Husband made the Infant pap . Anon the Sexton thither came , and finding them there by the fire , The Drunken Knave all void of shame , to drive them out was his desire , And spurned out the noble Dame , Her Husbands wrath he did inflame . And all in fury as he stood , he wrung the Church-Keys out of his hand . And struck him so that all the blood , his head ran down as he did stand , Wherefore the Sexton presently , For aid and help aloud did cry . Then came the Officers in haste , and took the Duchess and her Child , And with her Husband thus they passed , like lambs beset with tigers wild : And to the Governer was brought , Who understood them not in ought . Then Master Betrue brave and bold , in Latin made a gallant speech , Which all their misers did unfold , and their high favour did beseech . With that a Doctor sitting by , Did know the Duchess presently . And thereupon arising straight , with words abashed at this sighed , Unto them all that there did wait , he thus broke forth in words aright Behold within your sighed , quoth he , A Princess of most high degree . With that the Governor and all the rest , were much amaz'd the same to hear , Who Welcomed this new come Guest , with reverence great and princely cheer . And afterwards convey'd they were , Unto their Friend Prince Cassimere . A Son she hath in Germany , Peregrine Bertue call'd by Name ; Surnam'd the good Lord Willoughby , of Courage great and worthy fame : Her Daughter young that with her went , Was afterwards Countess of Kent . For when Queen Mary was Deceas'd , the Duchess home return'd again , Who was of sorrow quite released , by Queen Elizabeths happy Reign : Whose Godly Life and Piety , We may praise continually . LONDON : Printed by and for A.M. and sold by the Bookseller of London . The most Rare and Excellent History , Of the Duchess of Suffolks Calamity . To the Tune of , Queen Dido . WHen God had taken for our since , that prudent Prince K. Edward away , Then bloody Bonner did begin his raging malice to bewray : All those that did Gods word profess , He Prosecuted more or less . Thus while the Lord on us did lower , many in Prison he did throw , Tormenting them in Lollards Tower whereby they might the truth forego : Then Cranmer , Ridley , and the rest , Were burning in the fire , that Christ professed . Smithfield was then with Faggots fill'd , and many places more beside , At Coventry was Saunders kill'd , at Woster eke good Hooper dy'd ; And to escape this bloody da [ y ] , Beyond Sea many fled away . among the rest that sought relief , and for their faith in danger stood Lady Elizabeth was chief , King Henry's Daughter of Royal blood , Which in the Tower did Prisoner lie , Looking each day when she should die . The Duchess of Suffolk seeing this , whose life likewise the tyrant sought , Who in the hope's of Heavenly bliss , within Gods words her comfort wrough For fear of Death was forc'd to fly , and leave their House most secretly . That for the love of God alone , her Land and Goods she left behind ; Seeking still for that precious stone , the word and truth so rare to find : She with her Nurse Husband and Child , in poor array their sighs beguil'd . Thus through London they passed a long each one did take a several street , Thus all along escaping wrong , at Billingsgate they all did meet , Like people poor in Gravesend Barge , They simple went with all their charge . and all along from Graves-end-Town , with journeys short on foot they went , Unto the Seacoast came they down , to pass the Seas was their intent . and God provided so that day , That they took Ship and saill'd away . and with a prosperous gale of wind , in Flanders they did safe arrive This was to their great ease of mind , and from their heavy heart much woe did drive , and so with thanks to God on high , They took their way to Germany . Thus as they travel'd still disguis'd , upon the highway suddenly , By cruel Thieves they were surpriz'd assaling their small company : and all their treasures and their store , They took away and beatrice them soar . The Nurse in midst of all their fight laid down the Child upon the ground , She ran away out of their sighed , and never after that was found , Then did the Duchess make great moan , With her good Husband all alone . The thieves had there their Horses kill'd , and all their money quite had took , The pretty Baby almost spoil'd , was by the Nurse likewise forsook : and they far from their friends did stand , and succourless in a strange Land. The Sky likewise began to scowl , it hail'd and rain'd in piteous soar , The way was long and wondrous foul , then may I now full well report , Their grief and sorrow was not small , When this unhappy chance did fallen . Sometime the Duchess boar the Child , as wet as ever she could be , And when the Lady kind and mild , was weary than the Child boar he , And thus they one another eas'd , And with their fortune's well was pleas'd , And after many a weary step , all wet-shod both in dirt and mire After much grief their hearts yet leaps , for labour does some rest require , A town before them they did see , But lodged there they coul not be . From house to house then they did go , seeking that night where they might lie , But want of Money was their woe , and still their Babe with cold does cry , With Cap and Knee they courtesy make , But one of them would pity take . Loe here a Princess of great blood , does pray a Peasant for relief , With tears bedewed as she stood , yet few or none regard her grief , Her speech they could not understand , But gave [ h ] er money in her hand . When all in vain her speeches spent , and that they could not houseroom get , Into a Church Porch then they went , to stand out of the rain and we Then said the Duchess to her Dear , Oh that we had some fire here . Then did her Husband so provide , that fire and coals they god with speed , She sat down by the fireside , to dress her Daughter that had need : And while she dressed it in her lap , Her Husband made the Infant pap . Anon the Sexton thither came , and finding them there by the fire , The Drunken Knave all void of shame , to drive them out was his desire , And spurned out the noble Dame , Her Husbands wrath he did inflame . And all in fury as he stood , he wrung the Church-Keys out of his hand . And struck him so that all the blood , his head ran down as he did stand , Wherefore the Sexton presently , For aid and help aloud did cry . Then came the Officers in haste , and took the Duchess and her Child , And with her Husband thus they passed , like lambs beset with tigers wild : And to the Governer was brought , Who understood them not in ought . Then Master Betrue brave and bold , in Latin made a gallant speech , Which all their misers did unfold , and their high favour did beseech . With that a Doctor sitting by , Did know the Duchess presently . And thereupon arising straight , with words abashed at this sighed , Unto them all that there did wait , he thus broke forth in words aright Behold within your sighed , quoth he , A Princess of most high degree . With that the Governor and all the rest , were much amaz'd the same to hear , Who Welcomed this new come Guest , with reverence great and princely cheer . And afterwards convey'd they were , Unto their Friend Prince Cassimere . A Son she hath in Germany , Peregrine Bertue call'd by Name ; Surnam'd the good Lord Willoughby , of Courage great and worthy fame : Her Daughter young that with her went , Was afterwards Countess of Kent . For when Queen Mary was Deceas'd , the Duchess home return'd again , Who was of sorrow quite released , by Queen Elizabeths happy Reign : Whose Godly Life and Piety , We may praise continually . LONDON : Printed by and for A.M. and sold by the Bookseller of London . 