The most Rare and Excellent History , Of the Duchess of Suffolks Calamity To the Tune of , Queen Dido . WHen God had taken for our since , thy prudent Prince K. Edward away , Then bloody Bonner did begin his raging malice to bewray : All those that did Gods Word profess , He persecuted more or less . Thus while the Lord on us did lower , many in Prison he did throw , Tormenting them in Lollards Tower , whereby they might the truth forego : Then Cranmer , Ridley , and the rest , were burning in the fire , that Christ professed . Smithfield was then with Faggots filled , and many places more beside , At Coventry was Sanders kill'd , at Wooster eke , good Hopper dy'd ; And to escape this bloody day , Beyond-sea many fled away . among the rest that sought release , and for their faith in danger stood , Lady Elizabeth was chief , King Henries Daughter of Royal blood ; Which in the Tower did Prisoner lie , Looking each day when she should die . The Duchess of Suffolk seeing this , whose life likewise the Tyrant sough Who in the hope's of heavenly bliss , within Gods Word her comfort wrough For fear of death was faint to fly , And leave her house most secretly . That for the love of God alone , her Land and Goods she left behind , Seeking still for that precious stone , the word and truth so rare to find ; She with her Nurse , Husband , and Child , In poor array their sighs beguil'd . Thus through London they passed along each one did take a several street , Thus all along escaping wrong , at Billinsgate they all did meet , Like people poor in Gravesend-barge , They simply went with all their charge . And all along from Gravesend-town , with journeys short on foot they went , Unto the Seacoast came they down , to pass the Seas was their inten And God provided so that day , That they took ship and sailed away . And with a prosperous gale of wind , in Flanders they did safe arrive , This was to their great ease of mind , and from their heavy hearts much woe did drive , And so with thanks to God on high , They took their way to Germany . Thus as they travel'd still disguis'd , upon the Highway suddenly , By cruel Thieves they were surpriz'd , assailing their small company : And all their treasures and their store , They took away and beatrice them soar . The Nurse in midst of their fight , laid down the Child upon the ground , She ran away out of their sighed , and never after that was found : Then did the Duchess make great moan , With her good Husband all alone . The Thieves had there their horses kill'd , and all their money quite had took , The pretty baby almost spoil'd , was by the Nurse likewise forsook : And they far from their friends did stand And succourless in a strange Land. The Sky likewise began to scowl , it Hailed and Reigned in piteous sort , The way was long and wondrous foul , then may I now full well report , Their grief and sorrow was not small , When this unhappy chance did fallen . Sometime the Duchess boar the Child , as wet as ever she could be , And when the Lady kind and mild was weary , then the Child boar he : And thus they one another eas'd , And with their fortune's well was pleas'd . And after many a weary step , all wet-shod both in dirt and mire , After much grief their hearts yet leaps , for labour does some rest require : A town before them they did see , But Lodged there they could not be , From house to house then they did go , seeking that night where they might lie , But want of money was their woe , and still their babe with cold did cry ; With cap and knee they courtesy make But none of them would pity take . Lo here a Prince of great blood , does pray a peasant for relief , With tears bedewed as she stood , yet few or none regard her grief : Her speech they could not understand , But gave her money in her hand . When all in vain her speeches spent , and that they could not houseroom get , Into a Church-porch then they went , to stand out of the rain and we Then said the Duchess to her Dear , Oh that we had some fire here . Then did her Husband so provide ; that fire and coals he god with speed : She sat down by the fire side to dress her Daughter that had need : And while she dressed it in her lap , Her Husband made the Infant pap . Anon the Sexston thither came , and finding them there by the fire , The drunken knave , all void of shame , to drive them out was his desire : And spurn'd forth the Noble Dame , Her husbands wrath she did inflame . And all in fury as he stood , he wrung the Church-keys out of his hand And struck him so that all the blood his head ran down as he did stand : Wherefore the Sexston presently , For help and aid aloud did cry . Then came the Officers in haste , and took the Duchess and her Child , And with her husband thus they passed , like Lambs beset with Tigers wild ; And to the Governor were brought , Who understood them not in ought . Then Master Bertue brave and bold , in Latin made a gallant speech , Which all their misery did unfold , and their high favour did beseech ? With that a Doctor sitting by , Did know the Duchess presently . And thereupon arising straight , with words abashed at this sighed , Unto them all that there did wait , he thus brake forth in words arigh Behold within your sighed , quoth he , A Prince of most high degree . With that the Governor and all the rest , were all amazed the same to hear , Who welcomed this new come guest , with reverence great and Princely cheer , And afterwards convey'd they were , Unto their friend , Prince Cassimere . A Son she had in Germany , Pergrine Bartue call'd by name , Surnam'd the good Lord Willoughby , of courage great and worthy fame : Her daughter young with her went , Was afterwards Countess of Kent . For when Queen Mary was deceased the Duchess home return'd again Who was of sorrow quite released , by Queen Llizabeths happy Reign : Whose godly life and piety , We may praise continually . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . The most Rare and Excellent History , Of the Duchess of Suffolks Calamity To the Tune of , Queen Dido . WHen God had taken for our since , thy prudent Prince K. Edward away , Then bloody Bonner did begin his raging malice to bewray : All those that did Gods Word profess , He persecuted more or less . Thus while the Lord on us did lower , many in Prison he did throw , Tormenting them in Lollards Tower , whereby they might the truth forego : Then Cranmer , Ridley , and the rest , were burning in the fire , that Christ professed . Smithfield was then with Faggots filled , and many places more beside , At Coventry was Sanders kill'd , at Wooster eke , good Hopper dy'd ; And to escape this bloody day , Beyond-sea many fled away . among the rest that sought release , and for their faith in danger stood , Lady Elizabeth was chief , King Henries Daughter of Royal blood ; Which in the Tower did Prisoner lie , Looking each day when she should die . The Duchess of Suffolk seeing this , whose life likewise the Tyrant sough Who in the hope's of heavenly bliss , within Gods Word her comfort wrough For fear of death was faint to fly , And leave her house most secretly . That for the love of God alone , her Land and Goods she left behind , Seeking still for that precious stone , the word and truth so rare to find ; She with her Nurse , Husband , and Child , In poor array their sighs beguil'd . Thus through London they passed along each one did take a several street , Thus all along escaping wrong , at Billinsgate they all did meet , Like people poor in Gravesend-barge , They simply went with all their charge . And all along from Gravesend-town , with journeys short on foot they went , Unto the Seacoast came they down , to pass the Seas was their inten And God provided so that day , That they took ship and sailed away . And with a prosperous gale of wind , in Flanders they did safe arrive , This was to their great ease of mind , and from their heavy hearts much woe did drive , And so with thanks to God on high , They took their way to Germany . Thus as they travel'd still disguis'd , upon the Highway suddenly , By cruel Thieves they were surpriz'd , assailing their small company : And all their treasures and their store , They took away and beatrice them soar . The Nurse in midst of their fight , laid down the Child upon the ground , She ran away out of their sighed , and never after that was found : Then did the Duchess make great moan , With her good Husband all alone . The Thieves had there their horses kill'd , and all their money quite had took , The pretty baby almost spoil'd , was by the Nurse likewise forsook : And they far from their friends did stand And succourless in a strange Land. The Sky likewise began to scowl , it Hailed and Reigned in piteous sort , The way was long and wondrous foul , then may I now full well report , Their grief and sorrow was not small , When this unhappy chance did fallen . Sometime the Duchess boar the Child , as wet as ever she could be , And when the Lady kind and mild was weary , then the Child boar he : And thus they one another eas'd , And with their fortune's well was pleas'd . And after many a weary step , all wet-shod both in dirt and mire , After much grief their hearts yet leaps , for labour does some rest require : A town before them they did see , But Lodged there they could not be , From house to house then they did go , seeking that night where they might lie , But want of money was their woe , and still their babe with cold did cry ; With cap and knee they courtesy make But none of them would pity take . Lo here a Prince of great blood , does pray a peasant for relief , With tears bedewed as she stood , yet few or none regard her grief : Her speech they could not understand , But gave her money in her hand . When all in vain her speeches spent , and that they could not houseroom get , Into a Church-porch then they went , to stand out of the rain and we Then said the Duchess to her Dear , Oh that we had some fire here . Then did her Husband so provide ; that fire and coals he god with speed : She sat down by the fire side to dress her Daughter that had need : And while she dressed it in her lap , Her Husband made the Infant pap . Anon the Sexston thither came , and finding them there by the fire , The drunken knave , all void of shame , to drive them out was his desire : And spurn'd forth the Noble Dame , Her husbands wrath she did inflame . And all in fury as he stood , he wrung the Church-keys out of his hand And struck him so that all the blood his head ran down as he did stand : Wherefore the Sexston presently , For help and aid aloud did cry . Then came the Officers in haste , and took the Duchess and her Child , And with her husband thus they passed , like Lambs beset with Tigers wild ; And to the Governor were brought , Who understood them not in ought . Then Master Bertue brave and bold , in Latin made a gallant speech , Which all their misery did unfold , and their high favour did beseech ? With that a Doctor sitting by , Did know the Duchess presently . And thereupon arising straight , with words abashed at this sighed , Unto them all that there did wait , he thus brake forth in words arigh Behold within your sighed , quoth he , A Prince of most high degree . With that the Governor and all the rest , were all amazed the same to hear , Who welcomed this new come guest , with reverence great and Princely cheer , And afterwards convey'd they were , Unto their friend , Prince Cassimere . A Son she had in Germany , Pergrine Bartue call'd by name , Surnam'd the good Lord Willoughby , of courage great and worthy fame : Her daughter young with her went , Was afterwards Countess of Kent . For when Queen Mary was deceased the Duchess home return'd again Who was of sorrow quite released , by Queen Llizabeths happy Reign : Whose godly life and piety , We may praise continually . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . 