The Dying Tears of a penitent Sinner . Which was written as he lay on his Deathbed , according to his own direction . Wherein we may behold how steadfastly he believed in the precious Death and passion of our Lord Jesus Christ , And how willing he was to leave this World . To the Tune of , The Faithful Friend : or , The Brother's Gift . DRaw near kind friends and neighbours all , which now are come to see ; And to bear witness of my death , give ear a while to me : I do desire no worldly wealth , no treasure nor no store ; But I desire Gods heavenly grace , and I desire no more . O Gracious God , Oh Father dear , in mercy look on me : And send me comfort from above , in my extremity . To thee , Oh Lord , I make my moan , to thee I call and cry : Strengthen my faith in pangs of death , against the enemy . Thou art my only strength and stay , my Rock , Defence , and Guide : Direct my steps to come to thee , so that I may not slide . Thy promise is , good Lord , that when a sinner does intend Quite to forsake his wicked life , wherein he does offend . Thou wilt forgive , and pardon grant , for his offences all , And thou Oh Lord , wilt hear my voice , when on thee I do call . I do confess my sins are great , and loathsome to behold ; Yet for thy Son Christ Jesus sake , bring me into thy fold . The second part , to the same Tune . LAy not dear Father to my charge , the things that I have done : I have broken thy Commandments , and been a wicked Son. Servants their Master's will obey , children their Parents fear , But I have been a stubborn Son to thee , Oh Father , dear . Ever since I was born , I have deserv'd thy wrathful i're : Yet now with true unfeigned tears , thy mercy I desire . And if my days on earth again , were present to begin : I never would incline to run , as I have done , in since . But time will not recalled be , which makes my soul lamen That I have led so vile a life , I do in heart repent . O Heavenly God , Oh Father sweet , in mercy look on me : And send me comfort from above , in this my misery . Christ Jesus came into the World , to save and set us free : As many sinful wretches as do trust ( Oh Lord ) in thee . He did endure the punishments which unto us was due : Because we should shake off our sins , and learn to live a new . If we consider of his pains , and how his time he spen It well may make our stony heart , to soften and relent . His blessed body for our sins , did blood and Water swea His very soul did grieve for us , his torments were so great . After the Jews had scourged him , with many wounds beside : They caus'd dim to bear his Cross on which he should be Crucified . And there between two Thieves they plac'd , our blessed Redeemer sweet , And cruelly upon the Cross , they nail'd his hands and feet . A bloody Soldier with his Spear , did pierce his tender side : All which Christ Jesus at that time did patiently abide . And by his wounds we're made whole , his blood hath cleansed me : Oh Father , Son , and Holy Ghost , all praise be given to thee . And now dear Wife and Children all , I bid you all adieu : Serve God , obey the King , and see you pay each man his endue . Let not your Eyes shed tears for me , to weep it is in vain : I trust in Christ , in heaven we shall , each other see again . As good old Simeon did forsake this world , even so do I : Come Lord , when this thy blessed will , I willing am to die . Finis . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . The Dying Tears of a penitent Sinner . Which was written as he lay on his Deathbed , according to his own direction . Wherein we may behold how steadfastly he believed in the precious Death and passion of our Lord Jesus Christ , And how willing he was to leave this World . To the Tune of , The Faithful Friend : or , The Brother's Gift . DRaw near kind friends and neighbours all , which now are come to see ; And to bear witness of my death , give ear a while to me : I do desire no worldly wealth , no treasure nor no store ; But I desire Gods heavenly grace , and I desire no more . O Gracious God , Oh Father dear , in mercy look on me : And send me comfort from above , in my extremity . To thee , Oh Lord , I make my moan , to thee I call and cry : Strengthen my faith in pangs of death , against the enemy . Thou art my only strength and stay , my Rock , Defence , and Guide : Direct my steps to come to thee , so that I may not slide . Thy promise is , good Lord , that when a sinner does intend Quite to forsake his wicked life , wherein he does offend . Thou wilt forgive , and pardon grant , for his offences all , And thou Oh Lord , wilt hear my voice , when on thee I do call . I do confess my sins are great , and loathsome to behold ; Yet for thy Son Christ Jesus sake , bring me into thy fold . The second part , to the same Tune . LAy not dear Father to my charge , the things that I have done : I have broken thy Commandments , and been a wicked Son. Servants their Master's will obey , children their Parents fear , But I have been a stubborn Son to thee , Oh Father , dear . Ever since I was born , I have deserv'd thy wrathful i're : Yet now with true unfeigned tears , thy mercy I desire . And if my days on earth again , were present to begin : I never would incline to run , as I have done , in since . But time will not recalled be , which makes my soul lamen That I have led so vile a life , I do in heart repent . O Heavenly God , Oh Father sweet , in mercy look on me : And send me comfort from above , in this my misery . Christ Jesus came into the World , to save and set us free : As many sinful wretches as do trust ( Oh Lord ) in thee . He did endure the punishments which unto us was due : Because we should shake off our sins , and learn to live a new . If we consider of his pains , and how his time he spen It well may make our stony heart , to soften and relent . His blessed body for our sins , did blood and Water swea His very soul did grieve for us , his torments were so great . After the Jews had scourged him , with many wounds beside : They caus'd dim to bear his Cross on which he should be Crucified . And there between two Thieves they plac'd , our blessed Redeemer sweet , And cruelly upon the Cross , they nail'd his hands and feet . A bloody Soldier with his Spear , did pierce his tender side : All which Christ Jesus at that time did patiently abide . And by his wounds we're made whole , his blood hath cleansed me : Oh Father , Son , and Holy Ghost , all praise be given to thee . And now dear Wife and Children all , I bid you all adieu : Serve God , obey the King , and see you pay each man his endue . Let not your Eyes shed tears for me , to weep it is in vain : I trust in Christ , in heaven we shall , each other see again . As good old Simeon did forsake this world , even so do I : Come Lord , when this thy blessed will , I willing am to die . Finis . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackeray , and T. Passenger . 