The Dying Tears of a Penitent Sinner , Which was written as he lay on his deathbed , according to his own direction ; WHEREIN we may behold how steadfastly he believed in the precious death and passion of our Lord Jesus Christ , and how willing he was to leave this world . To the Tune of , The Faithful friend , or the Brother's gift . DRaw near kind friends and neighbours all , which now are come to see , And to bear witness of my death , give ear a while to me . I do desire no worldly wealth , no treasure nor no store : But I desire Gods heavenly grace , and I desire no more . O gracious God , Oh Father dear , in mercy look on me : And send me comfort from above , in my extremity . To thee , Oh Lord , I make my moan , to thee I call and cry : Strengthen my faith in pangs of death , against the Enemy . Thou art my only strength and stay , my Rock , Defence , and Guide : Direct my steps to come to thee , so that I may not slide . Thy Promise is , good Lord , that when , a sinner does intend , Quite to forsake his wicked life , wherein he did offend : Thou wilt forgive , and pardon grant , for his offences all ; And thou , Oh Lord , wilt hear my voice , when on thee I do call . I do confess , my sins are great , and loathsome to behold , Yet for thy Son Christ Jesus sake , bring me into thy fold . Lay not , dear Father , to my charge , the things that I have done : I have broke thy Commandments and been a wicked Son. Servants their Master's will obey , Children their Parents fear , But I have been a stubborn Son to thee , Oh Father dear . The second part to the same Tune EVer since I was born , I have deserv'd thy wrathful ire ; Yet , now with true unfeigned tears thy mercy I desire . And if my days on earth again were present to begin ; I never would incline to run as I have done in since . But time will not recalled be , which makes my soul lament , That I have led so vile a life , I do in heart repent . O heavenly God , Oh Father sweet , in mercy look on me , And send me comfort from above in this my misery . Christ Jesus came into the world , to save and set us free , As many sinful wretches as do trust , Oh Lord , in thee . He did endure the punishments which unto us was due , Because we should shake off our sins , and learn to live a new . If we consider of his pains , and how his time be spent , It well may move our stony hearts to soften and relent . His blessed body for our sins , did blood and water sweat , His very soul did grieve for us , his torments were so great . After the Jews had scourged him , with many wrongs beside , They caus'd him bear his cross , on which he should be crucifi'd . And there between two thieves they plac'd our blessed Redeemer sweet , And cruelly upon the Cross they nayl'd his hands and feet . A bloody Soldier with his Spear did pierce his tender side , All which Christ Jesus at that time did patiently abide . And by his wounds we are made whole , his blood hath cleansed me , Oh Father , Son , and Holy Ghost , all praise be given to thee . And now dear wife , and children all , I bid you all adieu , Serve God , obey the King , and see you pay each man his endue . Let not your eyes shed tears for me , to weep it is in vain , I trust in Christ in Heaven we shall each other see again . As good old Simeon did forsake this world , even so do I ; Come Lord when 'tis thy blessed will , I willing am to die . FINIS . London , Printed for Francis Grove on Snow-hill , without Newgate . Entered according to Order . The Dying Tears of a Penitent Sinner , Which was written as he lay on his deathbed , according to his own direction ; WHEREIN we may behold how steadfastly he believed in the precious death and passion of our Lord Jesus Christ , and how willing he was to leave this world . To the Tune of , The Faithful friend , or the Brother's gift . DRaw near kind friends and neighbours all , which now are come to see , And to bear witness of my death , give ear a while to me . I do desire no worldly wealth , no treasure nor no store : But I desire Gods heavenly grace , and I desire no more . O gracious God , Oh Father dear , in mercy look on me : And send me comfort from above , in my extremity . To thee , Oh Lord , I make my moan , to thee I call and cry : Strengthen my faith in pangs of death , against the Enemy . Thou art my only strength and stay , my Rock , Defence , and Guide : Direct my steps to come to thee , so that I may not slide . Thy Promise is , good Lord , that when , a sinner does intend , Quite to forsake his wicked life , wherein he did offend : Thou wilt forgive , and pardon grant , for his offences all ; And thou , Oh Lord , wilt hear my voice , when on thee I do call . I do confess , my sins are great , and loathsome to behold , Yet for thy Son Christ Jesus sake , bring me into thy fold . Lay not , dear Father , to my charge , the things that I have done : I have broke thy Commandments and been a wicked Son. Servants their Master's will obey , Children their Parents fear , But I have been a stubborn Son to thee , Oh Father dear . The second part to the same Tune EVer since I was born , I have deserv'd thy wrathful ire ; Yet , now with true unfeigned tears thy mercy I desire . And if my days on earth again were present to begin ; I never would incline to run as I have done in since . But time will not recalled be , which makes my soul lament , That I have led so vile a life , I do in heart repent . O heavenly God , Oh Father sweet , in mercy look on me , And send me comfort from above in this my misery . Christ Jesus came into the world , to save and set us free , As many sinful wretches as do trust , Oh Lord , in thee . He did endure the punishments which unto us was due , Because we should shake off our sins , and learn to live a new . If we consider of his pains , and how his time be spent , It well may move our stony hearts to soften and relent . His blessed body for our sins , did blood and water sweat , His very soul did grieve for us , his torments were so great . After the Jews had scourged him , with many wrongs beside , They caus'd him bear his cross , on which he should be crucifi'd . And there between two thieves they plac'd our blessed Redeemer sweet , And cruelly upon the Cross they nayl'd his hands and feet . A bloody Soldier with his Spear did pierce his tender side , All which Christ Jesus at that time did patiently abide . And by his wounds we are made whole , his blood hath cleansed me , Oh Father , Son , and Holy Ghost , all praise be given to thee . And now dear wife , and children all , I bid you all adieu , Serve God , obey the King , and see you pay each man his endue . Let not your eyes shed tears for me , to weep it is in vain , I trust in Christ in Heaven we shall each other see again . As good old Simeon did forsake this world , even so do I ; Come Lord when 'tis thy blessed will , I willing am to die . FINIS . London , Printed for Francis Grove on Snow-hill , without Newgate . Entered according to Order . 