Dying Tears . OR , Englands Joy turned to mourning , for the loss of that Virtuous Prince , Henry Duke of Glocester , 3d. Son to our late Sovereign King Charles the firs Who departed this life the 13 of September , in the Year of our Lord , 1660. Prepare for death before you die , If you would live eternally . To the Tune of , Aim not too high . G [ Reat ] are the wonders that our God hath done , Great are the mercies which to us are shown Yet we forget to say that God is just , Even though he turn the living into dust . Now learn , Oh England , learn for to lament His death ; who from us hath been long absent ; And at the last is come on English Shore To lay his Corpse ; whose death we now deplore . Just in the prime and blooming of His age , Dear Gloster's ravished from this mortal Stage : Yet though his body can no more revive , Yet his rare Virtues seem to be alive . Scarce had fair England bidden welcome home This our most virtuous Prince , but death does come ; Scarce had his weary body taken rest , Behold grim death does come and takes his breath . How can fair England weep enough and mourn , His comely Corpse we can't enough adorn : Oh death , our hope's , our Treasure , in and hour Hast thou dispers'd , which makes salt tears to shower Oh envious death ! how dar'st thou in his Prime , To cut down him , in whom all virtues shine : Therefore wee'l seek his virtues for to blaze , Upon his Tomb we will set forth his Praise . No sooner in his virtues we did trust , But presently this Prince is turned to dus O then what course of lives should Mortals take , Seeing that Princes cannot death forsake . Great Emperors and Kings lie at the stake , To day they live , to morrow their graves they make Death is a debt we owe , which we must pay : When death does call , poor mortals must obey . The Second Part to the same Tune , Oh That found man , would but view o're his days , And seriously consider his own ways : How that all things below are vanity , Our souls Reedmer 'tis that lives on high . The God of Love pour forth his mercies great On our Dread Sovereign , even from his mercy seat ; Oh give him grace and wisdom to consider That where his Brother's gone , he must go thither . For Kings and Princes are but a span , When death does come with's grimly dart in hand To give the stroke : while nature bids adieu To all its pleasures , and it's Comfort too . O that our God would pour his spirit upon Our King and Prince , that they may both live long ; Oh let them know 'tis not the arm of flesh That's able to withstand Death's powerful crush . 'Tis not men honour nor his powerful hand , Nor his Riches that are at his command , Neither his friend at all can him deliver From death's sad stroke , which strikes but once for ever . O learn with blessed David for to prove That Gods thy portion and thy only love ; Then death shall not affright thee , nor the grave ; But this shall thee rejoice , thy soul to save . Death is no sting , the grave cannot contain The Righteous soul that makes God his aim , But wicked men when once laid in the Urn , Their souls in torments ever after burn . But this is not our Gloster Case , for he Was the true pattern of Nobility : Saint like he liv'd , and he the same did die , As soon as dead to Heaven his soul did fly . When France did harbour this our Noble Pri [ nce ] His Mother did endeavour to convince Him to turn Papist ; but with courage bold He said his true Religion he would hold The learned Jesuite could not him deceive , Their damned Doctrine he would not believer Nor all the Learned men that France could yield Could make this Christian prince to quite the field . But now he's dead ! alas , where is he gone , His Corpse to dust , his soul to Heaven is come : Oh then Rejoice , Oh England , and be glad , That God has carried him , even to good from bad . Concluding , now I end my mournful Song . Which to all men in England does belong , Prepare for death before before you die , If e're you mean to live eternally . London , Printed for Charles Tyns on London-Bridge . Dying Tears . OR , Englands Joy turned to mourning , for the loss of that Virtuous Prince , Henry Duke of Glocester , 3d. Son to our late Sovereign King Charles the firs Who departed this life the 13 of September , in the Year of our Lord , 1660. Prepare for death before you die , If you would live eternally . To the Tune of , Aim not too high . G [ Reat ] are the wonders that our God hath done , Great are the mercies which to us are shown Yet we forget to say that God is just , Even though he turn the living into dust . Now learn , Oh England , learn for to lament His death ; who from us hath been long absent ; And at the last is come on English Shore To lay his Corpse ; whose death we now deplore . Just in the prime and blooming of His age , Dear Gloster's ravished from this mortal Stage : Yet though his body can no more revive , Yet his rare Virtues seem to be alive . Scarce had fair England bidden welcome home This our most virtuous Prince , but death does come ; Scarce had his weary body taken rest , Behold grim death does come and takes his breath . How can fair England weep enough and mourn , His comely Corpse we can't enough adorn : Oh death , our hope's , our Treasure , in and hour Hast thou dispers'd , which makes salt tears to shower Oh envious death ! how dar'st thou in his Prime , To cut down him , in whom all virtues shine : Therefore wee'l seek his virtues for to blaze , Upon his Tomb we will set forth his Praise . No sooner in his virtues we did trust , But presently this Prince is turned to dus O then what course of lives should Mortals take , Seeing that Princes cannot death forsake . Great Emperors and Kings lie at the stake , To day they live , to morrow their graves they make Death is a debt we owe , which we must pay : When death does call , poor mortals must obey . The Second Part to the same Tune , Oh That found man , would but view o're his days , And seriously consider his own ways : How that all things below are vanity , Our souls Reedmer 'tis that lives on high . The God of Love pour forth his mercies great On our Dread Sovereign , even from his mercy seat ; Oh give him grace and wisdom to consider That where his Brother's gone , he must go thither . For Kings and Princes are but a span , When death does come with's grimly dart in hand To give the stroke : while nature bids adieu To all its pleasures , and it's Comfort too . O that our God would pour his spirit upon Our King and Prince , that they may both live long ; Oh let them know 'tis not the arm of flesh That's able to withstand Death's powerful crush . 'Tis not men honour nor his powerful hand , Nor his Riches that are at his command , Neither his friend at all can him deliver From death's sad stroke , which strikes but once for ever . O learn with blessed David for to prove That Gods thy portion and thy only love ; Then death shall not affright thee , nor the grave ; But this shall thee rejoice , thy soul to save . Death is no sting , the grave cannot contain The Righteous soul that makes God his aim , But wicked men when once laid in the Urn , Their souls in torments ever after burn . But this is not our Gloster Case , for he Was the true pattern of Nobility : Saint like he liv'd , and he the same did die , As soon as dead to Heaven his soul did fly . When France did harbour this our Noble Pri [ nce ] His Mother did endeavour to convince Him to turn Papist ; but with courage bold He said his true Religion he would hold The learned Jesuite could not him deceive , Their damned Doctrine he would not believer Nor all the Learned men that France could yield Could make this Christian prince to quite the field . But now he's dead ! alas , where is he gone , His Corpse to dust , his soul to Heaven is come : Oh then Rejoice , Oh England , and be glad , That God has carried him , even to good from bad . Concluding , now I end my mournful Song . Which to all men in England does belong , Prepare for death before before you die , If e're you mean to live eternally . London , Printed for Charles Tyns on London-Bridge . 