The DEVIL's OAK : OR , His Ramble in a Tempestuous Night . Where he happen'd to Discourse with Men of several Callings of his own Colour and Complexion . To a very pleasant new Tune . ANd the Devil he was weather-beat , and forc'd to take a tree ; Because that the Tempest it was so great , his way he could not see : But under and Oak , instead of a cloak , he stood to keep himself dry , And as he stood , a Fryer in his hood by chance came passing by : And the Devil he made the Fryer afraid , with that he crossed his breast ; Then up the Devil star [ tO ] ed , the Fryer was fainthearted , you may wink and choose the Bes For I am the Fryer and thou art the Liar , therefore thou art my Father ; I am a Doctor of Evil , and thou art the Devil , the Worse I hold thee rather . A Collier and his cart came by , which coals he did use to carry , And so soon as the Devil he did him espy , he caus'd him a while to tarry , For why I do think , that with thee I must drink , and he call'd for a glass of claret ; Now I find by thy smell , tO [ h ] at thou camest from Hell , and I fear thou hast stole my chariot . Then the next that came by [ w ] as a Chimney-sweeper , with poles , his brooms and shackles , What meast , thou Man , the Devil , he said , that thou usest all those tackles ? I prithee , gentle Blade , tell me thy trade , thy face it is so besmeared , Hadst thou been so black , and no tools at thy back , thou'dst have made me soar afraid . Sir , a Chimney-sweeper , I do profess , although my trade's but mean , It is for to sweep all dirty holes , and to keep foul chimnys clean : Then go thou to Hell , where the Devil he does dwell , and he will give thee a piece ; God-a-mercy , old Dog , when I sheer my hog , then thou shalt have the fleece . The next that came by was a Tawny moor , and the Devil did him see , And he fleered on his tawny skin , crying , Friend , art thou any kin to me ; For sure your skin does resemble our kin , therefore let us walk together , And tell me how you do allow of this tempestuous weather . Then the next that came by was a Gun-powder-man , which coals and brimstone sifted , That in three quarters of a year , himself had hardly shifted : Then up the Devil rose , and snuffed his nose , he could endure it no longer , Cry'd , Away with this fume , 'tis not fit for the room [ , ] it will neither quench thirst , no , nor hunger . I prithee , gentle Blade , tell me thy trade , as thou hast so strong a smell ? It it is for to make gunpowder , he said , for to blow the Devil out of Hell ; And if I had him here [ , ] his joints would I tear , he should neither scratch , no , nor bite ; I would plague the Devil for all his evil , and make him leave walking by night . Then a Tinker worse than all the rest , although that he was not so black , By chance as he came passing by , with his budget on his back , He cry'd , Yonder is the Devil's Tree , let us see who durst go thither , For it will sustain , from the wind and the rain , or any tempestuous weather . That shall be try'd , the Devil then he cry'd , then up the Devil he did start ; Then the Tinker threw his staff about , and he made the Devil for to smart ; There against a gate , he did brake his pate , and both his horns he broke : And ever since that time , I will make up my rhyme , it was called , The Devil's Oak . London : Printed for C. Bates , at the Sun and Bible in Pie-corner . The DEVIL's OAK : OR , His Ramble in a Tempestuous Night . Where he happen'd to Discourse with Men of several Callings of his own Colour and Complexion . To a very pleasant new Tune . ANd the Devil he was weather-beat , and forc'd to take a tree ; Because that the Tempest it was so great , his way he could not see : But under and Oak , instead of a cloak , he stood to keep himself dry , And as he stood , a Fryer in his hood by chance came passing by : And the Devil he made the Fryer afraid , with that he crossed his breast ; Then up the Devil star [ tO ] ed , the Fryer was fainthearted , you may wink and choose the Bes For I am the Fryer and thou art the Liar , therefore thou art my Father ; I am a Doctor of Evil , and thou art the Devil , the Worse I hold thee rather . A Collier and his cart came by , which coals he did use to carry , And so soon as the Devil he did him espy , he caus'd him a while to tarry , For why I do think , that with thee I must drink , and he call'd for a glass of claret ; Now I find by thy smell , tO [ h ] at thou camest from Hell , and I fear thou hast stole my chariot . Then the next that came by [ w ] as a Chimney-sweeper , with poles , his brooms and shackles , What meast , thou Man , the Devil , he said , that thou usest all those tackles ? I prithee , gentle Blade , tell me thy trade , thy face it is so besmeared , Hadst thou been so black , and no tools at thy back , thou'dst have made me soar afraid . Sir , a Chimney-sweeper , I do profess , although my trade's but mean , It is for to sweep all dirty holes , and to keep foul chimnys clean : Then go thou to Hell , where the Devil he does dwell , and he will give thee a piece ; God-a-mercy , old Dog , when I sheer my hog , then thou shalt have the fleece . The next that came by was a Tawny moor , and the Devil did him see , And he fleered on his tawny skin , crying , Friend , art thou any kin to me ; For sure your skin does resemble our kin , therefore let us walk together , And tell me how you do allow of this tempestuous weather . Then the next that came by was a Gun-powder-man , which coals and brimstone sifted , That in three quarters of a year , himself had hardly shifted : Then up the Devil rose , and snuffed his nose , he could endure it no longer , Cry'd , Away with this fume , 'tis not fit for the room [ , ] it will neither quench thirst , no , nor hunger . I prithee , gentle Blade , tell me thy trade , as thou hast so strong a smell ? It it is for to make gunpowder , he said , for to blow the Devil out of Hell ; And if I had him here [ , ] his joints would I tear , he should neither scratch , no , nor bite ; I would plague the Devil for all his evil , and make him leave walking by night . Then a Tinker worse than all the rest , although that he was not so black , By chance as he came passing by , with his budget on his back , He cry'd , Yonder is the Devil's Tree , let us see who durst go thither , For it will sustain , from the wind and the rain , or any tempestuous weather . That shall be try'd , the Devil then he cry'd , then up the Devil he did start ; Then the Tinker threw his staff about , and he made the Devil for to smart ; There against a gate , he did brake his pate , and both his horns he broke : And ever since that time , I will make up my rhyme , it was called , The Devil's Oak . London : Printed for C. Bates , at the Sun and Bible in Pie-corner . 