THE DUMB MAID : OR , The Young Gallant Trappan'd . A Young Man did unto her a Wooing come , But she pretended much that she was Dumb ; But when they both in Marriage-bands were ty'd , The Doctors Skill was likewise with her try'd ; The Doctor he set her Tongue on the Run , She Chatters now , and never will have done . To a new tune called , Dum , dum , dum . OR , I would I were in my own Country . ALL you that pass along , Give ear unto my Song , Concerning a Youth that was young , young , young [ : ] And of a Maiden fair , Few with her might compare , But alack , and alas , she was Dumb , dumb , dumb . She was beauteous , fresh , and gay Like the pleasant flowers in May , And her Cheeks was as round as a Plum , plum , plum : She was neat in every part , And she stole away his heart , But alack , and alas , she was Dumb , dumb , dumb . At length this Country Blade , Wedded this pretty Maid , And he kindly Conducted her home , home , home : Thus in her Beauty bright , Lay all his whole Delight , But alack , and alas , she was Dumb , dumb , dumb . Now will I plainly show What work this Maid could do Which a patren may be , for girls young , young , youn [ g , ] O she both day and night , In working took delight , But alack , and alas , she was dumb , dumb , dumb . She could Brew & she could bake , She could wash , wring , and shake , She could sweep the House with a Broom , broom , broom ; She could Knit , and Sow , & Spin , And do any such like thing , But alack , and alas , she was dumb , dumb , dumb . But at last this man did go The Doctors skill to know , Saying , Sir can you cure a Woman of the Dumb : Oh it is the easiest part That belongs unto my art , For to cure a Woman , of the dumb , dumb , dumb . To the Doctor he did her bring , And he cut her chatering string , And he set her Tongue on the run , run , run : In the morning he did rise , And she fill'd his house with cries , And she rattled in his ears Like a drum , drum , drum . To the Doctor he did go , with his heart well fill'd with woe , Crying Doctor , I am undone , done , done : Now she's turn'd a scolding Wife , And I am weary of my Life , Nor I cannot make her hold Her tongue , tongue , tongue . The Doctor thus did say , When she went from me away , She was perfectly Cured of the dumb , dumb , dumb . But it's beyond the Art of man , Let him do the best he can , For to make a scolding Woman hold her tongue , tongue , tongue . So as you to me came , Return you back again , And take you the Oil , of Hazel strong : With it anoint her body round , when she makes the house to found , So perhaps you may charm her tongue , tongue , tongue . FINIS . THE DUMB MAID : OR , The Young Gallant Trappan'd . A Young Man did unto her a Wooing come , But she pretended much that she was Dumb ; But when they both in Marriage-bands were ty'd , The Doctors Skill was likewise with her try'd ; The Doctor he set her Tongue on the Run , She Chatters now , and never will have done . To a new tune called , Dum , dum , dum . OR , I would I were in my own Country . ALL you that pass along , Give ear unto my Song , Concerning a Youth that was young , young , young [ : ] And of a Maiden fair , Few with her might compare , But alack , and alas , she was Dumb , dumb , dumb . She was beauteous , fresh , and gay Like the pleasant flowers in May , And her Cheeks was as round as a Plum , plum , plum : She was neat in every part , And she stole away his heart , But alack , and alas , she was Dumb , dumb , dumb . At length this Country Blade , Wedded this pretty Maid , And he kindly Conducted her home , home , home : Thus in her Beauty bright , Lay all his whole Delight , But alack , and alas , she was Dumb , dumb , dumb . Now will I plainly show What work this Maid could do Which a patren may be , for girls young , young , youn [ g , ] O she both day and night , In working took delight , But alack , and alas , she was dumb , dumb , dumb . She could Brew & she could bake , She could wash , wring , and shake , She could sweep the House with a Broom , broom , broom ; She could Knit , and Sow , & Spin , And do any such like thing , But alack , and alas , she was dumb , dumb , dumb . But at last this man did go The Doctors skill to know , Saying , Sir can you cure a Woman of the Dumb : Oh it is the easiest part That belongs unto my art , For to cure a Woman , of the dumb , dumb , dumb . To the Doctor he did her bring , And he cut her chatering string , And he set her Tongue on the run , run , run : In the morning he did rise , And she fill'd his house with cries , And she rattled in his ears Like a drum , drum , drum . To the Doctor he did go , with his heart well fill'd with woe , Crying Doctor , I am undone , done , done : Now she's turn'd a scolding Wife , And I am weary of my Life , Nor I cannot make her hold Her tongue , tongue , tongue . The Doctor thus did say , When she went from me away , She was perfectly Cured of the dumb , dumb , dumb . But it's beyond the Art of man , Let him do the best he can , For to make a scolding Woman hold her tongue , tongue , tongue . So as you to me came , Return you back again , And take you the Oil , of Hazel strong : With it anoint her body round , when she makes the house to found , So perhaps you may charm her tongue , tongue , tongue . FINIS . 