[ TO ] HE DEAD MANS SONG , Who [ se ] dwelling was near Basing-hall in London . To the Tune of , Flying Fam [ e . ] Soar sick dear friends long time I was and weakly la [ i ] worser in bed , And for five hours in all men's fight , at leng [ tO ] h I lay as dead . The bell rang out , my friends came in , and I key-cold was found , Then was my carcase brought from bed and laid upon the ground . My loving wife did weep full soar , my children loud did cry , My friends did mourn , yet this they said all flesh is born to die : My winding-sheet prepared was ; my grave was also made ; And for five hours by just report , in this same case I laid . During which time my soul did see , such strange and fearful sights , That for to hear the same disclos'd , would banish all delights : Yet sith the Lord restor'd my life , which from my body fled ; I will declare the sighed I saw , the time that I was dead . Me thought upon a lovely green , where pleasant flowers sprang , I took my way whereas I thought , the Muses sweetly sang : The grass was sweet the trees were fair and lovely to behold . And full of fruits was every twig , which shin'd like glitt'ring gold . My cheerful heart desired much , to taste the fruit most fair ; But as I reached a fair young man , to me did make repair : Touch not , said he , its none of thine , but weened and walk with me ; And see thou mark each several thing , which I shall show to thee . I wondered greatly at his words , yet went with him away , Till on a goodly pleasant bank , with him he bade me stay : With branches then of Lilies white , mine eyes there wiped he , When this was done he bade me look , what I far off could see . I looked up and lo at last , I did a City see , So fair a thing did never man , behold with mortal eye : Of diamonds , peals , and precious stones it seems the walls were made ; The houses all with beaten gold , were til'd and overlaid . More brighter than the morning Sun , the light thereof did show , And every Creature in the same , like crowned Kings did go : The fields about the City fair , were all with Roles set ; Gillie flowers and Carnations fair , which canker could not fret . And from the fields there did proceed a sweet and pleasant smell , That every l [ i ] ving Creature felt , the scent did so [ e ] xcel : B [ e ] sides such sweet and pleasant mirth , did from the City found , That I therewith was ravished , my joy did so abound . With music , mirth and melody , Princes did there embrace , That in my heart I long'd to be within that bl [ e ] ssed place : The more I gaz'd , the more I might , the sighed pleas'd me so well : For what I saw in every thing , my tongue can no way tell . Then of the man I did demand , what place the same might be , Whereas so many Kings did dwell , in joy and melody : Quoth he that blessed place is heaven , where yet thou canst not rest ; And those that do like Princes walk , are men whom God hath blessed . Then did he turn me round about , and on the other side , He bade me view and mark as much , what things were to be spy'd : With that I saw a Coalblack Den , all tan'd with soot and smook , Where stinking brimstone burning was , which made me like to choke . And ugly creature there I saw , whose face with knives were slashed , And in a cauldron of poison [ ' ] worser filth , his ugly corpse was wash About his neck were sundry ruffs , that flam'd on every side ; I asked , and lo the young man said , that he was damn'd for pride . Another sort there did I see , whose bowels Vipers tore , And grievously with gaping mouth , they did both yell and roar : A spoted person by each one , stood gnawing on their hearts ; And this was conscience I was told , that plagu'd the inward parts . They were no sooner out of sighed , but straight came in their place , A sort still throwing burning fire , which fell against their face : And Ladies full of melted Gold were poured down their throats . And these were set it seem'd to me , in midst of burning boats . The foremost of the company was Judas I was told , Who had for fi [ l ] thie Lucres sake , his Lord and Master sold : For covetousness they were condemn'd so it was told to me . And there me thought another rout of hell hounds I did see . Their faces they seem'd fat in sighed , yet all their bones were bore ; And dishes full of crawling Toads , were made their finest fare : From arms , from hands , from thighs and feet [ , ] with read hight pincers then , The flesh was plucked even from the bone of those vile glutonous men . On Coalblack beds another sort , in grievous sort did lie ; And underneath them burning brands , their flesh did burn and fry : With brimstone fierce their pillows eke whereon their heads were laid , And fiends with glowing whips of fire , their treacherous flesh off flayed . Then did I see another come , stab'd in with daggers thick , And filthy fiends with fiery darts , their hearts did wound and prick : And mighty bowls of corrupt blood , was brought for them to drink : And these men were for murder plagu'd from whence they could not shrink . I saw when they were gone away , the swearer and the liar , And they were hung up by the tongues over a flame of fire : From eyes , from ears , from navel & nose and from their lower parts , The blood me thought did rushing run , and clogged like men's hearts . I asked why that punishment , was now on swearers laid , Because quoth he , wounds heart and blood were still the oath they made : And there withal from ugly hell , such grievous cries I herd , As though some greater grief and care , had vexed them afterwards . So that my soul was soar afraid , such terror on me felt , Away then went the young man quite , and bade me not farewell : Wherefore unto my body straight , my spirit return'd again : And lively blood did afterwards stretch forth in every vein . My closed eyes I opened , and rais'd up from my swoend , I wondered much to see my self , laid so upon the ground : Which when my neighbours did behold , great fear upon them fell , To whom soon after I did tell , the news from heaven and hell . FINIS . [ TO ] HE DEAD MANS SONG , Who [ se ] dwelling was near Basing-hall in London . To the Tune of , Flying Fam [ e . ] Soar sick dear friends long time I was and weakly la [ i ] worser in bed , And for five hours in all men's fight , at leng [ tO ] h I lay as dead . The bell rang out , my friends came in , and I key-cold was found , Then was my carcase brought from bed and laid upon the ground . My loving wife did weep full soar , my children loud did cry , My friends did mourn , yet this they said all flesh is born to die : My winding-sheet prepared was ; my grave was also made ; And for five hours by just report , in this same case I laid . During which time my soul did see , such strange and fearful sights , That for to hear the same disclos'd , would banish all delights : Yet sith the Lord restor'd my life , which from my body fled ; I will declare the sighed I saw , the time that I was dead . Me thought upon a lovely green , where pleasant flowers sprang , I took my way whereas I thought , the Muses sweetly sang : The grass was sweet the trees were fair and lovely to behold . And full of fruits was every twig , which shin'd like glitt'ring gold . My cheerful heart desired much , to taste the fruit most fair ; But as I reached a fair young man , to me did make repair : Touch not , said he , its none of thine , but weened and walk with me ; And see thou mark each several thing , which I shall show to thee . I wondered greatly at his words , yet went with him away , Till on a goodly pleasant bank , with him he bade me stay : With branches then of Lilies white , mine eyes there wiped he , When this was done he bade me look , what I far off could see . I looked up and lo at last , I did a City see , So fair a thing did never man , behold with mortal eye : Of diamonds , peals , and precious stones it seems the walls were made ; The houses all with beaten gold , were til'd and overlaid . More brighter than the morning Sun , the light thereof did show , And every Creature in the same , like crowned Kings did go : The fields about the City fair , were all with Roles set ; Gillie flowers and Carnations fair , which canker could not fret . And from the fields there did proceed a sweet and pleasant smell , That every l [ i ] ving Creature felt , the scent did so [ e ] xcel : B [ e ] sides such sweet and pleasant mirth , did from the City found , That I therewith was ravished , my joy did so abound . With music , mirth and melody , Princes did there embrace , That in my heart I long'd to be within that bl [ e ] ssed place : The more I gaz'd , the more I might , the sighed pleas'd me so well : For what I saw in every thing , my tongue can no way tell . Then of the man I did demand , what place the same might be , Whereas so many Kings did dwell , in joy and melody : Quoth he that blessed place is heaven , where yet thou canst not rest ; And those that do like Princes walk , are men whom God hath blessed . Then did he turn me round about , and on the other side , He bade me view and mark as much , what things were to be spy'd : With that I saw a Coalblack Den , all tan'd with soot and smook , Where stinking brimstone burning was , which made me like to choke . And ugly creature there I saw , whose face with knives were slashed , And in a cauldron of poison [ ' ] worser filth , his ugly corpse was wash About his neck were sundry ruffs , that flam'd on every side ; I asked , and lo the young man said , that he was damn'd for pride . Another sort there did I see , whose bowels Vipers tore , And grievously with gaping mouth , they did both yell and roar : A spoted person by each one , stood gnawing on their hearts ; And this was conscience I was told , that plagu'd the inward parts . They were no sooner out of sighed , but straight came in their place , A sort still throwing burning fire , which fell against their face : And Ladies full of melted Gold were poured down their throats . And these were set it seem'd to me , in midst of burning boats . The foremost of the company was Judas I was told , Who had for fi [ l ] thie Lucres sake , his Lord and Master sold : For covetousness they were condemn'd so it was told to me . And there me thought another rout of hell hounds I did see . Their faces they seem'd fat in sighed , yet all their bones were bore ; And dishes full of crawling Toads , were made their finest fare : From arms , from hands , from thighs and feet [ , ] with read hight pincers then , The flesh was plucked even from the bone of those vile glutonous men . On Coalblack beds another sort , in grievous sort did lie ; And underneath them burning brands , their flesh did burn and fry : With brimstone fierce their pillows eke whereon their heads were laid , And fiends with glowing whips of fire , their treacherous flesh off flayed . Then did I see another come , stab'd in with daggers thick , And filthy fiends with fiery darts , their hearts did wound and prick : And mighty bowls of corrupt blood , was brought for them to drink : And these men were for murder plagu'd from whence they could not shrink . I saw when they were gone away , the swearer and the liar , And they were hung up by the tongues over a flame of fire : From eyes , from ears , from navel & nose and from their lower parts , The blood me thought did rushing run , and clogged like men's hearts . I asked why that punishment , was now on swearers laid , Because quoth he , wounds heart and blood were still the oath they made : And there withal from ugly hell , such grievous cries I herd , As though some greater grief and care , had vexed them afterwards . So that my soul was soar afraid , such terror on me felt , Away then went the young man quite , and bade me not farewell : Wherefore unto my body straight , my spirit return'd again : And lively blood did afterwards stretch forth in every vein . My closed eyes I opened , and rais'd up from my swoend , I wondered much to see my self , laid so upon the ground : Which when my neighbours did behold , great fear upon them fell , To whom soon after I did tell , the news from heaven and hell . FINIS . 