The Devils Conquest , or , a Wish obtained : Showing how one lately of Barnsby-street , in Leg-Ally , in St. Olaves Parish , South - work , one that Carded Wool for Stockings , carried home some work to her Mi - stris , living upon Horsly-Down , who asked her how much she owed her for ; the Maid answered eight pounds ; her Mistress said 'twas but six whereupon the Maid began to Swear and Curse , and wished the Devil fetch her , if there was not eight pounds owing for ; the Mistress loving quietness , paid her for eight pound : [ tO ] he Maid , with two of her Companions , walking over Horsly-Down , she having a Child in her arms , one came and throwed her down , and presently took her up again , which caused her to say , Thou Rogue , dost thou fling me down and take me up again , and suddenly he vanished away , neither she , nor the two women with her , could discern which way he went , which caused them to say , It was the Devil , which for all this , nothing terrified the Maid , who went boldly home , and to bed , and the two Women with her ; at midnight she herd a voice , which called her by her name very often , she answered , I come , I come ; but the voice still continuing , she swore she would come , and being god out of the Bed , fell down upon her face , and was taken speechless , yet her body moving in most terrible manner , manifesting her inward pangs ; her Mistress was sent for , who freely forgave her , and wished God might forgive her too , and then she departed , and her body was found as black as pitch all over ; and all this was for no more than the valve of eleven pence , which was done on the 6th . of this instant May , 1665. and was written for a warning to all , to avoid the like course . The Tune is , Summer Time . ATtend good Christian people all to what here I do mean to write , You Muses nine , to you I call , help me these verses to indite . A story true I shall relate , I with it may a warning be , That all may now avoid that fate , and shun that cruel destiny . Full soar & dreadful judgements we have often herd and seen abroad , The righteous God , he does decree , as we have it upon Record . Many a time we do provoke , yet still his mercy does endure , But at the last hee'l give a stroke , which art of man can never cure . Examples many we have had in former and in latter years , But sure you ne'r herd one more sad then this , therefore attend to hear . In Barnsby-street of late there dwelled one Margery Perry called by name , With whom it seems the Devil dealt , and played his subtle cunning game . In carding wool she imploy'd her self , a livelihood for to obtain , But Satan that old subtle Elf , tells her 'tis not sufficient gain . TO swear and curse she was inclin'd a Vice too common in this Land , In this the Devil with her was joyn'd , as you shall shortly understand . She carried home some work one day unto her Work-Mistrisses home , Who asked how much she had to pay for all the wool that she did comb . Says she , you owe me for eight pounds nay , says the Mistress , it is but six , But now she goes beyond her bounds , to swear and curse she does not stick . This caused some contest to arise between them both , for a short space , The Devils flame in her breast fries , Oh woman ! what made thee so base ? She wished the Devil fetch her strait , if that she had not done eight pounds ; Ah woman ! caught with such a bait , that came not all to half a crown . Her Mistress paid her , away she hies , & with her Comrades walk thee streets , she little thought how conscience cries but now at last the Devil meets . On Horsly-down she down was thrown and presently caught up again , Alas she is so hard hearted grown , she can't perceive her inward stain . Those women with her were amazed , because he vanished quite away That took her up , although they gazed , no more of him they saw that day . Then home she hies with her consorts , to bed she goes and thinks all well , But vengeance will at length arise , & death will come with passing bell . O little did she think , but she should rise again as she was wont , Judgement must come by Gods decree , he will not always bear the affront . At midnight then she herd a voice , which frequently called her by name , Surely she could not then rejoice , knowing her guilt deserved blame . She answered straight , I come , I come , and presently begins to swear , The Devil hee'l not stay too long , but takes her in her chamber there . They took her up from off the boards , whereon thee Devil her down did throw She speechless was , no breath affords , which made thee women's hearts to glow Then for her Mistress they did send , who came immediately to see That , which almost her heart did rend , a spectacle of misery . Some that were present there did say , forgive her though she did forswear , I and God forgive her too I pray , and so she died while she was there . They stripped her naked being dead , and found her body black as pitch , The hellish fiend her prepared , according to her cursed wish . O that a warning this might be to all , that these few lines do read , Here plainly we may learn and see , and not such wicked paths to tread . Wish for true riches and true grace , and labour for it earnestly , The Devil he will come apace , wish not for him , such courses fly . And now lets study to amend , and free our selves from slavery , That all our lives may have good end , and full assurance when we die . So to conclude remember still , Swearing and Cursing ends in woe , If you let the Devil have his will , hee'l prove the worst & greatest foe . London Printed for S. Tyus , on London-Bridge . With privilege . Finis . The Devils Conquest , or , a Wish obtained : Showing how one lately of Barnsby-street , in Leg-Ally , in St. Olaves Parish , South - work , one that Carded Wool for Stockings , carried home some work to her Mi - stris , living upon Horsly-Down , who asked her how much she owed her for ; the Maid answered eight pounds ; her Mistress said 'twas but six whereupon the Maid began to Swear and Curse , and wished the Devil fetch her , if there was not eight pounds owing for ; the Mistress loving quietness , paid her for eight pound : [ tO ] he Maid , with two of her Companions , walking over Horsly-Down , she having a Child in her arms , one came and throwed her down , and presently took her up again , which caused her to say , Thou Rogue , dost thou fling me down and take me up again , and suddenly he vanished away , neither she , nor the two women with her , could discern which way he went , which caused them to say , It was the Devil , which for all this , nothing terrified the Maid , who went boldly home , and to bed , and the two Women with her ; at midnight she herd a voice , which called her by her name very often , she answered , I come , I come ; but the voice still continuing , she swore she would come , and being god out of the Bed , fell down upon her face , and was taken speechless , yet her body moving in most terrible manner , manifesting her inward pangs ; her Mistress was sent for , who freely forgave her , and wished God might forgive her too , and then she departed , and her body was found as black as pitch all over ; and all this was for no more than the valve of eleven pence , which was done on the 6th . of this instant May , 1665. and was written for a warning to all , to avoid the like course . The Tune is , Summer Time . ATtend good Christian people all to what here I do mean to write , You Muses nine , to you I call , help me these verses to indite . A story true I shall relate , I with it may a warning be , That all may now avoid that fate , and shun that cruel destiny . Full soar & dreadful judgements we have often herd and seen abroad , The righteous God , he does decree , as we have it upon Record . Many a time we do provoke , yet still his mercy does endure , But at the last hee'l give a stroke , which art of man can never cure . Examples many we have had in former and in latter years , But sure you ne'r herd one more sad then this , therefore attend to hear . In Barnsby-street of late there dwelled one Margery Perry called by name , With whom it seems the Devil dealt , and played his subtle cunning game . In carding wool she imploy'd her self , a livelihood for to obtain , But Satan that old subtle Elf , tells her 'tis not sufficient gain . TO swear and curse she was inclin'd a Vice too common in this Land , In this the Devil with her was joyn'd , as you shall shortly understand . She carried home some work one day unto her Work-Mistrisses home , Who asked how much she had to pay for all the wool that she did comb . Says she , you owe me for eight pounds nay , says the Mistress , it is but six , But now she goes beyond her bounds , to swear and curse she does not stick . This caused some contest to arise between them both , for a short space , The Devils flame in her breast fries , Oh woman ! what made thee so base ? She wished the Devil fetch her strait , if that she had not done eight pounds ; Ah woman ! caught with such a bait , that came not all to half a crown . Her Mistress paid her , away she hies , & with her Comrades walk thee streets , she little thought how conscience cries but now at last the Devil meets . On Horsly-down she down was thrown and presently caught up again , Alas she is so hard hearted grown , she can't perceive her inward stain . Those women with her were amazed , because he vanished quite away That took her up , although they gazed , no more of him they saw that day . Then home she hies with her consorts , to bed she goes and thinks all well , But vengeance will at length arise , & death will come with passing bell . O little did she think , but she should rise again as she was wont , Judgement must come by Gods decree , he will not always bear the affront . At midnight then she herd a voice , which frequently called her by name , Surely she could not then rejoice , knowing her guilt deserved blame . She answered straight , I come , I come , and presently begins to swear , The Devil hee'l not stay too long , but takes her in her chamber there . They took her up from off the boards , whereon thee Devil her down did throw She speechless was , no breath affords , which made thee women's hearts to glow Then for her Mistress they did send , who came immediately to see That , which almost her heart did rend , a spectacle of misery . Some that were present there did say , forgive her though she did forswear , I and God forgive her too I pray , and so she died while she was there . They stripped her naked being dead , and found her body black as pitch , The hellish fiend her prepared , according to her cursed wish . O that a warning this might be to all , that these few lines do read , Here plainly we may learn and see , and not such wicked paths to tread . Wish for true riches and true grace , and labour for it earnestly , The Devil he will come apace , wish not for him , such courses fly . And now lets study to amend , and free our selves from slavery , That all our lives may have good end , and full assurance when we die . So to conclude remember still , Swearing and Cursing ends in woe , If you let the Devil have his will , hee'l prove the worst & greatest foe . London Printed for S. Tyus , on London-Bridge . With privilege . Finis . 