The Delights of the Bottle : OR , The Town-Gallants Declaration for Women and Wine Being a Perfect Description of a Town-bred-Gentleman , with all his Intrigues , Pleasure , Company , Humour , & Conversation . Gallants from faults he cannot be exempt , Who does a task so difficult attempt ; I know I shall not hit your feature right , This hard to imitate in Black and White ; Some Lines were drawn by a more Skilful hand , And which those were , you'l quickly understand : Excuse me therefore if I do you wrong , I did but make a Ballad of a Song . To a most Admirable New Tune , every where much in Request . THe Delights of the Bottle , & Charms of good Wine To the Pow'r and the pleasures of Love must resign : Though the Night in the joys of good drinking be passed , The Debauches but till the morning does last ; But Loves great Debauch is more lasting and strong , For that often lasts a Man all his life long . Love , and Wine , are the hands that fasten us all , The World but for this , to Confusion would fallen : Were it not for the pleasures of Love , and good Wine , Mankind , for each trifle , their lives wou'd resign ; They'd not valve dull life , or wou'd live without thinking , Nor Kings rule the World , but for Love & good drinking . For the Grave , and the Dull , by sobriety Curs'd , That wou'd never take a glass , but for quenching his thirst ; He that once in a Month takes a touch of the Smock , And poor Nature upholds , with a bit and a knock : Whatsoever the Ignorant Rabble may say , Tho' he breathes till a hundred , he lives not a Day . Let the Puritan Preach against Wenches , and Drink , He may prate out his Lungs , but I know what I think ; When the Lecture is done , he'l a Sister entice , Not a Lecher in Town , can outdo him at Vice ; Tho' beneath his Religion , he stifles his joys , And become a Debauch , without clamour or noise . 'Twixt the Vices of both , little difference lies , But that one is more open , the other precise : Though he drinks like a Chick , with his eyeballs lift up Yet I'le warrant thee Boy , he shall take off his Cup : His Religious Debauch , does the Gallants outmatch , For a Saint is his Wench , and a Psalm is his Catch . For the Lady of Virtue , and Honour so strict , That who offers her Guineys , deserves to be kick'd , Who with sport by her self , does her fancy beguile , That's asham'd of a jest , and afraid of a smile , May she lie by her self , till she wear out the stairs , Going down to her Dinner , and up to her Prayeres . But let us that have Noble and generous Souls , No Method observe , but in filling our Bowls , Let us frolic it round , to replenish our Veins , And with Notions Divine , to inspire our Brains , 'Tis a way that's Genteil , and is found to be good , Both to quicken the Wit , and enliven the Blood . What a pleasure it is to see Bottles before us , With the Women among us to make up the Chorus ? Now a jest , now a Catch , now a Buss , now a Health , Till our pleasure comes on by insensible stealth , And when grown to a height , with our Girls we retire , By a brisker enjoyment , to slacken the fire . And this is the way that the wiser doe take , A perpetual motion in pleasure to make ; With a Flood of Obrian , we fill up each Vein , All the Spirits of which Lov's Alembic must drain , While the soberer Sot , has no motion of Blood For his Fancy is nothing , but Puddle and Mud. He's a slave to his Soul , who in spite of his Sense , With a Clog of his own putting on can dispense , For he Fetters himself , when at large he might Rove , So he's ty'd from the sweets of good drinking and Love , Yet he's satisfied well , that he's thought to be wise , By the dull and the foolish ; I mean the precise . For my part whatever the consequence be , To my Will , and my Fancy , I'le always be free , They are mad that do wilfully run upon Shelves , Since dangers , and troubles , will come of themselves ; For whoever desires to live like a man , He must be without trouble , as long as he can . And these are the pleasures true Gallants do find , To which if you are not , you should be enclin'd , If you follow my Counsel , you take off the Curse , And if you do not , we are never the worse ; Yet none will refuse , but a Beggar or Cit , Who to car'on the humour , wants Money or Wit . London , Printed for Philip Brooksby , and R. Burton , The Delights of the Bottle : OR , The Town-Gallants Declaration for Women and Wine Being a Perfect Description of a Town-bred-Gentleman , with all his Intrigues , Pleasure , Company , Humour , & Conversation . Gallants from faults he cannot be exempt , Who does a task so difficult attempt ; I know I shall not hit your feature right , This hard to imitate in Black and White ; Some Lines were drawn by a more Skilful hand , And which those were , you'l quickly understand : Excuse me therefore if I do you wrong , I did but make a Ballad of a Song . To a most Admirable New Tune , every where much in Request . THe Delights of the Bottle , & Charms of good Wine To the Pow'r and the pleasures of Love must resign : Though the Night in the joys of good drinking be passed , The Debauches but till the morning does last ; But Loves great Debauch is more lasting and strong , For that often lasts a Man all his life long . Love , and Wine , are the hands that fasten us all , The World but for this , to Confusion would fallen : Were it not for the pleasures of Love , and good Wine , Mankind , for each trifle , their lives wou'd resign ; They'd not valve dull life , or wou'd live without thinking , Nor Kings rule the World , but for Love & good drinking . For the Grave , and the Dull , by sobriety Curs'd , That wou'd never take a glass , but for quenching his thirst ; He that once in a Month takes a touch of the Smock , And poor Nature upholds , with a bit and a knock : Whatsoever the Ignorant Rabble may say , Tho' he breathes till a hundred , he lives not a Day . Let the Puritan Preach against Wenches , and Drink , He may prate out his Lungs , but I know what I think ; When the Lecture is done , he'l a Sister entice , Not a Lecher in Town , can outdo him at Vice ; Tho' beneath his Religion , he stifles his joys , And become a Debauch , without clamour or noise . 'Twixt the Vices of both , little difference lies , But that one is more open , the other precise : Though he drinks like a Chick , with his eyeballs lift up Yet I'le warrant thee Boy , he shall take off his Cup : His Religious Debauch , does the Gallants outmatch , For a Saint is his Wench , and a Psalm is his Catch . For the Lady of Virtue , and Honour so strict , That who offers her Guineys , deserves to be kick'd , Who with sport by her self , does her fancy beguile , That's asham'd of a jest , and afraid of a smile , May she lie by her self , till she wear out the stairs , Going down to her Dinner , and up to her Prayeres . But let us that have Noble and generous Souls , No Method observe , but in filling our Bowls , Let us frolic it round , to replenish our Veins , And with Notions Divine , to inspire our Brains , 'Tis a way that's Genteil , and is found to be good , Both to quicken the Wit , and enliven the Blood . What a pleasure it is to see Bottles before us , With the Women among us to make up the Chorus ? Now a jest , now a Catch , now a Buss , now a Health , Till our pleasure comes on by insensible stealth , And when grown to a height , with our Girls we retire , By a brisker enjoyment , to slacken the fire . And this is the way that the wiser doe take , A perpetual motion in pleasure to make ; With a Flood of Obrian , we fill up each Vein , All the Spirits of which Lov's Alembic must drain , While the soberer Sot , has no motion of Blood For his Fancy is nothing , but Puddle and Mud. He's a slave to his Soul , who in spite of his Sense , With a Clog of his own putting on can dispense , For he Fetters himself , when at large he might Rove , So he's ty'd from the sweets of good drinking and Love , Yet he's satisfied well , that he's thought to be wise , By the dull and the foolish ; I mean the precise . For my part whatever the consequence be , To my Will , and my Fancy , I'le always be free , They are mad that do wilfully run upon Shelves , Since dangers , and troubles , will come of themselves ; For whoever desires to live like a man , He must be without trouble , as long as he can . And these are the pleasures true Gallants do find , To which if you are not , you should be enclin'd , If you follow my Counsel , you take off the Curse , And if you do not , we are never the worse ; Yet none will refuse , but a Beggar or Cit , Who to car'on the humour , wants Money or Wit . London , Printed for Philip Brooksby , and R. Burton , 