And excellent Ballad of George Barnwel and Apprentice of London , who was undone by a strumpet , who having thrice robbed his Master , and murdered his Uncle in Ludlow . The tune is , The Merchant . ALl youths of fair England , that dwell both far and near Regard my story that I tell , and to my Song give ear : A London Lad I was , a Merchant's Prentice bound , My name George Barnwel y did spend my Master many a pound [ TO ] ache heed of Harlots then , [ tO ] heir enticing trains , For by that means I have been brought to hang alive in chains . As I upon a day was walking through the street , About my Master's business , I did a woman meet ; A dainty gallant Dame , and sumptuous in attire , With smiling looks she greeted me and did my name require . Which when I had declar'd , she gave me then a kiss ; And said if I would come to her I should have more than this : In faith my Boy ( quoth she ) such news I can thee tell As shall rejoice thy very heart , then come where I do dwell . Fair Mistress then said I , if I the place may know , This Evening I will be with you for I abroad must go To gather money in that is my Master's due , And ere that I do home return I'll come and visit you . Good Barnwel then ( quoth she ) do thou to Shoreditch come , And ask for Mrs. Milwood there next door unto the Gun. And trust me on my truth if thou keep touch with me For thy friends sake as my own heart thou sh [ a ] lt right welcome be . Thus parted we in peace , and home I passed right , Then went abroad and gathered in by six a clock at night A hundred pounds and one , with bag under mine arm . I went to Mrs. Milwoods house and thought on little harm . And knocking at the door , straightway her self came down , Rus [ tO ] ling in most brave attire , her Hood and siken Gown ; Who through her beauty bright so gloriously did shine , That she amaz'd my dazzling eyes she seemed so divine . She took me by the hand , and with a modest grace , Welcome sweet Barnwel then ( quod she ) unto this homely place ; Welcome ten thousand times , more welcome than my Brother , And better welcome I protest than any one or other . And seeing I have thee found as good as thy word to be , A homely supper ere thou part thou shalt take here with me . O pardon me quoth I fair Mistress I you pray , For why out of my master's house so long I dare not stay . Alas good Sir she said , art thou so strictly ty'd , You may not with your dearest friend one hour or two abide ? Faith then the case is hard , if it be so ( quoth she ) I would I were a Prentice bound to live in house with thee . Therefore my sweetest George , list well what I do say , And do not blame a woman much her fancy to bewray : Let not affections force be counted lewd desire , Nor think it not immodesty I would thy love require . With that she turn'd aside , and with a blushing read , A mournful motion she bewray'd by holding down her head : A handkerchief she had all wrought with silk and gold , Which she to stop her trickling tears against her eyes did hold . This thing unto my sighed was wondrous rare and strange And in my mind & inward thoughts it wrought a sudden change ; That I so hardy was to take her by the hand , Saying sweet Mistress why do you so sad and heavy stand ? Call me no Mistress now , but Sara thy true friend , Thy servant Sara honouring thee until her life hath end . If thou wouldst here allege thou art in years a boy , So was Adonis , yet was he fair Venus Love and Joy . Thus I that were before of women found such grace , And seeing now so fair a Dame gave me a kind embrace , I supped with her that night , with joys that did abound , And for the same paid presently in money twice three pound . A hundred kisses then for my farewell she gave , Saying sweet Barnwel when shall I again thy company have ? O stay not too long my dear , sweet George have me in mind , Her words bewitched his childishness she uttered them so kind , So that I made a vow next Sunday without fail , With my sweet Sara once again to tell some pleasant tale . When she herd me say so , the tears fell from her eyes , Oh George quod she if thou dost fail thy Sara sure will die . Though long yet so at last the pointed time was come That I must with my Sara meet , having a mighty Sum Of money in my hand unto her house went I , Whereas my Love upon her bed in saddest sort did lie . What ails my hearts delight ? my Sara dear ( quoth he ) Let not my Love lament & grieve nor sighing pain and die : But tell to me my dearest friend what may thy woes amend , And thou shalt lack no means of help though forty pound I spend . With that she turn'd her head , and sickly thus did say , Oh my sweet George my grief is great ten pounds I have to pay Unto a cruel wretch and God he knows ( quoth she ) I have it not . Tush rise quoth I and take it here of me . Ten pounds , nor ten times ten shall make my Love decay , Then from his bag into her lap he cast ten pounds straightway . All bli [ tO ] h and pleasant then to banqueting they go , She proffered him to lie with her , and said it should be so : And after that same time I gave her store of coin , Yea sometime fifty pound at once all which I did purloin . And thus I did pass on until my Master then Did call to have his reckoning in cast up among his men . The which when as I herd , I knew not what to say , For well I knew that I was out two hundred pound that day . Then from my Master strait I run in secret sort , And unto Sara Milwood then my state I did report But how she us'd this youth in this his extreme need , The which did her necessity so oft with money feed ; The second part behold shall tell it forth at large , And shall a strumpets wily ways with all her tricks discharge . HEre coms young Barnwel unto sweet Sara my delight , I am undone except thou stand my faithful friend this nigh Our master to command accounts hath just occasion found , And I am come behind the hand almost two hundred pound . And therefore knowing not at all what answer for to make , And his displeasure to escape , my way to thee I take ; Hoping in this extremity thou wilt my succour be , That for a time I may remain in secret here with thee . With that she knit and bent her brows and looking all aquoy , Quod she what should I have to do with any prentice boy ? And seeing you have purloined and god your Master's goods away , The case is bad and therefore here I mean thou shalt not stay . Why Sweetheart thou knowest he said that all which I did get I gave it and did spend it all upon thee every whit . Thou knowest I loved thee so well thou couldst not ask the thing But that I did incontinent the same unto thee bring . Quoth she thou art a paltry Jack to charge me in this sort , Being a woman of credit good , and known of good report . And therefore this I tell thee flat , be packing with good speed , I do defy thee from my heart , and scorn thy filthy deed . Is this the love & friendship which thou didst to me protest ? Is this the great affection which you seemed to express ? Now fie on all deceitful shows , the best is I may speed To get a Lodging any where for money in my need : Therefore false woman now farewell while twenty pound does last , My Anchor in some other Haven I will with wisdom cast . When she perceiving by his words that he had money store , That she had gulled him in such sort it griev'd her heart full soar : Therefore to call him back again she did suppose it best , Stay George quoth she thou art too quick , why man I do but jest . Think'st thou for all my passed speech that I would let thee go ? Faith no quod she my love to thee I wis is more than so . You will not deal with Prentice boys I herd you even now swear . Therefore I will not trouble you my George hark in thine ear . Thou shalt not go to night quod she what chance so ere befall , But man we'l have a bed for thee or else the Devil take all . thus I y was with wiles bewitched and snar'd with fancy still , Had not the power to put away or to withstand her will . Then wine and wine I called in , and cheer upon good cheer , And nothing in y world I thought for Sarahs love too dear . While I was in her company , in joy and merriment , And all too little I did think that I upon her spent . A fig for care and careful thought , when all my gold is gone , In faith my girl we will have more who ere it light upon . My Father's rich , why then quod I should I want any gold And excellent Ballad of George Barnwel and Apprentice of London , who was undone by a strumpet , who having thrice robbed his Master , and murdered his Uncle in Ludlow . The tune is , The Merchant . ALl youths of fair England , that dwell both far and near Regard my story that I tell , and to my Song give ear : A London Lad I was , a Merchant's Prentice bound , My name George Barnwel y did spend my Master many a pound [ TO ] ache heed of Harlots then , [ tO ] heir enticing trains , For by that means I have been brought to hang alive in chains . As I upon a day was walking through the street , About my Master's business , I did a woman meet ; A dainty gallant Dame , and sumptuous in attire , With smiling looks she greeted me and did my name require . Which when I had declar'd , she gave me then a kiss ; And said if I would come to her I should have more than this : In faith my Boy ( quoth she ) such news I can thee tell As shall rejoice thy very heart , then come where I do dwell . Fair Mistress then said I , if I the place may know , This Evening I will be with you for I abroad must go To gather money in that is my Master's due , And ere that I do home return I'll come and visit you . Good Barnwel then ( quoth she ) do thou to Shoreditch come , And ask for Mrs. Milwood there next door unto the Gun. And trust me on my truth if thou keep touch with me For thy friends sake as my own heart thou sh [ a ] lt right welcome be . Thus parted we in peace , and home I passed right , Then went abroad and gathered in by six a clock at night A hundred pounds and one , with bag under mine arm . I went to Mrs. Milwoods house and thought on little harm . And knocking at the door , straightway her self came down , Rus [ tO ] ling in most brave attire , her Hood and siken Gown ; Who through her beauty bright so gloriously did shine , That she amaz'd my dazzling eyes she seemed so divine . She took me by the hand , and with a modest grace , Welcome sweet Barnwel then ( quod she ) unto this homely place ; Welcome ten thousand times , more welcome than my Brother , And better welcome I protest than any one or other . And seeing I have thee found as good as thy word to be , A homely supper ere thou part thou shalt take here with me . O pardon me quoth I fair Mistress I you pray , For why out of my master's house so long I dare not stay . Alas good Sir she said , art thou so strictly ty'd , You may not with your dearest friend one hour or two abide ? Faith then the case is hard , if it be so ( quoth she ) I would I were a Prentice bound to live in house with thee . Therefore my sweetest George , list well what I do say , And do not blame a woman much her fancy to bewray : Let not affections force be counted lewd desire , Nor think it not immodesty I would thy love require . With that she turn'd aside , and with a blushing read , A mournful motion she bewray'd by holding down her head : A handkerchief she had all wrought with silk and gold , Which she to stop her trickling tears against her eyes did hold . This thing unto my sighed was wondrous rare and strange And in my mind & inward thoughts it wrought a sudden change ; That I so hardy was to take her by the hand , Saying sweet Mistress why do you so sad and heavy stand ? Call me no Mistress now , but Sara thy true friend , Thy servant Sara honouring thee until her life hath end . If thou wouldst here allege thou art in years a boy , So was Adonis , yet was he fair Venus Love and Joy . Thus I that were before of women found such grace , And seeing now so fair a Dame gave me a kind embrace , I supped with her that night , with joys that did abound , And for the same paid presently in money twice three pound . A hundred kisses then for my farewell she gave , Saying sweet Barnwel when shall I again thy company have ? O stay not too long my dear , sweet George have me in mind , Her words bewitched his childishness she uttered them so kind , So that I made a vow next Sunday without fail , With my sweet Sara once again to tell some pleasant tale . When she herd me say so , the tears fell from her eyes , Oh George quod she if thou dost fail thy Sara sure will die . Though long yet so at last the pointed time was come That I must with my Sara meet , having a mighty Sum Of money in my hand unto her house went I , Whereas my Love upon her bed in saddest sort did lie . What ails my hearts delight ? my Sara dear ( quoth he ) Let not my Love lament & grieve nor sighing pain and die : But tell to me my dearest friend what may thy woes amend , And thou shalt lack no means of help though forty pound I spend . With that she turn'd her head , and sickly thus did say , Oh my sweet George my grief is great ten pounds I have to pay Unto a cruel wretch and God he knows ( quoth she ) I have it not . Tush rise quoth I and take it here of me . Ten pounds , nor ten times ten shall make my Love decay , Then from his bag into her lap he cast ten pounds straightway . All bli [ tO ] h and pleasant then to banqueting they go , She proffered him to lie with her , and said it should be so : And after that same time I gave her store of coin , Yea sometime fifty pound at once all which I did purloin . And thus I did pass on until my Master then Did call to have his reckoning in cast up among his men . The which when as I herd , I knew not what to say , For well I knew that I was out two hundred pound that day . Then from my Master strait I run in secret sort , And unto Sara Milwood then my state I did report But how she us'd this youth in this his extreme need , The which did her necessity so oft with money feed ; The second part behold shall tell it forth at large , And shall a strumpets wily ways with all her tricks discharge . HEre coms young Barnwel unto sweet Sara my delight , I am undone except thou stand my faithful friend this nigh Our master to command accounts hath just occasion found , And I am come behind the hand almost two hundred pound . And therefore knowing not at all what answer for to make , And his displeasure to escape , my way to thee I take ; Hoping in this extremity thou wilt my succour be , That for a time I may remain in secret here with thee . With that she knit and bent her brows and looking all aquoy , Quod she what should I have to do with any prentice boy ? And seeing you have purloined and god your Master's goods away , The case is bad and therefore here I mean thou shalt not stay . Why Sweetheart thou knowest he said that all which I did get I gave it and did spend it all upon thee every whit . Thou knowest I loved thee so well thou couldst not ask the thing But that I did incontinent the same unto thee bring . Quoth she thou art a paltry Jack to charge me in this sort , Being a woman of credit good , and known of good report . And therefore this I tell thee flat , be packing with good speed , I do defy thee from my heart , and scorn thy filthy deed . Is this the love & friendship which thou didst to me protest ? Is this the great affection which you seemed to express ? Now fie on all deceitful shows , the best is I may speed To get a Lodging any where for money in my need : Therefore false woman now farewell while twenty pound does last , My Anchor in some other Haven I will with wisdom cast . When she perceiving by his words that he had money store , That she had gulled him in such sort it griev'd her heart full soar : Therefore to call him back again she did suppose it best , Stay George quoth she thou art too quick , why man I do but jest . Think'st thou for all my passed speech that I would let thee go ? Faith no quod she my love to thee I wis is more than so . You will not deal with Prentice boys I herd you even now swear . Therefore I will not trouble you my George hark in thine ear . Thou shalt not go to night quod she what chance so ere befall , But man we'l have a bed for thee or else the Devil take all . thus I y was with wiles bewitched and snar'd with fancy still , Had not the power to put away or to withstand her will . Then wine and wine I called in , and cheer upon good cheer , And nothing in y world I thought for Sarahs love too dear . While I was in her company , in joy and merriment , And all too little I did think that I upon her spent . A fig for care and careful thought , when all my gold is gone , In faith my girl we will have more who ere it light upon . My Father's rich , why then quod I should I want any gold , With a Father indeed quoth she , a Son may well be bold . I have a Sister richly wed , I'll rob her ere I'll want . Why then quod Sara they may well consider of your scant . Nay more than this and Uncle I have at Ludlow he does dwell , He is a Grazier which in wealth does all the rest excel : Ere I will live in lack quoth he , and have no coin for thee , I'll rob y Churl and murder him why should you not quoth she . Ere I would want were I a man or live in poor estate , On father , friends , and all my kin I would my talons grate : For without money George quod she a man is but a beast , And bringing money thou shalt be always my chiefest guest . For say thou shouldst pursued be with twenty hues and cries , And with a warrant searched for with Argos' hundred eyes , Yet in my house thou shalt be safe such privy ways there be That if they sought and hundred years they could not find out thee . And so carousing in their cups , their pleasures to content , George Barnwel had in little space his money wholly spent . which being done to Ludlow then he did provide to go , To rob his wealthy Uncle then his Minion would it so : And once or twice he thought to take his father by the way , But y he thought his master there took order for his stay . Directly to his Uncle then he road with might and main , Where with good welcome and good cheer he did him entertain . A sennits space he stayed there , until it chanced so His Uncle with fat cattle did unto a market go , His kinsman needs must ride with him and when he saw right plain Great store of money he had took , in coming home again . Most suddenly within a wood he struck his Uncle down , And beatrice his brains out of his head so soar he cracked his crown : And fourscore pound in ready coin out of his purse he took , And coming unto London strait the Country quite forsook . To Sara Milwood then he came , showing his store of gold , And how he had his Uncle slave to her he plainly told . Tush this no matter George quod she so we the money have , To have good cheer in jolly sort , and deck us fine and brave . And thus they liv'd in filthy sort till all his store was gone , And means to get them any more I wis poor George had none . And therefore now in railing sort she thrust him out of door , Which is the just reward they get that spend upon a whore . O do me not this vile disgrace , in this my need quoth he , She cal'd him thief and murderer , with all despite may be : And to the Constable she went , to have him apprehended , And in each degree how far he had the Law offended . When Barnwel saw her drift , to sea he god straightway , Where fear & dread , & conscience sting upon him still does stay . Unto the Mayor of London then he did a Letter write , Wherein his own & Sarah's faults he did at large recite . Whereby she apprehended was , and then to Ludlow sent , where she was judged , condemned & hanged for murder incontinent . And there this gallant quean did die this was her greatest gains For murdering in Polonia was Barnwel hanged in chains . Lo here's the end of wilful youth , that after Harlots haunt ; Who in the spoil of other men about the streets do flaunt . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and W. Gilbertson . , With a Father indeed quoth she , a Son may well be bold . I have a Sister richly wed , I'll rob her ere I'll want . Why then quod Sara they may well consider of your scant . Nay more than this and Uncle I have at Ludlow he does dwell , He is a Grazier which in wealth does all the rest excel : Ere I will live in lack quoth he , and have no coin for thee , I'll rob y Churl and murder him why should you not quoth she . Ere I would want were I a man or live in poor estate , On father , friends , and all my kin I would my talons grate : For without money George quod she a man is but a beast , And bringing money thou shalt be always my chiefest guest . For say thou shouldst pursued be with twenty hues and cries , And with a warrant searched for with Argos' hundred eyes , Yet in my house thou shalt be safe such privy ways there be That if they sought and hundred years they could not find out thee . And so carousing in their cups , their pleasures to content , George Barnwel had in little space his money wholly spent . which being done to Ludlow then he did provide to go , To rob his wealthy Uncle then his Minion would it so : And once or twice he thought to take his father by the way , But y he thought his master there took order for his stay . Directly to his Uncle then he road with might and main , Where with good welcome and good cheer he did him entertain . A sennits space he stayed there , until it chanced so His Uncle with fat cattle did unto a market go , His kinsman needs must ride with him and when he saw right plain Great store of money he had took , in coming home again . Most suddenly within a wood he struck his Uncle down , And beatrice his brains out of his head so soar he cracked his crown : And fourscore pound in ready coin out of his purse he took , And coming unto London strait the Country quite forsook . To Sara Milwood then he came , showing his store of gold , And how he had his Uncle slave to her he plainly told . Tush this no matter George quod she so we the money have , To have good cheer in jolly sort , and deck us fine and brave . And thus they liv'd in filthy sort till all his store was gone , And means to get them any more I wis poor George had none . And therefore now in railing sort she thrust him out of door , Which is the just reward they get that spend upon a whore . O do me not this vile disgrace , in this my need quoth he , She cal'd him thief and murderer , with all despite may be : And to the Constable she went , to have him apprehended , And in each degree how far he had the Law offended . When Barnwel saw her drift , to sea he god straightway , Where fear & dread , & conscience sting upon him still does stay . Unto the Mayor of London then he did a Letter write , Wherein his own & Sarah's faults he did at large recite . Whereby she apprehended was , and then to Ludlow sent , where she was judged , condemned & hanged for murder incontinent . And there this gallant quean did die this was her greatest gains For murdering in Polonia was Barnwel hanged in chains . Lo here's the end of wilful youth , that after Harlots haunt ; Who in the spoil of other men about the streets do flaunt . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and W. Gilbertson . 