And excellent Medley , Which you may admire at ( without offence ) For every line speaks a contrary sense . The Tune is , Tarletons Medley . IN Summer time when folks make Hay , All is not true that people say , The Fool's the wisest in the Play , tush take away your hand . The Fiddlers boy hath broke his Base , Sirs is it not a piteous case , Most gallants loath to smell the Mace , of Woodstreet . The City follows courtly pride , Jone swears she cannot John abide , Dicke wears a Dagger by his side , come tell us what's to pay . The Lawyers thrives by others fallen , The weakest always goes to th' wall , The Shoemaker commands all at's pleasure . The Weaver prays for Huswives store , A pretty woman was Jane Shore , Kick the base Rascal out oh that door , peace , peace , you brawling curs . A Couckolds band wears out behind , 'Tis easy to beguiled the blind , All people are not of one mind , hold Carman . Our women cut their hair like men , The Cock's overmastered by the Hen . There's hardly one good friend in ten , turn there on the right hand : But few regard the cries o'th poor , Will spendeth all upon a whore , The Soldier longeth to go o're , brave knocking . What shall we do in these sad days ? Will not the wicked mend their ways , Some lose their lives in drunken frays , the pudding burns to th' po The Cooper says the Tub's be pist , The Cobbler preaches what he list , Their knavery now is manifest , hold halter . When the fifth Henry sail'd to France , Let me alone for a Country dance , Nell does bewail her luckless chance , fie on false hearted men : Dicke Tarleton was a merry wag , Hark how that prating Ass does brag . John Dorv sold his ambling Nag , for Kickshaws . The Sailor counts the Ship his house , I'll say no more but Duns the Mouse , He is no man that scorns a Louse , vain pride undoes the Land : Hardhearted men makes Corn so deer , Few French-men love well English Beer I hope ere long good news to hear , heigh Lustick , Now Hides are cheap , the Tanner thrives , Hang those base knaves that beatrice their wives He needs must go whom the Devil drives , God bless us from a Gun : The Bead'es make the lame to run , Vaunt not before the battel's won , A Cloud sometime may hide the sun , chance medley . The second part , To the same Tune . THe Surgeon thrives by fencing schools , Some for strong liquour pawn their tools , For one wise man there's twenty fools , o when shall we be married ? In time of youth when I was wild , Who touches pitch shall be defiled , Mol is afraid that she's with child , peace Peter . The poor still hope's for better days , I do not love these long delays , All love and charity decays , in the days of old : I'me very loath to pawn my cloak , Mere poverty does me provoke , They say a scald head is soon broke , poor trading . Hark , mother hark , there's news in town , What tell you me of half a Crown , Now the Excise is going down , thou pratest like and Ass : I scorn the coin give me the man , Pray pledge the health Sir , I began , I love King Charles say what you can , God save him . The Dutch-men thrive by Sea and Land , Women are Ships and must be man'd , Let's bravely to our colours stand , Courage my hearts of Gold : I read in modern Histories , The King of Swedens victories , At Islington there's Pudding Pies , hight Custards . The Tapster is undone by Chalk , Tush this in vain to prate and talk , The Parrat prattles , walk knaves , walk Duke Humphery lies in Paules : The soldiers hath but small regard ; There's weekly news in Pauls-Church Yard , The poor man cries the world grows hard , cold winter . Heigh for New-England , hoist upsaile , The truth is strong and will prevail , Fill me a cup of nappy Ale , hang care , the King's a coming , This Egg hath long a hatching been , When you have done then wee'll begin , O what and age do we live in . hang pinching . From Long-lane cloth , & Turnstile boots , Oh fie upon these scabbed Coots , The cheapest meat is Reddish roots , come , all for a penny : Light my Tobacco quickly here , There lies a pretty woman near , This Boy will come to nought I fear , proud Coxcomb . The world is full of odious sins , 'Tis ten to one but this Horse wins , Fools set stools to break wise men's shins , This man's more knave then fool , Jane oft in private meets with Tom , Husband thou art kindly welcome home , Hast any money ? lend me some , I'me broken . In ancient times all things were cheap , 'Tis good to look before you leap , When Corn is ripe , 'tis time to reap , once waiking by the way . A jealous man the Cuckoo loathes , The Gallant compliments with Oaths . A wench will make you fell your clothes , run Broker . The Courtiers and the Countryman , Let's live as honest as we can , When Arthur first in Court began , his men wore hanging sleeves . In May when Grass and Flowers green , The strangest sighed that ere was seen , God send our graciou Kings and Queen to London . FINIS . Printed at London for F. Grove . And excellent Medley , Which you may admire at ( without offence ) For every line speaks a contrary sense . The Tune is , Tarletons Medley . IN Summer time when folks make Hay , All is not true that people say , The Fool's the wisest in the Play , tush take away your hand . The Fiddlers boy hath broke his Base , Sirs is it not a piteous case , Most gallants loath to smell the Mace , of Woodstreet . The City follows courtly pride , Jone swears she cannot John abide , Dicke wears a Dagger by his side , come tell us what's to pay . The Lawyers thrives by others fallen , The weakest always goes to th' wall , The Shoemaker commands all at's pleasure . The Weaver prays for Huswives store , A pretty woman was Jane Shore , Kick the base Rascal out oh that door , peace , peace , you brawling curs . A Couckolds band wears out behind , 'Tis easy to beguiled the blind , All people are not of one mind , hold Carman . Our women cut their hair like men , The Cock's overmastered by the Hen . There's hardly one good friend in ten , turn there on the right hand : But few regard the cries o'th poor , Will spendeth all upon a whore , The Soldier longeth to go o're , brave knocking . What shall we do in these sad days ? Will not the wicked mend their ways , Some lose their lives in drunken frays , the pudding burns to th' po The Cooper says the Tub's be pist , The Cobbler preaches what he list , Their knavery now is manifest , hold halter . When the fifth Henry sail'd to France , Let me alone for a Country dance , Nell does bewail her luckless chance , fie on false hearted men : Dicke Tarleton was a merry wag , Hark how that prating Ass does brag . John Dorv sold his ambling Nag , for Kickshaws . The Sailor counts the Ship his house , I'll say no more but Duns the Mouse , He is no man that scorns a Louse , vain pride undoes the Land : Hardhearted men makes Corn so deer , Few French-men love well English Beer I hope ere long good news to hear , heigh Lustick , Now Hides are cheap , the Tanner thrives , Hang those base knaves that beatrice their wives He needs must go whom the Devil drives , God bless us from a Gun : The Bead'es make the lame to run , Vaunt not before the battel's won , A Cloud sometime may hide the sun , chance medley . The second part , To the same Tune . THe Surgeon thrives by fencing schools , Some for strong liquour pawn their tools , For one wise man there's twenty fools , o when shall we be married ? In time of youth when I was wild , Who touches pitch shall be defiled , Mol is afraid that she's with child , peace Peter . The poor still hope's for better days , I do not love these long delays , All love and charity decays , in the days of old : I'me very loath to pawn my cloak , Mere poverty does me provoke , They say a scald head is soon broke , poor trading . Hark , mother hark , there's news in town , What tell you me of half a Crown , Now the Excise is going down , thou pratest like and Ass : I scorn the coin give me the man , Pray pledge the health Sir , I began , I love King Charles say what you can , God save him . The Dutch-men thrive by Sea and Land , Women are Ships and must be man'd , Let's bravely to our colours stand , Courage my hearts of Gold : I read in modern Histories , The King of Swedens victories , At Islington there's Pudding Pies , hight Custards . The Tapster is undone by Chalk , Tush this in vain to prate and talk , The Parrat prattles , walk knaves , walk Duke Humphery lies in Paules : The soldiers hath but small regard ; There's weekly news in Pauls-Church Yard , The poor man cries the world grows hard , cold winter . Heigh for New-England , hoist upsaile , The truth is strong and will prevail , Fill me a cup of nappy Ale , hang care , the King's a coming , This Egg hath long a hatching been , When you have done then wee'll begin , O what and age do we live in . hang pinching . From Long-lane cloth , & Turnstile boots , Oh fie upon these scabbed Coots , The cheapest meat is Reddish roots , come , all for a penny : Light my Tobacco quickly here , There lies a pretty woman near , This Boy will come to nought I fear , proud Coxcomb . The world is full of odious sins , 'Tis ten to one but this Horse wins , Fools set stools to break wise men's shins , This man's more knave then fool , Jane oft in private meets with Tom , Husband thou art kindly welcome home , Hast any money ? lend me some , I'me broken . In ancient times all things were cheap , 'Tis good to look before you leap , When Corn is ripe , 'tis time to reap , once waiking by the way . A jealous man the Cuckoo loathes , The Gallant compliments with Oaths . A wench will make you fell your clothes , run Broker . The Courtiers and the Countryman , Let's live as honest as we can , When Arthur first in Court began , his men wore hanging sleeves . In May when Grass and Flowers green , The strangest sighed that ere was seen , God send our graciou Kings and Queen to London . FINIS . Printed at London for F. Grove . 