David and Bersheba . To a pleasant new Tune . WHen David in Jerusalem as Royal King did rule and reign , Behold what happened unto him , that afterwards procur'd his pain : On the top of all his Princely Palace , a gallant prospect there had he , From whence he might , when't pleas'd his Grace , many a gallant garden see : It chanced so upon a day , the King went forth to take the air , All in the pleasant month of May , whereas he spy'd a Lady fair , Her beauty was more excellent , and brighter than the Morning-sun , By which the King incontinent , was to her favour quickly wone . She stood within a pleasant bower , all naked for to wash her there , Her body like a lily flower , was covered with her golden hair : The King was wounded with her love , and what she was he did require , He could not his affections move , he had in her such great desire : She is Uriah's Wife , quoth they , a Captain of your Princely Train , That in your wars is now away , and she does all alone remain . Then said the King , Bring her to me , for with her love my heart is slave , The Princess of Beauty sure is she , for whom I do great grief sustain . The Servants they do soon prepare , to do the Message of the King ; And Bersheba , the Lady fair , unto the Court did quickly bring . The King rejoiced at her sighed , and wone her love , and lay'd her by , They spent the night in found delight , until the sun was risen high ; The King his leave most kindly took , till that three months were gone and passed , And then again he did return , with wondrous speed and haste . And then the Lady Bersheba , she found her former health exil'd , By certain tokens that she saw , the King had got her with child : Then to the King she made her moan , and told him how the case did stand ; The King sent for her Husband home , to cloak the matter out of hand . When from the Camp Uriah came , the King receiv'd him courteously , Demanding how all things did frame , concerning of the Enemy : Uriah shew'd his Highness all the accidents of warlike strife ; Then said the King , This night you shall keep company with your own Wife . The Ark of God , Uriah said , with Judah's Host , and Israel , Keep in the field , and not a Man within the house where they do dwell ; Then should I take my ease , ( quoth he ) in bed of down with my fair Wife ; Oh King , he said , that may not be , so long as I enjoy my life . Then did the King a letter frame , to Joab , General of the Host , And by Uriah sent the same , but certainly his life it cost . And when the King for certain knew Uriah thus had murdered been , Fair Bersheba to the Court he drew , and made of her his Royal Queen : Then God that saw this wicked deed , was angry at King David's since , The Prophet Nathan then with speed , came thus complaining unto him , Oh David , ponder what I say , a great abuse I shall the tell , For thou that rul'st in equity , should see the People govern'd well ; Two Men within the City dwell , the one is rich the other poor , The rich in cattle does excel , the other nothing hath in store , Saving one little silly sheep , which young he did with money buy , With his own bred he did it feed , among his Children tenderly : The rich Man had a Stranger came unto his house that lov'd him dear , The poor Man's sheep therefore he took and thereof made his Friend good cheer , Because that he his own would spare , he us'd the Man most cruelly . Then by the Lord , the King did swear , the rich Man for that fault should die . Thou art the Man , the Prophet said , the Princely Crown God gave to thee , The Lord's Wife , thou thy own haste made , and many more of fair beauty : Why hast thou so defil'd thy life , and slave Uriah with the sword , And taken home his wedded Wife , regarding not God's holy Word ? Therefore behold , thus says the Lord , Great wars upon thy house shall be ; Because thou hast my Laws abhor'd , much ill be sure i'll cast on thee : I'll take thy Wives before thy face , and give them to their Neighbours use , And thou thereby shall reap disgrace , for Man shall laugh at thy abuse . Then David cried out piteously , Soar have I sinned against the Lord , In mercy therefore look on me , let not my prayers be abhor'd . But as the Prophet told to him , so did it after chance indeed , For God did greatly plaugue his since , as in the Bible you may read ; The scourge of since thus you may see , for murder and adultery ; And grant that we may warned be , such crying sins to shun and fly . London : Pri [ n ] ted by and for W. O. and for A. M. and sold by C. Bates , in Pie-corner . David and Bersheba . To a pleasant new Tune . WHen David in Jerusalem as Royal King did rule and reign , Behold what happened unto him , that afterwards procur'd his pain : On the top of all his Princely Palace , a gallant prospect there had he , From whence he might , when't pleas'd his Grace , many a gallant garden see : It chanced so upon a day , the King went forth to take the air , All in the pleasant month of May , whereas he spy'd a Lady fair , Her beauty was more excellent , and brighter than the Morning-sun , By which the King incontinent , was to her favour quickly wone . She stood within a pleasant bower , all naked for to wash her there , Her body like a lily flower , was covered with her golden hair : The King was wounded with her love , and what she was he did require , He could not his affections move , he had in her such great desire : She is Uriah's Wife , quoth they , a Captain of your Princely Train , That in your wars is now away , and she does all alone remain . Then said the King , Bring her to me , for with her love my heart is slave , The Princess of Beauty sure is she , for whom I do great grief sustain . The Servants they do soon prepare , to do the Message of the King ; And Bersheba , the Lady fair , unto the Court did quickly bring . The King rejoiced at her sighed , and wone her love , and lay'd her by , They spent the night in found delight , until the sun was risen high ; The King his leave most kindly took , till that three months were gone and passed , And then again he did return , with wondrous speed and haste . And then the Lady Bersheba , she found her former health exil'd , By certain tokens that she saw , the King had got her with child : Then to the King she made her moan , and told him how the case did stand ; The King sent for her Husband home , to cloak the matter out of hand . When from the Camp Uriah came , the King receiv'd him courteously , Demanding how all things did frame , concerning of the Enemy : Uriah shew'd his Highness all the accidents of warlike strife ; Then said the King , This night you shall keep company with your own Wife . The Ark of God , Uriah said , with Judah's Host , and Israel , Keep in the field , and not a Man within the house where they do dwell ; Then should I take my ease , ( quoth he ) in bed of down with my fair Wife ; Oh King , he said , that may not be , so long as I enjoy my life . Then did the King a letter frame , to Joab , General of the Host , And by Uriah sent the same , but certainly his life it cost . And when the King for certain knew Uriah thus had murdered been , Fair Bersheba to the Court he drew , and made of her his Royal Queen : Then God that saw this wicked deed , was angry at King David's since , The Prophet Nathan then with speed , came thus complaining unto him , Oh David , ponder what I say , a great abuse I shall the tell , For thou that rul'st in equity , should see the People govern'd well ; Two Men within the City dwell , the one is rich the other poor , The rich in cattle does excel , the other nothing hath in store , Saving one little silly sheep , which young he did with money buy , With his own bred he did it feed , among his Children tenderly : The rich Man had a Stranger came unto his house that lov'd him dear , The poor Man's sheep therefore he took and thereof made his Friend good cheer , Because that he his own would spare , he us'd the Man most cruelly . Then by the Lord , the King did swear , the rich Man for that fault should die . Thou art the Man , the Prophet said , the Princely Crown God gave to thee , The Lord's Wife , thou thy own haste made , and many more of fair beauty : Why hast thou so defil'd thy life , and slave Uriah with the sword , And taken home his wedded Wife , regarding not God's holy Word ? Therefore behold , thus says the Lord , Great wars upon thy house shall be ; Because thou hast my Laws abhor'd , much ill be sure i'll cast on thee : I'll take thy Wives before thy face , and give them to their Neighbours use , And thou thereby shall reap disgrace , for Man shall laugh at thy abuse . Then David cried out piteously , Soar have I sinned against the Lord , In mercy therefore look on me , let not my prayers be abhor'd . But as the Prophet told to him , so did it after chance indeed , For God did greatly plaugue his since , as in the Bible you may read ; The scourge of since thus you may see , for murder and adultery ; And grant that we may warned be , such crying sins to shun and fly . London : Pri [ n ] ted by and for W. O. and for A. M. and sold by C. Bates , in Pie-corner . 