And excellent Ballad , Entitled , The Wandering Prince of Troy . To the Tune of , Queen Dido . WHen Troy Town for ten years Wars , withstood the Greeks in manful wise , Then did their foes increase so fast , that to resist none could suffice : Wast lies those walls that were so good , And corn now grows where Troy town stood . Aeneas Wandering Prince of Troy , when he for Land long time had sought , At length arrived with great joy , to mighty Carthage walls was brought , Where Dido's Queen with sumptuous feast , Did entertain this wandering guest . And as in Hall at meat they sat , the Queen desirous news to hear , Of thy unhappy ten years wars , declare to me thou Trojan dear , Thy heavy hap and chance so bad , That thou poor wandering Prince haste had . And then annon this worthy Knight , with words demure as he could well , Of his unhappy ten years wars , so true a tale began to tell ; With words so sweet , and sighs so deep , That oft he made them all to weep . And then a thousand sighs he fetched , and every sighs brought tears amain , That where he sat the place was wet , as if he had seen those wars again : So that the Queen with truth therefore , Said , Worthy Prince enough no more . The darksome night apace grew on , And twinkling Stars , t'ch skies were spread till he his doleful tale had told , as every one lay in his bed ; Where they full sweetly took their rest , Save only Dido's boiling breast . This silly woman never slept , but in her Chamber all alone , As one unhappy always kept , unto the wall she made her moan , That she should still desire in vain . The thing that she could not obtain . And thus in grief she spent the night , till twinkling stars from skies were fled , And Phoebus with his glimmering beams , through misty clouds appeared read : Then tidings came to her anon That all the Trojan ships were gone . And then the Queen with bloody knife , did arm her heart as hard as stone , Yet somewhat loath to lose her life , in woeful case she made her moan ; And rolling on her careful bed , With sighs and sobs these words she said . O wretched Dido Queen quoth she , I see thy end approaches near , For he is gone away from thee , whom thou didst love and hold so dear ; Is he then gone and passed by ? O hear prepare thy self to die . Though reason would thou shouldst forbear , to stop thy hand from bloody stroke , Yet fancy said thou should'st not fear , who fettered thee in Cupids yoke : Come death , quoth she , and end the smart , And with these words , she pierc'd her heart . WHen death had pierc'd the tender heart of Dido Carthaginian Queen , And bloody knife did end the smart which she sustain'd in woeful teen : AEneas being Shipped and gone , Whose flattery caused all her moan . Her Funeral most costly made , and all things finished mournfully , Her body fine in mould was laid , where it consumed speedily : Her Sisters tears her tomb bestrew'd , Her Subject's grief their kindness shew'd . Then was AEneas in and Isle in Grecia , where he liv'd long space , Whereas her Sister in short time , writ to him to his foul disgrace : In phrase of Letters to her mind , She told him plain he was unkind . Falsehearted wretch , quoth she , thou art , and treacherously thou hast betray'd , Unto thy Lure a gentle heart , which unto thee such welcome made : My Sister dear , and Carthage joy , Whose folly wrought her dire annoy . Yet on her deathbed when she lay , she prayed for thy prosperity , Beseeching God that every day might breed thee great felicity : Thus by thy means I lost a friend , Heavens send thee such untimely end . When he these lines , full fraught with gall , perused had , and weigh'd them right , His lofty courage then did fallen , and straight appeared in his sighed , Queen Dido's Ghost both grim and pale , Which made this valiant Soulder quail . AEneas , quoth my whole delight while I did Thee of all men I loved most , my fancy and my will did give : For entertainment I thee gave , Unthankfully thou dig'st my grave . Therefore prepare thy fleeting soul to wander with me in the air , Where deadly grief shall make it howl , because of me thou took'st no care ; Delay no time , thy glass is run , Thy day is past , thy death is come . O stay a while thou lovely spright , be not so ready to convey , My soul into eternal night , where it shall ne'r behold bright day : Oh do not frown ! thy angry look , Hath made my breath my life forsook . But woe is me , it is in vain , and bootless is my dismal cry , Time will not be recall'd again , nor you surcease before I die : Oh let me live to make amends , Unto some of thy dearest friends . But seeing thou obdurate art , and will no pity on me show , Because from thee I did depart , and left unpaid what I did owe : I must content my self to take what lot thou wilt with me partake . And like one being in a Trance , a multitude of ugly Fiends About this woeful Prince did dance , no help he had of any friends : His body then they took away , And no man knew his dying day . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . And excellent Ballad , Entitled , The Wandering Prince of Troy . To the Tune of , Queen Dido . WHen Troy Town for ten years Wars , withstood the Greeks in manful wise , Then did their foes increase so fast , that to resist none could suffice : Wast lies those walls that were so good , And corn now grows where Troy town stood . Aeneas Wandering Prince of Troy , when he for Land long time had sought , At length arrived with great joy , to mighty Carthage walls was brought , Where Dido's Queen with sumptuous feast , Did entertain this wandering guest . And as in Hall at meat they sat , the Queen desirous news to hear , Of thy unhappy ten years wars , declare to me thou Trojan dear , Thy heavy hap and chance so bad , That thou poor wandering Prince haste had . And then annon this worthy Knight , with words demure as he could well , Of his unhappy ten years wars , so true a tale began to tell ; With words so sweet , and sighs so deep , That oft he made them all to weep . And then a thousand sighs he fetched , and every sighs brought tears amain , That where he sat the place was wet , as if he had seen those wars again : So that the Queen with truth therefore , Said , Worthy Prince enough no more . The darksome night apace grew on , And twinkling Stars , t'ch skies were spread till he his doleful tale had told , as every one lay in his bed ; Where they full sweetly took their rest , Save only Dido's boiling breast . This silly woman never slept , but in her Chamber all alone , As one unhappy always kept , unto the wall she made her moan , That she should still desire in vain . The thing that she could not obtain . And thus in grief she spent the night , till twinkling stars from skies were fled , And Phoebus with his glimmering beams , through misty clouds appeared read : Then tidings came to her anon That all the Trojan ships were gone . And then the Queen with bloody knife , did arm her heart as hard as stone , Yet somewhat loath to lose her life , in woeful case she made her moan ; And rolling on her careful bed , With sighs and sobs these words she said . O wretched Dido Queen quoth she , I see thy end approaches near , For he is gone away from thee , whom thou didst love and hold so dear ; Is he then gone and passed by ? O hear prepare thy self to die . Though reason would thou shouldst forbear , to stop thy hand from bloody stroke , Yet fancy said thou should'st not fear , who fettered thee in Cupids yoke : Come death , quoth she , and end the smart , And with these words , she pierc'd her heart . WHen death had pierc'd the tender heart of Dido Carthaginian Queen , And bloody knife did end the smart which she sustain'd in woeful teen : AEneas being Shipped and gone , Whose flattery caused all her moan . Her Funeral most costly made , and all things finished mournfully , Her body fine in mould was laid , where it consumed speedily : Her Sisters tears her tomb bestrew'd , Her Subject's grief their kindness shew'd . Then was AEneas in and Isle in Grecia , where he liv'd long space , Whereas her Sister in short time , writ to him to his foul disgrace : In phrase of Letters to her mind , She told him plain he was unkind . Falsehearted wretch , quoth she , thou art , and treacherously thou hast betray'd , Unto thy Lure a gentle heart , which unto thee such welcome made : My Sister dear , and Carthage joy , Whose folly wrought her dire annoy . Yet on her deathbed when she lay , she prayed for thy prosperity , Beseeching God that every day might breed thee great felicity : Thus by thy means I lost a friend , Heavens send thee such untimely end . When he these lines , full fraught with gall , perused had , and weigh'd them right , His lofty courage then did fallen , and straight appeared in his sighed , Queen Dido's Ghost both grim and pale , Which made this valiant Soulder quail . AEneas , quoth my whole delight while I did Thee of all men I loved most , my fancy and my will did give : For entertainment I thee gave , Unthankfully thou dig'st my grave . Therefore prepare thy fleeting soul to wander with me in the air , Where deadly grief shall make it howl , because of me thou took'st no care ; Delay no time , thy glass is run , Thy day is past , thy death is come . O stay a while thou lovely spright , be not so ready to convey , My soul into eternal night , where it shall ne'r behold bright day : Oh do not frown ! thy angry look , Hath made my breath my life forsook . But woe is me , it is in vain , and bootless is my dismal cry , Time will not be recall'd again , nor you surcease before I die : Oh let me live to make amends , Unto some of thy dearest friends . But seeing thou obdurate art , and will no pity on me show , Because from thee I did depart , and left unpaid what I did owe : I must content my self to take what lot thou wilt with me partake . And like one being in a Trance , a multitude of ugly Fiends About this woeful Prince did dance , no help he had of any friends : His body then they took away , And no man knew his dying day . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . And excellent Ballad , Entitled , The Wandering Prince of Troy . To the Tune of , Queen Dido . WHen Troy Town for ten years Wars , withstood the Greeks in manful wise , Then did their foes increase so fast , that to resist none could suffice : Wast lies those walls that were so good , And corn now grows where Troy town stood . AEneas Wandering Prince of Troy , when he for Land long time had sought , At length arrived with great joy , to mighty Carthage walls was brought , Where Dido's Queen with sumptuous feast , Did entertain this wandering guest . And as in Hall at meat they sat , the Queen desirous news to hear , Of thy unhappy ten years wars , declare to me thou Trojan dear , Thy heavy hap and chance so bad , That thou poor wandering Prince haste had . And then annon this worthy Knight , with words demure as he could well , Of his unhappy ten years wars , so true a tale began to tell ; With words so sweet , and sighs so deep , That oft he made them all to weep . And then a thousand sighs he fetched , and every sighs brought tears amain , That where he sat the place was wet , as if he had seen those wars again : So that the Queen with truth therefore , Said , Worthy Prince enough no more . The darksome night apace grew on , And twinkling Stars , t'ch skies were spread till he his doleful tale had told , as every one lay in his bed ; Where they full sweetly took their rest , Save only Dido's boiling breast . This silly woman never slept , but in her Chamber all alone , As one unhappy always kept , unto the wall she made her moan , That she should still desire in vain . The thing that she could not obtain . And thus in grief she spent the night , till twinkling stars from skies were fled , And Phoebus with his glimmering beams , through misty clouds appeared read : Then tidings came to her anon That all the Trojan ships were gone . And then the Queen with bloody knife , did arm her heart as hard as stone , Yet somewhat loath to lose her life , in woeful case she made her moan ; And rolling on her careful bed , With sighs and sobs these words she said . O wretched Dido Queen quoth she , I see thy end approaches near , For he is gone away from thee , whom thou didst love and hold so dear ; Is he then gone and passed by ? O hear prepare thy self to die . Though reason would thou shouldst forbear , to stop thy hand from bloody stroke , Yet fancy said thou should'st not fear , who fettered thee in Cupids yoke : Come death , quoth she , and end the smart , And with these words , she pierc'd her heart . WHen death had pierc'd the tender heart of Dido Carthaginian Queen , And bloody knife did end the smart which she sustain'd in woeful teen : AEneas being Shipped and gone , Whose flattery caused all her moan . Her Funeral most costly made , and all things finished mournfully , Her body fine in mould was laid , where it consumed speedily : Her Sisters tears her tomb bestrew'd , Her Subject's grief their kindness shew'd . Then was AEneas in and Isle in Grecia , where he liv'd long space , Whereas her Sister in short time , writ to him to his foul disgrace : In phrase of Letters to her mind , She told him plain he was unkind . Falsehearted wretch , quoth she , thou art , and treacherously thou hast betray'd , Unto thy Lure a gentle heart , which unto thee such welcome made : My Sister dear , and Carthage joy , Whose folly wrought her dire annoy . Yet on her deathbed when she lay , she prayed for thy prosperity , Beseeching God that every day might breed thee great felicity : Thus by thy means I lost a friend , Heavens send thee such untimely end . When he these lines , full fraught with gall , perused had , and weigh'd them right , His lofty courage then did fallen , and straight appeared in his sighed , Queen Dido's Ghost both grim and pale , Which made this valiant Soulder quail . AEneas , quoth my whole delight while I did Thee of all men I loved most , my fancy and my will did give : For entertainment I thee gave , Unthankfully thou dig'st my grave . Therefore prepare thy fleeting soul to wander with me in the air , Where deadly grief shall make it howl , because of me thou took'st no care ; Delay no time , thy glass is run , Thy day is past , thy death is come . O stay a while thou lovely spright , be not so ready to convey , My soul into eternal night , where it shall ne'r behold bright day : Oh do not frown ! thy angry look , Hath made my breath my life forsook . But woe is me , it is in vain , and bootless is my dismal cry , Time will not be recall'd again , nor you surcease before I die : Oh let me live to make amends , Unto some of thy dearest friends . But seeing thou obdurate art , and will no pity on me show , Because from thee I did depart , and left unpaid what I did owe : I must content my self to take what lot thou wilt with me partake . And like one being in a Trance , a multitude of ugly Fiends About this woeful Prince did dance , no help he had of any friends : His body then they took away , And no man knew his dying day . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . And excellent Ballad , Entitled , The Wandering Prince of Troy . To the Tune of , Queen Dido . WHen Troy Town for ten years Wars , withstood the Greeks in manful wise , Then did their foes increase so fast , that to resist none could suffice : Wast lies those walls that were so good , And corn now grows where Troy town stood . AEneas Wandering Prince of Troy , when he for Land long time had sought , At length arrived with great joy , to mighty Carthage walls was brought , Where Dido's Queen with sumptuous feast , Did entertain this wandering guest . And as in Hall at meat they sat , the Queen desirous news to hear , Of thy unhappy ten years wars , declare to me thou Trojan dear , Thy heavy hap and chance so bad , That thou poor wandering Prince haste had . And then annon this worthy Knight , with words demure as he could well , Of his unhappy ten years wars , so true a tale began to tell ; With words so sweet , and sighs so deep , That oft he made them all to weep . And then a thousand sighs he fetched , and every sighs brought tears amain , That where he sat the place was wet , as if he had seen those wars again : So that the Queen with truth therefore , Said , Worthy Prince enough no more . The darksome night apace grew on , And twinkling Stars , t'ch skies were spread till he his doleful tale had told , as every one lay in his bed ; Where they full sweetly took their rest , Save only Dido's boiling breast . This silly woman never slept , but in her Chamber all alone , As one unhappy always kept , unto the wall she made her moan , That she should still desire in vain . The thing that she could not obtain . And thus in grief she spent the night , till twinkling stars from skies were fled , And Phoebus with his glimmering beams , through misty clouds appeared read : Then tidings came to her anon That all the Trojan ships were gone . And then the Queen with bloody knife , did arm her heart as hard as stone , Yet somewhat loath to lose her life , in woeful case she made her moan ; And rolling on her careful bed , With sighs and sobs these words she said . O wretched Dido Queen quoth she , I see thy end approaches near , For he is gone away from thee , whom thou didst love and hold so dear ; Is he then gone and passed by ? O hear prepare thy self to die . Though reason would thou shouldst forbear , to stop thy hand from bloody stroke , Yet fancy said thou should'st not fear , who fettered thee in Cupids yoke : Come death , quoth she , and end the smart , And with these words , she pierc'd her heart . WHen death had pierc'd the tender heart of Dido Carthaginian Queen , And bloody knife did end the smart which she sustain'd in woeful teen : AEneas being Shipped and gone , Whose flattery caused all her moan . Her Funeral most costly made , and all things finished mournfully , Her body fine in mould was laid , where it consumed speedily : Her Sisters tears her tomb bestrew'd , Her Subject's grief their kindness shew'd . Then was AEneas in and Isle in Grecia , where he liv'd long space , Whereas her Sister in short time , writ to him to his foul disgrace : In phrase of Letters to her mind , She told him plain he was unkind . Falsehearted wretch , quoth she , thou art , and treacherously thou hast betray'd , Unto thy Lure a gentle heart , which unto thee such welcome made : My Sister dear , and Carthage joy , Whose folly wrought her dire annoy . Yet on her deathbed when she lay , she prayed for thy prosperity , Beseeching God that every day might breed thee great felicity : Thus by thy means I lost a friend , Heavens send thee such untimely end . When he these lines , full fraught with gall , perused had , and weigh'd them right , His lofty courage then did fallen , and straight appeared in his sighed , Queen Dido's Ghost both grim and pale , Which made this valiant Soulder quail . AEneas , quoth my whole delight while I did Thee of all men I loved most , my fancy and my will did give : For entertainment I thee gave , Unthankfully thou dig'st my grave . Therefore prepare thy fleeting soul to wander with me in the air , Where deadly grief shall make it howl , because of me thou took'st no care ; Delay no time , thy glass is run , Thy day is past , thy death is come . O stay a while thou lovely spright , be not so ready to convey , My soul into eternal night , where it shall ne'r behold bright day : Oh do not frown ! thy angry look , Hath made my breath my life forsook . But woe is me , it is in vain , and bootless is my dismal cry , Time will not be recall'd again , nor you surcease before I die : Oh let me live to make amends , Unto some of thy dearest friends . But seeing thou obdurate art , and will no pity on me show , Because from thee I did depart , and left unpaid what I did owe : I must content my self to take what lot thou wilt with me partake . And like one being in a Trance , a multitude of ugly Fiends About this woeful Prince did dance , no help he had of any friends : His body then they took away , And no man knew his dying day . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . 