c The Devonshire Damsels FROLIC : BEING And Account of nine or ten fair Maidens , who went one Evening lately , to wash them - selves in a pleasant River , where they were discovered by several Young Men being their familiar Acquaintances who took away their Gowns and Petticoats , with their Smocks and Wine with good Cheer ; leaving them a while in most melancholy con - dition . To a pleasant New Playhouse Tune : Or , Where's my Sheppherd ? This may be Printed . R.P. TOm and William with Ned and Ben , in all they were about nine or ten ; near a trick - ling River endeavour to see a most delicate sighed for men ; nine young maidens they knew it full well , Sarah , Susan with bonny Nell , and all those others whose names are not here intended to wash in a R [ iver clear . ] SImon gave out the report the rest resolving to see the sport The-Young freely repairing declaring that this is the Humours of Venus Court In a Bower those Gallants remain seeing the Maidens trip o're the plain They thought no Body did know their intent as merrily over the Fields they went . Nell a Bottle of Wine did bring with many a delicate dainty thing Their Fainting Spirits to nourish and cherish when they had been dabbling in the Spring They supposing no Creature did know to the River they merrily go , When they came thither and seeing none near then under the bushes they hid their cheer . Then they stripping of all their Clothes their Gowns their Petticoats , Shoes and Hose Their fine white smickits then stripping and skipping no Body seeing them they suppose Sarah enter'd the River so clear and bid them follow they need not fear For why the Water is warm they replied then into the River they sweetly glide . Finely bathing themselves they lay like pretty Fish they sport and play Then lets be merry said Nancy , I fancy , it's seldom that any one walks this way Thus those Females were all in a Quill and following on their Pastime still All naked in a most dainty trim those Maidens like beautiful Swans did swim . While they followed on their Game out came sweet William and Tom by name . They took all their Clothing and left nothing Maids was they not Villains and much to blame Likewise taking their Bottle of Wine with all their delicate Dainties fine Thus they were rifled of all their store , was ever poor Maidens so serv'd before . From the River those Maidens fair return'd with sorrow and deep despair When they seeing , brooding concluding that somebody certainly had been there With all their Treasure away they run Alas said Nelle we are undone , Those Villains I wish they were in the Stocks that took our Petticoats Gowns and Smocks . Then Sweet Sarah with modest Prue they all was in a most fearful Hue Every Maiden replying and crying they did not know what in the World to do But what laughing was there with the Men in bringing their Gowns and Smocks again The Maidens were modest and mighty mute and gave them fine curtsies and thanks to boot . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Gold Ball in Pie-corner . c The Devonshire Damsels FROLIC : BEING And Account of nine or ten fair Maidens , who went one Evening lately , to wash them - selves in a pleasant River , where they were discovered by several Young Men being their familiar Acquaintances who took away their Gowns and Petticoats , with their Smocks and Wine with good Cheer ; leaving them a while in most melancholy con - dition . To a pleasant New Playhouse Tune : Or , Where's my Sheppherd ? This may be Printed . R.P. TOm and William with Ned and Ben , in all they were about nine or ten ; near a trick - ling River endeavour to see a most delicate sighed for men ; nine young maidens they knew it full well , Sarah , Susan with bonny Nell , and all those others whose names are not here intended to wash in a R [ iver clear . ] SImon gave out the report the rest resolving to see the sport The-Young freely repairing declaring that this is the Humours of Venus Court In a Bower those Gallants remain seeing the Maidens trip o're the plain They thought no Body did know their intent as merrily over the Fields they went . Nell a Bottle of Wine did bring with many a delicate dainty thing Their Fainting Spirits to nourish and cherish when they had been dabbling in the Spring They supposing no Creature did know to the River they merrily go , When they came thither and seeing none near then under the bushes they hid their cheer . Then they stripping of all their Clothes their Gowns their Petticoats , Shoes and Hose Their fine white smickits then stripping and skipping no Body seeing them they suppose Sarah enter'd the River so clear and bid them follow they need not fear For why the Water is warm they replied then into the River they sweetly glide . Finely bathing themselves they lay like pretty Fish they sport and play Then lets be merry said Nancy , I fancy , it's seldom that any one walks this way Thus those Females were all in a Quill and following on their Pastime still All naked in a most dainty trim those Maidens like beautiful Swans did swim . While they followed on their Game out came sweet William and Tom by name . They took all their Clothing and left nothing Maids was they not Villains and much to blame Likewise taking their Bottle of Wine with all their delicate Dainties fine Thus they were rifled of all their store , was ever poor Maidens so serv'd before . From the River those Maidens fair return'd with sorrow and deep despair When they seeing , brooding concluding that somebody certainly had been there With all their Treasure away they run Alas said Nelle we are undone , Those Villains I wish they were in the Stocks that took our Petticoats Gowns and Smocks . Then Sweet Sarah with modest Prue they all was in a most fearful Hue Every Maiden replying and crying they did not know what in the World to do But what laughing was there with the Men in bringing their Gowns and Smocks again The Maidens were modest and mighty mute and gave them fine curtsies and thanks to boot . Printed for P. Brooksby at the Gold Ball in Pie-corner . 