Englands Joy in a Lawful Triumph . Bold Fanatics now make room CHARLS the Second's coming home . As it was voted in the House on May-day last 1660. To the Tune of , Packingtons Pound . [ King Charls , born May 19. 1630. Duke James , born Octob. 13. 1633. Henry Duke of Glo' - cester , the third Son. The Lady Marry , born Nov. 4. 1631 The Lady Eliza - beth , born Decem. 19. 1635. The Lady Anne , born March 17. 1636. ] HOld up thy head England , and now show thy face That eighteen years hath held it down with disgrace Thy comforts are coming , then cheer up thy looks Thy hope's , like thy gates , are quite off of the hooks Thy blessings draw near Thy joy does appear With much expedition thy King will be here May all the rich pleasures that ever were reckon'd Attend on the Person of King Charls the second . The Bride and the Bridegroom did never so greet As the King and his People together will meet , Though some are against it , 'tis very well known That those that be for it are twenty for one , Who with them will bring Allegiance and sing with voices of Loyalty , God save the King , May all , etc There's none are against it , but what are partakers With Jesuits , Jews , Anabaptists and Quakers , But he ( like a Lion that's rouz'd from his den ) Will pull down the pride of Fifth-Monarchy Men , The Preaching-house-hanters With all their Enchanters The proud Independents , the Brownists and Ranters With all the vile Sectaries that can be reckon'd we hope will be routed by King Charls the second . The benefits which will acrew to this Land Are more than we suddenly can understand There's no man of merit , in Arts or in Trade But if he endeavour may quickly be made , Our Trade will increase And so will our peace And this will give many poor prisoners release May all the rich pleasure that ever were reckon'd Attend on the Person of the King Charls the second . Then aged Pauls-steeple still hold up thy head For under thy roof shall Gods Service be read And there shall be set up the Communion Table Then they shall be hang'd up that made it a stable And have no reprieves For good men it grieves That Gods house of prayer should be a den of thieves May all , etc The Law and the Gospel shall freely be taught Which lately unto the Barebone hath been brought Our Doctrine and Worship sha [ l ] l flourish again In spite of the pride of Schismatical men Good Learning and we Shall always agree The two Universities cherished shall be Then may all the blessing that ev [ e ] r were reckon'd be attributed unto King Charles the second . Our mirth and good company shall not be checked By such as do nickname themselves the Elect But we will be merry , and spend and odd taster At Christmas , at Whitsentide , Shrovetide and Easter Wee'l play our old pranks Rejoice and give thanks And those that oppose we will cripple their thanks May all the rich pleasures that ever were reckon'd Attend on the Person of the King Charles the second . Our Exchange shall be filled with Merchant's from fair 'Tis better to deal in good Traffic than war With all Neighbour Nations wee'l shake hands in peace By that means our treasure and trade will increase With France and with Spain Wee'l make leagues again we thank them for inccouring our sovereign May all , etc Our shipping in safety shall sale on the Seas To Italy , Naples or what Port they please Then riches from cheery Country they'l bring To profit the people , and pleasure the King Much good we shall reap And treasure up-heap Good White-wine and Clarret , and Sack will be cheap Then we will drink healths till they cannot be reckon'd To Gloster , to York , and to King Charles the second . Our Pot , Pipe and Organ shall then be divided And into the holy Cathedrals be guided Our Outristers small , and our tall singing men Shall joyfully chant to the Organ again The Surplice so torn Shall newly be worn And all the fair Rites that the Church do adorn Twice twenty times more than can rightly be reckon'd To the honour of God , and for King Charls the second . The banished Nobility then shall return Who long time in disconsolation did mourn And when they'r well settled like right Noble men Good housekeeping will be in fashion again The poor that will wait Without at the gate Shall have their benevolence at a good rate May all , etc Our Taxes will grow less and less , I suppose For we have been very much troubled with those Excise-men ( I hope too ) in time will go down 'T is they are the torment of Country and Town The Magistrates then Shall be honest men The Parson shall challenge his tythe-pig again May all , etc We shall be the joyfullest Nation on earth When once the King comes home to complete our mirth we shall be the envy of Nations unknown When King Charls the second fixed in his Throne , The Triumphs that then Shall be aming men Will prove a good Subject for every good pen May all , etc Now God send him with expedition I pray For every good subject does long for the day The bells' shall ring out , and the Conduits run wine , The bonfires shall blaze till our faces do shine And as the sparks fly Like Stars in the sky Lord succour , preserve him , and guide him , wee'l cry May all the rich blessing that ever were reckon'd Attend on the presence of King Charls the second . FINIS . London , Printed for F.G. on Snow-hill . Entered according to Order . Englands Joy in a Lawful Triumph . Bold Fanatics now make room CHARLS the Second's coming home . As it was voted in the House on May-day last 1660. To the Tune of , Packingtons Pound . [ King Charls , born May 19. 1630. Duke James , born Octob. 13. 1633. Henry Duke of Glo' - cester , the third Son. The Lady Marry , born Nov. 4. 1631 The Lady Eliza - beth , born Decem. 19. 1635. The Lady Anne , born March 17. 1636. ] HOld up thy head England , and now show thy face That eighteen years hath held it down with disgrace Thy comforts are coming , then cheer up thy looks Thy hope's , like thy gates , are quite off of the hooks Thy blessings draw near Thy joy does appear With much expedition thy King will be here May all the rich pleasures that ever were reckon'd Attend on the Person of King Charls the second . The Bride and the Bridegroom did never so greet As the King and his People together will meet , Though some are against it , 'tis very well known That those that be for it are twenty for one , Who with them will bring Allegiance and sing with voices of Loyalty , God save the King , May all , etc There's none are against it , but what are partakers With Jesuits , Jews , Anabaptists and Quakers , But he ( like a Lion that's rouz'd from his den ) Will pull down the pride of Fifth-Monarchy Men , The Preaching-house-hanters With all their Enchanters The proud Independents , the Brownists and Ranters With all the vile Sectaries that can be reckon'd we hope will be routed by King Charls the second . The benefits which will acrew to this Land Are more than we suddenly can understand There's no man of merit , in Arts or in Trade But if he endeavour may quickly be made , Our Trade will increase And so will our peace And this will give many poor prisoners release May all the rich pleasure that ever were reckon'd Attend on the Person of the King Charls the second . Then aged Pauls-steeple still hold up thy head For under thy roof shall Gods Service be read And there shall be set up the Communion Table Then they shall be hang'd up that made it a stable And have no reprieves For good men it grieves That Gods house of prayer should be a den of thieves May all , etc The Law and the Gospel shall freely be taught Which lately unto the Barebone hath been brought Our Doctrine and Worship sha [ l ] l flourish again In spite of the pride of Schismatical men Good Learning and we Shall always agree The two Universities cherished shall be Then may all the blessing that ev [ e ] r were reckon'd be attributed unto King Charles the second . Our mirth and good company shall not be checked By such as do nickname themselves the Elect But we will be merry , and spend and odd taster At Christmas , at Whitsentide , Shrovetide and Easter Wee'l play our old pranks Rejoice and give thanks And those that oppose we will cripple their thanks May all the rich pleasures that ever were reckon'd Attend on the Person of the King Charles the second . Our Exchange shall be filled with Merchant's from fair 'Tis better to deal in good Traffic than war With all Neighbour Nations wee'l shake hands in peace By that means our treasure and trade will increase With France and with Spain Wee'l make leagues again we thank them for inccouring our sovereign May all , etc Our shipping in safety shall sale on the Seas To Italy , Naples or what Port they please Then riches from cheery Country they'l bring To profit the people , and pleasure the King Much good we shall reap And treasure up-heap Good White-wine and Clarret , and Sack will be cheap Then we will drink healths till they cannot be reckon'd To Gloster , to York , and to King Charles the second . Our Pot , Pipe and Organ shall then be divided And into the holy Cathedrals be guided Our Outristers small , and our tall singing men Shall joyfully chant to the Organ again The Surplice so torn Shall newly be worn And all the fair Rites that the Church do adorn Twice twenty times more than can rightly be reckon'd To the honour of God , and for King Charls the second . The banished Nobility then shall return Who long time in disconsolation did mourn And when they'r well settled like right Noble men Good housekeeping will be in fashion again The poor that will wait Without at the gate Shall have their benevolence at a good rate May all , etc Our Taxes will grow less and less , I suppose For we have been very much troubled with those Excise-men ( I hope too ) in time will go down 'T is they are the torment of Country and Town The Magistrates then Shall be honest men The Parson shall challenge his tythe-pig again May all , etc We shall be the joyfullest Nation on earth When once the King comes home to complete our mirth we shall be the envy of Nations unknown When King Charls the second fixed in his Throne , The Triumphs that then Shall be aming men Will prove a good Subject for every good pen May all , etc Now God send him with expedition I pray For every good subject does long for the day The bells' shall ring out , and the Conduits run wine , The bonfires shall blaze till our faces do shine And as the sparks fly Like Stars in the sky Lord succour , preserve him , and guide him , wee'l cry May all the rich blessing that ever were reckon'd Attend on the presence of King Charls the second . FINIS . London , Printed for F.G. on Snow-hill . Entered according to Order . Englands Joy in a Lawful Triumph . Bold Fanatics now make room CHARLS the Second's coming home . As it was voted in the House on May-day last 1660. To the Tune of , Packingtons Pound . [ King Charls , born May 29. 1630. Duke James , born Octob. 13. 1633. Henry Duke of Glo' - cester , the third Son. The Lady Marry , born Nov. 4. 1631 The Lady Eliza - beth , born Decem. 19. 1635. The Lady Anne , born March 17. 1636. ] HOld up thy head England , and now show thy face That eighteen years hath held it down with disgrace Thy comforts are coming , then cheer up thy looks Thy hope's , like thy gates , are quite off of the hooks Thy blessings draw near Thy joy does appear With much expedition thy King will be here May all the rich pleasures that ever were reckon'd Attend on the Person of King Charls the second . The Bride and the Bridegroom did never so greet As the King and his People together will meet , Though some are against it , 'tis very well known That those that be for it are twenty for one , Who with them will bring Allegiance and sing with voices of Loyalty , God save the King , May all , etc There's none are against it , but what are partakers With Jesuits , Jews , Anabaptists and Quakers , But he ( like a Lion that's rouz'd from his den ) Will pull down the pride of Fifth-Monarchy Men , The Preaching-house-hanters With all their Enchanters The proud Independents , the Brownists and Ranters With all the vile Sectaries that can be reckon'd we hope will be routed by King Charls the second . The benefits which will acrew to this Land Are more than we suddenly can understand There's no man of merit , in Arts or in Trade But if he endeavour may quickly be made , Our Trade will increase And so will our peace And this will give many poor prisoners release May all the rich pleasure that ever were reckon'd Attend on the Person of the King Charls the second . Then aged Pauls-steeple still hold up thy head For under thy roof shall Gods Service be read And there shall be set up the Communion Table Then they shall be hang'd up that made it a stable And have no reprieves For good men it grieves That Gods house of prayer should be a den of thieves May all , etc The Law and the Gospel shall freely be taught Which lately unto the Barebone hath been brought Our Doctrine and Worship sha [ l ] l flourish again In spite of the pride of Schismatical men Good Learning and we Shall always agree The two Universities cherished shall be Then may all the blessing that ev [ e ] r were reckon'd be attributed unto King Charles the second . Our mirth and good company shall not be checked By such as do nickname themselves the Elect But we will be merry , and spend and odd taster At Christmas , at Whitsentide , Shrovetide and Easter Wee'l play our old pranks Rejoice and give thanks And those that oppose we will cripple their thanks May all the rich pleasures that ever were reckon'd Attend on the Person of the King Charles the second . Our Exchange shall be filled with Merchant's from fair 'Tis better to deal in good Traffic than war With all Neighbour Nations wee'l shake hands in peace By that means our treasure and trade will increase With France and with Spain Wee'l make leagues again we thank them for inccouring our sovereign May all , etc Our shipping in safety shall sale on the Seas To Italy , Naples or what Port they please Then riches from cheery Country they'l bring To profit the people , and pleasure the King Much good we shall reap And treasure up-heap Good White-wine and Clarret , and Sack will be cheap Then we will drink healths till they cannot be reckon'd To Gloster , to York , and to King Charles the second . Our Pot , Pipe and Organ shall then be divided And into the holy Cathedrals be guided Our Outristers small , and our tall singing men Shall joyfully chant to the Organ again The Surplice so torn Shall newly be worn And all the fair Rites that the Church do adorn Twice twenty times more than can rightly be reckon'd To the honour of God , and for King Charls the second . The banished Nobility then shall return Who long time in disconsolation did mourn And when they'r well settled like right Noble men Good housekeeping will be in fashion again The poor that will wait Without at the gate Shall have their benevolence at a good rate May all , etc Our Taxes will grow less and less , I suppose For we have been very much troubled with those Excise-men ( I hope too ) in time will go down 'T is they are the torment of Country and Town The Magistrates then Shall be honest men The Parson shall challenge his tythe-pig again May all , etc We shall be the joyfullest Nation on earth When once the King comes home to complete our mirth we shall be the envy of Nations unknown When King Charls the second fixed in his Throne , The Triumphs that then Shall be aming men Will prove a good Subject for every good pen May all , etc Now God send him with expedition I pray For every good subject does long for the day The bells' shall ring out , and the Conduits run wine , The bonfires shall blaze till our faces do shine And as the sparks fly Like Stars in the sky Lord succour , preserve him , and guide him , wee'l cry May all the rich blessing that ever were reckon'd Attend on the presence of King Charls the second . FINIS . London , Printed for F.G. on Snow-hill . Entered according to Order . Englands Joy in a Lawful Triumph . Bold Fanatics now make room CHARLS the Second's coming home . As it was voted in the House on May-day last 1660. To the Tune of , Packingtons Pound . [ King Charls , born May 29. 1630. Duke James , born Octob. 13. 1633. Henry Duke of Glo' - cester , the third Son. The Lady Marry , born Nov. 4. 1631 The Lady Eliza - beth , born Decem. 19. 1635. The Lady Anne , born March 17. 1636. ] HOld up thy head England , and now show thy face That eighteen years hath held it down with disgrace Thy comforts are coming , then cheer up thy looks Thy hope's , like thy gates , are quite off of the hooks Thy blessings draw near Thy joy does appear With much expedition thy King will be here May all the rich pleasures that ever were reckon'd Attend on the Person of King Charls the second . The Bride and the Bridegroom did never so greet As the King and his People together will meet , Though some are against it , 'tis very well known That those that be for it are twenty for one , Who with them will bring Allegiance and sing with voices of Loyalty , God save the King , May all , etc There's none are against it , but what are partakers With Jesuits , Jews , Anabaptists and Quakers , But he ( like a Lion that's rouz'd from his den ) Will pull down the pride of Fifth-Monarchy Men , The Preaching-house-hanters With all their Enchanters The proud Independents , the Brownists and Ranters With all the vile Sectaries that can be reckon'd we hope will be routed by King Charls the second . The benefits which will acrew to this Land Are more than we suddenly can understand There's no man of merit , in Arts or in Trade But if he endeavour may quickly be made , Our Trade will increase And so will our peace And this will give many poor prisoners release May all the rich pleasure that ever were reckon'd Attend on the Person of the King Charls the second . Then aged Pauls-steeple still hold up thy head For under thy roof shall Gods Service be read And there shall be set up the Communion Table Then they shall be hang'd up that made it a stable And have no reprieves For good men it grieves That Gods house of prayer should be a den of thieves May all , etc The Law and the Gospel shall freely be taught Which lately unto the Barebone hath been brought Our Doctrine and Worship sha [ l ] l flourish again In spite of the pride of Schismatical men Good Learning and we Shall always agree The two Universities cherished shall be Then may all the blessing that ev [ e ] r were reckon'd be attributed unto King Charles the second . Our mirth and good company shall not be checked By such as do nickname themselves the Elect But we will be merry , and spend and odd taster At Christmas , at Whitsentide , Shrovetide and Easter Wee'l play our old pranks Rejoice and give thanks And those that oppose we will cripple their thanks May all the rich pleasures that ever were reckon'd Attend on the Person of the King Charles the second . Our Exchange shall be filled with Merchant's from fair 'Tis better to deal in good Traffic than war With all Neighbour Nations wee'l shake hands in peace By that means our treasure and trade will increase With France and with Spain Wee'l make leagues again we thank them for inccouring our sovereign May all , etc Our shipping in safety shall sale on the Seas To Italy , Naples or what Port they please Then riches from cheery Country they'l bring To profit the people , and pleasure the King Much good we shall reap And treasure up-heap Good White-wine and Clarret , and Sack will be cheap Then we will drink healths till they cannot be reckon'd To Gloster , to York , and to King Charles the second . Our Pot , Pipe and Organ shall then be divided And into the holy Cathedrals be guided Our Outristers small , and our tall singing men Shall joyfully chant to the Organ again The Surplice so torn Shall newly be worn And all the fair Rites that the Church do adorn Twice twenty times more than can rightly be reckon'd To the honour of God , and for King Charls the second . The banished Nobility then shall return Who long time in disconsolation did mourn And when they'r well settled like right Noble men Good housekeeping will be in fashion again The poor that will wait Without at the gate Shall have their benevolence at a good rate May all , etc Our Taxes will grow less and less , I suppose For we have been very much troubled with those Excise-men ( I hope too ) in time will go down 'T is they are the torment of Country and Town The Magistrates then Shall be honest men The Parson shall challenge his tythe-pig again May all , etc We shall be the joyfullest Nation on earth When once the King comes home to complete our mirth we shall be the envy of Nations unknown When King Charls the second fixed in his Throne , The Triumphs that then Shall be aming men Will prove a good Subject for every good pen May all , etc Now God send him with expedition I pray For every good subject does long for the day The bells' shall ring out , and the Conduits run wine , The bonfires shall blaze till our faces do shine And as the sparks fly Like Stars in the sky Lord succour , preserve him , and guide him , wee'l cry May all the rich blessing that ever were reckon'd Attend on the presence of King Charls the second . FINIS . London , Printed for F.G. on Snow-hill . Entered according to Order . 