Neptunes raging fury , OR , The Gallant Seamen's Sufferings . Being a Relation of their Perils and Dangers , and of the extraordinary hazards they undergo in their Noble Adventures . Together with their undaunted valour , and rare constancy , in all their extremities . And the manner of their rejoicing on Shore at their return home . To the Tune of , When the Stormy Winds do blow . By J.P. YOu Gentle men of England That lives at home at ease , Full little do you think upon The dangers of the Seas ; Give ear unto the Mariners , And they will plainly show , The cares and the fears , When the stormy winds do blow . All you that will be Seamen , Must bear a valiant heart , For when you come upon the Seas You must not think to start ; Nor once to be faint hearted In Hail , Rain nor Snow ; Nor to shriek , nor to shrink , When the stormy winds do blow . The bitter storms and Tempests Poor Seamen must endure , Both day & night , with many a fright We seldom rest secure : Our sleep it is disturbed , With visions strange to know , And with dreams on the streams , When the stormy winds do blow . In Claps of roaring thunder , Which darkness does enforce , We often find our ships to stray Beyond our wonted course , Which causeth great distractions , And sinks our hearts full low ; This in vain to complain When the stormy winds do blow . Sometime in Neptunes bosom , Our ships is tossed with waves ; And every man expecting The Sea to be their Graves . Then up aloft the mounts , And down again so low : This with Waves , Oh with Waves ! When the stormy winds do blow . Then down we fallen to prayers , With all our might and thought When refuge all does fail us , This that must bear us ou To God we call for succour , For he it is we know That must aid us , and save us When stormy winds do blow . The Second Part , to the same Tune . THe Lawyer and the Usurer , That sits in Gowns of Firr , In closets warm , can take no harm , Abroad they need not stir , When winter fierce with cold does pierce And beats with Hail and Snow , We are sure to endure , When the stormy winds do blow . We bring home costly Merchandise And Jewels of great price , To serve our English Gallantry , With many a rare device , To please the Noble Gentry Our pains we freely show , For we toil , and we moil , When the stormy winds do blow . We sometime sail to th' Indies , to fetch home Spices rare : Sometime again , to France & Spain For wines beyond compare , Whilst Gallants are carousing In Taverns on a row ; Then we sweep o're the deep , When the stormy winds do blow . When Tempests are blown over And greatest fears are past ; In weather fair , and temperate air We straight lie down to rest ; But when the Billows tumble , And waves do furious grow : Then we rouse , up we rouse , When the stormy winds do blow . If Enemies oppose us , When England is at Wars With any foreign Nations We fear not wounds and Scars : Our roaring Guns shall teach them Our valour for to know , Whilst they reel , in the Keel , When the stormy winds do blow . We are no Cowardly shrinkers , But English-men true bred We'le play our parts , like valiant hearts And never fly for dread : We'le ply our business nimbly When ere we come or go , With our mates , to the straits , When the stormy winds do blow . Then Courage all brave Mariners , And never be dismayed , Whilst we have bold Adventurers We ne're shall want a trade : Our Merchant's will employ us , To fetch them wealth I know : Then to be bold , work for Gold , When the stormy winds do blow . When we return in safety , With wages for our pains : The Tapster and the Vintner Will help to share our gains : Wee'le call for liquour roundly , And pay before we go ; Then we'le roar , on the shore , When the stormy winds do blow . FINIS . London , Printed by T. Mabb , for Ric. Burton , at the Horseshoe in Smith-field Neptunes raging fury , OR , The Gallant Seamen's Sufferings . Being a Relation of their Perils and Dangers , and of the extraordinary hazards they undergo in their Noble Adventures . Together with their undaunted valour , and rare constancy , in all their extremities . And the manner of their rejoicing on Shore at their return home . To the Tune of , When the Stormy Winds do blow . By J.P. YOu Gentle men of England That lives at home at ease , Full little do you think upon The dangers of the Seas ; Give ear unto the Mariners , And they will plainly show , The cares and the fears , When the stormy winds do blow . All you that will be Seamen , Must bear a valiant heart , For when you come upon the Seas You must not think to start ; Nor once to be faint hearted In Hail , Rain nor Snow ; Nor to shriek , nor to shrink , When the stormy winds do blow . The bitter storms and Tempests Poor Seamen must endure , Both day & night , with many a fright We seldom rest secure : Our sleep it is disturbed , With visions strange to know , And with dreams on the streams , When the stormy winds do blow . In Claps of roaring thunder , Which darkness does enforce , We often find our ships to stray Beyond our wonted course , Which causeth great distractions , And sinks our hearts full low ; This in vain to complain When the stormy winds do blow . Sometime in Neptunes bosom , Our ships is tossed with waves ; And every man expecting The Sea to be their Graves . Then up aloft the mounts , And down again so low : This with Waves , Oh with Waves ! When the stormy winds do blow . Then down we fallen to prayers , With all our might and thought When refuge all does fail us , This that must bear us ou To God we call for succour , For he it is we know That must aid us , and save us When stormy winds do blow . The Second Part , to the same Tune . THe Lawyer and the Usurer , That sits in Gowns of Firr , In closets warm , can take no harm , Abroad they need not stir , When winter fierce with cold does pierce And beats with Hail and Snow , We are sure to endure , When the stormy winds do blow . We bring home costly Merchandise And Jewels of great price , To serve our English Gallantry , With many a rare device , To please the Noble Gentry Our pains we freely show , For we toil , and we moil , When the stormy winds do blow . We sometime sail to th' Indies , to fetch home Spices rare : Sometime again , to France & Spain For wines beyond compare , Whilst Gallants are carousing In Taverns on a row ; Then we sweep o're the deep , When the stormy winds do blow . When Tempests are blown over And greatest fears are past ; In weather fair , and temperate air We straight lie down to rest ; But when the Billows tumble , And waves do furious grow : Then we rouse , up we rouse , When the stormy winds do blow . If Enemies oppose us , When England is at Wars With any foreign Nations We fear not wounds and Scars : Our roaring Guns shall teach them Our valour for to know , Whilst they reel , in the Keel , When the stormy winds do blow . We are no Cowardly shrinkers , But English-men true bred We'le play our parts , like valiant hearts And never fly for dread : We'le ply our business nimbly When ere we come or go , With our mates , to the straits , When the stormy winds do blow . Then Courage all brave Mariners , And never be dismayed , Whilst we have bold Adventurers We ne're shall want a trade : Our Merchant's will employ us , To fetch them wealth I know : Then to be bold , work for Gold , When the stormy winds do blow . When we return in safety , With wages for our pains : The Tapster and the Vintner Will help to share our gains : Wee'le call for liquour roundly , And pay before we go ; Then we'le roar , on the shore , When the stormy winds do blow . FINIS . London , Printed by T. Mabb , for Ric. Burton , at the Horseshoe in Smith-field 