c Strange and Wondered News from ROME : Giving and Account of and old Man lately and strangely known to be in the City of Room , in Italy , and how he came Invisibly thither ; together with his Eleven Strange and Wondered PROPHESIES , which particularly do mention what shall happen Yearly : showing also how he breaks strong Iron Chains in pieces , as if they were Brown-thread , with many more strange Wonders , never was he like ever herd of before , as naming the Year when there shall be no Pope , and Room shall have no Head , and the Gospel shall be preached throughout the WORLD . Licensed according to Order . IT is not unknown to most who are pleased to take Cognisance of Wonders and strange Miracles , which this present Age does frequently represent ; that of late Years we have been exceed - ingly astonished at several ( to us strange and seldom herd of ) much to be admired Wonders : But now prepare your Ears to hear the most amazing and most unparallel'd Miracle that ever Eng - land was made sensible of , or I think the whole World was ever made acquainted with ; nay , so wonderfully strange , and seemingly impos - sible to be true , that though it be attested with manifold Assertions , it cannot lodge in the breast of the Incredulous , as and unquestionable Verity . But to proceed to the matter intended , and not too much to derogate from my designed Business , let this inform the most doubt - full and unbelieving Reader , That there is lately and account sent from Italy , of the strange manner of the coming of one Man into the City of Room , eminently known by many Travellers , to be one of the Ci - ties not lest accounted of in Italy ; this Person of such and Age ( as he says he is ) no less to be admired for his great Age , then for his strange kind of prophecies , which he daily parts with ; and his man - ner of coming into the City , which we are informed was invisible ; but to come to particulars : This Person does affirm , That his Age is greater then e're was herd oft , for he does say he is above a thou - sand Years old ; he does pretend to be and Apostle of Jesus Christ , and says that he hath the Spirit of Truth in him ; with many other Asser tions , no less full of Wonder then that you have already herd of in the preceding lines : His manner of Apparel is no less to be admir'd then his manner of Discourse , for such Habit as we are informed he does wear , was never seen by mortal eye ; his Deportment is also ve - ry strange , for he walks up and down the City , preaching and admo - nishing to serious Repentance , and giving admirable Advice to the People to forsake their Iniquities , and to return from their evil Ways , for , says he , The wrath of God is kindled against the Roman . He also adds , That the City of Room is a second Sodom ; and that the Trans - gressions of the People have ascended to the Heavens , and approach - ed to the Ears of the Almighty , and that nothing can preserve them from approaching Misery , but speedy and unfeigned Repentance ; without which , he does assert , that in three Years the City shall be utterly destroyed and consumed by Fire . By our last Advice we are informed , that this Man had continued there for the space of eight Days , preaching about the City : his custom is to go bareheaded and barefooted , strange to behold . The Magistrates being offended at his Doctrine , have forbidden him to preach ; but he took no more notice thereof , then to return this answer , That he was sent from God to move the People to Repentance , and to abandon those Iniquities , which if not deserted , would doubtlessly pull down Vengeance upon them in a short time . After this , order was given for his Confinement ; which being per - formed , he was frequently visited by several Jesuits , who discoursed with him in several Tongues , namely , the Latin , Hebrew , and Chal - dean , wherein he was exquisitely perfect . He also acknowledges that he knows well such as live lose and wicked Lives . He is not o - vercurious in his Diet , for his greatest Delicate , and general Food is nothing but dry Bred ; and his strongest Drink is Water only . He prophecies of many strange things , and the time when all the Wick - edness in the World should have and end , and every one shall serve the Lord , and worship the God of Heaven ; then nation shall no more rise against Nation , nor Kingdom against Kingdom , all the World shall be at peace . Being asked by some of the amazed People , whose astonishments were as great as his answers strange , How long it would be before this blessed Day would come ? His reply was abso - lute , and about the Year 1699 , should certainly be the end of all Wickedness in the World : all Nations shall live in the fear of the Lord ; all the World shall be at peace . His strange and unknown coming into that City was admired by all : at last he was examined by the Magistrates from whence he came : He answered , That he came from a place called Galadiam in Damas , a City of Gallilea , and is the Messenger of the Almighty , sent to preach Repentance to the since - full World . But the Jesuits not at all pleased with his Doctrine or Discourse , have prevalently persuaded their Magistrates to cond - scend to what they so earnestly requested , which is , That this Per - son , on whom we know not what Title justly to bestow , should by all means be conveyed to the Pope , there to be examined by his Holiness : But he makes little account of what is ordered , saying , That he is ve - ry well acquainted with what shall be his Portion , and what shall be - come of him ; and that he looked upon it altogether unnecessary to be so loaded with Chains ; but did acknowledge that he was very desirous to see the Pope ; and so without any difficulty , and with great ease , breaking the Chains all to pieces , he filled the Spectators with astonishment , as the Report of these Wonders will certainly fill with amazement , all those to whom this matter shall be communica - ted . But beside all this , he prophesy what Transactions shall happen yearly , which I shall particularise as follows : He prophecies , That In 1693 great Changes you will hear of and see . In 1694 shall be Wars over all the World . In 1695 Room shall begin to fallen , and England shall begin to thrive . In 1696 shall be no Pope , and Room shall have no Head. In 1697 the Turk shall turn Christian . In 1698 the Gospel shall be preached throughout the World . In 1699 a great Man shall rise . In 1700 all the World shall be at Peace . In 1701 Jesus Christ shall be known to all Mankind . In 1702 a great Earthquake shall happen . In 1703 will be the time when the Jews will be called . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Gilt-spur-street . c Strange and Wondered News from ROME : Giving and Account of and old Man lately and strangely known to be in the City of Room , in Italy , and how he came Invisibly thither ; together with his Eleven Strange and Wondered PROPHESIES , which particularly do mention what shall happen Yearly : showing also how he breaks strong Iron Chains in pieces , as if they were Brown-thread , with many more strange Wonders , never was he like ever herd of before , as naming the Year when there shall be no Pope , and Room shall have no Head , and the Gospel shall be preached throughout the WORLD . Licensed according to Order . IT is not unknown to most who are pleased to take Cognisance of Wonders and strange Miracles , which this present Age does frequently represent ; that of late Years we have been exceed - ingly astonished at several ( to us strange and seldom herd of ) much to be admired Wonders : But now prepare your Ears to hear the most amazing and most unparallel'd Miracle that ever Eng - land was made sensible of , or I think the whole World was ever made acquainted with ; nay , so wonderfully strange , and seemingly impos - sible to be true , that though it be attested with manifold Assertions , it cannot lodge in the breast of the Incredulous , as and unquestionable Verity . But to proceed to the matter intended , and not too much to derogate from my designed Business , let this inform the most doubt - full and unbelieving Reader , That there is lately and account sent from Italy , of the strange manner of the coming of one Man into the City of Room , eminently known by many Travellers , to be one of the Ci - ties not lest accounted of in Italy ; this Person of such and Age ( as he says he is ) no less to be admired for his great Age , then for his strange kind of prophecies , which he daily parts with ; and his man - ner of coming into the City , which we are informed was invisible ; but to come to particulars : This Person does affirm , That his Age is greater then e're was herd oft , for he does say he is above a thou - sand Years old ; he does pretend to be and Apostle of Jesus Christ , and says that he hath the Spirit of Truth in him ; with many other Asser tions , no less full of Wonder then that you have already herd of in the preceding lines : His manner of Apparel is no less to be admir'd then his manner of Discourse , for such Habit as we are informed he does wear , was never seen by mortal eye ; his Deportment is also ve - ry strange , for he walks up and down the City , preaching and admo - nishing to serious Repentance , and giving admirable Advice to the People to forsake their Iniquities , and to return from their evil Ways , for , says he , The wrath of God is kindled against the Roman . He also adds , That the City of Room is a second Sodom ; and that the Trans - gressions of the People have ascended to the Heavens , and approach - ed to the Ears of the Almighty , and that nothing can preserve them from approaching Misery , but speedy and unfeigned Repentance ; without which , he does assert , that in three Years the City shall be utterly destroyed and consumed by Fire . By our last Advice we are informed , that this Man had continued there for the space of eight Days , preaching about the City : his custom is to go bareheaded and barefooted , strange to behold . The Magistrates being offended at his Doctrine , have forbidden him to preach ; but he took no more notice thereof , then to return this answer , That he was sent from God to move the People to Repentance , and to abandon those Iniquities , which if not deserted , would doubtlessly pull down Vengeance upon them in a short time . After this , order was given for his Confinement ; which being per - formed , he was frequently visited by several Jesuits , who discoursed with him in several Tongues , namely , the Latin , Hebrew , and Chal - dean , wherein he was exquisitely perfect . He also acknowledges that he knows well such as live lose and wicked Lives . He is not o - vercurious in his Diet , for his greatest Delicate , and general Food is nothing but dry Bred ; and his strongest Drink is Water only . He prophecies of many strange things , and the time when all the Wick - edness in the World should have and end , and every one shall serve the Lord , and worship the God of Heaven ; then nation shall no more rise against Nation , nor Kingdom against Kingdom , all the World shall be at peace . Being asked by some of the amazed People , whose astonishments were as great as his answers strange , How long it would be before this blessed Day would come ? His reply was abso - lute , and about the Year 1699 , should certainly be the end of all Wickedness in the World : all Nations shall live in the fear of the Lord ; all the World shall be at peace . His strange and unknown coming into that City was admired by all : at last he was examined by the Magistrates from whence he came : He answered , That he came from a place called Galadiam in Damas , a City of Gallilea , and is the Messenger of the Almighty , sent to preach Repentance to the since - full World . But the Jesuits not at all pleased with his Doctrine or Discourse , have prevalently persuaded their Magistrates to cond - scend to what they so earnestly requested , which is , That this Per - son , on whom we know not what Title justly to bestow , should by all means be conveyed to the Pope , there to be examined by his Holiness : But he makes little account of what is ordered , saying , That he is ve - ry well acquainted with what shall be his Portion , and what shall be - come of him ; and that he looked upon it altogether unnecessary to be so loaded with Chains ; but did acknowledge that he was very desirous to see the Pope ; and so without any difficulty , and with great ease , breaking the Chains all to pieces , he filled the Spectators with astonishment , as the Report of these Wonders will certainly fill with amazement , all those to whom this matter shall be communica - ted . But beside all this , he prophesy what Transactions shall happen yearly , which I shall particularise as follows : He prophecies , That In 1693 great Changes you will hear of and see . In 1694 shall be Wars over all the World . In 1695 Room shall begin to fallen , and England shall begin to thrive . In 1696 shall be no Pope , and Room shall have no Head. In 1697 the Turk shall turn Christian . In 1698 the Gospel shall be preached throughout the World . In 1699 a great Man shall rise . In 1700 all the World shall be at Peace . In 1701 Jesus Christ shall be known to all Mankind . In 1702 a great Earthquake shall happen . In 1703 will be the time when the Jews will be called . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Gilt-spur-street . 