Nature's Wonder ? OR , [ And Acc ] ount how the Wife of one John Wate [ r ] man and Ostler in the Parish of [ F ] isherton - Anger , near Salisbury , was Delivered of a strange Monster upon the 26th . of October 1664. which lived until the 27th . of the same Month . It had two Heads , foure Arms , and two Legs . The Heads standing contrary each to the other ; and the Loins , Hips and Legs Issuing out of the middle , betwixt both . They were both perfect to the Navel , and there joined in one , being but one Sex , which was the Female . She had another Child born before it ( of the Female Sex ) whieh is yet living , and is very comely Child in all proportions . This is Attested for truth , by several Persons which were eye witnesses . The Tune is , London Prentice : Or , Jovial Bachelor . COme take a view good People all , observe it well with heed , A stranger Wonder Nature did ne're frame of Humane Seed ; A Monster of mishapen Form I here to you present , By this Example you may learn to fear Gods Punishment . Strange Wonders hath been lately shown within our English Nation ; But none so strange as this was known , you'l find by this Relation ; Then give attention to the same , I'le show you how it was , To tell the truth it is no shame , for thus it came to pass . At Fisherton near Salisbury , a Husbandman does dwell John Waterman so call'd is he , his Neighbours all can tell ; It was his Wife which did bring forth this strange Mishapen Thing : From East to West , from North to South the News thereof will ring . It was but in October last , the Six and twenty day , No longer since t'was done and pass I can for certain say This Woman was Delivered well , and with her Life she scap't Of this same Monster now I'le tell how strangely t'was Mishap't . The second Part , to the same Tune . TWo Heads it had , grew opposite , the Picture plain appears With all proportions fair in sighed , Mouths , Noses , Eyes and Ears , Two Bodies shaped perfectly , down to the Navel seen , And there they joined wondrously , the Hips and Legs between . The bodies being joyn'd in one , were of the Female Sex , The like thereof was never known , they strangely did Connex ; Four Arms were on the body plac'd , it had of Legs but two ; Thus Nature had her work defac'd , which she does seldom doe . The Women they were all afraid to see this fearful sighed , And eke the Midwife much dismay'd when as it came to light , But most of all the Mother weak her grievious Pains was much , She had not power long time to speak her sorrow it was such . Two days and nights this Monster liv'd in woeful misery , The Parents they were sadly griev'd , the Neighbours came to see ; At length it dy'd , and was convey'd for Chyurgeons to Dissect , And what Report thereof had said , they found it in Effect . Another babe this Mother sad brought forth at the same birth , A comelier Changed [ i ] ld on woman had upon the face o'th Earth ; Nature in-that did make amends , proportioning each Part ; She may bring joy unto her Friends , and cheer her Mother's heart . Afflictions God does sometime send to Parents for their since , When they will not their lives amend , then does the Lord begin With Judgments for to humble them , and make them feel his hand ; Oh turn unto the Lord in time , for none can Him withstand . Our God hath many ways to make vile Sinners come to shame : If once they do his Laws forsake , and wrong his holy Name , A thousand Judgments ( worse then this ) he on that People brings , That will not mend what is amiss , but all such heinous Sins ? Then Parents all Example take , at all times seek the Lord ; Fruit of your bodies he can make by your own selves abhor'd : Your Children which should be a joy and comfort in the end , The Lord in fury will destroy , if you do him Offend . FINIS . A true Relation of this strange and wonderful MONSTER . AT Fisherton-Anger , near the City of Salisbury ( called New Saram ) near to the sign of the Angel , Lives one John Waterman and Ostler , His Wife ( whose name is Marry ) was Delivered ( on Wednesday the 26th . of October 1664. about two a Clock in the Morning ) first of a very comely Daughter ( which is yet living ) And after of a strange Monster which was formed Triangular , two Heads ( at either end one ) four Eyes , two Mouths four Arms , two Stomachs , And joined together at the Navel ; and below that two Legs and Thighs , with Nature's Pass - sage ( as other Female children have ) and a Foundamen They were Baptised at 3 a Clock the same Morning , the first was nam Eefele and the Monsters were nam Martha and Mary ; they had very comely faces , and both received Sustenance , but not together : This Monster lived two days and then died , and is Imbalmed , and to be brought to London to be seen . There hath been both Lords , Ladys , and much Gentry to see it ; The Father ( being a poor man ) had twenty pound given him the first day , by persons of Quality . I Josiah Smith , Practitioner of Physic , saw them all three alive . With Allowance , Novemb. 12th . 1664. Printed for E. Andrews at White-Lyon in Pie-corner . Nature's Wonder ? OR , [ And Acc ] ount how the Wife of one John Wate [ r ] man and Ostler in the Parish of [ F ] isherton - Anger , near Salisbury , was Delivered of a strange Monster upon the 26th . of October 1664. which lived until the 27th . of the same Month . It had two Heads , foure Arms , and two Legs . The Heads standing contrary each to the other ; and the Loins , Hips and Legs Issuing out of the middle , betwixt both . They were both perfect to the Navel , and there joined in one , being but one Sex , which was the Female . She had another Child born before it ( of the Female Sex ) whieh is yet living , and is very comely Child in all proportions . This is Attested for truth , by several Persons which were eye witnesses . The Tune is , London Prentice : Or , Jovial Bachelor . COme take a view good People all , observe it well with heed , A stranger Wonder Nature did ne're frame of Humane Seed ; A Monster of mishapen Form I here to you present , By this Example you may learn to fear Gods Punishment . Strange Wonders hath been lately shown within our English Nation ; But none so strange as this was known , you'l find by this Relation ; Then give attention to the same , I'le show you how it was , To tell the truth it is no shame , for thus it came to pass . At Fisherton near Salisbury , a Husbandman does dwell John Waterman so call'd is he , his Neighbours all can tell ; It was his Wife which did bring forth this strange Mishapen Thing : From East to West , from North to South the News thereof will ring . It was but in October last , the Six and twenty day , No longer since t'was done and pass I can for certain say This Woman was Delivered well , and with her Life she scap't Of this same Monster now I'le tell how strangely t'was Mishap't . The second Part , to the same Tune . TWo Heads it had , grew opposite , the Picture plain appears With all proportions fair in sighed , Mouths , Noses , Eyes and Ears , Two Bodies shaped perfectly , down to the Navel seen , And there they joined wondrously , the Hips and Legs between . The bodies being joyn'd in one , were of the Female Sex , The like thereof was never known , they strangely did Connex ; Four Arms were on the body plac'd , it had of Legs but two ; Thus Nature had her work defac'd , which she does seldom doe . The Women they were all afraid to see this fearful sighed , And eke the Midwife much dismay'd when as it came to light , But most of all the Mother weak her grievious Pains was much , She had not power long time to speak her sorrow it was such . Two days and nights this Monster liv'd in woeful misery , The Parents they were sadly griev'd , the Neighbours came to see ; At length it dy'd , and was convey'd for Chyurgeons to Dissect , And what Report thereof had said , they found it in Effect . Another babe this Mother sad brought forth at the same birth , A comelier Changed [ i ] ld on woman had upon the face o'th Earth ; Nature in-that did make amends , proportioning each Part ; She may bring joy unto her Friends , and cheer her Mother's heart . Afflictions God does sometime send to Parents for their since , When they will not their lives amend , then does the Lord begin With Judgments for to humble them , and make them feel his hand ; Oh turn unto the Lord in time , for none can Him withstand . Our God hath many ways to make vile Sinners come to shame : If once they do his Laws forsake , and wrong his holy Name , A thousand Judgments ( worse then this ) he on that People brings , That will not mend what is amiss , but all such heinous Sins ? Then Parents all Example take , at all times seek the Lord ; Fruit of your bodies he can make by your own selves abhor'd : Your Children which should be a joy and comfort in the end , The Lord in fury will destroy , if you do him Offend . FINIS . A true Relation of this strange and wonderful MONSTER . AT Fisherton-Anger , near the City of Salisbury ( called New Saram ) near to the sign of the Angel , Lives one John Waterman and Ostler , His Wife ( whose name is Marry ) was Delivered ( on Wednesday the 26th . of October 1664. about two a Clock in the Morning ) first of a very comely Daughter ( which is yet living ) And after of a strange Monster which was formed Triangular , two Heads ( at either end one ) four Eyes , two Mouths four Arms , two Stomachs , And joined together at the Navel ; and below that two Legs and Thighs , with Nature's Pass - sage ( as other Female children have ) and a Foundamen They were Baptised at 3 a Clock the same Morning , the first was nam Eefele and the Monsters were nam Martha and Mary ; they had very comely faces , and both received Sustenance , but not together : This Monster lived two days and then died , and is Imbalmed , and to be brought to London to be seen . There hath been both Lords , Ladys , and much Gentry to see it ; The Father ( being a poor man ) had twenty pound given him the first day , by persons of Quality . I Josiah Smith , Practitioner of Physic , saw them all three alive . With Allowance , Novemb. 12th . 1664. Printed for E. Andrews at White-Lyon in Pie-corner . 