A new Ballad intiuled , The stout Cripple of Cornwall , Wherein is showed his dissolate life and deserved death . The tune is , The blind Beggar . Of a stout Cripple that kept that highway , And beg'd for his living all time of the day , A Story I'll tell you that pleasant shall be , The Cripple of Cornwall surnamed was he . He crept on his hands and knees up and down , In a torn Jacket , and a ragged patched Gown , For he had never a Leg to the Knee , The Cripple of Cornwall si [ r ] - nam was he , He was of a stomach courageous and stout . For he had no cause to complain of the gout , To go upon stilts most cunning was he , With a staff on his neck most gallant to see . Yea , no good fellowship would he forsake , Were it in secret a Purse for to take . His help was as good as any might be , The Cripple of Cornwall surnamed was he . When he upon any service did go , The crafty young Cripple provided it so His Tools he kept close in and old hollow Tree , That stood from the City a mile two or three . Thus all the way long he beg'd for relief . And all the night long he played the false Thief And seven years together this custom kept he , And no man knew him such a person to be . There were few Graziers went on the way , But unto the Cripple for passage did pay And every brave Merchant that he did desry He emptied their purses ere they passed by . The noble Lord Courtney both gallant & bold Road forth with great plenty of silver and gold , At Exeter there a purchase to pay But that the false Criplle his journey did stay . For why ? the false Cripple herd tidings of late , As he sat for alms at the Noble men gate , This is ( quoth the Cripple ) a booty for me , And I'll follow closely as closely may be Then to his companions the matter he moved , Which their like actions before time had proved , Then to his companions the matter he moved , Which their like actions before time had proved , They make themselves ready and deeply they swear The moneys their own before they come there , Upon his two stilts the Cripple did mount , To have the best share it was his full account . All clothed in Canvas down to the ground . He took up his place his Mates with him round . Then coms thy Z Courtney with half a score men Yet little suspecting these thieves in their den , And they perceiving them come to their hand In a dark Evening bid them to stand . Deliver thy purse quoth the cripple with speed . For we be good fellows and therefore have need , Not so quoth Lord Courtney but this I'll tell ye , Win it and wear it else get none of me . With that the Lord Courtney stood in his defence And so did his Servants but ere they went thence Two of the true men were slave in the fight And four of the Thieves were put to the flight And while for their safeguard they ran thus away The jolly bold Cripple did hold the rest play , And with his pike staff he wounded them so , As they were unable to run or to go , With fighting the L. Courtny was out of breath And most of his Servants were wounded to death Then came other horsemen riding so fast , The Cripple was forced to fly at the last . And over a River that ran there beside , Which was very deep and eighteen foot wide , With his long staff and his stilts leapt he , And shifted himself in and old hollow tree , Then throughout the Country was hu & cry made To have these Theevs apprehended and stayed , The Cripple he creeps on his hands and his knees And in the high way great posting he sees , And as they came riding he begging does say . O give me one penny good Master's I pray , And thus unto Exeter creeps he along , No man suspecting he had done wrong . Anon the Lord Courtney he spies in the street , He comes un [ tO ] oh him and he kisses his feet , Saying God save your honour and keek you from ill and from the hands of your Enemies still , Amen quod , L. Courtney and therewith flung down Unto the poor Cripple and English Crown . Away went the Cripple and thus he did think , Five hundred pound more will make me to drink In vain that hue and cry it was made They found none of them though the country was laid But thusgriev'd the Cripple night and day , That he so unluckily missed of his prey Nine hundred pound this Cripple had god , By begging and thieving so good was his lot , A thousand pound he would make it up he said , And then he would give over his Trade . But as he strived his mind to fulfil , In following his actions so lewd and so ill , At last he was taken the law to suffice , Condemned and hanged at Fxeter Size . Which made all men amazed to see . That such and impudent Cripple as he . Should venture himself to such actions as they To rob in such sort upon the highway . Printed for F , Coals , T. Vere and W. Gilbertson , A new Ballad intiuled , The stout Cripple of Cornwall , Wherein is showed his dissolate life and deserved death . The tune is , The blind Beggar . Of a stout Cripple that kept that highway , And beg'd for his living all time of the day , A Story I'll tell you that pleasant shall be , The Cripple of Cornwall surnamed was he . He crept on his hands and knees up and down , In a torn Jacket , and a ragged patched Gown , For he had never a Leg to the Knee , The Cripple of Cornwall si [ r ] - nam was he , He was of a stomach courageous and stout . For he had no cause to complain of the gout , To go upon stilts most cunning was he , With a staff on his neck most gallant to see . Yea , no good fellowship would he forsake , Were it in secret a Purse for to take . His help was as good as any might be , The Cripple of Cornwall surnamed was he . When he upon any service did go , The crafty young Cripple provided it so His Tools he kept close in and old hollow Tree , That stood from the City a mile two or three . Thus all the way long he beg'd for relief . And all the night long he played the false Thief And seven years together this custom kept he , And no man knew him such a person to be . There were few Graziers went on the way , But unto the Cripple for passage did pay And every brave Merchant that he did desry He emptied their purses ere they passed by . The noble Lord Courtney both gallant & bold Road forth with great plenty of silver and gold , At Exeter there a purchase to pay But that the false Criplle his journey did stay . For why ? the false Cripple herd tidings of late , As he sat for alms at the Noble men gate , This is ( quoth the Cripple ) a booty for me , And I'll follow closely as closely may be Then to his companions the matter he moved , Which their like actions before time had proved , Then to his companions the matter he moved , Which their like actions before time had proved , They make themselves ready and deeply they swear The moneys their own before they come there , Upon his two stilts the Cripple did mount , To have the best share it was his full account . All clothed in Canvas down to the ground . He took up his place his Mates with him round . Then coms thy Z Courtney with half a score men Yet little suspecting these thieves in their den , And they perceiving them come to their hand In a dark Evening bid them to stand . Deliver thy purse quoth the cripple with speed . For we be good fellows and therefore have need , Not so quoth Lord Courtney but this I'll tell ye , Win it and wear it else get none of me . With that the Lord Courtney stood in his defence And so did his Servants but ere they went thence Two of the true men were slave in the fight And four of the Thieves were put to the flight And while for their safeguard they ran thus away The jolly bold Cripple did hold the rest play , And with his pike staff he wounded them so , As they were unable to run or to go , With fighting the L. Courtny was out of breath And most of his Servants were wounded to death Then came other horsemen riding so fast , The Cripple was forced to fly at the last . And over a River that ran there beside , Which was very deep and eighteen foot wide , With his long staff and his stilts leapt he , And shifted himself in and old hollow tree , Then throughout the Country was hu & cry made To have these Theevs apprehended and stayed , The Cripple he creeps on his hands and his knees And in the high way great posting he sees , And as they came riding he begging does say . O give me one penny good Master's I pray , And thus unto Exeter creeps he along , No man suspecting he had done wrong . Anon the Lord Courtney he spies in the street , He comes un [ tO ] oh him and he kisses his feet , Saying God save your honour and keek you from ill and from the hands of your Enemies still , Amen quod , L. Courtney and therewith flung down Unto the poor Cripple and English Crown . Away went the Cripple and thus he did think , Five hundred pound more will make me to drink In vain that hue and cry it was made They found none of them though the country was laid But thusgriev'd the Cripple night and day , That he so unluckily missed of his prey Nine hundred pound this Cripple had god , By begging and thieving so good was his lot , A thousand pound he would make it up he said , And then he would give over his Trade . But as he strived his mind to fulfil , In following his actions so lewd and so ill , At last he was taken the law to suffice , Condemned and hanged at Fxeter Size . Which made all men amazed to see . That such and impudent Cripple as he . Should venture himself to such actions as they To rob in such sort upon the highway . Printed for F , Coals , T. Vere and W. Gilbertson , 