A New Scotch Ballad OF Jealous Nanny : Or , Falsehearted WILLY turn'd True ; To the Tune of , Moggies Jealousy . MY own dear Nanny , my fair eyes , my pretty sweet Creature , my Love , Why , what is the matter , my dear eyes , that Nanny will from me remove ? And Willy I'se sure you do gush it , for awe you do look sa demure , And tho' you will never confess it , yet Willy's a fause eyes i'm sure . Ah! Nanny , quo he , be not cruel , but banish that Jealousy quite , For Nanny was always my Jewel , my joy and my anely deligh Na mere , quo she , prithee dear Willy , your flattery never will Cure , Tho' Nanny has been but too silly , yet now ye're a fause eyes i'm sure : So farewell to Willy the Ranger , for i'm never trouble you mere , Gin Moggies unkind you may change her , for every new face is your dear : Ne mere shall your sighing and crying , bring Nanny to stoop to your lure , Nor pity you , tha' ye're a dying , for Willy's a fause eyes i'm sure . AH ! Nanny , pray tell the occasion , why you will your Willy desert , And if I can make no Evasion , for ever for ever we'se par For Willy was never a Ranger , nor nene can love Nanny mere truer , But Gin she will part for a Stranger , then Nanny's a fause eyes i'm sure . Nay , Willy may talk for his Pleasure , but i'm may believe what I please , For Moggy I'm sure is his Treasure , and Nanny his only disease : How oft have I herd you to praise her , and say that there none was like to her , And sware he was happy could please her , nay Willy's a fause eyes i'm sure . And have I not herd you with Sawney , discourse , embrace , and to smack , And seen him to thrust in his Tawny rough hand down your Lily-white back : You know that I saw this , my dear , yet I never thought you untruer , This never occasion'd my fear , for Nanny was just I was sure . Ah! prithee dear Willy forgive me , and i'm ne'r be Jealous again , 'Twas only my Love , you'l believe me , and i'm had the worst of the pain : And Willy shall still be my dearest , with Willy I'm always endure , And Nanny shall still be his fairest , for Willy's nay fause eyes i'm sure . But the Parson shall make us amends too , and we'l have a merry long day , With all our Relations and Friends too , and the Piper all Night he shall play : And thou shalt put on thy best Jerkin , and I will put on my best quoif , For my Mother will Brew a whole Firkin , against that thou make me thy Wife . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby in West-Smithfield . A New Scotch Ballad OF Jealous Nanny : Or , Falsehearted WILLY turn'd True ; To the Tune of , Moggies Jealousy . MY own dear Nanny , my fair eyes , my pretty sweet Creature , my Love , Why , what is the matter , my dear eyes , that Nanny will from me remove ? And Willy I'se sure you do gush it , for awe you do look sa demure , And tho' you will never confess it , yet Willy's a fause eyes i'm sure . Ah! Nanny , quo he , be not cruel , but banish that Jealousy quite , For Nanny was always my Jewel , my joy and my anely deligh Na mere , quo she , prithee dear Willy , your flattery never will Cure , Tho' Nanny has been but too silly , yet now ye're a fause eyes i'm sure : So farewell to Willy the Ranger , for i'm never trouble you mere , Gin Moggies unkind you may change her , for every new face is your dear : Ne mere shall your sighing and crying , bring Nanny to stoop to your lure , Nor pity you , tha' ye're a dying , for Willy's a fause eyes i'm sure . AH ! Nanny , pray tell the occasion , why you will your Willy desert , And if I can make no Evasion , for ever for ever we'se par For Willy was never a Ranger , nor nene can love Nanny mere truer , But Gin she will part for a Stranger , then Nanny's a fause eyes i'm sure . Nay , Willy may talk for his Pleasure , but i'm may believe what I please , For Moggy I'm sure is his Treasure , and Nanny his only disease : How oft have I herd you to praise her , and say that there none was like to her , And sware he was happy could please her , nay Willy's a fause eyes i'm sure . And have I not herd you with Sawney , discourse , embrace , and to smack , And seen him to thrust in his Tawny rough hand down your Lily-white back : You know that I saw this , my dear , yet I never thought you untruer , This never occasion'd my fear , for Nanny was just I was sure . Ah! prithee dear Willy forgive me , and i'm ne'r be Jealous again , 'Twas only my Love , you'l believe me , and i'm had the worst of the pain : And Willy shall still be my dearest , with Willy I'm always endure , And Nanny shall still be his fairest , for Willy's nay fause eyes i'm sure . But the Parson shall make us amends too , and we'l have a merry long day , With all our Relations and Friends too , and the Piper all Night he shall play : And thou shalt put on thy best Jerkin , and I will put on my best quoif , For my Mother will Brew a whole Firkin , against that thou make me thy Wife . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby in West-Smithfield . 