A new Ballad of the Soldier and Peggy To a new Northern tune . IT was a brave Soldier , that long liv'd in wars , He would into England , to try his affairs . A gallant young Creature , enchanted his eye , It is for thy love Peggy , I die I die . She had a good husband , that loved her well For Gold and for Silver , none did her excel , Yet Peggy would listen , unto the Soldiers cry , It is for thy love Peggy , I die I die . O pretty Pegyy let soorows remove , And grant me a kiss , in token of Love , Oh take a thousand , one is but a few , I'll leave my own husband , to Travel with you . O pretty Peggy if thou wilt be mine , All the gold that I get it shall be thine . Father nor Mother thou'se never see more , If thou wilt go over Sea , with a Soldier . So took the keys from her side to her chest she is gone . All the gold that she hath , with her she hath taken . She left the Babe motherless , and the Bed bore , And she is gone over Sea , with a Soldier . As Peg and Soldier , went over the plain , He twinkled at her , and she smiled again . He Courted her bravely , as young men should do , And after said Peggy , I love none but you , As Peggy went up the street , so went she down , All that did meet her , as'k where she was bound . She answered them quickly , she could not tell where , For she is gone over Sea , with a Soldier . Her husband came home , so late in the night . He asked for Peggy . his joy and delight . They answered him quickly , they could not tell where . For she was gone over Sea , with a Soldier . HE saddled his Horse and rid to the shore , Thinking to take Peggy before she god o're He asked for Peggy but she was not there , For she was gone over Sea with a Soldier , I pray you good Nurse be good to my child , And thou'se have thy money at every months end , Thouse never want money , wine nore good cheer , Though Peggy be over Sea with a Soldier . He cursed the Carpenter that made the Ship , And likewise the Plummer for pluming so deep . He banned the wind and the water so clear , That carried Peg over Sea with a Soldier . She had not been over Sea passing Months three , But she would go home again if it might be , To speak with her husband the matter to clear , Cause she had bin-over Sea with a Soldier . This wanton young woman is come home again , When all her money . and coin it is gone . For she could no longer , in Ireland stay , For she had no gold , nor money to pay . I pray you good husband , will you for forgive me , And all that's amiss , amended shall be . I'll live with my husband , and Baby so dear . And I'll never go again , with a Soldier . Come hither sweet Peggy , thou art welcome to me , So all thats amiss , amended may be . I pray God forgive my sins , and I'll forgive thee , If thoult live at home . with [ tO ] hy baby and me . All you good wives , that hears this my song . Live at home with your husbands and do them no wrong . For youth it is wanton , and will have a stain . And Peggy is at home , with her husband again . And thus of my song , I will make and end , Praying for Gods favour . for women a and men . Desiring them all , in their Country to stay , And never to wander , so Vainly away . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and W. Gilbertson A new Ballad of the Soldier and Peggy To a new Northern tune . IT was a brave Soldier , that long liv'd in wars , He would into England , to try his affairs . A gallant young Creature , enchanted his eye , It is for thy love Peggy , I die I die . She had a good husband , that loved her well For Gold and for Silver , none did her excel , Yet Peggy would listen , unto the Soldiers cry , It is for thy love Peggy , I die I die . O pretty Pegyy let soorows remove , And grant me a kiss , in token of Love , Oh take a thousand , one is but a few , I'll leave my own husband , to Travel with you . O pretty Peggy if thou wilt be mine , All the gold that I get it shall be thine . Father nor Mother thou'se never see more , If thou wilt go over Sea , with a Soldier . So took the keys from her side to her chest she is gone . All the gold that she hath , with her she hath taken . She left the Babe motherless , and the Bed bore , And she is gone over Sea , with a Soldier . As Peg and Soldier , went over the plain , He twinkled at her , and she smiled again . He Courted her bravely , as young men should do , And after said Peggy , I love none but you , As Peggy went up the street , so went she down , All that did meet her , as'k where she was bound . She answered them quickly , she could not tell where , For she is gone over Sea , with a Soldier . Her husband came home , so late in the night . He asked for Peggy . his joy and delight . They answered him quickly , they could not tell where . For she was gone over Sea , with a Soldier . HE saddled his Horse and rid to the shore , Thinking to take Peggy before she god o're He asked for Peggy but she was not there , For she was gone over Sea with a Soldier , I pray you good Nurse be good to my child , And thou'se have thy money at every months end , Thouse never want money , wine nore good cheer , Though Peggy be over Sea with a Soldier . He cursed the Carpenter that made the Ship , And likewise the Plummer for pluming so deep . He banned the wind and the water so clear , That carried Peg over Sea with a Soldier . She had not been over Sea passing Months three , But she would go home again if it might be , To speak with her husband the matter to clear , Cause she had bin-over Sea with a Soldier . This wanton young woman is come home again , When all her money . and coin it is gone . For she could no longer , in Ireland stay , For she had no gold , nor money to pay . I pray you good husband , will you for forgive me , And all that's amiss , amended shall be . I'll live with my husband , and Baby so dear . And I'll never go again , with a Soldier . Come hither sweet Peggy , thou art welcome to me , So all thats amiss , amended may be . I pray God forgive my sins , and I'll forgive thee , If thoult live at home . with [ tO ] hy baby and me . All you good wives , that hears this my song . Live at home with your husbands and do them no wrong . For youth it is wanton , and will have a stain . And Peggy is at home , with her husband again . And thus of my song , I will make and end , Praying for Gods favour . for women a and men . Desiring them all , in their Country to stay , And never to wander , so Vainly away . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and W. Gilbertson 