A new Ballad showing how a Prince of England loved the Kings Daughter of France , and how the prince was disastrously slave and how the aforesaid prin - cease was after married to a Forester . The Tune is Crimson Velvet IN the days of old , when fair France did flourish , [ S ] toryes plainly told Lovers felt annoy . [ That ] e King a daughter had , [ be ] autious bright and lovely , [ Whi ] changed made her Father glad , [ she ] was his only joy . [ A Prince ] from England came , [ Whose deeds worser ] id merit fame , [ he wooed her ] long and lo at last , [ Look what he d ] id require , [ She granted ] his desire [ their heart ] s in one was linked fast [ Which ] when her Father proved , [ Lord h ] owe he was moved , [ and ] worser tormented in his mind . [ He ] fought for to prevent them And to discontent them , fortune crossed Lovers kind . When as these princes twain , were thus bared of pleasure , Through that Kings disdain , which their joys withstood , The Lady locked up close , her Jewels and her treasure , [ Would ] ving no remorse , of state or Rayall blood . [ In ] homely poor array , [ Sh ] e god from Court away . [ to ] meet her love and hearts delight [ W ] ho in a Foe [ r ] rest great , Had taken up his Seat , to watch her coming in the night But lo what sudden danger , To this p [ r ] incely stranger , chanced as he sat alone . By Out laws was he robbed , And with ponia [ r ] ds stabbed uttering many a dying groan . The Princess armed by him , and by true desire , Wandering all that night , without dread at all . Still unknown she passed , in her strange attire , Coming at the last , wichn Eecho's call . You fair woods quoth she . Honoured may you be , harbouring my hearts delight . Which does encompass her , My joy and only dear , my trusty friend and comely knight Sweet I come unto thee , Sweet I come to woo thee , that thou mayest not angry be . For my long delaying , And thy courteous staying amends for all I'll make to thee . Passing thus alone , through the silent Forest , Many a grievous groan sounded in her ear . Where she herd a man , to lament the forest , Chance that ever came , forced by deadly strife , Farewell my dear quoth he , Whom I shall never see , for who my life is at and end , For thy sweet sake I die , Through Villains cruelty to show I am a faithful Friend , Here lie I a bleeding , While my thoughts are feeding , on the rarest beauty found , Oh hard hap that may be , Little knows my Lady , my heart blood lie on the ground . With that he gave a gro [ ? ] n , that did break in sunder , All the tender strings , of his gentle heart . She who knew his voice , at his tale did wonder , All her former joys , did to grief convert , Straight she ran to see , Who this man should be , that so like her Lord did speak , And found when as she came , Her lovely Lord lay slave , smeard in blood which life did break Which when she had espied , Lord how soar she cried , her sorrows cannot counted be , Her eyes like Fountains running , While she cried out my Darling , would God that I had died for thee . His pale lips alas twenty times she kissed , And his face did wash , with her brinish tears , Every bleeding wound , her fair eyes bedewen , Wiping off his blood , with her golden hair , Speak my love quoth she Speak fair Prince to me , one sweet word of comfort give . Lift up thy fair eyes Listen to my cries , think in what great grief I live , All in vain she sued All in vain she wooed , the Princes life was fled and gone There stood she still mourning , Till the Suns approaching , and bright day was coming on . The second part , To the same tune , IN this great distress , quoth the Royal Lady , Who can now express , what will become of me , To my Father's Court , never will I wander , But some service seek , where I may placed be , While thus she made her moan , Weeping all alone , in this deep and deadly fear , A Forester all in green , Most comely to be seen , ranging the wood did find her there , Round beset with sorrow . Maid quoth he good Morrow , what hard hap hath brought you here Harder hap did never , Chance to a maiden ever , here lies slave my brother dear . Where might I be placed . gentle Forrester tell me , Where should I procure , a service in my need , Pains I will not spare , but will do my duty , Ease me of my care , help my extreme need , The Forester all amazed , On her beauty gazed , till his heart was set on fire , If fair Maid quoth he , You will go with me , you shall have your hearts desire , He brought her to his mother . And above all other he set forth this Maidens praise , Long was his heart inflamed , At length her love he gained , so fortune did his glory raise . Thus unknown he matched with the Kings fair daughter , Children seven he had , ere she to him was known , But when he understood , she was a Royal Princess , By this means at last , he showed forth her fame . He clothed his children then , Not like to other men , in party colours strange to see , The Right side cloth of gold , The left side to behold , of woollen cloth still framed he , Men thereat did wonder , Golden fame did thunder , this strange deed in every place , The King of France came thither , B [ e ] ing pleasant weather , in those woods the Heart to Chase . The children they did stand , as their mother willed , Where the Royal King , must of force come by , Their Mother Richly clad , in fair Crimson Velvet . Their Father all in grey , most comely to the eye . When this famous King , Noted every thing , did ask how he durst be so bold , To let his wife to wear , And deck his children there , in costly Robes with cloth of gold , The Forester bold replied , And the cause descried , and eo the King he thus did say , Well may they by their Mother , Wear rich gold with other , being by birth a princess gay . The King upon these words , more heedfully beheld them . Till a crimson blush , his conceit did cross . The more I look quoth he , upon thy wife and children , The more I call to mind , my daughter whom I lost , I am that child quoth she , Falling on her knee pardon me my Sovereign liege , The King perceiving this , His daughter dear did kiss , till joyful tears did stop his speech , With his train he turned , And with her sojourned , straight he dubbed her husband knigt He made him Earl of Flanders , One of his chief Commanders , thus was their sorrow put to flight Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and W. Gilbertson , A new Ballad showing how a Prince of England loved the Kings Daughter of France , and how the prince was disastrously slave and how the aforesaid prin - cease was after married to a Forester . The Tune is Crimson Velvet IN the days of old , when fair France did flourish , [ S ] toryes plainly told Lovers felt annoy . [ That ] e King a daughter had , [ be ] autious bright and lovely , [ Whi ] changed made her Father glad , [ she ] was his only joy . [ A Prince ] from England came , [ Whose deeds worser ] id merit fame , [ he wooed her ] long and lo at last , [ Look what he d ] id require , [ She granted ] his desire [ their heart ] s in one was linked fast [ Which ] when her Father proved , [ Lord h ] owe he was moved , [ and ] worser tormented in his mind . [ He ] fought for to prevent them And to discontent them , fortune crossed Lovers kind . When as these princes twain , were thus bared of pleasure , Through that Kings disdain , which their joys withstood , The Lady locked up close , her Jewels and her treasure , [ Would ] ving no remorse , of state or Rayall blood . [ In ] homely poor array , [ Sh ] e god from Court away . [ to ] meet her love and hearts delight [ W ] ho in a Foe [ r ] rest great , Had taken up his Seat , to watch her coming in the night But lo what sudden danger , To this p [ r ] incely stranger , chanced as he sat alone . By Out laws was he robbed , And with ponia [ r ] ds stabbed uttering many a dying groan . The Princess armed by him , and by true desire , Wandering all that night , without dread at all . Still unknown she passed , in her strange attire , Coming at the last , wichn Eecho's call . You fair woods quoth she . Honoured may you be , harbouring my hearts delight . Which does encompass her , My joy and only dear , my trusty friend and comely knight Sweet I come unto thee , Sweet I come to woo thee , that thou mayest not angry be . For my long delaying , And thy courteous staying amends for all I'll make to thee . Passing thus alone , through the silent Forest , Many a grievous groan sounded in her ear . Where she herd a man , to lament the forest , Chance that ever came , forced by deadly strife , Farewell my dear quoth he , Whom I shall never see , for who my life is at and end , For thy sweet sake I die , Through Villains cruelty to show I am a faithful Friend , Here lie I a bleeding , While my thoughts are feeding , on the rarest beauty found , Oh hard hap that may be , Little knows my Lady , my heart blood lie on the ground . With that he gave a gro [ ? ] n , that did break in sunder , All the tender strings , of his gentle heart . She who knew his voice , at his tale did wonder , All her former joys , did to grief convert , Straight she ran to see , Who this man should be , that so like her Lord did speak , And found when as she came , Her lovely Lord lay slave , smeard in blood which life did break Which when she had espied , Lord how soar she cried , her sorrows cannot counted be , Her eyes like Fountains running , While she cried out my Darling , would God that I had died for thee . His pale lips alas twenty times she kissed , And his face did wash , with her brinish tears , Every bleeding wound , her fair eyes bedewen , Wiping off his blood , with her golden hair , Speak my love quoth she Speak fair Prince to me , one sweet word of comfort give . Lift up thy fair eyes Listen to my cries , think in what great grief I live , All in vain she sued All in vain she wooed , the Princes life was fled and gone There stood she still mourning , Till the Suns approaching , and bright day was coming on . The second part , To the same tune , IN this great distress , quoth the Royal Lady , Who can now express , what will become of me , To my Father's Court , never will I wander , But some service seek , where I may placed be , While thus she made her moan , Weeping all alone , in this deep and deadly fear , A Forester all in green , Most comely to be seen , ranging the wood did find her there , Round beset with sorrow . Maid quoth he good Morrow , what hard hap hath brought you here Harder hap did never , Chance to a maiden ever , here lies slave my brother dear . Where might I be placed . gentle Forrester tell me , Where should I procure , a service in my need , Pains I will not spare , but will do my duty , Ease me of my care , help my extreme need , The Forester all amazed , On her beauty gazed , till his heart was set on fire , If fair Maid quoth he , You will go with me , you shall have your hearts desire , He brought her to his mother . And above all other he set forth this Maidens praise , Long was his heart inflamed , At length her love he gained , so fortune did his glory raise . Thus unknown he matched with the Kings fair daughter , Children seven he had , ere she to him was known , But when he understood , she was a Royal Princess , By this means at last , he showed forth her fame . He clothed his children then , Not like to other men , in party colours strange to see , The Right side cloth of gold , The left side to behold , of woollen cloth still framed he , Men thereat did wonder , Golden fame did thunder , this strange deed in every place , The King of France came thither , B [ e ] ing pleasant weather , in those woods the Heart to Chase . The children they did stand , as their mother willed , Where the Royal King , must of force come by , Their Mother Richly clad , in fair Crimson Velvet . Their Father all in grey , most comely to the eye . When this famous King , Noted every thing , did ask how he durst be so bold , To let his wife to wear , And deck his children there , in costly Robes with cloth of gold , The Forester bold replied , And the cause descried , and eo the King he thus did say , Well may they by their Mother , Wear rich gold with other , being by birth a princess gay . The King upon these words , more heedfully beheld them . Till a crimson blush , his conceit did cross . The more I look quoth he , upon thy wife and children , The more I call to mind , my daughter whom I lost , I am that child quoth she , Falling on her knee pardon me my Sovereign liege , The King perceiving this , His daughter dear did kiss , till joyful tears did stop his speech , With his train he turned , And with her sojourned , straight he dubbed her husband knigt He made him Earl of Flanders , One of his chief Commanders , thus was their sorrow put to flight Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and W. Gilbertson , 