A new Ballad , entitled , The stout Cripple of Cornwal . Wherein is showed , his Dissolute Life , and deserved Death . The tune is , The Blind Beggar . OF a stout Cripple that kept the Highway , And beg'd for his living all time of the day , A story i'le tell you that pleasant shall be , The Cripple of Cornwall surnamed was he . He crept on his hands , and knees up and down , In a torn Jacket , and a ragged torn Gown , For he had never a leg to the knee , The Cripple of Cornwal surnamed was he . He was of stomach courageous and stout , For he had no cause to complain of the Gout , To go upon stilts most cunning was he , With a staff on his neck most gallant to see . Yea , no good fellowship would he forsake , Were it in secret a purse for to take , His help was as good as any might be , The Cripple of Cornwal surnamed was he . When he upon any service did go , The crafty young Cripple provided it so : His stool he kept close in and old hollow tree , That stood from the City a mile two or three Thus all the way long he beg'd for relief , And all the night long he play'd the false thief ; And seven Years together this custom kept he , And no man knew him such a person to be . There were few Graziers went on the way , But unto the Cripple for passage did pay , And every brave Merchant that he did descry , He emptied their purses e're they passed by . The noble Lord Courtney both gallant & bold , Road forth with great plenty of silver and gold At Exeter there a purchase to pay , But that the false Cripple his journey did stay . For why the false Cripple herd tidings of late , As he sat for alms at the Nobleman's gate . This is ( quoth the Cripple ) a booty for me , And i'le follow closely , as closely may be . Then to his companions the matter he moved , which their false actions before time had proved they make themselves ready & deeply they swear The Moneys their own before they come there . Upon his two stilts the Cripple did mount , To have the best share it was his full account . All clothed in Canvas down to the ground , He took up his place his mates with him round . Then came the Lord C. with half a score Men Yet little suspecting these thieves in their Den . And they perceiving them come to their hand , In a dark Evening bid them to stand , Deliver thy purse quod , the Cripple with speed , For we be good fellows & therefore have need , Not so , quod L. Courtney , but this i'le tell you . Win it and wear it , else get none of me . With that the L. Courtney stood in his defence And so did his servants , but e'r they went hence Two of the true-men were slave in the fight , And four of the thieves are put to the flight . And while for their safeguard they run thus away The jolly bold cripple did hold them in play And with his Pikestaff he wounded them so , As they were unable to run or to go . With fighting the Lord Courtney was out of breath , and most of his servants were wounded to death Then came other Horsemen riding so fast , The Cripple was forced to fly at the last . And over a River that ran there beside , Which was very deep and eighteen foot wide , With his long staff and stilts leapt he , And shifted himself in and old hollow tree . Then throughout the city was hue and cry made To have these thieves apprehended and stayed . The Cripple he creeps on his hands & his knees , And in the Highway great passing he sees . And as they came riding , he begging does say , Oh give me one penny good master's I pray . And thus unto Exeter creeps he along , No man suspecting he had done wrong : Anon the Lord Courtney he spies in the street , He comes unto him and kisses his feet , Saying , God save your honour , & keep you from ill , And from the hands of your enemies still . Amen quod L. Courtney , & therewith threw down Unto the poor Cripple and English Crown . Away went the Cripple and thus he did think , Five hundred pound more will make me to drink In vain that hue and cry it was made , They found none of them though the country was laid But this griev'd the cripple night & day , That he so unluckily missed of his prey . Nine hundred pound the Cripple had god , By begging and thieving so good was his lot ; A thousand pound he would make it up he said , And then he would give over his trade , But as he strived his mind to fulfil , In following his actions so lewd and so ill : At last he was taken the Law to suffice , Condemned and Hanged at Exeter Size , Which made all men amazed to see , That such and impudent Cripple as he , Should venture himself to such actions as they , To rob in such sort upon the Highway . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . A new Ballad , entitled , The stout Cripple of Cornwal . Wherein is showed , his Dissolute Life , and deserved Death . The tune is , The Blind Beggar . OF a stout Cripple that kept the Highway , And beg'd for his living all time of the day , A story i'le tell you that pleasant shall be , The Cripple of Cornwall surnamed was he . He crept on his hands , and knees up and down , In a torn Jacket , and a ragged torn Gown , For he had never a leg to the knee , The Cripple of Cornwal surnamed was he . He was of stomach courageous and stout , For he had no cause to complain of the Gout , To go upon stilts most cunning was he , With a staff on his neck most gallant to see . Yea , no good fellowship would he forsake , Were it in secret a purse for to take , His help was as good as any might be , The Cripple of Cornwal surnamed was he . When he upon any service did go , The crafty young Cripple provided it so : His stool he kept close in and old hollow tree , That stood from the City a mile two or three Thus all the way long he beg'd for relief , And all the night long he play'd the false thief ; And seven Years together this custom kept he , And no man knew him such a person to be . There were few Graziers went on the way , But unto the Cripple for passage did pay , And every brave Merchant that he did descry , He emptied their purses e're they passed by . The noble Lord Courtney both gallant & bold , Road forth with great plenty of silver and gold At Exeter there a purchase to pay , But that the false Cripple his journey did stay . For why the false Cripple herd tidings of late , As he sat for alms at the Nobleman's gate . This is ( quoth the Cripple ) a booty for me , And i'le follow closely , as closely may be . Then to his companions the matter he moved , which their false actions before time had proved they make themselves ready & deeply they swear The Moneys their own before they come there . Upon his two stilts the Cripple did mount , To have the best share it was his full account . All clothed in Canvas down to the ground , He took up his place his mates with him round . Then came the Lord C. with half a score Men Yet little suspecting these thieves in their Den . And they perceiving them come to their hand , In a dark Evening bid them to stand , Deliver thy purse quod , the Cripple with speed , For we be good fellows & therefore have need , Not so , quod L. Courtney , but this i'le tell you . Win it and wear it , else get none of me . With that the L. Courtney stood in his defence And so did his servants , but e'r they went hence Two of the true-men were slave in the fight , And four of the thieves are put to the flight . And while for their safeguard they run thus away The jolly bold cripple did hold them in play And with his Pikestaff he wounded them so , As they were unable to run or to go . With fighting the Lord Courtney was out of breath , and most of his servants were wounded to death Then came other Horsemen riding so fast , The Cripple was forced to fly at the last . And over a River that ran there beside , Which was very deep and eighteen foot wide , With his long staff and stilts leapt he , And shifted himself in and old hollow tree . Then throughout the city was hue and cry made To have these thieves apprehended and stayed . The Cripple he creeps on his hands & his knees , And in the Highway great passing he sees . And as they came riding , he begging does say , Oh give me one penny good master's I pray . And thus unto Exeter creeps he along , No man suspecting he had done wrong : Anon the Lord Courtney he spies in the street , He comes unto him and kisses his feet , Saying , God save your honour , & keep you from ill , And from the hands of your enemies still . Amen quod L. Courtney , & therewith threw down Unto the poor Cripple and English Crown . Away went the Cripple and thus he did think , Five hundred pound more will make me to drink In vain that hue and cry it was made , They found none of them though the country was laid But this griev'd the cripple night & day , That he so unluckily missed of his prey . Nine hundred pound the Cripple had god , By begging and thieving so good was his lot ; A thousand pound he would make it up he said , And then he would give over his trade , But as he strived his mind to fulfil , In following his actions so lewd and so ill : At last he was taken the Law to suffice , Condemned and Hanged at Exeter Size , Which made all men amazed to see , That such and impudent Cripple as he , Should venture himself to such actions as they , To rob in such sort upon the Highway . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . 