A New Sonnet , showing how the Goddess Diana , transformed Acteon into the shape of and Hart. To a New Tune . DIANA and her darlings dear , went walking on a day , Throughout the woods and waters clear for their disports and play : The leaves aloft were very green , and pleasant to behold These Nymphs they walked the trees between , under the shadows cold . So long at last they found a place , of springs and waters clear , A fairer bath there never was found out this thousand year : Wherein Diana daintily herself began to both , And all her virgins fair and pure , themselves did wash and lave . And as the nymphs in water stood , Acteon passed by , As he came running through the wood , on them he cast his eye : And eke behold their bodies bore , then presently that tide , And as the Nymphs of him were aware , with voice aloud they cry'd . And clos'd Diana round about , to hide her body small , Yet she was highest in the rout , and seen above them all : And when Diana did perceive where Acteon did stand , A furious look to him she gave , and took her bow in hand . And as she was about to shoot , Acteon began to run , To hide he thought it was no boot , his former sights were done . And as he thought from her to escape , she brought it so to pass , Incontinently she chang'd his shape , even running as he was , Each Goddess took Diana's part , Acteon to transform , To make of him a huge wild Heart , there they did all determ : His skin that was so fine and fair , was made a tawny read , His body overgrown with hair , from feet unto the head . And on his head great horns were set , most wondrous to behold , A huger Heart was never met , nor seen upon the mould : His ears , his eyes that was so fair , transformed were full strange , His hands , his feet compelled were , throughout the woods to range . Thus was he made a perfect Heart , and waxed fierce and grim , His former shape did quite depart from every joint and limb ; But still his memory did remain , although he might not speak Nor yet among his friends complain his woeful mind to break . At length he thought for to repair home to his dwelling place , Anon his hounds of him were aware , and gan to cry apace : Then Acteon was soar aghast , his hounds would him devour , And from them then he fled full fast , with all his might and power . The second Part , to the same tune . HE spared neither bush nor brake , but ran through thick and thin , With all the swiftness he could make in hope to save his skin : Yet were his hounds so near his tail , and followed him so fast , His running might not him avail , for all his speed and haste . For why his hounds will never lin , till they him overtook , And then they rend and tore his skin and all his body shook . I am your master Acteon , then cried he to his hounds , And made unto them rueful moans with sad Lamenting sounds . I have been he that gave you food , wherein I took delight ; Therefore suck not your master's blood his friendship to requite : But those curs of a cursed kind , on him had no remorse , Although he was their dearest friend , they pull [ ' ] worser him down by force . There was no man to take his part , the story telleth plain , Thus Acteon a huge wild Heart , among the Does was slave . You hunter's all that range the wood , although you rise up rath , Beware you come not nigh the flood where Virgins use to both . For if Diana you espy among her Darlings dear , Your former shape she will disguise , and make you horns to wear : And so I now conclude my song , having nothing to allege , If Acteon had right or wrong let all true Virgins judge . TO A LULLABY . COme little babe , come silly soul , thy father's shame & mother's grief Born as I doubt to all our doles , and to thyself unhappy chief . Sing Lullaby and keep it warm , Poor soul it thinks no creature harm , Thou little thinkest , and least does know , the cause of this thy mother's moan . Thou wantest wit to wail or woe , and I myself am left alone : Why dost thou weep , why dost thou wail And know'st not what does thee ail : Come silly wretch , ah silly heart , my only joy what can I more , If there be any wrong thy smart , that may thy destiny deplore . 'Tis I , I say , against my will , I wait the time , but be thou still ; And dost thou smile , Oh thou sweet face , I would thy Dad the same might see , No doubt but it would purchase grace , I know it will for thee and me : But come to Mother babe and play , Poor Father false is fled away . Sweet Babe if [ ' ] tO be thy fortune chance , thy father home again to send , If death does strike me with his Lance , yet may'st thou me to him commend . If any ask thy Mother's name , Tell how by love she purchased blame ; Then will his gentle heart soon yield , I know him of a Noble mind . Although a Lion in the field , a Lamb in town thou shalt him find ; Ask blessing Lad , be not afraid , His sugared Lips hath we betray'd ; Then mayest thou joy and be right glad , although in woe I seem to mourn , Thy father is no Rascal Lad , and able youth of blood and bone . His glancing look if he once smile , Right honest women will beguile : Come little boy and rock asleep , sing Lullaby and do not cry ; I can do nought else but weep , and fit by the Lullaby ; God bless the babe and Lullaby , From this thy Father's quality . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . A New Sonnet , showing how the Goddess Diana , transformed Acteon into the shape of and Hart. To a New Tune . DIANA and her darlings dear , went walking on a day , Throughout the woods and waters clear for their disports and play : The leaves aloft were very green , and pleasant to behold These Nymphs they walked the trees between , under the shadows cold . So long at last they found a place , of springs and waters clear , A fairer bath there never was found out this thousand year : Wherein Diana daintily herself began to both , And all her virgins fair and pure , themselves did wash and lave . And as the nymphs in water stood , Acteon passed by , As he came running through the wood , on them he cast his eye : And eke behold their bodies bore , then presently that tide , And as the Nymphs of him were aware , with voice aloud they cry'd . And clos'd Diana round about , to hide her body small , Yet she was highest in the rout , and seen above them all : And when Diana did perceive where Acteon did stand , A furious look to him she gave , and took her bow in hand . And as she was about to shoot , Acteon began to run , To hide he thought it was no boot , his former sights were done . And as he thought from her to escape , she brought it so to pass , Incontinently she chang'd his shape , even running as he was , Each Goddess took Diana's part , Acteon to transform , To make of him a huge wild Heart , there they did all determ : His skin that was so fine and fair , was made a tawny read , His body overgrown with hair , from feet unto the head . And on his head great horns were set , most wondrous to behold , A huger Heart was never met , nor seen upon the mould : His ears , his eyes that was so fair , transformed were full strange , His hands , his feet compelled were , throughout the woods to range . Thus was he made a perfect Heart , and waxed fierce and grim , His former shape did quite depart from every joint and limb ; But still his memory did remain , although he might not speak Nor yet among his friends complain his woeful mind to break . At length he thought for to repair home to his dwelling place , Anon his hounds of him were aware , and gan to cry apace : Then Acteon was soar aghast , his hounds would him devour , And from them then he fled full fast , with all his might and power . The second Part , to the same tune . HE spared neither bush nor brake , but ran through thick and thin , With all the swiftness he could make in hope to save his skin : Yet were his hounds so near his tail , and followed him so fast , His running might not him avail , for all his speed and haste . For why his hounds will never lin , till they him overtook , And then they rend and tore his skin and all his body shook . I am your master Acteon , then cried he to his hounds , And made unto them rueful moans with sad Lamenting sounds . I have been he that gave you food , wherein I took delight ; Therefore suck not your master's blood his friendship to requite : But those curs of a cursed kind , on him had no remorse , Although he was their dearest friend , they pull [ ' ] worser him down by force . There was no man to take his part , the story telleth plain , Thus Acteon a huge wild Heart , among the Does was slave . You hunter's all that range the wood , although you rise up rath , Beware you come not nigh the flood where Virgins use to both . For if Diana you espy among her Darlings dear , Your former shape she will disguise , and make you horns to wear : And so I now conclude my song , having nothing to allege , If Acteon had right or wrong let all true Virgins judge . TO A LULLABY . COme little babe , come silly soul , thy father's shame & mother's grief Born as I doubt to all our doles , and to thyself unhappy chief . Sing Lullaby and keep it warm , Poor soul it thinks no creature harm , Thou little thinkest , and least does know , the cause of this thy mother's moan . Thou wantest wit to wail or woe , and I myself am left alone : Why dost thou weep , why dost thou wail And know'st not what does thee ail : Come silly wretch , ah silly heart , my only joy what can I more , If there be any wrong thy smart , that may thy destiny deplore . 'Tis I , I say , against my will , I wait the time , but be thou still ; And dost thou smile , Oh thou sweet face , I would thy Dad the same might see , No doubt but it would purchase grace , I know it will for thee and me : But come to Mother babe and play , Poor Father false is fled away . Sweet Babe if [ ' ] tO be thy fortune chance , thy father home again to send , If death does strike me with his Lance , yet may'st thou me to him commend . If any ask thy Mother's name , Tell how by love she purchased blame ; Then will his gentle heart soon yield , I know him of a Noble mind . Although a Lion in the field , a Lamb in town thou shalt him find ; Ask blessing Lad , be not afraid , His sugared Lips hath we betray'd ; Then mayest thou joy and be right glad , although in woe I seem to mourn , Thy father is no Rascal Lad , and able youth of blood and bone . His glancing look if he once smile , Right honest women will beguile : Come little boy and rock asleep , sing Lullaby and do not cry ; I can do nought else but weep , and fit by the Lullaby ; God bless the babe and Lullaby , From this thy Father's quality . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . 