A Noble Riddle wisele Expounded : OR , The Maids answer to the Knights three Questions . She with her excellent wit and civil carriage , Wone a young Knight to join with her in marriage . This gallant couple now are man and wife , And she with him does led a pleasant life . The tune is Lay the bent to the bonny broom . THere was a Lady of the North Country , Lay the bent to the bonny broom , And she had lovely Daughters three , fa la la la fa la la la ra la . There was a Knight of Noble worth , lay the bent , etc Which also lived in the North . fa la , etc The Knight of courage stout and brave , lay the bent , etc A Wife he did desire to have . fa la , etc He knocked at the Ladies Gate , lay the bent , etc One evening when it was very late , fa la , etc The youngest sister she let him in , lay the bent , etc And pin'd the door with a silver pin fa la , etc The second sister she made his bed , lay the bent , etc And laid soft Pillows under his head , fa la , etc , The youngest Daughter that same night lay the bent . etc She went to bed with this young Knight fa la , etc And in the morning when it was day . lay the bent etc These words unto him she did say fa la , etc Now you have had your will quoth she lay the bent , etc I pray sir Knight will you marry me ? fa la . etc The young brave knight to her reply'd , lay the bent . etc , Thy suit fair Maid shall not be deny'd . fa la . etc IF thou canst answer me questions three , lay the bent to the bonny broom , This vary day will I marry thee , fa la , etc Kind sir in love Oh then quoth she lay the bent . etc Tell me what your questions be , fa la . etc O what is longer then the way ? lay the bent . etc Or what is deeper then the Sea ? fa la . etc O what is louder then a Horn ? lay the bent . etc Or what is sharper then a Thorn ? fa la . etc Or what is greener then the Grass ? lay the bent . etc Or what is worse then women was ? fa la . etc , Here follows the Damsels answers , to the Knights three questions . O Love is longer then the way , lay the bent , etc , And Hell is deeper then the Sea , fa la etc , And thunder's louder than a horn , lay the bent , etc And hunger's sharper than a thorn , fa la , etc And poison is greener then the grass , lay the bent , etc And the Devil is worse then woman was , fa la , etc When she these questions answered had . Lay the bent , etc The Knight became exceeding glad , fa la . etc And having thoroughly try'd her wit , lay the bent , etc He much commended her for it , fa la , etc , And after as 'tis verify'd , lay the bent , etc He made of her his lovely Bride , fa la , etc So now fair Maidens all adieu , lay the bent , etc This Song I dedicate to you , fa lay , etc I wish that you may constant prove . lay the bent , etc Unto the man that you do fa la , etc Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and W. Gilbertson . A Noble Riddle wisele Expounded : OR , The Maids answer to the Knights three Questions . She with her excellent wit and civil carriage , Wone a young Knight to join with her in marriage . This gallant couple now are man and wife , And she with him does led a pleasant life . The tune is Lay the bent to the bonny broom . THere was a Lady of the North Country , Lay the bent to the bonny broom , And she had lovely Daughters three , fa la la la fa la la la ra la . There was a Knight of Noble worth , lay the bent , etc Which also lived in the North . fa la , etc The Knight of courage stout and brave , lay the bent , etc A Wife he did desire to have . fa la , etc He knocked at the Ladies Gate , lay the bent , etc One evening when it was very late , fa la , etc The youngest sister she let him in , lay the bent , etc And pin'd the door with a silver pin fa la , etc The second sister she made his bed , lay the bent , etc And laid soft Pillows under his head , fa la , etc , The youngest Daughter that same night lay the bent . etc She went to bed with this young Knight fa la , etc And in the morning when it was day . lay the bent etc These words unto him she did say fa la , etc Now you have had your will quoth she lay the bent , etc I pray sir Knight will you marry me ? fa la . etc The young brave knight to her reply'd , lay the bent . etc , Thy suit fair Maid shall not be deny'd . fa la . etc IF thou canst answer me questions three , lay the bent to the bonny broom , This vary day will I marry thee , fa la , etc Kind sir in love Oh then quoth she lay the bent . etc Tell me what your questions be , fa la . etc O what is longer then the way ? lay the bent . etc Or what is deeper then the Sea ? fa la . etc O what is louder then a Horn ? lay the bent . etc Or what is sharper then a Thorn ? fa la . etc Or what is greener then the Grass ? lay the bent . etc Or what is worse then women was ? fa la . etc , Here follows the Damsels answers , to the Knights three questions . O Love is longer then the way , lay the bent , etc , And Hell is deeper then the Sea , fa la etc , And thunder's louder than a horn , lay the bent , etc And hunger's sharper than a thorn , fa la , etc And poison is greener then the grass , lay the bent , etc And the Devil is worse then woman was , fa la , etc When she these questions answered had . Lay the bent , etc The Knight became exceeding glad , fa la . etc And having thoroughly try'd her wit , lay the bent , etc He much commended her for it , fa la , etc , And after as 'tis verify'd , lay the bent , etc He made of her his lovely Bride , fa la , etc So now fair Maidens all adieu , lay the bent , etc This Song I dedicate to you , fa lay , etc I wish that you may constant prove . lay the bent , etc Unto the man that you do fa la , etc Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and W. Gilbertson . 