Englands Valour , and Hollands Terror : BEING And encouragement for Seamen and Soldiers to serve his Majesty in his Wars against the Dutch , etc Dutchmen beware , we have a Fleet , Will make you tremble when you see't , Mann'd with brave Englishmen of high renown , Who can and will your Peacocks Plumes pull down ; Then cease your boasting , it will nought avail , You know its but your duty to strike sail . To the tune of , The stormy winds do blow . BRave Loyal Hearted English-men , attend while I declare , What noble preparations is made for the Hollands War : For certain such a Bloody Fight hath never been before , As is near , you shall hear , when the Cannons loud do roar . View but our Navy Royal , and you will find it plain , The like thereof was never seen to sail upon the Main : The Duke of York high Admiral , will daunt the Dutchman soar With his name , and his fame , when the Cannons loud do roar . Our Ships are bravely rigged , and mann'd with Seamen stout , And Soldiers good will spend their blood to bang their Foes abou They long to be a dealing blows , delay does vex them soar , With delight , they will fight , when the Cannons loud do roar . The care and good provision for Seamen that is made , Will make them fight for Englands right and never be afraid : They'l find far richer plunder then e're they did before : Every day , in the fray , when the Cannons loud do roar . HArk how the Dutchmen bluster , they prate and Domineer , They stamp and sweat , they fume & fret , would make one laugh to hear : Their Merchant's ships are taken for prizes , gives them soar : But in vain , they complain , when the Cannons loud do roar . Although they be Rebellious , yet we shall pull them down , And teach them how they shall submit to Englands Royal Crown : Wee'le thump their sides most soundly and beatrice them over and over , In each fight , for our right , when the Cannons loud do roar . There will be noble Knocking , when once the Navy's meet , Then Hollands States beware your pates we shall you roughly gree Your treachery at Guiny stands yet upon the score : You shall pay , at the day when the Cannons loud do roar . Then Volontiers come in amain to fight against the Foe , For your reward , you shall have gain , when to the Wars you go ; The Hogan Mogan's for us all , their riches keep in store : Then be bold , fight for Gold , when the Cannons loud do roar . Brave Allen our Rear Admiral , it was his hap to meet , Near Cadiz , on the Spanish coast , part of their Smyrna Flee Where some he took , and others sunk , the rest he battered soar , Thus they lost , and were crossed , when the Cannons loud did roar . Then Butterboxes mark your hits , for all your wits are dull , Wee'le teach you better manners yet , then ever did Old Noll : You then were basted pretty well , and forc't to cry and lower : And to weep , on the deep , when the Cannons loud did roar . We have tall Ships , that's newly built the best that ere did sail , We shall the Flemish Vessels pelt , no doubt we shall prevail : Our Oaken boards will hold it out as well now as before ; Wee'le not flinch , not and inch , when the Cannons loud do roar . Then courage all brave English-men , and never be dismayed , But fight it out most gallantly , we shall be nobly paid : When we return with Victory , with Gold and Silver store , Bells' shall Ring , while we Sing , and the Cannons loud shall roar . With allowance . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , W. Gilbertson , and I . Wright . Englands Valour , and Hollands Terror : BEING And encouragement for Seamen and Soldiers to serve his Majesty in his Wars against the Dutch , etc Dutchmen beware , we have a Fleet , Will make you tremble when you see't , Mann'd with brave Englishmen of high renown , Who can and will your Peacocks Plumes pull down ; Then cease your boasting , it will nought avail , You know its but your duty to strike sail . To the tune of , The stormy winds do blow . BRave Loyal Hearted English-men , attend while I declare , What noble preparations is made for the Hollands War : For certain such a Bloody Fight hath never been before , As is near , you shall hear , when the Cannons loud do roar . View but our Navy Royal , and you will find it plain , The like thereof was never seen to sail upon the Main : The Duke of York high Admiral , will daunt the Dutchman soar With his name , and his fame , when the Cannons loud do roar . Our Ships are bravely rigged , and mann'd with Seamen stout , And Soldiers good will spend their blood to bang their Foes abou They long to be a dealing blows , delay does vex them soar , With delight , they will fight , when the Cannons loud do roar . The care and good provision for Seamen that is made , Will make them fight for Englands right and never be afraid : They'l find far richer plunder then e're they did before : Every day , in the fray , when the Cannons loud do roar . HArk how the Dutchmen bluster , they prate and Domineer , They stamp and sweat , they fume & fret , would make one laugh to hear : Their Merchant's ships are taken for prizes , gives them soar : But in vain , they complain , when the Cannons loud do roar . Although they be Rebellious , yet we shall pull them down , And teach them how they shall submit to Englands Royal Crown : Wee'le thump their sides most soundly and beatrice them over and over , In each fight , for our right , when the Cannons loud do roar . There will be noble Knocking , when once the Navy's meet , Then Hollands States beware your pates we shall you roughly gree Your treachery at Guiny stands yet upon the score : You shall pay , at the day when the Cannons loud do roar . Then Volontiers come in amain to fight against the Foe , For your reward , you shall have gain , when to the Wars you go ; The Hogan Mogan's for us all , their riches keep in store : Then be bold , fight for Gold , when the Cannons loud do roar . Brave Allen our Rear Admiral , it was his hap to meet , Near Cadiz , on the Spanish coast , part of their Smyrna Flee Where some he took , and others sunk , the rest he battered soar , Thus they lost , and were crossed , when the Cannons loud did roar . Then Butterboxes mark your hits , for all your wits are dull , Wee'le teach you better manners yet , then ever did Old Noll : You then were basted pretty well , and forc't to cry and lower : And to weep , on the deep , when the Cannons loud did roar . We have tall Ships , that's newly built the best that ere did sail , We shall the Flemish Vessels pelt , no doubt we shall prevail : Our Oaken boards will hold it out as well now as before ; Wee'le not flinch , not and inch , when the Cannons loud do roar . Then courage all brave English-men , and never be dismayed , But fight it out most gallantly , we shall be nobly paid : When we return with Victory , with Gold and Silver store , Bells' shall Ring , while we Sing , and the Cannons loud shall roar . With allowance . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , W. Gilbertson , and I . Wright . 