The ENGLISH Fortuneteller . Being a brief direction how to shun all strife , A brief instruction how to choose a wife , Whereby a man may led a happy life . It shows difference in women's qualities , By colour of the hair , both face and eyes . The Tune is , Ragged and torn , etc YOu young men that want skill in wooing and if you desire to be wed , Take counsel of me in your doing , for fear that you should be misled . Do not my kind proffer ref [ u ] s [ e ] : for it never will you deceive . I will show you what woman to choose . and what better creatures you'd best for to leave , But chiefly I'd wish you beware of a wench with a rolling eye , For she that Will cozen and swear Will also dissemble and lie . I'th first place I do you advice , take one not too high nor too low , But according to your own size , that you may her qualities know . Take one not too young nor too old , nor one thats too fat nor too lean , This a bad thing to meet with a Scold , 'tis worse to meet with a Quean . But chiefly , etc Take one that is not too proud , nor one that's a dirty foul slut , The one may babble too loud , the other may poison the gum This better to wed and honnest Maid , although she be never so poor , Then to wed a rich Gossip 'tis sad , if afterwards she should turn Whore , But chiefly , etc A Widow whose wealth does surmount if that you do marry for gain , She'l call you to double account , and your pleasure will turn to your pain . Beside she's apt to be jealous [ , ] which is the forerunner of strife . As good to be hang'd at the Gallows , as marry with such a cross wife , But chiefly , etc And now in the second place I , am purposed for to recite , My skill in Physiognomy , wherein I will show you a light . By'th colour of Hair on the head , or else by the favour or face , You may know with whom for to wed , and who you were best to embrace . But chiefly , etc The man that will choose him a mate , by colour of Hair or Complexion , Must use many ways intricate , lest he be brought under subjection . He must view both her forehead and brow , her Cheeks , Eyes , Nose , and Chin , God Cupid those things does allow when you first to woo her begin . But chiefly , etc All is not pure gold the which glitters , nor is it all Led that looks dull . Fair Venus the chief of the sisters made Vulcan her Husband a Cull . So many times beautiful Lasses , will jeer their poor Husbands in scorn , And cunningly break all their Glasses , and make them drink out of the Horn , But chiefly , etc She that hath her hair of bright yellow and traces like wires of gold , If she meet with some pretty fellow her husband may chance to be Cuckold And she that's by nature compos'd of round Cherry-cheeks and read hair , If she be pink-ey'd and long nos'd , believe me it is dangerous ware , But chiefly , I'de Wish you beware of a Wench with a rolling eye , For she that will cozen and swear , will also dissemble and lie . The brown hair hath witty discourse . but commonly for her own ends , I like her a great deal the worse because she'l dissemble with her friends . A wench with and ash coloured face , her actions are often uncivil , Her tongue will her husband disgrace , just like to the second she-devill . But chiefly , etc The bonny Wench with the black brow , o she is a good one indeed ; For she will be true to her vow , I would we had more of her breed . And thus I have told you my mind , concerning Physiognomy , I mean no wrong to womenkind I swear by my honesty . lest I should some Female offend , I'll lay by my pen and rest , What ever in this Ditty is pen'd , let young men take where they love best Yet this much I'll speak in regard , and I'll maintain my words in a trice , Some women may well be compar'd , to the best chance or worst of the Dice . Suppose a youngman goes to Dice , and do venture his goods and his store , If he can throw a Sinque or a Sice , the Games his own for evermore : But if that his fortune be crossed , that he throws but a Dewce or and Ace , His goods and his substance is lost , and he's left in a pitiful case . Suppose in like case if a Lad can get him a provident wife , His fortune's can ever be bad , he's ma worser all the days of his life : But if that Dame fortune do frown , that his wife and he cannot agree , He is quite for ever cast down , by woeful experience we see . And now noble Young men adieu , remember the words which I s [ a ] y : This song's like to prove to be true ; Then buy it and bear it away . FINIS . The ENGLISH Fortuneteller . Being a brief direction how to shun all strife , A brief instruction how to choose a wife , Whereby a man may led a happy life . It shows difference in women's qualities , By colour of the hair , both face and eyes . The Tune is , Ragged and torn , etc YOu young men that want skill in wooing and if you desire to be wed , Take counsel of me in your doing , for fear that you should be misled . Do not my kind proffer ref [ u ] s [ e ] : for it never will you deceive . I will show you what woman to choose . and what better creatures you'd best for to leave , But chiefly I'd wish you beware of a wench with a rolling eye , For she that Will cozen and swear Will also dissemble and lie . I'th first place I do you advice , take one not too high nor too low , But according to your own size , that you may her qualities know . Take one not too young nor too old , nor one thats too fat nor too lean , This a bad thing to meet with a Scold , 'tis worse to meet with a Quean . But chiefly , etc Take one that is not too proud , nor one that's a dirty foul slut , The one may babble too loud , the other may poison the gum This better to wed and honnest Maid , although she be never so poor , Then to wed a rich Gossip 'tis sad , if afterwards she should turn Whore , But chiefly , etc A Widow whose wealth does surmount if that you do marry for gain , She'l call you to double account , and your pleasure will turn to your pain . Beside she's apt to be jealous [ , ] which is the forerunner of strife . As good to be hang'd at the Gallows , as marry with such a cross wife , But chiefly , etc And now in the second place I , am purposed for to recite , My skill in Physiognomy , wherein I will show you a light . By'th colour of Hair on the head , or else by the favour or face , You may know with whom for to wed , and who you were best to embrace . But chiefly , etc The man that will choose him a mate , by colour of Hair or Complexion , Must use many ways intricate , lest he be brought under subjection . He must view both her forehead and brow , her Cheeks , Eyes , Nose , and Chin , God Cupid those things does allow when you first to woo her begin . But chiefly , etc All is not pure gold the which glitters , nor is it all Led that looks dull . Fair Venus the chief of the sisters made Vulcan her Husband a Cull . So many times beautiful Lasses , will jeer their poor Husbands in scorn , And cunningly break all their Glasses , and make them drink out of the Horn , But chiefly , etc She that hath her hair of bright yellow and traces like wires of gold , If she meet with some pretty fellow her husband may chance to be Cuckold And she that's by nature compos'd of round Cherry-cheeks and read hair , If she be pink-ey'd and long nos'd , believe me it is dangerous ware , But chiefly , I'de Wish you beware of a Wench with a rolling eye , For she that will cozen and swear , will also dissemble and lie . The brown hair hath witty discourse . but commonly for her own ends , I like her a great deal the worse because she'l dissemble with her friends . A wench with and ash coloured face , her actions are often uncivil , Her tongue will her husband disgrace , just like to the second she-devill . But chiefly , etc The bonny Wench with the black brow , o she is a good one indeed ; For she will be true to her vow , I would we had more of her breed . And thus I have told you my mind , concerning Physiognomy , I mean no wrong to womenkind I swear by my honesty . lest I should some Female offend , I'll lay by my pen and rest , What ever in this Ditty is pen'd , let young men take where they love best Yet this much I'll speak in regard , and I'll maintain my words in a trice , Some women may well be compar'd , to the best chance or worst of the Dice . Suppose a youngman goes to Dice , and do venture his goods and his store , If he can throw a Sinque or a Sice , the Games his own for evermore : But if that his fortune be crossed , that he throws but a Dewce or and Ace , His goods and his substance is lost , and he's left in a pitiful case . Suppose in like case if a Lad can get him a provident wife , His fortune's can ever be bad , he's ma worser all the days of his life : But if that Dame fortune do frown , that his wife and he cannot agree , He is quite for ever cast down , by woeful experience we see . And now noble Young men adieu , remember the words which I s [ a ] y : This song's like to prove to be true ; Then buy it and bear it away . FINIS . 