The Famous Sea-Fight between Captain Ward and the Rainbow . To the Tune of Captain Ward . STrike up you lusty Gallants , with Music and found of Drum , For we have a Rower , upon the Sea is come . His name is Captain Ward , right well it does appear : There has not been such a Rower found out this thousand years . For he has sent unto our King , the sixth of January , Desiring that he might come in with all his company . And if your King will let me come , till I my tale have told , I will bestow for my ransom , full thirty Tun of Gold . O nay , Oh nay , then says our King , Oh nay this may not be , To yield to such a Rower , my self will not agree . He has deceived the Frenchman , likewise the King of Spain : And how can he be true to me that hath been false to twain . With that our King provided , a Ship of worthy fame , Rainbow she is so called , if you would know her name . Now the gallant Rainbow , she Rows up on the Sea , Five hundred gallant Seamen do bear her company . The Dutch man , and the Spaniard , she made them for to fly , Also the bony Frenchman , as she met them on the Sea. WHen as this Gallant Rainbow , did come where Ward did lie , Where is the Captain of this Ship , this gallant Rainbow did cry . O that am I sayes Captain Ward , there's no man bids me lie , And if thou art the Kings fair Ship , thou art welcome unto me . I'le tell thee what says Rainbow , our King is in great grief , That thou shouldst lie upon the Sea and play the Arrant thief . And will not let our Merchant Ships pass as they did before , Such tidings to our King is come which grieves his heart full soar . With that this gallant Rainbow , she shot out of her pride , Full fifty gallant brass pieces charged on every side . Although these gallant shooters , prevailed not a pin , Though they were brass on the outside yet Ward was steel within . shoot on , shoot on , says Captain Ward , your sport well pleases me , And he that first give over , shall yield unto the Sea. I never wronged and English ship , but the Turk and King of Spain , For and the Jovial Dutchman , as I met on the main . If I had known your King , but one two years before , I would have saved brave Essex life , whose death did grieve me soar . Go tell the King of England , go tell him thus from me , If he Reign King of all the Land , I will reign King at Sea. With that the Royal Rainbow shot , and shot , and shot in vain , And left the Rovers company , and returned home again . Our Royal King of England , your Ship's return'd again , For Wards ship is so strong , she never will be taken . O everlasting says our King , I have lost Jewels three , Which would ago to the Seas , and brought proud Ward to me . The first was Lord Clifford , Earl of Cumberland , The second was the Lord Mountjoy , as you shall understand . The third was brave Essex , from field would never flee , Who would have gone unto the Sea , and brought proud Ward to me . London , Printed for Fr. Coles at the sign of the Lamb in the Old-Baily . The Famous Sea-Fight between Captain Ward and the Rainbow . To the Tune of Captain Ward . STrike up you lusty Gallants , with Music and found of Drum , For we have a Rower , upon the Sea is come . His name is Captain Ward , right well it does appear : There has not been such a Rower found out this thousand years . For he has sent unto our King , the sixth of January , Desiring that he might come in with all his company . And if your King will let me come , till I my tale have told , I will bestow for my ransom , full thirty Tun of Gold . O nay , Oh nay , then says our King , Oh nay this may not be , To yield to such a Rower , my self will not agree . He has deceived the Frenchman , likewise the King of Spain : And how can he be true to me that hath been false to twain . With that our King provided , a Ship of worthy fame , Rainbow she is so called , if you would know her name . Now the gallant Rainbow , she Rows up on the Sea , Five hundred gallant Seamen do bear her company . The Dutch man , and the Spaniard , she made them for to fly , Also the bony Frenchman , as she met them on the Sea. WHen as this Gallant Rainbow , did come where Ward did lie , Where is the Captain of this Ship , this gallant Rainbow did cry . O that am I sayes Captain Ward , there's no man bids me lie , And if thou art the Kings fair Ship , thou art welcome unto me . I'le tell thee what says Rainbow , our King is in great grief , That thou shouldst lie upon the Sea and play the Arrant thief . And will not let our Merchant Ships pass as they did before , Such tidings to our King is come which grieves his heart full soar . With that this gallant Rainbow , she shot out of her pride , Full fifty gallant brass pieces charged on every side . Although these gallant shooters , prevailed not a pin , Though they were brass on the outside yet Ward was steel within . shoot on , shoot on , says Captain Ward , your sport well pleases me , And he that first give over , shall yield unto the Sea. I never wronged and English ship , but the Turk and King of Spain , For and the Jovial Dutchman , as I met on the main . If I had known your King , but one two years before , I would have saved brave Essex life , whose death did grieve me soar . Go tell the King of England , go tell him thus from me , If he Reign King of all the Land , I will reign King at Sea. With that the Royal Rainbow shot , and shot , and shot in vain , And left the Rovers company , and returned home again . Our Royal King of England , your Ship's return'd again , For Wards ship is so strong , she never will be taken . O everlasting says our King , I have lost Jewels three , Which would ago to the Seas , and brought proud Ward to me . The first was Lord Clifford , Earl of Cumberland , The second was the Lord Mountjoy , as you shall understand . The third was brave Essex , from field would never flee , Who would have gone unto the Sea , and brought proud Ward to me . London , Printed for Fr. Coles at the sign of the Lamb in the Old-Baily . 