The English Seamans Resolution , OR , The Loyal Subject's Undaunted Valour : Plainly Demonstrating the Justness of his Cause , Encouraging his Friends , to Daunt his Foes : For King and Country , in the Seas he'l Perish , To tame the Rebels , and make England Flourish . To the Tune of , I prithee Love turn to me . OR , When this Old Cap was New. I Am and undaunted Seaman , and for King Charles I will figh I'le venture my Life and my Fortune to defend my Countries righ What Enemies ever oppose us my Valour with them I will try , And in the Dukes sighed , I'me resoved to fight with a full resolution to Die . My joys lies on the Main Ocean , and my Hammock supports my head , The Bottom shall be my portion wherein my Grave shall be made : Before the Butter-Box shall my Brother abuse , my Crimson Blood it shall fly , Then tack about Fleet , let Trump and us meet , for I came to the Seas to Die . Now Jockey begins to be civil , and aloud for a King he does cry : The Dutch are as false as the Devil , still working of Tretchery : With the found of our Drums , and smoke of our Guns , we mean for to darken the Sky , For the Duke & his Fleet , once more will you meet with a full resolution to Die . Slip not your Necks out of your Collars , but come on with a cheerful hear We mean to have some of your Dollars before that our Fleets do par Then drink up your Brandywine cheerly , to Trump and his Company , For the Duke & his Fleet , once more will you meet with a full resolution to Die . BRave General Monck will defeat you , and teach you good manners to know , You know that before he did beatrice you and made you to cringe full low : He'l make you all know to your sorrow , 'twere better Peccavi to cry , Then for to stand out , the tother odd bout , and in the Seas perish and Die . Stout Smith that Noble Commander , of his Valour again you must taste : He'le show you the English banner and send you away at a blast , As Opdam was served before you when into the Air he did fly : Then you will repent , that e're you were bent upon the Main Ocean to Die . Brave Holmes and Mimms they have vowed , for Charles our King they will stand , The Rebels they shall be subdued and quell'd in the turn of a hand : For whil'st that our Ships can sail Boys , we scorn a Ships length for to fly : Pay your money with speed , for that we do need , or else come to the Seas to Die . The Seas were never so graced , with so many brave Gallants before , Your Men of War shall be chased and beaten home to your own door : We'l block you up in your own Harbours , and your Cannon Bullets shall fly , For the Duke & his Fleet , once more will you meet with a full resolution to Die . What must we still wait on your leisure , or is not your Money yet Coyn'd , We mean to have some of your treasure for no Children of us you shall find : We scorn for to wait on such Puppies , we have other Fish for to fry : Then hang up your states , your Master's & mates , that sent you to Seas for to Die . Then leave of your Jeering and Mocking , and Murmur at home and Repine , 'Tis better then for to be Knocking upon the Salt Ocean Brine : Then cast up your Caps and be merry , brave English Boys let them fly , And pray for King Charles and his Navy and let the Proud Hollanders Die . With Allowance . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . The English Seamans Resolution , OR , The Loyal Subject's Undaunted Valour : Plainly Demonstrating the Justness of his Cause , Encouraging his Friends , to Daunt his Foes : For King and Country , in the Seas he'l Perish , To tame the Rebels , and make England Flourish . To the Tune of , I prithee Love turn to me . OR , When this Old Cap was New. I Am and undaunted Seaman , and for King Charles I will figh I'le venture my Life and my Fortune to defend my Countries righ What Enemies ever oppose us my Valour with them I will try , And in the Dukes sighed , I'me resoved to fight with a full resolution to Die . My joys lies on the Main Ocean , and my Hammock supports my head , The Bottom shall be my portion wherein my Grave shall be made : Before the Butter-Box shall my Brother abuse , my Crimson Blood it shall fly , Then tack about Fleet , let Trump and us meet , for I came to the Seas to Die . Now Jockey begins to be civil , and aloud for a King he does cry : The Dutch are as false as the Devil , still working of Tretchery : With the found of our Drums , and smoke of our Guns , we mean for to darken the Sky , For the Duke & his Fleet , once more will you meet with a full resolution to Die . Slip not your Necks out of your Collars , but come on with a cheerful hear We mean to have some of your Dollars before that our Fleets do par Then drink up your Brandywine cheerly , to Trump and his Company , For the Duke & his Fleet , once more will you meet with a full resolution to Die . BRave General Monck will defeat you , and teach you good manners to know , You know that before he did beatrice you and made you to cringe full low : He'l make you all know to your sorrow , 'twere better Peccavi to cry , Then for to stand out , the tother odd bout , and in the Seas perish and Die . Stout Smith that Noble Commander , of his Valour again you must taste : He'le show you the English banner and send you away at a blast , As Opdam was served before you when into the Air he did fly : Then you will repent , that e're you were bent upon the Main Ocean to Die . Brave Holmes and Mimms they have vowed , for Charles our King they will stand , The Rebels they shall be subdued and quell'd in the turn of a hand : For whil'st that our Ships can sail Boys , we scorn a Ships length for to fly : Pay your money with speed , for that we do need , or else come to the Seas to Die . The Seas were never so graced , with so many brave Gallants before , Your Men of War shall be chased and beaten home to your own door : We'l block you up in your own Harbours , and your Cannon Bullets shall fly , For the Duke & his Fleet , once more will you meet with a full resolution to Die . What must we still wait on your leisure , or is not your Money yet Coyn'd , We mean to have some of your treasure for no Children of us you shall find : We scorn for to wait on such Puppies , we have other Fish for to fry : Then hang up your states , your Master's & mates , that sent you to Seas for to Die . Then leave of your Jeering and Mocking , and Murmur at home and Repine , 'Tis better then for to be Knocking upon the Salt Ocean Brine : Then cast up your Caps and be merry , brave English Boys let them fly , And pray for King Charles and his Navy and let the Proud Hollanders Die . With Allowance . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . The English Seamans Resolution , OR , The Loyal Subject's Undaunted Valour : Plainly Demonstrating the Justness of his Cause , Encouraging his Friends , to Daunt his Foes : For King and Country , in the Seas he'l Perish , To tame the Rebels , and make England Flourish . To the Tune of , I prithee Love turn to me . OR , When this Old Cap was New. I Am and undaunted Seaman , and for King Charles I will figh I'le venture my Life and my Fortune to defend my Countries righ What Enemies ever oppose us my Valour with them I will try , And in the Dukes sighed , I'me resoved to fight with a full resolution to Die . My joys lies on the Main Ocean , and my Hammock supports my head , The Bottom shall be my portion wherein my Grave shall be made : Before the Butter-Box shall my Brother abuse , my Crimson Blood it shall fly , Then tack about Fleet , let Trump and us meet , for I came to the Seas to Die . Now Jockey begins to be civil , and aloud for a King he does cry : The Dutch are as false as the Devil , still working of Tretchery : With the found of our Drums , and smoke of our Guns , we mean for to darken the Sky , For the Duke & his Fleet , once more will you meet with a full resolution to Die . Slip not your Necks out of your Collars , but come on with a cheerful hear We mean to have some of your Dollars before that our Fleets do par Then drink up your Brandywine cheerly , to Trump and his Company , For the Duke & his Fleet , once more will you meet with a full resolution to Die . BRave General Monck will defeat you , and teach you good manners to know , You know that before he did beatrice you and made you to cringe full low : He'l make you all know to your sorrow , 'twere better Peccavi to cry , Then for to stand out , the tother odd bout , and in the Seas perish and Die . Stout Smith that Noble Commander , of his Valour again you must taste : He'le show you the English banner and send you away at a blast , As Opdam was served before you when into the Air he did fly : Then you will repent , that e're you were bent upon the Main Ocean to Die . Brave Holmes and Mimms they have vowed , for Charles our King they will stand , The Rebels they shall be subdued and quell'd in the turn of a hand : For whil'st that our Ships can sail Boys , we scorn a Ships length for to fly : Pay your money with speed , for that we do need , or else come to the Seas to Die . The Seas were never so graced , with so many brave Gallants before , Your Men of War shall be chased and beaten home to your own door : We'l block you up in your own Harbours , and your Cannon Bullets shall fly , For the Duke & his Fleet , once more will you meet with a full resolution to Die . What must we still wait on your leisure , or is not your Money yet Coyn'd , We mean to have some of your treasure for no Children of us you shall find : We scorn for to wait on such Puppies , we have other Fish for to fry : Then hang up your states , your Master's & mates , that sent you to Seas for to Die . Then leave of your Jeering and Mocking , and Murmur at home and Repine , 'Tis better then for to be Knocking upon the Salt Ocean Brine : Then cast up your Caps and be merry , brave English Boys let them fly , And pray for King Charles and his Navy and let the Proud Hollanders Die . With Allowance . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . The English Seamans Resolution , OR , The Loyal Subject's Undaunted Valour : Plainly Demonstrating the Justness of his Cause , Encouraging his Friends , to Daunt his Foes : For King and Country , in the Seas he'l Perish , To tame the Rebels , and make England Flourish . To the Tune of , I prithee Love turn to me . OR , When this Old Cap was New. I Am and undaunted Seaman , and for King Charles I will figh I'le venture my Life and my Fortune to defend my Countries righ What Enemies ever oppose us my Valour with them I will try , And in the Dukes sighed , I'me resoved to fight with a full resolution to Die . My joys lies on the Main Ocean , and my Hammock supports my head , The Bottom shall be my portion wherein my Grave shall be made : Before the Butter-Box shall my Brother abuse , my Crimson Blood it shall fly , Then tack about Fleet , let Trump and us meet , for I came to the Seas to Die . Now Jockey begins to be civil , and aloud for a King he does cry : The Dutch are as false as the Devil , still working of Tretchery : With the found of our Drums , and smoke of our Guns , we mean for to darken the Sky , For the Duke & his Fleet , once more will you meet with a full resolution to Die . Slip not your Necks out of your Collars , but come on with a cheerful hear We mean to have some of your Dollars before that our Fleets do par Then drink up your Brandywine cheerly , to Trump and his Company , For the Duke & his Fleet , once more will you meet with a full resolution to Die . BRave General Monck will defeat you , and teach you good manners to know , You know that before he did beatrice you and made you to cringe full low : He'l make you all know to your sorrow , 'twere better Peccavi to cry , Then for to stand out , the tother odd bout , and in the Seas perish and Die . Stout Smith that Noble Commander , of his Valour again you must taste : He'le show you the English banner and send you away at a blast , As Opdam was served before you when into the Air he did fly : Then you will repent , that e're you were bent upon the Main Ocean to Die . Brave Holmes and Mimms they have vowed , for Charles our King they will stand , The Rebels they shall be subdued and quell'd in the turn of a hand : For whil'st that our Ships can sail Boys , we scorn a Ships length for to fly : Pay your money with speed , for that we do need , or else come to the Seas to Die . The Seas were never so graced , with so many brave Gallants before , Your Men of War shall be chased and beaten home to your own door : We'l block you up in your own Harbours , and your Cannon Bullets shall fly , For the Duke & his Fleet , once more will you meet with a full resolution to Die . What must we still wait on your leisure , or is not your Money yet Coyn'd , We mean to have some of your treasure for no Children of us you shall find : We scorn for to wait on such Puppies , we have other Fish for to fry : Then hang up your states , your Master's & mates , that sent you to Seas for to Die . Then leave of your Jeering and Mocking , and Murmur at home and Repine , 'Tis better then for to be Knocking upon the Salt Ocean Brine : Then cast up your Caps and be merry , brave English Boys let them fly , And pray for King Charles and his Navy and let the Proud Hollanders Die . With Allowance . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . 