The Forlorn Damsel Well , since there's neither Old nor Young , will pity on me take , My passion now does grow so strong , I fear my heart will break . The Tune is , Moggy's Jealousy . COme pity a Damsel distressed , all you that have tasted the bliss , For while you with favours are blessed , I hardly can meet with a kiss : Which makes me resolve in my anguish , in Deserts to take my abided , For I now in my sorrows do languish , my Maidenhead is such a load . Oh! why was I born to such fortune , as makes me so sadly repine , There is no youngman so importune , as to pity these sorrows of mine : Now must I be forc'd to complain , to some stranger that travels the Road , To ease all my sorrow and pain , since my Maidenhead is such a load . By night I with dreams am tormented , supposing I am at the Game , But waking am so discontented , that I my hard fortune do blame : Oh then I fit sighing and sobbing , and send forth my wishes abroad , My heart is e'ne broken with throbbing , since , etc ALL you that are happy by tasting , that which I do so much desire , See how I lie panting and wasting , consuming by amorous fire : There's none that is moved with pity , while plainly my folly is show'd , And I sing this sorrowful Ditty , That my Maidenhead is a great load This burden cannot be endured , but under it sadly I groan , Yet little hope have to be cured , since I am distressed alone : There's many that never saw twenty , that in pleasure live in their abided , Who say to me , do not torment me , though your Maidenhead be a great load . But by them I cannot be ruled , my passion's so violent strong , For never was any so fooled , that lived a Maiden so long ; But I must and I will have a man , that with me shall make his abided , For let me do all that I can , still my Maidenhead , etc How happy are you that are Married , and taste of Loves joys when you please With patience too long have I tarry'd , till longing hath bred a Disease : More loathsome to me then the Venom , of Serpent or poisonous Toad , The Youngmen , the Devil is in 'um , to let me lie under this load . And now to conclude my sad Ditty , some lusty young Lad come away , And a poor Maid take some pity , whose Vitals begin to decay : For want of those pleasant delights , that to others are commonly show'd , I pine both by days and by nights , since my Maidenhead is such a load . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Gol - den-Ball , near the Hospital gate , in West-Smithfield . The Forlorn Damsel Well , since there's neither Old nor Young , will pity on me take , My passion now does grow so strong , I fear my heart will break . The Tune is , Moggy's Jealousy . COme pity a Damsel distressed , all you that have tasted the bliss , For while you with favours are blessed , I hardly can meet with a kiss : Which makes me resolve in my anguish , in Deserts to take my abided , For I now in my sorrows do languish , my Maidenhead is such a load . Oh! why was I born to such fortune , as makes me so sadly repine , There is no youngman so importune , as to pity these sorrows of mine : Now must I be forc'd to complain , to some stranger that travels the Road , To ease all my sorrow and pain , since my Maidenhead is such a load . By night I with dreams am tormented , supposing I am at the Game , But waking am so discontented , that I my hard fortune do blame : Oh then I fit sighing and sobbing , and send forth my wishes abroad , My heart is e'ne broken with throbbing , since , etc ALL you that are happy by tasting , that which I do so much desire , See how I lie panting and wasting , consuming by amorous fire : There's none that is moved with pity , while plainly my folly is show'd , And I sing this sorrowful Ditty , That my Maidenhead is a great load This burden cannot be endured , but under it sadly I groan , Yet little hope have to be cured , since I am distressed alone : There's many that never saw twenty , that in pleasure live in their abided , Who say to me , do not torment me , though your Maidenhead be a great load . But by them I cannot be ruled , my passion's so violent strong , For never was any so fooled , that lived a Maiden so long ; But I must and I will have a man , that with me shall make his abided , For let me do all that I can , still my Maidenhead , etc How happy are you that are Married , and taste of Loves joys when you please With patience too long have I tarry'd , till longing hath bred a Disease : More loathsome to me then the Venom , of Serpent or poisonous Toad , The Youngmen , the Devil is in 'um , to let me lie under this load . And now to conclude my sad Ditty , some lusty young Lad come away , And a poor Maid take some pity , whose Vitals begin to decay : For want of those pleasant delights , that to others are commonly show'd , I pine both by days and by nights , since my Maidenhead is such a load . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Gol - den-Ball , near the Hospital gate , in West-Smithfield . 