The Norfolk Gentleman's last Will and Testament . [ And how he ] committed the Keeping of his Children to his own Brother , who dealt most wickedly with them ; and how God plagued him for it . To the Tune of Rogero .. NOw ponder well , you Parents dear , these Words which I shall write , [ A ] doleful Story you shall hear , [ i ] n time brought forth to ligh [ A ] Gentleman of good account , in Norfolk dwelled of late , Whose Wealth and Riches did formount , most Men of his Estate . Soar sick he was , and like to die , no help that he could have , His Wife by him as sick did lie , and both possess one Grave : No love between these two was lost , each was to other kind , In love they liv'd , in love they dy'd , and left two Babes behind . The one a fine and pretty Boy , not passing three Years old , The other a Girl more young then he , and made in Beauty's Mould : [ That ] e Father left his little Son , as plainly does appear , [ W ] hen he to perfect Age should come , three hundred Pounds a year . And to his little Daughter Jane , five hundred Pound in Gold , To be paid down on Marriage day , which might not be controul'd ; But if the Children chance to die , e'er they to Age should come , Their Uncle should possess their Wealth for so the Will did run . Now Brother said the dying Man look to my Children dear , Be good unto my Boy and Girl , no Friends else I have here : To God and you I do commend my Children night and day , A little while be sure we had : within this World to stay . You must be Father Mother both , and Uncle all in one , God knows what will become of them , when I am dead and gone , With that bespoke their Mother dear , Oh Brother kind , quoth she You are the Man must , bring my Babes to Wealth or Misery . If you do keep hem carefully , then God will you reward , If otherwise you seem to deal , God will your Deeds regard , With lips as cold as any stone , she kissed the Children small . God bless you both my Children dear , with that the tears did fallen . These Speeches then their Brother spoke , to sick Couple their , The keeping of your Children dear , sweet Sister , do not fear : God never prosper Me nor Mine , nor ought else that I have , If I do wrong your Children dear , when you are laid in Grave . Their Parents been dead and gone , the Children home he takes , And brings them home unto his House , and much of them he makes . He had not kept these pretty Babes , a Twelvemonth and a Day , But for their wealth he did devise to make them both away . He bargained with two Ruffians rude , which were of furious mood , That they should take the Children young and slay them in a Wood : And told his Wife , and all he had , he did the Children send To be brought up in fair London , with one that was his Friend , Away then went these pretty Babes , rejoicing at that tide : Rejoicing with a merry mind , they should on Cockhorse ride They prate and prattle pleasantly , as they road on the way , To those that should their Butchers be , and work their Lives decay . So that the pretty speech they had , made Murders hearts relent , And they that took the Deed to do , full soar they did repen Yet one of them more hard of heart , did vow to do his Charge , Because the Wretch that hired him , had paid him very large . The other would not agree thereto , so here they fell at strife ; With one another they did Fight , about the Children's Life : And he that was of mildest mood , did Slay the other their , Within and unfrequented Wood , where Babes did quake for fear . He took the Children by the hand , when tears stood in their eyes ; And bade them come and go with him , and look they did not cry : And two long Miles he led them thus , while they for Bred complain , Stay here , quoth he , i'll bring you Bred , when I do come again . These pretty Babes with hand in hand , went wandering up and down , But never more they saw the Man , approaching from the Town : Their pretty Lips with Blackberries , were all besmear'd and dy'd , And when they saw the darksome Night , they sat them down and cry'd , Thus wandered these two pretty Babes . till Death did end their Grief , In one another Arms they dy'd , as Babes wanting Relief : No Burial these pretty Babes , of any Man receive , Till Robin-red-brest painfully , did cover them with Leaves . And now the heavy wrath of God , upon their Uncle fell , Yea , fearful Fiend did hunt his House , his Conscience fellt a Hell : His Barns were fir'd , his Goods consum'd , his Lands were barren made , His Cattle dy'd within the Field , and nothing with him stayed , And in the Voyage of Portugal , two of his Sons did die ; And to conclude , himself was brought unto much Misery : He pawn'd and Morgag'd all his Land , e'er seven Qears came about ; And now at length this wicked Act , did by this means come ou The Fellow that did take in hand , these Children for to kill ; Was for a Robbery judg'd to die , as was God's blessed Will : Who did confess the very Truth , the which is here expressed ; Their Unckl dy'd while he for Debt , did long in Prison rest . All you that be Executors made , and Overseeos eke , Of Childeten that be Fatherless , and Infants mild and meek , Take you Example by this thing and yield to each his Right , lest God with such like Misery , your wicked minds requite . The Norfolk Gentleman's last Will and Testament . [ And how he ] committed the Keeping of his Children to his own Brother , who dealt most wickedly with them ; and how God plagued him for it . To the Tune of Rogero .. NOw ponder well , you Parents dear , these Words which I shall write , [ A ] doleful Story you shall hear , [ i ] n time brought forth to ligh [ A ] Gentleman of good account , in Norfolk dwelled of late , Whose Wealth and Riches did formount , most Men of his Estate . Soar sick he was , and like to die , no help that he could have , His Wife by him as sick did lie , and both possess one Grave : No love between these two was lost , each was to other kind , In love they liv'd , in love they dy'd , and left two Babes behind . The one a fine and pretty Boy , not passing three Years old , The other a Girl more young then he , and made in Beauty's Mould : [ That ] e Father left his little Son , as plainly does appear , [ W ] hen he to perfect Age should come , three hundred Pounds a year . And to his little Daughter Jane , five hundred Pound in Gold , To be paid down on Marriage day , which might not be controul'd ; But if the Children chance to die , e'er they to Age should come , Their Uncle should possess their Wealth for so the Will did run . Now Brother said the dying Man look to my Children dear , Be good unto my Boy and Girl , no Friends else I have here : To God and you I do commend my Children night and day , A little while be sure we had : within this World to stay . You must be Father Mother both , and Uncle all in one , God knows what will become of them , when I am dead and gone , With that bespoke their Mother dear , Oh Brother kind , quoth she You are the Man must , bring my Babes to Wealth or Misery . If you do keep hem carefully , then God will you reward , If otherwise you seem to deal , God will your Deeds regard , With lips as cold as any stone , she kissed the Children small . God bless you both my Children dear , with that the tears did fallen . These Speeches then their Brother spoke , to sick Couple their , The keeping of your Children dear , sweet Sister , do not fear : God never prosper Me nor Mine , nor ought else that I have , If I do wrong your Children dear , when you are laid in Grave . Their Parents been dead and gone , the Children home he takes , And brings them home unto his House , and much of them he makes . He had not kept these pretty Babes , a Twelvemonth and a Day , But for their wealth he did devise to make them both away . He bargained with two Ruffians rude , which were of furious mood , That they should take the Children young and slay them in a Wood : And told his Wife , and all he had , he did the Children send To be brought up in fair London , with one that was his Friend , Away then went these pretty Babes , rejoicing at that tide : Rejoicing with a merry mind , they should on Cockhorse ride They prate and prattle pleasantly , as they road on the way , To those that should their Butchers be , and work their Lives decay . So that the pretty speech they had , made Murders hearts relent , And they that took the Deed to do , full soar they did repen Yet one of them more hard of heart , did vow to do his Charge , Because the Wretch that hired him , had paid him very large . The other would not agree thereto , so here they fell at strife ; With one another they did Fight , about the Children's Life : And he that was of mildest mood , did Slay the other their , Within and unfrequented Wood , where Babes did quake for fear . He took the Children by the hand , when tears stood in their eyes ; And bade them come and go with him , and look they did not cry : And two long Miles he led them thus , while they for Bred complain , Stay here , quoth he , i'll bring you Bred , when I do come again . These pretty Babes with hand in hand , went wandering up and down , But never more they saw the Man , approaching from the Town : Their pretty Lips with Blackberries , were all besmear'd and dy'd , And when they saw the darksome Night , they sat them down and cry'd , Thus wandered these two pretty Babes . till Death did end their Grief , In one another Arms they dy'd , as Babes wanting Relief : No Burial these pretty Babes , of any Man receive , Till Robin-red-brest painfully , did cover them with Leaves . And now the heavy wrath of God , upon their Uncle fell , Yea , fearful Fiend did hunt his House , his Conscience fellt a Hell : His Barns were fir'd , his Goods consum'd , his Lands were barren made , His Cattle dy'd within the Field , and nothing with him stayed , And in the Voyage of Portugal , two of his Sons did die ; And to conclude , himself was brought unto much Misery : He pawn'd and Morgag'd all his Land , e'er seven Qears came about ; And now at length this wicked Act , did by this means come ou The Fellow that did take in hand , these Children for to kill ; Was for a Robbery judg'd to die , as was God's blessed Will : Who did confess the very Truth , the which is here expressed ; Their Unckl dy'd while he for Debt , did long in Prison rest . All you that be Executors made , and Overseeos eke , Of Childeten that be Fatherless , and Infants mild and meek , Take you Example by this thing and yield to each his Right , lest God with such like Misery , your wicked minds requite . 