The North-country Maids resolution & love to her Sweetheart . Her Daddy and Mammy she'l rather forsake , Then be separated from her loving Mate : She sold all her Linen , her Goods and her Geer And follow her Sweetheart his Snapsack to bear . To a pleasant new Northern Tune . AS from Newcastle I did pass , I herd a blithe and bonny Lass , Who in the Scottish Army was , Saying , prithee le me gang with thee man , Unto a Cavaliero Blade , As I suppose , her moan she made , For ever more these words she said , I'll follow my Cavalilly man , Oh my dainty Cavalilly man , My finnikin Cavalilly man , For Gods Cause and the Protestants , I prithee le me gang with thee man . Sweetheart , quoth she , if thou't consent , To follow thee my mind is bent , I'll strive to give thee all content , Then prithee le me gang with thee man ; I'll fell my Rock and eke my Reel , And after that my Spinning wheel , To buy my Love a Cap of Speel , And follow my Cavalilly man : Oh my dainty , & . My Uncle gave me a House and Land , I'll sel't for money out of hand , And all shall be at thy command , Then p [ r ] ethee le me gang with thee man : My Mammy gave me a Pot and a Pan , My Dady gave me a Yew and a Lamb , Yet I's forsake my Dady and Mam , To follow my Cavalilly man : Oh my dainty , etc I'le pawn my Kirtle and eke my Gown , Which cost my Mother many a Crown And go with thee from Town to Town , Then prithee le me gang with thee Man : I'le fell my Petticoat from my back , My Smock and all ere thou shalt lack For either Money Beer , or Sack : Then prithee le me go with thee man , Oh my dainty , etc Thy company I love so deer , Then rather then I'le tarry here , Thy Snapsack on my back I'le bear And follow my Cavalilly man , I'le fell off all my Hemp and Hards , And throw aside my wool and Cards . To march along from guards to guards , Then prithee le me go with thee man . O my dainty Cavalilly man , My finikin Cavalilly man , For Gods Cause and the Protestants , prithee le me gang with thee man . The second part , to the same tune : WHatsoever shall of my self betide , Where thou shalt either go or ride , Throughout the Kingdom far and wide , I'le follow my Cavalilly man : I neither care for dirt nor mire , Nor marches long my legs to tire , Thy company I most desire , Then prithee le me go with thee man , Oh my dainty Cavalilly man ; My finikin Cavalilly man , For Gods Cause and the Protestants , I prithee le me go with thee man . For hose and shoes thou's want for nean Though thy Apparel be but mean , I's wash thee weel and keep thee clean , Then prithee le me go with thee man : Thou salt have cleath to make thee a sark That every yard shall cost a Mark , And whither it shall be light or dark , I'le follow my Cavalilly man , Oh my dainty , etc Give me thy Musket in my hand . And when thy Captain gives command , Upon the Centry I will stand , In stead of my Cavalilly man : I'm not afraid of Pistol shot , Nor Cannon bullets burning hight , Since that it is my happy lot , To follow my Cavalilly man , Oh my dainty , etc , While drums are beating loud alarms I will be ready in thine arms , To keep my love from further harms , To follow my Cavalilly man , In frost , in Snow , in Hail , and Rain , Over Hill , and Dale , and many a Plain , I'le follow thee through all the Train , Then prithee le me go with thee man , Oh my dainty , etc And when the Wars are at and end , That I's return heam with my Friend , I'le work for means for thee to spend , Then prithee le me go with thee Man , I'll buy thee new Apparel gay , To wear upon thy Wedding day , Then do not hinder me I pray , To follow my Cavalilly man , Oh my dainty , The Soldier hearing of her mean , Was loath to leave her all alean , And she along with him is gean , To follow her Cavalilly man : She vows that he his part will take , And though her life were laid at'th stake , Sheel rather die then him forsake , To follow her Cavalilly man . O my dainty Cavalilly man , My finnikin Cavalilly man , For Gods Cause and the Protestants , I prithee le me gang with thee man . Entered according to Order . London ; Printed for F. Grove dwelling on Snow-hill . The North-country Maids resolution & love to her Sweetheart . Her Daddy and Mammy she'l rather forsake , Then be separated from her loving Mate : She sold all her Linen , her Goods and her Geer And follow her Sweetheart his Snapsack to bear . To a pleasant new Northern Tune . AS from Newcastle I did pass , I herd a blithe and bonny Lass , Who in the Scottish Army was , Saying , prithee le me gang with thee man , Unto a Cavaliero Blade , As I suppose , her moan she made , For ever more these words she said , I'll follow my Cavalilly man , Oh my dainty Cavalilly man , My finnikin Cavalilly man , For Gods Cause and the Protestants , I prithee le me gang with thee man . Sweetheart , quoth she , if thou't consent , To follow thee my mind is bent , I'll strive to give thee all content , Then prithee le me gang with thee man ; I'll fell my Rock and eke my Reel , And after that my Spinning wheel , To buy my Love a Cap of Speel , And follow my Cavalilly man : Oh my dainty , & . My Uncle gave me a House and Land , I'll sel't for money out of hand , And all shall be at thy command , Then p [ r ] ethee le me gang with thee man : My Mammy gave me a Pot and a Pan , My Dady gave me a Yew and a Lamb , Yet I's forsake my Dady and Mam , To follow my Cavalilly man : Oh my dainty , etc I'le pawn my Kirtle and eke my Gown , Which cost my Mother many a Crown And go with thee from Town to Town , Then prithee le me gang with thee Man : I'le fell my Petticoat from my back , My Smock and all ere thou shalt lack For either Money Beer , or Sack : Then prithee le me go with thee man , Oh my dainty , etc Thy company I love so deer , Then rather then I'le tarry here , Thy Snapsack on my back I'le bear And follow my Cavalilly man , I'le fell off all my Hemp and Hards , And throw aside my wool and Cards . To march along from guards to guards , Then prithee le me go with thee man . O my dainty Cavalilly man , My finikin Cavalilly man , For Gods Cause and the Protestants , prithee le me gang with thee man . The second part , to the same tune : WHatsoever shall of my self betide , Where thou shalt either go or ride , Throughout the Kingdom far and wide , I'le follow my Cavalilly man : I neither care for dirt nor mire , Nor marches long my legs to tire , Thy company I most desire , Then prithee le me go with thee man , Oh my dainty Cavalilly man ; My finikin Cavalilly man , For Gods Cause and the Protestants , I prithee le me go with thee man . For hose and shoes thou's want for nean Though thy Apparel be but mean , I's wash thee weel and keep thee clean , Then prithee le me go with thee man : Thou salt have cleath to make thee a sark That every yard shall cost a Mark , And whither it shall be light or dark , I'le follow my Cavalilly man , Oh my dainty , etc Give me thy Musket in my hand . And when thy Captain gives command , Upon the Centry I will stand , In stead of my Cavalilly man : I'm not afraid of Pistol shot , Nor Cannon bullets burning hight , Since that it is my happy lot , To follow my Cavalilly man , Oh my dainty , etc , While drums are beating loud alarms I will be ready in thine arms , To keep my love from further harms , To follow my Cavalilly man , In frost , in Snow , in Hail , and Rain , Over Hill , and Dale , and many a Plain , I'le follow thee through all the Train , Then prithee le me go with thee man , Oh my dainty , etc And when the Wars are at and end , That I's return heam with my Friend , I'le work for means for thee to spend , Then prithee le me go with thee Man , I'll buy thee new Apparel gay , To wear upon thy Wedding day , Then do not hinder me I pray , To follow my Cavalilly man , Oh my dainty , The Soldier hearing of her mean , Was loath to leave her all alean , And she along with him is gean , To follow her Cavalilly man : She vows that he his part will take , And though her life were laid at'th stake , Sheel rather die then him forsake , To follow her Cavalilly man . O my dainty Cavalilly man , My finnikin Cavalilly man , For Gods Cause and the Protestants , I prithee le me gang with thee man . Entered according to Order . London ; Printed for F. Grove dwelling on Snow-hill . 