The Forlorn Lover , Declaring how A Lass gave her Lover three slips for a taster , And married another a week before Easter . To a pleasant new Tune . A Week before Easter the days long and clear , So bright is the Sun , and so cold is the air , I went into the Forest some flowers to find there , And the Forest would y [ i ] eld me no Posies . The Wheat and the Rye that grows so green , The Hedges and Trees in their several coats , Small Birds do sing in their changeable notes , But there grows no Strawberries nor Roses I went into the Meadow some time for to spend , And to come back again I did fully intend , But as I came back I met with a friend , And 'twas Love was the cause of my mourning . I loved a fair Lady this many a long day , And now to requite me she is married away , Here she hath left me in sorrow to stay , But now I begin to consider . I loved her deer , and I loved her well , I hated all people that spoke of her ill , Many a one told to me what she did say , But yet I would hardly believe them . But when I did hear my Love asked in the Church , I went out of my seat and sat in the Porch , I found I should falsely be left in the lurch , And thought that my heart would have broken . BUt when I did see my Love to Church go With all her bride-maidens they made such a show , I laughed in conceit but my heart was full low To see how highly she was regarded But when I saw my Love in the Church stand , Gold ring on her finger well seal'd with a band : He had so endued her with house and with land , That nothing but Death can them sunder But when her Bride-maidens were having her to bed I stepped in among them and kissed the Bride . I wished I might have been lay'd by her side , And by that means I gave me a favour . When she was laid in bed , dressed up in white , My eyes gushed with water , that drowned my sighed , I put off my hat and did bid all good night , And adue my Deer sweating for ever . Oh! dig me a grave that is wide , large , and deep , With a turf at my head and another at my feet . There I will lie and take a long sleep : I'll bid her farewell for ever . She plighted her faith to be my fair Bride , And now at last hath me falsely decry'd , I'll leave off my wrath , and with God be my guide To save me from such another I pity her case much more than my own , That she should embrace and join hands in one , While I am her true love and daily do groan , My sorrow I cannot smother . Though Marriage hath bound her she is much to blame , And though he hath found her , her Husband I am , Hereafter 'twill wound her that she put me to shame , When Conscience shall be her accuser . Two Husbands she hath by this wild miscarriage The one by a Contract , the tother by Marriage . She does her whole family grossly disparage . But I will not plot to misuse her . Beware all young men , of Arts , or of Trades , Choose warily when you meet with such Maids You'd better live single , alone in the shades , Than so to love such and Abuser . FINIS . The Forlorn Lover , Declaring how A Lass gave her Lover three slips for a taster , And married another a week before Easter . To a pleasant new Tune . A Week before Easter the days long and clear , So bright is the Sun , and so cold is the air , I went into the Forest some flowers to find there , And the Forest would y [ i ] eld me no Posies . The Wheat and the Rye that grows so green , The Hedges and Trees in their several coats , Small Birds do sing in their changeable notes , But there grows no Strawberries nor Roses I went into the Meadow some time for to spend , And to come back again I did fully intend , But as I came back I met with a friend , And 'twas Love was the cause of my mourning . I loved a fair Lady this many a long day , And now to requite me she is married away , Here she hath left me in sorrow to stay , But now I begin to consider . I loved her deer , and I loved her well , I hated all people that spoke of her ill , Many a one told to me what she did say , But yet I would hardly believe them . But when I did hear my Love asked in the Church , I went out of my seat and sat in the Porch , I found I should falsely be left in the lurch , And thought that my heart would have broken . BUt when I did see my Love to Church go With all her bride-maidens they made such a show , I laughed in conceit but my heart was full low To see how highly she was regarded But when I saw my Love in the Church stand , Gold ring on her finger well seal'd with a band : He had so endued her with house and with land , That nothing but Death can them sunder But when her Bride-maidens were having her to bed I stepped in among them and kissed the Bride . I wished I might have been lay'd by her side , And by that means I gave me a favour . When she was laid in bed , dressed up in white , My eyes gushed with water , that drowned my sighed , I put off my hat and did bid all good night , And adue my Deer sweating for ever . Oh! dig me a grave that is wide , large , and deep , With a turf at my head and another at my feet . There I will lie and take a long sleep : I'll bid her farewell for ever . She plighted her faith to be my fair Bride , And now at last hath me falsely decry'd , I'll leave off my wrath , and with God be my guide To save me from such another I pity her case much more than my own , That she should embrace and join hands in one , While I am her true love and daily do groan , My sorrow I cannot smother . Though Marriage hath bound her she is much to blame , And though he hath found her , her Husband I am , Hereafter 'twill wound her that she put me to shame , When Conscience shall be her accuser . Two Husbands she hath by this wild miscarriage The one by a Contract , the tother by Marriage . She does her whole family grossly disparage . But I will not plot to misuse her . Beware all young men , of Arts , or of Trades , Choose warily when you meet with such Maids You'd better live single , alone in the shades , Than so to love such and Abuser . FINIS . 