Fancies Favourite , OR , The Mirror of the Times . B [ e ] ing a young Ladies commendation of a young Gallant , which hath a long time showed her much love , which by his civil carriage , and long patience in waiting on her , at last Conquered her who was once Resolved to led a single life , and therefore he termed her the Phoenix of the Times . To the Tune of , Fancies Phoenix . COme , come . away you Maidens fair this Song to you I will , 'Tis of a Youngman I'le declare , who in his praise I needs must write : The City if I search about , I scarce shall find his fellow out . He hath been constant long to me , The mirror of the times is he . I must confess I once did mind , a single life to live and die , But such rare parts in him I find , his civil Suit I can't deny , But am resolv'd to set him free , And grant him love and liberty : So civil he hath been to me , etc I once did think I never should , so much as know what love should be , Nor did I dream he ever could , with patience so have conquered me , His comely gesture I did spy , Made me delight in's company , That all may say that does him see , etc Did you ere see that glorious Star , that ushers in the morning bright , How he exceeds all other far , by casting forth his sparkling light , So all does say as much by he , that ere did keep his company , His carriage does such J [ e ] stur show , he is admired where ere he go . He bashful is yet hold also , and shows it with a gallant grace , All vapouring blades he scorns to know , yet scorns he for to hide his face He'l take no wrong nor quarrels breed but stick to his friend in time of need , He's civil , yet he'l merry be , etc If any where you should him spy , in Maids or woman's company , No wanton looks comes from his eye , at any time as you ere shall see , He'l court , he'l kiss , he'l sing or play , but it shall be in a modest way , For Men or Women's conpanie , etc BUt stay my Pen does run too fast in setting forth his g [ a ] llantrie , For fear I lose him at the last then cause you'l have to laugh to me When some to hear of him they may Persuade his love from me away . But if they gain his love from me None constant then I think there be , But his name I have not told , nor will not yet , you may be sure , Till of him I can get faster hold there's no one here shall it procure . You Maidans all that hear my Song I would not have you for him long . But if you do persuaded be , You may find some as good as he . A Phoenix he hath termed me . because I thought to lie alone , But if that such a Bird there be , Out of his Climate sure she's flown Our Land is cold , and therefore I , Resolve no Phoenix for to die . But though I don't this Phoenix prove , Yet I will be his Turtle-Dove . There's many a maiden that does say , a single life is best at ease , How oft I prey will you say nay , if once a Youngman does you please , I must confess sometime you'l prove Most coy to him you most do love . What by experience I find true , Pray blame not me to tell it you . Let me advice you Maidens fair , not to be coy , nor proud at all , For those thee count themselves most rare most timee does get thee greatest fall You seldom see a scornful Maid , but at last she is betrayed , Be courteous , yet be virtuous still , And let not youngmen have their will Choose not a husband for estate , unless you fancy him beside , You may repent when 'tis too late , 'tis for a life time you are ty'd , No Ranter take if you be wise , nor yet none of the precise , The one will rant and spend thy means the other closely may love queans . But now my Song grows to at end , I must be gone my love does stay , Last night I did unto him send to meet me at a place to day , Where we intend so to agree , in what Church we will Married be , Then Phaenix like wee'l live and die in the pure flames of Chestity . One Love , one Faith we do express , & therefore we one name will have , Our love so great is I confess , we likewise do desire one grave , To his desire I well incline , his ashes shall be joined with mine : So Phaenix like we mean to lie , and Turtle like wee'l live and die . Fancies Favourite , OR , The Mirror of the Times . B [ e ] ing a young Ladies commendation of a young Gallant , which hath a long time showed her much love , which by his civil carriage , and long patience in waiting on her , at last Conquered her who was once Resolved to led a single life , and therefore he termed her the Phoenix of the Times . To the Tune of , Fancies Phoenix . COme , come . away you Maidens fair this Song to you I will , 'Tis of a Youngman I'le declare , who in his praise I needs must write : The City if I search about , I scarce shall find his fellow out . He hath been constant long to me , The mirror of the times is he . I must confess I once did mind , a single life to live and die , But such rare parts in him I find , his civil Suit I can't deny , But am resolv'd to set him free , And grant him love and liberty : So civil he hath been to me , etc I once did think I never should , so much as know what love should be , Nor did I dream he ever could , with patience so have conquered me , His comely gesture I did spy , Made me delight in's company , That all may say that does him see , etc Did you ere see that glorious Star , that ushers in the morning bright , How he exceeds all other far , by casting forth his sparkling light , So all does say as much by he , that ere did keep his company , His carriage does such J [ e ] stur show , he is admired where ere he go . He bashful is yet hold also , and shows it with a gallant grace , All vapouring blades he scorns to know , yet scorns he for to hide his face He'l take no wrong nor quarrels breed but stick to his friend in time of need , He's civil , yet he'l merry be , etc If any where you should him spy , in Maids or woman's company , No wanton looks comes from his eye , at any time as you ere shall see , He'l court , he'l kiss , he'l sing or play , but it shall be in a modest way , For Men or Women's conpanie , etc BUt stay my Pen does run too fast in setting forth his g [ a ] llantrie , For fear I lose him at the last then cause you'l have to laugh to me When some to hear of him they may Persuade his love from me away . But if they gain his love from me None constant then I think there be , But his name I have not told , nor will not yet , you may be sure , Till of him I can get faster hold there's no one here shall it procure . You Maidans all that hear my Song I would not have you for him long . But if you do persuaded be , You may find some as good as he . A Phoenix he hath termed me . because I thought to lie alone , But if that such a Bird there be , Out of his Climate sure she's flown Our Land is cold , and therefore I , Resolve no Phoenix for to die . But though I don't this Phoenix prove , Yet I will be his Turtle-Dove . There's many a maiden that does say , a single life is best at ease , How oft I prey will you say nay , if once a Youngman does you please , I must confess sometime you'l prove Most coy to him you most do love . What by experience I find true , Pray blame not me to tell it you . Let me advice you Maidens fair , not to be coy , nor proud at all , For those thee count themselves most rare most timee does get thee greatest fall You seldom see a scornful Maid , but at last she is betrayed , Be courteous , yet be virtuous still , And let not youngmen have their will Choose not a husband for estate , unless you fancy him beside , You may repent when 'tis too late , 'tis for a life time you are ty'd , No Ranter take if you be wise , nor yet none of the precise , The one will rant and spend thy means the other closely may love queans . But now my Song grows to at end , I must be gone my love does stay , Last night I did unto him send to meet me at a place to day , Where we intend so to agree , in what Church we will Married be , Then Phaenix like wee'l live and die in the pure flames of Chestity . One Love , one Faith we do express , & therefore we one name will have , Our love so great is I confess , we likewise do desire one grave , To his desire I well incline , his ashes shall be joined with mine : So Phaenix like we mean to lie , and Turtle like wee'l live and die . 