Few words are best . Come buy this new Ballad before you do go , If you rail at the Author , I know what I know . To the tune of , I tell you but so . IT is and old saying , that few words are best , And he that sayea little , shall live most at rest , And I by experience , do find it right so , Therefore I'll spare speech , but I know what I know . Yet shall you perceive well , though littele I say , That many enormities , I will display , You may guess my meainug , by that which I show . I will not tell all . but I know , etc There be some great climbers compos'd of ambition . To whom better born m [ e ] n : do bend with submission , Proud Lucifer climbing , was cast very low : I'll not stay these men . but I know , etc There be many Foras , that go on two legs , They steal greater matters . then Cocks , Hens , and Eggs , To catch many Gulls , in sheep's clothing they go : They might be destroy'd . but I know , etc There be many men , that Devotion pretend . And makes us believe , that true fatih they'l defend , Three times in one day , to Church they will go . They cozen the world , but I know . etc , There be many rich men , both Yeoman and Gentry , That for their own private gain hurt a whole Country By clothing free common . yet they'l make as though . It for commons good , but I know , etc There be diverse Papists , that to save their Fine , Come to Church once a month to hear Service Divine , The Pope gives them power , as they say to do so , They save money by'to , but I know , etc There be many upstarts , that spring from the Cart , What got to the Court , play the Gentleman's par Their father's were plain-men , they scorue to be so , They think themselves brave , but I know , etc There be many Officers , men of great place , To whom if one sue , for their favour and grace , He must bribe their servants , while they make as though , They know no such thing , but I know . etc THere be many woman , that seem very pure , A kiss from a stranger , they'l hardly endure : They are like Lucrecia , modest in show ; I will accuse none , but I know what I know . Likewise there be many , dissembling men , That seem to hate Drinking , and Whoring yet when They meet with a Wench , to the Tavern they'l go ; They are civil all day , but I know , etc There be many Bachelors , that so beguile , Believing kind Lasses , use many a wile , They all swear that they love , when they mean nothing so , And boast of these tricks , but I know , etc There's many and Usurer , that like a Drone , Does idly live , upon his moneys lone , From tens unto hundreds , his money does grow : He says he does good , but I know , etc There be many Gallants , that go in gay raiment , For which the Taylor , did ne'r receive payment , They rufle it out , with agorgeous show , Some take them for Knights , but I know , etc There be many Rorers , that swagger and roar , As though they i th'warre had , been , seven years and more . And yet they ner looked in the face of a Foe : They seem gallant Sparks , but I know , etc There's many both women , and men that appear . Wiih beautiful out sides , the world's eyes to blear : But all is not gold , that does glitter in show , They are fine with a pox , but I know , etc There is many rich Tradesmen who live by deceit , And in weight and measure , the poor they do cheat , They'l not swear and oath , but indeed I and no , They truly protest , but I know , etc There be many people . so given to strife , That they'l go to law , for a two penny knife . The Lawyer ne'r asks them , why they do so , He gets by their Hate , but I know , etc I know there be many , will carp at this Ballad , Because it is like , sour sauce to their Palia But he , she , or they , let me tell ere I go , If they speak against this song , I know what I know . Finis . London Printed for W. Gilbertson , in Gilt-spur-street . Few words are best . Come buy this new Ballad before you do go , If you rail at the Author , I know what I know . To the tune of , I tell you but so . IT is and old saying , that few words are best , And he that sayea little , shall live most at rest , And I by experience , do find it right so , Therefore I'll spare speech , but I know what I know . Yet shall you perceive well , though littele I say , That many enormities , I will display , You may guess my meainug , by that which I show . I will not tell all . but I know , etc There be some great climbers compos'd of ambition . To whom better born m [ e ] n : do bend with submission , Proud Lucifer climbing , was cast very low : I'll not stay these men . but I know , etc There be many Foras , that go on two legs , They steal greater matters . then Cocks , Hens , and Eggs , To catch many Gulls , in sheep's clothing they go : They might be destroy'd . but I know , etc There be many men , that Devotion pretend . And makes us believe , that true fatih they'l defend , Three times in one day , to Church they will go . They cozen the world , but I know . etc , There be many rich men , both Yeoman and Gentry , That for their own private gain hurt a whole Country By clothing free common . yet they'l make as though . It for commons good , but I know , etc There be diverse Papists , that to save their Fine , Come to Church once a month to hear Service Divine , The Pope gives them power , as they say to do so , They save money by'to , but I know , etc There be many upstarts , that spring from the Cart , What got to the Court , play the Gentleman's par Their father's were plain-men , they scorue to be so , They think themselves brave , but I know , etc There be many Officers , men of great place , To whom if one sue , for their favour and grace , He must bribe their servants , while they make as though , They know no such thing , but I know . etc THere be many woman , that seem very pure , A kiss from a stranger , they'l hardly endure : They are like Lucrecia , modest in show ; I will accuse none , but I know what I know . Likewise there be many , dissembling men , That seem to hate Drinking , and Whoring yet when They meet with a Wench , to the Tavern they'l go ; They are civil all day , but I know , etc There be many Bachelors , that so beguile , Believing kind Lasses , use many a wile , They all swear that they love , when they mean nothing so , And boast of these tricks , but I know , etc There's many and Usurer , that like a Drone , Does idly live , upon his moneys lone , From tens unto hundreds , his money does grow : He says he does good , but I know , etc There be many Gallants , that go in gay raiment , For which the Taylor , did ne'r receive payment , They rufle it out , with agorgeous show , Some take them for Knights , but I know , etc There be many Rorers , that swagger and roar , As though they i th'warre had , been , seven years and more . And yet they ner looked in the face of a Foe : They seem gallant Sparks , but I know , etc There's many both women , and men that appear . Wiih beautiful out sides , the world's eyes to blear : But all is not gold , that does glitter in show , They are fine with a pox , but I know , etc There is many rich Tradesmen who live by deceit , And in weight and measure , the poor they do cheat , They'l not swear and oath , but indeed I and no , They truly protest , but I know , etc There be many people . so given to strife , That they'l go to law , for a two penny knife . The Lawyer ne'r asks them , why they do so , He gets by their Hate , but I know , etc I know there be many , will carp at this Ballad , Because it is like , sour sauce to their Palia But he , she , or they , let me tell ere I go , If they speak against this song , I know what I know . Finis . London Printed for W. Gilbertson , in Gilt-spur-street . 