a The Greensickness grief , Or a Maidens moan , Complaining because her Sweetheart was gone . To a pleasant new Tune . COme , come my sweet and bonny one thou hast my heart in hold , Thou mak'st me sighs when I should sing and sweat when I am a cold , Thou makest me weep , When I should sleep , My Bed with tears I fill ; Oh both night and day , I wast away , Wanting my wish at will . Every Bird can choose her Mate , the Ant can do the same . Both Fish and Foul their pleasure take , and follow after Game : While I alone , Poor silly one , My loathed life do spill . O both night , etc Sometime I dream I see my Love , and fold him in my arms , But when I awake I am deceiv'd , which breeds me miclke harm ; Such pains I bear , As able were , A silly soul to kill . O both night , etc Would Jove my Bed stood in the place , where my Truelove does rest , Then would I fold within my arms , the man whom I love best . But he is gone , From me alone , Which now my heart does kill . O both night , etc Though thou art gone from me my Love and bade not me farewell , Yet will I pray for thy return , till thou comest here to dwell . prey God thee keep , From dangers deep , Defend thee from all ill . O both night , etc And so farewell my own true Love , since 'twill no better be , That you and I must needs depart , their is no remedy . I'le pray that thee , Full safe may be Still guarded from all ill . O both night , etc The Ship that my true Love sails in is made of Oaken wood , As good a Ship as ever sail'd upon the Ocean-flood : From Sands and Rocks , And Pirates knocks , Sweet Jove defend him still . O both night and day , I wast away , Wanting my wish at will . The Greensickness grief : Or , The Sailors new coming to his dearest Sweating , Showing what joy they receiv'd at their meeting . MY only dear , for whose sweet sake , I now am home return'd ; Cheer up thy self , and weep no more , thou look'st as thou hadst mourn'd : My going was , Sweetheart alas , To prove thy constant will . And thou my Love , Do constant prove , Therefore I'll love thee still . When I on Neptunes surly waves was tossed too and from , Then I remembered thee my love , which did increase my woe ; That I should go , To hazard so , My love and life to spill . But now I am here , My only Dear , I will stay with thee still . Leander like I would have sworn a Hellespont for thee : Now like Ulisses I will prove , unto his Penelopee . Before I part , From thee sweetheart , Death with his Dart shall kill , And steal my breath , For until death , Thou hast my heart at will . When sable night , the time of sleep , to each eye did appear , Thy absence then struck me so deep , the weight I scarce could bear , And to unbind , My troubled mind , I come Love with good will , To live with thee , Is best for me ; And I will love the still . The cause that might induce me too't was as I then did hear . That thou all comfort did refuse , cause thou hadst lost thy Dear : But now I find , Thee true and kind , To thee I will be still The same for aye , At each assay , I'll keep thee from all ill . Sweet Mate now let us joyfully go unto Church with speed , If thou'lt Leander prove my Love , Hero I'll be to thee ; I do rejoice , To see my choice , Contrary bent to ill ; Sith it is so , Come let us go , Our Marriage to fulfil . FINIS . London , Printed by E.C. for F. Coals . T. Vere . and J. Wright . a The Greensickness grief , Or a Maidens moan , Complaining because her Sweetheart was gone . To a pleasant new Tune . COme , come my sweet and bonny one thou hast my heart in hold , Thou mak'st me sighs when I should sing and sweat when I am a cold , Thou makest me weep , When I should sleep , My Bed with tears I fill ; Oh both night and day , I wast away , Wanting my wish at will . Every Bird can choose her Mate , the Ant can do the same . Both Fish and Foul their pleasure take , and follow after Game : While I alone , Poor silly one , My loathed life do spill . O both night , etc Sometime I dream I see my Love , and fold him in my arms , But when I awake I am deceiv'd , which breeds me miclke harm ; Such pains I bear , As able were , A silly soul to kill . O both night , etc Would Jove my Bed stood in the place , where my Truelove does rest , Then would I fold within my arms , the man whom I love best . But he is gone , From me alone , Which now my heart does kill . O both night , etc Though thou art gone from me my Love and bade not me farewell , Yet will I pray for thy return , till thou comest here to dwell . prey God thee keep , From dangers deep , Defend thee from all ill . O both night , etc And so farewell my own true Love , since 'twill no better be , That you and I must needs depart , their is no remedy . I'le pray that thee , Full safe may be Still guarded from all ill . O both night , etc The Ship that my true Love sails in is made of Oaken wood , As good a Ship as ever sail'd upon the Ocean-flood : From Sands and Rocks , And Pirates knocks , Sweet Jove defend him still . O both night and day , I wast away , Wanting my wish at will . The Greensickness grief : Or , The Sailors new coming to his dearest Sweating , Showing what joy they receiv'd at their meeting . MY only dear , for whose sweet sake , I now am home return'd ; Cheer up thy self , and weep no more , thou look'st as thou hadst mourn'd : My going was , Sweetheart alas , To prove thy constant will . And thou my Love , Do constant prove , Therefore I'll love thee still . When I on Neptunes surly waves was tossed too and from , Then I remembered thee my love , which did increase my woe ; That I should go , To hazard so , My love and life to spill . But now I am here , My only Dear , I will stay with thee still . Leander like I would have sworn a Hellespont for thee : Now like Ulisses I will prove , unto his Penelopee . Before I part , From thee sweetheart , Death with his Dart shall kill , And steal my breath , For until death , Thou hast my heart at will . When sable night , the time of sleep , to each eye did appear , Thy absence then struck me so deep , the weight I scarce could bear , And to unbind , My troubled mind , I come Love with good will , To live with thee , Is best for me ; And I will love the still . The cause that might induce me too't was as I then did hear . That thou all comfort did refuse , cause thou hadst lost thy Dear : But now I find , Thee true and kind , To thee I will be still The same for aye , At each assay , I'll keep thee from all ill . Sweet Mate now let us joyfully go unto Church with speed , If thou'lt Leander prove my Love , Hero I'll be to thee ; I do rejoice , To see my choice , Contrary bent to ill ; Sith it is so , Come let us go , Our Marriage to fulfil . FINIS . London , Printed by E.C. for F. Coals . T. Vere . and J. Wright . a The Greensickness grief , Or a Maidens moan , Complaining because her Sweetheart was gone . To a pleasant new Tune . COme , come my sweet and bonny one thou hast my heart in hold , Thou mak'st me sighs when I should sing and sweat when I am a cold , Thou makest me weep , When I should sleep , My Bed with tears I fill ; Oh both night and day , I wast away , Wanting my wish at will . Every Bird can choose her Mate , the Ant can do the same . Both Fish and Foul their pleasure take , and follow after Game : While I alone , Poor silly one , My loathed life do spill . O both night , etc Sometime I dream I see my Love , and fold him in my arms , But when I awake I am deceiv'd , which breeds me miclke harm ; Such pains I bear , As able were , A silly soul to kill . O both night , etc Would Jove my Bed stood in the place , where my Truelove does rest , Then would I fold within my arms , the man whom I love best . But he is gone , From me alone , Which now my heart does kill . O both night , etc Though thou art gone from me my Love and bade not me farewell , Yet will I pray for thy return , till thou comest here to dwell . prey God thee keep , From dangers deep , Defend thee from all ill . O both night , etc And so farewell my own true Love , since 'twill no better be , That you and I must needs depart , their is no remedy . I'le pray that thee , Full safe may be Still guarded from all ill . O both night , etc The Ship that my true Love sails in is made of Oaken wood , As good a Ship as ever sail'd upon the Ocean-flood : From Sands and Rocks , And Pirates knocks , Sweet Jove defend him still . O both night and day , I wast away , Wanting my wish at will . The Greensickness grief : Or , The Sailors new coming to his dearest Sweating , Showing what joy they receiv'd at their meeting . MY only dear , for whose sweet sake , I now am home return'd ; Cheer up thy self , and weep no more , thou look'st as thou hadst mourn'd : My going was , Sweetheart alas , To prove thy constant will . And thou my Love , Do constant prove , Therefore I'll love thee still . When I on Neptunes surly waves was tossed too and from , Then I remembered thee my love , which did increase my woe ; That I should go , To hazard so , My love and life to spill . But now I am here , My only Dear , I will stay with thee still . Leander like I would have sworn a Hellespont for thee : Now like Ulisses I will prove , unto his Penelopee . Before I part , From thee sweetheart , Death with his Dart shall kill , And steal my breath , For until death , Thou hast my heart at will . When sable night , the time of sleep , to each eye did appear , Thy absence then struck me so deep , the weight I scarce could bear , And to unbind , My troubled mind , I come Love with good will , To live with thee , Is best for me ; And I will love the still . The cause that might induce me too't was as I then did hear . That thou all comfort did refuse , cause thou hadst lost thy Dear : But now I find , Thee true and kind , To thee I will be still The same for aye , At each assay , I'll keep thee from all ill . Sweet Mate now let us joyfully go unto Church with speed , If thou'lt Leander prove my Love , Hero I'll be to thee ; I do rejoice , To see my choice , Contrary bent to ill ; Sith it is so , Come let us go , Our Marriage to fulfil . FINIS . London , Printed by E.C. for F. Coals . T. Vere . and J. Wright . a The Greensickness grief , Or a Maidens moan , Complaining because her Sweetheart was gone . To a pleasant new Tune . COme , come my sweet and bonny one thou hast my heart in hold , Thou mak'st me sighs when I should sing and sweat when I am a cold , Thou makest me weep , When I should sleep , My Bed with tears I fill ; Oh both night and day , I wast away , Wanting my wish at will . Every Bird can choose her Mate , the Ant can do the same . Both Fish and Foul their pleasure take , and follow after Game : While I alone , Poor silly one , My loathed life do spill . O both night , etc Sometime I dream I see my Love , and fold him in my arms , But when I awake I am deceiv'd , which breeds me miclke harm ; Such pains I bear , As able were , A silly soul to kill . O both night , etc Would Jove my Bed stood in the place , where my Truelove does rest , Then would I fold within my arms , the man whom I love best . But he is gone , From me alone , Which now my heart does kill . O both night , etc Though thou art gone from me my Love and bade not me farewell , Yet will I pray for thy return , till thou comest here to dwell . prey God thee keep , From dangers deep , Defend thee from all ill . O both night , etc And so farewell my own true Love , since 'twill no better be , That you and I must needs depart , their is no remedy . I'le pray that thee , Full safe may be Still guarded from all ill . O both night , etc The Ship that my true Love sails in is made of Oaken wood , As good a Ship as ever sail'd upon the Ocean-flood : From Sands and Rocks , And Pirates knocks , Sweet Jove defend him still . O both night and day , I wast away , Wanting my wish at will . The Greensickness grief : Or , The Sailors new coming to his dearest Sweating , Showing what joy they receiv'd at their meeting . MY only dear , for whose sweet sake , I now am home return'd ; Cheer up thy self , and weep no more , thou look'st as thou hadst mourn'd : My going was , Sweetheart alas , To prove thy constant will . And thou my Love , Do constant prove , Therefore I'll love thee still . When I on Neptunes surly waves was tossed too and from , Then I remembered thee my love , which did increase my woe ; That I should go , To hazard so , My love and life to spill . But now I am here , My only Dear , I will stay with thee still . Leander like I would have sworn a Hellespont for thee : Now like Ulisses I will prove , unto his Penelopee . Before I part , From thee sweetheart , Death with his Dart shall kill , And steal my breath , For until death , Thou hast my heart at will . When sable night , the time of sleep , to each eye did appear , Thy absence then struck me so deep , the weight I scarce could bear , And to unbind , My troubled mind , I come Love with good will , To live with thee , Is best for me ; And I will love the still . The cause that might induce me too't was as I then did hear . That thou all comfort did refuse , cause thou hadst lost thy Dear : But now I find , Thee true and kind , To thee I will be still The same for aye , At each assay , I'll keep thee from all ill . Sweet Mate now let us joyfully go unto Church with speed , If thou'lt Leander prove my Love , Hero I'll be to thee ; I do rejoice , To see my choice , Contrary bent to ill ; Sith it is so , Come let us go , Our Marriage to fulfil . FINIS . London , Printed by E.C. for F. Coals . T. Vere . and J. Wright . 