Good News for England : OR , The Peoples Triumph . Then let's be joyful , and in heart content , To see our King united with the Parliament . Long live CHARLES the Second . To the Tune of , Bodkins Galliard . DArk clouds and storms did hide the glorious sun With Planets evil 'twas eclipsed round ; But now the light to us again is come , King Charles the second glorious shall be Crown'd : Then praise his name that did such comfort bring , Let's do the same , and welcome home our King . Welcome sweet Charles , thrice welcome to thy own , Though Fortune base upon thy Grace did frown , We thy poor Subject's uttered many a groan In City , Country , and in every Town : But now he's come , let's all rejoice and sing , Thrice welcome home to Charles our Royal King . Full many a year this Nation hath been sad , For want of trading thousands were undone , But now rejoice , and in your hearts be glad , Good tidings to our Land again is come : Bonfires blaz'd , the Bells' abroad did ring , To bid welcome home to Charles our Royal King . All sorts of Tradesmen as I understand , They now are glad that late were grieved soar ; Such gallant tidings is so near at hand , Our King is safely arrived on our Shore : Fair London City with acclamations ring , To welcome home the second Charles our King . The second Part , to the same Tune . THe Royalists they have sequestered been , And banished were beyond the Seas a space ; But now in England they'l again be seen , Accompanying of his Royal Grace : Their Lands they shall again with speed enjoy , Which makes them cry aloud , Vive le Roy . Brave General Monck the Lord preserve and bless , For he hath brought unto this Land content ; And in his actions grant him good success , For uniting of our King and Parliament All people now have cause to rejoice and sing , And bid welcome home to Charles our Royal King . The Aldermen in gallant pomp did ride With their golden Chains to meet his royal Grace ; The Common Council , and every man beside , Their hearts did leap to see his sacred face : The Cannons from the Tower did bravely ring , To welcome home the second Charles our King . The Royal Seamens heart are fill'd with joy , With Flags and Streamers piercing to the Sky ; They to his Grace will be a safe Convoy , Long live his Majesty is all their cry : Their thundering Guns will make the Echoes ring , To welcome home the second Charles our King . The Irish they in Usquebath does sing , And makes a Bog within their jovial brain , With drinking healths unto our noble King ; Such joyful news with comfort to obtain : The Scots for joy their Bonnets up does fling , With heart & voice bids welcome home their King . The Dutch are joyful , and the Welch more glad , To see at length such happy tidings come ; They now are merry that before were sad , To meet his Royal Grace does thousands run : Whose sighed is sweet , then let's rejoice and sing With voices meek , bid welcome home our King . Come Dick , come Tom , come Hmphrey , Ralph , & Ned , Leave off the Plough , hang working for a week ; Come Margery , Nancy , Eedy , and sweet Peg , Bring forth your Garlands decked with flowers sweet As Birds rejoice to usher in the Spring , With melodious voice bid welcome home our King . Thus to conclude the ending of my Song , I for King Charles most heartily will pray ; God bless the Dukes , and all to them belong , And keep them safe until their dying day : If any here be offended at my Song , I wish with all my heart they had ne're a tongue . FINIS , A. Starkey . London , Printed for M. Wright , at the Kings Head in the Old Bailey , Good News for England : OR , The Peoples Triumph . Then let's be joyful , and in heart content , To see our King united with the Parliament . Long live CHARLES the Second . To the Tune of , Bodkins Galliard . DArk clouds and storms did hide the glorious sun With Planets evil 'twas eclipsed round ; But now the light to us again is come , King Charles the second glorious shall be Crown'd : Then praise his name that did such comfort bring , Let's do the same , and welcome home our King . Welcome sweet Charles , thrice welcome to thy own , Though Fortune base upon thy Grace did frown , We thy poor Subject's uttered many a groan In City , Country , and in every Town : But now he's come , let's all rejoice and sing , Thrice welcome home to Charles our Royal King . Full many a year this Nation hath been sad , For want of trading thousands were undone , But now rejoice , and in your hearts be glad , Good tidings to our Land again is come : Bonfires blaz'd , the Bells' abroad did ring , To bid welcome home to Charles our Royal King . All sorts of Tradesmen as I understand , They now are glad that late were grieved soar ; Such gallant tidings is so near at hand , Our King is safely arrived on our Shore : Fair London City with acclamations ring , To welcome home the second Charles our King . The second Part , to the same Tune . THe Royalists they have sequestered been , And banished were beyond the Seas a space ; But now in England they'l again be seen , Accompanying of his Royal Grace : Their Lands they shall again with speed enjoy , Which makes them cry aloud , Vive le Roy . Brave General Monck the Lord preserve and bless , For he hath brought unto this Land content ; And in his actions grant him good success , For uniting of our King and Parliament All people now have cause to rejoice and sing , And bid welcome home to Charles our Royal King . The Aldermen in gallant pomp did ride With their golden Chains to meet his royal Grace ; The Common Council , and every man beside , Their hearts did leap to see his sacred face : The Cannons from the Tower did bravely ring , To welcome home the second Charles our King . The Royal Seamens heart are fill'd with joy , With Flags and Streamers piercing to the Sky ; They to his Grace will be a safe Convoy , Long live his Majesty is all their cry : Their thundering Guns will make the Echoes ring , To welcome home the second Charles our King . The Irish they in Usquebath does sing , And makes a Bog within their jovial brain , With drinking healths unto our noble King ; Such joyful news with comfort to obtain : The Scots for joy their Bonnets up does fling , With heart & voice bids welcome home their King . The Dutch are joyful , and the Welch more glad , To see at length such happy tidings come ; They now are merry that before were sad , To meet his Royal Grace does thousands run : Whose sighed is sweet , then let's rejoice and sing With voices meek , bid welcome home our King . Come Dick , come Tom , come Hmphrey , Ralph , & Ned , Leave off the Plough , hang working for a week ; Come Margery , Nancy , Eedy , and sweet Peg , Bring forth your Garlands decked with flowers sweet As Birds rejoice to usher in the Spring , With melodious voice bid welcome home our King . Thus to conclude the ending of my Song , I for King Charles most heartily will pray ; God bless the Dukes , and all to them belong , And keep them safe until their dying day : If any here be offended at my Song , I wish with all my heart they had ne're a tongue . FINIS , A. Starkey . London , Printed for M. Wright , at the Kings Head in the Old Bailey , 