God speed the Blow , and bless the Corn-mow . OR , A new merry Dialogue between a Plowman and a Servingman . The Servingman most stoutly does dispute . The Husbandman his speeches does confute The Servingman says his Calling is the best , The Plowman says in that he does but jest , But in conclusion as I do understand The Husbandman he god the better hand . The tune is , The Duke of Norfolk . MY noble friends give ear , If mirth you love to hear , I'll tell you as fast as I can A story very true , Then mark what does ensue , concerning of a husbandman , servingman . A Servingman did meet A Husbandman t'th street , and thus unto him he began I pray you tell to me Of what calling you be or if you be a servingman . Husbandman . Quoth he my brother dear The Coast I mean to clear , and the truth you shall understand I not not one disdain , But this I tell you plain , I am a Husbandman . Servingman . If a Husbandman you be , Then come along with me and I'll help you as soon as I can Unto a gallant place Where in a little space , you may be a Servingman . Husbandman . SIr for your diligence I give you many thanks then answered the plowman again I pray you to me show Whereby that I may know what pleasure hath a Servingman Servingman . A Servingman hath pleasure Which passes time and measure when thee Hawk on him [ s ] fist does stan His Hood and Uarvils brave And other things he have , which yields joy to a servingman Husbandman . My pleasure's more then that , To see my Oxen fat and to prosper well under my hand And therefore I do mean With my Horses and my Team to keep myself a Husbandman . Servingman . O 'tis a gallant thing In the prime time of the Spring to hear the Huntsman now & than His Bugle Horn to blow And the Hounds run all arrow that is pleasure for a servingman . Servingman . To hear the Beagle cry And to see the Falcon fly and the Hare trip over the plain W [ h ] isle the huntsman and the hound Make Hills and Dales rebound . that is pleasure for a servingman . Husbandman . 'Tis pleasenter you know To see the Corn to grow . and to grow so well on the Land , The plowing and the sowing , The reaping and the mowing yields pleasure to the husbandman Servingman . At our Table you may eat All sor [ tO ] s of dainty meat , big Cony , Goose , Capon & Swan And with Lords and Ladies fine You may drink Beer , Ale and Wine that is pleasure for a servingman . Husbandman . While you eat Goose and Capon I'll feed on Beef and Bacon , & piece of hard cheese now & than , We Pudding have and Souse Always ready in the house which contents the honest husbandman servingman , At the Court you may have Your Garments fine and brave and Cloak and gold lace laid upon A shirt as white as milk , And wrought with finest silk thats pleasure for a servingman . Husbandman . Such proud and costly Gear , Is not for us to wear , amongst thee briers & thee brambles many one A good strong Russet Coat And at your need a groat will suffice the honest husbandman Husbandman . A Proverb here I tell Which likes my humour well and remember it well I can If a Courtier be too bold He may want when he is old then farewell the servingman . Servingman . It needs must be confessed That your Calling is the best I no longer discourse with you I can And henceforth I will pray By night and by day , heaven bles the honest husbandman Servingman . To end my Ditty now I say God speed the blow for thats the chief stay of our land And he that takes the pains Deserves to have the gains which is the honest husbandman , And thus my loving friends My Story now it ends , according as I first began . There's none that passes by Can say my Song's a lie , concerning of the Husbandman . Printed for W. Gilbertson at the sign of the Bible in Gilt-spur-street . God speed the Blow , and bless the Corn-mow . OR , A new merry Dialogue between a Plowman and a Servingman . The Servingman most stoutly does dispute . The Husbandman his speeches does confute The Servingman says his Calling is the best , The Plowman says in that he does but jest , But in conclusion as I do understand The Husbandman he god the better hand . The tune is , The Duke of Norfolk . MY noble friends give ear , If mirth you love to hear , I'll tell you as fast as I can A story very true , Then mark what does ensue , concerning of a husbandman , servingman . A Servingman did meet A Husbandman t'th street , and thus unto him he began I pray you tell to me Of what calling you be or if you be a servingman . Husbandman . Quoth he my brother dear The Coast I mean to clear , and the truth you shall understand I not not one disdain , But this I tell you plain , I am a Husbandman . Servingman . If a Husbandman you be , Then come along with me and I'll help you as soon as I can Unto a gallant place Where in a little space , you may be a Servingman . Husbandman . SIr for your diligence I give you many thanks then answered the plowman again I pray you to me show Whereby that I may know what pleasure hath a Servingman Servingman . A Servingman hath pleasure Which passes time and measure when thee Hawk on him [ s ] fist does stan His Hood and Uarvils brave And other things he have , which yields joy to a servingman Husbandman . My pleasure's more then that , To see my Oxen fat and to prosper well under my hand And therefore I do mean With my Horses and my Team to keep myself a Husbandman . Servingman . O 'tis a gallant thing In the prime time of the Spring to hear the Huntsman now & than His Bugle Horn to blow And the Hounds run all arrow that is pleasure for a servingman . Servingman . To hear the Beagle cry And to see the Falcon fly and the Hare trip over the plain W [ h ] isle the huntsman and the hound Make Hills and Dales rebound . that is pleasure for a servingman . Husbandman . 'Tis pleasenter you know To see the Corn to grow . and to grow so well on the Land , The plowing and the sowing , The reaping and the mowing yields pleasure to the husbandman Servingman . At our Table you may eat All sor [ tO ] s of dainty meat , big Cony , Goose , Capon & Swan And with Lords and Ladies fine You may drink Beer , Ale and Wine that is pleasure for a servingman . Husbandman . While you eat Goose and Capon I'll feed on Beef and Bacon , & piece of hard cheese now & than , We Pudding have and Souse Always ready in the house which contents the honest husbandman servingman , At the Court you may have Your Garments fine and brave and Cloak and gold lace laid upon A shirt as white as milk , And wrought with finest silk thats pleasure for a servingman . Husbandman . Such proud and costly Gear , Is not for us to wear , amongst thee briers & thee brambles many one A good strong Russet Coat And at your need a groat will suffice the honest husbandman Husbandman . A Proverb here I tell Which likes my humour well and remember it well I can If a Courtier be too bold He may want when he is old then farewell the servingman . Servingman . It needs must be confessed That your Calling is the best I no longer discourse with you I can And henceforth I will pray By night and by day , heaven bles the honest husbandman Servingman . To end my Ditty now I say God speed the blow for thats the chief stay of our land And he that takes the pains Deserves to have the gains which is the honest husbandman , And thus my loving friends My Story now it ends , according as I first began . There's none that passes by Can say my Song's a lie , concerning of the Husbandman . Printed for W. Gilbertson at the sign of the Bible in Gilt-spur-street . 