Gallant News of late I bring , Tidings of choosing now a King , Whereby true Subject's may rejoice In choosing them so sweet a choice That love and peace may so agree , To end the days of misery , To the Tune of , Royal News , Royal News . THe Prince he will come soon , gallant news , gallant news , To enjoy his Crown With glory and renown , gallant news , If they can agree In love and unity , Then we all shall see And end of misery , gallant news , gallant news . The Army does consent gallant news , etc With a Free Parliament All dangers to prevent , gallant news , To join with heart and hand For the good of England The Gospel to defend , God send that happy end gallant news , etc Then let us all rejoice gallant news , etc Since they have made a choice , With heart and eke with voice , gallant news , In doing of that thing Which will us comfort bring In choosing of a King , We will rejoice and sing gallant news , etc Then trading will be rife , gallant news , gallant news , And we shall have no strife But led a quiet life , gallant news , We shall not be so seast , For to be so oppressed , But we shall live at rest , The times will be at best , gallant news , gallant news . The second Part to the same Tune . THe poor that lives in want gallant news , gallant news , They will know no scant England such good will plant , gallant news , Charity will prove so great To feed the needy with meat When Charls is on his seat As King and Ruler meet , gallant news , gallant news . And love will flourish so gallant news , etc That we shall know no woe Between our friend and foe , gallant news , Then England may say , It was a happy day , That Charls may bear the sway , Wherein such comfort lay , gallant news , etc The Gentry hath been sad , but gallant news , etc Which will make them glad , Such comfort's to be had , gallant news , When neither sess nor lay For them at all to pay , At home they may stay , They need to fear no fray , gallant news , etc Then may the Plowman blow , gallant news , etc And after he may sow , To pay where he does owe , gallant news , And then he need not fear No dangers to come near , But to love his Dear , And drink good ale and bear , gallant news , etc As formerly were done , gallant news , gallant news , Before these wars begun Till the rising of the Sun , gallant news , By him we soon shall see And end of misery , If once we do agree In love and unity , gallant news , gallant news . London , Printed for Francis Grove on Snow-hill . Entered according to Order . FINIS Gallant News of late I bring , Tidings of choosing now a King , Whereby true Subject's may rejoice In choosing them so sweet a choice That love and peace may so agree , To end the days of misery , To the Tune of , Royal News , Royal News . THe Prince he will come soon , gallant news , gallant news , To enjoy his Crown With glory and renown , gallant news , If they can agree In love and unity , Then we all shall see And end of misery , gallant news , gallant news . The Army does consent gallant news , etc With a Free Parliament All dangers to prevent , gallant news , To join with heart and hand For the good of England The Gospel to defend , God send that happy end gallant news , etc Then let us all rejoice gallant news , etc Since they have made a choice , With heart and eke with voice , gallant news , In doing of that thing Which will us comfort bring In choosing of a King , We will rejoice and sing gallant news , etc Then trading will be rife , gallant news , gallant news , And we shall have no strife But led a quiet life , gallant news , We shall not be so seast , For to be so oppressed , But we shall live at rest , The times will be at best , gallant news , gallant news . The second Part to the same Tune . THe poor that lives in want gallant news , gallant news , They will know no scant England such good will plant , gallant news , Charity will prove so great To feed the needy with meat When Charls is on his seat As King and Ruler meet , gallant news , gallant news . And love will flourish so gallant news , etc That we shall know no woe Between our friend and foe , gallant news , Then England may say , It was a happy day , That Charls may bear the sway , Wherein such comfort lay , gallant news , etc The Gentry hath been sad , but gallant news , etc Which will make them glad , Such comfort's to be had , gallant news , When neither sess nor lay For them at all to pay , At home they may stay , They need to fear no fray , gallant news , etc Then may the Plowman blow , gallant news , etc And after he may sow , To pay where he does owe , gallant news , And then he need not fear No dangers to come near , But to love his Dear , And drink good ale and bear , gallant news , etc As formerly were done , gallant news , gallant news , Before these wars begun Till the rising of the Sun , gallant news , By him we soon shall see And end of misery , If once we do agree In love and unity , gallant news , gallant news . London , Printed for Francis Grove on Snow-hill . Entered according to Order . FINIS 