The Honour of and Apprentice of LONDON . Wherein is declared his matchless Manhood , and brave Adventures done by him in Turky , and by what means he married the Kings Daughter of that same Country . The tune is , All you that are good Fellows . OF a worthy London Prentice my purpose is to speak , And tell his brave Adventures done for his Countries sake , Seek all the world about and you shall hardly find A man in Valour to exceed a Prentice gallant mind . He was born in Cheshire , the chief of men was he , From thence brought up to London a Prentice for to be , A Merchant on the Bridge did like his service so , [ That ] for three years his Factor [ to Turkey he ] should go . [ And in that famous Country one year he had not been , Ere he by Tilt maintained the honour of his Queen Elizabeth our Princess he nobly there made known To be the Phoenix of the world and none but she alone ] In Armour richly gilded , well mounted on a Steed , One score of Knights most hardy one day he made to bleed , And brought them all to ground , who proudly did deny Elizabeth to be the Pearl of Princely Majesty . The King of that same Country thereat began to frown , And wil'd his Son there present to pull this youngster down . Who at his Father's words these boating speeches said , Thou at his Father's words these boasting speeches said , Thou art a Traitor English Boy and hast the Traitor played . I am no Boy nor Traitor , thy speeches I defy , Which here will be revenged upon thee by and by : A London Prentice still shall prove as good amam , As any of your Turkish Knights , do all the best you can . The Second Part , To the same Tune . ANd therewithal he gave him a box upon the ear , Which broke his neck asunder as plainly does appear . Now know proud Turk , quoth he , I am no English Boy , That can with one small box o'th ear , the Prince of Turks destroy . When as the King perceived his Son so strangely slave , His soul was soar afflicted with more than mortal pain : And in revenge thereof he swore that he should die The cruel'st death that ever man beheld with mortal eye . Two Lions were prepared this Prentice to devour , Near famished up with hunger ten days within a tower , To make them far more fierce , and eager of their prey , To glut themselves with humane gore , upon this dreadful day . The appointed time of torment , at length grew near at hand , Where all the Noble Ladies and Barons of the Land Attended on the King to see this Prentice slave , And buried in the hungry maws of these two Lions twain . Then in his shirt of Cambrick , with silk most richly wrought , This worthy London Prentice was from the Prison brought , And to the Lions given , to staunch their hunger great , Which had [ n ] ot eat in ten days space , not one small bit of meat . But God that knows all secrets , the matter so contriv'd , That by this young men Valour , they were of life depriv'd , For being faint for food , they scarcely could withstand , The Noble Force and Fortitude , and Courage of his hand . For when the hungry Lions had cast on him their eyes , The Elemenss did thunder with Echo of their cries . And running all amain , his body to devour , Into their throats he thrust his arms with all his might and power . From thence by manly valour their hearts he tore in sunder , And at the King he threw them , to all the peoples wonder . This I have done , quoth he , for lovely Englands sake , And for my Country Maiden Queen much more will undertake . But when the King perceived his wrathful Lions hearts , Afflicted with great terror , his Rigor soon reverts , And turned all his hate into remorse and love , And said it was some Angel sent down from Heaven above . No no I am no Angel , the courteous young man said , But born in famous England , where Gods Word is obey'd , Assisted by the Heavens which did me thus befriend , Or else they had most cruelly brought here my life to end , The King in heart amazed , lift up his hands to Heaven , And for his soul offences did crave to be forgiven : Believing that no Land like England might be seen , No people better governed , by virtue of a Queen . So taking up this young man , he pardoned him his life , And gave his Daughter to him to be his wedded Wife , Where then they did remain , and live in quiet peace , In spending forth their happy days in joy and loves increase . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , W. Gilbertson , and I . Wright The Honour of and Apprentice of LONDON . Wherein is declared his matchless Manhood , and brave Adventures done by him in Turky , and by what means he married the Kings Daughter of that same Country . The tune is , All you that are good Fellows . OF a worthy London Prentice my purpose is to speak , And tell his brave Adventures done for his Countries sake , Seek all the world about and you shall hardly find A man in Valour to exceed a Prentice gallant mind . He was born in Cheshire , the chief of men was he , From thence brought up to London a Prentice for to be , A Merchant on the Bridge did like his service so , [ That ] for three years his Factor [ to Turkey he ] should go . [ And in that famous Country one year he had not been , Ere he by Tilt maintained the honour of his Queen Elizabeth our Princess he nobly there made known To be the Phoenix of the world and none but she alone ] In Armour richly gilded , well mounted on a Steed , One score of Knights most hardy one day he made to bleed , And brought them all to ground , who proudly did deny Elizabeth to be the Pearl of Princely Majesty . The King of that same Country thereat began to frown , And wil'd his Son there present to pull this youngster down . Who at his Father's words these boating speeches said , Thou at his Father's words these boasting speeches said , Thou art a Traitor English Boy and hast the Traitor played . I am no Boy nor Traitor , thy speeches I defy , Which here will be revenged upon thee by and by : A London Prentice still shall prove as good amam , As any of your Turkish Knights , do all the best you can . The Second Part , To the same Tune . ANd therewithal he gave him a box upon the ear , Which broke his neck asunder as plainly does appear . Now know proud Turk , quoth he , I am no English Boy , That can with one small box o'th ear , the Prince of Turks destroy . When as the King perceived his Son so strangely slave , His soul was soar afflicted with more than mortal pain : And in revenge thereof he swore that he should die The cruel'st death that ever man beheld with mortal eye . Two Lions were prepared this Prentice to devour , Near famished up with hunger ten days within a tower , To make them far more fierce , and eager of their prey , To glut themselves with humane gore , upon this dreadful day . The appointed time of torment , at length grew near at hand , Where all the Noble Ladies and Barons of the Land Attended on the King to see this Prentice slave , And buried in the hungry maws of these two Lions twain . Then in his shirt of Cambrick , with silk most richly wrought , This worthy London Prentice was from the Prison brought , And to the Lions given , to staunch their hunger great , Which had [ n ] ot eat in ten days space , not one small bit of meat . But God that knows all secrets , the matter so contriv'd , That by this young men Valour , they were of life depriv'd , For being faint for food , they scarcely could withstand , The Noble Force and Fortitude , and Courage of his hand . For when the hungry Lions had cast on him their eyes , The Elemenss did thunder with Echo of their cries . And running all amain , his body to devour , Into their throats he thrust his arms with all his might and power . From thence by manly valour their hearts he tore in sunder , And at the King he threw them , to all the peoples wonder . This I have done , quoth he , for lovely Englands sake , And for my Country Maiden Queen much more will undertake . But when the King perceived his wrathful Lions hearts , Afflicted with great terror , his Rigor soon reverts , And turned all his hate into remorse and love , And said it was some Angel sent down from Heaven above . No no I am no Angel , the courteous young man said , But born in famous England , where Gods Word is obey'd , Assisted by the Heavens which did me thus befriend , Or else they had most cruelly brought here my life to end , The King in heart amazed , lift up his hands to Heaven , And for his soul offences did crave to be forgiven : Believing that no Land like England might be seen , No people better governed , by virtue of a Queen . So taking up this young man , he pardoned him his life , And gave his Daughter to him to be his wedded Wife , Where then they did remain , and live in quiet peace , In spending forth their happy days in joy and loves increase . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , W. Gilbertson , and I . Wright 