Here is some comfort for Poor Cavaleeres : OR , The Duke of Yorks Speech to the Parliament of England , concerning his Fa - the old Soldiers ; also , a brief Relation of the forty five sail of Ships that have crossed the Ocean with a numerous company of English Gallants ; Prince Robert does represent the Kings Royal person in Portugal . They'l fetch a Queen with store of Indian Treasure Will make old Cavies laugh beyond all measure . To a pleasant tune called Monks March , or , Maids will say nay and take it . OLd Cavaliers prick up your ears That have been Loyal hearted , unto the King in every thing And never from him started ; though many a year it does appear By Rebels you were slighted , but at the last when sorrow's passed You now shall be requited , You that did fight , for Charls his Right , against the new inventions , The Parliament does give consent That you shall all have Pensions . The Duke of York that valiant spark These words rehearsed rather , why should not they receive some pay That ever lov'd my Father ? as well as those that were his foes , And sought the lands confusion : a cursed thing they brought their King Unto his dissolution : You that did fight for Charls his Right , against the new inventions ; the Parliament does give consent That you shall all have Pensions . The second part to the same Tune : YOur wounds and scars in Charles his Wars They shall not be forgotten , although he's dead , and buried And's Royal bones are rotten , yet now his Heir sits in the Chair Of Judgement Right and Reason , his Father's friends hee'l make a mends And punish knaves for Treason . You that did fight , etc Such news I hear you need not fear Will make you blithe and jolly 'twill make you laugh and merrily quaff To drink away melancholy , contented be until you see Our Royal King is Married ; you shall be pai'd be not afraid Though you long time have tarried , You that did fight , etc A famous Fleet , with men discreet , To Portugal is Sailing , to fetch our Queen which will be seen With happiness prevailing : her virtues are , beyond compare If truth may be believed , then Cavies all both great and small Rejoice and not be grieved . You that did fight , etc On Mid-summer-day they Launched away To fetch that Royal pattern , Prince Robert he the man must be That must salute Queen Kathern : in Armour bright a braver sighed Ne're seen in any Nation , a sword between him and the Queen That is all Europe's fashion , You all that did fight , etc Both Lords and Knights for their delights , Did make such preparation , to cross the Seas , their minds to please , to see Queen Katherine's Nation . a braver show for truth I know In Europe can't be raised , for solid men I say again Th'ar' worthy to be praised . You that did fight , etc At their return bonfires will burn And English Bells' be ringing . true Loyal hearts , throughout all parts For joy will then be singing , oth' marriage day , wee'l dance and play , In spite of Quakers yauling , if Vivat Rex their spirits vex , wee'l thump them for their bawling , You that did fight , etc Our King God bless , with happiness , And every one that loves him , will firmly stand , at his command , As it does right behove them , the Clergy men , with Tongue and Pen , Confute will every wigeon , in spite of Spain they will maintain True Protestant Religion , You that did fight for Charls his right against these new inven [ tO ] ions , the Parliament does give consent That you shall all have Pensions . T.I. London , printed for F. Grove on Snow-hill . Entered according to order Finis . Here is some comfort for Poor Cavaleeres : OR , The Duke of Yorks Speech to the Parliament of England , concerning his Fa - the old Soldiers ; also , a brief Relation of the forty five sail of Ships that have crossed the Ocean with a numerous company of English Gallants ; Prince Robert does represent the Kings Royal person in Portugal . They'l fetch a Queen with store of Indian Treasure Will make old Cavies laugh beyond all measure . To a pleasant tune called Monks March , or , Maids will say nay and take it . OLd Cavaliers prick up your ears That have been Loyal hearted , unto the King in every thing And never from him started ; though many a year it does appear By Rebels you were slighted , but at the last when sorrow's passed You now shall be requited , You that did fight , for Charls his Right , against the new inventions , The Parliament does give consent That you shall all have Pensions . The Duke of York that valiant spark These words rehearsed rather , why should not they receive some pay That ever lov'd my Father ? as well as those that were his foes , And sought the lands confusion : a cursed thing they brought their King Unto his dissolution : You that did fight for Charls his Right , against the new inventions ; the Parliament does give consent That you shall all have Pensions . The second part to the same Tune : YOur wounds and scars in Charles his Wars They shall not be forgotten , although he's dead , and buried And's Royal bones are rotten , yet now his Heir sits in the Chair Of Judgement Right and Reason , his Father's friends hee'l make a mends And punish knaves for Treason . You that did fight , etc Such news I hear you need not fear Will make you blithe and jolly 'twill make you laugh and merrily quaff To drink away melancholy , contented be until you see Our Royal King is Married ; you shall be pai'd be not afraid Though you long time have tarried , You that did fight , etc A famous Fleet , with men discreet , To Portugal is Sailing , to fetch our Queen which will be seen With happiness prevailing : her virtues are , beyond compare If truth may be believed , then Cavies all both great and small Rejoice and not be grieved . You that did fight , etc On Mid-summer-day they Launched away To fetch that Royal pattern , Prince Robert he the man must be That must salute Queen Kathern : in Armour bright a braver sighed Ne're seen in any Nation , a sword between him and the Queen That is all Europe's fashion , You all that did fight , etc Both Lords and Knights for their delights , Did make such preparation , to cross the Seas , their minds to please , to see Queen Katherine's Nation . a braver show for truth I know In Europe can't be raised , for solid men I say again Th'ar' worthy to be praised . You that did fight , etc At their return bonfires will burn And English Bells' be ringing . true Loyal hearts , throughout all parts For joy will then be singing , oth' marriage day , wee'l dance and play , In spite of Quakers yauling , if Vivat Rex their spirits vex , wee'l thump them for their bawling , You that did fight , etc Our King God bless , with happiness , And every one that loves him , will firmly stand , at his command , As it does right behove them , the Clergy men , with Tongue and Pen , Confute will every wigeon , in spite of Spain they will maintain True Protestant Religion , You that did fight for Charls his right against these new inven [ tO ] ions , the Parliament does give consent That you shall all have Pensions . T.I. London , printed for F. Grove on Snow-hill . Entered according to order Finis . 