The Good Fellows Consideration . OR The bad Husbands Amendment . Here in this Ballad you may see , What 'tis a bad Husband to be , For drunkenness most commonly Brings many unto poverty . And when a man is mean and bore , Friends will be scarce both far and near , Then in your youth keep money in store , Lest in old age you do grow poor . To the Tune of , Heigh boys up go we , etc Lately written by Thomas Lanfiere , Of Watchat town in Sommerset shire . GOOD Fellows all come lend and ear , and listen to my song , To you in brief I will declare how I have done my , self much wrong By spending of my money too free , it brought me low and poor , But now a good Husband I will be , and keep my money in store . It is well known the fuddling-school I have haunted many year ; I wasted my money like a fool both in Wine and strong Beer : With my Companions day and night I'de both drink , sing , and roar , But now bad company I'le slight , and keep my money in store . In the morning sometime to and Alehouse I'de high , and tarry there all day , Perhaps a crown or and angel I at one reckoning would pay : My pocket of money I'de empty make , e're that I would give over , But now such actions I'le forsake , and keep my money in store . My hostess she would smile in my face when I did merrily call , For why , she knew I would not be base , but freely pay for all : Before the Flagon was quite out she'd be ready to fill more , But now I mean to look about , and keep my money in store . The Second Part , to the same Tune . Sometime she in a merry vein would fit upon my knee , And give me kisses one or twain , and all to sweeten me , She'd vow I was welcome indeed , and should be evermore , But now I mean for to take heed , and keep my money in store . Thus I frequented the Ale bench so long as my money would hold ; While my Wife & Children at home did pinch with hunger and with cold ; So I had my guts full of Ale and Beer , I looked after nothing more , But now I mean to have a care , and keep my money in store , My wife would often me persuade and mildly to me say , Good loving husband follow your trade , and go not so astray : But with foul words I [ ' ] de her abuse , and call her bitch and whore , But now her counsel I will choose , and keep my money in store . At last through my lewd wicked vice I had consumed all , By drunkenness , with Cards and Dice my stock it was brought small : By keeping of bad company I was grown mean and poor , But now I'le leave bad husbandry , and keep my money in store . To my hostess one time I did repair , and desired one courtesy , To trust me for half a dozen of beer , but she did me deny : She told me she had made a vow to draw no drink on score , But I am fully resolved now to keep my money in store . Quod she , the Maltman his money must have [ e ] also I must pay excise , If I should trust every drunken knave where will my money rise ? But if you have chink you may have drink , if you've none turn out of door , But now from the Alehouse I will shrink , and keep my money in store . Thus all good fellows you may see what 'tis to be in want , A man shall not regarded be if money is with him scan But if money you have , they'l tend you brav [ e ] if you've none they will give o're , Then be careful your money for to save , and lay it up in store . By experience 'tis plainly seen in England far and nigh , Those that rich wealthy men has been , at last come to poverty By spending too much in wine and beer there is many does grow poor , Then good fellows have a special care , to keep your money in store . If all bad husbands were of my mind in country and in town , The Alewives a new trade should find , to pull their fat-sides down : They shou'd work hard , both spin and carded , we would keep them so poor , And we wou'd be careful our money to save , and lay it up in store . Now all you married men that are , and Bachelors so gay , Of the main chance prey have a care , lest you fallen in decay : Be sure you time do highly prize 'twill not stay for rich nor poor , Good fellows all I you advice to keep your money in store , Printed for P. Brooksby at the golden Ball in West-Smithfield . The Good Fellows Consideration . OR The bad Husbands Amendment . Here in this Ballad you may see , What 'tis a bad Husband to be , For drunkenness most commonly Brings many unto poverty . And when a man is mean and bore , Friends will be scarce both far and near , Then in your youth keep money in store , Lest in old age you do grow poor . To the Tune of , Heigh boys up go we , etc Lately written by Thomas Lanfiere , Of Watchat town in Sommerset shire . GOOD Fellows all come lend and ear , and listen to my song , To you in brief I will declare how I have done my , self much wrong By spending of my money too free , it brought me low and poor , But now a good Husband I will be , and keep my money in store . It is well known the fuddling-school I have haunted many year ; I wasted my money like a fool both in Wine and strong Beer : With my Companions day and night I'de both drink , sing , and roar , But now bad company I'le slight , and keep my money in store . In the morning sometime to and Alehouse I'de high , and tarry there all day , Perhaps a crown or and angel I at one reckoning would pay : My pocket of money I'de empty make , e're that I would give over , But now such actions I'le forsake , and keep my money in store . My hostess she would smile in my face when I did merrily call , For why , she knew I would not be base , but freely pay for all : Before the Flagon was quite out she'd be ready to fill more , But now I mean to look about , and keep my money in store . The Second Part , to the same Tune . Sometime she in a merry vein would fit upon my knee , And give me kisses one or twain , and all to sweeten me , She'd vow I was welcome indeed , and should be evermore , But now I mean for to take heed , and keep my money in store . Thus I frequented the Ale bench so long as my money would hold ; While my Wife & Children at home did pinch with hunger and with cold ; So I had my guts full of Ale and Beer , I looked after nothing more , But now I mean to have a care , and keep my money in store , My wife would often me persuade and mildly to me say , Good loving husband follow your trade , and go not so astray : But with foul words I [ ' ] de her abuse , and call her bitch and whore , But now her counsel I will choose , and keep my money in store . At last through my lewd wicked vice I had consumed all , By drunkenness , with Cards and Dice my stock it was brought small : By keeping of bad company I was grown mean and poor , But now I'le leave bad husbandry , and keep my money in store . To my hostess one time I did repair , and desired one courtesy , To trust me for half a dozen of beer , but she did me deny : She told me she had made a vow to draw no drink on score , But I am fully resolved now to keep my money in store . Quod she , the Maltman his money must have [ e ] also I must pay excise , If I should trust every drunken knave where will my money rise ? But if you have chink you may have drink , if you've none turn out of door , But now from the Alehouse I will shrink , and keep my money in store . Thus all good fellows you may see what 'tis to be in want , A man shall not regarded be if money is with him scan But if money you have , they'l tend you brav [ e ] if you've none they will give o're , Then be careful your money for to save , and lay it up in store . By experience 'tis plainly seen in England far and nigh , Those that rich wealthy men has been , at last come to poverty By spending too much in wine and beer there is many does grow poor , Then good fellows have a special care , to keep your money in store . If all bad husbands were of my mind in country and in town , The Alewives a new trade should find , to pull their fat-sides down : They shou'd work hard , both spin and carded , we would keep them so poor , And we wou'd be careful our money to save , and lay it up in store . Now all you married men that are , and Bachelors so gay , Of the main chance prey have a care , lest you fallen in decay : Be sure you time do highly prize 'twill not stay for rich nor poor , Good fellows all I you advice to keep your money in store , Printed for P. Brooksby at the golden Ball in West-Smithfield . 