The Jovial Crew , OR , Beggers-Bush . In which a mad Maunder does vapour and swagger : With praising the Trade of a Bonny bold Beggar . To the Tune of , From hunger and cold . A Beggar , a Beggar , A Beggar I'll be , There's none leads a life so jocund as he ; A Beggar I was , And a Beggar I am , A Bagger I'le be , from a Beggar I came : If ( as it begins ) our Trading do fallen , I fear ( at the last ) we shall be Beggars all . Our Tradesmen miscarry in all their affairs , And few men grow wealthy , but Courtiers & Players . A Craver my Father , A Maunder my Mother , A Filer my Sister , a Filcher my Brother , A Canter my Uncle That car'd not for pelf ; A Lifter my Aunt , a Beggar my self ; In white wheaten-staw , when their bellies were full , Then I was begotten , between Tinker & Trull ; And therefore a Beggar , a Beggar I'll be , For none hath a spirit so jocund as he . When Boys do come to us , And that their intent is . To fallow our Calling , we never bind them prentice , Soon as they come too't , We teach them to doo't , And give them a Staff and a Wallet to boot , We teach them their Lingua , to crave and to Cant , The Devil is in them , if then they can want If any are here that Beggars will be , We without Indentures will make them free we Beg for our Bred , But sometime it happens We feast it with Pigg , Pullet , Conny and Capons For Churches Affairs , We are no Mer-slayers We have no Religion , yet live by our prayers But if when we beg men will not draw their purses We charge & give fire , with a volley of curses The Devil confound your good worship we cry And such a bold brazen-fac'd Beggar am I . WE do things in season , And have so much reason , we raise no Rebellion , nor never talk treason We billet our Mates , At very low rates , While some keeps their Quarters as high as the Gates , With Shinkin ap Morgan , with Blew-Cap , or Tege . We enter into no Covenant nor League ; And therefore a bonny bold Beggar I'll be , For none lives a life so happy as he . We never do prate , In matters of State , For fear we should come to Hugh Peters his Fate : While Scriptures unfolders And Treason upholders , Have lost their heads , we keep ours on our shoulders Our Plots & our Projects , are never so tall , To reach to the Topmast of Westminster-hall And therefore a merry brave Beggar I'll be , For none wears his Noddle so safely as he . For such petty Pledges , As Shirts from the Hedges , We are not in fear to be drawn upon Sledges But sometime the Whip , Does make us to scip , And then we from Tithing to Tithing do trip : For when in a poor Bousing-Ken we do bib it We stend more in awe of the Stocks then the Gibbet And therefore a merry mad Beggar I'll be , For when it is night , to the Barn goes he . We throw down no Altar , Nor ever do falter So much , as to change a Gold-Chain for a Halter : Though some men do flout us , And others do doubt us , We never go without forty pieces about us , But many brav fellows are fine & look fiercer That owe for their clothes to the Taylor and Mercer : And if from the Stocks I can keep out my feet , I fear not the Compter , Kings-bench , nor the Fleet. Sometime I do frame , My self to be lame . And when a coach comes , I do hop to my game We seldom miscarry , Yet never do Marry By the Gowns Common-Prayer , nor the Cloak Directory ; But Harry and Mary ( like Birds of a feather ) do nothing but kiss , laugh & lie down together Like pigs in the peas-straw , entangled they lie Till there they beget such a bold Rogue as I . To sum all in brief , We live by relief , And pray for King Charls , our Commander in chief ; God bless all the Peers , The wise Overseers That they may consider the poor Caveliers . For if they do let them but lower to fallen , They'l take our profession , and beggar us all : And then it will be , but a folly for me , A merry soul'd , bonny bold Beggar to be . London , Printed for William Gilbertson dwelling at the Bible in Giltspurstreet . The Jovial Crew , OR , Beggers-Bush . In which a mad Maunder does vapour and swagger : With praising the Trade of a Bonny bold Beggar . To the Tune of , From hunger and cold . A Beggar , a Beggar , A Beggar I'll be , There's none leads a life so jocund as he ; A Beggar I was , And a Beggar I am , A Bagger I'le be , from a Beggar I came : If ( as it begins ) our Trading do fallen , I fear ( at the last ) we shall be Beggars all . Our Tradesmen miscarry in all their affairs , And few men grow wealthy , but Courtiers & Players . A Craver my Father , A Maunder my Mother , A Filer my Sister , a Filcher my Brother , A Canter my Uncle That car'd not for pelf ; A Lifter my Aunt , a Beggar my self ; In white wheaten-staw , when their bellies were full , Then I was begotten , between Tinker & Trull ; And therefore a Beggar , a Beggar I'll be , For none hath a spirit so jocund as he . When Boys do come to us , And that their intent is . To fallow our Calling , we never bind them prentice , Soon as they come too't , We teach them to doo't , And give them a Staff and a Wallet to boot , We teach them their Lingua , to crave and to Cant , The Devil is in them , if then they can want If any are here that Beggars will be , We without Indentures will make them free we Beg for our Bred , But sometime it happens We feast it with Pigg , Pullet , Conny and Capons For Churches Affairs , We are no Mer-slayers We have no Religion , yet live by our prayers But if when we beg men will not draw their purses We charge & give fire , with a volley of curses The Devil confound your good worship we cry And such a bold brazen-fac'd Beggar am I . WE do things in season , And have so much reason , we raise no Rebellion , nor never talk treason We billet our Mates , At very low rates , While some keeps their Quarters as high as the Gates , With Shinkin ap Morgan , with Blew-Cap , or Tege . We enter into no Covenant nor League ; And therefore a bonny bold Beggar I'll be , For none lives a life so happy as he . We never do prate , In matters of State , For fear we should come to Hugh Peters his Fate : While Scriptures unfolders And Treason upholders , Have lost their heads , we keep ours on our shoulders Our Plots & our Projects , are never so tall , To reach to the Topmast of Westminster-hall And therefore a merry brave Beggar I'll be , For none wears his Noddle so safely as he . For such petty Pledges , As Shirts from the Hedges , We are not in fear to be drawn upon Sledges But sometime the Whip , Does make us to scip , And then we from Tithing to Tithing do trip : For when in a poor Bousing-Ken we do bib it We stend more in awe of the Stocks then the Gibbet And therefore a merry mad Beggar I'll be , For when it is night , to the Barn goes he . We throw down no Altar , Nor ever do falter So much , as to change a Gold-Chain for a Halter : Though some men do flout us , And others do doubt us , We never go without forty pieces about us , But many brav fellows are fine & look fiercer That owe for their clothes to the Taylor and Mercer : And if from the Stocks I can keep out my feet , I fear not the Compter , Kings-bench , nor the Fleet. Sometime I do frame , My self to be lame . And when a coach comes , I do hop to my game We seldom miscarry , Yet never do Marry By the Gowns Common-Prayer , nor the Cloak Directory ; But Harry and Mary ( like Birds of a feather ) do nothing but kiss , laugh & lie down together Like pigs in the peas-straw , entangled they lie Till there they beget such a bold Rogue as I . To sum all in brief , We live by relief , And pray for King Charls , our Commander in chief ; God bless all the Peers , The wise Overseers That they may consider the poor Caveliers . For if they do let them but lower to fallen , They'l take our profession , and beggar us all : And then it will be , but a folly for me , A merry soul'd , bonny bold Beggar to be . London , Printed for William Gilbertson dwelling at the Bible in Giltspurstreet . 