Jonn's Earnest Reques OR , Betty's compassionate Love extended to him in a time of Distress . Late in the Night , when all was fast , John came in both cold and wet , And after some few words were passed , her Lover in she let . To a Pleasant new Tune much in request . This may be Printed , R.P. COme open the Door sweet Betty , for 'tis a cold Winter's night , I rains , and it blows , and [ i ] tO thunders , and the Moon it do's give no light . I is all for the love of sweet Betty , that here I have lost my way ; Sweet let me lie behind thee . untillit is break of Day . I dare not come down Johnny , nor I dare not now let you in , For fear of my F [ a ] ther's anger , and the rest of my other Kin : For my Father he is awak [ e ] , and my Mother she will us hear ; Therefore be gone sweet Johnny , my Joy and only Dear . If that thou dost love me , show it , and do not in anger frown , Thy Parents they need not know it , if thou wilt come softly down : Then prithee now don't deny me , but come at thy Lover's Call ; For what tho' I should lie by thee , I'll do thee no harm at all . Alas ! I am loath to venture , for if that they should awake , As soon as the Door you enter a Racket I'm sure they'll make : You k [ n ] owe that old Folks are froward , and jealous of handsome Men , And should we be over-power'd , in what a case were we then . I'll shelter my Dear from danger , shou'dshould any Outrage begin , Thou knowest that I am no stranger , then p [ r ] ithee Love let me in : Long [ tO ] ime in the Cold , I've tarry'd , o ! pity the true Love John , To morrow we will be married , as I am and honest Man , This is a fair pleasing Story , which almost my Heart has wone , But if you should blast my Glory , and have me when all is done , My Father would surely chide me , my Mother would scold and brawl , And all the young Maids deride me , o ! this is the worst of all . Thy Johnny will ne'er deceive thee , but love thee as dear as my Life ; Nor will I one hour leave thee , until thou art made my Wife : Let me not stand any longer , for why ? dear Betty b [ e ] hold , The Storm grows stronger and stronger , and I am both wet and cold . It was about midnight hour , when John he did thus complain ; Poor heart ! she had not the power to let him stand in the Rain : Without any longer dodging , she open'd the door with speed , And let him into her Lodging , good Man he had ne'er more need . It being cold Winter Weather , they strait did hurry to Bed , And there they cuddl'd together , and John god her Maidenhead . She was of a courteous Carriage , by which Johnny was wone , Next day they were join'd in Marriage , and was not this honestly do [ ne ] ? Printed for E. Bracksby at the Golden-Ball in Pie-corner . Jonn's Earnest Reques OR , Betty's compassionate Love extended to him in a time of Distress . Late in the Night , when all was fast , John came in both cold and wet , And after some few words were passed , her Lover in she let . To a Pleasant new Tune much in request . This may be Printed , R.P. COme open the Door sweet Betty , for 'tis a cold Winter's night , I rains , and it blows , and [ i ] tO thunders , and the Moon it do's give no light . I is all for the love of sweet Betty , that here I have lost my way ; Sweet let me lie behind thee . untillit is break of Day . I dare not come down Johnny , nor I dare not now let you in , For fear of my F [ a ] ther's anger , and the rest of my other Kin : For my Father he is awak [ e ] , and my Mother she will us hear ; Therefore be gone sweet Johnny , my Joy and only Dear . If that thou dost love me , show it , and do not in anger frown , Thy Parents they need not know it , if thou wilt come softly down : Then prithee now don't deny me , but come at thy Lover's Call ; For what tho' I should lie by thee , I'll do thee no harm at all . Alas ! I am loath to venture , for if that they should awake , As soon as the Door you enter a Racket I'm sure they'll make : You k [ n ] owe that old Folks are froward , and jealous of handsome Men , And should we be over-power'd , in what a case were we then . I'll shelter my Dear from danger , shou'dshould any Outrage begin , Thou knowest that I am no stranger , then p [ r ] ithee Love let me in : Long [ tO ] ime in the Cold , I've tarry'd , o ! pity the true Love John , To morrow we will be married , as I am and honest Man , This is a fair pleasing Story , which almost my Heart has wone , But if you should blast my Glory , and have me when all is done , My Father would surely chide me , my Mother would scold and brawl , And all the young Maids deride me , o ! this is the worst of all . Thy Johnny will ne'er deceive thee , but love thee as dear as my Life ; Nor will I one hour leave thee , until thou art made my Wife : Let me not stand any longer , for why ? dear Betty b [ e ] hold , The Storm grows stronger and stronger , and I am both wet and cold . It was about midnight hour , when John he did thus complain ; Poor heart ! she had not the power to let him stand in the Rain : Without any longer dodging , she open'd the door with speed , And let him into her Lodging , good Man he had ne'er more need . It being cold Winter Weather , they strait did hurry to Bed , And there they cuddl'd together , and John god her Maidenhead . She was of a courteous Carriage , by which Johnny was wone , Next day they were join'd in Marriage , and was not this honestly do [ ne ] ? Printed for E. Bracksby at the Golden-Ball in Pie-corner . 