The Obsequy of fair Phillida , With the Shepherds and Nymphs lamentation for her loss , To a new Court tune . THe fairest Nymph that valleys Or mountains ever bred : The Shepherds joy , So beautiful and coy , Fair Phillida is dead : On whom they oft have tended , And carold on the Plains ; And for her sake Sweet Roundelays did make , Admired by rural Swains But cruel Fates the beauty's envying , Of this blooming Rose , So ready to disclose : With a frost unkindly , Nipped this bud untimely , So away her glory goes . The Sheep for woe go bleating , That they their Goddess miss : And sable Ewes , By their mournful shows , Her absence couse of this . The Nymph's leave of their dancing , Pans Pipe of joy is cleft , For greats his grief He shunneth all relief , Since she from him is reft . Come , fatal Sisters , leave there your spools , Leave mourning altogether . That made this flower to wither , Let Envy , that foul Vipresse , Put on a wreathe of Cypress , Singing sad Dirges altogether . Diana was chief mourner , At these sad Obsequies : Who with her train , Went tripping over the Plain , Singing doleful Elegies : Menalchus and Amintas , And many Shepherds more , With mournful Verse , Did all attend her hearse , And in sable sadly go . Flora , the Gods that uses to beautify Fair Phillis lovely bowers . With sweet fragrant flowers , Now her grave adorned , And with flowers mourned . Tears thedeon in vain she powers . Venus alone triumphed , To see this dismal day , Who did despair , That Phillida the fair , Her laws would never obey . The blinded Boy his Arrows And Darts were vainly spent , Her heart , alas , Inpenetrable was , And to love would never assent . It which affront Citharea repined Cause Death with his Dart , Has pierced her tender heart But her noble spirit , Does such joys inherit , Which from her shall never depart , The Obsequy of fair Phillida , With the Shepherds and Nymphs lamentation for her loss , To a new Court tune . THe fairest Nymph that valleys Or mountains ever bred : The Shepherds joy , So beautiful and coy , Fair Phillida is dead : On whom they oft have tended , And carold on the Plains ; And for her sake Sweet Roundelays did make , Admired by rural Swains But cruel Fates the beauty's envying , Of this blooming Rose , So ready to disclose : With a frost unkindly , Nipped this bud untimely , So away her glory goes . The Sheep for woe go bleating , That they their Goddess miss : And sable Ewes , By their mournful shows , Her absence couse of this . The Nymph's leave of their dancing , Pans Pipe of joy is cleft , For greats his grief He shunneth all relief , Since she from him is reft . Come , fatal Sisters , leave there your spools , Leave mourning altogether . That made this flower to wither , Let Envy , that foul Vipresse , Put on a wreathe of Cypress , Singing sad Dirges altogether . Diana was chief mourner , At these sad Obsequies : Who with her train , Went tripping over the Plain , Singing doleful Elegies : Menalchus and Amintas , And many Shepherds more , With mournful Verse , Did all attend her hearse , And in sable sadly go . Flora , the Gods that uses to beautify Fair Phillis lovely bowers . With sweet fragrant flowers , Now her grave adorned , And with flowers mourned . Tears thedeon in vain she powers . Venus alone triumphed , To see this dismal day , Who did despair , That Phillida the fair , Her laws would never obey . The blinded Boy his Arrows And Darts were vainly spent , Her heart , alas , Inpenetrable was , And to love would never assent . It which affront Citharea repined Cause Death with his Dart , Has pierced her tender heart But her noble spirit , Does such joys inherit , Which from her shall never depart , 