A Jolly Company OF Jovial Blades Who laugh and are as merry as the Maids ; They sing and roar and freely spend their Chink , And to each other in full Bowls they drink They scorn such puny pinch-guts as are saving , They think good Sack is only worth the having , And being fully bent to spend their store , They drink their Liquour off and call for more ; Thus while they freely tope off Sack by quarts , They drive away all sorrows from their hearts . To the Tune of General Monk hath advanc'd himself since he came from the Tower . IT was of late my happy fate , to meet with a jovial crew Of merry Blades and lively Lads ; who drank till the Sky look'd blew : Being void of care , no money they spare , but all with free consent Drank Wine good store , and then call'd for more so merrily they were bent . Hang sorrow quoth one , why should we make moan so long as our money does last Away with this sadness , 'tis folly and madness to think upon what is past , Let's drink and bouse and bravely carouse and lest that the time should seem long , Give ear unto me , my task it shall be , to sing you a gallant new Song . Be merry my hearts and call for your quarts and let no liquour be lacking We have money good store and intend for to roar until we have set all a packing , Come Drawer make haste let not the time waste let every man have his endue , For to save shoes and trouble , Bring in a quart double , for he that made one , made two . Come take off your drink , and speak what you think , strong liquour will make you speak truly For certainly we , no drunkards can be , so long as we are not unruly ; Then drink and be civil , intending no evil and be not offended with me , For what I had before , I'le have one quart more , for he that made two , made three . The Second Part , to the same Tune . THe greedy Curmudgin sits all the day grudging , at home with his bred and small beer , For to hold up base pelf , he starves himself , scarce eats a good meal through the year , But wee'l not do so , how e're the world go , so long as we have any store , I think wee'l not lack , go fill us more Sack , for he that made three , made four . Why fit you so sadly , since I call so madly , I scorn to leave you in the lurch , The reckoning I'le pay , ere I go away ; else hang me as high as the Church , Yet some men will say that is not the way , he must pinch that intends for to thrive , This no matter for that , let's laugh and be fat , for he that made four , made five . Such love I intend , to my dearest Friend , that I cannot tell how to express it , When with them I meet their company's so sweet That I would not willingly miss it I scorn such a slave as his money will save , or any that use such base tricks , Come on my brave Blades be as merry as the Maids for he that made five , made six . Now while I am here , I'le call for my Beer , and truly my money I'le spend , Let no man take care , for paying his share , If need be , I'll pay for my friend , Pluck up a good heart let sorrow depart , with the Drawer I will make eaven , So with merry content , our time shall be spent ; For he that made six , made seven . Drink off your cups round let sorrows be drowned , in this same full cup off good sherry , I cannot endure , to fit thus demure , for hither we came to be merry , Then be of good cheer , the reck'ning I'le clear , and eke with the Drawer make straight , For now I'me set a madding I needs must be adding and he that made seven , made eight . Yet at home I confess , with my honest Besse , I practice good husbandry well , To maintain my calling and keep me from falling as all my neighbours can tell , They plead me at large , for maintaining my charge though sometime to drink I incline , Yet I scorn for to shrink , go fill us more drink , for he that made eight , made nine . Here's a health to my friend , that hat a song pen'd in praise of good Liquour that's old , Drink off your cups round while Music does found in hope it will keep you from cold , And now to conclude my verses so rude , you are all welcome Gentlemen : Yet e're we depart I'le give you a quar for he that made nine , made ten . This being said the reckoning they paid , and in friendly manner departed , There's none of them had any cause to be sad , but all went away merry hearted , And when they do meet again in the street , then , unto the Tavern they'l high : And there they intend , their money to spend , which no body can deny . FINIS . A Jolly Company OF Jovial Blades Who laugh and are as merry as the Maids ; They sing and roar and freely spend their Chink , And to each other in full Bowls they drink They scorn such puny pinch-guts as are saving , They think good Sack is only worth the having , And being fully bent to spend their store , They drink their Liquour off and call for more ; Thus while they freely tope off Sack by quarts , They drive away all sorrows from their hearts . To the Tune of General Monk hath advanc'd himself since he came from the Tower . IT was of late my happy fate , to meet with a jovial crew Of merry Blades and lively Lads ; who drank till the Sky look'd blew : Being void of care , no money they spare , but all with free consent Drank Wine good store , and then call'd for more so merrily they were bent . Hang sorrow quoth one , why should we make moan so long as our money does last Away with this sadness , 'tis folly and madness to think upon what is past , Let's drink and bouse and bravely carouse and lest that the time should seem long , Give ear unto me , my task it shall be , to sing you a gallant new Song . Be merry my hearts and call for your quarts and let no liquour be lacking We have money good store and intend for to roar until we have set all a packing , Come Drawer make haste let not the time waste let every man have his endue , For to save shoes and trouble , Bring in a quart double , for he that made one , made two . Come take off your drink , and speak what you think , strong liquour will make you speak truly For certainly we , no drunkards can be , so long as we are not unruly ; Then drink and be civil , intending no evil and be not offended with me , For what I had before , I'le have one quart more , for he that made two , made three . The Second Part , to the same Tune . THe greedy Curmudgin sits all the day grudging , at home with his bred and small beer , For to hold up base pelf , he starves himself , scarce eats a good meal through the year , But wee'l not do so , how e're the world go , so long as we have any store , I think wee'l not lack , go fill us more Sack , for he that made three , made four . Why fit you so sadly , since I call so madly , I scorn to leave you in the lurch , The reckoning I'le pay , ere I go away ; else hang me as high as the Church , Yet some men will say that is not the way , he must pinch that intends for to thrive , This no matter for that , let's laugh and be fat , for he that made four , made five . Such love I intend , to my dearest Friend , that I cannot tell how to express it , When with them I meet their company's so sweet That I would not willingly miss it I scorn such a slave as his money will save , or any that use such base tricks , Come on my brave Blades be as merry as the Maids for he that made five , made six . Now while I am here , I'le call for my Beer , and truly my money I'le spend , Let no man take care , for paying his share , If need be , I'll pay for my friend , Pluck up a good heart let sorrow depart , with the Drawer I will make eaven , So with merry content , our time shall be spent ; For he that made six , made seven . Drink off your cups round let sorrows be drowned , in this same full cup off good sherry , I cannot endure , to fit thus demure , for hither we came to be merry , Then be of good cheer , the reck'ning I'le clear , and eke with the Drawer make straight , For now I'me set a madding I needs must be adding and he that made seven , made eight . Yet at home I confess , with my honest Besse , I practice good husbandry well , To maintain my calling and keep me from falling as all my neighbours can tell , They plead me at large , for maintaining my charge though sometime to drink I incline , Yet I scorn for to shrink , go fill us more drink , for he that made eight , made nine . Here's a health to my friend , that hat a song pen'd in praise of good Liquour that's old , Drink off your cups round while Music does found in hope it will keep you from cold , And now to conclude my verses so rude , you are all welcome Gentlemen : Yet e're we depart I'le give you a quar for he that made nine , made ten . This being said the reckoning they paid , and in friendly manner departed , There's none of them had any cause to be sad , but all went away merry hearted , And when they do meet again in the street , then , unto the Tavern they'l high : And there they intend , their money to spend , which no body can deny . FINIS . 