a Sad News from Salisbury , And other Parts of the West of ENGLAND . Being and Account of a most sad and Dreadful Frost and Snow , which happened on the 23d . of De - cember , 1684. in and about most Parts of the West of England , which Froze to Death many poor passengers who Traveled the Road , beside many Beasts , Incredible to believe , but that some who were in the same Storm are alive to justify the truth thereof , the like scarce ever being known in this Kingdom . To the Tune of , Aim not too High . GOod Christians all that live both far and near , A sad and dreadful story you shall hear , Which I do hope will warning be to all , lest greater Judgments on this land befall . pon the three and twentieth of December A day which some have reason to remember , A dreadful storm did happen in the West , Whose sad effects shall chiefly be expressed . As Passengers along the Road did go The Northeast wind most bitterly did blow , And flakes of Snow did from the Heavens fallen , As if it meant destruction unto all , The Carriers that the road full well did know , Did lose their way , by reason of the Snow , Many were forced to refine their breath , And in this tempest Frozen were to death . Collins the Taunton Carrier , people say , Upon the Down did strangely lose his way , Two of his Passengers were starv'd with cold , A fearful Spectacle for to behold . And Mathews that belong'd to Shaftsbury , Did bore a part in this extremity , Two Horses dy'd and by the Snow and Frost , Some say the use of both his hands are lost . Two Passengers that were both Man and Wife In this extremity did part with life , It would have griev'd a stony heart to see't , How these poor souls lay starved feet to feet . And this for truth report us plainly tells , The Carrier that belong'd to Both and Wells , His own dear Son was frozen unto death ; And on the Down did lose his dearest breath . The Father griev'd to see his son so lost , By reason of this sharp and cruel Frost , It was a great affliction to his mind , Yet forced was to leave his corpse behind . My Lady Fines that at New-Tony dwelled , One of her Servants this cold season felt , He froze to death was driving of his Cart , Which pierc'd his tender Lrdy to the heart . A Shopkeeper that did to Market go , To Salisbury , was likewise lost also , With many more which here I shall omit , Yet this sad time I never shall forget , And thirty more in Somerstshire were lost In this unusual Snow and cruel Frost , Who little thought when they went out of door , Their wives and children they should see no more , Near Tiverton in Devonshire they say , As many to the Markets took their way , Were in this Tempest lost , and ne'r were found , Till at the last found starved on the ground . This judgement came from gods almighty hand For sins committed in our native land , Lord grant that it to us a warning be And teach us how to shun iniquity . Our sins for vengeance do to Heaven cry , Yet we like sinners live in vanity , Oh grant that we our sinful lives may mend , That we may live with thee when life does end . From storms and tempest Lord preserve us still . Teach us thy holy laws for to fulfil , So shall we gainers be by losing breath , And ride triumphant o're the second death . For the better satisfaction of the Incredulous , I here insert the Names of several who have sufficiently tasted of the bitterness of this outrageous Storm and Frost , and are yet alive to testify the Verity thereof . Mr. Mathews the Carrier of Shaftsbury , who had several of his Cattle died , and he himself lost the use of both his hands : Mr. Morris and Mr. Clark , Carriers to Exeter and Shafts - bury , were much endangered of their lives : the Carrier to Both and Wells , had one passen - her froze to death beside his own Son , a man and his Wife going with the Taunton Carrier , were both froze to death , and found dead foot to foot , with about 30 more near Evil in Somersetshire ; and 6 or 7 near Chard , and many more , beside some store of Horses and Oxen , too many to be here inserted . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden Ball in Pyecorner . a Sad News from Salisbury , And other Parts of the West of ENGLAND . Being and Account of a most sad and Dreadful Frost and Snow , which happened on the 23d . of De - cember , 1684. in and about most Parts of the West of England , which Froze to Death many poor passengers who Traveled the Road , beside many Beasts , Incredible to believe , but that some who were in the same Storm are alive to justify the truth thereof , the like scarce ever being known in this Kingdom . To the Tune of , Aim not too High . GOod Christians all that live both far and near , A sad and dreadful story you shall hear , Which I do hope will warning be to all , lest greater Judgments on this land befall . pon the three and twentieth of December A day which some have reason to remember , A dreadful storm did happen in the West , Whose sad effects shall chiefly be expressed . As Passengers along the Road did go The Northeast wind most bitterly did blow , And flakes of Snow did from the Heavens fallen , As if it meant destruction unto all , The Carriers that the road full well did know , Did lose their way , by reason of the Snow , Many were forced to refine their breath , And in this tempest Frozen were to death . Collins the Taunton Carrier , people say , Upon the Down did strangely lose his way , Two of his Passengers were starv'd with cold , A fearful Spectacle for to behold . And Mathews that belong'd to Shaftsbury , Did bore a part in this extremity , Two Horses dy'd and by the Snow and Frost , Some say the use of both his hands are lost . Two Passengers that were both Man and Wife In this extremity did part with life , It would have griev'd a stony heart to see't , How these poor souls lay starved feet to feet . And this for truth report us plainly tells , The Carrier that belong'd to Both and Wells , His own dear Son was frozen unto death ; And on the Down did lose his dearest breath . The Father griev'd to see his son so lost , By reason of this sharp and cruel Frost , It was a great affliction to his mind , Yet forced was to leave his corpse behind . My Lady Fines that at New-Tony dwelled , One of her Servants this cold season felt , He froze to death was driving of his Cart , Which pierc'd his tender Lrdy to the heart . A Shopkeeper that did to Market go , To Salisbury , was likewise lost also , With many more which here I shall omit , Yet this sad time I never shall forget , And thirty more in Somerstshire were lost In this unusual Snow and cruel Frost , Who little thought when they went out of door , Their wives and children they should see no more , Near Tiverton in Devonshire they say , As many to the Markets took their way , Were in this Tempest lost , and ne'r were found , Till at the last found starved on the ground . This judgement came from gods almighty hand For sins committed in our native land , Lord grant that it to us a warning be And teach us how to shun iniquity . Our sins for vengeance do to Heaven cry , Yet we like sinners live in vanity , Oh grant that we our sinful lives may mend , That we may live with thee when life does end . From storms and tempest Lord preserve us still . Teach us thy holy laws for to fulfil , So shall we gainers be by losing breath , And ride triumphant o're the second death . For the better satisfaction of the Incredulous , I here insert the Names of several who have sufficiently tasted of the bitterness of this outrageous Storm and Frost , and are yet alive to testify the Verity thereof . Mr. Mathews the Carrier of Shaftsbury , who had several of his Cattle died , and he himself lost the use of both his hands : Mr. Morris and Mr. Clark , Carriers to Exeter and Shafts - bury , were much endangered of their lives : the Carrier to Both and Wells , had one passen - her froze to death beside his own Son , a man and his Wife going with the Taunton Carrier , were both froze to death , and found dead foot to foot , with about 30 more near Evil in Somersetshire ; and 6 or 7 near Chard , and many more , beside some store of Horses and Oxen , too many to be here inserted . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden Ball in Pyecorner . 