The praise of Saylors here set forth , With the hard Fortune's which do befall them on the Seas , when Land men sheep safe on their beds . To a pleasant new tune . AS I lay musing in my bed , full warm and well at ease , I thought upon the lodgings hard poor Sailors had at Seas . They bide it out with hunder and cold and many a bitter blast , And many times constrained they are for to cut down their Mast , Their Victuals and their Ordinance and ought else that they have , They throw it over board with speed , and seek their lives to save . When as the raging Seas do foam , and lofty winds do blow , The Sailors they go to the top , when Land-men stay below . Our Master's Mate takes helm in hand his course he steers full well . When as the lofty winds do blow and raging Seas do swell . Our Master to his Compass goes , so well he plies his charge , He sends a Youth unto them amain for to unsling the Yard . The Boatson he's under the Deck , a man of courage bold , To' that top , to 'th top my lively Lads , hold fast my hearts of gold . The Pilot he stands on the Clain with a Line and a Led so found To see how far and near they are from any dangerous ground , It is a testimonial good , we are not far from Land , There sits a Mermaid on the Rock with comb and glass in hand . Our Captain he is on the poop a man of might and power . And look when raging Seas do gape our bodies to devour . Our Royal ship is run to rack , that was so stout and trim , And some are put unto their shifts either to sink or swim . OUr ship that was before so good , and eke likewise so trim , Is now with raging Seas grown leaked and water fast comes in . The Quarter-Master is a man , so well his charge plies he , He calls them to the Pomp amain to keep their leaked ship free . And many dangers likewise they do many times endure , When as they meet their enemies that come with might and power And seek their lives likewise to take their lives and eke their goods , Thus Sailors they sometime endure upon the surging floods . But when as they do come to Land , and homeward safe return . They are most good fellows all , and scorn ever to mourn . And likewise they will call for wine , and score it on the post , For Sailors they are honest men and love to pay their Oast . For Saylors they be honest men and they do take great pains , When Landed men and ruffling Lads do rob them of their grains . Our Sailors they work night and day their mand-hood for to try , When Landed men and ruffling Jacks do in their Cabins lie . Therefore let all good minded men , give ear unto my Song , And say also as well as I Sailors deserve no wrong . Thus have I done for Saylors sake in token of good will , If ever I can do them good , I will be ready still . God bless them eke by Sea and Land and also other men , And as my Song beginning had so must it have and end . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and W. Gilbertson . The praise of Saylors here set forth , With the hard Fortune's which do befall them on the Seas , when Land men sheep safe on their beds . To a pleasant new tune . AS I lay musing in my bed , full warm and well at ease , I thought upon the lodgings hard poor Sailors had at Seas . They bide it out with hunder and cold and many a bitter blast , And many times constrained they are for to cut down their Mast , Their Victuals and their Ordinance and ought else that they have , They throw it over board with speed , and seek their lives to save . When as the raging Seas do foam , and lofty winds do blow , The Sailors they go to the top , when Land-men stay below . Our Master's Mate takes helm in hand his course he steers full well . When as the lofty winds do blow and raging Seas do swell . Our Master to his Compass goes , so well he plies his charge , He sends a Youth unto them amain for to unsling the Yard . The Boatson he's under the Deck , a man of courage bold , To' that top , to 'th top my lively Lads , hold fast my hearts of gold . The Pilot he stands on the Clain with a Line and a Led so found To see how far and near they are from any dangerous ground , It is a testimonial good , we are not far from Land , There sits a Mermaid on the Rock with comb and glass in hand . Our Captain he is on the poop a man of might and power . And look when raging Seas do gape our bodies to devour . Our Royal ship is run to rack , that was so stout and trim , And some are put unto their shifts either to sink or swim . OUr ship that was before so good , and eke likewise so trim , Is now with raging Seas grown leaked and water fast comes in . The Quarter-Master is a man , so well his charge plies he , He calls them to the Pomp amain to keep their leaked ship free . And many dangers likewise they do many times endure , When as they meet their enemies that come with might and power And seek their lives likewise to take their lives and eke their goods , Thus Sailors they sometime endure upon the surging floods . But when as they do come to Land , and homeward safe return . They are most good fellows all , and scorn ever to mourn . And likewise they will call for wine , and score it on the post , For Sailors they are honest men and love to pay their Oast . For Saylors they be honest men and they do take great pains , When Landed men and ruffling Lads do rob them of their grains . Our Sailors they work night and day their mand-hood for to try , When Landed men and ruffling Jacks do in their Cabins lie . Therefore let all good minded men , give ear unto my Song , And say also as well as I Sailors deserve no wrong . Thus have I done for Saylors sake in token of good will , If ever I can do them good , I will be ready still . God bless them eke by Sea and Land and also other men , And as my Song beginning had so must it have and end . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and W. Gilbertson . 