A pretty Ballad of the Lord of Lorn , and the False Steward . The Tune is , Green Sleeve IT was a worthy Lord of Lorn , he was a Lord of high degree , He sent his son unto the School , to learn some civility . He learned more in one day , then other Children did in three , And then bespoke the Schoolmaster , unto him tenderly . In faith thou art the honestest boy , that e're I blinkt on with mine eye : I hope thou art some Easterling born , the Holy Ghost is with thee : He said he was no Easterling born , the child thus answered courteously , My Father is the Lord of Lorn , and I his Son perdy . The Schoolmaster turned round about , his angry Mood he could not suage : He marveled the Child could speak so wise , he being of so tender age . He girded the Saddle to the Steed , the Bridle of best gold shown , He took his leave of his fellows all , and quickly he was gone . And when he came to his Father dear , he kneeled down upon his knee , I am come to you father , he said , Gods blessing give you me : Thou art wescome my son , he said , Gods blessing I thee give : What tidings hast thou brought my Son , being come so hastily , I have brought tidings Father , he said , and so liked it may be : There's ne'r a book in all Scotland , but I can read it truly : And there's ne'r a Doctor in all the Realm , for all he goes in rich array , I can write him a Lesson soon , to learn in seven years day : That is good tidings , said the Lord , all in the place where I do stand , My Son thou shalt into France go , to learn the speeches of each land : Who shall go with him said the Lady ? husband we have none but he : Madam , he said , my head Steward , he hath been true to me . She call'd the Steward to and account , a thousand pound she gave him anon , Says , good sir-Steward be good to my child when he is far from home : If I be false unto my young Lord , then God be like unto me indeed , And now to France they both are gone , and God be their good speed : They had not been in France in Land , not three weeks to and end , But meat nor drink the child god none , nor money in Purse to spend . The child runs to the Rivers side , he was fain to drink water then , And after followed the false Steward to put the Child therein : But nay marry , said the Child , he asked mercy pitifully , Good steward let me have my life , what e're betide my body . Now put off thy fair clothing , and give it me anon , So put thee off thy silken shirt , with many a golden seam . But when the child was stripped naked , his body white as the lily flower , He might have been seen for his body , a Princess Paramour , He put him on and old Kelter Coat , and hose of the same above the Knee , He bid him go to the Shepherd's house , to keep sheep on a love lovely : The child said , what shall be my name , good Steward tell to me , Thy name shall be poor dost thou wear , that thy name shall be . The child came to the Shepherd's house , and asked mercy pitifully , Says , good Shepherd take me in , to keep sheep on a love lovely , But when the Shepherd saw the child , he was so pleasant in the eye , I have no child , I'le make thee my heir , thou shalt have my goods perdy . And then bespoke the Shepherd's wife , unto the Child so tenderly , Thou must take the sheep & go to the field , and get them on a love lovely : Now let us leave talk of the child , that is keeping sheep on a love lovely , And we'l talk more of the false Steward , and of his false treachery ; He bought himself three suits of apparel that any Lor [ worser ] might a seem'd to worn , He went a wooing to the Dukes daughter and cal'd himself the Lord of Lorn . The Duke he welcomes the young Lord , with three ba [ k ] ed stags anon , If he had wist him [ m ] the false Steward , to the devil h [ e ] should have gone : But when they were at supper set , with dainty de [ l ] icates that were there , The Duke said , if that [ oh ] u wilt wed my daughter I'le give thee three thousand pound a year : The Lady would see the read buck run , and also for to [ h ] unt the Doe , And with a hund [ r ] ed lusty men , the Lady did a hunting go . The Lady is a h [ u ] nting gone , over Feanfel tO [ h ] at is so high , There was she she [ w ] are of a shepherd's boy , with sheep on [ a ] love lovely : And ever he sighs [ e ] worser and made moan , and cried out [ p ] ittyfully , My Father is that [ e ] Lord of Lorn and knows not what's become of me . And then bespak [ e ] the Lady gay , and to her ma [ i ] worser she spoke anon , Go fetch me hither the Shepherd's boy , why makes h [ e ] all this moan ? But when he ca [ m ] e before the Lady , he was not to learn his courtesy , Where wast thou born thou bonny child , for whose sake makest thou all this moan ? My dearest friend , Lady he said , is dead many y [ e ] ars agon . Tell thou to me thou bonny child , tell me the truth and do not lie , Know'st thou not the young Lord of Lorn ? he is come a wooing unto me : Yes forsooth , said the child , I know the Lord then verily : The young Lord is a valiant Lord , at home in his own Country . Wilt leave thy sheep thou bonny child , and come in service unto me , Yes forsooth then said the Child , at your bidding will I be . When the Steward looked upon the Child , he bewail'd him villanously , Where wast thou born thou Vagabond , or where is thy Country ? Would down would down said the Lady , she cal'd the Steward then presently , Without you bear him more good will , you get no love of me : Then bespoke the false Steward , unto the Lady hastily : At Abardine beyond the Sea , his Father robbed thousands three . BUt then bespoke the Lady gay , unto her Father courteously , Saying , I have found a bonny child , my Chamberlain to be : Not so , not so , then said the Duke ; for so it may not be , For the young Lord of Lorn he comes a woo-ing , will think no good of thee and me . When the Duke had looked upon the child , he seem'd so pleasant to the eye : Child , because thou lovest Horses well , my Groom of Stable thou shalt be . The Child plied the Horses well , a twelve month to and end , He was so courteous and so true , every man becomes his friend : He led a fair Gelding to the water , where he may drink verily , The Gelding up with his head and bit the Child above the eyr : Woe worth the Horse , then said the Child that ever Mare foled thee , Thou little knowest what thou hast done , thou hast stricken a Lord of high degree . The Dukes daughter was in her garden green she herd the Child make great moan , She ran to the child all weeping , and left her Maidens all alone . Sing on thy song thou bonny child , I will release thee of thy pain , I have made and oath Lady , he said , I dare not tell my tale again . Tell the horse thy tale thou bonny child , and so thy oath shall saved be , But when he told the horse his tale , the Lady wept most tenderly . I'le do for thee my bonny child , in faith I will do more for thee , And for thy sake my bonny child , I'le put my wedding off months three , The Lady did write a Letter then , full pitifully with her own hand : She sent it to the Lord of Lorn , whereas he dwelled in fair Scotland : But when the Lord had read the letter , his Lady wept most tenderly , I knew what would become of my Child , in such a far Country . The old Lord cal'd up his merry men , and all that he gave Cloth and Fee , With seven Lords by his side , and into France rides he ; The wind serv'd , and they did sail , so far into France Land : They were wear of the Lord of Lorn , with a Porters staff in his hand : The Lords they moved hat and hand , the Servingmen fell on their knee , What folks be yonder said the steward , that make the Porter courtesy : Thou art a false thief , quoth the Lord of Lorn , no longer might I bear with thee : By the Law of France thou shalt be judg'd , whither it be to live or die . A Quest of Lords there chosen was , to bench they came hastily : But when the Quest ended was , the false steward must die . First they did him half hang , and then they took him down anon , And then put him in boiling led and then was sodden breast and bone : And then bespoke the Lord of Lorn , with many other Lords more , Sir Duke if you be as willing as we , we'l have a Marriage before we go : These Children both they did rejoice to hear the Lord his tale so ended , They had rather today then tomorrow , so he would not be offended . But when the wedding ended was , their was delicate dainty cheer , I'le tell you how long the wedding did last full three quarters of a year . Such A pretty Ballad of the Lord of Lorn , and the False Steward . The Tune is , Green Sleeve IT was a worthy Lord of Lorn , he was a Lord of high degree , He sent his son unto the School , to learn some civility . He learned more in one day , then other Children did in three , And then bespoke the Schoolmaster , unto him tenderly . In faith thou art the honestest boy , that e're I blinkt on with mine eye : I hope thou art some Easterling born , the Holy Ghost is with thee : He said he was no Easterling born , the child thus answered courteously , My Father is the Lord of Lorn , and I his Son perdy . The Schoolmaster turned round about , his angry Mood he could not suage : He marveled the Child could speak so wise , he being of so tender age . He girded the Saddle to the Steed , the Bridle of best gold shown , He took his leave of his fellows all , and quickly he was gone . And when he came to his Father dear , he kneeled down upon his knee , I am come to you father , he said , Gods blessing give you me : Thou art wescome my son , he said , Gods blessing I thee give : What tidings hast thou brought my Son , being come so hastily , I have brought tidings Father , he said , and so liked it may be : There's ne'r a book in all Scotland , but I can read it truly : And there's ne'r a Doctor in all the Realm , for all he goes in rich array , I can write him a Lesson soon , to learn in seven years day : That is good tidings , said the Lord , all in the place where I do stand , My Son thou shalt into France go , to learn the speeches of each land : Who shall go with him said the Lady ? husband we have none but he : Madam , he said , my head Steward , he hath been true to me . She call'd the Steward to and account , a thousand pound she gave him anon , Says , good sir-Steward be good to my child when he is far from home : If I be false unto my young Lord , then God be like unto me indeed , And now to France they both are gone , and God be their good speed : They had not been in France in Land , not three weeks to and end , But meat nor drink the child god none , nor money in Purse to spend . The child runs to the Rivers side , he was fain to drink water then , And after followed the false Steward to put the Child therein : But nay marry , said the Child , he asked mercy pitifully , Good steward let me have my life , what e're betide my body . Now put off thy fair clothing , and give it me anon , So put thee off thy silken shirt , with many a golden seam . But when the child was stripped naked , his body white as the lily flower , He might have been seen for his body , a Princess Paramour , He put him on and old Kelter Coat , and hose of the same above the Knee , He bid him go to the Shepherd's house , to keep sheep on a love lovely : The child said , what shall be my name , good Steward tell to me , Thy name shall be poor dost thou wear , that thy name shall be . The child came to the Shepherd's house , and asked mercy pitifully , Says , good Shepherd take me in , to keep sheep on a love lovely , But when the Shepherd saw the child , he was so pleasant in the eye , I have no child , I'le make thee my heir , thou shalt have my goods perdy . And then bespoke the Shepherd's wife , unto the Child so tenderly , Thou must take the sheep & go to the field , and get them on a love lovely : Now let us leave talk of the child , that is keeping sheep on a love lovely , And we'l talk more of the false Steward , and of his false treachery ; He bought himself three suits of apparel that any Lor [ worser ] might a seem'd to worn , He went a wooing to the Dukes daughter and cal'd himself the Lord of Lorn . The Duke he welcomes the young Lord , with three ba [ k ] ed stags anon , If he had wist him [ m ] the false Steward , to the devil h [ e ] should have gone : But when they were at supper set , with dainty de [ l ] icates that were there , The Duke said , if that [ oh ] u wilt wed my daughter I'le give thee three thousand pound a year : The Lady would see the read buck run , and also for to [ h ] unt the Doe , And with a hund [ r ] ed lusty men , the Lady did a hunting go . The Lady is a h [ u ] nting gone , over Feanfel tO [ h ] at is so high , There was she she [ w ] are of a shepherd's boy , with sheep on [ a ] love lovely : And ever he sighs [ e ] worser and made moan , and cried out [ p ] ittyfully , My Father is that [ e ] Lord of Lorn and knows not what's become of me . And then bespak [ e ] the Lady gay , and to her ma [ i ] worser she spoke anon , Go fetch me hither the Shepherd's boy , why makes h [ e ] all this moan ? But when he ca [ m ] e before the Lady , he was not to learn his courtesy , Where wast thou born thou bonny child , for whose sake makest thou all this moan ? My dearest friend , Lady he said , is dead many y [ e ] ars agon . Tell thou to me thou bonny child , tell me the truth and do not lie , Know'st thou not the young Lord of Lorn ? he is come a wooing unto me : Yes forsooth , said the child , I know the Lord then verily : The young Lord is a valiant Lord , at home in his own Country . Wilt leave thy sheep thou bonny child , and come in service unto me , Yes forsooth then said the Child , at your bidding will I be . When the Steward looked upon the Child , he bewail'd him villanously , Where wast thou born thou Vagabond , or where is thy Country ? Would down would down said the Lady , she cal'd the Steward then presently , Without you bear him more good will , you get no love of me : Then bespoke the false Steward , unto the Lady hastily : At Abardine beyond the Sea , his Father robbed thousands three . BUt then bespoke the Lady gay , unto her Father courteously , Saying , I have found a bonny child , my Chamberlain to be : Not so , not so , then said the Duke ; for so it may not be , For the young Lord of Lorn he comes a woo-ing , will think no good of thee and me . When the Duke had looked upon the child , he seem'd so pleasant to the eye : Child , because thou lovest Horses well , my Groom of Stable thou shalt be . The Child plied the Horses well , a twelve month to and end , He was so courteous and so true , every man becomes his friend : He led a fair Gelding to the water , where he may drink verily , The Gelding up with his head and bit the Child above the eyr : Woe worth the Horse , then said the Child that ever Mare foled thee , Thou little knowest what thou hast done , thou hast stricken a Lord of high degree . The Dukes daughter was in her garden green she herd the Child make great moan , She ran to the child all weeping , and left her Maidens all alone . Sing on thy song thou bonny child , I will release thee of thy pain , I have made and oath Lady , he said , I dare not tell my tale again . Tell the horse thy tale thou bonny child , and so thy oath shall saved be , But when he told the horse his tale , the Lady wept most tenderly . I'le do for thee my bonny child , in faith I will do more for thee , And for thy sake my bonny child , I'le put my wedding off months three , The Lady did write a Letter then , full pitifully with her own hand : She sent it to the Lord of Lorn , whereas he dwelled in fair Scotland : But when the Lord had read the letter , his Lady wept most tenderly , I knew what would become of my Child , in such a far Country . The old Lord cal'd up his merry men , and all that he gave Cloth and Fee , With seven Lords by his side , and into France rides he ; The wind serv'd , and they did sail , so far into France Land : They were wear of the Lord of Lorn , with a Porters staff in his hand : The Lords they moved hat and hand , the Servingmen fell on their knee , What folks be yonder said the steward , that make the Porter courtesy : Thou art a false thief , quoth the Lord of Lorn , no longer might I bear with thee : By the Law of France thou shalt be judg'd , whither it be to live or die . A Quest of Lords there chosen was , to bench they came hastily : But when the Quest ended was , the false steward must die . First they did him half hang , and then they took him down anon , And then put him in boiling led and then was sodden breast and bone : And then bespoke the Lord of Lorn , with many other Lords more , Sir Duke if you be as willing as we , we'l have a Marriage before we go : These Children both they did rejoice to hear the Lord his tale so ended , They had rather today then tomorrow , so he would not be offended . But when the wedding ended was , their was delicate dainty cheer , I'le tell you how long the wedding did last full three quarters of a year . Such a banquet there was wrought , the like was never seen , The King of France brought with him then , a hundred Tun of good read wine : Five set of Musicians were to be seen , that never rested night nor day , Also Italians there did sing , full pleasantly with great joy . Thus have you herd what troubles great unto successive joys did turn , And happy news among the rest , unto the worthy Lord of Lorn . Let Rebels therefore warned be , how mischief once they do pretend , For God may suffer for a time , but will disclose it in the end . FINIS . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. [ ? ] a banquet there was wrought , the like was never seen , The King of France brought with him then , a hundred Tun of good read wine : Five set of Musicians were to be seen , that never rested night nor day , Also Italians there did sing , full pleasantly with great joy . Thus have you herd what troubles great unto successive joys did turn , And happy news among the rest , unto the worthy Lord of Lorn . Let Rebels therefore warned be , how mischief once they do pretend , For God may suffer for a time , but will disclose it in the end . FINIS . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. [ ? ] A pretty Ballad of the Lord of Lorn , and the False Steward . The Tune is , Green Sleeve IT was a worthy Lord of Lorn , he was a Lord of high degree , He sent his son unto the School , to learn some civility . He learned more in one day , then other Children did in three , And then bespoke the Schoolmaster , unto him tenderly . In faith thou art the honestest boy , that e're I blinkt on with mine eye : I hope thou art some Easterling born , the Holy Ghost is with thee : He said he was no Easterling born , the child thus answered courteously , My Father is the Lord of Lorn , and I his Son perdy . The Schoolmaster turned round about , his angry Mood he could not suage : He marveled the Child could speak so wise , he being of so tender age . He girded the Saddle to the Steed , the Bridle of best gold shown , He took his leave of his fellows all , and quickly he was gone . And when he came to his Father dear , he kneeled down upon his knee , I am come to you father , he said , Gods blessing give you me : Thou art wescome my son , he said , Gods blessing I thee give : What tidings hast thou brought my Son , being come so hastily , I have brought tidings Father , he said , and so liked it may be : There's ne'r a book in all Scotland , but I can read it truly : And there's ne'r a Doctor in all the Realm , for all he goes in rich array , I can write him a Lesson soon , to learn in seven years day : That is good tidings , said the Lord , all in the place where I do stand , My Son thou shalt into France go , to learn the speeches of each land : Who shall go with him said the Lady ? husband we have none but he : Madam , he said , my head Steward , he hath been true to me . She call'd the Steward to and account , a thousand pound she gave him anon , Says , good sir-Steward be good to my child when he is far from home : If I be false unto my young Lord , then God be like unto me indeed , And now to France they both are gone , and God be their good speed : They had not been in France in Land , not three weeks to and end , But meat nor drink the child god none , nor money in Purse to spend . The child runs to the Rivers side , he was fain to drink water then , And after followed the false Steward to put the Child therein : But nay marry , said the Child , he asked mercy pitifully , Good steward let me have my life , what e're betide my body . Now put off thy fair clothing , and give it me anon , So put thee off thy silken shirt , with many a golden seam . But when the child was stripped naked , his body white as the lily flower , He might have been seen for his body , a Princess Paramour , He put him on and old Kelter Coat , and hose of the same above the Knee , He bid him go to the Shepherd's house , to keep sheep on a love lovely : The child said , what shall be my name , good Steward tell to me , Thy name shall be poor dost thou wear , that thy name shall be . The child came to the Shepherd's house , and asked mercy pitifully , Says , good Shepherd take me in , to keep sheep on a love lovely , But when the Shepherd saw the child , he was so pleasant in the eye , I have no child , I'le make thee my heir , thou shalt have my goods perdy . And then bespoke the Shepherd's wife , unto the Child so tenderly , Thou must take the sheep & go to the field , and get them on a love lovely : Now let us leave talk of the child , that is keeping sheep on a love lovely , And we'l talk more of the false Steward , and of his false treachery ; He bought himself three suits of apparel that any Lor [ worser ] might a seem'd to worn , He went a wooing to the Dukes daughter and cal'd himself the Lord of Lorn . The Duke he welcomes the young Lord , with three ba [ k ] ed stags anon , If he had wist him [ m ] the false Steward , to the devil h [ e ] should have gone : But when they were at supper set , with dainty de [ l ] icates that were there , The Duke said , if that [ oh ] u wilt wed my daughter I'le give thee three thousand pound a year : The Lady would see the read buck run , and also for to [ h ] unt the Doe , And with a hund [ r ] ed lusty men , the Lady did a hunting go . The Lady is a h [ u ] nting gone , over Feanfel tO [ h ] at is so high , There was she she [ w ] are of a shepherd's boy , with sheep on [ a ] love lovely : And ever he sighs [ e ] worser and made moan , and cried out [ p ] ittyfully , My Father is that [ e ] Lord of Lorn and knows not what's become of me . And then bespak [ e ] the Lady gay , and to her ma [ i ] worser she spoke anon , Go fetch me hither the Shepherd's boy , why makes h [ e ] all this moan ? But when he ca [ m ] e before the Lady , he was not to learn his courtesy , Where wast thou born thou bonny child , for whose sake makest thou all this moan ? My dearest friend , Lady he said , is dead many y [ e ] ars agon . Tell thou to me thou bonny child , tell me the truth and do not lie , Know'st thou not the young Lord of Lorn ? he is come a wooing unto me : Yes forsooth , said the child , I know the Lord then verily : The young Lord is a valiant Lord , at home in his own Country . Wilt leave thy sheep thou bonny child , and come in service unto me , Yes forsooth then said the Child , at your bidding will I be . When the Steward looked upon the Child , he bewail'd him villanously , Where wast thou born thou Vagabond , or where is thy Country ? Would down would down said the Lady , she cal'd the Steward then presently , Without you bear him more good will , you get no love of me : Then bespoke the false Steward , unto the Lady hastily : At Abardine beyond the Sea , his Father robbed thousands three . BUt then bespoke the Lady gay , unto her Father courteously , Saying , I have found a bonny child , my Chamberlain to be : Not so , not so , then said the Duke ; for so it may not be , For the young Lord of Lorn he comes a woo-ing , will think no good of thee and me . When the Duke had looked upon the child , he seem'd so pleasant to the eye : Child , because thou lovest Horses well , my Groom of Stable thou shalt be . The Child plied the Horses well , a twelve month to and end , He was so courteous and so true , every man becomes his friend : He led a fair Gelding to the water , where he may drink verily , The Gelding up with his head and bit the Child above the eyr : Woe worth the Horse , then said the Child that ever Mare foled thee , Thou little knowest what thou hast done , thou hast stricken a Lord of high degree . The Dukes daughter was in her garden green she herd the Child make great moan , She ran to the child all weeping , and left her Maidens all alone . Sing on thy song thou bonny child , I will release thee of thy pain , I have made and oath Lady , he said , I dare not tell my tale again . Tell the horse thy tale thou bonny child , and so thy oath shall saved be , But when he told the horse his tale , the Lady wept most tenderly . I'le do for thee my bonny child , in faith I will do more for thee , And for thy sake my bonny child , I'le put my wedding off months three , The Lady did write a Letter then , full pitifully with her own hand : She sent it to the Lord of Lorn , whereas he dwelled in fair Scotland : But when the Lord had read the letter , his Lady wept most tenderly , I knew what would become of my Child , in such a far Country . The old Lord cal'd up his merry men , and all that he gave Cloth and Fee , With seven Lords by his side , and into France rides he ; The wind serv'd , and they did sail , so far into France Land : They were wear of the Lord of Lorn , with a Porters staff in his hand : The Lords they moved hat and hand , the Servingmen fell on their knee , What folks be yonder said the steward , that make the Porter courtesy : Thou art a false thief , quoth the Lord of Lorn , no longer might I bear with thee : By the Law of France thou shalt be judg'd , whither it be to live or die . A Quest of Lords there chosen was , to bench they came hastily : But when the Quest ended was , the false steward must die . First they did him half hang , and then they took him down anon , And then put him in boiling led and then was sodden breast and bone : And then bespoke the Lord of Lorn , with many other Lords more , Sir Duke if you be as willing as we , we'l have a Marriage before we go : These Children both they did rejoice to hear the Lord his tale so ended , They had rather today then tomorrow , so he would not be offended . But when the wedding ended was , their was delicate dainty cheer , I'le tell you how long the wedding did last full three quarters of a year . Such A pretty Ballad of the Lord of Lorn , and the False Steward . The Tune is , Green Sleeve IT was a worthy Lord of Lorn , he was a Lord of high degree , He sent his son unto the School , to learn some civility . He learned more in one day , then other Children did in three , And then bespoke the Schoolmaster , unto him tenderly . In faith thou art the honestest boy , that e're I blinkt on with mine eye : I hope thou art some Easterling born , the Holy Ghost is with thee : He said he was no Easterling born , the child thus answered courteously , My Father is the Lord of Lorn , and I his Son perdy . The Schoolmaster turned round about , his angry Mood he could not suage : He marveled the Child could speak so wise , he being of so tender age . He girded the Saddle to the Steed , the Bridle of best gold shown , He took his leave of his fellows all , and quickly he was gone . And when he came to his Father dear , he kneeled down upon his knee , I am come to you father , he said , Gods blessing give you me : Thou art wescome my son , he said , Gods blessing I thee give : What tidings hast thou brought my Son , being come so hastily , I have brought tidings Father , he said , and so liked it may be : There's ne'r a book in all Scotland , but I can read it truly : And there's ne'r a Doctor in all the Realm , for all he goes in rich array , I can write him a Lesson soon , to learn in seven years day : That is good tidings , said the Lord , all in the place where I do stand , My Son thou shalt into France go , to learn the speeches of each land : Who shall go with him said the Lady ? husband we have none but he : Madam , he said , my head Steward , he hath been true to me . She call'd the Steward to and account , a thousand pound she gave him anon , Says , good sir-Steward be good to my child when he is far from home : If I be false unto my young Lord , then God be like unto me indeed , And now to France they both are gone , and God be their good speed : They had not been in France in Land , not three weeks to and end , But meat nor drink the child god none , nor money in Purse to spend . The child runs to the Rivers side , he was fain to drink water then , And after followed the false Steward to put the Child therein : But nay marry , said the Child , he asked mercy pitifully , Good steward let me have my life , what e're betide my body . Now put off thy fair clothing , and give it me anon , So put thee off thy silken shirt , with many a golden seam . But when the child was stripped naked , his body white as the lily flower , He might have been seen for his body , a Princess Paramour , He put him on and old Kelter Coat , and hose of the same above the Knee , He bid him go to the Shepherd's house , to keep sheep on a love lovely : The child said , what shall be my name , good Steward tell to me , Thy name shall be poor dost thou wear , that thy name shall be . The child came to the Shepherd's house , and asked mercy pitifully , Says , good Shepherd take me in , to keep sheep on a love lovely , But when the Shepherd saw the child , he was so pleasant in the eye , I have no child , I'le make thee my heir , thou shalt have my goods perdy . And then bespoke the Shepherd's wife , unto the Child so tenderly , Thou must take the sheep & go to the field , and get them on a love lovely : Now let us leave talk of the child , that is keeping sheep on a love lovely , And we'l talk more of the false Steward , and of his false treachery ; He bought himself three suits of apparel that any Lor [ worser ] might a seem'd to worn , He went a wooing to the Dukes daughter and cal'd himself the Lord of Lorn . The Duke he welcomes the young Lord , with three ba [ k ] ed stags anon , If he had wist him [ m ] the false Steward , to the devil h [ e ] should have gone : But when they were at supper set , with dainty de [ l ] icates that were there , The Duke said , if that [ oh ] u wilt wed my daughter I'le give thee three thousand pound a year : The Lady would see the read buck run , and also for to [ h ] unt the Doe , And with a hund [ r ] ed lusty men , the Lady did a hunting go . The Lady is a h [ u ] nting gone , over Feanfel tO [ h ] at is so high , There was she she [ w ] are of a shepherd's boy , with sheep on [ a ] love lovely : And ever he sighs [ e ] worser and made moan , and cried out [ p ] ittyfully , My Father is that [ e ] Lord of Lorn and knows not what's become of me . And then bespak [ e ] the Lady gay , and to her ma [ i ] worser she spoke anon , Go fetch me hither the Shepherd's boy , why makes h [ e ] all this moan ? But when he ca [ m ] e before the Lady , he was not to learn his courtesy , Where wast thou born thou bonny child , for whose sake makest thou all this moan ? My dearest friend , Lady he said , is dead many y [ e ] ars agon . Tell thou to me thou bonny child , tell me the truth and do not lie , Know'st thou not the young Lord of Lorn ? he is come a wooing unto me : Yes forsooth , said the child , I know the Lord then verily : The young Lord is a valiant Lord , at home in his own Country . Wilt leave thy sheep thou bonny child , and come in service unto me , Yes forsooth then said the Child , at your bidding will I be . When the Steward looked upon the Child , he bewail'd him villanously , Where wast thou born thou Vagabond , or where is thy Country ? Would down would down said the Lady , she cal'd the Steward then presently , Without you bear him more good will , you get no love of me : Then bespoke the false Steward , unto the Lady hastily : At Abardine beyond the Sea , his Father robbed thousands three . BUt then bespoke the Lady gay , unto her Father courteously , Saying , I have found a bonny child , my Chamberlain to be : Not so , not so , then said the Duke ; for so it may not be , For the young Lord of Lorn he comes a woo-ing , will think no good of thee and me . When the Duke had looked upon the child , he seem'd so pleasant to the eye : Child , because thou lovest Horses well , my Groom of Stable thou shalt be . The Child plied the Horses well , a twelve month to and end , He was so courteous and so true , every man becomes his friend : He led a fair Gelding to the water , where he may drink verily , The Gelding up with his head and bit the Child above the eyr : Woe worth the Horse , then said the Child that ever Mare foled thee , Thou little knowest what thou hast done , thou hast stricken a Lord of high degree . The Dukes daughter was in her garden green she herd the Child make great moan , She ran to the child all weeping , and left her Maidens all alone . Sing on thy song thou bonny child , I will release thee of thy pain , I have made and oath Lady , he said , I dare not tell my tale again . Tell the horse thy tale thou bonny child , and so thy oath shall saved be , But when he told the horse his tale , the Lady wept most tenderly . I'le do for thee my bonny child , in faith I will do more for thee , And for thy sake my bonny child , I'le put my wedding off months three , The Lady did write a Letter then , full pitifully with her own hand : She sent it to the Lord of Lorn , whereas he dwelled in fair Scotland : But when the Lord had read the letter , his Lady wept most tenderly , I knew what would become of my Child , in such a far Country . The old Lord cal'd up his merry men , and all that he gave Cloth and Fee , With seven Lords by his side , and into France rides he ; The wind serv'd , and they did sail , so far into France Land : They were wear of the Lord of Lorn , with a Porters staff in his hand : The Lords they moved hat and hand , the Servingmen fell on their knee , What folks be yonder said the steward , that make the Porter courtesy : Thou art a false thief , quoth the Lord of Lorn , no longer might I bear with thee : By the Law of France thou shalt be judg'd , whither it be to live or die . A Quest of Lords there chosen was , to bench they came hastily : But when the Quest ended was , the false steward must die . First they did him half hang , and then they took him down anon , And then put him in boiling led and then was sodden breast and bone : And then bespoke the Lord of Lorn , with many other Lords more , Sir Duke if you be as willing as we , we'l have a Marriage before we go : These Children both they did rejoice to hear the Lord his tale so ended , They had rather today then tomorrow , so he would not be offended . But when the wedding ended was , their was delicate dainty cheer , I'le tell you how long the wedding did last full three quarters of a year . Such a banquet there was wrought , the like was never seen , The King of France brought with him then , a hundred Tun of good read wine : Five set of Musicians were to be seen , that never rested night nor day , Also Italians there did sing , full pleasantly with great joy . Thus have you herd what troubles great unto successive joys did turn , And happy news among the rest , unto the worthy Lord of Lorn . Let Rebels therefore warned be , how mischief once they do pretend , For God may suffer for a time , but will disclose it in the end . FINIS . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. [ ? ] a banquet there was wrought , the like was never seen , The King of France brought with him then , a hundred Tun of good read wine : Five set of Musicians were to be seen , that never rested night nor day , Also Italians there did sing , full pleasantly with great joy . Thus have you herd what troubles great unto successive joys did turn , And happy news among the rest , unto the worthy Lord of Lorn . Let Rebels therefore warned be , how mischief once they do pretend , For God may suffer for a time , but will disclose it in the end . FINIS . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. [ ? ] 