A Pleasant new Song betwixt a Sailor and his LOVE . To the tune of , Dulcina . WHat does ail my Love so sadly in such heavy dumps to stand ? Does she grieve or take unkindly that I am so nigh at hand ? Or does she vow She will not know , Nor speak to me when I do come ? If that be so Away I'll go . First kiss and bid me welcome home . Had I ever thee forsaken , putting thee out of my mind , Then thou might'st have justly spoken that I to thee was unkind , Or should I take Some other Mate , Then mightest thou have a cause to mourn , But let me die Before that I Do so then bid , etc Sooner shall the grass leave growing , from the Hare the Hound shall run , Husbandmen shall leave their sowing , floods shall run the Land upon , The Fish shall fly The Sea run dry , The Birds shall sing no more but mourn , Ere I of thee Unmindful be , Then kiss , etc Smile on me be not offended , pardon grant for my amiss , Let thy favour so befriend me , as to seal it with a kiis . To me I swear Thou art so dear , That for thy sake I'll fancy none , Then do not frown , But fit thee down , Sweet kiss , etc If thou had'st prov'd chaste Diana since from thee I did depart , I have as constant been to thee : for on thee fixed was my heart . No not for she , Jupiter see , Diana in her Tower alone Should me entice No , i'll be nice , Then kiss , etc No nor Venus Cupids Mother , nor the fairest wife of Jove Should Lucretia or some other , seek by gifts to win my love , Should Hellen fair To me compare , And unto me for love make moan , Yet none of those My mind shall please , Then kiss and bid me we [ l ] come home . FRom thy sighed though I were banished , yet I always was to thee , Far more kind then Ulisses to his chaste Penelope , For why away He once did stay , Ten years and left her all alone , But I from thee Have not been three , Sweet kiss and bid me welcome home . Come Sweetheart and fit down by me , and let thy lap my pillow be , While sweet sleep my mind beguileth , all my dreams shall be on thee , I pray thee stay , Steal not away , Let Lullaby be all thy Song , With kisses sweet Lull me asleep , Sweet kiss , etc The Woman's Answer . I Have been sad to see how from me thou so long from me did stay , Yet now I more rejoice to see thee happily arriv'd this way . Thou from our shore Shalt go no more To wander thus abroad alone , But thou shalt stay With me always , And her's my hand thou'rt welcome home I have prov'd Diana to thee since from me thou went'st away , I have Suitors well nigh twenty , and much ado I had to stay , But I denied When they replied , And sent them all away with scorn , For I had sworn To live forlorn , Until that I see thee come home . Seeing thou art home returned , thou shalt not go home in haste . But lovingly come fit down by me , let my arms embrace thy waste . Farewell annoy , Welcome my joy , Now lullaby shall be thy song , For now my heart Sings loath to part , Then kiss , etc Since sweetheart thou dost befriend me thus to take me to thy love Never more will I offend thee but will ever constant prove . Thou hast my heart , Not to depart , But ever constant to remain , And thou art mine And I am thine , Then let us kiss and welcome home . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and William Gilbertson . A Pleasant new Song betwixt a Sailor and his LOVE . To the tune of , Dulcina . WHat does ail my Love so sadly in such heavy dumps to stand ? Does she grieve or take unkindly that I am so nigh at hand ? Or does she vow She will not know , Nor speak to me when I do come ? If that be so Away I'll go . First kiss and bid me welcome home . Had I ever thee forsaken , putting thee out of my mind , Then thou might'st have justly spoken that I to thee was unkind , Or should I take Some other Mate , Then mightest thou have a cause to mourn , But let me die Before that I Do so then bid , etc Sooner shall the grass leave growing , from the Hare the Hound shall run , Husbandmen shall leave their sowing , floods shall run the Land upon , The Fish shall fly The Sea run dry , The Birds shall sing no more but mourn , Ere I of thee Unmindful be , Then kiss , etc Smile on me be not offended , pardon grant for my amiss , Let thy favour so befriend me , as to seal it with a kiis . To me I swear Thou art so dear , That for thy sake I'll fancy none , Then do not frown , But fit thee down , Sweet kiss , etc If thou had'st prov'd chaste Diana since from thee I did depart , I have as constant been to thee : for on thee fixed was my heart . No not for she , Jupiter see , Diana in her Tower alone Should me entice No , i'll be nice , Then kiss , etc No nor Venus Cupids Mother , nor the fairest wife of Jove Should Lucretia or some other , seek by gifts to win my love , Should Hellen fair To me compare , And unto me for love make moan , Yet none of those My mind shall please , Then kiss and bid me we [ l ] come home . FRom thy sighed though I were banished , yet I always was to thee , Far more kind then Ulisses to his chaste Penelope , For why away He once did stay , Ten years and left her all alone , But I from thee Have not been three , Sweet kiss and bid me welcome home . Come Sweetheart and fit down by me , and let thy lap my pillow be , While sweet sleep my mind beguileth , all my dreams shall be on thee , I pray thee stay , Steal not away , Let Lullaby be all thy Song , With kisses sweet Lull me asleep , Sweet kiss , etc The Woman's Answer . I Have been sad to see how from me thou so long from me did stay , Yet now I more rejoice to see thee happily arriv'd this way . Thou from our shore Shalt go no more To wander thus abroad alone , But thou shalt stay With me always , And her's my hand thou'rt welcome home I have prov'd Diana to thee since from me thou went'st away , I have Suitors well nigh twenty , and much ado I had to stay , But I denied When they replied , And sent them all away with scorn , For I had sworn To live forlorn , Until that I see thee come home . Seeing thou art home returned , thou shalt not go home in haste . But lovingly come fit down by me , let my arms embrace thy waste . Farewell annoy , Welcome my joy , Now lullaby shall be thy song , For now my heart Sings loath to part , Then kiss , etc Since sweetheart thou dost befriend me thus to take me to thy love Never more will I offend thee but will ever constant prove . Thou hast my heart , Not to depart , But ever constant to remain , And thou art mine And I am thine , Then let us kiss and welcome home . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and William Gilbertson . 