Prides fallen : Or , A warning for all English Women . By the Example of a strange Monster born of late in Germany , by a Merchant's proud Wife in Geneva . The Tune is , All you that love good Fellows . ENglands fair dainty Dams , see here the fallen of Pride , Wantonness leave in time , that God may be your guide ; I was a Dutch-land Vrow , shining in beauty bright , And a brave Merchant's wife , in whom he took delight . All things I had at will , my heart could wish or crave My diet dainty fare , my garments rich and brave : No wife in Germany , where I in pleasure dwel'd , For Golden bravery , my person so excel'd . My Coaches richly wrought , and decked with pearl and gold Carried me up and down , whereas my pleasure would : The earth I deem'd too base , my feet to tread upon , My blooming crimson cheeks , felt neither wind nor sun . My beauty made me think myself and Angel bright , Framed of heavenly mould , and not and earthly Wigh For my souls happiness , Gods holy Bible book , I had my Looking-glass , where I most pleasure took . There was no fashion found that might advance my pride , But in my Looking-glass my fancy soon espy'd : Every vain foolish toy , changes my wanton mind , And they best pleased me , that could new fashions find . Yet all those earthly joys , yielded me small content , In that Dame nature had ne'r a child to me sen That makes my heart to bleed , for which offence to God , He therefore grievously scourged me with his Rod . And in my tender womb , of so pure flesh and blood , Created he , strange to see , a most deformed brood : That women of wanton pride , may take example by , How they in fashion found , offend the Lord on high . When the babe came to light , and I brought to my bed , No cost was spar'd that night , to stand me in my steed : Nigh Nurse's young and fair , fit for a Royal Queen , Gave all attendance there , as it was daily seen . Never had Merchant's wife , of Ladies such a train , That came in gentle sort , at the hour of my pain : But when my swelling womb , yielded up nature's due , Such a strange monster then never man hardly knew . The second part , to the same Tune . FOr it affrighted so all the whole company , That e'r one said in heart , vengeance now draws nigh It had two faces strange , and two heads painted fair , On the brows curled locks , such as our wantons ware . One hand held right the shape of a fair looking-glass , In which I took delight , how my vain beauty was ; Right the shape of a Rod , scourging me for my since , The other seem'd to have , perfectly seen therein . These women's wantonness , and their vain foolish minds , Never contented are with that thing God assigns ; Look to it London Dams , God keepeth Plagues in store , And now the second part of this Song shows more . Grief and care kills my heart , where God offended is , As the poor Merchant's wife , did worldly comfort miss : Strange were the misery's , that she so long endur'd , No ease by women's help , could be as then procur'd . Hereupon speaks the child , with a voice fearfully , Mother your wanton pride , brings this your misery ; Let your life soon amend , or else the mighty God , Will scourge your wantonness with a more sharper Rod . About his neck a flaunting Ruff it had now gallantly , Starched with white and blue , seeming unto the eye , With laces long and broad , as now are women's bans , Thus heavy wanton Pride , first in Gods anger stands . The breast was plated over , as still the Merchant's be , Now as lew'd women wear , to hide Adultery : Every part , every limb , had not true nature's frame , But to show to the world , this my great since and shame . From the head to the foot , monsterlike was it born , Every part had the shape of fashions daily worn : On the feet pinked shoes , insteps had Roses read , Which in silk now is us'd , so vainly are we fed . Thus hath my flesh and blood , nourished now near my heart , Puts me now in mind of since , and bids me now convert ; Oh let us women then take heed of wanton pride , Angels have fallen from Heaven and for that since have dy'd . No sooner brought to light , was this fruit of my youth , But to the Council-house it was brought for a truth ; Where to the Magistrates in a most fearful sort , Began aloud to speak , and these words did report . I am a messenger , now sent from God on high , To bid you all repent , Christ coming draws nigh . Repent you all with speed , this is a message sure , The world seems at and end , and cannot long endure . Pride is the Prince of since , Which is our chief delight , Mankind repent with speed , before the Lord do smite , This is my last adieu , repentance soon provide , These were his latest words , and so the monster dy'd . Great was the fear of those , that these same speeches herd God grant all Christians may have their minds well prepar'd With true repentance , Gods mercy to implore , That never womankind , may bring such fruit forth more And you fair English dams , that in pride do excel , This woeful misery , in your hearts print full well : Let not Pride be your guide , for Pride will have a fallen , Maid and Wife , let my life , be warning to you all . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . Prides fallen : Or , A warning for all English Women . By the Example of a strange Monster born of late in Germany , by a Merchant's proud Wife in Geneva . The Tune is , All you that love good Fellows . ENglands fair dainty Dams , see here the fallen of Pride , Wantonness leave in time , that God may be your guide ; I was a Dutch-land Vrow , shining in beauty bright , And a brave Merchant's wife , in whom he took delight . All things I had at will , my heart could wish or crave My diet dainty fare , my garments rich and brave : No wife in Germany , where I in pleasure dwel'd , For Golden bravery , my person so excel'd . My Coaches richly wrought , and decked with pearl and gold Carried me up and down , whereas my pleasure would : The earth I deem'd too base , my feet to tread upon , My blooming crimson cheeks , felt neither wind nor sun . My beauty made me think myself and Angel bright , Framed of heavenly mould , and not and earthly Wigh For my souls happiness , Gods holy Bible book , I had my Looking-glass , where I most pleasure took . There was no fashion found that might advance my pride , But in my Looking-glass my fancy soon espy'd : Every vain foolish toy , changes my wanton mind , And they best pleased me , that could new fashions find . Yet all those earthly joys , yielded me small content , In that Dame nature had ne'r a child to me sen That makes my heart to bleed , for which offence to God , He therefore grievously scourged me with his Rod . And in my tender womb , of so pure flesh and blood , Created he , strange to see , a most deformed brood : That women of wanton pride , may take example by , How they in fashion found , offend the Lord on high . When the babe came to light , and I brought to my bed , No cost was spar'd that night , to stand me in my steed : Nigh Nurse's young and fair , fit for a Royal Queen , Gave all attendance there , as it was daily seen . Never had Merchant's wife , of Ladies such a train , That came in gentle sort , at the hour of my pain : But when my swelling womb , yielded up nature's due , Such a strange monster then never man hardly knew . The second part , to the same Tune . FOr it affrighted so all the whole company , That e'r one said in heart , vengeance now draws nigh It had two faces strange , and two heads painted fair , On the brows curled locks , such as our wantons ware . One hand held right the shape of a fair looking-glass , In which I took delight , how my vain beauty was ; Right the shape of a Rod , scourging me for my since , The other seem'd to have , perfectly seen therein . These women's wantonness , and their vain foolish minds , Never contented are with that thing God assigns ; Look to it London Dams , God keepeth Plagues in store , And now the second part of this Song shows more . Grief and care kills my heart , where God offended is , As the poor Merchant's wife , did worldly comfort miss : Strange were the misery's , that she so long endur'd , No ease by women's help , could be as then procur'd . Hereupon speaks the child , with a voice fearfully , Mother your wanton pride , brings this your misery ; Let your life soon amend , or else the mighty God , Will scourge your wantonness with a more sharper Rod . About his neck a flaunting Ruff it had now gallantly , Starched with white and blue , seeming unto the eye , With laces long and broad , as now are women's bans , Thus heavy wanton Pride , first in Gods anger stands . The breast was plated over , as still the Merchant's be , Now as lew'd women wear , to hide Adultery : Every part , every limb , had not true nature's frame , But to show to the world , this my great since and shame . From the head to the foot , monsterlike was it born , Every part had the shape of fashions daily worn : On the feet pinked shoes , insteps had Roses read , Which in silk now is us'd , so vainly are we fed . Thus hath my flesh and blood , nourished now near my heart , Puts me now in mind of since , and bids me now convert ; Oh let us women then take heed of wanton pride , Angels have fallen from Heaven and for that since have dy'd . No sooner brought to light , was this fruit of my youth , But to the Council-house it was brought for a truth ; Where to the Magistrates in a most fearful sort , Began aloud to speak , and these words did report . I am a messenger , now sent from God on high , To bid you all repent , Christ coming draws nigh . Repent you all with speed , this is a message sure , The world seems at and end , and cannot long endure . Pride is the Prince of since , Which is our chief delight , Mankind repent with speed , before the Lord do smite , This is my last adieu , repentance soon provide , These were his latest words , and so the monster dy'd . Great was the fear of those , that these same speeches herd God grant all Christians may have their minds well prepar'd With true repentance , Gods mercy to implore , That never womankind , may bring such fruit forth more And you fair English dams , that in pride do excel , This woeful misery , in your hearts print full well : Let not Pride be your guide , for Pride will have a fallen , Maid and Wife , let my life , be warning to you all . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . 