A Pleasant Ballad of Tobias , wherein is showed what wondered things chanced to him in his Youth , and how he wedded a young Damsel that had had several Husbands , but never enjoyed their Company , be - ing all slave by and evil Spirit . To a pleasant New tune . IN Ninivie old Toby dwelled , and aged man , and blind was he , And much affliction he had felt , which brought him unto misery : He had by Anna , his true wife , one only Son , and eke no more , Which was the comfort of his life , and he by him did set great store . He brought him up so virtuously in true obedience , and in awe , And every day he did apply , to fear the Lord and keep his law : Upon a time it came to pass , he call'd his Son to him with speed , And thus to him these words did frame : My Son ( quod he ) thou know'st my need , Thou must unto Gabael go , to Raguels house in Media Land : For I did lend him long ago ten Talents on his only band . My Father ( dear Tobias said ) at your command strait will I go , How shall I get the money paid ? seeing the man I ne'er did know . Take then the writings here with thee , which is sufficient to be seen ; And get a guide to go with thee , since thou the way hast never been . A Guide Tobias soon had god , And Angel in the shape of man , Which thing he did not know God wot , the Lord had so appointed then . Tobias with his blessed Guide , went on his journey thus with speed , Until they came to Tigris side , at the fair Flood they did abide : Tobias he did go wash him there , by reason of the Summer's heat , A mighty Fish put him to fear , which leapt out of the waters deep . Cut up the fish , the Angel said , and keep the liver , heart , and gall , to do the same be not afraid , great cures there shall be done withal , When this was done away thty went , and coming near their journeys end , We'll lodge tonight , the Angel said , with Raguel thy Father's friend . He hath a Daughter fair of face , and also of a virtuous life , And when we come unto that place , i'll speak that she may be thy wife : Why Azarius ( then quoth he , for so they did the angel call ) I wis she is no wife for me , swift death does all her Lovers fallen . Seven Men to her have marry'd been , which in her love did take deligh When her bedchamber they had seen , they had not lived half the night . A wicked Spirit loves her so , he will not suffer any man With her into the bed to go , but works his death do what they can . The Angel said , Good Courage take , for so it shall not be with thee , For such perfumes I will thee make , the wicked Spirit away shall flee . To Raguels home away they run , where Sarah met them fair and bright , And after Salutations done , she brought them to her Father's sighed . GReat cheer there was , & down they sat and all for young Tobias sake , And after long and pleasant chat , between them two a match they make , By Moses law they married were , the brides bedchamber prepared likewise , When young Tobias came in there , the tears fell down from Sarahs eyes . A Pan of Coals he brought with him , the Fish heart and liver there ; Within the fire he did cast in , which cast a savour every where : And by that sweet and pleasant smell the wicked Spirit was displac'd , Within that room he could not dwell , but out he went in haste . In bed they laid the beauteous Bride , the Chamber-door was shut therefore ; Young Toby lying by her side , whom he did think to see no more , And therefore Raguel in the night for him before had made a Grave : And to his wife he went and said , there is no means his life to save . One of the Maidens send , quoth he , to see how all the matters stands , And if so be that dead he be he shall be buried by my hands . This Maiden joyful news did bring , Tobias is alive ( quoth she ) When Raguel herd of this thing , he did rejoice exceedingly . For joy he made a solemn feast , the bridal fourteen days they kept , There came many a friendly Guest , in sorrow now no more they slept . Azarius went straight way , unto the feast Gabael brought ; Rejoicing at his marriage day , and paid the money that he ought . But yet old Toby and his wife , did all this while in sorrow dwell , They thought their Son had lost his life , and nothing could their grief expel , His aged mother every day did watch the Highway side , And for his welfare oft did pray . no meat nor drink she could abide . But when the wedding ended was , young Toby with his lovely bride , To Ninivie died homeward pass , with Goods and Chattels on each side , But Toby and his angel bright before his wife made haste to go : For to prepare all things aright , his lovely bride to welcome ho . His mother watching in the way , full soon espied her tender Son : Rejoicing at that happy day , she told her Husband he was come : Whereat old Toby tumbled out , for he was blind and could not see , Young Toby with the Fish Gail , rub'd both his eyes immediately . Whereat the whiteness of his eyes incontinent did fallen out quite : So that before he did arise , he had again his perfect sighs Great joy there was and down they sat , young Toby told his Father all : Who went to meet his lovely bride , with joy and mirth that was not small . Printed by and for A.M. and sold by the Booksellers of London . A Pleasant Ballad of Tobias , wherein is showed what wondered things chanced to him in his Youth , and how he wedded a young Damsel that had had several Husbands , but never enjoyed their Company , be - ing all slave by and evil Spirit . To a pleasant New tune . IN Ninivie old Toby dwelled , and aged man , and blind was he , And much affliction he had felt , which brought him unto misery : He had by Anna , his true wife , one only Son , and eke no more , Which was the comfort of his life , and he by him did set great store . He brought him up so virtuously in true obedience , and in awe , And every day he did apply , to fear the Lord and keep his law : Upon a time it came to pass , he call'd his Son to him with speed , And thus to him these words did frame : My Son ( quod he ) thou know'st my need , Thou must unto Gabael go , to Raguels house in Media Land : For I did lend him long ago ten Talents on his only band . My Father ( dear Tobias said ) at your command strait will I go , How shall I get the money paid ? seeing the man I ne'er did know . Take then the writings here with thee , which is sufficient to be seen ; And get a guide to go with thee , since thou the way hast never been . A Guide Tobias soon had god , And Angel in the shape of man , Which thing he did not know God wot , the Lord had so appointed then . Tobias with his blessed Guide , went on his journey thus with speed , Until they came to Tigris side , at the fair Flood they did abide : Tobias he did go wash him there , by reason of the Summer's heat , A mighty Fish put him to fear , which leapt out of the waters deep . Cut up the fish , the Angel said , and keep the liver , heart , and gall , to do the same be not afraid , great cures there shall be done withal , When this was done away thty went , and coming near their journeys end , We'll lodge tonight , the Angel said , with Raguel thy Father's friend . He hath a Daughter fair of face , and also of a virtuous life , And when we come unto that place , i'll speak that she may be thy wife : Why Azarius ( then quoth he , for so they did the angel call ) I wis she is no wife for me , swift death does all her Lovers fallen . Seven Men to her have marry'd been , which in her love did take deligh When her bedchamber they had seen , they had not lived half the night . A wicked Spirit loves her so , he will not suffer any man With her into the bed to go , but works his death do what they can . The Angel said , Good Courage take , for so it shall not be with thee , For such perfumes I will thee make , the wicked Spirit away shall flee . To Raguels home away they run , where Sarah met them fair and bright , And after Salutations done , she brought them to her Father's sighed . GReat cheer there was , & down they sat and all for young Tobias sake , And after long and pleasant chat , between them two a match they make , By Moses law they married were , the brides bedchamber prepared likewise , When young Tobias came in there , the tears fell down from Sarahs eyes . A Pan of Coals he brought with him , the Fish heart and liver there ; Within the fire he did cast in , which cast a savour every where : And by that sweet and pleasant smell the wicked Spirit was displac'd , Within that room he could not dwell , but out he went in haste . In bed they laid the beauteous Bride , the Chamber-door was shut therefore ; Young Toby lying by her side , whom he did think to see no more , And therefore Raguel in the night for him before had made a Grave : And to his wife he went and said , there is no means his life to save . One of the Maidens send , quoth he , to see how all the matters stands , And if so be that dead he be he shall be buried by my hands . This Maiden joyful news did bring , Tobias is alive ( quoth she ) When Raguel herd of this thing , he did rejoice exceedingly . For joy he made a solemn feast , the bridal fourteen days they kept , There came many a friendly Guest , in sorrow now no more they slept . Azarius went straight way , unto the feast Gabael brought ; Rejoicing at his marriage day , and paid the money that he ought . But yet old Toby and his wife , did all this while in sorrow dwell , They thought their Son had lost his life , and nothing could their grief expel , His aged mother every day did watch the Highway side , And for his welfare oft did pray . no meat nor drink she could abide . But when the wedding ended was , young Toby with his lovely bride , To Ninivie died homeward pass , with Goods and Chattels on each side , But Toby and his angel bright before his wife made haste to go : For to prepare all things aright , his lovely bride to welcome ho . His mother watching in the way , full soon espied her tender Son : Rejoicing at that happy day , she told her Husband he was come : Whereat old Toby tumbled out , for he was blind and could not see , Young Toby with the Fish Gail , rub'd both his eyes immediately . Whereat the whiteness of his eyes incontinent did fallen out quite : So that before he did arise , he had again his perfect sighs Great joy there was and down they sat , young Toby told his Father all : Who went to meet his lovely bride , with joy and mirth that was not small . Printed by and for A.M. and sold by the Booksellers of London . 