E : 274 A pleasant new Ballad of King Edward the fourth and a Tanner of Tamworth as he road a Hunting with his Nobles towards Drayton Basset To and excellent new tune . IN Summer time when Leaves grow green , and Birds sitting on every tree , King Edward would a hunting ride , some pastime for to see , Our King he would a hunting ride by eight a clock of the day , And well was he aware of a bold Tanner , came riding on the way : A good Russet Coat the Tanner had on , fast buttoned under his chin . And under him a good Cowhide , and a Mare of four shilling , Now stand you here my good Lords all ; under this trusty tree . And I will weened to yonder fellow to know from whence came he . God speed God speed then said our King , thou art welcome good fellow quoth he , Which is the way to Drayton-Basset I pray thee show to me , The ready way to Drayton-Basset , from this place as thou dost stand , The next pair of Gallows thou comest to , thou must turn up thy right hand . That is not the way then said our King , the ready way I pray thee show me , whither thou be thief or true man quod the tanner I'm weary of thy company . Away with a vengeance quoth the Tanner , I hold the out of thy wit , For all this day have I ridden and gone , and I am fasting yet . Go with me to Drayton-Basset said our King , no dainties we will lack , We'l have meat and drink of the best , and I will pay the shot . Godamercy for nothing said the Tanner , thou shalt pay for no dinner of mine , I have more Groats and Nobles in my purse , then thou hast pence in thine . God save your goods then said the King , and send them well to thee , Be thou thief or true man quoth the Tanner , I am weary of thy company . Away with a Vengeance quoth the Tanner , of thee I stand in fear , The Apparel thou wearest on thy Back , may seem a good Lord to wear . I never stole them said our King , I swear to thee by the Rood , Thou art some Ruffian of the Country , thou rid'st in the midst of the good . What news dost thou hear then said our King I pray what news do you hear , I hear no news answered the Tanner , but that Cow hides be dear . Cow hides , Cow hides , then said our King , I marvel what they be , Why art thou a fool quoth the Tanner , look I have one under me . Yet one thing now I would thee pray , so that thou wouldst not be strange , If thy Mare be better then my steed , I pray thee let us change , But if you needs with me will change , as change full well may you , By the faith of my body quoth the Tanner I look to have boot of thee . What boot wilt thou ask then said our King what boot dost thou ask on this ground , No pence , no half pence , said our King , but a Noble in gold soronnd . The second part , To the same tune , HEres twenty good groats then said the King , so well paid see you be , I love thee better then I did before , I thought thou hadst never a penny . But if so be we needs must change , as change thou must abide , Though thou hast got Brock my Mare , thou shalt no have my Cow hide . The Tanner took the good Cow hide that of the Cow was hilt And threw it npon the Kings Saddle that was so fairly gilded . Now help me , help me , quoth the Tanner full quickly that I were gone , For when I come home to Gillian my wife , she'l say I'm a Gentleman . The King took the Tanner by the Leg , he girded a fart so round , Your very homely said the King , were I aware I'd laid you o'th ground . But when the Tanner was in the Kings saddle astoned then he was . He knew not the stirrups that he did wear , whither they were gold or brass . But when the steed saw the black cow tale wag , for and the black Cow horn , The steed began to run away , as the Devil the Tanner had born . Until he came unto a Nook , a little beside and Ash , The steed gave the Tanner such a fallen , his neck was almost braced . Take thy horse again with a vengeance he said with me he shall not abide It is no marvel said the King and laughed , he knew not your Cow hide . But if that we needs now must change , as change that well we might , I'll swear to you plain if you have your Mare I look to have some boot . What boot will you ask quoth the Tanner , what boot will you ask in this ground , No pence , nor half pence , said our King , but a Noble in gold so round . Heres twenty groats said the Tanner , and twenty more I have of thine , I have ten groat more in my purse , we'l drink five of them at the wine , The King set a bugle horn to his mouth , that blew both loud and shrill , And five hundred Lords and Knights , came riding over a hill . Away with a vengeance quoth the Tanner , with thee I'le no longer abide , Thou art a strong thief yonder be thy fellows , they will steal away my cow hide . No I protest then said our King , for so it may not be , They be the Lords of Drayton-Basset come out of the North Country . But when they came before the King , full low they fell on their knee , The Tanner had rather then a thousand pound he had been out of his company , A Choler a Collar then said the King , a Choler then did he cry , Then would he have given a thousand pound , he had not been so nigh . A Choler a Choler then quod the Tanner , it is a thing which will breed sorrow , For after a Choler comes a halter . and I shall be hanged to morrow . No do not fear the King did say , for pastime thou hast shown me , No Choler nor halter thou shalt have , but I will give the a fee . For Plompton Park I will give thee , with Tenements three beside , Which is worth three hundred pound a year , to maintain thy good Cow hide . Godamercy , Godamercy quoth the Tanner , for this good deed thou hast done , If ever thou comest to merry Tamworth thou shalt have clouting Leather for thy shone Printed for F , Coals , T. Vere , and W. Gilbertson . E : 274 A pleasant new Ballad of King Edward the fourth and a Tanner of Tamworth as he road a Hunting with his Nobles towards Drayton Basset To and excellent new tune . IN Summer time when Leaves grow green , and Birds sitting on every tree , King Edward would a hunting ride , some pastime for to see , Our King he would a hunting ride by eight a clock of the day , And well was he aware of a bold Tanner , came riding on the way : A good Russet Coat the Tanner had on , fast buttoned under his chin . And under him a good Cowhide , and a Mare of four shilling , Now stand you here my good Lords all ; under this trusty tree . And I will weened to yonder fellow to know from whence came he . God speed God speed then said our King , thou art welcome good fellow quoth he , Which is the way to Drayton-Basset I pray thee show to me , The ready way to Drayton-Basset , from this place as thou dost stand , The next pair of Gallows thou comest to , thou must turn up thy right hand . That is not the way then said our King , the ready way I pray thee show me , whither thou be thief or true man quod the tanner I'm weary of thy company . Away with a vengeance quoth the Tanner , I hold the out of thy wit , For all this day have I ridden and gone , and I am fasting yet . Go with me to Drayton-Basset said our King , no dainties we will lack , We'l have meat and drink of the best , and I will pay the shot . Godamercy for nothing said the Tanner , thou shalt pay for no dinner of mine , I have more Groats and Nobles in my purse , then thou hast pence in thine . God save your goods then said the King , and send them well to thee , Be thou thief or true man quoth the Tanner , I am weary of thy company . Away with a Vengeance quoth the Tanner , of thee I stand in fear , The Apparel thou wearest on thy Back , may seem a good Lord to wear . I never stole them said our King , I swear to thee by the Rood , Thou art some Ruffian of the Country , thou rid'st in the midst of the good . What news dost thou hear then said our King I pray what news do you hear , I hear no news answered the Tanner , but that Cow hides be dear . Cow hides , Cow hides , then said our King , I marvel what they be , Why art thou a fool quoth the Tanner , look I have one under me . Yet one thing now I would thee pray , so that thou wouldst not be strange , If thy Mare be better then my steed , I pray thee let us change , But if you needs with me will change , as change full well may you , By the faith of my body quoth the Tanner I look to have boot of thee . What boot wilt thou ask then said our King what boot dost thou ask on this ground , No pence , no half pence , said our King , but a Noble in gold soronnd . The second part , To the same tune , HEres twenty good groats then said the King , so well paid see you be , I love thee better then I did before , I thought thou hadst never a penny . But if so be we needs must change , as change thou must abide , Though thou hast got Brock my Mare , thou shalt no have my Cow hide . The Tanner took the good Cow hide that of the Cow was hilt And threw it npon the Kings Saddle that was so fairly gilded . Now help me , help me , quoth the Tanner full quickly that I were gone , For when I come home to Gillian my wife , she'l say I'm a Gentleman . The King took the Tanner by the Leg , he girded a fart so round , Your very homely said the King , were I aware I'd laid you o'th ground . But when the Tanner was in the Kings saddle astoned then he was . He knew not the stirrups that he did wear , whither they were gold or brass . But when the steed saw the black cow tale wag , for and the black Cow horn , The steed began to run away , as the Devil the Tanner had born . Until he came unto a Nook , a little beside and Ash , The steed gave the Tanner such a fallen , his neck was almost braced . Take thy horse again with a vengeance he said with me he shall not abide It is no marvel said the King and laughed , he knew not your Cow hide . But if that we needs now must change , as change that well we might , I'll swear to you plain if you have your Mare I look to have some boot . What boot will you ask quoth the Tanner , what boot will you ask in this ground , No pence , nor half pence , said our King , but a Noble in gold so round . Heres twenty groats said the Tanner , and twenty more I have of thine , I have ten groat more in my purse , we'l drink five of them at the wine , The King set a bugle horn to his mouth , that blew both loud and shrill , And five hundred Lords and Knights , came riding over a hill . Away with a vengeance quoth the Tanner , with thee I'le no longer abide , Thou art a strong thief yonder be thy fellows , they will steal away my cow hide . No I protest then said our King , for so it may not be , They be the Lords of Drayton-Basset come out of the North Country . But when they came before the King , full low they fell on their knee , The Tanner had rather then a thousand pound he had been out of his company , A Choler a Collar then said the King , a Choler then did he cry , Then would he have given a thousand pound , he had not been so nigh . A Choler a Choler then quod the Tanner , it is a thing which will breed sorrow , For after a Choler comes a halter . and I shall be hanged to morrow . No do not fear the King did say , for pastime thou hast shown me , No Choler nor halter thou shalt have , but I will give the a fee . For Plompton Park I will give thee , with Tenements three beside , Which is worth three hundred pound a year , to maintain thy good Cow hide . Godamercy , Godamercy quoth the Tanner , for this good deed thou hast done , If ever thou comest to merry Tamworth thou shalt have clouting Leather for thy shone Printed for F , Coals , T. Vere , and W. Gilbertson . 