E : 275 Poor Anthony's Complaint And Lamentation against his Misery's of MARRIAGE , meeting with a scolding WIFE . To the Tune of , Cold and Raw . The Journeyman Shoemaker . Or , Billy and Molly . WAs ever Man so vexed with a Wife in Suburbs or in City ? I live a discontented life , alas , the more's the pity : I must to Bed now I am wed before I fill my Belly , Or else I have a broken head , 'tis a hard case I tell you . When I would eat she calls me sot , and maundering Broth does bring me , So scolding , that is , scolding hight , the very stream does sting me ; Then you that live a single life I wish you to beware , For Marriage often breeds strife , and always brings care . A dismal Peal to me is rung , while I Rock Bearn in Cradle , Oh! bless me from her scolding tongue , and from her basting Ladle . O that I were a single man as I was heretofore sir , I would not kiss young Kate or Nan , nor never marry more sir . My Wife does lug me by the ears if I but ask for Bacon , And flouts and taunts and scolds and jears , but she must have her Capon : She kicks me up and down the house , and roars as loud as Thunder , While I am silent as a Mouse , hold up my hands and wonder . ABout the Room she often routs for to find fault and quarrel , Although I wash the shitten Clouts and clean the Small Beer Barrel : The Tongue's and Irons though I scour , and make her fire daily , Yet I have not one quiet hour she bums me like a Baily . I drudge and toil , and am her slave , and clean both Pots and Flagon , I cannot tell what she would have she is so like a Dragon ; She makes me weary of my life for I can get no quiet , The livelong day I live in strife , and Scolding is my Diet. She'l often rise from Spinning-wheel to make me dance the Borey , And make me taste so oft salt Eel , I grow a mere John Dorey , She is a Chip of the old block , ( such Chips are but too common ) A sour piece of Crabtree stock , a brawling bawling woman . One night she went to take the Pot , and all bepissed me sweetly , A leaky Cullander she god , which made the Bed feel featly : My Dear ( quoth I ) you piss beside upon my Face and Pillow ; Peace Cuckold , peace , go sleep she cry'd , you are a lying fellow . I feel 'tis not quite to my thumb , it can be no such matter , Thus she pist on the Bed & Room , and soak'd me in salt water , She forc'd me to rise at night , or else to lie in pickle , For I was in a pissen plighted by this same Madam Fickle . By me let others warning take when they intend to marry , lest they ( like me ) repent too late . and quickly do miscarry . The married life is full of strife , and full of Horns I fear it ; Then prithee do not take a Wife , but take a Glass of Claret . This may be Printed . R. P. Printed for J. Conyers at the Black Raven on Holborn Hill. E : 275 Poor Anthony's Complaint And Lamentation against his Misery's of MARRIAGE , meeting with a scolding WIFE . To the Tune of , Cold and Raw . The Journeyman Shoemaker . Or , Billy and Molly . WAs ever Man so vexed with a Wife in Suburbs or in City ? I live a discontented life , alas , the more's the pity : I must to Bed now I am wed before I fill my Belly , Or else I have a broken head , 'tis a hard case I tell you . When I would eat she calls me sot , and maundering Broth does bring me , So scolding , that is , scolding hight , the very stream does sting me ; Then you that live a single life I wish you to beware , For Marriage often breeds strife , and always brings care . A dismal Peal to me is rung , while I Rock Bearn in Cradle , Oh! bless me from her scolding tongue , and from her basting Ladle . O that I were a single man as I was heretofore sir , I would not kiss young Kate or Nan , nor never marry more sir . My Wife does lug me by the ears if I but ask for Bacon , And flouts and taunts and scolds and jears , but she must have her Capon : She kicks me up and down the house , and roars as loud as Thunder , While I am silent as a Mouse , hold up my hands and wonder . ABout the Room she often routs for to find fault and quarrel , Although I wash the shitten Clouts and clean the Small Beer Barrel : The Tongue's and Irons though I scour , and make her fire daily , Yet I have not one quiet hour she bums me like a Baily . I drudge and toil , and am her slave , and clean both Pots and Flagon , I cannot tell what she would have she is so like a Dragon ; She makes me weary of my life for I can get no quiet , The livelong day I live in strife , and Scolding is my Diet. She'l often rise from Spinning-wheel to make me dance the Borey , And make me taste so oft salt Eel , I grow a mere John Dorey , She is a Chip of the old block , ( such Chips are but too common ) A sour piece of Crabtree stock , a brawling bawling woman . One night she went to take the Pot , and all bepissed me sweetly , A leaky Cullander she god , which made the Bed feel featly : My Dear ( quoth I ) you piss beside upon my Face and Pillow ; Peace Cuckold , peace , go sleep she cry'd , you are a lying fellow . I feel 'tis not quite to my thumb , it can be no such matter , Thus she pist on the Bed & Room , and soak'd me in salt water , She forc'd me to rise at night , or else to lie in pickle , For I was in a pissen plighted by this same Madam Fickle . By me let others warning take when they intend to marry , lest they ( like me ) repent too late . and quickly do miscarry . The married life is full of strife , and full of Horns I fear it ; Then prithee do not take a Wife , but take a Glass of Claret . This may be Printed . R. P. Printed for J. Conyers at the Black Raven on Holborn Hill. 