E : 273 A pleasant new Ballad of King Edward the Fourth , and a Tanner of Tamworth , as he road a Hunting with his Nobles to Drayton Basset . To and Excellent New Tune . IN Summer time , when leaves grow green , and birds were singing on every tree : King Edward would a hunting ride , some pastime for to see : Our King would a hunting ride , by eight a clock of the day , And well was he aware of a bold Tanner , come riding on the way . A good Russet coat the Tanner had on , fast buttoned under his Chin And under him a good Cowhide , and a Mare of four shilling . Now stand you here my good Lords all , under this trusty tree , And I will weened to yonder fellow , to know from whence came he . God speed God speed , then said our King , thou art welcome good fellow , quoth he , Which is the way to Drayton Basset , I pray thee show to me : The ready way to Drayton Basset , from this place as thou dost stand , The next pair of Gallows thou comest to , thou must turn up on thy right hand . That is not the way , then said our King : the ready way I pray thee show me : Whither thou be thief or true man , quoth the Tanner , I me weary of thy company . Away with a vengeance ( quoth the Tanner ) I hold thee out of thy wit , For all this day have I ridden and gone , and I am fasting yet . Go with me to Drayton Basset , said our King , no dainties we will lack , Well have meat and drink of the best , and I will pay the shot . God-a-mercy for nothing said the Tanner , thou shalt pay for no dinner of mine , I have more groats and Nobles in my Purse , then thou hast pence in thine . God save your Goods then said our King , and send them well to thee : Be thou thief or true man , quoth the Tanner , I am weary of thy company : Away with a vengeance ( quoth the Tanner ) of thee [ I ] stand in fear : The apparel thou wearest on thy back , may seem a good Lord to wear : I never stole them , said our King , I swear to thee by the rood : Thou art some Ruffian of the Country , thou rid'st in the midst of the Wood : What news dost thou hear then said our King I pray thee what news dost thou hear , I hear no news answered the Tanner , but that Cowhides be dear . The second Part , to the same tune . Cowhides , Cowhides , then said our King , I marvel what they be : Why art thou a fool . ( quoth the Tanner ) look I have one under me : Yet one thing now I would thee pray , so that thou would not be strange , If thy Mare be better then my Steed , I pray thee let us change . But if thou needs with me will change , as change full well may you ? By the faith of my body ( quoth the Tanner , I look to have some boot of thee : What boot will you have , then said our King , what boot dost thou ask on this ground , No pence nor halfpennies , said the Tanner , but a noble in gold so round . Here's twenty good groats then said our King so well paid see you be : I love thee better then I did before , I thought thou hadst ne'r a penny . But if so be we needs must change , as change thou must abide , Though thou hast got Brock my Mare , thou shalt not have my Cowhide . The Tanner took the good Cowhide , that of the Cow was hilt , And threw it upon the Kings saddle , that was so fairly gilded Now help me , quoth the Tanner , full quickly that I were gone , And when I come home to G [ il ] lian my wife , she [ ' ] l say [ I ] am a Gentleman . The King took the Tanner by the leg , he girded a fart so round , You'r very homely said the King : were I aware I had laid you oh the ground : When the Tanner was in the Kings Saddle , astonished then he was , He knew not the stirrups that he did wear , whither they were gold or brass : But when the Steed saw the black Cow-tale wag and before the black Cow-horn , The Steed began to run away , as the Devil the Tanner had born : Until he came into a nook , a little beside and Oak , The steed gave the Tanner such a fallen , his neck was almost broke . Take thy horse again with a vengeance he said with me he shall not abide . It is no marvel ( said the King ) and laughed , he knew not your Cowhide . But if that we needs must change , As change well now we might I le swear to you plain if you have my Mare , I look to have some boot . What boot will you ask ( quoth the Tanner ) what boot will you ask on this ground ? No pence , nor half pence , ( said our King ) but a Noble in gold so round . Here s twenty good groats , said the Tanner , and twenty more I have of thine , I have ten groats more in my purse , we'l drink five of them at the wine : The King set a Bugle-horn to his mouth , and blew both loud and shrill , And five hundred Lords and Knights came riding over a hill . Away with a vengeance ( quoth the Tanner ) with thee I le no longer abide , Thou art a strong thief yonder be thy fellows , they will steal away my Cowhide : No I protest then said our King , for so it may not be , They be the Lords of Drayton Basset , come out of the North-Country . But when they came before the King , full low then fell on their knee , The tanner had rather then a thousand pound , he had been out of his company : A Collar a Collar then said the King , a Collar then did he cry , Then would he gave a thousand pound , he had not been so nigh : A Collar , a Collar quoth the tanner , it is a thing will breed sorrow , For after a Collar , comes a Halter , and I shall be hanged to morrow : No , do not fear the King did say , for pastime thou hast shown me , No Collar , nor Halter , thou shalt have , but I will give thee a fee : For Plumpton Park I will give thee , with tenements three beside . Which is worth three hundred pound a year , to maintain thy good Cowhide : God-a-mercy , God-a-mercy , ( quod the tanner ) for this good deed thou hast done , If ever thou comest to merry Tamworth , thou shalt have clout-leather for thy shoes Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . E : 273 A pleasant new Ballad of King Edward the Fourth , and a Tanner of Tamworth , as he road a Hunting with his Nobles to Drayton Basset . To and Excellent New Tune . IN Summer time , when leaves grow green , and birds were singing on every tree : King Edward would a hunting ride , some pastime for to see : Our King would a hunting ride , by eight a clock of the day , And well was he aware of a bold Tanner , come riding on the way . A good Russet coat the Tanner had on , fast buttoned under his Chin And under him a good Cowhide , and a Mare of four shilling . Now stand you here my good Lords all , under this trusty tree , And I will weened to yonder fellow , to know from whence came he . God speed God speed , then said our King , thou art welcome good fellow , quoth he , Which is the way to Drayton Basset , I pray thee show to me : The ready way to Drayton Basset , from this place as thou dost stand , The next pair of Gallows thou comest to , thou must turn up on thy right hand . That is not the way , then said our King : the ready way I pray thee show me : Whither thou be thief or true man , quoth the Tanner , I me weary of thy company . Away with a vengeance ( quoth the Tanner ) I hold thee out of thy wit , For all this day have I ridden and gone , and I am fasting yet . Go with me to Drayton Basset , said our King , no dainties we will lack , Well have meat and drink of the best , and I will pay the shot . God-a-mercy for nothing said the Tanner , thou shalt pay for no dinner of mine , I have more groats and Nobles in my Purse , then thou hast pence in thine . God save your Goods then said our King , and send them well to thee : Be thou thief or true man , quoth the Tanner , I am weary of thy company : Away with a vengeance ( quoth the Tanner ) of thee [ I ] stand in fear : The apparel thou wearest on thy back , may seem a good Lord to wear : I never stole them , said our King , I swear to thee by the rood : Thou art some Ruffian of the Country , thou rid'st in the midst of the Wood : What news dost thou hear then said our King I pray thee what news dost thou hear , I hear no news answered the Tanner , but that Cowhides be dear . The second Part , to the same tune . Cowhides , Cowhides , then said our King , I marvel what they be : Why art thou a fool . ( quoth the Tanner ) look I have one under me : Yet one thing now I would thee pray , so that thou would not be strange , If thy Mare be better then my Steed , I pray thee let us change . But if thou needs with me will change , as change full well may you ? By the faith of my body ( quoth the Tanner , I look to have some boot of thee : What boot will you have , then said our King , what boot dost thou ask on this ground , No pence nor halfpennies , said the Tanner , but a noble in gold so round . Here's twenty good groats then said our King so well paid see you be : I love thee better then I did before , I thought thou hadst ne'r a penny . But if so be we needs must change , as change thou must abide , Though thou hast got Brock my Mare , thou shalt not have my Cowhide . The Tanner took the good Cowhide , that of the Cow was hilt , And threw it upon the Kings saddle , that was so fairly gilded Now help me , quoth the Tanner , full quickly that I were gone , And when I come home to G [ il ] lian my wife , she [ ' ] l say [ I ] am a Gentleman . The King took the Tanner by the leg , he girded a fart so round , You'r very homely said the King : were I aware I had laid you oh the ground : When the Tanner was in the Kings Saddle , astonished then he was , He knew not the stirrups that he did wear , whither they were gold or brass : But when the Steed saw the black Cow-tale wag and before the black Cow-horn , The Steed began to run away , as the Devil the Tanner had born : Until he came into a nook , a little beside and Oak , The steed gave the Tanner such a fallen , his neck was almost broke . Take thy horse again with a vengeance he said with me he shall not abide . It is no marvel ( said the King ) and laughed , he knew not your Cowhide . But if that we needs must change , As change well now we might I le swear to you plain if you have my Mare , I look to have some boot . What boot will you ask ( quoth the Tanner ) what boot will you ask on this ground ? No pence , nor half pence , ( said our King ) but a Noble in gold so round . Here s twenty good groats , said the Tanner , and twenty more I have of thine , I have ten groats more in my purse , we'l drink five of them at the wine : The King set a Bugle-horn to his mouth , and blew both loud and shrill , And five hundred Lords and Knights came riding over a hill . Away with a vengeance ( quoth the Tanner ) with thee I le no longer abide , Thou art a strong thief yonder be thy fellows , they will steal away my Cowhide : No I protest then said our King , for so it may not be , They be the Lords of Drayton Basset , come out of the North-Country . But when they came before the King , full low then fell on their knee , The tanner had rather then a thousand pound , he had been out of his company : A Collar a Collar then said the King , a Collar then did he cry , Then would he gave a thousand pound , he had not been so nigh : A Collar , a Collar quoth the tanner , it is a thing will breed sorrow , For after a Collar , comes a Halter , and I shall be hanged to morrow : No , do not fear the King did say , for pastime thou hast shown me , No Collar , nor Halter , thou shalt have , but I will give thee a fee : For Plumpton Park I will give thee , with tenements three beside . Which is worth three hundred pound a year , to maintain thy good Cowhide : God-a-mercy , God-a-mercy , ( quod the tanner ) for this good deed thou hast done , If ever thou comest to merry Tamworth , thou shalt have clout-leather for thy shoes Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . 