A pleasant new ballad , showing how Sir John Arm - strong and Nathaniel Musgrave fell in Love with the Lady Dacres Daughter of the North ; and of the strife that was between them for her , and how they wrought the Death of one hundred men . To a new Northern Tune . AS it fell out one Whitsunday , the blithe time of the year , When every tree was clad with green , and pretty Birds sing clear ; The Lady Dacres took her way , Unto the Church that pleasant day , With her fair daughter fresh and gay , a bright and bonny Lass : Fa la tre dang de doe ; trang trole lo trang de do , With heigh trang trole lo lie , she was a bonny Lass. Sir Michael Musgrave in like sort , to Church repaired then , And so did sir John Armstrong too , with all his merry men , Two greater friends there could not be Nor braver Knights for Chivalry , Both Bachelors of high degree , fit for a bonny Lass . They sat them down upon one seat , like loving brothers dear , With hearts and minds devoutly bent Gods service for to hear : But rising from their Prayers though , Their eyes a ranging straight did go , Which wrought their utter overthrow all for one bonny Lass . Quod Musgrave unto Armstrong then , yond sits the sweetest Dame , That ever for her fair beauty , within this Country came . Insooth quoth Armstrong presently , Your judgement I must verefie , There never came unto my eye a braver bonny Lass . I swear said Musgrave by this sword , which did my Knighthood win , To steal away so sweet a Dame , could be no ghostly since : That deed quod Armstrong would be ill , Except he had her right good will , That your desire she would fulfil , and be thy bonny Lass . By this the service quite was done , and home the people past , They wished a blister on his tongue , that made thereof such haste . At the Church door the knights did meet , The Lady Dacres for to greet . But most of all her daughter sweet , that beauteous bonny Lass . Said Armstrong to the Lady fair : we both have made a vow , At dinner for to be your Guests , if you will it allow . With that bespoke that Lady free , Sir Knights right welcome shall you be The happier men therefore are we , for Love of this bonny Lass . Thus was the knights both pricked in love both in one moment thrall'd , And both with one fair Lady gay thus blind in Cupid call'd . With humble thanks they went away Like wounded Hearts chaste all the day : One would not to the other say , they lov'd this bonny Lass . Fair Isabel on the other side , as far in love was found , So long brave Armstrong she had ty'd , till love her heart did wound ; Brave Armstrong is my joy , quoth she Would Christ he were alone with me ; To talk and hour two or three , with his fair bonny Lass . BUt as these Knights together road and homeward did repair , Their talk and eke their countenance showed their hearts were clog'd with care , Fair Isabel the one did say , Thou hast subdu'd my heart this day ; But she's my joy did Musgrove say , my bright and bonny Lass . With that these friends incontinent , became most deadly foes , For love of beauteous Isabel , great strife betwixt them rose ; Quoth Armstrong she shall be my wife , Although for her I loose my life , And thus began a deadly strife , and for one bonny Lass . Thus two years long this grudge did grow these gallant Knights between , While they a wooing both did go , unto this beauteous Queen . And she who did their furies prove , To neither would bewray her love , The deadly quarrel to remove , about this bonny Lass . But neither of her fair intreats , nor yet her sharp dispute : Would they appease their raging ire , nor yet give over their suit . The Gentlemen of the North country At last did make this good decree , All for a perfect unity , about this bonny Lass . The love sick knights should both be set within one hall so wide , Each of them in a gallant sort , even at a several tide . And betwixt them both for certainty , Fair Isabel should placed be , Of them to take her choice full free , most like a bonny Lass . And as she like and Angel bright , betwixt them mildly stood , She turned unto each several Knight , with pale and changed blood . Now am I at Liberty , To make and take my choice , quoth she Yea , quoth the Knights we do agree , then choose thou bonny Lass . O Musgrave thou art all too ho to be a Ladies Love , Quoth she and Armstrong seems a sot , where Love binds him to prove ; Of courage great is Musgrave still , And sith to choose I have my Will , Sweet Armstrong shall my joys fulfil and I his bonny Lass . The Nobles and the Gentiles both , that were in present place , Rejoiced at this sweet record , but Musgrave in disgrace , Out of the Hall did take his way , And Armstrong married was next day With Isabel his Lady gay , a bright and bonny Lass . But Musgrave on the wedding day , like to a Scotchman dight , In secret sort allured out , the Bridegroom for to fight , And he that will not out-brav'd be , Unto his challenge did agree , Where he was slave most suddenly , for his fair bonny Lass . The news hereof was quickly brought , unto the Lovely Bride ; And many of young Armstrongs kin , did after Musgrave ride . They hew'd him when they had him god As small as flesh into the pot , Lo thus befell a heavy Lot , about this bonny Lass . The Lady young which did lament this cruel cursed strife , For very grief died that day , a Maiden and a Wife : And hundred men that hapless day , Did lose their Lives in that same fray And 'twixt those names as many say , is deadly hate still biding . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . A pleasant new ballad , showing how Sir John Arm - strong and Nathaniel Musgrave fell in Love with the Lady Dacres Daughter of the North ; and of the strife that was between them for her , and how they wrought the Death of one hundred men . To a new Northern Tune . AS it fell out one Whitsunday , the blithe time of the year , When every tree was clad with green , and pretty Birds sing clear ; The Lady Dacres took her way , Unto the Church that pleasant day , With her fair daughter fresh and gay , a bright and bonny Lass : Fa la tre dang de doe ; trang trole lo trang de do , With heigh trang trole lo lie , she was a bonny Lass. Sir Michael Musgrave in like sort , to Church repaired then , And so did sir John Armstrong too , with all his merry men , Two greater friends there could not be Nor braver Knights for Chivalry , Both Bachelors of high degree , fit for a bonny Lass . They sat them down upon one seat , like loving brothers dear , With hearts and minds devoutly bent Gods service for to hear : But rising from their Prayers though , Their eyes a ranging straight did go , Which wrought their utter overthrow all for one bonny Lass . Quod Musgrave unto Armstrong then , yond sits the sweetest Dame , That ever for her fair beauty , within this Country came . Insooth quoth Armstrong presently , Your judgement I must verefie , There never came unto my eye a braver bonny Lass . I swear said Musgrave by this sword , which did my Knighthood win , To steal away so sweet a Dame , could be no ghostly since : That deed quod Armstrong would be ill , Except he had her right good will , That your desire she would fulfil , and be thy bonny Lass . By this the service quite was done , and home the people past , They wished a blister on his tongue , that made thereof such haste . At the Church door the knights did meet , The Lady Dacres for to greet . But most of all her daughter sweet , that beauteous bonny Lass . Said Armstrong to the Lady fair : we both have made a vow , At dinner for to be your Guests , if you will it allow . With that bespoke that Lady free , Sir Knights right welcome shall you be The happier men therefore are we , for Love of this bonny Lass . Thus was the knights both pricked in love both in one moment thrall'd , And both with one fair Lady gay thus blind in Cupid call'd . With humble thanks they went away Like wounded Hearts chaste all the day : One would not to the other say , they lov'd this bonny Lass . Fair Isabel on the other side , as far in love was found , So long brave Armstrong she had ty'd , till love her heart did wound ; Brave Armstrong is my joy , quoth she Would Christ he were alone with me ; To talk and hour two or three , with his fair bonny Lass . BUt as these Knights together road and homeward did repair , Their talk and eke their countenance showed their hearts were clog'd with care , Fair Isabel the one did say , Thou hast subdu'd my heart this day ; But she's my joy did Musgrove say , my bright and bonny Lass . With that these friends incontinent , became most deadly foes , For love of beauteous Isabel , great strife betwixt them rose ; Quoth Armstrong she shall be my wife , Although for her I loose my life , And thus began a deadly strife , and for one bonny Lass . Thus two years long this grudge did grow these gallant Knights between , While they a wooing both did go , unto this beauteous Queen . And she who did their furies prove , To neither would bewray her love , The deadly quarrel to remove , about this bonny Lass . But neither of her fair intreats , nor yet her sharp dispute : Would they appease their raging ire , nor yet give over their suit . The Gentlemen of the North country At last did make this good decree , All for a perfect unity , about this bonny Lass . The love sick knights should both be set within one hall so wide , Each of them in a gallant sort , even at a several tide . And betwixt them both for certainty , Fair Isabel should placed be , Of them to take her choice full free , most like a bonny Lass . And as she like and Angel bright , betwixt them mildly stood , She turned unto each several Knight , with pale and changed blood . Now am I at Liberty , To make and take my choice , quoth she Yea , quoth the Knights we do agree , then choose thou bonny Lass . O Musgrave thou art all too ho to be a Ladies Love , Quoth she and Armstrong seems a sot , where Love binds him to prove ; Of courage great is Musgrave still , And sith to choose I have my Will , Sweet Armstrong shall my joys fulfil and I his bonny Lass . The Nobles and the Gentiles both , that were in present place , Rejoiced at this sweet record , but Musgrave in disgrace , Out of the Hall did take his way , And Armstrong married was next day With Isabel his Lady gay , a bright and bonny Lass . But Musgrave on the wedding day , like to a Scotchman dight , In secret sort allured out , the Bridegroom for to fight , And he that will not out-brav'd be , Unto his challenge did agree , Where he was slave most suddenly , for his fair bonny Lass . The news hereof was quickly brought , unto the Lovely Bride ; And many of young Armstrongs kin , did after Musgrave ride . They hew'd him when they had him god As small as flesh into the pot , Lo thus befell a heavy Lot , about this bonny Lass . The Lady young which did lament this cruel cursed strife , For very grief died that day , a Maiden and a Wife : And hundred men that hapless day , Did lose their Lives in that same fray And 'twixt those names as many say , is deadly hate still biding . FINIS . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . 