E : 276 A pleasant new Ballad of Tobias , wherein is showed the wondered things that chanced unto him in his youth , and how he wedded a young Damsel that had had seven husbands , and , never enjoyed their company , who were all slave by a wicked Spirit . To a new tune IN Ninivy old Toby dwelled , and Aged man and blind was he , And much afflictions he had felt , which brought him unto poverty : He had by Anna his true Wife , one only Son and eke no more , Which was the comfo [ r ] tO of his life , [ and ] he by him did set great store . [ He bro ] ught him up most virtuously , [ in tO ] rue obedience and in awe , [ And ] every day he did apply to fear the Lord and keep his Law . Upon a time it came to pass , he call'd his Son to him with speed . And thus to him these words did frame , my son quoth he thou knowest my need Thou must unto Gabael go , to Raguels house in Media Land , For I did lend him long ago , ten Talents on his only Band . My father dear Tobias said , at your command straight will I go . How shall I get the money paid , seeing the man I never did know . Take here the Writings then quoth he , which is sufficient being seen , And get a guide to go with thee , since thou the way hast never been . A guide Tobias soon had god , And Angel in the shape of man Which thing he did not know God Wot , the Lord did so appoint it than . Tobias with his blessed guide , went on his journey than with speed , Until they came to Tygris side , At the fair flood they did abide : Tobias would go with him [ th ] er [ e , ] by reason of the Summer's heat , A mighty fish pnt him in fear , which leapt out of the waters great , Cut up the fish the Angel said , and keep the Liver heart and gall , To do the same be not afraid , great cures there shall be done withal : When this was done away they went , and coming near their journy's end , Wee'l lodge to night the Angel said , with Raguel thy father's friend . He hath a Daughter fair of face , and also of a virtuous life , And when we come unto that place , I'll speak that she may be thy wife , Why Azarius then quoth he , for so they did the Angel call , I wis she is no Wife for me , swift death does all her Lovers fallen . Seven men to her have married been , which in her love did take deligh When her bed chamber they had seen , they have not lived half the night , A Wicked Spirit loves her so , he will not suffer any man , With her into the bed to go , but works his death do what he can . The Angel said good courage take , for so it shall not be with thee , For such perfumes I will thee make , the Wicked Spirit away shall flee . To Raguels home away they run , where Sara met them fair and bright , And after Salutations done she brought them to her parents sighed . GReat cheer they made & down they sat & all for young Tobias sake And after long and pleasant chat , betwixt these two a match they make . By Moses Law they married were , the bride bed chamber prepar'd likewise When young Tobias came in there the tears fell down from Sara's eyes . A pan of coals he brought with him , the fish heart and liver there , Within the fire he did cast in , which cast a savour every where , And by that sweet and precious smell , the Wicked Spirit was displac't , Within that room he could not dwell , Where out away he went in haste . In bed they laid this beauteous bride , the chamber door they shut therefore , Young Toby lay down by her side , whom he did think to see no more . And therefore Raguel in the night , for him before had made a grave , And to his Wife he wept and said , there is no means his life to save . One of the Maidens send quoth he to see how all the matter stands And if it be so that dead he be , he shall be buried by my hands . This maiden joyful news did bring , Tobias is alive quoth she . When Raguel herd then of this thing , he did rejoice exceedingly , For joy he made a solemn feast , the bridal fourteen days he kept , Thereto came many a friendly guest , in sorrow now no more they slept . Azarias went straightway , unto the feast Gabriel brought , Rejoicing at his marriage day , did pay the money that he ought , But yet old Toby and his Wife , did all the time in sorrow dwell , They thought their Son had lost his life , and nothing could their grief expel . His Aged mother every day . did watch the high-Way side , And for his Welfare oft did pray , no meat nor drink she could abide . But when the Wedding ended was , yonng Toby with his lovely Bride . To Ninivie did homeward pass , with goods and Cattle on each side , But Toby and the Angel bright before his Wife made haste to go , For to prepare all things arright , his lovely bride to welcome ho , His mother watching in the Way , full soon espy'd her tender son , Rejoicing at that happy day . she told her husband he was come , Whereat old Toby stumbled out , for he was blind and could not see , Young Toby with the fish gall , rub'd both his eyes immediately . Whereat the Whiteness of his eye . incontinent did fallen out quite , So that before he did arise , he had again his perfect sighed . Great joy there was on every side , young Toby told his father all , Who went to meet his lovely bride , With joy and mirth that was not small Printed for F. Coles J. Wright T. Vere , W. Gilbertson . E : 276 A pleasant new Ballad of Tobias , wherein is showed the wondered things that chanced unto him in his youth , and how he wedded a young Damsel that had had seven husbands , and , never enjoyed their company , who were all slave by a wicked Spirit . To a new tune IN Ninivy old Toby dwelled , and Aged man and blind was he , And much afflictions he had felt , which brought him unto poverty : He had by Anna his true Wife , one only Son and eke no more , Which was the comfo [ r ] tO of his life , [ and ] he by him did set great store . [ He bro ] ught him up most virtuously , [ in tO ] rue obedience and in awe , [ And ] every day he did apply to fear the Lord and keep his Law . Upon a time it came to pass , he call'd his Son to him with speed . And thus to him these words did frame , my son quoth he thou knowest my need Thou must unto Gabael go , to Raguels house in Media Land , For I did lend him long ago , ten Talents on his only Band . My father dear Tobias said , at your command straight will I go . How shall I get the money paid , seeing the man I never did know . Take here the Writings then quoth he , which is sufficient being seen , And get a guide to go with thee , since thou the way hast never been . A guide Tobias soon had god , And Angel in the shape of man Which thing he did not know God Wot , the Lord did so appoint it than . Tobias with his blessed guide , went on his journey than with speed , Until they came to Tygris side , At the fair flood they did abide : Tobias would go with him [ th ] er [ e , ] by reason of the Summer's heat , A mighty fish pnt him in fear , which leapt out of the waters great , Cut up the fish the Angel said , and keep the Liver heart and gall , To do the same be not afraid , great cures there shall be done withal : When this was done away they went , and coming near their journy's end , Wee'l lodge to night the Angel said , with Raguel thy father's friend . He hath a Daughter fair of face , and also of a virtuous life , And when we come unto that place , I'll speak that she may be thy wife , Why Azarius then quoth he , for so they did the Angel call , I wis she is no Wife for me , swift death does all her Lovers fallen . Seven men to her have married been , which in her love did take deligh When her bed chamber they had seen , they have not lived half the night , A Wicked Spirit loves her so , he will not suffer any man , With her into the bed to go , but works his death do what he can . The Angel said good courage take , for so it shall not be with thee , For such perfumes I will thee make , the Wicked Spirit away shall flee . To Raguels home away they run , where Sara met them fair and bright , And after Salutations done she brought them to her parents sighed . GReat cheer they made & down they sat & all for young Tobias sake And after long and pleasant chat , betwixt these two a match they make . By Moses Law they married were , the bride bed chamber prepar'd likewise When young Tobias came in there the tears fell down from Sara's eyes . A pan of coals he brought with him , the fish heart and liver there , Within the fire he did cast in , which cast a savour every where , And by that sweet and precious smell , the Wicked Spirit was displac't , Within that room he could not dwell , Where out away he went in haste . In bed they laid this beauteous bride , the chamber door they shut therefore , Young Toby lay down by her side , whom he did think to see no more . And therefore Raguel in the night , for him before had made a grave , And to his Wife he wept and said , there is no means his life to save . One of the Maidens send quoth he to see how all the matter stands And if it be so that dead he be , he shall be buried by my hands . This maiden joyful news did bring , Tobias is alive quoth she . When Raguel herd then of this thing , he did rejoice exceedingly , For joy he made a solemn feast , the bridal fourteen days he kept , Thereto came many a friendly guest , in sorrow now no more they slept . Azarias went straightway , unto the feast Gabriel brought , Rejoicing at his marriage day , did pay the money that he ought , But yet old Toby and his Wife , did all the time in sorrow dwell , They thought their Son had lost his life , and nothing could their grief expel . His Aged mother every day . did watch the high-Way side , And for his Welfare oft did pray , no meat nor drink she could abide . But when the Wedding ended was , yonng Toby with his lovely Bride . To Ninivie did homeward pass , with goods and Cattle on each side , But Toby and the Angel bright before his Wife made haste to go , For to prepare all things arright , his lovely bride to welcome ho , His mother watching in the Way , full soon espy'd her tender son , Rejoicing at that happy day . she told her husband he was come , Whereat old Toby stumbled out , for he was blind and could not see , Young Toby with the fish gall , rub'd both his eyes immediately . Whereat the Whiteness of his eye . incontinent did fallen out quite , So that before he did arise , he had again his perfect sighed . Great joy there was on every side , young Toby told his father all , Who went to meet his lovely bride , With joy and mirth that was not small Printed for F. Coles J. Wright T. Vere , W. Gilbertson . 