'E : 278 A pleasant new Ballad to look upon , How Malt deals with every man . MAs Malt is a Gentleman , And hath been since the world began I never in my life [ e ] knew any man could match with Master Malt sir , I never knew any match Malt but once , The Miller with his [ g ] r [ i ] nding stones . you never saw the like sir . Malt Malt thou art a flower Belov'd right well in e'ery Bower , Thou canst not be missing one half hour , you never etc For laying of his stones so close , Malt gave the Miller a Copper nose , S [ a ] ying thou and I will never be foes but unto thee isle stick sir , Malt gave the Miller such a blow That from his horse he fell full low , He taught him his Master Malt to know , you never etc O [ u ] r Hostess Maid was much to blame , To steal Malt away from her Dame , And in her belly hid the same you never etc That when the Malt did work in her head Twice in a day she would be sped At night she could not go to bed , nor scarce stand on her feet sir . Then came in Master Smith , And said that Malt he was a thief , But malt gave him such a bash i the teeth you never etc For when his Iron was hight and read , He had such and ach all in his head , His boon Comrades god him to bed for he was very sick sir . The Carpenter came a piece to sqare And bid Malt come if he dare , He'd thwack his sides and belly bore , and him full soundly beatrice sir . Tooth fire he went well armed with chips Malt hit him right betwixt the lips And made him lame on both his hips , you never , etc The Shoemaker sitting on his seat At Mr. Malt began to fret , He said he would the knave so beatrice with his sharp Spanish knife sir . But Malt came peeping through the hall , And did his brains so fiercely mall He tumbled round and caught a fallen you never , etc The Weaver sitting in the Loom , He threatened Malt a cruel doom And made him to expulce the room or throw him in a Dike sir . Whereat a Court some Weavers kept And so their Hostess boldly slept , Till charged with double pots they slept you never etc The Tinker took the Weavers part Such furious rage possessed his heart , He took the pot and drank a quart , his wits were very ripe sir . For Malt the upper hand so god He knew not how to pay the shot But part without the reckoning pot , and found his stomach sick sir . The Taylor came to grind his shears And shows to Malt what spleen he bears But soon they f [ e ] ll together by the ears , and soar each other struck sir . And when his pressing Iron was hight He pressed a board instead of a Coat And sailed home in a featherbed boat you never , etc , The Tinker walking round the pan , But Malt much feared his deep mouthd-can Though he had conquered many man and laid him in the Dike sir . Yet was the Tinker gladly fain With Malt to have a bout or twain Till he again was shot ith brain , you never etc Then bespoke the Tinker anon And said he'd prove himself a man , And laid at Malt till his legs were gone . you never etc The Say [ l ] or he did curse and ban He bid the boy go tap the can I'll have about with Malt anon . you never etc Aboard they went to try the match , And long they played at hope and catch , Till Malt bestow'd him under a hatch , you never etc Then came a Chapman traveling by With cheaping long his throat was dry . And at Master Malt must fly , and furiously him struck sir . Till having laid at Malt apace , Great store of blood was in his face And he was found in such a case , you never etc The Mason came and Oven to make , The Bricklayer he his part did take They bound him to the good Ale stake you never , etc Then Malt began to tell his mind And ply'd them with Ale , Beer , and Wine They left the Brick , Axe , Trowel behind , they could not lay a Brick sir . Then came the Laborer in his hood , And saw his two Master's how they stood He took Master Malt by the hood ; and swore he would him strike sir . Malt he ran and for fear did weep , The Laborer he did skip and leap . But Malt made him into the mortar leap , and there he fell asleep sir . The Glover came to buy a skin , Malt bit him right above the chin The Pewter-John came tumbling in , you never etc And laid on heads and arms and joints Took away Gloves and a gross of points And swore they'd pay him in quarts and pints you never etc Thus of my Song I'll make and end , And pray my Host to be my friend , To give me some drink or money to spend for Malt and I am quiet sir , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere . and W . Gilbertson'E : 278 A pleasant new Ballad to look upon , How Malt deals with every man . MAs Malt is a Gentleman , And hath been since the world began I never in my life [ e ] knew any man could match with Master Malt sir , I never knew any match Malt but once , The Miller with his [ g ] r [ i ] nding stones . you never saw the like sir . Malt Malt thou art a flower Belov'd right well in e'ery Bower , Thou canst not be missing one half hour , you never etc For laying of his stones so close , Malt gave the Miller a Copper nose , S [ a ] ying thou and I will never be foes but unto thee isle stick sir , Malt gave the Miller such a blow That from his horse he fell full low , He taught him his Master Malt to know , you never etc O [ u ] r Hostess Maid was much to blame , To steal Malt away from her Dame , And in her belly hid the same you never etc That when the Malt did work in her head Twice in a day she would be sped At night she could not go to bed , nor scarce stand on her feet sir . Then came in Master Smith , And said that Malt he was a thief , But malt gave him such a bash i the teeth you never etc For when his Iron was hight and read , He had such and ach all in his head , His boon Comrades god him to bed for he was very sick sir . The Carpenter came a piece to sqare And bid Malt come if he dare , He'd thwack his sides and belly bore , and him full soundly beatrice sir . Tooth fire he went well armed with chips Malt hit him right betwixt the lips And made him lame on both his hips , you never , etc The Shoemaker sitting on his seat At Mr. Malt began to fret , He said he would the knave so beatrice with his sharp Spanish knife sir . But Malt came peeping through the hall , And did his brains so fiercely mall He tumbled round and caught a fallen you never , etc The Weaver sitting in the Loom , He threatened Malt a cruel doom And made him to expulce the room or throw him in a Dike sir . Whereat a Court some Weavers kept And so their Hostess boldly slept , Till charged with double pots they slept you never etc The Tinker took the Weavers part Such furious rage possessed his heart , He took the pot and drank a quart , his wits were very ripe sir . For Malt the upper hand so god He knew not how to pay the shot But part without the reckoning pot , and found his stomach sick sir . The Taylor came to grind his shears And shows to Malt what spleen he bears But soon they f [ e ] ll together by the ears , and soar each other struck sir . And when his pressing Iron was hight He pressed a board instead of a Coat And sailed home in a featherbed boat you never , etc , The Tinker walking round the pan , But Malt much feared his deep mouthd-can Though he had conquered many man and laid him in the Dike sir . Yet was the Tinker gladly fain With Malt to have a bout or twain Till he again was shot ith brain , you never etc Then bespoke the Tinker anon And said he'd prove himself a man , And laid at Malt till his legs were gone . you never etc The Say [ l ] or he did curse and ban He bid the boy go tap the can I'll have about with Malt anon . you never etc Aboard they went to try the match , And long they played at hope and catch , Till Malt bestow'd him under a hatch , you never etc Then came a Chapman traveling by With cheaping long his throat was dry . And at Master Malt must fly , and furiously him struck sir . Till having laid at Malt apace , Great store of blood was in his face And he was found in such a case , you never etc The Mason came and Oven to make , The Bricklayer he his part did take They bound him to the good Ale stake you never , etc Then Malt began to tell his mind And ply'd them with Ale , Beer , and Wine They left the Brick , Axe , Trowel behind , they could not lay a Brick sir . Then came the Laborer in his hood , And saw his two Master's how they stood He took Master Malt by the hood ; and swore he would him strike sir . Malt he ran and for fear did weep , The Laborer he did skip and leap . But Malt made him into the mortar leap , and there he fell asleep sir . The Glover came to buy a skin , Malt bit him right above the chin The Pewter-John came tumbling in , you never etc And laid on heads and arms and joints Took away Gloves and a gross of points And swore they'd pay him in quarts and pints you never etc Thus of my Song I'll make and end , And pray my Host to be my friend , To give me some drink or money to spend for Malt and I am quiet sir , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere . and W . Gilbertson 