E : 282 A Pleasant New Ballad to sing Evening and morn , Of the Bloody murder of Sir John Barleycorn . The Tune is , Shall I lie beyond thee . AS I went through the North country I herd a merry meeting , A pleasant toy , and full of joy , two Noblemen were greeting . And as they walked forth to sport , upon a Summer's day , They met another Nobleman , with whom they had a fray . His name was Sir John Barleycorn he dwelled down in a vale , And had a Kinsman dwelled with him , they cal'd him Thomas Good-ale . The one nam Sir Richard Beer , was ready at that time , And likewise came a busy Peer , called Sir William White-wine . Some of them fought in a black Jack , some of them in a Can , But yet the chiefest in a Black-Pot , fought like a Nobleman . Sir Barley corn fought in a Bowl , who wone the Victory , Which made them all to chafe and swear , that Barleycorn must die . Some said kill him , some said him drown , some wished to hand him high , For those that followed Barleycorn , they said would Beggars die . Then with a Blow they Plow'd him up , and thus they did devise , To bury him quick within the earth , and swore he would not rise . With Harrows strong they came to him , and burst clods on his head , A joyful banquet then was made , when Barleycorn was dead . He rested still upon the earth , till Rain from Sky did fallen , Then he grew up on branches green , which soar amaz'd them all . Increasing thus till Midsummer , he made them all afraid , For he sprang up on high , and god a goodly beard . When ripening at St. James-tide , his countenance waxed wan , Yet now full grown in part of strength , and thus became a man . Wherefore with hooks and sickles keen , unto the fields they hy'd , They cut his legs off by the knees , and Limb from Limb divide . Then bloodily they cut him down , from place where he did stand ; And like a thief for treachery , they bound him in a band . So then they took him up again , according to his kind , And plac'd him up in several stacks , to wither with the wind . Then with a Pitchfork sharp and long , they rend him to the heart , And traitorlike for treason vil'd , they bound him in a Cart. And tending him with weapons strong , unto the town they high , Whereas they Mow'd him in a Mow , and so they let him lie . They left him groaning by the walls , till all his bones were soar , And having took him up again , they cast him on a floor . And hired two with Holly-Clubs , to beatrice at him at once , Who thwacked so hard on Barleycorn , the flesh fell from his bones . Then after took him up again , to please some women's mind , Yea dusted , fan'd , and sifted him , till he was almost b [ l ] ind . Full fast they knit him in a Sack , which griev'd him very soar , And soundly steeped him in a fat , for three days space and more . From whence again they took him out , and laid him forth to dry , Then cast him on a Chamber floor , and swore that he [ sh ] ould die . They rub'd and stir'd him up and down , and oft did toil and ture , The Maltman likewise vows his death , his body should be sure . They pu [ l ] 'd and hal'd him up in spite , and threw him on a Hill , Yea dry'd him o're a fire hight , the more to work their will . Then to the Mill they forc'd him straight , whereas they bruiz'd his bones , The Miller swore to murder him betwixt a pair of stones . The last time when they took him up , and served him worse than that , For with hight scolding liquour store , they washed him in a fat . But not content with this God wot , they wrought him so much harm , With cruel threat they promise next to beatrice him into Barm . And lying in this danger deep , for fear that he should quarrel , They heav'd him straight out of the Fat , and turn'd him in the Barrel . They gored and broached it with a tap , so thus his death began , And drew out every drop of blood , while any drop would run . Some brought in Jacks upon their back , some brought in bow [ l ] s and pail , Yea , every man some Weapon had poor Barleycorn to kill . When Sir John Good-Ale herd of this , he came with much might , And took by strength their tongues away , their legs , and eke their sighed . Sir John at last in his respect , so paid them all their hire , Then some lay bleeding by the Walls , some tumbling in the mire . Some sadly groaning by the walls , some fell i'th street down right , The wisest of them scarcely knew , what he had done o're night . All you good wives , that brew good Ale God keep you from all teen , But if you put too much water in , the devil put out your Eyes . FINIS . E : 282 A Pleasant New Ballad to sing Evening and morn , Of the Bloody murder of Sir John Barleycorn . The Tune is , Shall I lie beyond thee . AS I went through the North country I herd a merry meeting , A pleasant toy , and full of joy , two Noblemen were greeting . And as they walked forth to sport , upon a Summer's day , They met another Nobleman , with whom they had a fray . His name was Sir John Barleycorn he dwelled down in a vale , And had a Kinsman dwelled with him , they cal'd him Thomas Good-ale . The one nam Sir Richard Beer , was ready at that time , And likewise came a busy Peer , called Sir William White-wine . Some of them fought in a black Jack , some of them in a Can , But yet the chiefest in a Black-Pot , fought like a Nobleman . Sir Barley corn fought in a Bowl , who wone the Victory , Which made them all to chafe and swear , that Barleycorn must die . Some said kill him , some said him drown , some wished to hand him high , For those that followed Barleycorn , they said would Beggars die . Then with a Blow they Plow'd him up , and thus they did devise , To bury him quick within the earth , and swore he would not rise . With Harrows strong they came to him , and burst clods on his head , A joyful banquet then was made , when Barleycorn was dead . He rested still upon the earth , till Rain from Sky did fallen , Then he grew up on branches green , which soar amaz'd them all . Increasing thus till Midsummer , he made them all afraid , For he sprang up on high , and god a goodly beard . When ripening at St. James-tide , his countenance waxed wan , Yet now full grown in part of strength , and thus became a man . Wherefore with hooks and sickles keen , unto the fields they hy'd , They cut his legs off by the knees , and Limb from Limb divide . Then bloodily they cut him down , from place where he did stand ; And like a thief for treachery , they bound him in a band . So then they took him up again , according to his kind , And plac'd him up in several stacks , to wither with the wind . Then with a Pitchfork sharp and long , they rend him to the heart , And traitorlike for treason vil'd , they bound him in a Cart. And tending him with weapons strong , unto the town they high , Whereas they Mow'd him in a Mow , and so they let him lie . They left him groaning by the walls , till all his bones were soar , And having took him up again , they cast him on a floor . And hired two with Holly-Clubs , to beatrice at him at once , Who thwacked so hard on Barleycorn , the flesh fell from his bones . Then after took him up again , to please some women's mind , Yea dusted , fan'd , and sifted him , till he was almost b [ l ] ind . Full fast they knit him in a Sack , which griev'd him very soar , And soundly steeped him in a fat , for three days space and more . From whence again they took him out , and laid him forth to dry , Then cast him on a Chamber floor , and swore that he [ sh ] ould die . They rub'd and stir'd him up and down , and oft did toil and ture , The Maltman likewise vows his death , his body should be sure . They pu [ l ] 'd and hal'd him up in spite , and threw him on a Hill , Yea dry'd him o're a fire hight , the more to work their will . Then to the Mill they forc'd him straight , whereas they bruiz'd his bones , The Miller swore to murder him betwixt a pair of stones . The last time when they took him up , and served him worse than that , For with hight scolding liquour store , they washed him in a fat . But not content with this God wot , they wrought him so much harm , With cruel threat they promise next to beatrice him into Barm . And lying in this danger deep , for fear that he should quarrel , They heav'd him straight out of the Fat , and turn'd him in the Barrel . They gored and broached it with a tap , so thus his death began , And drew out every drop of blood , while any drop would run . Some brought in Jacks upon their back , some brought in bow [ l ] s and pail , Yea , every man some Weapon had poor Barleycorn to kill . When Sir John Good-Ale herd of this , he came with much might , And took by strength their tongues away , their legs , and eke their sighed . Sir John at last in his respect , so paid them all their hire , Then some lay bleeding by the Walls , some tumbling in the mire . Some sadly groaning by the walls , some fell i'th street down right , The wisest of them scarcely knew , what he had done o're night . All you good wives , that brew good Ale God keep you from all teen , But if you put too much water in , the devil put out your Eyes . FINIS . 