E : 279 A Potion for and Apothecary , Or , The Apothecaries portion , This ditty does Concern a matter Rare , Ther's few or none may with the same Compare , It may be term'd a Net , a Snare , or Jin That's only set to catch young Woodcocks in Then let no silly bird here at be Jeering , Forwhen 'tis Sung you'l say 'tis worth the hearing . To the tune of Old flesh . OF a gallant Apothecary a story I will tell , His carriage and behaviour and what of him befell : He was no silly Coxcomb nor he was no Country clown , But he lived in famous London , a place of high renown , He was active in his practice , and skilful of his trade , And some women did suppose him to be a Bil-bow-blade , He was witty in his speeches and of qualities most rare , Yet he like to a Woodcock was caught at unaware . This brave young Apothecary would lived void of strife , He stood in need of nothing , but he wanted a rich wife : And for that only purpose he many plots have laid To marry with some rich Widow : or some wealthy Country Maid , His pate it was more subtle then any crafty Fox But in the last conclusion he was herned like and Ox ; Now mark what followed after , and you shall quickly hear . How he like to a Woodcock was caught at unaware . A Punk that liv'd in London which had of wealth no store , For all that she had god was by playing of the Whore She like a cunning Gypsie , consulted with her Baud This brave Apothecary to cozen and defraud : Like a brave young Gentlewoman that was in the Country born In habit and attire she did her self adorn Her Baud like to a servant , did wait as may appear , And they caught the witty Woodcock , before he was aware . And being so provided , as true reports have said , The Punk she was the Mistress , and the Baud her waiting Maid , They then took up their lodging as it is known full well Near to the very place where this brave young spark did dwell , The mistress fain'd her self to be sick with cold and Phthisic And sent to the Apothecary cause he should give her Physic , Who every day employed her with Pills , and such like gear , But he like to a Woodcock , was caught at unaware . The Apothecary often , to the Gentlewoman came , Who beholding of her favour , saw she was a handsome dame , His heart within his belly , with love was set on fire But he knew not how nor which way to compass his desire : And therefore in close secret , to the Maid he told his mind , Desiring of her favour that she would be so kind To speak a good word for him , unto her Mistress deer , And he would well reward her as you shall after hear . The Maid reply'd unto him , there is no way to win her , Unless you do invite her , on Sunday next to dinner : Whereby to make her merry , and cast away all care And feast her corpse with Junkets with Wine and with good Cheer . And when you all are frolic , I will a question move So that you thereby may know whither she will hate or love : These words of hers o'r joy'd him , as it does well appear , And at last the witty Woodcock , was caught in his own snare . A dinner was provided at the appointed day And the Gentlewoman sent for who came without delay , In all her gay apparel in such a stately manner As if she were a Lady with her Maid to wait upon her ; And being sat at dinner in all her gallant bravery The youngman never mistrusted of any point of knavery : They eat , drank , and were merry having plenty of good cheer But that same Sundaies dinner cost the Apothecary deer . while they were inmidst of pleasure a man that was but poor , Came on a hasty message , and knocked at the door He brought with him a Letter forth of the Country Which to the Gentlewoman must needs delivered be When as she had received it the messenger she paid And gave the Apothecary the letter for to read Which letter prov'd his baine as you presently shall hear And how this witty Woodcock was caught in his own snare . The words that were written in the counterfeit Letter , as if they came from her Brother out of the Country were as follows . SWeet Sister I desire you to be patient and content , Though I this doleful Letter and Messenger have sent Whereby to give you notice your Father's dead and gone , And how he hath bestowed his Goods to every one Of us that are his Children . which does alive remain , Note well what here is set down , the case is very plain : He hath made me his Executor , as you may understand , And I am in possession of all my Father's Land. To my second Brother Henry a Farm he did give . which is enough to maintain him and his while he does live , And to my Brother Edward , as plainly may appear , He gave him for continuance two hundred pound a Year : And you have for your Portion of Silver and of Gold , Fifteen hundred pound of Money as good as e're was told : Wherefore I pray good Sister come home and take your own , That ones part from another among us may be known . Your Loving Brother , When as this Gentlewoman had herd the Letter read . Now that her aged Father was dead and buried , She sighed and she sobbed , she wept and made great moan Her Maid that waited on her fetched many a heavy groan : The Apothecary seeing such floods of sorrows rise , Like a kind hen-hearted coxcomb , the tears fell from his eyes , Now mark the last conclusion , and you shall quickly hear , How that this witty Woodcock was caught at unaware . When sorrows were passed over , and mirth did fresh revive , They that were almost killed then became to be alive , The Apothecary having a plodding cunning pate , He thought for to be doing before it was too late : If he could wed the woman , these were his antic fetches , He was sure for to be Master of all her Gold and Riches : And therewithal he wood her . without all wit or fear , And so this witless Woodcock was caught in his own snare . But to be brief in plain terms ; the matter so was carried , That they agreed together , and suddenly were married . And for a little season they lived free from strife , For she liked well of her Husband and he liked of his Wife : But in a short time after strange matters came to pass , And a sudden alteration betwixt this couple was . He married her for lucre of riches as you hear , And so the simple Woodcock was caught in his own snare . When they had liv'd together three weeks or something more , This Gallant did provide i'th Country for to go , To see his uvius best friend there , that was his chiefest motion , And to receive the money which was left her for her portion : And for his solid Journey so well he did provide , He bought new Boots & borrowed a Horse whereon to ride , A Sword & Horse-mans-Coat too he borrowed as I hear , And so into the Country he rid without wit or fear . And thinking that his Wife had been honest , true , and just , All that which was his own Goods with her he left in trust , so he coming to the place where his brother in law should dwell , Of such a manner of person there was never a one could tell : And as for the old man which was said to be dead and gone , In all the Parish over of that name was never a one : Wherefore he back returned to London as I hear , With a purse that held no money , and a heart fil'd full of care . But when he came to London no Wide that he could find , Which was a greater cross , and a trouble to his mind , For she was run away with the Baud which she cal'd her maid . And with a Pimp of hers which their heads together laid . Wherefore the Apothecary in rage most deeply swore , That he was basely cozed by and old Baud & a young Whore : And now his fellow Neighbours does at him scoff and jeer , 'Cause he like to a Woodcock was caught at unaware . You Widowers and Bachelors if single men you be , Be warn'd by the Apothecary and be rul'd awhile by me . Choose a Wife that's truly honest though she be ne're so poor , 'Tis better then a rich Wife , if she love to play the Whore : The Lord will give a blessing to Truth and Honesty when theevs , whores , bawds & pan-ders may at Tyborn chance to die . Be heedful in your choosing , and have a special care , Lest like to silly Woodcocks you be caught at unaware . London Printed for Tho. Vere . E : 279 A Potion for and Apothecary , Or , The Apothecaries portion , This ditty does Concern a matter Rare , Ther's few or none may with the same Compare , It may be term'd a Net , a Snare , or Jin That's only set to catch young Woodcocks in Then let no silly bird here at be Jeering , Forwhen 'tis Sung you'l say 'tis worth the hearing . To the tune of Old flesh . OF a gallant Apothecary a story I will tell , His carriage and behaviour and what of him befell : He was no silly Coxcomb nor he was no Country clown , But he lived in famous London , a place of high renown , He was active in his practice , and skilful of his trade , And some women did suppose him to be a Bil-bow-blade , He was witty in his speeches and of qualities most rare , Yet he like to a Woodcock was caught at unaware . This brave young Apothecary would lived void of strife , He stood in need of nothing , but he wanted a rich wife : And for that only purpose he many plots have laid To marry with some rich Widow : or some wealthy Country Maid , His pate it was more subtle then any crafty Fox But in the last conclusion he was herned like and Ox ; Now mark what followed after , and you shall quickly hear . How he like to a Woodcock was caught at unaware . A Punk that liv'd in London which had of wealth no store , For all that she had god was by playing of the Whore She like a cunning Gypsie , consulted with her Baud This brave Apothecary to cozen and defraud : Like a brave young Gentlewoman that was in the Country born In habit and attire she did her self adorn Her Baud like to a servant , did wait as may appear , And they caught the witty Woodcock , before he was aware . And being so provided , as true reports have said , The Punk she was the Mistress , and the Baud her waiting Maid , They then took up their lodging as it is known full well Near to the very place where this brave young spark did dwell , The mistress fain'd her self to be sick with cold and Phthisic And sent to the Apothecary cause he should give her Physic , Who every day employed her with Pills , and such like gear , But he like to a Woodcock , was caught at unaware . The Apothecary often , to the Gentlewoman came , Who beholding of her favour , saw she was a handsome dame , His heart within his belly , with love was set on fire But he knew not how nor which way to compass his desire : And therefore in close secret , to the Maid he told his mind , Desiring of her favour that she would be so kind To speak a good word for him , unto her Mistress deer , And he would well reward her as you shall after hear . The Maid reply'd unto him , there is no way to win her , Unless you do invite her , on Sunday next to dinner : Whereby to make her merry , and cast away all care And feast her corpse with Junkets with Wine and with good Cheer . And when you all are frolic , I will a question move So that you thereby may know whither she will hate or love : These words of hers o'r joy'd him , as it does well appear , And at last the witty Woodcock , was caught in his own snare . A dinner was provided at the appointed day And the Gentlewoman sent for who came without delay , In all her gay apparel in such a stately manner As if she were a Lady with her Maid to wait upon her ; And being sat at dinner in all her gallant bravery The youngman never mistrusted of any point of knavery : They eat , drank , and were merry having plenty of good cheer But that same Sundaies dinner cost the Apothecary deer . while they were inmidst of pleasure a man that was but poor , Came on a hasty message , and knocked at the door He brought with him a Letter forth of the Country Which to the Gentlewoman must needs delivered be When as she had received it the messenger she paid And gave the Apothecary the letter for to read Which letter prov'd his baine as you presently shall hear And how this witty Woodcock was caught in his own snare . The words that were written in the counterfeit Letter , as if they came from her Brother out of the Country were as follows . SWeet Sister I desire you to be patient and content , Though I this doleful Letter and Messenger have sent Whereby to give you notice your Father's dead and gone , And how he hath bestowed his Goods to every one Of us that are his Children . which does alive remain , Note well what here is set down , the case is very plain : He hath made me his Executor , as you may understand , And I am in possession of all my Father's Land. To my second Brother Henry a Farm he did give . which is enough to maintain him and his while he does live , And to my Brother Edward , as plainly may appear , He gave him for continuance two hundred pound a Year : And you have for your Portion of Silver and of Gold , Fifteen hundred pound of Money as good as e're was told : Wherefore I pray good Sister come home and take your own , That ones part from another among us may be known . Your Loving Brother , When as this Gentlewoman had herd the Letter read . Now that her aged Father was dead and buried , She sighed and she sobbed , she wept and made great moan Her Maid that waited on her fetched many a heavy groan : The Apothecary seeing such floods of sorrows rise , Like a kind hen-hearted coxcomb , the tears fell from his eyes , Now mark the last conclusion , and you shall quickly hear , How that this witty Woodcock was caught at unaware . When sorrows were passed over , and mirth did fresh revive , They that were almost killed then became to be alive , The Apothecary having a plodding cunning pate , He thought for to be doing before it was too late : If he could wed the woman , these were his antic fetches , He was sure for to be Master of all her Gold and Riches : And therewithal he wood her . without all wit or fear , And so this witless Woodcock was caught in his own snare . But to be brief in plain terms ; the matter so was carried , That they agreed together , and suddenly were married . And for a little season they lived free from strife , For she liked well of her Husband and he liked of his Wife : But in a short time after strange matters came to pass , And a sudden alteration betwixt this couple was . He married her for lucre of riches as you hear , And so the simple Woodcock was caught in his own snare . When they had liv'd together three weeks or something more , This Gallant did provide i'th Country for to go , To see his uvius best friend there , that was his chiefest motion , And to receive the money which was left her for her portion : And for his solid Journey so well he did provide , He bought new Boots & borrowed a Horse whereon to ride , A Sword & Horse-mans-Coat too he borrowed as I hear , And so into the Country he rid without wit or fear . And thinking that his Wife had been honest , true , and just , All that which was his own Goods with her he left in trust , so he coming to the place where his brother in law should dwell , Of such a manner of person there was never a one could tell : And as for the old man which was said to be dead and gone , In all the Parish over of that name was never a one : Wherefore he back returned to London as I hear , With a purse that held no money , and a heart fil'd full of care . But when he came to London no Wide that he could find , Which was a greater cross , and a trouble to his mind , For she was run away with the Baud which she cal'd her maid . And with a Pimp of hers which their heads together laid . Wherefore the Apothecary in rage most deeply swore , That he was basely cozed by and old Baud & a young Whore : And now his fellow Neighbours does at him scoff and jeer , 'Cause he like to a Woodcock was caught at unaware . You Widowers and Bachelors if single men you be , Be warn'd by the Apothecary and be rul'd awhile by me . Choose a Wife that's truly honest though she be ne're so poor , 'Tis better then a rich Wife , if she love to play the Whore : The Lord will give a blessing to Truth and Honesty when theevs , whores , bawds & pan-ders may at Tyborn chance to die . Be heedful in your choosing , and have a special care , Lest like to silly Woodcocks you be caught at unaware . London Printed for Tho. Vere . 