E : 280 The POPES Pedigree : Or , the twining of a Wheelband , showing the rise and first Pedigrees of Mortals inhabit - ing beneath the Moon . Being a most pleasant and new Song . It is a well twined Wheelband , The like whereof you never herd , But now shall plainly understand The twining of the Wheelband . To a pleasant new Tune , Or , London is a brave Town . A Beggar god a Beadle , a Beadle god a Yeomen , A Yeoman god a Prentice a Prentice god a Freeman , A Freeman god a Master , a Master god a Lass , On her was god a Gentleman a Justice of the Peace . So twin'd the Wheelband , the well twin'd Wheelband , The like whereof you never herd the twining of the Wheelband The Justice he was rich and noble in desire , He married with a Lady , and so begat a Squire , The Squire god a Knight who is Country choir forsook , To travel into France and there begat a Duke . So twin'd the Wheelband , the well twin'd wheelband , The like whereof you never herd , the twining of the wheelband . The Duke begat a Prince , the Prince a King of hope , The King begat the Emperor , the Emperor god the Pope . The Pope begat a Fryer , the Fryer begotten the Nun , And so you may hear how their Pedigrees begun , 'Tis a well twin'd wheelband , the like whereof you never herd , But now shall plainly understand , the twining of this wheelband . The Nun she chanc'd to slumber , and laying bore her Rump , The bast'd pate Fryer bob'd her , and so begat a Monk , The Monk begat a Daughter who could both lie and huff , She married to a Barrister , and quickly god a Ruff. So twin'd etc , The Ruff it took good counsel , good counsel god a Fee , The Fee begotten a Segeant , thus runs the Pedigree . The Segeant god a triple cap which a good Lawyer spoil'd , By getting ease and Gout , he once more god a child . So twin's etc A Dog he god a Bailiff , who Cerbrus like could roar , And daily hunt a bout the Town to terrify the poor , The Bailiff god a Turnkey , the Turnkey god a Jailor , Who hellhound like do suck the blood of those the Bums do hail there . So twines etc , The Jailor god and under Sheriff , the under god and upper , Who can fright a Country town by shaking of his crupper , He married to a Virgin that was of some renown , And plying on her briskly begotten a Scarlet Gown , So twin'd etc The Gown is god a Merchant who sending Ships to Sea , By bringing o're uncustom'd Goods , grew rich immediately , He strideing of a Boat Swains wife , a brave Lieutenant god , Who became a Captain by fighting very hight , So twin'd etc , The Captain god a Colonel , the Colonel he was tall , And by leaping trenches became a General The General was eoger in pursuit of fame , And in a little space begat a dreadful name , So twined etc And thus may you see now how are since Adams time The Pedigrees ran round as the Wheelband did twine , From the lowest to the highest and then back again , In continual motion this Wheelband does remain , So merrily twin'd the wheelband the well twined wheelband , By this you may plainly understand the twining of this wheelband . Printed for J. Conyers , at the Black Raven in Holbourn . E : 280 The POPES Pedigree : Or , the twining of a Wheelband , showing the rise and first Pedigrees of Mortals inhabit - ing beneath the Moon . Being a most pleasant and new Song . It is a well twined Wheelband , The like whereof you never herd , But now shall plainly understand The twining of the Wheelband . To a pleasant new Tune , Or , London is a brave Town . A Beggar god a Beadle , a Beadle god a Yeomen , A Yeoman god a Prentice a Prentice god a Freeman , A Freeman god a Master , a Master god a Lass , On her was god a Gentleman a Justice of the Peace . So twin'd the Wheelband , the well twin'd Wheelband , The like whereof you never herd the twining of the Wheelband The Justice he was rich and noble in desire , He married with a Lady , and so begat a Squire , The Squire god a Knight who is Country choir forsook , To travel into France and there begat a Duke . So twin'd the Wheelband , the well twin'd wheelband , The like whereof you never herd , the twining of the wheelband . The Duke begat a Prince , the Prince a King of hope , The King begat the Emperor , the Emperor god the Pope . The Pope begat a Fryer , the Fryer begotten the Nun , And so you may hear how their Pedigrees begun , 'Tis a well twin'd wheelband , the like whereof you never herd , But now shall plainly understand , the twining of this wheelband . The Nun she chanc'd to slumber , and laying bore her Rump , The bast'd pate Fryer bob'd her , and so begat a Monk , The Monk begat a Daughter who could both lie and huff , She married to a Barrister , and quickly god a Ruff. So twin'd etc , The Ruff it took good counsel , good counsel god a Fee , The Fee begotten a Segeant , thus runs the Pedigree . The Segeant god a triple cap which a good Lawyer spoil'd , By getting ease and Gout , he once more god a child . So twin's etc A Dog he god a Bailiff , who Cerbrus like could roar , And daily hunt a bout the Town to terrify the poor , The Bailiff god a Turnkey , the Turnkey god a Jailor , Who hellhound like do suck the blood of those the Bums do hail there . So twines etc , The Jailor god and under Sheriff , the under god and upper , Who can fright a Country town by shaking of his crupper , He married to a Virgin that was of some renown , And plying on her briskly begotten a Scarlet Gown , So twin'd etc The Gown is god a Merchant who sending Ships to Sea , By bringing o're uncustom'd Goods , grew rich immediately , He strideing of a Boat Swains wife , a brave Lieutenant god , Who became a Captain by fighting very hight , So twin'd etc , The Captain god a Colonel , the Colonel he was tall , And by leaping trenches became a General The General was eoger in pursuit of fame , And in a little space begat a dreadful name , So twined etc And thus may you see now how are since Adams time The Pedigrees ran round as the Wheelband did twine , From the lowest to the highest and then back again , In continual motion this Wheelband does remain , So merrily twin'd the wheelband the well twined wheelband , By this you may plainly understand the twining of this wheelband . Printed for J. Conyers , at the Black Raven in Holbourn . 