E : 285 Poor Robin's Dream , commonly call'd , Poor Charity . I know no reason but this harmless Riddle , May as well be Printed as Sung to a Fiddle . To a complete Tune , known by Musicians and many others , or , Game at Cards . HOw now good fellow , what all a mor I pray thee tell me what is the news ? Trading is dead , and I am sorry fort . which makes me look worse than I use ; If a man hath no employment whereby to get a penny He hath no enjoyment if that he wants money , And charity is not used by many . I have nothing to spend nor i've nothing to lend , i've nothing to do , I tarry at home , Sitting in my chair , drawing near to the fire , I fell asleep like and idle drone , And as I slept I fell into a dream , I saw a Play acted without e're a theam , But I could not tell what the Play did mean . Yet afterwards I did perceive , and something more did understand , The Stage was the world wherein we live , the Actors they were all man kind , When the Play is ended , the Stage down they'l fling Then there will be no difference in this thing Between a Beggar and a King . The first that acted I protest , was Time with a Glass and a Sith in his hand The Globe of the world upon his breast , to show he could the same command , Ther's a time for to work , and a time for to play A time for to borrow , and a time for to pay , And a time that calls us all away . COnscience in order takes his place and very gallantly plays his part , He fears not to fly in a Rulers face although it cuts him to the heart , He told them all this is the latter age , Which put the Actors into such a Rage , That they kicked poor Conscience from the stage . Plain dealing presently appears in habit like a simple man , The Actors at him mocks and jeers pointing their fingers as they ran How came this fellow into our company ? Away with him many a gallant did cry , For plain dealing will a beggar die . Dissimulation mounted the Stage , but he was clothed in galiant attire , He was acquainted with youth and age , many his company did desire , They did entertain him in their very breast , There he could have harbour and quietly rest , For dissemblers and turncoats fares the best . Then comes in poor Charity , methinks she looked wondrous old . She quiverd and quaked most piteously , it griev'd me to think she was grown so cold , She had been ith' City and in the Country , Likewise among the Lawyers and the Nobility But there was no room for poor Charity . Then comes in Truth not clothed in wool , but like youth in his white Lawn sleeves He says the Land is full , full , full , too full of Rebels worse than thieves , The City's full of poverty , the French are full of pride Fanatics full of envy , that order can't abide , And the Usurers bags are full beside . Hark how Bellonia's drums do beatrice , methinks it goes rattling through the town , Hark how it thunders through the street as if it would shake the Chimney's down , Then comes in Mars the great God of war And bids us face about , and be as we were , And when I awaked I sat in my Chair . Fini [ s ] London , Printed for J. Clark at the Harp and Bible in West Smith-field . With Allowance . E : 285 Poor Robin's Dream , commonly call'd , Poor Charity . I know no reason but this harmless Riddle , May as well be Printed as Sung to a Fiddle . To a complete Tune , known by Musicians and many others , or , Game at Cards . HOw now good fellow , what all a mor I pray thee tell me what is the news ? Trading is dead , and I am sorry fort . which makes me look worse than I use ; If a man hath no employment whereby to get a penny He hath no enjoyment if that he wants money , And charity is not used by many . I have nothing to spend nor i've nothing to lend , i've nothing to do , I tarry at home , Sitting in my chair , drawing near to the fire , I fell asleep like and idle drone , And as I slept I fell into a dream , I saw a Play acted without e're a theam , But I could not tell what the Play did mean . Yet afterwards I did perceive , and something more did understand , The Stage was the world wherein we live , the Actors they were all man kind , When the Play is ended , the Stage down they'l fling Then there will be no difference in this thing Between a Beggar and a King . The first that acted I protest , was Time with a Glass and a Sith in his hand The Globe of the world upon his breast , to show he could the same command , Ther's a time for to work , and a time for to play A time for to borrow , and a time for to pay , And a time that calls us all away . COnscience in order takes his place and very gallantly plays his part , He fears not to fly in a Rulers face although it cuts him to the heart , He told them all this is the latter age , Which put the Actors into such a Rage , That they kicked poor Conscience from the stage . Plain dealing presently appears in habit like a simple man , The Actors at him mocks and jeers pointing their fingers as they ran How came this fellow into our company ? Away with him many a gallant did cry , For plain dealing will a beggar die . Dissimulation mounted the Stage , but he was clothed in galiant attire , He was acquainted with youth and age , many his company did desire , They did entertain him in their very breast , There he could have harbour and quietly rest , For dissemblers and turncoats fares the best . Then comes in poor Charity , methinks she looked wondrous old . She quiverd and quaked most piteously , it griev'd me to think she was grown so cold , She had been ith' City and in the Country , Likewise among the Lawyers and the Nobility But there was no room for poor Charity . Then comes in Truth not clothed in wool , but like youth in his white Lawn sleeves He says the Land is full , full , full , too full of Rebels worse than thieves , The City's full of poverty , the French are full of pride Fanatics full of envy , that order can't abide , And the Usurers bags are full beside . Hark how Bellonia's drums do beatrice , methinks it goes rattling through the town , Hark how it thunders through the street as if it would shake the Chimney's down , Then comes in Mars the great God of war And bids us face about , and be as we were , And when I awaked I sat in my Chair . Fini [ s ] London , Printed for J. Clark at the Harp and Bible in West Smith-field . With Allowance . 