E : 293 The rarest Ballad that ever was seen , Of the Blind beggars daughter of Bednall-green IT was a blind beggar that long lost his sighed , He had a fair daughter most pleasant and brght And many agalant brave Suitor had she , For none was so comely as pretty Bessee , And though she was of favour most fair , Yet seeind thee was but a beggar his heir , Of ancient house keepers despised was she , Whose Sons came as Suitors to pretty Bessee , Wherefore in great sorrow fair Bessee did say , Good Father and mother let me go away , To seek out my fortune wherever it be , This suit then they granted to pretty Bessee . Then Bessee that was of beauty most bright , They clad in grey Russet , and late in the night , From Father and mother alone parted she , Who sighed and sobbed for pretty Bessee . She went till she came to Stratford at Bow , Then knew she not whither nor which way to go , With tears she lamented her hard Destiny . So sad and so heavy was pretty Bessee ; She kept on her journey until it was day , and went unto Rumford along the highway , And at the Queen's arms entertained was she , So fair and well favour'd was pretty Bessee . She had not been there one month to and end , But Master and Mistress and all was her friend . And every brave Gallant that once did her see , Was straightway in love with pretty Bessee . Great gifts they did send her of silver and gold , And in their songs daily her Love they extolled . Her beauty was blazed in every degree , So fair and so comely was pretty Bessee . The youngmen of Rumford in her had their joy She shew'd herself courteous and never too coy . And at their commandment still would she be , So fair and so comely was prett Bessee . Four Suitors at once unto her did go , They craved her favour but still she said no . I would not wish Gentlemen to marry with me , Yet ever they honoured pretty Bessee The one of them was a gallant young Knight , And he came to her disguised in the night . The second a Gentleman of good degree . Who wood and sued for pretty Bessee . A merchant of Lon. whose wealth was not small Was then the third Suitor and proper withal Her Master's own Son the fourth man must be , Who swore he would die for pretty Bessee And if thou wilt marry with me quod the Knight . I'll make thee a Lady with joy and delight My heart is enthralled by thy beauty . Then grant me thy favour my pretty Bessee . The Gentleman said come marry with me , In silk and in velvet my Bessee shall be My heart lives distressed Oh hear me quoth he And grant me thy love my pretty Bessee . Let me be thy husband the Merchant did say thou shalt live in London most galint and gay My Ship shall bring home rich Jewels for thee And I will for ever love pretty Bessee then Bessee she sighed , and thus she did say My Father and Mother I mean to obey First get their good will and be faithful to me And you shall enjoy your pretty Bessee , To everyone this answer she made Wherefore unto her they joyfully said , this thing to fulfil we all do agree , and where dwells thy father my pretty Bessee , My Father quoth she is soon to be seen , The silly blind beggar of Bednal-green . That daily sits begging for charity , He is the good Father of pretty Bessee . His marks and his tokens are known full well . He always is led with a dog and a bel : A silly oh [ l ] worser man God knoweth is he , Yet he is the Father of pretty Bessee . Nay then quoth the merchant thou art not for me Nor quoth the Inholder my wife shalt thou be , I loath quoth the Gentleman a beggars degree , I herefore fare you well my pretty Bessee . Why then quoth the Knight hap better or worse , I weigh not true love by the weight of the purse . and beauty is beauty in every degree , Then welcome to me my pretty Bessee . With thee to thy Father forthwith will I go , Nay soft quoth his Kinsman it must not be so : A beggars daughter no Lady shall be . Then take thy adieu of pretty Bessee . But soon after this by break of the day , The knight had from Rumford stole Bessee away The young men of Rumford so sick as maybe , Road after to fetch again pretty Bessee . As swift as the wind to ride they were seen , Until they came near unto Bednal-green . And as the Knight lighted most courteously , They fought against him for pretty Bessee . But Rescue came presently over the plain , Or else the Knight for his Love there had been slave The fray being ended then straight he did see , His Kinsman came railing for pretty Bessee Then speak the blind beggar although I be poor , Rail not against my child at mine own door . Though she be not decked with Velvet and Pearls Yet will I drop angels with thee for my Girl and then if my Gold wilt better her birth , And equal the gold you lay on the earth , Then neither rail nor grudge you to see , The blind beggars daughter a Lady to be , But first I will hear and have it well known , The gold that you drop shall be all your own . With that they replied contented we be Then here's quoth the beggar for pretty Bessee With that and angel he cast on the ground , and dropped in angels full three thousand pound and oftentimes it proved most plain , For the Gentleman's one the beggar dropped twain So as the place whereas they did fit , With gold was covered every whit , the Gentleman having dropped all his store . Said Beggar hold for I have no more : thou hast fulfilled thy promise arright , then marry my Girl quoth he to this Knigh and here quoth he I'll throw you down , A hundred pound more to buy her a Gown : the gentlemen all that this treasure had seen , Admired the beggar of Bednall green And those that were her suitors before - their flesh for very anger they tore : thus was their bessee matched to the Knigh and made a Lady in others despite . A fairer Lady was never seen then the beggars daughter of Bednal green But of her sumptuous marriage and feast and what brave Lords & Knighds thither was pressed the Second part shall set forth to your sighed With marvellous pleasure and wished deligh OF a blind beggars daughter most fair & bright That late was betrothed unto a young knight All the discourses thereof you may see . But now comes the wedding of pretty Bessee . Within a gallant Palace most brave , Adorned with all the cost they could have , This wedding was kept most sumptuously . And all for the love of pretty Bessee . All kind of dainties and delicates sweet , Was brought to their banquet as was thought meet , Partridge , Plover and Venison most free . Against the brave wedding of pretty Bessee . This wedding through England was spread by report So that a great number thereto did resort , Of Nobles and Gentiles of every degree , And all for the fame of pretty Bessee . To Church then went this gallant young Knight , His bride followed after like a Lady most bright , With Troops of Ladies the like was never seen , As went with sweet Bessee of Bednal-green . This wedding being solemnized then , With music perform [ ' ] worser by skilful men . The Nobles and Gentiles sat down at that Tide , Each one beholding the beautiful bride . But after this sumptudus dinner was done . To talk and to reason a number begun , Of the blind beggars daughter most bright , and what with his daughter he gave to the Knight . Then speak the Nobles much marvel have we , The jolly blind beggar we cannot here see . My Lords quoth the bride my father's so base , He's loath with his presence these states to disgrace . The praise of a woman in question to brin [ g ] . Before her own face here were a flattering thing . We think thy father's baseness quoth they , Might by thy beauty be clean put away . They had no sooner those pleasant words spoke , But in comes the beggar in a silken Cloak . A Velvet cap and a feather had he , and now a musician for sooth he would be . and being led in from catching of harm , He had a dainty Lute under his arm , Said please you hear any music of me , a song I will sing you of pretty Bessee , With that his Lute he twanged straightway , and thereon began most sweetly to play . and after a Lesson was played two or three , he strain'd out this song most delicately . A Beggars daughter did dwell on a green Who for her beauty may well be a Queen A blithe boony lass and dainty was she , And many a one called her pretty Bessee , Her Father had no goods nor no lands , But beg'd for a penny all day with his hands and ye : 293 The rarest Ballad that ever was seen , Of the Blind beggars daughter of Bednall-green IT was a blind beggar that long lost his sighed , He had a fair daughter most pleasant and brght And many agalant brave Suitor had she , For none was so comely as pretty Bessee , And though she was of favour most fair , Yet seeind thee was but a beggar his heir , Of ancient house keepers despised was she , Whose Sons came as Suitors to pretty Bessee , Wherefore in great sorrow fair Bessee did say , Good Father and mother let me go away , To seek out my fortune wherever it be , This suit then they granted to pretty Bessee . Then Bessee that was of beauty most bright , They clad in grey Russet , and late in the night , From Father and mother alone parted she , Who sighed and sobbed for pretty Bessee . She went till she came to Stratford at Bow , Then knew she not whither nor which way to go , With tears she lamented her hard Destiny . So sad and so heavy was pretty Bessee ; She kept on her journey until it was day , and went unto Rumford along the highway , And at the Queen's arms entertained was she , So fair and well favour'd was pretty Bessee . She had not been there one month to and end , But Master and Mistress and all was her friend . And every brave Gallant that once did her see , Was straightway in love with pretty Bessee . Great gifts they did send her of silver and gold , And in their songs daily her Love they extolled . Her beauty was blazed in every degree , So fair and so comely was pretty Bessee . The youngmen of Rumford in her had their joy She shew'd herself courteous and never too coy . And at their commandment still would she be , So fair and so comely was prett Bessee . Four Suitors at once unto her did go , They craved her favour but still she said no . I would not wish Gentlemen to marry with me , Yet ever they honoured pretty Bessee The one of them was a gallant young Knight , And he came to her disguised in the night . The second a Gentleman of good degree . Who wood and sued for pretty Bessee . A merchant of Lon. whose wealth was not small Was then the third Suitor and proper withal Her Master's own Son the fourth man must be , Who swore he would die for pretty Bessee And if thou wilt marry with me quod the Knight . I'll make thee a Lady with joy and delight My heart is enthralled by thy beauty . Then grant me thy favour my pretty Bessee . The Gentleman said come marry with me , In silk and in velvet my Bessee shall be My heart lives distressed Oh hear me quoth he And grant me thy love my pretty Bessee . Let me be thy husband the Merchant did say thou shalt live in London most galint and gay My Ship shall bring home rich Jewels for thee And I will for ever love pretty Bessee then Bessee she sighed , and thus she did say My Father and Mother I mean to obey First get their good will and be faithful to me And you shall enjoy your pretty Bessee , To everyone this answer she made Wherefore unto her they joyfully said , this thing to fulfil we all do agree , and where dwells thy father my pretty Bessee , My Father quoth she is soon to be seen , The silly blind beggar of Bednal-green . That daily sits begging for charity , He is the good Father of pretty Bessee . His marks and his tokens are known full well . He always is led with a dog and a bel : A silly oh [ l ] worser man God knoweth is he , Yet he is the Father of pretty Bessee . Nay then quoth the merchant thou art not for me Nor quoth the Inholder my wife shalt thou be , I loath quoth the Gentleman a beggars degree , I herefore fare you well my pretty Bessee . Why then quoth the Knight hap better or worse , I weigh not true love by the weight of the purse . and beauty is beauty in every degree , Then welcome to me my pretty Bessee . With thee to thy Father forthwith will I go , Nay soft quoth his Kinsman it must not be so : A beggars daughter no Lady shall be . Then take thy adieu of pretty Bessee . But soon after this by break of the day , The knight had from Rumford stole Bessee away The young men of Rumford so sick as maybe , Road after to fetch again pretty Bessee . As swift as the wind to ride they were seen , Until they came near unto Bednal-green . And as the Knight lighted most courteously , They fought against him for pretty Bessee . But Rescue came presently over the plain , Or else the Knight for his Love there had been slave The fray being ended then straight he did see , His Kinsman came railing for pretty Bessee Then speak the blind beggar although I be poor , Rail not against my child at mine own door . Though she be not decked with Velvet and Pearls Yet will I drop angels with thee for my Girl and then if my Gold wilt better her birth , And equal the gold you lay on the earth , Then neither rail nor grudge you to see , The blind beggars daughter a Lady to be , But first I will hear and have it well known , The gold that you drop shall be all your own . With that they replied contented we be Then here's quoth the beggar for pretty Bessee With that and angel he cast on the ground , and dropped in angels full three thousand pound and oftentimes it proved most plain , For the Gentleman's one the beggar dropped twain So as the place whereas they did fit , With gold was covered every whit , the Gentleman having dropped all his store . Said Beggar hold for I have no more : thou hast fulfilled thy promise arright , then marry my Girl quoth he to this Knigh and here quoth he I'll throw you down , A hundred pound more to buy her a Gown : the gentlemen all that this treasure had seen , Admired the beggar of Bednall green And those that were her suitors before - their flesh for very anger they tore : thus was their bessee matched to the Knigh and made a Lady in others despite . A fairer Lady was never seen then the beggars daughter of Bednal green But of her sumptuous marriage and feast and what brave Lords & Knighds thither was pressed the Second part shall set forth to your sighed With marvellous pleasure and wished deligh OF a blind beggars daughter most fair & bright That late was betrothed unto a young knight All the discourses thereof you may see . But now comes the wedding of pretty Bessee . Within a gallant Palace most brave , Adorned with all the cost they could have , This wedding was kept most sumptuously . And all for the love of pretty Bessee . All kind of dainties and delicates sweet , Was brought to their banquet as was thought meet , Partridge , Plover and Venison most free . Against the brave wedding of pretty Bessee . This wedding through England was spread by report So that a great number thereto did resort , Of Nobles and Gentiles of every degree , And all for the fame of pretty Bessee . To Church then went this gallant young Knight , His bride followed after like a Lady most bright , With Troops of Ladies the like was never seen , As went with sweet Bessee of Bednal-green . This wedding being solemnized then , With music perform [ ' ] worser by skilful men . The Nobles and Gentiles sat down at that Tide , Each one beholding the beautiful bride . But after this sumptudus dinner was done . To talk and to reason a number begun , Of the blind beggars daughter most bright , and what with his daughter he gave to the Knight . Then speak the Nobles much marvel have we , The jolly blind beggar we cannot here see . My Lords quoth the bride my father's so base , He's loath with his presence these states to disgrace . The praise of a woman in question to brin [ g ] . Before her own face here were a flattering thing . We think thy father's baseness quoth they , Might by thy beauty be clean put away . They had no sooner those pleasant words spoke , But in comes the beggar in a silken Cloak . A Velvet cap and a feather had he , and now a musician for sooth he would be . and being led in from catching of harm , He had a dainty Lute under his arm , Said please you hear any music of me , a song I will sing you of pretty Bessee , With that his Lute he twanged straightway , and thereon began most sweetly to play . and after a Lesson was played two or three , he strain'd out this song most delicately . A Beggars daughter did dwell on a green Who for her beauty may well be a Queen A blithe boony lass and dainty was she , And many a one called her pretty Bessee , Her Father had no goods nor no lands , But beg'd for a penny all day with his hands and yet for her marriage he gave thousand three Yet still hath some what for pretty Bessee . And if any one her birth do disdain Her Father is ready with might and with main To prove she is come of a noble degree Therefore let none flout at my pretty Bessee . With that the Lords and company round With hearty laughter was ready to soun , At last said the Lords full well we may see The bride and the beggars beholding to thee . With that the bride all blushing did rise , With the salt water within her fair eyes Pardon my Father grave Nobles quoth she , That through blind affection thus dotes on me , If this be thy Father the Nobles did say , Well may he be proud of this haypy day , Yet by his countenance well we may see , His birth with his fortune did never agree . And therefore blind beggar we pray thee bewray And look that the truth to us thou do say , Thy birth and thy parentage what it might be Even for the love thou bearest to pretty Bessee . Then give me leave yond Gentiles each one , A Song more to sing and then I'll be gone , And if that I do not win good report , then do not give me a groat for my sport WHen first our King his fame did advance , & fought for his title in delicate France In many places great perils past he , But that [ e ] n was not born my pretty bessee And in those wars went over to fight , Many a brave Duke a Lord and a Knight . & with them young Monford of courage so free , but then was not born my pretty bessee , & there did young Monford by a blow o'th face Lose both his eyes in a very short space , His life had also been gone with his fight , Had not a young woman come forth in the night Among the slave men her fancy did move , To search and to seek for her own true love Who seeing young Montford there gasping to lie she saved his life through her charity . And then all our victuals in beggars attire , At hands of good people we then did require , At last into England as now it is seen , We came and remained at bednal green . And thus we have lived in fortune's despite Though poor yet conented with humble delight And in my old years a comfort to be God sent me a daughter call [ ' ] worser pretty bessee , And thus you nobles my song I do end , Hoping the same no man does offend , Full forty long winter's thus have I been A silly blind beggar of bednal green Now when the company every one Did hear the strange tale in song he had shown They were all amazed as well they migh be , Both at the blind beggar and pretty Bessee . With that the fair bride they then did embrace saying , you are come of and honourable Raze , Thy Father likewise of a high degree . And thou as worthy a Lady to be , Thus was the feast ended with joy and delight A happy Bridegroom was made the young Knight Who lived in joy and felicity . With his fair Lady pretty Bessee . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and W. Gilbertson . tO for her marriage he gave thousand three Yet still hath some what for pretty Bessee . And if any one her birth do disdain Her Father is ready with might and with main To prove she is come of a noble degree Therefore let none flout at my pretty Bessee . With that the Lords and company round With hearty laughter was ready to soun , At last said the Lords full well we may see The bride and the beggars beholding to thee . With that the bride all blushing did rise , With the salt water within her fair eyes Pardon my Father grave Nobles quoth she , That through blind affection thus dotes on me , If this be thy Father the Nobles did say , Well may he be proud of this haypy day , Yet by his countenance well we may see , His birth with his fortune did never agree . And therefore blind beggar we pray thee bewray And look that the truth to us thou do say , Thy birth and thy parentage what it might be Even for the love thou bearest to pretty Bessee . Then give me leave yond Gentiles each one , A Song more to sing and then I'll be gone , And if that I do not win good report , then do not give me a groat for my sport WHen first our King his fame did advance , & fought for his title in delicate France In many places great perils past he , But that [ e ] n was not born my pretty bessee And in those wars went over to fight , Many a brave Duke a Lord and a Knight . & with them young Monford of courage so free , but then was not born my pretty bessee , & there did young Monford by a blow o'th face Lose both his eyes in a very short space , His life had also been gone with his fight , Had not a young woman come forth in the night Among the slave men her fancy did move , To search and to seek for her own true love Who seeing young Montford there gasping to lie she saved his life through her charity . And then all our victuals in beggars attire , At hands of good people we then did require , At last into England as now it is seen , We came and remained at bednal green . And thus we have lived in fortune's despite Though poor yet conented with humble delight And in my old years a comfort to be God sent me a daughter call [ ' ] worser pretty bessee , And thus you nobles my song I do end , Hoping the same no man does offend , Full forty long winter's thus have I been A silly blind beggar of bednal green Now when the company every one Did hear the strange tale in song he had shown They were all amazed as well they migh be , Both at the blind beggar and pretty Bessee . With that the fair bride they then did embrace saying , you are come of and honourable Raze , Thy Father likewise of a high degree . And thou as worthy a Lady to be , Thus was the feast ended with joy and delight A happy Bridegroom was made the young Knight Who lived in joy and felicity . With his fair Lady pretty Bessee . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and W. Gilbertson . 