E : 286 Poor Robin's Dream ; Commonly called , Poor Charity . I know no Reason , but this harmless Riddle , May as well be Printed , as Sung to a Fiddle . To a complete Tune , well known by Musicians , and many others : Or , Game at Cards . HOw now good fellow , what all amort ? I pray thee tell me what is the News , Trading is dead , and I am sorry fort , which makes me look worse than I use , If a man hath no employment whereby to get a penny , he hath no enjoyment if that he wants money , And Charity is not used by any . I have nothing to spend , nor I've nothing to lend , i've nothing to do , I tarry at home , Sitting in my Chair , drawing near to the fire , I fell into a sleep like and idle drone ; And as I slept , I fell into a dream I see a Play a [ c ] ted without e're a Theam , But I could not tell what the Play did mean . But afterwards I did perceive , and something more I did understand ; The Stage was the World wherein we live , the Actors they were all mankind . And when the Play's ended , the Stage down they fling , then there will be no difference in this thing , Between a Beggar and a King . The first that Acted I protest , was time with a Glass and Sith in his hand , With the Globe of the World upon his breast , to show that he could the same command : There's a time for to work , & a time for to play , a time for to borrow , and a time for to pay , And a time that does call us all away . COnscience in order takes his place , and very gallantly plays his part ; He fears not to fly in a Rulers face , although it cuts him to the hear He tells him that all this is the latter Age , Which put the Actors into such a rage , That they kick'd poor Conscience off the stage . Plainly Dealing presently appears , in habit like a simple man : The Actors at him mocks and jears ; pointing their fingers as they ran : How came this fellow into our company ? away with him many a Gallant did cry , For Plain-Dealing will a Beggar die . Dissimulation mounted the Stage , but he was clothed in Gallant attire ; He was acquainted with Youth and Age , many his company did desire ; They entertain'd him in their very breast , There he could have harbour , and quietly rest , For Dissemblers and Turncoats fare the best . Then comes in poor Charity , methinks she looked wondrous old She quiver'd and she quak'd most piteously , it griev'd me to think she was grown so cold : She had been i'th' City , and in the Country , among the Lawyers and Nobiity , But there was no room for poor Charity . Then comes in Truth , not clothed in Wool , but like unto Youth in his white Laun sleeves , And says the Land it is full , full , full , too full of Rebels , worse than Thieves . The City's full of Poverty , the French are full of pride , Fanatics full of Envy , which order can't abide , And the Usurers bags are full beside . Hark how Bellona's Drums they do beatrice , methinks they go rattling through the Town Hark how they thunder through the street , as though they would shake the Chimneys down Then comes in Mars , the great God of War , And bids us face about . and be as we were , But when I wak'd I sat in my Chair . Printed by and for A.M. and sold by the Booksellers of London . E : 286 Poor Robin's Dream ; Commonly called , Poor Charity . I know no Reason , but this harmless Riddle , May as well be Printed , as Sung to a Fiddle . To a complete Tune , well known by Musicians , and many others : Or , Game at Cards . HOw now good fellow , what all amort ? I pray thee tell me what is the News , Trading is dead , and I am sorry fort , which makes me look worse than I use , If a man hath no employment whereby to get a penny , he hath no enjoyment if that he wants money , And Charity is not used by any . I have nothing to spend , nor I've nothing to lend , i've nothing to do , I tarry at home , Sitting in my Chair , drawing near to the fire , I fell into a sleep like and idle drone ; And as I slept , I fell into a dream I see a Play a [ c ] ted without e're a Theam , But I could not tell what the Play did mean . But afterwards I did perceive , and something more I did understand ; The Stage was the World wherein we live , the Actors they were all mankind . And when the Play's ended , the Stage down they fling , then there will be no difference in this thing , Between a Beggar and a King . The first that Acted I protest , was time with a Glass and Sith in his hand , With the Globe of the World upon his breast , to show that he could the same command : There's a time for to work , & a time for to play , a time for to borrow , and a time for to pay , And a time that does call us all away . COnscience in order takes his place , and very gallantly plays his part ; He fears not to fly in a Rulers face , although it cuts him to the hear He tells him that all this is the latter Age , Which put the Actors into such a rage , That they kick'd poor Conscience off the stage . Plainly Dealing presently appears , in habit like a simple man : The Actors at him mocks and jears ; pointing their fingers as they ran : How came this fellow into our company ? away with him many a Gallant did cry , For Plain-Dealing will a Beggar die . Dissimulation mounted the Stage , but he was clothed in Gallant attire ; He was acquainted with Youth and Age , many his company did desire ; They entertain'd him in their very breast , There he could have harbour , and quietly rest , For Dissemblers and Turncoats fare the best . Then comes in poor Charity , methinks she looked wondrous old She quiver'd and she quak'd most piteously , it griev'd me to think she was grown so cold : She had been i'th' City , and in the Country , among the Lawyers and Nobiity , But there was no room for poor Charity . Then comes in Truth , not clothed in Wool , but like unto Youth in his white Laun sleeves , And says the Land it is full , full , full , too full of Rebels , worse than Thieves . The City's full of Poverty , the French are full of pride , Fanatics full of Envy , which order can't abide , And the Usurers bags are full beside . Hark how Bellona's Drums they do beatrice , methinks they go rattling through the Town Hark how they thunder through the street , as though they would shake the Chimneys down Then comes in Mars , the great God of War , And bids us face about . and be as we were , But when I wak'd I sat in my Chair . Printed by and for A.M. and sold by the Booksellers of London . 