E : 298 The Rich FARMERS Ruin ; Who Murmured at the Plenty of the Seasons , because he could not Fell Corn so Dear as his Covetous heart desired . To the Tune of , Why are my Eyes still flowing , As it is play'd on the Violin . This may be Printed , R . P A Wealthy Man a Farmer , who had Corn great store Yet he was Cruel always to the Poor ; And as the truth of him does very well appear , He thought he ne'r sold his Corn too dear ; As to the Market one day he did go Finding the Prizes of Corn to be low ; Sa [ i ] worser he , before I will fell ought of mine , I'le carry it home for to fatten my Swine . In former days , as I can make it well appear , By my own Farm I god hundreds a Year ; I sold for Ten the Corn that will not now fetch Five , Is this the way for a Farmer to Thrive ? Yet I will now fell no more at this Price , But am resolved to stay for a Rise : Thus he resolved to hoard up his store , That he might then make a Prey of the Poor . Another Farmer likewise then was standing by , Who when he herd him he thus did reply ; You have a Farm and likewise Land , which is your own What cause have you then to make this sad moan ? I that have nothing but what I do Rend , With Years of plenty , rejoice in conten Give him the praise who such plenty does send , Lest when you murmur you highly offend . Said the Miser , what tho' I have god House and Land ; Yet I would have you now well understand , I am not free to see the wasting of it all , And after that into Poverty fallen : Have we not reason , alas ! to Complain , To see the Cheapness of all sorts of Grain ? If it continue , as sure as the Sun , I shall be ruin'd and clearly undone . I , but Neighbour , pray tell me wherefore do you grieve Does not a plenty the poor Men relieve ? Here do I find , had you your will in sell [ l ] ing Grain , Then m [ i ] ght the Poor soon have cause to complain : For you are cruel , most harsh and severe , And think you can never fell it too dear : Why , says the other , what's poor Men to me ? I'le keep my Corn till one Peck will fetch three . Then home he went , and bitterly he did repine , And in his Substance he soon did decline ; For he was soon as Poor as any Man alive , For after this he by no means could Thrive : As he was walking one day round his Ground , His House was Robb'd of five hundred pound ; Yet this was but the beginning of Woe , For in two Years he was brought very low . His Corn did waste , and many of his Cattle dy'd , Also great Losses and Crosses beside ; Both House and Land through perfect need , at length he sold , Nothing but Ruin he then could behold : Tho' all was blasted and clearly decay'd , Yet none would pity him , but thus they said : Seeing the Poor he did thus Circumvent , This is no more then a just Punishment . Like one forlorn and desolate , he then did Rome , Having no Diet , Apparel , or Home , But his poor Life he ended Lodging in a Barn , From whence all Covetous Farmers may learn , How to give thanks for a Plentiful Year , And not to murmur that Corn is not dear : For those that shall do it most highly offend , Think of this Farmers Unprosperous End. FINIS . Printed for J. Back , at the Black Boy on London-Bridge ; near the Draw-Bridge . E : 298 The Rich FARMERS Ruin ; Who Murmured at the Plenty of the Seasons , because he could not Fell Corn so Dear as his Covetous heart desired . To the Tune of , Why are my Eyes still flowing , As it is play'd on the Violin . This may be Printed , R . P A Wealthy Man a Farmer , who had Corn great store Yet he was Cruel always to the Poor ; And as the truth of him does very well appear , He thought he ne'r sold his Corn too dear ; As to the Market one day he did go Finding the Prizes of Corn to be low ; Sa [ i ] worser he , before I will fell ought of mine , I'le carry it home for to fatten my Swine . In former days , as I can make it well appear , By my own Farm I god hundreds a Year ; I sold for Ten the Corn that will not now fetch Five , Is this the way for a Farmer to Thrive ? Yet I will now fell no more at this Price , But am resolved to stay for a Rise : Thus he resolved to hoard up his store , That he might then make a Prey of the Poor . Another Farmer likewise then was standing by , Who when he herd him he thus did reply ; You have a Farm and likewise Land , which is your own What cause have you then to make this sad moan ? I that have nothing but what I do Rend , With Years of plenty , rejoice in conten Give him the praise who such plenty does send , Lest when you murmur you highly offend . Said the Miser , what tho' I have god House and Land ; Yet I would have you now well understand , I am not free to see the wasting of it all , And after that into Poverty fallen : Have we not reason , alas ! to Complain , To see the Cheapness of all sorts of Grain ? If it continue , as sure as the Sun , I shall be ruin'd and clearly undone . I , but Neighbour , pray tell me wherefore do you grieve Does not a plenty the poor Men relieve ? Here do I find , had you your will in sell [ l ] ing Grain , Then m [ i ] ght the Poor soon have cause to complain : For you are cruel , most harsh and severe , And think you can never fell it too dear : Why , says the other , what's poor Men to me ? I'le keep my Corn till one Peck will fetch three . Then home he went , and bitterly he did repine , And in his Substance he soon did decline ; For he was soon as Poor as any Man alive , For after this he by no means could Thrive : As he was walking one day round his Ground , His House was Robb'd of five hundred pound ; Yet this was but the beginning of Woe , For in two Years he was brought very low . His Corn did waste , and many of his Cattle dy'd , Also great Losses and Crosses beside ; Both House and Land through perfect need , at length he sold , Nothing but Ruin he then could behold : Tho' all was blasted and clearly decay'd , Yet none would pity him , but thus they said : Seeing the Poor he did thus Circumvent , This is no more then a just Punishment . Like one forlorn and desolate , he then did Rome , Having no Diet , Apparel , or Home , But his poor Life he ended Lodging in a Barn , From whence all Covetous Farmers may learn , How to give thanks for a Plentiful Year , And not to murmur that Corn is not dear : For those that shall do it most highly offend , Think of this Farmers Unprosperous End. FINIS . Printed for J. Back , at the Black Boy on London-Bridge ; near the Draw-Bridge . 