1.309 The Royal Subject's Joy , OR , Joyful news to all that faithful be , And does desire a happy year to see , To see the same let all good Christians pray That Charles in peace , may Crown and Sceptre sway , Then should we see such love in fair England , No foreign Nation durst against us stand . The Tune is , Found a charge . YOu Loyal Subject's all sing for joy , sing for joy ; Good news here's at White-Hall , sing for joy . A second Charles is come , Though heavy news to some , Let them say no more but mum . sing for joy , sing for joy . Long time we did him want , sing for joy , sing for joy ; Which made all trading scant , sing for joy ; But now I hope that we Shall better trading see , And live in unity . sing for joy , etc Our Royal Parliament . sing etc I hope will give content , sing for joy . That Charles of high renown , In peace may wear the Crown , And pull all Schisms down , sing , etc For George our General sing for joy , etc Let us pray both great and small , sing for joy . That faithful he may stand , For the good of fair England , Then we will fight with heart and hand sing , etc For if Charles do wear the Crown , sing , etc And pull all Taxes down . sing for joy . Then Quakers look about , For you will have the rout of that thtre is no doubt , sing , etc The Gospel flourish shall , sing , etc Heavens bless them at White-hall sing , etc Lord grant they may agree , That we all may see , And joyful unity , sing , etc The Second Part , To the same Tune . FOr Sects and Schisms they , sing etc Shall in England bear no sway , sing , etc Quaker nor any other Which would the Gospel smother . If that he were my Brother , sing , etc Good Soldiers will not daunt , sing , etc What , though they money want , sing , etc Their Arrears are all at hand , That will true and faithful stand , And be at Charles s and Georges command . sing , etc England rejoice with me . sing , etc We happy days shall see , sing for , etc for I hope all Trades will mend , And cruel wars will end , Peace so much will stand our friend , sing , etc Merchant's of high renown sing , etc If Charles enjoy the Crown , sing , etc Most happy days you'l see , Trading so good will be , If Charles and George agree . sing etc If all this to pass do come , sing etc Then let both all and some sing for joy . Then will all Englands foes Lament their grievous woes , for fear of English blows , sing , etc So to conclude I cry sing , etc for peace and liberty . sing , etc Let all true Subject's stand for the good of fair England , Under Charles and George command . sing , etc So as I first begun , sing , etc My Subject still shall run , sing , etc Let all good Christians pray That Peace may bear thee , sway , Amen . Amen I say . sing for joy , sing for joy , FINIS T.R. London , Printed for Charles Tyus on London-Bridge . 1.309 The Royal Subject's Joy , OR , Joyful news to all that faithful be , And does desire a happy year to see , To see the same let all good Christians pray That Charles in peace , may Crown and Sceptre sway , Then should we see such love in fair England , No foreign Nation durst against us stand . The Tune is , Found a charge . YOu Loyal Subject's all sing for joy , sing for joy ; Good news here's at White-Hall , sing for joy . A second Charles is come , Though heavy news to some , Let them say no more but mum . sing for joy , sing for joy . Long time we did him want , sing for joy , sing for joy ; Which made all trading scant , sing for joy ; But now I hope that we Shall better trading see , And live in unity . sing for joy , etc Our Royal Parliament . sing etc I hope will give content , sing for joy . That Charles of high renown , In peace may wear the Crown , And pull all Schisms down , sing , etc For George our General sing for joy , etc Let us pray both great and small , sing for joy . That faithful he may stand , For the good of fair England , Then we will fight with heart and hand sing , etc For if Charles do wear the Crown , sing , etc And pull all Taxes down . sing for joy . Then Quakers look about , For you will have the rout of that thtre is no doubt , sing , etc The Gospel flourish shall , sing , etc Heavens bless them at White-hall sing , etc Lord grant they may agree , That we all may see , And joyful unity , sing , etc The Second Part , To the same Tune . FOr Sects and Schisms they , sing etc Shall in England bear no sway , sing , etc Quaker nor any other Which would the Gospel smother . If that he were my Brother , sing , etc Good Soldiers will not daunt , sing , etc What , though they money want , sing , etc Their Arrears are all at hand , That will true and faithful stand , And be at Charles s and Georges command . sing , etc England rejoice with me . sing , etc We happy days shall see , sing for , etc for I hope all Trades will mend , And cruel wars will end , Peace so much will stand our friend , sing , etc Merchant's of high renown sing , etc If Charles enjoy the Crown , sing , etc Most happy days you'l see , Trading so good will be , If Charles and George agree . sing etc If all this to pass do come , sing etc Then let both all and some sing for joy . Then will all Englands foes Lament their grievous woes , for fear of English blows , sing , etc So to conclude I cry sing , etc for peace and liberty . sing , etc Let all true Subject's stand for the good of fair England , Under Charles and George command . sing , etc So as I first begun , sing , etc My Subject still shall run , sing , etc Let all good Christians pray That Peace may bear thee , sway , Amen . Amen I say . sing for joy , sing for joy , FINIS T.R. London , Printed for Charles Tyus on London-Bridge . 