Love lies a Bleeding . By whose mortal wounds you may soon understand , What sorrows we suffer since Love left the Land. To the Tune of , The Cyclops . LAy by your pleading Love lies a bleeding , Burn all your Poetry , and throw away your reading , Piety is painted and Truth is tainted Love is a Reprobate , and Schism now is Sainted the Throne Love does fit on , we daily do spit on , It was not thus , I wus , when Betty rul'd in Brittain . but friendship hath falter'd Loves Altars are alter'd And he that is the cause , I would his neck were halter'd When Love did nourish , England did flourish , Till holy hate came in , and made us all so currish , now every Widgeon talks of Religion , But does as little good as Mahomet and's Pigeon each Coxcomb is suiting , his words for confuting . but heaven's sooner gained by suffering than by disputing true friendship we smother , and strike at our Brother , Apostles never went to God by killing one another . Let Love but warm ye , Nothing can harm ye , When love is General , there's Angels in the Army Love keeps his Quarters , and fears no tortures The bravest fights are written in the book of Martyrs could we be so civil , to do good for evil , It were the only happy way to overcome the Devil , the flowers Love hath watered . Sedition hath scattered We talk with tongues of holiness , but act with hearts of hatred He that does know me , and Love will show me Hath found the nearest , noblest way to overcome me he that hath bound me , and then does wound me , Wins not my heart , he does not conquer but confound me , in such a condition Love is a Physician , True Love and Reason makes the purest Politician , but strife and confusion deceit and delusion Though it seems to thrive at first will make a sad conclusion . The second part , To the same Tune LOve is a fuel , A precious jewel , 'Tis Love must stinch the blood , when fury fights the duel , Love is a Bloudstone hate is a Toadstone , Heaven is the North-point , and Love is the Loadstone though fury and scorn Loves Temples have torn . Hee'l keep his Covenant , and will not be forsworn , his Laws do not border , on strife and disorder , He scorns to get his wealth by perjury or Murder . What falsehood drew in , Grace never grew in Love will not raise himself upon another's ruin , he can present ye with peace and plenty love never advanceth one by throwing down of twenty , where Love is in season there Truth is , and reason The soul of Love is never underlaid with treason , he never does quarrel for Princely apparel , Nor ever fixed a Chair of State upon a barrel . Love from the dull pit Of follies full pit Nev'r took and Anvil out and put it in a Pulpit , Love is no sinker , Truth is no slinker , In mending breaches , Love did never play the Tinkar where vengeance and lust is no truth is , nor trust is As will appear at last in Gods high court of Justice pity and remorse is the strength of Loves forces Paul never converted men by stables fil'd with horses . Mercy is fading , Truth is degrading , Love is the only cause of Plenty , Peace , & Trading Love is a fire made of desire Whose chief ambition is to heaven to aspire it stops the gradation of fury and passion It governs all good families , & best can guide a Nation the low land ; the high land , & my land and thy land Grew all in common strait , when love had left this Island . Where Peace is panting And rage is ranting , 'Tis and undoubted sign the King of Love is wanting , Father and Mother , Sister and Brother If love be lacking , quickly mischief one another , where wrath is the rod is that ruins our bodies With hate the Devil is , but where love is , then let us not doubt it , but straight go about it To bring in love again , we cannot live without it . Then let the Graces Crown our embraces And let us settle all things in their proper places , lest Persecution cause dissolution , Let all purloined wealth be made a restitution For though now it tickles , 'twill turn all to prickles , Then let us live in peace & turn our swords to sickles , When Noah's Dove was sent out , then Gods pardon was sent out , They that would have it so , I hope will say Amen to't . London , Printed for F. G. on Snow-hill . Entered according to Order . Finis . Love lies a Bleeding . By whose mortal wounds you may soon understand , What sorrows we suffer since Love left the Land. To the Tune of , The Cyclops . LAy by your pleading Love lies a bleeding , Burn all your Poetry , and throw away your reading , Piety is painted and Truth is tainted Love is a Reprobate , and Schism now is Sainted the Throne Love does fit on , we daily do spit on , It was not thus , I wus , when Betty rul'd in Brittain . but friendship hath falter'd Loves Altars are alter'd And he that is the cause , I would his neck were halter'd When Love did nourish , England did flourish , Till holy hate came in , and made us all so currish , now every Widgeon talks of Religion , But does as little good as Mahomet and's Pigeon each Coxcomb is suiting , his words for confuting . but heaven's sooner gained by suffering than by disputing true friendship we smother , and strike at our Brother , Apostles never went to God by killing one another . Let Love but warm ye , Nothing can harm ye , When love is General , there's Angels in the Army Love keeps his Quarters , and fears no tortures The bravest fights are written in the book of Martyrs could we be so civil , to do good for evil , It were the only happy way to overcome the Devil , the flowers Love hath watered . Sedition hath scattered We talk with tongues of holiness , but act with hearts of hatred He that does know me , and Love will show me Hath found the nearest , noblest way to overcome me he that hath bound me , and then does wound me , Wins not my heart , he does not conquer but confound me , in such a condition Love is a Physician , True Love and Reason makes the purest Politician , but strife and confusion deceit and delusion Though it seems to thrive at first will make a sad conclusion . The second part , To the same Tune LOve is a fuel , A precious jewel , 'Tis Love must stinch the blood , when fury fights the duel , Love is a Bloudstone hate is a Toadstone , Heaven is the North-point , and Love is the Loadstone though fury and scorn Loves Temples have torn . Hee'l keep his Covenant , and will not be forsworn , his Laws do not border , on strife and disorder , He scorns to get his wealth by perjury or Murder . What falsehood drew in , Grace never grew in Love will not raise himself upon another's ruin , he can present ye with peace and plenty love never advanceth one by throwing down of twenty , where Love is in season there Truth is , and reason The soul of Love is never underlaid with treason , he never does quarrel for Princely apparel , Nor ever fixed a Chair of State upon a barrel . Love from the dull pit Of follies full pit Nev'r took and Anvil out and put it in a Pulpit , Love is no sinker , Truth is no slinker , In mending breaches , Love did never play the Tinkar where vengeance and lust is no truth is , nor trust is As will appear at last in Gods high court of Justice pity and remorse is the strength of Loves forces Paul never converted men by stables fil'd with horses . Mercy is fading , Truth is degrading , Love is the only cause of Plenty , Peace , & Trading Love is a fire made of desire Whose chief ambition is to heaven to aspire it stops the gradation of fury and passion It governs all good families , & best can guide a Nation the low land ; the high land , & my land and thy land Grew all in common strait , when love had left this Island . Where Peace is panting And rage is ranting , 'Tis and undoubted sign the King of Love is wanting , Father and Mother , Sister and Brother If love be lacking , quickly mischief one another , where wrath is the rod is that ruins our bodies With hate the Devil is , but where love is , then let us not doubt it , but straight go about it To bring in love again , we cannot live without it . Then let the Graces Crown our embraces And let us settle all things in their proper places , lest Persecution cause dissolution , Let all purloined wealth be made a restitution For though now it tickles , 'twill turn all to prickles , Then let us live in peace & turn our swords to sickles , When Noah's Dove was sent out , then Gods pardon was sent out , They that would have it so , I hope will say Amen to't . London , Printed for F. G. on Snow-hill . Entered according to Order . Finis . 