London and England Triumphan At the Proclaiming of King Charls the Second , by both the Houses of Parliament , the Judges of the Land : with the Lord Mayor , the Court of Aldermen , and Council of the City , as it was performed with great Solemnity , and loud Acclama - tions of joy by the people in general . May the 8th . 1660. To the Tune of , I am a Jovial Bachelor . ENgland cast off thy mourning , redemption now draws near The Sun begins to shine again and every thing looks clear , Thou now hast hit the mark at which thou hast so often aim'd , For Royal Charls the Second is happily proclaim'd . This is the greatest general Joy I think , that ever was , And as miraculous a day as ere was brought to pass , In less than six months time it was dangerous to have him nam'd , Yet now King Charls the Second , etc A valiant and more virtuous Prince England could never boast Circled about with providence sent from the Lord of Hest Witness the escape at Worster , so worthy to be nam'd But good King Charls the Second , etc Our wise Astrologers foretold the King should never come home Lily and Booker were too bold to write a Prince his doom 'Twas not for want of ignorance , but now their Art is maim'd , For good King Charls the Second , etc shopkeepers might have shut up shops cause Trading did decay But since they are in better hope's they shut up shops for joy For now they shall have all things for which their wishes aim'd Since Royal Charls the Second , etc Our Schismatics look sourly to see our cause of Joy If it did in their power lie they would the Cause destroy Their pride , their grand hypocristes and treacheries are tam'd , Since Royal Charls the Second is Englands King proclaim'd . The second part to the same Tune BUt our Loyal Nobility and Gentry too , may say , This is a great deliverance , just at the latter day , When as the King in sorrow sat and Kingdom was inflam'd , God rais'd him to a Throne of State For now the King's proclaim'd . The Royal Clergy have been starv'd beheaded and undone , While Weavers , and while Cobblers did into their Pulpits run , Where Blasphemy was daily taught , and things not to be nam'd Till good King Charls the Second was royally proclaim'd . The Law and sacred Gospel too were both Malignants grown They use our Lands , as if we had no title to our own , Rebellion was a Babe of Grace and Loyalty was blam'd Till good King Charls the Second was lawfully proclaim'd . The Church of England was abus'd grossly by such as those Our Apron Priests made mouths at us our Saints sung through the Nose , Beloved take up arms , they cry'd and do as we have fram'd , But now even in their height of pride , King Charls is new proclaim'd . If Oliver and Bradshaw had but liv'd to see this day Without all doubt they would run mad and hang themselves for joy It was a dreadful danting but for to hear him nam'd . Oh! how they'd fallen a canting to hear him King proclaim'd . The Sun shone very brightly , yet the rain and hail did fly Which shows when lawful Sons do reign all hail the Heavens cry , The joys of all the City were highly to be fam'd When Royal Charls the Second was lawfully proclaim'd . With drum and trumpet , horse and foot and every Trained band As if they meant for to go to't gainst all that dare withstand God save the King , all people cry'd as soon as he was nam'd And thus King Charls the Second was royally proclaim'd . God save the King , cry I too And Parliament also That Prince and people may unite and prosperously grow , God bless my good Lord General Monk may he be ever fam'd . Who was the cause that good King Charls the Second is proclaim'd . London , Printed for F. Grove on Snow hill . Entered according to Order . FINIS . London and England Triumphan At the Proclaiming of King Charls the Second , by both the Houses of Parliament , the Judges of the Land : with the Lord Mayor , the Court of Aldermen , and Council of the City , as it was performed with great Solemnity , and loud Acclama - tions of joy by the people in general . May the 8th . 1660. To the Tune of , I am a Jovial Bachelor . ENgland cast off thy mourning , redemption now draws near The Sun begins to shine again and every thing looks clear , Thou now hast hit the mark at which thou hast so often aim'd , For Royal Charls the Second is happily proclaim'd . This is the greatest general Joy I think , that ever was , And as miraculous a day as ere was brought to pass , In less than six months time it was dangerous to have him nam'd , Yet now King Charls the Second , etc A valiant and more virtuous Prince England could never boast Circled about with providence sent from the Lord of Hest Witness the escape at Worster , so worthy to be nam'd But good King Charls the Second , etc Our wise Astrologers foretold the King should never come home Lily and Booker were too bold to write a Prince his doom 'Twas not for want of ignorance , but now their Art is maim'd , For good King Charls the Second , etc shopkeepers might have shut up shops cause Trading did decay But since they are in better hope's they shut up shops for joy For now they shall have all things for which their wishes aim'd Since Royal Charls the Second , etc Our Schismatics look sourly to see our cause of Joy If it did in their power lie they would the Cause destroy Their pride , their grand hypocristes and treacheries are tam'd , Since Royal Charls the Second is Englands King proclaim'd . The second part to the same Tune BUt our Loyal Nobility and Gentry too , may say , This is a great deliverance , just at the latter day , When as the King in sorrow sat and Kingdom was inflam'd , God rais'd him to a Throne of State For now the King's proclaim'd . The Royal Clergy have been starv'd beheaded and undone , While Weavers , and while Cobblers did into their Pulpits run , Where Blasphemy was daily taught , and things not to be nam'd Till good King Charls the Second was royally proclaim'd . The Law and sacred Gospel too were both Malignants grown They use our Lands , as if we had no title to our own , Rebellion was a Babe of Grace and Loyalty was blam'd Till good King Charls the Second was lawfully proclaim'd . The Church of England was abus'd grossly by such as those Our Apron Priests made mouths at us our Saints sung through the Nose , Beloved take up arms , they cry'd and do as we have fram'd , But now even in their height of pride , King Charls is new proclaim'd . If Oliver and Bradshaw had but liv'd to see this day Without all doubt they would run mad and hang themselves for joy It was a dreadful danting but for to hear him nam'd . Oh! how they'd fallen a canting to hear him King proclaim'd . The Sun shone very brightly , yet the rain and hail did fly Which shows when lawful Sons do reign all hail the Heavens cry , The joys of all the City were highly to be fam'd When Royal Charls the Second was lawfully proclaim'd . With drum and trumpet , horse and foot and every Trained band As if they meant for to go to't gainst all that dare withstand God save the King , all people cry'd as soon as he was nam'd And thus King Charls the Second was royally proclaim'd . God save the King , cry I too And Parliament also That Prince and people may unite and prosperously grow , God bless my good Lord General Monk may he be ever fam'd . Who was the cause that good King Charls the Second is proclaim'd . London , Printed for F. Grove on Snow hill . Entered according to Order . FINIS . 