The LONDONERS Lamentation . Wherein is contained a sorrowful Description of the dreadful Fire which happened in Pud - ding-Lane , next beyond Fish-street-hill on the second of Septemb. 1666. betwixt twelve and one of the clock in the morning , being Sunday , and continued until the Thursday night following : With and account of the King and the Duke of York's endeavours , with several Peers of the Land , for the quenching of the same ; Also the manner of doing it , and the name of every particular place where the fire did stop . Tune is , When Troy town , etc LEt water flow from every eye , Of all good Subject's in the Land , Mountains of fire were raised high , Which Londons City did command ; Waste lie those buildings were so good , And Ashes lie where London stood . Old London that a thousand years , the teeth of time could never waste , Now to our misery appears , in five dates space , 'tis burned at last ; Waste lie those Fabrics were so good , And Cinders lie where London stood . The second of September , at the dismal hours 'twixt twelve and one ; At midnight , up the fire got , in Pudding - Lane and brightly shone ; Our Engines all could do no good , Till Ashes lay where London stood . It overflow'd New Fish-street-hill , and then gave fire to Canon-street , Then through the Lanes , about did wheel , until it with the Thames did meet , As if it would have dry'd the Flood , And left dust where the River stood . A Strong assisting Eastern-wind , with liberal Lungs did fan the Flame , The Fire so in the water shin'd , you would have thought 'thad been the same , The Flames which swallow all they meet , Makes nothing to destroy a Street . Great Congregations made of sparks , fill all the Churches in the Town , That fly up like a Flock of Larks , the Bells' and Leads are melted down ; 'Cause we from since will not return , Pulpits themselves in Ashes mourn . Pitch , Tar , Oil , Flax and ancient Wood did make the raging Fire so rant , It would not quench , unless we cou'd at once have thrown the Thames upon't ; The fire had burned up without fear , Had Humber , Trent , and Tweed been there . The Citizens can nothing do , but lug their treasure out of town , Thirty pound Carts are hired now , each private man looks to his own But every passenger they greet , With Sugar and Wine in every street . Up to the old Exchange the fire , with bold ambitious wings did fly , And to the top on't did aspire , until it all did levil lie ; But Gresham ( he that built it ) stands , In spite of Vulcan's hight commands . The lofty front of pearless Powls , is now besieged with the Flame , In which his wooden entrails rowls , but bravely does with stand the same , And massy stones like shot lets fly , Out of its own Artillery . Women lying in , and Cripples crawl out of their beds , into the Fields , lest fire should consume them all , 'gainst which they had no other shield ; In every place the fields were strew'd . Which like to a great Leaguer shew'd . Our gracious King , the Duke of York , the Life-guards and their noble Lords , Both day and night , did watch and work , to pull down houses , walls , and boards That fire might no further go , And so consume the Suburbs too . God gave a blessing to their hands , for by this means the flames grew lower , It did at once obey Commands , both at the Temple , and the Tower , At Piecorner , and Aldersgate , The fire lost his Flaming state . At Holborn-bridge and Cripple-gate , and in the midst of Coleman-street , And Basing-hall it was laid flat , it did such opposition meet , Bishops-gate-street and Leaden-hall , To Cornhil-Standard are saved all . Just at Fan-Church in Fan-Church-street , Cloath-workers-hall in Mincing-Lane , The fire could no further get , and in Mark-Lane was quench'd again ; And now with heavy losses , we Are rid of this hight misery . Of French and Dutch many were took ; ( upon suspicion of a Plot , That they this ruin should provoke with Fireworks ) which will all be brought Unto their trial , but I fear , Our sinful hearts more guilty are . Three of Gods sharpest Arrows are and have been at us lately shot , Civil War , Pestilence and Fire , for Pride and Gain , there lies the Plot , Beware the fourth , for if it fallen , Grim Famine will confound us all . I know each Citizen hath drank a scalding draught of this hight Cup , But let him not ( to mend his bank ) use greedy Gains to get it up , Let them consider what they do , Their Customers are Sufferers too . Then let us with hearts undefil'd thank God his Mercies are so great , As that the Fire hath not spoyl'd the Suburbs and the Royal Sea If we still hate each other thus , God never will be friends with us . Finis . London , Printed for J. Clark , at the Bible and Harp , in West-Smithfield . With Allowance . The LONDONERS Lamentation . Wherein is contained a sorrowful Description of the dreadful Fire which happened in Pud - ding-Lane , next beyond Fish-street-hill on the second of Septemb. 1666. betwixt twelve and one of the clock in the morning , being Sunday , and continued until the Thursday night following : With and account of the King and the Duke of York's endeavours , with several Peers of the Land , for the quenching of the same ; Also the manner of doing it , and the name of every particular place where the fire did stop . Tune is , When Troy town , etc LEt water flow from every eye , Of all good Subject's in the Land , Mountains of fire were raised high , Which Londons City did command ; Waste lie those buildings were so good , And Ashes lie where London stood . Old London that a thousand years , the teeth of time could never waste , Now to our misery appears , in five dates space , 'tis burned at last ; Waste lie those Fabrics were so good , And Cinders lie where London stood . The second of September , at the dismal hours 'twixt twelve and one ; At midnight , up the fire got , in Pudding - Lane and brightly shone ; Our Engines all could do no good , Till Ashes lay where London stood . It overflow'd New Fish-street-hill , and then gave fire to Canon-street , Then through the Lanes , about did wheel , until it with the Thames did meet , As if it would have dry'd the Flood , And left dust where the River stood . A Strong assisting Eastern-wind , with liberal Lungs did fan the Flame , The Fire so in the water shin'd , you would have thought 'thad been the same , The Flames which swallow all they meet , Makes nothing to destroy a Street . Great Congregations made of sparks , fill all the Churches in the Town , That fly up like a Flock of Larks , the Bells' and Leads are melted down ; 'Cause we from since will not return , Pulpits themselves in Ashes mourn . Pitch , Tar , Oil , Flax and ancient Wood did make the raging Fire so rant , It would not quench , unless we cou'd at once have thrown the Thames upon't ; The fire had burned up without fear , Had Humber , Trent , and Tweed been there . The Citizens can nothing do , but lug their treasure out of town , Thirty pound Carts are hired now , each private man looks to his own But every passenger they greet , With Sugar and Wine in every street . Up to the old Exchange the fire , with bold ambitious wings did fly , And to the top on't did aspire , until it all did levil lie ; But Gresham ( he that built it ) stands , In spite of Vulcan's hight commands . The lofty front of pearless Powls , is now besieged with the Flame , In which his wooden entrails rowls , but bravely does with stand the same , And massy stones like shot lets fly , Out of its own Artillery . Women lying in , and Cripples crawl out of their beds , into the Fields , lest fire should consume them all , 'gainst which they had no other shield ; In every place the fields were strew'd . Which like to a great Leaguer shew'd . Our gracious King , the Duke of York , the Life-guards and their noble Lords , Both day and night , did watch and work , to pull down houses , walls , and boards That fire might no further go , And so consume the Suburbs too . God gave a blessing to their hands , for by this means the flames grew lower , It did at once obey Commands , both at the Temple , and the Tower , At Piecorner , and Aldersgate , The fire lost his Flaming state . At Holborn-bridge and Cripple-gate , and in the midst of Coleman-street , And Basing-hall it was laid flat , it did such opposition meet , Bishops-gate-street and Leaden-hall , To Cornhil-Standard are saved all . Just at Fan-Church in Fan-Church-street , Cloath-workers-hall in Mincing-Lane , The fire could no further get , and in Mark-Lane was quench'd again ; And now with heavy losses , we Are rid of this hight misery . Of French and Dutch many were took ; ( upon suspicion of a Plot , That they this ruin should provoke with Fireworks ) which will all be brought Unto their trial , but I fear , Our sinful hearts more guilty are . Three of Gods sharpest Arrows are and have been at us lately shot , Civil War , Pestilence and Fire , for Pride and Gain , there lies the Plot , Beware the fourth , for if it fallen , Grim Famine will confound us all . I know each Citizen hath drank a scalding draught of this hight Cup , But let him not ( to mend his bank ) use greedy Gains to get it up , Let them consider what they do , Their Customers are Sufferers too . Then let us with hearts undefil'd thank God his Mercies are so great , As that the Fire hath not spoyl'd the Suburbs and the Royal Sea If we still hate each other thus , God never will be friends with us . Finis . London , Printed for J. Clark , at the Bible and Harp , in West-Smithfield . With Allowance . 