Loves fierce desire , and hope's of Recovery , Or , A true and brief Description of two resolved Lovers , whose excellent wits , suitable minds , and faithful hearts one to another , shall here fully be spoken of in this following new made Paper of Verses . To a delicate new Tune , or , Fair Angel of England . NOw the Tyrant hath stolen , my dearest away , And I am confined with Mopsa to stay . Yet let Celia remember how faithful I'le be Neither distance nor absence shall terrify me . Whole volumes of sighs I'le send to my Dear , And make my own heart correspond to my fear , Till the soul of my life may be pleased to see How delightful her safest return is to me . I [ tO ] cheers my sad heart to remember her love , Though ma [ li ] ce hath caused this sudden remove . And my mind is resolved , whatever ensue , Whither Sunshine or Thunder , to be constant and true , If my Bark sail but safely though this rugged Sea ; Though with contrary winds much tossed it be : In the Haven of rest and long-look'd-for content , Wee'l chant forth melodious songs of merriment . Till then I [ 'l ] e retreat to the Foe [ r ] rest and mourn , Actaeon shall echo my ho [ u ] and and my horn No Reynard shall escape me that runs on the way , But patience perforce I will make him to stay . My heart hath inquired of every stone , What convoy the heavens hath bequeath'd to my moan , But for ought I can find holy Angels are agreed To rival my hope's , and to slacken my speed . The second Part , To the same tune . THerefore I'll fit down and bewail my sad state , Like the Turtle I'll mourn for the loss of my Mate . All the world's greatest glories be vexation to me , Till my Celia and I in our loves may be free . Celia her sweet Reply to her faithful Friend . THy presence dear Friend I have well understood . And how in exile thou hast wandered the Wood : But I am resolved thy sorrows to free , To make thee amends I'll soon come unto thee . 'Tis neither the Tiger , the Wolf , nor the Boar , Nor shall Nylus Crocodile put me in fear , I'll swim through the Ocean upon my bore breast , To find out my Darling whom I do love best . And when I have found him , with double delight I'll comfort him kindly by day and by night . And I'll be more faithful than the Turtledove , Which never at all did prove false to her Love . The fierce B [ a ] silisko that kills with the eye , Shall not have the power once thee to come nigh . I'll clip thee and hug thee so close in my arms , And I'll venture my life for to save thee from harms . My lap for thy head Love , a Pillow shall be . And while thou dost sleep I'll be careful of thee . I'll wake , and I'll watch and I'll kiss thee for joy . And no venomous creature shall my Love annoy . The Satyrs shall pipe and the Sire's shall sing , The Wood-nymphs with music shall make the Groves sing . The Horn it shall found , and the Hounds make a noise , To fill my Loves heart with ten thousand rare joys . So now I am coming to hasten the deed , Pray Heaven and good Angels to be my good speed . If fortune me favour , and Seas quiet prove , I soon will arrive at the Port whom I love . Now Celia is gone to find out her Dear , Her heart that was sad to comfort and cheer . No doubt but each other they will lovingly greet , When as they together do so lovingly meet . L.P. FINIS . London , Printed for Though : Vere , at the Sign of the Angel without Newgate Loves fierce desire , and hope's of Recovery , Or , A true and brief Description of two resolved Lovers , whose excellent wits , suitable minds , and faithful hearts one to another , shall here fully be spoken of in this following new made Paper of Verses . To a delicate new Tune , or , Fair Angel of England . NOw the Tyrant hath stolen , my dearest away , And I am confined with Mopsa to stay . Yet let Celia remember how faithful I'le be Neither distance nor absence shall terrify me . Whole volumes of sighs I'le send to my Dear , And make my own heart correspond to my fear , Till the soul of my life may be pleased to see How delightful her safest return is to me . I [ tO ] cheers my sad heart to remember her love , Though ma [ li ] ce hath caused this sudden remove . And my mind is resolved , whatever ensue , Whither Sunshine or Thunder , to be constant and true , If my Bark sail but safely though this rugged Sea ; Though with contrary winds much tossed it be : In the Haven of rest and long-look'd-for content , Wee'l chant forth melodious songs of merriment . Till then I [ 'l ] e retreat to the Foe [ r ] rest and mourn , Actaeon shall echo my ho [ u ] and and my horn No Reynard shall escape me that runs on the way , But patience perforce I will make him to stay . My heart hath inquired of every stone , What convoy the heavens hath bequeath'd to my moan , But for ought I can find holy Angels are agreed To rival my hope's , and to slacken my speed . The second Part , To the same tune . THerefore I'll fit down and bewail my sad state , Like the Turtle I'll mourn for the loss of my Mate . All the world's greatest glories be vexation to me , Till my Celia and I in our loves may be free . Celia her sweet Reply to her faithful Friend . THy presence dear Friend I have well understood . And how in exile thou hast wandered the Wood : But I am resolved thy sorrows to free , To make thee amends I'll soon come unto thee . 'Tis neither the Tiger , the Wolf , nor the Boar , Nor shall Nylus Crocodile put me in fear , I'll swim through the Ocean upon my bore breast , To find out my Darling whom I do love best . And when I have found him , with double delight I'll comfort him kindly by day and by night . And I'll be more faithful than the Turtledove , Which never at all did prove false to her Love . The fierce B [ a ] silisko that kills with the eye , Shall not have the power once thee to come nigh . I'll clip thee and hug thee so close in my arms , And I'll venture my life for to save thee from harms . My lap for thy head Love , a Pillow shall be . And while thou dost sleep I'll be careful of thee . I'll wake , and I'll watch and I'll kiss thee for joy . And no venomous creature shall my Love annoy . The Satyrs shall pipe and the Sire's shall sing , The Wood-nymphs with music shall make the Groves sing . The Horn it shall found , and the Hounds make a noise , To fill my Loves heart with ten thousand rare joys . So now I am coming to hasten the deed , Pray Heaven and good Angels to be my good speed . If fortune me favour , and Seas quiet prove , I soon will arrive at the Port whom I love . Now Celia is gone to find out her Dear , Her heart that was sad to comfort and cheer . No doubt but each other they will lovingly greet , When as they together do so lovingly meet . L.P. FINIS . London , Printed for Though : Vere , at the Sign of the Angel without Newgate 