Loves Paradise . Showing the admirable felicity that true-Lovers enjoy in the chaste imbra - ces of their dearest Loves , as this following example does declare . To the tune of Fancies Phoenix by J.P. ALL in a pleasant shady grove as I was passing time away , I chanc'd to see the God of Love with Bow and Quiver , sport and play ; At random he did shoot his darts to wound poor lovers tender hearts . But passing forward in a trice , I came to Trueloves Paradise . With admiration I beheld the beauty of so sweet a place , All earthly pleasures it does yield to them which doe true love embrace , For all delights no place so rare with this Elysium may compare . Then Lovers all take my advice , and hasten to Loves Paradise . The Arbours stand in rich array , and gloriously appear in sighed . Bedeck'd with Flowers and Garlands gay , with Roses , Damask , Read and White , The murmuring springs do make a noise for to complete true Lovers joys ; Then Lovers all take my advice , and hasten to Loves Paradise . To see the Lovers arm in arm , how they together walk and prate , Free from all danger , dread and harm , each one enjoys his loving Mate , Oh happy thrice , dear souls they be always in such sweet company ; Then Lovers all take my advice , and hasten to Loves Paradise . Their chaste embraces are so sweet , and all their actions innocent When ever their sweet lips do meet a Message to the heart is sent , To stir affection chaste and pure , which shall perpetually endure , Then Lovers all take my advice , and hasten to Loves Paradise . Their joys abounded more and more to hear the birds so sweetly sing , I never herd the like before , they made the Grove with Echoes ring , Thrice happy they , that have their choice of this , or that melodious voice ; Then Lovers all take my advice , and hasten to Loves Paradise . The second part , to the same Tune . I Sat me on a flowery hill , near to and Arbour fresh and green , Where fair Lucina mourn'd her fill , thinking she was nor herd , nor seen , 'Twas for the absence of her dear that she did thus lament and fear . Then lovers all take my advice , and hasten to Loves Paradise . Shall I lament and mourn alone , while other Lovers do rejoice , Oh whither is my True-Love gone that I cannot hear his sweet voice , It would revive my Love-sick-heart , and force all sorrows to depart ; Then Lovers all take my advice , and hasten to Loves Paradise . Some strange disaster does detain , my dearest love from me this time , I'm sure he constant will remain , his love is fix'd and so is mine , Oh why do I thus pine away since long from me he cannot stay ? Then Lovers all take my advice , and hasten to Loves Paradise . It griev'd my heart , her plaint to hear how she did sighs and make her moan , At length her Lover did appear , then all her grief was fled and gone , With great delight they did embrace when they beheld each others face ; Then Lovers all take my advice , and hasten to Loves Paradise . Dear heart quoth he , I have conceal'd my self a while to hear thy plaint , But since thy love thou hast reveal'd I'le n'ere adore another Saint , Take hand and heart , and all that's mine , for thou mayest freely call me thine ; Then Lovers all take my advice , and hasten to Loves Paradise . When they had joyn'd two hearts in one , with true affection in each breast , They could no longer stay alone , but walked out among the rest With hand in hand 'twas rare to see , how mutually they all agree ; Then Lovers all take my advice , and hasten to Loves Paradise . In pleasures rare they pass the time , in choice delights and harmless sport , The Summer it was in the prime , when as these Lovers did resort , The warbling choir their senses chear'd enough to ravish all that herd ; Then Lovers all take my advice , and hasten to Loves Paradise . How happy are those Lovers true , that do enjoy such perfect bliss , He that Loves Paradise will view , may taste of such delight as this , But he that does unconstant prove , shall never know the sweets of Love ; Then Lovers all take my advice , and hasten to Loves Paradise . London , Printed for W. Kendrick at the Black-spread Eagle and Sun in the Old-Bayly . Finis . Loves Paradise . Showing the admirable felicity that true-Lovers enjoy in the chaste imbra - ces of their dearest Loves , as this following example does declare . To the tune of Fancies Phoenix by J.P. ALL in a pleasant shady grove as I was passing time away , I chanc'd to see the God of Love with Bow and Quiver , sport and play ; At random he did shoot his darts to wound poor lovers tender hearts . But passing forward in a trice , I came to Trueloves Paradise . With admiration I beheld the beauty of so sweet a place , All earthly pleasures it does yield to them which doe true love embrace , For all delights no place so rare with this Elysium may compare . Then Lovers all take my advice , and hasten to Loves Paradise . The Arbours stand in rich array , and gloriously appear in sighed . Bedeck'd with Flowers and Garlands gay , with Roses , Damask , Read and White , The murmuring springs do make a noise for to complete true Lovers joys ; Then Lovers all take my advice , and hasten to Loves Paradise . To see the Lovers arm in arm , how they together walk and prate , Free from all danger , dread and harm , each one enjoys his loving Mate , Oh happy thrice , dear souls they be always in such sweet company ; Then Lovers all take my advice , and hasten to Loves Paradise . Their chaste embraces are so sweet , and all their actions innocent When ever their sweet lips do meet a Message to the heart is sent , To stir affection chaste and pure , which shall perpetually endure , Then Lovers all take my advice , and hasten to Loves Paradise . Their joys abounded more and more to hear the birds so sweetly sing , I never herd the like before , they made the Grove with Echoes ring , Thrice happy they , that have their choice of this , or that melodious voice ; Then Lovers all take my advice , and hasten to Loves Paradise . The second part , to the same Tune . I Sat me on a flowery hill , near to and Arbour fresh and green , Where fair Lucina mourn'd her fill , thinking she was nor herd , nor seen , 'Twas for the absence of her dear that she did thus lament and fear . Then lovers all take my advice , and hasten to Loves Paradise . Shall I lament and mourn alone , while other Lovers do rejoice , Oh whither is my True-Love gone that I cannot hear his sweet voice , It would revive my Love-sick-heart , and force all sorrows to depart ; Then Lovers all take my advice , and hasten to Loves Paradise . Some strange disaster does detain , my dearest love from me this time , I'm sure he constant will remain , his love is fix'd and so is mine , Oh why do I thus pine away since long from me he cannot stay ? Then Lovers all take my advice , and hasten to Loves Paradise . It griev'd my heart , her plaint to hear how she did sighs and make her moan , At length her Lover did appear , then all her grief was fled and gone , With great delight they did embrace when they beheld each others face ; Then Lovers all take my advice , and hasten to Loves Paradise . Dear heart quoth he , I have conceal'd my self a while to hear thy plaint , But since thy love thou hast reveal'd I'le n'ere adore another Saint , Take hand and heart , and all that's mine , for thou mayest freely call me thine ; Then Lovers all take my advice , and hasten to Loves Paradise . When they had joyn'd two hearts in one , with true affection in each breast , They could no longer stay alone , but walked out among the rest With hand in hand 'twas rare to see , how mutually they all agree ; Then Lovers all take my advice , and hasten to Loves Paradise . In pleasures rare they pass the time , in choice delights and harmless sport , The Summer it was in the prime , when as these Lovers did resort , The warbling choir their senses chear'd enough to ravish all that herd ; Then Lovers all take my advice , and hasten to Loves Paradise . How happy are those Lovers true , that do enjoy such perfect bliss , He that Loves Paradise will view , may taste of such delight as this , But he that does unconstant prove , shall never know the sweets of Love ; Then Lovers all take my advice , and hasten to Loves Paradise . London , Printed for W. Kendrick at the Black-spread Eagle and Sun in the Old-Bayly . Finis . 