Love in A Maze . OR , The Young-Man put to his Dumps : Being a Gallant Discourse on May-day last , between Two Witty lovers . Here in this Song you may behold and see , A Gallant Girl obtained by Wit and Honesty : All you that hear this Song , and mark it but aright , May say true loves worth gold , and breeds much more delight . To a pleasant new Tune , called , The True Lovers delight , or , The Cambridge Horn . LAte in the Country as I abroad was walking , all in a Meadow green I herd two Lovers talking , With kisses sweet the young man her saluted , then I drew near to hear what they disputed . then I drew near to hear what they disputed . Youngman . Fair Maid ( quoth he ) this merry May morning , present one smile to me , and be no longer scorning , Him who hath vow'd to be thine own for ever , Oh say but so to me , our loves shall never sever . O say but , etc Maid . Indeed Sir ( quoth she ) it is a misty morning , but I would have you know I always hated scorning , And as for love , I mean as yet to smother , I know not one as yet I love better than another I know not , etc Youngman . True love sweet heart ( qouth he ) if ere you chance to know it it cannot smothered be , but at last you'l show i The first time that I saw thy sweet and comely carriage I ever since desired that we were joyn'd in marriage . I ever , etc Maid . Love Sir ( quoth she ) is like a fishers angle , which oft hath golden baits silly maidens to entangle , And cunningly cast out b [ y ] young men's false inventions then marriage they'l pretend when this not their intentions , Then Marriage etc Man. O this so my dear true Love is like a Fountain , which casts out water clear out of a Rocky Mountain Whose stream for to stop you'l say it is a wonder , likewise 'tis as strange to cleave the Rocks in sunder , Likewise , etc Such is my love to thee and shall be ever , no unconstant thoughts , or fickle mind shall sever , My heart from thee which always shall be bringing , fountains clear & fresh which from true love is springing . Fountains clear , etc Maid . Your comparison ( says she ) I must confess is witty , to stop the stream of truelove it were a pity . But your Heart you compare indeed to Rocky Mountains for stony oft they are , and cast out several Fountains . For stony , etc As from some Fountain several streams are running so many feigned Loves you oft have by your cunning , 'Tis hard indeed to pierce your flinty hearts asunder , and stop your fickle streams it is a wonder . and stop , etc Youngman . Fie , fie , sweetheart your wit does overmatch me : no words can impart but presently you catch me : You Maidens now each day , do grow so coy and witty , let young men beg & pray , you'l take of them no pity let young men , etc Maid . Fie away for shame , you youngmen can dissemble your wits are so ripe & your tongues are quick & nimble Indeed you'l beg & crouch sometime to get your pleasure then leave us in the lurch , & we may repent at leisure . then leave , etc Youngman . I must confess dear love , there's many are so minded , but if thou once wouldst prove my constancy thou't find it . Do but thou once command through danger I will enter and for to gain thy love through and Army would I venture , and for , etc The second part , to the same tune . SWeetheart i'd have you know I never could dissemble & my compliments are slow , my tongue was never nimble : This none but faithful love that makes me come unto thee it is not for thy wealth , but for thy virtue , that I love thee . It is not , etc With that a Bush of May this lovely Maid espied , near to a Bank of Time , whereto she quickly hied : Down she plucks the May which was both green & tender . & up she plucked the Time , with her pretty arm so slender . and up , etc She stuck the bush of May , in the Time , & did present it , unto this young man , which was soon discontented : Here , sir , quoth she , if that you would be eased , read but this Riddle , sir , perhaps you may be pleased : read but , etc Young-Man . He took it from her hand and receiv'd it as a token , then in a dump did stand & nev [ e ] r a word was spoken : Blushing then at last he modestly replied , your Riddle I can read Love and shall not be denied : your Riddle , etc This May , stuck in Time , which is to me presenting , show that I may in time gain your love with sweet contenting , Which if I may , i'le stay your time & leisure , no time i [ ' ] l think too long so at last I gain the treasure . no time , etc He took her by the hand , and lovingly they walked , being tied in Cupids bans , most amorously they talked They on each other smil'd , with interchanging [ k ] isses , Oh this pity time beguiled such Lovers of their blisses : Oh 'tis pity , etc Perhaps sweet Sir said she , you by this Riddle Reading may think you gained me by little or no pe [ r ] swading Which if you did 'tis yet at my pleasure , I am not bound to you yet , but you must stay my leisure . I am not , etc Then let this heart , says he , which in this Breast lies panting . no happiness e're see , but let joys be ever wanting , If e're I think and evil thought of thee , then let mirth be banished quite , & sorrows wait upon me Then let mirth , etc If it be so , quoth she , thou bears such true affection , hereafter i'le agree to be ruled by thy direction , No friend shall sever or break our loves in sunder , for loyal loving hearts will be the world's wonder . For loyal , etc The time that late was mine to thee shall be represented , all that I have is thine , then rest thy self contented , Thy gallant wit , thy modesty , and carriage , hath wone my heart , we will be joyn'd in Marriage . hath wone , etc Youngman . He took her at her word and modestly replied , short time I will afford , long time shall be denied , This being the first of May our hearts being joyn'd & wedded , before the fifth day in wedlock we'l be bedded . Before , etc Five hundred pounds 'tis said with this Girl he then obtain'd , on the marriage day was paid which by his wit he gain'd , Although no means he had she never a jot repented , he was a gallant Lad , and she was well contented . he was , etc Now all you pretty Maids that live in Town or City , the Author you persuades to learn from this his ditty , If a young man you love , look not then for his treasure , for if he honest prove , in him is Wealth and Pleasure . For if , etc You youngmen i'le persuade likewise to hear my Motion if you affect a Maid regard not then her portion , Hang ten pounds , give me the Lass that loves me , if a constant Wife thou'st found , no joys on Earth above thee If a , etc Young men and Maids that lately went a Maying , if you mark the N [ ig ] htingale one tons he's always playing , Jug , jug , jug , jug , sweet is all the note she sings , as when faithful Lovers meet no double tongues they brings As when , etc All you pretty Maids adieu , that are civil in your carriage this song is sent to you to be wary in your marriage , Try before you trust , be careful in consenting , when you are bound obey you must , for there is no repenting . When you , etc Finis . Printed for J. Hose , over-against Staple-Inn , in Holborn . Love in A Maze . OR , The Young-Man put to his Dumps : Being a Gallant Discourse on May-day last , between Two Witty lovers . Here in this Song you may behold and see , A Gallant Girl obtained by Wit and Honesty : All you that hear this Song , and mark it but aright , May say true loves worth gold , and breeds much more delight . To a pleasant new Tune , called , The True Lovers delight , or , The Cambridge Horn . LAte in the Country as I abroad was walking , all in a Meadow green I herd two Lovers talking , With kisses sweet the young man her saluted , then I drew near to hear what they disputed . then I drew near to hear what they disputed . Youngman . Fair Maid ( quoth he ) this merry May morning , present one smile to me , and be no longer scorning , Him who hath vow'd to be thine own for ever , Oh say but so to me , our loves shall never sever . O say but , etc Maid . Indeed Sir ( quoth she ) it is a misty morning , but I would have you know I always hated scorning , And as for love , I mean as yet to smother , I know not one as yet I love better than another I know not , etc Youngman . True love sweet heart ( qouth he ) if ere you chance to know it it cannot smothered be , but at last you'l show i The first time that I saw thy sweet and comely carriage I ever since desired that we were joyn'd in marriage . I ever , etc Maid . Love Sir ( quoth she ) is like a fishers angle , which oft hath golden baits silly maidens to entangle , And cunningly cast out b [ y ] young men's false inventions then marriage they'l pretend when this not their intentions , Then Marriage etc Man. O this so my dear true Love is like a Fountain , which casts out water clear out of a Rocky Mountain Whose stream for to stop you'l say it is a wonder , likewise 'tis as strange to cleave the Rocks in sunder , Likewise , etc Such is my love to thee and shall be ever , no unconstant thoughts , or fickle mind shall sever , My heart from thee which always shall be bringing , fountains clear & fresh which from true love is springing . Fountains clear , etc Maid . Your comparison ( says she ) I must confess is witty , to stop the stream of truelove it were a pity . But your Heart you compare indeed to Rocky Mountains for stony oft they are , and cast out several Fountains . For stony , etc As from some Fountain several streams are running so many feigned Loves you oft have by your cunning , 'Tis hard indeed to pierce your flinty hearts asunder , and stop your fickle streams it is a wonder . and stop , etc Youngman . Fie , fie , sweetheart your wit does overmatch me : no words can impart but presently you catch me : You Maidens now each day , do grow so coy and witty , let young men beg & pray , you'l take of them no pity let young men , etc Maid . Fie away for shame , you youngmen can dissemble your wits are so ripe & your tongues are quick & nimble Indeed you'l beg & crouch sometime to get your pleasure then leave us in the lurch , & we may repent at leisure . then leave , etc Youngman . I must confess dear love , there's many are so minded , but if thou once wouldst prove my constancy thou't find it . Do but thou once command through danger I will enter and for to gain thy love through and Army would I venture , and for , etc The second part , to the same tune . SWeetheart i'd have you know I never could dissemble & my compliments are slow , my tongue was never nimble : This none but faithful love that makes me come unto thee it is not for thy wealth , but for thy virtue , that I love thee . It is not , etc With that a Bush of May this lovely Maid espied , near to a Bank of Time , whereto she quickly hied : Down she plucks the May which was both green & tender . & up she plucked the Time , with her pretty arm so slender . and up , etc She stuck the bush of May , in the Time , & did present it , unto this young man , which was soon discontented : Here , sir , quoth she , if that you would be eased , read but this Riddle , sir , perhaps you may be pleased : read but , etc Young-Man . He took it from her hand and receiv'd it as a token , then in a dump did stand & nev [ e ] r a word was spoken : Blushing then at last he modestly replied , your Riddle I can read Love and shall not be denied : your Riddle , etc This May , stuck in Time , which is to me presenting , show that I may in time gain your love with sweet contenting , Which if I may , i'le stay your time & leisure , no time i [ ' ] l think too long so at last I gain the treasure . no time , etc He took her by the hand , and lovingly they walked , being tied in Cupids bans , most amorously they talked They on each other smil'd , with interchanging [ k ] isses , Oh this pity time beguiled such Lovers of their blisses : Oh 'tis pity , etc Perhaps sweet Sir said she , you by this Riddle Reading may think you gained me by little or no pe [ r ] swading Which if you did 'tis yet at my pleasure , I am not bound to you yet , but you must stay my leisure . I am not , etc Then let this heart , says he , which in this Breast lies panting . no happiness e're see , but let joys be ever wanting , If e're I think and evil thought of thee , then let mirth be banished quite , & sorrows wait upon me Then let mirth , etc If it be so , quoth she , thou bears such true affection , hereafter i'le agree to be ruled by thy direction , No friend shall sever or break our loves in sunder , for loyal loving hearts will be the world's wonder . For loyal , etc The time that late was mine to thee shall be represented , all that I have is thine , then rest thy self contented , Thy gallant wit , thy modesty , and carriage , hath wone my heart , we will be joyn'd in Marriage . hath wone , etc Youngman . He took her at her word and modestly replied , short time I will afford , long time shall be denied , This being the first of May our hearts being joyn'd & wedded , before the fifth day in wedlock we'l be bedded . Before , etc Five hundred pounds 'tis said with this Girl he then obtain'd , on the marriage day was paid which by his wit he gain'd , Although no means he had she never a jot repented , he was a gallant Lad , and she was well contented . he was , etc Now all you pretty Maids that live in Town or City , the Author you persuades to learn from this his ditty , If a young man you love , look not then for his treasure , for if he honest prove , in him is Wealth and Pleasure . For if , etc You youngmen i'le persuade likewise to hear my Motion if you affect a Maid regard not then her portion , Hang ten pounds , give me the Lass that loves me , if a constant Wife thou'st found , no joys on Earth above thee If a , etc Young men and Maids that lately went a Maying , if you mark the N [ ig ] htingale one tons he's always playing , Jug , jug , jug , jug , sweet is all the note she sings , as when faithful Lovers meet no double tongues they brings As when , etc All you pretty Maids adieu , that are civil in your carriage this song is sent to you to be wary in your marriage , Try before you trust , be careful in consenting , when you are bound obey you must , for there is no repenting . When you , etc Finis . Printed for J. Hose , over-against Staple-Inn , in Holborn . 