The Lovers Joy and Grief , Or , A Youngman's Relation , in a pitiful fashion . Being from his Love hindered , by Locks , Bolts , and Kindred . To the Tune of Young men and Maids . among the nine , of Nymphs divine that haunt the forked mountain : If any will , bring me a quill dipped in Castalia's fountain . I'll show in brief , my joy and grief and her due praises render : To whom I would , come if I coould but locks and bolts do hinder . My joy , in that I had the fate to choose so rare a jewel , My grief in this , that she my bliss is kept by kindred cruel Out of my sighed , which day and night does pierce my heart so tender , 'Tis she to whom , I fain would come but locks and bolts , etc She is a Lass that does surpass her neighbours round about her : Her worth is such , it grieves me much to live so long without her : With strong desire , in Cupids fire my heart burns to a cinder . I would poss my happiness but locks , etc As Thisbe fair by Parents care from Pyramus was hidden , So she to come abroad from home is earnestly forbidden : She dare not stir , nor I to her so closely they have pin'd her She would come out , I make no doubt but locks , etc As Danae was , i'th Tower of brass enclosed by her father So thee ( my sweet ) lest we should meet art kept more closely rather Yet as great Jove god to his love though walls did comprehend her , So I did hope to have freescope but locks , etc I'th interim I , most patiently expect that happy season , I dare not think , that she will shrink for in truth I have no reason : I find that she is true to me in that I must commend her : She would not be , so long from me but locks , etc It grieves my heart , to think what smart ( poor creature ) she endureth , What means her kindred use to win her heart which she assureth Is fixed fast , while life does last no policy can bind her , To any course , love hath such force but locks and bolts do hinder . SHe hath this true , to speak whats due too great a Marriage portion : This may I vow , for Cupid now is bent into extortion : I would therefore , her friends were poor , or else in heart more tender ; For poor or rich , weed go through stitch but locks and bolts do hinder . Although my self want worldly pelf unto their expectation , Yet if I may the truth display , without any ostentation ; My birth & parts , and due deserts , are not so weak and slender ; But that I might , earn any delight though locks , etc Were I a Prince of eminence and she a Peasants daughter , Had she more , of Learning's store then what wise nature taught her ; Her peerless face and inward grace shows in my heart such splendour She mine should be , the like says she but locks , etc This not her pelf , but her sweet self , that I in heart do cove Necessity , let wealth supply for nothing else I love i Her only love , is that does move my heart and make it tender : I mourn in grief , without relief but locks , etc No ease of mind , at all I find but only this assurance : That my dear wench will never flinch though she be kept in durance ; She hath her share of woe and care , for which I must commend her , On me she hath bestowed her faith , though locks , etc Continue still in thy good will , thou Paragon of beauty . And I to thee as true will be so am I bound in duty : Though fortune frown , yet the renown of our affections tender , Abroad is flown , we two are one though locks , etc With patience weel expect to feel the fruit of all this sorrow : Though sorrow may , endure this day I shall have joy tomorrow : In the mean while , I in exile will be thy true defender And spread thy name , which is my claim though locks , etc O cruel fate , expire the date of two dear Lovers trouble , If once our grief , do find relief our joys will then be double : And all our tears our cares and fears will to our names and splendour , Thy heart is mine , and mine is thine though locks and bolts do hinder . London Printed for F. Coal , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . The Lovers Joy and Grief , Or , A Youngman's Relation , in a pitiful fashion . Being from his Love hindered , by Locks , Bolts , and Kindred . To the Tune of Young men and Maids . among the nine , of Nymphs divine that haunt the forked mountain : If any will , bring me a quill dipped in Castalia's fountain . I'll show in brief , my joy and grief and her due praises render : To whom I would , come if I coould but locks and bolts do hinder . My joy , in that I had the fate to choose so rare a jewel , My grief in this , that she my bliss is kept by kindred cruel Out of my sighed , which day and night does pierce my heart so tender , 'Tis she to whom , I fain would come but locks and bolts , etc She is a Lass that does surpass her neighbours round about her : Her worth is such , it grieves me much to live so long without her : With strong desire , in Cupids fire my heart burns to a cinder . I would poss my happiness but locks , etc As Thisbe fair by Parents care from Pyramus was hidden , So she to come abroad from home is earnestly forbidden : She dare not stir , nor I to her so closely they have pin'd her She would come out , I make no doubt but locks , etc As Danae was , i'th Tower of brass enclosed by her father So thee ( my sweet ) lest we should meet art kept more closely rather Yet as great Jove god to his love though walls did comprehend her , So I did hope to have freescope but locks , etc I'th interim I , most patiently expect that happy season , I dare not think , that she will shrink for in truth I have no reason : I find that she is true to me in that I must commend her : She would not be , so long from me but locks , etc It grieves my heart , to think what smart ( poor creature ) she endureth , What means her kindred use to win her heart which she assureth Is fixed fast , while life does last no policy can bind her , To any course , love hath such force but locks and bolts do hinder . SHe hath this true , to speak whats due too great a Marriage portion : This may I vow , for Cupid now is bent into extortion : I would therefore , her friends were poor , or else in heart more tender ; For poor or rich , weed go through stitch but locks and bolts do hinder . Although my self want worldly pelf unto their expectation , Yet if I may the truth display , without any ostentation ; My birth & parts , and due deserts , are not so weak and slender ; But that I might , earn any delight though locks , etc Were I a Prince of eminence and she a Peasants daughter , Had she more , of Learning's store then what wise nature taught her ; Her peerless face and inward grace shows in my heart such splendour She mine should be , the like says she but locks , etc This not her pelf , but her sweet self , that I in heart do cove Necessity , let wealth supply for nothing else I love i Her only love , is that does move my heart and make it tender : I mourn in grief , without relief but locks , etc No ease of mind , at all I find but only this assurance : That my dear wench will never flinch though she be kept in durance ; She hath her share of woe and care , for which I must commend her , On me she hath bestowed her faith , though locks , etc Continue still in thy good will , thou Paragon of beauty . And I to thee as true will be so am I bound in duty : Though fortune frown , yet the renown of our affections tender , Abroad is flown , we two are one though locks , etc With patience weel expect to feel the fruit of all this sorrow : Though sorrow may , endure this day I shall have joy tomorrow : In the mean while , I in exile will be thy true defender And spread thy name , which is my claim though locks , etc O cruel fate , expire the date of two dear Lovers trouble , If once our grief , do find relief our joys will then be double : And all our tears our cares and fears will to our names and splendour , Thy heart is mine , and mine is thine though locks and bolts do hinder . London Printed for F. Coal , T. Vere , J. Wright , and J. Clarke . 