a The lamentation of Mr. Pages wife of Plimouth : Who being inforced to wed against her will , did consent to his murder for the love of George Strangwidge , for which fact they suffered death at Barstable in Devonshire . The tune is , Fortune my Foe . UNhappy she whom fortune hath forlorn , Despis'd of grace that proffered grace did scorn My lawless love , hath luckless wrought my woe , My discontent , content did overthrow . My loathed life too late I do lament , My woeful deed in heart I do repent . A wife I was that wilful went awry , And for that fault am here prepar'd to die . In blooming years my Father's greedy mind Against my will a match for me did find , Great wealth there was , yea gold and silver store , But yet my heart had chosen one before . Mine eyes dislik't my Father's liking quite , My heart did loath my Parents found delight . My grieved mind and fancy told to me , That with his age my youth could not agree . On knees I crav'd they would not me constrain , With tears I cry'd their purpose to restrain , With sighs and sobs I did them often move I might not wed whereas I could not love . But all in vain my speeches still I spent , My Mother's will my wishes did prevent , Though wealthy Page possessed my outward part , George Stangwindge still was lodged in my heart . I wedded was , and wrapped all in woe , Great discontent within my heart did grow , I loath'd to live , yet liv'd in deadly strife , Because perforce I was made Pages Wife . My chosen eyes could not his sighed abide , My tender youth did scorn his aged side , Scant could I taste the meat whereon he fed , My legs did loath to lodge with in his bed . Cause knew I none , that should despise him so , That such disdain within my heart did grow , Save only this , that fancy did me move , And told me still Georg Strangwindge was my love . But here began my downfall and decay , In mind I must'd to make him straight away , I that became his discontented Wife , Contented was he should be ride of life . Me thinks the heavens cries vengeance for my fact , Methinks the world condemns my monstrous act Methinks within , my Conscience tells me true , That for that deed Hell fire is my endue . My pensive soul does sorrow for my since , For which offence my soul does bleed within , But mercy Lord for mercy still I cry , Save thou my soul , and let my body die . Well could I wish that Page enjoy'd his life , So that he had some other to his wife , But never could I wish of low or high , A longer life then see sweet Strangwidge die . O woe is me that had no greater grace , To stay till he had run out nature's raze : My deed I rue , but more I do repent , That to the same my Stangwidge gave consent . You Parents found that greedy minded be , And seek to grafted upon the golden tree , Consider will , and rightful Judges be , And give you doom betwixt Parents love and me . I was their Child , and bound for to obey , Yet not to love , where I no love could lay : I married was in muck and endless strife , But faith before had made me Stangwidge wife . O wretched world ! whom cankered rust does blind , And cursed men who bear a greedy mind ; And hapless I whom Parents did force so To end my days in sorrow , shame and woe . You Devonshire Dams & courteous Cornwal Kts. That here are come to visit woeful Wights , Regard my grief , and mark my woeful end But to your children be a better friend . And thou my Dear , which for my fault must die , Be not afraid the force of death to try , Like as we liv'd and lov'd together true , So both at once lets bid the world adjue . Ulalia thy friend does take her last farewell , Whose soul with thine in heaven does ever dwell , Sweet Saviour Christ do then my soul receive , The world I do with all my heart forgive . And Parents now whose greedy minds do show Your hearts desire , and inward heavy woe , Mourn you no more , for hope my heart does tell Ere day be done , that I shall be full well . And Plimouth proud I bid thee now farewell , Take heed you Wives , let not your hands rebel , And farewell life , wherein such sorrow shows And welcome death that must my Corpse enclose . And now sweet Lord forgive me my misdeeds Repentance cries for soul that inward bleeds , My soul and body I commend to thee That with thy blood from Death redem'd it free . Lord bless our King with long and happy life And send true peace betwixt each man and wife , And give all Parents wisdom to foresee , The match is mar'd where minds do not agree . The Lamentation of George Strangwidge , who for the consenting to the death of Mr. Page of Plimouth , suff - read death at Barstable . THe man that sighs and sorrows for his since , The corpse which care and woe hath wrapped in , In doleful sort records his Swanlike song , That waits for death , and loathes to live so long . O Glansfield cause of my committed crime , Snared in wealth , as birds in bush of lime . What cause hadst thou to bear such wicked spite ? Against my Love and eke my hearts delight . I would to God thy wisdom had been more ; Or that I had not entered in thy door . Or that thou hadst a kinder Father been , Unto thy Child , whose years are yet but green . The match unmeet which thou for me didst make , When aged Page thy daughter home did take . Well mayest thou rue with tears that cannot dry Which is the cause that four of us must die . Ulalia more bright then Summer's Sun , Whose beauty had my love for ever wone , My soul more sobs to think of thy disgrace , Then to behold my one untimely raze . The deed late done , in heart I do repent , But that I lov'd I cannot it relent , Thy seemly sighed was ever sweet to me Would God my death would thy excuser be . It was for me alas thou didst the same , On me by right they ought to lay the blame , My worthless love hath brought my life in scorn , Now woe is me that ever I was born . Farewell my Love whose royal heart was seen , Would God thou hadst not half so constant been , Farewell my Love the Pride of Plimouth town , Farewell the flower whose beauty is cut down . For tweenty years great was the cost I know , Thy unkind Father did on thee bestow , Yet afterwards so sour did Fortune lower , He lost his joy and child within and hour . My wrong and woe [ tO ] oh God I do commit , Who was the cause of matching them unfit , And yet my guilt I cannot so excuse , We gave consent his life for to abuse . Wretch that I am that my consent did give , Had I deny'd , Ulalia still should live , Blind fancy said , do not this suit deny , Live thou in bliss , or else in sorrow die . O Lord forgive this cruel death of mine , Upon my soul let beams of mercy shine , In justice Lord do thou not vengeance take , Forgive us both ; for Jesus Christ his sake . The Complaint of Mrs. Page for causing her Husband to be murdered for the love of George Strangwidge , who were executed together . IF ever woe did touch a woman's heart , Or grief did gall for since the outward part , My conscience then and heavy heart within , Can witness well the sorrow for my since . when years were young my Father forc'd me wed , Against my will , were fancy was not fed . I was content his pleasure to obey , Although my heart was link'd another way . Great were the gifts they proffered in my sighed , With wealth they thought to win me to delight . But gold nor gifts could not my mind remove , For I was linked whereas I could not love . Methought his sighed was loathsome to my eye My heart did grudge against him inwardly , This discontent did cause my deadly strife . And with his wealth I liv'd a grievous life . My constant love was on young Strangwidge set , And woe to him that did our welfare let , His love so deep a root in me did take , I could have gone a begging for his sake . Wronged he was through found desire of gain Wronged he was even through my Parents plain , If Faith and troth a perfect pledge might be , I had been wife unto no man but he . Eternal God forgive my Father's deed , And grant all Maidens may take better heed , If I had been constant unto my friend , I had not matched to make so bad and end . But wanting grace I sought my own decay , And was the cause to make my friend away . And he on whom my earthly joys did lie , Through my amiss a shameful death must die . Farewell sweet George always my loving friend Needs must I laud and love thee to the end . And albeit that Page possessed thy due , In sighed of God thou wast my husband a The lamentation of Mr. Pages wife of Plimouth : Who being inforced to wed against her will , did consent to his murder for the love of George Strangwidge , for which fact they suffered death at Barstable in Devonshire . The tune is , Fortune my Foe . UNhappy she whom fortune hath forlorn , Despis'd of grace that proffered grace did scorn My lawless love , hath luckless wrought my woe , My discontent , content did overthrow . My loathed life too late I do lament , My woeful deed in heart I do repent . A wife I was that wilful went awry , And for that fault am here prepar'd to die . In blooming years my Father's greedy mind Against my will a match for me did find , Great wealth there was , yea gold and silver store , But yet my heart had chosen one before . Mine eyes dislik't my Father's liking quite , My heart did loath my Parents found delight . My grieved mind and fancy told to me , That with his age my youth could not agree . On knees I crav'd they would not me constrain , With tears I cry'd their purpose to restrain , With sighs and sobs I did them often move I might not wed whereas I could not love . But all in vain my speeches still I spent , My Mother's will my wishes did prevent , Though wealthy Page possessed my outward part , George Stangwindge still was lodged in my heart . I wedded was , and wrapped all in woe , Great discontent within my heart did grow , I loath'd to live , yet liv'd in deadly strife , Because perforce I was made Pages Wife . My chosen eyes could not his sighed abide , My tender youth did scorn his aged side , Scant could I taste the meat whereon he fed , My legs did loath to lodge with in his bed . Cause knew I none , that should despise him so , That such disdain within my heart did grow , Save only this , that fancy did me move , And told me still Georg Strangwindge was my love . But here began my downfall and decay , In mind I must'd to make him straight away , I that became his discontented Wife , Contented was he should be ride of life . Me thinks the heavens cries vengeance for my fact , Methinks the world condemns my monstrous act Methinks within , my Conscience tells me true , That for that deed Hell fire is my endue . My pensive soul does sorrow for my since , For which offence my soul does bleed within , But mercy Lord for mercy still I cry , Save thou my soul , and let my body die . Well could I wish that Page enjoy'd his life , So that he had some other to his wife , But never could I wish of low or high , A longer life then see sweet Strangwidge die . O woe is me that had no greater grace , To stay till he had run out nature's raze : My deed I rue , but more I do repent , That to the same my Stangwidge gave consent . You Parents found that greedy minded be , And seek to grafted upon the golden tree , Consider will , and rightful Judges be , And give you doom betwixt Parents love and me . I was their Child , and bound for to obey , Yet not to love , where I no love could lay : I married was in muck and endless strife , But faith before had made me Stangwidge wife . O wretched world ! whom cankered rust does blind , And cursed men who bear a greedy mind ; And hapless I whom Parents did force so To end my days in sorrow , shame and woe . You Devonshire Dams & courteous Cornwal Kts. That here are come to visit woeful Wights , Regard my grief , and mark my woeful end But to your children be a better friend . And thou my Dear , which for my fault must die , Be not afraid the force of death to try , Like as we liv'd and lov'd together true , So both at once lets bid the world adjue . Ulalia thy friend does take her last farewell , Whose soul with thine in heaven does ever dwell , Sweet Saviour Christ do then my soul receive , The world I do with all my heart forgive . And Parents now whose greedy minds do show Your hearts desire , and inward heavy woe , Mourn you no more , for hope my heart does tell Ere day be done , that I shall be full well . And Plimouth proud I bid thee now farewell , Take heed you Wives , let not your hands rebel , And farewell life , wherein such sorrow shows And welcome death that must my Corpse enclose . And now sweet Lord forgive me my misdeeds Repentance cries for soul that inward bleeds , My soul and body I commend to thee That with thy blood from Death redem'd it free . Lord bless our King with long and happy life And send true peace betwixt each man and wife , And give all Parents wisdom to foresee , The match is mar'd where minds do not agree . The Lamentation of George Strangwidge , who for the consenting to the death of Mr. Page of Plimouth , suff - read death at Barstable . THe man that sighs and sorrows for his since , The corpse which care and woe hath wrapped in , In doleful sort records his Swanlike song , That waits for death , and loathes to live so long . O Glansfield cause of my committed crime , Snared in wealth , as birds in bush of lime . What cause hadst thou to bear such wicked spite ? Against my Love and eke my hearts delight . I would to God thy wisdom had been more ; Or that I had not entered in thy door . Or that thou hadst a kinder Father been , Unto thy Child , whose years are yet but green . The match unmeet which thou for me didst make , When aged Page thy daughter home did take . Well mayest thou rue with tears that cannot dry Which is the cause that four of us must die . Ulalia more bright then Summer's Sun , Whose beauty had my love for ever wone , My soul more sobs to think of thy disgrace , Then to behold my one untimely raze . The deed late done , in heart I do repent , But that I lov'd I cannot it relent , Thy seemly sighed was ever sweet to me Would God my death would thy excuser be . It was for me alas thou didst the same , On me by right they ought to lay the blame , My worthless love hath brought my life in scorn , Now woe is me that ever I was born . Farewell my Love whose royal heart was seen , Would God thou hadst not half so constant been , Farewell my Love the Pride of Plimouth town , Farewell the flower whose beauty is cut down . For tweenty years great was the cost I know , Thy unkind Father did on thee bestow , Yet afterwards so sour did Fortune lower , He lost his joy and child within and hour . My wrong and woe [ tO ] oh God I do commit , Who was the cause of matching them unfit , And yet my guilt I cannot so excuse , We gave consent his life for to abuse . Wretch that I am that my consent did give , Had I deny'd , Ulalia still should live , Blind fancy said , do not this suit deny , Live thou in bliss , or else in sorrow die . O Lord forgive this cruel death of mine , Upon my soul let beams of mercy shine , In justice Lord do thou not vengeance take , Forgive us both ; for Jesus Christ his sake . The Complaint of Mrs. Page for causing her Husband to be murdered for the love of George Strangwidge , who were executed together . IF ever woe did touch a woman's heart , Or grief did gall for since the outward part , My conscience then and heavy heart within , Can witness well the sorrow for my since . when years were young my Father forc'd me wed , Against my will , were fancy was not fed . I was content his pleasure to obey , Although my heart was link'd another way . Great were the gifts they proffered in my sighed , With wealth they thought to win me to delight . But gold nor gifts could not my mind remove , For I was linked whereas I could not love . Methought his sighed was loathsome to my eye My heart did grudge against him inwardly , This discontent did cause my deadly strife . And with his wealth I liv'd a grievous life . My constant love was on young Strangwidge set , And woe to him that did our welfare let , His love so deep a root in me did take , I could have gone a begging for his sake . Wronged he was through found desire of gain Wronged he was even through my Parents plain , If Faith and troth a perfect pledge might be , I had been wife unto no man but he . Eternal God forgive my Father's deed , And grant all Maidens may take better heed , If I had been constant unto my friend , I had not matched to make so bad and end . But wanting grace I sought my own decay , And was the cause to make my friend away . And he on whom my earthly joys did lie , Through my amiss a shameful death must die . Farewell sweet George always my loving friend Needs must I laud and love thee to the end . And albeit that Page possessed thy due , In sighed of God thou wast my husband true . My watery eyes unto the heavens I bend , Craving of Christ his mercy to extend . My bloody deed Oh Lord do me forgive , And let my soul within thy Kingdom live . Farewell false world and Friends that fickle be , All wives Farewell , example take by me . Let not the Devil to murder you entice , Seek to escape such foul and filthy vice . And now Oh Christ to thee I yield my breath , Strenghten my Faith in bitter pangs of death . Forgive my faults and folly I thee pray , And with thy blood wash thou my sins away . Printed for F. Coals . Tho. Vere and W. Gilbertson . true . My watery eyes unto the heavens I bend , Craving of Christ his mercy to extend . My bloody deed Oh Lord do me forgive , And let my soul within thy Kingdom live . Farewell false world and Friends that fickle be , All wives Farewell , example take by me . Let not the Devil to murder you entice , Seek to escape such foul and filthy vice . And now Oh Christ to thee I yield my breath , Strenghten my Faith in bitter pangs of death . Forgive my faults and folly I thee pray , And with thy blood wash thou my sins away . Printed for F. Coals . Tho. Vere and W. Gilbertson . a The lamentation of Mr. Pages wife of Plimouth : Who being inforced to wed against her will , did consent to his murder for the love of George Strangwidge , for which fact they suffered death at Barstable in Devonshire . The tune is , Fortune my Foe . UNhappy she whom fortune hath forlorn , Despis'd of grace that proffered grace did scorn My lawless love , hath luckless wrought my woe , My discontent , content did overthrow . My loathed life too late I do lament , My woeful deed in heart I do repent . A wife I was that wilful went awry , And for that fault am here prepar'd to die . In blooming years my Father's greedy mind Against my will a match for me did find , Great wealth there was , yea gold and silver store , But yet my heart had chosen one before . Mine eyes dislik't my Father's liking quite , My heart did loath my Parents found delight . My grieved mind and fancy told to me , That with his age my youth could not agree . On knees I crav'd they would not me constrain , With tears I cry'd their purpose to restrain , With sighs and sobs I did them often move I might not wed whereas I could not love . But all in vain my speeches still I spent , My Mother's will my wishes did prevent , Though wealthy Page possessed my outward part , George Stangwindge still was lodged in my heart . I wedded was , and wrapped all in woe , Great discontent within my heart did grow , I loath'd to live , yet liv'd in deadly strife , Because perforce I was made Pages Wife . My chosen eyes could not his sighed abide , My tender youth did scorn his aged side , Scant could I taste the meat whereon he fed , My legs did loath to lodge with in his bed . Cause knew I none , that should despise him so , That such disdain within my heart did grow , Save only this , that fancy did me move , And told me still Georg Strangwindge was my love . But here began my downfall and decay , In mind I must'd to make him straight away , I that became his discontented Wife , Contented was he should be ride of life . Me thinks the heavens cries vengeance for my fact , Methinks the world condemns my monstrous act Methinks within , my Conscience tells me true , That for that deed Hell fire is my endue . My pensive soul does sorrow for my since , For which offence my soul does bleed within , But mercy Lord for mercy still I cry , Save thou my soul , and let my body die . Well could I wish that Page enjoy'd his life , So that he had some other to his wife , But never could I wish of low or high , A longer life then see sweet Strangwidge die . O woe is me that had no greater grace , To stay till he had run out nature's raze : My deed I rue , but more I do repent , That to the same my Stangwidge gave consent . You Parents found that greedy minded be , And seek to grafted upon the golden tree , Consider will , and rightful Judges be , And give you doom betwixt Parents love and me . I was their Child , and bound for to obey , Yet not to love , where I no love could lay : I married was in muck and endless strife , But faith before had made me Stangwidge wife . O wretched world ! whom cankered rust does blind , And cursed men who bear a greedy mind ; And hapless I whom Parents did force so To end my days in sorrow , shame and woe . You Devonshire Dams & courteous Cornwal Kts. That here are come to visit woeful Wights , Regard my grief , and mark my woeful end But to your children be a better friend . And thou my Dear , which for my fault must die , Be not afraid the force of death to try , Like as we liv'd and lov'd together true , So both at once lets bid the world adjue . Ulalia thy friend does take her last farewell , Whose soul with thine in heaven does ever dwell , Sweet Saviour Christ do then my soul receive , The world I do with all my heart forgive . And Parents now whose greedy minds do show Your hearts desire , and inward heavy woe , Mourn you no more , for hope my heart does tell Ere day be done , that I shall be full well . And Plimouth proud I bid thee now farewell , Take heed you Wives , let not your hands rebel , And farewell life , wherein such sorrow shows And welcome death that must my Corpse enclose . And now sweet Lord forgive me my misdeeds Repentance cries for soul that inward bleeds , My soul and body I commend to thee That with thy blood from Death redem'd it free . Lord bless our King with long and happy life And send true peace betwixt each man and wife , And give all Parents wisdom to foresee , The match is mar'd where minds do not agree . The Lamentation of George Strangwidge , who for the consenting to the death of Mr. Page of Plimouth , suff - read death at Barstable . THe man that sighs and sorrows for his since , The corpse which care and woe hath wrapped in , In doleful sort records his Swanlike song , That waits for death , and loathes to live so long . O Glansfield cause of my committed crime , Snared in wealth , as birds in bush of lime . What cause hadst thou to bear such wicked spite ? Against my Love and eke my hearts delight . I would to God thy wisdom had been more ; Or that I had not entered in thy door . Or that thou hadst a kinder Father been , Unto thy Child , whose years are yet but green . The match unmeet which thou for me didst make , When aged Page thy daughter home did take . Well mayest thou rue with tears that cannot dry Which is the cause that four of us must die . Ulalia more bright then Summer's Sun , Whose beauty had my love for ever wone , My soul more sobs to think of thy disgrace , Then to behold my one untimely raze . The deed late done , in heart I do repent , But that I lov'd I cannot it relent , Thy seemly sighed was ever sweet to me Would God my death would thy excuser be . It was for me alas thou didst the same , On me by right they ought to lay the blame , My worthless love hath brought my life in scorn , Now woe is me that ever I was born . Farewell my Love whose royal heart was seen , Would God thou hadst not half so constant been , Farewell my Love the Pride of Plimouth town , Farewell the flower whose beauty is cut down . For tweenty years great was the cost I know , Thy unkind Father did on thee bestow , Yet afterwards so sour did Fortune lower , He lost his joy and child within and hour . My wrong and woe [ tO ] oh God I do commit , Who was the cause of matching them unfit , And yet my guilt I cannot so excuse , We gave consent his life for to abuse . Wretch that I am that my consent did give , Had I deny'd , Ulalia still should live , Blind fancy said , do not this suit deny , Live thou in bliss , or else in sorrow die . O Lord forgive this cruel death of mine , Upon my soul let beams of mercy shine , In justice Lord do thou not vengeance take , Forgive us both ; for Jesus Christ his sake . The Complaint of Mrs. Page for causing her Husband to be murdered for the love of George Strangwidge , who were executed together . IF ever woe did touch a woman's heart , Or grief did gall for since the outward part , My conscience then and heavy heart within , Can witness well the sorrow for my since . when years were young my Father forc'd me wed , Against my will , were fancy was not fed . I was content his pleasure to obey , Although my heart was link'd another way . Great were the gifts they proffered in my sighed , With wealth they thought to win me to delight . But gold nor gifts could not my mind remove , For I was linked whereas I could not love . Methought his sighed was loathsome to my eye My heart did grudge against him inwardly , This discontent did cause my deadly strife . And with his wealth I liv'd a grievous life . My constant love was on young Strangwidge set , And woe to him that did our welfare let , His love so deep a root in me did take , I could have gone a begging for his sake . Wronged he was through found desire of gain Wronged he was even through my Parents plain , If Faith and troth a perfect pledge might be , I had been wife unto no man but he . Eternal God forgive my Father's deed , And grant all Maidens may take better heed , If I had been constant unto my friend , I had not matched to make so bad and end . But wanting grace I sought my own decay , And was the cause to make my friend away . And he on whom my earthly joys did lie , Through my amiss a shameful death must die . Farewell sweet George always my loving friend Needs must I laud and love thee to the end . And albeit that Page possessed thy due , In sighed of God thou wast my husband a The lamentation of Mr. Pages wife of Plimouth : Who being inforced to wed against her will , did consent to his murder for the love of George Strangwidge , for which fact they suffered death at Barstable in Devonshire . The tune is , Fortune my Foe . UNhappy she whom fortune hath forlorn , Despis'd of grace that proffered grace did scorn My lawless love , hath luckless wrought my woe , My discontent , content did overthrow . My loathed life too late I do lament , My woeful deed in heart I do repent . A wife I was that wilful went awry , And for that fault am here prepar'd to die . In blooming years my Father's greedy mind Against my will a match for me did find , Great wealth there was , yea gold and silver store , But yet my heart had chosen one before . Mine eyes dislik't my Father's liking quite , My heart did loath my Parents found delight . My grieved mind and fancy told to me , That with his age my youth could not agree . On knees I crav'd they would not me constrain , With tears I cry'd their purpose to restrain , With sighs and sobs I did them often move I might not wed whereas I could not love . But all in vain my speeches still I spent , My Mother's will my wishes did prevent , Though wealthy Page possessed my outward part , George Stangwindge still was lodged in my heart . I wedded was , and wrapped all in woe , Great discontent within my heart did grow , I loath'd to live , yet liv'd in deadly strife , Because perforce I was made Pages Wife . My chosen eyes could not his sighed abide , My tender youth did scorn his aged side , Scant could I taste the meat whereon he fed , My legs did loath to lodge with in his bed . Cause knew I none , that should despise him so , That such disdain within my heart did grow , Save only this , that fancy did me move , And told me still Georg Strangwindge was my love . But here began my downfall and decay , In mind I must'd to make him straight away , I that became his discontented Wife , Contented was he should be ride of life . Me thinks the heavens cries vengeance for my fact , Methinks the world condemns my monstrous act Methinks within , my Conscience tells me true , That for that deed Hell fire is my endue . My pensive soul does sorrow for my since , For which offence my soul does bleed within , But mercy Lord for mercy still I cry , Save thou my soul , and let my body die . Well could I wish that Page enjoy'd his life , So that he had some other to his wife , But never could I wish of low or high , A longer life then see sweet Strangwidge die . O woe is me that had no greater grace , To stay till he had run out nature's raze : My deed I rue , but more I do repent , That to the same my Stangwidge gave consent . You Parents found that greedy minded be , And seek to grafted upon the golden tree , Consider will , and rightful Judges be , And give you doom betwixt Parents love and me . I was their Child , and bound for to obey , Yet not to love , where I no love could lay : I married was in muck and endless strife , But faith before had made me Stangwidge wife . O wretched world ! whom cankered rust does blind , And cursed men who bear a greedy mind ; And hapless I whom Parents did force so To end my days in sorrow , shame and woe . You Devonshire Dams & courteous Cornwal Kts. That here are come to visit woeful Wights , Regard my grief , and mark my woeful end But to your children be a better friend . And thou my Dear , which for my fault must die , Be not afraid the force of death to try , Like as we liv'd and lov'd together true , So both at once lets bid the world adjue . Ulalia thy friend does take her last farewell , Whose soul with thine in heaven does ever dwell , Sweet Saviour Christ do then my soul receive , The world I do with all my heart forgive . And Parents now whose greedy minds do show Your hearts desire , and inward heavy woe , Mourn you no more , for hope my heart does tell Ere day be done , that I shall be full well . And Plimouth proud I bid thee now farewell , Take heed you Wives , let not your hands rebel , And farewell life , wherein such sorrow shows And welcome death that must my Corpse enclose . And now sweet Lord forgive me my misdeeds Repentance cries for soul that inward bleeds , My soul and body I commend to thee That with thy blood from Death redem'd it free . Lord bless our King with long and happy life And send true peace betwixt each man and wife , And give all Parents wisdom to foresee , The match is mar'd where minds do not agree . The Lamentation of George Strangwidge , who for the consenting to the death of Mr. Page of Plimouth , suff - read death at Barstable . THe man that sighs and sorrows for his since , The corpse which care and woe hath wrapped in , In doleful sort records his Swanlike song , That waits for death , and loathes to live so long . O Glansfield cause of my committed crime , Snared in wealth , as birds in bush of lime . What cause hadst thou to bear such wicked spite ? Against my Love and eke my hearts delight . I would to God thy wisdom had been more ; Or that I had not entered in thy door . Or that thou hadst a kinder Father been , Unto thy Child , whose years are yet but green . The match unmeet which thou for me didst make , When aged Page thy daughter home did take . Well mayest thou rue with tears that cannot dry Which is the cause that four of us must die . Ulalia more bright then Summer's Sun , Whose beauty had my love for ever wone , My soul more sobs to think of thy disgrace , Then to behold my one untimely raze . The deed late done , in heart I do repent , But that I lov'd I cannot it relent , Thy seemly sighed was ever sweet to me Would God my death would thy excuser be . It was for me alas thou didst the same , On me by right they ought to lay the blame , My worthless love hath brought my life in scorn , Now woe is me that ever I was born . Farewell my Love whose royal heart was seen , Would God thou hadst not half so constant been , Farewell my Love the Pride of Plimouth town , Farewell the flower whose beauty is cut down . For tweenty years great was the cost I know , Thy unkind Father did on thee bestow , Yet afterwards so sour did Fortune lower , He lost his joy and child within and hour . My wrong and woe [ tO ] oh God I do commit , Who was the cause of matching them unfit , And yet my guilt I cannot so excuse , We gave consent his life for to abuse . Wretch that I am that my consent did give , Had I deny'd , Ulalia still should live , Blind fancy said , do not this suit deny , Live thou in bliss , or else in sorrow die . O Lord forgive this cruel death of mine , Upon my soul let beams of mercy shine , In justice Lord do thou not vengeance take , Forgive us both ; for Jesus Christ his sake . The Complaint of Mrs. Page for causing her Husband to be murdered for the love of George Strangwidge , who were executed together . IF ever woe did touch a woman's heart , Or grief did gall for since the outward part , My conscience then and heavy heart within , Can witness well the sorrow for my since . when years were young my Father forc'd me wed , Against my will , were fancy was not fed . I was content his pleasure to obey , Although my heart was link'd another way . Great were the gifts they proffered in my sighed , With wealth they thought to win me to delight . But gold nor gifts could not my mind remove , For I was linked whereas I could not love . Methought his sighed was loathsome to my eye My heart did grudge against him inwardly , This discontent did cause my deadly strife . And with his wealth I liv'd a grievous life . My constant love was on young Strangwidge set , And woe to him that did our welfare let , His love so deep a root in me did take , I could have gone a begging for his sake . Wronged he was through found desire of gain Wronged he was even through my Parents plain , If Faith and troth a perfect pledge might be , I had been wife unto no man but he . Eternal God forgive my Father's deed , And grant all Maidens may take better heed , If I had been constant unto my friend , I had not matched to make so bad and end . But wanting grace I sought my own decay , And was the cause to make my friend away . And he on whom my earthly joys did lie , Through my amiss a shameful death must die . Farewell sweet George always my loving friend Needs must I laud and love thee to the end . And albeit that Page possessed thy due , In sighed of God thou wast my husband true . My watery eyes unto the heavens I bend , Craving of Christ his mercy to extend . My bloody deed Oh Lord do me forgive , And let my soul within thy Kingdom live . Farewell false world and Friends that fickle be , All wives Farewell , example take by me . Let not the Devil to murder you entice , Seek to escape such foul and filthy vice . And now Oh Christ to thee I yield my breath , Strenghten my Faith in bitter pangs of death . Forgive my faults and folly I thee pray , And with thy blood wash thou my sins away . Printed for F. Coals . Tho. Vere and W. Gilbertson . true . My watery eyes unto the heavens I bend , Craving of Christ his mercy to extend . My bloody deed Oh Lord do me forgive , And let my soul within thy Kingdom live . Farewell false world and Friends that fickle be , All wives Farewell , example take by me . Let not the Devil to murder you entice , Seek to escape such foul and filthy vice . And now Oh Christ to thee I yield my breath , Strenghten my Faith in bitter pangs of death . Forgive my faults and folly I thee pray , And with thy blood wash thou my sins away . Printed for F. Coals . Tho. Vere and W. Gilbertson . 