b The Two-Penny Whore ; In a Dialogue betwixt a Spendthrift and a Whore . Or , a Relation of a Twopenny Bargain . Of a Spendthrift proffering two pence to a Whore , Having spent all but that on her before . The Tune is , He that has the most Money is the best Man. A Lusty young Shaver , a vapouring Gallant , That vainly had spent and consum'd his estate , In Taverns and Alehouses wasting his talon , Resolving Repentance , did then come too late : Examining then of his Pocket , he found it Was very much empty , and he was grown poor : Quoth he , now my Moneys gone all to one twopence I'le make a clear end , & spend that on a Whore . And as along in the Streets he was walking , He chanced with one of his Mobs for to meet , All in her Silks and bravery adorned : With a Compliment he there his Mopsie did greet . Sweet heart if you will go with me to and Alehouse , And grant me thy pleasure now I am grown poor , I have but twopence left , on thee i'le spend i Quoth she , then go look out your two-penny-whore . My dearest , thou kneweth my former condition , And how I have spent my Estate upon thee : And now for to slight me it breeds my contrition , And makes me with sorrow tormented to be . For I have but twopence left , & I will spend it On thee , I protest my Love I have no more : Quoth she , you may serve for a Pimp to another , For I will be none of your twopenny Whore . WHen formerly I in my silks was adorned , And about my neck wore a fine flanders lac'd band , Upon my head was no less than a Beaver : What was there then I had not at command ? Remember , that we two at that time together , Took sweet Recreation before I was poor : Quoth she , Sir at that time I was your companion , And what must I now be your twopenny whore ? My former acquaintance with nearest Relations' Because I before their advice would not take , Do very much slight me : Men of Reputation My company shuns , and do me quite forsake : And bids me go seek for my baudy Companions , Where I have consum'd my estate all before : Quod she , I'de have all your friends for to know it , That I will be none of your twopenny Whore . Thou knew'st that in company we two together Have caused five Pounds to be spent at a Clap All out of my Pocke O how canst thou slight me , And then could so closely hug me in thy Lap. It was for my Money , and not for my Person , That you did my company so much adore : However , I pray thee bestow this Twopence : Quoth she , I will be none of your twopenny whore . How often with oaths , & with great protestation , Engaged you have to be faithful to me : In weal or in woe I should never be forsaken And now all my Coyn's gone I slighted must be : But yet here's twopence left , prithee now take it , And let us do once as we have done before : Quoth she I never did for twopence , & therefore Be packing , & hunt out your twopenny whore . Well then my dear Love , if you'l not be persuaded To take this my money because it is small , Let us doe a little , a very very little For former acquaintance , and that shall be all : Quoth she , I do scorn for to break my old custom , Another man I have to wait on : therefore I must bid a farewell both to you & your twopence , For I scorn to be counted a Two-penny-whore . Quoth she , Sir before we depart I will tell you , I dare undertake to proscribe you a way How you may be doing : then let [ ' ] s to and Alehouse , But take notice before , Half a Crown is my pay : Then give me your twopence in earnest at present You shall have your request sir , although you be poor : But this I must tell you before you begin it , I'le set seven Greats Sir upon your old score . And thus you may see the condition of wantons , And in what a wanton condition they are , Before they will leave off their lustful occasions , If they cannot get money , they trust their ware . They'l keep a man company while his Coin lasteth And never forsake him until he be poor : And then much ado he shall have with his wanton , For one single Job to set on the Score . You Gallants and others , I wish you be careful , That have and Estate , lest you vainly it was And fly evil Company of them be fearful , Lest into Poverty you should be cast And afterwards you be forc't with submission To creep unto those , where you spent all your store The best way I know of for you to prevent it , Is to keep your goods out of the hands of a Whore London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwoodb The Two-Penny Whore ; In a Dialogue betwixt a Spendthrift and a Whore . Or , a Relation of a Twopenny Bargain . Of a Spendthrift proffering two pence to a Whore , Having spent all but that on her before . The Tune is , He that has the most Money is the best Man. A Lusty young Shaver , a vapouring Gallant , That vainly had spent and consum'd his estate , In Taverns and Alehouses wasting his talon , Resolving Repentance , did then come too late : Examining then of his Pocket , he found it Was very much empty , and he was grown poor : Quoth he , now my Moneys gone all to one twopence I'le make a clear end , & spend that on a Whore . And as along in the Streets he was walking , He chanced with one of his Mobs for to meet , All in her Silks and bravery adorned : With a Compliment he there his Mopsie did greet . Sweet heart if you will go with me to and Alehouse , And grant me thy pleasure now I am grown poor , I have but twopence left , on thee i'le spend i Quoth she , then go look out your two-penny-whore . My dearest , thou kneweth my former condition , And how I have spent my Estate upon thee : And now for to slight me it breeds my contrition , And makes me with sorrow tormented to be . For I have but twopence left , & I will spend it On thee , I protest my Love I have no more : Quoth she , you may serve for a Pimp to another , For I will be none of your twopenny Whore . WHen formerly I in my silks was adorned , And about my neck wore a fine flanders lac'd band , Upon my head was no less than a Beaver : What was there then I had not at command ? Remember , that we two at that time together , Took sweet Recreation before I was poor : Quoth she , Sir at that time I was your companion , And what must I now be your twopenny whore ? My former acquaintance with nearest Relations' Because I before their advice would not take , Do very much slight me : Men of Reputation My company shuns , and do me quite forsake : And bids me go seek for my baudy Companions , Where I have consum'd my estate all before : Quod she , I'de have all your friends for to know it , That I will be none of your twopenny Whore . Thou knew'st that in company we two together Have caused five Pounds to be spent at a Clap All out of my Pocke O how canst thou slight me , And then could so closely hug me in thy Lap. It was for my Money , and not for my Person , That you did my company so much adore : However , I pray thee bestow this Twopence : Quoth she , I will be none of your twopenny whore . How often with oaths , & with great protestation , Engaged you have to be faithful to me : In weal or in woe I should never be forsaken And now all my Coyn's gone I slighted must be : But yet here's twopence left , prithee now take it , And let us do once as we have done before : Quoth she I never did for twopence , & therefore Be packing , & hunt out your twopenny whore . Well then my dear Love , if you'l not be persuaded To take this my money because it is small , Let us doe a little , a very very little For former acquaintance , and that shall be all : Quoth she , I do scorn for to break my old custom , Another man I have to wait on : therefore I must bid a farewell both to you & your twopence , For I scorn to be counted a Two-penny-whore . Quoth she , Sir before we depart I will tell you , I dare undertake to proscribe you a way How you may be doing : then let [ ' ] s to and Alehouse , But take notice before , Half a Crown is my pay : Then give me your twopence in earnest at present You shall have your request sir , although you be poor : But this I must tell you before you begin it , I'le set seven Greats Sir upon your old score . And thus you may see the condition of wantons , And in what a wanton condition they are , Before they will leave off their lustful occasions , If they cannot get money , they trust their ware . They'l keep a man company while his Coin lasteth And never forsake him until he be poor : And then much ado he shall have with his wanton , For one single Job to set on the Score . You Gallants and others , I wish you be careful , That have and Estate , lest you vainly it was And fly evil Company of them be fearful , Lest into Poverty you should be cast And afterwards you be forc't with submission To creep unto those , where you spent all your store The best way I know of for you to prevent it , Is to keep your goods out of the hands of a Whore London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwoodb The Two-Penny Whore ; In a Dialogue betwixt a Spendthrift and a Whore . Or , a Relation of a Twopenny Bargain . Of a Spendthrift proffering two pence to a Whore , Having spent all but that on her before . The Tune is , He that has the most Money is the best Man. A Lusty young Shaver , a vapouring Gallant , That vainly had spent and consum'd his estate , In Taverns and Alehouses wasting his talon , Resolving Repentance , did then come too late : Examining then of his Pocket , he found it Was very much empty , and he was grown poor : Quoth he , now my Moneys gone all to one twopence I'le make a clear end , & spend that on a Whore . And as along in the Streets he was walking , He chanced with one of his Mobs for to meet , All in her Silks and bravery adorned : With a Compliment he there his Mopsie did greet . Sweet heart if you will go with me to and Alehouse , And grant me thy pleasure now I am grown poor , I have but twopence left , on thee i'le spend i Quoth she , then go look out your two-penny-whore . My dearest , thou kneweth my former condition , And how I have spent my Estate upon thee : And now for to slight me it breeds my contrition , And makes me with sorrow tormented to be . For I have but twopence left , & I will spend it On thee , I protest my Love I have no more : Quoth she , you may serve for a Pimp to another , For I will be none of your twopenny Whore . WHen formerly I in my silks was adorned , And about my neck wore a fine flanders lac'd band , Upon my head was no less than a Beaver : What was there then I had not at command ? Remember , that we two at that time together , Took sweet Recreation before I was poor : Quoth she , Sir at that time I was your companion , And what must I now be your twopenny whore ? My former acquaintance with nearest Relations' Because I before their advice would not take , Do very much slight me : Men of Reputation My company shuns , and do me quite forsake : And bids me go seek for my baudy Companions , Where I have consum'd my estate all before : Quod she , I'de have all your friends for to know it , That I will be none of your twopenny Whore . Thou knew'st that in company we two together Have caused five Pounds to be spent at a Clap All out of my Pocke O how canst thou slight me , And then could so closely hug me in thy Lap. It was for my Money , and not for my Person , That you did my company so much adore : However , I pray thee bestow this Twopence : Quoth she , I will be none of your twopenny whore . How often with oaths , & with great protestation , Engaged you have to be faithful to me : In weal or in woe I should never be forsaken And now all my Coyn's gone I slighted must be : But yet here's twopence left , prithee now take it , And let us do once as we have done before : Quoth she I never did for twopence , & therefore Be packing , & hunt out your twopenny whore . Well then my dear Love , if you'l not be persuaded To take this my money because it is small , Let us doe a little , a very very little For former acquaintance , and that shall be all : Quoth she , I do scorn for to break my old custom , Another man I have to wait on : therefore I must bid a farewell both to you & your twopence , For I scorn to be counted a Two-penny-whore . Quoth she , Sir before we depart I will tell you , I dare undertake to proscribe you a way How you may be doing : then let [ ' ] s to and Alehouse , But take notice before , Half a Crown is my pay : Then give me your twopence in earnest at present You shall have your request sir , although you be poor : But this I must tell you before you begin it , I'le set seven Greats Sir upon your old score . And thus you may see the condition of wantons , And in what a wanton condition they are , Before they will leave off their lustful occasions , If they cannot get money , they trust their ware . They'l keep a man company while his Coin lasteth And never forsake him until he be poor : And then much ado he shall have with his wanton , For one single Job to set on the Score . You Gallants and others , I wish you be careful , That have and Estate , lest you vainly it was And fly evil Company of them be fearful , Lest into Poverty you should be cast And afterwards you be forc't with submission To creep unto those , where you spent all your store The best way I know of for you to prevent it , Is to keep your goods out of the hands of a Whore London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwoodb The Two-Penny Whore ; In a Dialogue betwixt a Spendthrift and a Whore . Or , a Relation of a Twopenny Bargain . Of a Spendthrift proffering two pence to a Whore , Having spent all but that on her before . The Tune is , He that has the most Money is the best Man. A Lusty young Shaver , a vapouring Gallant , That vainly had spent and consum'd his estate , In Taverns and Alehouses wasting his talon , Resolving Repentance , did then come too late : Examining then of his Pocket , he found it Was very much empty , and he was grown poor : Quoth he , now my Moneys gone all to one twopence I'le make a clear end , & spend that on a Whore . And as along in the Streets he was walking , He chanced with one of his Mobs for to meet , All in her Silks and bravery adorned : With a Compliment he there his Mopsie did greet . Sweet heart if you will go with me to and Alehouse , And grant me thy pleasure now I am grown poor , I have but twopence left , on thee i'le spend i Quoth she , then go look out your two-penny-whore . My dearest , thou kneweth my former condition , And how I have spent my Estate upon thee : And now for to slight me it breeds my contrition , And makes me with sorrow tormented to be . For I have but twopence left , & I will spend it On thee , I protest my Love I have no more : Quoth she , you may serve for a Pimp to another , For I will be none of your twopenny Whore . WHen formerly I in my silks was adorned , And about my neck wore a fine flanders lac'd band , Upon my head was no less than a Beaver : What was there then I had not at command ? Remember , that we two at that time together , Took sweet Recreation before I was poor : Quoth she , Sir at that time I was your companion , And what must I now be your twopenny whore ? My former acquaintance with nearest Relations' Because I before their advice would not take , Do very much slight me : Men of Reputation My company shuns , and do me quite forsake : And bids me go seek for my baudy Companions , Where I have consum'd my estate all before : Quod she , I'de have all your friends for to know it , That I will be none of your twopenny Whore . Thou knew'st that in company we two together Have caused five Pounds to be spent at a Clap All out of my Pocke O how canst thou slight me , And then could so closely hug me in thy Lap. It was for my Money , and not for my Person , That you did my company so much adore : However , I pray thee bestow this Twopence : Quoth she , I will be none of your twopenny whore . How often with oaths , & with great protestation , Engaged you have to be faithful to me : In weal or in woe I should never be forsaken And now all my Coyn's gone I slighted must be : But yet here's twopence left , prithee now take it , And let us do once as we have done before : Quoth she I never did for twopence , & therefore Be packing , & hunt out your twopenny whore . Well then my dear Love , if you'l not be persuaded To take this my money because it is small , Let us doe a little , a very very little For former acquaintance , and that shall be all : Quoth she , I do scorn for to break my old custom , Another man I have to wait on : therefore I must bid a farewell both to you & your twopence , For I scorn to be counted a Two-penny-whore . Quoth she , Sir before we depart I will tell you , I dare undertake to proscribe you a way How you may be doing : then let [ ' ] s to and Alehouse , But take notice before , Half a Crown is my pay : Then give me your twopence in earnest at present You shall have your request sir , although you be poor : But this I must tell you before you begin it , I'le set seven Greats Sir upon your old score . And thus you may see the condition of wantons , And in what a wanton condition they are , Before they will leave off their lustful occasions , If they cannot get money , they trust their ware . They'l keep a man company while his Coin lasteth And never forsake him until he be poor : And then much ado he shall have with his wanton , For one single Job to set on the Score . You Gallants and others , I wish you be careful , That have and Estate , lest you vainly it was And fly evil Company of them be fearful , Lest into Poverty you should be cast And afterwards you be forc't with submission To creep unto those , where you spent all your store The best way I know of for you to prevent it , Is to keep your goods out of the hands of a Whore London , Printed for W. Thackeray , T. Passenger , and W. Whitwood 