A Lamentable Ballad of a Combat lately perfor - med near London , between Sir James Steward , and Sir George Wharton Knights : who were both slave at that time . Tune is , Down Plumpton Park , etc IT grieves my heart to tell the woe , near London late befall . On Martlemas Eve , Oh woe is me , I grieve the chance and ever shall : Of two right gallant Gentlemen , who very rashly fell at words , But to their quarrel could not fallen , till they fell both by their keen swords . The one was Sir George Wharton cal'd , the good Lord Whartons Son and Heir , The other Sir James a Scottish Knight , a man that a valiant heart did bear : Near to the Court these Gallants stout , fell out as they in gaming were ; And in their fury grew so hight , they hardly could from blows forbear . Nay , kind entreaties could not stay , Sir James from striking in that place , For in the height and heat of blood he struck young Wharton o're the face : What dost thou mean , said Wharton then , to strike in such unmanly sort , That I will take it at thy hand , the tongue of man shall ne'r Report . Why , do thy worst then said Sir James , and mark me Wharton what I say ; There's ne'r a Lord in England breathes , shall make me give and inch of way . This brags too brave , stout Wharton said , let our large English Lords alone , And talk with me that am your foe , for thou shalt find enough of one . Alas Sir ! said the Scottish Knight , thy blood and mind's too base for me , Thy oppositions be too bold and will thy dire destruction be : Nay , said young Wharton you mistake , my courage and valour equals thine , To mak't apparent , cast thy Glove , to gage to try as I do mine . I said Sir James hast thou such spirit , I did not think within thy breast , That such a haughty daring heart as thou mak'st show of e're could Rest. I interchange my Glove with thee , take it and point thy bed of death , The field I mean where we must fight , and one for both loose life and breath . We'l meet near whaltham , said sir George to morrow that shall be the day , We'l either take a single man , and try who bears the bell away . This done , together hands they shook , and without any envious sign , They went to Ludgate , where they stayed , and drank each man his pint of wine . NO kind of anger could be seen , no words of malice might bewray But all was fair , as calm , as cool , as Love within their bosom lay : Till parting time , and then indeed , they shew'd some rancour of their hear George , said sir James , when next we meet so found I know we shall not part . And so they parted both Resolv'd to have their Valour fully tO [ r ] y'd : The second part shall briefly show both how they met , and how they dy'd . The second Part , to the same Tune . YOung wharton was the first that came , to the appointed place the next day Who presently spi'd Sir James coming as fast as he could post away : And being met in manly sort , the Scottish Knight did to Wharton say I do not like thy doublet George , it sits so clear on thee today . Hast thou no privy Armour on , nor yet no privy coat of steel , I ne'r saw Lord in all my Life , become a doublet half so well . Now nay , now nay , stout Wharton said , Sir James Steward that may not be , I'le not and armed man come hither , and thou a naked man truly . Our men shall strip our doublets George , so shall we know whither of us Lie : And then we'l to our weapons sharp , ourselves true Gallants for to try : Then they stripped off their doublets fair , standing up in their shirts of Lawn , Follow my counsel the Scotchman said , and wharton to thee i'le make known . Now follow my counsel , i'le follow thine , and we'l fight in our shirts ( said he ) Now nay , now nay , young Wharton said Sir James Steward that may not be , Unless we were drunkards and quarrellers that had no care of our fell , Nor caring what we go about , or whither our souls go to heaven or hell . We'l first to God bequeathe our souls , then next our Corpse to dust and clay , With that stout Wharton was the first , took Rapier and Poniard there that day . Seven thrusts in turns these gallants had before one drop of blood was drawn : The Scottish Knight then speak valiantly stout Wharton still thou holdest thy own . With the next thrust that Wharton thrust he ran him through the shoulder bone : The next was through the thick o'th thigh thinking he had the Scotch Kt. slave . Then wharton said to the Scottish Knight are you a living man ? tell me , If there be a Surgeon in England can , he shall cure your wounds right speedily . Now nay , now nay , the Scotch Knight said , Sir George wharton that may not be , The one of us shall the other kill , e're off this ground that we do fly : Then in a maze Sir George looked back , to see what company was nigh ; They both had dangerous marks of death , yet neither would from other fly . But both through body wounded soar , with courage lusty strong and found : They made a deadly desperate close , and both fe [ l ] l dead unto the ground . Our English Knight was first that fell , the Scottish Knight fell immediately , Who cried both to Jesus Christ , receive our souls , Oh Lord we die . God bless our Noble King and Queen , and all the Noble Progeny : That Brittain all may live in one , in perfect love and unity . Thus to conclude I make and end , wishing that quarrels still may cease : And that we still may live in love , in prosperous state , in joy and peace . FINIS . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . A Lamentable Ballad of a Combat lately perfor - med near London , between Sir James Steward , and Sir George Wharton Knights : who were both slave at that time . Tune is , Down Plumpton Park , etc IT grieves my heart to tell the woe , near London late befall . On Martlemas Eve , Oh woe is me , I grieve the chance and ever shall : Of two right gallant Gentlemen , who very rashly fell at words , But to their quarrel could not fallen , till they fell both by their keen swords . The one was Sir George Wharton cal'd , the good Lord Whartons Son and Heir , The other Sir James a Scottish Knight , a man that a valiant heart did bear : Near to the Court these Gallants stout , fell out as they in gaming were ; And in their fury grew so hight , they hardly could from blows forbear . Nay , kind entreaties could not stay , Sir James from striking in that place , For in the height and heat of blood he struck young Wharton o're the face : What dost thou mean , said Wharton then , to strike in such unmanly sort , That I will take it at thy hand , the tongue of man shall ne'r Report . Why , do thy worst then said Sir James , and mark me Wharton what I say ; There's ne'r a Lord in England breathes , shall make me give and inch of way . This brags too brave , stout Wharton said , let our large English Lords alone , And talk with me that am your foe , for thou shalt find enough of one . Alas Sir ! said the Scottish Knight , thy blood and mind's too base for me , Thy oppositions be too bold and will thy dire destruction be : Nay , said young Wharton you mistake , my courage and valour equals thine , To mak't apparent , cast thy Glove , to gage to try as I do mine . I said Sir James hast thou such spirit , I did not think within thy breast , That such a haughty daring heart as thou mak'st show of e're could Rest. I interchange my Glove with thee , take it and point thy bed of death , The field I mean where we must fight , and one for both loose life and breath . We'l meet near whaltham , said sir George to morrow that shall be the day , We'l either take a single man , and try who bears the bell away . This done , together hands they shook , and without any envious sign , They went to Ludgate , where they stayed , and drank each man his pint of wine . NO kind of anger could be seen , no words of malice might bewray But all was fair , as calm , as cool , as Love within their bosom lay : Till parting time , and then indeed , they shew'd some rancour of their hear George , said sir James , when next we meet so found I know we shall not part . And so they parted both Resolv'd to have their Valour fully tO [ r ] y'd : The second part shall briefly show both how they met , and how they dy'd . The second Part , to the same Tune . YOung wharton was the first that came , to the appointed place the next day Who presently spi'd Sir James coming as fast as he could post away : And being met in manly sort , the Scottish Knight did to Wharton say I do not like thy doublet George , it sits so clear on thee today . Hast thou no privy Armour on , nor yet no privy coat of steel , I ne'r saw Lord in all my Life , become a doublet half so well . Now nay , now nay , stout Wharton said , Sir James Steward that may not be , I'le not and armed man come hither , and thou a naked man truly . Our men shall strip our doublets George , so shall we know whither of us Lie : And then we'l to our weapons sharp , ourselves true Gallants for to try : Then they stripped off their doublets fair , standing up in their shirts of Lawn , Follow my counsel the Scotchman said , and wharton to thee i'le make known . Now follow my counsel , i'le follow thine , and we'l fight in our shirts ( said he ) Now nay , now nay , young Wharton said Sir James Steward that may not be , Unless we were drunkards and quarrellers that had no care of our fell , Nor caring what we go about , or whither our souls go to heaven or hell . We'l first to God bequeathe our souls , then next our Corpse to dust and clay , With that stout Wharton was the first , took Rapier and Poniard there that day . Seven thrusts in turns these gallants had before one drop of blood was drawn : The Scottish Knight then speak valiantly stout Wharton still thou holdest thy own . With the next thrust that Wharton thrust he ran him through the shoulder bone : The next was through the thick o'th thigh thinking he had the Scotch Kt. slave . Then wharton said to the Scottish Knight are you a living man ? tell me , If there be a Surgeon in England can , he shall cure your wounds right speedily . Now nay , now nay , the Scotch Knight said , Sir George wharton that may not be , The one of us shall the other kill , e're off this ground that we do fly : Then in a maze Sir George looked back , to see what company was nigh ; They both had dangerous marks of death , yet neither would from other fly . But both through body wounded soar , with courage lusty strong and found : They made a deadly desperate close , and both fe [ l ] l dead unto the ground . Our English Knight was first that fell , the Scottish Knight fell immediately , Who cried both to Jesus Christ , receive our souls , Oh Lord we die . God bless our Noble King and Queen , and all the Noble Progeny : That Brittain all may live in one , in perfect love and unity . Thus to conclude I make and end , wishing that quarrels still may cease : And that we still may live in love , in prosperous state , in joy and peace . FINIS . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . 