A lamentable Ballad of a Combat lately performed near London , betwixt Sir James Steward , and Sir George wharton Knights , who were both slain at that time . To the Tune of , Down Plumpton Park . IT grieves me for to tell the woe , near London late that did befall , On Martlemas Eve , o woe is me , I grieve the chance and ever shall : Of two right gallant Gentlemen , who very rashly fell at words , But so their quarrel could not fallen , till they fell both by their keen swords . The one was Sir George Wharton call'd , the good Lord Whartons son and heir , The other Sir James the Scottish Knight , a man that valiant heart did bear : Near to the Court these Gallants stout [ , ] fell out as they in gaming were , And in their fury grew so hight , they hardly could from blows forbear . Nay , kind entreaties could not stay Sir James from striking in that place , For in the height and heat of blood , he stroke young Wharton over the face . What dost thou mean , said Wharton then , to strike in such unmanly sort ? That I will take it at thy hand the tongue of man shall never report . Why do thy worst then , said Sir James , and mark me Wharton what I say , There's never a Lord in England breathes , shall make me give and inch of way : This brag's too large stout Wharton said , let our brave English Lords alone , And talk to me who am your foe , for thou shalt find enough of one . Alas Sir , said the Scottish Knight , thy blood and mind's too base for me , Thy oppositions be too bold , and will thy dire destruction be : Nay , said young Wharton , you mistake , my courage and valour equals thine , To mak't apparent cast thy Glove to gage , to try as I do mine . I , said Sir James , hast thou such spirit , I did not think within thy breast , That such a haughty daring heart , as thou mak'st show of , ere could res I interchange my Glove with thee , take it , and point thy bed of death , The field I mean where we must fight , and one or both loose life and breath . Wee'l meet near Waltham , said Sir George , to morrow that shall be the day ; Wee'l either take a single man , and try who bears the bell away : This done , together hands they shook , and without any envious sign , They went to Ludgate , where they stayed , and drunk each man a pint of Wine . No kind of anger could be seen , no words of malice might bewray , But all as fair , as calm , as cool , as love within their bosom lay : Till parting time , and then indeed , they shew'd some rancour of their heart , George , said Sir James , when next we meet , so found I know we shall not part . And so they parted both resolv'd , to have their valours thoroughly try'd ; The second part shall briefly show , both how they met , and how they dy'd The second part , To the same tune . YOung Wharton was the first that came , to the pointed place on the next day , Who presently spied Sir James coming as fast as he could post away : And being met in manly sort , the Scottish Knight did to Wharton say , I do mislike thy Doublet George , it sits so clear on thee this day . Hast thou no privy Armour on ? nor yet no privy coat of steel ? I never saw Lord in all my life , become a Doublet half so weel ; Now nay , now nay , stout Wharton said , Sir James Steward that may not be , I'll not and armed man come hither , and thou a naked man truly . Our men shall rip our Doublets George , so shall we know whither of us do lie , And then weel to our weapons sharp , our selves true Gallants for to try : Then they slipped off their Doublets fair , standing up in their shirts of Lawn , Follow my counsel the Scottish Knight said , and Wharton to thee I'll make it known . Now follow my counsel , I'll follow thine , and weel fight in our shirts said he , Now nay , now nay , young Wharton said , Sir James Steward that may not be , Unless we were drunkards and quarrellers , that had no care over our fell , Not caring what we go about , or whither our souls go to heaven or hell . Weel first to God bequeathe our souls , then next our Corpse to dust and clay : With that stout Wharton was the first took Rapier and Pontard there that day : Seven thrusts in turns these Gallants had , before one drop of blood was drawn : The Scottish Knight then spoke valiantly , stout Wharton still thou holdest thine own . With the next thrust that Wharton thrust , he ran him through the shoulder bone : The next was through the thick of the thigh , thinking he had the Scottish Knight slain , Then Wharton said to the Scottish Knight , are you a living man tell me , If there be a Surgeon in England can , he shall cure your wounds right speedily . Now nay , now nay , the Scottish Knight said , Sir George Wharton that may not be , The one of us shall kill each other , ere off this ground that we do flee : Then in a maze Sir George looked back , to see what company was nigh : They both had dangerous marks of death , yet neither would from the other fly . But both through body wounded soar with courage lusty strong and found , They made a desperate deadly close , they both fell dead unto the ground : Our English Knight was first that fell , the Scottish Knight fell immediately : Who cried both to Jesus Christ , receive our souls , Oh Lord , we die . God bless our noble King and Queen , and all their Noble Progeny , That Brittaine all may live in one , in love and perfect unity . Thus to conclude , I make and end , wishing that quarrels still may cease , And that we still may live in love , in prosperous state in joy and peace . FINIS . Printed at London for F.C. dwelling in the Old-Baily . A lamentable Ballad of a Combat lately performed near London , betwixt Sir James Steward , and Sir George wharton Knights , who were both slain at that time . To the Tune of , Down Plumpton Park . IT grieves me for to tell the woe , near London late that did befall , On Martlemas Eve , o woe is me , I grieve the chance and ever shall : Of two right gallant Gentlemen , who very rashly fell at words , But so their quarrel could not fallen , till they fell both by their keen swords . The one was Sir George Wharton call'd , the good Lord Whartons son and heir , The other Sir James the Scottish Knight , a man that valiant heart did bear : Near to the Court these Gallants stout [ , ] fell out as they in gaming were , And in their fury grew so hight , they hardly could from blows forbear . Nay , kind entreaties could not stay Sir James from striking in that place , For in the height and heat of blood , he stroke young Wharton over the face . What dost thou mean , said Wharton then , to strike in such unmanly sort ? That I will take it at thy hand the tongue of man shall never report . Why do thy worst then , said Sir James , and mark me Wharton what I say , There's never a Lord in England breathes , shall make me give and inch of way : This brag's too large stout Wharton said , let our brave English Lords alone , And talk to me who am your foe , for thou shalt find enough of one . Alas Sir , said the Scottish Knight , thy blood and mind's too base for me , Thy oppositions be too bold , and will thy dire destruction be : Nay , said young Wharton , you mistake , my courage and valour equals thine , To mak't apparent cast thy Glove to gage , to try as I do mine . I , said Sir James , hast thou such spirit , I did not think within thy breast , That such a haughty daring heart , as thou mak'st show of , ere could res I interchange my Glove with thee , take it , and point thy bed of death , The field I mean where we must fight , and one or both loose life and breath . Wee'l meet near Waltham , said Sir George , to morrow that shall be the day ; Wee'l either take a single man , and try who bears the bell away : This done , together hands they shook , and without any envious sign , They went to Ludgate , where they stayed , and drunk each man a pint of Wine . No kind of anger could be seen , no words of malice might bewray , But all as fair , as calm , as cool , as love within their bosom lay : Till parting time , and then indeed , they shew'd some rancour of their heart , George , said Sir James , when next we meet , so found I know we shall not part . And so they parted both resolv'd , to have their valours thoroughly try'd ; The second part shall briefly show , both how they met , and how they dy'd The second part , To the same tune . YOung Wharton was the first that came , to the pointed place on the next day , Who presently spied Sir James coming as fast as he could post away : And being met in manly sort , the Scottish Knight did to Wharton say , I do mislike thy Doublet George , it sits so clear on thee this day . Hast thou no privy Armour on ? nor yet no privy coat of steel ? I never saw Lord in all my life , become a Doublet half so weel ; Now nay , now nay , stout Wharton said , Sir James Steward that may not be , I'll not and armed man come hither , and thou a naked man truly . Our men shall rip our Doublets George , so shall we know whither of us do lie , And then weel to our weapons sharp , our selves true Gallants for to try : Then they slipped off their Doublets fair , standing up in their shirts of Lawn , Follow my counsel the Scottish Knight said , and Wharton to thee I'll make it known . Now follow my counsel , I'll follow thine , and weel fight in our shirts said he , Now nay , now nay , young Wharton said , Sir James Steward that may not be , Unless we were drunkards and quarrellers , that had no care over our fell , Not caring what we go about , or whither our souls go to heaven or hell . Weel first to God bequeathe our souls , then next our Corpse to dust and clay : With that stout Wharton was the first took Rapier and Pontard there that day : Seven thrusts in turns these Gallants had , before one drop of blood was drawn : The Scottish Knight then spoke valiantly , stout Wharton still thou holdest thine own . With the next thrust that Wharton thrust , he ran him through the shoulder bone : The next was through the thick of the thigh , thinking he had the Scottish Knight slain , Then Wharton said to the Scottish Knight , are you a living man tell me , If there be a Surgeon in England can , he shall cure your wounds right speedily . Now nay , now nay , the Scottish Knight said , Sir George Wharton that may not be , The one of us shall kill each other , ere off this ground that we do flee : Then in a maze Sir George looked back , to see what company was nigh : They both had dangerous marks of death , yet neither would from the other fly . But both through body wounded soar with courage lusty strong and found , They made a desperate deadly close , they both fell dead unto the ground : Our English Knight was first that fell , the Scottish Knight fell immediately : Who cried both to Jesus Christ , receive our souls , Oh Lord , we die . God bless our noble King and Queen , and all their Noble Progeny , That Brittaine all may live in one , in love and perfect unity . Thus to conclude , I make and end , wishing that quarrels still may cease , And that we still may live in love , in prosperous state in joy and peace . FINIS . Printed at London for F.C. dwelling in the Old-Baily . 