A Lamentable ballad of the tragical end of a Gallant Lord , and a Virtuous Lady , with the untimely end of their two children , wickedly performed by a Heathenish Blacka - moor their servant , the like never herd of before . To the tune of , The Ladies fa [ l ] l. IN Rome a Noble man did wed a Virgin of great Fame , [ A ] fairer Creature never did Dame Nature ever frame , By whom he had two children fair , whose beauty did excel , They were their Parents only joy they lov'd them both so well , This Lord belov'd to hunt the Buck the Tiger and the Bear , And still for swiftness always took with him a Blackamoor , Which Blackamoor within the wood his Lord he did offend , For which he did him then correct in hope he would amend . The day it grew unto and end , then homeward he did would [ ? ] e Where with his Lady he did rest until the night was passed , Than in the morning he did rise , and did his servants call , A hunting he provides to go straight they were ready all , Cause of the toil his Lady did entreat him not to go , Alas good Lady then quoth he ; why art thou grieved so ? Content thy self I will return with speed to thee again , Good Father quoth the little Babes , with us here still remain . Farewell dear children , I will go a fine thing you to buy , But they therewith nothing content aloud began to cry . The Mother takes them by the hand , saying , come go with me , Unto the highest tower where your Father you shall see . The Blackamoor perceivng now who then did stay behind , His Lord to be a hunting gone began to call to mind ; My Master he did me correct , my fault not being great ; Now of his wife I'll be reveng'd she shall not me entreat . The place was moted round about , the Bridge he up did draw : The Gates he bolted very fast of none in stood in awe . He up into the tower went the Lady being there , Who when she saw his countenance grim she straight began to fear . But now my trembling heart it quakes to think what I must write ; My senses all begin to fail my soul it does affright . Yet must I make and end of that [ i ] s which here I have begun : Which will make sad the hardest heart before that I have done . This wretch unto the Lady went and her with speed did will , His lust forthwith to satisfy his mind for to fulfil . The Lady she amazed was to hear the Villain speak , Alas quoth she what shall I do with grief my heart will break ? With that he took her in his arms she straight for help did cry , Content your self Lady he said your Husband is not nigh . The bridge is drawn , the gates are shut therefore come lie with me , Or else I do protest and vow thy Butcher I will be . The Crystal tears ran down her , face her children cried amain : And sought to help their Mother dear but all it was in vain . For that Egregious filthy Rogue , her hands behind her bound , And then perforce with all his might , he threw her on the ground . The second part to the same tune . WIth that she shrikt , her children cried and such a noise did make , The towns-folks hearing her laments , did seek their parts to take . But all in vain no way they found , to help the Ladies need . Who cry'd to them most piteous Oh help , Oh help with speed . Some ran unto the Forest wide , her Lord home for to call , And they that stood still did lament this gallant Ladies fallen . With speed her Lord came posting home he could not enter in , His Ladies cries did pierce his heart , to call he did begin . O hold thy hand thou Savage Moor , to hurt her do forbear , Or else be sure i [ ? ] I do live wild horses shall thee tear : With that the Rogue ran to the wall , he having had his will . And brought one child under his arm his dearest blood to spill . The child seeing his Father there to him for help did call , Oh Father help my Mother dear we shall be killed all . Then fell the Lord upon his knee , and did the Moor entreat , To save the life of his poor child , whose fear as then was great , But this vile wretch the little child , by both the heels did take , And dash the brains against the wall , while Parents heart did ache . That being done straightway he ran the other child to fetch . And plucked it from the Mother's breast , most like a cruel wretch . Within one hand a knife he brought the child within another , And holding it over the wall , saying , thus die shall thy Mother . With that he cut the throat of it , then to the Father did call , To look how he the head had cut then down the head did fallen . This done , he threw it down the wall , into the Mote so deep , Which made his Father wring his hands and grievously to weep . Then to the Lady went this Rogue , who was near dead with fear , Yet this yile wretch most cruelly did drag her by the hair . And drew her to the very wall which when her Lord did see Then presently he cried out , and fell upon his knee . Quoth he if thou wilt save her life whom I do love so dear , I will forgive thee all is past , though they concern me near , Oh save her life I thee beseech , Oh save her I thee pray ! And I will give thee what thou wilt demand of me this day . Well quoth the Moor I do regard the moan that thou dost ma [ ? ] e , If thou wilt grant me what I ask I'll save her for thy sake . O save her life and then demand of me what thing thou wilt , Cut off thy nose and not one drop of her blood shall be spilled . With that the Lord presently took a knife within his hand , And then his nose he quite cut off in place where he did stand , Now have I bought my Ladies life , then to the Moor did call , Then take her quoth this wicked rogue and down he let her fallen . Which when her gallant Lord did see , his senses all did fail Yet many sought to save her life but nothing would prevail . When as the Moor did see him dead , then did he laugh amain , At them who for their gallant Lord and Lady did complain . Quoth he I know you'l torture me if that you can me get , But all your threats I do not fear nor yet regard one whit . Wild horses shall my body tear , I know it to be true , But I'll prevent you of that pain and down himself he threw , Too good a worser [ e ] ath for such a wretch a Villain void of fear , And thus does end as sad a tale as ever man did hear . Finis . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and W. Gilbertson . A Lamentable ballad of the tragical end of a Gallant Lord , and a Virtuous Lady , with the untimely end of their two children , wickedly performed by a Heathenish Blacka - moor their servant , the like never herd of before . To the tune of , The Ladies fa [ l ] l. IN Rome a Noble man did wed a Virgin of great Fame , [ A ] fairer Creature never did Dame Nature ever frame , By whom he had two children fair , whose beauty did excel , They were their Parents only joy they lov'd them both so well , This Lord belov'd to hunt the Buck the Tiger and the Bear , And still for swiftness always took with him a Blackamoor , Which Blackamoor within the wood his Lord he did offend , For which he did him then correct in hope he would amend . The day it grew unto and end , then homeward he did would [ ? ] e Where with his Lady he did rest until the night was passed , Than in the morning he did rise , and did his servants call , A hunting he provides to go straight they were ready all , Cause of the toil his Lady did entreat him not to go , Alas good Lady then quoth he ; why art thou grieved so ? Content thy self I will return with speed to thee again , Good Father quoth the little Babes , with us here still remain . Farewell dear children , I will go a fine thing you to buy , But they therewith nothing content aloud began to cry . The Mother takes them by the hand , saying , come go with me , Unto the highest tower where your Father you shall see . The Blackamoor perceivng now who then did stay behind , His Lord to be a hunting gone began to call to mind ; My Master he did me correct , my fault not being great ; Now of his wife I'll be reveng'd she shall not me entreat . The place was moted round about , the Bridge he up did draw : The Gates he bolted very fast of none in stood in awe . He up into the tower went the Lady being there , Who when she saw his countenance grim she straight began to fear . But now my trembling heart it quakes to think what I must write ; My senses all begin to fail my soul it does affright . Yet must I make and end of that [ i ] s which here I have begun : Which will make sad the hardest heart before that I have done . This wretch unto the Lady went and her with speed did will , His lust forthwith to satisfy his mind for to fulfil . The Lady she amazed was to hear the Villain speak , Alas quoth she what shall I do with grief my heart will break ? With that he took her in his arms she straight for help did cry , Content your self Lady he said your Husband is not nigh . The bridge is drawn , the gates are shut therefore come lie with me , Or else I do protest and vow thy Butcher I will be . The Crystal tears ran down her , face her children cried amain : And sought to help their Mother dear but all it was in vain . For that Egregious filthy Rogue , her hands behind her bound , And then perforce with all his might , he threw her on the ground . The second part to the same tune . WIth that she shrikt , her children cried and such a noise did make , The towns-folks hearing her laments , did seek their parts to take . But all in vain no way they found , to help the Ladies need . Who cry'd to them most piteous Oh help , Oh help with speed . Some ran unto the Forest wide , her Lord home for to call , And they that stood still did lament this gallant Ladies fallen . With speed her Lord came posting home he could not enter in , His Ladies cries did pierce his heart , to call he did begin . O hold thy hand thou Savage Moor , to hurt her do forbear , Or else be sure i [ ? ] I do live wild horses shall thee tear : With that the Rogue ran to the wall , he having had his will . And brought one child under his arm his dearest blood to spill . The child seeing his Father there to him for help did call , Oh Father help my Mother dear we shall be killed all . Then fell the Lord upon his knee , and did the Moor entreat , To save the life of his poor child , whose fear as then was great , But this vile wretch the little child , by both the heels did take , And dash the brains against the wall , while Parents heart did ache . That being done straightway he ran the other child to fetch . And plucked it from the Mother's breast , most like a cruel wretch . Within one hand a knife he brought the child within another , And holding it over the wall , saying , thus die shall thy Mother . With that he cut the throat of it , then to the Father did call , To look how he the head had cut then down the head did fallen . This done , he threw it down the wall , into the Mote so deep , Which made his Father wring his hands and grievously to weep . Then to the Lady went this Rogue , who was near dead with fear , Yet this yile wretch most cruelly did drag her by the hair . And drew her to the very wall which when her Lord did see Then presently he cried out , and fell upon his knee . Quoth he if thou wilt save her life whom I do love so dear , I will forgive thee all is past , though they concern me near , Oh save her life I thee beseech , Oh save her I thee pray ! And I will give thee what thou wilt demand of me this day . Well quoth the Moor I do regard the moan that thou dost ma [ ? ] e , If thou wilt grant me what I ask I'll save her for thy sake . O save her life and then demand of me what thing thou wilt , Cut off thy nose and not one drop of her blood shall be spilled . With that the Lord presently took a knife within his hand , And then his nose he quite cut off in place where he did stand , Now have I bought my Ladies life , then to the Moor did call , Then take her quoth this wicked rogue and down he let her fallen . Which when her gallant Lord did see , his senses all did fail Yet many sought to save her life but nothing would prevail . When as the Moor did see him dead , then did he laugh amain , At them who for their gallant Lord and Lady did complain . Quoth he I know you'l torture me if that you can me get , But all your threats I do not fear nor yet regard one whit . Wild horses shall my body tear , I know it to be true , But I'll prevent you of that pain and down himself he threw , Too good a worser [ e ] ath for such a wretch a Villain void of fear , And thus does end as sad a tale as ever man did hear . Finis . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and W. Gilbertson . 