E : 313 The Ruined Lovers . Being a rare Narrative of a young Man that died for his cruel Mistress , in June last , who not long after his death , upon a consideration of his entire Affection , and her own coyness , could not be comforted , but lingered out her days in Melancholy , fell desperate sick , and so died . Tune of , Mock-beggars Hall stands empty . MArs shall to Cupid now submit , for he hath gain'd the glory ; You that in Love were never yet , attend unto my story , For it is new , 'tis strange and true as ever age afforded ; A tale more sad , you never had in any Books Recorded . A Youngman lately lov'd a Maid more than his life or fortune , And in her ears the same convey'd , for thus he did importune : Dear , pity me , the Lover cry'd , Sweet let thy heart come to me ; And often said unto the Maid , Love me , or you'l undo me . I never was ingag'd before , I must and will be true to t'ye , Love never made me cry and roar , until I saw thy beauty . No creature cou'd , of flesh and blood , bring more delight unto me : Which makes me cry perpetually , Love me , or you'l undo me . He made Addresses to the Maid , and proffered to advance her : I cannot love thee , then she said , pray take it for and answer : In many ways , he sung her praise , Love shot his Arrow thorough me , Why did not he , do so to thee , Love me , etc She made him such a strange reply , he durst no more come near her : Quoth he I will go home and die , since there is nothing dearer . The joys of all the Christian World , ( said he ) are nothing to me ; 'Tis Death only , can set me free : Love me , etc He took his Bed , he rag'd and burn'd , ( sure this must greatly grieve him . His scorching love was quickly turn'd into a burning Fever : And then he dy'd , but first he cry'd , O! will she not come to me : Then sheds a tear ; his last words were , Love me , or you'l undo me , The second part , Containing the misery , sorrow , and death of the Maid . To the same Tune . THe Virgin when she herd news was very greatly troubled ; And when the coffin'd Corpse she views , her woes were all redoubled ; And hast thou dy'd , for me she cry'd , thou hast in love outrun me ; Too late I may , thus sadly say , Thy death hath quite undone me . Had I a thousand world's , I would give them all to restore thee , For I am guilty of thy blood , how dare I stand before thee ; I am a Murderess , woe is me , Let all true Lovers shun me ; And I must cry until I die , Thy death hath , etc It is in vain for me to live , thy memory will haunt me , I only have a short Reprieve , thy sorrows daily daunt me ; Where ever thy , dead Corpse do lie , ( since thou in death hast wone me ) I will be laid , a woeful Maid , Thy death hath quite undone me . With that the tears fell from her eyes she could no longer bear it , For Love and Death did tyrannise , she could no longer bear i Pray have me home to bed , she cry'd , my sorrows overrun me : I am rewarded for my pride ; Thy death hath quite undone me . She took her bed , and in her head , a thousand frantic dreams are , Sadly she lies , and in her eyes a hundred flowing streams are ; What wretched soul am I ? cry'd she , Oh whither am I going ? Poor soul ( she cry'd ) and so she dy'd : Thy death hath etc Let all fair Maids that are in love , by this poor Soul take warning , Lest that like her , you sadly prove the purchase of her scorning : Let all by this , mend what's a miss , before grief overrun [ ye ] ; Lest you be forc'd to die , and cry , Thy death hath quite undone me . FINIS . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . E : 313 The Ruined Lovers . Being a rare Narrative of a young Man that died for his cruel Mistress , in June last , who not long after his death , upon a consideration of his entire Affection , and her own coyness , could not be comforted , but lingered out her days in Melancholy , fell desperate sick , and so died . Tune of , Mock-beggars Hall stands empty . MArs shall to Cupid now submit , for he hath gain'd the glory ; You that in Love were never yet , attend unto my story , For it is new , 'tis strange and true as ever age afforded ; A tale more sad , you never had in any Books Recorded . A Youngman lately lov'd a Maid more than his life or fortune , And in her ears the same convey'd , for thus he did importune : Dear , pity me , the Lover cry'd , Sweet let thy heart come to me ; And often said unto the Maid , Love me , or you'l undo me . I never was ingag'd before , I must and will be true to t'ye , Love never made me cry and roar , until I saw thy beauty . No creature cou'd , of flesh and blood , bring more delight unto me : Which makes me cry perpetually , Love me , or you'l undo me . He made Addresses to the Maid , and proffered to advance her : I cannot love thee , then she said , pray take it for and answer : In many ways , he sung her praise , Love shot his Arrow thorough me , Why did not he , do so to thee , Love me , etc She made him such a strange reply , he durst no more come near her : Quoth he I will go home and die , since there is nothing dearer . The joys of all the Christian World , ( said he ) are nothing to me ; 'Tis Death only , can set me free : Love me , etc He took his Bed , he rag'd and burn'd , ( sure this must greatly grieve him . His scorching love was quickly turn'd into a burning Fever : And then he dy'd , but first he cry'd , O! will she not come to me : Then sheds a tear ; his last words were , Love me , or you'l undo me , The second part , Containing the misery , sorrow , and death of the Maid . To the same Tune . THe Virgin when she herd news was very greatly troubled ; And when the coffin'd Corpse she views , her woes were all redoubled ; And hast thou dy'd , for me she cry'd , thou hast in love outrun me ; Too late I may , thus sadly say , Thy death hath quite undone me . Had I a thousand world's , I would give them all to restore thee , For I am guilty of thy blood , how dare I stand before thee ; I am a Murderess , woe is me , Let all true Lovers shun me ; And I must cry until I die , Thy death hath , etc It is in vain for me to live , thy memory will haunt me , I only have a short Reprieve , thy sorrows daily daunt me ; Where ever thy , dead Corpse do lie , ( since thou in death hast wone me ) I will be laid , a woeful Maid , Thy death hath quite undone me . With that the tears fell from her eyes she could no longer bear it , For Love and Death did tyrannise , she could no longer bear i Pray have me home to bed , she cry'd , my sorrows overrun me : I am rewarded for my pride ; Thy death hath quite undone me . She took her bed , and in her head , a thousand frantic dreams are , Sadly she lies , and in her eyes a hundred flowing streams are ; What wretched soul am I ? cry'd she , Oh whither am I going ? Poor soul ( she cry'd ) and so she dy'd : Thy death hath etc Let all fair Maids that are in love , by this poor Soul take warning , Lest that like her , you sadly prove the purchase of her scorning : Let all by this , mend what's a miss , before grief overrun [ ye ] ; Lest you be forc'd to die , and cry , Thy death hath quite undone me . FINIS . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . 