Save a Thief from the Gallows , and hee'l hang thee if he can . Or , The Merciful Father , and the Merciless Son , The tune is , Fortune my Foe . YOu disobedient Children mark my fallen . And by my timeless end take warning all . Against my own dear Father I have done A deed , the like did never graceless Son. In blooming years I was entic'd to since . E'r I perceiv'd what danger lay therein . And so from day to day until this hour To leave the same as yet I had no power . My Mother dead , my Father cockered me , As men will do when Motherless we be , And nothing then for me he thought too dear . Which brought me thus unto a graceless fear . And when as I to elder years did grow , By wicked courses god I timely woe . Each vain delight belonging to Youngmen , Deceived me and wrought my ruin then . The deadly sins that are in number seven Without more grace have lost my joys in Heaven From first to last of these most cursed crimes , Have made me now a wonder of these times . For wanting means to nourish my delight , I went the wrong , and left the ways of right . Which to maintain , my Father growing poor Forgetting God I daily rob'd for more . Three times he sav'd me from the Gallow tree , Three times he cast himself in debt for me , Three times he set me up in good estate , In hope to keep me from untimely fate . By me the Proverb is fulfilled here , Who saves a thief from gallows finds it dear . For saving me I sought his dear life's woe , My gentle Father's timeless overthrow . For wanting means still to relieve my need , Put me in mind to do a woeful deed , And seek his blood the highway unto since . Who wanting grace , I soon grew perfect in . My Father's brother of good living known , Being dead , as next of kin they were mine own the which I wrought with these accursed hands , To be the Heir of all my Uncles Lands . With mind prepar'd for murder thus I went , Unto the field where he did much frequent , where meeting him , with my own Father's knife Which I had stolen , I took away his life . And laid it down all bloody by his side , That all might see my Uncle therewith dy'd . And challeng'd it my Father's knife to be , When people came the murdered corpse to see . O Homicide ! O cursed viperous brood , Like Cain , to seek thy Father's dearest blood , My own dear Father being thus betray'd , I his own Child the Evidence was made . So judg'd to death for that he never did , The Lord in mercy did the same forbid , For as he was to Execution led A world of torments in my bosom bred . To see him stand upon the Gallow tree , From which before good man he saved me , I could not choose but tell what I had done , And so confess myself a wicked son . The Confession and Repentance of George Sanders , Gen tleman , late of Sugh , in the County of Hertford , who killed his own Uncle , and accused his own Father for the murder , but by Gods providence being discovered he die - ed for the same where he wrote this Song with his own hand . GOds judgements now are rightly seen said I Dear Father I have slave him let me die , Oh let me die , and set my Father free , Or else like Judas damned shall I be . Whereat the people in that very place , There praised God that gave me so much grace , To quit my Father from that crying since , where I with red-blood streams am drowned in . My Father sav'd , and I to Prison s [ e ] nt , Where I remain with many a sad lament , Which when you see , you cannot choose but say Repentance comes before my dying day . His Repentance in Prison . To the same tune . Amongst Lyons fell in Daniels Den am I In lowest prison cast with Jeremy , Fed with Elias by the Ravens fell , And plac'd with Judas in the maw of hell . Naked with Esau fearful doe I walk , Dumb with old Zachary silent doe I talk , Afflictions bred with Micha is my food , And with the Prophets drink I sorrows flood . As poor as Job , even now so poor am I , Despis'd with Lazarus in great misery , Banished with David from my native land , Cast up with Jonas on the Ninivites sand . Made blind with Toby by the Swallows dung , And with poor Joseph cast in prison strong , I weep with Marry who had lost her Master , And run with Peter who should run the faster , I sinned have , for since God cursed the ground , I sinned have , for since the world was drown'd : I sinned have , since Sodom set on fire : Also for since did Egypt feel Gods ire . I sinned have , for since did Adam die : I sinned have , since caused Davids cry : I sinned have , and for since Satan fell From and high Angel to a Devil in Hell . Did David weep , and shall I not then cry ? Did Mary weep , and shall mine eyes be dry : Did Esau weep , and shall not I weep more ? Did Peter weep such tears ? let me have store . Did Mary weep for loss of Master dear ? Did Martha weep with sorrow touched full near ? Spring eyes with tears to wash his sacred feet , That for my since did shed his blood most sweet . Lark-like I fly unto the living spring , Desiring pardon of my heavenly King , Passed worldly hope now like the thief on tree , I only fix my faith and hope on thee . Look back on me as thou didst unto Peter , Speak to my soul , as to the thief most sweeter , Oh spy me out with Zache on the tree , And with sweet Bartholomew call me Lord to thee . O let me now with holy Abraham spy , A saving Ram that Isaac may not die . O let me live for to found forth thy praise , That I may show thy mercy in my days . Make me a sparrow in thy house , Oh King , That swallow-like I may fit there and sing : Oh let me in thy Temple keep a door , That I may praise thy name for evermore . George Sanders . Printed for F.C. T.V. and W. Gilbertson . Save a Thief from the Gallows , and hee'l hang thee if he can . Or , The Merciful Father , and the Merciless Son , The tune is , Fortune my Foe . YOu disobedient Children mark my fallen . And by my timeless end take warning all . Against my own dear Father I have done A deed , the like did never graceless Son. In blooming years I was entic'd to since . E'r I perceiv'd what danger lay therein . And so from day to day until this hour To leave the same as yet I had no power . My Mother dead , my Father cockered me , As men will do when Motherless we be , And nothing then for me he thought too dear . Which brought me thus unto a graceless fear . And when as I to elder years did grow , By wicked courses god I timely woe . Each vain delight belonging to Youngmen , Deceived me and wrought my ruin then . The deadly sins that are in number seven Without more grace have lost my joys in Heaven From first to last of these most cursed crimes , Have made me now a wonder of these times . For wanting means to nourish my delight , I went the wrong , and left the ways of right . Which to maintain , my Father growing poor Forgetting God I daily rob'd for more . Three times he sav'd me from the Gallow tree , Three times he cast himself in debt for me , Three times he set me up in good estate , In hope to keep me from untimely fate . By me the Proverb is fulfilled here , Who saves a thief from gallows finds it dear . For saving me I sought his dear life's woe , My gentle Father's timeless overthrow . For wanting means still to relieve my need , Put me in mind to do a woeful deed , And seek his blood the highway unto since . Who wanting grace , I soon grew perfect in . My Father's brother of good living known , Being dead , as next of kin they were mine own the which I wrought with these accursed hands , To be the Heir of all my Uncles Lands . With mind prepar'd for murder thus I went , Unto the field where he did much frequent , where meeting him , with my own Father's knife Which I had stolen , I took away his life . And laid it down all bloody by his side , That all might see my Uncle therewith dy'd . And challeng'd it my Father's knife to be , When people came the murdered corpse to see . O Homicide ! O cursed viperous brood , Like Cain , to seek thy Father's dearest blood , My own dear Father being thus betray'd , I his own Child the Evidence was made . So judg'd to death for that he never did , The Lord in mercy did the same forbid , For as he was to Execution led A world of torments in my bosom bred . To see him stand upon the Gallow tree , From which before good man he saved me , I could not choose but tell what I had done , And so confess myself a wicked son . The Confession and Repentance of George Sanders , Gen tleman , late of Sugh , in the County of Hertford , who killed his own Uncle , and accused his own Father for the murder , but by Gods providence being discovered he die - ed for the same where he wrote this Song with his own hand . GOds judgements now are rightly seen said I Dear Father I have slave him let me die , Oh let me die , and set my Father free , Or else like Judas damned shall I be . Whereat the people in that very place , There praised God that gave me so much grace , To quit my Father from that crying since , where I with red-blood streams am drowned in . My Father sav'd , and I to Prison s [ e ] nt , Where I remain with many a sad lament , Which when you see , you cannot choose but say Repentance comes before my dying day . His Repentance in Prison . To the same tune . Amongst Lyons fell in Daniels Den am I In lowest prison cast with Jeremy , Fed with Elias by the Ravens fell , And plac'd with Judas in the maw of hell . Naked with Esau fearful doe I walk , Dumb with old Zachary silent doe I talk , Afflictions bred with Micha is my food , And with the Prophets drink I sorrows flood . As poor as Job , even now so poor am I , Despis'd with Lazarus in great misery , Banished with David from my native land , Cast up with Jonas on the Ninivites sand . Made blind with Toby by the Swallows dung , And with poor Joseph cast in prison strong , I weep with Marry who had lost her Master , And run with Peter who should run the faster , I sinned have , for since God cursed the ground , I sinned have , for since the world was drown'd : I sinned have , since Sodom set on fire : Also for since did Egypt feel Gods ire . I sinned have , for since did Adam die : I sinned have , since caused Davids cry : I sinned have , and for since Satan fell From and high Angel to a Devil in Hell . Did David weep , and shall I not then cry ? Did Mary weep , and shall mine eyes be dry : Did Esau weep , and shall not I weep more ? Did Peter weep such tears ? let me have store . Did Mary weep for loss of Master dear ? Did Martha weep with sorrow touched full near ? Spring eyes with tears to wash his sacred feet , That for my since did shed his blood most sweet . Lark-like I fly unto the living spring , Desiring pardon of my heavenly King , Passed worldly hope now like the thief on tree , I only fix my faith and hope on thee . Look back on me as thou didst unto Peter , Speak to my soul , as to the thief most sweeter , Oh spy me out with Zache on the tree , And with sweet Bartholomew call me Lord to thee . O let me now with holy Abraham spy , A saving Ram that Isaac may not die . O let me live for to found forth thy praise , That I may show thy mercy in my days . Make me a sparrow in thy house , Oh King , That swallow-like I may fit there and sing : Oh let me in thy Temple keep a door , That I may praise thy name for evermore . George Sanders . Printed for F.C. T.V. and W. Gilbertson . 