E : 315 The Sailors departure from his dearest Love , Wishing that still ( to him ) she'd constant prove , She ( in the second Part ) does thus reply , E're she'd foom him depart , she'l choose to die . To a new Tune of , Adieu my pretty one . NOw I am bound to Seas , and from my Love must part , May ought my Dear displease , that lies so near my hear Nor mourn my sweet for me , to perturbate thy mind ; Since there no help can be , I must leave thee behind . Remember me on shore , as I thee on the main , So keep my love in store , till I return again . Poor Saylors must endure the storms of Boreas blast , Of life no man is sure . while Seas do raging last . But when the storms are o're . that wind and tide serves well , We hast to kiss the shore where our true Lovers dwell . Remember me on shore , etc When we are landed there , and come to greet our friends , Strange wonders we declare , how God us safe defends : Then Love ( if thou so please ) pray still for my success , And prosperous gale at Seas , to shield us from distress . Remember , etc Our shipping shall be built , without the help of tree ; The hardest flint shall melt , ere I prove false to thee ; And though I be inforc'd , to part thy company , My love bide's undivorc'd , and shall do till I die . Remember , etc The fire shall freeze by kind , the snow shall flaming burned ; The rain shall turn to wind , or e're my love return . Young men and maidens all , that live in England wide , To witness I you call , how firm my love shall bide . Remember me , etc The Mountains high shall fallen beneath the Valleys deep , E're I prove false at all , my promise so i'll keep . And if I hold not true , to thee my gentle Dove , Let not mine eyes e're view , Earth , Air , or heaven above . Remember , etc The Fish shall seem to fly , yea Birds to Fish turn , The Sea be ever dry , and Fire surcease to burn : When I turn false to thee , shall these things come to pass ; But that will never be , nor yet to ever was . Remember , etc Let no deluding tongue bereave me of my Love ; Nor ( sweet ) do me such wrong , lest it my death should prove . Though seest I must away , our Ship lies under sail : And time for none will stay , God send's a happy gale . Remember me on shore ; as I thee on the Main , So keep my love in store , till I return again . Her Answer to the Sailors wishes . The second Part , To the same Tune . MUst thou depart my Dear , and leave me thus alone 'Twill cast me many a tear , though to thee it be unknown : But be assur'd I'le pray , and to the Powers Divine , To prosper thee the way , where Fate shall now desig [ ne ] . While I remember thee , and keep thy love in store : Do thou the like for me , on Sea or on the shore . O till thou dost return from off the Ocean Main . Full often I sh [ a ] ll mourn , In a lamenting strain : And when fierce winds arise or but contrary blow , My sighs and watery eyes , shall sympathise thy woe . Thus i'le remember thee , etc Each hour shall seem to me , in length ( at least ) a year , Till thy return , I see my joys are fill'd with fear : For on the Seas , I know , what sundry dangers be , Rocks , sands and many a foe , from which Lord keep thee free . Thus I'le , etc I would I might but sail through surging Seas with thee , My heart would never faint , while thou wertenberg near to me . Or that I could but hear thy voice , I should be well , But thoul't not be so near , to hear or see thy Nell . Yet i'le , etc Though loath we be to part , yet since it seems we must ; To Sea bear thou my heart , with whom it's put in trust . And thine with me let rest , till thou return'st again , And each be doubly blessed , by making one of twain . So i'le , etc Mean while my jem and joy , I'll kiss thee lovingly , Our hope's does time destroy , would I could him deny . But time will comfort bring , though we a time are cros And Winter finds a Spring . restores what seemed lost . Yet i'le , etc Man. Farewell my Love , farewell ten thousand times adieu , My witty , pretty Nell , till my return to you . Maid . Farewell to thee Sweetheart . That now to Seas art gone , With what great grief I part , to Lovers best 'tis known . Yet i'le remember thee , and keep thy love in store , Do thou the like by me , etc London , Printed for M. Wright at the Kings head in the Old BailyE : 315 The Sailors departure from his dearest Love , Wishing that still ( to him ) she'd constant prove , She ( in the second Part ) does thus reply , E're she'd foom him depart , she'l choose to die . To a new Tune of , Adieu my pretty one . NOw I am bound to Seas , and from my Love must part , May ought my Dear displease , that lies so near my hear Nor mourn my sweet for me , to perturbate thy mind ; Since there no help can be , I must leave thee behind . Remember me on shore , as I thee on the main , So keep my love in store , till I return again . Poor Saylors must endure the storms of Boreas blast , Of life no man is sure . while Seas do raging last . But when the storms are o're . that wind and tide serves well , We hast to kiss the shore where our true Lovers dwell . Remember me on shore , etc When we are landed there , and come to greet our friends , Strange wonders we declare , how God us safe defends : Then Love ( if thou so please ) pray still for my success , And prosperous gale at Seas , to shield us from distress . Remember , etc Our shipping shall be built , without the help of tree ; The hardest flint shall melt , ere I prove false to thee ; And though I be inforc'd , to part thy company , My love bide's undivorc'd , and shall do till I die . Remember , etc The fire shall freeze by kind , the snow shall flaming burned ; The rain shall turn to wind , or e're my love return . Young men and maidens all , that live in England wide , To witness I you call , how firm my love shall bide . Remember me , etc The Mountains high shall fallen beneath the Valleys deep , E're I prove false at all , my promise so i'll keep . And if I hold not true , to thee my gentle Dove , Let not mine eyes e're view , Earth , Air , or heaven above . Remember , etc The Fish shall seem to fly , yea Birds to Fish turn , The Sea be ever dry , and Fire surcease to burn : When I turn false to thee , shall these things come to pass ; But that will never be , nor yet to ever was . Remember , etc Let no deluding tongue bereave me of my Love ; Nor ( sweet ) do me such wrong , lest it my death should prove . Though seest I must away , our Ship lies under sail : And time for none will stay , God send's a happy gale . Remember me on shore ; as I thee on the Main , So keep my love in store , till I return again . Her Answer to the Sailors wishes . The second Part , To the same Tune . MUst thou depart my Dear , and leave me thus alone 'Twill cast me many a tear , though to thee it be unknown : But be assur'd I'le pray , and to the Powers Divine , To prosper thee the way , where Fate shall now desig [ ne ] . While I remember thee , and keep thy love in store : Do thou the like for me , on Sea or on the shore . O till thou dost return from off the Ocean Main . Full often I sh [ a ] ll mourn , In a lamenting strain : And when fierce winds arise or but contrary blow , My sighs and watery eyes , shall sympathise thy woe . Thus i'le remember thee , etc Each hour shall seem to me , in length ( at least ) a year , Till thy return , I see my joys are fill'd with fear : For on the Seas , I know , what sundry dangers be , Rocks , sands and many a foe , from which Lord keep thee free . Thus I'le , etc I would I might but sail through surging Seas with thee , My heart would never faint , while thou wertenberg near to me . Or that I could but hear thy voice , I should be well , But thoul't not be so near , to hear or see thy Nell . Yet i'le , etc Though loath we be to part , yet since it seems we must ; To Sea bear thou my heart , with whom it's put in trust . And thine with me let rest , till thou return'st again , And each be doubly blessed , by making one of twain . So i'le , etc Mean while my jem and joy , I'll kiss thee lovingly , Our hope's does time destroy , would I could him deny . But time will comfort bring , though we a time are cros And Winter finds a Spring . restores what seemed lost . Yet i'le , etc Man. Farewell my Love , farewell ten thousand times adieu , My witty , pretty Nell , till my return to you . Maid . Farewell to thee Sweetheart . That now to Seas art gone , With what great grief I part , to Lovers best 'tis known . Yet i'le remember thee , and keep thy love in store , Do thou the like by me , etc London , Printed for M. Wright at the Kings head in the Old Baily 