Saint BERNARD's VISION : Or , A brief Discourse , Dialogue-wise , between the Soul and Body of a Damned Man , newly , de - ceased , laying the Faults one upon the other . To which is added , A Speech of the Devil's in hell , etc To the Tune of , Flying Fame , etc Licensed according to order . The Writer speaks . AS I lay slumbering in my bed one night , A fearful vision did me soar affright , Methought I saw a soul departed late , By it the body in a poor estate . Wailing with sighs , the soul aloud did cry , Upon the body in the coffin by : And thus the soul to it did make her moan , With grievous sobs , and many a bitter groan . The Soul speaks . O sinful flesh , which now so low does lie , Whom yesterday the world esteem'd so high , It was but yesterday the world was thine , The sun is set which yesterday did shine . Where is thy train that did attend on thee ? Where is thy mirth , where is thy jollity ? Where are thy sumptuous buildings & thy treasure ? Thy pleasant walks wherein thou tookest pleasure . Gone is thy train , thy mirth to mourning turn'd , Thou in a coffin , in a shrine art urn'd : For thy rich clothes thou hast a winding-sheet , Thy high-built roof now with thy mouth does meet . But I poor soul was fram'd a noble creature , In likeness to my God , of heavenly feature , But by thy since while we on earth abided , I am made fouler then a loathsome toad . O wretched flesh with me that art forlorn , That well may wish thou never had'st been born : Thou wouldst never to any one agree , For which we evermore shall damned be . I am and must for ever be in pain , No tongue can tell the torments I sustain , But thou and I we must descend to hell , Where we in frying flames must ever dwell . It was thy pride , deceit , and luxury , Hath brought these torments both on me and thee , Thy wife , thy children , friends whom thou didst trust Do loath thy carcase lying in the dust . The book of God , which is both true and sure , Witness at large what sinners shall endure ; Thou that within the bed of earth art laid , Arise , and answer to the words I said . The Body speaks . I know thee well , my soul , which from me fled , Which left my body senseless , cold , and dead , Cease thou to say the fault was all in me , When I will prove the fault was most in thee : Thou say'st that I have led thee oft astray , And from welldoing drawn thee quite away : But if the flesh the spirit's power can move , The fault is thine as I will plainly prove . God you do know created you most fair , And of celestial knowledge gave you share : I was your servant , fram'd of earth and clay , You to command , and I for to obey . 'Twas in your power for to restrain my will , And not to let me do these things were ill : The body's works are from the soul divided , And by the soul the body should be guided . The body of itself no ill hath known , If I did what thou did'st , the guilts thine own , For without thee , the body rests dead , The soul commands , it rests upon thy head . So to conclude , thy guilt exceeds mine , Oh how the worms do tear me in my shrine ; And therefore fare thee well , poor sinful soul , Thy trespasses pass mine , though they are foul . The Soul speaks . Most wretched flesh which in the time of life , Was foolish , idle , vain , and full of strife : Though of thy substance thou did speak to me , I do confess I should have bridled thee . But thou through love of pleasure foul and ill , Still me resisted , and would have thy will : When I would thee , Oh body , have controul'd , Straight the world's vanities did me withhold . So thou of me didst gain the upper-hand , Enthralling me in worldly pleasures band : That thou and I eternal shall be drown'd In hell , when glorious saints in heaven are crown'd . But flattering fancy did thy mind so please , Thou never thought'st to die till death did cease : This was thy fault , and cursed was our fate , Which we repent , but now , alas , too late . The Body speaks . O now I weep , being scourg'd with mine own rod , We both stand guilty 'fore the face of God : Both are in fault , and yet not equally , The greatest burden , soul , on thee does lie . No wit so mean , but this for truth it knows , That where most gifts of virtue God bestows , There is most due , and ought repaid be , And unto this there's none but will agree . But foolishly thou yieldest unto me , And to my vain desires didst soon agree : But , o I knew not at the latter hour , But thou and I shall find a death most sure . I greatly fear and everlasting fire : Yet one thing more I do of thee desire , Hast thou been yet among the fiends of hell , Is no hope's left that we with Christ may dwell . False flesh remember Dives was denay'd , When for one drop of water he so pray'd : Thy question , senseless body , wants reason , Redemption now is hopeless , out of season : Vile body go , and rot in bed of clay , Until the great and general judgement-day ; Then shalt thou rise , and be with me condemn'd , To hell's hight lake for ever without end . So fare thee well , I will no longer stay , Hark how the fiends of hell call me away : The loss of heavenly joys torments me , More then all tortures that in hell can be . The Devil speaks . Ho , are you come , whom we expected long ? Now we will make you sing another song : Howling and yelling still shall be your note , And moulted led be poured down your throat . Such horror we do on our servants load , Now thou art worse then is the crawling toad : Ten thousand torments thou shalt now abide , When thou in flaming sulphre shalt be fry'd . Thou art a soldier of our camp enroul'd , Never henceforth shalt thou the light behold : The pains prepar'd for thee no tongue can tell , Welcome , Oh welcome , to the pit of hell . The Writer speaks . At this the groaning soul did weep most soar , And then the fiends with joy did laugh and roar : Those devils did seem more black then pitch or night , Whose horrid shapes did sorely me affright . Sharp steeled forks each in their hands did bear , Tusked their teeth like crooked mattocks were , Fire and brimstone then they breathed out , And from their nostrils snakes crawl'd all about . Foul filthy horns on their black brows they wore , Their nails were like the tusks of a boar : Those hellish fiends fast bound this wretched soul , And drag'd him in , who grievously did howl . Then straight methought appeared in my sighed , A beauteous young man clothed all in white : His face did shine most glorious to behold , Wings like the rainbow , and his hair like gold . With a sweet voice , All hail , all hail , quoth he , Arise and write what here thou now dost see : Most heavenly music seemed then to play , And in a cloud he vanished quite away . Awaking straight , I took my pen in hand , To write those lines the young man did command , And so abroad into the world it sent , That each good christian may in time repent . Then let us fear the Lord both night and day , Preserve our souls and bodies we thee pray : God grant we may so run this mortal raze , That we in heaven may have a restingplace . Preserve the King , the Queen , and Progeny , The Clergy , Counsel , and Nobility , Preserve our souls and bodies I thee pray , Amen , with me , let all good Christians say . London : Printed by and for W.O. and are to be sold by the Booksellers of Pie-corner and London-bridge . Saint BERNARD's VISION : Or , A brief Discourse , Dialogue-wise , between the Soul and Body of a Damned Man , newly , de - ceased , laying the Faults one upon the other . To which is added , A Speech of the Devil's in hell , etc To the Tune of , Flying Fame , etc Licensed according to order . The Writer speaks . AS I lay slumbering in my bed one night , A fearful vision did me soar affright , Methought I saw a soul departed late , By it the body in a poor estate . Wailing with sighs , the soul aloud did cry , Upon the body in the coffin by : And thus the soul to it did make her moan , With grievous sobs , and many a bitter groan . The Soul speaks . O sinful flesh , which now so low does lie , Whom yesterday the world esteem'd so high , It was but yesterday the world was thine , The sun is set which yesterday did shine . Where is thy train that did attend on thee ? Where is thy mirth , where is thy jollity ? Where are thy sumptuous buildings & thy treasure ? Thy pleasant walks wherein thou tookest pleasure . Gone is thy train , thy mirth to mourning turn'd , Thou in a coffin , in a shrine art urn'd : For thy rich clothes thou hast a winding-sheet , Thy high-built roof now with thy mouth does meet . But I poor soul was fram'd a noble creature , In likeness to my God , of heavenly feature , But by thy since while we on earth abided , I am made fouler then a loathsome toad . O wretched flesh with me that art forlorn , That well may wish thou never had'st been born : Thou wouldst never to any one agree , For which we evermore shall damned be . I am and must for ever be in pain , No tongue can tell the torments I sustain , But thou and I we must descend to hell , Where we in frying flames must ever dwell . It was thy pride , deceit , and luxury , Hath brought these torments both on me and thee , Thy wife , thy children , friends whom thou didst trust Do loath thy carcase lying in the dust . The book of God , which is both true and sure , Witness at large what sinners shall endure ; Thou that within the bed of earth art laid , Arise , and answer to the words I said . The Body speaks . I know thee well , my soul , which from me fled , Which left my body senseless , cold , and dead , Cease thou to say the fault was all in me , When I will prove the fault was most in thee : Thou say'st that I have led thee oft astray , And from welldoing drawn thee quite away : But if the flesh the spirit's power can move , The fault is thine as I will plainly prove . God you do know created you most fair , And of celestial knowledge gave you share : I was your servant , fram'd of earth and clay , You to command , and I for to obey . 'Twas in your power for to restrain my will , And not to let me do these things were ill : The body's works are from the soul divided , And by the soul the body should be guided . The body of itself no ill hath known , If I did what thou did'st , the guilts thine own , For without thee , the body rests dead , The soul commands , it rests upon thy head . So to conclude , thy guilt exceeds mine , Oh how the worms do tear me in my shrine ; And therefore fare thee well , poor sinful soul , Thy trespasses pass mine , though they are foul . The Soul speaks . Most wretched flesh which in the time of life , Was foolish , idle , vain , and full of strife : Though of thy substance thou did speak to me , I do confess I should have bridled thee . But thou through love of pleasure foul and ill , Still me resisted , and would have thy will : When I would thee , Oh body , have controul'd , Straight the world's vanities did me withhold . So thou of me didst gain the upper-hand , Enthralling me in worldly pleasures band : That thou and I eternal shall be drown'd In hell , when glorious saints in heaven are crown'd . But flattering fancy did thy mind so please , Thou never thought'st to die till death did cease : This was thy fault , and cursed was our fate , Which we repent , but now , alas , too late . The Body speaks . O now I weep , being scourg'd with mine own rod , We both stand guilty 'fore the face of God : Both are in fault , and yet not equally , The greatest burden , soul , on thee does lie . No wit so mean , but this for truth it knows , That where most gifts of virtue God bestows , There is most due , and ought repaid be , And unto this there's none but will agree . But foolishly thou yieldest unto me , And to my vain desires didst soon agree : But , o I knew not at the latter hour , But thou and I shall find a death most sure . I greatly fear and everlasting fire : Yet one thing more I do of thee desire , Hast thou been yet among the fiends of hell , Is no hope's left that we with Christ may dwell . False flesh remember Dives was denay'd , When for one drop of water he so pray'd : Thy question , senseless body , wants reason , Redemption now is hopeless , out of season : Vile body go , and rot in bed of clay , Until the great and general judgement-day ; Then shalt thou rise , and be with me condemn'd , To hell's hight lake for ever without end . So fare thee well , I will no longer stay , Hark how the fiends of hell call me away : The loss of heavenly joys torments me , More then all tortures that in hell can be . The Devil speaks . Ho , are you come , whom we expected long ? Now we will make you sing another song : Howling and yelling still shall be your note , And moulted led be poured down your throat . Such horror we do on our servants load , Now thou art worse then is the crawling toad : Ten thousand torments thou shalt now abide , When thou in flaming sulphre shalt be fry'd . Thou art a soldier of our camp enroul'd , Never henceforth shalt thou the light behold : The pains prepar'd for thee no tongue can tell , Welcome , Oh welcome , to the pit of hell . The Writer speaks . At this the groaning soul did weep most soar , And then the fiends with joy did laugh and roar : Those devils did seem more black then pitch or night , Whose horrid shapes did sorely me affright . Sharp steeled forks each in their hands did bear , Tusked their teeth like crooked mattocks were , Fire and brimstone then they breathed out , And from their nostrils snakes crawl'd all about . Foul filthy horns on their black brows they wore , Their nails were like the tusks of a boar : Those hellish fiends fast bound this wretched soul , And drag'd him in , who grievously did howl . Then straight methought appeared in my sighed , A beauteous young man clothed all in white : His face did shine most glorious to behold , Wings like the rainbow , and his hair like gold . With a sweet voice , All hail , all hail , quoth he , Arise and write what here thou now dost see : Most heavenly music seemed then to play , And in a cloud he vanished quite away . Awaking straight , I took my pen in hand , To write those lines the young man did command , And so abroad into the world it sent , That each good christian may in time repent . Then let us fear the Lord both night and day , Preserve our souls and bodies we thee pray : God grant we may so run this mortal raze , That we in heaven may have a restingplace . Preserve the King , the Queen , and Progeny , The Clergy , Counsel , and Nobility , Preserve our souls and bodies I thee pray , Amen , with me , let all good Christians say . London : Printed by and for W.O. and are to be sold by the Booksellers of Pie-corner and London-bridge . 