E : 368 The Valiant Seamans Congratulation to his sacred Majesty King Charls the second . With their wonderful Heroical Achievements , and their Fidelity , Loyalty , and Obedience . To the Tune of Let us drink and sing , and merrily troul the bowl . Or , The stormy winds do blow . Or , Heigh Ho , my Hony. GReat Charles , your English Seamen upon our bent knee , Present our selves as Freemen , unto Your Majesty . Beseeching God to bless you wherever that you go , So we pray , night and day , when the stormy winds do blow . In darkest nights , or Shipwracks , always we are on our guard : Of French or Turkish Pirates , we never were afraid . But cal'd stout English Seamen wherever that we go . For we make , them to quake when the stormy winds do blow . We are your Valiant Seamen that brought you out of Spain : And will as warlike Freemen your Royal Cause maintain . If you will give Commission to wars with France wee'l go : Then shall we , merry be , when , etc 'Twas we did sail you over to English ground again : And landed you at Dover , with all your Noble men . For which we are renowned wherever we do go ? Honour will , tend us still , when , etc , And now we are a ranging upon the Ocean Seas , The Frenchmen they are changing and cannot be at ease , For we will make their topsails unto our Fleet shall bow : Then shall we , merry be , when the stormy winds do blow . The second Part to the same Tune . Sometime our tacklings breaking our Masts we cut in two : Our ships are often leaking , great straits we're put unto . In great tempestuous weather , which few at home does know Thus do we , live at Sea , when the stormy winds do blow . When some at home are feeding and cheering up themselves Then we at Sea are bleeding among the rocks and shelves Yet greater dangers ready , still we will undergo . For our King , and will sing when , etc Sometime when we are sailing our Victuals they grow scarce Our wives at home bewailing and pritying of our case . In thinking of the dangers poor Seamen undergo . For our King , still we sing , when the , etc Yet we are still courageous with any foe to figh If Turk or Jew engage us we put them to the flight . And make them give us homage before we let them go : For our King , then we sing when , etc We are the prop of Trading , what kind so ere it be : The original of Lading your Ships with treasury . None goes beyond a Seaman in riches , gold , and store : For he brings , wealth to Kings when , etc We have some sneezing powder , the Dutch-man fain would have , 'Twill make him speak the louder , if Kings he will not have . And cause him to remember the physic taking so : Then shall we , merry be , when , etc Great King wee'l make you famous , your glory shall outshine Romulus and Remus , Godolph or Constantine . Wee'l bring you gold and treasure by sailing to from : And will fight , day and night , to preserve you from your foe . FINIS . Printed at London for F. Grove living on Snow-Hill . Entered according to order . E : 368 The Valiant Seamans Congratulation to his sacred Majesty King Charls the second . With their wonderful Heroical Achievements , and their Fidelity , Loyalty , and Obedience . To the Tune of Let us drink and sing , and merrily troul the bowl . Or , The stormy winds do blow . Or , Heigh Ho , my Hony. GReat Charles , your English Seamen upon our bent knee , Present our selves as Freemen , unto Your Majesty . Beseeching God to bless you wherever that you go , So we pray , night and day , when the stormy winds do blow . In darkest nights , or Shipwracks , always we are on our guard : Of French or Turkish Pirates , we never were afraid . But cal'd stout English Seamen wherever that we go . For we make , them to quake when the stormy winds do blow . We are your Valiant Seamen that brought you out of Spain : And will as warlike Freemen your Royal Cause maintain . If you will give Commission to wars with France wee'l go : Then shall we , merry be , when , etc 'Twas we did sail you over to English ground again : And landed you at Dover , with all your Noble men . For which we are renowned wherever we do go ? Honour will , tend us still , when , etc , And now we are a ranging upon the Ocean Seas , The Frenchmen they are changing and cannot be at ease , For we will make their topsails unto our Fleet shall bow : Then shall we , merry be , when the stormy winds do blow . The second Part to the same Tune . Sometime our tacklings breaking our Masts we cut in two : Our ships are often leaking , great straits we're put unto . In great tempestuous weather , which few at home does know Thus do we , live at Sea , when the stormy winds do blow . When some at home are feeding and cheering up themselves Then we at Sea are bleeding among the rocks and shelves Yet greater dangers ready , still we will undergo . For our King , and will sing when , etc Sometime when we are sailing our Victuals they grow scarce Our wives at home bewailing and pritying of our case . In thinking of the dangers poor Seamen undergo . For our King , still we sing , when the , etc Yet we are still courageous with any foe to figh If Turk or Jew engage us we put them to the flight . And make them give us homage before we let them go : For our King , then we sing when , etc We are the prop of Trading , what kind so ere it be : The original of Lading your Ships with treasury . None goes beyond a Seaman in riches , gold , and store : For he brings , wealth to Kings when , etc We have some sneezing powder , the Dutch-man fain would have , 'Twill make him speak the louder , if Kings he will not have . And cause him to remember the physic taking so : Then shall we , merry be , when , etc Great King wee'l make you famous , your glory shall outshine Romulus and Remus , Godolph or Constantine . Wee'l bring you gold and treasure by sailing to from : And will fight , day and night , to preserve you from your foe . FINIS . Printed at London for F. Grove living on Snow-Hill . Entered according to order . 