E : 323 THE Scottish Contract OR , A Marriage agreement betwixt wanton Willy and mincing Meggy . All pleasant humours this will fit , For a merrier song was never writ . To a delightful Scotch Tune , or I am a silly old man NOw welcome Meggy , my dear , Thy beauty my senses Charm ; Come fit down bonnily here , For Willy means thee no harm : And freely before we part A happy conclusion make , That Willy's poor tender heart No longer for Meggy do ache . Then let us provide for bedding And all that is bonny and gay , For weel have a jovial wedding The Piper shall sweetly play . Oh wanton Willy this long Since I lay in thy Arms , Thou dost thy Meggy wrong To say that her beauty charms , But if it be thy desire And honestly thou art bent , What ever thou shalt require , Poor Meggy will give consent . Then let us provide for bedding , etc Now Meggy our hearts are knit , And Summer is in the prime : My dear lets dally a bit A little before the time : Oh Willy we never were wedded Before either Priest or Clark , To part with my Maiden head , I will not for twenty mark : Then let , etc My honey thou needs not fear , So faithful I will remain , Then do not refuse my dear A little to ease my pain : Oh Willy until we are wed , I never will yield that's flat , I rather will loose my head , Then tell me no more of that . But let us provide for bedding , etc Dear Meggy my fault forgive , To try thee was my intent , What needs thou at all to grieve , My folly I do repent ; Oh Willy my only dear , Had you such a mind to trap , Thy Meggy which is so clear , As baby that sucks the Pap. Then let us provide , etc Now Meggy we are together I think it not labour waste , If we do in time consider Our business how to cast ; Dear Willy thou speakest right , And since we are both agreed , Our friends we must all invite , The better that we may speed . Then let us provide for bedding , And all that is bonny and gay , For weel have a jovial wedding , The Piper shall merrily play . THen Meggy I hold it fit , The Vicar be our chief guest , That he with his learned wit , The better may grace our Feas Faith Willy thou art no liar , A Dinner it is his endue , And Saxteen pence his hire For wedding both me and you . Then let us provide for bedding , And all that is bonny and gay , For weel have a jovial wedding The Piper aloud shall play . Weel not spare for bidding Although we be something poor Weel keep such a wedding As never was kept before : Weel have Joccy my Cozen And Jenny his lass with him , Bonny Lads by the doozen , And Lasses that are so trim . Then let us provide , etc Now Meggy I think it best The Piper be prepar'd , For he must be our guest , Or else our mirth is marr'd ; Oh honey what ere do chance Weel have that Lad so brisk , Then Willy shall see me dance , With many a wanton frisk , Then let us provide for bedding , etc Then since we are gone so far , That Meggy must be my Bride , I think we had best take care What Victuals we shall provide ; Faith Willy my Lad so free , Thy Meggy can please her guess , And thou shalt plainly see , Now I my dinner will dress . Then let us provide , etc First , weel have lang-cale Pottage , And Puddings of Barley meal , Salt-Beef and Cabbage To relish a Coage of Ale ; Oat Cakes steep't for Brews , And Bannacks that are so brown ; Cards and Whay , and Sowings , And liquour the best in Town . Then let us provide , etc Troth Meggy it were but fit , That we had a shank of Roast , My Willy we want a Spit , And weel we may spare the cos But if thy money recruit Against our Wedding day , Go buy a good frieze suit Home spun of Country grey . Then let us provide for bedding , etc My bonny thou wilt be glad To see thy Willy so brave , But when I am neatly clad , What shall my bonny lass have , Faith Willy I'le buy twa Coats That shall be spanking new , For Sax and twenty Groats , Weel blended both with Blue . Then let us provide , etc A Bridegroom stalk to bring , My honey do not forget , And i'le provide a Ring For Meggy to wear of Jea And now adieu to my dear , Next Holiday weel be Wed , My Willy thou needs not fear , Thou shalt have a Maidenhead . Then let us provide for bedding , And all that is bonny and gay , For weel have a jovial Wedding , The Piper shall sweetly play . Finis . London , Printed for Richard Burton at the Horshoe in Smithfield . E : 323 THE Scottish Contract OR , A Marriage agreement betwixt wanton Willy and mincing Meggy . All pleasant humours this will fit , For a merrier song was never writ . To a delightful Scotch Tune , or I am a silly old man NOw welcome Meggy , my dear , Thy beauty my senses Charm ; Come fit down bonnily here , For Willy means thee no harm : And freely before we part A happy conclusion make , That Willy's poor tender heart No longer for Meggy do ache . Then let us provide for bedding And all that is bonny and gay , For weel have a jovial wedding The Piper shall sweetly play . Oh wanton Willy this long Since I lay in thy Arms , Thou dost thy Meggy wrong To say that her beauty charms , But if it be thy desire And honestly thou art bent , What ever thou shalt require , Poor Meggy will give consent . Then let us provide for bedding , etc Now Meggy our hearts are knit , And Summer is in the prime : My dear lets dally a bit A little before the time : Oh Willy we never were wedded Before either Priest or Clark , To part with my Maiden head , I will not for twenty mark : Then let , etc My honey thou needs not fear , So faithful I will remain , Then do not refuse my dear A little to ease my pain : Oh Willy until we are wed , I never will yield that's flat , I rather will loose my head , Then tell me no more of that . But let us provide for bedding , etc Dear Meggy my fault forgive , To try thee was my intent , What needs thou at all to grieve , My folly I do repent ; Oh Willy my only dear , Had you such a mind to trap , Thy Meggy which is so clear , As baby that sucks the Pap. Then let us provide , etc Now Meggy we are together I think it not labour waste , If we do in time consider Our business how to cast ; Dear Willy thou speakest right , And since we are both agreed , Our friends we must all invite , The better that we may speed . Then let us provide for bedding , And all that is bonny and gay , For weel have a jovial wedding , The Piper shall merrily play . THen Meggy I hold it fit , The Vicar be our chief guest , That he with his learned wit , The better may grace our Feas Faith Willy thou art no liar , A Dinner it is his endue , And Saxteen pence his hire For wedding both me and you . Then let us provide for bedding , And all that is bonny and gay , For weel have a jovial wedding The Piper aloud shall play . Weel not spare for bidding Although we be something poor Weel keep such a wedding As never was kept before : Weel have Joccy my Cozen And Jenny his lass with him , Bonny Lads by the doozen , And Lasses that are so trim . Then let us provide , etc Now Meggy I think it best The Piper be prepar'd , For he must be our guest , Or else our mirth is marr'd ; Oh honey what ere do chance Weel have that Lad so brisk , Then Willy shall see me dance , With many a wanton frisk , Then let us provide for bedding , etc Then since we are gone so far , That Meggy must be my Bride , I think we had best take care What Victuals we shall provide ; Faith Willy my Lad so free , Thy Meggy can please her guess , And thou shalt plainly see , Now I my dinner will dress . Then let us provide , etc First , weel have lang-cale Pottage , And Puddings of Barley meal , Salt-Beef and Cabbage To relish a Coage of Ale ; Oat Cakes steep't for Brews , And Bannacks that are so brown ; Cards and Whay , and Sowings , And liquour the best in Town . Then let us provide , etc Troth Meggy it were but fit , That we had a shank of Roast , My Willy we want a Spit , And weel we may spare the cos But if thy money recruit Against our Wedding day , Go buy a good frieze suit Home spun of Country grey . Then let us provide for bedding , etc My bonny thou wilt be glad To see thy Willy so brave , But when I am neatly clad , What shall my bonny lass have , Faith Willy I'le buy twa Coats That shall be spanking new , For Sax and twenty Groats , Weel blended both with Blue . Then let us provide , etc A Bridegroom stalk to bring , My honey do not forget , And i'le provide a Ring For Meggy to wear of Jea And now adieu to my dear , Next Holiday weel be Wed , My Willy thou needs not fear , Thou shalt have a Maidenhead . Then let us provide for bedding , And all that is bonny and gay , For weel have a jovial Wedding , The Piper shall sweetly play . Finis . London , Printed for Richard Burton at the Horshoe in Smithfield . 