E : 371 A very Godly SONG , entitled , the Earnest Petition of the faithful Christian , being Clerk of Bodnam , made upon his Deathbed , at the Instant of his Transumation . To a sweet solemn Tune . NOw my painful eyes lie rolling , And my passing-Bell is towling , Towling sweetly , I lie dying , And my life is from me flying . Grant me strength , Oh gracious God , For to endure thy heavy Rod , Then shall I rejoice and sing , With Psalms unto our heavenly King . Simeon that blessed man , Believed Christ when he was come , And then he did desire to die , To live with him Eternal [ l ] y . Christ wrote me a strong Salvation . By his bitter death and passion ; He had wash'd and made me c [ l ] ean , That I should never sin again . Grievous pains does call and cry , Oh Man prepare thy self to die : All my Sins I have lamented , And to die I am contented . Silly Soul the Lord receive thee , Death is come , and life must leave thee Death wi [ l ] l tarry no men leisure , Then farewell all earthly pleasure . In this world I nothing crave , But to bring me to my Grave ; In my Grave while I lie sleeping , Angels have my soul in keeping . When the bells' are for me ringing , Lord receive my soul with singing : Then shall I be free from pain , To live and never die again . While the worms corrupting breed on , Wait my noisome Corpse to feed on , My fervent soul this prison loathing , Craves a Robe of Angels clothing . Farewell world and worldly Glory , Farewell all things transitory , Sion Hill my Soul ascendeth , And Gods Royal throne attends . Farewell Wife & Children small , For I must go when Christ does call : And for my death be you con [ tO ] ent When I am gone do not lament . Now the Bell does cease to toul , Sweet Jesus Christ receive my soul . O God which did the world create , Hear a poor sinner at the Gate , Thou that from death didst set me free Remit my sins and show mercy . O thou that caus'd thy blessed Son , Into this Universe to come : Thy Gospel true for to fulfil , And to subdue since , Death , and Hell . Grant for his sake that dy'd on tree , On the blessed Mount of Calvary : That I being grieved for my since , Might by repentance Heaven win The Gospel says , who so believe , To them wilt thou a blessing give , among which number grant me faith That to believe the Gospel says . Which to believe grant that I may , Though here I die , yet live for aye , Then saviour sweet remit my since And grant me faith that life to win . And since thy death a price most great , Hath bought us here I do entreat To give me Grace thy name to praise , Both now and evermore always . For by thy death my soul is free From Hell , which still by thy decree To sinners , all for since is due , Until thy Son our Saviour true . Did vanquish by almighty power , Death , Hell , and all that could devour My sins , Oh Lord , I do confess , Like sands in Seas are numberless . Yet though my sins like scarlet show , Their whiteness may exceed the snow , If thou thy mercy do extend , That I my sinful life may mend . With mercy thy blessed word does say , At any time obtain I may , If power and grace in me remain , From carnal since for to restrain . Then give me grace , Lord to abstain From since , that I may still remain With thee in heaven where angels sing Most joyfully to thee our King . God grant , Oh Christ , that when I die , My soul with thee immediately , May have abided among the blessed , And live for ever in true rest . Printed for W Thackeray in Ducklane . E : 371 A very Godly SONG , entitled , the Earnest Petition of the faithful Christian , being Clerk of Bodnam , made upon his Deathbed , at the Instant of his Transumation . To a sweet solemn Tune . NOw my painful eyes lie rolling , And my passing-Bell is towling , Towling sweetly , I lie dying , And my life is from me flying . Grant me strength , Oh gracious God , For to endure thy heavy Rod , Then shall I rejoice and sing , With Psalms unto our heavenly King . Simeon that blessed man , Believed Christ when he was come , And then he did desire to die , To live with him Eternal [ l ] y . Christ wrote me a strong Salvation . By his bitter death and passion ; He had wash'd and made me c [ l ] ean , That I should never sin again . Grievous pains does call and cry , Oh Man prepare thy self to die : All my Sins I have lamented , And to die I am contented . Silly Soul the Lord receive thee , Death is come , and life must leave thee Death wi [ l ] l tarry no men leisure , Then farewell all earthly pleasure . In this world I nothing crave , But to bring me to my Grave ; In my Grave while I lie sleeping , Angels have my soul in keeping . When the bells' are for me ringing , Lord receive my soul with singing : Then shall I be free from pain , To live and never die again . While the worms corrupting breed on , Wait my noisome Corpse to feed on , My fervent soul this prison loathing , Craves a Robe of Angels clothing . Farewell world and worldly Glory , Farewell all things transitory , Sion Hill my Soul ascendeth , And Gods Royal throne attends . Farewell Wife & Children small , For I must go when Christ does call : And for my death be you con [ tO ] ent When I am gone do not lament . Now the Bell does cease to toul , Sweet Jesus Christ receive my soul . O God which did the world create , Hear a poor sinner at the Gate , Thou that from death didst set me free Remit my sins and show mercy . O thou that caus'd thy blessed Son , Into this Universe to come : Thy Gospel true for to fulfil , And to subdue since , Death , and Hell . Grant for his sake that dy'd on tree , On the blessed Mount of Calvary : That I being grieved for my since , Might by repentance Heaven win The Gospel says , who so believe , To them wilt thou a blessing give , among which number grant me faith That to believe the Gospel says . Which to believe grant that I may , Though here I die , yet live for aye , Then saviour sweet remit my since And grant me faith that life to win . And since thy death a price most great , Hath bought us here I do entreat To give me Grace thy name to praise , Both now and evermore always . For by thy death my soul is free From Hell , which still by thy decree To sinners , all for since is due , Until thy Son our Saviour true . Did vanquish by almighty power , Death , Hell , and all that could devour My sins , Oh Lord , I do confess , Like sands in Seas are numberless . Yet though my sins like scarlet show , Their whiteness may exceed the snow , If thou thy mercy do extend , That I my sinful life may mend . With mercy thy blessed word does say , At any time obtain I may , If power and grace in me remain , From carnal since for to restrain . Then give me grace , Lord to abstain From since , that I may still remain With thee in heaven where angels sing Most joyfully to thee our King . God grant , Oh Christ , that when I die , My soul with thee immediately , May have abided among the blessed , And live for ever in true rest . Printed for W Thackeray in Ducklane . E : 371 A very Godly SONG , entitled , the Earnest Petition of the faithful Christian , being Clerk of Bodnam , made upon his Deathbed , at the Instant of his Transumation . To a sweet solemn Tune . NOw my painful eyes lie rolling , And my passing-Bell is towling , Towling sweetly , I lie dying , And my life is from me flying . Grant me strength , Oh gracious God , For to endure thy heavy Rod , Then shall I rejoice and sing , With Psalms unto our heavenly King . Simeon that blessed man , Believed Christ when he was come , And then he did desire to die , To live with him Eternal [ l ] y . Christ wrote me a strong Salvation . By his bitter death and passion ; He had wash'd and made me c [ l ] ean , That I should never sin again . Grievous pains does call and cry , Oh Man prepare thy self to die : All my Sins I have lamented , And to die I am contented . Silly Soul the Lord receive thee , Death is come , and life must leave thee Death wi [ l ] l tarry no men leisure , Then farewell all earthly pleasure . In this world I nothing crave , But to bring me to my Grave ; In my Grave while I lie sleeping , Angels have my soul in keeping . When the bells' are for me ringing , Lord receive my soul with singing : Then shall I be free from pain , To live and never die again . While the worms corrupting breed on , Wait my noisome Corpse to feed on , My fervent soul this prison loathing , Craves a Robe of Angels clothing . Farewell world and worldly Glory , Farewell all things transitory , Sion Hill my Soul ascendeth , And Gods Royal throne attends . Farewell Wife & Children small , For I must go when Christ does call : And for my death be you con [ tO ] ent When I am gone do not lament . Now the Bell does cease to toul , Sweet Jesus Christ receive my soul . O God which did the world create , Hear a poor sinner at the Gate , Thou that from death didst set me free Remit my sins and show mercy . O thou that caus'd thy blessed Son , Into this Universe to come : Thy Gospel true for to fulfil , And to subdue since , Death , and Hell . Grant for his sake that dy'd on tree , On the blessed Mount of Calvary : That I being grieved for my since , Might by repentance Heaven win The Gospel says , who so believe , To them wilt thou a blessing give , among which number grant me faith That to believe the Gospel says . Which to believe grant that I may , Though here I die , yet live for aye , Then saviour sweet remit my since And grant me faith that life to win . And since thy death a price most great , Hath bought us here I do entreat To give me Grace thy name to praise , Both now and evermore always . For by thy death my soul is free From Hell , which still by thy decree To sinners , all for since is due , Until thy Son our Saviour true . Did vanquish by almighty power , Death , Hell , and all that could devour My sins , Oh Lord , I do confess , Like sands in Seas are numberless . Yet though my sins like scarlet show , Their whiteness may exceed the snow , If thou thy mercy do extend , That I my sinful life may mend . With mercy thy blessed word does say , At any time obtain I may , If power and grace in me remain , From carnal since for to restrain . Then give me grace , Lord to abstain From since , that I may still remain With thee in heaven where angels sing Most joyfully to thee our King . God grant , Oh Christ , that when I die , My soul with thee immediately , May have abided among the blessed , And live for ever in true rest . Printed for W Thackeray in Ducklane . E : 371 A very Godly SONG , entitled , the Earnest Petition of the faithful Christian , being Clerk of Bodnam , made upon his Deathbed , at the Instant of his Transumation . To a sweet solemn Tune . NOw my painful eyes lie rolling , And my passing-Bell is towling , Towling sweetly , I lie dying , And my life is from me flying . Grant me strength , Oh gracious God , For to endure thy heavy Rod , Then shall I rejoice and sing , With Psalms unto our heavenly King . Simeon that blessed man , Believed Christ when he was come , And then he did desire to die , To live with him Eternal [ l ] y . Christ wrote me a strong Salvation . By his bitter death and passion ; He had wash'd and made me c [ l ] ean , That I should never sin again . Grievous pains does call and cry , Oh Man prepare thy self to die : All my Sins I have lamented , And to die I am contented . Silly Soul the Lord receive thee , Death is come , and life must leave thee Death wi [ l ] l tarry no men leisure , Then farewell all earthly pleasure . In this world I nothing crave , But to bring me to my Grave ; In my Grave while I lie sleeping , Angels have my soul in keeping . When the bells' are for me ringing , Lord receive my soul with singing : Then shall I be free from pain , To live and never die again . While the worms corrupting breed on , Wait my noisome Corpse to feed on , My fervent soul this prison loathing , Craves a Robe of Angels clothing . Farewell world and worldly Glory , Farewell all things transitory , Sion Hill my Soul ascendeth , And Gods Royal throne attends . Farewell Wife & Children small , For I must go when Christ does call : And for my death be you con [ tO ] ent When I am gone do not lament . Now the Bell does cease to toul , Sweet Jesus Christ receive my soul . O God which did the world create , Hear a poor sinner at the Gate , Thou that from death didst set me free Remit my sins and show mercy . O thou that caus'd thy blessed Son , Into this Universe to come : Thy Gospel true for to fulfil , And to subdue since , Death , and Hell . Grant for his sake that dy'd on tree , On the blessed Mount of Calvary : That I being grieved for my since , Might by repentance Heaven win The Gospel says , who so believe , To them wilt thou a blessing give , among which number grant me faith That to believe the Gospel says . Which to believe grant that I may , Though here I die , yet live for aye , Then saviour sweet remit my since And grant me faith that life to win . And since thy death a price most great , Hath bought us here I do entreat To give me Grace thy name to praise , Both now and evermore always . For by thy death my soul is free From Hell , which still by thy decree To sinners , all for since is due , Until thy Son our Saviour true . Did vanquish by almighty power , Death , Hell , and all that could devour My sins , Oh Lord , I do confess , Like sands in Seas are numberless . Yet though my sins like scarlet show , Their whiteness may exceed the snow , If thou thy mercy do extend , That I my sinful life may mend . With mercy thy blessed word does say , At any time obtain I may , If power and grace in me remain , From carnal since for to restrain . Then give me grace , Lord to abstain From since , that I may still remain With thee in heaven where angels sing Most joyfully to thee our King . God grant , Oh Christ , that when I die , My soul with thee immediately , May have abided among the blessed , And live for ever in true rest . Printed for W Thackeray in Ducklane . 