E : 376 A Warning for all Worldlings to learn to Die . The tune is , The Ladies Fallen . GOod people all repent with speed , high time it is to pray , Tempt not the just and righteous God with vain and long delay : And while it is the day indeed , for mercy call and cry , Oh would that men would bear in mind , that one day they must die . Thy self in thy security , why dost thou flatter so ? Deferring thy repenting days , till age does bring thee low ; And further , till thy Sickest hour that e're thou hast to lie , Oh would that men , etc O dust and ashes , dost thou think the Glorious God of might , will take in worth these wicked things and wait on thy delight ? O mark how soar and suddenly , his Wrath on him will lie ; Oh would that men , etc For what is he upon the earth , that can himself secure , Or say that for and hours space my life it can endure : No man on earth can warrant life , the twinkling of and eye , Oh would that men , etc And after death thy self assure , repentance comes too late , Not all the wealth within the world , that can thy pains abate ; For as a tree does take his fallen , even so the same does lie ; Therefore in chiefest of thy health , prepare thy self to die . And seest not thou in Sickness oft , men's memories decay , Who many times do Rove and Rage , when they have need to pray , Whose hearts are bent to ban & curse , till death does close their eye ; Therefore , etc The second Part to the same Tune : ANd if thou hast thy memory and understanding right , And of thy speech the perfect use , and brightness of thy sighs Yet may the Lord withhold his grace and take thy Faith from thee , That to repent thy folly past , thou shalt not able be . But yet admit , our gracious God , in mercy for to deal , That in thy Sickness he vouchsafe , his mercy to reveal ; Yet thou shalt have a thousand griefs , to wring thy mind awry ; Therefore , etc For thou shalt have thy body then disquieted with pain , Thy head and heart will vexed be , and so will every vain : The pangs of death will fear thee soar whose force thou canst not fly ; Therefore , etc The love of life will tempt thee much whose favour was so sweet , And thou wilt muse of many things that for thy health is me To think thou must forgo thy Goods will nip thy heart full nigh : Therefore , etc To see thy Friends and Neighbours all thy dying hour abide : To see thy Wife and Children small cry out on every side ; To think thou must forgo them all will nip thy heart full nigh ; Therefore , etc Beside , to think upon thy Sins , will much molest thy mind , The fresh remembrance of the same thou shalt most bitter find ; Despair & dread will drown thy heart , for living so awry : Therefore , etc And thy accusing conscience then will witness to thy woe , How wickedly upon the earth thou didst thy days bestow : And this within thy pensive breast most grievously will lie : Therefore , etc Then will the Devil most busy be Gods Justice to declare , And of his mercy he will still procure thee to despair : Persuading thee thy grievous Sins do for Hell ever cry : Therefore , etc Here mayest thou see , ( o , wretched man ) how hard a time thou hast Prepared to repent thy Sins , at this thy latter cast ; Therefore put not repentance back do not Gods Grace deny ; But in the chiefest of thy health , etc Let every one pray that the Lord may bless our King and Queen , And grant that they in all their days may joyfully be seen : And after death that they may live in joy eternally . Then let all people say , Amen , And so Amen , say I . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . E : 376 A Warning for all Worldlings to learn to Die . The tune is , The Ladies Fallen . GOod people all repent with speed , high time it is to pray , Tempt not the just and righteous God with vain and long delay : And while it is the day indeed , for mercy call and cry , Oh would that men would bear in mind , that one day they must die . Thy self in thy security , why dost thou flatter so ? Deferring thy repenting days , till age does bring thee low ; And further , till thy Sickest hour that e're thou hast to lie , Oh would that men , etc O dust and ashes , dost thou think the Glorious God of might , will take in worth these wicked things and wait on thy delight ? O mark how soar and suddenly , his Wrath on him will lie ; Oh would that men , etc For what is he upon the earth , that can himself secure , Or say that for and hours space my life it can endure : No man on earth can warrant life , the twinkling of and eye , Oh would that men , etc And after death thy self assure , repentance comes too late , Not all the wealth within the world , that can thy pains abate ; For as a tree does take his fallen , even so the same does lie ; Therefore in chiefest of thy health , prepare thy self to die . And seest not thou in Sickness oft , men's memories decay , Who many times do Rove and Rage , when they have need to pray , Whose hearts are bent to ban & curse , till death does close their eye ; Therefore , etc The second Part to the same Tune : ANd if thou hast thy memory and understanding right , And of thy speech the perfect use , and brightness of thy sighs Yet may the Lord withhold his grace and take thy Faith from thee , That to repent thy folly past , thou shalt not able be . But yet admit , our gracious God , in mercy for to deal , That in thy Sickness he vouchsafe , his mercy to reveal ; Yet thou shalt have a thousand griefs , to wring thy mind awry ; Therefore , etc For thou shalt have thy body then disquieted with pain , Thy head and heart will vexed be , and so will every vain : The pangs of death will fear thee soar whose force thou canst not fly ; Therefore , etc The love of life will tempt thee much whose favour was so sweet , And thou wilt muse of many things that for thy health is me To think thou must forgo thy Goods will nip thy heart full nigh : Therefore , etc To see thy Friends and Neighbours all thy dying hour abide : To see thy Wife and Children small cry out on every side ; To think thou must forgo them all will nip thy heart full nigh ; Therefore , etc Beside , to think upon thy Sins , will much molest thy mind , The fresh remembrance of the same thou shalt most bitter find ; Despair & dread will drown thy heart , for living so awry : Therefore , etc And thy accusing conscience then will witness to thy woe , How wickedly upon the earth thou didst thy days bestow : And this within thy pensive breast most grievously will lie : Therefore , etc Then will the Devil most busy be Gods Justice to declare , And of his mercy he will still procure thee to despair : Persuading thee thy grievous Sins do for Hell ever cry : Therefore , etc Here mayest thou see , ( o , wretched man ) how hard a time thou hast Prepared to repent thy Sins , at this thy latter cast ; Therefore put not repentance back do not Gods Grace deny ; But in the chiefest of thy health , etc Let every one pray that the Lord may bless our King and Queen , And grant that they in all their days may joyfully be seen : And after death that they may live in joy eternally . Then let all people say , Amen , And so Amen , say I . London , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . 