E : 374 [ The Wanton W ] ife of Bath , [ The Tune is , ] Flying Fame . IN Bath a wanton Wife did dwell , as Chaucer he did write , Who did in pleasure spend her days , in many a found delight . Upon a time soar Sick she was , and at the length did die ; Her Soul at last at Heavens gate ; did knock most mightily . Then Adam came unto the Gate who knocketh there , quoth he , I am the Wife of Bath , she said , and feign would come to thee . Thou art a Sinner Adam said , and here no place shall have : Alas for you , good Sir she said , now gip you doting knave . I will come in , in spite ( she said ) of all such Churls as thee : Thou wast the causer of our woe , our pain and misery . And first broke Gods Commandments , in pleasure of thy Wife : When Adam herd her tell this Tale , he ran away for Life . Then down came Jacob to the Gate , and bids her pack to Hell : Thou false Deceiver , why said she , thou mayest be there full well . For thou deceivest thy Father deer , and thine own Brother too ; Away went Jacob presently , and made no more ado . She knocks again with might and main , and Lot he chides her straigh Why then quoth she , thou drunken Ass , who bids thee here to wait . With thy two Daughters thou didst lie , on them two Bastards god ; And thus most tauntingly she chaf't against poor silly Lot . Who knocketh here quoth Judith then , with such shrill sounding notes : Alas fine Minks you cannot hear , quoth she , for cutting throats . Good Lord how Judith blushed for shame , when she herd her say so : King David hearing of the same , he to the Gate did go . Quoth David , who knocks here so loud , and makes all this strife : You were more kind good Sir , said she , unto Uriah's Wife . And when thou caused thy Servants in Battle to be slain : Thou caused then more strife then I , who would come here so feign . The second Part , To the same tune . THe woman's mad said Solomon , that thus does taunt a King : Not half so mad as you ( she said ) I know in many a thing . Thou hadst seven hundred Wives at once , for whom thou didst provide : And for all this three hundred Whores , thou didst maintain beside . And those made thee forsake thy GOD , and worship stocks and Stones : Beside the charge they put thee to , by breeding of young bones . Hadst thou not been beside thy wits , thou wouldst not thus have ventured : And therefore I do marvel much , how thou this place have entered . I never herd quoth Jonas ( then ) so vile a Scold as this ; Thou whoreson Runaway ( quoth she ) thou didst more amiss . I think quoth Thomas , Women's tongues of Aspan leaves be made : Thou unbelieving wretch , quoth she , all is not true thats said . When Mary Magdalen herd then , did come unto the Gate ; Quoth she good Woman you must think upon your former state . No Sinner enters in this place , quoth Mary Magdalen then , 'Twere ill for you fair Mistress mine , she answered her again . You for your honesty , quoth she , should once be ston'd to death : Had not our Saviour Christ come by and written on the Earth . It is not by your occupation , you are become Divine : I hope my Soul in Christ's passion , shall be as safe as thine . Then rose the good Apastle Paul , unto this Wife he said : Except thou shake thy sins away , thou here shall be deny'd . Remember Paul what thou hast done , although a lewd desire : How thou did persecute Gods Church , with wrath as hight as fire . Then up starts Peter at the last , and to the Gate he hies : Found fool quoth he , knock not so fast , thou weariest Christ with cries . Peter , said she , content thy self , for mercy may be wone : I never did deny my Christ , as thou thy self hast done . When as our Saviour Christ herd this , with heavenly Angels bright ; He comes unto this sinful Soul , who trembled at his sighed . Of him for mercy , she did crave , quoth he , thou hast refus'd ; My proffer , Grace and mercy both , and much my Name abus'd . Soar have I sinned , O Lord , said she , and spent my time in vain : But bring me like a wandering Sheep , unto thy Flock again . O Lord my God , I will amend my former wicked vice : The Thief at these poor silly words , passed into Paradise . My Laws and my Commandments , says Christ , were known to thee : But of the same in any wise , not yet one word did ye . I grant the same , O Lord ( quoth she ) most lewdly did I live : But yet the loving Father did his prodigal Son forgive . And I forgive thy Soul , he said , through thy repentant cry ; Come therefore enter into my joys , I will thee not deny . FINIS . LONDON , Printed for Francis Coals . E : 374 [ The Wanton W ] ife of Bath , [ The Tune is , ] Flying Fame . IN Bath a wanton Wife did dwell , as Chaucer he did write , Who did in pleasure spend her days , in many a found delight . Upon a time soar Sick she was , and at the length did die ; Her Soul at last at Heavens gate ; did knock most mightily . Then Adam came unto the Gate who knocketh there , quoth he , I am the Wife of Bath , she said , and feign would come to thee . Thou art a Sinner Adam said , and here no place shall have : Alas for you , good Sir she said , now gip you doting knave . I will come in , in spite ( she said ) of all such Churls as thee : Thou wast the causer of our woe , our pain and misery . And first broke Gods Commandments , in pleasure of thy Wife : When Adam herd her tell this Tale , he ran away for Life . Then down came Jacob to the Gate , and bids her pack to Hell : Thou false Deceiver , why said she , thou mayest be there full well . For thou deceivest thy Father deer , and thine own Brother too ; Away went Jacob presently , and made no more ado . She knocks again with might and main , and Lot he chides her straigh Why then quoth she , thou drunken Ass , who bids thee here to wait . With thy two Daughters thou didst lie , on them two Bastards god ; And thus most tauntingly she chaf't against poor silly Lot . Who knocketh here quoth Judith then , with such shrill sounding notes : Alas fine Minks you cannot hear , quoth she , for cutting throats . Good Lord how Judith blushed for shame , when she herd her say so : King David hearing of the same , he to the Gate did go . Quoth David , who knocks here so loud , and makes all this strife : You were more kind good Sir , said she , unto Uriah's Wife . And when thou caused thy Servants in Battle to be slain : Thou caused then more strife then I , who would come here so feign . The second Part , To the same tune . THe woman's mad said Solomon , that thus does taunt a King : Not half so mad as you ( she said ) I know in many a thing . Thou hadst seven hundred Wives at once , for whom thou didst provide : And for all this three hundred Whores , thou didst maintain beside . And those made thee forsake thy GOD , and worship stocks and Stones : Beside the charge they put thee to , by breeding of young bones . Hadst thou not been beside thy wits , thou wouldst not thus have ventured : And therefore I do marvel much , how thou this place have entered . I never herd quoth Jonas ( then ) so vile a Scold as this ; Thou whoreson Runaway ( quoth she ) thou didst more amiss . I think quoth Thomas , Women's tongues of Aspan leaves be made : Thou unbelieving wretch , quoth she , all is not true thats said . When Mary Magdalen herd then , did come unto the Gate ; Quoth she good Woman you must think upon your former state . No Sinner enters in this place , quoth Mary Magdalen then , 'Twere ill for you fair Mistress mine , she answered her again . You for your honesty , quoth she , should once be ston'd to death : Had not our Saviour Christ come by and written on the Earth . It is not by your occupation , you are become Divine : I hope my Soul in Christ's passion , shall be as safe as thine . Then rose the good Apastle Paul , unto this Wife he said : Except thou shake thy sins away , thou here shall be deny'd . Remember Paul what thou hast done , although a lewd desire : How thou did persecute Gods Church , with wrath as hight as fire . Then up starts Peter at the last , and to the Gate he hies : Found fool quoth he , knock not so fast , thou weariest Christ with cries . Peter , said she , content thy self , for mercy may be wone : I never did deny my Christ , as thou thy self hast done . When as our Saviour Christ herd this , with heavenly Angels bright ; He comes unto this sinful Soul , who trembled at his sighed . Of him for mercy , she did crave , quoth he , thou hast refus'd ; My proffer , Grace and mercy both , and much my Name abus'd . Soar have I sinned , O Lord , said she , and spent my time in vain : But bring me like a wandering Sheep , unto thy Flock again . O Lord my God , I will amend my former wicked vice : The Thief at these poor silly words , passed into Paradise . My Laws and my Commandments , says Christ , were known to thee : But of the same in any wise , not yet one word did ye . I grant the same , O Lord ( quoth she ) most lewdly did I live : But yet the loving Father did his prodigal Son forgive . And I forgive thy Soul , he said , through thy repentant cry ; Come therefore enter into my joys , I will thee not deny . FINIS . LONDON , Printed for Francis Coals . E : 374 [ The Wanton W ] ife of Bath , [ The Tune is , ] Flying Fame . IN Bath a wanton Wife did dwell , as Chaucer he did write , Who did in pleasure spend her days , in many a found delight . Upon a time soar Sick she was , and at the length did die ; Her Soul at last at Heavens gate ; did knock most mightily . Then Adam came unto the Gate who knocketh there , quoth he , I am the Wife of Bath , she said , and feign would come to thee . Thou art a Sinner Adam said , and here no place shall have : Alas for you , good Sir she said , now gip you doting knave . I will come in , in spite ( she said ) of all such Churls as thee : Thou wast the causer of our woe , our pain and misery . And first broke Gods Commandments , in pleasure of thy Wife : When Adam herd her tell this Tale , he ran away for Life . Then down came Jacob to the Gate , and bids her pack to Hell : Thou false Deceiver , why said she , thou mayest be there full well . For thou deceivest thy Father deer , and thine own Brother too ; Away went Jacob presently , and made no more ado . She knocks again with might and main , and Lot he chides her straigh Why then quoth she , thou drunken Ass , who bids thee here to wait . With thy two Daughters thou didst lie , on them two Bastards god ; And thus most tauntingly she chaf't against poor silly Lot . Who knocketh here quoth Judith then , with such shrill sounding notes : Alas fine Minks you cannot hear , quoth she , for cutting throats . Good Lord how Judith blushed for shame , when she herd her say so : King David hearing of the same , he to the Gate did go . Quoth David , who knocks here so loud , and makes all this strife : You were more kind good Sir , said she , unto Uriah's Wife . And when thou caused thy Servants in Battle to be slain : Thou caused then more strife then I , who would come here so feign . The second Part , To the same tune . THe woman's mad said Solomon , that thus does taunt a King : Not half so mad as you ( she said ) I know in many a thing . Thou hadst seven hundred Wives at once , for whom thou didst provide : And for all this three hundred Whores , thou didst maintain beside . And those made thee forsake thy GOD , and worship stocks and Stones : Beside the charge they put thee to , by breeding of young bones . Hadst thou not been beside thy wits , thou wouldst not thus have ventured : And therefore I do marvel much , how thou this place have entered . I never herd quoth Jonas ( then ) so vile a Scold as this ; Thou whoreson Runaway ( quoth she ) thou didst more amiss . I think quoth Thomas , Women's tongues of Aspan leaves be made : Thou unbelieving wretch , quoth she , all is not true thats said . When Mary Magdalen herd then , did come unto the Gate ; Quoth she good Woman you must think upon your former state . No Sinner enters in this place , quoth Mary Magdalen then , 'Twere ill for you fair Mistress mine , she answered her again . You for your honesty , quoth she , should once be ston'd to death : Had not our Saviour Christ come by and written on the Earth . It is not by your occupation , you are become Divine : I hope my Soul in Christ's passion , shall be as safe as thine . Then rose the good Apastle Paul , unto this Wife he said : Except thou shake thy sins away , thou here shall be deny'd . Remember Paul what thou hast done , although a lewd desire : How thou did persecute Gods Church , with wrath as hight as fire . Then up starts Peter at the last , and to the Gate he hies : Found fool quoth he , knock not so fast , thou weariest Christ with cries . Peter , said she , content thy self , for mercy may be wone : I never did deny my Christ , as thou thy self hast done . When as our Saviour Christ herd this , with heavenly Angels bright ; He comes unto this sinful Soul , who trembled at his sighed . Of him for mercy , she did crave , quoth he , thou hast refus'd ; My proffer , Grace and mercy both , and much my Name abus'd . Soar have I sinned , O Lord , said she , and spent my time in vain : But bring me like a wandering Sheep , unto thy Flock again . O Lord my God , I will amend my former wicked vice : The Thief at these poor silly words , passed into Paradise . My Laws and my Commandments , says Christ , were known to thee : But of the same in any wise , not yet one word did ye . I grant the same , O Lord ( quoth she ) most lewdly did I live : But yet the loving Father did his prodigal Son forgive . And I forgive thy Soul , he said , through thy repentant cry ; Come therefore enter into my joys , I will thee not deny . FINIS . LONDON , Printed for Francis Coals . E : 374 [ The Wanton W ] ife of Bath , [ The Tune is , ] Flying Fame . IN Bath a wanton Wife did dwell , as Chaucer he did write , Who did in pleasure spend her days , in many a found delight . Upon a time soar Sick she was , and at the length did die ; Her Soul at last at Heavens gate ; did knock most mightily . Then Adam came unto the Gate who knocketh there , quoth he , I am the Wife of Bath , she said , and feign would come to thee . Thou art a Sinner Adam said , and here no place shall have : Alas for you , good Sir she said , now gip you doting knave . I will come in , in spite ( she said ) of all such Churls as thee : Thou wast the causer of our woe , our pain and misery . And first broke Gods Commandments , in pleasure of thy Wife : When Adam herd her tell this Tale , he ran away for Life . Then down came Jacob to the Gate , and bids her pack to Hell : Thou false Deceiver , why said she , thou mayest be there full well . For thou deceivest thy Father deer , and thine own Brother too ; Away went Jacob presently , and made no more ado . She knocks again with might and main , and Lot he chides her straigh Why then quoth she , thou drunken Ass , who bids thee here to wait . With thy two Daughters thou didst lie , on them two Bastards god ; And thus most tauntingly she chaf't against poor silly Lot . Who knocketh here quoth Judith then , with such shrill sounding notes : Alas fine Minks you cannot hear , quoth she , for cutting throats . Good Lord how Judith blushed for shame , when she herd her say so : King David hearing of the same , he to the Gate did go . Quoth David , who knocks here so loud , and makes all this strife : You were more kind good Sir , said she , unto Uriah's Wife . And when thou caused thy Servants in Battle to be slain : Thou caused then more strife then I , who would come here so feign . The second Part , To the same tune . THe woman's mad said Solomon , that thus does taunt a King : Not half so mad as you ( she said ) I know in many a thing . Thou hadst seven hundred Wives at once , for whom thou didst provide : And for all this three hundred Whores , thou didst maintain beside . And those made thee forsake thy GOD , and worship stocks and Stones : Beside the charge they put thee to , by breeding of young bones . Hadst thou not been beside thy wits , thou wouldst not thus have ventured : And therefore I do marvel much , how thou this place have entered . I never herd quoth Jonas ( then ) so vile a Scold as this ; Thou whoreson Runaway ( quoth she ) thou didst more amiss . I think quoth Thomas , Women's tongues of Aspan leaves be made : Thou unbelieving wretch , quoth she , all is not true thats said . When Mary Magdalen herd then , did come unto the Gate ; Quoth she good Woman you must think upon your former state . No Sinner enters in this place , quoth Mary Magdalen then , 'Twere ill for you fair Mistress mine , she answered her again . You for your honesty , quoth she , should once be ston'd to death : Had not our Saviour Christ come by and written on the Earth . It is not by your occupation , you are become Divine : I hope my Soul in Christ's passion , shall be as safe as thine . Then rose the good Apastle Paul , unto this Wife he said : Except thou shake thy sins away , thou here shall be deny'd . Remember Paul what thou hast done , although a lewd desire : How thou did persecute Gods Church , with wrath as hight as fire . Then up starts Peter at the last , and to the Gate he hies : Found fool quoth he , knock not so fast , thou weariest Christ with cries . Peter , said she , content thy self , for mercy may be wone : I never did deny my Christ , as thou thy self hast done . When as our Saviour Christ herd this , with heavenly Angels bright ; He comes unto this sinful Soul , who trembled at his sighed . Of him for mercy , she did crave , quoth he , thou hast refus'd ; My proffer , Grace and mercy both , and much my Name abus'd . Soar have I sinned , O Lord , said she , and spent my time in vain : But bring me like a wandering Sheep , unto thy Flock again . O Lord my God , I will amend my former wicked vice : The Thief at these poor silly words , passed into Paradise . My Laws and my Commandments , says Christ , were known to thee : But of the same in any wise , not yet one word did ye . I grant the same , O Lord ( quoth she ) most lewdly did I live : But yet the loving Father did his prodigal Son forgive . And I forgive thy Soul , he said , through thy repentant cry ; Come therefore enter into my joys , I will thee not deny . FINIS . LONDON , Printed for Francis Coals . 