E : 324 The Seamans adieu to his Dear . This man was pressed to serve upon the Seas . Which did his Dearest very soar displease , She importun'd the Captain on her knee , And proffered gold to have her love set free , But all would not prevail , The Captains ear Was deaf , the Maids complaints he would not hear , When no entreaty could move his hard heart , She sadly took her leave and so they part . To the Tune of , I'le go to Sir Richard , etc Man. COme all loyal lovers , that's faithful and true observe me wherever you be , A pattern I here have presented to you , it is good to be constant you see . But chiefly to thee ( my own Dearest ) I speak , with patience my absence to bear , For now I am pressed , to serve on the Seas and I must bid adieu to my Dear . Our King must have Seamen and Soldiers more stout , his enemies hearts for to fear , And I for my honour will venture about , and I must bid adieu to my Dear . Maid . O tell me not so ( my own Dearest ) I pray , for loves sake take pity on me , I'll do my endeavour to please thee always , if that I may but have my Love free . 'Tis far better staying with me on the shore where pleasures and joys do abound . Then for to go venture , where Cannons do roar in the depths of the Seas to be drowned . O be not so cruel my love for to fleight but tarry ( my Dearest ) with me , We'le find out a way in loves wars for to fight , and Ill strive for to set my love free . Man. All that thou canst do ( my Love ) will not procure my freedom I sorely do fear , But I must the hardship of service endure , and I must bid adieu to my Dear . My Captain by no means will let me go free he likes me so well I do hear , Therefore its in vain to beg my liberty , for I must bid adieu to my Dear . The Second Part to the same Tune . Maid . I'le go to thy Captain and fallen on my knees , perhaps he'le take pity on me , If five pounds or ten pounds will buy thy discharge he shall have it to set my love free . Captains answer . Not ten pounds nor twenty shall buy his discharge fair maid you must patiently bear , He shall go to Sea , for his King to engage , and he must bid adieu to his Dear . I'le have him to serve me upon the salt main in battle with foes for to fight , Then cease pretty Maiden , and do not complain , for the wars is a Soldiers delight . Maid . Behold ( noble Captain ) these sorrowful tears which down my cheeks trickles amain , To move your hard heart to release me of fears , and to grant me my love once again . No Maidens heart ever was fuller of woe , then good sir take pity on me , And let him no further unto the wars go but be pleased to set my Love free . Captain . O cease thy suit Damosel and be not so sad , let reason thy mind now assuage Ten thousand such Seamen ere long must be had , all against the proud foes to engage . Man. My dearest why dost rhou the Captain offend , thou seest he by no means will yield , I am now resolved my blood for to spend , upon the salt Seas or in field ; Therefore be contented and cease thy said moans , take comfort and do not thou fear , If fortune befriend me when as I am gone , I shall once again see my own Dear . Maid . My dearest since thou must be parted from me , and here must no longer remain The thoughts of thy love all my comfort shall be until I do see thee again . Each hour for thy welfare , to God I will pray , that he will in safety preserve . My one dearest Lover by night and by day , whilst he on the Ocean does serve . This token I prithee love for my sake keep , remember me , when you it wear , This parting kiss take , which does force me to weep and so heavens bless my own Dear . Man. Adieu my dear Jewel , thy love I have found , thy parting does grieve me full soar , The drums they do beatrice , & the trumpets do found , and I must stay no longer on shore . London , Printed for Richard Burton at the Sign of that Horseshoe in Smithfield . E : 324 The Seamans adieu to his Dear . This man was pressed to serve upon the Seas . Which did his Dearest very soar displease , She importun'd the Captain on her knee , And proffered gold to have her love set free , But all would not prevail , The Captains ear Was deaf , the Maids complaints he would not hear , When no entreaty could move his hard heart , She sadly took her leave and so they part . To the Tune of , I'le go to Sir Richard , etc Man. COme all loyal lovers , that's faithful and true observe me wherever you be , A pattern I here have presented to you , it is good to be constant you see . But chiefly to thee ( my own Dearest ) I speak , with patience my absence to bear , For now I am pressed , to serve on the Seas and I must bid adieu to my Dear . Our King must have Seamen and Soldiers more stout , his enemies hearts for to fear , And I for my honour will venture about , and I must bid adieu to my Dear . Maid . O tell me not so ( my own Dearest ) I pray , for loves sake take pity on me , I'll do my endeavour to please thee always , if that I may but have my Love free . 'Tis far better staying with me on the shore where pleasures and joys do abound . Then for to go venture , where Cannons do roar in the depths of the Seas to be drowned . O be not so cruel my love for to fleight but tarry ( my Dearest ) with me , We'le find out a way in loves wars for to fight , and Ill strive for to set my love free . Man. All that thou canst do ( my Love ) will not procure my freedom I sorely do fear , But I must the hardship of service endure , and I must bid adieu to my Dear . My Captain by no means will let me go free he likes me so well I do hear , Therefore its in vain to beg my liberty , for I must bid adieu to my Dear . The Second Part to the same Tune . Maid . I'le go to thy Captain and fallen on my knees , perhaps he'le take pity on me , If five pounds or ten pounds will buy thy discharge he shall have it to set my love free . Captains answer . Not ten pounds nor twenty shall buy his discharge fair maid you must patiently bear , He shall go to Sea , for his King to engage , and he must bid adieu to his Dear . I'le have him to serve me upon the salt main in battle with foes for to fight , Then cease pretty Maiden , and do not complain , for the wars is a Soldiers delight . Maid . Behold ( noble Captain ) these sorrowful tears which down my cheeks trickles amain , To move your hard heart to release me of fears , and to grant me my love once again . No Maidens heart ever was fuller of woe , then good sir take pity on me , And let him no further unto the wars go but be pleased to set my Love free . Captain . O cease thy suit Damosel and be not so sad , let reason thy mind now assuage Ten thousand such Seamen ere long must be had , all against the proud foes to engage . Man. My dearest why dost rhou the Captain offend , thou seest he by no means will yield , I am now resolved my blood for to spend , upon the salt Seas or in field ; Therefore be contented and cease thy said moans , take comfort and do not thou fear , If fortune befriend me when as I am gone , I shall once again see my own Dear . Maid . My dearest since thou must be parted from me , and here must no longer remain The thoughts of thy love all my comfort shall be until I do see thee again . Each hour for thy welfare , to God I will pray , that he will in safety preserve . My one dearest Lover by night and by day , whilst he on the Ocean does serve . This token I prithee love for my sake keep , remember me , when you it wear , This parting kiss take , which does force me to weep and so heavens bless my own Dear . Man. Adieu my dear Jewel , thy love I have found , thy parting does grieve me full soar , The drums they do beatrice , & the trumpets do found , and I must stay no longer on shore . London , Printed for Richard Burton at the Sign of that Horseshoe in Smithfield . 