E : 379 A Warning-piece for Ingroosers of Corn ; BEING A true Relation how the Devil met with one Goodman Inglebred of Bowton , within six miles of Holgay in Norfolk ; as he was coming from Linn Market , and Bargain'd for a great quantity of Barley for eight shillings a Bushel and gave earnest ; and when he came to fetch it , brought Carts and Horses ( to their thinking ) and while 'twas meam - suring the Devil vanished , and tore the Bairn in pieces , and scattered all the Corn with such Winds and Tempest , which hath done such great harm both by Sea and Land , the like was never herd of before ; the Farmer new lying distracted . Sent in a Letter to be Printed , by Christopher Emmerson , George Dixon , & Richard Higgins . To the Tune of , In Summer time , etc GOod People all pray lend and ear to this my Song , that's strange and true , Wherein I briefly shall Declare , the full Relation here to you . If any Misers you do know , that hoards up Corn , to starve the Poor , If that these Lines you to them show , 'twil make them sure bring out their Store In Norfolk did this chance befall , at Bowton where this Man did dwell , And Goodman Inglebred they do him call , who had great store of Corn to fell . But he as many thousands more , without any remorse or pity , Was fully resolv'd to keep his Store , to bring a Dearth in Town and City . He being at Market on a day , at Linn a place that's known full well : And Riding home upon the way , He had a Customer from Hell . The Devil did him over take , in Habbit being very brave , Who did a bargain with him make , and Halfe-a-crowne in earnest gave , The price was very great they made , and Barley that must be the Grain , Eight shillings a Bushel must be paid , being well contented with such gain . And thus the Devil and he agreed , likewise the time to fetch the same : The Miser hy'd him home with speed , for to provide against he came . When he came home he was full glad , and to his Wife he did unfold What bargain , and what price he had , likewise what quantity he sold . With that his Wife made this reply , as by his Servants it was told , None but the Devil would give so high a price ( quoth she ) as you have sold . The second Part , to same the Tune . TO Thrashing straight he set his Men , to make it ready against the day . And the Devil was as ready then , against the time to fetch't away . The day being come , the Devil brought his Furniture , to take these stores , With Horse & Carts , as to their thought , the Man he straight threw 'ope the doors . To measuring straight his Barley out , this Man begun with all his speed ; With that the Devil made a Rout , and of his Bargain soon was freed . The Devil vanish'd straight away , such Storms and Winds , never herd before No People thereabouts durst stay ; the Barns in pieces all he tore . His Barns and Corn it all was spoil'd , and all the Country round likewise , Had all their Houses then Untyl'd , such Winds they never saw from the Skys . This Farmer fell distracted straight , he cannot take no Rest nor Sleep , And cries the Devil does for him weight , his Bargain he must with him keep . All you that hoard , and buy up Corn , and keep it up , to make it deer , Although you long have been forborn , there's Rods in piss for you I hear . Your Villainny now is brought about , and pay for't deer you will ere long , Your Stores you will be made bring out , you shall not do the Poor such wrong . The Lord I hope will hear the cries , of thousands which are in distress , Of gallant Hearts , that daily lies still hoping , yet have no redress . The Lord preserve our King , and bless him from the treacherous hands of those , That are his Enemies , yet profess they love Him , yet prove secret Foes . The Queen God send her safe to land , and all the Progeny preserve ; Likewise for those that faithful stand and from him yet did never swerve . My prayers shall daily be for those , with many thousands more beside . But such I take his chiefest Foes , that's given to Covetousness & Pride . For you that deals in Corn and Grain , to whom these Lines in chief belong , Beware of such unlawful gain , where none but Poor does bear the wrong . So to Conclude and make and end , for Peace and Plenty , let us pray , That God may stand the poor-man's friend , for the Poor are now the rich-mans prey . FINIS London , printed for William Gilbertson , at the Bible in Giltspur-street . E : 379 A Warning-piece for Ingroosers of Corn ; BEING A true Relation how the Devil met with one Goodman Inglebred of Bowton , within six miles of Holgay in Norfolk ; as he was coming from Linn Market , and Bargain'd for a great quantity of Barley for eight shillings a Bushel and gave earnest ; and when he came to fetch it , brought Carts and Horses ( to their thinking ) and while 'twas meam - suring the Devil vanished , and tore the Bairn in pieces , and scattered all the Corn with such Winds and Tempest , which hath done such great harm both by Sea and Land , the like was never herd of before ; the Farmer new lying distracted . Sent in a Letter to be Printed , by Christopher Emmerson , George Dixon , & Richard Higgins . To the Tune of , In Summer time , etc GOod People all pray lend and ear to this my Song , that's strange and true , Wherein I briefly shall Declare , the full Relation here to you . If any Misers you do know , that hoards up Corn , to starve the Poor , If that these Lines you to them show , 'twil make them sure bring out their Store In Norfolk did this chance befall , at Bowton where this Man did dwell , And Goodman Inglebred they do him call , who had great store of Corn to fell . But he as many thousands more , without any remorse or pity , Was fully resolv'd to keep his Store , to bring a Dearth in Town and City . He being at Market on a day , at Linn a place that's known full well : And Riding home upon the way , He had a Customer from Hell . The Devil did him over take , in Habbit being very brave , Who did a bargain with him make , and Halfe-a-crowne in earnest gave , The price was very great they made , and Barley that must be the Grain , Eight shillings a Bushel must be paid , being well contented with such gain . And thus the Devil and he agreed , likewise the time to fetch the same : The Miser hy'd him home with speed , for to provide against he came . When he came home he was full glad , and to his Wife he did unfold What bargain , and what price he had , likewise what quantity he sold . With that his Wife made this reply , as by his Servants it was told , None but the Devil would give so high a price ( quoth she ) as you have sold . The second Part , to same the Tune . TO Thrashing straight he set his Men , to make it ready against the day . And the Devil was as ready then , against the time to fetch't away . The day being come , the Devil brought his Furniture , to take these stores , With Horse & Carts , as to their thought , the Man he straight threw 'ope the doors . To measuring straight his Barley out , this Man begun with all his speed ; With that the Devil made a Rout , and of his Bargain soon was freed . The Devil vanish'd straight away , such Storms and Winds , never herd before No People thereabouts durst stay ; the Barns in pieces all he tore . His Barns and Corn it all was spoil'd , and all the Country round likewise , Had all their Houses then Untyl'd , such Winds they never saw from the Skys . This Farmer fell distracted straight , he cannot take no Rest nor Sleep , And cries the Devil does for him weight , his Bargain he must with him keep . All you that hoard , and buy up Corn , and keep it up , to make it deer , Although you long have been forborn , there's Rods in piss for you I hear . Your Villainny now is brought about , and pay for't deer you will ere long , Your Stores you will be made bring out , you shall not do the Poor such wrong . The Lord I hope will hear the cries , of thousands which are in distress , Of gallant Hearts , that daily lies still hoping , yet have no redress . The Lord preserve our King , and bless him from the treacherous hands of those , That are his Enemies , yet profess they love Him , yet prove secret Foes . The Queen God send her safe to land , and all the Progeny preserve ; Likewise for those that faithful stand and from him yet did never swerve . My prayers shall daily be for those , with many thousands more beside . But such I take his chiefest Foes , that's given to Covetousness & Pride . For you that deals in Corn and Grain , to whom these Lines in chief belong , Beware of such unlawful gain , where none but Poor does bear the wrong . So to Conclude and make and end , for Peace and Plenty , let us pray , That God may stand the poor-man's friend , for the Poor are now the rich-mans prey . FINIS London , printed for William Gilbertson , at the Bible in Giltspur-street . 