E : 380 A Warning-piece to England , against Pride and Wickedness ; being the Fallen of Queen Elanor , wife to Edward the First King of England , who for her Pride and GOD's Judgments , sunk into the Ground at Charing-cross , and rose at Queen - high . To the Tune of , Gentle and Courteous , WHen Edward was in England King the First of all that name , Proud Elanor he made his Queen , a stately Spanish Dame : Whose wicked life and sinful Pride , through England did Excel , To dainty Dame and Gallant Maid , this Queen was known full well : She was the first that did invent in Coaches brave to ride , She was the first that brought this Land , to deadly since of Pride : No English Taylor here could serve , to make her rich attire . But sent for Tailors into Spain , to feed her vain desire . They brought in Fashions strange & new , with golden garments bright , With Farthingale and mighty Stuff with Gowns of rich deligh Your London Dams in Spanish Pride , did Flourish everywhere ; Our English Men like Women then , did wear long Locks of Hair . Both Man and Child , both Maid & Wife , were drown'd in Pride of Spain , And thought the Spanish Tailors then , our EngIish Men did stain : Whereat the Queen did much despite . to see your English Men In Vestures clad , as brave to see as any Spaniard then , She crav'd the King that every man that wore long Locks of Hair , Might then be cut and Polled all , or shaved very near . Whereat the King did seem content , and soon thereto agreed , And first commanded that his own , should then be cut with speed . And after that , to please his Queen , proclaimed through the Land , That every man that wore long Hair , should poll him out of hand : But yet this Spaniard not content , to Woman boar a spite , And then requested of the King , against all Law and Right . That every womankind should have , their right Breast cut away , And then with burnig Irons sear [ ' ] worser , the blood to staunch and stay ! King Edward then perceiving well , her spite to womankind , Devised soon by policy , and turned her bloody mind . And sent for burning Irons straight , all sparkling hight to see And said , Oh Queen , come on thy way , I will begin with thee : Which words did much displease the Queen that Penance to begin . But asked him pardon on her knees , who gave her grace therein . But afterwards she chanc'd to pass , along brave London strrets , Whereas the Mayor of London's Wife , in stately sort she meets ; With Music , Mirth and Melody , unto the Church they went , To give God thanks that to th' Lord Mayor a Noble Son had sent . It grieved much this spitful Queen , to see that any one , Should so exceed in Mirth and Joy , except herself alone ; For which she after did devise , within her bloody mind , And practtis'd still most secretly , to kill this Lady kind : Unto the Mayor of London then , she sent her Letters straight , To send this Lady to the Court , upon her Grace to wait ; But when the London Lady came , before prov'd Eloner's face . She stripped her from her rich array , and kept her vile and base . She sent her into Wales with speed , and kept her secret there , And us'd her still most cruelly , that ever man did hear : She made her wash she made her starch , she made her drudge always , She made her Nurse up Children small , and labour night and day . But this contented not the Queen , but shew'd her most despite , She bound this Lady to a Post , at twelve a clock at night ; And as poor Lady she stood bound , the Queen in angry mood , Did set two Snakes unto her Breast , that sucked away her blood . Thus died the Mayor of London's Wife , most grievous for to hear , Which made the Spaniard grow more proud as after shall appear , The Wheat that made her Bred , was bolted twenty times , The Food that fed this stately Dame , was boiled in costly wines : The water that did spring from Ground , she would not touch at all , But wash her hands with due of Heaven that on sweet Roses fallen ; She bath'd her body many a time , in Fountains fill'd with milk , And every day did change Attire , in costly Median Silk . But coming then to London back , within her Coach of Gold , A tempest strange within the skies , this Queen did their behold ; Out of which Storm she could not go , but their remain'd a space , Four horses could not stir the Coach a foot out of the place . A Judgement lately sent from heaven , for shedding guiltless blood Upon this sinful Queen that slew the London Lady good : King Edward then , as wisdom will'd ; acous'd her of that deed ; But she deny'd and wished that God , would send his wrath with speed . If that upon so vile a thing , her heart did ever think , Se wished the ground would open wide , and she therein might sink : With that at Charing cross she sunk into the ground alive , And after rose with life again , in London at Queen-hith . When after that she languished soar full twenty days in pain , At last confessed the Lady's Blood , her guilty hand had slave ; And likewise how that by a Friar , she had a baseborn Child , Whose sinful lust and wickedness , her marriage bed defil'd . Thus have you herd the fallen of Pride , a just reward of Sin. For those that will forswear themselves , God's vengeance daily win ; Beware of Pride you courtly Dams , both wives and maidens all , Bear this imprinted in your mind , that PRIDE must have a fallen . Printed by and for A. Milbourn , and Sold by the Bookselers of London . E : 380 A Warning-piece to England , against Pride and Wickedness ; being the Fallen of Queen Elanor , wife to Edward the First King of England , who for her Pride and GOD's Judgments , sunk into the Ground at Charing-cross , and rose at Queen - high . To the Tune of , Gentle and Courteous , WHen Edward was in England King the First of all that name , Proud Elanor he made his Queen , a stately Spanish Dame : Whose wicked life and sinful Pride , through England did Excel , To dainty Dame and Gallant Maid , this Queen was known full well : She was the first that did invent in Coaches brave to ride , She was the first that brought this Land , to deadly since of Pride : No English Taylor here could serve , to make her rich attire . But sent for Tailors into Spain , to feed her vain desire . They brought in Fashions strange & new , with golden garments bright , With Farthingale and mighty Stuff with Gowns of rich deligh Your London Dams in Spanish Pride , did Flourish everywhere ; Our English Men like Women then , did wear long Locks of Hair . Both Man and Child , both Maid & Wife , were drown'd in Pride of Spain , And thought the Spanish Tailors then , our EngIish Men did stain : Whereat the Queen did much despite . to see your English Men In Vestures clad , as brave to see as any Spaniard then , She crav'd the King that every man that wore long Locks of Hair , Might then be cut and Polled all , or shaved very near . Whereat the King did seem content , and soon thereto agreed , And first commanded that his own , should then be cut with speed . And after that , to please his Queen , proclaimed through the Land , That every man that wore long Hair , should poll him out of hand : But yet this Spaniard not content , to Woman boar a spite , And then requested of the King , against all Law and Right . That every womankind should have , their right Breast cut away , And then with burnig Irons sear [ ' ] worser , the blood to staunch and stay ! King Edward then perceiving well , her spite to womankind , Devised soon by policy , and turned her bloody mind . And sent for burning Irons straight , all sparkling hight to see And said , Oh Queen , come on thy way , I will begin with thee : Which words did much displease the Queen that Penance to begin . But asked him pardon on her knees , who gave her grace therein . But afterwards she chanc'd to pass , along brave London strrets , Whereas the Mayor of London's Wife , in stately sort she meets ; With Music , Mirth and Melody , unto the Church they went , To give God thanks that to th' Lord Mayor a Noble Son had sent . It grieved much this spitful Queen , to see that any one , Should so exceed in Mirth and Joy , except herself alone ; For which she after did devise , within her bloody mind , And practtis'd still most secretly , to kill this Lady kind : Unto the Mayor of London then , she sent her Letters straight , To send this Lady to the Court , upon her Grace to wait ; But when the London Lady came , before prov'd Eloner's face . She stripped her from her rich array , and kept her vile and base . She sent her into Wales with speed , and kept her secret there , And us'd her still most cruelly , that ever man did hear : She made her wash she made her starch , she made her drudge always , She made her Nurse up Children small , and labour night and day . But this contented not the Queen , but shew'd her most despite , She bound this Lady to a Post , at twelve a clock at night ; And as poor Lady she stood bound , the Queen in angry mood , Did set two Snakes unto her Breast , that sucked away her blood . Thus died the Mayor of London's Wife , most grievous for to hear , Which made the Spaniard grow more proud as after shall appear , The Wheat that made her Bred , was bolted twenty times , The Food that fed this stately Dame , was boiled in costly wines : The water that did spring from Ground , she would not touch at all , But wash her hands with due of Heaven that on sweet Roses fallen ; She bath'd her body many a time , in Fountains fill'd with milk , And every day did change Attire , in costly Median Silk . But coming then to London back , within her Coach of Gold , A tempest strange within the skies , this Queen did their behold ; Out of which Storm she could not go , but their remain'd a space , Four horses could not stir the Coach a foot out of the place . A Judgement lately sent from heaven , for shedding guiltless blood Upon this sinful Queen that slew the London Lady good : King Edward then , as wisdom will'd ; acous'd her of that deed ; But she deny'd and wished that God , would send his wrath with speed . If that upon so vile a thing , her heart did ever think , Se wished the ground would open wide , and she therein might sink : With that at Charing cross she sunk into the ground alive , And after rose with life again , in London at Queen-hith . When after that she languished soar full twenty days in pain , At last confessed the Lady's Blood , her guilty hand had slave ; And likewise how that by a Friar , she had a baseborn Child , Whose sinful lust and wickedness , her marriage bed defil'd . Thus have you herd the fallen of Pride , a just reward of Sin. For those that will forswear themselves , God's vengeance daily win ; Beware of Pride you courtly Dams , both wives and maidens all , Bear this imprinted in your mind , that PRIDE must have a fallen . Printed by and for A. Milbourn , and Sold by the Bookselers of London . E : 380 A Warning-piece to England , against Pride and Wickedness ; being the Fallen of Queen Elanor , wife to Edward the First King of England , who for her Pride and GOD's Judgments , sunk into the Ground at Charing-cross , and rose at Queen - high . To the Tune of , Gentle and Courteous , WHen Edward was in England King the First of all that name , Proud Elanor he made his Queen , a stately Spanish Dame : Whose wicked life and sinful Pride , through England did Excel , To dainty Dame and Gallant Maid , this Queen was known full well : She was the first that did invent in Coaches brave to ride , She was the first that brought this Land , to deadly since of Pride : No English Taylor here could serve , to make her rich attire . But sent for Tailors into Spain , to feed her vain desire . They brought in Fashions strange & new , with golden garments bright , With Farthingale and mighty Stuff with Gowns of rich deligh Your London Dams in Spanish Pride , did Flourish everywhere ; Our English Men like Women then , did wear long Locks of Hair . Both Man and Child , both Maid & Wife , were drown'd in Pride of Spain , And thought the Spanish Tailors then , our EngIish Men did stain : Whereat the Queen did much despite . to see your English Men In Vestures clad , as brave to see as any Spaniard then , She crav'd the King that every man that wore long Locks of Hair , Might then be cut and Polled all , or shaved very near . Whereat the King did seem content , and soon thereto agreed , And first commanded that his own , should then be cut with speed . And after that , to please his Queen , proclaimed through the Land , That every man that wore long Hair , should poll him out of hand : But yet this Spaniard not content , to Woman boar a spite , And then requested of the King , against all Law and Right . That every womankind should have , their right Breast cut away , And then with burnig Irons sear [ ' ] worser , the blood to staunch and stay ! King Edward then perceiving well , her spite to womankind , Devised soon by policy , and turned her bloody mind . And sent for burning Irons straight , all sparkling hight to see And said , Oh Queen , come on thy way , I will begin with thee : Which words did much displease the Queen that Penance to begin . But asked him pardon on her knees , who gave her grace therein . But afterwards she chanc'd to pass , along brave London strrets , Whereas the Mayor of London's Wife , in stately sort she meets ; With Music , Mirth and Melody , unto the Church they went , To give God thanks that to th' Lord Mayor a Noble Son had sent . It grieved much this spitful Queen , to see that any one , Should so exceed in Mirth and Joy , except herself alone ; For which she after did devise , within her bloody mind , And practtis'd still most secretly , to kill this Lady kind : Unto the Mayor of London then , she sent her Letters straight , To send this Lady to the Court , upon her Grace to wait ; But when the London Lady came , before prov'd Eloner's face . She stripped her from her rich array , and kept her vile and base . She sent her into Wales with speed , and kept her secret there , And us'd her still most cruelly , that ever man did hear : She made her wash she made her starch , she made her drudge always , She made her Nurse up Children small , and labour night and day . But this contented not the Queen , but shew'd her most despite , She bound this Lady to a Post , at twelve a clock at night ; And as poor Lady she stood bound , the Queen in angry mood , Did set two Snakes unto her Breast , that sucked away her blood . Thus died the Mayor of London's Wife , most grievous for to hear , Which made the Spaniard grow more proud as after shall appear , The Wheat that made her Bred , was bolted twenty times , The Food that fed this stately Dame , was boiled in costly wines : The water that did spring from Ground , she would not touch at all , But wash her hands with due of Heaven that on sweet Roses fallen ; She bath'd her body many a time , in Fountains fill'd with milk , And every day did change Attire , in costly Median Silk . But coming then to London back , within her Coach of Gold , A tempest strange within the skies , this Queen did their behold ; Out of which Storm she could not go , but their remain'd a space , Four horses could not stir the Coach a foot out of the place . A Judgement lately sent from heaven , for shedding guiltless blood Upon this sinful Queen that slew the London Lady good : King Edward then , as wisdom will'd ; acous'd her of that deed ; But she deny'd and wished that God , would send his wrath with speed . If that upon so vile a thing , her heart did ever think , Se wished the ground would open wide , and she therein might sink : With that at Charing cross she sunk into the ground alive , And after rose with life again , in London at Queen-hith . When after that she languished soar full twenty days in pain , At last confessed the Lady's Blood , her guilty hand had slave ; And likewise how that by a Friar , she had a baseborn Child , Whose sinful lust and wickedness , her marriage bed defil'd . Thus have you herd the fallen of Pride , a just reward of Sin. For those that will forswear themselves , God's vengeance daily win ; Beware of Pride you courtly Dams , both wives and maidens all , Bear this imprinted in your mind , that PRIDE must have a fallen . Printed by and for A. Milbourn , and Sold by the Bookselers of London . E : 380 A Warning-piece to England , against Pride and Wickedness ; being the Fallen of Queen Elanor , wife to Edward the First King of England , who for her Pride and GOD's Judgments , sunk into the Ground at Charing-cross , and rose at Queen - high . To the Tune of , Gentle and Courteous , WHen Edward was in England King the First of all that name , Proud Elanor he made his Queen , a stately Spanish Dame : Whose wicked life and sinful Pride , through England did Excel , To dainty Dame and Gallant Maid , this Queen was known full well : She was the first that did invent in Coaches brave to ride , She was the first that brought this Land , to deadly since of Pride : No English Taylor here could serve , to make her rich attire . But sent for Tailors into Spain , to feed her vain desire . They brought in Fashions strange & new , with golden garments bright , With Farthingale and mighty Stuff with Gowns of rich deligh Your London Dams in Spanish Pride , did Flourish everywhere ; Our English Men like Women then , did wear long Locks of Hair . Both Man and Child , both Maid & Wife , were drown'd in Pride of Spain , And thought the Spanish Tailors then , our EngIish Men did stain : Whereat the Queen did much despite . to see your English Men In Vestures clad , as brave to see as any Spaniard then , She crav'd the King that every man that wore long Locks of Hair , Might then be cut and Polled all , or shaved very near . Whereat the King did seem content , and soon thereto agreed , And first commanded that his own , should then be cut with speed . And after that , to please his Queen , proclaimed through the Land , That every man that wore long Hair , should poll him out of hand : But yet this Spaniard not content , to Woman boar a spite , And then requested of the King , against all Law and Right . That every womankind should have , their right Breast cut away , And then with burnig Irons sear [ ' ] worser , the blood to staunch and stay ! King Edward then perceiving well , her spite to womankind , Devised soon by policy , and turned her bloody mind . And sent for burning Irons straight , all sparkling hight to see And said , Oh Queen , come on thy way , I will begin with thee : Which words did much displease the Queen that Penance to begin . But asked him pardon on her knees , who gave her grace therein . But afterwards she chanc'd to pass , along brave London strrets , Whereas the Mayor of London's Wife , in stately sort she meets ; With Music , Mirth and Melody , unto the Church they went , To give God thanks that to th' Lord Mayor a Noble Son had sent . It grieved much this spitful Queen , to see that any one , Should so exceed in Mirth and Joy , except herself alone ; For which she after did devise , within her bloody mind , And practtis'd still most secretly , to kill this Lady kind : Unto the Mayor of London then , she sent her Letters straight , To send this Lady to the Court , upon her Grace to wait ; But when the London Lady came , before prov'd Eloner's face . She stripped her from her rich array , and kept her vile and base . She sent her into Wales with speed , and kept her secret there , And us'd her still most cruelly , that ever man did hear : She made her wash she made her starch , she made her drudge always , She made her Nurse up Children small , and labour night and day . But this contented not the Queen , but shew'd her most despite , She bound this Lady to a Post , at twelve a clock at night ; And as poor Lady she stood bound , the Queen in angry mood , Did set two Snakes unto her Breast , that sucked away her blood . Thus died the Mayor of London's Wife , most grievous for to hear , Which made the Spaniard grow more proud as after shall appear , The Wheat that made her Bred , was bolted twenty times , The Food that fed this stately Dame , was boiled in costly wines : The water that did spring from Ground , she would not touch at all , But wash her hands with due of Heaven that on sweet Roses fallen ; She bath'd her body many a time , in Fountains fill'd with milk , And every day did change Attire , in costly Median Silk . But coming then to London back , within her Coach of Gold , A tempest strange within the skies , this Queen did their behold ; Out of which Storm she could not go , but their remain'd a space , Four horses could not stir the Coach a foot out of the place . A Judgement lately sent from heaven , for shedding guiltless blood Upon this sinful Queen that slew the London Lady good : King Edward then , as wisdom will'd ; acous'd her of that deed ; But she deny'd and wished that God , would send his wrath with speed . If that upon so vile a thing , her heart did ever think , Se wished the ground would open wide , and she therein might sink : With that at Charing cross she sunk into the ground alive , And after rose with life again , in London at Queen-hith . When after that she languished soar full twenty days in pain , At last confessed the Lady's Blood , her guilty hand had slave ; And likewise how that by a Friar , she had a baseborn Child , Whose sinful lust and wickedness , her marriage bed defil'd . Thus have you herd the fallen of Pride , a just reward of Sin. For those that will forswear themselves , God's vengeance daily win ; Beware of Pride you courtly Dams , both wives and maidens all , Bear this imprinted in your mind , that PRIDE must have a fallen . Printed by and for A. Milbourn , and Sold by the Bookselers of London . 