E : 378 A WARNING for Married WOMEN : Being and Example of Mrs. JANE REYNOLDS , ( a West-country Woman ) born near Plymouth , who having plighted her Troth to a Seaman , was afterwards marri - ed to a Carpenter , and at last carried away by a Spiriet , the manner how shall be recited . To a West-country Tune , call'd , The fair Maid of Bristol : or , John True , etc THere dwelled a fair maid in the West , of worthy birth and fame , Near unto Plimoath stately town , Jane Reynolds was her name . This [ worser ] amsel dearly was velov'd by a proper youth : And what of her is to be said , is known for very truth : among the rest a Seaman brave unto her a wooing came , A comely proper youth he was , James Harris , call'd by name . The maid and young man was agreed , as time did then allow , And to each other secretly they made a solemn vow , That they would ever faithful be , while Heaven afforded life ; He was to be her husband kind , and she his faithful wife . A day appointed was also when they mere to be married , But before these things were brought to pass , matters were strangely carried . All you that faithful lovers be , give ear and harken well , And what of them became at last I will directly tell : The young man he was pressed to Sea , and forced was to go , His sweetheart she must stay behind whither she would or no . And after he was from her gone , she three years for him stayed , Expecting of his coming home , and kept herself a maid . At last news came that he was dead within a foreign land , And how that he was buried , she well did understand . For whose sweet sake the maiden she lamented many a day : And never was she known at all the wanton for to play . A Carpenter that liv'd hard by . when he herd of the same , Like as the other had done before , to her a wooing came . But when that he had gain'd her love , they married were with speed , And four years space ( being man and wife ) they lovingly agreed . Three pretty children in this time , this lovely couple had , Which made there father's heart rejoice , and mother wondrous glad . But as occasion serv'd our time , the good man took his way , Some three days journey from his home intending not to stay . But while that he was gone away , a spirit in the night , Came to the window to his wife , and did her sorely fright . Which spirit spoke like to a man , and unto her did say , 'My dear and only love ( quoth he ) 'prepare and come away . 'James Harris is my name ( quoth he ) 'whom thou didst love so dear , 'And I have travel'd for thy sake , 'at lest this seven year . 'And now I am return'd again , 'to take thee to my wife , 'And thou with me shalt go to Sea , 'to end all further strife . O tempt me not , sweet James ( quoth she ) with thee away to go , If I should leave my children small , alas , what would they do : My husband is a Carpenter , a Carpenter of great fame , I would not for five hundred pounds that he should know the same . 'I might have had a King's daughter , 'and she would have married me , 'But I forsook her golden crown , 'and for the love oh [ f ] thee . 'Therefore if thou'st thy husband forsake , 'and thy children three also , 'I will forgive thee what is past , 'if thou wilt with me go . I [ f ] I forsake my husband and my little children three , What means hast thou to bring me to , if I should go with thee ? 'I have seven ships upon the sea , 'when they are come to land , 'Both merriners and merchandise 'shall be at thy command . ' [ TO ] he [ s ] hip wherein my love shall sail , 'is glorious to behold , 'The sails shall be of finest silk , 'and the mast of shining gold . When he had told her those fair tales , to love him she began , Because he was in humane shape , much like unto a man . And so together away they went , from off the English shore , And since that time the womankind , was never seen no more . But when her husband he came home , and found his wife was gone , And left her three sweet pretty babes within the house alone . He beatrice his breast , he tore his hair , the tears fell from his eyes , And in the open streets he run , with heavy doleful cries . And in this sad distracted case , he hanged himself for woe , Upon a tree , near to the place , the truth of all is so . The children now are fatherless , [ a ] and left without a guide , But yet no doubt the heavenly Powers , will for them well provide . London : Printed by and for W. O. and are to be sold by the BooksellersE : 378 A WARNING for Married WOMEN : Being and Example of Mrs. JANE REYNOLDS , ( a West-country Woman ) born near Plymouth , who having plighted her Troth to a Seaman , was afterwards marri - ed to a Carpenter , and at last carried away by a Spiriet , the manner how shall be recited . To a West-country Tune , call'd , The fair Maid of Bristol : or , John True , etc THere dwelled a fair maid in the West , of worthy birth and fame , Near unto Plimoath stately town , Jane Reynolds was her name . This [ worser ] amsel dearly was velov'd by a proper youth : And what of her is to be said , is known for very truth : among the rest a Seaman brave unto her a wooing came , A comely proper youth he was , James Harris , call'd by name . The maid and young man was agreed , as time did then allow , And to each other secretly they made a solemn vow , That they would ever faithful be , while Heaven afforded life ; He was to be her husband kind , and she his faithful wife . A day appointed was also when they mere to be married , But before these things were brought to pass , matters were strangely carried . All you that faithful lovers be , give ear and harken well , And what of them became at last I will directly tell : The young man he was pressed to Sea , and forced was to go , His sweetheart she must stay behind whither she would or no . And after he was from her gone , she three years for him stayed , Expecting of his coming home , and kept herself a maid . At last news came that he was dead within a foreign land , And how that he was buried , she well did understand . For whose sweet sake the maiden she lamented many a day : And never was she known at all the wanton for to play . A Carpenter that liv'd hard by . when he herd of the same , Like as the other had done before , to her a wooing came . But when that he had gain'd her love , they married were with speed , And four years space ( being man and wife ) they lovingly agreed . Three pretty children in this time , this lovely couple had , Which made there father's heart rejoice , and mother wondrous glad . But as occasion serv'd our time , the good man took his way , Some three days journey from his home intending not to stay . But while that he was gone away , a spirit in the night , Came to the window to his wife , and did her sorely fright . Which spirit spoke like to a man , and unto her did say , 'My dear and only love ( quoth he ) 'prepare and come away . 'James Harris is my name ( quoth he ) 'whom thou didst love so dear , 'And I have travel'd for thy sake , 'at lest this seven year . 'And now I am return'd again , 'to take thee to my wife , 'And thou with me shalt go to Sea , 'to end all further strife . O tempt me not , sweet James ( quoth she ) with thee away to go , If I should leave my children small , alas , what would they do : My husband is a Carpenter , a Carpenter of great fame , I would not for five hundred pounds that he should know the same . 'I might have had a King's daughter , 'and she would have married me , 'But I forsook her golden crown , 'and for the love oh [ f ] thee . 'Therefore if thou'st thy husband forsake , 'and thy children three also , 'I will forgive thee what is past , 'if thou wilt with me go . I [ f ] I forsake my husband and my little children three , What means hast thou to bring me to , if I should go with thee ? 'I have seven ships upon the sea , 'when they are come to land , 'Both merriners and merchandise 'shall be at thy command . ' [ TO ] he [ s ] hip wherein my love shall sail , 'is glorious to behold , 'The sails shall be of finest silk , 'and the mast of shining gold . When he had told her those fair tales , to love him she began , Because he was in humane shape , much like unto a man . And so together away they went , from off the English shore , And since that time the womankind , was never seen no more . But when her husband he came home , and found his wife was gone , And left her three sweet pretty babes within the house alone . He beatrice his breast , he tore his hair , the tears fell from his eyes , And in the open streets he run , with heavy doleful cries . And in this sad distracted case , he hanged himself for woe , Upon a tree , near to the place , the truth of all is so . The children now are fatherless , [ a ] and left without a guide , But yet no doubt the heavenly Powers , will for them well provide . London : Printed by and for W. O. and are to be sold by the Booksellers 