E : 377 A warning for married Women . By the Example of Mrs. Jane Renalds , a West-Country Woman , born near unto Ply - mouth ; who having plighted her troth to a Seaman , was afterwards Married to a Carpenter , and at last carried away by a Spiri the manner how shall be pre - sently recited . To a gallant West-country tune , cal'd , The fair maid of Bristol ; Or , Bateman , or , John True THere dwelled a fair Maid in the West , of worthy birth and Fame , Near unto Plimouth stately Town , Jane Renalds was her name . This Damsel dearly was beloved by many a proper Youth , And what of her is to be said , is known for very truth . among the rest a Seaman brave unto her a wooing came ; A comely proper Youth was he , Jame Harris was his name . This Maid and Youngman were well agreed as time did them allow : And to each other secretly , they made a solemn vow . That they would ever faithful be , while Heaven afforded life : He was to be her Husband kind , and she his loving Wife . A day appointed was also , when they were to be married : But before these things were brought to pass matters were strangely carried . All you that fatal Lovers be , give ear and harken well ; And what of them became at last , I will directly tell . The Youngman he was Pressed to Sea , and forc'd he was to go : His Sweetheart she must stay behind , whither she would or no . And after she was from him gone , she three long years for him stayed , Expecting of his coming home again , and kept her self a Maid . At last came news that he was dead , within a Foreign Land , And how that he was buried , she well did understand . For whose sweet sake the Maiden she , lamented many a day , And never was she known at all the wanton for to play . A Carpenter that lived hard by , when he herd of the same , Like as the other had done before , to her a Wooing came . But when that he had gain'd her love , they married were with speed ; And four years space being man & wife they lovingly agreed . Three pretty Children in that time , this loving Couple had ; Which made their Father heart rejoice and Mother wondrous glad . BUt as occasion serv'd one time , the Goodman took his way , Some three days journey from his home intending for to stay . But while that he was gone away . a Spirit in the night , Came to the window of the house , and did her sorely fright . Which Spirit spoke like to a man , and unto her did say . My dear and only love ( quoth he ) prepare and come away . Jame Harris is my name ( quoth he ) whom thou didst love so dear , And I have traveled for thy sake , at least this long seven year . And now I am returned again , to take thee to my wife ; And thou with me shall go to Sea , to end all further strife . O tempt me not sweet James ( she said ) with thee away to go ; If I should leave my Children small alas what should they do ? My Husband is a Carpenter , and a Carpenter of great fame , I would not for five hundred pounds , that he should know the same . I might have had a Kings Daughter , and she would have married with me , But I forsook her golden crown , and all for love of thee . Therefore if thou wilt thy husband for sake , and thy children three also , I will forgive all that is past , if thou with me wilt go . If I forsake my Husband , and my little Children three , What means hast thou to bring me too , if I should go with thee . I have seven Ships upon the Sea , when they are come to Land , Both Mariners and Merchandise shall be at thy command . The Ship wherein my Love shall sail , so glorious to behold : The Sails shall be of finest Silk , and the Masts of shining Gold . When he had told her these fair tales , to love him she began : Because he was in humane shape , she thought he had been a man . And so together away they went , from off the English shore , And since that time the woman kind , was never herd of more . But when her Husband he came home , and found his wife was gone , And left her sweet pretty Babes within the house alone . He beatrice his breast , he tore his hair , the tears fell from his eyes , And in the open streets he run , with heavy doleful cries . And in this sad distracted case he hang'd himself for woe , Upon a tree near to that place , the truth of all is so . The Children now are fatherless , and left without a guide ; But yet no doubt but heavenly powers , will for them well provide . Finis . L.P. Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and W. Gilbertson . E : 377 A warning for married Women . By the Example of Mrs. Jane Renalds , a West-Country Woman , born near unto Ply - mouth ; who having plighted her troth to a Seaman , was afterwards Married to a Carpenter , and at last carried away by a Spiri the manner how shall be pre - sently recited . To a gallant West-country tune , cal'd , The fair maid of Bristol ; Or , Bateman , or , John True THere dwelled a fair Maid in the West , of worthy birth and Fame , Near unto Plimouth stately Town , Jane Renalds was her name . This Damsel dearly was beloved by many a proper Youth , And what of her is to be said , is known for very truth . among the rest a Seaman brave unto her a wooing came ; A comely proper Youth was he , Jame Harris was his name . This Maid and Youngman were well agreed as time did them allow : And to each other secretly , they made a solemn vow . That they would ever faithful be , while Heaven afforded life : He was to be her Husband kind , and she his loving Wife . A day appointed was also , when they were to be married : But before these things were brought to pass matters were strangely carried . All you that fatal Lovers be , give ear and harken well ; And what of them became at last , I will directly tell . The Youngman he was Pressed to Sea , and forc'd he was to go : His Sweetheart she must stay behind , whither she would or no . And after she was from him gone , she three long years for him stayed , Expecting of his coming home again , and kept her self a Maid . At last came news that he was dead , within a Foreign Land , And how that he was buried , she well did understand . For whose sweet sake the Maiden she , lamented many a day , And never was she known at all the wanton for to play . A Carpenter that lived hard by , when he herd of the same , Like as the other had done before , to her a Wooing came . But when that he had gain'd her love , they married were with speed ; And four years space being man & wife they lovingly agreed . Three pretty Children in that time , this loving Couple had ; Which made their Father heart rejoice and Mother wondrous glad . BUt as occasion serv'd one time , the Goodman took his way , Some three days journey from his home intending for to stay . But while that he was gone away . a Spirit in the night , Came to the window of the house , and did her sorely fright . Which Spirit spoke like to a man , and unto her did say . My dear and only love ( quoth he ) prepare and come away . Jame Harris is my name ( quoth he ) whom thou didst love so dear , And I have traveled for thy sake , at least this long seven year . And now I am returned again , to take thee to my wife ; And thou with me shall go to Sea , to end all further strife . O tempt me not sweet James ( she said ) with thee away to go ; If I should leave my Children small alas what should they do ? My Husband is a Carpenter , and a Carpenter of great fame , I would not for five hundred pounds , that he should know the same . I might have had a Kings Daughter , and she would have married with me , But I forsook her golden crown , and all for love of thee . Therefore if thou wilt thy husband for sake , and thy children three also , I will forgive all that is past , if thou with me wilt go . If I forsake my Husband , and my little Children three , What means hast thou to bring me too , if I should go with thee . I have seven Ships upon the Sea , when they are come to Land , Both Mariners and Merchandise shall be at thy command . The Ship wherein my Love shall sail , so glorious to behold : The Sails shall be of finest Silk , and the Masts of shining Gold . When he had told her these fair tales , to love him she began : Because he was in humane shape , she thought he had been a man . And so together away they went , from off the English shore , And since that time the woman kind , was never herd of more . But when her Husband he came home , and found his wife was gone , And left her sweet pretty Babes within the house alone . He beatrice his breast , he tore his hair , the tears fell from his eyes , And in the open streets he run , with heavy doleful cries . And in this sad distracted case he hang'd himself for woe , Upon a tree near to that place , the truth of all is so . The Children now are fatherless , and left without a guide ; But yet no doubt but heavenly powers , will for them well provide . Finis . L.P. Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and W. Gilbertson . 