E : 385 The West-Country Jig : OR , A Trenchmore Galliard . See how the Lads and Lasses flock together , A Merry making , like Birds of a Feather ; Here's Sam , and Sawny , gentle James and jonny , With Moll and Moggy , and those Girls so bonny : Where they had store of Mirth , and much laughter : Therefore observe it for the best comes after . To a Merry Scotch Tune , Or , Up with Aley Aley , etc JAck's a naughty Boy for calling his Mother Wh --- I'le tell you the reason why because she was one before : Then up with Aley , Aley , up with Frank so free , In came wanton Willy , and smuggl'd them handsomely . Four and twenty Lasses went over Trenchmore Lee , And all of them were Mow'd , unless it were two or three Then up with Aley , Aley , up with jumping Jean , In came wanton Willy , and then the game went on . Jonny he played with Jenny , and Jenny she played with Jock ; And he pull'd out a Guinney , to buy her a Holland Smock : Then up with Aley , Aley , up with Sue , and Siss , And in came wanton Willy , and then they Mump and Kiss . Willy he teuk up Moggy , and asked if she would Dance , But o ! how she did Simper , with many a wink , and glance : Then up with Aley , Aley , up with Bess so Brown ; In came wanton Willy , and tumbl'd them upside down . THe Piper he struck up , and Merrily he did play , The shaking of the sheets , and eke the Irish hay : Then up with Aley , Aley , up with Priss and Prue ; In came wanton Willy , among the Jovial crew . The Awed wife she came up . and she began to Mutter , I think you'r all grown , you make so great a clutter : Then up with Aley , Aley , up with Doll , and Jane ; In came wonton Willy , and Kissed them over again . The Coague of Ale went round , and each one drank a Health , Their sorrows for to drown'd , they took no care for wealth : Then up with Aley , Aley , up with mincing Nan : In came wanton Willy , and prov'd himself a Man. The Parson of the Parish , he left the Kirk in haste , For at this merry meeting , he would not be the las Then up with Aley , Aley , up with Kate , and Joyce ; In came wanton Willy , and there he took his choice . And thus with nappy Liquour , their senses they did warm , It made their wits the quicker , they thought not any harm ; Then up with Aley , Aley , with Boozy Bridget too ; In came wanton Willy , and he began to Woo . Deale saw my lug's , quo Jammy , My Friends I pray now hark Let us conclude a Wedding , to make the Parson work : Then up with Aley , Aley , up with Sarah , and peg : In came wanton Willy , and there he danc't a Jig . The bargain was agreed , that Billy , he should have Bess , And so they sent out Harry , for to invite the Guess : Then up with Aley , Aley , up with Gillian fair : In came wanton Willy , and them twa made a pair . Now with this jovial Wedding , I do conclude my Song , And wish that Trenchmore Lasses , they may live merry and long : Then up with Aley , Aley , up with all the train : We will all be merry , if e're we meet again . With Allowance . Printed for P. brooksby , at the Golden-ball , in West-simith-field . E : 385 The West-Country Jig : OR , A Trenchmore Galliard . See how the Lads and Lasses flock together , A Merry making , like Birds of a Feather ; Here's Sam , and Sawny , gentle James and jonny , With Moll and Moggy , and those Girls so bonny : Where they had store of Mirth , and much laughter : Therefore observe it for the best comes after . To a Merry Scotch Tune , Or , Up with Aley Aley , etc JAck's a naughty Boy for calling his Mother Wh --- I'le tell you the reason why because she was one before : Then up with Aley , Aley , up with Frank so free , In came wanton Willy , and smuggl'd them handsomely . Four and twenty Lasses went over Trenchmore Lee , And all of them were Mow'd , unless it were two or three Then up with Aley , Aley , up with jumping Jean , In came wanton Willy , and then the game went on . Jonny he played with Jenny , and Jenny she played with Jock ; And he pull'd out a Guinney , to buy her a Holland Smock : Then up with Aley , Aley , up with Sue , and Siss , And in came wanton Willy , and then they Mump and Kiss . Willy he teuk up Moggy , and asked if she would Dance , But o ! how she did Simper , with many a wink , and glance : Then up with Aley , Aley , up with Bess so Brown ; In came wanton Willy , and tumbl'd them upside down . THe Piper he struck up , and Merrily he did play , The shaking of the sheets , and eke the Irish hay : Then up with Aley , Aley , up with Priss and Prue ; In came wanton Willy , among the Jovial crew . The Awed wife she came up . and she began to Mutter , I think you'r all grown , you make so great a clutter : Then up with Aley , Aley , up with Doll , and Jane ; In came wonton Willy , and Kissed them over again . The Coague of Ale went round , and each one drank a Health , Their sorrows for to drown'd , they took no care for wealth : Then up with Aley , Aley , up with mincing Nan : In came wanton Willy , and prov'd himself a Man. The Parson of the Parish , he left the Kirk in haste , For at this merry meeting , he would not be the las Then up with Aley , Aley , up with Kate , and Joyce ; In came wanton Willy , and there he took his choice . And thus with nappy Liquour , their senses they did warm , It made their wits the quicker , they thought not any harm ; Then up with Aley , Aley , with Boozy Bridget too ; In came wanton Willy , and he began to Woo . Deale saw my lug's , quo Jammy , My Friends I pray now hark Let us conclude a Wedding , to make the Parson work : Then up with Aley , Aley , up with Sarah , and peg : In came wanton Willy , and there he danc't a Jig . The bargain was agreed , that Billy , he should have Bess , And so they sent out Harry , for to invite the Guess : Then up with Aley , Aley , up with Gillian fair : In came wanton Willy , and them twa made a pair . Now with this jovial Wedding , I do conclude my Song , And wish that Trenchmore Lasses , they may live merry and long : Then up with Aley , Aley , up with all the train : We will all be merry , if e're we meet again . With Allowance . Printed for P. brooksby , at the Golden-ball , in West-simith-field . E : 385 The West-Country Jig : OR , A Trenchmore Galliard . See how the Lads and Lasses flock together , A Merry making , like Birds of a Feather ; Here's Sam , and Sawny , gentle James and jonny , With Moll and Moggy , and those Girls so bonny : Where they had store of Mirth , and much laughter : Therefore observe it for the best comes after . To a Merry Scotch Tune , Or , Up with Aley Aley , etc JAck's a naughty Boy for calling his Mother Wh --- I'le tell you the reason why because she was one before : Then up with Aley , Aley , up with Frank so free , In came wanton Willy , and smuggl'd them handsomely . Four and twenty Lasses went over Trenchmore Lee , And all of them were Mow'd , unless it were two or three Then up with Aley , Aley , up with jumping Jean , In came wanton Willy , and then the game went on . Jonny he played with Jenny , and Jenny she played with Jock ; And he pull'd out a Guinney , to buy her a Holland Smock : Then up with Aley , Aley , up with Sue , and Siss , And in came wanton Willy , and then they Mump and Kiss . Willy he teuk up Moggy , and asked if she would Dance , But o ! how she did Simper , with many a wink , and glance : Then up with Aley , Aley , up with Bess so Brown ; In came wanton Willy , and tumbl'd them upside down . THe Piper he struck up , and Merrily he did play , The shaking of the sheets , and eke the Irish hay : Then up with Aley , Aley , up with Priss and Prue ; In came wanton Willy , among the Jovial crew . The Awed wife she came up . and she began to Mutter , I think you'r all grown , you make so great a clutter : Then up with Aley , Aley , up with Doll , and Jane ; In came wonton Willy , and Kissed them over again . The Coague of Ale went round , and each one drank a Health , Their sorrows for to drown'd , they took no care for wealth : Then up with Aley , Aley , up with mincing Nan : In came wanton Willy , and prov'd himself a Man. The Parson of the Parish , he left the Kirk in haste , For at this merry meeting , he would not be the las Then up with Aley , Aley , up with Kate , and Joyce ; In came wanton Willy , and there he took his choice . And thus with nappy Liquour , their senses they did warm , It made their wits the quicker , they thought not any harm ; Then up with Aley , Aley , with Boozy Bridget too ; In came wanton Willy , and he began to Woo . Deale saw my lug's , quo Jammy , My Friends I pray now hark Let us conclude a Wedding , to make the Parson work : Then up with Aley , Aley , up with Sarah , and peg : In came wanton Willy , and there he danc't a Jig . The bargain was agreed , that Billy , he should have Bess , And so they sent out Harry , for to invite the Guess : Then up with Aley , Aley , up with Gillian fair : In came wanton Willy , and them twa made a pair . Now with this jovial Wedding , I do conclude my Song , And wish that Trenchmore Lasses , they may live merry and long : Then up with Aley , Aley , up with all the train : We will all be merry , if e're we meet again . With Allowance . Printed for P. brooksby , at the Golden-ball , in West-simith-field . E : 385 The West-Country Jig : OR , A Trenchmore Galliard . See how the Lads and Lasses flock together , A Merry making , like Birds of a Feather ; Here's Sam , and Sawny , gentle James and jonny , With Moll and Moggy , and those Girls so bonny : Where they had store of Mirth , and much laughter : Therefore observe it for the best comes after . To a Merry Scotch Tune , Or , Up with Aley Aley , etc JAck's a naughty Boy for calling his Mother Wh --- I'le tell you the reason why because she was one before : Then up with Aley , Aley , up with Frank so free , In came wanton Willy , and smuggl'd them handsomely . Four and twenty Lasses went over Trenchmore Lee , And all of them were Mow'd , unless it were two or three Then up with Aley , Aley , up with jumping Jean , In came wanton Willy , and then the game went on . Jonny he played with Jenny , and Jenny she played with Jock ; And he pull'd out a Guinney , to buy her a Holland Smock : Then up with Aley , Aley , up with Sue , and Siss , And in came wanton Willy , and then they Mump and Kiss . Willy he teuk up Moggy , and asked if she would Dance , But o ! how she did Simper , with many a wink , and glance : Then up with Aley , Aley , up with Bess so Brown ; In came wanton Willy , and tumbl'd them upside down . THe Piper he struck up , and Merrily he did play , The shaking of the sheets , and eke the Irish hay : Then up with Aley , Aley , up with Priss and Prue ; In came wanton Willy , among the Jovial crew . The Awed wife she came up . and she began to Mutter , I think you'r all grown , you make so great a clutter : Then up with Aley , Aley , up with Doll , and Jane ; In came wonton Willy , and Kissed them over again . The Coague of Ale went round , and each one drank a Health , Their sorrows for to drown'd , they took no care for wealth : Then up with Aley , Aley , up with mincing Nan : In came wanton Willy , and prov'd himself a Man. The Parson of the Parish , he left the Kirk in haste , For at this merry meeting , he would not be the las Then up with Aley , Aley , up with Kate , and Joyce ; In came wanton Willy , and there he took his choice . And thus with nappy Liquour , their senses they did warm , It made their wits the quicker , they thought not any harm ; Then up with Aley , Aley , with Boozy Bridget too ; In came wanton Willy , and he began to Woo . Deale saw my lug's , quo Jammy , My Friends I pray now hark Let us conclude a Wedding , to make the Parson work : Then up with Aley , Aley , up with Sarah , and peg : In came wanton Willy , and there he danc't a Jig . The bargain was agreed , that Billy , he should have Bess , And so they sent out Harry , for to invite the Guess : Then up with Aley , Aley , up with Gillian fair : In came wanton Willy , and them twa made a pair . Now with this jovial Wedding , I do conclude my Song , And wish that Trenchmore Lasses , they may live merry and long : Then up with Aley , Aley , up with all the train : We will all be merry , if e're we meet again . With Allowance . Printed for P. brooksby , at the Golden-ball , in West-simith-field . 