E . 332 The Shepherd and the King , and of Gillian the Shepherd's Wife , with her churlish Answer . Being full of Mirth and Pastime . To the Tune of Flying Fame . IN Elder time there as of Yore , when guides of churlish glee , Were us'd among our Country Carls , though no such thing now be ; The which King Alfred liking well , forsook his stately Court , And in disguise unknown went forth , to see that jovial sport , Now Dick and Tom in clouted shoes , and Coats of Russet grey , Estam'd themselves more brave than them that went in Golden Ray ; In garments fit for such a life , the good King Alfred went , All ragged and torn as from his back the beggar his Clothes had wrent . A Sword and Buckler good and strong , to give Jack Sauce a wrap , And on his head instead of a Crown , he wore a Monmouth Cap. Thus coasting thorough Somersetshire , near Newton Court he met , A Shepherd Swain of lusty limb , that up and down did je He wore a Bonnet of good grey , close button'd to his chin , And at his back a leather Scrip , with much good Meat therein . God speed good Shepherd , quoth the King I come to be thy Guest , To taste of thy good Victuals here , and drink that's of the bes Thy Scrip I know hath cheer good store . what then the Shepherd said ? Thou seemest to be some sturdy thief , and mak'st me soar afraid . Yet if thou wilt thy Dinner win the Sword and Buckler take , And if thou canst into my Scrip therewith and entrance make , I tell thee Roister it hath store of Beef and Bacon fat , With shieves of barley bred to make thy Chaps to water a Here stands my battle , here my bag , if thou canst win them Roister , Against the Sword and Buckler here my Sheephook is my master . Benedicite now quoth our good King , it never shall be said , That Alfred of the Shepherd's hook will stand a whit afraid : So soundly thus they both fell to't , and giving bang for bang , At every blow the Shepherd gave King Alfreds Sword cry'd twang . His Buckler prov'd his chiefest fence for still the Shepherd's hook , Was that the which King Alfred could in no good manner brook : At last when they had fought four hours , and it grew just midday , And wearied , both with right good will desired each others stay . King , truce I cry , quoth Alfred then , good Shepherd hold thy hand , A sturdier fellow than thy self lives not within the land . Nor a lustier Roister than thou art , the churlish Shepherd said , To tell thee plain thy thievish looks , now makes my heart afraid ; Else sure thou art some Prodigal which hast consum'd thy store , And now camest wandering in this place to Rob and Steal for more : Deem not of me then quoth our King good Shepherd in this sort , A Gentleman well known I am in good King Alfreds Court . The Devil thou art , the Shepherd said , thou goest in Rags all torn , Thou rather seemest I think to be some beggar basely born ; But if thou wilt mend thy estate , and here a Shepherd be , At night to Gillian my sweet wife thou shalt go home with me . For she's as good a toothless dame as mumbleth on brown bred , Where thou shalt lie in hurden sheets , upon a fresh straw bed . Of whig and whey we have good store and keep good Peas-straw fires , And now and then good Barley Cakes as better Days requires . But for my master which is chief , and Lord of Newton Court , He keeps I say , his Shepherd Swains in far more braver sort ; We there have curds & clouted cream of read Cows morning milk , And now and then fine buttered cakes as soft as any Silk . Of Beef and raised Bacon store that is most fat and greasy . We have likewise to feed our chaps , and make them glib and easy . Thus if thou wilt my man become , this usage thou shalt have , If not adieu go hang thyself , and so farewell Sir Knave . King Alfred hearing of this glee , the churlish Shepherd said , Was well content to be his man , so they a bargain made . A Penny round the shepherd gave , in earnest of this match , To keep his Sheep in field and fold as Shepherd's use to watch . His wages shall be full ten groats for service of a year , Yet was it not his use old Lad to hire a man so dear . For did the King himself , quoth he , unto my Cottage come , He should not for a 12 months pay receive a greater sum . Hereaet the bonny King grew blithe to hear the Clownish jest , Now silly Sots , as Custom is , do discant at the best . but not to spoil the foolish sport he was content good King , To fit the Shepherd's humour right in every kind of thing , A Sheephook then , with Patch his dog , and Tar-box by his side , HE with his Master jig by jowl , unto old Gillian hy'd , into whole sighed no sooner came , whom have you here , quoth she , A fellow I doubt will cut our throats , so like a Knave looks he . Not so , old dame , quod Alfred straight , of me you need not fear , My Master hired me for ten groats to serve you one whole Year : So good dame Gillian grant me leave within your house to stay , For by St. Anne doe what you can , I will not yet away . Her churlish usage pleas'd him still , put him to such proof , That he at night was almost choked , within that smoky Roof : but as he sat with smiling cheer , the event of all to see , His Dame brought forth a piece of dow which in the Fire throws she ; Where lying on the Hearth to bake , by chance the Cake did burn , What canst thou not , thou lout , ( quod she ) take pains the same to turn : Thou art more quick to take it out , and eat it up half dow , Than thus to stay till't be enough , and so thy manners show . But serve me such another trick , i'll thwack thee on the snout , Which made the patient King , good man of her to stand in doubt . But to be brief to bed they went , the good old man and his wife , But never such a Lodging had King Alfred in his life : For he was laid in white Sheeps wool , new pull'd from tanned fells , And o'er his head hang'd spiders webs as if they had been bells' , Is this the Country guise , thought he , then here I will not stay , But hence be gone , as soon as breaks the peeping of next day . The cackling Hens & Geese kept roost , and parched at his side , where at the last the watchful Cock , made known the morning tide ; Then up god Alfred with his horn , and blew so long a blast , That made Gillian and her Groom in bed full soar aghast . Arise , quod she , we are undone , this night we lodged have ; At unawares within our house , a false dissembling Knave ; Rise Husband , rise , he'll cut our throats he calls for his Mates , I'd give , old will , our good Cade Lamb , he would depart our gates . But still King Alfred blew his horn before tO [ h ] em more and more , Till that a hundred Lords and Knights , all lighted at the door : who cry'd , all hail , all hail , good King , long have we sought your Grace . And here you find ( my merry men all ) your Sovereign in this place . We surely must be hang'd up both , old Gillian I much fear , The Shepherd said for using thus our good King Alfred here : Oh pardon , my Liege , quod Gillian then , for my Husband and for me , by these ten bones I never thought the same that now I see ; And by my hook , the Shepherd said , and Oath both good and true , before this time , Oh noble King , I never your Highness knew . Then pardon me , and my old wife , that we may after say , when first you came into our house , it was a happy day . it shall be done , said Alfred straight . and Gillian my Old Dame , For this thy churlish using me , deserveth not much blame ; For this thy Country guise I see to be thus bluntish still , And where the plainest meaning is , remains the smallest ill . And Master lo I tell thee now , for thy low manhood shown , A thousand wethers isle bestow upon thee for thy own . And pasture ground as much as will suffice to feed them all , And this thy Cottage I will change into a stately Hall . As for the same as duty binds , the Shepherd said , good King , A milk white Lamb once every year , isle to your Highness bring : And Gillian my wife likewise , of wool to make you Coats , will give you as much at New-years-tide as shall be worth ten groats , And in your praise my bagpipes shall found sweetly once a year , How Alfred our renowned King most kindly hath been here . Thanks shepherd , thanks , quod he again , the next time I come hither , My Lords with me here in this house will all be merry together . Printed by and for A.M. and sold by the Booksellers of London . E . 332 The Shepherd and the King , and of Gillian the Shepherd's Wife , with her churlish Answer . Being full of Mirth and Pastime . To the Tune of Flying Fame . IN Elder time there as of Yore , when guides of churlish glee , Were us'd among our Country Carls , though no such thing now be ; The which King Alfred liking well , forsook his stately Court , And in disguise unknown went forth , to see that jovial sport , Now Dick and Tom in clouted shoes , and Coats of Russet grey , Estam'd themselves more brave than them that went in Golden Ray ; In garments fit for such a life , the good King Alfred went , All ragged and torn as from his back the beggar his Clothes had wrent . A Sword and Buckler good and strong , to give Jack Sauce a wrap , And on his head instead of a Crown , he wore a Monmouth Cap. Thus coasting thorough Somersetshire , near Newton Court he met , A Shepherd Swain of lusty limb , that up and down did je He wore a Bonnet of good grey , close button'd to his chin , And at his back a leather Scrip , with much good Meat therein . God speed good Shepherd , quoth the King I come to be thy Guest , To taste of thy good Victuals here , and drink that's of the bes Thy Scrip I know hath cheer good store . what then the Shepherd said ? Thou seemest to be some sturdy thief , and mak'st me soar afraid . Yet if thou wilt thy Dinner win the Sword and Buckler take , And if thou canst into my Scrip therewith and entrance make , I tell thee Roister it hath store of Beef and Bacon fat , With shieves of barley bred to make thy Chaps to water a Here stands my battle , here my bag , if thou canst win them Roister , Against the Sword and Buckler here my Sheephook is my master . Benedicite now quoth our good King , it never shall be said , That Alfred of the Shepherd's hook will stand a whit afraid : So soundly thus they both fell to't , and giving bang for bang , At every blow the Shepherd gave King Alfreds Sword cry'd twang . His Buckler prov'd his chiefest fence for still the Shepherd's hook , Was that the which King Alfred could in no good manner brook : At last when they had fought four hours , and it grew just midday , And wearied , both with right good will desired each others stay . King , truce I cry , quoth Alfred then , good Shepherd hold thy hand , A sturdier fellow than thy self lives not within the land . Nor a lustier Roister than thou art , the churlish Shepherd said , To tell thee plain thy thievish looks , now makes my heart afraid ; Else sure thou art some Prodigal which hast consum'd thy store , And now camest wandering in this place to Rob and Steal for more : Deem not of me then quoth our King good Shepherd in this sort , A Gentleman well known I am in good King Alfreds Court . The Devil thou art , the Shepherd said , thou goest in Rags all torn , Thou rather seemest I think to be some beggar basely born ; But if thou wilt mend thy estate , and here a Shepherd be , At night to Gillian my sweet wife thou shalt go home with me . For she's as good a toothless dame as mumbleth on brown bred , Where thou shalt lie in hurden sheets , upon a fresh straw bed . Of whig and whey we have good store and keep good Peas-straw fires , And now and then good Barley Cakes as better Days requires . But for my master which is chief , and Lord of Newton Court , He keeps I say , his Shepherd Swains in far more braver sort ; We there have curds & clouted cream of read Cows morning milk , And now and then fine buttered cakes as soft as any Silk . Of Beef and raised Bacon store that is most fat and greasy . We have likewise to feed our chaps , and make them glib and easy . Thus if thou wilt my man become , this usage thou shalt have , If not adieu go hang thyself , and so farewell Sir Knave . King Alfred hearing of this glee , the churlish Shepherd said , Was well content to be his man , so they a bargain made . A Penny round the shepherd gave , in earnest of this match , To keep his Sheep in field and fold as Shepherd's use to watch . His wages shall be full ten groats for service of a year , Yet was it not his use old Lad to hire a man so dear . For did the King himself , quoth he , unto my Cottage come , He should not for a 12 months pay receive a greater sum . Hereaet the bonny King grew blithe to hear the Clownish jest , Now silly Sots , as Custom is , do discant at the best . but not to spoil the foolish sport he was content good King , To fit the Shepherd's humour right in every kind of thing , A Sheephook then , with Patch his dog , and Tar-box by his side , HE with his Master jig by jowl , unto old Gillian hy'd , into whole sighed no sooner came , whom have you here , quoth she , A fellow I doubt will cut our throats , so like a Knave looks he . Not so , old dame , quod Alfred straight , of me you need not fear , My Master hired me for ten groats to serve you one whole Year : So good dame Gillian grant me leave within your house to stay , For by St. Anne doe what you can , I will not yet away . Her churlish usage pleas'd him still , put him to such proof , That he at night was almost choked , within that smoky Roof : but as he sat with smiling cheer , the event of all to see , His Dame brought forth a piece of dow which in the Fire throws she ; Where lying on the Hearth to bake , by chance the Cake did burn , What canst thou not , thou lout , ( quod she ) take pains the same to turn : Thou art more quick to take it out , and eat it up half dow , Than thus to stay till't be enough , and so thy manners show . But serve me such another trick , i'll thwack thee on the snout , Which made the patient King , good man of her to stand in doubt . But to be brief to bed they went , the good old man and his wife , But never such a Lodging had King Alfred in his life : For he was laid in white Sheeps wool , new pull'd from tanned fells , And o'er his head hang'd spiders webs as if they had been bells' , Is this the Country guise , thought he , then here I will not stay , But hence be gone , as soon as breaks the peeping of next day . The cackling Hens & Geese kept roost , and parched at his side , where at the last the watchful Cock , made known the morning tide ; Then up god Alfred with his horn , and blew so long a blast , That made Gillian and her Groom in bed full soar aghast . Arise , quod she , we are undone , this night we lodged have ; At unawares within our house , a false dissembling Knave ; Rise Husband , rise , he'll cut our throats he calls for his Mates , I'd give , old will , our good Cade Lamb , he would depart our gates . But still King Alfred blew his horn before tO [ h ] em more and more , Till that a hundred Lords and Knights , all lighted at the door : who cry'd , all hail , all hail , good King , long have we sought your Grace . And here you find ( my merry men all ) your Sovereign in this place . We surely must be hang'd up both , old Gillian I much fear , The Shepherd said for using thus our good King Alfred here : Oh pardon , my Liege , quod Gillian then , for my Husband and for me , by these ten bones I never thought the same that now I see ; And by my hook , the Shepherd said , and Oath both good and true , before this time , Oh noble King , I never your Highness knew . Then pardon me , and my old wife , that we may after say , when first you came into our house , it was a happy day . it shall be done , said Alfred straight . and Gillian my Old Dame , For this thy churlish using me , deserveth not much blame ; For this thy Country guise I see to be thus bluntish still , And where the plainest meaning is , remains the smallest ill . And Master lo I tell thee now , for thy low manhood shown , A thousand wethers isle bestow upon thee for thy own . And pasture ground as much as will suffice to feed them all , And this thy Cottage I will change into a stately Hall . As for the same as duty binds , the Shepherd said , good King , A milk white Lamb once every year , isle to your Highness bring : And Gillian my wife likewise , of wool to make you Coats , will give you as much at New-years-tide as shall be worth ten groats , And in your praise my bagpipes shall found sweetly once a year , How Alfred our renowned King most kindly hath been here . Thanks shepherd , thanks , quod he again , the next time I come hither , My Lords with me here in this house will all be merry together . Printed by and for A.M. and sold by the Booksellers of London . 