The Woeful Complaint , and Lamentable Death of a forsaken Lover . To a pleasant new Tune . DOwn by a Forest where I did pass , To see abroad what sports there was , Walking by a pleasant spring , The birds in sundry notes did sing , Long time I wandered here and there , To see what sports in Forest were , At length I herd one make great moan , Saying from me all joys are gone . I gave good heed unto the same , Musing from whence this echo came , And by no means I could devise , From whence this sorrowful found did rise ; But in that place I did remain , Until I herd it once again . Where presently I herd one say , Oh death come take my life away . I looked down on my right hand , A sort of pleasant trees did stand , And under them I did behold , A pleasant place with shadows cold : A sumptuous seat was in the same , Musing from whence this echo came : Then in this place I did perceive A Gentleman most fine and brave . And from that place he did come down , Casting from him his morning Gown , Walking up and down that place , Methought a proper man he was . Thus to himself he did lament , Wishing to God his days were spent , His torment did increase so soar , His heart was able to bore no more . I stepped into a hollow tree , Because I would his passion see : With folded arms looking to 'th skies , The tears alas stood in his eyes : And careless of his life he seem'd , Pity he was no more esteem'd : Then down he lay upon the ground , No ease of sorrow could be found . Thus he lamented in woeful case , Seven long years within few day , Saying , while I live I must remain , And find no help to ease my pain : For she that should my sorrows remove , She does disdain to be my Love , And hath done so since she did hear , That I to her good will did bore . the Gods above come ease my pain , Sith heavy grief does it constrain , For while my corpse remain on earth , She'l show the causes of my death : And every tree that here does stand , Shall be engraven with mine hand : That they long time may witness bore , Love was the cause that I dy'd here . Nature to her did so much right , And in as many virtues dight , Scorning to take the help of Art , As ever did embrace a hear Being so good , so truly try'd , Oh some for less were deifi'd : Full of pity as she may be , And yet perhaps not so to me . When first I saw her pleasant face , Methought a pleasant sighed it was : Her beauty took my wits away , I knew not how one word to say : A Gentleman took her to dance , She gallantly herself did prance , And kept her order in due time , Which made me wish she had been mine : But when I thought she had been my own , Then was she farthest from me flown , She gave no ear unto my cry , Which makes me here in sorrow die . FOr she was in another mind , Which to my pain I often find , Of all my hope's I am beguil'd , Which makes me range the wood so wild . To silent trees I made my moan , And birds and beasts did hear me groan , Yet she that could my sorrows remove , Disloyal wretch to me does prove : My love to her was constant pure , And to my end shall so endure ; And Jove to her I hope will send A grieved mind before her end . I have forsaken friends and kin , My days to end these woods within , My pleasures passed I now do leave , Tweet Saviour Christ my soul receive : Bear witness heaven of my grief , To ease my heart send some relief . Fair Maids unto your Loves be true , If the first be good , change not for new . O young men all be warn'd by me , Gaze not too much on women's beauty , Lest that you be so fettered fast , You cannot be released at las Some women's wiles are too well known , In Love oft changing stick to none , they'l swear they love you with their heart When tongue and mind are both apart . My love to her I did reveal , And from her nothing did conceal , Though at the first she seemed coy , She said at last I was her joy : And none but I her love should have , What need I any more to crave : But Hoggard like she me abus [ ' ] worser , Another taken , and I refus'd . When he had bewail'd his sorrows long , He took his Lute that by him hung , And on the same he sweetly played , While thereupon these words he said : Oh Death when will that hour come , That I have waited for so long ? For while I live I languish still , Finding no help to ease my ill . Then quite he flung his Lute away , And took his sword that by him lay : Says , oft thou hast been thy Master's friend And now thou must his torments end . He gave true sentence in that place , To end his life in woeful case : The Hilt he stuck into the ground , And gave himself a deadly wound , Then unto him I ran amain , But Oh alas it was in vain , For long before to him I came , His death he had upon the same . I found his grave was ready made , Wherein I thought he should be laid , And in that place I laid him down , And overspread his morning Gown : Over his Grave his sword I laid , Whereby his death he had receiv'd , Upon his Lute a peal I rung , And by the place his Lute I hung , Then I beheld on every Tree , Her name that was his only joy ; Which long before his face did stand , Because she god the upper hand . This Maid that did doe all this wrong , To live a Maid thought it o're long , But married was to such a one , As daily made her sighs and groan : Her coyness to her former Love , Disloyal now does truly prove : Take heed fair Maidens for you see Wrongs always will revenged be . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . The Woeful Complaint , and Lamentable Death of a forsaken Lover . To a pleasant new Tune . DOwn by a Forest where I did pass , To see abroad what sports there was , Walking by a pleasant spring , The birds in sundry notes did sing , Long time I wandered here and there , To see what sports in Forest were , At length I herd one make great moan , Saying from me all joys are gone . I gave good heed unto the same , Musing from whence this echo came , And by no means I could devise , From whence this sorrowful found did rise ; But in that place I did remain , Until I herd it once again . Where presently I herd one say , Oh death come take my life away . I looked down on my right hand , A sort of pleasant trees did stand , And under them I did behold , A pleasant place with shadows cold : A sumptuous seat was in the same , Musing from whence this echo came : Then in this place I did perceive A Gentleman most fine and brave . And from that place he did come down , Casting from him his morning Gown , Walking up and down that place , Methought a proper man he was . Thus to himself he did lament , Wishing to God his days were spent , His torment did increase so soar , His heart was able to bore no more . I stepped into a hollow tree , Because I would his passion see : With folded arms looking to 'th skies , The tears alas stood in his eyes : And careless of his life he seem'd , Pity he was no more esteem'd : Then down he lay upon the ground , No ease of sorrow could be found . Thus he lamented in woeful case , Seven long years within few day , Saying , while I live I must remain , And find no help to ease my pain : For she that should my sorrows remove , She does disdain to be my Love , And hath done so since she did hear , That I to her good will did bore . the Gods above come ease my pain , Sith heavy grief does it constrain , For while my corpse remain on earth , She'l show the causes of my death : And every tree that here does stand , Shall be engraven with mine hand : That they long time may witness bore , Love was the cause that I dy'd here . Nature to her did so much right , And in as many virtues dight , Scorning to take the help of Art , As ever did embrace a hear Being so good , so truly try'd , Oh some for less were deifi'd : Full of pity as she may be , And yet perhaps not so to me . When first I saw her pleasant face , Methought a pleasant sighed it was : Her beauty took my wits away , I knew not how one word to say : A Gentleman took her to dance , She gallantly herself did prance , And kept her order in due time , Which made me wish she had been mine : But when I thought she had been my own , Then was she farthest from me flown , She gave no ear unto my cry , Which makes me here in sorrow die . FOr she was in another mind , Which to my pain I often find , Of all my hope's I am beguil'd , Which makes me range the wood so wild . To silent trees I made my moan , And birds and beasts did hear me groan , Yet she that could my sorrows remove , Disloyal wretch to me does prove : My love to her was constant pure , And to my end shall so endure ; And Jove to her I hope will send A grieved mind before her end . I have forsaken friends and kin , My days to end these woods within , My pleasures passed I now do leave , Tweet Saviour Christ my soul receive : Bear witness heaven of my grief , To ease my heart send some relief . Fair Maids unto your Loves be true , If the first be good , change not for new . O young men all be warn'd by me , Gaze not too much on women's beauty , Lest that you be so fettered fast , You cannot be released at las Some women's wiles are too well known , In Love oft changing stick to none , they'l swear they love you with their heart When tongue and mind are both apart . My love to her I did reveal , And from her nothing did conceal , Though at the first she seemed coy , She said at last I was her joy : And none but I her love should have , What need I any more to crave : But Hoggard like she me abus [ ' ] worser , Another taken , and I refus'd . When he had bewail'd his sorrows long , He took his Lute that by him hung , And on the same he sweetly played , While thereupon these words he said : Oh Death when will that hour come , That I have waited for so long ? For while I live I languish still , Finding no help to ease my ill . Then quite he flung his Lute away , And took his sword that by him lay : Says , oft thou hast been thy Master's friend And now thou must his torments end . He gave true sentence in that place , To end his life in woeful case : The Hilt he stuck into the ground , And gave himself a deadly wound , Then unto him I ran amain , But Oh alas it was in vain , For long before to him I came , His death he had upon the same . I found his grave was ready made , Wherein I thought he should be laid , And in that place I laid him down , And overspread his morning Gown : Over his Grave his sword I laid , Whereby his death he had receiv'd , Upon his Lute a peal I rung , And by the place his Lute I hung , Then I beheld on every Tree , Her name that was his only joy ; Which long before his face did stand , Because she god the upper hand . This Maid that did doe all this wrong , To live a Maid thought it o're long , But married was to such a one , As daily made her sighs and groan : Her coyness to her former Love , Disloyal now does truly prove : Take heed fair Maidens for you see Wrongs always will revenged be . Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , and J. Wright . 