E : 340 The Spanish Ladies Love , To a pleasant new tune , WIll you hear a Spanish Lady , how she woo'd and English man Garments gay as rich as may be , decked with Jewels had she on . Of a fair and comely countenance , and grace was she , And by birth and parentage , of high degree . As his prisoner there he kept her , in his hands her life did lie , Cupids bans did tie her faster , by the liking of and eye , In his courteous company , was all her joy , To favour him in any thing , she was not coy . But at last there came commandment for to set all Ladies free , With their Jewels still adorned , none to do them injury , Oh then said this Lady gay , full woe is me , Oh let me still sustain this kind Captivity , Gallant Captain take some pity , on a woman in distress , Leave me not within this City , for to die in heaviness . Thou hast set this present day my body free , But my heart in prison still , remains with thee . How shouldst thou fair Lady love me whom thou knowest thy Countries so , Thy fair words make me suspect thee , Serpents lie where flowers grow , All the harm I think on thee , most courteous knight , God grant upon my life the same may fully light . Blessed be the time and Season , that you came on Spanish ground , If you may our foes be termed , gentle foes we have you found , With our City you have wone , our hearts each one , Then to your Country bear away , that is your own , The second part , To the same tune , REst you still most gallant Lady , rest you still and weep no more , Of fair flowers there are plenty Spain does yield you wondrous store . Spaniards frought with jealousy , we oft do find , But English men throughout the world are counted kind , Leave me not unto a Spaniard thou alone enjoest my heart , I am lovely young and tender love is likewise my desert . Still to serve thee day and night , my mind is pressed , The wife of every English man is counted blessed , It would be a shame fair Lady for to bear a woman hence , English Soldiers never carry any such without offence . I will quickly change my self , if it be so , And like a page will follow thee , where ere thou go , I have neither gold nor silver , to maintain thee in this cafe , And to travel this great charges , as you know in every place , My chains and Jewels every one , shall be thine own , And eke a hundred pound in gold , which lies unknown . On the Seas are many dangers , many storms do there arise , Which will be to Ladies dreadful and force tears from watery eyes , Well in worth shall I endure , extremity , For I could find in heart to lose , my life for thee , Courteoes Lady leave this fancy , here comes all that breeds the strife , I in England have already a sweet woman to my wife . I will not falsify my vow . for gold nor gain , Nor yet for all the fairest Dams , that lives in Spain . O how happy is that woman that enjoys so true a friend , Many happy days God send hend her of my Suit I'll make and end , On my knees I pardon crave , for my offence , Which love and true affection , did first commence , Commend me to that gallant Lady bear to her this chain of gold , With these bracelets for a token . grieving that I was so bold All my Jewels in like sort , take thou with thee , For these are fitting for thy wife , and not for me . I will spend my days in prayer love and and all her laws defy In a Nunnery will I shroud me far from any company But ere my prayer have and end be sure of this To pray for thee and for thy love I will not miss , Thus farewell most gallant Captain : and farewell my hearts content Count not Spanish Ladies wanton , though to thee my mind was bent Joy and true prosperity remain with thee , The like fallen to thy share , most fair Lady Printed for F. Coals , TO , Vere and W , Gilbertson . E : 340 The Spanish Ladies Love , To a pleasant new tune , WIll you hear a Spanish Lady , how she woo'd and English man Garments gay as rich as may be , decked with Jewels had she on . Of a fair and comely countenance , and grace was she , And by birth and parentage , of high degree . As his prisoner there he kept her , in his hands her life did lie , Cupids bans did tie her faster , by the liking of and eye , In his courteous company , was all her joy , To favour him in any thing , she was not coy . But at last there came commandment for to set all Ladies free , With their Jewels still adorned , none to do them injury , Oh then said this Lady gay , full woe is me , Oh let me still sustain this kind Captivity , Gallant Captain take some pity , on a woman in distress , Leave me not within this City , for to die in heaviness . Thou hast set this present day my body free , But my heart in prison still , remains with thee . How shouldst thou fair Lady love me whom thou knowest thy Countries so , Thy fair words make me suspect thee , Serpents lie where flowers grow , All the harm I think on thee , most courteous knight , God grant upon my life the same may fully light . Blessed be the time and Season , that you came on Spanish ground , If you may our foes be termed , gentle foes we have you found , With our City you have wone , our hearts each one , Then to your Country bear away , that is your own , The second part , To the same tune , REst you still most gallant Lady , rest you still and weep no more , Of fair flowers there are plenty Spain does yield you wondrous store . Spaniards frought with jealousy , we oft do find , But English men throughout the world are counted kind , Leave me not unto a Spaniard thou alone enjoest my heart , I am lovely young and tender love is likewise my desert . Still to serve thee day and night , my mind is pressed , The wife of every English man is counted blessed , It would be a shame fair Lady for to bear a woman hence , English Soldiers never carry any such without offence . I will quickly change my self , if it be so , And like a page will follow thee , where ere thou go , I have neither gold nor silver , to maintain thee in this cafe , And to travel this great charges , as you know in every place , My chains and Jewels every one , shall be thine own , And eke a hundred pound in gold , which lies unknown . On the Seas are many dangers , many storms do there arise , Which will be to Ladies dreadful and force tears from watery eyes , Well in worth shall I endure , extremity , For I could find in heart to lose , my life for thee , Courteoes Lady leave this fancy , here comes all that breeds the strife , I in England have already a sweet woman to my wife . I will not falsify my vow . for gold nor gain , Nor yet for all the fairest Dams , that lives in Spain . O how happy is that woman that enjoys so true a friend , Many happy days God send hend her of my Suit I'll make and end , On my knees I pardon crave , for my offence , Which love and true affection , did first commence , Commend me to that gallant Lady bear to her this chain of gold , With these bracelets for a token . grieving that I was so bold All my Jewels in like sort , take thou with thee , For these are fitting for thy wife , and not for me . I will spend my days in prayer love and and all her laws defy In a Nunnery will I shroud me far from any company But ere my prayer have and end be sure of this To pray for thee and for thy love I will not miss , Thus farewell most gallant Captain : and farewell my hearts content Count not Spanish Ladies wanton , though to thee my mind was bent Joy and true prosperity remain with thee , The like fallen to thy share , most fair Lady Printed for F. Coals , TO , Vere and W , Gilbertson . 