E : 338 The Soldiers Fortune : OR , The Taking of MARDIKE . WHen first Mardike was made a Prey , 'Twas Courage that carry'd the Fort away , Then to not loose your Valours Prize , By gazing on your Mistress Eyes ; But put off your Petticoat-Parley ; Potting and sotting , and laughing and quaffing Canary , Will make a good Soldier miscarry , And never Travel for true Renown : Then turn to your Martial Mistress , Fair Minerva the Soldier's Sister is ; Rallying & sallying , with gashing & slashing of Wounds , Sir , With turning and burning of Towns , Sir , Is a high step to a great men Throne . Let bold Bellona's Brewer frown , And his Tun shall overflow the Town ; And give the Cobbler Sword and Fate , And a Tinker may trappan the State : Such fortunate Foes as these be , Turn'd the Crown to a Cross at Naseby : Father and Mother , and Sister and Brother confound [ worser ] And many a good family wounded By a terrible Turn of Fate . He that can kill a Man , thunder and plunder the Tow [ n , ] Si [ r , ] And pull his Enemies down , Sir , In time may be and Officer great . It is the Sword do's order all , Makes Peasants rile and Princes fallen ; All Syllogisms in vain are spilled , No Logic like a Basket-Hilt ; It handles 'em joint by joint , Sir ; Quilling & drilling and spilling and killing profoundly , Until the Disputers on Ground lie , And have never a word to say : Unless it be quarter , quarter , truth is confuted by a Carter , By stripping & nipping , & ripping & quipping Evasions , Does Conquer a power of Persuasions , Aristotle hath lost the Day . The Musket bears so great a Force , To Learning it has no remorse ; The Priest , the Layman , and the Lord , Find no distinction from the Sword ; Tan tarra , Tan-tarra , the Trumpet , Has blown away Babylon's Strumpe Now the Walls begin to crack , The Counsellors are struck dumb too ; By the Parchment upon the Drum too ; Dub-a-dub , dub-a-dub , dub-a-dub , dub-a-dub , and Alarm , Each Corporal now can outdare 'em , Learned Littleton goes to rack . Then since the Sword so bright does shine , We'll leave our Wenches and our Wine , And follow Mars where e'er he runs , And turn our Pots and Pipes to Guns : The Bottles shall be Granado's , We'll bounce about the Bravado's , By huffing and puffing , and snuffing and cuffing the French , Boys , Whose Brows has been dy'd in a Trench , Boys ; Well-got Fame is a Warrior's Wife , The Drawer shall be the Drummer , We'll be Colonels all next Summer ; By hilting and tilting , and pointing and jointing like brave Boys , We shall have Gold , or a Grave , Boys , And there's and end of a Soldier's Life . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner . E : 338 The Soldiers Fortune : OR , The Taking of MARDIKE . WHen first Mardike was made a Prey , 'Twas Courage that carry'd the Fort away , Then to not loose your Valours Prize , By gazing on your Mistress Eyes ; But put off your Petticoat-Parley ; Potting and sotting , and laughing and quaffing Canary , Will make a good Soldier miscarry , And never Travel for true Renown : Then turn to your Martial Mistress , Fair Minerva the Soldier's Sister is ; Rallying & sallying , with gashing & slashing of Wounds , Sir , With turning and burning of Towns , Sir , Is a high step to a great men Throne . Let bold Bellona's Brewer frown , And his Tun shall overflow the Town ; And give the Cobbler Sword and Fate , And a Tinker may trappan the State : Such fortunate Foes as these be , Turn'd the Crown to a Cross at Naseby : Father and Mother , and Sister and Brother confound [ worser ] And many a good family wounded By a terrible Turn of Fate . He that can kill a Man , thunder and plunder the Tow [ n , ] Si [ r , ] And pull his Enemies down , Sir , In time may be and Officer great . It is the Sword do's order all , Makes Peasants rile and Princes fallen ; All Syllogisms in vain are spilled , No Logic like a Basket-Hilt ; It handles 'em joint by joint , Sir ; Quilling & drilling and spilling and killing profoundly , Until the Disputers on Ground lie , And have never a word to say : Unless it be quarter , quarter , truth is confuted by a Carter , By stripping & nipping , & ripping & quipping Evasions , Does Conquer a power of Persuasions , Aristotle hath lost the Day . The Musket bears so great a Force , To Learning it has no remorse ; The Priest , the Layman , and the Lord , Find no distinction from the Sword ; Tan tarra , Tan-tarra , the Trumpet , Has blown away Babylon's Strumpe Now the Walls begin to crack , The Counsellors are struck dumb too ; By the Parchment upon the Drum too ; Dub-a-dub , dub-a-dub , dub-a-dub , dub-a-dub , and Alarm , Each Corporal now can outdare 'em , Learned Littleton goes to rack . Then since the Sword so bright does shine , We'll leave our Wenches and our Wine , And follow Mars where e'er he runs , And turn our Pots and Pipes to Guns : The Bottles shall be Granado's , We'll bounce about the Bravado's , By huffing and puffing , and snuffing and cuffing the French , Boys , Whose Brows has been dy'd in a Trench , Boys ; Well-got Fame is a Warrior's Wife , The Drawer shall be the Drummer , We'll be Colonels all next Summer ; By hilting and tilting , and pointing and jointing like brave Boys , We shall have Gold , or a Grave , Boys , And there's and end of a Soldier's Life . FINIS . Printed for P. Brooksby , at the Golden-Ball in Pye-Corner . 