E : 395 The Woeful LAMENTATION of JANE SHORE , A Goldsmith's Wife , in London , sometime King EDWARD the Fourth's CONCUBINE , who for her Wanton Life came to a Miserable End : Set forth for the EXAMPLE of all Wicked LIVERS . To the Tune of , Live with me , etc Licens'd and Enter'd according to Order . IF Rosamond that was so fair , Had cause her Sorrows to declare , Then let Jane Shore with sorrow sing , That was beloved of a King : Then wanton Wives in time amend , For Love and Beauty will have end . In Maiden years my Beauty bright , Was loved dear of Lord and Knight , But yet the love that they requir'd , It was not as my Friends desir'd : My Parents they for thirst of Gain , A Husband for me did obtain , And I their pleasure to fulfil , Was forc'd to wed against my will : To Matthew Shore I was a Wife , Till Lust brought ruin to my life , And then my life so lewdly spent , Which makes my soul for to lamen In Lumbard-street I once did dwell , As London yet can witness well , Where many Gallants did behold My Beauty in a Shop of Gold : I spread my plumes as Wantons do , Some swe [ e ] tO and secret Friend to woo , Because m [ y ] Love I did not find , Agreeing to my wanton mind . At last my name in Court did ring , Into the ears of England's King , Who came and lik'd , and love requir'd ; [ But I mad ] e coy what he desir'd : [ Yet Mistress ] Blague , a Neighbour near , [ Whose friendshi ] p I esteemed [ dear ] , [ Did say it was a ] gallant th [ ing : ] [ To be beloved of a K ] ing [ . ] [ By her persuasions I was led , For to defile my Marriage bed , ] And wrong my wedded Husband Shore , Whom I had lov'd ten Years before . In heart and mind I did rejoice , That I had made so sweet a Choice , And therefore did my State resign , To be King Edward's Concubine . From City then to Court I went , To reap the pleasures of Content , And had the joys that Love could bring , And knew the Secrets of a King : When I was thus advanc'd on high , Commanding Edward with mine Eye , For Mistress Blague I in short space Obtain'd a Living of his Grace . Not Friend I had but in short time I made unto Promotion climb : But yet for all this costly pride , My Husband could not me abide : His bed , though wronged by a King , His heart with grief did deadly sting : From England then he goes away , To end his life upon the Sea ; He could not live to see his Name Impaired by my wanton Shame , Although a Prince of Peerless Might , Did reap the pleasures of his Right . Long time I lived in the Court , With Lords and Ladies of great sort , For when I smil'd all Men were glad , But when I mourn'd my Prince grew sad . But yet and honest mind I boar , To helpless People that were poor , I still redressed the Orphan's Cry , And sav'd their lives condemn'd to die . I still had ruth on Widows Tears , I succour'd Babes of tender years , And never looked for other gain , But Love and Thanks for all my pain . At last my Royal King did die , And then my days of Woe grew nigh , When Crookback Richard god the Crown , King Edward's Friends were soon put down . I then was punished for my since , That I so long had lived in : Yea , every one that was his Friend , This Tyrant brought to shameful End. Then for my rude and wanton Life , That made a Strumpet of a Wife , I Penance did in Lumbard-street , In shameful manner in a Shee Where many thousands did me view , Who late in Court my Credit knew ; Which made the tears run down my face To think upon my foul Disgrace : Not thus content , they took from me My Goods , my Livings , and my Fee , And charg'd that none should me Relieve , [ Nor ] any Succour to me give : Then unto Mistress Blague I went , To whom my Jewels I had sent , In hope thereby to ease my Want , When Riches fail'd , and Love grew scan But she deny'd to me the same , When in my Need for them I came : To recompense my former Love , Out of her Doors she did me shove : So Love did vanish with my State , Which now my soul repents too late ; Therefore Example take by me , For Friendship parts in Poverty . But yet one Friend among the rest , Whom I before had seen distressed , And sav'd his Life condemn'd to die , Did give me Food to succour me ; For which , by Law , it was decreed , That he was hanged for that Deed : His Death did grieve me so much more , Then had I died myself therefore : Then those to whom I had done good , Durst not restore me any food ; Whereby in vain I beg'd all day , And still in Streets by night I lay . My Gowns beset with Pearl and Gold , Are turn'd to simple Garments old ; My Chains and Jems and golden Rings , To filthy Rags and loathsome Things , Thus was I scorn'd of Maid and Wife , For leading such a wicked Life : Both sucking Babes and Children small , Did make a Pastime at my Fallen ; I could not get one bit of Bred , Whereby my Hunger might be fed : Nor Drink but such as Channels yield , Or stinking Ditches in the Field ; Thus weary of my Life at length , I yielded up my vital strength , Within a Ditch of loathsome scent , Where Carrion-dogs do much frequent , The which now since my Dying-day , Is Shoreditch call'd as Writers say : Which is a Witness of my since , For being Concubine to a King : You wanton Wives that fallen to Lust , Be you assur'd that God is Just ; Whoredom shall not escape his hand , Nor Pride unpunished in this Land ; If God to me such Shame should bring , That yielded only to a King ; How shall they 'scape that daily run , To practice since with every Man ? You Husbands match not but for Love , Lest some Disliking after prove ; Women be warn'd when you are Wives , What Plagues are due to sinful Lives : Then Maids & Wives in time amend , For Love and Be [ a ] uty will have end . The Second Part of J. SHORE , wherein her Husband Bewailed the Estate , her Wantonness , the Wrong of Marriage , and the Fallen of Pride . IF she that was fair London's Pride , For Beauty fam'd both far and wide , With Swanlike-song in Sadness told , Her deep Distresses manifold : Then in the same let me also , Now bear a part of such like Woe : Kind Matthew Shore , Men called me , A Goldsmith once of good Degree , And might have lived long therein , Had not my Wife been wed to since : Ah! gentle Jane , thy wanton Raze , Hath brought me to this foul Disgrace . Thou hadst all things at wish and will , Thy wanton Fancy to fulfil , No London Dame nor Merchant's Wife , Did led so sweet and pleasant Life : Then gentle Jane , the Truth report , Why left'st thou me to live in Court ? Thou hadst both Gold and Silver store , No Wife in London then had more ; And once a Week to walk in Field , To see what pleasure it would yield . But woe to me that Liberty , Hath brought me to this Misery : I married thee while thou wertenberg young , Before thou knew'st what did belong , To Husband's Love , or Marriage-state , Which now my Soul repents too late : Thus wanton Pride made thee Unjust , And so deceived was my Trust. But when the King possessed my room , And cropped my rosy gallant Bloom , Fair London's Blossom , and my joy , My heart was drown'd in deep annoy , To think how unto public Shame , Thy wicked Life brought my good Name . And then I thought each Man and Wife , In jesting sort accus'd my Life ; And every one to the other said , That Shore's fair Wife the Wanton played ; Thereby in mind I grew to change My Dwelling in some Country strange , My Lands and Goods I sold away , And so from England went to Sea ; Oppressed with Grief and woeful Mind , But left my Cause of Grief behind : My loving Wife whom I once thought , Would never be to Lewdness brought , But Women now I well espy , Are subject to Unconstancy ; And few there be so true of Love , But by long suit will wanton prove ; For Flesh is frail , and Women weak , When Kings for Love long suit do make . But yet from England my Depart , Was with a sad and heavy Heart , Whereat when as my Leave I took , I sent back many a heavy look , Desiring God , if it might be , To send one sighs , sweet Jane , to thee ! For if thou hadst but constant been , These days of woe I ne'r had seen , But yet I mourn and grieve full soar , To think what Plagues are left in store , For such as careless tread awry , The modest Paths of Constancy : Ah! gentle Jane , if thou did'st know , The uncouth Paths I daily go , And woeful Tears for thee I shed , For wronging thus my Marriagebed , Then sure I am thou would'st confess , My Love was sure though in Distress : Both Flanders , France , and Spain I passed , And came to Turky at thee : 395 The Woeful LAMENTATION of JANE SHORE , A Goldsmith's Wife , in London , sometime King EDWARD the Fourth's CONCUBINE , who for her Wanton Life came to a Miserable End : Set forth for the EXAMPLE of all Wicked LIVERS . To the Tune of , Live with me , etc Licens'd and Enter'd according to Order . IF Rosamond that was so fair , Had cause her Sorrows to declare , Then let Jane Shore with sorrow sing , That was beloved of a King : Then wanton Wives in time amend , For Love and Beauty will have end . In Maiden years my Beauty bright , Was loved dear of Lord and Knight , But yet the love that they requir'd , It was not as my Friends desir'd : My Parents they for thirst of Gain , A Husband for me did obtain , And I their pleasure to fulfil , Was forc'd to wed against my will : To Matthew Shore I was a Wife , Till Lust brought ruin to my life , And then my life so lewdly spent , Which makes my soul for to lamen In Lumbard-street I once did dwell , As London yet can witness well , Where many Gallants did behold My Beauty in a Shop of Gold : I spread my plumes as Wantons do , Some swe [ e ] tO and secret Friend to woo , Because m [ y ] Love I did not find , Agreeing to my wanton mind . At last my name in Court did ring , Into the ears of England's King , Who came and lik'd , and love requir'd ; [ But I mad ] e coy what he desir'd : [ Yet Mistress ] Blague , a Neighbour near , [ Whose friendshi ] p I esteemed [ dear ] , [ Did say it was a ] gallant th [ ing : ] [ To be beloved of a K ] ing [ . ] [ By her persuasions I was led , For to defile my Marriage bed , ] And wrong my wedded Husband Shore , Whom I had lov'd ten Years before . In heart and mind I did rejoice , That I had made so sweet a Choice , And therefore did my State resign , To be King Edward's Concubine . From City then to Court I went , To reap the pleasures of Content , And had the joys that Love could bring , And knew the Secrets of a King : When I was thus advanc'd on high , Commanding Edward with mine Eye , For Mistress Blague I in short space Obtain'd a Living of his Grace . Not Friend I had but in short time I made unto Promotion climb : But yet for all this costly pride , My Husband could not me abide : His bed , though wronged by a King , His heart with grief did deadly sting : From England then he goes away , To end his life upon the Sea ; He could not live to see his Name Impaired by my wanton Shame , Although a Prince of Peerless Might , Did reap the pleasures of his Right . Long time I lived in the Court , With Lords and Ladies of great sort , For when I smil'd all Men were glad , But when I mourn'd my Prince grew sad . But yet and honest mind I boar , To helpless People that were poor , I still redressed the Orphan's Cry , And sav'd their lives condemn'd to die . I still had ruth on Widows Tears , I succour'd Babes of tender years , And never looked for other gain , But Love and Thanks for all my pain . At last my Royal King did die , And then my days of Woe grew nigh , When Crookback Richard god the Crown , King Edward's Friends were soon put down . I then was punished for my since , That I so long had lived in : Yea , every one that was his Friend , This Tyrant brought to shameful End. Then for my rude and wanton Life , That made a Strumpet of a Wife , I Penance did in Lumbard-street , In shameful manner in a Shee Where many thousands did me view , Who late in Court my Credit knew ; Which made the tears run down my face To think upon my foul Disgrace : Not thus content , they took from me My Goods , my Livings , and my Fee , And charg'd that none should me Relieve , [ Nor ] any Succour to me give : Then unto Mistress Blague I went , To whom my Jewels I had sent , In hope thereby to ease my Want , When Riches fail'd , and Love grew scan But she deny'd to me the same , When in my Need for them I came : To recompense my former Love , Out of her Doors she did me shove : So Love did vanish with my State , Which now my soul repents too late ; Therefore Example take by me , For Friendship parts in Poverty . But yet one Friend among the rest , Whom I before had seen distressed , And sav'd his Life condemn'd to die , Did give me Food to succour me ; For which , by Law , it was decreed , That he was hanged for that Deed : His Death did grieve me so much more , Then had I died myself therefore : Then those to whom I had done good , Durst not restore me any food ; Whereby in vain I beg'd all day , And still in Streets by night I lay . My Gowns beset with Pearl and Gold , Are turn'd to simple Garments old ; My Chains and Jems and golden Rings , To filthy Rags and loathsome Things , Thus was I scorn'd of Maid and Wife , For leading such a wicked Life : Both sucking Babes and Children small , Did make a Pastime at my Fallen ; I could not get one bit of Bred , Whereby my Hunger might be fed : Nor Drink but such as Channels yield , Or stinking Ditches in the Field ; Thus weary of my Life at length , I yielded up my vital strength , Within a Ditch of loathsome scent , Where Carrion-dogs do much frequent , The which now since my Dying-day , Is Shoreditch call'd as Writers say : Which is a Witness of my since , For being Concubine to a King : You wanton Wives that fallen to Lust , Be you assur'd that God is Just ; Whoredom shall not escape his hand , Nor Pride unpunished in this Land ; If God to me such Shame should bring , That yielded only to a King ; How shall they 'scape that daily run , To practice since with every Man ? You Husbands match not but for Love , Lest some Disliking after prove ; Women be warn'd when you are Wives , What Plagues are due to sinful Lives : Then Maids & Wives in time amend , For Love and Be [ a ] uty will have end . The Second Part of J. SHORE , wherein her Husband Bewailed the Estate , her Wantonness , the Wrong of Marriage , and the Fallen of Pride . IF she that was fair London's Pride , For Beauty fam'd both far and wide , With Swanlike-song in Sadness told , Her deep Distresses manifold : Then in the same let me also , Now bear a part of such like Woe : Kind Matthew Shore , Men called me , A Goldsmith once of good Degree , And might have lived long therein , Had not my Wife been wed to since : Ah! gentle Jane , thy wanton Raze , Hath brought me to this foul Disgrace . Thou hadst all things at wish and will , Thy wanton Fancy to fulfil , No London Dame nor Merchant's Wife , Did led so sweet and pleasant Life : Then gentle Jane , the Truth report , Why left'st thou me to live in Court ? Thou hadst both Gold and Silver store , No Wife in London then had more ; And once a Week to walk in Field , To see what pleasure it would yield . But woe to me that Liberty , Hath brought me to this Misery : I married thee while thou wertenberg young , Before thou knew'st what did belong , To Husband's Love , or Marriage-state , Which now my Soul repents too late : Thus wanton Pride made thee Unjust , And so deceived was my Trust. But when the King possessed my room , And cropped my rosy gallant Bloom , Fair London's Blossom , and my joy , My heart was drown'd in deep annoy , To think how unto public Shame , Thy wicked Life brought my good Name . And then I thought each Man and Wife , In jesting sort accus'd my Life ; And every one to the other said , That Shore's fair Wife the Wanton played ; Thereby in mind I grew to change My Dwelling in some Country strange , My Lands and Goods I sold away , And so from England went to Sea ; Oppressed with Grief and woeful Mind , But left my Cause of Grief behind : My loving Wife whom I once thought , Would never be to Lewdness brought , But Women now I well espy , Are subject to Unconstancy ; And few there be so true of Love , But by long suit will wanton prove ; For Flesh is frail , and Women weak , When Kings for Love long suit do make . But yet from England my Depart , Was with a sad and heavy Heart , Whereat when as my Leave I took , I sent back many a heavy look , Desiring God , if it might be , To send one sighs , sweet Jane , to thee ! For if thou hadst but constant been , These days of woe I ne'r had seen , But yet I mourn and grieve full soar , To think what Plagues are left in store , For such as careless tread awry , The modest Paths of Constancy : Ah! gentle Jane , if thou did'st know , The uncouth Paths I daily go , And woeful Tears for thee I shed , For wronging thus my Marriagebed , Then sure I am thou would'st confess , My Love was sure though in Distress : Both Flanders , France , and Spain I passed , And came to Turky at the last ; And there within that mighty Court , I lived long in honest sort ; Desiring God , that sits in Heaven , That Lovers Sins might be forgiven , And there advanc'd thy loving Name , Of living Wights the fairest Dame : The praise of England's Beauty stain , All which thy Husband did maintain , And set thy Picture there in Gold , For Kings and Princes to behold , But when I thought upon thy since , Thy wanton thoughts delighted in , I griev'd that such a comely Face , Should hold true Honour in Disgrace , And counted it a Luckless day , When as thou first did'st go Astray , Desiring then some News to hear , Of her my Soul did love so dear , My Secrets then I did impart , To one well skill'd in Magic Art , Who in a Glass did truly show , Such things as I desir'd to know : I there did see thy Courtly State , Thy Pomp , thy Pride , thy Glory great ; And likewise there I did behold , My Jane in Edward's Arms enfold : Thy secret Love I there espy'd , Thy Rice , thy Fallen , and how thou died ; Thy naked Body in the Street , I saw doe Penance in a Sheet ; Barefoot before the Beadle's Wand , With burning Taper in thy Hand , And Babes , not having use of Tongue , Stood pointing as thou went'st along , Thus ended was the Shame of thine , Though God gave yet no end to mine : When I suppos'd my Name forgotten , And time had washed away my Blot , And in another Prince's Reign , I came to England back again : But staying there , my Friends decay'd , My Prince's Laws I disobey'd , And by true Justice judg'd to die , For Clipping Gold in secrecy : By Gold was my best Living made , And so by Gold my Life decay'd : Thus have you herd the woeful Strife , That came by my Unconstant Wife , Her Fallen , my Death , wherein is shew'd , The Story of a Strumpet lewd ; In hope thereby some Women may Take heed how they the Wanton [ play . ] Printed by and for W [ . ] O. for A.M. and sold by the Booksellers of Pie-corner and Londo [ n-Bridge . ] e last ; And there within that mighty Court , I lived long in honest sort ; Desiring God , that sits in Heaven , That Lovers Sins might be forgiven , And there advanc'd thy loving Name , Of living Wights the fairest Dame : The praise of England's Beauty stain , All which thy Husband did maintain , And set thy Picture there in Gold , For Kings and Princes to behold , But when I thought upon thy since , Thy wanton thoughts delighted in , I griev'd that such a comely Face , Should hold true Honour in Disgrace , And counted it a Luckless day , When as thou first did'st go Astray , Desiring then some News to hear , Of her my Soul did love so dear , My Secrets then I did impart , To one well skill'd in Magic Art , Who in a Glass did truly show , Such things as I desir'd to know : I there did see thy Courtly State , Thy Pomp , thy Pride , thy Glory great ; And likewise there I did behold , My Jane in Edward's Arms enfold : Thy secret Love I there espy'd , Thy Rice , thy Fallen , and how thou died ; Thy naked Body in the Street , I saw doe Penance in a Sheet ; Barefoot before the Beadle's Wand , With burning Taper in thy Hand , And Babes , not having use of Tongue , Stood pointing as thou went'st along , Thus ended was the Shame of thine , Though God gave yet no end to mine : When I suppos'd my Name forgotten , And time had washed away my Blot , And in another Prince's Reign , I came to England back again : But staying there , my Friends decay'd , My Prince's Laws I disobey'd , And by true Justice judg'd to die , For Clipping Gold in secrecy : By Gold was my best Living made , And so by Gold my Life decay'd : Thus have you herd the woeful Strife , That came by my Unconstant Wife , Her Fallen , my Death , wherein is shew'd , The Story of a Strumpet lewd ; In hope thereby some Women may Take heed how they the Wanton [ play . ] Printed by and for W [ . ] O. for A.M. and sold by the Booksellers of Pie-corner and Londo [ n-Bridge . ] 