E : 342 Strange News from WESTMORELAND . Being a true Relation of one Gabriel Harding , who coming home Drunk , struck his Wife a blow on the Breast and killed her outright ; then did he forswear the evil Deed which he knew himself guilty of . Likewise how a stranger did come to the House clothed in Green , the people that were eye witness said it was and Angel . Likewise how the Stranger or Angel did give Sen - tense upon the man for killing of his Wife . Also how Satan did break the men Neck that did forswear himself ; and the Stranger or Angel did command Satan to hurt none else , and to va - nish : which being done , there was a pleasant Harmony of Music herd to found : Then did the Stranger clothed in Green , take his leave of the people ; whereof the chiefest in the Parish desired it might be put in Print , and have hereunto set their Hands . To the Tune of , In Summer time . ATtend good Christian people all , Mark what I say both old and young , Unto the general Judgement Day I think the time's not very long . A wonder strange I have t' relate , I think the like was never shown , In Westmoreland at Tredenton , Of such a thing was never known . One Gabriel Harding liv'd of late , As may to all men just appear ; Whose yearly Rend by just account Came to five hundred pound a year . This man he had a virtuous Wife , In godly ways her mind did give ; Yet he as rude a wicked wretch As in this sinful Land did live . Such news of him I will relate ; The like no mortal man did hear , 'Tis very new , and all so true , Therefore good Christians all give ear ; One time this man he came home drunk As he us'd , which made his Wife to weep , Who gently took him by the hand ; Saying , Dear Husband lie down and sleep . She lovingly took him by the arm , Thinking in safety him to guide ; A blow he struck her on the Breast , The Woman straight sunk down and dy'd . The Children then with mournful cries They run into the open street , They wept , they wail'd , they wrung their hands To all Christians that they did meet . The people then they all run forth , Said , Children why make you such moan ? O make you haste unto our house ! Our dear Mother is dead and gone : Our Father hath our Mother kill'd The Children they cried out than , The people then they all made haste And laid their hands upon the man . He presently deny'd the same , Said , from guilty Murder I am free , If I did that wicked deed he said , Some Example I wish be seen by me . Thus he forswore the wicked deed Of his dear Wives untimely end : Quoth the people , let's conclude with speed That for the Crowner we may send . Mark what I say , the doors fast shut , The people the Children did deplore ; But straight they herd a man to speak , And one stood knocking at the door . One in the house to the door made haste , Hearing a man to knock and call , The door was opened presently And in he comes among them all . The second Part , to the same Tune . BY your leave good people then he said , May a stranger with you have some talk , A dead woman I am come to see ; Into the Room I pray Sir walk : And in the Room where as he stood , He was of such a comely grace Their hearts were all a ravished With the sweet complexion of his face : His eyes like to the Stars did shine , He was clothed in a bright Grass green ; His cheeks was of a Crimson read Of such a man was seldom seen . Unto the people then he spoke , Mark well these words which I shall say , For no Crowner you shall send , I'm Judge and Jury here this day : Bring hither the man that did the deed And boldly hath deny'd the same , They brought him into the room with speed To answer his wicked deed with shame . Now come Oh wicked man quoth he With shame before thy Neighbours all , Thy body thou hast brought to misery , Thy soul into a deeper thrall . Thy full delight was drunkenness , And lewd Women , Oh cursed since , Blasphemous Oaths , and Curses vile A long time thou hast wallowed in : Thy Neighbours thou would'st set at strife And always gripping on the Poor ; Beside thou hast murdered thy Wife , Alack what salve will cure thy soar . Thy Family within thy house Food thou wouldst grudge continually : Oh wicked man , thy self prepare ! A fearful death thou 'rt sure to die . Fear nothing good people then he said , A sighed presently will appear ; Let all your trust be in the Lord , No harm shall be while I am here . Then in the Room the Devil appear'd , Like a brave Gentleman did stand : Satan , quoth he that was the Judge , Do no more then thou hast command : The Devil then in and ugly shape , He danced round about the Hall , Which made the people much afraid He had such fearful looks withal . The Devil then he straight laid hold On him that had murdered his Wife , His neck in sunder then he brake , And thus did end his wretched life . The Devil then he vanished Quite from the people in the Hall , Which made the people much amaz'd , Yet not one had not hurt at all . Then straight a pleasant melody Of music sweet was herd to found , It ravished the hearts of those stood by So sweet the Music did abound . Now quoth this gallant man in green , With you I can no longer stay , My love I leave , my leave I take , The time is come I must away . Be sure to love each other well , Keep in your breast what I do say , It is the way to go to Heaven When you shall rise at Judgement Day . The people to their homes did go Which had this mighty wonder seen , And said it was and Angel sure , That thus was clothed all in green . And thus the news from Westmoreland , I have related to you o're , I think it is as strange a thing As ever man did hear before . Here are the Names of some of the chiefest men that live in the Parish . Christopher Rawly , Esquire , James Fish , Gent. William Lisle , Gent. Simon Pierce , Ambrose Whit , Oliver Craft , Robert Ford , Tho - mass Clifford , Yeomen . George Crawly , Peter Vaux , Philip Cook , Francis Martin , George Horton , Husbandmen . Abraham Miles . London , Printed for E. Andrews , at the White Lion near Pye-Corner . E : 342 Strange News from WESTMORELAND . Being a true Relation of one Gabriel Harding , who coming home Drunk , struck his Wife a blow on the Breast and killed her outright ; then did he forswear the evil Deed which he knew himself guilty of . Likewise how a stranger did come to the House clothed in Green , the people that were eye witness said it was and Angel . Likewise how the Stranger or Angel did give Sen - tense upon the man for killing of his Wife . Also how Satan did break the men Neck that did forswear himself ; and the Stranger or Angel did command Satan to hurt none else , and to va - nish : which being done , there was a pleasant Harmony of Music herd to found : Then did the Stranger clothed in Green , take his leave of the people ; whereof the chiefest in the Parish desired it might be put in Print , and have hereunto set their Hands . To the Tune of , In Summer time . ATtend good Christian people all , Mark what I say both old and young , Unto the general Judgement Day I think the time's not very long . A wonder strange I have t' relate , I think the like was never shown , In Westmoreland at Tredenton , Of such a thing was never known . One Gabriel Harding liv'd of late , As may to all men just appear ; Whose yearly Rend by just account Came to five hundred pound a year . This man he had a virtuous Wife , In godly ways her mind did give ; Yet he as rude a wicked wretch As in this sinful Land did live . Such news of him I will relate ; The like no mortal man did hear , 'Tis very new , and all so true , Therefore good Christians all give ear ; One time this man he came home drunk As he us'd , which made his Wife to weep , Who gently took him by the hand ; Saying , Dear Husband lie down and sleep . She lovingly took him by the arm , Thinking in safety him to guide ; A blow he struck her on the Breast , The Woman straight sunk down and dy'd . The Children then with mournful cries They run into the open street , They wept , they wail'd , they wrung their hands To all Christians that they did meet . The people then they all run forth , Said , Children why make you such moan ? O make you haste unto our house ! Our dear Mother is dead and gone : Our Father hath our Mother kill'd The Children they cried out than , The people then they all made haste And laid their hands upon the man . He presently deny'd the same , Said , from guilty Murder I am free , If I did that wicked deed he said , Some Example I wish be seen by me . Thus he forswore the wicked deed Of his dear Wives untimely end : Quoth the people , let's conclude with speed That for the Crowner we may send . Mark what I say , the doors fast shut , The people the Children did deplore ; But straight they herd a man to speak , And one stood knocking at the door . One in the house to the door made haste , Hearing a man to knock and call , The door was opened presently And in he comes among them all . The second Part , to the same Tune . BY your leave good people then he said , May a stranger with you have some talk , A dead woman I am come to see ; Into the Room I pray Sir walk : And in the Room where as he stood , He was of such a comely grace Their hearts were all a ravished With the sweet complexion of his face : His eyes like to the Stars did shine , He was clothed in a bright Grass green ; His cheeks was of a Crimson read Of such a man was seldom seen . Unto the people then he spoke , Mark well these words which I shall say , For no Crowner you shall send , I'm Judge and Jury here this day : Bring hither the man that did the deed And boldly hath deny'd the same , They brought him into the room with speed To answer his wicked deed with shame . Now come Oh wicked man quoth he With shame before thy Neighbours all , Thy body thou hast brought to misery , Thy soul into a deeper thrall . Thy full delight was drunkenness , And lewd Women , Oh cursed since , Blasphemous Oaths , and Curses vile A long time thou hast wallowed in : Thy Neighbours thou would'st set at strife And always gripping on the Poor ; Beside thou hast murdered thy Wife , Alack what salve will cure thy soar . Thy Family within thy house Food thou wouldst grudge continually : Oh wicked man , thy self prepare ! A fearful death thou 'rt sure to die . Fear nothing good people then he said , A sighed presently will appear ; Let all your trust be in the Lord , No harm shall be while I am here . Then in the Room the Devil appear'd , Like a brave Gentleman did stand : Satan , quoth he that was the Judge , Do no more then thou hast command : The Devil then in and ugly shape , He danced round about the Hall , Which made the people much afraid He had such fearful looks withal . The Devil then he straight laid hold On him that had murdered his Wife , His neck in sunder then he brake , And thus did end his wretched life . The Devil then he vanished Quite from the people in the Hall , Which made the people much amaz'd , Yet not one had not hurt at all . Then straight a pleasant melody Of music sweet was herd to found , It ravished the hearts of those stood by So sweet the Music did abound . Now quoth this gallant man in green , With you I can no longer stay , My love I leave , my leave I take , The time is come I must away . Be sure to love each other well , Keep in your breast what I do say , It is the way to go to Heaven When you shall rise at Judgement Day . The people to their homes did go Which had this mighty wonder seen , And said it was and Angel sure , That thus was clothed all in green . And thus the news from Westmoreland , I have related to you o're , I think it is as strange a thing As ever man did hear before . Here are the Names of some of the chiefest men that live in the Parish . Christopher Rawly , Esquire , James Fish , Gent. William Lisle , Gent. Simon Pierce , Ambrose Whit , Oliver Craft , Robert Ford , Tho - mass Clifford , Yeomen . George Crawly , Peter Vaux , Philip Cook , Francis Martin , George Horton , Husbandmen . Abraham Miles . London , Printed for E. Andrews , at the White Lion near Pye-Corner . 