E : 345 Strephon and Cloris : OR , THE Coy Shepherd and kind Shepherdess . He's fearful that his Flocks should go astray , And from her kind embraces would away ; But she with charms does him so fetter , That for to stay he finds it is the better : When Flocks , and Herds , and concerns do fail , Love must be satisfied , and will prevail . To the Tune of , Love will find out the way . This may be printed , R.P. AH ! Cloris awake , it is all abroad day , If you sleep any longer , our Flocks they will stray ; Lie still , my dear Shepherd , and do not rise yet , For 'tis a cold windy Morning , and beside it is wet . My Cloris make haste , for it is no such thing ; Our time we do waste , for the Lark is on wing ; Beside I do fancy I hear the young Lambs , Cry , Ba , ba , ba , ba , for the loss of their Dams . My Shepherd I come , though i'm all over Sorrow ; But I swear I'll not love you , if you rise so to Morrow ; For methinks 'tis unkind , thus early to rise , And not bid me good-morrow , brings tears from my eyes . O! hark , my dear Cloris , before thou shalt Weep , I'll stay to embrace thee , neglecting my Sheep : My Flocks they may wander one hour , two , or three , But if I lose thy Favour , I ruin'd shall be . I joy , my dear Shepherd , to hear thee say so , It eases my heart of much Sorrow and Woe ; And for thy reward I will give thee a kiss , And then thou shalt taste of a true Lover's bliss . But Cloris behold how bright Phoebus his Beams , Invites us to go to the murmuring Streams ? I hear the brave Huntsmen does follow the Cry , And makes the Woods ring , yet how Sluggish am I . The Hounds and the Huntsmen , may follow the Chase , While we enjoy pleasure in a far better place : Thou knowest , my dear Shepherd , there is no Delight . Like Lovers enjoyment from Morning till Night . Alas ! my dear Cloris , what dost thou require , The care of my Flocks does abate my desire ; The Lambs are new yeaned , and tender for prey , And I fear the sly Wolf he should bear them away ? My Love , do not fear it , the Wolf he is fled , To take up his Lodging in his mossy-bed ; Then let me embrace thee , while we do agree , And I do promise to go , thou shall after be free . Ah! Cloris , thy words are so powerful to me , That I could be willing to tarry with thee ; Therefore to content thee , one hour I will stay , But I vow , by God Cupid , I will then go away . Now I have my Wishes , dear Shepherd , we'll part , Although thou dost carry away my poor hear I bless the great Gods that to Lovers are kind , To bring us together , such bliss for to find . Then farewell , dear Cloris , till I see thee again , For now I will haste to my Flocks on the Plain ; Where I will record thy true Love in such Rhimes , For Shepherd's to admire in succeeding times . London : Printed for J. Deacon ; at the Angel in Guilspur-street . E : 345 Strephon and Cloris : OR , THE Coy Shepherd and kind Shepherdess . He's fearful that his Flocks should go astray , And from her kind embraces would away ; But she with charms does him so fetter , That for to stay he finds it is the better : When Flocks , and Herds , and concerns do fail , Love must be satisfied , and will prevail . To the Tune of , Love will find out the way . This may be printed , R.P. AH ! Cloris awake , it is all abroad day , If you sleep any longer , our Flocks they will stray ; Lie still , my dear Shepherd , and do not rise yet , For 'tis a cold windy Morning , and beside it is wet . My Cloris make haste , for it is no such thing ; Our time we do waste , for the Lark is on wing ; Beside I do fancy I hear the young Lambs , Cry , Ba , ba , ba , ba , for the loss of their Dams . My Shepherd I come , though i'm all over Sorrow ; But I swear I'll not love you , if you rise so to Morrow ; For methinks 'tis unkind , thus early to rise , And not bid me good-morrow , brings tears from my eyes . O! hark , my dear Cloris , before thou shalt Weep , I'll stay to embrace thee , neglecting my Sheep : My Flocks they may wander one hour , two , or three , But if I lose thy Favour , I ruin'd shall be . I joy , my dear Shepherd , to hear thee say so , It eases my heart of much Sorrow and Woe ; And for thy reward I will give thee a kiss , And then thou shalt taste of a true Lover's bliss . But Cloris behold how bright Phoebus his Beams , Invites us to go to the murmuring Streams ? I hear the brave Huntsmen does follow the Cry , And makes the Woods ring , yet how Sluggish am I . The Hounds and the Huntsmen , may follow the Chase , While we enjoy pleasure in a far better place : Thou knowest , my dear Shepherd , there is no Delight . Like Lovers enjoyment from Morning till Night . Alas ! my dear Cloris , what dost thou require , The care of my Flocks does abate my desire ; The Lambs are new yeaned , and tender for prey , And I fear the sly Wolf he should bear them away ? My Love , do not fear it , the Wolf he is fled , To take up his Lodging in his mossy-bed ; Then let me embrace thee , while we do agree , And I do promise to go , thou shall after be free . Ah! Cloris , thy words are so powerful to me , That I could be willing to tarry with thee ; Therefore to content thee , one hour I will stay , But I vow , by God Cupid , I will then go away . Now I have my Wishes , dear Shepherd , we'll part , Although thou dost carry away my poor hear I bless the great Gods that to Lovers are kind , To bring us together , such bliss for to find . Then farewell , dear Cloris , till I see thee again , For now I will haste to my Flocks on the Plain ; Where I will record thy true Love in such Rhimes , For Shepherd's to admire in succeeding times . London : Printed for J. Deacon ; at the Angel in Guilspur-street . 