E : 346 STREPHON and CLORIS . Or , the Coy SHEPHERD and Kind SHEPHERDESS He's fearful that his Flocks should go astray , And from her kind Embraces would away ; But she with loving Charms does him so fetter , That for to stay he finds it much the better : When Flock , and Herds , and all concerns do fail , Love must be satisfy'd , one will prevail . To a pleasant new Tune at the Play-House ; Or , Love will find out the way , etc AH ! Cloris awake , it is all abroad Day , If you sleep any longer our Flocks they will stray : Lie still my dear shepherd , and do not rise yet , For it is a cold Windy morning , and beside it is wet . My Cloris make haste , for it is no such thing ; Our time we do wast , for the Lark is on Wing , Beside I do fancy I hear the Young Lambs , Cry ba , ba , ba , ba , for the loss of their Dams . My Shepherd I come , though I'm all over so But I swear i'le , not love you , if you rise so to morrow : For me thinks it's unkind , thus early to rise : And not to bid me good morrow : brings tears from my Eyes . O hark my dear Cloris , before thou shalt weep : I'le stay to embrace thee , neglecting my sleep : My flocks they may wander , one hour , two or three : But if I lose thy favour , I ruin'd shall be . I joy my dear shepherd , to hear thee say so : It eases my heart of much sorrow and woe : And for thy Reward I will give the a kiss : And then thou shall taste of a true Lovers bliss . But Cloris behold how bright Phebus his Beams : Invit's us to go to the murmuring streams : I hear the brave Huntsman does follow the cry : And make the Woods ring , yet how sluggish am I . The Hounds and the Huntsman may follow the Chase : While we enjoy pleasure in a far better place : Thou knowest my dear Shepherd there is no delight , Like Lovers enjoyment from Morning till Night . Alas my dear Cloris , what dost thou require : The care of my Flocks does abate my desire : The Lambs are new Yeaned , and tender for Prey , And I fear the sly Wolf she should bear them away . My Love do not fear it , the Wolf he is fled , To take up his Lodging , in his Mossy Bed : Then let me embrace thee , while we do agree : And I promise to go , thou shalt after be free . Ah Cloris ! the words are so pow'rful with me , That I could be willing to tarry with thee : Therefore to content thee , one hour I will stay , But I vow by God Cupid , I will then go away . Now I have my wishes , dear Shepherd we'l part , Although thou dost carry away my poor hear I bless the great Gods , that to Lovers are kind : To bring us together , such bliss for to find . Then farewell dear Cloris till I see thee again , For now I will haste to my Flock on the Plain : Where I shall record thy true Love in such Rhimes , For shepherd's to admire in suceeeding times . FINIS . E : 346 STREPHON and CLORIS . Or , the Coy SHEPHERD and Kind SHEPHERDESS He's fearful that his Flocks should go astray , And from her kind Embraces would away ; But she with loving Charms does him so fetter , That for to stay he finds it much the better : When Flock , and Herds , and all concerns do fail , Love must be satisfy'd , one will prevail . To a pleasant new Tune at the Play-House ; Or , Love will find out the way , etc AH ! Cloris awake , it is all abroad Day , If you sleep any longer our Flocks they will stray : Lie still my dear shepherd , and do not rise yet , For it is a cold Windy morning , and beside it is wet . My Cloris make haste , for it is no such thing ; Our time we do wast , for the Lark is on Wing , Beside I do fancy I hear the Young Lambs , Cry ba , ba , ba , ba , for the loss of their Dams . My Shepherd I come , though I'm all over so But I swear i'le , not love you , if you rise so to morrow : For me thinks it's unkind , thus early to rise : And not to bid me good morrow : brings tears from my Eyes . O hark my dear Cloris , before thou shalt weep : I'le stay to embrace thee , neglecting my sleep : My flocks they may wander , one hour , two or three : But if I lose thy favour , I ruin'd shall be . I joy my dear shepherd , to hear thee say so : It eases my heart of much sorrow and woe : And for thy Reward I will give the a kiss : And then thou shall taste of a true Lovers bliss . But Cloris behold how bright Phebus his Beams : Invit's us to go to the murmuring streams : I hear the brave Huntsman does follow the cry : And make the Woods ring , yet how sluggish am I . The Hounds and the Huntsman may follow the Chase : While we enjoy pleasure in a far better place : Thou knowest my dear Shepherd there is no delight , Like Lovers enjoyment from Morning till Night . Alas my dear Cloris , what dost thou require : The care of my Flocks does abate my desire : The Lambs are new Yeaned , and tender for Prey , And I fear the sly Wolf she should bear them away . My Love do not fear it , the Wolf he is fled , To take up his Lodging , in his Mossy Bed : Then let me embrace thee , while we do agree : And I promise to go , thou shalt after be free . Ah Cloris ! the words are so pow'rful with me , That I could be willing to tarry with thee : Therefore to content thee , one hour I will stay , But I vow by God Cupid , I will then go away . Now I have my wishes , dear Shepherd we'l part , Although thou dost carry away my poor hear I bless the great Gods , that to Lovers are kind : To bring us together , such bliss for to find . Then farewell dear Cloris till I see thee again , For now I will haste to my Flock on the Plain : Where I shall record thy true Love in such Rhimes , For shepherd's to admire in suceeeding times . FINIS . 