A wondered Prophesy declared by Christian James , a Maid of twenty two years of age , ( late Daughter to Dan. James ) who was born and bred near unto the Town which is called Padstow , in the County of Cornwal , who departed this life upon the 8. of Mar. With the true Relation of her behaviour , both in her lifetime , and at the hour of her death , worthy to be had in memory , The tune is , in Summer time THe mighty Lord that rules in heaven , strange wonders does to England send And many warnings hath us given , 'cause we our sinful lives may mend : But like the misbelieving Jews , so hard of heart our people be , They think that nothing can be true but that which their own eyes do see . Wherefore good people mark it well , i'le here lay open to your view , A Song most wondered and strange , and can approve it to be true ; A Damosel did near Padstow dwell , within the County of Cornwal fair , Whose Parents had no child but her , she was her Father's only Heir . To whom came many a brave young man intending to make her a Wife , But never tempting tongue could make this Maid to change her maiden life : And though her Parents riches had , and costly garments her allow'd , In comely habit she would go , and always hated to be proud . She ne're was herd to curse or swear , nor any word of anger give , But courteous was in every thing , to them that did about her live : If she herd any one to swear , or take Gods sacred Name in vain , She told him that they crucifi'd , our Saviour Jesus Christ again . She often did frequent the Church , and also did relieve the poor , The Widow and the Fatherless she every day fed at the door : Upon a time this Damosel she fell sick , and in a deadly swoon , She lay for twenty hours space , no life in her could then be found . Her aged Father did lament , her Mother she shed many a tear , She wept , she wail'd , she wrung her hands , for loss of this her Daughter dear : Alas , alas , my child she said , how dearly have I tendered thee ? And wilt thou now forsake the world , and leave me in this misery ? I would thy birth had been my death , then never had I seen this day , This grievous moan the Mother made by her dear Daughter as she lay : At last she did strong waters fetch , and rubs her Temples and each Vein ; Till at the last the Damosel had recovered life and sense again . And being come unto her speech , with voice most shrill aloud she cry'd , Oh Mother you have done me wrong , this cannot be by you deny'd : For I was in the way to Heaven , two glorious Angels did me guide , Who gently took me by the hand , and held me up on every side . SInging of Psalms and spiritual Songs , so long as we passed on the way , Till one that had a golden Crown ; met us , and caused me to stay ; Return , said he , from whence thou cam'st , thy Mother for thee makes great moan , And tell these things which I declare , unto thy neighbours every one . Speak this ( quoth he ) unto them all , how that the Lord e're long will send A grievous punishment to them that daily do his will offend : This is the last age of the world , even the very sink of since , The puddle of iniquity , which you long time have wallowed in . The Men and Wives live in discord , the Father envies his own Son , The rich , the poor , the old , the young , do hourly into mischief run : Extortions and Idolatry , and hateful pride is now in use , Blasphemous Oaths and Curses vile , the people count as no abuse . Gods Ministers are set at nought , the Sabbath is prophan'd also , The poor lies starving in the street , oppressed with sorrow grief and woe : The loathsome since of Drunkenness , and Whoredom does too much exceed , He that can do his Neighbour wrong , does think he does a godly deed . Now ponder therefore what I say , Dooms dreadful day is near at hand , Wildfire and Brimstone shall destroy , the Heaven , the Earth , the Sea , and Land , And every Soul before the Lord a just account he then shall give , His Conscience shall a witness be , in what condition he did live . Then he that hath done well , shall pass forthwith to everlasting rest , And live among those glorious Saints , which Jesus Christ our Lord hath bles Where Martyrs , Prophets , & Patriarchs , do Hallelujahs ever sing , Glory and honour be to God , and unto Christ our heavenly King . Then woe to them that have done ill , when they shall hear the Sentence past , Depart you cursed into Hell , whose fire for evermore shall last ; The sorrows that are here foretold , will come on you er'e it be long , Except repentance truly dwell , in hearts of all both Old and Young . Repentance and true watery eyes , will help to quench the burning flame , Which God hath kindled to consume , this wicked world's most rotten frame : Let not your buildings all so brave be burned and wasted with Gods ire , Nor let your souls for whom Christ dy'd , be burned in Hells eternal Fire . Here endeth the Prophesy . These Speeches spoke , the Maiden dy'd , and came no more to life again , Her Seul no doubt is gone to Heaven , with glorious Angels to remain ; At her decease and harmony of music there was herd to found , which ravished all the standers by , it did with sweetness so abound . It pierc'd the Earth , the Air also , yet no man knew from whence it came , But each one said it came from Heaven , and presently upon the same , The Magistrates of that fame Parish , which herd and saw this wonder strange , Desir'd to have it put in Print , 'cause wicked Men their ways might change . The Names of the Master's of the Parish that saw the Maid on her deathbed , and herd the words of the Prophesy which she delivered , were as follows . W. Wats Curate , T. Davis , Head Cunstable , R Wilkins , and C. Tanner , Churchwardens ; who By the con - sent of diverse others in the same Parish , which were in presence at the Damosels Decease ; caused a Letter to be written and sent from thence to London , on purpose to have it Prin - ted , whereby to avoid all scandal . March 8 , Contrived into Meeter , by L.P. London , Printed for J , Wright , at the Globe in Little-Brittain . A wondered Prophesy declared by Christian James , a Maid of twenty two years of age , ( late Daughter to Dan. James ) who was born and bred near unto the Town which is called Padstow , in the County of Cornwal , who departed this life upon the 8. of Mar. With the true Relation of her behaviour , both in her lifetime , and at the hour of her death , worthy to be had in memory , The tune is , in Summer time THe mighty Lord that rules in heaven , strange wonders does to England send And many warnings hath us given , 'cause we our sinful lives may mend : But like the misbelieving Jews , so hard of heart our people be , They think that nothing can be true but that which their own eyes do see . Wherefore good people mark it well , i'le here lay open to your view , A Song most wondered and strange , and can approve it to be true ; A Damosel did near Padstow dwell , within the County of Cornwal fair , Whose Parents had no child but her , she was her Father's only Heir . To whom came many a brave young man intending to make her a Wife , But never tempting tongue could make this Maid to change her maiden life : And though her Parents riches had , and costly garments her allow'd , In comely habit she would go , and always hated to be proud . She ne're was herd to curse or swear , nor any word of anger give , But courteous was in every thing , to them that did about her live : If she herd any one to swear , or take Gods sacred Name in vain , She told him that they crucifi'd , our Saviour Jesus Christ again . She often did frequent the Church , and also did relieve the poor , The Widow and the Fatherless she every day fed at the door : Upon a time this Damosel she fell sick , and in a deadly swoon , She lay for twenty hours space , no life in her could then be found . Her aged Father did lament , her Mother she shed many a tear , She wept , she wail'd , she wrung her hands , for loss of this her Daughter dear : Alas , alas , my child she said , how dearly have I tendered thee ? And wilt thou now forsake the world , and leave me in this misery ? I would thy birth had been my death , then never had I seen this day , This grievous moan the Mother made by her dear Daughter as she lay : At last she did strong waters fetch , and rubs her Temples and each Vein ; Till at the last the Damosel had recovered life and sense again . And being come unto her speech , with voice most shrill aloud she cry'd , Oh Mother you have done me wrong , this cannot be by you deny'd : For I was in the way to Heaven , two glorious Angels did me guide , Who gently took me by the hand , and held me up on every side . SInging of Psalms and spiritual Songs , so long as we passed on the way , Till one that had a golden Crown ; met us , and caused me to stay ; Return , said he , from whence thou cam'st , thy Mother for thee makes great moan , And tell these things which I declare , unto thy neighbours every one . Speak this ( quoth he ) unto them all , how that the Lord e're long will send A grievous punishment to them that daily do his will offend : This is the last age of the world , even the very sink of since , The puddle of iniquity , which you long time have wallowed in . The Men and Wives live in discord , the Father envies his own Son , The rich , the poor , the old , the young , do hourly into mischief run : Extortions and Idolatry , and hateful pride is now in use , Blasphemous Oaths and Curses vile , the people count as no abuse . Gods Ministers are set at nought , the Sabbath is prophan'd also , The poor lies starving in the street , oppressed with sorrow grief and woe : The loathsome since of Drunkenness , and Whoredom does too much exceed , He that can do his Neighbour wrong , does think he does a godly deed . Now ponder therefore what I say , Dooms dreadful day is near at hand , Wildfire and Brimstone shall destroy , the Heaven , the Earth , the Sea , and Land , And every Soul before the Lord a just account he then shall give , His Conscience shall a witness be , in what condition he did live . Then he that hath done well , shall pass forthwith to everlasting rest , And live among those glorious Saints , which Jesus Christ our Lord hath bles Where Martyrs , Prophets , & Patriarchs , do Hallelujahs ever sing , Glory and honour be to God , and unto Christ our heavenly King . Then woe to them that have done ill , when they shall hear the Sentence past , Depart you cursed into Hell , whose fire for evermore shall last ; The sorrows that are here foretold , will come on you er'e it be long , Except repentance truly dwell , in hearts of all both Old and Young . Repentance and true watery eyes , will help to quench the burning flame , Which God hath kindled to consume , this wicked world's most rotten frame : Let not your buildings all so brave be burned and wasted with Gods ire , Nor let your souls for whom Christ dy'd , be burned in Hells eternal Fire . Here endeth the Prophesy . These Speeches spoke , the Maiden dy'd , and came no more to life again , Her Seul no doubt is gone to Heaven , with glorious Angels to remain ; At her decease and harmony of music there was herd to found , which ravished all the standers by , it did with sweetness so abound . It pierc'd the Earth , the Air also , yet no man knew from whence it came , But each one said it came from Heaven , and presently upon the same , The Magistrates of that fame Parish , which herd and saw this wonder strange , Desir'd to have it put in Print , 'cause wicked Men their ways might change . The Names of the Master's of the Parish that saw the Maid on her deathbed , and herd the words of the Prophesy which she delivered , were as follows . W. Wats Curate , T. Davis , Head Cunstable , R Wilkins , and C. Tanner , Churchwardens ; who By the con - sent of diverse others in the same Parish , which were in presence at the Damosels Decease ; caused a Letter to be written and sent from thence to London , on purpose to have it Prin - ted , whereby to avoid all scandal . March 8 , Contrived into Meeter , by L.P. London , Printed for J , Wright , at the Globe in Little-Brittain . 