E : 344 Strephon and Cloris , OR , The Coy Shepherd and Kind Shepherdess . He's fearful that his Flocks should go astra [ y ] And from her kind embrace ; would away , But she with charms does him so fetter , That for to stay he finds it is the better When flocks & herds & concerns do fail Love must be satisfied and will prevail . To the Tune of , Love will find out the way . This may be printed , R.P. AH , Cloris awake , it is all abroad day , If you sleep any longer , our Flocks they will stray : Lie still my dear Shepherd , and do not rise yet , For 'tis a cold windy Morning , and beside it is wet . My Cloris make haste , for it is no such thing , Our time we do waste , for the Lark is on Wing : Beside I do fancy I hear the young Lambs , Cry , ba , ba , ba , ba , for the loss of their Dams . MY Shepherd I come , though i'm all over sorrow , But I swear I'll not love you , if you rise so to morrow ; For methinks 'tis unkind , thus early to rise , And not bid me good-morrow , brings tears from my eyes . O hark my dear Cloris , before thou shalt weep , I'll stay to embrace thee , neglecting my sheep : My Flocks they may wander one hour , two , or three , But if I lose thy favour , I ruin'd shall be . I joy my dear Shepherd , to hear thee say so , It eases my heart of much sorrow and woe : And for thy reward I will give thee a kiss , And then thou shalt taste of a true lovers Bliss . But Cloris behold how bright Phoebus his Beams , Invites us to go to the murmuring streams : I hear the brave Huntsmen does follow the Cry , And makes the Woods ring , yet how sluggish am I . The Hounds and the Huntsmen , may follow the Chase , While we enjoy pleasure in a far better place : Thou know'st my dear shepherd , there is no delight , Like Lovers enjoyment from Morning till Night . Alas ! my dear Cloris , what dost thou require , The care of my Flocks does abate my desire ; The Lambs are new yeaned , and tender for prey , And I fear the sly Wolf he should bear them away . My love do not fear it , the Wolf he is fled , To take up his Lodging in his Mossy Bed ; Then let me Embrace thee , while we do agree , And I do promise to go , thou shalt after be free . Ah! Cloris thy words are so powerful to me , That I could be willing to tarry with thee : Therefore to content thee , one hour I will stay , But I vow by God Cupid , I will then go away . Now I have my wishes , dear Shepherd we'l part , Although thou dost carry away my poor hear I bless the great Gods that to Lovers are kind , To bring us together , such Bliss for to find . Then farewell dear Cloris , till I see thee again , For now I will haste to my Flocks on the Plain ; Where I will record thy true love in such Rhimes , For Shepherd's do admire in succeeding times . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , E : 344 Strephon and Cloris , OR , The Coy Shepherd and Kind Shepherdess . He's fearful that his Flocks should go astra [ y ] And from her kind embrace ; would away , But she with charms does him so fetter , That for to stay he finds it is the better When flocks & herds & concerns do fail Love must be satisfied and will prevail . To the Tune of , Love will find out the way . This may be printed , R.P. AH , Cloris awake , it is all abroad day , If you sleep any longer , our Flocks they will stray : Lie still my dear Shepherd , and do not rise yet , For 'tis a cold windy Morning , and beside it is wet . My Cloris make haste , for it is no such thing , Our time we do waste , for the Lark is on Wing : Beside I do fancy I hear the young Lambs , Cry , ba , ba , ba , ba , for the loss of their Dams . MY Shepherd I come , though i'm all over sorrow , But I swear I'll not love you , if you rise so to morrow ; For methinks 'tis unkind , thus early to rise , And not bid me good-morrow , brings tears from my eyes . O hark my dear Cloris , before thou shalt weep , I'll stay to embrace thee , neglecting my sheep : My Flocks they may wander one hour , two , or three , But if I lose thy favour , I ruin'd shall be . I joy my dear Shepherd , to hear thee say so , It eases my heart of much sorrow and woe : And for thy reward I will give thee a kiss , And then thou shalt taste of a true lovers Bliss . But Cloris behold how bright Phoebus his Beams , Invites us to go to the murmuring streams : I hear the brave Huntsmen does follow the Cry , And makes the Woods ring , yet how sluggish am I . The Hounds and the Huntsmen , may follow the Chase , While we enjoy pleasure in a far better place : Thou know'st my dear shepherd , there is no delight , Like Lovers enjoyment from Morning till Night . Alas ! my dear Cloris , what dost thou require , The care of my Flocks does abate my desire ; The Lambs are new yeaned , and tender for prey , And I fear the sly Wolf he should bear them away . My love do not fear it , the Wolf he is fled , To take up his Lodging in his Mossy Bed ; Then let me Embrace thee , while we do agree , And I do promise to go , thou shalt after be free . Ah! Cloris thy words are so powerful to me , That I could be willing to tarry with thee : Therefore to content thee , one hour I will stay , But I vow by God Cupid , I will then go away . Now I have my wishes , dear Shepherd we'l part , Although thou dost carry away my poor hear I bless the great Gods that to Lovers are kind , To bring us together , such Bliss for to find . Then farewell dear Cloris , till I see thee again , For now I will haste to my Flocks on the Plain ; Where I will record thy true love in such Rhimes , For Shepherd's do admire in succeeding times . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , 