The Young-Mans A.B.C. OR Two Douzen of Verses which a Young-Man sent to his Love , who proved unkind ; wrote in the manner of and A'phabet . The Tune is , Aim not too high . Accept dear Love these shadows of my grief , And let thy pity send me some relief , A Captive to thy will I must remain , For thou art only she must ease my pain . BE kind to me , as I am kind to thee , Blast not thy fame , with cruelty to me : But let thy inward parts be like thy face , Beauty in heart adorns the outward face . COnsider how , my service hath been bent , Continually to gain thy sweated content , Can'st thou my dear , be so obdure to me , Cross unto him that is so true to thee . DEfer no time to understand my grief But with some speed , come ease me with relief : Thy beauty rare hath struck my heart so deep , That all my days I mean to wail and w [ e ] ep . EXcept thou do some favour to me yield , I shall be slave , with love in Venus field , I am so discontent , in mind and heart , That neither means nor time can cure my smart , FOrget thou not the woe wherein I dwell , My torments do , all other griefs excel , Consider well my woeful sable nights , And days I spend away , without delights , GRant me thy love , to mitigate my pain , The like thou shalt receive from me again : So love will we as does the Turtle-Dove , Whose firm affection ever constant prove . HAve you respect of this the grief I take ; Which out of sleep , does sometime me awake : In dreams I see that which I most desire , But waking sets my senses all on fire . IN doleful sort , these words I now relate , Which makes me think myself unfortunate , To set my heart where I had nought but scorn ; Which makes me rue the time that I was born . KIll me not in this desperation deep , To think how I neither eat , nor drink nor sleep : To think of that which I cannot obtain , The vuhith hath near my heart with sorrow slave LEt tender pity move thy gentle heart , And so from thee my love shall never start , To gain thy Love , i'le venture life and limb , And for thy sake , the Ocean I will swim . MY life I loath , because my woes increase , Therefore my torments cease , and me release : Then be not harsh , whereas thou shouldst be kind , But for my love let me no hatred find NEither deny to grant me this request , Nor seek thou not , to work me more unres For if thou do , the worst share fallen to thine , The worst can come , ends but one life of mine . O that thou would'st but now conceive aright , Then would my darkness soon be turn'd to ligh My greatest sorrows should then I destroy , And all my grief and care exchange to joy . PIerce then no deeper to my bleeding heart , The which is ready now for to depart , He still that loves , and is not belov'd again , Had better die , then still to live in pain . QUench thou the flames , of this my burning breast , Which for thy sake , no time nor tide can rest , My love to thee hath evermore been true , Therefore the same see still I have from you . REgard my grief how still it more exceeds My life is like the Herb that's spoil [ ' ] worser with weeds : among the finest Wheat , the Tares do grow , And thou my love hast wrought my overthrow . SWeet love , now take , on my thy friend some care , Regard his grief that still lives in despair Of thy true love , which is more dear then Gold , My griefs are more than numbers can be told . TOo long I have liv'd , and yet too late repent , For why the glory of my life is spent ; In loving her that never did love me , Oh then what days , of pleasure can I see . WOuld I had never liv'd thy face to have seen , Oh then full happy surely had I been : For never any one , under the Sun , But thou alone , could me this wrong have done . X Thousand times more cruel is thy mind , Then Heathens , Jews , or Turks are in their kind : Or any one that on the earth does go , And woe is me , for I have found it so . YEt if thy mind be so perversely bent , That nothing can procure my hearts conten Know this from me , that I have learn'd of late No more to dote , on her that does me hate . ZENOBIA to Tamberlain ne'r was More dear then thou to me , but now alas , I find my toil , my sighs and sobs in vain , Why should I love , and not be lov'd again . & Now to set a perjod to my woe , If thou wilt have me , prithee tell me so , If otherwise thou mean'st , thy mind it send , Resolve me off or on , and there's and end , Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackery , and T. Passenger . 1684. The Young-Mans A.B.C. OR Two Douzen of Verses which a Young-Man sent to his Love , who proved unkind ; wrote in the manner of and A'phabet . The Tune is , Aim not too high . Accept dear Love these shadows of my grief , And let thy pity send me some relief , A Captive to thy will I must remain , For thou art only she must ease my pain . BE kind to me , as I am kind to thee , Blast not thy fame , with cruelty to me : But let thy inward parts be like thy face , Beauty in heart adorns the outward face . COnsider how , my service hath been bent , Continually to gain thy sweated content , Can'st thou my dear , be so obdure to me , Cross unto him that is so true to thee . DEfer no time to understand my grief But with some speed , come ease me with relief : Thy beauty rare hath struck my heart so deep , That all my days I mean to wail and w [ e ] ep . EXcept thou do some favour to me yield , I shall be slave , with love in Venus field , I am so discontent , in mind and heart , That neither means nor time can cure my smart , FOrget thou not the woe wherein I dwell , My torments do , all other griefs excel , Consider well my woeful sable nights , And days I spend away , without delights , GRant me thy love , to mitigate my pain , The like thou shalt receive from me again : So love will we as does the Turtle-Dove , Whose firm affection ever constant prove . HAve you respect of this the grief I take ; Which out of sleep , does sometime me awake : In dreams I see that which I most desire , But waking sets my senses all on fire . IN doleful sort , these words I now relate , Which makes me think myself unfortunate , To set my heart where I had nought but scorn ; Which makes me rue the time that I was born . KIll me not in this desperation deep , To think how I neither eat , nor drink nor sleep : To think of that which I cannot obtain , The vuhith hath near my heart with sorrow slave LEt tender pity move thy gentle heart , And so from thee my love shall never start , To gain thy Love , i'le venture life and limb , And for thy sake , the Ocean I will swim . MY life I loath , because my woes increase , Therefore my torments cease , and me release : Then be not harsh , whereas thou shouldst be kind , But for my love let me no hatred find NEither deny to grant me this request , Nor seek thou not , to work me more unres For if thou do , the worst share fallen to thine , The worst can come , ends but one life of mine . O that thou would'st but now conceive aright , Then would my darkness soon be turn'd to ligh My greatest sorrows should then I destroy , And all my grief and care exchange to joy . PIerce then no deeper to my bleeding heart , The which is ready now for to depart , He still that loves , and is not belov'd again , Had better die , then still to live in pain . QUench thou the flames , of this my burning breast , Which for thy sake , no time nor tide can rest , My love to thee hath evermore been true , Therefore the same see still I have from you . REgard my grief how still it more exceeds My life is like the Herb that's spoil [ ' ] worser with weeds : among the finest Wheat , the Tares do grow , And thou my love hast wrought my overthrow . SWeet love , now take , on my thy friend some care , Regard his grief that still lives in despair Of thy true love , which is more dear then Gold , My griefs are more than numbers can be told . TOo long I have liv'd , and yet too late repent , For why the glory of my life is spent ; In loving her that never did love me , Oh then what days , of pleasure can I see . WOuld I had never liv'd thy face to have seen , Oh then full happy surely had I been : For never any one , under the Sun , But thou alone , could me this wrong have done . X Thousand times more cruel is thy mind , Then Heathens , Jews , or Turks are in their kind : Or any one that on the earth does go , And woe is me , for I have found it so . YEt if thy mind be so perversely bent , That nothing can procure my hearts conten Know this from me , that I have learn'd of late No more to dote , on her that does me hate . ZENOBIA to Tamberlain ne'r was More dear then thou to me , but now alas , I find my toil , my sighs and sobs in vain , Why should I love , and not be lov'd again . & Now to set a perjod to my woe , If thou wilt have me , prithee tell me so , If otherwise thou mean'st , thy mind it send , Resolve me off or on , and there's and end , Printed for J. Wright , J. Clarke , W. Thackery , and T. Passenger . 1684. 