E : 350 The Traitors Downfall , OR , A brief relation of the downfall of that Fanatic crew who Trai - terously Murdered the Late Kings Majesty of blessed Memory . To the Tune of , Fa la la , etc : CHarles the first was a noble King , with a fa la la la lero , His fame throughout the world did ring , with a fa , etc But those that did presume so high , To murder our good Kings Majesty , Now may these Rebels howl and cry , with a fa la la lalero . He was a Prince of courage stout , with a fa , etc Although his glass was soon run out , with a. fa , etc But behind him he hath left a Noble stock May give a Traitor a handsome knock , For making a King to submit to the block . with a fa , etc The blood that he lost as I suppose , with a fa , etc Caused fire to rise in Olivers Nose , with a fa , etc His rousing Nose did bear such asway , It cast such a heat in shining ray , That England scarce knew the night from day with a fa , etc Oliver was of Huntington , with a fa , etc Born he was a Brewers son , with a fa , etc He soon forsook his dray and flings , And counted a Brewers house a pitiful thing When he came to the stately throne of a King : with a fa , etc Oliver had a heart of gall , with a fa , etc For to murder his Prince at white-Hall , with a fa , etc He swore who ever was over the main , Whither a French King or a Spain , Yet in England no King should remain , with a fa , etc The second part to the same Tune . DUke Humphery was the first Protector with a fa , etc Henry the sixt the next Protector , with a fa , etc Then thirdly Oliver he took place . But Lucifer soon removed his grace , Then he set up young Dick the fool of his raze , with a fa , etc No sooner was Dick god up to the Throne , with a fa , etc But he considered it none of his own , with a fa , etc And staring this way and that way abou Desiring to be resolved a doubt . Then in came Lambert and turned him out with a fa , etc Fleetwood desirous of the place , with a fa , etc Sent forth Lambert the Scot to face , with a fa , etc And being in the strength of his desire , When he did think poor Jockey to brier , His men forsook him and left him in the mier . with a fa , etc Thus you may see how some do rise , with a fa , etc With and intent to surmount the Skies with a fa , etc But when they are up they shall have a fallen , Witness Fleetwood blind Hewson , and all , The raged rout of a Cobblers stall , with a fa , etc We have cleared white-Hall of Lobsters and Geese , with a fa , etc Turned Rump and Kidneys out of the house with a fa , etc We have brought in Charls from over the main Make wars with France & peace with Spain . Now we shall get money and trading again with a fa , etc Citizens look to your selves I say , with a fa , etc Let no Cobblers preach and pray : with a fa , etc Tom Cobbler is flown the Lord knows whither Fleetwood and he I hope are together , Now we have braught in the King and weel have fair weather with a fa , Blind Hewson was not of our kind , with a fa , etc To run away and leave his men behind , with a fa , But I wish I could find him by the sent , There's neither that law nor the rump parliament Should save him from death to give us content with a fa la la lalero . A list of the names of those Traitors that were hanged ; drawn , and quartered for murdering our Sovereign of blessed memory , Charls the first . Thomas Harrison , John Carew , Thomas Seot , Grigory Clement , John Jones , Adrian Scroope , Hugh Peters , John Cook , Colonel Axtel , Colonel Hacker . London , Printed for Francis Coals , in the Old-Baily . E : 350 The Traitors Downfall , OR , A brief relation of the downfall of that Fanatic crew who Trai - terously Murdered the Late Kings Majesty of blessed Memory . To the Tune of , Fa la la , etc : CHarles the first was a noble King , with a fa la la la lero , His fame throughout the world did ring , with a fa , etc But those that did presume so high , To murder our good Kings Majesty , Now may these Rebels howl and cry , with a fa la la lalero . He was a Prince of courage stout , with a fa , etc Although his glass was soon run out , with a. fa , etc But behind him he hath left a Noble stock May give a Traitor a handsome knock , For making a King to submit to the block . with a fa , etc The blood that he lost as I suppose , with a fa , etc Caused fire to rise in Olivers Nose , with a fa , etc His rousing Nose did bear such asway , It cast such a heat in shining ray , That England scarce knew the night from day with a fa , etc Oliver was of Huntington , with a fa , etc Born he was a Brewers son , with a fa , etc He soon forsook his dray and flings , And counted a Brewers house a pitiful thing When he came to the stately throne of a King : with a fa , etc Oliver had a heart of gall , with a fa , etc For to murder his Prince at white-Hall , with a fa , etc He swore who ever was over the main , Whither a French King or a Spain , Yet in England no King should remain , with a fa , etc The second part to the same Tune . DUke Humphery was the first Protector with a fa , etc Henry the sixt the next Protector , with a fa , etc Then thirdly Oliver he took place . But Lucifer soon removed his grace , Then he set up young Dick the fool of his raze , with a fa , etc No sooner was Dick god up to the Throne , with a fa , etc But he considered it none of his own , with a fa , etc And staring this way and that way abou Desiring to be resolved a doubt . Then in came Lambert and turned him out with a fa , etc Fleetwood desirous of the place , with a fa , etc Sent forth Lambert the Scot to face , with a fa , etc And being in the strength of his desire , When he did think poor Jockey to brier , His men forsook him and left him in the mier . with a fa , etc Thus you may see how some do rise , with a fa , etc With and intent to surmount the Skies with a fa , etc But when they are up they shall have a fallen , Witness Fleetwood blind Hewson , and all , The raged rout of a Cobblers stall , with a fa , etc We have cleared white-Hall of Lobsters and Geese , with a fa , etc Turned Rump and Kidneys out of the house with a fa , etc We have brought in Charls from over the main Make wars with France & peace with Spain . Now we shall get money and trading again with a fa , etc Citizens look to your selves I say , with a fa , etc Let no Cobblers preach and pray : with a fa , etc Tom Cobbler is flown the Lord knows whither Fleetwood and he I hope are together , Now we have braught in the King and weel have fair weather with a fa , Blind Hewson was not of our kind , with a fa , etc To run away and leave his men behind , with a fa , But I wish I could find him by the sent , There's neither that law nor the rump parliament Should save him from death to give us content with a fa la la lalero . A list of the names of those Traitors that were hanged ; drawn , and quartered for murdering our Sovereign of blessed memory , Charls the first . Thomas Harrison , John Carew , Thomas Seot , Grigory Clement , John Jones , Adrian Scroope , Hugh Peters , John Cook , Colonel Axtel , Colonel Hacker . London , Printed for Francis Coals , in the Old-Baily . 