E : 353 True Lovers Extremity ; OR , The Maidens miserable Moan . This Charming Fair , through deep Despair , did end her Days in Grief : To Death alone , she made her moan , who yielded her Relief . To the Tune of , Charon make haste , etc This may be Printed , R.P. I Having and hour of time and leisure , straight to the Valley I did repair , And where I resolved to take my Pleasure , among the Lilies so sweet and fair : I in a moment was amazed , hearing a youthful Damsel cry , As in a Passion her Voice she raised , never was Lover more true than I . Then I being willing to know the reason of the sad moan which the Damsel made , There I resolved to tarry a season , straight with a sorrowful sighs she said , He made a Vow and now he foregoes it , I never knew the reason why ; While I was with him , full well he knows it , never was Lover more true than I . Down from her Eyes then her Tears they were flowing so that her Passion increased soar ; To her alas ! I would fain have been going , but that I fear'd to offend her more : Her very Tears and Sighs did grieve me , the which did seem to pierce the Sky , Saying , alas ! though my Love does leave me never was Creature more true than I . When he did call me his dear Love and Jewel , making to me a most solemn Vow , I never thought he could have been so cruel as to my Sorrow I find him now . By his fair Words I was deluded therefore I here in Sorrow lie , Tho' from his presence I am excluded never was Creature more true than I. Strephon he oftentimes su'd for my favour , never was any young Swain so kind , But my Affections was settled for ever , I cannot waver with any Wind No other Swain shall e'er enjoy me , I for his sake had rather die , Tho' by Unkindness he does destroy me , never was Creature more true than I . Long was I woo'd e're he once cou'd obtain me , fearing , alas ! what I find too true , He most unworthily now does refrain me , here may I bid all my Joys adieu : This yielding Heart has prov'd my ruin , here in this silent Grove I'll die , Nothing but Sorrows I find ensuing . never was Creature more true than I . I'll bid adieu to that ungrateful Creature which is the cause of my grief and woe , Death I desire , there's nothing more sweeter to the Elizium Shades I'll go ; Where with young Lovers I will wander , free from this sad Extremity ; I cannot bear what I now lie under , never was Creature more true than I . With that her speech began for to fail her , saying , Farewell to my unkind Love . Every Creature did seem to bewail her , nothing was pleasant in all the Grove : Her silken Locks , alas , she rended , saying , I here for Love must Die ! With these last words then her Sorrows ended , never was Creature more true than I . E : 353 True Lovers Extremity ; OR , The Maidens miserable Moan . This Charming Fair , through deep Despair , did end her Days in Grief : To Death alone , she made her moan , who yielded her Relief . To the Tune of , Charon make haste , etc This may be Printed , R.P. I Having and hour of time and leisure , straight to the Valley I did repair , And where I resolved to take my Pleasure , among the Lilies so sweet and fair : I in a moment was amazed , hearing a youthful Damsel cry , As in a Passion her Voice she raised , never was Lover more true than I . Then I being willing to know the reason of the sad moan which the Damsel made , There I resolved to tarry a season , straight with a sorrowful sighs she said , He made a Vow and now he foregoes it , I never knew the reason why ; While I was with him , full well he knows it , never was Lover more true than I . Down from her Eyes then her Tears they were flowing so that her Passion increased soar ; To her alas ! I would fain have been going , but that I fear'd to offend her more : Her very Tears and Sighs did grieve me , the which did seem to pierce the Sky , Saying , alas ! though my Love does leave me never was Creature more true than I . When he did call me his dear Love and Jewel , making to me a most solemn Vow , I never thought he could have been so cruel as to my Sorrow I find him now . By his fair Words I was deluded therefore I here in Sorrow lie , Tho' from his presence I am excluded never was Creature more true than I. Strephon he oftentimes su'd for my favour , never was any young Swain so kind , But my Affections was settled for ever , I cannot waver with any Wind No other Swain shall e'er enjoy me , I for his sake had rather die , Tho' by Unkindness he does destroy me , never was Creature more true than I . Long was I woo'd e're he once cou'd obtain me , fearing , alas ! what I find too true , He most unworthily now does refrain me , here may I bid all my Joys adieu : This yielding Heart has prov'd my ruin , here in this silent Grove I'll die , Nothing but Sorrows I find ensuing . never was Creature more true than I . I'll bid adieu to that ungrateful Creature which is the cause of my grief and woe , Death I desire , there's nothing more sweeter to the Elizium Shades I'll go ; Where with young Lovers I will wander , free from this sad Extremity ; I cannot bear what I now lie under , never was Creature more true than I . With that her speech began for to fail her , saying , Farewell to my unkind Love . Every Creature did seem to bewail her , nothing was pleasant in all the Grove : Her silken Locks , alas , she rended , saying , I here for Love must Die ! With these last words then her Sorrows ended , never was Creature more true than I . 