Save a thief from the Gallows , and he'l hang thee if he can : or , The merciful Father , and the merciless Son. To the Tune of , Fortune my Foe . YOu disobedient Children mark my fallen , And by my timeless end take warning all , Against my own dear father I have done , A deed the like did never graceless son . In blooming years I was intic'd to since , E're I perceiv'd what danger lay therein : And so from day to day , until this hour , To leave the same , as yet I have no power . My mother dead , my father cockered me , As men will do when motherless we be , And nothing for me then he thought too dear , Which brought me thus into a graceless fear . And when as I to elder years did grow , By wicked courses god I timely woe ; Each vain delight belonging to young men , Deceived me , and wrought my ruin then . The deadly sins that are in number seven , without more grace have lost my joys in heaven , From first to last of these most cursed crimes , Have made me now a wonder of these times . For wanting means to nourish my delight , I went the wrong , and left the ways of righ Which to maintain , my father growing poor , Forgetting God , I daily rob'd for more . Three times he sav'd me from the Gallow-tree , Three times he cast himself in debt for me , Three times he set me up in good estate , In hope to keep me from untimely fate . By me the Proverb is fulfilled here , Who saves a thief from Gallows finds it dear . For saving me , I sought his dear life's woe , My gentle father's timeless overthrow . For wanting means still to relieve my need , Put me in mind to do a woeful deed , And seek his blood , the high way unto since , Who wanting grace , I soon grew perfect in . My father's brother of good living known , Being dead , as next of kin they were mine own : The which I wrought with these accursed hands , To be the heir of all my Uncles Lands . With mind prepar'd for Murder thus I went , Unto the field where he did much frequen where meeting him with mine own father's knife Which I had stolen I took away his life . And laid it down all bloody by his side , That all might see my Uncle therewith dy'd : And challeng'd it my father's Knife to be , When people came the murdered corpse to see . O homocide ! O cursed viperous brood , Like Cain to seek my father's dearest blood : My own dear Father being thus betray'd , I his own child the evidence was made . So judg'd to death for that he never did , The Lord in mercy did the same forbid : For as he was to execution led , A World of torments in my bosom bred . To see him stand upon the Gallow-tree , From which before poor man he saved me : I could not choose but tell what I have done , And so confess my self a wicked son . The Confession and Repentance of George Sanders Gent. late of Sugh , in the County of Hertford , who killed his own Uncle , and accused his own Father for the Murder , but by Gods providence being discovered , died for the same , where he wrote this Song with his own hand . GOds judgments now , are rightly seen , said I Dear father , I have slave him , let me die , Oh let me die , and set my father free , Or else like Judas damned shall I be . Whereat the People in that very place , They praised God that gave me so much grace , To quit my father from that crying since , which I with-blood-red streams am drowned in . My father's sav'd , and I to prison sent , Where I remain'd with many a sad lament ; Which when you see , you cannot choose but say , Repentance comes before my dying day . His Repentance in Prison . To the same Tune . Amongst Lyons fell in Daniels Den am I , In lowest prison cast with Jeremy , Fed with Elias by the Ravens fell , And plac'd with Judas in the maw of hell . Naked with Esau fearful doe I walk , Dumb with old Zachary silent doe I talk : Afflictions bred , with Micha is my food , And with the Prophet drink I sorrows flood . As poor as Job , even now so poor am I , Despis'd with Lazarus in great misery : Banish'd with David from my native land , Cast up with Jonas on the Ninivites sand . Made blind with Toby by the Swallows dung , And wi [ tO ] h poor Joseph cast in Prison strong : [ ? ] weep with Marry who had lost her Master , And run with Peter who should run the faster . I sinned have , for since God cursed the ground . I sinned have , for since the world was drown'd , I sinned have , since Sodom set on fire , Also for since did AEgypt feel Gods ire . I sinned have , for since did Adam die , I sinned have , since caused Davids cry , I sinned have , and for since Satan fell , From and high Angel to a devil in hell . Did David weep , and shall not I then cry ? Did Mary weep , and shall mine eyes be dry ? Did Esau weep , and shall not I weep more ? Did Peter weep , such tears let me have store . Did Mary weep for loss of Master dear , Did Martha weep , with sorrow touch her near , Spring eyes with tears to wash his sacred feet , That for my since did shed his blood so sweet . Lark like I fly unto the living Spring , Desiring pardon of my Heavenly King , Passed worldly hope , now like the thief on tree , I only fix my faith and hope in thee . Look back on me , as thou didst unto Peter , Speak to my soul , as to the thief most sweeter ; Oh spy me out with Zache on the tree , And with sweet Bartholomew call me Lord to thee . O let me now with holy Abraham spy , A saving Ram that Isaac may not die , Oh let me live for to found forth thy praise , That I may show thy mercy in my days . M [ a ] ke me a Swallow in thy house , Oh King , That Swallow like I may fit there and sing , Oh let me in thy Temple keep a door , That I may praise thy name for ever more . FINIS , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright and J. Clarke . Save a thief from the Gallows , and he'l hang thee if he can : or , The merciful Father , and the merciless Son. To the Tune of , Fortune my Foe . YOu disobedient Children mark my fallen , And by my timeless end take warning all , Against my own dear father I have done , A deed the like did never graceless son . In blooming years I was intic'd to since , E're I perceiv'd what danger lay therein : And so from day to day , until this hour , To leave the same , as yet I have no power . My mother dead , my father cockered me , As men will do when motherless we be , And nothing for me then he thought too dear , Which brought me thus into a graceless fear . And when as I to elder years did grow , By wicked courses god I timely woe ; Each vain delight belonging to young men , Deceived me , and wrought my ruin then . The deadly sins that are in number seven , without more grace have lost my joys in heaven , From first to last of these most cursed crimes , Have made me now a wonder of these times . For wanting means to nourish my delight , I went the wrong , and left the ways of righ Which to maintain , my father growing poor , Forgetting God , I daily rob'd for more . Three times he sav'd me from the Gallow-tree , Three times he cast himself in debt for me , Three times he set me up in good estate , In hope to keep me from untimely fate . By me the Proverb is fulfilled here , Who saves a thief from Gallows finds it dear . For saving me , I sought his dear life's woe , My gentle father's timeless overthrow . For wanting means still to relieve my need , Put me in mind to do a woeful deed , And seek his blood , the high way unto since , Who wanting grace , I soon grew perfect in . My father's brother of good living known , Being dead , as next of kin they were mine own : The which I wrought with these accursed hands , To be the heir of all my Uncles Lands . With mind prepar'd for Murder thus I went , Unto the field where he did much frequen where meeting him with mine own father's knife Which I had stolen I took away his life . And laid it down all bloody by his side , That all might see my Uncle therewith dy'd : And challeng'd it my father's Knife to be , When people came the murdered corpse to see . O homocide ! O cursed viperous brood , Like Cain to seek my father's dearest blood : My own dear Father being thus betray'd , I his own child the evidence was made . So judg'd to death for that he never did , The Lord in mercy did the same forbid : For as he was to execution led , A World of torments in my bosom bred . To see him stand upon the Gallow-tree , From which before poor man he saved me : I could not choose but tell what I have done , And so confess my self a wicked son . The Confession and Repentance of George Sanders Gent. late of Sugh , in the County of Hertford , who killed his own Uncle , and accused his own Father for the Murder , but by Gods providence being discovered , died for the same , where he wrote this Song with his own hand . GOds judgments now , are rightly seen , said I Dear father , I have slave him , let me die , Oh let me die , and set my father free , Or else like Judas damned shall I be . Whereat the People in that very place , They praised God that gave me so much grace , To quit my father from that crying since , which I with-blood-red streams am drowned in . My father's sav'd , and I to prison sent , Where I remain'd with many a sad lament ; Which when you see , you cannot choose but say , Repentance comes before my dying day . His Repentance in Prison . To the same Tune . Amongst Lyons fell in Daniels Den am I , In lowest prison cast with Jeremy , Fed with Elias by the Ravens fell , And plac'd with Judas in the maw of hell . Naked with Esau fearful doe I walk , Dumb with old Zachary silent doe I talk : Afflictions bred , with Micha is my food , And with the Prophet drink I sorrows flood . As poor as Job , even now so poor am I , Despis'd with Lazarus in great misery : Banish'd with David from my native land , Cast up with Jonas on the Ninivites sand . Made blind with Toby by the Swallows dung , And wi [ tO ] h poor Joseph cast in Prison strong : [ ? ] weep with Marry who had lost her Master , And run with Peter who should run the faster . I sinned have , for since God cursed the ground . I sinned have , for since the world was drown'd , I sinned have , since Sodom set on fire , Also for since did AEgypt feel Gods ire . I sinned have , for since did Adam die , I sinned have , since caused Davids cry , I sinned have , and for since Satan fell , From and high Angel to a devil in hell . Did David weep , and shall not I then cry ? Did Mary weep , and shall mine eyes be dry ? Did Esau weep , and shall not I weep more ? Did Peter weep , such tears let me have store . Did Mary weep for loss of Master dear , Did Martha weep , with sorrow touch her near , Spring eyes with tears to wash his sacred feet , That for my since did shed his blood so sweet . Lark like I fly unto the living Spring , Desiring pardon of my Heavenly King , Passed worldly hope , now like the thief on tree , I only fix my faith and hope in thee . Look back on me , as thou didst unto Peter , Speak to my soul , as to the thief most sweeter ; Oh spy me out with Zache on the tree , And with sweet Bartholomew call me Lord to thee . O let me now with holy Abraham spy , A saving Ram that Isaac may not die , Oh let me live for to found forth thy praise , That I may show thy mercy in my days . M [ a ] ke me a Swallow in thy house , Oh King , That Swallow like I may fit there and sing , Oh let me in thy Temple keep a door , That I may praise thy name for ever more . FINIS , Printed for F. Coals , T. Vere , J. Wright and J. Clarke . 