E : 357 The true manner of the Kings Trial at Westminster-Hall , by the high Court of Justice , from the twentieth day of January 1649 , to the seven and twentieth of the same Month. Also the true manner of his being put to Death at White-hall , near the Banqueting House the 30 of January , with his Speech made upon the Scaffold before he was beheaded . To the Tune of , Aim not too High . KIng Charls was once a Prince of great state , But yet he died a Death unfortunate , O , he is gone , and now hath left us here , And God does know what courses we shall steer . Now my sad story to you I'll relate , At Westminster was call'd a Court of State , Where Sergeant Bradshaw was Lord President , The Court being full , then for the King they sent . There to the Bar a Guard did him convey . In Januaries month the twentieth day , Whereas Soliciter Cook did read at large The order and the manner of his Charge . The Kings Charge . Charls Stuart once admitted Englands King , Which did such woes upon the Nation bring , In setting up thy Standard in the field , Which was the cause that so much blood was spill'd Whereas thou didst raise Arms within the Land , Also against the Parliament did stand , The peoples Rights and Liberties enthral , All these and mere , thou didst Tyrannical . Therefore you guilty are of these sad times , As Treason , Murder , and of such like crimes , For which at Bar a Prisoner you are , And in this Court you shall have Trial fair . Here is your Jury , for it must be so , You've herd your Charge , plead guilty , I or no . What is it thus ( then answered the King ) Was it for this you did me hither bring ? The Kings Answer to the Charge . As for your Charge a Rush I do not care , I do desire those things are right and square , It was for my peoples freedom I did stand The Liberty and Laws of all the Land. I do desire to me you would unfold By whose Commission you this Court do hold , To whom the President did straight reply , Sir , you shall know by whole Authority . This Courts prerogative whereon we stand , Ordained is by the Commons of the Land It is not for Prisoners to dispute the same Answer to that for which you hither came . Then their Authority he quite deny'd , And said by them he meant not to be try'd , At which the Court their Verdict then did pass , ( Not answering that he then guilty was ) Then by the Clerk his Sentence there was read Saying , Charls Stuart , thou shalt loose thy head , For Murder , Treason , and for Tyranny , And to the Land a public enemy , Being condemned , one thing he did crave That Doctor Juxons presence he might have , To preach and the Communion him to give , And see his two sweet Babes while he did live . The which was granted , all performed and done , And he did see his Daughter and his Son , ( It would have burst a stony heart to see The weeping joy that was between them three ) He blessed them both , and for them he did pray , Mourning at parting , then they go their way , Father from Children , 'twas a grief full soar Each other in this world to see no more . Tuesday the thirtieth of January last , He from Saint Jameses unto White-hall past Having a Guard of flying colours spread And rattling Drums as to a battle led , With cheerful countenance and courage bold He said , march faster , for the day is cold Then to the Scaffold was he straight conveyed . The which with mourning cloth was overlaid . The Kings Speech upon the scaffold . Mounting the same ( quoth he ) I'll little say , For in this World I have not long to stay It is my duty first with God to clear My conscience free , next to my Country dear . Unto the Parliament I never thought ill , Their Privileges never sought to spill , Ill Instruments on both sides bred the strife Who were the cause so many lost their life . The greatest enemies that sought my death , I do forgive , before I loose my breath I wish the Kingdoms peace , and Churches bliss , For now religion out of order is . Lawful Succession I do hope shall be ( Granted by Parliament ) now after me , And for my conscience and religion I die a Protestant and a Christian . To Doctor Juxson then his George he gave , Willing Prince Charls his Son the same might have His walking staff unto himself did give ( And for his sake ) to keep while he did live . Likewise he gave the Duke of Richmond then One Watch , another to a Gentleman , With eyes lift up to heaven he made a Prayer And then for Death did instantly prepare . ( Saying , my earthly Crown I here must leave Hoping a heavenly Crown I shall receive ) Then on the Block his Neck he there did lay And to the Headsman then these words did say ; When as my hands and arms Il open stretch , Strike home , be sure that thou a right blow fetch , I come , I come , Lord Jesus then he cry'd , One blow his head and body did divide . Thus like a Lamb his Death he there did take And presently this World he did forsake , Whose soul I trust is with the Lord on high And thus I end this mournful Tragedy . FINIS . London , Printed for R.J. And Entered according to Order . E : 357 The true manner of the Kings Trial at Westminster-Hall , by the high Court of Justice , from the twentieth day of January 1649 , to the seven and twentieth of the same Month. Also the true manner of his being put to Death at White-hall , near the Banqueting House the 30 of January , with his Speech made upon the Scaffold before he was beheaded . To the Tune of , Aim not too High . KIng Charls was once a Prince of great state , But yet he died a Death unfortunate , O , he is gone , and now hath left us here , And God does know what courses we shall steer . Now my sad story to you I'll relate , At Westminster was call'd a Court of State , Where Sergeant Bradshaw was Lord President , The Court being full , then for the King they sent . There to the Bar a Guard did him convey . In Januaries month the twentieth day , Whereas Soliciter Cook did read at large The order and the manner of his Charge . The Kings Charge . Charls Stuart once admitted Englands King , Which did such woes upon the Nation bring , In setting up thy Standard in the field , Which was the cause that so much blood was spill'd Whereas thou didst raise Arms within the Land , Also against the Parliament did stand , The peoples Rights and Liberties enthral , All these and mere , thou didst Tyrannical . Therefore you guilty are of these sad times , As Treason , Murder , and of such like crimes , For which at Bar a Prisoner you are , And in this Court you shall have Trial fair . Here is your Jury , for it must be so , You've herd your Charge , plead guilty , I or no . What is it thus ( then answered the King ) Was it for this you did me hither bring ? The Kings Answer to the Charge . As for your Charge a Rush I do not care , I do desire those things are right and square , It was for my peoples freedom I did stand The Liberty and Laws of all the Land. I do desire to me you would unfold By whose Commission you this Court do hold , To whom the President did straight reply , Sir , you shall know by whole Authority . This Courts prerogative whereon we stand , Ordained is by the Commons of the Land It is not for Prisoners to dispute the same Answer to that for which you hither came . Then their Authority he quite deny'd , And said by them he meant not to be try'd , At which the Court their Verdict then did pass , ( Not answering that he then guilty was ) Then by the Clerk his Sentence there was read Saying , Charls Stuart , thou shalt loose thy head , For Murder , Treason , and for Tyranny , And to the Land a public enemy , Being condemned , one thing he did crave That Doctor Juxons presence he might have , To preach and the Communion him to give , And see his two sweet Babes while he did live . The which was granted , all performed and done , And he did see his Daughter and his Son , ( It would have burst a stony heart to see The weeping joy that was between them three ) He blessed them both , and for them he did pray , Mourning at parting , then they go their way , Father from Children , 'twas a grief full soar Each other in this world to see no more . Tuesday the thirtieth of January last , He from Saint Jameses unto White-hall past Having a Guard of flying colours spread And rattling Drums as to a battle led , With cheerful countenance and courage bold He said , march faster , for the day is cold Then to the Scaffold was he straight conveyed . The which with mourning cloth was overlaid . The Kings Speech upon the scaffold . Mounting the same ( quoth he ) I'll little say , For in this World I have not long to stay It is my duty first with God to clear My conscience free , next to my Country dear . Unto the Parliament I never thought ill , Their Privileges never sought to spill , Ill Instruments on both sides bred the strife Who were the cause so many lost their life . The greatest enemies that sought my death , I do forgive , before I loose my breath I wish the Kingdoms peace , and Churches bliss , For now religion out of order is . Lawful Succession I do hope shall be ( Granted by Parliament ) now after me , And for my conscience and religion I die a Protestant and a Christian . To Doctor Juxson then his George he gave , Willing Prince Charls his Son the same might have His walking staff unto himself did give ( And for his sake ) to keep while he did live . Likewise he gave the Duke of Richmond then One Watch , another to a Gentleman , With eyes lift up to heaven he made a Prayer And then for Death did instantly prepare . ( Saying , my earthly Crown I here must leave Hoping a heavenly Crown I shall receive ) Then on the Block his Neck he there did lay And to the Headsman then these words did say ; When as my hands and arms Il open stretch , Strike home , be sure that thou a right blow fetch , I come , I come , Lord Jesus then he cry'd , One blow his head and body did divide . Thus like a Lamb his Death he there did take And presently this World he did forsake , Whose soul I trust is with the Lord on high And thus I end this mournful Tragedy . FINIS . London , Printed for R.J. And Entered according to Order . 