E : 358 Truths Integrity , OR , A Curious Northern Ditty Called , Love will find out the Way . To a pleasant new tune . OVer the Mountains and under the waves , Over the Fountains , and under the Graves . Under floods which are the deepest , which do Neptune obey , Over Rocks which are the steepest , Love will find out the way . Where there is no place for the Glowworm to lie , Where there is no place for the receipt of a fly , where the gnat she dares not venture lest her self fast she lay , But if Love come he will enter , and will , etc You may esteem him , a child of his force , Or you may deem him , a coward which is worse . But if he whom Love does honour , be conceal'd from the day , Set a thousand guards upon him , Love will , etc Some think to lose him , which is too unkind , And some do suppose him , poor heart to be blind , But if he were hidden , do the best you may , Blind Love if so you call him , will find , etc Well may the Eagle stoop down to the fist , Or you may inveigle the Phoenix of the East . With fear the Tigers to give over their prey , But never stop a Lover , he will , etc From Dover to Barwick , and Nations throughout , Brave Guy Earl of Warwick , that Champion so stout , With his warlike behaviour , through the world he did stray , To win his Phillis favour , Love will , etc , In order next enters Bevis so brave , After Adventures and policy grave . To see whom he desired , his Josian so gay , For whom his heart was fired , Love will find out the way . The second Part , To the same tune , THE Gordion knot , which True Lovers knit , Undo you cannot nor yet break it . Make use of your Inventions , their fancies to betray , To frustrate your Intentions , Love will find out the way ; From Court to the Cottage , in Bower and Hall , From the King to the Beggar . Love conquers all . Though never so stout and Lordly strive do what you may , Yet sure , never so hardy ; Love will , etc Love hath power over Princes , and greatest Emperor , In any Provinces , such is Loves power . There is no resisting but him obey , In spite of all contesting , Love will , etc , If that he were hidden , as all men that are , Were strictly forbidden , that place to declare . Winds that have no abidings , pitying their delay , Will come and bring him Tidings , and direct etc If the Earth could part him , he would gallop it o're , If the Seas should overthwart him , he will swim to the shore . Should his Love become a swallow through the Air to stray , Love will lend wings to follow , and will find out the way . There is no striving , to cross his intent , There is no contriving , his plots to prevent . But if once the Messenger greet him that his True love does stay , If death should come and meet him , Love will find out the way . Printed for F , Coals , J.W. T. Vere , and W. Gilbertson E : 358 Truths Integrity , OR , A Curious Northern Ditty Called , Love will find out the Way . To a pleasant new tune . OVer the Mountains and under the waves , Over the Fountains , and under the Graves . Under floods which are the deepest , which do Neptune obey , Over Rocks which are the steepest , Love will find out the way . Where there is no place for the Glowworm to lie , Where there is no place for the receipt of a fly , where the gnat she dares not venture lest her self fast she lay , But if Love come he will enter , and will , etc You may esteem him , a child of his force , Or you may deem him , a coward which is worse . But if he whom Love does honour , be conceal'd from the day , Set a thousand guards upon him , Love will , etc Some think to lose him , which is too unkind , And some do suppose him , poor heart to be blind , But if he were hidden , do the best you may , Blind Love if so you call him , will find , etc Well may the Eagle stoop down to the fist , Or you may inveigle the Phoenix of the East . With fear the Tigers to give over their prey , But never stop a Lover , he will , etc From Dover to Barwick , and Nations throughout , Brave Guy Earl of Warwick , that Champion so stout , With his warlike behaviour , through the world he did stray , To win his Phillis favour , Love will , etc , In order next enters Bevis so brave , After Adventures and policy grave . To see whom he desired , his Josian so gay , For whom his heart was fired , Love will find out the way . The second Part , To the same tune , THE Gordion knot , which True Lovers knit , Undo you cannot nor yet break it . Make use of your Inventions , their fancies to betray , To frustrate your Intentions , Love will find out the way ; From Court to the Cottage , in Bower and Hall , From the King to the Beggar . Love conquers all . Though never so stout and Lordly strive do what you may , Yet sure , never so hardy ; Love will , etc Love hath power over Princes , and greatest Emperor , In any Provinces , such is Loves power . There is no resisting but him obey , In spite of all contesting , Love will , etc , If that he were hidden , as all men that are , Were strictly forbidden , that place to declare . Winds that have no abidings , pitying their delay , Will come and bring him Tidings , and direct etc If the Earth could part him , he would gallop it o're , If the Seas should overthwart him , he will swim to the shore . Should his Love become a swallow through the Air to stray , Love will lend wings to follow , and will find out the way . There is no striving , to cross his intent , There is no contriving , his plots to prevent . But if once the Messenger greet him that his True love does stay , If death should come and meet him , Love will find out the way . Printed for F , Coals , J.W. T. Vere , and W. Gilbertson 