The King and Kingdoms joyful Day of Triumph . OR , The Kings most Excellent Majesties Royal and Triumphant coming to London , accompanied by the ever Renowned , his Excellency the Lord General Monck , and and numerous company of his Royal Peers , Lords , Knights , Citizens , and Gentry , who conducted his Royal Majesty in Honour and Triumph from Dover to London . To the Tune of , The Scottish Lady , or , Ill tide that cruel peace that gain'd a War on me . KIng Charles he now is Landed , to ease his Subject's moan ; Those that are faithful handed he takes them for his own : O he is our Royal Sovereign King , And is of the Royalest Off spring , Peace and plenty with him he'l bring , And will set us free from all vexations , and great taxations , woe and misery , And govern all these Nations with great tranquillity . Lord General of fair England marched forth to meet the King , To entertain him when he did Land , and to London him did bring ; He is the worthy Man of Might That does both King and Country right , In whom God and man takes deligh For surely he well does understand what he does take in hand ; and most discreetly He does his warlike Troops command , renown'd to Posterity . The Trumpets bravely sounded , the Kings Return again , With joy their hearts abounded the King to entertain : Aloud they sounded forth his praise , Englands Glory for to raise ; For God is just in his ways Assuredly : most hearts then were glad , no man seeming sad , the bravest day that ever came , We happy by our King are made , to his eternal fame , The Citizens of London with a most pompous Train , For evermore hath praise won , his favour for to gain , Gailantly marched out of the Town To King Charles's Royal Renown , In peace to bring him to the Crown Richly attired : by the Lords persuasion after the richest fashion greatly admired ; The chiefest in this Nation , whose hearts with joy are fired . The second Part , to the same Tune . THen many brave Noblemen All most gallant and brave , Marched out of the Town then ; both valiant , wife , and grave , Counting it a most delightful thing For to honour Charles our Royal King , And to the Crown him in peace to bring : desiring he now might be Crowned , and still Renowned to posterity , On whom fortune had frowned for his sincerity . Many thousands of Horsemen , then marched o're the Plain , For to defend King Charles then , and him to entertain : Their Horses went prancing along , When they were the rest among , And seem'd to dance amid the Throng So merrily ; seeming to be glad , they that journey had : they marched on most , They were neither heavy nor sad , but went delightfully . Their Riders richly tired in costly Cloth of Gold , Their journey so required , most rich for to behold : O it was the most glorious sighed , And did my heart so much delight , That I could not forbear but write . They were such gallant Blades , and so richly dressed , as cannot be expressed , they were most bonny Lads , All malice they did worser [ ? ] test , they were such brave Comrades . Each Regiment from other known by their sev'ral notes , As plainly it did appear , and was all in Buff-Coats : And in silken Scarfs all of green , With Hats and Feathers to be seen , Most rich as well I ween , Were these brave men : England did never see the like ever but may again They marched most courageous , the King to entertain And this does these Lands rejoice , and all that in them live , Even both with hearts and voice , and thanks to God do give , Which restored unto us our King , And Usurpers down did fling : Freedom unto us to bring ; We shall be free from all Exilements and ill Revilements , we and our posterity Shall have our full enjoyments , and happy days shall see . FINIS . J.W. London , Printed for John Andrews , at the White Lion near Pye-Corner . The King and Kingdoms joyful Day of Triumph . OR , The Kings most Excellent Majesties Royal and Triumphant coming to London , accompanied by the ever Renowned , his Excellency the Lord General Monck , and and numerous company of his Royal Peers , Lords , Knights , Citizens , and Gentry , who conducted his Royal Majesty in Honour and Triumph from Dover to London . To the Tune of , The Scottish Lady , or , Ill tide that cruel peace that gain'd a War on me . KIng Charles he now is Landed , to ease his Subject's moan ; Those that are faithful handed he takes them for his own : O he is our Royal Sovereign King , And is of the Royalest Off spring , Peace and plenty with him he'l bring , And will set us free from all vexations , and great taxations , woe and misery , And govern all these Nations with great tranquillity . Lord General of fair England marched forth to meet the King , To entertain him when he did Land , and to London him did bring ; He is the worthy Man of Might That does both King and Country right , In whom God and man takes deligh For surely he well does understand what he does take in hand ; and most discreetly He does his warlike Troops command , renown'd to Posterity . The Trumpets bravely sounded , the Kings Return again , With joy their hearts abounded the King to entertain : Aloud they sounded forth his praise , Englands Glory for to raise ; For God is just in his ways Assuredly : most hearts then were glad , no man seeming sad , the bravest day that ever came , We happy by our King are made , to his eternal fame , The Citizens of London with a most pompous Train , For evermore hath praise won , his favour for to gain , Gailantly marched out of the Town To King Charles's Royal Renown , In peace to bring him to the Crown Richly attired : by the Lords persuasion after the richest fashion greatly admired ; The chiefest in this Nation , whose hearts with joy are fired . The second Part , to the same Tune . THen many brave Noblemen All most gallant and brave , Marched out of the Town then ; both valiant , wife , and grave , Counting it a most delightful thing For to honour Charles our Royal King , And to the Crown him in peace to bring : desiring he now might be Crowned , and still Renowned to posterity , On whom fortune had frowned for his sincerity . Many thousands of Horsemen , then marched o're the Plain , For to defend King Charles then , and him to entertain : Their Horses went prancing along , When they were the rest among , And seem'd to dance amid the Throng So merrily ; seeming to be glad , they that journey had : they marched on most , They were neither heavy nor sad , but went delightfully . Their Riders richly tired in costly Cloth of Gold , Their journey so required , most rich for to behold : O it was the most glorious sighed , And did my heart so much delight , That I could not forbear but write . They were such gallant Blades , and so richly dressed , as cannot be expressed , they were most bonny Lads , All malice they did worser [ ? ] test , they were such brave Comrades . Each Regiment from other known by their sev'ral notes , As plainly it did appear , and was all in Buff-Coats : And in silken Scarfs all of green , With Hats and Feathers to be seen , Most rich as well I ween , Were these brave men : England did never see the like ever but may again They marched most courageous , the King to entertain And this does these Lands rejoice , and all that in them live , Even both with hearts and voice , and thanks to God do give , Which restored unto us our King , And Usurpers down did fling : Freedom unto us to bring ; We shall be free from all Exilements and ill Revilements , we and our posterity Shall have our full enjoyments , and happy days shall see . FINIS . J.W. London , Printed for John Andrews , at the White Lion near Pye-Corner . 