P : 358 ( 9 ) A Memorable Song , on the lamentable , bloody , and unhap - py Hunting at Chevychase . Betwixt Earl Dowglas of SCOTLAND , and Earl Piercy of ENGLAND . To the Tune of , The Isle of Kyle . GOD prosper long our noble King , our lives and safeties all ; A woeful hunting once their did in Chevychase befall : To drive the Deer with Hound and Horn Earl Piercy took his way ; The Child may rue that is unborn the hunting of that day . 2. The stout Earl of Northumberland , A vow to God did make ; His pleasure in the Scottish Woods three Summer days to take ; The choicest Hearts of Chevychase to kill and bear away . These tidings to Earl Dowglas came , in Scotland where he lay . 3 Who sent Earl Piercy present word , he would prevent his sport ; The English Earl not fearing this , did to the Woods resor With twenty hundred Bowmen bold , all chosen men of might ; Who knew full well in time of need , to aim their shafts aright , 4 The gallant grey Hounds swiftly run , to chase the Fallow Deer ; On Munday they began to hunt , when daylight did appear : And long before high noon they had and hundred fat Bucks slave , Then having din'd , the Drovers went to rouse them up again . 5. The Bowmen mustered on the Hills , well able to endure ; The back sides all with special care that worser [ ay ] were guarded sure : The Hounds ran swiftly through the Wood the nimble Deer to take , And with their cries the Hills and Dailes and Echo shrill did make . 6 , Lord Piercy to the Quarry went , to view the tender Deer ; Quoth he , Earl Dowglas promised this day to meet me here : But if I knew he would not come , no longer would I stay ; With that a brave young Gentleman thus to the Earl did say , 7. Lo yonder does Lord Dowglas come , his men in Armour bright ; Full fifteen hundred Scottish spears , all marching in our figh All men of pleasant of Tevidale , dwells by the River Tweed ; Then cease your sport Earl Piercy said , and take your Bows with speed . 8 And now with me my Countrymen , your courage forth advance ; For never was there Champion yet in Scotland or in France , That ever did on Horseback come , but if my hap it were . I durst encounter man for man , with him to break a spear . 9. Lord Dowglas on a milkwhite steed , most like a Barron bold ; Rod foremost of the company , whose Armour shin'd like Gold : Show me he said whose men you be , that hunt so boldly here , That without my consent do chase and kill my fallow Deer , 10. The man that first did answer make , was noble Piercy he ; Who said , we list not to declare nor show whose men we be : Yet will we spend our dearest blood , the chiefest Hearts to slay , Then Dowglas swore a solemn Oath , and thus in rage did say : 11. Ere thus I will outbraved be one of us two shall die , I know thee well , and Earl thou art , Lord Piercy , so am I ; But trust me Piercy pity it were , and great offence to kill Any of those our guiltless men , for they have done no ill . 12 Let thee and me the battle try , and set our men aside ; Accursed be he , Lord Piercy said , by whom this is deni'd : Then stepped a gallant Squire forth , Witherington was h [ i ] s name ; Who said he would not have it told , to Henry our King for shame , 13. That ever my Captain fought on foot , and I stood looking on ; You be two Lords said Witherington , and I a Squire alone : I'le do the best that I may do , while I have power to stand ; While I have power to wield my Sword I'le fight with heart and hand . 14. Our Scotish Archers bent their Bows , their hearts were good and true ; At the first flight of Arrows sent , fourscore English they sl [ e ] w : To drive the Deer with H [ oh ] und and Horn Dowglas had on the bent . A Captain mov'd with much pride , the Spears in shivers went . 15. They clos'd full fast on every side , no slackness there was found ; And many a gallant Gentleman lay gasping on the ground : Oh but it was great grief to see , and likewise for to hear ; The cries of men lying in their gore , and scattered here and there . 16. At last those two stout Lords did meet , like Captains of great might ; Like Lions mov'd they laid on load and made a cruel sighs They fought until the both did sweat , with swords of tempered steel ; Until the blood like drops of rain , they trickling down did feel 17. Yield thee , ( Lord Piercy ) Dowglas said , in faith I will thee bring ; Where thou shalt high advanced be by James our Scottish King : Thy ransom I will freely give , and this report of thee , Thou art the most courageous Knight that ever I did see . 18. No , ( Dowglas ) quoth Lord Piercy then , thy proffer I do scorn . I will not yield to any Scot that ever yet was born : With that there came and Arrow keen out of and English Bow , Which struck Earl Dowglas to the heart a deep and deadly blow . 19 Who never spoke more words then these fight on my merry men all : For why my life is at and end , Lord Pier [ c ] y sees my fallen , Then leaving life , Lord Piercy took the dead man by the hand . And said , Lord Dowglas , for thy life would I had lost my land . 20 Oh but my very heart does bleed , with sorrow for thy sake ; For sure a more renowned Knight mischance did never take : A Knight among the Scots there was which saw Earl Dowglas die ; Who straight in wrath did vow revenge upon the Earl Piercy . 21 Sir Hiugh Montgomerie was he call'd , who with a Spear full bright ; Well mounted on a gallant Steed , ran fiercely through the figh He passed the English Archers all , without all dread or fear , And through Earl Piercies body then he thrust his hateful Spear . 22. With surh a vehement force and might he did his body gore , The Spear went through the other side a large cloth yard and more : So thus did both these Nobles die , whose courage none could stain ; And English Archer even perceiv'd the noble Lord was slave . 23 He had a Bow bent in his hand , made of a trusty tree ; And Arrow of a cloth-yard length unto the head drew he : Against Sir Hiugh Montgomerie then so right his shaft be set ; The grey Goose wing that was thereon in his heart blood was wet . 24. This fight did last from break of day till setting of the Sun , For when they rung the evening Bell the Battle scarce was done : With the Lord Piercy there was slave Sir John of Ogertone , Sir Robert Ratcliff , and Sir John , Sir James that bold barron . 25. Sir George also and good Sir I both Knights of good account ; Good Sir Ralph Roby there was slave , whose prowess did surmoun For Witherington I needs must wail , as one in doleful dumps ; For when his legs were smitten off , he fought still on the stumps , 26 And with Earl Dowglas there was slave Sir Hiugh Montgomerie ; Sir Charles Murray that from the field one foot would never flee : Sir Charles Murray of Ratcliff too , his sisters son was he ; Sir David Lamb so well esteem'd , yet saveth could not be . 27. And the Lord Marwel in likewise , did with Earl Dowglas die ; Of fifteen hundred Scotish spears went home but fifty three : Of twenty hundred English men , scarce fiftie five did flee ; The rest were slave in Chevychase under the greenwood Tree . 28. Next day did many Widows come , their Husbands to bewail ; They washed their wounds in brinish tears , but all could not previl : Their bodies bathed in purple blood , they boar with them away ; They kissed them dead a thousand times when they were clade in clay . 29 The news was brought to Edinburgh , where Scotlands King did reign , That brave Earl Dowglas suddenly , was with and Arrow slave : Now God be with him , said our King , sith 'twil no better be ; I trust I have within my Realm five hundred as good as he 50 Like tidings to King Henry came , within as short a space ; That Piercie of Northumberland was slave in Chevychase : Oh heavy News , King Hendry said , England can witness be , I have not any Captain more of such account as he . 31. Now of the rest of small account did many hundreds die , Thus ended the hunting of Chevychase made by the Earl Piercy : God save the King , and bless the Land , with plenty , joy , and peace . And grant henceforth that foul debates , 'twixt Noblemen may cease . FINIS . P : 358 ( 9 ) A Memorable Song , on the lamentable , bloody , and unhap - py Hunting at Chevychase . Betwixt Earl Dowglas of SCOTLAND , and Earl Piercy of ENGLAND . To the Tune of , The Isle of Kyle . GOD prosper long our noble King , our lives and safeties all ; A woeful hunting once their did in Chevychase befall : To drive the Deer with Hound and Horn Earl Piercy took his way ; The Child may rue that is unborn the hunting of that day . 2. The stout Earl of Northumberland , A vow to God did make ; His pleasure in the Scottish Woods three Summer days to take ; The choicest Hearts of Chevychase to kill and bear away . These tidings to Earl Dowglas came , in Scotland where he lay . 3 Who sent Earl Piercy present word , he would prevent his sport ; The English Earl not fearing this , did to the Woods resor With twenty hundred Bowmen bold , all chosen men of might ; Who knew full well in time of need , to aim their shafts aright , 4 The gallant grey Hounds swiftly run , to chase the Fallow Deer ; On Munday they began to hunt , when daylight did appear : And long before high noon they had and hundred fat Bucks slave , Then having din'd , the Drovers went to rouse them up again . 5. The Bowmen mustered on the Hills , well able to endure ; The back sides all with special care that worser [ ay ] were guarded sure : The Hounds ran swiftly through the Wood the nimble Deer to take , And with their cries the Hills and Dailes and Echo shrill did make . 6 , Lord Piercy to the Quarry went , to view the tender Deer ; Quoth he , Earl Dowglas promised this day to meet me here : But if I knew he would not come , no longer would I stay ; With that a brave young Gentleman thus to the Earl did say , 7. Lo yonder does Lord Dowglas come , his men in Armour bright ; Full fifteen hundred Scottish spears , all marching in our figh All men of pleasant of Tevidale , dwells by the River Tweed ; Then cease your sport Earl Piercy said , and take your Bows with speed . 8 And now with me my Countrymen , your courage forth advance ; For never was there Champion yet in Scotland or in France , That ever did on Horseback come , but if my hap it were . I durst encounter man for man , with him to break a spear . 9. Lord Dowglas on a milkwhite steed , most like a Barron bold ; Rod foremost of the company , whose Armour shin'd like Gold : Show me he said whose men you be , that hunt so boldly here , That without my consent do chase and kill my fallow Deer , 10. The man that first did answer make , was noble Piercy he ; Who said , we list not to declare nor show whose men we be : Yet will we spend our dearest blood , the chiefest Hearts to slay , Then Dowglas swore a solemn Oath , and thus in rage did say : 11. Ere thus I will outbraved be one of us two shall die , I know thee well , and Earl thou art , Lord Piercy , so am I ; But trust me Piercy pity it were , and great offence to kill Any of those our guiltless men , for they have done no ill . 12 Let thee and me the battle try , and set our men aside ; Accursed be he , Lord Piercy said , by whom this is deni'd : Then stepped a gallant Squire forth , Witherington was h [ i ] s name ; Who said he would not have it told , to Henry our King for shame , 13. That ever my Captain fought on foot , and I stood looking on ; You be two Lords said Witherington , and I a Squire alone : I'le do the best that I may do , while I have power to stand ; While I have power to wield my Sword I'le fight with heart and hand . 14. Our Scotish Archers bent their Bows , their hearts were good and true ; At the first flight of Arrows sent , fourscore English they sl [ e ] w : To drive the Deer with H [ oh ] und and Horn Dowglas had on the bent . A Captain mov'd with much pride , the Spears in shivers went . 15. They clos'd full fast on every side , no slackness there was found ; And many a gallant Gentleman lay gasping on the ground : Oh but it was great grief to see , and likewise for to hear ; The cries of men lying in their gore , and scattered here and there . 16. At last those two stout Lords did meet , like Captains of great might ; Like Lions mov'd they laid on load and made a cruel sighs They fought until the both did sweat , with swords of tempered steel ; Until the blood like drops of rain , they trickling down did feel 17. Yield thee , ( Lord Piercy ) Dowglas said , in faith I will thee bring ; Where thou shalt high advanced be by James our Scottish King : Thy ransom I will freely give , and this report of thee , Thou art the most courageous Knight that ever I did see . 18. No , ( Dowglas ) quoth Lord Piercy then , thy proffer I do scorn . I will not yield to any Scot that ever yet was born : With that there came and Arrow keen out of and English Bow , Which struck Earl Dowglas to the heart a deep and deadly blow . 19 Who never spoke more words then these fight on my merry men all : For why my life is at and end , Lord Pier [ c ] y sees my fallen , Then leaving life , Lord Piercy took the dead man by the hand . And said , Lord Dowglas , for thy life would I had lost my land . 20 Oh but my very heart does bleed , with sorrow for thy sake ; For sure a more renowned Knight mischance did never take : A Knight among the Scots there was which saw Earl Dowglas die ; Who straight in wrath did vow revenge upon the Earl Piercy . 21 Sir Hiugh Montgomerie was he call'd , who with a Spear full bright ; Well mounted on a gallant Steed , ran fiercely through the figh He passed the English Archers all , without all dread or fear , And through Earl Piercies body then he thrust his hateful Spear . 22. With surh a vehement force and might he did his body gore , The Spear went through the other side a large cloth yard and more : So thus did both these Nobles die , whose courage none could stain ; And English Archer even perceiv'd the noble Lord was slave . 23 He had a Bow bent in his hand , made of a trusty tree ; And Arrow of a cloth-yard length unto the head drew he : Against Sir Hiugh Montgomerie then so right his shaft be set ; The grey Goose wing that was thereon in his heart blood was wet . 24. This fight did last from break of day till setting of the Sun , For when they rung the evening Bell the Battle scarce was done : With the Lord Piercy there was slave Sir John of Ogertone , Sir Robert Ratcliff , and Sir John , Sir James that bold barron . 25. Sir George also and good Sir I both Knights of good account ; Good Sir Ralph Roby there was slave , whose prowess did surmoun For Witherington I needs must wail , as one in doleful dumps ; For when his legs were smitten off , he fought still on the stumps , 26 And with Earl Dowglas there was slave Sir Hiugh Montgomerie ; Sir Charles Murray that from the field one foot would never flee : Sir Charles Murray of Ratcliff too , his sisters son was he ; Sir David Lamb so well esteem'd , yet saveth could not be . 27. And the Lord Marwel in likewise , did with Earl Dowglas die ; Of fifteen hundred Scotish spears went home but fifty three : Of twenty hundred English men , scarce fiftie five did flee ; The rest were slave in Chevychase under the greenwood Tree . 28. Next day did many Widows come , their Husbands to bewail ; They washed their wounds in brinish tears , but all could not previl : Their bodies bathed in purple blood , they boar with them away ; They kissed them dead a thousand times when they were clade in clay . 29 The news was brought to Edinburgh , where Scotlands King did reign , That brave Earl Dowglas suddenly , was with and Arrow slave : Now God be with him , said our King , sith 'twil no better be ; I trust I have within my Realm five hundred as good as he 50 Like tidings to King Henry came , within as short a space ; That Piercie of Northumberland was slave in Chevychase : Oh heavy News , King Hendry said , England can witness be , I have not any Captain more of such account as he . 31. Now of the rest of small account did many hundreds die , Thus ended the hunting of Chevychase made by the Earl Piercy : God save the King , and bless the Land , with plenty , joy , and peace . And grant henceforth that foul debates , 'twixt Noblemen may cease . FINIS . 