A Looking Glass for Maids . OR , The Downfall of two desperate Lovers . Henry Hartlowe and William Martin , both lately living in the Isle of Wight , who for the love of Anne Scabborow , a beautiful Virgin , she having first made herself sure to one of them , & afterwards fell off to the other , chaleng'd the field , where after a cruel fightthey were both mortally wounded , and were found dead upon the place by the afore men - tioned Maiden , who bestowed many tears upon their bodies , buried them both in one Grave . And now she lies in grief and sad distress , Wishing all Lovers true , more happiness . The tune is , Aim not too high , UNhappy I , who in this prime of youth , Unkind to him with whom I broke my truth ; Mark well my words you that are Maids & Wives , I was the cause that two Men lost their lives . I'th Isle of Wight , Anne Scarborow was my name There did I live in credit wealth and fame . My Parents rich , I nothing then did lack , But grace and truth , the which did go to wrack . A gentle man a Suitor to me came , With whom I might have liv'd a gallsnt Dame , But wantonness and pride did seize my heart , Was sure to him , and yet from him did part . He broke a piece of Gold , and gave it me , Then did I seemingly to him agree : But O my heart was never rightly plac't , Another Man I afterwards imbrac't . Which when he knew he fell into dispare , He beatrice his breast and tore his curled hair : Oh who would trust a woman , then said he ; That seldom are what they do seem to be . Now do I find , that all a man can do , His best endeavours make not women true , Yet he that now hath interest in your heart , Shall buy you dearly , before that we do part . Then came the other , whom I lov'd so well , But now behold a heavy chance befell ; When my first Love his Rival had beheld , He cast his Glove and challeng'd him the Field . To answer him the other thought it fit , He said he never was known a Coward yet ; He for my favour then so much did strive , He said he'd fight with any man alive . Next morning then these Gentlemen did meet , And manfully each other they did greet , Each other wounded in most piteous sort , Ere any man unto them did resort . At last they made a strong and desperate close , Both fell to ground and never after rose : Cursed be that place where these brave men did fallen , And cursed be I , that was the cause of all . The second part , To the same tune , When word was brought to them I quickly went But e'r I came their lives alas was spent , Then did I tear the hair from off my head , And wished a thousand times that I were dead . When I came there these Gallants then I found , Both of them liveless bleeding on the ground , My Conscience told me I was cause of this , Sweet Jesus now forgive me my amiss . I buried them and laid them in one grave , God grant their souls a resting place may have , More rest then I whose restless conscience now , Accuses me for breaking of my Vow . If I walk near the place where now they lie , It troubles my mind exceedingly . If to the place where they did fight I go , It fills my guilty conscience full of woe , If I to bed do go I cannot sleep , And if I do my dreams do make me weep , Methinks I see them bleeding in my sighed , By thoughts by day and eke by dreams by night . My rich Apparel I have laid aside . My Cloth of gold and other things of pride In sable will I mourn while I have breath , And every day expect and look for death , A dead men Scull my silver cup shall be , In which I'll drink too good a cup for me , Instead of meat on Roots and herbs I'll feed , To put me still in mind of my foul deed . You woody Nymph's that welcome in the Spring , Come hear a discontented Virgin sing Oh that I might my time now with you spend , In silent Groves until my life does end . You Maids likewise in Country and in City , That now have herd my discontented Dity , Be constant ever True to one alone , For if that you prove false it will be known If you will know where sorrow does abide , Repair to me no other place beside , Grief and Despair does daily now attend me . And there is nought but death that can befriend me This discontented Damsel now she keeps Her chamber where she daily sits and weeps And suffers none to come to her this said But only one and that's her Father's Maid . The meat and drink her Father to her sends , She sends the poor the which she calls her friends , She feeds on Roots and herbs and such like things Sometime on bred which she counts food for Kings See here the fruits of wantonness and pride , Oh let us pray that God may be our guide : There's few of us that have our times ill spent . So well broaght up , that does so well repent . You Damsels all now have a special care , Forget not her that did these things declare : Be to your Sweethearts ever just and true , And so fair Maids she bids you all adieu . Finis . Printed for Though , Vere at the sign of the Angel without Newgate , A Looking Glass for Maids . OR , The Downfall of two desperate Lovers . Henry Hartlowe and William Martin , both lately living in the Isle of Wight , who for the love of Anne Scabborow , a beautiful Virgin , she having first made herself sure to one of them , & afterwards fell off to the other , chaleng'd the field , where after a cruel fightthey were both mortally wounded , and were found dead upon the place by the afore men - tioned Maiden , who bestowed many tears upon their bodies , buried them both in one Grave . And now she lies in grief and sad distress , Wishing all Lovers true , more happiness . The tune is , Aim not too high , UNhappy I , who in this prime of youth , Unkind to him with whom I broke my truth ; Mark well my words you that are Maids & Wives , I was the cause that two Men lost their lives . I'th Isle of Wight , Anne Scarborow was my name There did I live in credit wealth and fame . My Parents rich , I nothing then did lack , But grace and truth , the which did go to wrack . A gentle man a Suitor to me came , With whom I might have liv'd a gallsnt Dame , But wantonness and pride did seize my heart , Was sure to him , and yet from him did part . He broke a piece of Gold , and gave it me , Then did I seemingly to him agree : But O my heart was never rightly plac't , Another Man I afterwards imbrac't . Which when he knew he fell into dispare , He beatrice his breast and tore his curled hair : Oh who would trust a woman , then said he ; That seldom are what they do seem to be . Now do I find , that all a man can do , His best endeavours make not women true , Yet he that now hath interest in your heart , Shall buy you dearly , before that we do part . Then came the other , whom I lov'd so well , But now behold a heavy chance befell ; When my first Love his Rival had beheld , He cast his Glove and challeng'd him the Field . To answer him the other thought it fit , He said he never was known a Coward yet ; He for my favour then so much did strive , He said he'd fight with any man alive . Next morning then these Gentlemen did meet , And manfully each other they did greet , Each other wounded in most piteous sort , Ere any man unto them did resort . At last they made a strong and desperate close , Both fell to ground and never after rose : Cursed be that place where these brave men did fallen , And cursed be I , that was the cause of all . The second part , To the same tune , When word was brought to them I quickly went But e'r I came their lives alas was spent , Then did I tear the hair from off my head , And wished a thousand times that I were dead . When I came there these Gallants then I found , Both of them liveless bleeding on the ground , My Conscience told me I was cause of this , Sweet Jesus now forgive me my amiss . I buried them and laid them in one grave , God grant their souls a resting place may have , More rest then I whose restless conscience now , Accuses me for breaking of my Vow . If I walk near the place where now they lie , It troubles my mind exceedingly . If to the place where they did fight I go , It fills my guilty conscience full of woe , If I to bed do go I cannot sleep , And if I do my dreams do make me weep , Methinks I see them bleeding in my sighed , By thoughts by day and eke by dreams by night . My rich Apparel I have laid aside . My Cloth of gold and other things of pride In sable will I mourn while I have breath , And every day expect and look for death , A dead men Scull my silver cup shall be , In which I'll drink too good a cup for me , Instead of meat on Roots and herbs I'll feed , To put me still in mind of my foul deed . You woody Nymph's that welcome in the Spring , Come hear a discontented Virgin sing Oh that I might my time now with you spend , In silent Groves until my life does end . You Maids likewise in Country and in City , That now have herd my discontented Dity , Be constant ever True to one alone , For if that you prove false it will be known If you will know where sorrow does abide , Repair to me no other place beside , Grief and Despair does daily now attend me . And there is nought but death that can befriend me This discontented Damsel now she keeps Her chamber where she daily sits and weeps And suffers none to come to her this said But only one and that's her Father's Maid . The meat and drink her Father to her sends , She sends the poor the which she calls her friends , She feeds on Roots and herbs and such like things Sometime on bred which she counts food for Kings See here the fruits of wantonness and pride , Oh let us pray that God may be our guide : There's few of us that have our times ill spent . So well broaght up , that does so well repent . You Damsels all now have a special care , Forget not her that did these things declare : Be to your Sweethearts ever just and true , And so fair Maids she bids you all adieu . Finis . Printed for Though , Vere at the sign of the Angel without Newgate , A Looking Glass for Maids . OR , The Downfall of two desperate Lovers . Henry Hartlowe and William Martin , both lately living in the Isle of Wight , who for the love of Anne Scabborow , a beautiful Virgin , she having first made herself sure to one of them , & afterwards fell off to the other , chaleng'd the field , where after a cruel fightthey were both mortally wounded , and were found dead upon the place by the afore men - tioned Maiden , who bestowed many tears upon their bodies , buried them both in one Grave . And now she lies in grief and sad distress , Wishing all Lovers true , more happiness . The tune is , Aim not too high , UNhappy I , who in this prime of youth , Unkind to him with whom I broke my truth ; Mark well my words you that are Maids & Wives , I was the cause that two Men lost their lives . I'th Isle of Wight , Anne Scarborow was my name There did I live in credit wealth and fame . My Parents rich , I nothing then did lack , But grace and truth , the which did go to wrack . A gentle man a Suitor to me came , With whom I might have liv'd a gallsnt Dame , But wantonness and pride did seize my heart , Was sure to him , and yet from him did part . He broke a piece of Gold , and gave it me , Then did I seemingly to him agree : But O my heart was never rightly plac't , Another Man I afterwards imbrac't . Which when he knew he fell into dispare , He beatrice his breast and tore his curled hair : Oh who would trust a woman , then said he ; That seldom are what they do seem to be . Now do I find , that all a man can do , His best endeavours make not women true , Yet he that now hath interest in your heart , Shall buy you dearly , before that we do part . Then came the other , whom I lov'd so well , But now behold a heavy chance befell ; When my first Love his Rival had beheld , He cast his Glove and challeng'd him the Field . To answer him the other thought it fit , He said he never was known a Coward yet ; He for my favour then so much did strive , He said he'd fight with any man alive . Next morning then these Gentlemen did meet , And manfully each other they did greet , Each other wounded in most piteous sort , Ere any man unto them did resort . At last they made a strong and desperate close , Both fell to ground and never after rose : Cursed be that place where these brave men did fallen , And cursed be I , that was the cause of all . The second part , To the same tune , When word was brought to them I quickly went But e'r I came their lives alas was spent , Then did I tear the hair from off my head , And wished a thousand times that I were dead . When I came there these Gallants then I found , Both of them liveless bleeding on the ground , My Conscience told me I was cause of this , Sweet Jesus now forgive me my amiss . I buried them and laid them in one grave , God grant their souls a resting place may have , More rest then I whose restless conscience now , Accuses me for breaking of my Vow . If I walk near the place where now they lie , It troubles my mind exceedingly . If to the place where they did fight I go , It fills my guilty conscience full of woe , If I to bed do go I cannot sleep , And if I do my dreams do make me weep , Methinks I see them bleeding in my sighed , By thoughts by day and eke by dreams by night . My rich Apparel I have laid aside . My Cloth of gold and other things of pride In sable will I mourn while I have breath , And every day expect and look for death , A dead men Scull my silver cup shall be , In which I'll drink too good a cup for me , Instead of meat on Roots and herbs I'll feed , To put me still in mind of my foul deed . You woody Nymph's that welcome in the Spring , Come hear a discontented Virgin sing Oh that I might my time now with you spend , In silent Groves until my life does end . You Maids likewise in Country and in City , That now have herd my discontented Dity , Be constant ever True to one alone , For if that you prove false it will be known If you will know where sorrow does abide , Repair to me no other place beside , Grief and Despair does daily now attend me . And there is nought but death that can befriend me This discontented Damsel now she keeps Her chamber where she daily sits and weeps And suffers none to come to her this said But only one and that's her Father's Maid . The meat and drink her Father to her sends , She sends the poor the which she calls her friends , She feeds on Roots and herbs and such like things Sometime on bred which she counts food for Kings See here the fruits of wantonness and pride , Oh let us pray that God may be our guide : There's few of us that have our times ill spent . So well broaght up , that does so well repent . You Damsels all now have a special care , Forget not her that did these things declare : Be to your Sweethearts ever just and true , And so fair Maids she bids you all adieu . Finis . Printed for Though , Vere at the sign of the Angel without Newgate , A Looking Glass for Maids . OR , The Downfall of two desperate Lovers . Henry Hartlowe and William Martin , both lately living in the Isle of Wight , who for the love of Anne Scabborow , a beautiful Virgin , she having first made herself sure to one of them , & afterwards fell off to the other , chaleng'd the field , where after a cruel fightthey were both mortally wounded , and were found dead upon the place by the afore men - tioned Maiden , who bestowed many tears upon their bodies , buried them both in one Grave . And now she lies in grief and sad distress , Wishing all Lovers true , more happiness . The tune is , Aim not too high , UNhappy I , who in this prime of youth , Unkind to him with whom I broke my truth ; Mark well my words you that are Maids & Wives , I was the cause that two Men lost their lives . I'th Isle of Wight , Anne Scarborow was my name There did I live in credit wealth and fame . My Parents rich , I nothing then did lack , But grace and truth , the which did go to wrack . A gentle man a Suitor to me came , With whom I might have liv'd a gallsnt Dame , But wantonness and pride did seize my heart , Was sure to him , and yet from him did part . He broke a piece of Gold , and gave it me , Then did I seemingly to him agree : But O my heart was never rightly plac't , Another Man I afterwards imbrac't . Which when he knew he fell into dispare , He beatrice his breast and tore his curled hair : Oh who would trust a woman , then said he ; That seldom are what they do seem to be . Now do I find , that all a man can do , His best endeavours make not women true , Yet he that now hath interest in your heart , Shall buy you dearly , before that we do part . Then came the other , whom I lov'd so well , But now behold a heavy chance befell ; When my first Love his Rival had beheld , He cast his Glove and challeng'd him the Field . To answer him the other thought it fit , He said he never was known a Coward yet ; He for my favour then so much did strive , He said he'd fight with any man alive . Next morning then these Gentlemen did meet , And manfully each other they did greet , Each other wounded in most piteous sort , Ere any man unto them did resort . At last they made a strong and desperate close , Both fell to ground and never after rose : Cursed be that place where these brave men did fallen , And cursed be I , that was the cause of all . The second part , To the same tune , When word was brought to them I quickly went But e'r I came their lives alas was spent , Then did I tear the hair from off my head , And wished a thousand times that I were dead . When I came there these Gallants then I found , Both of them liveless bleeding on the ground , My Conscience told me I was cause of this , Sweet Jesus now forgive me my amiss . I buried them and laid them in one grave , God grant their souls a resting place may have , More rest then I whose restless conscience now , Accuses me for breaking of my Vow . If I walk near the place where now they lie , It troubles my mind exceedingly . If to the place where they did fight I go , It fills my guilty conscience full of woe , If I to bed do go I cannot sleep , And if I do my dreams do make me weep , Methinks I see them bleeding in my sighed , By thoughts by day and eke by dreams by night . My rich Apparel I have laid aside . My Cloth of gold and other things of pride In sable will I mourn while I have breath , And every day expect and look for death , A dead men Scull my silver cup shall be , In which I'll drink too good a cup for me , Instead of meat on Roots and herbs I'll feed , To put me still in mind of my foul deed . You woody Nymph's that welcome in the Spring , Come hear a discontented Virgin sing Oh that I might my time now with you spend , In silent Groves until my life does end . You Maids likewise in Country and in City , That now have herd my discontented Dity , Be constant ever True to one alone , For if that you prove false it will be known If you will know where sorrow does abide , Repair to me no other place beside , Grief and Despair does daily now attend me . And there is nought but death that can befriend me This discontented Damsel now she keeps Her chamber where she daily sits and weeps And suffers none to come to her this said But only one and that's her Father's Maid . The meat and drink her Father to her sends , She sends the poor the which she calls her friends , She feeds on Roots and herbs and such like things Sometime on bred which she counts food for Kings See here the fruits of wantonness and pride , Oh let us pray that God may be our guide : There's few of us that have our times ill spent . So well broaght up , that does so well repent . You Damsels all now have a special care , Forget not her that did these things declare : Be to your Sweethearts ever just and true , And so fair Maids she bids you all adieu . Finis . Printed for Though , Vere at the sign of the Angel without Newgate , 