P : 358 ( 8 ) JOHN ROBISONS PARK , Or , A merry fit of Wooing . Within a Park a young Man met a Maid , With courting and sporting the Damsel with him stayed , In pastime and pleasure she uttered her mind , Saying , pray thee sweet Honey be loving and kind . AS I went through John Robinsons Park , I herd a Bird singing what pleased my heart , It pleased my heart , and contented my mind , Saying , pray thee sweet honey be loving and kind . Be loving and kind , Love , and take my advice , And be no more cheated at Cards or at Dice ; For the Cards and Dice , Love , will do thee much harm : Then stay at home , honey , to keep thy Love warm . Sweet Honey make much of thine own Fallow Deer ; To hunt them and chase them thou needest not to fear ; Take pleasure at home , to content thy mind , And I pray thee sweet honey be loving and kind . To take my advice , it will do thee good , To increase thy health , and nourish thy blood , It will be to thy pleasure , and content thy mind : Then pray thee sweet honey , be loving and kind . Within thy own Park , Love thou hast a poor Doe , To hunt at thy pleasure , full well thou dost know , Then take thou thy fill , to content thy mind , And I pray thee sweet honey , be loving and kind . Uncouple your Dogs and found up thy horn , And lay them on closely from even to morn : For better thou may hunt here thy Doe for to chase , While I in my arms Love , thy body embrace . Call Herepin and trepin , and bonny Blue Bell , Call Terrlyng and Malk to found up the Knell , Call Prickears and Primrose the game for to mind , And I pray thee sweet honey , be loving and kind . Call Drummer and Plummer , and Ginger decline : Call Baller and Waller , the Games at the prime : And see the Bougle horn soundly you blow . So merrily ran the hounds all on a row . Here's Nector and Heactor and Sampson so strong , And Lily white Larkin , laid the Doe along , Yet had not great hurt , which pleased my mind , And I pray thee sweet honey be loving and kind . The game being ended , the truth for to tell , He took up his Dogs , which ran passing well ; The pleasure and pastime well pleased my mind , Saying , pray the sweet honey be loving and kind . Well now my sweet honey , thy counsel I'le take The Cards and Dice , Love , I mean to forsake : And stay at home honey to content thy mind , And I vow evermore to be loving and kind . For many a time abroad I do go To see my Hunds run after a wild Doe : Though now I confess it hath done me much harm , Now I'le stay at home honey to keep my Love warm . At Cards and at Dice I have many a day Delighted my self to sport and to play : And when the night came , I have chased the wild Doe , But now I intend , Love , to do no more so . Come all you brave huntsmen , that love Fallow Deer , Unto this my story I pray lend and ear : If hunting the Doe come to you by kind , The found of the Horn , will run still in your mind . Your Dogs and your Horn , I , and your Crossbow Is all your delight , where ever you go : And the Quarter staff must not stay behind : Saying , pray thee sweet honey be loving and kind . Concluding if any desire to know , What is the meaning of this Fallow Doe . Or why this Theam do run so in mind To say , pray thee sweet Honey be loving and kind . As late in the evening , I chanced to walk , I herd a young couple most loving talk , But what they did else , it must stay behind , Saying , pray thee sweet honey , be loving and kind . Their sporting being ended , away they did go , This gallant brave Keeper , and his Fallow Doe . For sporting and courting , he pleased her mind : Saying , pray thee sweet honey , be loving and kind . FINIS . P : 358 ( 8 ) JOHN ROBISONS PARK , Or , A merry fit of Wooing . Within a Park a young Man met a Maid , With courting and sporting the Damsel with him stayed , In pastime and pleasure she uttered her mind , Saying , pray thee sweet Honey be loving and kind . AS I went through John Robinsons Park , I herd a Bird singing what pleased my heart , It pleased my heart , and contented my mind , Saying , pray thee sweet honey be loving and kind . Be loving and kind , Love , and take my advice , And be no more cheated at Cards or at Dice ; For the Cards and Dice , Love , will do thee much harm : Then stay at home , honey , to keep thy Love warm . Sweet Honey make much of thine own Fallow Deer ; To hunt them and chase them thou needest not to fear ; Take pleasure at home , to content thy mind , And I pray thee sweet honey be loving and kind . To take my advice , it will do thee good , To increase thy health , and nourish thy blood , It will be to thy pleasure , and content thy mind : Then pray thee sweet honey , be loving and kind . Within thy own Park , Love thou hast a poor Doe , To hunt at thy pleasure , full well thou dost know , Then take thou thy fill , to content thy mind , And I pray thee sweet honey , be loving and kind . Uncouple your Dogs and found up thy horn , And lay them on closely from even to morn : For better thou may hunt here thy Doe for to chase , While I in my arms Love , thy body embrace . Call Herepin and trepin , and bonny Blue Bell , Call Terrlyng and Malk to found up the Knell , Call Prickears and Primrose the game for to mind , And I pray thee sweet honey , be loving and kind . Call Drummer and Plummer , and Ginger decline : Call Baller and Waller , the Games at the prime : And see the Bougle horn soundly you blow . So merrily ran the hounds all on a row . Here's Nector and Heactor and Sampson so strong , And Lily white Larkin , laid the Doe along , Yet had not great hurt , which pleased my mind , And I pray thee sweet honey be loving and kind . The game being ended , the truth for to tell , He took up his Dogs , which ran passing well ; The pleasure and pastime well pleased my mind , Saying , pray the sweet honey be loving and kind . Well now my sweet honey , thy counsel I'le take The Cards and Dice , Love , I mean to forsake : And stay at home honey to content thy mind , And I vow evermore to be loving and kind . For many a time abroad I do go To see my Hunds run after a wild Doe : Though now I confess it hath done me much harm , Now I'le stay at home honey to keep my Love warm . At Cards and at Dice I have many a day Delighted my self to sport and to play : And when the night came , I have chased the wild Doe , But now I intend , Love , to do no more so . Come all you brave huntsmen , that love Fallow Deer , Unto this my story I pray lend and ear : If hunting the Doe come to you by kind , The found of the Horn , will run still in your mind . Your Dogs and your Horn , I , and your Crossbow Is all your delight , where ever you go : And the Quarter staff must not stay behind : Saying , pray thee sweet honey be loving and kind . Concluding if any desire to know , What is the meaning of this Fallow Doe . Or why this Theam do run so in mind To say , pray thee sweet Honey be loving and kind . As late in the evening , I chanced to walk , I herd a young couple most loving talk , But what they did else , it must stay behind , Saying , pray thee sweet honey , be loving and kind . Their sporting being ended , away they did go , This gallant brave Keeper , and his Fallow Doe . For sporting and courting , he pleased her mind : Saying , pray thee sweet honey , be loving and kind . FINIS . 