The deceased Maiden-Lover . Being a pleasant new Court-Song : to and excellent new tune . Or to be sung to the tune of Bonny Nell AS I went forth one Summer's day , To view the Meadows fresh & gay A pleasant Bower I espied , Standing hard by a River side : And int a Maiden I herd cry , Alas theres none ere lov'd like I . I couched close to hear her moan , With many a sighs and heavy groan , And wished that I had been the might That might have bred her hearts delight But these were all the words that she Did still repeat , none loves like me . Then round the Meadows did she walk Catching each Flower by the stalk , Such as within the Meadows grew , As Dead-mans-thumb & Hare-bel blue And as she plucked them , still cri'd she Alas theres none ere lov'd like me . A Bed therein she made to lie , Of fine green things that grew fast by , Of Poplars and of Willow leaves , Of Sycamore and flaggy sheaves : And as she plucked them still cri'd she , Alas theres none ere loud like me . The little Larke-foot , she not pass , Nor yet the flouers of Three leaved grass With Milkmaids Hunny-suckles phrase The Crows-foot , nor the yellow Crayse , And as she plucked them still cried she , Alas theres none ere lov'd like me . The pretty Daisy which does show Her love to phoebus bred her woe , Who joys to see his cheerful face , And mourns when he is not in place . Alack , alack , alack , quoth she Theres none that ever loves like me . The flowers of the sweetest scent , She bound them round with knotted Bent And as she laid them still in bans , She wept she wailed , and wrung her hands Alas , alas , alas , quoth she . Theres none that ever lov'd like me . False man ( quoth she ) forgive thee heaven As I do with my sins forgiven : In blessed El [ i ] zium I shall sleep , when thou with pe [ j ] urd soul shalt weep : Who when they lived did like to thee , That lov'd there loves as thou dost me . When she had filled her apron full Of such sweet flowers as she could cull , The green Leaves served her for her Bed The Flowers pillows for her head . then down she lay , never more did speak alas with love her heart did break . FINIS . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcocke . The Faithless Lover . To the same Tune . WHen I had seen this Virgins end , I sorrowed as became a friend , And wept to see that such a maid , Should be by faithless love betrayed , But woe ( I fear ) will come to thee , That was not true in love as she . The Birds did cease their harmony , The harmless Lambs did seem to cry : The Flowers they did hang their head , The Flower of Maidens being dead , Whose life by death is now set free . And none did love more deer then she . The Bubbling Brooks did seem to moan And Echo from the vales did groan : Dianaes Nymph's did ring her knill , And to their Queen the same did tell : Who vowed by her chastity That none should take revenge but she . When as I saw her corpses were cold , I to her lover went and told , What chance unto this Maid befell , Who said , I'm glad she sped so well , D'ee think that I so found would be To love no Maid but only she : I was not made for her alone , I take delight to hear them moan : When one is gone I will have more , That man is rich that hath most store : I bondage hate I must live free , And not be tide to such as she . O Sir remember then ( quoth I ) The power of heavens all seeing eye , Who does remember vows forgotten , Though you deny you know it no Call you to mind this maiden free , the which was wronged by none but thee Quoth he I have a love more fair Beside she is her Father's heir : A bonny Lass does please my mind , That unto me is wondrous kind : Her will I love and none but she , Who welcome still shall be to me . False minded man that so would prove Disloyal to thy dearest Love : Who at her death for thee did pray , And wished thee many happy day . I would my Love would but love me , Even half so well as she loved thee . Fair Maidens will example take , Young men will curse thee for her sake : Theyle stop their ears unto our plaints , And call us devils seeming Saints : Theyle say to day that we are kind , To morrow in another mind . FINIS . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcocke . The deceased Maiden-Lover . Being a pleasant new Court-Song : to and excellent new tune . Or to be sung to the tune of Bonny Nell AS I went forth one Summer's day , To view the Meadows fresh & gay A pleasant Bower I espied , Standing hard by a River side : And int a Maiden I herd cry , Alas theres none ere lov'd like I . I couched close to hear her moan , With many a sighs and heavy groan , And wished that I had been the might That might have bred her hearts delight But these were all the words that she Did still repeat , none loves like me . Then round the Meadows did she walk Catching each Flower by the stalk , Such as within the Meadows grew , As Dead-mans-thumb & Hare-bel blue And as she plucked them , still cri'd she Alas theres none ere lov'd like me . A Bed therein she made to lie , Of fine green things that grew fast by , Of Poplars and of Willow leaves , Of Sycamore and flaggy sheaves : And as she plucked them still cri'd she , Alas theres none ere loud like me . The little Larke-foot , she not pass , Nor yet the flouers of Three leaved grass With Milkmaids Hunny-suckles phrase The Crows-foot , nor the yellow Crayse , And as she plucked them still cried she , Alas theres none ere lov'd like me . The pretty Daisy which does show Her love to phoebus bred her woe , Who joys to see his cheerful face , And mourns when he is not in place . Alack , alack , alack , quoth she Theres none that ever loves like me . The flowers of the sweetest scent , She bound them round with knotted Bent And as she laid them still in bans , She wept she wailed , and wrung her hands Alas , alas , alas , quoth she . Theres none that ever lov'd like me . False man ( quoth she ) forgive thee heaven As I do with my sins forgiven : In blessed El [ i ] zium I shall sleep , when thou with pe [ j ] urd soul shalt weep : Who when they lived did like to thee , That lov'd there loves as thou dost me . When she had filled her apron full Of such sweet flowers as she could cull , The green Leaves served her for her Bed The Flowers pillows for her head . then down she lay , never more did speak alas with love her heart did break . FINIS . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcocke . The Faithless Lover . To the same Tune . WHen I had seen this Virgins end , I sorrowed as became a friend , And wept to see that such a maid , Should be by faithless love betrayed , But woe ( I fear ) will come to thee , That was not true in love as she . The Birds did cease their harmony , The harmless Lambs did seem to cry : The Flowers they did hang their head , The Flower of Maidens being dead , Whose life by death is now set free . And none did love more deer then she . The Bubbling Brooks did seem to moan And Echo from the vales did groan : Dianaes Nymph's did ring her knill , And to their Queen the same did tell : Who vowed by her chastity That none should take revenge but she . When as I saw her corpses were cold , I to her lover went and told , What chance unto this Maid befell , Who said , I'm glad she sped so well , D'ee think that I so found would be To love no Maid but only she : I was not made for her alone , I take delight to hear them moan : When one is gone I will have more , That man is rich that hath most store : I bondage hate I must live free , And not be tide to such as she . O Sir remember then ( quoth I ) The power of heavens all seeing eye , Who does remember vows forgotten , Though you deny you know it no Call you to mind this maiden free , the which was wronged by none but thee Quoth he I have a love more fair Beside she is her Father's heir : A bonny Lass does please my mind , That unto me is wondrous kind : Her will I love and none but she , Who welcome still shall be to me . False minded man that so would prove Disloyal to thy dearest Love : Who at her death for thee did pray , And wished thee many happy day . I would my Love would but love me , Even half so well as she loved thee . Fair Maidens will example take , Young men will curse thee for her sake : Theyle stop their ears unto our plaints , And call us devils seeming Saints : Theyle say to day that we are kind , To morrow in another mind . FINIS . Printed by the Assigns of Thomas Symcocke . 