H : 18265 A free admonition without any fees / To warn the Papists to beware of three trees . IF that you be not passed all grace , Oh Papists hear me speak , Let reason rule , and truth take place , Cease you from that you seek . Can you God or his word deface ? Can you the truth withstand ? Can you our noble Queen displace , And yet live in England ? Take heed beware the Devil is a knave He will you sure beguile : In cruelty he would you have To serve him here awhile . With lying and hypocrisy , His kingdom to maintain : Contemning truth and equity , This is his subtle train . Let cursed Cain example be , That slew Abel his brother : Whom neither God with Majesty , Could move to leave his murder Nor yet the godly life of him , That gave him none offence , Till he had heaped up his sin , In practesyng his pretence . Let Core and Dathan come from hell Where now they do remain , That they their minds at length mai tel Wherefore they there remain . Namely , for that they did rebel And would not be persuaded , But would be Lords in Israel , Till hell had them devoured . What could make Absalon meek & tame And to desist from rage ? His father Davids worthy fame , Or yet his counsel sage ? No , no , these things will not prevail With him that fears not God , The force of doctrine there does fail , Till God strike with his rod . And as the Devil in these did rage , To work his wicked will , That nothing could their fury suage Till they did it fulfil . So that the law of God and Man , They sought to overthrow , Even so of late I truly can The like unto you show . When King Edward of worthy fame Had Antichrist put down , And to the glory of Gods name , Had placed truth in her room : The denshire dolts like Rebels rank , In rusty armour ranged , But hanged were some , their carrions stanck , The world was quickly changed . And then did Ket the tanner stout In Norffolke play his part , Assembling such his Rebels rout , That Innocents might smart . But hanged he was , this was his end , And so end all the sort , That Rebels are , and will not mend , A rope be their comfort . Such blessings as the Nortons had , And such as Felton found , God send them all that are so bad With heals to bless the ground . If that you like not for to have , This blessing in a rope , Leave of you Rebels for to rave And curse your Dad the Pope . Which makes you oft such Crows to pull Then leaves you in the mire , In sending you to such a Bull , This is but simple hire . Behold the end of this attempt That last here was begun , Lo God your doing does prevent , The Rebels raze to run . Since God by grace does guide his flock That none can them annoy , If you be grafted in this stock , He will you not destroy . Fear God , flee sin , the truth embrace , And seek your Prince to please , Obey the laws and call for grace , So shall you live at peace . God save our Queen Elizabeth . FINIS . G.B. Imprinted at London by John Awe dely , for Henry Kirkham , dwelling at the mid - dle North door of Paules , at the sign of the black Boy . The xv . of December . 1571. H : 18265 A free admonition without any fees / To warn the Papists to beware of three trees . IF that you be not passed all grace , Oh Papists hear me speak , Let reason rule , and truth take place , Cease you from that you seek . Can you God or his word deface ? Can you the truth withstand ? Can you our noble Queen displace , And yet live in England ? Take heed beware the Devil is a knave He will you sure beguile : In cruelty he would you have To serve him here awhile . With lying and hypocrisy , His kingdom to maintain : Contemning truth and equity , This is his subtle train . Let cursed Cain example be , That slew Abel his brother : Whom neither God with Majesty , Could move to leave his murder Nor yet the godly life of him , That gave him none offence , Till he had heaped up his sin , In practesyng his pretence . Let Core and Dathan come from hell Where now they do remain , That they their minds at length mai tel Wherefore they there remain . Namely , for that they did rebel And would not be persuaded , But would be Lords in Israel , Till hell had them devoured . What could make Absalon meek & tame And to desist from rage ? His father Davids worthy fame , Or yet his counsel sage ? No , no , these things will not prevail With him that fears not God , The force of doctrine there does fail , Till God strike with his rod . And as the Devil in these did rage , To work his wicked will , That nothing could their fury suage Till they did it fulfil . So that the law of God and Man , They sought to overthrow , Even so of late I truly can The like unto you show . When King Edward of worthy fame Had Antichrist put down , And to the glory of Gods name , Had placed truth in her room : The denshire dolts like Rebels rank , In rusty armour ranged , But hanged were some , their carrions stanck , The world was quickly changed . And then did Ket the tanner stout In Norffolke play his part , Assembling such his Rebels rout , That Innocents might smart . But hanged he was , this was his end , And so end all the sort , That Rebels are , and will not mend , A rope be their comfort . Such blessings as the Nortons had , And such as Felton found , God send them all that are so bad With heals to bless the ground . If that you like not for to have , This blessing in a rope , Leave of you Rebels for to rave And curse your Dad the Pope . Which makes you oft such Crows to pull Then leaves you in the mire , In sending you to such a Bull , This is but simple hire . Behold the end of this attempt That last here was begun , Lo God your doing does prevent , The Rebels raze to run . Since God by grace does guide his flock That none can them annoy , If you be grafted in this stock , He will you not destroy . Fear God , flee sin , the truth embrace , And seek your Prince to please , Obey the laws and call for grace , So shall you live at peace . God save our Queen Elizabeth . FINIS . G.B. Imprinted at London by John Awe dely , for Henry Kirkham , dwelling at the mid - dle North door of Paules , at the sign of the black Boy . The xv . of December . 1571. 