H : 18262 ECCLESI . XX . Remember Death , and thou shalt never sin . WE Adams brood and earthly wights , which breath now on the earth , Come dance this trace , and mark the song of me most mighty Death . Full well my might is known & seen , in all the world about , When I do strike , of force they yield , both noble , wise & stout . Of living things which breath and bray , I reign as puissant Prince , No sooner take they life , but I , pursue it to convince . In Mother's womb the Babe I slay , in birth sometime I strike , No place nor state may me exempt , to me all is a like . The Prince with Beggar to grave I take , the young eke with the old , [ ? ] e wise grave men with fools and dolts , I lodge them in one fold . Y [ ? ] courtly Dams , & town wives fine , though never so trim they be , W [ i ] th Malkins , Sluts , & floyes they trudge , in grave I make them gree The seeming brave fine Courtiers , which square it out in gate , With Hob and Lob I close in clay , and bring them to one state . The tchuffe with tchinckes and ruddocks read , wherein is all his trust , In moment I with misers poor , do hide him up in dust . The Judge severe , and Counseller sage , with me they all must trudge , I force not for their high estate , nor fear their hate or grudge . I waiting am on every one , as shadow with body am I . And when the mighty God does bid , I slay them by and by . Sometime in game , sometime in mirth , sometime in sleep I kill , In eating , drinking , and in sport , I many times them spill . No place so sure , no food so good , no exercise at all , Me Death can bar , but at Gods beck to earth I make them fallen . And yet behold how each one thynckes , to escape me and my dart , Though never so never I come them to , and gripe them to the heart . My Minstrel Sickness pipes each hour , by aches , stitches and cramps , It sounds my dance still in their ears that they must to my damps . The lusty Brutus with snuffing looks , by manhood does hope to live The Coward out , that fears to fight , though wounds him daily grieve . The Coward again thinks long to live by sleeping in a whole skin , With shunning wars and forayn broils , which countries oft be in . The rich by gold , the wise by wit , do think to shift me of To Beggars that starve , & careless fools , but yet them selves they scoff For one with other I take them all , fear they , or fear they not , The desperate fool and fearful one go all into my pot . The youthful Lads by stout courage , think to drive me away To crooked age , yet many times by riot I oft them slay . And old old age hope's still to live , by keeping a merry heart , With youthful sports and wanton toys , though it be to their smart . Yea my never Syb and Beldame Trot , that croompled is for age , By youthly tyre & wanton tricks , thinks deaths power to assuage . It makes me laffe oft times to see , their gate , their looks , their walk , How halting tryps , and fine wryde jests they counterfeit in talk . They would me blere , and make folks think , they were to young for me , And yet forsooth if stripped they were , fair Notamies might you see . What shall I say to these old folks , when nature cannot them teach ? By fumbling speech & pains each where , which death at hand does preach . Nay usual is it with all states , though senses all be gone , And I at hand to strike the stroke , yet think they not thereon . Thus all would shift and drive me of , though I them follow & trace , And daily send unto the grave all states before their face . But fools they are that dread me so , which cannot be avoided , Sith God the maker of all things to life hath so me joined . Yet need they not to shun me so , if all were wayde aright , For I the worldly griefs do end , which vex them day and night . Yea and beside the guide am I , to heaven and joyful bliss , Of those that virtuously do live , and fear to do amys . And to these folk welcomed am I , though never so sharp I peer , Because with Christ they shall then reign , and see his glory clear . But as for those that wicked be , and so still lead their life , Good cause they have to dread me soar , for I begin their grief . With death I bring and endless woe , which never shall have end , Wherefore if me you would not dread , your ill lives then amend . For precious is the death of those , which die in Christ their Lord , Who hath saved them from sin and hell , and ended their discord . FINIS . Quoth Joh. Awed . IMPRINTED AT LON - dONE by John Awdeley , dwelling in little Britaine street without Aldersgate . 1569. The . xxx . of Aprill . H : 18262 ECCLESI . XX . Remember Death , and thou shalt never sin . WE Adams brood and earthly wights , which breath now on the earth , Come dance this trace , and mark the song of me most mighty Death . Full well my might is known & seen , in all the world about , When I do strike , of force they yield , both noble , wise & stout . Of living things which breath and bray , I reign as puissant Prince , No sooner take they life , but I , pursue it to convince . In Mother's womb the Babe I slay , in birth sometime I strike , No place nor state may me exempt , to me all is a like . The Prince with Beggar to grave I take , the young eke with the old , [ ? ] e wise grave men with fools and dolts , I lodge them in one fold . Y [ ? ] courtly Dams , & town wives fine , though never so trim they be , W [ i ] th Malkins , Sluts , & floyes they trudge , in grave I make them gree The seeming brave fine Courtiers , which square it out in gate , With Hob and Lob I close in clay , and bring them to one state . The tchuffe with tchinckes and ruddocks read , wherein is all his trust , In moment I with misers poor , do hide him up in dust . The Judge severe , and Counseller sage , with me they all must trudge , I force not for their high estate , nor fear their hate or grudge . I waiting am on every one , as shadow with body am I . And when the mighty God does bid , I slay them by and by . Sometime in game , sometime in mirth , sometime in sleep I kill , In eating , drinking , and in sport , I many times them spill . No place so sure , no food so good , no exercise at all , Me Death can bar , but at Gods beck to earth I make them fallen . And yet behold how each one thynckes , to escape me and my dart , Though never so never I come them to , and gripe them to the heart . My Minstrel Sickness pipes each hour , by aches , stitches and cramps , It sounds my dance still in their ears that they must to my damps . The lusty Brutus with snuffing looks , by manhood does hope to live The Coward out , that fears to fight , though wounds him daily grieve . The Coward again thinks long to live by sleeping in a whole skin , With shunning wars and forayn broils , which countries oft be in . The rich by gold , the wise by wit , do think to shift me of To Beggars that starve , & careless fools , but yet them selves they scoff For one with other I take them all , fear they , or fear they not , The desperate fool and fearful one go all into my pot . The youthful Lads by stout courage , think to drive me away To crooked age , yet many times by riot I oft them slay . And old old age hope's still to live , by keeping a merry heart , With youthful sports and wanton toys , though it be to their smart . Yea my never Syb and Beldame Trot , that croompled is for age , By youthly tyre & wanton tricks , thinks deaths power to assuage . It makes me laffe oft times to see , their gate , their looks , their walk , How halting tryps , and fine wryde jests they counterfeit in talk . They would me blere , and make folks think , they were to young for me , And yet forsooth if stripped they were , fair Notamies might you see . What shall I say to these old folks , when nature cannot them teach ? By fumbling speech & pains each where , which death at hand does preach . Nay usual is it with all states , though senses all be gone , And I at hand to strike the stroke , yet think they not thereon . Thus all would shift and drive me of , though I them follow & trace , And daily send unto the grave all states before their face . But fools they are that dread me so , which cannot be avoided , Sith God the maker of all things to life hath so me joined . Yet need they not to shun me so , if all were wayde aright , For I the worldly griefs do end , which vex them day and night . Yea and beside the guide am I , to heaven and joyful bliss , Of those that virtuously do live , and fear to do amys . And to these folk welcomed am I , though never so sharp I peer , Because with Christ they shall then reign , and see his glory clear . But as for those that wicked be , and so still lead their life , Good cause they have to dread me soar , for I begin their grief . With death I bring and endless woe , which never shall have end , Wherefore if me you would not dread , your ill lives then amend . For precious is the death of those , which die in Christ their Lord , Who hath saved them from sin and hell , and ended their discord . FINIS . Quoth Joh. Awed . IMPRINTED AT LON - dONE by John Awdeley , dwelling in little Britaine street without Aldersgate . 1569. The . xxx . of Aprill . 