H : 18267 And Epitaph / of Master Fraunces Benison / Citizene and Merchant of London , and of thee Would - berdashers Company . IF lack of health be such a lot , as does diminish store : And loss of goods does care procure , with sobs and sighings soar . Much more is loss of friendly friend , whom GOD hath called by death , But unto us the loss redounds , which live by vital breath . Man may to health restored be , if Gods good will be so : And wealth again mai grow in time evil hap to overthrow . But friendly friend whom God by death , hath called to live in joy : Cannot again to us return , but rest with out annoy . Faith being fixed firm in heart , and hope of Heavens bliss : Sure then in happy state they rest , this sequel cannot miss . O Fraunces Benison ( I say ) Gods Benison no doub Thou wast the blessing sure of GOD , to wife , and all the rout Of thy good friends and kindred to , GOD blessed them in thee : And blessed twice wast thou of GOD , such happy days to see Of Merchants all he was the flower , for wisdom and good skill : And right expert in every trade , delighting therein still . This three and twenty years , or more , in traffic he did toil : His will and skill was always such , he thought it no tormoyle . With forecast he and diligence did comprehend no doubt , The understanding of all trades , never Christendome throughout . And having opportunity , no time he would omi His full pretence to bring to pass , and purpose for to hit . When wind and tIED did speed require , all one was night or noon : His watchings he did nothing way , till his attempts were done . He oft would say that Diligence , good Fortune's Mother was : Which brought his enterprises all , more luckily to pass . Full quick and ready with his pen , and cunning to likewise : Of right good skill for to endight , to serve eke enterprise . As well for friend , as for him self , when need the same did crave : Whither it were in Merchants trade , or other matters grave Beside his native English tonge , the French and Dutch he spoke : With pen and speech in pleasant style , he arguments could make . And for his time his trade hath be , as ample I am sure As any Merchant of this Land , whilst here he did endure . The Queens revenues of her crown , he thereby did enlarge : With great preferment of all youth committed to his charge . Beneficial eke he was , to eke sort and degree : He traded so by Sea and land , it could none other bee . These passed , he with good name and fame , to eke men contentation : That with him dealt in any trade , to his great commendation . And though beside his proper stock , he used credit large : Yet eke contract in traffic done , right well he did discharge . And his corragious attempts , by forecast so did frame : That diverse men did muse thereat , and some malignde the same . Which to him known , full wisely he , could temper Nature so : That he unquiet would not be , but let all malice go . And leave to GOD the whole revenge , still seeking quietness : So his affairs they framed well , and better had success . To taste the sour with the sweet , him self so did prepare : When any loss he did sustain , that patience conquered care . Citizen like in every point , himself he did behave : With comely gesture and attire , right decent , sad , and grave . With cheerful salutations , right courteous to all men : And how to use audacity , he knew place , time and when . To noble and to worshipful , sure known he was as well , As unto the inferior sort , this just report can tell . And also known in Princes Court , by his solicitation : As well for causes of his own , as others of his nation . He left behind him worldly goods , all men to satisfy : And for to comfort wife and friends also abundantly . And where he was a Governor , for thimpotentes defence : He charitably unto them , gave his benevolence . His Will long time lay by him made , which he from year to year : Did oversee and order so , as Death were ever near . Sickness so sharply did him take , all hope it did expel : No way there was Death to escape , which he perceived well . Straight thereupon he did commit , to persons of great skill : The ordering of his temporal goods , according to his Will . And gave himself clean from the world , and only did depend : On Christes death to be his life , and so he made and end . Whose soul no doubt remains in joy , with Abraham and the res Of good and faithful Patriarchs , who sure of God are blessed . His good examples to ensue , grant Lord we thee desire : And that we may them imitate , we humbly thee require , Thus I conclude , yielding to GOD , all honour , laud and praise : With thanks for this our brother deer , & wish to walk his ways . FINIS . Imprinted at London by John Awdely , dwelling in little Britayne street , without Aldersgate . 1570. H : 18267 And Epitaph / of Master Fraunces Benison / Citizene and Merchant of London , and of thee Would - berdashers Company . IF lack of health be such a lot , as does diminish store : And loss of goods does care procure , with sobs and sighings soar . Much more is loss of friendly friend , whom GOD hath called by death , But unto us the loss redounds , which live by vital breath . Man may to health restored be , if Gods good will be so : And wealth again mai grow in time evil hap to overthrow . But friendly friend whom God by death , hath called to live in joy : Cannot again to us return , but rest with out annoy . Faith being fixed firm in heart , and hope of Heavens bliss : Sure then in happy state they rest , this sequel cannot miss . O Fraunces Benison ( I say ) Gods Benison no doub Thou wast the blessing sure of GOD , to wife , and all the rout Of thy good friends and kindred to , GOD blessed them in thee : And blessed twice wast thou of GOD , such happy days to see Of Merchants all he was the flower , for wisdom and good skill : And right expert in every trade , delighting therein still . This three and twenty years , or more , in traffic he did toil : His will and skill was always such , he thought it no tormoyle . With forecast he and diligence did comprehend no doubt , The understanding of all trades , never Christendome throughout . And having opportunity , no time he would omi His full pretence to bring to pass , and purpose for to hit . When wind and tIED did speed require , all one was night or noon : His watchings he did nothing way , till his attempts were done . He oft would say that Diligence , good Fortune's Mother was : Which brought his enterprises all , more luckily to pass . Full quick and ready with his pen , and cunning to likewise : Of right good skill for to endight , to serve eke enterprise . As well for friend , as for him self , when need the same did crave : Whither it were in Merchants trade , or other matters grave Beside his native English tonge , the French and Dutch he spoke : With pen and speech in pleasant style , he arguments could make . And for his time his trade hath be , as ample I am sure As any Merchant of this Land , whilst here he did endure . The Queens revenues of her crown , he thereby did enlarge : With great preferment of all youth committed to his charge . Beneficial eke he was , to eke sort and degree : He traded so by Sea and land , it could none other bee . These passed , he with good name and fame , to eke men contentation : That with him dealt in any trade , to his great commendation . And though beside his proper stock , he used credit large : Yet eke contract in traffic done , right well he did discharge . And his corragious attempts , by forecast so did frame : That diverse men did muse thereat , and some malignde the same . Which to him known , full wisely he , could temper Nature so : That he unquiet would not be , but let all malice go . And leave to GOD the whole revenge , still seeking quietness : So his affairs they framed well , and better had success . To taste the sour with the sweet , him self so did prepare : When any loss he did sustain , that patience conquered care . Citizen like in every point , himself he did behave : With comely gesture and attire , right decent , sad , and grave . With cheerful salutations , right courteous to all men : And how to use audacity , he knew place , time and when . To noble and to worshipful , sure known he was as well , As unto the inferior sort , this just report can tell . And also known in Princes Court , by his solicitation : As well for causes of his own , as others of his nation . He left behind him worldly goods , all men to satisfy : And for to comfort wife and friends also abundantly . And where he was a Governor , for thimpotentes defence : He charitably unto them , gave his benevolence . His Will long time lay by him made , which he from year to year : Did oversee and order so , as Death were ever near . Sickness so sharply did him take , all hope it did expel : No way there was Death to escape , which he perceived well . Straight thereupon he did commit , to persons of great skill : The ordering of his temporal goods , according to his Will . And gave himself clean from the world , and only did depend : On Christes death to be his life , and so he made and end . Whose soul no doubt remains in joy , with Abraham and the res Of good and faithful Patriarchs , who sure of God are blessed . His good examples to ensue , grant Lord we thee desire : And that we may them imitate , we humbly thee require , Thus I conclude , yielding to GOD , all honour , laud and praise : With thanks for this our brother deer , & wish to walk his ways . FINIS . Imprinted at London by John Awdely , dwelling in little Britayne street , without Aldersgate . 1570. 