H : 18266 Of the horyble and woeful destruction of Jerusalem And of the signs and tokens that were seen before it was destroyed : which destruction was after Christes ascension . xlii . years . To the tune of the Queens Almain . And Emperor Vaspasian Some time in Room there was , Through whom much dolors then began Of mortal wars alas , With in two years that he did rain He put the Jewes to myckill pain With fire and sword both take and slain , His power brought so to pass , His Soon Tytus having no dread His army over Judae spread The people to the City flayed Hoping to have redress . Before Titus Vaspasians son Unto this wars did goo Was after Cristes ascension , Long . xl . years and two Then did the Romans with such pride Be set their land both far and wide , And hemmed them in , on every side To their great pain and woe , They brought the Jewes in such a case The prophesy , to bring to pass , Spoke by our Lord when he here was The scripture does say so . That prudent Jewe Josephus says Who did not write in vain , That he was present in those days And saw this mortal pain , When that Tytus both bold and stout Be set Jerusalem about , That none might in , nor Issue out , No way but to be slain . For Tytus his chief capteyn was The siege when he had brought to pass Great was the cry woe and alas , The story does say plain . He stopped their pipes and Conduits all , That no water might pass : With famine they were in great thrall , Most woeful was their case , They were constrained in such need With Horse , and Ass , them selves to feed Both Dog , and Cat , this do I reed Most ougle meat it was , The hunger there it was so great , Ones vomit was another's meat There was no way for to entreat But present death alas . Sixe months the siege it did hold on About that City great , Whearin was many a mother's son Did starve for lack of meat , The famous Ladies of that town That wear before of high renown , For fault of food fell in a sown There was nothing to geate : The story this does specify , The mother's most unnaturally , They slew their Children ruefully , And Roasted them to eat . This Titus then of high renown Most valyently and bold , The walls so strong he did cast down Resystaunce waxed cold , The people in the streets say dead , They had no Succour drink nor bred Much was the blood that then was shed , Alas lament we should : The Romans entered with such might , With Pole-axe , spears , & swords so bright They slew all that came in their sighed No mercy they did hold . The Gates that covered were with gold They threw them to the ground , That famous City to behold For sin it was confound , Aleven honderid thowsande slain Through hunger , sword & pestelent pain In this the story does not feign , Of many a bloody wound , The stink of carcase in the street , The feeble souls that could not fleet For faint with hunger scarce could creep , Full heavy was their sound . Then Titus gave this sentence believe Which Romans liked well , As many as you find alive , After this Rate them fell , As Crist was sold for thyrtye pence , By Judas and his false pretence , So Titus made their recompense The story this does tell , XXX . Jewes for a penny bougt , As many more were sold for nought There own confusion thus was wrought Because they did rebel . And many prisoners more I ween To Egipt they wear send , Fowerscore thousand , and seventeene In prison all their end , And Titus in his company Took many such as were worthy , And led them bound all captivelie , To Room with him to weened : There was no help for to revoke , As Jhosephus says in his book His Chronicles who list to look , On truth they do depend . Thirtie years God gave them space That they might yet repent , Their lives amend and call for grace For them Christ did lament , This loving Lord oft did them call By sundry signs as hear you shall Before his wrath on them did fallen Or anger fully bent , Twelve days eclipsed was the moon , That they might be converted soon , But they wist not what to be done , But sin still did augment . Before the siege or any war , the space of all one year Over that town was seen a star , Most blazing bright and clear So like a sword in shape it was , Where at great fear and wonder was , Yet left they not their wickedness , when these signs did appear : Moreover in the air so light , In plate of mail and armour bright , Were seen men ready for to fight , To show their time was near . A festifall day , in Apriell , To hallow they were dight , And suddenly among them fell A merveylous strange light , So bright and clear with such aleame , Passing the son as it did seem , But what it meant no man could deem . But were all in soar flight And while the pristes did this endure To offer a Calf they did their cure , Which Calf a thing against nature , Brought forth a Lamb in sighed . Suche many tokens contrary Which does Prognostikate , And to the Jewes did signify Their woeful fallen and fate , Before that Titus war began Fower years of space , this prove I can , How that the son of one rude man , Ananias low of state , He ran the streets in such a rage Being a child of tender age , To call cry he did not suage Repente ear it be late . But for his pains he was well beatrice This had he for his hire , For truth they did him evil entreat Against him did conspire , But yet he cried and would not blen , While he was able yet to ren , Saying woe be to Jerusalem , For kindling of Gods ire : Woe be to thee and to thy land Thou art beset in woeful band , Thy days of sorrow is at hand Of famine sword and fire . This was that famous City then Destroyed with fire and sword , That mighty town Jerusalem , The City of the Lord : Because their God they would not know Christ being . xxx . years below His word to them plainly did show This scripture does record , That they might be his chosen firste , To live and reign among the just , And to no other for to trust But to believe his word . Now sing that this Jerusalem , As scripture does tell true Was plaguyd for that sins of men , Which Romans overthrew , What shall that Lord to us express That so does live in such excess , Of whoredom , Pride , and covitousnes More now then did the Jewe , Therefore is our example this , Amend the thing that is amiss That we may have eternal bliss , By Christe our Lord Jesue . Finis . Quod John Barker . Imprinted at London , in Fleetestreate Beneath the Conduit , at the sign of Saint John Evangelist , by Though - mass Colwell . H : 18266 Of the horyble and woeful destruction of Jerusalem And of the signs and tokens that were seen before it was destroyed : which destruction was after Christes ascension . xlii . years . To the tune of the Queens Almain . And Emperor Vaspasian Some time in Room there was , Through whom much dolors then began Of mortal wars alas , With in two years that he did rain He put the Jewes to myckill pain With fire and sword both take and slain , His power brought so to pass , His Soon Tytus having no dread His army over Judae spread The people to the City flayed Hoping to have redress . Before Titus Vaspasians son Unto this wars did goo Was after Cristes ascension , Long . xl . years and two Then did the Romans with such pride Be set their land both far and wide , And hemmed them in , on every side To their great pain and woe , They brought the Jewes in such a case The prophesy , to bring to pass , Spoke by our Lord when he here was The scripture does say so . That prudent Jewe Josephus says Who did not write in vain , That he was present in those days And saw this mortal pain , When that Tytus both bold and stout Be set Jerusalem about , That none might in , nor Issue out , No way but to be slain . For Tytus his chief capteyn was The siege when he had brought to pass Great was the cry woe and alas , The story does say plain . He stopped their pipes and Conduits all , That no water might pass : With famine they were in great thrall , Most woeful was their case , They were constrained in such need With Horse , and Ass , them selves to feed Both Dog , and Cat , this do I reed Most ougle meat it was , The hunger there it was so great , Ones vomit was another's meat There was no way for to entreat But present death alas . Sixe months the siege it did hold on About that City great , Whearin was many a mother's son Did starve for lack of meat , The famous Ladies of that town That wear before of high renown , For fault of food fell in a sown There was nothing to geate : The story this does specify , The mother's most unnaturally , They slew their Children ruefully , And Roasted them to eat . This Titus then of high renown Most valyently and bold , The walls so strong he did cast down Resystaunce waxed cold , The people in the streets say dead , They had no Succour drink nor bred Much was the blood that then was shed , Alas lament we should : The Romans entered with such might , With Pole-axe , spears , & swords so bright They slew all that came in their sighed No mercy they did hold . The Gates that covered were with gold They threw them to the ground , That famous City to behold For sin it was confound , Aleven honderid thowsande slain Through hunger , sword & pestelent pain In this the story does not feign , Of many a bloody wound , The stink of carcase in the street , The feeble souls that could not fleet For faint with hunger scarce could creep , Full heavy was their sound . Then Titus gave this sentence believe Which Romans liked well , As many as you find alive , After this Rate them fell , As Crist was sold for thyrtye pence , By Judas and his false pretence , So Titus made their recompense The story this does tell , XXX . Jewes for a penny bougt , As many more were sold for nought There own confusion thus was wrought Because they did rebel . And many prisoners more I ween To Egipt they wear send , Fowerscore thousand , and seventeene In prison all their end , And Titus in his company Took many such as were worthy , And led them bound all captivelie , To Room with him to weened : There was no help for to revoke , As Jhosephus says in his book His Chronicles who list to look , On truth they do depend . Thirtie years God gave them space That they might yet repent , Their lives amend and call for grace For them Christ did lament , This loving Lord oft did them call By sundry signs as hear you shall Before his wrath on them did fallen Or anger fully bent , Twelve days eclipsed was the moon , That they might be converted soon , But they wist not what to be done , But sin still did augment . Before the siege or any war , the space of all one year Over that town was seen a star , Most blazing bright and clear So like a sword in shape it was , Where at great fear and wonder was , Yet left they not their wickedness , when these signs did appear : Moreover in the air so light , In plate of mail and armour bright , Were seen men ready for to fight , To show their time was near . A festifall day , in Apriell , To hallow they were dight , And suddenly among them fell A merveylous strange light , So bright and clear with such aleame , Passing the son as it did seem , But what it meant no man could deem . But were all in soar flight And while the pristes did this endure To offer a Calf they did their cure , Which Calf a thing against nature , Brought forth a Lamb in sighed . Suche many tokens contrary Which does Prognostikate , And to the Jewes did signify Their woeful fallen and fate , Before that Titus war began Fower years of space , this prove I can , How that the son of one rude man , Ananias low of state , He ran the streets in such a rage Being a child of tender age , To call cry he did not suage Repente ear it be late . But for his pains he was well beatrice This had he for his hire , For truth they did him evil entreat Against him did conspire , But yet he cried and would not blen , While he was able yet to ren , Saying woe be to Jerusalem , For kindling of Gods ire : Woe be to thee and to thy land Thou art beset in woeful band , Thy days of sorrow is at hand Of famine sword and fire . This was that famous City then Destroyed with fire and sword , That mighty town Jerusalem , The City of the Lord : Because their God they would not know Christ being . xxx . years below His word to them plainly did show This scripture does record , That they might be his chosen firste , To live and reign among the just , And to no other for to trust But to believe his word . Now sing that this Jerusalem , As scripture does tell true Was plaguyd for that sins of men , Which Romans overthrew , What shall that Lord to us express That so does live in such excess , Of whoredom , Pride , and covitousnes More now then did the Jewe , Therefore is our example this , Amend the thing that is amiss That we may have eternal bliss , By Christe our Lord Jesue . Finis . Quod John Barker . Imprinted at London , in Fleetestreate Beneath the Conduit , at the sign of Saint John Evangelist , by Though - mass Colwell . 