H : 18270 A new ballad of the worthy service of late done by Master Strangwige in Fraunce , and of his death . ENgland hath lost a Soldier of late Who Strangwige was to name : Although he was of mean estate His deeds deserved fame . For as the Plowman plows the ground And toileth to till for corn : So Strangwige sought a deadly wound For Brittaine where he was born . In deed of birth he was born base Although of worshipful kin : In youth he sought to run the raze Where he might prowess win . In his young years he walked wide And wandered oft a stray : For why , blind Cupid did him guide To walk that wyldsome way . Thus here & there I wot not where He sounded where to ride : But happy haven he found no where Nor harbour for to abide . But when he had the course out run Where Pirates prict the Card : Twice at the least , he thought undone And looked for his reward . For by legal laws he was condemd Yet Mercy bore the mace And in respect he would amend He found a Princes grace . And in that state he vowed to GOD And to his righteous Queen : He would no more deserve such rod Nor at Justice bar be seen . He thus contented for a while And laughed Fortune to scorn : Till weeds did work by subtle guile To overgrow the corn . And then occasion served just That Martial men must trudge : He vanced himself with valiant lust To go he did not grudge . And to the sea he sought a charge Where he might take his chance : And there with spread his sails at large To seek a port in Fraunce . And passed by a warlike town Where munition lay a land He spoiled and cut their chains a down And passed by strong hand . Where as he caught a deadly wound Yet his courage never quailed : But as he had been safe and found On his way forth he sailed . And passed through even to that port Where he vowed to aryve : And still he did his men comfort And courage did them give . Then ATROPOS did him assail That all Adams kind does call : Against whose force may none prevail But subject to him all . This life ( quod he ) which was me lent From judgement seat in peril : I came with heart for that intent To spend in my Queens quarrel . Therefore this debt here will I pay This life which is not mine : Oh Lord receive my spirit to joy That by Christes death is thine . All Subjects now , look and foresee That to trade the wars pretend : Offenders eke ( if any there be ) Make you no worse and end . FINIS . W. Birch . Imprinted at London by Alexander Lacy for William Owen , and are to be sold at the little shop at the north door of Poules . H : 18270 A new ballad of the worthy service of late done by Master Strangwige in Fraunce , and of his death . ENgland hath lost a Soldier of late Who Strangwige was to name : Although he was of mean estate His deeds deserved fame . For as the Plowman plows the ground And toileth to till for corn : So Strangwige sought a deadly wound For Brittaine where he was born . In deed of birth he was born base Although of worshipful kin : In youth he sought to run the raze Where he might prowess win . In his young years he walked wide And wandered oft a stray : For why , blind Cupid did him guide To walk that wyldsome way . Thus here & there I wot not where He sounded where to ride : But happy haven he found no where Nor harbour for to abide . But when he had the course out run Where Pirates prict the Card : Twice at the least , he thought undone And looked for his reward . For by legal laws he was condemd Yet Mercy bore the mace And in respect he would amend He found a Princes grace . And in that state he vowed to GOD And to his righteous Queen : He would no more deserve such rod Nor at Justice bar be seen . He thus contented for a while And laughed Fortune to scorn : Till weeds did work by subtle guile To overgrow the corn . And then occasion served just That Martial men must trudge : He vanced himself with valiant lust To go he did not grudge . And to the sea he sought a charge Where he might take his chance : And there with spread his sails at large To seek a port in Fraunce . And passed by a warlike town Where munition lay a land He spoiled and cut their chains a down And passed by strong hand . Where as he caught a deadly wound Yet his courage never quailed : But as he had been safe and found On his way forth he sailed . And passed through even to that port Where he vowed to aryve : And still he did his men comfort And courage did them give . Then ATROPOS did him assail That all Adams kind does call : Against whose force may none prevail But subject to him all . This life ( quod he ) which was me lent From judgement seat in peril : I came with heart for that intent To spend in my Queens quarrel . Therefore this debt here will I pay This life which is not mine : Oh Lord receive my spirit to joy That by Christes death is thine . All Subjects now , look and foresee That to trade the wars pretend : Offenders eke ( if any there be ) Make you no worse and end . FINIS . W. Birch . Imprinted at London by Alexander Lacy for William Owen , and are to be sold at the little shop at the north door of Poules . 