H : 18273 AND EPYTAPHE upon the Death of the Right worshipful , Sir William GARRAT Knigh and chief Alderman of the Queens Majesties City of LONDON . Who deceased the .27 . of SEPTEMBER . 1571. ANNO AETATIS SUE . 64. EVen as the PYLATE trains the rest , that travail would attain : And by the compass of his Card , describes his Journey plain : Even so the travail of this world apparent seems to be , From Childhood first to middle state : Then finally we see : From crooked Age unto the House , that mortal Creatures win : Our Mother deer the Earth , of whom our Substance did begin . Which full Effect considered well , as Flowers in the Field : we may conceive this outward man , in tract of time shall yield , And hang the head : for as the shade that glydeth on the wall , compared with the Lily fair , so sudden is our fallen . As here before our eyes we may prospective plainly try , A Mirror and a looking Glass , for every Wight to spy , In Country soil , ( O LECTOR deer , ) of Consulshippes degree : A Lantern bright to Justice Seat , hear plainly thou mayest see Bereft of breath : a Knight no less , then Worships Title claim : for Rector of the Public weal , that GARAT had to name . From middle Age by sage advice , pursuing Virtues lore : Which is the cause that does augment , his Worship evermore . In Godliness , or sacred life , his steps , the Lord hath bles whose endless Fame revives still , though Corpse be now suppressed By Nature's course . In time , unto the poor a perfect stay : maintaining Justice equally , from every day to day . A Patron of his Country deer intombde he hath , to name : For as the Senate grants him right , the Commons say the same . Though then that Fate hath him assigned , his Pageant thus to play Still putting us in Memory , that we shall walk that way . There is not one , that can reprove , one Title of his right , But as he was , ( even so he died : ) to live a faithful Knight . And gave the Onset to the flesh , and conquered hath the same : As Champion bold , by Shield of Faith , to glory of his name . Disdaining Earthly trade , or mean : embracing Heavenly ligh Committing to the hands of God , his inward man or Spright . If that as then such noble Acts , enlarge his loyal praise : And by account of just deserts , his triple Honour raise . What rueful loss hath all the state , of Senators degree ? with whom for Counsel grave , he was accepted wont to be . Or else what tears may Public weal , effuse in woeful plighted ? Since fatal Doom hath plucked from them so sage & wise a Knight What double loss hath Lady his ? ( that virtuous Matron grave , ) Whom God had linked to him as Spouse , for term of life to have . What loss hath Children deer , of him ? what loss hath servants all ? what loss hath eke that stood in need , for Counsel his to call ? What loss hath rich ? what loss hath poor ? what loss hath each estate what remedy ? nought helps herein , but wail our woeful Fate . Yet nought at all prevails our tears , therefore to God I pray , ( Sith he is gone : ) the rest may walk , his ready Path and way : And specially , his Brothers sage : that fit on Justice Seat , Their Worships hearts , the Lord direct , unto his glory great . Maintaining justly every cause , and planting Virtues right , So that thereby the Common Weal , may flourish clear and bright In happy state , most prosperously , great joy for to be seen : To spread her Branches in respect , as does the Olive green . Grant this Oh God eternally , that when this raze is run : Their Worships may obtain the Fame that GARRAT hath begun . FINIS . DIXI . N. BOUR . This Raze presents a Pilgrimage , Or Tragical Discourse on Stage : Which once begun , draws to and end , Let Death therefore be thought on friend : And fear no whit the Camp to yield , So long as Faith may be thy Shield . Imprinted at London in the upper end of Fleetelane , by Richarde Johnes : And are to be should at his Shop , joining to the Southwest Door of saint Paules Church . 1571. October . 2. H : 18273 AND EPYTAPHE upon the Death of the Right worshipful , Sir William GARRAT Knigh and chief Alderman of the Queens Majesties City of LONDON . Who deceased the .27 . of SEPTEMBER . 1571. ANNO AETATIS SUE . 64. EVen as the PYLATE trains the rest , that travail would attain : And by the compass of his Card , describes his Journey plain : Even so the travail of this world apparent seems to be , From Childhood first to middle state : Then finally we see : From crooked Age unto the House , that mortal Creatures win : Our Mother deer the Earth , of whom our Substance did begin . Which full Effect considered well , as Flowers in the Field : we may conceive this outward man , in tract of time shall yield , And hang the head : for as the shade that glydeth on the wall , compared with the Lily fair , so sudden is our fallen . As here before our eyes we may prospective plainly try , A Mirror and a looking Glass , for every Wight to spy , In Country soil , ( O LECTOR deer , ) of Consulshippes degree : A Lantern bright to Justice Seat , hear plainly thou mayest see Bereft of breath : a Knight no less , then Worships Title claim : for Rector of the Public weal , that GARAT had to name . From middle Age by sage advice , pursuing Virtues lore : Which is the cause that does augment , his Worship evermore . In Godliness , or sacred life , his steps , the Lord hath bles whose endless Fame revives still , though Corpse be now suppressed By Nature's course . In time , unto the poor a perfect stay : maintaining Justice equally , from every day to day . A Patron of his Country deer intombde he hath , to name : For as the Senate grants him right , the Commons say the same . Though then that Fate hath him assigned , his Pageant thus to play Still putting us in Memory , that we shall walk that way . There is not one , that can reprove , one Title of his right , But as he was , ( even so he died : ) to live a faithful Knight . And gave the Onset to the flesh , and conquered hath the same : As Champion bold , by Shield of Faith , to glory of his name . Disdaining Earthly trade , or mean : embracing Heavenly ligh Committing to the hands of God , his inward man or Spright . If that as then such noble Acts , enlarge his loyal praise : And by account of just deserts , his triple Honour raise . What rueful loss hath all the state , of Senators degree ? with whom for Counsel grave , he was accepted wont to be . Or else what tears may Public weal , effuse in woeful plighted ? Since fatal Doom hath plucked from them so sage & wise a Knight What double loss hath Lady his ? ( that virtuous Matron grave , ) Whom God had linked to him as Spouse , for term of life to have . What loss hath Children deer , of him ? what loss hath servants all ? what loss hath eke that stood in need , for Counsel his to call ? What loss hath rich ? what loss hath poor ? what loss hath each estate what remedy ? nought helps herein , but wail our woeful Fate . Yet nought at all prevails our tears , therefore to God I pray , ( Sith he is gone : ) the rest may walk , his ready Path and way : And specially , his Brothers sage : that fit on Justice Seat , Their Worships hearts , the Lord direct , unto his glory great . Maintaining justly every cause , and planting Virtues right , So that thereby the Common Weal , may flourish clear and bright In happy state , most prosperously , great joy for to be seen : To spread her Branches in respect , as does the Olive green . Grant this Oh God eternally , that when this raze is run : Their Worships may obtain the Fame that GARRAT hath begun . FINIS . DIXI . N. BOUR . This Raze presents a Pilgrimage , Or Tragical Discourse on Stage : Which once begun , draws to and end , Let Death therefore be thought on friend : And fear no whit the Camp to yield , So long as Faith may be thy Shield . Imprinted at London in the upper end of Fleetelane , by Richarde Johnes : And are to be should at his Shop , joining to the Southwest Door of saint Paules Church . 1571. October . 2. 