H : 18272 AND EPYTAPHE upon the Death of the Right Reverend Father in God J. Jewel , Doctor of Divinity and Bishop of Sarisburie . Who deceased the .22 . of September . 1571. IF Public Weal , or Countries claim , might languish and bewail : The late decease of such Divines : as chiefly did prevail And clean extirp such shadowed works : as Antichristians Ire Or ARIUS flock , most TITYRUS like , began for to conspire , To overwhelm the Verytie : then may we Christians say , We do sustain a double loss , of JUELL at this day : Whose name does not import so much the valve , or the price : As is his miss accounted off , by Father's sage and wise . No Pearl , or precious substance may , so much bewailed be , As Country soil hath cause to moan , deer JUELL now for thee . Who hath detected prudently , and published very plain : Such Errors , as unworthy are , in Christians to remain : As Warrierlyke , thou JUELL haste , laid Battery to thy Foes , As HARDYNG , with like Popish Sects , that Papists Captain chosen For to defend their Heresies : By thee his found Delusion , Apparently as proved is , was brought unto confusion . Thy zealous mind , thy sacred sprigh by West , by North , by South , Hath driven of raging Papists Sect , a Snaffle in the mouth . Whereon so long time they have fed , that Christes Gospel clear Unto the Say and common sort , most brightly does appear . So that deservedly of right , by golden Trump of Fame : Thou dost deserve the Title of a JUELL unto name : For why ? by thee most worthily , thy Virtues stood in stead : By thee likewise the Flock of Christ , most preciously were fed . By thee , the Path of Heavenly health : by thee , true faith was shown By thee , the fruits of Charity , in deeds & words were known . By thee , the inward man was clad , and nourished very well : In any soil , scarce is there found , such Juelles for to dwell . Thy deeds agreed with steadfast words , fast founded on the Rock , To Christian state , a Father deer , and Patron to the Flock . Which bears the Title of the Church , or Sheepefould of the Lord , Approved by testimonial Acts , as Scriptures do record . If thus much then , that account , was made , what Creature can denay But England she , too soon hath lost , a JUELL at this day , Whom neither benefit of wealth , could cause to wander fro The Compass of the heavenly Carded , his Duty to bestow Among his Brethren deer in Chris then as we have begun , Let us suppose that we have lost , this JUELL all too soon . Desiring God , that as he is , no doubt with him on high , We may become true Juelles all , until the time we die . So shall the heavenly Verytie , most brightly flourish still , And spread her Branches fair abroad , all over Sion Hill : Whereby the Popish train may fallen , that erst hath been so high , And clean diminished from the Earth , as withered Plants that die . Grant this ( Oh God ) for evermore , and pierce thy Pastor's hearts , That valiantly ( as JUELL did , ) they play true Pastor's parts . And leave behind such worthy works , to glorify Goddes name As he hath dONE : and so confound the Popish Sect with shame . That by such mean no Papist may , the perfect Scripture wrest , As HARDYNG hath dONE heretofore , whom JUELL hath suppressed . And thus farewell , ( deer JUELL now : ) sith Gods good pleasure is To have thee hence from us among , to his Eternal bliss . With tears I end this simple Verse , proceeding of good will , Let learned sort take Pen in hand , and frame their filed Quill To spread this Juelles Fame abroad , though Corpse be clad in Clay , His worthy Works & Virtues rare , Dame FAME shall sure display . FINIS . N. BOUR . Imprinted at London in the upper end of Fleetelane , by Richarde Johnes : And are to be should at his Shop , joining to the Southwest Door of saint Paules Church . 1571. October . 2. H : 18272 AND EPYTAPHE upon the Death of the Right Reverend Father in God J. Jewel , Doctor of Divinity and Bishop of Sarisburie . Who deceased the .22 . of September . 1571. IF Public Weal , or Countries claim , might languish and bewail : The late decease of such Divines : as chiefly did prevail And clean extirp such shadowed works : as Antichristians Ire Or ARIUS flock , most TITYRUS like , began for to conspire , To overwhelm the Verytie : then may we Christians say , We do sustain a double loss , of JUELL at this day : Whose name does not import so much the valve , or the price : As is his miss accounted off , by Father's sage and wise . No Pearl , or precious substance may , so much bewailed be , As Country soil hath cause to moan , deer JUELL now for thee . Who hath detected prudently , and published very plain : Such Errors , as unworthy are , in Christians to remain : As Warrierlyke , thou JUELL haste , laid Battery to thy Foes , As HARDYNG , with like Popish Sects , that Papists Captain chosen For to defend their Heresies : By thee his found Delusion , Apparently as proved is , was brought unto confusion . Thy zealous mind , thy sacred sprigh by West , by North , by South , Hath driven of raging Papists Sect , a Snaffle in the mouth . Whereon so long time they have fed , that Christes Gospel clear Unto the Say and common sort , most brightly does appear . So that deservedly of right , by golden Trump of Fame : Thou dost deserve the Title of a JUELL unto name : For why ? by thee most worthily , thy Virtues stood in stead : By thee likewise the Flock of Christ , most preciously were fed . By thee , the Path of Heavenly health : by thee , true faith was shown By thee , the fruits of Charity , in deeds & words were known . By thee , the inward man was clad , and nourished very well : In any soil , scarce is there found , such Juelles for to dwell . Thy deeds agreed with steadfast words , fast founded on the Rock , To Christian state , a Father deer , and Patron to the Flock . Which bears the Title of the Church , or Sheepefould of the Lord , Approved by testimonial Acts , as Scriptures do record . If thus much then , that account , was made , what Creature can denay But England she , too soon hath lost , a JUELL at this day , Whom neither benefit of wealth , could cause to wander fro The Compass of the heavenly Carded , his Duty to bestow Among his Brethren deer in Chris then as we have begun , Let us suppose that we have lost , this JUELL all too soon . Desiring God , that as he is , no doubt with him on high , We may become true Juelles all , until the time we die . So shall the heavenly Verytie , most brightly flourish still , And spread her Branches fair abroad , all over Sion Hill : Whereby the Popish train may fallen , that erst hath been so high , And clean diminished from the Earth , as withered Plants that die . Grant this ( Oh God ) for evermore , and pierce thy Pastor's hearts , That valiantly ( as JUELL did , ) they play true Pastor's parts . And leave behind such worthy works , to glorify Goddes name As he hath dONE : and so confound the Popish Sect with shame . That by such mean no Papist may , the perfect Scripture wrest , As HARDYNG hath dONE heretofore , whom JUELL hath suppressed . And thus farewell , ( deer JUELL now : ) sith Gods good pleasure is To have thee hence from us among , to his Eternal bliss . With tears I end this simple Verse , proceeding of good will , Let learned sort take Pen in hand , and frame their filed Quill To spread this Juelles Fame abroad , though Corpse be clad in Clay , His worthy Works & Virtues rare , Dame FAME shall sure display . FINIS . N. BOUR . Imprinted at London in the upper end of Fleetelane , by Richarde Johnes : And are to be should at his Shop , joining to the Southwest Door of saint Paules Church . 1571. October . 2. 