H : 18280 A Farewell cauld , Churcheyeards , round . From the Court to the Country ground . IN Court if Largies be why part I thence so bore if Lords were frank & from Sum dradg would Lordings spare To him whose tongue and penn Might show in every cost The worthiness of men , And who desarvythe most . Full lyttill may be got Where hungry drops do fall Where all goes to the pot The kitchine fese are small The Bird can spare no plumes That feathers gay would have The Courttyer all consumes Who makes hymeselfe so brave No no here lies in deed The pad within the straw For eke man pledithe neade And he is held a daw , That gyves to such as want And thinks him self in lack This makes the world so skant And tournythe all to wrack . For fryndshype cowlde as I'm I waited long and late And glad to play the vice To pleasure eke estate And ever did I hope To hit my wished mark yet lo I did but grope For gnats within the dark Parhappes the frost hath nypt Each Noble liberal hand Or ellse a way is skypte In to fume other lannde God send a thaw a gain And ships draw home as fast That poor men for their pain May find fume wealth at last I sought the Prince to sarve As all our duties is And hope I did desarve A greater suit then this , But days and weeks are spent And worn my coats full thine And all my yearly rend yet found no grace therein . No Monstoure sure I am Nor fowl deformed thing , No sheep nor sucking lame More lycke to sarve a King , As shall both hand and heart At length my witness be , When proffe in any part Shall be requyrde of me . Had I but found a wight In Court when I was there , The Lady Sydney hight All changed had been this gere , What hap had I to shue Where no such help is found , Oh dams that blush not you Thought she in grace a bound , Now from the Court to cart My horse and I must pace , Who hath the meryst heart Who is in better case My horse or I , God knows , The one must bear his charge The other where he goes Must pourely live at large . Finis . quod , T. Churcheyeard . Imprinted at London in Fletestrte at the Faucon , over against S. Dunstons Church , by Wylliam Gryffith . H : 18280 A Farewell cauld , Churcheyeards , round . From the Court to the Country ground . IN Court if Largies be why part I thence so bore if Lords were frank & from Sum dradg would Lordings spare To him whose tongue and penn Might show in every cost The worthiness of men , And who desarvythe most . Full lyttill may be got Where hungry drops do fall Where all goes to the pot The kitchine fese are small The Bird can spare no plumes That feathers gay would have The Courttyer all consumes Who makes hymeselfe so brave No no here lies in deed The pad within the straw For eke man pledithe neade And he is held a daw , That gyves to such as want And thinks him self in lack This makes the world so skant And tournythe all to wrack . For fryndshype cowlde as I'm I waited long and late And glad to play the vice To pleasure eke estate And ever did I hope To hit my wished mark yet lo I did but grope For gnats within the dark Parhappes the frost hath nypt Each Noble liberal hand Or ellse a way is skypte In to fume other lannde God send a thaw a gain And ships draw home as fast That poor men for their pain May find fume wealth at last I sought the Prince to sarve As all our duties is And hope I did desarve A greater suit then this , But days and weeks are spent And worn my coats full thine And all my yearly rend yet found no grace therein . No Monstoure sure I am Nor fowl deformed thing , No sheep nor sucking lame More lycke to sarve a King , As shall both hand and heart At length my witness be , When proffe in any part Shall be requyrde of me . Had I but found a wight In Court when I was there , The Lady Sydney hight All changed had been this gere , What hap had I to shue Where no such help is found , Oh dams that blush not you Thought she in grace a bound , Now from the Court to cart My horse and I must pace , Who hath the meryst heart Who is in better case My horse or I , God knows , The one must bear his charge The other where he goes Must pourely live at large . Finis . quod , T. Churcheyeard . Imprinted at London in Fletestrte at the Faucon , over against S. Dunstons Church , by Wylliam Gryffith . 