H : 58206 THESE For his old Friend Doctor WILD AUTHOUR Of the Humble THANKS , etc SIR , HAd I believ'd report , that said , These Rhymes by Doctor Wild were made , I long before this time had sent Some symptoms of our discontent . For since y' have left off being witty , Your humble thanks deserves our pity . I can't imagine what you'l do , Your Muse turn'd Nonconformist to ? And will not easily dispense With the old way of writing sense ! She hath receiv'd , if that be true , As much Indulgence then as you . Surely ( Dear Sir ) you did not pray Since you convers'd with Tychobrah . Jove play'd the wag , and Luna pist , Do these things with Free-Grace consist ? Celestial signs serve to express The good man's heav'nly mindedness ; There are but twelve of them in Heaven , Yet he'l name one by one eleven ; And if you'r not in too much haste , 'Tis ten to one , he names the last . You had been horribly put to 't , If Sagittarius could not shoo Aquarius and the Smyrna Fleet , I'le swear , a very good conceit . But , Doctor , let us know , why will you Thus vex your self at William Lily : 'Tis true , he could not find it out , That March would bring all this about ; But on that day you well might gather That there would be some change of weather : And change of weather in a Nation Portends a kind of alteration . This favour , you do say , did come Fragrant and full of all perfume , Like Eastern Spices ( it should seem ) This had done rarely in a Theme . To the next Column --- let us see How you discourse His MAJESTIE . Where every solemn Epithet Does look like Grace before you eat , Which being said , as rudely you Do take the Boldness to fallen to , With Rhymes most reverently sent About Pope Clements Fundament , And Puns that would provoke the hate Of any under Graduate . Peter Non-con ( it seems ) must pray , And Judas Church must take the Pay . Some angry men would call him rude Ass , That calls the Church of ENGLAND Judas . You'l be no Bishop , nor no Curate , 'Tis only Minister that you're at . Minister ! It sounds methinks , Like Pastor Clark of Bennet Fynkes . These Favours which the King does heap Upon your head , hath made you leap . And since y' have found your feet again , The Gout's god up into your Brain : If cap'ring be so fine a thing , Pr'ythee come over for the King . Your humble Servant , OBEDIAH . Ill Painters when they make a Sign Either of Talbot or of Swine , To satisfy all Persons rogant , That they might make a Hog , or Dog on't ; Do never think it any shame To underwrite the Creatures Name . WILD made some Verses you must know ITER BOREALE is below . LONDON , Printed for T.D. 1672. H : 58206 THESE For his old Friend Doctor WILD AUTHOUR Of the Humble THANKS , etc SIR , HAd I believ'd report , that said , These Rhymes by Doctor Wild were made , I long before this time had sent Some symptoms of our discontent . For since y' have left off being witty , Your humble thanks deserves our pity . I can't imagine what you'l do , Your Muse turn'd Nonconformist to ? And will not easily dispense With the old way of writing sense ! She hath receiv'd , if that be true , As much Indulgence then as you . Surely ( Dear Sir ) you did not pray Since you convers'd with Tychobrah . Jove play'd the wag , and Luna pist , Do these things with Free-Grace consist ? Celestial signs serve to express The good man's heav'nly mindedness ; There are but twelve of them in Heaven , Yet he'l name one by one eleven ; And if you'r not in too much haste , 'Tis ten to one , he names the last . You had been horribly put to 't , If Sagittarius could not shoo Aquarius and the Smyrna Fleet , I'le swear , a very good conceit . But , Doctor , let us know , why will you Thus vex your self at William Lily : 'Tis true , he could not find it out , That March would bring all this about ; But on that day you well might gather That there would be some change of weather : And change of weather in a Nation Portends a kind of alteration . This favour , you do say , did come Fragrant and full of all perfume , Like Eastern Spices ( it should seem ) This had done rarely in a Theme . To the next Column --- let us see How you discourse His MAJESTIE . Where every solemn Epithet Does look like Grace before you eat , Which being said , as rudely you Do take the Boldness to fallen to , With Rhymes most reverently sent About Pope Clements Fundament , And Puns that would provoke the hate Of any under Graduate . Peter Non-con ( it seems ) must pray , And Judas Church must take the Pay . Some angry men would call him rude Ass , That calls the Church of ENGLAND Judas . You'l be no Bishop , nor no Curate , 'Tis only Minister that you're at . Minister ! It sounds methinks , Like Pastor Clark of Bennet Fynkes . These Favours which the King does heap Upon your head , hath made you leap . And since y' have found your feet again , The Gout's god up into your Brain : If cap'ring be so fine a thing , Pr'ythee come over for the King . Your humble Servant , OBEDIAH . Ill Painters when they make a Sign Either of Talbot or of Swine , To satisfy all Persons rogant , That they might make a Hog , or Dog on't ; Do never think it any shame To underwrite the Creatures Name . WILD made some Verses you must know ITER BOREALE is below . LONDON , Printed for T.D. 1672. 