H : 89609 UPON HIS MAJESTIES Going for IRELAND . GO on , Great Prince , the mighty Work pursue , And reap the Laurels to your Virtue due . Go on , and let the sad Ierne share Your Glorious Triumphs , as it do's your Care . There Victory will on your Arms attend , ( For Heaven must sure the Justest Cause befriend : ) There urge the Fortune of your growing Fate , And kindly prop Ierne's sinking State . Well , now he's Shipped ! --- See how th' obsequious Main And trembling Billows fear to entertain So Great a Pledge of Fortune , One to whom Fate owes so many Victories to come . Cease , cease , you Winds , you need not send your Gales , His Subject's Loyal Vows will fill the Sails . The wondering Seagods on their Master gaze , And Reverend Triton on his Trumpet plays : No foamy Waves alarm the peaceful Deep , The Winds are hushed , the very Tempests sleep ; Till safely landing on the distant Shore , He views a Place he never saw before . Behold the Monarch walking on the Strand , While mighty Crowds do blacken all the Sand : Guns , Trumpets , Drums , his Welcome all proclaim ; There's Soul , there's Life , nay , Magic in his Name . New Vigour from his Sighed the Soldier draws , And through all Dangers boldly courts Applause ; A nobler Warmth do's all the Men inspire , Their Breasts are heated , and they feel the Fire ; While Peals of artful Thunder rend the Air , And their loud Joy through the large Region bear . What Place will first our Caesar's Arms employ , To give Presage of future Victory ? Th' unequal Force no meaner Town withstands , But beg their Peace with low submissive Hands . Cavan in vain relies upon its Strength , And views those Turrets which must fallen at length . Where Valour's wanting , what do Walls avail ? Those may be storm'd , but this can never fail . The English Youth , like a bold Torrent , run , And scorn the weak Attacks of Sword and Gun. Forthwith the dastard Irish quit the Place , And scarce dare look our Party in the Face . So when Great Josuah , by God's Command , With his unconquer'd Host o're-ran the Land , The trembling Canaanite , possessed with Fear , Fled to the Hills , yet scarce found Safety there : In vain they sought to shun approaching Death , Begg'd to protract a poor and shameful Breath ; The fiery Jews destroy the timorous Raze , And show the hardened Canaanite no Grace . Tredagh do's next the English Arms oppose , Following the Counsel of her Gallick Foes : At last , when no Relief , no Hope is near , And Death do's in a thousand Shapes appear , Taught by Experience of former Time , When haughty Cromwel punish'd her great Crime , To Article she wisely do's begin , And opens her Gates , and lets the Monarch in . Now Naked Dublin do our Troops survey , A cheap , unguarded , and defenceless Prey , Unless the French have labour'd to destroy The Place they cou'd not any more enjoy . And who can tell ? For Fear , with Malice join'd , No Bounds , no Limits to their Fury find : But if those Bloodhounds thus do serve the Isle , All France next Year shall be its Funeral Pile . 'Tis far above the Meanness of my Verse , Such great Heroic Actions to rehearse : For , ah ! what Tribe of all the Muse below Can our Great Prince in equal Numbers show ? But if the Great Apollo do's inspire My vig'rous Mind with no fantastic Fire , Ireland will in a Years revolving Space Our Mighty Caesar's Glorious Triumphs grace . Jove did the Isle from Toads and Spiders free , A puny Task , below a Deity : But you far greater Miracles renew , A larger Laurel to your Worth is due ; For by the Influence of your careful Toil You free the Men , Jove only freed the Soil . ADVERTISEMENT . The Memoirs of Monsieur Deageant ; containing the most secret Transactions and Affairs of France , from the Death of Henry IV. till the Beginning of the Ministry of the Cardinal de Richlieu . To which is added , A Particular Relation of the Archbishop of Embrun's Voyage into England , and of his Negotiation for the Ad - vancement of the Roman Catholic Religion here ; together with the Duke of Buckingham's Letters to the said Archbishop , about the Progress of that Affair : Which happened the last Years of King James I . his Reign . Faith - fully Translated out of the French Original . The Cabinet Open'd : or , The Secret History of the Amours of Madam de Maintenon with the French King Translated from the French Copy . Both Printed for Richard Balwin in the Old Baily . LONDON , Printed for Richard Baldwin near the Black Bull in the Old Baily . 1690. H : 89609 UPON HIS MAJESTIES Going for IRELAND . GO on , Great Prince , the mighty Work pursue , And reap the Laurels to your Virtue due . Go on , and let the sad Ierne share Your Glorious Triumphs , as it do's your Care . There Victory will on your Arms attend , ( For Heaven must sure the Justest Cause befriend : ) There urge the Fortune of your growing Fate , And kindly prop Ierne's sinking State . Well , now he's Shipped ! --- See how th' obsequious Main And trembling Billows fear to entertain So Great a Pledge of Fortune , One to whom Fate owes so many Victories to come . Cease , cease , you Winds , you need not send your Gales , His Subject's Loyal Vows will fill the Sails . The wondering Seagods on their Master gaze , And Reverend Triton on his Trumpet plays : No foamy Waves alarm the peaceful Deep , The Winds are hushed , the very Tempests sleep ; Till safely landing on the distant Shore , He views a Place he never saw before . Behold the Monarch walking on the Strand , While mighty Crowds do blacken all the Sand : Guns , Trumpets , Drums , his Welcome all proclaim ; There's Soul , there's Life , nay , Magic in his Name . New Vigour from his Sighed the Soldier draws , And through all Dangers boldly courts Applause ; A nobler Warmth do's all the Men inspire , Their Breasts are heated , and they feel the Fire ; While Peals of artful Thunder rend the Air , And their loud Joy through the large Region bear . What Place will first our Caesar's Arms employ , To give Presage of future Victory ? Th' unequal Force no meaner Town withstands , But beg their Peace with low submissive Hands . Cavan in vain relies upon its Strength , And views those Turrets which must fallen at length . Where Valour's wanting , what do Walls avail ? Those may be storm'd , but this can never fail . The English Youth , like a bold Torrent , run , And scorn the weak Attacks of Sword and Gun. Forthwith the dastard Irish quit the Place , And scarce dare look our Party in the Face . So when Great Josuah , by God's Command , With his unconquer'd Host o're-ran the Land , The trembling Canaanite , possessed with Fear , Fled to the Hills , yet scarce found Safety there : In vain they sought to shun approaching Death , Begg'd to protract a poor and shameful Breath ; The fiery Jews destroy the timorous Raze , And show the hardened Canaanite no Grace . Tredagh do's next the English Arms oppose , Following the Counsel of her Gallick Foes : At last , when no Relief , no Hope is near , And Death do's in a thousand Shapes appear , Taught by Experience of former Time , When haughty Cromwel punish'd her great Crime , To Article she wisely do's begin , And opens her Gates , and lets the Monarch in . Now Naked Dublin do our Troops survey , A cheap , unguarded , and defenceless Prey , Unless the French have labour'd to destroy The Place they cou'd not any more enjoy . And who can tell ? For Fear , with Malice join'd , No Bounds , no Limits to their Fury find : But if those Bloodhounds thus do serve the Isle , All France next Year shall be its Funeral Pile . 'Tis far above the Meanness of my Verse , Such great Heroic Actions to rehearse : For , ah ! what Tribe of all the Muse below Can our Great Prince in equal Numbers show ? But if the Great Apollo do's inspire My vig'rous Mind with no fantastic Fire , Ireland will in a Years revolving Space Our Mighty Caesar's Glorious Triumphs grace . Jove did the Isle from Toads and Spiders free , A puny Task , below a Deity : But you far greater Miracles renew , A larger Laurel to your Worth is due ; For by the Influence of your careful Toil You free the Men , Jove only freed the Soil . ADVERTISEMENT . The Memoirs of Monsieur Deageant ; containing the most secret Transactions and Affairs of France , from the Death of Henry IV. till the Beginning of the Ministry of the Cardinal de Richlieu . To which is added , A Particular Relation of the Archbishop of Embrun's Voyage into England , and of his Negotiation for the Ad - vancement of the Roman Catholic Religion here ; together with the Duke of Buckingham's Letters to the said Archbishop , about the Progress of that Affair : Which happened the last Years of King James I . his Reign . Faith - fully Translated out of the French Original . The Cabinet Open'd : or , The Secret History of the Amours of Madam de Maintenon with the French King Translated from the French Copy . Both Printed for Richard Balwin in the Old Baily . LONDON , Printed for Richard Baldwin near the Black Bull in the Old Baily . 1690. 