H : 133210 A TEAR DROPPED FROM THE HEARSE Of the Reverend Dr. Benjamin Calamy ; LATE Minister of St. Lawrence Jury London , Who departed this Life on Sunday the 3d of January , 1685 6 Quis matrem in funere Nati Here vetat ? AS when some Tempest rages in the Air , And against all the Wood proclaims a War , The Humble Shrubs are scarce concern'd at all , Only the Oaks and mighty Cedars Fallen ; Those are a Prize to Beggarly and Low , But these become the Greatness of the Foe . Those remain Safe , because Defenceless quite , But against these does their own Greatness Fight . Dust , thus it is in the Assaults of Fate , The Common Heard is seldom Brave or Great ; They by the Foe do Unregarded lie , And Live so long till they wou'd chosen to Die . But where you see a large and spacious Mind , Where Worth and Virtue are with Learning join'd ; Where Noble Thoughts do with like Deeds conspire , And the whole Man is Perfect and Entire ; There you may see the Malice of our Fate , And what Misfortunes does on Virtue wait , Whil'st those that never could deserve to Die , But might have Challeng'd Immortality , Meet still the soonest with their Destiny . These are the Noblest , and the greatest Prey , And Fate by this , goes a compendious way ; For she Wounds us , whil'st she does these Men Slay . Thus he Great BEN with all his Learning Die ; Too Early , and too Dear a SACRIFICE . He whose great mind was with all useful Knowledge fraught , That Nature ever gave , or Art has Taught ; He and his Worth are Wither'd , cold , and Dead , And the Treasures of his Mind are Fled : Nothing has scap'd the fierce and angry Flame , But his great Memory and Immortal Name . Nought such a Loss can equal or befit Less than his powerful Eloquence and Wit ; Some small remains of those with us abide , But all the rest the envious Dark does hide . Some single Sheets indeed the Press imparts , The rest are writ upon the Hearers Hearts : His Charming Periods are past and gone , And in his Peoples Lives must now be shown . Pity such Words in transient sounds should Die , Or in a Study unregarded lie ; Pity each falling Line had not been Writ In Characters as lasting as his Wit ; That the next Age by him might learn to make Those Rules , by which they from that Place should speak . The Gospel in such streaming Sense did flow , When the Apostles Preach'd to Men Below : The Current sometime troubled was , I own , Which by his seeming Lisping oft was shown ; But 'twas the Torrent of his Eloquence , The strife betwixt his crowding Words and Sense ; Still with such hidden Influence he could dive , And to his Hearers Breast himself derive ; So gently touch each Fault and Fester'd Part , Yet the charm'd Patient not betray the Smart . Could such a pleasing Force Evidence show , Yet still the Sinner unoffended go : It prov'd his Sermons could like Lightning Pierce Quite to the Blade , the Scabbard ne'er the worse : Which shows thou only , and some happy few , The true and genuine Art of Preaching knew . Our Church will own , though she receives a Blow , Yet still a Numerous Raze of Youths can show , Who by thy Doctrine and Example fed , May come in time our Churches Cause to Head. And , Oh! If thy Example this can do , Why did'st thou not let fallen thy Spirit too ? But say Bless'd Shade , so soon why would'st thou go , And take thyself from mournful Us below : Tell me did'st thou by a foreseeing Eye , See some Black Tempest gathering in our Sky ; Was that the cause ? ------ I rather think the partial Hand of Fate Did but too ill thy Soul and Body Mate . If the Soul's Gaol the Body Style we must , Into the worst of Prisons thine was thrus Thou tir'd and a weary to the Grave did'st come , But leave that Life which was grown Burdensome . Hold , happy Shade , here must my Number cease , No more I will presume to vex thy Peace ; Beside I see thy Predecessors stand , To meet and joy thee to the promised Land. Go happy Saint , and there enjoy that Rest , Which here on Earth is still deni'd the Best . All we can do , is to Adorn thy HEARSE And hang it round with this poor Mortal VERSE . This may be Printed , R.L.S. LONDON , Printed by George Croom , at the Blue-Ball in Thames-street , near Baynard's-Castle . 1685. H : 133210 A TEAR DROPPED FROM THE HEARSE Of the Reverend Dr. Benjamin Calamy ; LATE Minister of St. Lawrence Jury London , Who departed this Life on Sunday the 3d of January , 1685 6 Quis matrem in funere Nati Here vetat ? AS when some Tempest rages in the Air , And against all the Wood proclaims a War , The Humble Shrubs are scarce concern'd at all , Only the Oaks and mighty Cedars Fallen ; Those are a Prize to Beggarly and Low , But these become the Greatness of the Foe . Those remain Safe , because Defenceless quite , But against these does their own Greatness Fight . Dust , thus it is in the Assaults of Fate , The Common Heard is seldom Brave or Great ; They by the Foe do Unregarded lie , And Live so long till they wou'd chosen to Die . But where you see a large and spacious Mind , Where Worth and Virtue are with Learning join'd ; Where Noble Thoughts do with like Deeds conspire , And the whole Man is Perfect and Entire ; There you may see the Malice of our Fate , And what Misfortunes does on Virtue wait , Whil'st those that never could deserve to Die , But might have Challeng'd Immortality , Meet still the soonest with their Destiny . These are the Noblest , and the greatest Prey , And Fate by this , goes a compendious way ; For she Wounds us , whil'st she does these Men Slay . Thus he Great BEN with all his Learning Die ; Too Early , and too Dear a SACRIFICE . He whose great mind was with all useful Knowledge fraught , That Nature ever gave , or Art has Taught ; He and his Worth are Wither'd , cold , and Dead , And the Treasures of his Mind are Fled : Nothing has scap'd the fierce and angry Flame , But his great Memory and Immortal Name . Nought such a Loss can equal or befit Less than his powerful Eloquence and Wit ; Some small remains of those with us abide , But all the rest the envious Dark does hide . Some single Sheets indeed the Press imparts , The rest are writ upon the Hearers Hearts : His Charming Periods are past and gone , And in his Peoples Lives must now be shown . Pity such Words in transient sounds should Die , Or in a Study unregarded lie ; Pity each falling Line had not been Writ In Characters as lasting as his Wit ; That the next Age by him might learn to make Those Rules , by which they from that Place should speak . The Gospel in such streaming Sense did flow , When the Apostles Preach'd to Men Below : The Current sometime troubled was , I own , Which by his seeming Lisping oft was shown ; But 'twas the Torrent of his Eloquence , The strife betwixt his crowding Words and Sense ; Still with such hidden Influence he could dive , And to his Hearers Breast himself derive ; So gently touch each Fault and Fester'd Part , Yet the charm'd Patient not betray the Smart . Could such a pleasing Force Evidence show , Yet still the Sinner unoffended go : It prov'd his Sermons could like Lightning Pierce Quite to the Blade , the Scabbard ne'er the worse : Which shows thou only , and some happy few , The true and genuine Art of Preaching knew . Our Church will own , though she receives a Blow , Yet still a Numerous Raze of Youths can show , Who by thy Doctrine and Example fed , May come in time our Churches Cause to Head. And , Oh! If thy Example this can do , Why did'st thou not let fallen thy Spirit too ? But say Bless'd Shade , so soon why would'st thou go , And take thyself from mournful Us below : Tell me did'st thou by a foreseeing Eye , See some Black Tempest gathering in our Sky ; Was that the cause ? ------ I rather think the partial Hand of Fate Did but too ill thy Soul and Body Mate . If the Soul's Gaol the Body Style we must , Into the worst of Prisons thine was thrus Thou tir'd and a weary to the Grave did'st come , But leave that Life which was grown Burdensome . Hold , happy Shade , here must my Number cease , No more I will presume to vex thy Peace ; Beside I see thy Predecessors stand , To meet and joy thee to the promised Land. Go happy Saint , and there enjoy that Rest , Which here on Earth is still deni'd the Best . All we can do , is to Adorn thy HEARSE And hang it round with this poor Mortal VERSE . This may be Printed , R.L.S. LONDON , Printed by George Croom , at the Blue-Ball in Thames-street , near Baynard's-Castle . 1685. 