H : 133190 The little Infant TITUS : OR Oats Exalted above his Brother . WHO Received Sentence at the Kings-Bench-Bar , at Westminster the 16th day of May , 1685. August the 9th . to stand in the Pillory at Westminster . August the 10th . at Cha - ring-Cross . August the 11th at Temple Bar. Septem . the 2d . at the Roy - all Exchange . April the 24 1686. to stand in the Pillory facing the Gall - lows . To lie in Gaol during Life . And to stand Anually in the Pillory . AS Bully does Lament when Cully Dy's , And the poor Bum for Follower rubs his Eyes , So the Distressed Brothers of the Nation Weep , Mourn and Sob , with sorest Lamentation , To see their Quondam Saint , this Idol Thing Thus unto Justice made and Offering : The Doctor's gone , the Traitor still is here , Insect of Hell , a Forsworn Murderer : Oh! Blessed Sighed ! how we ourselves should Bless If that he now was Cloak'd , the only Dress That is a Scandal unto Holiness . Draw near you Blood-Hounds , you that fain would bring States to Confusion , Ruin to a King ; Draw near , and the great Swearing Master see With Zeal profound advance the Pillory , To which his Father's Copy made him Free : For since he was Ambitious , he should have The Pillory conferred as a Grave . See how he stands , though Infamous and Base , And Damn's all those that do not give him Place , True Swearers glory in a Brazon Face . Approach , Approach you Blessed Sons of Hell , That only do in Villainies Excel To the Black Book , whither he will or not You see he's come , and must abide his Lo His shameless Actions now might Shame the Devil , That Scorns not to be thought the sum of Evil : He was resolv'd to seek out nothing less Than th' very Quintiscence of Wickedness . Hence then Geneva Trash , you'r out of Date , When Loyalty appears , you Dissipate : Shine on you Loyal Souls , and let these see Maugre their Hellish Arts and Treachery , That you shall Shine thus to Eternity . But if this Imp of Hell shall come t' Expire , Impenitent , how will the Damn'd Admire The Flames that he will add unto their Fire ! Thus the Reward of Faction here will be Shame , or to Dangle on the Fatal Tree , Hereafter Horror , Pain , and Misery , This may be Printed , August the 10th . 1685. R.L.S. LONDON , Printed by George Croom , at the Sign of the Blue-Ball in Thames-street , over against Baynard's-Castle . 1685. H : 133190 The little Infant TITUS : OR Oats Exalted above his Brother . WHO Received Sentence at the Kings-Bench-Bar , at Westminster the 16th day of May , 1685. August the 9th . to stand in the Pillory at Westminster . August the 10th . at Cha - ring-Cross . August the 11th at Temple Bar. Septem . the 2d . at the Roy - all Exchange . April the 24 1686. to stand in the Pillory facing the Gall - lows . To lie in Gaol during Life . And to stand Anually in the Pillory . AS Bully does Lament when Cully Dy's , And the poor Bum for Follower rubs his Eyes , So the Distressed Brothers of the Nation Weep , Mourn and Sob , with sorest Lamentation , To see their Quondam Saint , this Idol Thing Thus unto Justice made and Offering : The Doctor's gone , the Traitor still is here , Insect of Hell , a Forsworn Murderer : Oh! Blessed Sighed ! how we ourselves should Bless If that he now was Cloak'd , the only Dress That is a Scandal unto Holiness . Draw near you Blood-Hounds , you that fain would bring States to Confusion , Ruin to a King ; Draw near , and the great Swearing Master see With Zeal profound advance the Pillory , To which his Father's Copy made him Free : For since he was Ambitious , he should have The Pillory conferred as a Grave . See how he stands , though Infamous and Base , And Damn's all those that do not give him Place , True Swearers glory in a Brazon Face . Approach , Approach you Blessed Sons of Hell , That only do in Villainies Excel To the Black Book , whither he will or not You see he's come , and must abide his Lo His shameless Actions now might Shame the Devil , That Scorns not to be thought the sum of Evil : He was resolv'd to seek out nothing less Than th' very Quintiscence of Wickedness . Hence then Geneva Trash , you'r out of Date , When Loyalty appears , you Dissipate : Shine on you Loyal Souls , and let these see Maugre their Hellish Arts and Treachery , That you shall Shine thus to Eternity . But if this Imp of Hell shall come t' Expire , Impenitent , how will the Damn'd Admire The Flames that he will add unto their Fire ! Thus the Reward of Faction here will be Shame , or to Dangle on the Fatal Tree , Hereafter Horror , Pain , and Misery , This may be Printed , August the 10th . 1685. R.L.S. LONDON , Printed by George Croom , at the Sign of the Blue-Ball in Thames-street , over against Baynard's-Castle . 1685. 