H : 133185 Perkin's Passing-Bell , OR THE TRAYTORS FUNERAL : BEING A New POEM on the REBELLS Overthrow , on Monday July the 6th Three Miles from BRIDGWATER . This may be Printed , R.L.S. AWake my Muse ! great Fame Alarms my Ears , Bells' , Trumpets , Drums , Affright the spacious Spheres ; In gentle Strains assist me to repeat A Nobles Fallen , ( would he were Good as Great ! ) O Perkin ! Perkin ! how could'st thou Combine Thy own Destruction , in thy Ages Prime , By such ignoble ways , and forcing Fate To check thy Pride Found and Degenerate ; Shall Brittains Monarch's too to tender Love ( Bestow'd on thee ) thus , undeserved prove . How could'st thou then in such and horrid Cause Turn Traitor , to divide , and humane Laws ? How could'st thou thus then so unnatural be To him who was so Good , so Kind to thee ? How could'st thou Plot 'gainst such a King as He ? One who had heap'd such Honours on thy Head , And yet could'st thou ungrateful wish him Dead , Not only wish him so , but in that Strife To Act a part that was to take his Life ; Yet , cause thy Blood from Noble Springs do Flow , Would Error and not Malice make thee so ! Would thou wer't over reach'd that so the since Might be less thine , than theirs that drew thee in : Fain would I think it were with thee , as they And Ignis Fatuus leads out of the Way , So thou o'er sway'd by 'th' Pious seeming Wits Of Hells chief Agents , ( Juggling Parasites ) By specious Arguments and Pious Fraud , Such as Geneva Demons do Applaud , Wer't by that Hellish Brood drawn in to be And Actor in that Dismal Tragedy That boldly aim'd at Sacred Majesty Far worse than Witchcraft sure's Rebellious since , The first of Woes the Devil usher'd in , Unhappy England fam'd for Civil Wars , PLOTS upon PLOTS , and everlasting Jars . Yet more Unhappy , those produce its Woe Invoke the Curses that attend it now , That basely strive to Undermine the Throne , When Heaven decreed it for Great JAMES alone ; ( A Princely abstract of a Glorious Hue , Descent of King and Priest and Prophet too ; Whose grand Experience of a Quondam Age Invests him as the great'st Europian Sage ) Not for a Graceless Wretch whose Actions Sing , Sing and declare a Traitor , not a King , Unworthy of his Prince , whose tender care For him did every Day and Hour appear ; Brought him in Favour from a mean Degree Advanc'd him to a State of Dignity ; Made him the Minion of the Court and King , And when from Court at last the Bird took Wing And soar'd with Icarus in too high a Sphere , Ungratefully Conspiring to Ensnare His Royal Father , and his Uncle too , In Curss'd Cabals with the Fanatic Crew : Yet yet his great Indulgence still's so Great , On fain'd Repentance he forgives the Cheat , Presents him to his King , whose tender Love Did once again his Royal Pity Move . But here ( Tongue can't express ) th' Ungratitude Of this Vile Wretch thus Barbarously Rude Unhappy State of Monarch's who do Good Even to those that strive to shed their Blood ; Yet more unhappy those attempt the Fact , Heavens will revenge so Monstrous foul and Act ; Protect our Royal King , Defend his Crown , Bring all Fanatics with Rebellion Down ; Add Luster to the Throne , dispel all Fears , Extirpate Faction , with the Fruit it Bares ; Induce the Blessings of a Glorious Life , That all the Nation live as Man and Wife . By just Experience now the Rebels see The Effects of their Damn'd Disloyalty : The Royal Army Flesh't because that's Just , Upon the Traitors with great Courage Thrust , Beatrice off their Fury , force the Whiggish Rout With doubty Blows to wheal and tack abou Then happy those that with the greatest Speed Could by their Flight avoid the Martial Steed . LONDON , Printed by George Croom at the Sign of the Blue-Ball in Thames-street over against Baynard's-Castle , 1685. H : 133185 Perkin's Passing-Bell , OR THE TRAYTORS FUNERAL : BEING A New POEM on the REBELLS Overthrow , on Monday July the 6th Three Miles from BRIDGWATER . This may be Printed , R.L.S. AWake my Muse ! great Fame Alarms my Ears , Bells' , Trumpets , Drums , Affright the spacious Spheres ; In gentle Strains assist me to repeat A Nobles Fallen , ( would he were Good as Great ! ) O Perkin ! Perkin ! how could'st thou Combine Thy own Destruction , in thy Ages Prime , By such ignoble ways , and forcing Fate To check thy Pride Found and Degenerate ; Shall Brittains Monarch's too to tender Love ( Bestow'd on thee ) thus , undeserved prove . How could'st thou then in such and horrid Cause Turn Traitor , to divide , and humane Laws ? How could'st thou thus then so unnatural be To him who was so Good , so Kind to thee ? How could'st thou Plot 'gainst such a King as He ? One who had heap'd such Honours on thy Head , And yet could'st thou ungrateful wish him Dead , Not only wish him so , but in that Strife To Act a part that was to take his Life ; Yet , cause thy Blood from Noble Springs do Flow , Would Error and not Malice make thee so ! Would thou wer't over reach'd that so the since Might be less thine , than theirs that drew thee in : Fain would I think it were with thee , as they And Ignis Fatuus leads out of the Way , So thou o'er sway'd by 'th' Pious seeming Wits Of Hells chief Agents , ( Juggling Parasites ) By specious Arguments and Pious Fraud , Such as Geneva Demons do Applaud , Wer't by that Hellish Brood drawn in to be And Actor in that Dismal Tragedy That boldly aim'd at Sacred Majesty Far worse than Witchcraft sure's Rebellious since , The first of Woes the Devil usher'd in , Unhappy England fam'd for Civil Wars , PLOTS upon PLOTS , and everlasting Jars . Yet more Unhappy , those produce its Woe Invoke the Curses that attend it now , That basely strive to Undermine the Throne , When Heaven decreed it for Great JAMES alone ; ( A Princely abstract of a Glorious Hue , Descent of King and Priest and Prophet too ; Whose grand Experience of a Quondam Age Invests him as the great'st Europian Sage ) Not for a Graceless Wretch whose Actions Sing , Sing and declare a Traitor , not a King , Unworthy of his Prince , whose tender care For him did every Day and Hour appear ; Brought him in Favour from a mean Degree Advanc'd him to a State of Dignity ; Made him the Minion of the Court and King , And when from Court at last the Bird took Wing And soar'd with Icarus in too high a Sphere , Ungratefully Conspiring to Ensnare His Royal Father , and his Uncle too , In Curss'd Cabals with the Fanatic Crew : Yet yet his great Indulgence still's so Great , On fain'd Repentance he forgives the Cheat , Presents him to his King , whose tender Love Did once again his Royal Pity Move . But here ( Tongue can't express ) th' Ungratitude Of this Vile Wretch thus Barbarously Rude Unhappy State of Monarch's who do Good Even to those that strive to shed their Blood ; Yet more unhappy those attempt the Fact , Heavens will revenge so Monstrous foul and Act ; Protect our Royal King , Defend his Crown , Bring all Fanatics with Rebellion Down ; Add Luster to the Throne , dispel all Fears , Extirpate Faction , with the Fruit it Bares ; Induce the Blessings of a Glorious Life , That all the Nation live as Man and Wife . By just Experience now the Rebels see The Effects of their Damn'd Disloyalty : The Royal Army Flesh't because that's Just , Upon the Traitors with great Courage Thrust , Beatrice off their Fury , force the Whiggish Rout With doubty Blows to wheal and tack abou Then happy those that with the greatest Speed Could by their Flight avoid the Martial Steed . LONDON , Printed by George Croom at the Sign of the Blue-Ball in Thames-street over against Baynard's-Castle , 1685. 