H : 133189 AND ELEGY On the Death of the Right Honourable JOHN Earl of RADNOR , Viscount Bodmin , and Baron of TRURO ; etc who Expir'd , July the 17th . 1685. Moribus Antiquis Res stat Romana Viresq ; Enn apud Cicer. in lib . 6. de Rep. SO falls and Aged Oak , which long hath stood , The Joy and Glory of the Humbler Wood ; Till with much Toil and with much Worship Sat , It measures Earth in Service of the State , Either for Shipwreck or some Noble Fate . What a Carrier of Honour hast thou run ? What Wreaths each Moment of thy Life hast won ? Thy Life , which , tho' extended out in Length , Was yet hem'd with Compactedness and Strength ? No Month , no Day , no Hour , no Minute free From Thought and Labour cou'd we find in thee . Thy very Recreations were such , We thought them Bus'ness , or full worth as much . Yet still Devotion and Philosophy , Had their due Hours allotted 'em by thee : Statecraft did ne'r barr-out Divinity . To this , th' Hibernian Province sets it's hand , Which * Thou with so much Praise didst once Command There , the Illustrious Bards will thee rehearse , To After-ages in their Noble Verse ; Relate thee with each Grace and Virtue fraught , Serene thy Looks , Serene thy Life and Thought ; With what just Care thou didst the Timon hold , Neither too Superstitious , nor too Bold : And when they've said all which they can say more , They'll Curse their Language scandalously poor . * Lord , Lieutenant of Ireland . This will the Laws Municipal attest , Who Thee their mighty Conqueror confess That Ocean , which others Boundless find , Was Coasted all and Fathom'd by thy mind . No private Creek escap'd thy watchful Eye , But thou the inmost Shores didst all Espy , Where undiscover'd Golden-Worlds might lie . Even Senate-Precedents to thee did yield A Fruitful Prospect in a Barren Field . All this thou didst devoutly for the Crown : Thy Loyal Deeds entirely were thine own . No base allay of Interest spoiled the Coin : The Royal Stamp grew in [ thine Heart ] the Mine . From * that High Place thine House no Riches boar : Only thyself wertenberg wealthier than before , In Conscious Satisfaction good Store . * Privy - Seal . Farewell , great man' And while our Councils stand , Their Sense Collected by Judicious hand , Summ'd up with Application , to attain The Sacred Judgement of the Sovereign ; Then will our Godlike Princes think of * Thee , Vigour , Advantage , and Humility , And Honour , thus , thy Everlasting Memory . * Presi - dent of the Council . FINIS . This may be Printed . R [ . ] L . S [ . ] July the 23th . 1685. LONDON ; Printed by E. Mallet , in Black-Horse-Alley in Fleet-street , near Fleet-Bridge , 1685. H : 133189 AND ELEGY On the Death of the Right Honourable JOHN Earl of RADNOR , Viscount Bodmin , and Baron of TRURO ; etc who Expir'd , July the 17th . 1685. Moribus Antiquis Res stat Romana Viresq ; Enn apud Cicer. in lib . 6. de Rep. SO falls and Aged Oak , which long hath stood , The Joy and Glory of the Humbler Wood ; Till with much Toil and with much Worship Sat , It measures Earth in Service of the State , Either for Shipwreck or some Noble Fate . What a Carrier of Honour hast thou run ? What Wreaths each Moment of thy Life hast won ? Thy Life , which , tho' extended out in Length , Was yet hem'd with Compactedness and Strength ? No Month , no Day , no Hour , no Minute free From Thought and Labour cou'd we find in thee . Thy very Recreations were such , We thought them Bus'ness , or full worth as much . Yet still Devotion and Philosophy , Had their due Hours allotted 'em by thee : Statecraft did ne'r barr-out Divinity . To this , th' Hibernian Province sets it's hand , Which * Thou with so much Praise didst once Command There , the Illustrious Bards will thee rehearse , To After-ages in their Noble Verse ; Relate thee with each Grace and Virtue fraught , Serene thy Looks , Serene thy Life and Thought ; With what just Care thou didst the Timon hold , Neither too Superstitious , nor too Bold : And when they've said all which they can say more , They'll Curse their Language scandalously poor . * Lord , Lieutenant of Ireland . This will the Laws Municipal attest , Who Thee their mighty Conqueror confess That Ocean , which others Boundless find , Was Coasted all and Fathom'd by thy mind . No private Creek escap'd thy watchful Eye , But thou the inmost Shores didst all Espy , Where undiscover'd Golden-Worlds might lie . Even Senate-Precedents to thee did yield A Fruitful Prospect in a Barren Field . All this thou didst devoutly for the Crown : Thy Loyal Deeds entirely were thine own . No base allay of Interest spoiled the Coin : The Royal Stamp grew in [ thine Heart ] the Mine . From * that High Place thine House no Riches boar : Only thyself wertenberg wealthier than before , In Conscious Satisfaction good Store . * Privy - Seal . Farewell , great man' And while our Councils stand , Their Sense Collected by Judicious hand , Summ'd up with Application , to attain The Sacred Judgement of the Sovereign ; Then will our Godlike Princes think of * Thee , Vigour , Advantage , and Humility , And Honour , thus , thy Everlasting Memory . * Presi - dent of the Council . FINIS . This may be Printed . R [ . ] L . S [ . ] July the 23th . 1685. LONDON ; Printed by E. Mallet , in Black-Horse-Alley in Fleet-street , near Fleet-Bridge , 1685. 