H : 133183 The TRIUMPHING English Commanders , Or the Rebels Overthrow and utter Desolation . To the Tune of the Thundering Cannons roar . This may be Printed , RL . S . I. HOld ! the num'rous Carriages ! Fraughted strongly to possess All the Kingdoms great and less , Of Mighty JAMES the Gracious ; Si'th 'tis His own by Birth and Right , Against the Traitors let us Fight , And make it only our delight To kill the Rogues that face us . II Douglas and his Warlike Train , Triumphs o're the Woods and Plain , But not disturb the peaceful Swain , Unless James Scot they favour ; Then the dying endless Cries Of such Rogues , shall rend the Skies , Expecting still their Destinies , 'Cause they of Rebels Savour . III . Infinit's the Loyal Host , Harb'ring round the Western-Coast , Waiting on poor Monmouths Ghost , Whom they resolve to fetter ; With a Shackle and a Chain , ( A just reward of's evil Brain ) And after rid him out of pain , 'Cause he wou'd be no better . IV. The Rebels now do Glaston reach , And where they go , Rebellion Teach , And still the Good Old Cause they Preach , And pray for Ignoramus ; While the Dukes and Hero's brave , Contrive the Faction to enslave ; Monmouth seeks his Neck to save , But he shall never sham us . V. Great Albermarl , and Sommerset , Grafton , Beaufort , are all met , And Perkin they have all beset , And on the Boors are waiters ; Pembrook , likewise them does join , And Feversham with them combine , Whose Glories do the Sun outshine , T' Eclipse that of the Traitors . VI . Churchill too , the West Invades , ( With his Glorious merry Lads , Whose great Honour never fades ) To subdue the Faction : The Loyal Army troop along , Through the Towns and Fields they throng , And hunt by Scent , which lies so strong , For it smells Association . VII . May Mars inspire the res'lute Souls , And Bacchus fill the ebbing Bowls Of all the Loyal English-Poles , T'inspire them and their Horses ; The Martial God with's glitt'ring shield , Will grant no Quarter in the Field , To Rebels , till he makes 'em yield , To his unconquer'd Forces . VIII . When the mighty Cannons drown , The noise of Bells' , and ev'ry found , From the vastest Wiltshire-down , Gainst Perkin and the Rebels ; Then we'll recharge , and give no breath To Traitors , but pursue their death , And after Triumph o're the Heath , In spite of Wiggesh Libels . IX . View the mighty flowing Main ! Swell'd above the lofty Plain ! With the Vitals of the slave , ( Rewards for all the Evils ) Of the Traitors ; let's destroy Ev'ry member for the ROY ; Then return again with joy , That we've subdu'd the Devils . Loayl Subjects now rejoice , Drums , and Trumpets make a noise , Drink a cup and sing Brave Boys Good health to James the Royal. Loyalty's a noble thing , Service done unto a King Honour and Reward does bring ; Then let us still be Loyal . FINIS . H : 133183 The TRIUMPHING English Commanders , Or the Rebels Overthrow and utter Desolation . To the Tune of the Thundering Cannons roar . This may be Printed , RL . S . I. HOld ! the num'rous Carriages ! Fraughted strongly to possess All the Kingdoms great and less , Of Mighty JAMES the Gracious ; Si'th 'tis His own by Birth and Right , Against the Traitors let us Fight , And make it only our delight To kill the Rogues that face us . II Douglas and his Warlike Train , Triumphs o're the Woods and Plain , But not disturb the peaceful Swain , Unless James Scot they favour ; Then the dying endless Cries Of such Rogues , shall rend the Skies , Expecting still their Destinies , 'Cause they of Rebels Savour . III . Infinit's the Loyal Host , Harb'ring round the Western-Coast , Waiting on poor Monmouths Ghost , Whom they resolve to fetter ; With a Shackle and a Chain , ( A just reward of's evil Brain ) And after rid him out of pain , 'Cause he wou'd be no better . IV. The Rebels now do Glaston reach , And where they go , Rebellion Teach , And still the Good Old Cause they Preach , And pray for Ignoramus ; While the Dukes and Hero's brave , Contrive the Faction to enslave ; Monmouth seeks his Neck to save , But he shall never sham us . V. Great Albermarl , and Sommerset , Grafton , Beaufort , are all met , And Perkin they have all beset , And on the Boors are waiters ; Pembrook , likewise them does join , And Feversham with them combine , Whose Glories do the Sun outshine , T' Eclipse that of the Traitors . VI . Churchill too , the West Invades , ( With his Glorious merry Lads , Whose great Honour never fades ) To subdue the Faction : The Loyal Army troop along , Through the Towns and Fields they throng , And hunt by Scent , which lies so strong , For it smells Association . VII . May Mars inspire the res'lute Souls , And Bacchus fill the ebbing Bowls Of all the Loyal English-Poles , T'inspire them and their Horses ; The Martial God with's glitt'ring shield , Will grant no Quarter in the Field , To Rebels , till he makes 'em yield , To his unconquer'd Forces . VIII . When the mighty Cannons drown , The noise of Bells' , and ev'ry found , From the vastest Wiltshire-down , Gainst Perkin and the Rebels ; Then we'll recharge , and give no breath To Traitors , but pursue their death , And after Triumph o're the Heath , In spite of Wiggesh Libels . IX . View the mighty flowing Main ! Swell'd above the lofty Plain ! With the Vitals of the slave , ( Rewards for all the Evils ) Of the Traitors ; let's destroy Ev'ry member for the ROY ; Then return again with joy , That we've subdu'd the Devils . Loayl Subjects now rejoice , Drums , and Trumpets make a noise , Drink a cup and sing Brave Boys Good health to James the Royal. Loyalty's a noble thing , Service done unto a King Honour and Reward does bring ; Then let us still be Loyal . FINIS . 