H : 133296 And ELEGIE upon the Death of King CHARLS . BRight Soul ! instruct us Mortals how to mourn , How to approach , yet not profane thine Urn. To come with Humane Sighs , or Eyes , Were sure too bold a Sacrifice . Lest a foul tear or nauseous gust Should scatter or defile thy Dust , We should in homage to thy Shrine Weep out our humour Crystalline , Which there congeal'd might Sapphirs turn By borrowing Lustre from thine Urn. They only know such Losses to Condole , Who can for every Sighs , breathe out a Soul. Bright Soul ! instruct us to that just respect With which thy Hallowed Ashes must be decked . To built them Trophies were unjus Thy Virtues canopy thy Dust. To write upon them were unsafe : Thy name is thy best Epitaph . To carve thy Statue were amiss : Thy Book thy best Colossus is . T' enclose thy Relics were uneven : No Shrine is fit for them , but Heaven . Can Nothing lend thee Lustre ? may we turn Nothing , if nothing can adorn thine urn . CHORUS . Hark , hark , how each Orb his Tune does keep , While Peals of Angels ring ; And since we cannot fitly weep , Let's try how we can sing . Since Charles advanc'd beyond the King , Is plac'd above his wain , 'Twere sure a sacrilegious thing To weep him down again . Then let our accents all conspire With Heav'ns loud harmonies ; While this short Anthem fills the Choir , He's welcome to the Skies . H : 133296 And ELEGIE upon the Death of King CHARLS . BRight Soul ! instruct us Mortals how to mourn , How to approach , yet not profane thine Urn. To come with Humane Sighs , or Eyes , Were sure too bold a Sacrifice . Lest a foul tear or nauseous gust Should scatter or defile thy Dust , We should in homage to thy Shrine Weep out our humour Crystalline , Which there congeal'd might Sapphirs turn By borrowing Lustre from thine Urn. They only know such Losses to Condole , Who can for every Sighs , breathe out a Soul. Bright Soul ! instruct us to that just respect With which thy Hallowed Ashes must be decked . To built them Trophies were unjus Thy Virtues canopy thy Dust. To write upon them were unsafe : Thy name is thy best Epitaph . To carve thy Statue were amiss : Thy Book thy best Colossus is . T' enclose thy Relics were uneven : No Shrine is fit for them , but Heaven . Can Nothing lend thee Lustre ? may we turn Nothing , if nothing can adorn thine urn . CHORUS . Hark , hark , how each Orb his Tune does keep , While Peals of Angels ring ; And since we cannot fitly weep , Let's try how we can sing . Since Charles advanc'd beyond the King , Is plac'd above his wain , 'Twere sure a sacrilegious thing To weep him down again . Then let our accents all conspire With Heav'ns loud harmonies ; While this short Anthem fills the Choir , He's welcome to the Skies . 