H : 133284 A PANEGYRICK TO His Highness Prince RUPERT , ON His present Expedition with His Majesties NAVY ROYAL against the DUTCH . Arma VIRUMq ; canon --- --- GReat PRINCE ! to whose unwearied Pains and Care England Eternal Monuments must rear Of Gratitude , as having found in YOU At once her Nestor and Achilles too : Whose Grave Advice does first our Factions close , And then your Matchless Arm subdues our Foes . Permit and Humble Muse your Fame to greet , And with your Canvas spread a Votive Sheet , Predicting Victory : Assur'd no less , RUPERT Commanding warrants success . RUPERT , that Glorious Name , wherein we have Whatever's Prudent , Valiant , Great , or Brave ; In whom Nature all past Hero's does sum , And Copies sets to those that are to come . With such a Chief and such a Navy blessed , As never yet the Ocean's Surface pressed , For strength , for courage , and for number too , What i'st we may not fairly hope to do ? Especially upon a Cause so Just , As might to Providence and Cock-boats trus Though thanks to Heaven a Moving Wood , we see , Covers the bosom of our Narrow Sea ; A Floating Island ; that seems to surpass Denmark and Dantzick for full choice of Masts : As if that Womb of Ships ( Forest of Dean ) Into the Ocean now had shifted Scene . Fancy no more Found Hogens to surprise Us with Fair Words and Foul Advantages ; Nor hope a doubtful Treaties sly pretence Shall gull us to omit needful Defence . We'l parley Arm'd , and if you Deaf remain To Reason still , and our Just Terms disdain , We'l Boar your Ears with Thunder , till you cease Your haughty Pride , and humbly beg for Peace . See how Fate to your Ruin does advance , The English Valour , and Fury of France . Vessels of such a bulk ! we may maintain That Wooden Mountains Dance upon the Main . Their stately Rigging charm the gazing eye ; But with what horror and stupidity Must you receive that Dread Salute that comes From gaping Entrails of their Numerous Guns ! Whose language speaks Confusion , and their breath Impregnates Air with Sentences of death ; Outroaring Thunder with their Frightful Sounds , Which ev'ry Wave to neighbouring Shores rebounds , Like to unhinge the Poles , and dash the Spheres , In shatters about trembling Atlas ears . Those Fatal Peals Heaven hath designed well , To ring your Hogen Mogen Stateships Knell . Zerxes his Chains were but a Foolery ; Such Fleets alone the Seas in Fetters tie : Man'd with stout Seamen yielding to no stroke ; For ( like their Ships ) their Hearts are Trusty Oak . Spains King , that formerly Surnamed His INVINCIBLE , how would he christian This ! To which that proud Armado was no more Then Shoal of Fisher-boats crept from the Shore . Let none repine that Bacons Art did fail ; His Brazen to these Wooden Walls must vail . May Sacred CHARLES have always such a Fleet , Encroaching Foes to prostrate at his Feet , And never want such Arguments as these T' assert his Right unto the Narrow Seas . FINIS . LONDON , Printed for Jonathan Edwin , at the Three Roses in Ludgate Street , 1673. H : 133284 A PANEGYRICK TO His Highness Prince RUPERT , ON His present Expedition with His Majesties NAVY ROYAL against the DUTCH . Arma VIRUMq ; canon --- --- GReat PRINCE ! to whose unwearied Pains and Care England Eternal Monuments must rear Of Gratitude , as having found in YOU At once her Nestor and Achilles too : Whose Grave Advice does first our Factions close , And then your Matchless Arm subdues our Foes . Permit and Humble Muse your Fame to greet , And with your Canvas spread a Votive Sheet , Predicting Victory : Assur'd no less , RUPERT Commanding warrants success . RUPERT , that Glorious Name , wherein we have Whatever's Prudent , Valiant , Great , or Brave ; In whom Nature all past Hero's does sum , And Copies sets to those that are to come . With such a Chief and such a Navy blessed , As never yet the Ocean's Surface pressed , For strength , for courage , and for number too , What i'st we may not fairly hope to do ? Especially upon a Cause so Just , As might to Providence and Cock-boats trus Though thanks to Heaven a Moving Wood , we see , Covers the bosom of our Narrow Sea ; A Floating Island ; that seems to surpass Denmark and Dantzick for full choice of Masts : As if that Womb of Ships ( Forest of Dean ) Into the Ocean now had shifted Scene . Fancy no more Found Hogens to surprise Us with Fair Words and Foul Advantages ; Nor hope a doubtful Treaties sly pretence Shall gull us to omit needful Defence . We'l parley Arm'd , and if you Deaf remain To Reason still , and our Just Terms disdain , We'l Boar your Ears with Thunder , till you cease Your haughty Pride , and humbly beg for Peace . See how Fate to your Ruin does advance , The English Valour , and Fury of France . Vessels of such a bulk ! we may maintain That Wooden Mountains Dance upon the Main . Their stately Rigging charm the gazing eye ; But with what horror and stupidity Must you receive that Dread Salute that comes From gaping Entrails of their Numerous Guns ! Whose language speaks Confusion , and their breath Impregnates Air with Sentences of death ; Outroaring Thunder with their Frightful Sounds , Which ev'ry Wave to neighbouring Shores rebounds , Like to unhinge the Poles , and dash the Spheres , In shatters about trembling Atlas ears . Those Fatal Peals Heaven hath designed well , To ring your Hogen Mogen Stateships Knell . Zerxes his Chains were but a Foolery ; Such Fleets alone the Seas in Fetters tie : Man'd with stout Seamen yielding to no stroke ; For ( like their Ships ) their Hearts are Trusty Oak . Spains King , that formerly Surnamed His INVINCIBLE , how would he christian This ! To which that proud Armado was no more Then Shoal of Fisher-boats crept from the Shore . Let none repine that Bacons Art did fail ; His Brazen to these Wooden Walls must vail . May Sacred CHARLES have always such a Fleet , Encroaching Foes to prostrate at his Feet , And never want such Arguments as these T' assert his Right unto the Narrow Seas . FINIS . LONDON , Printed for Jonathan Edwin , at the Three Roses in Ludgate Street , 1673. 