H : 133298 UPON HER MAJESTIES New Buildings at SOMERSET-HOUSE . GReat Queen , That does our Island bless With Princes , and with Palaces ; Treated so ill , chac'd from your throne , Returning you adorn the town , And with a brave revenge do show , Their glory went , and came with you ; While Peace from hence , and you were gone Your houses in that Storm o'rethrown , Those wounds which Civil Rage did give , At once you pardon and Relieve : Constant to England in your love , As Birds are to their wonted Grove , Though by rude hands their Nests are spoil'd , There , the next Spring , again they built : Accusing some malignant Star , Not Britain , for that fatal War , Your kindness banishes your fear , Resolv'd to fix forever here : But what new Mine this work supplies ? Can such a pile from Ruin rise ? This like the first Creation shows , As if at your Command it rose ; Frugality , and Bounty too , Those differing virtues , meet in you ; From a Confin'd well manag'd store You both employ , and feed the poor : Let Foreign Princes vainly boast The rude effects of Pride , and Cost , Of vaster Fabriques , to which They Contribute nothing , but the Pay : This , by the Queen herself design'd , Gives us a pattern of her mind ; The state , and order does proclaim The Genius of that Royal Dame , Each part with just proportion grac'd , And all to such advantage plac'd That the fair view her Window yields , The Town , the River , and the Fields Entering , Beneath us , we descry , And wonder how we came so high ; She needs no weary steps ascend , All seems before her feet to bend , And here , as She was born , She lies High , without taking pains to rise . London , Printed for Henry Herringman at the Anchor in the Lower Walk in the New - Exchange . Anno Dom. 1665. H : 133298 UPON HER MAJESTIES New Buildings at SOMERSET-HOUSE . GReat Queen , That does our Island bless With Princes , and with Palaces ; Treated so ill , chac'd from your throne , Returning you adorn the town , And with a brave revenge do show , Their glory went , and came with you ; While Peace from hence , and you were gone Your houses in that Storm o'rethrown , Those wounds which Civil Rage did give , At once you pardon and Relieve : Constant to England in your love , As Birds are to their wonted Grove , Though by rude hands their Nests are spoil'd , There , the next Spring , again they built : Accusing some malignant Star , Not Britain , for that fatal War , Your kindness banishes your fear , Resolv'd to fix forever here : But what new Mine this work supplies ? Can such a pile from Ruin rise ? This like the first Creation shows , As if at your Command it rose ; Frugality , and Bounty too , Those differing virtues , meet in you ; From a Confin'd well manag'd store You both employ , and feed the poor : Let Foreign Princes vainly boast The rude effects of Pride , and Cost , Of vaster Fabriques , to which They Contribute nothing , but the Pay : This , by the Queen herself design'd , Gives us a pattern of her mind ; The state , and order does proclaim The Genius of that Royal Dame , Each part with just proportion grac'd , And all to such advantage plac'd That the fair view her Window yields , The Town , the River , and the Fields Entering , Beneath us , we descry , And wonder how we came so high ; She needs no weary steps ascend , All seems before her feet to bend , And here , as She was born , She lies High , without taking pains to rise . London , Printed for Henry Herringman at the Anchor in the Lower Walk in the New - Exchange . Anno Dom. 1665. 