H : 133248 AND ELEGIE On the EARL of ESSEX . Who Cut his own Throat In the TOWER . July 13. 1683. HOW many strange uncertain Fates Attend , The Wandering Pilgrim to his Journeys End. Earth turns to Earth , Water , Air , and Fire , Against the Breath inform'd them , do Conspire ; As every Man were his own Fatal Catch , 'Tis in his Hands to forward the Dispatch ; Some in the Field of Venus , Some of Mars , Some meanly Hang themselves , some Hang and Arse : But Mighty Essex , His Victorious Arm , With Griefs Oppressed , Receives the Swift Alarm , A Meaner Foe then Steel , He Scorns to own ; Or Fallen by any Hand , but by his Own , Achitophel may Hang Himself , and Oats With Judas Swing , and some may cut their Throats , Whom Black Despair , may Urge ; But Essex He , The First that Cut his Throat , for's Loyalty . Oh! That Despair should 'Tend such Fiery Zeal . This Mighty Sampson of the Common-Weal . Rais'd to Defend , and set his Israel Free . From Popish Rage , Philistian Tyranny , To Shake the Pillars of the Church and State , He Crowns it with his own untimely Fate . Essex the Famous General , That Name , So dear Recorded in the Books of Fame , With Royal Blood , and Fatal Conquests Cloy'd , Ten Thousand of the Kings best Friends Destroy'd : But thou'rt the First , and shall Recorded be , That Rid him of one Secret Enemy : What Fitter Victim , cou'd Great Essex Bring , T' atone his Crime against and Injur'd King ? But here thy Rage too Desperate appears , To Die a Martyr to thy Doubts and Fears . O Dire Revenge ! Oh! Too Officious Steel , To make that Wound , which Time can never heal . Had'st thou but few Days Courage to withstand , Jack Catch had done the Business to thy hand . But O Despair ! more desperate then thy Gilded , That durst not trust thyself to stand the Tilt . Left thy false Tongue , shou'd through thy Throat Impart , The Bloody Treasons that oppressed thy Heart . This must convince the World , and thy wrong'd Prince , Thou with thy Gilded had'st rather hurry Hence , Then stay to Justify thy Innocence . LONDON , Printed for J. Smith . 1683. H : 133248 AND ELEGIE On the EARL of ESSEX . Who Cut his own Throat In the TOWER . July 13. 1683. HOW many strange uncertain Fates Attend , The Wandering Pilgrim to his Journeys End. Earth turns to Earth , Water , Air , and Fire , Against the Breath inform'd them , do Conspire ; As every Man were his own Fatal Catch , 'Tis in his Hands to forward the Dispatch ; Some in the Field of Venus , Some of Mars , Some meanly Hang themselves , some Hang and Arse : But Mighty Essex , His Victorious Arm , With Griefs Oppressed , Receives the Swift Alarm , A Meaner Foe then Steel , He Scorns to own ; Or Fallen by any Hand , but by his Own , Achitophel may Hang Himself , and Oats With Judas Swing , and some may cut their Throats , Whom Black Despair , may Urge ; But Essex He , The First that Cut his Throat , for's Loyalty . Oh! That Despair should 'Tend such Fiery Zeal . This Mighty Sampson of the Common-Weal . Rais'd to Defend , and set his Israel Free . From Popish Rage , Philistian Tyranny , To Shake the Pillars of the Church and State , He Crowns it with his own untimely Fate . Essex the Famous General , That Name , So dear Recorded in the Books of Fame , With Royal Blood , and Fatal Conquests Cloy'd , Ten Thousand of the Kings best Friends Destroy'd : But thou'rt the First , and shall Recorded be , That Rid him of one Secret Enemy : What Fitter Victim , cou'd Great Essex Bring , T' atone his Crime against and Injur'd King ? But here thy Rage too Desperate appears , To Die a Martyr to thy Doubts and Fears . O Dire Revenge ! Oh! Too Officious Steel , To make that Wound , which Time can never heal . Had'st thou but few Days Courage to withstand , Jack Catch had done the Business to thy hand . But O Despair ! more desperate then thy Gilded , That durst not trust thyself to stand the Tilt . Left thy false Tongue , shou'd through thy Throat Impart , The Bloody Treasons that oppressed thy Heart . This must convince the World , and thy wrong'd Prince , Thou with thy Gilded had'st rather hurry Hence , Then stay to Justify thy Innocence . LONDON , Printed for J. Smith . 1683. 