H : 133305 The GENEVA BALLAD . To the Tune of 48. OF all the Factions in the Town , Mov'd by French Springs or Flemish Wheels , None treads Religion upside down , Or tears Pretences out at heels , Like Splay-mouth with his brace of Caps Whose Conscience might be scan'd perhaps By the Dimensions of his Chaps . He whom the Sisters so adore , Counting his Actions all Divine , Who when the Spirit hints , can roar , And if occasion serves can whine ; Nay he can bellow , bray or bark . Was ever sike a Beuk-larn'd Clerk , That speaks all Lingua's of the Ark. To draw in Proselytes like Bees , With pleasing Twang he tones his Prose , He gives his Handkerchief a squeeze , And draws John Calvin through his Nose . Motive on Motive he obtrudes , With Slip-stocking Similitudes , Eight Uses more , and so concludes . When Monarchy began to bleed , And Treason had a fine new name ; When Thames was balderdash'd with Tweed , And Pulpits did like Beacons flame ; When Jeroboam's Calves were rear'd , And Laud was neither lov'd nor fear'd , This Gospel-Comet first appear'd . Soon his unhallowed Fingers strip'd His Sov'reign Liege of Power and Land , And having smote his Master , slip'd His Sword into his Fellows hand . But he that wears his Eyes may note , Oftimes the Butcher binds a Goat , And leaves his Boy to cut her Throat . Poor England felt his Fury then Out-weigh'd Queen Mary's many grains ; His very Preaching slew more men , Than Bonner's Faggots , Stakes and Chains . With Dog-star Zeal and Lungs like Boreas , He fought and taught ; and what's notorious , Destroy'd his Lord to make him Glorious . Yet drew for King and Parliament . As if the Wind could stand North-South ; Broke Moses's Law with blessed intent , Murther'd and then he wip'd his mouth . Oblivion alters not his case , Nor Clemency nor Acts of Grace Can blanch and AEthiopian's Face . Ripe for Rebellion he begins To rally up the Saints in swarms , He bauls aloud , Sirs , leave your Sins , But whispers , Boys , stand to your Arms , Thus he's grown insolently rude , Thinking his Gods can't be subdu'd , Money , I mean , and Multitude . Magistrates he regards no more Than St. George or the Kings of Colen ; Vowing he'l not conform before The Old-wives wind their Dead in Woollen . He calls the Bishop , Greybeard Goff , And makes his Power as mere a Scoff , As Dagon , when his Hands were off . Hark! how he opens with full Cry ! Halloo my Hearts , beware of ROME . Cowards that are afraid to die Thus make domestic Broils at home . How quietly Great CHARLES might reign , Would all these Hotspurs cross the Main , And preach down Popery in Spain . The starry Rule of Heaven is fixed , There's no Dissension in the Sky : And can there be a Mean betwixt Confusion and Conformity ? A Place divided never thrives : 'Tis bade where Hornets dwell in Hives , But worse where Children play with Knives . I would as soon turn back to Mass , Or change my Phrase to Thee and Thou ; Let the Pope ride me like and Ass , And his Priests milk me like a Cow : As buckle to Smectymnuan Laws , The bad effects o'th' Good Old Cause , That have Dove's Plumes , but Vultur's Claws . For 'twas the Haly Kirk that nurs'd The Brownists and the Ranters Crew ; Foul Errors motly Vesture first Was Oaded in a Northern Blue . And what's th' Enthusiastic breed , Or men of Knipperdoling's Creed , But Cov'nanters run up to seed ? Yet they all cry , they love the King , And make boast of their Innocence : There cannot be so vile a thing , But may be colour'd with Pretence . Yet when all's said , one thing I'll swear , No Subject like th' old Cavalier , No Traitor like Jack ------ . LONDON : Printed for Henry Brome , at the Gun at the West-end of St. Pauls Churchyard . MDCLXXIV . H : 133305 The GENEVA BALLAD . To the Tune of 48. OF all the Factions in the Town , Mov'd by French Springs or Flemish Wheels , None treads Religion upside down , Or tears Pretences out at heels , Like Splay-mouth with his brace of Caps Whose Conscience might be scan'd perhaps By the Dimensions of his Chaps . He whom the Sisters so adore , Counting his Actions all Divine , Who when the Spirit hints , can roar , And if occasion serves can whine ; Nay he can bellow , bray or bark . Was ever sike a Beuk-larn'd Clerk , That speaks all Lingua's of the Ark. To draw in Proselytes like Bees , With pleasing Twang he tones his Prose , He gives his Handkerchief a squeeze , And draws John Calvin through his Nose . Motive on Motive he obtrudes , With Slip-stocking Similitudes , Eight Uses more , and so concludes . When Monarchy began to bleed , And Treason had a fine new name ; When Thames was balderdash'd with Tweed , And Pulpits did like Beacons flame ; When Jeroboam's Calves were rear'd , And Laud was neither lov'd nor fear'd , This Gospel-Comet first appear'd . Soon his unhallowed Fingers strip'd His Sov'reign Liege of Power and Land , And having smote his Master , slip'd His Sword into his Fellows hand . But he that wears his Eyes may note , Oftimes the Butcher binds a Goat , And leaves his Boy to cut her Throat . Poor England felt his Fury then Out-weigh'd Queen Mary's many grains ; His very Preaching slew more men , Than Bonner's Faggots , Stakes and Chains . With Dog-star Zeal and Lungs like Boreas , He fought and taught ; and what's notorious , Destroy'd his Lord to make him Glorious . Yet drew for King and Parliament . As if the Wind could stand North-South ; Broke Moses's Law with blessed intent , Murther'd and then he wip'd his mouth . Oblivion alters not his case , Nor Clemency nor Acts of Grace Can blanch and AEthiopian's Face . Ripe for Rebellion he begins To rally up the Saints in swarms , He bauls aloud , Sirs , leave your Sins , But whispers , Boys , stand to your Arms , Thus he's grown insolently rude , Thinking his Gods can't be subdu'd , Money , I mean , and Multitude . Magistrates he regards no more Than St. George or the Kings of Colen ; Vowing he'l not conform before The Old-wives wind their Dead in Woollen . He calls the Bishop , Greybeard Goff , And makes his Power as mere a Scoff , As Dagon , when his Hands were off . Hark! how he opens with full Cry ! Halloo my Hearts , beware of ROME . Cowards that are afraid to die Thus make domestic Broils at home . How quietly Great CHARLES might reign , Would all these Hotspurs cross the Main , And preach down Popery in Spain . The starry Rule of Heaven is fixed , There's no Dissension in the Sky : And can there be a Mean betwixt Confusion and Conformity ? A Place divided never thrives : 'Tis bade where Hornets dwell in Hives , But worse where Children play with Knives . I would as soon turn back to Mass , Or change my Phrase to Thee and Thou ; Let the Pope ride me like and Ass , And his Priests milk me like a Cow : As buckle to Smectymnuan Laws , The bad effects o'th' Good Old Cause , That have Dove's Plumes , but Vultur's Claws . For 'twas the Haly Kirk that nurs'd The Brownists and the Ranters Crew ; Foul Errors motly Vesture first Was Oaded in a Northern Blue . And what's th' Enthusiastic breed , Or men of Knipperdoling's Creed , But Cov'nanters run up to seed ? Yet they all cry , they love the King , And make boast of their Innocence : There cannot be so vile a thing , But may be colour'd with Pretence . Yet when all's said , one thing I'll swear , No Subject like th' old Cavalier , No Traitor like Jack ------ . LONDON : Printed for Henry Brome , at the Gun at the West-end of St. Pauls Churchyard . MDCLXXIV . 