H : 134468 [ I ] Iter Oxoniense : OR , The going down of the ASSES to OXENFORD . SInce Muddiman the gainful Trade laid down , Of writing a whole Sheet for half a Crown , A thousand Scribblers have retail'd the Trade , And News is now the Towns great Staple made . Now , Giles ! the Caduceus shall be thine ; Thou hast a specious Title to the Nine . The Crow or Goose from which thou pull'st thy Quill , Have gi'n thee Seisin of Parnassus Hill. Could'st thou till May , in Prose and Verse go on , Thy Purchase would at last be Helicon . Thou might'st enlarge thy small Retinue then , And for thy one poor lousy Boy , keep ten . Thou at thy Bingo's might'st resume the Chair , And be thy self a Speaker there : Thou might'st thy Secretary's keep , and give Order , how much each one should write , to live . Thy Bingo's house shall be thy Pen , To keep thy Porcupines , thy Satyrs den . From whence , could the poor Scribbling Tribe but still Continue for to Dart their Quill , And tender Reputation ( if but wounded ) Kill , Thou need'st not be dejected at this Rate , Nor claw thy head about Affairs of State ; Nor at this dismal Rate lament , 'Cause Oxford's to receive the Parliament . Thy Porcupines when e're they write , When they let fly , they hit the White ; When Innocence and Loyaltie's the Mark , At such bright Buts they can discharge i' th' dark . At Rovers let them shoot , no matter why , Whither the Sheet contain a Truth or Lie , The News , if false , is more like Mercurie . Thy Satyrs may make bolder Sallies hence , And Ravish Votes and Speeches thence ; 'Faith this will do't , and will return the Pence . But if the Scholars catch thy Monsters there , They'l treat 'em with their sharp Pig-market cheer , And send the Sturdy Vagrants back again , With the safe Passport of the Birchen train . Necessity's the Quiver whence they draw , Which has no more of Conscience than of Law . Their feather'd Shafts their points to Envy owe ; Faction's the twist that strings their Bow. What , moody Bingo ! come , the busy be Now Spring comes on , abroad will flee , And then , with what she gathers up and down , Supply this greater Hive the Town . Thy Stock with Drones will Swarm , 'Tis such as Coffeehouses warm , Such as are useful , though they feed , These cherish and maintain the Breed . 'Tis News and Coffee calls in these , As Found and Ringing does the Bees . Alas ! they sure our buzzing may forgive ; All that we aim at , is ( like Men ) to live . We Car' no stings , nor bags of Honey ; No , Bingo , we are all for ready Money . And if perhaps sometime we do let fallen One word o' th' times , Oh straight we are all gall ; Cotton , Hill , Claypoole , Walden , Mills , and Pike , Who like unto St. Dunstans Churchmen strike , As I the greatest Motion , point the time , 'Tis by my Trunk such Ivy knows to climb . There's Piggot , Madder , Bill , and Mason too , With Blear-ey'd Blackhall , and a hopeful Crew Of Hawkers , such as do complete my Train , And never swing my paper-Lure in vain . These , Bingo , do attend their Monarchs call : News is my Province , and I'm own'd by all . These bring their Tributes when we please to meet , Near th' Ruins of St. Pauls new shodden feet ; Which we allay , and coin first in our Mint ; We Current make't , by putting it in Print ; 'Tis but a Penny-Cheat , if nothing's in't . And why may'nt Paper go as well at last , As Leather-Money did in Ages past ? At last , to make the Parliament complete , ( For the whole Nation in that Body meet ) 'Tis fit that we to Oxford should repair , 'Faith my Chameleons choke for want of Air : And tho' we halt , yet we still Members are . Like King-Fishers , they fly along the stream , But never brood , like them , when 'tis serene ; They rather Porpus-like in Tempests play , And show their Head more in the March than May . But how my Tribe I shall to Oxford bring , That Canaan , Bingo ! that , ay that's the thing ! If you the Royal Caravan provide , We all are then to our hearts wish supply'd . For at the least , Retainers to the Court We shall be thought , and you'l get Money for' Thou shalt to th' Crew as frugal Purser go ; I have design'd it , and it must be so . I have already furnished out my House , 'Tis the old Hall of the fam'd Mother Louse . They lay a claim to' as we creep along , Thou'lt know we are at least one thousand strong . Assur'd of Trade , provide thyself a Room ; My Ants will to their wonted hillock come ; And there our labours shall increase thy heap , And both a Harvest from the Scholars reap . For we , like Harlots , when too common grown , Find Trading quickest where we're most unknown . Coffee and News can never want a Trade , While both to Cheat the People can be made . FINIS . H : 134468 [ I ] Iter Oxoniense : OR , The going down of the ASSES to OXENFORD . SInce Muddiman the gainful Trade laid down , Of writing a whole Sheet for half a Crown , A thousand Scribblers have retail'd the Trade , And News is now the Towns great Staple made . Now , Giles ! the Caduceus shall be thine ; Thou hast a specious Title to the Nine . The Crow or Goose from which thou pull'st thy Quill , Have gi'n thee Seisin of Parnassus Hill. Could'st thou till May , in Prose and Verse go on , Thy Purchase would at last be Helicon . Thou might'st enlarge thy small Retinue then , And for thy one poor lousy Boy , keep ten . Thou at thy Bingo's might'st resume the Chair , And be thy self a Speaker there : Thou might'st thy Secretary's keep , and give Order , how much each one should write , to live . Thy Bingo's house shall be thy Pen , To keep thy Porcupines , thy Satyrs den . From whence , could the poor Scribbling Tribe but still Continue for to Dart their Quill , And tender Reputation ( if but wounded ) Kill , Thou need'st not be dejected at this Rate , Nor claw thy head about Affairs of State ; Nor at this dismal Rate lament , 'Cause Oxford's to receive the Parliament . Thy Porcupines when e're they write , When they let fly , they hit the White ; When Innocence and Loyaltie's the Mark , At such bright Buts they can discharge i' th' dark . At Rovers let them shoot , no matter why , Whither the Sheet contain a Truth or Lie , The News , if false , is more like Mercurie . Thy Satyrs may make bolder Sallies hence , And Ravish Votes and Speeches thence ; 'Faith this will do't , and will return the Pence . But if the Scholars catch thy Monsters there , They'l treat 'em with their sharp Pig-market cheer , And send the Sturdy Vagrants back again , With the safe Passport of the Birchen train . Necessity's the Quiver whence they draw , Which has no more of Conscience than of Law . Their feather'd Shafts their points to Envy owe ; Faction's the twist that strings their Bow. What , moody Bingo ! come , the busy be Now Spring comes on , abroad will flee , And then , with what she gathers up and down , Supply this greater Hive the Town . Thy Stock with Drones will Swarm , 'Tis such as Coffeehouses warm , Such as are useful , though they feed , These cherish and maintain the Breed . 'Tis News and Coffee calls in these , As Found and Ringing does the Bees . Alas ! they sure our buzzing may forgive ; All that we aim at , is ( like Men ) to live . We Car' no stings , nor bags of Honey ; No , Bingo , we are all for ready Money . And if perhaps sometime we do let fallen One word o' th' times , Oh straight we are all gall ; Cotton , Hill , Claypoole , Walden , Mills , and Pike , Who like unto St. Dunstans Churchmen strike , As I the greatest Motion , point the time , 'Tis by my Trunk such Ivy knows to climb . There's Piggot , Madder , Bill , and Mason too , With Blear-ey'd Blackhall , and a hopeful Crew Of Hawkers , such as do complete my Train , And never swing my paper-Lure in vain . These , Bingo , do attend their Monarchs call : News is my Province , and I'm own'd by all . These bring their Tributes when we please to meet , Near th' Ruins of St. Pauls new shodden feet ; Which we allay , and coin first in our Mint ; We Current make't , by putting it in Print ; 'Tis but a Penny-Cheat , if nothing's in't . And why may'nt Paper go as well at last , As Leather-Money did in Ages past ? At last , to make the Parliament complete , ( For the whole Nation in that Body meet ) 'Tis fit that we to Oxford should repair , 'Faith my Chameleons choke for want of Air : And tho' we halt , yet we still Members are . Like King-Fishers , they fly along the stream , But never brood , like them , when 'tis serene ; They rather Porpus-like in Tempests play , And show their Head more in the March than May . But how my Tribe I shall to Oxford bring , That Canaan , Bingo ! that , ay that's the thing ! If you the Royal Caravan provide , We all are then to our hearts wish supply'd . For at the least , Retainers to the Court We shall be thought , and you'l get Money for' Thou shalt to th' Crew as frugal Purser go ; I have design'd it , and it must be so . I have already furnished out my House , 'Tis the old Hall of the fam'd Mother Louse . They lay a claim to' as we creep along , Thou'lt know we are at least one thousand strong . Assur'd of Trade , provide thyself a Room ; My Ants will to their wonted hillock come ; And there our labours shall increase thy heap , And both a Harvest from the Scholars reap . For we , like Harlots , when too common grown , Find Trading quickest where we're most unknown . Coffee and News can never want a Trade , While both to Cheat the People can be made . FINIS . 