H : 133302 Northampton in Flames : OR , A POEM on the Dreadful FIRE That Happened there on Monday the 20th . Septemb. 1675. COnfused Cries fill all the Peoples Ears , And disagreeing Bells' bespeak their Fears ; Faint glimmering lights on every wall appear , And Fire is all they now can see or hear . Some from their Shops , more from their Tables haste , To meet the Flames , that came themselves too fas A joynt-concern engaged all the Town , 'Tis Fire alone makes every house our own . Whereever they go , they new Surprises meet , And Grief alone's the same in every Street . To loud complaints th'amazed people fallen , And Ruin'd ! Ruin'd ! Still did close them all . A thousand hands Strait fight th'inraged foe , Who thus oppos'd do's but the fiercer grow ; As when strong Winds th' approaching Seas invade A mighty Billow of a Wave is made ; So all the force they us'd to stop the Fire , Did not Repel , but only raise it Higher . Some from the Walls the heated Rafters tore , With the same Hands that set them Up before ; And at the Conquerors feet their houses lay , The haughty Flames scorn the ignoble prey : And Lyon-like the prostrate Spoils , they missed , To conquer faster those that did resis The infant-Flames each minute stronger grew , Whil'st on the wings of a strong Wind they Flew ; Near did Bistonian Courser swiftlier bear , Pamper'd in Peace the mighty God of War , Whil'st over the Strymonian banks he scuds , And his Strong wind drives on the loitering Floods . But Zephyr could not long sustain the freight , But breathless lies under th' unequal weight ; The Flames no more now need the nourishing wind , But seem to leave those slower Blasts behind : And thus to their full strength and vigour grown , Singly defy all the Remaining Town . The full-fletcht Flames as swift as Joves fires Fly , Which in and instant lighten all the Sky : Houses of Entertainment and of Trade , Are all together in one Ruin laid ; Shops , Stables , Barns , all Buildings fallen so fast , You could not say , which was devoured las Not Polyphemus favour's shown . The * Silver-swan more sweetly sung of late , Too sad presage of her approaching fate ; In deepest streams she wish't to hide her head , And curs't the time She left her Watery bed : For now amid the thickest Flames she fries , And there for want of her own Element die . The * Lion next , when nothing else could fright , Prepares himself for the unequal fight ; Unknowing how to yield , he scorns the Fires , And in a generous Sullen rage expires . The * Hind , she herd , and knew her danger near , Which came so fast , she had no time to fear . The * Dog was never afraid of her till now , Nor all so weak and Enemy could do , But now he finds her breath is hotter far , Then all th'inveterate o'th' fiery Star . * Swan-Inn * Lyon-Inn * Hind-Inn . * Talbot-Inn And here , my Muse , the spacious * Hill survey , Where scarcely now th' Affrighted People stay . Some on their backs their aged Parents bear , And show their piety's greater than their fear : In the same haste AEnas snatch't his Sire And scarcely sav'd him from th' pursuing fire . With wearied Steps a fearful Mother strays , She trembles as she goes , looks backs , and Stays ; Within her arms her youngest pledge she boar , And fear'd much for her self , for that much more : The Child looks on her with his watery Eyes , And all those frights he could not speak he Cries . My Child ( say'd she ) my only child I fear , For none of all thy brothers else appear ; Thy Father too ----- But here she Silent grew , And durst not speak , but fear'd the Worst was true . * Market - place They Stayed , and saw , the tottering Chimni [ e ] s fallen , And herd the Rends of each divided Wall : The great Beams burst and throw the sparks on high , And Fire rains down from the discoloured Sky ; It fell so thick , not faster Hailstones pour , Which fallen with violent force from and impetuous Shower : These Cinders how they scap'd , you could not tell , Unless their tears did quench them , as they fell . The Richest Goods now Flame o're all the Hill , With Aromatics which dried Channels fill : Th' Arabian* Bird the scattered Spices takes , And of them all a Funeral Pile she makes ; May she rise new from this her Flaming Nest , And th' happy Emblem prove of all the rest . * Phoenix Inn What ails my Muse to look so pale , All on a sudden how her spirits fail ; With and uncertain step she now does go , And lose Pindariques only flow . See! see the Sacred * Fires rise , See how they mount and show Brighter far than those below . See how they mount and unmix Sacrifice ! The Heavens asunder fallen , They open , and receive it all . The Saints from whom it took its Name , Run and catch the Hallowed Flame , Which in safe Treasuries they lay , For they in Heaven's Records did find a day ; When it again should fill another Choir , And not consuming prove , but Purifying Fire . * All Saints Church My Muse she fainted , and intranc'd she lay , Around her Head the sporting Visions play : When lo a Book a mighty Book she saw , It was the Volume of unerring Fate , The leaves of hardest Minerals were made ; So hard , that God alone the Lines could draw , None else could write , and none obliterate : The Book lay open , and all times appear , And things not done , as plain as if they were ; In dreadful Characters which fears create , And letters of a vast and fearful Size ; She reads Northamptons too unhappy State , And all the Terrors of that Flaming Sacrifice : She reads the Legends of the dismal place , Of Fires , and their violent Rage , When sudden smiles adorn'd her alter'd face , To find such happy Annals for another Age . She reads , but as she read , excess of Joy , Her wandering Spirits did recall ; Her hope's and fears by turns themselves destroy , She hope's all True , yet fears the Truth of all . And is it True said she , The Fates so soon shall raise that happy day , When all these Sister-Streets allied shall be , In stately order Uniformly gay . And shall the Sacred Roof so glorious grow , And there those polished Columns stand , In which each golden Cherub sees his face , Doubly adorning all the Sacred place ; And shall all this Treasure flow From Gracious Canterburie's Pious hand ! Ingrateful Muse said I , dost thou despair ? Thou least of all should'st doubt his Pious care : Did he not make that little that thou art ? Yet that far more than thy desert Did he not take thee from and homely Cell , To place thee where the Muses dwell ? First Taught thee how , then gave thee where to Live , 'Tis not His fault but Thine , thy Laurels do not Thrive , The careful * Genius of the place arose , Great in his Courage , great in Grief he shows ; His mighty Courage dar'd the Rebel-fire , Though Grief did make him sighs , and blow it higher . Th' unbounded Flames contract a seeming awe , And their unlimited Rage submits to Law ; For generous heat did his Warm breast inspire , And his hight Zeal burned out that colder fire . Obedient flames now creep along the street , And easy Conquest unto all they meet ; To Cellars their last refuge now they fly , And there neglected of themselves they die . But though the Town be Dust , its living Fame Shall never Die in Loyal Comptons Name . * Earl of Northampton London , Printed for William Cademan , at the New-Exchange in the Strand , 1675. H : 133302 Northampton in Flames : OR , A POEM on the Dreadful FIRE That Happened there on Monday the 20th . Septemb. 1675. COnfused Cries fill all the Peoples Ears , And disagreeing Bells' bespeak their Fears ; Faint glimmering lights on every wall appear , And Fire is all they now can see or hear . Some from their Shops , more from their Tables haste , To meet the Flames , that came themselves too fas A joynt-concern engaged all the Town , 'Tis Fire alone makes every house our own . Whereever they go , they new Surprises meet , And Grief alone's the same in every Street . To loud complaints th'amazed people fallen , And Ruin'd ! Ruin'd ! Still did close them all . A thousand hands Strait fight th'inraged foe , Who thus oppos'd do's but the fiercer grow ; As when strong Winds th' approaching Seas invade A mighty Billow of a Wave is made ; So all the force they us'd to stop the Fire , Did not Repel , but only raise it Higher . Some from the Walls the heated Rafters tore , With the same Hands that set them Up before ; And at the Conquerors feet their houses lay , The haughty Flames scorn the ignoble prey : And Lyon-like the prostrate Spoils , they missed , To conquer faster those that did resis The infant-Flames each minute stronger grew , Whil'st on the wings of a strong Wind they Flew ; Near did Bistonian Courser swiftlier bear , Pamper'd in Peace the mighty God of War , Whil'st over the Strymonian banks he scuds , And his Strong wind drives on the loitering Floods . But Zephyr could not long sustain the freight , But breathless lies under th' unequal weight ; The Flames no more now need the nourishing wind , But seem to leave those slower Blasts behind : And thus to their full strength and vigour grown , Singly defy all the Remaining Town . The full-fletcht Flames as swift as Joves fires Fly , Which in and instant lighten all the Sky : Houses of Entertainment and of Trade , Are all together in one Ruin laid ; Shops , Stables , Barns , all Buildings fallen so fast , You could not say , which was devoured las Not Polyphemus favour's shown . The * Silver-swan more sweetly sung of late , Too sad presage of her approaching fate ; In deepest streams she wish't to hide her head , And curs't the time She left her Watery bed : For now amid the thickest Flames she fries , And there for want of her own Element die . The * Lion next , when nothing else could fright , Prepares himself for the unequal fight ; Unknowing how to yield , he scorns the Fires , And in a generous Sullen rage expires . The * Hind , she herd , and knew her danger near , Which came so fast , she had no time to fear . The * Dog was never afraid of her till now , Nor all so weak and Enemy could do , But now he finds her breath is hotter far , Then all th'inveterate o'th' fiery Star . * Swan-Inn * Lyon-Inn * Hind-Inn . * Talbot-Inn And here , my Muse , the spacious * Hill survey , Where scarcely now th' Affrighted People stay . Some on their backs their aged Parents bear , And show their piety's greater than their fear : In the same haste AEnas snatch't his Sire And scarcely sav'd him from th' pursuing fire . With wearied Steps a fearful Mother strays , She trembles as she goes , looks backs , and Stays ; Within her arms her youngest pledge she boar , And fear'd much for her self , for that much more : The Child looks on her with his watery Eyes , And all those frights he could not speak he Cries . My Child ( say'd she ) my only child I fear , For none of all thy brothers else appear ; Thy Father too ----- But here she Silent grew , And durst not speak , but fear'd the Worst was true . * Market - place They Stayed , and saw , the tottering Chimni [ e ] s fallen , And herd the Rends of each divided Wall : The great Beams burst and throw the sparks on high , And Fire rains down from the discoloured Sky ; It fell so thick , not faster Hailstones pour , Which fallen with violent force from and impetuous Shower : These Cinders how they scap'd , you could not tell , Unless their tears did quench them , as they fell . The Richest Goods now Flame o're all the Hill , With Aromatics which dried Channels fill : Th' Arabian* Bird the scattered Spices takes , And of them all a Funeral Pile she makes ; May she rise new from this her Flaming Nest , And th' happy Emblem prove of all the rest . * Phoenix Inn What ails my Muse to look so pale , All on a sudden how her spirits fail ; With and uncertain step she now does go , And lose Pindariques only flow . See! see the Sacred * Fires rise , See how they mount and show Brighter far than those below . See how they mount and unmix Sacrifice ! The Heavens asunder fallen , They open , and receive it all . The Saints from whom it took its Name , Run and catch the Hallowed Flame , Which in safe Treasuries they lay , For they in Heaven's Records did find a day ; When it again should fill another Choir , And not consuming prove , but Purifying Fire . * All Saints Church My Muse she fainted , and intranc'd she lay , Around her Head the sporting Visions play : When lo a Book a mighty Book she saw , It was the Volume of unerring Fate , The leaves of hardest Minerals were made ; So hard , that God alone the Lines could draw , None else could write , and none obliterate : The Book lay open , and all times appear , And things not done , as plain as if they were ; In dreadful Characters which fears create , And letters of a vast and fearful Size ; She reads Northamptons too unhappy State , And all the Terrors of that Flaming Sacrifice : She reads the Legends of the dismal place , Of Fires , and their violent Rage , When sudden smiles adorn'd her alter'd face , To find such happy Annals for another Age . She reads , but as she read , excess of Joy , Her wandering Spirits did recall ; Her hope's and fears by turns themselves destroy , She hope's all True , yet fears the Truth of all . And is it True said she , The Fates so soon shall raise that happy day , When all these Sister-Streets allied shall be , In stately order Uniformly gay . And shall the Sacred Roof so glorious grow , And there those polished Columns stand , In which each golden Cherub sees his face , Doubly adorning all the Sacred place ; And shall all this Treasure flow From Gracious Canterburie's Pious hand ! Ingrateful Muse said I , dost thou despair ? Thou least of all should'st doubt his Pious care : Did he not make that little that thou art ? Yet that far more than thy desert Did he not take thee from and homely Cell , To place thee where the Muses dwell ? First Taught thee how , then gave thee where to Live , 'Tis not His fault but Thine , thy Laurels do not Thrive , The careful * Genius of the place arose , Great in his Courage , great in Grief he shows ; His mighty Courage dar'd the Rebel-fire , Though Grief did make him sighs , and blow it higher . Th' unbounded Flames contract a seeming awe , And their unlimited Rage submits to Law ; For generous heat did his Warm breast inspire , And his hight Zeal burned out that colder fire . Obedient flames now creep along the street , And easy Conquest unto all they meet ; To Cellars their last refuge now they fly , And there neglected of themselves they die . But though the Town be Dust , its living Fame Shall never Die in Loyal Comptons Name . * Earl of Northampton London , Printed for William Cademan , at the New-Exchange in the Strand , 1675. 