H : 134237 The Whig-Intelligencer : OR , Sir SAMUEL in the POUND , For Publishing Scandalous and Seditious Letters , For which he was Fin'd 10000 l. on Saturday , April 19. Sir Samuel Barnard --- on Deserves to be pist on , For being so great a Fool Not Tongue nor Pen to rule ; By which he lost the Cause , And paid 10000 l. for Sauce . To the Tune of , Hark! the thund'ring Cannons roar , etc I . HArk ! the fatal day is come , Fatal as the day of Doom , For Sir Samuel there make room , So fam'd for Ignoramus : He whose Conscience cou'd allow Such large favours you know how , If we do him Justice now , The Brothers will not blame us . 2. Stand to the Bar , and now advance , Morden , Kenrick , Oats and Prance ; But let the Foreman led the Dance , The rest in course will follow ; Tilden , Kenrick , next shall come , And with him receive their Doom , Ten Thousand pound , at which round Sum The Hall set up a Halloo . 3. Brave Sir Barnard --- on now , Who no Main would er'e allow To loose ten thousand at a throw , Was pleas'd to all men's thinking : Ten thousand pounds ! a dismal note , Who before had giv'n his Vote , Not to give the KING a Groat , To save the Throne from sinking . 4. But yet there's a Remedy , Before the KING shall get by me , I'll quit my darling Liberty ; Nor will I give in Bail for' For e're the Crown shall get a Groat In opposition to my Vote , I'll give 'em leave to cut my Throat , Altho' I lie in Goal for't . 5. Were't for Monmouth , I'de not grieve , Or Brave Russel to retrieve , Or that Sidney yet might live , Twice told , I'd not complain , Sir : Nay , what's more , my whole Estate , With my Bodkins , Spoons , and Plate , So I might reduce the State To a Commonwealth again , Sir . 6. Or that Mon. were in Grace , Or Sir Sam. in Jeffery's place , To spit his Justice in the Face , For acting Law and Reason , Or that the Torys went to pot , Or we could prove it a Sham Plot , Or Essex did not cut his Throat ; Or Plotting were not Treason . 7. Thus I'd freely quit my Coin ; But with Torys to combine , Or keep the Heir in the right Line , That Popery be in fashion , To see the Holy Cause run down , While Mighty York is next the Crown , And Perkin's forc'd to fly the Town : O vile Abomination ! 8. Sooner than Obedience owe To their Arbitrary Law , Or my Bail in danger draw , For Breach of good Behaviour ; I with Bethel , and the rest O' th' Birds , in Cage will make my Nest , And keep my Fine to Plot and Feast , Till Monmouth be in Favour . Printed for the Information and Terror of all Libellers , 1684. H : 134237 The Whig-Intelligencer : OR , Sir SAMUEL in the POUND , For Publishing Scandalous and Seditious Letters , For which he was Fin'd 10000 l. on Saturday , April 19. Sir Samuel Barnard --- on Deserves to be pist on , For being so great a Fool Not Tongue nor Pen to rule ; By which he lost the Cause , And paid 10000 l. for Sauce . To the Tune of , Hark! the thund'ring Cannons roar , etc I . HArk ! the fatal day is come , Fatal as the day of Doom , For Sir Samuel there make room , So fam'd for Ignoramus : He whose Conscience cou'd allow Such large favours you know how , If we do him Justice now , The Brothers will not blame us . 2. Stand to the Bar , and now advance , Morden , Kenrick , Oats and Prance ; But let the Foreman led the Dance , The rest in course will follow ; Tilden , Kenrick , next shall come , And with him receive their Doom , Ten Thousand pound , at which round Sum The Hall set up a Halloo . 3. Brave Sir Barnard --- on now , Who no Main would er'e allow To loose ten thousand at a throw , Was pleas'd to all men's thinking : Ten thousand pounds ! a dismal note , Who before had giv'n his Vote , Not to give the KING a Groat , To save the Throne from sinking . 4. But yet there's a Remedy , Before the KING shall get by me , I'll quit my darling Liberty ; Nor will I give in Bail for' For e're the Crown shall get a Groat In opposition to my Vote , I'll give 'em leave to cut my Throat , Altho' I lie in Goal for't . 5. Were't for Monmouth , I'de not grieve , Or Brave Russel to retrieve , Or that Sidney yet might live , Twice told , I'd not complain , Sir : Nay , what's more , my whole Estate , With my Bodkins , Spoons , and Plate , So I might reduce the State To a Commonwealth again , Sir . 6. Or that Mon. were in Grace , Or Sir Sam. in Jeffery's place , To spit his Justice in the Face , For acting Law and Reason , Or that the Torys went to pot , Or we could prove it a Sham Plot , Or Essex did not cut his Throat ; Or Plotting were not Treason . 7. Thus I'd freely quit my Coin ; But with Torys to combine , Or keep the Heir in the right Line , That Popery be in fashion , To see the Holy Cause run down , While Mighty York is next the Crown , And Perkin's forc'd to fly the Town : O vile Abomination ! 8. Sooner than Obedience owe To their Arbitrary Law , Or my Bail in danger draw , For Breach of good Behaviour ; I with Bethel , and the rest O' th' Birds , in Cage will make my Nest , And keep my Fine to Plot and Feast , Till Monmouth be in Favour . Printed for the Information and Terror of all Libellers , 1684. 