H : 134475 MERLIN Reviv'd : OR , And Old PROPHECY Found in a Manuscript in Pontefract Castle in Yorkshire . MDCL . ------ 1650. WHen MDC shall join with L , In England things will not go well ; A Body shall without and Head , Make all the Neighbouring Nations dread . The Lyon's Whelps shall banish'd be , And seek their prey beyond the Sea. MDCLX . ------ 1660. But when that X the rest shall join , Restor'd shall be the Royal Line : Through England joy shall flow amain , To see the Lyon's Whelps again , MDCLXVI . ------ 1666. M joyn'd to th' number of the Beast , Let London then beware the Priest ; Ignatius Brood disguis'd shall burn , The City and it to Ashes turn : Then some shall weep , others admire , To see the Vengeance of the Fire . MDCLXXX . ------ 1680. E're time two X's more does add , Things will in England grow but bad : Those who before were well content , Shall moan their folly , and repent . A Man of Coal shall Plots design , And with the Jesuits Brood shall join ; But the effect they ne're shall see , But die upon a Triple-Tree . When Janock and the Truckle-Couch , With Horse-pride shall the same things vouch , And when the Valley of the Breast , Shall help to witness with the rest , Then Hellish Plots shall be made known , And th' Arts of wicked Room be shown . The Son of Jane shall first relate , The Lies that dying men create : And Officer to tell his Tale , In Wooden House shall hither sail : Through Loophole shall a Lawyer look , And Vulcan's Son shall write a Book : A Willow to a Field shall change , And show things Dangerous and strange , Then shall a Price be strongly pressed , To buy the Valley of the Breas And Mother-Midnight shall declare , She for Religion will make War. Janock shall go nigh to be slave , And Knocked down in a dirty Lane : But Janock shall escape at last , And see the dangers he had passed . Superstition shall have a fallen , It's Trinkets hung out on a Wall : The Whore of Babylon's Attire , Shall by the Wall be burned i' th' Fire . The Lion to the North shall go , And the Lov'd Knight himself shall show : Great Joy his sighed to some shall bring , Yet some shall mourn , whilst others sing ; In every place great stir shall be , Members and Head shall disagree : The Sun Eclipsed from our sighed , Shall give a weak and sickly light ; The Moon shall be bestain'd with Blood , And Venus by the Sun be trod ; Then from these three there shall arise , A flaming Meteor in the Skies , Which shall to England threat much woe , And down the Miter overthrow . MDCLXXXII . ------ 1682. E're to the Letters writ before , Time shall have added two I's more , Two I's shall rise and shall contend , And for the Crown their Force shall bend ; A Senate then shall end the strife , And Atropos shall cut a Life : Room then from England fast shall fly , And Laws shall long imprison'd try : Under the Ax great men shall bleed , And others shall at last be freed . The Church and Crown shall flourish then , And happy Peace restor'd again , The Flower de-luce shall loose a Stem , And the Old Eagle loud shall scream : The Half Moon shall Victorious grow , And trample on a Northern Foe : The Orange shall begin to bear , Then Hogen to yourselves beware : A Triple-League shall then be made , And Room of England be afraid : And he who lives till Eighty Three , All this to come to pass shall see . To the READER . Though at the first View this Prophecy may seem to be and Invention of a late date , and not Written till time did Interpret it ; yet upon strict search and Inquiry into the reality thereof , we have found convincing Evidence that it was certainly written many years before it came to pass ; which for your satisfaction we shall briefly give and account of . The Widow of and eminent Doc [ tO ] or of Physic , now living at Guilford in Surrey , hath affirmed to several Persons of good Credit and Repute , that her Father when he was a Student in Oxford , had a Copy of this Prophecy in his Study ; which by and exact Computation of Time , appears to be full Threescore years since : Likewise upon occasion of a Discourse concerning the late Comet at a Coffee-house in Guilford , a Gentleman now dwelling there , said , he had a Paper in his house ten years past , which he Judged of some concernment , and at the request of some present , went and fetched this Prophecy , and read it to them . Further , there are several persons at Reading in Berkshire , who justify , that they had the Copy thereof above seven years pass Some others also at Newberry affirm the same ; and a Gentleman at Battersea says he had this very Prophecy seven years ago : A Minister in London likewise gives and Account that he hath seen a Copy of it several years since : Lastly a Person of Quality , one Sir R.B. Knight of known Reputation in and about this City assures us , that as near as he can remember he hath seen a Prophecy exactly like this Copy above twenty years ago ; So that we would desire the Reader to believe that there is no design of imposing on his Judgement ; but since this was certainly given out so many years since , we may judge the Person was influenced by some extraordinary Power , and that what is yet unfulfill'd ought not to be disregarded . FINIS . LONDON , Printed for S.S. 1681. H : 134475 MERLIN Reviv'd : OR , And Old PROPHECY Found in a Manuscript in Pontefract Castle in Yorkshire . MDCL . ------ 1650. WHen MDC shall join with L , In England things will not go well ; A Body shall without and Head , Make all the Neighbouring Nations dread . The Lyon's Whelps shall banish'd be , And seek their prey beyond the Sea. MDCLX . ------ 1660. But when that X the rest shall join , Restor'd shall be the Royal Line : Through England joy shall flow amain , To see the Lyon's Whelps again , MDCLXVI . ------ 1666. M joyn'd to th' number of the Beast , Let London then beware the Priest ; Ignatius Brood disguis'd shall burn , The City and it to Ashes turn : Then some shall weep , others admire , To see the Vengeance of the Fire . MDCLXXX . ------ 1680. E're time two X's more does add , Things will in England grow but bad : Those who before were well content , Shall moan their folly , and repent . A Man of Coal shall Plots design , And with the Jesuits Brood shall join ; But the effect they ne're shall see , But die upon a Triple-Tree . When Janock and the Truckle-Couch , With Horse-pride shall the same things vouch , And when the Valley of the Breast , Shall help to witness with the rest , Then Hellish Plots shall be made known , And th' Arts of wicked Room be shown . The Son of Jane shall first relate , The Lies that dying men create : And Officer to tell his Tale , In Wooden House shall hither sail : Through Loophole shall a Lawyer look , And Vulcan's Son shall write a Book : A Willow to a Field shall change , And show things Dangerous and strange , Then shall a Price be strongly pressed , To buy the Valley of the Breas And Mother-Midnight shall declare , She for Religion will make War. Janock shall go nigh to be slave , And Knocked down in a dirty Lane : But Janock shall escape at last , And see the dangers he had passed . Superstition shall have a fallen , It's Trinkets hung out on a Wall : The Whore of Babylon's Attire , Shall by the Wall be burned i' th' Fire . The Lion to the North shall go , And the Lov'd Knight himself shall show : Great Joy his sighed to some shall bring , Yet some shall mourn , whilst others sing ; In every place great stir shall be , Members and Head shall disagree : The Sun Eclipsed from our sighed , Shall give a weak and sickly light ; The Moon shall be bestain'd with Blood , And Venus by the Sun be trod ; Then from these three there shall arise , A flaming Meteor in the Skies , Which shall to England threat much woe , And down the Miter overthrow . MDCLXXXII . ------ 1682. E're to the Letters writ before , Time shall have added two I's more , Two I's shall rise and shall contend , And for the Crown their Force shall bend ; A Senate then shall end the strife , And Atropos shall cut a Life : Room then from England fast shall fly , And Laws shall long imprison'd try : Under the Ax great men shall bleed , And others shall at last be freed . The Church and Crown shall flourish then , And happy Peace restor'd again , The Flower de-luce shall loose a Stem , And the Old Eagle loud shall scream : The Half Moon shall Victorious grow , And trample on a Northern Foe : The Orange shall begin to bear , Then Hogen to yourselves beware : A Triple-League shall then be made , And Room of England be afraid : And he who lives till Eighty Three , All this to come to pass shall see . To the READER . Though at the first View this Prophecy may seem to be and Invention of a late date , and not Written till time did Interpret it ; yet upon strict search and Inquiry into the reality thereof , we have found convincing Evidence that it was certainly written many years before it came to pass ; which for your satisfaction we shall briefly give and account of . The Widow of and eminent Doc [ tO ] or of Physic , now living at Guilford in Surrey , hath affirmed to several Persons of good Credit and Repute , that her Father when he was a Student in Oxford , had a Copy of this Prophecy in his Study ; which by and exact Computation of Time , appears to be full Threescore years since : Likewise upon occasion of a Discourse concerning the late Comet at a Coffee-house in Guilford , a Gentleman now dwelling there , said , he had a Paper in his house ten years past , which he Judged of some concernment , and at the request of some present , went and fetched this Prophecy , and read it to them . Further , there are several persons at Reading in Berkshire , who justify , that they had the Copy thereof above seven years pass Some others also at Newberry affirm the same ; and a Gentleman at Battersea says he had this very Prophecy seven years ago : A Minister in London likewise gives and Account that he hath seen a Copy of it several years since : Lastly a Person of Quality , one Sir R.B. Knight of known Reputation in and about this City assures us , that as near as he can remember he hath seen a Prophecy exactly like this Copy above twenty years ago ; So that we would desire the Reader to believe that there is no design of imposing on his Judgement ; but since this was certainly given out so many years since , we may judge the Person was influenced by some extraordinary Power , and that what is yet unfulfill'd ought not to be disregarded . FINIS . LONDON , Printed for S.S. 1681. H : 134475 MERLIN Reviv'd : OR , And Old PROPHECY Found in a Manuscript in Pontefract Castle in Yorkshire . MDCL . ------ 1650. WHen MDC shall join with L , In England things will not go well ; A Body shall without and Head , Make all the Neighbouring Nations dread . The Lyon's Whelps shall banish'd be , And seek their prey beyond the Sea. MDCLX . ------ 1660. But when that X the rest shall join , Restor'd shall be the Royal Line : Through England joy shall flow amain , To see the Lyon's Whelps again , MDCLXVI . ------ 1666. M joyn'd to th' number of the Beast , Let London then beware the Priest ; Ignatius Brood disguis'd shall burn , The City and it to Ashes turn : Then some shall weep , others admire , To see the Vengeance of the Fire . MDCLXXX . ------ 1680. E're time two X's more does add , Things will in England grow but bad : Those who before were well content , Shall moan their folly , and repent . A Man of Coal shall Plots design , And with the Jesuits Brood shall join ; But the effect they ne're shall see , But die upon a Triple-Tree . When Janock and the Truckle-Couch , With Horse-pride shall the same things vouch , And when the Valley of the Breast , Shall help to witness with the rest , Then Hellish Plots shall be made known , And th' Arts of wicked Room be shown . The Son of Jane shall first relate , The Lies that dying men create : And Officer to tell his Tale , In Wooden House shall hither sail : Through Loophole shall a Lawyer look , And Vulcan's Son shall write a Book : A Willow to a Field shall change , And show things Dangerous and strange , Then shall a Price be strongly pressed , To buy the Valley of the Breas And Mother-Midnight shall declare , She for Religion will make War. Janock shall go nigh to be slave , And Knocked down in a dirty Lane : But Janock shall escape at last , And see the dangers he had passed . Superstition shall have a fallen , It's Trinkets hung out on a Wall : The Whore of Babylon's Attire , Shall by the Wall be burned i' th' Fire . The Lion to the North shall go , And the Lov'd Knight himself shall show : Great Joy his sighed to some shall bring , Yet some shall mourn , whilst others sing ; In every place great stir shall be , Members and Head shall disagree : The Sun Eclipsed from our sighed , Shall give a weak and sickly light ; The Moon shall be bestain'd with Blood , And Venus by the Sun be trod ; Then from these three there shall arise , A flaming Meteor in the Skies , Which shall to England threat much woe , And down the Miter overthrow . MDCLXXXII . ------ 1682. E're to the Letters writ before , Time shall have added two I's more , Two I's shall rise and shall contend , And for the Crown their Force shall bend ; A Senate then shall end the strife , And Atropos shall cut a Life : Room then from England fast shall fly , And Laws shall long imprison'd try : Under the Ax great men shall bleed , And others shall at last be freed . The Church and Crown shall flourish then , And happy Peace restor'd again , The Flower de-luce shall loose a Stem , And the Old Eagle loud shall scream : The Half Moon shall Victorious grow , And trample on a Northern Foe : The Orange shall begin to bear , Then Hogen to yourselves beware : A Triple-League shall then be made , And Room of England be afraid : And he who lives till Eighty Three , All this to come to pass shall see . To the READER . Though at the first View this Prophecy may seem to be and Invention of a late date , and not Written till time did Interpret it ; yet upon strict search and Inquiry into the reality thereof , we have found convincing Evidence that it was certainly written many years before it came to pass ; which for your satisfaction we shall briefly give and account of . The Widow of and eminent Doc [ tO ] or of Physic , now living at Guilford in Surrey , hath affirmed to several Persons of good Credit and Repute , that her Father when he was a Student in Oxford , had a Copy of this Prophecy in his Study ; which by and exact Computation of Time , appears to be full Threescore years since : Likewise upon occasion of a Discourse concerning the late Comet at a Coffee-house in Guilford , a Gentleman now dwelling there , said , he had a Paper in his house ten years past , which he Judged of some concernment , and at the request of some present , went and fetched this Prophecy , and read it to them . Further , there are several persons at Reading in Berkshire , who justify , that they had the Copy thereof above seven years pass Some others also at Newberry affirm the same ; and a Gentleman at Battersea says he had this very Prophecy seven years ago : A Minister in London likewise gives and Account that he hath seen a Copy of it several years since : Lastly a Person of Quality , one Sir R.B. Knight of known Reputation in and about this City assures us , that as near as he can remember he hath seen a Prophecy exactly like this Copy above twenty years ago ; So that we would desire the Reader to believe that there is no design of imposing on his Judgement ; but since this was certainly given out so many years since , we may judge the Person was influenced by some extraordinary Power , and that what is yet unfulfill'd ought not to be disregarded . FINIS . LONDON , Printed for S.S. 1681. H : 134475 MERLIN Reviv'd : OR , And Old PROPHECY Found in a Manuscript in Pontefract Castle in Yorkshire . MDCL . ------ 1650. WHen MDC shall join with L , In England things will not go well ; A Body shall without and Head , Make all the Neighbouring Nations dread . The Lyon's Whelps shall banish'd be , And seek their prey beyond the Sea. MDCLX . ------ 1660. But when that X the rest shall join , Restor'd shall be the Royal Line : Through England joy shall flow amain , To see the Lyon's Whelps again , MDCLXVI . ------ 1666. M joyn'd to th' number of the Beast , Let London then beware the Priest ; Ignatius Brood disguis'd shall burn , The City and it to Ashes turn : Then some shall weep , others admire , To see the Vengeance of the Fire . MDCLXXX . ------ 1680. E're time two X's more does add , Things will in England grow but bad : Those who before were well content , Shall moan their folly , and repent . A Man of Coal shall Plots design , And with the Jesuits Brood shall join ; But the effect they ne're shall see , But die upon a Triple-Tree . When Janock and the Truckle-Couch , With Horse-pride shall the same things vouch , And when the Valley of the Breast , Shall help to witness with the rest , Then Hellish Plots shall be made known , And th' Arts of wicked Room be shown . The Son of Jane shall first relate , The Lies that dying men create : And Officer to tell his Tale , In Wooden House shall hither sail : Through Loophole shall a Lawyer look , And Vulcan's Son shall write a Book : A Willow to a Field shall change , And show things Dangerous and strange , Then shall a Price be strongly pressed , To buy the Valley of the Breas And Mother-Midnight shall declare , She for Religion will make War. Janock shall go nigh to be slave , And Knocked down in a dirty Lane : But Janock shall escape at last , And see the dangers he had passed . Superstition shall have a fallen , It's Trinkets hung out on a Wall : The Whore of Babylon's Attire , Shall by the Wall be burned i' th' Fire . The Lion to the North shall go , And the Lov'd Knight himself shall show : Great Joy his sighed to some shall bring , Yet some shall mourn , whilst others sing ; In every place great stir shall be , Members and Head shall disagree : The Sun Eclipsed from our sighed , Shall give a weak and sickly light ; The Moon shall be bestain'd with Blood , And Venus by the Sun be trod ; Then from these three there shall arise , A flaming Meteor in the Skies , Which shall to England threat much woe , And down the Miter overthrow . MDCLXXXII . ------ 1682. E're to the Letters writ before , Time shall have added two I's more , Two I's shall rise and shall contend , And for the Crown their Force shall bend ; A Senate then shall end the strife , And Atropos shall cut a Life : Room then from England fast shall fly , And Laws shall long imprison'd try : Under the Ax great men shall bleed , And others shall at last be freed . The Church and Crown shall flourish then , And happy Peace restor'd again , The Flower de-luce shall loose a Stem , And the Old Eagle loud shall scream : The Half Moon shall Victorious grow , And trample on a Northern Foe : The Orange shall begin to bear , Then Hogen to yourselves beware : A Triple-League shall then be made , And Room of England be afraid : And he who lives till Eighty Three , All this to come to pass shall see . To the READER . Though at the first View this Prophecy may seem to be and Invention of a late date , and not Written till time did Interpret it ; yet upon strict search and Inquiry into the reality thereof , we have found convincing Evidence that it was certainly written many years before it came to pass ; which for your satisfaction we shall briefly give and account of . The Widow of and eminent Doc [ tO ] or of Physic , now living at Guilford in Surrey , hath affirmed to several Persons of good Credit and Repute , that her Father when he was a Student in Oxford , had a Copy of this Prophecy in his Study ; which by and exact Computation of Time , appears to be full Threescore years since : Likewise upon occasion of a Discourse concerning the late Comet at a Coffee-house in Guilford , a Gentleman now dwelling there , said , he had a Paper in his house ten years past , which he Judged of some concernment , and at the request of some present , went and fetched this Prophecy , and read it to them . Further , there are several persons at Reading in Berkshire , who justify , that they had the Copy thereof above seven years pass Some others also at Newberry affirm the same ; and a Gentleman at Battersea says he had this very Prophecy seven years ago : A Minister in London likewise gives and Account that he hath seen a Copy of it several years since : Lastly a Person of Quality , one Sir R.B. Knight of known Reputation in and about this City assures us , that as near as he can remember he hath seen a Prophecy exactly like this Copy above twenty years ago ; So that we would desire the Reader to believe that there is no design of imposing on his Judgement ; but since this was certainly given out so many years since , we may judge the Person was influenced by some extraordinary Power , and that what is yet unfulfill'd ought not to be disregarded . FINIS . LONDON , Printed for S.S. 1681. 