H : 134714 AND ELEGY , On the Death of the Reverend , Learned . and Pious William Bell , D.D. Vicar of S. Sepulchres ; who Died July the 19th , 1683. WHAT Bell is that ? I fear it will be Se'd , England's no Ringing Island , Bell is Dead . Grave Oxford's Fell , and Lincoln's Mighty TO ---- Chester , and Brave Ely , and Sarum ; Are somewhat out of Tune ( I fear ) to see Bell cast anew , to take his full Degree . Sorrow each Breast , Silence each Tongue hath ceas'd , Since the Bell Told , that , Doctor Bell's Deceas'd . In Silence Grieve , since Silent now he is , Who when he Spoke , all Silent would be . 'Tis A Tacit mournful Text , the Winding Sheet , Makes Poets Sighs ; Verses give up your Feet , 'Who ever Sob'd in Numbers ? Can a Groan 'Be Quaver'd out by soft Division ? If then our Loss be rightly understood , No News , our Land should Weep into a Flood : Yet Boards your Aid ; for here's a Choice Theam , Your Wits can never Jump to the Extreme : But in Defect ; no Praise is Excessive , On Excellencies most Superlative , Reader , I Pray , let not your Virgin Faith , Scorn to Submit , to what your Poet Says ; Without Hyperbole ; who knew him , Kens He was a Pattern of all Excellence , So Excellent , that even to Express , His Excellencies seems to make them less . A Mighty Loyalist , and Truths Defendant , Of Papists and Sectaries , a sweet Opponen Panduct of all Knowledge ; for no Prelate More Learn'd , or more Profound , or any Legate , Or any Pope , Jesuit , Cardinal : In Fine , more Learn'd , more Critical than all . 'Knowledg and Zeal in him so Sweetly met , 'His Pulpit seem'd a Second Olivet . 'Where from his Lips he would deliver Things , 'As though some Seraphims had clasp'd his Wings . 'His painful Sermons were so neatly dress'd , 'As if and Anthem were in Prose express'd . His Words were Pat & Smooth , & yielding much Of Nectar and Ambrosia , they were such As would allure Angels , at any Rate , To be his Auditors ( if possible ) Fate , Made him a Tenant of a longer Date , Than those ill Husbands that so Live , ( we see , ) As to neglect to Die , and Die to be . Unfit to Live again ; he Liv'd to Die , And Di'd to Live unto Eternity . Whose Conscience , both to God and Man , Was equal inoffensive , and the Span Of whose unspotted Life deserves to Be Preserv'd in Mind by his Posterity , Bless'd Soul departed , if to any one O' th' Saints above to Thee I'd Pray alone . And in my Calendar I'd place thy Fallen And make thy Dying-day Canonical . 'Thy Ghost inspires our Muse , what Spirit Ran 'In Thee before , Lives now in every Man. Yet can no Muse express how thou art Blessed With Saints above . Let Angels speak the Rest. The EPITAPH . The Vicar of S. Sepulchres Lies Within this Sepulcher ; who Craves His Name , the Bells' will that declare , To tell his Worth , who able are , But He himself ? Yet all can tell , The Doctor liv'd ( and dy'd ) so well . London , Printed by T. More , & J. Ashburne , for Joseph Roberts , at the Bible in Fleet-Lane , 1683. H : 134714 AND ELEGY , On the Death of the Reverend , Learned . and Pious William Bell , D.D. Vicar of S. Sepulchres ; who Died July the 19th , 1683. WHAT Bell is that ? I fear it will be Se'd , England's no Ringing Island , Bell is Dead . Grave Oxford's Fell , and Lincoln's Mighty TO ---- Chester , and Brave Ely , and Sarum ; Are somewhat out of Tune ( I fear ) to see Bell cast anew , to take his full Degree . Sorrow each Breast , Silence each Tongue hath ceas'd , Since the Bell Told , that , Doctor Bell's Deceas'd . In Silence Grieve , since Silent now he is , Who when he Spoke , all Silent would be . 'Tis A Tacit mournful Text , the Winding Sheet , Makes Poets Sighs ; Verses give up your Feet , 'Who ever Sob'd in Numbers ? Can a Groan 'Be Quaver'd out by soft Division ? If then our Loss be rightly understood , No News , our Land should Weep into a Flood : Yet Boards your Aid ; for here's a Choice Theam , Your Wits can never Jump to the Extreme : But in Defect ; no Praise is Excessive , On Excellencies most Superlative , Reader , I Pray , let not your Virgin Faith , Scorn to Submit , to what your Poet Says ; Without Hyperbole ; who knew him , Kens He was a Pattern of all Excellence , So Excellent , that even to Express , His Excellencies seems to make them less . A Mighty Loyalist , and Truths Defendant , Of Papists and Sectaries , a sweet Opponen Panduct of all Knowledge ; for no Prelate More Learn'd , or more Profound , or any Legate , Or any Pope , Jesuit , Cardinal : In Fine , more Learn'd , more Critical than all . 'Knowledg and Zeal in him so Sweetly met , 'His Pulpit seem'd a Second Olivet . 'Where from his Lips he would deliver Things , 'As though some Seraphims had clasp'd his Wings . 'His painful Sermons were so neatly dress'd , 'As if and Anthem were in Prose express'd . His Words were Pat & Smooth , & yielding much Of Nectar and Ambrosia , they were such As would allure Angels , at any Rate , To be his Auditors ( if possible ) Fate , Made him a Tenant of a longer Date , Than those ill Husbands that so Live , ( we see , ) As to neglect to Die , and Die to be . Unfit to Live again ; he Liv'd to Die , And Di'd to Live unto Eternity . Whose Conscience , both to God and Man , Was equal inoffensive , and the Span Of whose unspotted Life deserves to Be Preserv'd in Mind by his Posterity , Bless'd Soul departed , if to any one O' th' Saints above to Thee I'd Pray alone . And in my Calendar I'd place thy Fallen And make thy Dying-day Canonical . 'Thy Ghost inspires our Muse , what Spirit Ran 'In Thee before , Lives now in every Man. Yet can no Muse express how thou art Blessed With Saints above . Let Angels speak the Rest. The EPITAPH . The Vicar of S. Sepulchres Lies Within this Sepulcher ; who Craves His Name , the Bells' will that declare , To tell his Worth , who able are , But He himself ? Yet all can tell , The Doctor liv'd ( and dy'd ) so well . London , Printed by T. More , & J. Ashburne , for Joseph Roberts , at the Bible in Fleet-Lane , 1683. 