H : 134748 Sr. Thomas Armstrong's Last Farewell to the WORLD : He being Condemned for HIGH-TREASON , and Conspiring the Death of the KING and the DUKE , and subverting the Government of these three Kingdoms A SONG . To the Tune STATE and AMBITION ADue to the pleasure of murder and whoring , Of plotting conspiring the death of a King : Confound the temptation of Bastard Adoring , For which I confess I deserve for to Swing . Poor Monmouth may Curse me , 'twas I over Ruled In all his Intrigues by Tony's black spell , His timorous contrivance I constantly Schooled ; And told him how safe it was then to rebel . I shew'd him the glimpse of a Crown and a Sceptre , The strength of the Crow'd , and applause of the Town Till glory did dazzle his Soul in a Rapture ; That all things inferior appear'd but a Crown : Then I was in hope's to be fecond Assistant ; Therefore to unKing him our party would bring : But now a [ s ] the Devil wou'd have it I missed on't , For which I before the damn'd Doctor must swing . The Doctor confused three parts of the Nation ; He murdered thirty ; I murdered but two , With long sword and Codpiece I made it the fashion Rogues Whores to advance , and the Kingdom subdue : Brave Monmouth I shew'd him all ways of debauching , And ne'r let him want procurer nor Whore ; Some Aldermen's Wives they were proud to approach him , I often as Gray have stood Pimp at the door . Nay , many were sure , that their souls would be sainted Had they but one hour his sweet grace to enjoy ; How oft in my Arms they have sighed and panted , Until I conveyed 'em to their Princely Boy . But now all those pleasures are faded with glory , His Grace in Disgrace and Tom is Condemn'd ; Jack Catch now looks sharp for to shorten my story , And leaves me no time to murder or mend . Yet I must confess , I was oft Monmouths taster , For fear , lest some fireship might blow up her Prince , Which caused our party to flock in much faster , All Officers from the Plot Office advance . Old Tony took Care too , that nothing was wanting , In Wapping , the Square , and Algers-gate-street , I brought in Bess Mackrel , to help out the taping , And Tony swore damn him , theres nothing so sweet . Sweet Betty farewell , 'twas for thee I abjured , My Lady and Children , this fourteen long years ; They always were kind , but I still was obdured , Seeking the Destruction of King , Church , & Peers Had I Gray and Mellvin now here to condole with And their Recommendations to' th' Cabals below -- , I might have Commissions in Hell to control with But sure I shall find some Friends where I go . LONDON , Printed for J. Dean Bookseller in Cranborn-Street , near Newport-House , in Leicester-Fields . H : 134748 Sr. Thomas Armstrong's Last Farewell to the WORLD : He being Condemned for HIGH-TREASON , and Conspiring the Death of the KING and the DUKE , and subverting the Government of these three Kingdoms A SONG . To the Tune STATE and AMBITION ADue to the pleasure of murder and whoring , Of plotting conspiring the death of a King : Confound the temptation of Bastard Adoring , For which I confess I deserve for to Swing . Poor Monmouth may Curse me , 'twas I over Ruled In all his Intrigues by Tony's black spell , His timorous contrivance I constantly Schooled ; And told him how safe it was then to rebel . I shew'd him the glimpse of a Crown and a Sceptre , The strength of the Crow'd , and applause of the Town Till glory did dazzle his Soul in a Rapture ; That all things inferior appear'd but a Crown : Then I was in hope's to be fecond Assistant ; Therefore to unKing him our party would bring : But now a [ s ] the Devil wou'd have it I missed on't , For which I before the damn'd Doctor must swing . The Doctor confused three parts of the Nation ; He murdered thirty ; I murdered but two , With long sword and Codpiece I made it the fashion Rogues Whores to advance , and the Kingdom subdue : Brave Monmouth I shew'd him all ways of debauching , And ne'r let him want procurer nor Whore ; Some Aldermen's Wives they were proud to approach him , I often as Gray have stood Pimp at the door . Nay , many were sure , that their souls would be sainted Had they but one hour his sweet grace to enjoy ; How oft in my Arms they have sighed and panted , Until I conveyed 'em to their Princely Boy . But now all those pleasures are faded with glory , His Grace in Disgrace and Tom is Condemn'd ; Jack Catch now looks sharp for to shorten my story , And leaves me no time to murder or mend . Yet I must confess , I was oft Monmouths taster , For fear , lest some fireship might blow up her Prince , Which caused our party to flock in much faster , All Officers from the Plot Office advance . Old Tony took Care too , that nothing was wanting , In Wapping , the Square , and Algers-gate-street , I brought in Bess Mackrel , to help out the taping , And Tony swore damn him , theres nothing so sweet . Sweet Betty farewell , 'twas for thee I abjured , My Lady and Children , this fourteen long years ; They always were kind , but I still was obdured , Seeking the Destruction of King , Church , & Peers Had I Gray and Mellvin now here to condole with And their Recommendations to' th' Cabals below -- , I might have Commissions in Hell to control with But sure I shall find some Friends where I go . LONDON , Printed for J. Dean Bookseller in Cranborn-Street , near Newport-House , in Leicester-Fields . 