H : 18289 And Epitaph upon the death of the right honourable Edward Earl of Darby , Lord Stanly and Strange of Knocking , Lord and Governor of the Isles of Man , Knight of the Noble order of the Garter , and one of the Queens Majesties most honourable privy Counsel . Deceased the xxiiii of Novem. 1572. SHall shaking hand with drilling tears , deliver rural verse ? my mourning Muse does bid me stay , unable to rehearse . The noble acts of Derby Earl , that late had breath and life : who was through Realm and foreign land , beloved of man and wife . But sure as tears do ease the heart , that plunged is in pain : and Sorrow she will belch forth sobs , in seeking rest again . Can country now at once refuse , with dolors thus oppressed ? To shed forth tears , sith Darbye Earl , is thus now clapped in chest . Who though in years he was , more fitter for the grave , then long to live , yet may we say , to soon did death deprave . This noble valiant Earl , of his aspiring breath : whose sage advice thus lost may be , his countries seconde death . Though he in Ormeschurch lie , enclosed now in slime : yet shall his facts enforce his fame , up to the skies to climb , Though ugly Mors with spite , have reft him of his life : yet shall his worthy deeds declare , his knowledge was full rife . That he in setting joint and bone , as staunching bloody wound , to few that Chirurgery does profess , so much does understand . Let Sycophants that now do seek , by this his death to raise : yet let them know his worthy facts , hath merited great praise . No fines no time he raised , but Tenants were conten and yet you shall not hear of world , he greatly raised his rend . No toiler in the law , though he had proffered wrong : nor yet would seem to 'ppresse his foe , though he was mighty strong . But he by meekness made , his foe to be his friend : the wisest way , all wisemen say , all quarrels so to end . You nobles do behold , your peer do not forge who did not long in Merchants book , delight to stand in debt . Who knew the Merchants trade , his money was his blow : and would not payment long delay , that dishonour should not grow . O noble Earl of stature mean , but yet of manly har in Scotland thou , with Northfolke Duke , at Kelzey played thy part . Of Darby Earl , as Lord of man , and of the Garter Knigh and one that in his Princes grace , had very much delight . Both for his faith the which , unto his grace he owde : and also for his wisdom grave , in counsel often showed . A mind that did delight , in yielding Justice dew , and ear still bending down to hear , poor Sewtors that did sew . A heart that rude the plighted , of those that were oppress a knee to bend to Princely throne , to have their cause redressed . A foot that ready was , to ride , to run , or go : to help the weak that Mydas might , was like to overthro . And eye that single was , and not with lucre stained : a hand to help the hungry poor , he in nowise refrained . How many now shall want , to have wherewith to feed ? their hungry corpses which in his life , received relief at need . What mourning make his friends , of him that are bereft ? what mourning make his yeomen all , that he behind hath left ? How does his neighbours all , that dwell in Lancashire ? with sobs and tears they do deplore , this death of his to hear . With tears we all are forced , this noble Earl to wail : although that death hath brought to him , a life of greater vail . Though Mors his corpses have seast , that danger none could daun yet in his end a subject true , as fame shall aye avaunt . No Traitor could him train , at no time to rebel : nor Papist could him ought persuade , he liked them not so well . To deal by their device , to hold with Scottish dame : nor Duke thats dubbed , nor Percies pride , that sought their countries bane . Though Papists him extol , and make the world believe : yet at his death he them renounced , and to his Christ did cleave . He knew their trash be such on , Mass he did not build . but only called one Jesu Christ , to help him win the field . And thus he died in Christ , no help he sought from Pope : but in the death and blood of Christ , he put his fixed hope . Though slow of tongue to talk , of curious questions fine : yet one that read the Scriptures much , no doubt a good Devine . He practiced that in life , that he in Scriptures found : and so he built upon the rock , and not on shiveling sonde . No blood he brought in Maries days , to burn or for to broil : nor well he liked of Spanish pride , that sought this Realm to spoil . Now is this Earl from Lathum gone , turn horse another away : the saint is fled , though shrine remain , where he was wont to stay . Let Lancashyre , and Chesshyre both , with tears bring Corpses to grave : For lo , his happy soul in heaven , the blessed Angels have . As he in honour run , a happy raze to end : So to his son now Noble Earl , God grant him grace to bend . To tread his Father's trace , to stay in Gospel pure : so shall he live in father's fame , that ever shall endure . Vinat post funera Virtus . John Denton Minist . Imprinted at London by W. Williamson , dwelling in Distaff Lane . H : 18289 And Epitaph upon the death of the right honourable Edward Earl of Darby , Lord Stanly and Strange of Knocking , Lord and Governor of the Isles of Man , Knight of the Noble order of the Garter , and one of the Queens Majesties most honourable privy Counsel . Deceased the xxiiii of Novem. 1572. SHall shaking hand with drilling tears , deliver rural verse ? my mourning Muse does bid me stay , unable to rehearse . The noble acts of Derby Earl , that late had breath and life : who was through Realm and foreign land , beloved of man and wife . But sure as tears do ease the heart , that plunged is in pain : and Sorrow she will belch forth sobs , in seeking rest again . Can country now at once refuse , with dolors thus oppressed ? To shed forth tears , sith Darbye Earl , is thus now clapped in chest . Who though in years he was , more fitter for the grave , then long to live , yet may we say , to soon did death deprave . This noble valiant Earl , of his aspiring breath : whose sage advice thus lost may be , his countries seconde death . Though he in Ormeschurch lie , enclosed now in slime : yet shall his facts enforce his fame , up to the skies to climb , Though ugly Mors with spite , have reft him of his life : yet shall his worthy deeds declare , his knowledge was full rife . That he in setting joint and bone , as staunching bloody wound , to few that Chirurgery does profess , so much does understand . Let Sycophants that now do seek , by this his death to raise : yet let them know his worthy facts , hath merited great praise . No fines no time he raised , but Tenants were conten and yet you shall not hear of world , he greatly raised his rend . No toiler in the law , though he had proffered wrong : nor yet would seem to 'ppresse his foe , though he was mighty strong . But he by meekness made , his foe to be his friend : the wisest way , all wisemen say , all quarrels so to end . You nobles do behold , your peer do not forge who did not long in Merchants book , delight to stand in debt . Who knew the Merchants trade , his money was his blow : and would not payment long delay , that dishonour should not grow . O noble Earl of stature mean , but yet of manly har in Scotland thou , with Northfolke Duke , at Kelzey played thy part . Of Darby Earl , as Lord of man , and of the Garter Knigh and one that in his Princes grace , had very much delight . Both for his faith the which , unto his grace he owde : and also for his wisdom grave , in counsel often showed . A mind that did delight , in yielding Justice dew , and ear still bending down to hear , poor Sewtors that did sew . A heart that rude the plighted , of those that were oppress a knee to bend to Princely throne , to have their cause redressed . A foot that ready was , to ride , to run , or go : to help the weak that Mydas might , was like to overthro . And eye that single was , and not with lucre stained : a hand to help the hungry poor , he in nowise refrained . How many now shall want , to have wherewith to feed ? their hungry corpses which in his life , received relief at need . What mourning make his friends , of him that are bereft ? what mourning make his yeomen all , that he behind hath left ? How does his neighbours all , that dwell in Lancashire ? with sobs and tears they do deplore , this death of his to hear . With tears we all are forced , this noble Earl to wail : although that death hath brought to him , a life of greater vail . Though Mors his corpses have seast , that danger none could daun yet in his end a subject true , as fame shall aye avaunt . No Traitor could him train , at no time to rebel : nor Papist could him ought persuade , he liked them not so well . To deal by their device , to hold with Scottish dame : nor Duke thats dubbed , nor Percies pride , that sought their countries bane . Though Papists him extol , and make the world believe : yet at his death he them renounced , and to his Christ did cleave . He knew their trash be such on , Mass he did not build . but only called one Jesu Christ , to help him win the field . And thus he died in Christ , no help he sought from Pope : but in the death and blood of Christ , he put his fixed hope . Though slow of tongue to talk , of curious questions fine : yet one that read the Scriptures much , no doubt a good Devine . He practiced that in life , that he in Scriptures found : and so he built upon the rock , and not on shiveling sonde . No blood he brought in Maries days , to burn or for to broil : nor well he liked of Spanish pride , that sought this Realm to spoil . Now is this Earl from Lathum gone , turn horse another away : the saint is fled , though shrine remain , where he was wont to stay . Let Lancashyre , and Chesshyre both , with tears bring Corpses to grave : For lo , his happy soul in heaven , the blessed Angels have . As he in honour run , a happy raze to end : So to his son now Noble Earl , God grant him grace to bend . To tread his Father's trace , to stay in Gospel pure : so shall he live in father's fame , that ever shall endure . Vinat post funera Virtus . John Denton Minist . Imprinted at London by W. Williamson , dwelling in Distaff Lane . 