H : 18287 And Epitaph upon the death of Richard Price Esquire ( the second son of Sir John Price Knight , deceased ) which Richard left this life the fifth day of Januarie , 1586. MY sorrow does suppress my memory , My grief eke grieves my heart , and all my powers , My tears do pierce my pa - per thoroughly , My Muse me fails , my woe my wit devours , So as amasd I fit devoid of might , In verse , or prose , my meaning to indight . Of princely jewels , precious are the price , Of gold the gain who wishes not to have , Of house and land , and all by land that rise , Of all for life , who seeks not to save : But when I weigh the depth of mine intent , A Price to praise , I cannot but lament . A Price for gentle blood , of price he was , A Price well taught in youth to live in age , A Price so fraught with virtues that surpass , A Price though young in years , in wisdom sage : A precious Price , as Wales did ever yield , A Price of peace in town , yet fierce in field . His virtues rare , his wisdom so profound . His learned skill , his courtesy so seen , His bounty great in house did so abound , His travel such for Country , and for Queen , Made him beloved , and for his friendship fast , So famously , as evermore shall last . He lived no doubt with well contented mind , He lived upright , just both in word and deed , He lived a subject true , as man may find , He lived to God a child of Abrahams seed : He lived to die , content to leave each friend , He died to live in joy , that shall not end . His woeful wife may chiefly wail his want , His servants next have greatest cause to grieve , His country then ( sith such as he be scant ) His friends each one may sorrow whilst they live : Among the which a greater loss had none , Then I my self , that causeless do not moan . O God grant us thy grace , and daily aid , O God put fear and love into our heart , O God to sin make us full soar afraid , O God thy love from us do not divar Thou that from us our peerless Price hast reft , Be our defence , that here behind are left . R.D. Imprinted at London by John Charlewood . H : 18287 And Epitaph upon the death of Richard Price Esquire ( the second son of Sir John Price Knight , deceased ) which Richard left this life the fifth day of Januarie , 1586. MY sorrow does suppress my memory , My grief eke grieves my heart , and all my powers , My tears do pierce my pa - per thoroughly , My Muse me fails , my woe my wit devours , So as amasd I fit devoid of might , In verse , or prose , my meaning to indight . Of princely jewels , precious are the price , Of gold the gain who wishes not to have , Of house and land , and all by land that rise , Of all for life , who seeks not to save : But when I weigh the depth of mine intent , A Price to praise , I cannot but lament . A Price for gentle blood , of price he was , A Price well taught in youth to live in age , A Price so fraught with virtues that surpass , A Price though young in years , in wisdom sage : A precious Price , as Wales did ever yield , A Price of peace in town , yet fierce in field . His virtues rare , his wisdom so profound . His learned skill , his courtesy so seen , His bounty great in house did so abound , His travel such for Country , and for Queen , Made him beloved , and for his friendship fast , So famously , as evermore shall last . He lived no doubt with well contented mind , He lived upright , just both in word and deed , He lived a subject true , as man may find , He lived to God a child of Abrahams seed : He lived to die , content to leave each friend , He died to live in joy , that shall not end . His woeful wife may chiefly wail his want , His servants next have greatest cause to grieve , His country then ( sith such as he be scant ) His friends each one may sorrow whilst they live : Among the which a greater loss had none , Then I my self , that causeless do not moan . O God grant us thy grace , and daily aid , O God put fear and love into our heart , O God to sin make us full soar afraid , O God thy love from us do not divar Thou that from us our peerless Price hast reft , Be our defence , that here behind are left . R.D. Imprinted at London by John Charlewood . 