H : 134944 THE Western Rebel ; OR , THE True Protestant Standard set up . To the Tune of , Packington's Pound . I . SEE the Vizor's pull'd off , and the Zelots are Arming , For our old Egypt-Plagues the Whig Locusts all Swarming . The true Protestant Perkin , in Lightning has spoke , And begins in a Flash to vanish in Smoke : Little Jemmy's lanch'd o're From the old Holland Shore , Where Shaftsbury marched to the Devil before . The Old Game's a beginning ; for High-Shoes & Clowns Are turning State-Tinkers for mending of Crowns . II Let his Desperate Frenzy to ruin spur on ; The Rebel too late , and the Madman too soon . But politic Noddles without Wit or Reason , When empty of Brains have the more room for Treason . Ambition bewitches , Through Bogs and through Ditches , Like a Will with a Wisp : For the Bastard Blood itches : And the Bully sets up , with his High-Shoes and Clowns , A True Protestant Tinker for mending of Crowns . III . Let him banter Religion , that old Stale pretence , For Traitors to mount on the Neck of their Prince . But Clamor and Nonsense no longer shall fright us , Our Wits are restored by the flogging of Titus . Their Canting Delusion , And Bills of Exclusion , No longer shall sham the mad World to Confusion . The Old Cheat's too gross , & no more Boars & Clowns For perching on Thrones , and profaning of Crowns . IV. So the Great Murder'd Charles , our Church , Freedom's [ m ] and Law [ s ] Were all Martyrs of old , to the Sanctified Cause . While Gospel and Heav'n were the popular Name , The Firebrands of Hell were all ligh't from that Flame [ e ] Reformation once tuned , Let Religion but found , When that Kirk Bagpipe plays all the Devils Danc [ e ] room [ worser ] But the Whining Tub Cheat shall no longer go down : No more Kings on Scaffolds , and Slaves on a Throne . V. Let his hot-brain'd Ambition , with his Renegade Loon [ s ] Mount the Son of the People , for Lord of Three Crown [ s ] The Impostor on one hand , and Traitor on t'other , Set up his false Title , as cracked as his Mother . But while Peacock-proud , He struts and talks loud , The Head of the Rabble , and Idol o'th' Crowd ; From his false borrow'd Plumes , & his hope's of a Crow [ n ] To his black Feet below , let th' Aspirer look down . VI . Then let him march on with his Politic Poll , To perch up his Head by old Bradshaw and Noll : While the Desperate Jehu is driving headlong , To visit the Relics of Tommy Armstrong . For there's Vengeance a working , To give him a Jerking , And humble the Pride of the poor little Perkin . Great JAMES his dread Thunder shall th' Idol pull dow [ n ] While our Hands , Hearts , and Swords are all true to tO [ he ] Crow [ n ] June 17. 1685. This may be Printed , R.L.S. London : Printed for Nicholas Wolf , at the Leopard in Newgate-street . 1685. H : 134944 THE Western Rebel ; OR , THE True Protestant Standard set up . To the Tune of , Packington's Pound . I . SEE the Vizor's pull'd off , and the Zelots are Arming , For our old Egypt-Plagues the Whig Locusts all Swarming . The true Protestant Perkin , in Lightning has spoke , And begins in a Flash to vanish in Smoke : Little Jemmy's lanch'd o're From the old Holland Shore , Where Shaftsbury marched to the Devil before . The Old Game's a beginning ; for High-Shoes & Clowns Are turning State-Tinkers for mending of Crowns . II Let his Desperate Frenzy to ruin spur on ; The Rebel too late , and the Madman too soon . But politic Noddles without Wit or Reason , When empty of Brains have the more room for Treason . Ambition bewitches , Through Bogs and through Ditches , Like a Will with a Wisp : For the Bastard Blood itches : And the Bully sets up , with his High-Shoes and Clowns , A True Protestant Tinker for mending of Crowns . III . Let him banter Religion , that old Stale pretence , For Traitors to mount on the Neck of their Prince . But Clamor and Nonsense no longer shall fright us , Our Wits are restored by the flogging of Titus . Their Canting Delusion , And Bills of Exclusion , No longer shall sham the mad World to Confusion . The Old Cheat's too gross , & no more Boars & Clowns For perching on Thrones , and profaning of Crowns . IV. So the Great Murder'd Charles , our Church , Freedom's [ m ] and Law [ s ] Were all Martyrs of old , to the Sanctified Cause . While Gospel and Heav'n were the popular Name , The Firebrands of Hell were all ligh't from that Flame [ e ] Reformation once tuned , Let Religion but found , When that Kirk Bagpipe plays all the Devils Danc [ e ] room [ worser ] But the Whining Tub Cheat shall no longer go down : No more Kings on Scaffolds , and Slaves on a Throne . V. Let his hot-brain'd Ambition , with his Renegade Loon [ s ] Mount the Son of the People , for Lord of Three Crown [ s ] The Impostor on one hand , and Traitor on t'other , Set up his false Title , as cracked as his Mother . But while Peacock-proud , He struts and talks loud , The Head of the Rabble , and Idol o'th' Crowd ; From his false borrow'd Plumes , & his hope's of a Crow [ n ] To his black Feet below , let th' Aspirer look down . VI . Then let him march on with his Politic Poll , To perch up his Head by old Bradshaw and Noll : While the Desperate Jehu is driving headlong , To visit the Relics of Tommy Armstrong . For there's Vengeance a working , To give him a Jerking , And humble the Pride of the poor little Perkin . Great JAMES his dread Thunder shall th' Idol pull dow [ n ] While our Hands , Hearts , and Swords are all true to tO [ he ] Crow [ n ] June 17. 1685. This may be Printed , R.L.S. London : Printed for Nicholas Wolf , at the Leopard in Newgate-street . 1685. 