H : 25771 THE MONUMENT OF CHARLES THE FIRST , KING OF ENGLAND . Who was beheaded before Whit-Hall January 30th 1648. In the 24th year of his Reign . Mors mihi Lucrum . Virtus post Funera vivit . 'HEre lies great CHARLES , first King of that same name , Englands great glory , Englands lasting fame ; A Butcher'd Martyr King , whose patient mildness , Crowneth himself with Fame , his foes with vildness : A persecuted Saint , for seven years space Pressed down with sorrows , yet held up by Grace ; In whom those Virtues constantly did live , Which to the Worthies lasting fame did give : Patient as Job , and like to Moses , mild , Salomon's wisdom makes him Wisdoms child ; Valiant as David , and the chiefest part Like to Josiah , zeal possessed his hear Faithful in Vows , yet there began the strife , That reav'd him of his Queen , his Crown , his Life : Whose true Effigies drawn by just desert , Causeth him live in each true Subject's hear Living he dy'd , and dying life he gain'd , Death conquer'd him , his foes with shame he stain'd . FINIS . H : 25771 THE MONUMENT OF CHARLES THE FIRST , KING OF ENGLAND . Who was beheaded before Whit-Hall January 30th 1648. In the 24th year of his Reign . Mors mihi Lucrum . Virtus post Funera vivit . 'HEre lies great CHARLES , first King of that same name , Englands great glory , Englands lasting fame ; A Butcher'd Martyr King , whose patient mildness , Crowneth himself with Fame , his foes with vildness : A persecuted Saint , for seven years space Pressed down with sorrows , yet held up by Grace ; In whom those Virtues constantly did live , Which to the Worthies lasting fame did give : Patient as Job , and like to Moses , mild , Salomon's wisdom makes him Wisdoms child ; Valiant as David , and the chiefest part Like to Josiah , zeal possessed his hear Faithful in Vows , yet there began the strife , That reav'd him of his Queen , his Crown , his Life : Whose true Effigies drawn by just desert , Causeth him live in each true Subject's hear Living he dy'd , and dying life he gain'd , Death conquer'd him , his foes with shame he stain'd . FINIS . 