H : 135083 TO HIS GRACE The DUKE of ORMOND , Upon His leaving the Government and King - dom of IRELAND . HAve we a further Trouble yet in store ? And can our Destiny afflict us more ? To loose our Prince we thought too great a blow , And must we loose his glorious Image too ? Ireland for more than thrice seven years has been Envy'd without , for being so blessed within ; While Plague , Fire , Famine , War abroad has reign'd , This only was the safe and happy Land. Which Happiness , Great Sir , to You we owe , Next to the God above , and God below . The Irish Harp , which long abus'd had lain , Your skilful Hand first brought in Tune again . And when some others by our King were sent To play upon the Noble Instrument , Such was their Ignorance , or their Errors such , They prov'd but Foils to your Melodious Touch . Into Your Hands then , which before it grac'd , The Noble Instrument again was plac'd ; On which , a long , soft Tune again You play'd , When jarring Discord did all else invade . And we rejoyc'd to think you wou'd play on ------ But Heav'ns and our King's Will must still be done : We submit humbly to that Sovereign Pow'r , Which can the Bliss it takes away , restore ; More we can't have , nor do we wish for more . Adieu then , much-lov'd Prince ------ ( With mournful Hearts we make this Pray'r for you ) Greatest and Best of Uncrown'd Heads , adieu . And since You must go hence ------ O're you shall fly , a steady Gale of Pray'rs , And under roll and humble Sea of Tears ; All the amends which for Your mighty Toil Can be return'd by a poor Widdow-Isle : Such now , alas ! she is , and ne're till now , That ORMOND's Noble House do's wholly from her go ; Not leaving , to support her fainting Mind , And ARRAN , or and OSSORY behind . May Heav'ns choice Blessings on them all attend ; And bring them to a Calm and Glorious End. Glorious and Calm may all their Passage be ; As was the Hour in which they put to Sea. And landed ; wheresoe're her ORMOND goes , May England dote on him , as Ireland does . To whose Great King , due Homage having done , His Councils Honour'd , and secur'd his Throne ; Let Him Return His VICEROY here again : May Heav'ns and England's Monarch say , Amen . Dublin , Printed by A.C. and S.H. Reprinted at London for Ben. Took , 1685. H : 135083 TO HIS GRACE The DUKE of ORMOND , Upon His leaving the Government and King - dom of IRELAND . HAve we a further Trouble yet in store ? And can our Destiny afflict us more ? To loose our Prince we thought too great a blow , And must we loose his glorious Image too ? Ireland for more than thrice seven years has been Envy'd without , for being so blessed within ; While Plague , Fire , Famine , War abroad has reign'd , This only was the safe and happy Land. Which Happiness , Great Sir , to You we owe , Next to the God above , and God below . The Irish Harp , which long abus'd had lain , Your skilful Hand first brought in Tune again . And when some others by our King were sent To play upon the Noble Instrument , Such was their Ignorance , or their Errors such , They prov'd but Foils to your Melodious Touch . Into Your Hands then , which before it grac'd , The Noble Instrument again was plac'd ; On which , a long , soft Tune again You play'd , When jarring Discord did all else invade . And we rejoyc'd to think you wou'd play on ------ But Heav'ns and our King's Will must still be done : We submit humbly to that Sovereign Pow'r , Which can the Bliss it takes away , restore ; More we can't have , nor do we wish for more . Adieu then , much-lov'd Prince ------ ( With mournful Hearts we make this Pray'r for you ) Greatest and Best of Uncrown'd Heads , adieu . And since You must go hence ------ O're you shall fly , a steady Gale of Pray'rs , And under roll and humble Sea of Tears ; All the amends which for Your mighty Toil Can be return'd by a poor Widdow-Isle : Such now , alas ! she is , and ne're till now , That ORMOND's Noble House do's wholly from her go ; Not leaving , to support her fainting Mind , And ARRAN , or and OSSORY behind . May Heav'ns choice Blessings on them all attend ; And bring them to a Calm and Glorious End. Glorious and Calm may all their Passage be ; As was the Hour in which they put to Sea. And landed ; wheresoe're her ORMOND goes , May England dote on him , as Ireland does . To whose Great King , due Homage having done , His Councils Honour'd , and secur'd his Throne ; Let Him Return His VICEROY here again : May Heav'ns and England's Monarch say , Amen . Dublin , Printed by A.C. and S.H. Reprinted at London for Ben. Took , 1685. 