H : 12523 A good Exhortation to every man what he should do when he goes to bed and when he riseth . To a new Northern tune . AT night lie down prepare to have : thy sleep , thy death , thy bed , thy grave . A rise a wake think that thou has thy life but lent , thy breath a blast . Let not the sluggish sleep , close up thy waking eye : Until with judgement deep , thy daily deeds thou try . He which one sin in conscience keeps , when he to quiet goes : More venturous is then he which sleeps , with twentie mortal foes . Therefore at night call unto mind , [ ? ] the day hast spen [ ? ] if nought amiss thou find , if ought betime repent . And since thy bed a pattern is , of death and fatal hearse : Bedward it shall not be amiss , , thus to record in verse . The stretching arms , the yawning breath , that I to bedward use : Are patterns of the pangs of death , when life must me refuse . The nightly Bell which I hear found , as I am laid in bed : Foreshows the Bell which me to ground , shall ring when I am dead , My bed is like the grave so cold , and sleep which shuts mine eye , Resembles death : Clothes which me fold , declare the moules so dry . The frisking fleas resemble well , the wringling worm to me : Which with me in the grave shall dwell , where I no light shall see . The waking Cock that early crows , to wear the night away : Puts me in mind the trump that blows before the later day . The splendent Sun whose golden ray , no eye can dure to see : Declares how in that dreadful day , God shall appear to me . The rising in the morn likewise , When sleepy night is pas Puts me in mind how I shall rise to judgement at the last . I go to bed as to my grave , God knoweth when I shall wake : But Lord I trust thou wilt me save , and me to mercy take . Thus will I wake , thus will I sleep , thus will I hope to rise : Thus will I neither wail nor weep , but sing in godly wise . Repent , repent you sinners all , and call to God for grace : That he may grant unto us all , in heaven a dwelling place . FINIS . Imprinted at London for Richard Ballard , and are to be sold at Saint Magnus corner . H : 12523 A good Exhortation to every man what he should do when he goes to bed and when he riseth . To a new Northern tune . AT night lie down prepare to have : thy sleep , thy death , thy bed , thy grave . A rise a wake think that thou has thy life but lent , thy breath a blast . Let not the sluggish sleep , close up thy waking eye : Until with judgement deep , thy daily deeds thou try . He which one sin in conscience keeps , when he to quiet goes : More venturous is then he which sleeps , with twentie mortal foes . Therefore at night call unto mind , [ ? ] the day hast spen [ ? ] if nought amiss thou find , if ought betime repent . And since thy bed a pattern is , of death and fatal hearse : Bedward it shall not be amiss , , thus to record in verse . The stretching arms , the yawning breath , that I to bedward use : Are patterns of the pangs of death , when life must me refuse . The nightly Bell which I hear found , as I am laid in bed : Foreshows the Bell which me to ground , shall ring when I am dead , My bed is like the grave so cold , and sleep which shuts mine eye , Resembles death : Clothes which me fold , declare the moules so dry . The frisking fleas resemble well , the wringling worm to me : Which with me in the grave shall dwell , where I no light shall see . The waking Cock that early crows , to wear the night away : Puts me in mind the trump that blows before the later day . The splendent Sun whose golden ray , no eye can dure to see : Declares how in that dreadful day , God shall appear to me . The rising in the morn likewise , When sleepy night is pas Puts me in mind how I shall rise to judgement at the last . I go to bed as to my grave , God knoweth when I shall wake : But Lord I trust thou wilt me save , and me to mercy take . Thus will I wake , thus will I sleep , thus will I hope to rise : Thus will I neither wail nor weep , but sing in godly wise . Repent , repent you sinners all , and call to God for grace : That he may grant unto us all , in heaven a dwelling place . FINIS . Imprinted at London for Richard Ballard , and are to be sold at Saint Magnus corner . 