H : 71904 THE PARLIAMENTS Thanks to The City : For their kind compliance with them in all their Treasons from time to time committed against His Majesties Honour , Crown and Dignity . DEDICATED To the Loyal and treacherous Citizens : the valiant and cowardly Citizens ; the wise and foolish Citizens ; the wealthy and poor Citizens ; the square and Roundheaded Citizens ; the honoured , and the Horn - ed Citizens . BY Mercurius Melancholicus : YOu Loyal Citizens , I call you as you were , In times of old till now , For many a hundred year . What is the reason now you are Disloyal grown , And have forsaken quite The Royal English Crown ? You Treacherous Citizens , I call you , as you are , How comes it so to pass that you with Judas share ? Blot out your Dagger now your Arms their chiefest grace ; Jack Straw in stead shall put his Thatching-Knife in place . You Valiant Citizens , I call you , as you were , Time out of mind , until this present Conquering year : It pities me to see how heartless you are grown , That dare not budge nor stir for to preserve your own . You cowardly Citizens , I call you as you are , Our misery's they increase , be sure you shall have share : How beardless boys do tread , ( the world will laugh to see ) Your honour in the dust , with shame and Obloquy . You wise grave Citizens , I call you as you were , While you your selves maintain'd your Privileges clear : My heart does burst to see your King , your Laws , your Rights , Abus'd , infring'd , o'rethrowne all by your oversights . You foolish Citizens , I call you , as you are , Of Goods , of Rights , of Lives , you shall be stripped bore ; Where are your eyes become ? you cannot see at all How near you are unto a lamentable fallen . You wealthy Citizens , I call you as you were , Whil'st in protection you were of your Sovereign deer : But now the case is alter'd the clean contrary way , Your Riches are become the plundering Soldiers prey . You poor base Citizens , I call you as you are , In what a case are you ? how mean , how vile , how bore ? What you yourselves have god , nor you , nor yours enjoy . Dam it's mine will swear some upstart Soldiers boy . The second Part. To the same Tune . Square-headed Citizens , I call you as you were , Whil'st you the helm of Justice most equally did steer , But now your giddy heads have turn'd you all so round , Of Law , or of Relig [ i ] on we can have nothing found . Roundheaded Citizens , I call you as you are , For by your orbed forms , You put all out of square : The Kingdom quite undone , your selves shall not escape , Expect no further bliss , but Murder , Theft and Rape . You honoured Citizens . I call you as you were , Whil'st you reserv'd a strength , to keep your selves from fear ; But all your Hold's are lost , by your grave wisdoms pates , If you your Houses keep , It's more then is your fates . You horned Citizens , I call you as you are , What cockolds could endure Corrivals thus to share ? Content I do confess , It is a Wittals part , Let nothing I have said , pray strike you to the heart . Farewell kind Citizens , all things but Horns are deer , And no one may we thank but you , for this same gear . A Challenge From KENT , And the Counties of Surrey , Sussex , Essex and Hertfordshire ; TO The City of LONDON , for her treachery ready to be undone . TAme , cowardly , Kuckold - lie Citizens ; that for your Treachery and Disloyalty are grown shameless be - before men ; perjur'd before God , Traitors to your King ; Robbers and murderers to your Country ; a Reproach to your Religion , a di - shonour to your Nation , and a hissing to the whole World ; the chief Protectors , upholders , and Abbetors of Traitors , Murderers , Thieves , and Schismatics ; and a Paymaster unto them that are oh - for head and ears in Blood , Tyranny Rapine and Oppression ; That have made London ( once the Phoenix of the world , that burn'd in Loyal flames to Sovereignty , till it re - new'd it's Honour with it's Age , and its Prosperity with its Peace ; a City at unity with itself , that fear'd God , honoured the King , were obedi - ently governed by his Laws , and became Rich and happy in all bles - sings whatsoever ; ) Till you with the superfluity of your Money - bags have waged Traitors in Rebellion against your lawful King , to the undoing of all the Kingdom ; turned your City ( once the Paragon of Beauty , ) into the Pat - tern of Deformity ; your Phoenix into and Owl , to be whooted at by all Nations , and made the crown and Pride of England , ( by your treache - ry ) to be the Scarecrow , and scorn of the world . we the long abused People of England , that now justly take up Arms to redeem our King , Re - ligion , Laws and Liberties of the Subject from the Tyranny and are - bytrary cruelties of a Factious and overawing Prvalent Party ; Will and require you the Citizens of London ( as you will recover your crack'd credits ) to do the like with all convenient speed ; Else we shall do our utmost to stop all Provisions from coming to your City ; and use the uttermost of our endeavours to reduce both you and your City to the Obedience of his Majesty , and all criminaries what - soever to the trial of the known Laws of the Land. God save the King . FINIS . Printed in the Year , when the city stinks for fear . 1648. H : 71904 THE PARLIAMENTS Thanks to The City : For their kind compliance with them in all their Treasons from time to time committed against His Majesties Honour , Crown and Dignity . DEDICATED To the Loyal and treacherous Citizens : the valiant and cowardly Citizens ; the wise and foolish Citizens ; the wealthy and poor Citizens ; the square and Roundheaded Citizens ; the honoured , and the Horn - ed Citizens . BY Mercurius Melancholicus : YOu Loyal Citizens , I call you as you were , In times of old till now , For many a hundred year . What is the reason now you are Disloyal grown , And have forsaken quite The Royal English Crown ? You Treacherous Citizens , I call you , as you are , How comes it so to pass that you with Judas share ? Blot out your Dagger now your Arms their chiefest grace ; Jack Straw in stead shall put his Thatching-Knife in place . You Valiant Citizens , I call you , as you were , Time out of mind , until this present Conquering year : It pities me to see how heartless you are grown , That dare not budge nor stir for to preserve your own . You cowardly Citizens , I call you as you are , Our misery's they increase , be sure you shall have share : How beardless boys do tread , ( the world will laugh to see ) Your honour in the dust , with shame and Obloquy . You wise grave Citizens , I call you as you were , While you your selves maintain'd your Privileges clear : My heart does burst to see your King , your Laws , your Rights , Abus'd , infring'd , o'rethrowne all by your oversights . You foolish Citizens , I call you , as you are , Of Goods , of Rights , of Lives , you shall be stripped bore ; Where are your eyes become ? you cannot see at all How near you are unto a lamentable fallen . You wealthy Citizens , I call you as you were , Whil'st in protection you were of your Sovereign deer : But now the case is alter'd the clean contrary way , Your Riches are become the plundering Soldiers prey . You poor base Citizens , I call you as you are , In what a case are you ? how mean , how vile , how bore ? What you yourselves have god , nor you , nor yours enjoy . Dam it's mine will swear some upstart Soldiers boy . The second Part. To the same Tune . Square-headed Citizens , I call you as you were , Whil'st you the helm of Justice most equally did steer , But now your giddy heads have turn'd you all so round , Of Law , or of Relig [ i ] on we can have nothing found . Roundheaded Citizens , I call you as you are , For by your orbed forms , You put all out of square : The Kingdom quite undone , your selves shall not escape , Expect no further bliss , but Murder , Theft and Rape . You honoured Citizens . I call you as you were , Whil'st you reserv'd a strength , to keep your selves from fear ; But all your Hold's are lost , by your grave wisdoms pates , If you your Houses keep , It's more then is your fates . You horned Citizens , I call you as you are , What cockolds could endure Corrivals thus to share ? Content I do confess , It is a Wittals part , Let nothing I have said , pray strike you to the heart . Farewell kind Citizens , all things but Horns are deer , And no one may we thank but you , for this same gear . A Challenge From KENT , And the Counties of Surrey , Sussex , Essex and Hertfordshire ; TO The City of LONDON , for her treachery ready to be undone . TAme , cowardly , Kuckold - lie Citizens ; that for your Treachery and Disloyalty are grown shameless be - before men ; perjur'd before God , Traitors to your King ; Robbers and murderers to your Country ; a Reproach to your Religion , a di - shonour to your Nation , and a hissing to the whole World ; the chief Protectors , upholders , and Abbetors of Traitors , Murderers , Thieves , and Schismatics ; and a Paymaster unto them that are oh - for head and ears in Blood , Tyranny Rapine and Oppression ; That have made London ( once the Phoenix of the world , that burn'd in Loyal flames to Sovereignty , till it re - new'd it's Honour with it's Age , and its Prosperity with its Peace ; a City at unity with itself , that fear'd God , honoured the King , were obedi - ently governed by his Laws , and became Rich and happy in all bles - sings whatsoever ; ) Till you with the superfluity of your Money - bags have waged Traitors in Rebellion against your lawful King , to the undoing of all the Kingdom ; turned your City ( once the Paragon of Beauty , ) into the Pat - tern of Deformity ; your Phoenix into and Owl , to be whooted at by all Nations , and made the crown and Pride of England , ( by your treache - ry ) to be the Scarecrow , and scorn of the world . we the long abused People of England , that now justly take up Arms to redeem our King , Re - ligion , Laws and Liberties of the Subject from the Tyranny and are - bytrary cruelties of a Factious and overawing Prvalent Party ; Will and require you the Citizens of London ( as you will recover your crack'd credits ) to do the like with all convenient speed ; Else we shall do our utmost to stop all Provisions from coming to your City ; and use the uttermost of our endeavours to reduce both you and your City to the Obedience of his Majesty , and all criminaries what - soever to the trial of the known Laws of the Land. God save the King . FINIS . Printed in the Year , when the city stinks for fear . 1648. H : 71904 THE PARLIAMENTS Thanks to The City : For their kind compliance with them in all their Treasons from time to time committed against His Majesties Honour , Crown and Dignity . DEDICATED To the Loyal and treacherous Citizens : the valiant and cowardly Citizens ; the wise and foolish Citizens ; the wealthy and poor Citizens ; the square and Roundheaded Citizens ; the honoured , and the Horn - ed Citizens . BY Mercurius Melancholicus : YOu Loyal Citizens , I call you as you were , In times of old till now , For many a hundred year . What is the reason now you are Disloyal grown , And have forsaken quite The Royal English Crown ? You Treacherous Citizens , I call you , as you are , How comes it so to pass that you with Judas share ? Blot out your Dagger now your Arms their chiefest grace ; Jack Straw in stead shall put his Thatching-Knife in place . You Valiant Citizens , I call you , as you were , Time out of mind , until this present Conquering year : It pities me to see how heartless you are grown , That dare not budge nor stir for to preserve your own . You cowardly Citizens , I call you as you are , Our misery's they increase , be sure you shall have share : How beardless boys do tread , ( the world will laugh to see ) Your honour in the dust , with shame and Obloquy . You wise grave Citizens , I call you as you were , While you your selves maintain'd your Privileges clear : My heart does burst to see your King , your Laws , your Rights , Abus'd , infring'd , o'rethrowne all by your oversights . You foolish Citizens , I call you , as you are , Of Goods , of Rights , of Lives , you shall be stripped bore ; Where are your eyes become ? you cannot see at all How near you are unto a lamentable fallen . You wealthy Citizens , I call you as you were , Whil'st in protection you were of your Sovereign deer : But now the case is alter'd the clean contrary way , Your Riches are become the plundering Soldiers prey . You poor base Citizens , I call you as you are , In what a case are you ? how mean , how vile , how bore ? What you yourselves have god , nor you , nor yours enjoy . Dam it's mine will swear some upstart Soldiers boy . The second Part. To the same Tune . Square-headed Citizens , I call you as you were , Whil'st you the helm of Justice most equally did steer , But now your giddy heads have turn'd you all so round , Of Law , or of Relig [ i ] on we can have nothing found . Roundheaded Citizens , I call you as you are , For by your orbed forms , You put all out of square : The Kingdom quite undone , your selves shall not escape , Expect no further bliss , but Murder , Theft and Rape . You honoured Citizens . I call you as you were , Whil'st you reserv'd a strength , to keep your selves from fear ; But all your Hold's are lost , by your grave wisdoms pates , If you your Houses keep , It's more then is your fates . You horned Citizens , I call you as you are , What cockolds could endure Corrivals thus to share ? Content I do confess , It is a Wittals part , Let nothing I have said , pray strike you to the heart . Farewell kind Citizens , all things but Horns are deer , And no one may we thank but you , for this same gear . A Challenge From KENT , And the Counties of Surrey , Sussex , Essex and Hertfordshire ; TO The City of LONDON , for her treachery ready to be undone . TAme , cowardly , Kuckold - lie Citizens ; that for your Treachery and Disloyalty are grown shameless be - before men ; perjur'd before God , Traitors to your King ; Robbers and murderers to your Country ; a Reproach to your Religion , a di - shonour to your Nation , and a hissing to the whole World ; the chief Protectors , upholders , and Abbetors of Traitors , Murderers , Thieves , and Schismatics ; and a Paymaster unto them that are oh - for head and ears in Blood , Tyranny Rapine and Oppression ; That have made London ( once the Phoenix of the world , that burn'd in Loyal flames to Sovereignty , till it re - new'd it's Honour with it's Age , and its Prosperity with its Peace ; a City at unity with itself , that fear'd God , honoured the King , were obedi - ently governed by his Laws , and became Rich and happy in all bles - sings whatsoever ; ) Till you with the superfluity of your Money - bags have waged Traitors in Rebellion against your lawful King , to the undoing of all the Kingdom ; turned your City ( once the Paragon of Beauty , ) into the Pat - tern of Deformity ; your Phoenix into and Owl , to be whooted at by all Nations , and made the crown and Pride of England , ( by your treache - ry ) to be the Scarecrow , and scorn of the world . we the long abused People of England , that now justly take up Arms to redeem our King , Re - ligion , Laws and Liberties of the Subject from the Tyranny and are - bytrary cruelties of a Factious and overawing Prvalent Party ; Will and require you the Citizens of London ( as you will recover your crack'd credits ) to do the like with all convenient speed ; Else we shall do our utmost to stop all Provisions from coming to your City ; and use the uttermost of our endeavours to reduce both you and your City to the Obedience of his Majesty , and all criminaries what - soever to the trial of the known Laws of the Land. God save the King . FINIS . Printed in the Year , when the city stinks for fear . 1648. H : 71904 THE PARLIAMENTS Thanks to The City : For their kind compliance with them in all their Treasons from time to time committed against His Majesties Honour , Crown and Dignity . DEDICATED To the Loyal and treacherous Citizens : the valiant and cowardly Citizens ; the wise and foolish Citizens ; the wealthy and poor Citizens ; the square and Roundheaded Citizens ; the honoured , and the Horn - ed Citizens . BY Mercurius Melancholicus : YOu Loyal Citizens , I call you as you were , In times of old till now , For many a hundred year . What is the reason now you are Disloyal grown , And have forsaken quite The Royal English Crown ? You Treacherous Citizens , I call you , as you are , How comes it so to pass that you with Judas share ? Blot out your Dagger now your Arms their chiefest grace ; Jack Straw in stead shall put his Thatching-Knife in place . You Valiant Citizens , I call you , as you were , Time out of mind , until this present Conquering year : It pities me to see how heartless you are grown , That dare not budge nor stir for to preserve your own . You cowardly Citizens , I call you as you are , Our misery's they increase , be sure you shall have share : How beardless boys do tread , ( the world will laugh to see ) Your honour in the dust , with shame and Obloquy . You wise grave Citizens , I call you as you were , While you your selves maintain'd your Privileges clear : My heart does burst to see your King , your Laws , your Rights , Abus'd , infring'd , o'rethrowne all by your oversights . You foolish Citizens , I call you , as you are , Of Goods , of Rights , of Lives , you shall be stripped bore ; Where are your eyes become ? you cannot see at all How near you are unto a lamentable fallen . You wealthy Citizens , I call you as you were , Whil'st in protection you were of your Sovereign deer : But now the case is alter'd the clean contrary way , Your Riches are become the plundering Soldiers prey . You poor base Citizens , I call you as you are , In what a case are you ? how mean , how vile , how bore ? What you yourselves have god , nor you , nor yours enjoy . Dam it's mine will swear some upstart Soldiers boy . The second Part. To the same Tune . Square-headed Citizens , I call you as you were , Whil'st you the helm of Justice most equally did steer , But now your giddy heads have turn'd you all so round , Of Law , or of Relig [ i ] on we can have nothing found . Roundheaded Citizens , I call you as you are , For by your orbed forms , You put all out of square : The Kingdom quite undone , your selves shall not escape , Expect no further bliss , but Murder , Theft and Rape . You honoured Citizens . I call you as you were , Whil'st you reserv'd a strength , to keep your selves from fear ; But all your Hold's are lost , by your grave wisdoms pates , If you your Houses keep , It's more then is your fates . You horned Citizens , I call you as you are , What cockolds could endure Corrivals thus to share ? Content I do confess , It is a Wittals part , Let nothing I have said , pray strike you to the heart . Farewell kind Citizens , all things but Horns are deer , And no one may we thank but you , for this same gear . A Challenge From KENT , And the Counties of Surrey , Sussex , Essex and Hertfordshire ; TO The City of LONDON , for her treachery ready to be undone . TAme , cowardly , Kuckold - lie Citizens ; that for your Treachery and Disloyalty are grown shameless be - before men ; perjur'd before God , Traitors to your King ; Robbers and murderers to your Country ; a Reproach to your Religion , a di - shonour to your Nation , and a hissing to the whole World ; the chief Protectors , upholders , and Abbetors of Traitors , Murderers , Thieves , and Schismatics ; and a Paymaster unto them that are oh - for head and ears in Blood , Tyranny Rapine and Oppression ; That have made London ( once the Phoenix of the world , that burn'd in Loyal flames to Sovereignty , till it re - new'd it's Honour with it's Age , and its Prosperity with its Peace ; a City at unity with itself , that fear'd God , honoured the King , were obedi - ently governed by his Laws , and became Rich and happy in all bles - sings whatsoever ; ) Till you with the superfluity of your Money - bags have waged Traitors in Rebellion against your lawful King , to the undoing of all the Kingdom ; turned your City ( once the Paragon of Beauty , ) into the Pat - tern of Deformity ; your Phoenix into and Owl , to be whooted at by all Nations , and made the crown and Pride of England , ( by your treache - ry ) to be the Scarecrow , and scorn of the world . we the long abused People of England , that now justly take up Arms to redeem our King , Re - ligion , Laws and Liberties of the Subject from the Tyranny and are - bytrary cruelties of a Factious and overawing Prvalent Party ; Will and require you the Citizens of London ( as you will recover your crack'd credits ) to do the like with all convenient speed ; Else we shall do our utmost to stop all Provisions from coming to your City ; and use the uttermost of our endeavours to reduce both you and your City to the Obedience of his Majesty , and all criminaries what - soever to the trial of the known Laws of the Land. God save the King . FINIS . Printed in the Year , when the city stinks for fear . 1648. 