H : 70470 A COPY OF VERSES Made by that Reverend Man of God Mr. John Wilson , Pastor to the first Church in Boston ; On the sudden Death of MR. Joseph Brisco , Who was translated from Earth to Heaven Jan. 1. 1657. Not by a Fiery Chariot as Elisha was , But by the Water , which was the outward cause : And now at Rest with Christ his Saviour dear , Though he hath left his dear Relations here . Joseph Briscoe Job cries hope's . Anagram . THere is no Job but cries to God and hope's , And God his ear in Christ ; to cries he opens , Out of the deeps to him I cry'd and hop'd , And unto me his gracious ear is op'd : Doubt not of this you that my death bewail , What if it did so strangely me assail : What if I was so soon in Waters drown'd , And when I cry'd to men , no help I found : There was a God in Heaven that herd my cry ; And looked upon me with a gracious eye : He that did pity Joseph in his grief , Sent from above unto my soul relief : He sent his Angels who did it convey Into his Bosom , where poor Laz'rus lay : Let none presume to censure my estate , As Job his Friends did stumble at his Fate . All things on Earth do fallen alike to all , To good Disciples , which on God that call ; To those that do Blaspheme his Holy Name , And unto those that reverence the same : He that from nature drew me unto Grace , And look'd upon me with a Father's face : When in my blood upheld me to the last , And now I do of joys eternal taste . Remember how Job's precious children Dy'd , As also what the Prophet did betide : Jonah What was the end of good Josiah's life , And how it fared with Ezekiel's Wife : Remember what a Death it was that Christ ( Suffered for me ) the Darling of the highest ; His Death of Death's hath quite remov'd the sting , No matter how or where the Lord does bring Us to our end , in Christ who live and die And sure to live with Christ eternally . 'H : 70470 A COPY OF VERSES Made by that Reverend Man of God Mr. John Wilson , Pastor to the first Church in Boston ; On the sudden Death of MR. Joseph Brisco , Who was translated from Earth to Heaven Jan. 1. 1657. Not by a Fiery Chariot as Elisha was , But by the Water , which was the outward cause : And now at Rest with Christ his Saviour dear , Though he hath left his dear Relations here . Joseph Briscoe Job cries hope's . Anagram . THere is no Job but cries to God and hope's , And God his ear in Christ ; to cries he opens , Out of the deeps to him I cry'd and hop'd , And unto me his gracious ear is op'd : Doubt not of this you that my death bewail , What if it did so strangely me assail : What if I was so soon in Waters drown'd , And when I cry'd to men , no help I found : There was a God in Heaven that herd my cry ; And looked upon me with a gracious eye : He that did pity Joseph in his grief , Sent from above unto my soul relief : He sent his Angels who did it convey Into his Bosom , where poor Laz'rus lay : Let none presume to censure my estate , As Job his Friends did stumble at his Fate . All things on Earth do fallen alike to all , To good Disciples , which on God that call ; To those that do Blaspheme his Holy Name , And unto those that reverence the same : He that from nature drew me unto Grace , And look'd upon me with a Father's face : When in my blood upheld me to the last , And now I do of joys eternal taste . Remember how Job's precious children Dy'd , As also what the Prophet did betide : Jonah What was the end of good Josiah's life , And how it fared with Ezekiel's Wife : Remember what a Death it was that Christ ( Suffered for me ) the Darling of the highest ; His Death of Death's hath quite remov'd the sting , No matter how or where the Lord does bring Us to our end , in Christ who live and die And sure to live with Christ eternally . ' 