H : 70469 INNOCENCY's COMPLAINT AGAINST Tyrannical Court Faction in Newengland . THE Priests and Elders that pernicious Seed Of Rebel Jews , as we in Scripture read , Opposing Christ , did with Consent prepare A Law to trap him , and his life ensnare : Upon the Trial , he does make demand , What Precept he hath broke , or just Command ? For want of Crime , the Jews make this Reply , We have a Law , and by it thou shalt die : A cursed Sentence , and to be abhor'd , Imbrac'd by none , but Murderers of the Lord . The making Laws for to ensnare the Just , Of God is hated , and to be accursed . They murdered Christ , regarding not his loss , Nor 'swag'd their Malice , tho' he on the Cross , But then proceed against his own Elect , By Means preposterous and indirect ; Nay , ever since , the Wicked in their Rage , Have murdered Righteous Men in every Age : But Innocency , that no Ill does fear , Hath worn out Tyrants wrath , do what they dare . This Time , with sober Men does seem to be A Parallel with the Apostasy . The Massachusetts is alike for Crime , Unto Judea , in Christ Jesus' Time : Here Laws are extant , that does terrify Well meaning Men , and Liberty deny In serving God , except in their own way , In their own Method , and on their made Day . Here Innocents are fined , whipped , and branded , Ears cropped , some sold for Slaves , some slashed , some hanged ; Whoever is contrary to them found , Though in his Spirit their Fine must be Five Pound , Or else three Days in Goal , e'er a discharge , And with a ten lashed whipping be enlarg'd : Such Cruelty forbore in other Parts , Does now possess American's brutish Hearts . Lament , Newengland , like a tender Mother ! To see thy Children one destroy another : The humblest sort , and none but such as they , Unto the fiery Zealous are a Prey : Those that in Conscience cannot wrong a Worm , Are fined and whipped , because they can't conform ; And time hath been , which ne'er shall be forgotten , God's Servants have been hang'd , none knows for what , Except for serving of their blessed Lord , For Quaking and for Trembling at his Word . Let those black Days , like the fifth of November , Be writ in Read , for Ages to Remember . And thou , July , forbear thy round delays , Instead of Mirth , let Mourning end thy Days . Twelve Innocents , without e'er Gilded or Crime , With cruel Whips were scourged at one time ; And six Days after , fifteen more by Force , Were like the first twelve , beaten without Remorse . Seven tender Women , young and old , were stripped , All naked to the Waist , and cruelly whipped . Immodest Actium ! greatest Wrong with Shame , Which never will be clear of Gilded or Blame : And twenty Men , well bred , of good Descent , Fit for Assistan [ ce ] to their Government , Each of such good Report and high Repute , Their Foes could not accuse them , but were mute , Only a Law unjust forbid their meeting To serve the Lord , and Whips must be their Greeting . Admire , Oh Heavens ! be Earth astonished At this profuse Expense of guiltless Blood ! In such a Case where nothing is concern'd But a Religion , they in Scripture learn'd ; Christ's own Command , the Apostle's Approbation , All good Men's Care , our wise Kings Toleration . Why should Men's Liberties be thus abridg'd , And Conscience hinder'd in what's privileg'd ? Why should a petty Government constrain Men to What Acts of Parliament does scorn to do ? CHARLES is not forgotten , that bloody Spirit Does in their angry Humours still inherit . among the Heathens , Turks , and Catholics , Are no such cruel and unchristian Tricks . Had they complied with a wicked Law , And of a whipping stood in common Awe , Five Pounds their tender Backs had saved , so They had been free'd from Stripes , to stay or go ; Nay , were they criminal , enlarged they had been , Newengland's Law admits of buying since : But for obedient Service to their God , Thus to be beaten with the scourging Rod . And from their Meetings to be dragged off , By merciless Men , and made a common Scoff , To Ishmael's Raze , and unto Prison sent , Cain may his Purpose on meek Abel vent , It is so ridiculous , and such a snare , All wise and sober Men a Judgement fear . Their Blood does cry , and loud for Vengeance call , Though they do heartily forgive them all . Regard , Oh Lord ! thou powerful God of Host , The Goal , the Gallows , and the whipping Post ! Repeal those wicked and pernicious Laws , That Innocents be not destroy'd without a Cause , And grant such Rulers as may be devout For Christ and Saints , and turn the other out . George Joy , Mariner . 1677. H : 70469 INNOCENCY's COMPLAINT AGAINST Tyrannical Court Faction in Newengland . THE Priests and Elders that pernicious Seed Of Rebel Jews , as we in Scripture read , Opposing Christ , did with Consent prepare A Law to trap him , and his life ensnare : Upon the Trial , he does make demand , What Precept he hath broke , or just Command ? For want of Crime , the Jews make this Reply , We have a Law , and by it thou shalt die : A cursed Sentence , and to be abhor'd , Imbrac'd by none , but Murderers of the Lord . The making Laws for to ensnare the Just , Of God is hated , and to be accursed . They murdered Christ , regarding not his loss , Nor 'swag'd their Malice , tho' he on the Cross , But then proceed against his own Elect , By Means preposterous and indirect ; Nay , ever since , the Wicked in their Rage , Have murdered Righteous Men in every Age : But Innocency , that no Ill does fear , Hath worn out Tyrants wrath , do what they dare . This Time , with sober Men does seem to be A Parallel with the Apostasy . The Massachusetts is alike for Crime , Unto Judea , in Christ Jesus' Time : Here Laws are extant , that does terrify Well meaning Men , and Liberty deny In serving God , except in their own way , In their own Method , and on their made Day . Here Innocents are fined , whipped , and branded , Ears cropped , some sold for Slaves , some slashed , some hanged ; Whoever is contrary to them found , Though in his Spirit their Fine must be Five Pound , Or else three Days in Goal , e'er a discharge , And with a ten lashed whipping be enlarg'd : Such Cruelty forbore in other Parts , Does now possess American's brutish Hearts . Lament , Newengland , like a tender Mother ! To see thy Children one destroy another : The humblest sort , and none but such as they , Unto the fiery Zealous are a Prey : Those that in Conscience cannot wrong a Worm , Are fined and whipped , because they can't conform ; And time hath been , which ne'er shall be forgotten , God's Servants have been hang'd , none knows for what , Except for serving of their blessed Lord , For Quaking and for Trembling at his Word . Let those black Days , like the fifth of November , Be writ in Read , for Ages to Remember . And thou , July , forbear thy round delays , Instead of Mirth , let Mourning end thy Days . Twelve Innocents , without e'er Gilded or Crime , With cruel Whips were scourged at one time ; And six Days after , fifteen more by Force , Were like the first twelve , beaten without Remorse . Seven tender Women , young and old , were stripped , All naked to the Waist , and cruelly whipped . Immodest Actium ! greatest Wrong with Shame , Which never will be clear of Gilded or Blame : And twenty Men , well bred , of good Descent , Fit for Assistan [ ce ] to their Government , Each of such good Report and high Repute , Their Foes could not accuse them , but were mute , Only a Law unjust forbid their meeting To serve the Lord , and Whips must be their Greeting . Admire , Oh Heavens ! be Earth astonished At this profuse Expense of guiltless Blood ! In such a Case where nothing is concern'd But a Religion , they in Scripture learn'd ; Christ's own Command , the Apostle's Approbation , All good Men's Care , our wise Kings Toleration . Why should Men's Liberties be thus abridg'd , And Conscience hinder'd in what's privileg'd ? Why should a petty Government constrain Men to What Acts of Parliament does scorn to do ? CHARLES is not forgotten , that bloody Spirit Does in their angry Humours still inherit . among the Heathens , Turks , and Catholics , Are no such cruel and unchristian Tricks . Had they complied with a wicked Law , And of a whipping stood in common Awe , Five Pounds their tender Backs had saved , so They had been free'd from Stripes , to stay or go ; Nay , were they criminal , enlarged they had been , Newengland's Law admits of buying since : But for obedient Service to their God , Thus to be beaten with the scourging Rod . And from their Meetings to be dragged off , By merciless Men , and made a common Scoff , To Ishmael's Raze , and unto Prison sent , Cain may his Purpose on meek Abel vent , It is so ridiculous , and such a snare , All wise and sober Men a Judgement fear . Their Blood does cry , and loud for Vengeance call , Though they do heartily forgive them all . Regard , Oh Lord ! thou powerful God of Host , The Goal , the Gallows , and the whipping Post ! Repeal those wicked and pernicious Laws , That Innocents be not destroy'd without a Cause , And grant such Rulers as may be devout For Christ and Saints , and turn the other out . George Joy , Mariner . 1677. 