H : 88884 AND ELEGY Upon the Death of that WORTHY GENTLEMAN Colonel Edward Cook Who departed this Life the 29th . of January . 1683 4. 'TIS Virtue which alone supports the whole , For without that the World's without a Soul , Most certain then , as that grows faint and weak , Th' eternal Chain decays ; at last must break : When great Cook fell the Jarring Links did twang , And Nature sigh'd as if she felt the Pang : Nor is it strange , --- for Virtue was his guide , With him it flourish'd , and with him it dy'd ; Not all --- some Lagging Atoms yet remain , To guard Mankind , and prop the sinking Frame . In War he was nurs'd up , Arms his delight ; Gentle in Peace , and Terrible in Figh Death he had seen in various shapes , but none Cou'd move him to be fearful of his own : Nor did old Age abate the Martial Flame , 'Twas always great , and always was the same . His Charity did equally extend To cherish the distress'd and serve his Friend . When he did good ( and who his Life surveys , Will find he did delight in't all his Days . ) 'Twas for the sake of good , and not for Praise . Great though he was , yet he was lowly too ; Meekness gains more repute than Pride can do . Restless Ambition ne're his Thoughts employ'd ; Peace and Content he sought , and those enjoy'd . Virtue he priz'd , though 'twere in Rags enshrin'd ; He look't not on the Person but the Mind . His Judgement was unbiased , firm and strong , His Conversation pleasant , gay and young ; But then his Mirth was still from folly free , And such as Nuns without a blush might be . And , as when Tigers range the Woods for Prey , And chance to meet a Lion in their way , Straight they forget their rage , and learned t' obey ; So Atheous men , though they blasphem'd before , Aw'd with his presence , blush't and said no more : For Piety was still his constant Guest , And found its full Perfection in his Breast . Such was his Life --- and now his Death we'll show , His Death , the greater wonder of the two ! For when the fatal Pangs were drawing on , And the last Sands were eager to be gone , When all his Friends lay drown'd in Tears of Grief , Wishing , but yet despairing of Relief ; Ev'n he alone his Change with Patience boar , Like all the Changes of his Life before ; And with a Cheerfulness too great to tell , A Cheerfulness that does all thought excel , At his last gasp he cry'd , I'me well ! I'me well ! Then dy'd , easy as Infants drop asleep ; Wit , Virtue , Valour , for your Darling weep ! O Pity , Pity that some abler Quill Had not perform'd his Praise with greater skill ; And in a happy , high , immortal strain , Preserv'd his Virtues sacred with his Name ; That Fame to late Posterity might tell , No Hero ever liv'd and dy'd so well . The END . H : 88884 AND ELEGY Upon the Death of that WORTHY GENTLEMAN Colonel Edward Cook Who departed this Life the 29th . of January . 1683 4. 'TIS Virtue which alone supports the whole , For without that the World's without a Soul , Most certain then , as that grows faint and weak , Th' eternal Chain decays ; at last must break : When great Cook fell the Jarring Links did twang , And Nature sigh'd as if she felt the Pang : Nor is it strange , --- for Virtue was his guide , With him it flourish'd , and with him it dy'd ; Not all --- some Lagging Atoms yet remain , To guard Mankind , and prop the sinking Frame . In War he was nurs'd up , Arms his delight ; Gentle in Peace , and Terrible in Figh Death he had seen in various shapes , but none Cou'd move him to be fearful of his own : Nor did old Age abate the Martial Flame , 'Twas always great , and always was the same . His Charity did equally extend To cherish the distress'd and serve his Friend . When he did good ( and who his Life surveys , Will find he did delight in't all his Days . ) 'Twas for the sake of good , and not for Praise . Great though he was , yet he was lowly too ; Meekness gains more repute than Pride can do . Restless Ambition ne're his Thoughts employ'd ; Peace and Content he sought , and those enjoy'd . Virtue he priz'd , though 'twere in Rags enshrin'd ; He look't not on the Person but the Mind . His Judgement was unbiased , firm and strong , His Conversation pleasant , gay and young ; But then his Mirth was still from folly free , And such as Nuns without a blush might be . And , as when Tigers range the Woods for Prey , And chance to meet a Lion in their way , Straight they forget their rage , and learned t' obey ; So Atheous men , though they blasphem'd before , Aw'd with his presence , blush't and said no more : For Piety was still his constant Guest , And found its full Perfection in his Breast . Such was his Life --- and now his Death we'll show , His Death , the greater wonder of the two ! For when the fatal Pangs were drawing on , And the last Sands were eager to be gone , When all his Friends lay drown'd in Tears of Grief , Wishing , but yet despairing of Relief ; Ev'n he alone his Change with Patience boar , Like all the Changes of his Life before ; And with a Cheerfulness too great to tell , A Cheerfulness that does all thought excel , At his last gasp he cry'd , I'me well ! I'me well ! Then dy'd , easy as Infants drop asleep ; Wit , Virtue , Valour , for your Darling weep ! O Pity , Pity that some abler Quill Had not perform'd his Praise with greater skill ; And in a happy , high , immortal strain , Preserv'd his Virtues sacred with his Name ; That Fame to late Posterity might tell , No Hero ever liv'd and dy'd so well . The END . 