H : 84074 AND ELEGY Upon the Most Illustrious and High Born PRINCE RUPERT Duke of Cumberland , etc One of His Majesties Most Honourable Privy-Council , and one of the Most Honourable Order of the Garter , Son of the Most Illustrious Prince Frederick the 5th , Prince Elector Palatine of the Rhine , and the Highborn Princess the Lady Elizabeth , Sister to our late Sovereign of Blessed Memory , King Charles the first , and Queen of Bohemia , who Deceased on the 29th of this Instant November , 1682. to the great grief of all His Majesties Loyal Subject's . CAN a great Hero's Soul and Body part , And not foreshown by Nature , nor by Art ! Can the Great Princely RUPERT leave the World , And no part of't into disorder hurl'd ! No Blazing-Star ! Eclipse of Moon nor Sun To usher his depart , or's Death forerun ! Methinks it should not be ! A Soul so Great , A Soul so Noble , every way complete , Should leave us thus in silence , and depart , And Nature show us that she felt no smart ! In what parts busied were our Merlin's Eyes ? Had our Great Prince no Star within the Skies , That could before hand the effect relate , To have prepar'd us for so sad a fate ? From all his Warlike toils he now does cease , He's gone , alas ! and left us all in Peace : Like other Men he silently does sleep , And left Three Kingdoms the sad loss to weep . From Earth below , to Heaven above he's gone , For the Reward of his Great Actions done , For our Two Kings , the Father and the Son. He gains by Death , the World alone hath lost , Europe will miss him , but sad England most . A Mighty Pillar of the State is broke , Three Kingdoms seem to tremble at the stroke : And all who love the King and Kingdom , now , For such a loss no small concern will show . With a sad Heart the King does entertain The heavy news , and can't from tears refrain ; For RUPERT lay nigh to His Royal Heart , And of His Love deserv'd no little par But this Great Prince , what is obtain'd by few , Had both the Love of King and People too . Of others his great merits god the start , Compelling to adore him every Heart ; All sorts of Men , tho' different in their ways , Agreed the Name of RUPERT still to praise : His worth they all admired with consent , And now his Death as generally lament . The King has lost a Councillor of State , Who knew as well to Act , as to Debate ; One who had Wisdom , Courage , Prudence , Wit , Things that together one Soul seldom fit . The Church in him has lost no small support , For he there shin'd as bright as at the Court . All Protestants have lost a sure defence , He to their Cause was true , as to his Prince , In him the Kingdom too has lost a Shield , Still ready to defend it in the Field : For in the Gap , in danger he did stand , Freely exposing Life by Sea and Land. His Noble Acts with Caezars may compare ; Like him , as bold , successful still in War : For Victory still seem'd to be his Friend , And him where e're he Fought she did attend . England his Courage and great Acts have known , When in his Youth he did defend the Throne Of his most gracious Uncle , then , even then He did surpass the Acts of Famous men ; Where e're he did his Loyal Force display , He made the Conquering Rebel still give way ; And tho' his side to Cruel Fate did yield , He was himself Victorious still in Field : For Victory herself to him gave way , While like a Lion still he seiz'd his prey ; The French have seen what this great Prince could do , The Dutch have felt his dreadful Valour too , His very Name at last a Terror grew . Nor did he rashly fight the Foe , for still His forward Courage mixed was with skill ; So very Dextrous he grew , that He Beatrice them in their own Element , the Sea. Among the Hero's of the British Land , The glorious Name of our great Prince shall stand ; His Valiant deeds shall never be forgotten , Nor shall among the Common Rubbish rot ; While Histories live , while there's a Mouth for Fame , The World will hear of Mighty Ruperts Name , While the World lasts , while Time about does role , Here he shall live in Fame from Pole to Pole , And in the Heavens Eternally his Soul. FINIS . LONDON : Printed for Tho. Benskin in St. Brides Churchyard , MDCLXXXII . H : 84074 AND ELEGY Upon the Most Illustrious and High Born PRINCE RUPERT Duke of Cumberland , etc One of His Majesties Most Honourable Privy-Council , and one of the Most Honourable Order of the Garter , Son of the Most Illustrious Prince Frederick the 5th , Prince Elector Palatine of the Rhine , and the Highborn Princess the Lady Elizabeth , Sister to our late Sovereign of Blessed Memory , King Charles the first , and Queen of Bohemia , who Deceased on the 29th of this Instant November , 1682. to the great grief of all His Majesties Loyal Subject's . CAN a great Hero's Soul and Body part , And not foreshown by Nature , nor by Art ! Can the Great Princely RUPERT leave the World , And no part of't into disorder hurl'd ! No Blazing-Star ! Eclipse of Moon nor Sun To usher his depart , or's Death forerun ! Methinks it should not be ! A Soul so Great , A Soul so Noble , every way complete , Should leave us thus in silence , and depart , And Nature show us that she felt no smart ! In what parts busied were our Merlin's Eyes ? Had our Great Prince no Star within the Skies , That could before hand the effect relate , To have prepar'd us for so sad a fate ? From all his Warlike toils he now does cease , He's gone , alas ! and left us all in Peace : Like other Men he silently does sleep , And left Three Kingdoms the sad loss to weep . From Earth below , to Heaven above he's gone , For the Reward of his Great Actions done , For our Two Kings , the Father and the Son. He gains by Death , the World alone hath lost , Europe will miss him , but sad England most . A Mighty Pillar of the State is broke , Three Kingdoms seem to tremble at the stroke : And all who love the King and Kingdom , now , For such a loss no small concern will show . With a sad Heart the King does entertain The heavy news , and can't from tears refrain ; For RUPERT lay nigh to His Royal Heart , And of His Love deserv'd no little par But this Great Prince , what is obtain'd by few , Had both the Love of King and People too . Of others his great merits god the start , Compelling to adore him every Heart ; All sorts of Men , tho' different in their ways , Agreed the Name of RUPERT still to praise : His worth they all admired with consent , And now his Death as generally lament . The King has lost a Councillor of State , Who knew as well to Act , as to Debate ; One who had Wisdom , Courage , Prudence , Wit , Things that together one Soul seldom fit . The Church in him has lost no small support , For he there shin'd as bright as at the Court . All Protestants have lost a sure defence , He to their Cause was true , as to his Prince , In him the Kingdom too has lost a Shield , Still ready to defend it in the Field : For in the Gap , in danger he did stand , Freely exposing Life by Sea and Land. His Noble Acts with Caezars may compare ; Like him , as bold , successful still in War : For Victory still seem'd to be his Friend , And him where e're he Fought she did attend . England his Courage and great Acts have known , When in his Youth he did defend the Throne Of his most gracious Uncle , then , even then He did surpass the Acts of Famous men ; Where e're he did his Loyal Force display , He made the Conquering Rebel still give way ; And tho' his side to Cruel Fate did yield , He was himself Victorious still in Field : For Victory herself to him gave way , While like a Lion still he seiz'd his prey ; The French have seen what this great Prince could do , The Dutch have felt his dreadful Valour too , His very Name at last a Terror grew . Nor did he rashly fight the Foe , for still His forward Courage mixed was with skill ; So very Dextrous he grew , that He Beatrice them in their own Element , the Sea. Among the Hero's of the British Land , The glorious Name of our great Prince shall stand ; His Valiant deeds shall never be forgotten , Nor shall among the Common Rubbish rot ; While Histories live , while there's a Mouth for Fame , The World will hear of Mighty Ruperts Name , While the World lasts , while Time about does role , Here he shall live in Fame from Pole to Pole , And in the Heavens Eternally his Soul. FINIS . LONDON : Printed for Tho. Benskin in St. Brides Churchyard , MDCLXXXII . 