H : 88883 A Dialogue between Bowman the TORY , AND PRANCE the Renegade . A New SONG . Bowman . COme murdering Miles , where's your Sedan ? Or where's the Man you had it from ? Which you carried Godfrey in , with Ropes about your Necks Boys ? Nay , where is Mr. Howse's Horse , Which had been Sold at Penticost , On which thou swore the Corpse rid Post , above two years before Boys ? Prance . By all the Gods that I adore , Mahomet , and what e're I Swore , I never saw since , nor before , that Godfrey which was Murther'd : For Moneys I did Swear and Lie , To give the PLOT a deeper Die , Old Tony promis'd to stand by , and see our Matters order'd . Bowman . That Water-Witch it was his Spell , That Froze up Styx , the way to Hell , The Thames , the Seas , and every Cell , just to the Gates of Pluto : The Hellespont was Frozen o're , To both the Axills , Sea , and Shore , That the world might ne'r have motion more to save the Whiggs as you do . Bowman . Your Hambden now is Guilty found , 'Twill cost him Forty Thousand Pound , Pox ! Money's but and empty Found , when Knaves deserves to swing Prance , Had Forty pound been offered there , To all that would come in and Swear , He would have fallen to Ketches share , to teach him Tyburn-string Dance . Prance . Sounds the Lords out of the Tower , In spite of all our Perjur'd Power , Damn'd Oats and I are scarce secure , all our Intrigues do Falter : Out of the Tower without and Oats , To give Advice , or Rump of Votes , Zblood , we must cut our own Throats , to keep out of the Halter . Prance . Nay , that which plagues me worst of all , They kicked me out of Gold-Smiths-Hall , And swear that I disgrace them all , one Cursed Tory Scratched me ; In every place where e're I come , Like Sheep from Wolves from me Folks run , Three times a day I am Drunk alone , for fear Old Neck should fetch me . Bowman . Well Prance , now look but five years back , How many Necks thy Tongue made Crack , It's time for thine to go to wrack , for Perjury and Treason : Since thou abhorr'st both Cross and Mass , Thou may'st pull down thy sign o' the Cross , And Hang thyself at the same Post , it is but Right and Reason . Prance . I'le first see Rutland , Kenge and Thee , Hang'd up for Tory Loyalty , I'd be both Hang'd and Damn'd to see , with Towzer in the Number , After I would not live to Dine , But downright Drunk with Brandy Wine , Straight into th' Sea with Heard of Swine , for Circumstance I am under . Printed for J. Dean , in Cranborn-street , near Newport-House , in Leicester-Fields : 1684. H : 88883 A Dialogue between Bowman the TORY , AND PRANCE the Renegade . A New SONG . Bowman . COme murdering Miles , where's your Sedan ? Or where's the Man you had it from ? Which you carried Godfrey in , with Ropes about your Necks Boys ? Nay , where is Mr. Howse's Horse , Which had been Sold at Penticost , On which thou swore the Corpse rid Post , above two years before Boys ? Prance . By all the Gods that I adore , Mahomet , and what e're I Swore , I never saw since , nor before , that Godfrey which was Murther'd : For Moneys I did Swear and Lie , To give the PLOT a deeper Die , Old Tony promis'd to stand by , and see our Matters order'd . Bowman . That Water-Witch it was his Spell , That Froze up Styx , the way to Hell , The Thames , the Seas , and every Cell , just to the Gates of Pluto : The Hellespont was Frozen o're , To both the Axills , Sea , and Shore , That the world might ne'r have motion more to save the Whiggs as you do . Bowman . Your Hambden now is Guilty found , 'Twill cost him Forty Thousand Pound , Pox ! Money's but and empty Found , when Knaves deserves to swing Prance , Had Forty pound been offered there , To all that would come in and Swear , He would have fallen to Ketches share , to teach him Tyburn-string Dance . Prance . Sounds the Lords out of the Tower , In spite of all our Perjur'd Power , Damn'd Oats and I are scarce secure , all our Intrigues do Falter : Out of the Tower without and Oats , To give Advice , or Rump of Votes , Zblood , we must cut our own Throats , to keep out of the Halter . Prance . Nay , that which plagues me worst of all , They kicked me out of Gold-Smiths-Hall , And swear that I disgrace them all , one Cursed Tory Scratched me ; In every place where e're I come , Like Sheep from Wolves from me Folks run , Three times a day I am Drunk alone , for fear Old Neck should fetch me . Bowman . Well Prance , now look but five years back , How many Necks thy Tongue made Crack , It's time for thine to go to wrack , for Perjury and Treason : Since thou abhorr'st both Cross and Mass , Thou may'st pull down thy sign o' the Cross , And Hang thyself at the same Post , it is but Right and Reason . Prance . I'le first see Rutland , Kenge and Thee , Hang'd up for Tory Loyalty , I'd be both Hang'd and Damn'd to see , with Towzer in the Number , After I would not live to Dine , But downright Drunk with Brandy Wine , Straight into th' Sea with Heard of Swine , for Circumstance I am under . Printed for J. Dean , in Cranborn-street , near Newport-House , in Leicester-Fields : 1684. 