H : 80079 THE Whipster of Woodstreet , OR , A True Account of the Barbarous and Horrid Murder committed on the Body of Mary Cox , late Servant in Woodstreet LONDON . Tune of , Grim King of the Ghosts . Licensed according to Order . ASsist me some mournful Muse , while I a sad Story relate ; Let all that these Lines peruse , lament a poor maids hard fate ; Who Guiltless and Innocent fell , by the hands of a barbarous Dame : As fierce as a fury of Hell , her sexes eternal shame . Her husband to Bristol went , his Trade to advance at the fair : While she was on mischief bent , such mischief she can't repair : for suspicion o're clouding her mind , bred a tempest within her breas her soul like a sea with rough wind , was ruffled and rob'd of rest . ALl jealous she taxed her maid , and falsely did her accuse , With theft she did her upbraid , and shamefully did abuse : While the maid in her own defence , undaunted and boldly stood , Which made the fierce Dame commence , a Tragedy full of Blood . she caus'd her to be fast bound to the post of her husbands bed , where she did her body wound , and whipped her almost dead : thus did she a Confession extort , of Crimes which the Maid never knew , tormenting her in such a sort , as wou'd make ones heart for to rue . This monster not satisfied yet , tho' the blood run from every part , Made and Iron read hight in a pet , resolving to give her more smart , she burned her in shoulders and thighs , and sev'ral times under her ears , she wou'd not come near her Eyes , lest th' iron shou'd be quench'd with her tears . Her body was blister'd and whail'd , she was burned from the head to the heel , her skin was so parch'd that it scal'd , no pain like to what she did feel : she kept in her Chamber three days , unwilling the fact shou'd be known , And turn to her Master's dispraise , if her cruel stripes shou'd be shown . As soon as down stairs she came , her Mistress was in the old mood , The merciless savage Dame , did thirst for her very heart's blood : she caus'd her two Prentices then , neck and heels the poor Creature to bind , No Tigress within her Den , e're shew'd a more savage mind . She kick'd her and spurn'd her about , and bid the young Lad do the same : Resolving to act her part out , thus ended the tragical game , she catch'd up a hammer in haste , and pierc'd the maids brains at a blow , for which , of the hemp she must taste , old Tyburn must have her I trow . 'Printed for W. Thackeray at the Angel in Duck-Lane ; J. Millet at the Angel in Little-Britain ; and Alex. Milbourn at the Stationers-Arms in Green-Arbour - Court in the Little-Old-Baily . Where any Chapman may be Furnished with all Sorts of Small BOOKS and BALLADS at Reasonable Rates . H : 80079 THE Whipster of Woodstreet , OR , A True Account of the Barbarous and Horrid Murder committed on the Body of Mary Cox , late Servant in Woodstreet LONDON . Tune of , Grim King of the Ghosts . Licensed according to Order . ASsist me some mournful Muse , while I a sad Story relate ; Let all that these Lines peruse , lament a poor maids hard fate ; Who Guiltless and Innocent fell , by the hands of a barbarous Dame : As fierce as a fury of Hell , her sexes eternal shame . Her husband to Bristol went , his Trade to advance at the fair : While she was on mischief bent , such mischief she can't repair : for suspicion o're clouding her mind , bred a tempest within her breas her soul like a sea with rough wind , was ruffled and rob'd of rest . ALl jealous she taxed her maid , and falsely did her accuse , With theft she did her upbraid , and shamefully did abuse : While the maid in her own defence , undaunted and boldly stood , Which made the fierce Dame commence , a Tragedy full of Blood . she caus'd her to be fast bound to the post of her husbands bed , where she did her body wound , and whipped her almost dead : thus did she a Confession extort , of Crimes which the Maid never knew , tormenting her in such a sort , as wou'd make ones heart for to rue . This monster not satisfied yet , tho' the blood run from every part , Made and Iron read hight in a pet , resolving to give her more smart , she burned her in shoulders and thighs , and sev'ral times under her ears , she wou'd not come near her Eyes , lest th' iron shou'd be quench'd with her tears . Her body was blister'd and whail'd , she was burned from the head to the heel , her skin was so parch'd that it scal'd , no pain like to what she did feel : she kept in her Chamber three days , unwilling the fact shou'd be known , And turn to her Master's dispraise , if her cruel stripes shou'd be shown . As soon as down stairs she came , her Mistress was in the old mood , The merciless savage Dame , did thirst for her very heart's blood : she caus'd her two Prentices then , neck and heels the poor Creature to bind , No Tigress within her Den , e're shew'd a more savage mind . She kick'd her and spurn'd her about , and bid the young Lad do the same : Resolving to act her part out , thus ended the tragical game , she catch'd up a hammer in haste , and pierc'd the maids brains at a blow , for which , of the hemp she must taste , old Tyburn must have her I trow . 'Printed for W. Thackeray at the Angel in Duck-Lane ; J. Millet at the Angel in Little-Britain ; and Alex. Milbourn at the Stationers-Arms in Green-Arbour - Court in the Little-Old-Baily . Where any Chapman may be Furnished with all Sorts of Small BOOKS and BALLADS at Reasonable Rates . 