H : 123910 The Sense of the HOUSE , or the Opinion of some LORDS and COMMONS . Concerning the LONDONERS Petition for PEACE . GIve ear , beloved Londoners , Fie , fie , you shame us all . Your Rising up for Peace will make The close Committee fallen : I Wonder you should ask for that , which they , must needs deny , Here's 30. swears the'le have no Peace , And bid me tell you why . First I'le no Peace , say's Essex , For my Chaplin say's 'tis sin , To Lose 100.l . a day , Just when my wife lies inn : They cry , God Bless your Excellence , But if I lose my Place , The'le call me Rebel Popular Ass , And Cuckold to my Face . Ye Citizen fools , said Warwick , Do you talk to me of Peace , Who not only stole His Majesties Ships , But Robbed him of his Seas ; No , no , I'le keep the water still And have my Ships well man'd , For I have Leasd and sold so much , I know not where to Land. Doe , Brother do , say's Holland then , For Peace breeds us no quiet , Beside my Places both are lost , With 16. dishes Diet ; I played the Judas with the King , which makes the World detest me ? Nay should His Majesty pardon me , A hundred would Arrest me . Kimbolton Say's those Londoners Deserve to lose their ears , For now they'l all Obey the King , Like Citizen Cavaliers : Lets Vote the Peace a dangerous Plot , And send them a denial , For if they save the Kingdom , then , they'l give us a Legal trial . The Welshmen rage , quoth Stamford , And call me villainous Goat For I plunderd Hereford Aldermen's Gowns , To make my Besse a Coat , This true , the Town did feed me well , From which I took good Fleeces . But if Peace come they'l tear both me , And all my whores in pieces . Fight , fight , quoth Say , now , now hold up , Their Jealousies and fears ; The work will thrive , I Plotted it , Above these Seventeene years , 'Tis I that am your Engenere , But if for Peace you Vote , O then they'l make me come to church , Or else will cut my throat . My father Goodwin , quoth Wharton , Calls me a silly lad , And wonders you'l ask Peace of me , Who have been lately mad , You chosen me Irish General , And I chosen to stay here , For should I Fight among the bogs , their's never a Sawpit there , These heathen Prentices , quoth Brook , Did make my Coach man stay Bid me be bore , although I spoke , But 13. Bulls that day , If Peace knock of my Learned Scull , Then at my House you'l see , The swoard of Guy the dunn Cows Rib , The Asses tooth , and me . I made the Speech quoth Roberts , When his Excellence first began , For which he swore by a potle of sack , To make me a Gentleman . But if the King get to Whithall , Then all my Hope's are past , I am the first Lord , of my house , And would not be the last . COMMONS , Keep Silence , quoth the Speaker , But do not hold your Peace , Let's fit and Vote and hold them too't , For I'le do what you please : I' have but poor 6000 pounds , beside some spoons and bowls , Nay grant a Peace , and how shall I , Be Master of the Roles . Then spoke five members all at once , And for and Army cri'd , Last year say they , they rescued us , Or else we had been tried . What though you are almost undone , You shall Contribute still , We will convey our Trunks away , And then do what you will . My venum swells , quoth Hollis , And that his Majesty knows , And I quoth Hambden fetch the Scots , Whenc all this mischief grows . I am and Ass quoth Haslerig , But yet I'me deep i' that plot , And I quoth Stroud can lie , as fast , As master Pym can trot . But I quoth Pym your hackney am , And all your drudgery do , Have made good Speeches for my self , And privileges for you : I fit and can look down on men , Whilst others bleed and fight , I eat their Lordship's meat by day , And give it their Wives by night . Then Vane grew black 'ith Face , and swears , Their's none so deep as I , The Staff and Signet slipped my hand , My Son can tell you why . The name of Peace men say is sweet , But o it makes me stink , For Straffords Ghost does haunt me so , I cannot sleep a wink . Were Starfford living , Mildmay said , He would do me none ill ; For I hid myself i' that privy , When 'th house did pass his Bill : But o my gold and silver thread , That Gregory calls his own ; Though in a Ship I made my will , I was not born to drown . You found me , quoth Sir Robert Pie , I have been long a knave ; And promise I should be so still , So you my Vote should have . And I ( quoth Lawrence Whitaker , ) Agree to do so too ; And if you leave old Courtiers thus , They'l do as much for you . This Peace ( quoth Michaell Olsworth , Will bring no fee to me ; And yet my Lord hath sworn for it , And will not follow me . Fie , down with Bishops Wheeler said , For I have Rob'd the Church ; O base , will you conclude of Peace , And leave us in the lurch . Who talks of Peace , quoth Ludlow ? Hath neither Sense , nor Reason ; For I ne're spoke i' that house but once , And then I spoke high Treason : Your meaning was as bad as mine , You must defend my Speech ; Or else you'l make my Mouth as fam'd , As was my Father's breech . I'le Plunder him , ( quoth Bainton ) That mentions Peace to me ; The last Bishop would not grant my Lease , But now I have it free . A Gunpowder Monopoly , Quoth Eveling , raised my Father ; And if you let the Peace go on , They'le call me Powder Traitor . Foh , said Sir John Hotham , Is this a time to Treat , When New-Castle , and Cumberland , Me to the Walls have beat : Ye base obedient Citizens , Do ye think to save your Lives ; My Son and I will serve you all , As I have serv'd five Wives . Indeed , quoth Sir Hugh Cholmely , Sir John , you say most true ; For I have Sold and Mortgaged , Even all my Land to you . My Brother would have serv'd the KING , But was forbid to stay ; The King foresaw at Keinton Field , Sir Harry would run away . I went down , ( quoth Sir Stapleton ) With Musket , Pike , and Drum ; To fetch Sir Francis Wortley up , But truly , he will not come . O Lord , Sir Robert Harlowe said , How do our foes increase ; I wonder who the Devil it was , That first invented Peace ! Treason , treason , treason , Sir Walter Earle cried out ; Farr worse then blowing up the Thames , The Dagger , or the Clout . Damm it said Miles Corbet , Or we are all confounded ; And Cavaliers will Cuckold me , As well as did the Round-head . Zounds , said Henry Martin , Wee'l have no Accommodation ; D'ye not know , 'twas I that tore , His Majesties Proclamation . In the House I spoke high treason , I've sold both Land and Lease ; Nay , I shall then have but three Whores ; A pox upon this Peace . Ye see , ( beloved Londoners , ) Your Peace is out of season ; For which you have the sense of 'th House ; And every Members Reason . O do not stand for Peace then , For tO [ r ] ust me if you do ; Each County of the Kingdom will , Rise up , and do so too . FINIS . OXFORD . Printed , by LEONARD LICHFIELD ; Printer to the University , 1643. H : 123910 The Sense of the HOUSE , or the Opinion of some LORDS and COMMONS . Concerning the LONDONERS Petition for PEACE . GIve ear , beloved Londoners , Fie , fie , you shame us all . Your Rising up for Peace will make The close Committee fallen : I Wonder you should ask for that , which they , must needs deny , Here's 30. swears the'le have no Peace , And bid me tell you why . First I'le no Peace , say's Essex , For my Chaplin say's 'tis sin , To Lose 100.l . a day , Just when my wife lies inn : They cry , God Bless your Excellence , But if I lose my Place , The'le call me Rebel Popular Ass , And Cuckold to my Face . Ye Citizen fools , said Warwick , Do you talk to me of Peace , Who not only stole His Majesties Ships , But Robbed him of his Seas ; No , no , I'le keep the water still And have my Ships well man'd , For I have Leasd and sold so much , I know not where to Land. Doe , Brother do , say's Holland then , For Peace breeds us no quiet , Beside my Places both are lost , With 16. dishes Diet ; I played the Judas with the King , which makes the World detest me ? Nay should His Majesty pardon me , A hundred would Arrest me . Kimbolton Say's those Londoners Deserve to lose their ears , For now they'l all Obey the King , Like Citizen Cavaliers : Lets Vote the Peace a dangerous Plot , And send them a denial , For if they save the Kingdom , then , they'l give us a Legal trial . The Welshmen rage , quoth Stamford , And call me villainous Goat For I plunderd Hereford Aldermen's Gowns , To make my Besse a Coat , This true , the Town did feed me well , From which I took good Fleeces . But if Peace come they'l tear both me , And all my whores in pieces . Fight , fight , quoth Say , now , now hold up , Their Jealousies and fears ; The work will thrive , I Plotted it , Above these Seventeene years , 'Tis I that am your Engenere , But if for Peace you Vote , O then they'l make me come to church , Or else will cut my throat . My father Goodwin , quoth Wharton , Calls me a silly lad , And wonders you'l ask Peace of me , Who have been lately mad , You chosen me Irish General , And I chosen to stay here , For should I Fight among the bogs , their's never a Sawpit there , These heathen Prentices , quoth Brook , Did make my Coach man stay Bid me be bore , although I spoke , But 13. Bulls that day , If Peace knock of my Learned Scull , Then at my House you'l see , The swoard of Guy the dunn Cows Rib , The Asses tooth , and me . I made the Speech quoth Roberts , When his Excellence first began , For which he swore by a potle of sack , To make me a Gentleman . But if the King get to Whithall , Then all my Hope's are past , I am the first Lord , of my house , And would not be the last . COMMONS , Keep Silence , quoth the Speaker , But do not hold your Peace , Let's fit and Vote and hold them too't , For I'le do what you please : I' have but poor 6000 pounds , beside some spoons and bowls , Nay grant a Peace , and how shall I , Be Master of the Roles . Then spoke five members all at once , And for and Army cri'd , Last year say they , they rescued us , Or else we had been tried . What though you are almost undone , You shall Contribute still , We will convey our Trunks away , And then do what you will . My venum swells , quoth Hollis , And that his Majesty knows , And I quoth Hambden fetch the Scots , Whenc all this mischief grows . I am and Ass quoth Haslerig , But yet I'me deep i' that plot , And I quoth Stroud can lie , as fast , As master Pym can trot . But I quoth Pym your hackney am , And all your drudgery do , Have made good Speeches for my self , And privileges for you : I fit and can look down on men , Whilst others bleed and fight , I eat their Lordship's meat by day , And give it their Wives by night . Then Vane grew black 'ith Face , and swears , Their's none so deep as I , The Staff and Signet slipped my hand , My Son can tell you why . The name of Peace men say is sweet , But o it makes me stink , For Straffords Ghost does haunt me so , I cannot sleep a wink . Were Starfford living , Mildmay said , He would do me none ill ; For I hid myself i' that privy , When 'th house did pass his Bill : But o my gold and silver thread , That Gregory calls his own ; Though in a Ship I made my will , I was not born to drown . You found me , quoth Sir Robert Pie , I have been long a knave ; And promise I should be so still , So you my Vote should have . And I ( quoth Lawrence Whitaker , ) Agree to do so too ; And if you leave old Courtiers thus , They'l do as much for you . This Peace ( quoth Michaell Olsworth , Will bring no fee to me ; And yet my Lord hath sworn for it , And will not follow me . Fie , down with Bishops Wheeler said , For I have Rob'd the Church ; O base , will you conclude of Peace , And leave us in the lurch . Who talks of Peace , quoth Ludlow ? Hath neither Sense , nor Reason ; For I ne're spoke i' that house but once , And then I spoke high Treason : Your meaning was as bad as mine , You must defend my Speech ; Or else you'l make my Mouth as fam'd , As was my Father's breech . I'le Plunder him , ( quoth Bainton ) That mentions Peace to me ; The last Bishop would not grant my Lease , But now I have it free . A Gunpowder Monopoly , Quoth Eveling , raised my Father ; And if you let the Peace go on , They'le call me Powder Traitor . Foh , said Sir John Hotham , Is this a time to Treat , When New-Castle , and Cumberland , Me to the Walls have beat : Ye base obedient Citizens , Do ye think to save your Lives ; My Son and I will serve you all , As I have serv'd five Wives . Indeed , quoth Sir Hugh Cholmely , Sir John , you say most true ; For I have Sold and Mortgaged , Even all my Land to you . My Brother would have serv'd the KING , But was forbid to stay ; The King foresaw at Keinton Field , Sir Harry would run away . I went down , ( quoth Sir Stapleton ) With Musket , Pike , and Drum ; To fetch Sir Francis Wortley up , But truly , he will not come . O Lord , Sir Robert Harlowe said , How do our foes increase ; I wonder who the Devil it was , That first invented Peace ! Treason , treason , treason , Sir Walter Earle cried out ; Farr worse then blowing up the Thames , The Dagger , or the Clout . Damm it said Miles Corbet , Or we are all confounded ; And Cavaliers will Cuckold me , As well as did the Round-head . Zounds , said Henry Martin , Wee'l have no Accommodation ; D'ye not know , 'twas I that tore , His Majesties Proclamation . In the House I spoke high treason , I've sold both Land and Lease ; Nay , I shall then have but three Whores ; A pox upon this Peace . Ye see , ( beloved Londoners , ) Your Peace is out of season ; For which you have the sense of 'th House ; And every Members Reason . O do not stand for Peace then , For tO [ r ] ust me if you do ; Each County of the Kingdom will , Rise up , and do so too . FINIS . OXFORD . Printed , by LEONARD LICHFIELD ; Printer to the University , 1643. 