H : 123905 'Tis a plain Case GENTLEMEN : O the distraction of this Factious age ! Have not wile-men ( who are stark mad with rage , Brought this fair Land to such a combustion , That through their means we may fear confusion . A horrid Tragedy is now begun , And still continues , would to God 'twere done . 'Tis write in blood , as all the World may see , And plainly read this Kingdoms misery . Oh! who would ha' thought that two years ago , That so much Christian blood should on th' earth flow , As hath been shed this last year ? cursed be he That was the cause of this Phlebotamie . Some are confident in their opinion , Papists have fomented this Division ; Others say , the Brownists ( of whom beware ) Have stir'd up this unnatural , wretched War : For my own part , I think they both have been The Ruin of this Nation . These still spin The thread of our undoing : these a [ r ] e those Beside these two that are this Islands foes . Nay' beside these , there are some high in State , Who to this Land are most unfortunate . I dare not name them yet ther's few but knows Who are the Kings and Kingdoms professed foes . May all that wish ill will unto this Land , Never subsist in Peace , but may the hand Of divine Justice bring them unto shame ; Blast their fame , forgotten be their name . They that breath blood , and do defy fair Peace , May they want joy their sorrows never cease : Torn with possessed whirlwinds may they die , And Dog , bark at their murderous memory . There is no honest heart but needs must grieve , To consider the Times wherein we live . What eye can refrain from shedding salt tears ? To see the many mischiefs our vain fears , And causeless jealousies have on us brought , Kindled this strange fire , and all our woes wrought . These are the Jonahs , that the tempest raise , These are the Achans that our Israell amaze . Wer't not for fears and jealousies at first , We had not with the plague of War been cursed , But blessed with happy Peace ; there had not come On this same Kingdame such a Martyrdom : The King had not gone from us , no discontent Arose at all , 'twixt Him and's Parliament . But we ourselves have caus'd our several woes ; Though we be victor's , yet w'have overthrows . Let the King or Parliament have the best , Both King and Kingdoms suffers lies oppressed ; Let who can have the day , with your favour , Both Armies are losers' , for their labour : Much precious blood is lost , many a poor soul , And cannot the thought of this condole This civil , uncivil war ? But you'l say , If it please God our Forces get the day We shall be then most happy , live secure , Our dwellings being entrenched about most sure From our enemies . Do not yourselves deceive , The enemi's within you , that believe . 'Tis not your Bulwarks can save your muck nor pelf , Man is the greatest enemy to himself . 'Tis not your boasting that y'are safe i' th' City . Y'are nowhere safe , though you seem near so witty And thus much know from me , for verily , W' are certain of nothing but uncertainty . The King not certain is of 's Royal Crown , Nor the Subject of what he calls his own . Such is th' inconstantcy' of this world's Ball , No man knows whither he shall stand or fallen . Rely not therefore on the Arm of flesh , Depend not on the Army , neither trust fresh Horses , nor the power or prowis of Kings ; All these without the Lord are but vain things . Unless God keep your City , the watchmen watch In vain , and without him much harms you'le catch . Oh! whither is our ancient courage fled ? With our forefathers it is long since dead , And now we English are even like our Bows , That once wone Battles , now scares non but Crows , Our homebred jars and civil contestations , Have render'd us a storm to Foreign Nations . LONDON yond count is yours , & the Court's yours , The King must then be yours , and his Crown yours , And what are you then ? Royal thieves , you'le blow , Seditious fire , which still does spread and grow To such a huge intolerable flame , That all your wit can never quench the same . You that fit threatening what storms you'le raise here , Do you know where they'l light ? I'le tell you where , You like so many Joves , do throw them down ; You regared none , neither Sceptre nor Crown , ) And what then ? you like Tiles on houses tops . When foul weather comes , will shift the rainy drops , From one , to one and whilst from you it sheds , Where falls the showers ? on the poor Peoples heads , I'le tell you a pretty tale . There grew a tall A goodly fence of Hawthorn and of Bryer , That when the Sun was choleric and hight Kept sheep and yeaning Lambs safe from his rage Or when the Sky storm'd did his wrath assuage . This goodly row of Briers still anon , Would as the Sheep went by , tear from their backs Rags of their woolly coats , at which the sheep ( Though by protection of this good old Bryer They were fed fat , and therefore were grown proud Repin'd , and did prefer bills of complaint Up to the shepherds : The rude hairbrain shepherds Cried down with this proud Bryer ; the hedging bills So laid about them down the Bryer did fallen , And what ensued ? a tale most tragical . Being laid along , they trod on't in despite , Put fire unto it , and burned it in the flame , The green bows wept , seeing men passed ruth or shame What follows next ? marry hail , rain and snow , Beatrice on the sheep and Shepherd's , cold winds blow But wheres their shelter ? gone Then did the heat So scorch them , that they had no list to eat . But wher's their cool shade now ? gone , gone , & then Others break in , and feed , whilst these fed lean . At last starved wolves and ravenous foxes came , And eat up all left neither ewe , nor lamb ; The Shepherd's pined to nothing and like men Made wise by their harms , wished th' ole Bryer again . I' have read a Text , preach you upon't this plain , They stab themselves , that strike their Sovereign . YORKE , Printed by STEPHEN BUKLEY , 1643. H : 123905 'Tis a plain Case GENTLEMEN : O the distraction of this Factious age ! Have not wile-men ( who are stark mad with rage , Brought this fair Land to such a combustion , That through their means we may fear confusion . A horrid Tragedy is now begun , And still continues , would to God 'twere done . 'Tis write in blood , as all the World may see , And plainly read this Kingdoms misery . Oh! who would ha' thought that two years ago , That so much Christian blood should on th' earth flow , As hath been shed this last year ? cursed be he That was the cause of this Phlebotamie . Some are confident in their opinion , Papists have fomented this Division ; Others say , the Brownists ( of whom beware ) Have stir'd up this unnatural , wretched War : For my own part , I think they both have been The Ruin of this Nation . These still spin The thread of our undoing : these a [ r ] e those Beside these two that are this Islands foes . Nay' beside these , there are some high in State , Who to this Land are most unfortunate . I dare not name them yet ther's few but knows Who are the Kings and Kingdoms professed foes . May all that wish ill will unto this Land , Never subsist in Peace , but may the hand Of divine Justice bring them unto shame ; Blast their fame , forgotten be their name . They that breath blood , and do defy fair Peace , May they want joy their sorrows never cease : Torn with possessed whirlwinds may they die , And Dog , bark at their murderous memory . There is no honest heart but needs must grieve , To consider the Times wherein we live . What eye can refrain from shedding salt tears ? To see the many mischiefs our vain fears , And causeless jealousies have on us brought , Kindled this strange fire , and all our woes wrought . These are the Jonahs , that the tempest raise , These are the Achans that our Israell amaze . Wer't not for fears and jealousies at first , We had not with the plague of War been cursed , But blessed with happy Peace ; there had not come On this same Kingdame such a Martyrdom : The King had not gone from us , no discontent Arose at all , 'twixt Him and's Parliament . But we ourselves have caus'd our several woes ; Though we be victor's , yet w'have overthrows . Let the King or Parliament have the best , Both King and Kingdoms suffers lies oppressed ; Let who can have the day , with your favour , Both Armies are losers' , for their labour : Much precious blood is lost , many a poor soul , And cannot the thought of this condole This civil , uncivil war ? But you'l say , If it please God our Forces get the day We shall be then most happy , live secure , Our dwellings being entrenched about most sure From our enemies . Do not yourselves deceive , The enemi's within you , that believe . 'Tis not your Bulwarks can save your muck nor pelf , Man is the greatest enemy to himself . 'Tis not your boasting that y'are safe i' th' City . Y'are nowhere safe , though you seem near so witty And thus much know from me , for verily , W' are certain of nothing but uncertainty . The King not certain is of 's Royal Crown , Nor the Subject of what he calls his own . Such is th' inconstantcy' of this world's Ball , No man knows whither he shall stand or fallen . Rely not therefore on the Arm of flesh , Depend not on the Army , neither trust fresh Horses , nor the power or prowis of Kings ; All these without the Lord are but vain things . Unless God keep your City , the watchmen watch In vain , and without him much harms you'le catch . Oh! whither is our ancient courage fled ? With our forefathers it is long since dead , And now we English are even like our Bows , That once wone Battles , now scares non but Crows , Our homebred jars and civil contestations , Have render'd us a storm to Foreign Nations . LONDON yond count is yours , & the Court's yours , The King must then be yours , and his Crown yours , And what are you then ? Royal thieves , you'le blow , Seditious fire , which still does spread and grow To such a huge intolerable flame , That all your wit can never quench the same . You that fit threatening what storms you'le raise here , Do you know where they'l light ? I'le tell you where , You like so many Joves , do throw them down ; You regared none , neither Sceptre nor Crown , ) And what then ? you like Tiles on houses tops . When foul weather comes , will shift the rainy drops , From one , to one and whilst from you it sheds , Where falls the showers ? on the poor Peoples heads , I'le tell you a pretty tale . There grew a tall A goodly fence of Hawthorn and of Bryer , That when the Sun was choleric and hight Kept sheep and yeaning Lambs safe from his rage Or when the Sky storm'd did his wrath assuage . This goodly row of Briers still anon , Would as the Sheep went by , tear from their backs Rags of their woolly coats , at which the sheep ( Though by protection of this good old Bryer They were fed fat , and therefore were grown proud Repin'd , and did prefer bills of complaint Up to the shepherds : The rude hairbrain shepherds Cried down with this proud Bryer ; the hedging bills So laid about them down the Bryer did fallen , And what ensued ? a tale most tragical . Being laid along , they trod on't in despite , Put fire unto it , and burned it in the flame , The green bows wept , seeing men passed ruth or shame What follows next ? marry hail , rain and snow , Beatrice on the sheep and Shepherd's , cold winds blow But wheres their shelter ? gone Then did the heat So scorch them , that they had no list to eat . But wher's their cool shade now ? gone , gone , & then Others break in , and feed , whilst these fed lean . At last starved wolves and ravenous foxes came , And eat up all left neither ewe , nor lamb ; The Shepherd's pined to nothing and like men Made wise by their harms , wished th' ole Bryer again . I' have read a Text , preach you upon't this plain , They stab themselves , that strike their Sovereign . YORKE , Printed by STEPHEN BUKLEY , 1643. 