H : 133433 The Waking [ Dream . ] AS I was walking , reading in a Book , Of all the Plots that Rome had undertook , Methought I herd a sudden murmuring Rout , And curious to behold : I fac'd about , When soon the Crowd did to my sighed appear , With a young Hero stalking in the Rear . Their Leader was and Old man , known too well By that false Traitorous name Achitophel : He fac'd about , and waving round his Wand , The cringeing Rout stood still upon command . Lieutenant Absalom forsook the Rear , And strutting forward , did ith' Front appear . Thus fixed in their Array , the first that broke The silence , was Achitophel ; who spoke With roaring voice , and visage most austere , When to his Echo all the Rout gave ear ; All big with expectations , till the bold Snakelike Achitophel his story told . I need not tell you of the case betwixt you , If you remember Forty eight , and Sixty : How happy were we in the first of those , When no man durst our Laws or Wills oppose ; Wills as obliging as the Persian Laws , We fought and prosper'd in the Good Old Cause : None durst oppose our Faction , or appear In vindication of a Cavalier . Then all our Party in one humour stood , To bleed the Nation , tap the Royal Blood . Till envious Death at last did basely trip Old Nol up , with his short Protectorship . Then turn'd the Game , and Monk began to sing In Loyal Tone , Now Boys a King , a King ! Against our wills he did by force restore The King , to that which was his Right before ; Then all those plaguy Rogues call'd Cavaliers , Began to peep abroad , and shake their Ears ; Each one expecting from the King to be Rewarded for his Truth , and Loyalty . [ ? ] the wind [ ? ] We chang'd our Note , and spoke in other kind ; And made the World believe 'twas only We Restor'd the King to Crown and Dignity : When if we could but still have been obey'd , No Stuart e're had Englands Sceptre sway'd . But since what's done , can't be undone again , Why stand we idle gazing here in vain ? Let's try our wits , and Plot for to obtain And play the Old Game over once again : Do as our Father's did , come play your parts , And let the people know you're English hearts , That are not given to change . ------ Eighty one offers us a mark as fair , As ever Forty did : come --- strike --- prepare , Take Oaths of Secrecy , and Covenant To ease the Nation of her groans and want . Right and Religion , Liberties and Laws , Will make the Rout quickly espouse our Cause : Tell 'em , if they don't stir they're quite undone , Religion's ruin'd , Liberties are gone : Persuade 'em that the Pope , and Popish Train , Are just returning to the Land again : That's a pretence ne're fails , but always takes , And of a Bad Old Cause , a Good one makes . Now , now's the time ; strike up , for if you miss , You'l never meet a time so pat as this . Here's Popish Plots discover'd and found out , With Fears and Jealousies to charm the Rout ; And soon persuade them all their Lives are lost , That they must burn like Martyrs at a Post , Unless they get the Popish Party quell'd , That is by Evil Counsellors upheld : Here's Grievance upon Grievance : these are Knaves , And those would make the Freeborn Subject's Slaves : Tell them the King's a Tyrant , and Oppressor , And that we have a damn'd Popish Successor : The Parliament's dissolv'd , and we must be Govern'd by Arbitrary Tyranny : But yet be sure to keep you in the shade , And do whate're you do in Masquerade . If any Senator against you fit , Be sure to call him Papist , Jesuit , Mac-Tory , Protestant in Masquerade , That would your Liberties and Rights invade . Now one word more , and I have spoke enough , Go fallen to work , for I have found you stuff . Which having spoke , the Rout was jogging home , But soon return'd at voice of Absalom ; Who with audacious tone cry'd , Hark , my Friends , Come side with me , if you'l attain your ends ; Achitophel shall change and take the Rear , And I myself will in the Front appear , And good old David soon shall know that I Will be his Heir , or else I'le bravely die . What though my Mother was his Concubine ? The fault was hers , I'm sure , it was not mine : I am his Son , and from his Loins did spring ; I am of Royal Blood , and will be King : Do you but help me to obtain the Crown , I'le rule by Law , and all your Foes put down ; I'le part the King and Council quite asunder , And will redress the Griefs you labour under ; If once I can but to the Throne attain , I'le grant New Charters , and the Old maintain . At which the Rout with hallows fill'd the Skies , And cry'd , We'l venture all for Liberties : When suddenly the Rout did disappear , And all the Coast was in and instant clear . Then I began to think which was the worse , Fanatic blessing , or a Popish curse : I put them in two Scales to try their weight , And found the Balance equiponderate ; But holding them a while , I quickly found As this was hoist up , that kiss'd the ground : Then suddenly I found the meaning out , This ruins quickly , but that round abou Then to my mind my thoughts began to sing , Go haste and what thou'st herd inform the King : I durst not go but presently I wrote , And seal'd it up , and sent the King this Note . To the KING . DRead Sir , if you will Rule this Land in peace , Expel your Foes , and Friends will soon increase : Your Ruin does , Sir , too too plain appear , Room leads the Van , Geneva brings the Rear . If you'l be safe , you must expel them both , The Roman Gnat , and the dissenting Moth : And vigorously let them understand , You are their King , and will like King command . And if you e're expect to gain your Ends , As well as open Foes , take heed of Friends ; I mean a flatt'ring Friend , whose only show Makes him a Friend , but really is not so . Learn by your Father , not to trust to those That in the end will prove confiding Foes . Consider on't , you're in a woeful straight , Think but on Forty one , and Forty eight . I only speak this for a Precedent , For Heav'n I hope will all such things prevent . You're now the Darling of all Loyal hearts , And may be still , if you will take their parts : But if you bear with Faction , or with Room , And do delay to give them both their doom , All Loyal men must suffer by those two , And be in spite of Fate undone with You. You must be sure to ruin Both , or none ; If one remain , you're sure to be undone : For if you ruin Room on equal scores , You shut the Window , but leave open the Doors ; Unless you ruin the Fanatics too , For know one Nation can't hold Them and You. Those men I fear against your Life combine , That strive to cross you in your Good design ; And those men sure would yield to put you down , That tell the People , You are not their own . Pardon me , Sir , if I your quiet break , For Poets dare at all Adventures speak . H : 133433 The Waking [ Dream . ] AS I was walking , reading in a Book , Of all the Plots that Rome had undertook , Methought I herd a sudden murmuring Rout , And curious to behold : I fac'd about , When soon the Crowd did to my sighed appear , With a young Hero stalking in the Rear . Their Leader was and Old man , known too well By that false Traitorous name Achitophel : He fac'd about , and waving round his Wand , The cringeing Rout stood still upon command . Lieutenant Absalom forsook the Rear , And strutting forward , did ith' Front appear . Thus fixed in their Array , the first that broke The silence , was Achitophel ; who spoke With roaring voice , and visage most austere , When to his Echo all the Rout gave ear ; All big with expectations , till the bold Snakelike Achitophel his story told . I need not tell you of the case betwixt you , If you remember Forty eight , and Sixty : How happy were we in the first of those , When no man durst our Laws or Wills oppose ; Wills as obliging as the Persian Laws , We fought and prosper'd in the Good Old Cause : None durst oppose our Faction , or appear In vindication of a Cavalier . Then all our Party in one humour stood , To bleed the Nation , tap the Royal Blood . Till envious Death at last did basely trip Old Nol up , with his short Protectorship . Then turn'd the Game , and Monk began to sing In Loyal Tone , Now Boys a King , a King ! Against our wills he did by force restore The King , to that which was his Right before ; Then all those plaguy Rogues call'd Cavaliers , Began to peep abroad , and shake their Ears ; Each one expecting from the King to be Rewarded for his Truth , and Loyalty . [ ? ] the wind [ ? ] We chang'd our Note , and spoke in other kind ; And made the World believe 'twas only We Restor'd the King to Crown and Dignity : When if we could but still have been obey'd , No Stuart e're had Englands Sceptre sway'd . But since what's done , can't be undone again , Why stand we idle gazing here in vain ? Let's try our wits , and Plot for to obtain And play the Old Game over once again : Do as our Father's did , come play your parts , And let the people know you're English hearts , That are not given to change . ------ Eighty one offers us a mark as fair , As ever Forty did : come --- strike --- prepare , Take Oaths of Secrecy , and Covenant To ease the Nation of her groans and want . Right and Religion , Liberties and Laws , Will make the Rout quickly espouse our Cause : Tell 'em , if they don't stir they're quite undone , Religion's ruin'd , Liberties are gone : Persuade 'em that the Pope , and Popish Train , Are just returning to the Land again : That's a pretence ne're fails , but always takes , And of a Bad Old Cause , a Good one makes . Now , now's the time ; strike up , for if you miss , You'l never meet a time so pat as this . Here's Popish Plots discover'd and found out , With Fears and Jealousies to charm the Rout ; And soon persuade them all their Lives are lost , That they must burn like Martyrs at a Post , Unless they get the Popish Party quell'd , That is by Evil Counsellors upheld : Here's Grievance upon Grievance : these are Knaves , And those would make the Freeborn Subject's Slaves : Tell them the King's a Tyrant , and Oppressor , And that we have a damn'd Popish Successor : The Parliament's dissolv'd , and we must be Govern'd by Arbitrary Tyranny : But yet be sure to keep you in the shade , And do whate're you do in Masquerade . If any Senator against you fit , Be sure to call him Papist , Jesuit , Mac-Tory , Protestant in Masquerade , That would your Liberties and Rights invade . Now one word more , and I have spoke enough , Go fallen to work , for I have found you stuff . Which having spoke , the Rout was jogging home , But soon return'd at voice of Absalom ; Who with audacious tone cry'd , Hark , my Friends , Come side with me , if you'l attain your ends ; Achitophel shall change and take the Rear , And I myself will in the Front appear , And good old David soon shall know that I Will be his Heir , or else I'le bravely die . What though my Mother was his Concubine ? The fault was hers , I'm sure , it was not mine : I am his Son , and from his Loins did spring ; I am of Royal Blood , and will be King : Do you but help me to obtain the Crown , I'le rule by Law , and all your Foes put down ; I'le part the King and Council quite asunder , And will redress the Griefs you labour under ; If once I can but to the Throne attain , I'le grant New Charters , and the Old maintain . At which the Rout with hallows fill'd the Skies , And cry'd , We'l venture all for Liberties : When suddenly the Rout did disappear , And all the Coast was in and instant clear . Then I began to think which was the worse , Fanatic blessing , or a Popish curse : I put them in two Scales to try their weight , And found the Balance equiponderate ; But holding them a while , I quickly found As this was hoist up , that kiss'd the ground : Then suddenly I found the meaning out , This ruins quickly , but that round abou Then to my mind my thoughts began to sing , Go haste and what thou'st herd inform the King : I durst not go but presently I wrote , And seal'd it up , and sent the King this Note . To the KING . DRead Sir , if you will Rule this Land in peace , Expel your Foes , and Friends will soon increase : Your Ruin does , Sir , too too plain appear , Room leads the Van , Geneva brings the Rear . If you'l be safe , you must expel them both , The Roman Gnat , and the dissenting Moth : And vigorously let them understand , You are their King , and will like King command . And if you e're expect to gain your Ends , As well as open Foes , take heed of Friends ; I mean a flatt'ring Friend , whose only show Makes him a Friend , but really is not so . Learn by your Father , not to trust to those That in the end will prove confiding Foes . Consider on't , you're in a woeful straight , Think but on Forty one , and Forty eight . I only speak this for a Precedent , For Heav'n I hope will all such things prevent . You're now the Darling of all Loyal hearts , And may be still , if you will take their parts : But if you bear with Faction , or with Room , And do delay to give them both their doom , All Loyal men must suffer by those two , And be in spite of Fate undone with You. You must be sure to ruin Both , or none ; If one remain , you're sure to be undone : For if you ruin Room on equal scores , You shut the Window , but leave open the Doors ; Unless you ruin the Fanatics too , For know one Nation can't hold Them and You. Those men I fear against your Life combine , That strive to cross you in your Good design ; And those men sure would yield to put you down , That tell the People , You are not their own . Pardon me , Sir , if I your quiet break , For Poets dare at all Adventures speak . 