H : 133340 A NEW-YEARS GIVE BEING A POEM Dedicated to the lasting Memory of That Worthy and Learned Dr. TITUS OATS , the First Discoverer of the Popish Plot , to destroy the Sacred Person of his Majesty , and to Extirpate the Protestant Religion . GREAT ! --- I am in a plunge what more to say , Our Great Creator shall we call Thee ? Nay : That Title is too great , we all must own Due only unto GOD ( to HIM Alone ; ) The highest Titles by which men express Their Deities or Demi-Gods are less Than Thy Deserts : should we Contract Thy Fame Within such narrow Limits , Thou might'st blame Mankind , and justly Brand us with a Blot Of shame so foul as could not be forgotten ; Had All Angellike Souls , Enlarg'd , that might Retain Conceptions of Thy Worth Aright , Then neither Prose nor Verse would needful be To tell All Future Ages , Thou art He Whom God hath sent into the World to Rear A New Meridian in our Northern Sphere : To tell All Ages which shall after come Thou art the Harbinger of sudden Doom ( More Fatal than Great Hannibal ) to Room : He only threatened ( as did many more ) And only made their large swollen Heartstrings soar By driving them into a Punic Fright , But Thou hast broke Their haughty Heartstrings quite ; We can't express This Wondrous Act of Thine , But by such Characters as are Divine ! Shall we compare Thee then to Alexander , To Hannibal , or any great Commander ? For shame : These , are All-Man-Sir's , Hectoring Boys , Who having purchas'd Gingerbread and Toys , ( For Towns and Castles are such things , ) suppose They only merit Titles who have Those , Although They swim to Empires in a Flood Of Father's , Mother's , Widows , Children's blood , Spending their precious time in Emulous wrangle ( In dust and crowd and sweat ) to catch a Spangle . Great Caesar shall we Style Thee ? that were less Than if we own'd ( which yet we must profess ) We know not what to call Thee , but Our Heart , Our Life , Our Breathing Soul , Our Vital Par Our almost All we have , and Dear to HIM Who did Entrust Thee ( for Our Cherubin ) To Guard Our British Isle ( that little World ) Which else had Topsie-turvy quite been hurl'd , And to a dismal Chaos had been brought , More dreadful than the most tremendous Thought . Great Guardian of this Honourable Trust , Bless'd to All Ages ( though by Room Accurs'd . ) We read in ancient Story of Saint George , Who stuck his Lance into a Dragons gorge : We knew His Namesake also at the Charge To tug home Our Great Charles his loaded Barge . Both These wrought Wonders ! but Thou hast Outdone Those Heroes , and far greater Fame hast wone ; The former slew a Beast with Spear and Sword , But Thou Unarmed waste , yet , by Thy Word ( Spoke Powerfully ) Thou gav'st a Mortal Wound To Room ( the Old Great Dragon ) and the Found Of Thy Name only , brought Death , and did Slay All Serpents , Tigers , Panthers , Wolves of prey , Who in That mighty Forest lurking lay . By which means , Thou hast brought the World to Rest , Which by This Vermin hath been soar Oppress'd ; Of All brave Champions , it shall be confess'd , To Thy Eternal Praise Thou art the Best . The Latter plac'd Our Monarchs Crown on's head , But in All after World's , it shall be said That , Thou , didst Raise Him Up , even from the Dead ! And His Three Kingdom's also didst Thou Save By This Strange Resurrection from the Grave ! Bless'd Wonder of Our Age ! we can't give o're But must Contemplate on Thee more and more : Were England , India , we should Thee Adore ! Thou art The Skilful Pilot of Our Age , Who , when Rome's Water-floods began to Rage , And all its rolling Billows ( Ghastly Waves More dismal than the most untimely Graves ) Began to Overwhelm Our Floating Boat , When we were Sleeping , and had scarce a Thought Of Danger nigh , Then , did Thy Watchful Soul Find more than English Courage to Control That Tempest which had like to Overwhelm , If ( under GOD ) Thou hadst not sat at Helm . Great OATS , when we were breathing out our last , Thy wakeful Thoughts on Englands Clock were case Thou heard'st It strike Our Midnight , whilst the Popes False Dial pointed Noon , by Its secret gropes Was almost at the Solstice of His hope's ; Which ( to Thy constant Praise ) did end in Tyburn Ropes ; A New-Years Gift we seek for , but find None To Give , which we can truly call Our Own . Thou hast long since each Corner of Our Heart , ( Except that which for GOD is set apart , And for our King : ) None can say This -- is mine Or That -- though we Possess , the Right is Thine : Yet since all Tenants to their Landlords bring A Token of their Duty ( though the thing Is inconsiderable ) Thou wilt not scorn Though we can bring Thee but this Pepper-Corn ; Accept It ( Dear Sir ) since That round dark Ball Shows that we fain would give Thee More than All We have ; AND , if All Earth were Ours to give , It is Thy Due , ( Bless'd Instrument by Whom we Live ; ) Away with Alabaster Statues , Those Are Puppetlike , fit but for Bartholms Shows : We cannot carve Thy Worth in Monument Of Stone or Silver , ( though our good intent In that dumb Signature we may present ; ) These are such Hieroglyphics , as the Rust Of Cank'ring Time Consumes and turns to dust ; But Thine shall never Fade , ( Thou Wise and Just . ) Since then no curious Art of mortal Man A Shadow of Thy Self so lively can Describe , but that Thy strange Illustrious Ray Will suffer some Unjust Eclipse that way , OUR GREAT OMNIPOTENCE , for Thy Bless'd Sake A Miracle to work did undertake , That All succeeding Ages may Rehearse His Glory , in Thy Praise , beyond all Verse . FINIS . Anno Dom. 1680. H : 133340 A NEW-YEARS GIVE BEING A POEM Dedicated to the lasting Memory of That Worthy and Learned Dr. TITUS OATS , the First Discoverer of the Popish Plot , to destroy the Sacred Person of his Majesty , and to Extirpate the Protestant Religion . GREAT ! --- I am in a plunge what more to say , Our Great Creator shall we call Thee ? Nay : That Title is too great , we all must own Due only unto GOD ( to HIM Alone ; ) The highest Titles by which men express Their Deities or Demi-Gods are less Than Thy Deserts : should we Contract Thy Fame Within such narrow Limits , Thou might'st blame Mankind , and justly Brand us with a Blot Of shame so foul as could not be forgotten ; Had All Angellike Souls , Enlarg'd , that might Retain Conceptions of Thy Worth Aright , Then neither Prose nor Verse would needful be To tell All Future Ages , Thou art He Whom God hath sent into the World to Rear A New Meridian in our Northern Sphere : To tell All Ages which shall after come Thou art the Harbinger of sudden Doom ( More Fatal than Great Hannibal ) to Room : He only threatened ( as did many more ) And only made their large swollen Heartstrings soar By driving them into a Punic Fright , But Thou hast broke Their haughty Heartstrings quite ; We can't express This Wondrous Act of Thine , But by such Characters as are Divine ! Shall we compare Thee then to Alexander , To Hannibal , or any great Commander ? For shame : These , are All-Man-Sir's , Hectoring Boys , Who having purchas'd Gingerbread and Toys , ( For Towns and Castles are such things , ) suppose They only merit Titles who have Those , Although They swim to Empires in a Flood Of Father's , Mother's , Widows , Children's blood , Spending their precious time in Emulous wrangle ( In dust and crowd and sweat ) to catch a Spangle . Great Caesar shall we Style Thee ? that were less Than if we own'd ( which yet we must profess ) We know not what to call Thee , but Our Heart , Our Life , Our Breathing Soul , Our Vital Par Our almost All we have , and Dear to HIM Who did Entrust Thee ( for Our Cherubin ) To Guard Our British Isle ( that little World ) Which else had Topsie-turvy quite been hurl'd , And to a dismal Chaos had been brought , More dreadful than the most tremendous Thought . Great Guardian of this Honourable Trust , Bless'd to All Ages ( though by Room Accurs'd . ) We read in ancient Story of Saint George , Who stuck his Lance into a Dragons gorge : We knew His Namesake also at the Charge To tug home Our Great Charles his loaded Barge . Both These wrought Wonders ! but Thou hast Outdone Those Heroes , and far greater Fame hast wone ; The former slew a Beast with Spear and Sword , But Thou Unarmed waste , yet , by Thy Word ( Spoke Powerfully ) Thou gav'st a Mortal Wound To Room ( the Old Great Dragon ) and the Found Of Thy Name only , brought Death , and did Slay All Serpents , Tigers , Panthers , Wolves of prey , Who in That mighty Forest lurking lay . By which means , Thou hast brought the World to Rest , Which by This Vermin hath been soar Oppress'd ; Of All brave Champions , it shall be confess'd , To Thy Eternal Praise Thou art the Best . The Latter plac'd Our Monarchs Crown on's head , But in All after World's , it shall be said That , Thou , didst Raise Him Up , even from the Dead ! And His Three Kingdom's also didst Thou Save By This Strange Resurrection from the Grave ! Bless'd Wonder of Our Age ! we can't give o're But must Contemplate on Thee more and more : Were England , India , we should Thee Adore ! Thou art The Skilful Pilot of Our Age , Who , when Rome's Water-floods began to Rage , And all its rolling Billows ( Ghastly Waves More dismal than the most untimely Graves ) Began to Overwhelm Our Floating Boat , When we were Sleeping , and had scarce a Thought Of Danger nigh , Then , did Thy Watchful Soul Find more than English Courage to Control That Tempest which had like to Overwhelm , If ( under GOD ) Thou hadst not sat at Helm . Great OATS , when we were breathing out our last , Thy wakeful Thoughts on Englands Clock were case Thou heard'st It strike Our Midnight , whilst the Popes False Dial pointed Noon , by Its secret gropes Was almost at the Solstice of His hope's ; Which ( to Thy constant Praise ) did end in Tyburn Ropes ; A New-Years Gift we seek for , but find None To Give , which we can truly call Our Own . Thou hast long since each Corner of Our Heart , ( Except that which for GOD is set apart , And for our King : ) None can say This -- is mine Or That -- though we Possess , the Right is Thine : Yet since all Tenants to their Landlords bring A Token of their Duty ( though the thing Is inconsiderable ) Thou wilt not scorn Though we can bring Thee but this Pepper-Corn ; Accept It ( Dear Sir ) since That round dark Ball Shows that we fain would give Thee More than All We have ; AND , if All Earth were Ours to give , It is Thy Due , ( Bless'd Instrument by Whom we Live ; ) Away with Alabaster Statues , Those Are Puppetlike , fit but for Bartholms Shows : We cannot carve Thy Worth in Monument Of Stone or Silver , ( though our good intent In that dumb Signature we may present ; ) These are such Hieroglyphics , as the Rust Of Cank'ring Time Consumes and turns to dust ; But Thine shall never Fade , ( Thou Wise and Just . ) Since then no curious Art of mortal Man A Shadow of Thy Self so lively can Describe , but that Thy strange Illustrious Ray Will suffer some Unjust Eclipse that way , OUR GREAT OMNIPOTENCE , for Thy Bless'd Sake A Miracle to work did undertake , That All succeeding Ages may Rehearse His Glory , in Thy Praise , beyond all Verse . FINIS . Anno Dom. 1680. 