H : 133230 AND ELEGY On the Death of Sir EDMUND SAUNDERS , Late Lord Chief Justice of ENGLAND ; Who Died on the 19th . of this Instant June , 1683. HOw vain are all the hope's on which we built ? Whate're we sow , 'tis Death still reaps the field : 'Tis by this Tenure Mortals hold their Breath , To give it up when e're 'tis call'd by Death : Our Life is only lent us upon trust , Whither we will or not , we must be jus Heaven has to all appointed soon or late , To undergo the power of cruel Fate : But hark ! what found is't strikes my trembling ear ? Saunders is Dead ! good Heaven ! what is't I hear ? Is Saunders Dead that Noble Worthy Man ? His Life is done before it scarce began : He was but shown unto the wondering world , When lo into the silent grave he's hurl'd . Lament , lament , a Learned Judge is gone , The Laws bright Star , that so Divinely shone , To steer the wandering Course of those found Men , Who thought all Law and Reason dwelled with them . But soon as our Chief Justice was espy'd , Their Shifts and Fallacies all sunk and dy'd , Like Mists that rise before the Morning Sun , But vanish all e're half his Raze is run : Saunders in time , though short , has liv'd , yet more Then thousands Older , that have been before . Some Men need try but part of their true strength , To lay their Foes before them at their length ; While others strive with heavy weight in vain , And came Ignobly off with blushing shame : But Saunders was by Destiny design'd , To be the Joy and Honour of Mankind : A General Good was his Unerring aim , 'Tis that alone which gives Immortal Fame . He did with Prudence first himself advice , And then he taught the Nation to be wise : When he had gain'd the Mastery of the Law , For Public Good he did his Forces draw : To serve his Country was his highest care , For which great end he did so Nobly dare , His Soul not capable of unjust fear . When in a lower Sphere , how did he move , And gave clear signs what he wou'd higher prove ; Great force of Nature in his parts was seen , Which yet , Refin'd by Art , more glorious shine . Hard Labour , Industry , and sweating Toil , Went to complete this wonder of our Isle ; He knew , since the first Man was Curs'd , that pain And trouble was the only way to gain True Honour , therefore did his strength employ , In that which always gives the truest Joy . Kind Providence Rewards industrious Care , But Lazy wishes Heaven will never hear ; Let thy Example led our Young Men on , None knows to what with Study he may come ; What soul so stupid , but takes generous Fire , When he but thinks on thee , whom all admire , He feels warm Glory through his Breast inspire His drowsy Faculties , and straight does find , Ambition to be like thee , seize his mind . We never can the vastness of our Loss express , Nor in fit Language our sad sorrows dress . All we can say on this great Theam , appears , To be but overflowing of our Tears . O that kind Heaven wou'd show some better way , How to his Ashes we might Tribute pay . We're all oblig'd to weep and mourn for him , Who for us all laid out his care and time ; May he that shall succeed make up our grief , By his great worth we may receive Relief , And Comfort to our woes , which swell so high , They seem almost from Earth to reach the Sky . His Epitaph . HEre lies Saunders sacred Dust , While living , was the Nations Trust ; Reflect Oh Reader ! on thy state , Consider thou must stoop to Fate ; However Brave Thou art , and Great , The silent Grave does for thee wait , And nothing can stern Death Entreat . Licensed and Entered according to Order : Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel , in Guiltspur street . H : 133230 AND ELEGY On the Death of Sir EDMUND SAUNDERS , Late Lord Chief Justice of ENGLAND ; Who Died on the 19th . of this Instant June , 1683. HOw vain are all the hope's on which we built ? Whate're we sow , 'tis Death still reaps the field : 'Tis by this Tenure Mortals hold their Breath , To give it up when e're 'tis call'd by Death : Our Life is only lent us upon trust , Whither we will or not , we must be jus Heaven has to all appointed soon or late , To undergo the power of cruel Fate : But hark ! what found is't strikes my trembling ear ? Saunders is Dead ! good Heaven ! what is't I hear ? Is Saunders Dead that Noble Worthy Man ? His Life is done before it scarce began : He was but shown unto the wondering world , When lo into the silent grave he's hurl'd . Lament , lament , a Learned Judge is gone , The Laws bright Star , that so Divinely shone , To steer the wandering Course of those found Men , Who thought all Law and Reason dwelled with them . But soon as our Chief Justice was espy'd , Their Shifts and Fallacies all sunk and dy'd , Like Mists that rise before the Morning Sun , But vanish all e're half his Raze is run : Saunders in time , though short , has liv'd , yet more Then thousands Older , that have been before . Some Men need try but part of their true strength , To lay their Foes before them at their length ; While others strive with heavy weight in vain , And came Ignobly off with blushing shame : But Saunders was by Destiny design'd , To be the Joy and Honour of Mankind : A General Good was his Unerring aim , 'Tis that alone which gives Immortal Fame . He did with Prudence first himself advice , And then he taught the Nation to be wise : When he had gain'd the Mastery of the Law , For Public Good he did his Forces draw : To serve his Country was his highest care , For which great end he did so Nobly dare , His Soul not capable of unjust fear . When in a lower Sphere , how did he move , And gave clear signs what he wou'd higher prove ; Great force of Nature in his parts was seen , Which yet , Refin'd by Art , more glorious shine . Hard Labour , Industry , and sweating Toil , Went to complete this wonder of our Isle ; He knew , since the first Man was Curs'd , that pain And trouble was the only way to gain True Honour , therefore did his strength employ , In that which always gives the truest Joy . Kind Providence Rewards industrious Care , But Lazy wishes Heaven will never hear ; Let thy Example led our Young Men on , None knows to what with Study he may come ; What soul so stupid , but takes generous Fire , When he but thinks on thee , whom all admire , He feels warm Glory through his Breast inspire His drowsy Faculties , and straight does find , Ambition to be like thee , seize his mind . We never can the vastness of our Loss express , Nor in fit Language our sad sorrows dress . All we can say on this great Theam , appears , To be but overflowing of our Tears . O that kind Heaven wou'd show some better way , How to his Ashes we might Tribute pay . We're all oblig'd to weep and mourn for him , Who for us all laid out his care and time ; May he that shall succeed make up our grief , By his great worth we may receive Relief , And Comfort to our woes , which swell so high , They seem almost from Earth to reach the Sky . His Epitaph . HEre lies Saunders sacred Dust , While living , was the Nations Trust ; Reflect Oh Reader ! on thy state , Consider thou must stoop to Fate ; However Brave Thou art , and Great , The silent Grave does for thee wait , And nothing can stern Death Entreat . Licensed and Entered according to Order : Printed for J. Deacon at the Angel , in Guiltspur street . 