H : 133352 To the Right Honourable , The Lord Mayor of the famous City of LONDON , the Ho - nourable the Sheriffs , Aldermen , Common Council , and all Worthy Citizens of the same , the Humble Address of Anthony Wildgoos , Workman-Printer : IN DIVINE MEDITATIONS ON DEATH , Made upon these Nine WORDS , Nothing more sure then Death , for all must Die . MOre wish'd than Wealth , yet that must leave us ; More sweet than Love , that lasts not ever : More dear than Friends , yet they'll deceive us ; More fast than Wedlock , yet they sever . The World must end , all things away must fly : Nothing more sure then Death , for all must Die . Nothing Strength may be obtain'd , but 'twill decay ; Beauty may be had , but 'twill not las Honour may be god , but 'twill away ; Joys may follow , but these soon are passed . For long continuance , it's in vain to try . You , and you , and you , and all must Die . More Love must Die , though rooted in the Heart ; 'Tis , that all things earthly are unstable : Friends are pure friends , yet such friends must part ; 'Tis , that all things ( here ) are variable . Not two nor one may escape ; nor thou , nor I ; Nothing more sure then Death , for all must Die . Sure Let the Rich no longer covet Wealth ; Let the Proud vail his ambitious Thought ; Let the Found not glory in his Health : Let all yield , since all must come to nought . For long Continuance , it's vain to try : Nothing more sure then Death , for all must Die . Then Took away King Herod in his Pride , Spar'd not Hercules for all his strength ; Struck Great Alexander that he dy'd ; Long spar'd Adam , yet he dy'd at length . The Beggar and the King , the Low , the High ; Nothing more sure then Death , for all must Die . Death Sceptres , Crowns , Imperial Diadems ; All the Beauty's that on Earth do live : Pleasures , Treasures , Jewels , costly Jems ; All the Glory that the World can give , Death will not spare his Dart , but still reply , You , and you , and you , and all must Die . For From the highest , to the lowest Degree ; Nations , People , Kingdoms , Countries , Lands , In the Earth , or Air , or Sea , that be , Must yield up to his all-conquering Hands : He wounds them all with and Impartial Eye : Nothing more sure then Death , for all must Die . All All then Die ; then all must think on Death : All things vanish ? Sun , and Moon , and Stars ? Every single Creature yield his Breath ? All things cease , our Joys , Delights , our Cares ? Yes , All with and united voice do cry , Nothing more sure then Death , for all must Die . Must Let us then , but let us Die in peace ; To our Sins , that dying we may live : To the World , that Grace may more increase ; Here , to live with him that life does give , Die , die we must ; let Wealth and Pleasures lie , Nothing more sure then Death , for all must Die . Die Man the first Garden-Flower in Eden faded ; Man the first Building , the first Babel prov'd ; Man the first rais'd , was Man the first degraded ; Man was first shook , that might have liv'd unmov'd . Death's breath o'r Flowers and Towers hath like Commanding ; His Hand pull'd down , Man rais'd , shook Man firm-standing . FINIS . LONDON , Printed for Anthony Wildgoos , dwelling within Cripple-Gate , near Lamb's Chapel Gate . H : 133352 To the Right Honourable , The Lord Mayor of the famous City of LONDON , the Ho - nourable the Sheriffs , Aldermen , Common Council , and all Worthy Citizens of the same , the Humble Address of Anthony Wildgoos , Workman-Printer : IN DIVINE MEDITATIONS ON DEATH , Made upon these Nine WORDS , Nothing more sure then Death , for all must Die . MOre wish'd than Wealth , yet that must leave us ; More sweet than Love , that lasts not ever : More dear than Friends , yet they'll deceive us ; More fast than Wedlock , yet they sever . The World must end , all things away must fly : Nothing more sure then Death , for all must Die . Nothing Strength may be obtain'd , but 'twill decay ; Beauty may be had , but 'twill not las Honour may be god , but 'twill away ; Joys may follow , but these soon are passed . For long continuance , it's in vain to try . You , and you , and you , and all must Die . More Love must Die , though rooted in the Heart ; 'Tis , that all things earthly are unstable : Friends are pure friends , yet such friends must part ; 'Tis , that all things ( here ) are variable . Not two nor one may escape ; nor thou , nor I ; Nothing more sure then Death , for all must Die . Sure Let the Rich no longer covet Wealth ; Let the Proud vail his ambitious Thought ; Let the Found not glory in his Health : Let all yield , since all must come to nought . For long Continuance , it's vain to try : Nothing more sure then Death , for all must Die . Then Took away King Herod in his Pride , Spar'd not Hercules for all his strength ; Struck Great Alexander that he dy'd ; Long spar'd Adam , yet he dy'd at length . The Beggar and the King , the Low , the High ; Nothing more sure then Death , for all must Die . Death Sceptres , Crowns , Imperial Diadems ; All the Beauty's that on Earth do live : Pleasures , Treasures , Jewels , costly Jems ; All the Glory that the World can give , Death will not spare his Dart , but still reply , You , and you , and you , and all must Die . For From the highest , to the lowest Degree ; Nations , People , Kingdoms , Countries , Lands , In the Earth , or Air , or Sea , that be , Must yield up to his all-conquering Hands : He wounds them all with and Impartial Eye : Nothing more sure then Death , for all must Die . All All then Die ; then all must think on Death : All things vanish ? Sun , and Moon , and Stars ? Every single Creature yield his Breath ? All things cease , our Joys , Delights , our Cares ? Yes , All with and united voice do cry , Nothing more sure then Death , for all must Die . Must Let us then , but let us Die in peace ; To our Sins , that dying we may live : To the World , that Grace may more increase ; Here , to live with him that life does give , Die , die we must ; let Wealth and Pleasures lie , Nothing more sure then Death , for all must Die . Die Man the first Garden-Flower in Eden faded ; Man the first Building , the first Babel prov'd ; Man the first rais'd , was Man the first degraded ; Man was first shook , that might have liv'd unmov'd . Death's breath o'r Flowers and Towers hath like Commanding ; His Hand pull'd down , Man rais'd , shook Man firm-standing . FINIS . LONDON , Printed for Anthony Wildgoos , dwelling within Cripple-Gate , near Lamb's Chapel Gate . 