H : 133380 A PROPHECY of ENGLAND'S future Happiness , after the time that the Contrivers of this Popish PLOT are cut off . The Second Impression of Dr. OTES his VINDICATION : SHOWING , His EVIDENCE is not yet to be baffled by the PAPISTS ; And , the Power that instructed him to discover this damnable , Popish PLOT . Where observe , None that had a hand in it , or but consented to it , without Repentance , shall ever thrive . OTES . WISDOM , the Fruitful Mother of all things , The Virgin Bride of the great KING of Kings ; This Heavenly Lady , first instructed Me , To free my Country from Rome's Tyranny . The World is Blind , and they that Headlong run , Without this Guide , are utterly undone . While I was galloping a full Career , A Glorious Angel did to me appear , Great Britain's Genius , in a mourning weed . Glanc't in my Eye , which made my Heart to bleed . ANGEL . CAnst thou , quoth she , behold thy Country's fallen , Into the Hands of evr'y Cannibal ? Devouring Dogs , who not content with Fleeces , Do gape to grind both Flesh and Bones to pieces ! Who , under colour of fain'd Holiness , Would make poor Albion a mere Wilderness . Rome had her Titus , we in Story find , Who was the full Delight of all Mankind : Be like him then , 'tis not a time to play , To do thy Country good , lose not a day : Armies of Serpents swarm about her Ears , Ready to be devoured by Wolves and Bears . I have design'd thee for this Noble Work , among these Murderers no longer lurk . What canst thou see the Land where thou wast born , Made the World's Laughter and the public Scorn ? Thine aged Father's reverend Snow-white Head , With Fettered hands , to Execution led ? A Pander to thy Mother , monstrous base ! Thy sister * strumpeted before thy face ? The Wife before her Husband's face defil'd ? Your Cattle plunderd , & your houses spoil'd ? This Famous Island topsy-turvy turn'd ? The Inhabitants all banished or burn'd ? And thou thyself canst not escape their Fury , To take thy Life , they have sum'd up a Jury ! Behave thyself as wisely as you can , 'Tis Crime enough to be and Englishman . Thy Countries peace and safety will be thine , With bloody Monsters see thou dost not join : Be Wise and Valiant , nothing can distress thee , Though the Pope Curse , the Heaven of Heavens will bless thee . * Whoring is the dis - ease o'th Sons of that Romish Whore To Conquer Canaan , Israel sent out Spies , Be thou a Caleb in a low Disguise ; To bring their Deeds of darkness to the Light , With Canaanites be thou a Canaanite . In my wise School , I'le make thee a Refiner , And Underminer of the Underminer : The Fiends are putting forth with all their might A Plot , deeper than Hell , darker than Night ! OTES . THese words did pierce my Soul , like a keen Arrow , They glided through my Bones , and all my Marrow . I'le follow thy Advice , thus I reply , Though Snakes and Adders in the way do lie : The Die is cast , I want no further Wooing , And if I fallen , I'le perish by well doing : With and undaunted Courage I'le march on , Till I have passed this River Rubicon . Like the brave Roman Caesar , lo , I stand , Though Rome encounter me by Sea and Land : A Joshua to this Land , good News I bring , A Faithful Mordecai unto my King : Romes stinking Holiness begins to Taint , Where every Murderer is made a Saint . Hold up thy head , Great Britain , thou shalt see Accursed ' Haman hanging on a Tree : This Resolution in my mind did fallen , That for a time , I was not I at all ! ' Some eminent Plotter . The Fire of Love so flamed in my Breast , For Englands safety I could take no rest ! The Dove did shine like a bright morning Sun , And put the Murdering Dragon to the run : The Lamb he was my Counsellor , who said , Find out those horrid Treasons that are laid Against thy Native Soil , whose Funeral Bell Is now rung-out by all the Powers of Hell : A Grave prepar'd , a ' Gulf does open stand To swallow all the People of this Land , Arise , the Angel said , It is THY Lot , To found the bottom of this Hellish PLOT , Guided along by Providence Divine , Rip through the Bowels of this Dark Design : I , mount the Alpes , stand for fair Italy , To found Romes machiavellian Policy : I , swiftly post through Flanders , pleasant France : To the Castillian Court , I did advance : I there unrip't the bowels of this PLOT , Saw how these Nations at fair England Shot , ' for Mass - sacred Pro testants . In all those Countries which foul Treason breeds , I sucked sweet Honey from most poys'nous weeds ; Of which and Antidote I did compound , To Cure fair England of her secret Wound . That I might give them their own bitter Pill , I kept the Copies of their Letters still ; Laden with spoils of Treachery and Treason , I came unto my King , had I not reason ? My many years Intelligence , I brought Unto his hands , and how his LIFE was sought . Tho all the people had their Sentence read , Yet HE , their King , this dismal Dance must led . He did receive me with a gracious Eye , For at the stake his Sacred Life did lie . All Nations trust the Sword for their Defence , But England , thou art sav'd by Providence ! For being Blind , thou didst not see nor know , The Arm was up to give the fatal Blow ! Hoodwinked asleep , thou hadst forever been , Had not wise Providence stept-in between . Armies of Angels , stood in battle array , Their General did fight for thee this day . Let not the name of Oats live , let it die , And in the Grave of dark Oblivion lie : Let Bedloe , Oats and Dugdale be forgotten , For they were not Discoveres of this Plot ; These were but Harps in Great Jehovah's hand , On whom he played to save a Sinful Land : Our General he did call , and we Obey'd , We were the Instruments on whom he played A Tune so pleasant on the Humble Lyre , That all succeeding Ages will admire ! To this Great GOD the Ancient of days , Let us give all the Honour and the Praise , Who brought a Daniel from the Lions Den , And sav'd us from the Hands of Wicked men : His Eye hath rais'd to Life with one sweet Ray , A Nation that upon its Death Bed lay . The PROPHECY Of ENGLAND'S future Happiness , Notwithstanding the Rage and Malice of Papists . HEnceforth , Great Britain , show thy smiling Face , In thee is Born a Child of Heavenly Raze , Sprung from the Loins of the Immortal Dove , Wisdom his Mother , and his Sire is Love : Riding Triumphant on his Milk white Steed , This Prince shall Cure the Nations that now bleed : Envy and Malice shall fallen down before him , The Blackmore and the Indian shall adore him ! Into his Fold all Nations he will gather , Our Noble King shall be a Nursing Father : Sweet Peace o're all the Earth shall then be sown , Stiff-neck'd Rebellion shall no more be known ; Both King and Subject in one Yoke shall draw , The Prince's Will shall be the Subject's Law : The Prince with such Commanding Love shall sway , The People will take pleasure to obey : They shall rejoice when they do understand All Arbitrary power is in his hand : A full Confinement is full Liberty , And when they most are bound , they are most free : No Council to Direct his Just Commands , For Wisdom always at his Elbow stands : No heavy Tax can move the Peoples Gall , For they are willing to surrender all : Both Prince and People fit upon one Throne , For Prince and People perfectly are one : Full Union and Communion here we find , One Life , one Love , one Soul , one undivided Mind : But e're this come to pass , we clearly see * Disturbances in every place shall be ; The Elements shall quarrel with each Star , Dame Nature with herself shall be at War : The whole Creation that hath been accursed , Shall fallen into a Chaos , as at firs In all the World there will be strong Delusion , Darkness and Death , Confusion on Confusion : When this Black Cloud is o're , what will ensue ? The Master Builder will Built all things new , When this old House is burned that's made of Clay , Hee'l Built a Palace that shall ne'r decay : The Soul , in fine , being urged from Dross and Tin , Shall now spring up a Glorious Cherubin . A New Sun in the Firmament shall rise , Whose Glorious Beams shall dazzle Mortal Eyes ? The Stars shall be refin'd which now we see , And this dull Lump a Paradise will be , Through Storms and Tempests we no more shall pass , For we shall Sail upon a Sea of Glass : New Stars , new Planets guild the Heavenly floor , Such as by Men were never seen before : The little Birds on every Bough shall Sing , H : 133380 A PROPHECY of ENGLAND'S future Happiness , after the time that the Contrivers of this Popish PLOT are cut off . The Second Impression of Dr. OTES his VINDICATION : SHOWING , His EVIDENCE is not yet to be baffled by the PAPISTS ; And , the Power that instructed him to discover this damnable , Popish PLOT . Where observe , None that had a hand in it , or but consented to it , without Repentance , shall ever thrive . OTES . WISDOM , the Fruitful Mother of all things , The Virgin Bride of the great KING of Kings ; This Heavenly Lady , first instructed Me , To free my Country from Rome's Tyranny . The World is Blind , and they that Headlong run , Without this Guide , are utterly undone . While I was galloping a full Career , A Glorious Angel did to me appear , Great Britain's Genius , in a mourning weed . Glanc't in my Eye , which made my Heart to bleed . ANGEL . CAnst thou , quoth she , behold thy Country's fallen , Into the Hands of evr'y Cannibal ? Devouring Dogs , who not content with Fleeces , Do gape to grind both Flesh and Bones to pieces ! Who , under colour of fain'd Holiness , Would make poor Albion a mere Wilderness . Rome had her Titus , we in Story find , Who was the full Delight of all Mankind : Be like him then , 'tis not a time to play , To do thy Country good , lose not a day : Armies of Serpents swarm about her Ears , Ready to be devoured by Wolves and Bears . I have design'd thee for this Noble Work , among these Murderers no longer lurk . What canst thou see the Land where thou wast born , Made the World's Laughter and the public Scorn ? Thine aged Father's reverend Snow-white Head , With Fettered hands , to Execution led ? A Pander to thy Mother , monstrous base ! Thy sister * strumpeted before thy face ? The Wife before her Husband's face defil'd ? Your Cattle plunderd , & your houses spoil'd ? This Famous Island topsy-turvy turn'd ? The Inhabitants all banished or burn'd ? And thou thyself canst not escape their Fury , To take thy Life , they have sum'd up a Jury ! Behave thyself as wisely as you can , 'Tis Crime enough to be and Englishman . Thy Countries peace and safety will be thine , With bloody Monsters see thou dost not join : Be Wise and Valiant , nothing can distress thee , Though the Pope Curse , the Heaven of Heavens will bless thee . * Whoring is the dis - ease o'th Sons of that Romish Whore To Conquer Canaan , Israel sent out Spies , Be thou a Caleb in a low Disguise ; To bring their Deeds of darkness to the Light , With Canaanites be thou a Canaanite . In my wise School , I'le make thee a Refiner , And Underminer of the Underminer : The Fiends are putting forth with all their might A Plot , deeper than Hell , darker than Night ! OTES . THese words did pierce my Soul , like a keen Arrow , They glided through my Bones , and all my Marrow . I'le follow thy Advice , thus I reply , Though Snakes and Adders in the way do lie : The Die is cast , I want no further Wooing , And if I fallen , I'le perish by well doing : With and undaunted Courage I'le march on , Till I have passed this River Rubicon . Like the brave Roman Caesar , lo , I stand , Though Rome encounter me by Sea and Land : A Joshua to this Land , good News I bring , A Faithful Mordecai unto my King : Romes stinking Holiness begins to Taint , Where every Murderer is made a Saint . Hold up thy head , Great Britain , thou shalt see Accursed ' Haman hanging on a Tree : This Resolution in my mind did fallen , That for a time , I was not I at all ! ' Some eminent Plotter . The Fire of Love so flamed in my Breast , For Englands safety I could take no rest ! The Dove did shine like a bright morning Sun , And put the Murdering Dragon to the run : The Lamb he was my Counsellor , who said , Find out those horrid Treasons that are laid Against thy Native Soil , whose Funeral Bell Is now rung-out by all the Powers of Hell : A Grave prepar'd , a ' Gulf does open stand To swallow all the People of this Land , Arise , the Angel said , It is THY Lot , To found the bottom of this Hellish PLOT , Guided along by Providence Divine , Rip through the Bowels of this Dark Design : I , mount the Alpes , stand for fair Italy , To found Romes machiavellian Policy : I , swiftly post through Flanders , pleasant France : To the Castillian Court , I did advance : I there unrip't the bowels of this PLOT , Saw how these Nations at fair England Shot , ' for Mass - sacred Pro testants . In all those Countries which foul Treason breeds , I sucked sweet Honey from most poys'nous weeds ; Of which and Antidote I did compound , To Cure fair England of her secret Wound . That I might give them their own bitter Pill , I kept the Copies of their Letters still ; Laden with spoils of Treachery and Treason , I came unto my King , had I not reason ? My many years Intelligence , I brought Unto his hands , and how his LIFE was sought . Tho all the people had their Sentence read , Yet HE , their King , this dismal Dance must led . He did receive me with a gracious Eye , For at the stake his Sacred Life did lie . All Nations trust the Sword for their Defence , But England , thou art sav'd by Providence ! For being Blind , thou didst not see nor know , The Arm was up to give the fatal Blow ! Hoodwinked asleep , thou hadst forever been , Had not wise Providence stept-in between . Armies of Angels , stood in battle array , Their General did fight for thee this day . Let not the name of Oats live , let it die , And in the Grave of dark Oblivion lie : Let Bedloe , Oats and Dugdale be forgotten , For they were not Discoveres of this Plot ; These were but Harps in Great Jehovah's hand , On whom he played to save a Sinful Land : Our General he did call , and we Obey'd , We were the Instruments on whom he played A Tune so pleasant on the Humble Lyre , That all succeeding Ages will admire ! To this Great GOD the Ancient of days , Let us give all the Honour and the Praise , Who brought a Daniel from the Lions Den , And sav'd us from the Hands of Wicked men : His Eye hath rais'd to Life with one sweet Ray , A Nation that upon its Death Bed lay . The PROPHECY Of ENGLAND'S future Happiness , Notwithstanding the Rage and Malice of Papists . HEnceforth , Great Britain , show thy smiling Face , In thee is Born a Child of Heavenly Raze , Sprung from the Loins of the Immortal Dove , Wisdom his Mother , and his Sire is Love : Riding Triumphant on his Milk white Steed , This Prince shall Cure the Nations that now bleed : Envy and Malice shall fallen down before him , The Blackmore and the Indian shall adore him ! Into his Fold all Nations he will gather , Our Noble King shall be a Nursing Father : Sweet Peace o're all the Earth shall then be sown , Stiff-neck'd Rebellion shall no more be known ; Both King and Subject in one Yoke shall draw , The Prince's Will shall be the Subject's Law : The Prince with such Commanding Love shall sway , The People will take pleasure to obey : They shall rejoice when they do understand All Arbitrary power is in his hand : A full Confinement is full Liberty , And when they most are bound , they are most free : No Council to Direct his Just Commands , For Wisdom always at his Elbow stands : No heavy Tax can move the Peoples Gall , For they are willing to surrender all : Both Prince and People fit upon one Throne , For Prince and People perfectly are one : Full Union and Communion here we find , One Life , one Love , one Soul , one undivided Mind : But e're this come to pass , we clearly see * Disturbances in every place shall be ; The Elements shall quarrel with each Star , Dame Nature with herself shall be at War : The whole Creation that hath been accursed , Shall fallen into a Chaos , as at firs In all the World there will be strong Delusion , Darkness and Death , Confusion on Confusion : When this Black Cloud is o're , what will ensue ? The Master Builder will Built all things new , When this old House is burned that's made of Clay , Hee'l Built a Palace that shall ne'r decay : The Soul , in fine , being urged from Dross and Tin , Shall now spring up a Glorious Cherubin . A New Sun in the Firmament shall rise , Whose Glorious Beams shall dazzle Mortal Eyes ? The Stars shall be refin'd which now we see , And this dull Lump a Paradise will be , Through Storms and Tempests we no more shall pass , For we shall Sail upon a Sea of Glass : New Stars , new Planets guild the Heavenly floor , Such as by Men were never seen before : The little Birds on every Bough shall Sing , No Winter but and Everlasting Spring . Fresh flourishing Youth shall everything restore , Old Age is past ; and Man shall Die no more ; Sickness and Sorrow are forever fled , All Tears are wip'd away , and Death is dead . * be - betwixt the two Seeds . Gen. 3. 15. LONDON , Printed by Th. Dawks , in Black Friars : where you may have Mr. Bedloe's and Mr. Dugdales Pictures , severally , thus with Verses , declaring each of their Reasons why they discovered this Damnable , Hellish , Popish PLO also you may have Sir Edmund B. Godfrey Murder , most of the Papists Cruelties in it , made visible , in a large Copper Plate , with a Discourse thereon , to which is added Sir Edmunds Character . Also a Chronology of the Rise and Growth of Popery , when and who brought in their Super - stitious Devises : which may be had in 2 broad sheets joyn'd with 52 Figures , in Copper Plataeae ( or in a Pack of Cards representing the Rise , Demonstration and Discovery of the PLOT , with a Book to explain each Figure , etc Also there you may have Salmon's Dispensatory ; and his Horae Mathematicae , or Soul of Astrology , etc Any person may have quantities of each , though 'tis reported , by ill condition'd persons , to many ingenious persons , Lovers of Art , both in City and Country , that none , though all of them may there be had . No Winter but and Everlasting Spring . Fresh flourishing Youth shall everything restore , Old Age is past ; and Man shall Die no more ; Sickness and Sorrow are forever fled , All Tears are wip'd away , and Death is dead . * be - betwixt the two Seeds . Gen. 3. 15. LONDON , Printed by Th. Dawks , in Black Friars : where you may have Mr. Bedloe's and Mr. Dugdales Pictures , severally , thus with Verses , declaring each of their Reasons why they discovered this Damnable , Hellish , Popish PLO also you may have Sir Edmund B. Godfrey Murder , most of the Papists Cruelties in it , made visible , in a large Copper Plate , with a Discourse thereon , to which is added Sir Edmunds Character . Also a Chronology of the Rise and Growth of Popery , when and who brought in their Super - stitious Devises : which may be had in 2 broad sheets joyn'd with 52 Figures , in Copper Plataeae ( or in a Pack of Cards representing the Rise , Demonstration and Discovery of the PLOT , with a Book to explain each Figure , etc Also there you may have Salmon's Dispensatory ; and his Horae Mathematicae , or Soul of Astrology , etc Any person may have quantities of each , though 'tis reported , by ill condition'd persons , to many ingenious persons , Lovers of Art , both in City and Country , that none , though all of them may there be had . 