H : 133379 The ESSEX BALLAD . To and old Tune new reviv'd . IN Essex much renown'd for Calves , And giving Verdicts in by halves , For Oysters , Agues , and for Knaves of Faction . One Peer , and Men of Worship four , With Gentlemen some half a score , Did draw in ten Dutch Else of Boar to Actium The Squire , whose Name does famous grow As Marcus Tullius Cicero , And keeps true Time with Sir A ------ A ------ As freely gave himself his Hand , As once his Voice to rule the Land , By such as should not understand too rashly . The Rout that erst did roar so loud ; A M ------ and a H ------ Are of their Choice now grown so proud , you'd wonder : And these State-Tinkers must be sent To stop the Leaks of Government , Grown crazy now , and almost rend in sunder . His Honour first set all his Hands , Each Members next in order stands ; The Rabble , without If's or And's , subscratch it . The Cause , not obsolete , though old , Like Insects lay in Winter cold , And warm Petitions ( they were told ) would hatch it . Corn boar a price in Cromwel's days , Nor did we want a vent for Bays ; Nay , even Calves were several ways advanced : And then we fear'd not wicked Plots ; The Godly serv'd to cut our Throats , Though Agents for the Pope , as Oats and Prance said . Those Reasons did so much prevail , That they petition'd Tooth and Nail , To have the Sovereign strike Sail , and stand by : While th' Parliament had sat some years , To drive out Pope with Presbyters , And try the Babylonish Peers , and Danby . For how can Corn and Wool be dear , Since Popish Lords drink little Beer , Eat Fish , and very seldom wear our Woollen ? Nay , even their Horses are afraid Of Treason in the Manger laid ; And the King's Evidence dismay'd their Pullen . These Grievances , with others many , ( Too long for Ballad of a Penny ) Drove on a Heard of Clowns to any adventure . Those Brands , which in the days of Yore , Unmanufactur'd Parchment boar ; And when Farms let , sign'd heretofore Indenture . In Hieroglyphic rows were set Like Oriental Alphabet ; And lest the King should quite forget the Senate , Their Hinds lay whip and whistling by , Humbly to council Majesty ; And what they could not read , would try to Pen at . The Milkmaid hop'd old comfort's in't , Since Bodkins once did Breeches Mint , And straight subscrib'd their Butterprint to Creamer : But these were all but single gains , And hardly worth their toil and pains , The Cause wants vigour , and disdains a Dreamer . This dallying therefore to prevent , And Anti-popish Bull was sent , The Emblem of the Government , to baiting : Where Butchers , Tinkers , Ostlers go , Tapsters and Broom-men all a row ; And Carters for the sport left Ho and Haiting . Th' unanswerable Scotch-Cloth Men , Taps , Sives , Chairs , and Coney-skin , Beggars and Boys all throng'd , and then Egyptians . This Honourable Covey met , Hedge draws the Members Setting-Net , And gets from all , without Regret , Subscriptions . When this great Council was dismiss'd , They found that several Yards of Fist Were wanting to complete the List ; and order'd , Seven Elders to disperse the Deed , To those of the Geneva Creed , Brothers to such as on the Tweed are border'd . These trudg'd a Conventicling , To pray the Lord , and beg the King ; The Congregation sign'd the thing Sans Scruple . Those Scholars that could write , they bribe To prompt and proxy every side ; And these did personally subscribe Centuple . But now the time draws on apace , And Member itches for his place , The Knights and Gentlemen five brace assemble : And brought the Muster-Roll to Court , Though Charles did hardly thank 'em for't ; But made 'em with a sharp retort to tremble . Now God preserve our King and Queen From Piebald Coats , and Ribbons green ; Let neither Knave nor Fool be seen about 'em : And those that will not say Amen , Let 'em Petition once again , For every one the Shire has , ten to rout 'em . FINIS . Printed at LONDON , in the Year 1680. H : 133379 The ESSEX BALLAD . To and old Tune new reviv'd . IN Essex much renown'd for Calves , And giving Verdicts in by halves , For Oysters , Agues , and for Knaves of Faction . One Peer , and Men of Worship four , With Gentlemen some half a score , Did draw in ten Dutch Else of Boar to Actium The Squire , whose Name does famous grow As Marcus Tullius Cicero , And keeps true Time with Sir A ------ A ------ As freely gave himself his Hand , As once his Voice to rule the Land , By such as should not understand too rashly . The Rout that erst did roar so loud ; A M ------ and a H ------ Are of their Choice now grown so proud , you'd wonder : And these State-Tinkers must be sent To stop the Leaks of Government , Grown crazy now , and almost rend in sunder . His Honour first set all his Hands , Each Members next in order stands ; The Rabble , without If's or And's , subscratch it . The Cause , not obsolete , though old , Like Insects lay in Winter cold , And warm Petitions ( they were told ) would hatch it . Corn boar a price in Cromwel's days , Nor did we want a vent for Bays ; Nay , even Calves were several ways advanced : And then we fear'd not wicked Plots ; The Godly serv'd to cut our Throats , Though Agents for the Pope , as Oats and Prance said . Those Reasons did so much prevail , That they petition'd Tooth and Nail , To have the Sovereign strike Sail , and stand by : While th' Parliament had sat some years , To drive out Pope with Presbyters , And try the Babylonish Peers , and Danby . For how can Corn and Wool be dear , Since Popish Lords drink little Beer , Eat Fish , and very seldom wear our Woollen ? Nay , even their Horses are afraid Of Treason in the Manger laid ; And the King's Evidence dismay'd their Pullen . These Grievances , with others many , ( Too long for Ballad of a Penny ) Drove on a Heard of Clowns to any adventure . Those Brands , which in the days of Yore , Unmanufactur'd Parchment boar ; And when Farms let , sign'd heretofore Indenture . In Hieroglyphic rows were set Like Oriental Alphabet ; And lest the King should quite forget the Senate , Their Hinds lay whip and whistling by , Humbly to council Majesty ; And what they could not read , would try to Pen at . The Milkmaid hop'd old comfort's in't , Since Bodkins once did Breeches Mint , And straight subscrib'd their Butterprint to Creamer : But these were all but single gains , And hardly worth their toil and pains , The Cause wants vigour , and disdains a Dreamer . This dallying therefore to prevent , And Anti-popish Bull was sent , The Emblem of the Government , to baiting : Where Butchers , Tinkers , Ostlers go , Tapsters and Broom-men all a row ; And Carters for the sport left Ho and Haiting . Th' unanswerable Scotch-Cloth Men , Taps , Sives , Chairs , and Coney-skin , Beggars and Boys all throng'd , and then Egyptians . This Honourable Covey met , Hedge draws the Members Setting-Net , And gets from all , without Regret , Subscriptions . When this great Council was dismiss'd , They found that several Yards of Fist Were wanting to complete the List ; and order'd , Seven Elders to disperse the Deed , To those of the Geneva Creed , Brothers to such as on the Tweed are border'd . These trudg'd a Conventicling , To pray the Lord , and beg the King ; The Congregation sign'd the thing Sans Scruple . Those Scholars that could write , they bribe To prompt and proxy every side ; And these did personally subscribe Centuple . But now the time draws on apace , And Member itches for his place , The Knights and Gentlemen five brace assemble : And brought the Muster-Roll to Court , Though Charles did hardly thank 'em for't ; But made 'em with a sharp retort to tremble . Now God preserve our King and Queen From Piebald Coats , and Ribbons green ; Let neither Knave nor Fool be seen about 'em : And those that will not say Amen , Let 'em Petition once again , For every one the Shire has , ten to rout 'em . FINIS . Printed at LONDON , in the Year 1680. H : 133353 MINERVA's Check to the Author , Attempting to write and ELEGY Upon the Right Honourable and much to be Lamented ROGER First Earl of ORRERY , Who departed this Life at CASTLE-MARTER in the County of CORK in IRELAND , 16 Octobris Anno 1679. THat News hath Wings , we ev'ry day do find , And Ill does ever leave the best behind : Admire not then the death of ORRERY , Renown'd all's days , should in a moment fly . Both far and near the World to terrify . At C [ oh ] rk , at Dublin , London , and at Paris Too soon't arrives , and ROME , but there ne'er tarries , Till at both Indies , or where e'er more far is . 'Mongst the World's Treasuries , it there declare , Than any theirs , a Pearl more rich , more rare W' have lost ; thus ranging all the World about , Finds many zealous mournful Poets ou But still I thought the Muses triple Trine , And Learned Crew concern'd , must have design Some Eagles Quill should make the worthy Pen , To write their Dictates on the best of Men ; But chanc'd to view a mournful Elegy Upon his Death , enough to stupify The Reader , while the Poet did invite Each Poetaster on him Distichs t'write . This Author took I for good warrant to it , To be as bold as any Errant Poe But quick as Thought Minerva said in haste , Hold , hold , poor man ! don't Time and Paper waste ; He was my Foster Child , 'twas my good hap The Babe to dandle first upon my Lap , Who kindly took my Breasts , and throve so well , That in the Liberal Arts he did excel . Thy grov'ling Fancy , and too low pitch'd Eye , Cannot reach up unto the Poets Sky : Be not like those that to shoot up are bold , At what their dazzled sense cannot behold : Thine hand to th' Stars thou may'st extend as well , As ORRERY's due praise conceive , or tell : His Noble Birth , Life , Death , is a fit Story , Reserv'd to Crown some Poet Laureat's Glory : His Dust is Sacred , therefore do not dare The Muses Darling , and the Graces Dear , With thy rude Rhimes , devoid of Time and Measure , Once to profane , ( a Sacred Poet's Treasure . ) I bless'd him young thus 'bove thy reach , and stature , Beside what Mars bestow'd on's Noble Nature . Thou fain would'st tell how th' Graces still invite him Their Guest , when Mars does cease t'excite him Brighter in Arms , than's Arts erewhile to shine , In God's and's King's cause still defending thine . His care to breed brave Horses thou would'st write , In Peace for Pleasure , and in War for figh Thou fain would'st talk on's Vict'ry at Knockny Clarshy , And give him ( next to God ) the God-a-mercy ; While thousands yet alive would with thee say , His Prowess ( under God ) obtain'd that Day But what is this to all that he hath done , To th' Towns and Castles he by force hath wone ? Thou'dst find and endless Task on't , to declare His Peaceful Virtues , or's exploits in War. In general terms I know thou'dst praise thus far , Prudent in Counsel , prosperous in War : But home to speak his praise , and to descend Unto particulars , there were no end . Singly admire his prudence in the thing , So well contriv'd that did restore the King , Whose constant Loyalty since th' Restoration 'S a worthy pattern to th' unstable Nation . Thou kenst not of the Knots , or the Meanders Of State-Intrigues , display'd 'mongst bold Commanders . Then lay thy Pen by , don't i'th' least Eclipse A General's Glory by thy Pen , or Lips. Let England , Scotland , Ireland , mourning say , For threescore years and more enjoy'd have they , In ORRERY and Atlas , lost this day . His death's a loss unparallel'd , the King A grave wise Counsellor , and most loving Subject hath lost , the Church a Gracious Son , The Realm a Peer , yea , and a Peerless one ; The Court a Pillar , th' Army a Commander Of high Conduct , as was great Alexander ; The Countries' loss as great yea greater rather , In ORRERY is lost a most dear Father . Th' hast company enough , who , than to mourn , Can't other glory add unto his Urn. I tell thee still thou need'st not , can'st not write Great ORRERY's due praise , who Shines too bright His Sacred Poems now but in the Press , Will speak his noble praise in fairer dress : His Wit and Worth were 'bove thy Ken or Story , Who therefore's wrapped into immortal Glory . But 'cause thou had'st a mind to do thy best , Thou , with his Coat of Arms , a Mourner rest . Thou art forewarn'd ( she said . ) Now farewell Friend . So ere I had begun , I made and END . T.B. LONDON : Printed for Rowland Reynolds , at the Middle-Exchange in the Strand . 1680. H : 133353 MINERVA's Check to the Author , Attempting to write and ELEGY Upon the Right Honourable and much to be Lamented ROGER First Earl of ORRERY , Who departed this Life at CASTLE-MARTER in the County of CORK in IRELAND , 16 Octobris Anno 1679. THat News hath Wings , we ev'ry day do find , And Ill does ever leave the best behind : Admire not then the death of ORRERY , Renown'd all's days , should in a moment fly . Both far and near the World to terrify . At C [ oh ] rk , at Dublin , London , and at Paris Too soon't arrives , and ROME , but there ne'er tarries , Till at both Indies , or where e'er more far is . 'Mongst the World's Treasuries , it there declare , Than any theirs , a Pearl more rich , more rare W' have lost ; thus ranging all the World about , Finds many zealous mournful Poets ou But still I thought the Muses triple Trine , And Learned Crew concern'd , must have design Some Eagles Quill should make the worthy Pen , To write their Dictates on the best of Men ; But chanc'd to view a mournful Elegy Upon his Death , enough to stupify The Reader , while the Poet did invite Each Poetaster on him Distichs t'write . This Author took I for good warrant to it , To be as bold as any Errant Poe But quick as Thought Minerva said in haste , Hold , hold , poor man ! don't Time and Paper waste ; He was my Foster Child , 'twas my good hap The Babe to dandle first upon my Lap , Who kindly took my Breasts , and throve so well , That in the Liberal Arts he did excel . Thy grov'ling Fancy , and too low pitch'd Eye , Cannot reach up unto the Poets Sky : Be not like those that to shoot up are bold , At what their dazzled sense cannot behold : Thine hand to th' Stars thou may'st extend as well , As ORRERY's due praise conceive , or tell : His Noble Birth , Life , Death , is a fit Story , Reserv'd to Crown some Poet Laureat's Glory : His Dust is Sacred , therefore do not dare The Muses Darling , and the Graces Dear , With thy rude Rhimes , devoid of Time and Measure , Once to profane , ( a Sacred Poet's Treasure . ) I bless'd him young thus 'bove thy reach , and stature , Beside what Mars bestow'd on's Noble Nature . Thou fain would'st tell how th' Graces still invite him Their Guest , when Mars does cease t'excite him Brighter in Arms , than's Arts erewhile to shine , In God's and's King's cause still defending thine . His care to breed brave Horses thou would'st write , In Peace for Pleasure , and in War for figh Thou fain would'st talk on's Vict'ry at Knockny Clarshy , And give him ( next to God ) the God-a-mercy ; While thousands yet alive would with thee say , His Prowess ( under God ) obtain'd that Day But what is this to all that he hath done , To th' Towns and Castles he by force hath wone ? Thou'dst find and endless Task on't , to declare His Peaceful Virtues , or's exploits in War. In general terms I know thou'dst praise thus far , Prudent in Counsel , prosperous in War : But home to speak his praise , and to descend Unto particulars , there were no end . Singly admire his prudence in the thing , So well contriv'd that did restore the King , Whose constant Loyalty since th' Restoration 'S a worthy pattern to th' unstable Nation . Thou kenst not of the Knots , or the Meanders Of State-Intrigues , display'd 'mongst bold Commanders . Then lay thy Pen by , don't i'th' least Eclipse A General's Glory by thy Pen , or Lips. Let England , Scotland , Ireland , mourning say , For threescore years and more enjoy'd have they , In ORRERY and Atlas , lost this day . His death's a loss unparallel'd , the King A grave wise Counsellor , and most loving Subject hath lost , the Church a Gracious Son , The Realm a Peer , yea , and a Peerless one ; The Court a Pillar , th' Army a Commander Of high Conduct , as was great Alexander ; The Countries' loss as great yea greater rather , In ORRERY is lost a most dear Father . Th' hast company enough , who , than to mourn , Can't other glory add unto his Urn. I tell thee still thou need'st not , can'st not write Great ORRERY's due praise , who Shines too bright His Sacred Poems now but in the Press , Will speak his noble praise in fairer dress : His Wit and Worth were 'bove thy Ken or Story , Who therefore's wrapped into immortal Glory . But 'cause thou had'st a mind to do thy best , Thou , with his Coat of Arms , a Mourner rest . Thou art forewarn'd ( she said . ) Now farewell Friend . So ere I had begun , I made and END . T.B. LONDON : Printed for Rowland Reynolds , at the Middle-Exchange in the Strand . 1680. H : 133353 MINERVA's Check to the Author , Attempting to write and ELEGY Upon the Right Honourable and much to be Lamented ROGER First Earl of ORRERY , Who departed this Life at CASTLE-MARTER in the County of CORK in IRELAND , 16 Octobris Anno 1679. THat News hath Wings , we ev'ry day do find , And Ill does ever leave the best behind : Admire not then the death of ORRERY , Renown'd all's days , should in a moment fly . Both far and near the World to terrify . At C [ oh ] rk , at Dublin , London , and at Paris Too soon't arrives , and ROME , but there ne'er tarries , Till at both Indies , or where e'er more far is . 'Mongst the World's Treasuries , it there declare , Than any theirs , a Pearl more rich , more rare W' have lost ; thus ranging all the World about , Finds many zealous mournful Poets ou But still I thought the Muses triple Trine , And Learned Crew concern'd , must have design Some Eagles Quill should make the worthy Pen , To write their Dictates on the best of Men ; But chanc'd to view a mournful Elegy Upon his Death , enough to stupify The Reader , while the Poet did invite Each Poetaster on him Distichs t'write . This Author took I for good warrant to it , To be as bold as any Errant Poe But quick as Thought Minerva said in haste , Hold , hold , poor man ! don't Time and Paper waste ; He was my Foster Child , 'twas my good hap The Babe to dandle first upon my Lap , Who kindly took my Breasts , and throve so well , That in the Liberal Arts he did excel . Thy grov'ling Fancy , and too low pitch'd Eye , Cannot reach up unto the Poets Sky : Be not like those that to shoot up are bold , At what their dazzled sense cannot behold : Thine hand to th' Stars thou may'st extend as well , As ORRERY's due praise conceive , or tell : His Noble Birth , Life , Death , is a fit Story , Reserv'd to Crown some Poet Laureat's Glory : His Dust is Sacred , therefore do not dare The Muses Darling , and the Graces Dear , With thy rude Rhimes , devoid of Time and Measure , Once to profane , ( a Sacred Poet's Treasure . ) I bless'd him young thus 'bove thy reach , and stature , Beside what Mars bestow'd on's Noble Nature . Thou fain would'st tell how th' Graces still invite him Their Guest , when Mars does cease t'excite him Brighter in Arms , than's Arts erewhile to shine , In God's and's King's cause still defending thine . His care to breed brave Horses thou would'st write , In Peace for Pleasure , and in War for figh Thou fain would'st talk on's Vict'ry at Knockny Clarshy , And give him ( next to God ) the God-a-mercy ; While thousands yet alive would with thee say , His Prowess ( under God ) obtain'd that Day But what is this to all that he hath done , To th' Towns and Castles he by force hath wone ? Thou'dst find and endless Task on't , to declare His Peaceful Virtues , or's exploits in War. In general terms I know thou'dst praise thus far , Prudent in Counsel , prosperous in War : But home to speak his praise , and to descend Unto particulars , there were no end . Singly admire his prudence in the thing , So well contriv'd that did restore the King , Whose constant Loyalty since th' Restoration 'S a worthy pattern to th' unstable Nation . Thou kenst not of the Knots , or the Meanders Of State-Intrigues , display'd 'mongst bold Commanders . Then lay thy Pen by , don't i'th' least Eclipse A General's Glory by thy Pen , or Lips. Let England , Scotland , Ireland , mourning say , For threescore years and more enjoy'd have they , In ORRERY and Atlas , lost this day . His death's a loss unparallel'd , the King A grave wise Counsellor , and most loving Subject hath lost , the Church a Gracious Son , The Realm a Peer , yea , and a Peerless one ; The Court a Pillar , th' Army a Commander Of high Conduct , as was great Alexander ; The Countries' loss as great yea greater rather , In ORRERY is lost a most dear Father . Th' hast company enough , who , than to mourn , Can't other glory add unto his Urn. I tell thee still thou need'st not , can'st not write Great ORRERY's due praise , who Shines too bright His Sacred Poems now but in the Press , Will speak his noble praise in fairer dress : His Wit and Worth were 'bove thy Ken or Story , Who therefore's wrapped into immortal Glory . But 'cause thou had'st a mind to do thy best , Thou , with his Coat of Arms , a Mourner rest . Thou art forewarn'd ( she said . ) Now farewell Friend . So ere I had begun , I made and END . T.B. LONDON : Printed for Rowland Reynolds , at the Middle-Exchange in the Strand . 1680. H : 133353 MINERVA's Check to the Author , Attempting to write and ELEGY Upon the Right Honourable and much to be Lamented ROGER First Earl of ORRERY , Who departed this Life at CASTLE-MARTER in the County of CORK in IRELAND , 16 Octobris Anno 1679. THat News hath Wings , we ev'ry day do find , And Ill does ever leave the best behind : Admire not then the death of ORRERY , Renown'd all's days , should in a moment fly . Both far and near the World to terrify . At C [ oh ] rk , at Dublin , London , and at Paris Too soon't arrives , and ROME , but there ne'er tarries , Till at both Indies , or where e'er more far is . 'Mongst the World's Treasuries , it there declare , Than any theirs , a Pearl more rich , more rare W' have lost ; thus ranging all the World about , Finds many zealous mournful Poets ou But still I thought the Muses triple Trine , And Learned Crew concern'd , must have design Some Eagles Quill should make the worthy Pen , To write their Dictates on the best of Men ; But chanc'd to view a mournful Elegy Upon his Death , enough to stupify The Reader , while the Poet did invite Each Poetaster on him Distichs t'write . This Author took I for good warrant to it , To be as bold as any Errant Poe But quick as Thought Minerva said in haste , Hold , hold , poor man ! don't Time and Paper waste ; He was my Foster Child , 'twas my good hap The Babe to dandle first upon my Lap , Who kindly took my Breasts , and throve so well , That in the Liberal Arts he did excel . Thy grov'ling Fancy , and too low pitch'd Eye , Cannot reach up unto the Poets Sky : Be not like those that to shoot up are bold , At what their dazzled sense cannot behold : Thine hand to th' Stars thou may'st extend as well , As ORRERY's due praise conceive , or tell : His Noble Birth , Life , Death , is a fit Story , Reserv'd to Crown some Poet Laureat's Glory : His Dust is Sacred , therefore do not dare The Muses Darling , and the Graces Dear , With thy rude Rhimes , devoid of Time and Measure , Once to profane , ( a Sacred Poet's Treasure . ) I bless'd him young thus 'bove thy reach , and stature , Beside what Mars bestow'd on's Noble Nature . Thou fain would'st tell how th' Graces still invite him Their Guest , when Mars does cease t'excite him Brighter in Arms , than's Arts erewhile to shine , In God's and's King's cause still defending thine . His care to breed brave Horses thou would'st write , In Peace for Pleasure , and in War for figh Thou fain would'st talk on's Vict'ry at Knockny Clarshy , And give him ( next to God ) the God-a-mercy ; While thousands yet alive would with thee say , His Prowess ( under God ) obtain'd that Day But what is this to all that he hath done , To th' Towns and Castles he by force hath wone ? Thou'dst find and endless Task on't , to declare His Peaceful Virtues , or's exploits in War. In general terms I know thou'dst praise thus far , Prudent in Counsel , prosperous in War : But home to speak his praise , and to descend Unto particulars , there were no end . Singly admire his prudence in the thing , So well contriv'd that did restore the King , Whose constant Loyalty since th' Restoration 'S a worthy pattern to th' unstable Nation . Thou kenst not of the Knots , or the Meanders Of State-Intrigues , display'd 'mongst bold Commanders . Then lay thy Pen by , don't i'th' least Eclipse A General's Glory by thy Pen , or Lips. Let England , Scotland , Ireland , mourning say , For threescore years and more enjoy'd have they , In ORRERY and Atlas , lost this day . His death's a loss unparallel'd , the King A grave wise Counsellor , and most loving Subject hath lost , the Church a Gracious Son , The Realm a Peer , yea , and a Peerless one ; The Court a Pillar , th' Army a Commander Of high Conduct , as was great Alexander ; The Countries' loss as great yea greater rather , In ORRERY is lost a most dear Father . Th' hast company enough , who , than to mourn , Can't other glory add unto his Urn. I tell thee still thou need'st not , can'st not write Great ORRERY's due praise , who Shines too bright His Sacred Poems now but in the Press , Will speak his noble praise in fairer dress : His Wit and Worth were 'bove thy Ken or Story , Who therefore's wrapped into immortal Glory . But 'cause thou had'st a mind to do thy best , Thou , with his Coat of Arms , a Mourner rest . Thou art forewarn'd ( she said . ) Now farewell Friend . So ere I had begun , I made and END . T.B. LONDON : Printed for Rowland Reynolds , at the Middle-Exchange in the Strand . 1680. 