H : 133792 AND ELEGY IN Commemoration of the Right Honourable James Earl of Salisbury , Who Departed this Life on the ( 7th ) of this Instant June Anno Domini 1683. Mors Omnibus Communis , etc CAN Sal'sbury be dead ? Can Death Surprise The Miror of mankind , and from our Eyes ; The Briny Rivulets not force their way ; Nor sullen grief her last due Tribute pay ; At his sad Mournful Hearse whose high deserts , Fame's loudest breath to all the world imparts ? What can the Good , the Great , the Just Expect , On Earth , if Mankind shou'd such worth Neglect ? If black Ingratitude her wings should spread , To shade the sacred Relicts of the dead In dark Oblivion Natur's self wou'd groan , And make the mighty loss to England known ; The loss of one in Arts and Arms Renown'd , With Olive-Branches and with Laurels Crown'd . Fam'd as his Ancestors , who braving Fate , Durst prop the Nation in it's falling State , And almost boar a Tottering Empir's Weight . For Piety admir'd ; in Councils Grave ; Courteous at home , and in the Field as Brave ; Bounteous to all , that did his Bounty Crave . Religious Friend , and Enemy to those , Who were his Princes and his Countries Foes . The Roman Engines by his prudence foiled , Back on him sought in vain to have recoil'd : His Loyal mind unmov'd stood like a Rock , And unconcern'd repell'd the raging Shock Of Boisterous Billows when they went most high Proof arm'd with Innocence and Constancy ; He did the worst of dangers still outvie . Sure Bucklers those are which can never fail , But will against the worst of ills prevail ; Strong Forts Impregnable that none can scale . No force can ravish from a virtuous breast , That inward calmness that secures it's Rest. Let Tides rise high , and Tempests rufle loud , Winds fight with Winds , and Cloud , still justle Cloud , Till all seem Chaos ; yet in this Extreme , He's undisturb'd that holds Truths Golden Mean . Cecil , that Name long to our Nation known , Has prov'd and Ornament to Grace our Throne ; Esteem'd a Jewel in the British-Crown , Polish'd by Deeds , that purchas'd high Renown . But since the World has lost his better part , His great immortal mind which durst assert , Unto the last his Kings and Country's Right , Since that to Heaven has swiftly taken Fligh On Wings of Cherubs , Center'd there in bliss , Lodg'd on a Coast full stor'd with happiness ; Whence cares , and fears , are banish'd , Peace and Rest Are the attending constant welcome Guest . And all is Love , such Love as ne'r can die , But lives and lasts to all Eternity . Let Virtue Mourn the loss of him below ; And Charities Dim Eyes with Tears o're-flow . Let Mournful Cyprus shade each learned brow , Let all true worth with weighty sorrow bow ; And Sing his Requiems with a doleful found , For all of these Death's Shaft , in him , did wound . EPITAPH Mourn Reader , for beneath this Marble lies , ( Till the last Trumpet Summons him to rise ) Great Sal'sbury : Nay , stay , 'tis but his dust , Heav'n with the rest wou'd Earth no longer trust . His better part's exalted far above , The reach of Fate those endless joys to prove , For which he labour'd in his Pilgrimage , While here he trod the World's uncertain Stage ; Yet Mourn his loss , for though he joys possess , We by his death have gain'd unhappiness . Wisdom by him her Orator still speak , And wou'd no other for her Champion take , Than he whose Virtues kept the world awake . LONDON Printed for Langly Curtis , 1683. H : 133792 AND ELEGY IN Commemoration of the Right Honourable James Earl of Salisbury , Who Departed this Life on the ( 7th ) of this Instant June Anno Domini 1683. Mors Omnibus Communis , etc CAN Sal'sbury be dead ? Can Death Surprise The Miror of mankind , and from our Eyes ; The Briny Rivulets not force their way ; Nor sullen grief her last due Tribute pay ; At his sad Mournful Hearse whose high deserts , Fame's loudest breath to all the world imparts ? What can the Good , the Great , the Just Expect , On Earth , if Mankind shou'd such worth Neglect ? If black Ingratitude her wings should spread , To shade the sacred Relicts of the dead In dark Oblivion Natur's self wou'd groan , And make the mighty loss to England known ; The loss of one in Arts and Arms Renown'd , With Olive-Branches and with Laurels Crown'd . Fam'd as his Ancestors , who braving Fate , Durst prop the Nation in it's falling State , And almost boar a Tottering Empir's Weight . For Piety admir'd ; in Councils Grave ; Courteous at home , and in the Field as Brave ; Bounteous to all , that did his Bounty Crave . Religious Friend , and Enemy to those , Who were his Princes and his Countries Foes . The Roman Engines by his prudence foiled , Back on him sought in vain to have recoil'd : His Loyal mind unmov'd stood like a Rock , And unconcern'd repell'd the raging Shock Of Boisterous Billows when they went most high Proof arm'd with Innocence and Constancy ; He did the worst of dangers still outvie . Sure Bucklers those are which can never fail , But will against the worst of ills prevail ; Strong Forts Impregnable that none can scale . No force can ravish from a virtuous breast , That inward calmness that secures it's Rest. Let Tides rise high , and Tempests rufle loud , Winds fight with Winds , and Cloud , still justle Cloud , Till all seem Chaos ; yet in this Extreme , He's undisturb'd that holds Truths Golden Mean . Cecil , that Name long to our Nation known , Has prov'd and Ornament to Grace our Throne ; Esteem'd a Jewel in the British-Crown , Polish'd by Deeds , that purchas'd high Renown . But since the World has lost his better part , His great immortal mind which durst assert , Unto the last his Kings and Country's Right , Since that to Heaven has swiftly taken Fligh On Wings of Cherubs , Center'd there in bliss , Lodg'd on a Coast full stor'd with happiness ; Whence cares , and fears , are banish'd , Peace and Rest Are the attending constant welcome Guest . And all is Love , such Love as ne'r can die , But lives and lasts to all Eternity . Let Virtue Mourn the loss of him below ; And Charities Dim Eyes with Tears o're-flow . Let Mournful Cyprus shade each learned brow , Let all true worth with weighty sorrow bow ; And Sing his Requiems with a doleful found , For all of these Death's Shaft , in him , did wound . EPITAPH Mourn Reader , for beneath this Marble lies , ( Till the last Trumpet Summons him to rise ) Great Sal'sbury : Nay , stay , 'tis but his dust , Heav'n with the rest wou'd Earth no longer trust . His better part's exalted far above , The reach of Fate those endless joys to prove , For which he labour'd in his Pilgrimage , While here he trod the World's uncertain Stage ; Yet Mourn his loss , for though he joys possess , We by his death have gain'd unhappiness . Wisdom by him her Orator still speak , And wou'd no other for her Champion take , Than he whose Virtues kept the world awake . LONDON Printed for Langly Curtis , 1683. 