H : 133788 A Parallel of TIMES : Or a Memento to the WHIGGS . But lo a Charge is drawn a day is set The silent lamb is brought , the wolves are met ; And where's the Slaughterhouse . Whitehall must be , La [ tO ] ely his Palace , now his Calvarie And now you Senators is this the thing , So oft declar'd is this your glorious King ? Religion vails herself , and Mouns that she Is forc'd to own such Horrid Villainy . WHat dare not Englands Monsters had they pow'r ? What did they not , when with a Sanguine Shower The Nations were bedued ? The Dogstars heat Had put Three Kingdoms in a Bloody Sweat . Then was the Time when Murder knew no bound , Death and Destruction every where were found . Fate's boding Omens still presaging Grief , Widows and Orphans cries had no relief : The Hell-inspired Hounds had scented Blood , And could not be by force of Law withstood . No Sacred Ties had awe enough to bind Those whom Religions ruin were design'd , By Hells dire darkness who with them had joyn'd , If possible t' unhinge the mighty Frame Of Brittain's Empire , and eclipse the name Of her Great Monarch whom the Trump of fame Renders Immortal here ; while he above Triumphs in Glory and his Makers Love . Law and Religion were pretences made To mount the Rebels , till they both betray'd , And in their Sovereigns Wounds them bleeding laid . No less than Royal Blood must seal their crimes , Murders were sports in those dire dismal times , Infamous Canters who ne're utter'd sense , With England's great affairs durst then dispense : And judge of those who had the Care of Souls , The Reverend Clergy , each vile wretch controls . Reason was stager'd , Learning tumbled down , When the back'd Rabble once had brav'd the Crown . When the black Tribe had Treason made no since , And let destruction like a deluge in , By pulling up the Sluices of the State , Which the long bellowing Surges did rebate ; And all into disorder'd ruin set , While they in troubled Waters cast their Ne Fishers of Men in one sense term'd they are , Who did Mens Lives and Fortune's both ensnare . Then England groan'd to see her Breast so read , With Blood of her dear dying Children shed , By Murdering Villains that her face o're-spread . 'Judgement was turn'd to Wormwood in that day , 'Nor Truth nor Justice challeng'd any sway : 'Twas the devouring Sword they made their Law , Which Gold or Blood from Loyalist must draw . The Children Banish'd , and the Father Slain Did not suffice : Their rage to all his Train Of Nobles did the Monsters soon extend , As if with him Nobility must end ; 'Twas Treason then to be their Sovereigns Friend . The basest of all Mankind mounted high By this mad Rout , fill all with Tyranny : In every place Death and Oppression raves , All were enslaved to the worst of Slaves : Unless those mighty Souls who scorn'd to be Connivers at his horrid Villainy ; But with a brave disde [ i ] gn contemn'd his rage , To Heaven ascending from the Crimson Stage , To meet their Royal Master in that bliss , Which has no end but's endless happiness . But thanks kind Heaven the Storm at length gave way , The gloomy Clouds gave back , long absent Day Rose glorious to refresh our drooping Isle , And made the mournful Nation once more smile . The best of Kings did favour to that earth , Render'd thrice happy by his Reign and Birth : Before whose Face the conscious Rebels fly , Not daring to behold that Majesty In whom Afronts might justly kindle Ire , Fierce as a Whirlwind or devouring Fire , To overwhelm or drive them from that Earth , Which is polluted only by their birth : But see Heavens Pattern --- All that's good and great , A King whose Mercy stays the wheel of Fate ; He pities those that thirsted for his Blood , And will not add to the too Crimson Flood . But what avails Royal trancendent Grace Where black Ingratitude has fix'd her place ? Unless to warm the Monsters , till they grow Impious as that dire Snake found in the Snow ; For they no sooner found death's terror past , But from their holes without a blush they has And Croak aloud , their practices renew , Rant at their Rulers , and would Rule them too . The manyheaded Monster they revive , And it , like Jehu , furiously they drive : Once more a madding , no ways left untri'd To find a Saddle Monarchy to Ride . How with Petitions , how with Juries pack'd , Have they the Bosoms of the people Sack'd , To know the strength of Faction , how it grows ? What Loyalist was safe , when they suppos'd The giddy multitude had with them clos'd ? To such stupendious Insolency grown , Their black mouths spar'd not to asperse the Throne . At Regal Power they did presume to strike , And durst a Damn'd Association like . What Shoals of Evidence like Locust swarm'd , With Stings as sharp as Fellest Scorpions Arm'd , Who must Infallible be deem'd , till they The dire Dark Mischief of the Whiggs bewray ? But then the Scene is chang'd ; none must believe They can speak Truth : And then the busy Sheriff Must us with Ignoramus undeceive . These and a Thousand more their projects are , Who would our Lives and Fortune's once more share ; And where their Will their Pow'r they'd no Man spare . Then let the Royal Martyrs Fallen remain Fresh in our minds , the Shambles of the slave Who guiltless fell ; yet let's forgive that score , Pardon what's passed ; But never Trust them more . FINIS . LONDON : Printed , by J. Grantham , in the Year , MDCLXXXIII . H : 133788 A Parallel of TIMES : Or a Memento to the WHIGGS . But lo a Charge is drawn a day is set The silent lamb is brought , the wolves are met ; And where's the Slaughterhouse . Whitehall must be , La [ tO ] ely his Palace , now his Calvarie And now you Senators is this the thing , So oft declar'd is this your glorious King ? Religion vails herself , and Mouns that she Is forc'd to own such Horrid Villainy . WHat dare not Englands Monsters had they pow'r ? What did they not , when with a Sanguine Shower The Nations were bedued ? The Dogstars heat Had put Three Kingdoms in a Bloody Sweat . Then was the Time when Murder knew no bound , Death and Destruction every where were found . Fate's boding Omens still presaging Grief , Widows and Orphans cries had no relief : The Hell-inspired Hounds had scented Blood , And could not be by force of Law withstood . No Sacred Ties had awe enough to bind Those whom Religions ruin were design'd , By Hells dire darkness who with them had joyn'd , If possible t' unhinge the mighty Frame Of Brittain's Empire , and eclipse the name Of her Great Monarch whom the Trump of fame Renders Immortal here ; while he above Triumphs in Glory and his Makers Love . Law and Religion were pretences made To mount the Rebels , till they both betray'd , And in their Sovereigns Wounds them bleeding laid . No less than Royal Blood must seal their crimes , Murders were sports in those dire dismal times , Infamous Canters who ne're utter'd sense , With England's great affairs durst then dispense : And judge of those who had the Care of Souls , The Reverend Clergy , each vile wretch controls . Reason was stager'd , Learning tumbled down , When the back'd Rabble once had brav'd the Crown . When the black Tribe had Treason made no since , And let destruction like a deluge in , By pulling up the Sluices of the State , Which the long bellowing Surges did rebate ; And all into disorder'd ruin set , While they in troubled Waters cast their Ne Fishers of Men in one sense term'd they are , Who did Mens Lives and Fortune's both ensnare . Then England groan'd to see her Breast so read , With Blood of her dear dying Children shed , By Murdering Villains that her face o're-spread . 'Judgement was turn'd to Wormwood in that day , 'Nor Truth nor Justice challeng'd any sway : 'Twas the devouring Sword they made their Law , Which Gold or Blood from Loyalist must draw . The Children Banish'd , and the Father Slain Did not suffice : Their rage to all his Train Of Nobles did the Monsters soon extend , As if with him Nobility must end ; 'Twas Treason then to be their Sovereigns Friend . The basest of all Mankind mounted high By this mad Rout , fill all with Tyranny : In every place Death and Oppression raves , All were enslaved to the worst of Slaves : Unless those mighty Souls who scorn'd to be Connivers at his horrid Villainy ; But with a brave disde [ i ] gn contemn'd his rage , To Heaven ascending from the Crimson Stage , To meet their Royal Master in that bliss , Which has no end but's endless happiness . But thanks kind Heaven the Storm at length gave way , The gloomy Clouds gave back , long absent Day Rose glorious to refresh our drooping Isle , And made the mournful Nation once more smile . The best of Kings did favour to that earth , Render'd thrice happy by his Reign and Birth : Before whose Face the conscious Rebels fly , Not daring to behold that Majesty In whom Afronts might justly kindle Ire , Fierce as a Whirlwind or devouring Fire , To overwhelm or drive them from that Earth , Which is polluted only by their birth : But see Heavens Pattern --- All that's good and great , A King whose Mercy stays the wheel of Fate ; He pities those that thirsted for his Blood , And will not add to the too Crimson Flood . But what avails Royal trancendent Grace Where black Ingratitude has fix'd her place ? Unless to warm the Monsters , till they grow Impious as that dire Snake found in the Snow ; For they no sooner found death's terror past , But from their holes without a blush they has And Croak aloud , their practices renew , Rant at their Rulers , and would Rule them too . The manyheaded Monster they revive , And it , like Jehu , furiously they drive : Once more a madding , no ways left untri'd To find a Saddle Monarchy to Ride . How with Petitions , how with Juries pack'd , Have they the Bosoms of the people Sack'd , To know the strength of Faction , how it grows ? What Loyalist was safe , when they suppos'd The giddy multitude had with them clos'd ? To such stupendious Insolency grown , Their black mouths spar'd not to asperse the Throne . At Regal Power they did presume to strike , And durst a Damn'd Association like . What Shoals of Evidence like Locust swarm'd , With Stings as sharp as Fellest Scorpions Arm'd , Who must Infallible be deem'd , till they The dire Dark Mischief of the Whiggs bewray ? But then the Scene is chang'd ; none must believe They can speak Truth : And then the busy Sheriff Must us with Ignoramus undeceive . These and a Thousand more their projects are , Who would our Lives and Fortune's once more share ; And where their Will their Pow'r they'd no Man spare . Then let the Royal Martyrs Fallen remain Fresh in our minds , the Shambles of the slave Who guiltless fell ; yet let's forgive that score , Pardon what's passed ; But never Trust them more . FINIS . LONDON : Printed , by J. Grantham , in the Year , MDCLXXXIII . 