H : 133586 The True Protestants LITANY . To the Tune , When Jockey first the Wars began . I. MOre Ballads --- Here : Spick and Span : --- new Suppli-cation , By Order of a Committee for the Reformation , To be Read in all Churches and Chapels of this Na - cion , Upon pain of slavery and Sequestration : From Knaves and Rumpers in a Parliament free , Libera nos Domine . II From those that have more Religion and less Conscience than their fellows , From a Representative that's fearful and jealous , From a starting Jadish People , that's troubled with the Yellows , And a Jesuit that Blows the Coal ( a Turd in the Bellows ) From Knaves and Rumpers , etc III . From Shepherd's that led there flocks into the Briers , And then Fleece them --- from Vow breakers and Kings Tryers : Of Church and Crown Lands --- from both Sellers and Buyers : From the Children of him that's the Father of Liars : From Knaves and Rumpers in , etc IV. From the Doctrine and Discipline of ( Now and a Non ) Preserve us and our Wives , from --- Sedgwick and John , Like Master like Man , every way but One , The Master has a large Conscience --- and the Man has none : From Knaves and Rumpers , etc V. From those that sat in the High Court of Justice , From Usurpers that style themselves the Peoples Trustees , From and Old Rump in which neither profit nor Gust is , And from the recovery of that which now in the Dust is : From Knaves and Rumpers in , etc VI . From a backsliding Saint , that pretends t' acquiesce , From the Popish Proverb ( let 'um Hang that confess ) From a Sniveling Cause in a pontificial dress : From two Lawyers , with the Devil and his Dam in a mess , From Knaves and Rumpers , etc VII . From those that trouble the Waters , to mend the Fishing , And Fight the Lards Battle , under the Devil's Commission ; Such as Eat up the Nation , while the Governments a dishing . And from a People when it should be a doing --- stands wishing , From Knaves and Rumpers , etc VIII . From and Everlasting mock-parliament , and from None , From Strafford's Old Friends --- Harry --- Jack and Pim John , From the Solicitors Wolf-Law , deliver our King's Son , And from the Resurrection of the Rump , that's dead and gone . From Knaves and Rumpers , etc IX . From foreign Invasions --- and Commotions at home , From present Petitions , and from worse to come , From the same hand again --- Smectymnuus or the Bum : And from taking Geneva , in our way to Room ; From Knaves and Rumpers , etc X. From Saints and tender Consciences in Buff , From Mild --- in a Foam and Hew ! --- in a Huff : From bold Petitioners that think they never have Enough , And from a Fools-head that looks through a Chain and a Ruff , From Knaves and Rumpers , etc XI . Preserve us good Heaven from entrusting those , That have much to get and little to loose : That murder'd the Father , and the Son would depose , Sure they can't be our Friends that are their Countries foes , From Knaves and Rumpers , etc XII . From Bradshaw's presumption and from Hoyles despairs ; From rotten Members , blind Guides , preaching Aldermen , and false Mayors , From long Knives , long Ears , long Parliaments , and long prayers , In mercy to the Nation --- deliver us and our Heirs : From Knaves and Rumpers in a Parliament free , Libera nos Domine . Printed in the Year , 1680. H : 133586 The True Protestants LITANY . To the Tune , When Jockey first the Wars began . I. MOre Ballads --- Here : Spick and Span : --- new Suppli-cation , By Order of a Committee for the Reformation , To be Read in all Churches and Chapels of this Na - cion , Upon pain of slavery and Sequestration : From Knaves and Rumpers in a Parliament free , Libera nos Domine . II From those that have more Religion and less Conscience than their fellows , From a Representative that's fearful and jealous , From a starting Jadish People , that's troubled with the Yellows , And a Jesuit that Blows the Coal ( a Turd in the Bellows ) From Knaves and Rumpers , etc III . From Shepherd's that led there flocks into the Briers , And then Fleece them --- from Vow breakers and Kings Tryers : Of Church and Crown Lands --- from both Sellers and Buyers : From the Children of him that's the Father of Liars : From Knaves and Rumpers in , etc IV. From the Doctrine and Discipline of ( Now and a Non ) Preserve us and our Wives , from --- Sedgwick and John , Like Master like Man , every way but One , The Master has a large Conscience --- and the Man has none : From Knaves and Rumpers , etc V. From those that sat in the High Court of Justice , From Usurpers that style themselves the Peoples Trustees , From and Old Rump in which neither profit nor Gust is , And from the recovery of that which now in the Dust is : From Knaves and Rumpers in , etc VI . From a backsliding Saint , that pretends t' acquiesce , From the Popish Proverb ( let 'um Hang that confess ) From a Sniveling Cause in a pontificial dress : From two Lawyers , with the Devil and his Dam in a mess , From Knaves and Rumpers , etc VII . From those that trouble the Waters , to mend the Fishing , And Fight the Lards Battle , under the Devil's Commission ; Such as Eat up the Nation , while the Governments a dishing . And from a People when it should be a doing --- stands wishing , From Knaves and Rumpers , etc VIII . From and Everlasting mock-parliament , and from None , From Strafford's Old Friends --- Harry --- Jack and Pim John , From the Solicitors Wolf-Law , deliver our King's Son , And from the Resurrection of the Rump , that's dead and gone . From Knaves and Rumpers , etc IX . From foreign Invasions --- and Commotions at home , From present Petitions , and from worse to come , From the same hand again --- Smectymnuus or the Bum : And from taking Geneva , in our way to Room ; From Knaves and Rumpers , etc X. From Saints and tender Consciences in Buff , From Mild --- in a Foam and Hew ! --- in a Huff : From bold Petitioners that think they never have Enough , And from a Fools-head that looks through a Chain and a Ruff , From Knaves and Rumpers , etc XI . Preserve us good Heaven from entrusting those , That have much to get and little to loose : That murder'd the Father , and the Son would depose , Sure they can't be our Friends that are their Countries foes , From Knaves and Rumpers , etc XII . From Bradshaw's presumption and from Hoyles despairs ; From rotten Members , blind Guides , preaching Aldermen , and false Mayors , From long Knives , long Ears , long Parliaments , and long prayers , In mercy to the Nation --- deliver us and our Heirs : From Knaves and Rumpers in a Parliament free , Libera nos Domine . Printed in the Year , 1680. 