H : 18294 And Epytaphe upon the Death of the Right Reverend and learned Father in God , J. Jewel , Doctor of Divinity and Bishop of Sarisburie . Whom God called to his marcy the .22 . of September . 1571. THe Jewel of our joy is gone , the happy heavens have won , The greatest gift that ever was , with us beneath the son : Which makes such weeping eyes , in Sallesbury they say , As all the running streams thereof , can never wash away . ( Alas ) is Jewel dead , the folder of the flock , If Death have caught the Dial up , then who shall keep the Clock ? O God , what grief is this , thy chary Church should want , A Bishop of so good a grace , where good men be so skan we fear the plague ( they say ) but such a plague as this , Since I was born I never knew , nor never shall iwis : Yet are there some behind , I trust will learn to know , How Jewel to his dying day , his Talents did bestow . So busy at his book , to bring the truth to light , As they that like the ready way , may look and find it right , His house and household was so kept for his degree , As Paull in his Epistles wrights a Bishops house should be : His Diocese I believe , he kept in so good awe , As Virtue is content to swear , they lived within her law . His hands and heart were free , the needy could not lack , Such peace and concord planted he , as nothing went to wrack : And chary went to Church , himself by break of day , That his example might procure , the rest to go that way : And gave unto his men , their duties when he died , With large and Lordly recompense , this can not be denied . ( Alas ) with piteous moan , all Christians now may weep , That we have such a Shepard gone : God help the silly sheep : Meethinkes I see in heaven , triumphant truth appear , And faithfulness , which speak allowed , let Jewel now come near . That appostelles all do press , meethinckes to see his face : And all the Angels go about to bring him to his place : Even Christ himself me thinks , I see begins to smile , And says : behold my chosen friend , I looked for all this while . And Abraham rends his clothes , and bowels out his breast , And say to Jewel jump in here , and take thy quiet rest . Finis Quod. W. Elderton . Imprinted at London , in Fleetestreate beneath the Conduit at the sign of S. John Evangelist by Thomas Colwell . H : 18294 And Epytaphe upon the Death of the Right Reverend and learned Father in God , J. Jewel , Doctor of Divinity and Bishop of Sarisburie . Whom God called to his marcy the .22 . of September . 1571. THe Jewel of our joy is gone , the happy heavens have won , The greatest gift that ever was , with us beneath the son : Which makes such weeping eyes , in Sallesbury they say , As all the running streams thereof , can never wash away . ( Alas ) is Jewel dead , the folder of the flock , If Death have caught the Dial up , then who shall keep the Clock ? O God , what grief is this , thy chary Church should want , A Bishop of so good a grace , where good men be so skan we fear the plague ( they say ) but such a plague as this , Since I was born I never knew , nor never shall iwis : Yet are there some behind , I trust will learn to know , How Jewel to his dying day , his Talents did bestow . So busy at his book , to bring the truth to light , As they that like the ready way , may look and find it right , His house and household was so kept for his degree , As Paull in his Epistles wrights a Bishops house should be : His Diocese I believe , he kept in so good awe , As Virtue is content to swear , they lived within her law . His hands and heart were free , the needy could not lack , Such peace and concord planted he , as nothing went to wrack : And chary went to Church , himself by break of day , That his example might procure , the rest to go that way : And gave unto his men , their duties when he died , With large and Lordly recompense , this can not be denied . ( Alas ) with piteous moan , all Christians now may weep , That we have such a Shepard gone : God help the silly sheep : Meethinkes I see in heaven , triumphant truth appear , And faithfulness , which speak allowed , let Jewel now come near . That appostelles all do press , meethinckes to see his face : And all the Angels go about to bring him to his place : Even Christ himself me thinks , I see begins to smile , And says : behold my chosen friend , I looked for all this while . And Abraham rends his clothes , and bowels out his breast , And say to Jewel jump in here , and take thy quiet rest . Finis Quod. W. Elderton . Imprinted at London , in Fleetestreate beneath the Conduit at the sign of S. John Evangelist by Thomas Colwell . 