H : 18296r The Lamentation of Folly : To the tune of New Rogero . ALas what means man , with care and greedy pain : To wrest to win a worldly fame which is but vile and vain . As though he had no cause to doubt , the drift of his desire , Not pleased though he rule the rout , but still to covet higher . And wander after will , far passing his degree : Not so contented still , but a king himself to be . Subverting law and right , detecting trial true : Wringing every wight , that all the realm doth rue . Whose deed and ill desert , compact and false consen I think no christian heart , can choose but needs lament . Alas it seemed strange , such thraldom in a realm : Which wealthy was to wast away , by will that was extreme . Sith virtue was professed , most famous frank and free : Yet men transposed clean , more vile and worse to be . And such as did pretend to show themselves most holy : Have swerved in the end , and fawned after folly . Whose words so disagree , as waters come and go : Their livings to be contrary , that should examples show . And fawning after fame , pursue their own decay : As though there were no God , to call their life away . What surety is in man , what truth or trust at all : Which frameth what he can , to work unworthy thrall . Oppression hath been free , the poor alas be spoiled : Maids and wives be ravished , the simple are beguiled . Law is made a liberty , and right is overthrown : Faith is but a foolish thing , falsehood is alone . Pride is counted clenlinesse , and theft is but a slight . Whoredom is but wantonness , and waste is but delight . Spoiling is but pleasure , riot is but youth : Slander is a laughing game , and lying counted truth . Marriage is but mockage , the children counted base : Thus right is wronged every way , in our accursed case . Flattery is the Fort of Fame , and truth is trodden down : The innocent do bear the blame , the wicked win renown . Thus Sathan hath prevailed long , and we for want of grace : Have trodden virtue under foot , and vice hath taken place . But God that is most righteous , hath seen our fatal fallen : And spread his mercy over us , to shield us from the thrall . Whose mercy is so infinite , to such as were oppressed : He hath restored them to right , and hath their care redressed . And though that our unworthiness , hath not deserved so : Now let us cease our wickedness , and grafted where grace may grow . And let us pray for our defence , our worthy Queen elec That God may work his will in her , our thraldom to correct . That God be chiefly served so , as doth to him belong : That right may have his course again , and vanquish wicked wrong . That we may live in fear and awe , and truly to intend : And have the justice of the law , our causes to defend . That truth may take his wonted place , and faith be fast again : And then repent and call for grace , that wrought our care and pain . That God send us a short redress , with wealth and great increase : And to our Queen , to reign and rule , in honour , health , and peace . FINIS . W.E. Imprinted at London by Edward Allde . H : 18296r The Lamentation of Folly : To the tune of New Rogero . ALas what means man , with care and greedy pain : To wrest to win a worldly fame which is but vile and vain . As though he had no cause to doubt , the drift of his desire , Not pleased though he rule the rout , but still to covet higher . And wander after will , far passing his degree : Not so contented still , but a king himself to be . Subverting law and right , detecting trial true : Wringing every wight , that all the realm doth rue . Whose deed and ill desert , compact and false consen I think no christian heart , can choose but needs lament . Alas it seemed strange , such thraldom in a realm : Which wealthy was to wast away , by will that was extreme . Sith virtue was professed , most famous frank and free : Yet men transposed clean , more vile and worse to be . And such as did pretend to show themselves most holy : Have swerved in the end , and fawned after folly . Whose words so disagree , as waters come and go : Their livings to be contrary , that should examples show . And fawning after fame , pursue their own decay : As though there were no God , to call their life away . What surety is in man , what truth or trust at all : Which frameth what he can , to work unworthy thrall . Oppression hath been free , the poor alas be spoiled : Maids and wives be ravished , the simple are beguiled . Law is made a liberty , and right is overthrown : Faith is but a foolish thing , falsehood is alone . Pride is counted clenlinesse , and theft is but a slight . Whoredom is but wantonness , and waste is but delight . Spoiling is but pleasure , riot is but youth : Slander is a laughing game , and lying counted truth . Marriage is but mockage , the children counted base : Thus right is wronged every way , in our accursed case . Flattery is the Fort of Fame , and truth is trodden down : The innocent do bear the blame , the wicked win renown . Thus Sathan hath prevailed long , and we for want of grace : Have trodden virtue under foot , and vice hath taken place . But God that is most righteous , hath seen our fatal fallen : And spread his mercy over us , to shield us from the thrall . Whose mercy is so infinite , to such as were oppressed : He hath restored them to right , and hath their care redressed . And though that our unworthiness , hath not deserved so : Now let us cease our wickedness , and grafted where grace may grow . And let us pray for our defence , our worthy Queen elec That God may work his will in her , our thraldom to correct . That God be chiefly served so , as doth to him belong : That right may have his course again , and vanquish wicked wrong . That we may live in fear and awe , and truly to intend : And have the justice of the law , our causes to defend . That truth may take his wonted place , and faith be fast again : And then repent and call for grace , that wrought our care and pain . That God send us a short redress , with wealth and great increase : And to our Queen , to reign and rule , in honour , health , and peace . FINIS . W.E. Imprinted at London by Edward Allde . 