H : 18292 The pangs of Love and lovers fttes . WAs not good King Salamon Ravished in sundry wise with every lively Paragon That glistered before his eyes If this be true as true it was Lady lady . why should not I serve you alas My deer lady . When Paris was enamoured with Helena dame beauties pear whom Venus first him promised To venture on and not to fear what sturdy storms endured he Lady lady To win her loveer it would be My deer lady . Knowe you not how Troylus Languished and lost his joy with fits and fevers marvelous For Cresseda that dwelled in Troye Till pity planted in her breast lady lady . To sleep with him & grant him rest My deer lady . I read sometime how venturous Leander was his love to please who swom the waters perilous Of Abidon those surging seize To come to her where as she lay lady lady . Till he was drowned by the way my deer lady . what say you then to Priamus That promised his love to meet And found by fortune marvelous A bloody cloth before his feet For Tysbies sake himself he slew lady lady To prove that he was a lover true my deer lady . when Hercules for Eronie murdered a monster fell He put him self in jeoperdie Perilous as the stories tell Reskewinge her upon the shore lady lady . which else by lot had died therefore my deer lady . Anaxaretis beautiful when Iphis did behold and see with sighs and sobbings pitiful That Paragon long wooed he And when he could not win her so Lady lady He went and hung him self for woe My deer lady . Beside these matters marvelous Good Lady yet I can tell the more The Gods have been full amorous As Jupiter by learned lore who changed his shape as fame hath spread lady lady . To come to Alcumenaes bed . My deer lady . And if beauty breed such blisfulnesse Enamouring both God and man Good Lady let no wilfulness Exuperate your beauty then To slay the herts that yield & crave lady lady The grant of your goodwill to have My deer lady . Finis . Quod W. E. Imprinted at London in Smithfeld in the parish of Saint Barthel - mews Hospital by Richard Lant . An. Dmni . M.D.lix . xxii . Mar : H : 18292 The pangs of Love and lovers fttes . WAs not good King Salamon Ravished in sundry wise with every lively Paragon That glistered before his eyes If this be true as true it was Lady lady . why should not I serve you alas My deer lady . When Paris was enamoured with Helena dame beauties pear whom Venus first him promised To venture on and not to fear what sturdy storms endured he Lady lady To win her loveer it would be My deer lady . Knowe you not how Troylus Languished and lost his joy with fits and fevers marvelous For Cresseda that dwelled in Troye Till pity planted in her breast lady lady . To sleep with him & grant him rest My deer lady . I read sometime how venturous Leander was his love to please who swom the waters perilous Of Abidon those surging seize To come to her where as she lay lady lady . Till he was drowned by the way my deer lady . what say you then to Priamus That promised his love to meet And found by fortune marvelous A bloody cloth before his feet For Tysbies sake himself he slew lady lady To prove that he was a lover true my deer lady . when Hercules for Eronie murdered a monster fell He put him self in jeoperdie Perilous as the stories tell Reskewinge her upon the shore lady lady . which else by lot had died therefore my deer lady . Anaxaretis beautiful when Iphis did behold and see with sighs and sobbings pitiful That Paragon long wooed he And when he could not win her so Lady lady He went and hung him self for woe My deer lady . Beside these matters marvelous Good Lady yet I can tell the more The Gods have been full amorous As Jupiter by learned lore who changed his shape as fame hath spread lady lady . To come to Alcumenaes bed . My deer lady . And if beauty breed such blisfulnesse Enamouring both God and man Good Lady let no wilfulness Exuperate your beauty then To slay the herts that yield & crave lady lady The grant of your goodwill to have My deer lady . Finis . Quod W. E. Imprinted at London in Smithfeld in the parish of Saint Barthel - mews Hospital by Richard Lant . An. Dmni . M.D.lix . xxii . Mar : 