H : 18291 A Prayer said in the kings Chapel in the time of his graces Sickness , for the restau - ration of his health , commanded to be said there , by the right Honourable Earl of Bedford , and meet to be used of all the Kings true Subjects . Set forth the xix day of June . M.D.LIII . All mighty , and most merciful Lord , the only life and health , of all them that trust in thee , which workest sal - vacion in thy elect , as well by sickness as other wise , and therefore bringest them very low , and yet restorest to health a - gain : look down with thy pytyfull Eyes upon thy servant Edward our King , and upon this Realm of Eng - land , professing thy word & holy name , and as thou didst most favorably deliver King Ezechias from extreme sickness , and prolongedst his life for the salvegarde of thy people the Israelites , & defendedst them and the City from the Tyranny of the Assyryans : so we most entirely appeal to thy great mercies , graciously to restore the health and strength a - gain of thy serve [ an ] tO Edward our Sovereign Lord , that as thou haste begun by him the rooting out of Error , Idolatry & Superstition , and the planting of true Religion , true wor - shipping & verity : so it may please thy merciful goodness , long to preserve him for the confirmation & establishment of the same , and also for the saulfgarde and defence of this Realm , from all outward & inward Enemies , for the glory of thy holy name . Look not herin ( Oh Lord ) upon our deserts , which for a - businge thy word , and sinfulness , deserve great punishments , but upon thy plentyful mercies , which rejoicest to heal the greatest miseries . Be no less favourable ( Oh Lord ) at this pre - sent , to Edward our king , restoring thy true religion : then in times passed to Ezechias reforming thy Religion . Be no less merciful to England thy Church now : then in those days to Jury thy Church than . But as thy heavenly grace hath been more revealed in these days by the coming of thy deer Son our Saviour and master Chryste , and preaching of the Gos - pell : so it may please thy fatherly love and goodness , to bestow upon us more abundance of the same favourable grace and mercy , according to thy will in this our humble request . Do this Oh most merciful Father for thy own names sake , and for the merits and death of thy Son our only medyator and rede - mere Jesus Christe . Amen . Imprinted at London in Fletestrete at the Sign of the Rose Garland , by wyllyam Copland . H : 18291 A Prayer said in the kings Chapel in the time of his graces Sickness , for the restau - ration of his health , commanded to be said there , by the right Honourable Earl of Bedford , and meet to be used of all the Kings true Subjects . Set forth the xix day of June . M.D.LIII . All mighty , and most merciful Lord , the only life and health , of all them that trust in thee , which workest sal - vacion in thy elect , as well by sickness as other wise , and therefore bringest them very low , and yet restorest to health a - gain : look down with thy pytyfull Eyes upon thy servant Edward our King , and upon this Realm of Eng - land , professing thy word & holy name , and as thou didst most favorably deliver King Ezechias from extreme sickness , and prolongedst his life for the salvegarde of thy people the Israelites , & defendedst them and the City from the Tyranny of the Assyryans : so we most entirely appeal to thy great mercies , graciously to restore the health and strength a - gain of thy serve [ an ] tO Edward our Sovereign Lord , that as thou haste begun by him the rooting out of Error , Idolatry & Superstition , and the planting of true Religion , true wor - shipping & verity : so it may please thy merciful goodness , long to preserve him for the confirmation & establishment of the same , and also for the saulfgarde and defence of this Realm , from all outward & inward Enemies , for the glory of thy holy name . Look not herin ( Oh Lord ) upon our deserts , which for a - businge thy word , and sinfulness , deserve great punishments , but upon thy plentyful mercies , which rejoicest to heal the greatest miseries . Be no less favourable ( Oh Lord ) at this pre - sent , to Edward our king , restoring thy true religion : then in times passed to Ezechias reforming thy Religion . Be no less merciful to England thy Church now : then in those days to Jury thy Church than . But as thy heavenly grace hath been more revealed in these days by the coming of thy deer Son our Saviour and master Chryste , and preaching of the Gos - pell : so it may please thy fatherly love and goodness , to bestow upon us more abundance of the same favourable grace and mercy , according to thy will in this our humble request . Do this Oh most merciful Father for thy own names sake , and for the merits and death of thy Son our only medyator and rede - mere Jesus Christe . Amen . Imprinted at London in Fletestrete at the Sign of the Rose Garland , by wyllyam Copland . 