H : 18290 A lamentable Ditty composed upon the death of Robert Lord Devereux late Earl of Essex , who was beheaded in the Tower of London , upon Ashwednesday in the morning . 1601. To the tune of Welladay . SWeet Englands pride is gone welladay welladay , Which makes her sighs and groan evermore still : He did her fame advance , In Ireland Spaine and France , And now by dismal chance , is from her taken . He was a virtuous Peer , welladay welladay , And was esteemed deer evermore still : He always helped the poor , Which makes them sighs full soar his death they do deplore , In every place . Brave honour grac'd him still gallantly gallantly , He never did deed of ill , well is it known : But envy that foul fiend Whose malice ne're hath end , hath brought true virtues friend Unto his thrall . At Tilt he did surpass gallantly gallantly : all men that is and was evermore still : One day as it was seen , In honour of his Queen , Such deeds hath ne're been seen , As he did doe . Abroad and eke at home , gallantly , gallantly , For valour there was none , like him before : In Ireland France and Spaine , ( They feared great Essex name , And England lov'd the same , In every place . But all would not prevail welladay welladay : His deeds did nought avail , more was the pity : He was condemn'd to die , For treason certainly , But God that sits on high Knoweth all things . That Sunday in the morn , welladay welladay : That he to the City came , with all his troop : That first began the strife , And caused him lose his life , And others did the like , As well as he . Yet her Princely Majesty graciously , graciously , Hath pardon given free to many of them : She hath released them quite , And given them their right , they may pray both day & night God to defend her . Shrovetewesday in the night welladay , welladay , With a heavy hearted spright as it is said : The lieutenant of the Tower Who kept him in his power , At ten a clock that hour , To him did come . And said unto him there , mournfully , mournfully , My Lord you must prepare , to die tomorrow : Gods will be done quoth he , Yet shall you strangely see , God strong in me to be , Though I am weak . I pray you pray for me welladay , welladay , That God may strengthen me , against that hour : Then straightway did he call , The Guard under the wall , And did entreat them all For him to pray . For tomorrow is the day welladay welladay , That I the debt must pay , which I do owe : It is my life I mean , Which I must pay my Queen , Even so hath justice given , That I must do . In the morning was he brought , welladay welladay : Where a Scaffold was set up , within the Tower : Many Lords were present then , With other Gentlemen , Which were appointed then TO [ oh ] see him die . You noble Lords quoth he welladay welladay , That must the witness be , of this my death : Know I never loved Papistry , But did it still defy , And Essex thus did die , Here in this place . I have a sinner been welladay welladay : Yet never wrong'd my Queen in all my life , My God I did offend , Which grieves me at my end , May all the rest amend , I do forgive them . To the state I ne're meant ill welladay , welladay , Neither wished the commons ill in all my life : But loved all with my heart , And always took their part , Whhereas there was desert , In any place . Then mildly did he crave mournfully mournfully , He might that favour have private to pray : He then prayed heartily , And with great fervency , To God that sits on high , For to receive him . And then he prayed again mournfully mournfully , God to preserve his Queen from all her foes : And send her long to reign , True Justice to maintain , And not to let proud Spaine , Once to offend her . His gown he slipped off then welladay welladay , And put off his hat and band and hung it by , Praying still continually , To God that sits on high , That he might patiently , There suffer death . My headesman that must be , then said he cheerfully , Let him come here to me , That I may him see : Who kneeled to him then , Art thou ( quoth he ) the man , Which art appointed now , my life to free . Yes my Lord did he say welladay , welladay , Forgive me I you pray for this your death : I hear do thee forg [ ive ] And may true justice live , No foul crime to forgive , Within their place . Then he kneeled down again , mournfully mournfully : And was required by some there standing by : To forgive his enemies , Before death closed his eyes , Which he did in hearty wise , Thanking them for i That they would remember him welladay , welladay : That he might forgive all them , that had him wrong'd : Now my Lords I take my leave Sweet Christ my soul receive , Now when you will I prepare , For I am ready . He laid his head on the block , welladay welladay : But his doublet did let the stroke some there did say : What must be done ( quoth he ) Shall be done presently , Then his doublet off put he , and say down again . Then his headesman did his part cruelly , cruelly , He was never seen to start , For all the blows : His soul it is at rest , in heaven among the blessed , Where God send us to rest , When it shall please him . God save the King . FINIS . Imprinted at London for Margret Allde , and are to be sold at the long shop under Saint Mil - dreads Church in the Poul - try . 1603. H : 18290 A lamentable Ditty composed upon the death of Robert Lord Devereux late Earl of Essex , who was beheaded in the Tower of London , upon Ashwednesday in the morning . 1601. To the tune of Welladay . SWeet Englands pride is gone welladay welladay , Which makes her sighs and groan evermore still : He did her fame advance , In Ireland Spaine and France , And now by dismal chance , is from her taken . He was a virtuous Peer , welladay welladay , And was esteemed deer evermore still : He always helped the poor , Which makes them sighs full soar his death they do deplore , In every place . Brave honour grac'd him still gallantly gallantly , He never did deed of ill , well is it known : But envy that foul fiend Whose malice ne're hath end , hath brought true virtues friend Unto his thrall . At Tilt he did surpass gallantly gallantly : all men that is and was evermore still : One day as it was seen , In honour of his Queen , Such deeds hath ne're been seen , As he did doe . Abroad and eke at home , gallantly , gallantly , For valour there was none , like him before : In Ireland France and Spaine , ( They feared great Essex name , And England lov'd the same , In every place . But all would not prevail welladay welladay : His deeds did nought avail , more was the pity : He was condemn'd to die , For treason certainly , But God that sits on high Knoweth all things . That Sunday in the morn , welladay welladay : That he to the City came , with all his troop : That first began the strife , And caused him lose his life , And others did the like , As well as he . Yet her Princely Majesty graciously , graciously , Hath pardon given free to many of them : She hath released them quite , And given them their right , they may pray both day & night God to defend her . Shrovetewesday in the night welladay , welladay , With a heavy hearted spright as it is said : The lieutenant of the Tower Who kept him in his power , At ten a clock that hour , To him did come . And said unto him there , mournfully , mournfully , My Lord you must prepare , to die tomorrow : Gods will be done quoth he , Yet shall you strangely see , God strong in me to be , Though I am weak . I pray you pray for me welladay , welladay , That God may strengthen me , against that hour : Then straightway did he call , The Guard under the wall , And did entreat them all For him to pray . For tomorrow is the day welladay welladay , That I the debt must pay , which I do owe : It is my life I mean , Which I must pay my Queen , Even so hath justice given , That I must do . In the morning was he brought , welladay welladay : Where a Scaffold was set up , within the Tower : Many Lords were present then , With other Gentlemen , Which were appointed then TO [ oh ] see him die . You noble Lords quoth he welladay welladay , That must the witness be , of this my death : Know I never loved Papistry , But did it still defy , And Essex thus did die , Here in this place . I have a sinner been welladay welladay : Yet never wrong'd my Queen in all my life , My God I did offend , Which grieves me at my end , May all the rest amend , I do forgive them . To the state I ne're meant ill welladay , welladay , Neither wished the commons ill in all my life : But loved all with my heart , And always took their part , Whhereas there was desert , In any place . Then mildly did he crave mournfully mournfully , He might that favour have private to pray : He then prayed heartily , And with great fervency , To God that sits on high , For to receive him . And then he prayed again mournfully mournfully , God to preserve his Queen from all her foes : And send her long to reign , True Justice to maintain , And not to let proud Spaine , Once to offend her . His gown he slipped off then welladay welladay , And put off his hat and band and hung it by , Praying still continually , To God that sits on high , That he might patiently , There suffer death . My headesman that must be , then said he cheerfully , Let him come here to me , That I may him see : Who kneeled to him then , Art thou ( quoth he ) the man , Which art appointed now , my life to free . Yes my Lord did he say welladay , welladay , Forgive me I you pray for this your death : I hear do thee forg [ ive ] And may true justice live , No foul crime to forgive , Within their place . Then he kneeled down again , mournfully mournfully : And was required by some there standing by : To forgive his enemies , Before death closed his eyes , Which he did in hearty wise , Thanking them for i That they would remember him welladay , welladay : That he might forgive all them , that had him wrong'd : Now my Lords I take my leave Sweet Christ my soul receive , Now when you will I prepare , For I am ready . He laid his head on the block , welladay welladay : But his doublet did let the stroke some there did say : What must be done ( quoth he ) Shall be done presently , Then his doublet off put he , and say down again . Then his headesman did his part cruelly , cruelly , He was never seen to start , For all the blows : His soul it is at rest , in heaven among the blessed , Where God send us to rest , When it shall please him . God save the King . FINIS . Imprinted at London for Margret Allde , and are to be sold at the long shop under Saint Mil - dreads Church in the Poul - try . 1603. 