H : 18297 The lamentable fallen of Queen Elnor , who for her pride and wickedness , by Gods Judgement , sunk into the ground at Charing cross , and rose up again at Queen hive . To the tune of , Gentle and Courteous . WHen Edward was in England King the first of all that name : Proud Elnor he made his Queen , a stately Spanish dame . Whose wicked life and sinful pride , through England did excel : To dainty Dams and gallant Maids this Queen was known full well . She was the first that did invent in Coaches brave to ride : She was the first that brought this land the deadly sin of pride . No English Tailors here could serve to make her rich attire : But sent for Tailors into Spaine , to feed her vain desire . They brought in fashions strange and new with golden garments brigh The Farthingales , and mighty Ruffs , with Gowns of rare delight . [ Our Lon ] dONE Dams in Spanish pride , [ did flourish e ] very where , [ Our English men l ] ike Women then , [ did wear long lock ] es of hair . [ Both man and child , bot ] h maid & wife , [ were drown'd in Pride oh ] f Spaine : [ And thought the Spanish Ta ] ylors then , [ our English men did stain ] : [ Whereat the Queen did mu ] changed despite [ to see ] our englishmen . [ In ] vestures clad , as brav [ e ] to see as any Spaniard then . She crav'd the King that every man that wore long locks of hair , Might then be cut and powled all , or shaved very near . Whereat the King did seem content , and soon thereto agreed : And first commanded that his own , should then be cut with speed . And after that to please his Queen , proclaimed through the land , That every man that wore long hair , [ s ] hold powle him out of hand . [ But y ] et this Spaniard not content , [ to w ] omen boar a spigh [ And thee ] n requested of the King [ against ] all law and righ [ That ever ] y womankind should have , [ her right b ] reast cut away : [ And then ] burning Irons sear'd , [ the blood to st ] aunch and stay . [ King Edward ] then perceiving well [ her spite tO ] oh womenkind . Devised soon by policy to turn her bloody mind . He sent for burning Irons straight , all sparkling hight to see : And said , Oh Queen , come on thy way I will begin with thee . Which words did much displease the Queen that penance to begin : But asked him pardon on her knees , who gave her grace therein : But afterwards she chanced to pass along brave London streets : Whereas the Mayor of Londons wife , in stately sort she meets . With music , mirth , and melody , unto the Church that wen To give God thanks that to L. Maior a noble Son had sent . It grieved much this spiteful Queen to see that any one Should so exceed in mirth and joy , except her self alone : For which she after did devise , within her bloody mind , And practised still most secretly to kill the Lady kind . Unto Lord Mayor of London then she sent her letters straigh To send his Lady to the Court , upon her Grace to weight . But when the London Lady came , before proud Elnors face : She stripped her from her rich array , and kept her vile and base . She sent her into Wales with speed , and kept her secret there : And used her still more crueler then ever man did hear : she made her wash , she made her startch she made her drudge always : She made her nurse up children small , and labour night and day . But this contented not the Queen , but shew'd her more despigh She bound this Lady to a post at twelve a clock at nigh And as poor Lady she stood bound the Queen in angry mood , Did set two Snakes unto her breasts , that sucked away her blood . Thus died the Mayor of Londons wife most grievous for to hear : Which made the Spaniard grow more proud as after shall appear . The Wheat that daily made her bred was bolted twentie times , The food that fed this stately Dame , was boylde in costly wines . The water that did spring from ground she would not touch at all , But washed her hands with due of dea-ven , that on sweet Roses fallen : She bath'd her body many times , in fountains filde with milk , And every day did change attire , in costly median silk . But coming then to London back , within her Coach of gold : A tempest strange within the skies , this Queen did there behold . Out of which storm she could not go , but there remain'd a space , Foure horses could not stir her coach a foot out of that place . A judgement surely sent from heaven for shedding guiltless blood , Upon this sinful Queen that slew the London Lady good : King Edward then , as wisdom wild accused her for that deed : But she denied and wished that God would send his wrath with speed . If that upon so vile a thing , her heart did ever think , She wished the ground might open wid and therein she might sink : With that at Charing cross she sunk into the ground alive , And after rose with life again in London at Queen hive . Where after that she languished soar full twentie days in pain : At last confessed the Ladies blood , her guilty hands did stain . And likewise how that by a Fryer she had a base born child , Whose sinful lust and wickedness her marriage bed defiled . Thus have you herd the fallen of pride , a just reward of sin : For those that will forswear themselves Gods vengeance daily win . Beware of Pride you London dams , both wives and maidens all , Bear this imprinted in your mind , that Pride will have a fallen . FINIS . Printed at London for William Blackwall . H : 18297 The lamentable fallen of Queen Elnor , who for her pride and wickedness , by Gods Judgement , sunk into the ground at Charing cross , and rose up again at Queen hive . To the tune of , Gentle and Courteous . WHen Edward was in England King the first of all that name : Proud Elnor he made his Queen , a stately Spanish dame . Whose wicked life and sinful pride , through England did excel : To dainty Dams and gallant Maids this Queen was known full well . She was the first that did invent in Coaches brave to ride : She was the first that brought this land the deadly sin of pride . No English Tailors here could serve to make her rich attire : But sent for Tailors into Spaine , to feed her vain desire . They brought in fashions strange and new with golden garments brigh The Farthingales , and mighty Ruffs , with Gowns of rare delight . [ Our Lon ] dONE Dams in Spanish pride , [ did flourish e ] very where , [ Our English men l ] ike Women then , [ did wear long lock ] es of hair . [ Both man and child , bot ] h maid & wife , [ were drown'd in Pride oh ] f Spaine : [ And thought the Spanish Ta ] ylors then , [ our English men did stain ] : [ Whereat the Queen did mu ] changed despite [ to see ] our englishmen . [ In ] vestures clad , as brav [ e ] to see as any Spaniard then . She crav'd the King that every man that wore long locks of hair , Might then be cut and powled all , or shaved very near . Whereat the King did seem content , and soon thereto agreed : And first commanded that his own , should then be cut with speed . And after that to please his Queen , proclaimed through the land , That every man that wore long hair , [ s ] hold powle him out of hand . [ But y ] et this Spaniard not content , [ to w ] omen boar a spigh [ And thee ] n requested of the King [ against ] all law and righ [ That ever ] y womankind should have , [ her right b ] reast cut away : [ And then ] burning Irons sear'd , [ the blood to st ] aunch and stay . [ King Edward ] then perceiving well [ her spite tO ] oh womenkind . Devised soon by policy to turn her bloody mind . He sent for burning Irons straight , all sparkling hight to see : And said , Oh Queen , come on thy way I will begin with thee . Which words did much displease the Queen that penance to begin : But asked him pardon on her knees , who gave her grace therein : But afterwards she chanced to pass along brave London streets : Whereas the Mayor of Londons wife , in stately sort she meets . With music , mirth , and melody , unto the Church that wen To give God thanks that to L. Maior a noble Son had sent . It grieved much this spiteful Queen to see that any one Should so exceed in mirth and joy , except her self alone : For which she after did devise , within her bloody mind , And practised still most secretly to kill the Lady kind . Unto Lord Mayor of London then she sent her letters straigh To send his Lady to the Court , upon her Grace to weight . But when the London Lady came , before proud Elnors face : She stripped her from her rich array , and kept her vile and base . She sent her into Wales with speed , and kept her secret there : And used her still more crueler then ever man did hear : she made her wash , she made her startch she made her drudge always : She made her nurse up children small , and labour night and day . But this contented not the Queen , but shew'd her more despigh She bound this Lady to a post at twelve a clock at nigh And as poor Lady she stood bound the Queen in angry mood , Did set two Snakes unto her breasts , that sucked away her blood . Thus died the Mayor of Londons wife most grievous for to hear : Which made the Spaniard grow more proud as after shall appear . The Wheat that daily made her bred was bolted twentie times , The food that fed this stately Dame , was boylde in costly wines . The water that did spring from ground she would not touch at all , But washed her hands with due of dea-ven , that on sweet Roses fallen : She bath'd her body many times , in fountains filde with milk , And every day did change attire , in costly median silk . But coming then to London back , within her Coach of gold : A tempest strange within the skies , this Queen did there behold . Out of which storm she could not go , but there remain'd a space , Foure horses could not stir her coach a foot out of that place . A judgement surely sent from heaven for shedding guiltless blood , Upon this sinful Queen that slew the London Lady good : King Edward then , as wisdom wild accused her for that deed : But she denied and wished that God would send his wrath with speed . If that upon so vile a thing , her heart did ever think , She wished the ground might open wid and therein she might sink : With that at Charing cross she sunk into the ground alive , And after rose with life again in London at Queen hive . Where after that she languished soar full twentie days in pain : At last confessed the Ladies blood , her guilty hands did stain . And likewise how that by a Fryer she had a base born child , Whose sinful lust and wickedness her marriage bed defiled . Thus have you herd the fallen of pride , a just reward of sin : For those that will forswear themselves Gods vengeance daily win . Beware of Pride you London dams , both wives and maidens all , Bear this imprinted in your mind , that Pride will have a fallen . FINIS . Printed at London for William Blackwall . 