H : 134131 AND ELEGY ON THE Death of the most Illustrious LORD , THE EARL of St. ALBANS : Who Departed this Life the first Day of this Instant January , 1684. GO stop the swift-wing'd Moments in their flight , Arrest the Envious Course of Day and Night ; Alas ! it will not be , we strive in vain , Not all our Art can one poor Hour regain : TIME flies in haste to meet Eternity , As Rivers to the Bosom of the Sea , There to be lost ; nor can we bribe the stay Of the least Minute , to prolong the Day , Which is by Fate ordain'd to be our last , Without reverse , when once the Doom is passed . For if there cou'd have been the least Reprieve To Mortal Breath , thou had'st been still alive ; St. ALBANS still , had blessed our wondering Eyes , Who now the Tyrant Death's pale Captive lies . Let us contemplate thee ( brave Soul ) and tho' We cannot track the way which thou didst go In thy Celestial Journey , and our Heart Expansion want , to think what now thou art , How bright and wide thy Glories , yet we may Remember thee as thou wertenberg in thy Clay ; Great without Title , in thyself alone , A mighty Lord , thou stood'st oblieg'd to none But Heaven and thyself , for that great worth Which the propitious Stars that rul'd thy Birth Inspir'd into thy Noble Soul , and Thou Not wanting to thyself , did'st make it grow To such prodigious height , thou wast become So truly Glorious , that struck Envy Dumb. All Differences did in thy praise conspire , And ev'n thy Foes , if such cou'd be , admire Thy Noble Life , which like the constant Sun Did in the same Ecliptic always run Ever most loyal to the Royal Cause , Which from the Heaven of Heavens its Title draws ; Where now thou liv'st , free'd from th' uncertain sport Of Time and Fortune , in the Starry Court , A Glorious Potentate ; while we below , But fashion woes to mitigate our woe . And now my sorrows follow thee , I tread The Milky way , and see the Snowy Head Of Atlas far below , while all the high . Swollen Buildings seem but Atoms to my eye ; How small seems greatness here ? how ! not a span His Empire who commands the Ocean , Both that which boasts so much its mighty Over , And that other wh [ i ] changed with Pearl hath pav'd its shore . Nor can it greater seem , when this great All , For which Men quarrel so , is but a Ball Cast down into the air , to sport the Star ; And all our general Ruins , mortal wars , Depopulated States , caus'd by their sway , And men so reverend wisdom but their play . By thee St. Albans living , we did learn The art of life , and by thy light discern The truth which Men dispute ; but by thee Dead , We'r taught upon the world's gay pride to tread , And that way sooner Master it , than he To whom both Indies tributary be : Thus shall we gain by Death , while we Deplore His Fate , remembering how great and good St. Albans was , and yet but flesh and blood As we ; how should the brave example move On kindled Souls , and lift us up above Low-thoughted Care of dull Mortality , Since , if as Good , we shall be Great as He. The EPITAPH . HAil ! Sacred House , in which his Relics Sleep , Blessed Marble , give me leave t' approach and Weep : Unto thy Self , great Spirit , I will Repeat Thy Own brave STORY : tell thy Self how Great Thou wertenberg in Mind's Empire , and how all Who Outlive Thee , see but the FUNERAL Of Glory ; and if yet some Virtuous be , They but the Apparitions are of Thee . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , without New-Gate , 1684. H : 134131 AND ELEGY ON THE Death of the most Illustrious LORD , THE EARL of St. ALBANS : Who Departed this Life the first Day of this Instant January , 1684. GO stop the swift-wing'd Moments in their flight , Arrest the Envious Course of Day and Night ; Alas ! it will not be , we strive in vain , Not all our Art can one poor Hour regain : TIME flies in haste to meet Eternity , As Rivers to the Bosom of the Sea , There to be lost ; nor can we bribe the stay Of the least Minute , to prolong the Day , Which is by Fate ordain'd to be our last , Without reverse , when once the Doom is passed . For if there cou'd have been the least Reprieve To Mortal Breath , thou had'st been still alive ; St. ALBANS still , had blessed our wondering Eyes , Who now the Tyrant Death's pale Captive lies . Let us contemplate thee ( brave Soul ) and tho' We cannot track the way which thou didst go In thy Celestial Journey , and our Heart Expansion want , to think what now thou art , How bright and wide thy Glories , yet we may Remember thee as thou wertenberg in thy Clay ; Great without Title , in thyself alone , A mighty Lord , thou stood'st oblieg'd to none But Heaven and thyself , for that great worth Which the propitious Stars that rul'd thy Birth Inspir'd into thy Noble Soul , and Thou Not wanting to thyself , did'st make it grow To such prodigious height , thou wast become So truly Glorious , that struck Envy Dumb. All Differences did in thy praise conspire , And ev'n thy Foes , if such cou'd be , admire Thy Noble Life , which like the constant Sun Did in the same Ecliptic always run Ever most loyal to the Royal Cause , Which from the Heaven of Heavens its Title draws ; Where now thou liv'st , free'd from th' uncertain sport Of Time and Fortune , in the Starry Court , A Glorious Potentate ; while we below , But fashion woes to mitigate our woe . And now my sorrows follow thee , I tread The Milky way , and see the Snowy Head Of Atlas far below , while all the high . Swollen Buildings seem but Atoms to my eye ; How small seems greatness here ? how ! not a span His Empire who commands the Ocean , Both that which boasts so much its mighty Over , And that other wh [ i ] changed with Pearl hath pav'd its shore . Nor can it greater seem , when this great All , For which Men quarrel so , is but a Ball Cast down into the air , to sport the Star ; And all our general Ruins , mortal wars , Depopulated States , caus'd by their sway , And men so reverend wisdom but their play . By thee St. Albans living , we did learn The art of life , and by thy light discern The truth which Men dispute ; but by thee Dead , We'r taught upon the world's gay pride to tread , And that way sooner Master it , than he To whom both Indies tributary be : Thus shall we gain by Death , while we Deplore His Fate , remembering how great and good St. Albans was , and yet but flesh and blood As we ; how should the brave example move On kindled Souls , and lift us up above Low-thoughted Care of dull Mortality , Since , if as Good , we shall be Great as He. The EPITAPH . HAil ! Sacred House , in which his Relics Sleep , Blessed Marble , give me leave t' approach and Weep : Unto thy Self , great Spirit , I will Repeat Thy Own brave STORY : tell thy Self how Great Thou wertenberg in Mind's Empire , and how all Who Outlive Thee , see but the FUNERAL Of Glory ; and if yet some Virtuous be , They but the Apparitions are of Thee . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , without New-Gate , 1684. H : 134131 AND ELEGY ON THE Death of the most Illustrious LORD , THE EARL of St. ALBANS : Who Departed this Life the first Day of this Instant January , 1684. GO stop the swift-wing'd Moments in their flight , Arrest the Envious Course of Day and Night ; Alas ! it will not be , we strive in vain , Not all our Art can one poor Hour regain : TIME flies in haste to meet Eternity , As Rivers to the Bosom of the Sea , There to be lost ; nor can we bribe the stay Of the least Minute , to prolong the Day , Which is by Fate ordain'd to be our last , Without reverse , when once the Doom is passed . For if there cou'd have been the least Reprieve To Mortal Breath , thou had'st been still alive ; St. ALBANS still , had blessed our wondering Eyes , Who now the Tyrant Death's pale Captive lies . Let us contemplate thee ( brave Soul ) and tho' We cannot track the way which thou didst go In thy Celestial Journey , and our Heart Expansion want , to think what now thou art , How bright and wide thy Glories , yet we may Remember thee as thou wertenberg in thy Clay ; Great without Title , in thyself alone , A mighty Lord , thou stood'st oblieg'd to none But Heaven and thyself , for that great worth Which the propitious Stars that rul'd thy Birth Inspir'd into thy Noble Soul , and Thou Not wanting to thyself , did'st make it grow To such prodigious height , thou wast become So truly Glorious , that struck Envy Dumb. All Differences did in thy praise conspire , And ev'n thy Foes , if such cou'd be , admire Thy Noble Life , which like the constant Sun Did in the same Ecliptic always run Ever most loyal to the Royal Cause , Which from the Heaven of Heavens its Title draws ; Where now thou liv'st , free'd from th' uncertain sport Of Time and Fortune , in the Starry Court , A Glorious Potentate ; while we below , But fashion woes to mitigate our woe . And now my sorrows follow thee , I tread The Milky way , and see the Snowy Head Of Atlas far below , while all the high . Swollen Buildings seem but Atoms to my eye ; How small seems greatness here ? how ! not a span His Empire who commands the Ocean , Both that which boasts so much its mighty Over , And that other wh [ i ] changed with Pearl hath pav'd its shore . Nor can it greater seem , when this great All , For which Men quarrel so , is but a Ball Cast down into the air , to sport the Star ; And all our general Ruins , mortal wars , Depopulated States , caus'd by their sway , And men so reverend wisdom but their play . By thee St. Albans living , we did learn The art of life , and by thy light discern The truth which Men dispute ; but by thee Dead , We'r taught upon the world's gay pride to tread , And that way sooner Master it , than he To whom both Indies tributary be : Thus shall we gain by Death , while we Deplore His Fate , remembering how great and good St. Albans was , and yet but flesh and blood As we ; how should the brave example move On kindled Souls , and lift us up above Low-thoughted Care of dull Mortality , Since , if as Good , we shall be Great as He. The EPITAPH . HAil ! Sacred House , in which his Relics Sleep , Blessed Marble , give me leave t' approach and Weep : Unto thy Self , great Spirit , I will Repeat Thy Own brave STORY : tell thy Self how Great Thou wertenberg in Mind's Empire , and how all Who Outlive Thee , see but the FUNERAL Of Glory ; and if yet some Virtuous be , They but the Apparitions are of Thee . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , without New-Gate , 1684. H : 134131 AND ELEGY ON THE Death of the most Illustrious LORD , THE EARL of St. ALBANS : Who Departed this Life the first Day of this Instant January , 1684. GO stop the swift-wing'd Moments in their flight , Arrest the Envious Course of Day and Night ; Alas ! it will not be , we strive in vain , Not all our Art can one poor Hour regain : TIME flies in haste to meet Eternity , As Rivers to the Bosom of the Sea , There to be lost ; nor can we bribe the stay Of the least Minute , to prolong the Day , Which is by Fate ordain'd to be our last , Without reverse , when once the Doom is passed . For if there cou'd have been the least Reprieve To Mortal Breath , thou had'st been still alive ; St. ALBANS still , had blessed our wondering Eyes , Who now the Tyrant Death's pale Captive lies . Let us contemplate thee ( brave Soul ) and tho' We cannot track the way which thou didst go In thy Celestial Journey , and our Heart Expansion want , to think what now thou art , How bright and wide thy Glories , yet we may Remember thee as thou wertenberg in thy Clay ; Great without Title , in thyself alone , A mighty Lord , thou stood'st oblieg'd to none But Heaven and thyself , for that great worth Which the propitious Stars that rul'd thy Birth Inspir'd into thy Noble Soul , and Thou Not wanting to thyself , did'st make it grow To such prodigious height , thou wast become So truly Glorious , that struck Envy Dumb. All Differences did in thy praise conspire , And ev'n thy Foes , if such cou'd be , admire Thy Noble Life , which like the constant Sun Did in the same Ecliptic always run Ever most loyal to the Royal Cause , Which from the Heaven of Heavens its Title draws ; Where now thou liv'st , free'd from th' uncertain sport Of Time and Fortune , in the Starry Court , A Glorious Potentate ; while we below , But fashion woes to mitigate our woe . And now my sorrows follow thee , I tread The Milky way , and see the Snowy Head Of Atlas far below , while all the high . Swollen Buildings seem but Atoms to my eye ; How small seems greatness here ? how ! not a span His Empire who commands the Ocean , Both that which boasts so much its mighty Over , And that other wh [ i ] changed with Pearl hath pav'd its shore . Nor can it greater seem , when this great All , For which Men quarrel so , is but a Ball Cast down into the air , to sport the Star ; And all our general Ruins , mortal wars , Depopulated States , caus'd by their sway , And men so reverend wisdom but their play . By thee St. Albans living , we did learn The art of life , and by thy light discern The truth which Men dispute ; but by thee Dead , We'r taught upon the world's gay pride to tread , And that way sooner Master it , than he To whom both Indies tributary be : Thus shall we gain by Death , while we Deplore His Fate , remembering how great and good St. Albans was , and yet but flesh and blood As we ; how should the brave example move On kindled Souls , and lift us up above Low-thoughted Care of dull Mortality , Since , if as Good , we shall be Great as He. The EPITAPH . HAil ! Sacred House , in which his Relics Sleep , Blessed Marble , give me leave t' approach and Weep : Unto thy Self , great Spirit , I will Repeat Thy Own brave STORY : tell thy Self how Great Thou wertenberg in Mind's Empire , and how all Who Outlive Thee , see but the FUNERAL Of Glory ; and if yet some Virtuous be , They but the Apparitions are of Thee . Printed for J. Deacon , at the Angel in Guilt-spur-street , without New-Gate , 1684. 