H : 133844 A CONGRATULATORY POEM Upon the Arrival of His Electoral HIGHNESS THE PRINCE PALATINE OF THE RHINE , Nephew to his Highness Prince RUPERT . WElcome , great Prince , to Britains happy Isle , Where all things now in peace and plenty smile ; Where every Man what Peace and Plenty brings Tastes and enjoys , under the best of Kings . While all the World around disturbed are , With the sad Whirlwind of devouring War. From Wars and Ruins , Mighty Sir , you come , And find us sleeping at our ease at home ; We hear the Rumour , but with small Concern , And by Report alone we Troubles learn . Princes , like noted Stars , no Motions make , But every one does Observation take : Their Progress and their Stations are set down , And all their Deviations are made known ; While other Men , like Stars of smaller light , Move un-observ'd , and twinkle out the Night . Let dull Astronomers observe the Stars , And from their Motions predict direful Wars , Foretell the Fate of Princes , Fools bewitch With future knowledge , till they're in the Ditch : While Poets Welcomes and loud Paeans sing , And happy Wishes as their Offerings bring . This Island can't but wish you all that's good , Since you proceed from its own Royal Blood . And the good will of Protestants you gain , For you their Cause with Courage do maintain : So that there seems a sympathy between Our Silver Thames , and your Vine-bearing Rhine . Then welcome , Sir , to our Kings Royal Arms , Who's ready to redress all Europe's harms : Like Orpheus among ravenous beasts he stands , With his peace-causing Lute between his hands , On which with skilful Hands he gently plays , And the wild murmuring Rout his Notes obeys . Welcome to all , welcome above the rest , To our great Prince , your dearest Uncles Breast . He once the Terrible , and now the Good , Amid our Troubles , still unshaken stood : Like a firm Rock beatrice on with furious waves , All fortune's storms the Noble Prince outbraves . At home , abroad , what glorious Acts h'as done , Both for the Royal Father and the Son ? Beyond your Rhine h'as spread his Conquering Fame , And all Men reverence Ruperts mighty Name . A Name which like the Sun shall still shine bright , To Foes a Terror , and to Friends delight . Welcome , great Prince , welcome the Poet sings , To this fair place , the Royal Seat of Kings , Where all things smile , and every one is bent To give your Highness pleasure and content . At once your Highness may in Windsor see The Images of Peace and War agree ; Beauty and strength together Married , shine , The seat of Majesty that seems Divine . The Walls , the Guns , and Troops of Soldiers are The Pictures and the Images of War ; But yet you may behold , pleas'd , without doubt , Peace , glorious peace within , and round abou Within , the Court , and all its soft delights ; Without , the Swain , now following Ceres Rites ; The Fields new shorn , and Barns all fill'd with Grain , And without fear , singing the Merry Swain . Thus show of War , and real Peace agree , And make betwixt them blessed Harmony . While the French Boar does ravage every where , And with his bloody Tusks gives dread and fear , You find us rock'd in peace and quiet here . To this sweet Land of Peace you're welcome now , And may like Laurels in your Countries grow , May ours still flourish : for ? this Peace and Love Makes Earth like Heaven , and Men like Saints above . LONDON : Printed for L [ ? ] ley Curtiss . 1680. H : 133844 A CONGRATULATORY POEM Upon the Arrival of His Electoral HIGHNESS THE PRINCE PALATINE OF THE RHINE , Nephew to his Highness Prince RUPERT . WElcome , great Prince , to Britains happy Isle , Where all things now in peace and plenty smile ; Where every Man what Peace and Plenty brings Tastes and enjoys , under the best of Kings . While all the World around disturbed are , With the sad Whirlwind of devouring War. From Wars and Ruins , Mighty Sir , you come , And find us sleeping at our ease at home ; We hear the Rumour , but with small Concern , And by Report alone we Troubles learn . Princes , like noted Stars , no Motions make , But every one does Observation take : Their Progress and their Stations are set down , And all their Deviations are made known ; While other Men , like Stars of smaller light , Move un-observ'd , and twinkle out the Night . Let dull Astronomers observe the Stars , And from their Motions predict direful Wars , Foretell the Fate of Princes , Fools bewitch With future knowledge , till they're in the Ditch : While Poets Welcomes and loud Paeans sing , And happy Wishes as their Offerings bring . This Island can't but wish you all that's good , Since you proceed from its own Royal Blood . And the good will of Protestants you gain , For you their Cause with Courage do maintain : So that there seems a sympathy between Our Silver Thames , and your Vine-bearing Rhine . Then welcome , Sir , to our Kings Royal Arms , Who's ready to redress all Europe's harms : Like Orpheus among ravenous beasts he stands , With his peace-causing Lute between his hands , On which with skilful Hands he gently plays , And the wild murmuring Rout his Notes obeys . Welcome to all , welcome above the rest , To our great Prince , your dearest Uncles Breast . He once the Terrible , and now the Good , Amid our Troubles , still unshaken stood : Like a firm Rock beatrice on with furious waves , All fortune's storms the Noble Prince outbraves . At home , abroad , what glorious Acts h'as done , Both for the Royal Father and the Son ? Beyond your Rhine h'as spread his Conquering Fame , And all Men reverence Ruperts mighty Name . A Name which like the Sun shall still shine bright , To Foes a Terror , and to Friends delight . Welcome , great Prince , welcome the Poet sings , To this fair place , the Royal Seat of Kings , Where all things smile , and every one is bent To give your Highness pleasure and content . At once your Highness may in Windsor see The Images of Peace and War agree ; Beauty and strength together Married , shine , The seat of Majesty that seems Divine . The Walls , the Guns , and Troops of Soldiers are The Pictures and the Images of War ; But yet you may behold , pleas'd , without doubt , Peace , glorious peace within , and round abou Within , the Court , and all its soft delights ; Without , the Swain , now following Ceres Rites ; The Fields new shorn , and Barns all fill'd with Grain , And without fear , singing the Merry Swain . Thus show of War , and real Peace agree , And make betwixt them blessed Harmony . While the French Boar does ravage every where , And with his bloody Tusks gives dread and fear , You find us rock'd in peace and quiet here . To this sweet Land of Peace you're welcome now , And may like Laurels in your Countries grow , May ours still flourish : for ? this Peace and Love Makes Earth like Heaven , and Men like Saints above . LONDON : Printed for L [ ? ] ley Curtiss . 1680. 