H : 18298 A mournful Ditty , entitled Elizabeths loss , together with a welcome for King James . To a pleasant new tune . FArewell , farewell , farewell , brave Englands joy : Gone is thy friend that kept thee from annoy . Lament , lament , lament you English Peers , Lament your loss possessed so many years . Gone is thy Queen , the paragon of time , On whom grim death hath spread his fatal line . Lament , lament , etc Gone is that gem which God and man did love , She hath us left to dwell in heaven above . Lament , lament , etc You gallant Ladies of her Princely train , Lament your loss your love , your hope , and gain . Lament , lament , etc Weep wring your hands , all clad in mourning weeds , Show forth your love , in tongue in heart and deeds . Lament , lament , etc Full foure and fortie years foure months seaven days , She did maintain this realm in peace always . Lament , lament , etc In spite of Spaines proud Pope , and all the rout , Who Lion like ran ranging round about . Lament , lament , etc With traitorous plots to slay her Royal grace , Her realm , her laws and Gospel to deface , Lament , lament , etc Yet time and tide God still was her defence , Till for himself from us he took her hence Lament , lament , etc We need not to rehearse what care what grief , She still endured , and all for our relief . Lament , lament , etc We need not to rehearse what benefits , You all enjoyed , what pleasures and what gifts . Lament , lament , etc You Virgins all bewail your Virgin Queen , That Phoenix rare , on earth but seldom seen . Lament , lament , etc With Angels wings she pierced the starry sky , When death , grim death , hath shut her mortal eye . Lament , lament , etc You Nymph's that sing and bathe , in Fountains clear : Come lend your help to sing in mournful cheer . Lament , lament , etc All you that do profess sweet musics Art , Lay all aside , your Viol Lute and Harp , Lament , lament , etc Mourn Organs , Flutes , mourn Sagbuts with sad found : Mourn Trumpets shrill , mourn Cornets mute & round . Lament , lament , etc You Poets all brave Shakspeare , Johnson , Green , Bestow your time to write for Englands Queen . Lament , lament , etc Return your songs and Sonnets and your says : To set forth sweet Elizabeths praise . Lament , lament , etc In fine all you that loyal hearts possess , With Roses sweet , bedeck his Princely hearse . Lament , lament , etc Bedeck that hearse sprung from that famous King , King Henrie the eight , whose fame on earth does ring [ . ] Lament , lament , etc Now is the time that we must all forget , Thy sacred name o sweet Elizabeth . Lament , lament , etc Praying for King James , as erst we prayed for thee , In all submissive love and loyalty . Lament , lament , etc Beseeching God to bless his Majesty With earthly peace and heavens felicity . Lament , lament , etc And make his reign more prosperous here on earth Then was the reign of late Elizabeth . Lament , lament , etc Wherefore all you that subject's true bear names : Still pray with me , and say God save King James . Lament , lament , lament , you English Peers , Lament your loss enjoyed so many years . FINIS . Imprinted at London for TO . P.H : 18298 A mournful Ditty , entitled Elizabeths loss , together with a welcome for King James . To a pleasant new tune . FArewell , farewell , farewell , brave Englands joy : Gone is thy friend that kept thee from annoy . Lament , lament , lament you English Peers , Lament your loss possessed so many years . Gone is thy Queen , the paragon of time , On whom grim death hath spread his fatal line . Lament , lament , etc Gone is that gem which God and man did love , She hath us left to dwell in heaven above . Lament , lament , etc You gallant Ladies of her Princely train , Lament your loss your love , your hope , and gain . Lament , lament , etc Weep wring your hands , all clad in mourning weeds , Show forth your love , in tongue in heart and deeds . Lament , lament , etc Full foure and fortie years foure months seaven days , She did maintain this realm in peace always . Lament , lament , etc In spite of Spaines proud Pope , and all the rout , Who Lion like ran ranging round about . Lament , lament , etc With traitorous plots to slay her Royal grace , Her realm , her laws and Gospel to deface , Lament , lament , etc Yet time and tide God still was her defence , Till for himself from us he took her hence Lament , lament , etc We need not to rehearse what care what grief , She still endured , and all for our relief . Lament , lament , etc We need not to rehearse what benefits , You all enjoyed , what pleasures and what gifts . Lament , lament , etc You Virgins all bewail your Virgin Queen , That Phoenix rare , on earth but seldom seen . Lament , lament , etc With Angels wings she pierced the starry sky , When death , grim death , hath shut her mortal eye . Lament , lament , etc You Nymph's that sing and bathe , in Fountains clear : Come lend your help to sing in mournful cheer . Lament , lament , etc All you that do profess sweet musics Art , Lay all aside , your Viol Lute and Harp , Lament , lament , etc Mourn Organs , Flutes , mourn Sagbuts with sad found : Mourn Trumpets shrill , mourn Cornets mute & round . Lament , lament , etc You Poets all brave Shakspeare , Johnson , Green , Bestow your time to write for Englands Queen . Lament , lament , etc Return your songs and Sonnets and your says : To set forth sweet Elizabeths praise . Lament , lament , etc In fine all you that loyal hearts possess , With Roses sweet , bedeck his Princely hearse . Lament , lament , etc Bedeck that hearse sprung from that famous King , King Henrie the eight , whose fame on earth does ring [ . ] Lament , lament , etc Now is the time that we must all forget , Thy sacred name o sweet Elizabeth . Lament , lament , etc Praying for King James , as erst we prayed for thee , In all submissive love and loyalty . Lament , lament , etc Beseeching God to bless his Majesty With earthly peace and heavens felicity . Lament , lament , etc And make his reign more prosperous here on earth Then was the reign of late Elizabeth . Lament , lament , etc Wherefore all you that subject's true bear names : Still pray with me , and say God save King James . Lament , lament , lament , you English Peers , Lament your loss enjoyed so many years . FINIS . Imprinted at London for T.P. 