H : 134117 Monmouth's Return ; OR , The Mistaken WHIGGS . Tune of , Tell me Jenny , etc I . NOw the Rash Imputing Torys , which so long have rail'd at Jemmy ; Soon recant your idle Storys , he's the Man that must Redeem you All your Joys , Therefore Boys , cry Huzza with Hoop and Hollow ; Beatrice the Drum , Jemmy's come , a Warlike Mars , and Wise Apollo . II Jemmy now the Whiggs has bubbled , his design was thus to sham 'em ; Let all Loyal joys be doubled , but for Whiggs , the Devil Dam 'em : Jemmy went With intent to their Damn'd Association ; But to find Where the Wind , sat against the tottering Nation . III . For Young Jemmy who endured has so long the King's displeasure ; Humbly now returns assured , to regain his love by leisure ; Which when he , On his Knee , did Entreat , or once Demand too ; The King did soon , Grant his Boon , and suffer'd him to kiss his Hand too . IV. Let the Circumvented Rumpers perish , while the Loyal Tory , Briskly does Carouse his Bumpers , to Young Jemmy's Health and Glory : Fill the Glass , Let it pass fairly round from one to t' other ; Let him die , That won't cry , God bless the King , his Son , and Brother . V. Now the double-minded Trimmers , moulded up of Whigg and Tory ; Pitch your Anchor in full Brimmers , now the Case is plain before you : Leave the Whiggs , Dam those Priggs , let Whiggery the worst of since be ; Let no part Possess your heart , if you do the Devil's in you . VI . York and Monmouth now are Friends too , Love and Loyalty possess 'em ; You that to the same pretends to , never cease to cry God bless 'em : E'ry Lad , Shall be glad , let us make the World to Ring Boys , May he Rot , That will not pledge this Health , God Bless the King , Boys . FINIS . Printed for C. Corbet , at the Oxford-Arms , in Warwick-Lane . 1683. H : 134117 Monmouth's Return ; OR , The Mistaken WHIGGS . Tune of , Tell me Jenny , etc I . NOw the Rash Imputing Torys , which so long have rail'd at Jemmy ; Soon recant your idle Storys , he's the Man that must Redeem you All your Joys , Therefore Boys , cry Huzza with Hoop and Hollow ; Beatrice the Drum , Jemmy's come , a Warlike Mars , and Wise Apollo . II Jemmy now the Whiggs has bubbled , his design was thus to sham 'em ; Let all Loyal joys be doubled , but for Whiggs , the Devil Dam 'em : Jemmy went With intent to their Damn'd Association ; But to find Where the Wind , sat against the tottering Nation . III . For Young Jemmy who endured has so long the King's displeasure ; Humbly now returns assured , to regain his love by leisure ; Which when he , On his Knee , did Entreat , or once Demand too ; The King did soon , Grant his Boon , and suffer'd him to kiss his Hand too . IV. Let the Circumvented Rumpers perish , while the Loyal Tory , Briskly does Carouse his Bumpers , to Young Jemmy's Health and Glory : Fill the Glass , Let it pass fairly round from one to t' other ; Let him die , That won't cry , God bless the King , his Son , and Brother . V. Now the double-minded Trimmers , moulded up of Whigg and Tory ; Pitch your Anchor in full Brimmers , now the Case is plain before you : Leave the Whiggs , Dam those Priggs , let Whiggery the worst of since be ; Let no part Possess your heart , if you do the Devil's in you . VI . York and Monmouth now are Friends too , Love and Loyalty possess 'em ; You that to the same pretends to , never cease to cry God bless 'em : E'ry Lad , Shall be glad , let us make the World to Ring Boys , May he Rot , That will not pledge this Health , God Bless the King , Boys . FINIS . Printed for C. Corbet , at the Oxford-Arms , in Warwick-Lane . 1683. 