H : 133846 AND ELEGY To the Memory of the Right Honourable THOMAS Earl of OSSORY , Who depated this Life , July the 30th . 1680. LEt no man our officious haste condemn , that we the loss of so much worth proclaim Want of his service soon had made it known , And we are sure but just , the loss to own . Since he is dead , there is no other way , Our Gratitude for his Deserts to pay . In his Distemper every Man took part , For he had sure a share in every Heart . To every honest Man , most dear before , But by the unhappy loss endear'd much more ; For 'tis a natural Vice with mankind born , That still the Good which we possess , we scorn . Never allowing Virtue passed esteem , Till the Grave snatch what we can never redeem . Yet soon as we the mighty loss sustain , We pray , admire , and wish for it in vain ; How would we valve it , if we had'tagain . Just such was every English men concern , When of his Life they did the danger learn . Well might they love him ; one so just and good , Much greater by his Virtues , than his Blood . Who justly still ambition'd a good Name , Yet lov'd his Country , more than he loved Fame . No fear of Death could e're his Courage stay , Wherever dangerous Honour led the way ; For this he left his Ease and plenty still . His natural Valour high improv'd by Skill . Hardened by danger , and by constant pain . His Countries Good , his great , nay only Gain . For that such wonders he in Fight has wrought , For that at Land and Sea so often Fought . Those different Forms of War he made his own , And know both better , than most men do one . In this our British World our God of War , Great in his Martial-Acts , but greater far In his untainted and firm Loyalty . His constant and oft proved Fidelity What to his Prince , what to the People due , His honest Mind and searching Judgement knew . And what he knew , He still to Act reduc'd Hating mere notions that were never of Use . Betwixt these two so equally he moved , That he by both was equally beloved . A rare Example of a Worthy Lord , His Princes Favour have , and Countries Word . And to his great and everlasting pralse , Even in these surly dark designing days ; These Times when most try openly their Skill In making Parties , He was honest still . By feign'd Affronts ne're his Duty led , Base Faction for to Countenance or head O that our Lords would their lost time Redeem , And not so much admire , as Copy him ! Be good like Him , if they do like him be Great , And be his Peers in Virtue as in State . He whose great Worth all did so justly own , That Rivals in his Honour , he had none . To all as their deserts were , He was kind , Still with right Judgement and unbiased Mind ; Great without Vanity , and without ends Just , Humble though honoured , faithful when in Trust. The dangerous fruits of too great Praises He Knew well , and to decline them [ s ] till ! was free The new distraction presently he knew , Love without Fear , Praise without Envy drew ; The Country , Soldier , Soldiers Father too . Should we all reckon , we should ne're give over , But to Crown these and many Virtues more . His Love to our Religion still was great , Which he professed not as a Trick of State . Lest he should Favour , or and Office want , His Life as well as Faith was Protestant . His Theme is boundless , who his praises sings , Though best of Servants to the best of Kings . So after Years of pains and dangers past , In Heaven deservedly he Rests at last . Muse here lets end , and wish for time to come , We ne're want Ossori's , nor like him be dumb . FINIS . By a true Lover of his Virtues . H : 133846 AND ELEGY To the Memory of the Right Honourable THOMAS Earl of OSSORY , Who depated this Life , July the 30th . 1680. LEt no man our officious haste condemn , that we the loss of so much worth proclaim Want of his service soon had made it known , And we are sure but just , the loss to own . Since he is dead , there is no other way , Our Gratitude for his Deserts to pay . In his Distemper every Man took part , For he had sure a share in every Heart . To every honest Man , most dear before , But by the unhappy loss endear'd much more ; For 'tis a natural Vice with mankind born , That still the Good which we possess , we scorn . Never allowing Virtue passed esteem , Till the Grave snatch what we can never redeem . Yet soon as we the mighty loss sustain , We pray , admire , and wish for it in vain ; How would we valve it , if we had'tagain . Just such was every English men concern , When of his Life they did the danger learn . Well might they love him ; one so just and good , Much greater by his Virtues , than his Blood . Who justly still ambition'd a good Name , Yet lov'd his Country , more than he loved Fame . No fear of Death could e're his Courage stay , Wherever dangerous Honour led the way ; For this he left his Ease and plenty still . His natural Valour high improv'd by Skill . Hardened by danger , and by constant pain . His Countries Good , his great , nay only Gain . For that such wonders he in Fight has wrought , For that at Land and Sea so often Fought . Those different Forms of War he made his own , And know both better , than most men do one . In this our British World our God of War , Great in his Martial-Acts , but greater far In his untainted and firm Loyalty . His constant and oft proved Fidelity What to his Prince , what to the People due , His honest Mind and searching Judgement knew . And what he knew , He still to Act reduc'd Hating mere notions that were never of Use . Betwixt these two so equally he moved , That he by both was equally beloved . A rare Example of a Worthy Lord , His Princes Favour have , and Countries Word . And to his great and everlasting pralse , Even in these surly dark designing days ; These Times when most try openly their Skill In making Parties , He was honest still . By feign'd Affronts ne're his Duty led , Base Faction for to Countenance or head O that our Lords would their lost time Redeem , And not so much admire , as Copy him ! Be good like Him , if they do like him be Great , And be his Peers in Virtue as in State . He whose great Worth all did so justly own , That Rivals in his Honour , he had none . To all as their deserts were , He was kind , Still with right Judgement and unbiased Mind ; Great without Vanity , and without ends Just , Humble though honoured , faithful when in Trust. The dangerous fruits of too great Praises He Knew well , and to decline them [ s ] till ! was free The new distraction presently he knew , Love without Fear , Praise without Envy drew ; The Country , Soldier , Soldiers Father too . Should we all reckon , we should ne're give over , But to Crown these and many Virtues more . His Love to our Religion still was great , Which he professed not as a Trick of State . Lest he should Favour , or and Office want , His Life as well as Faith was Protestant . His Theme is boundless , who his praises sings , Though best of Servants to the best of Kings . So after Years of pains and dangers past , In Heaven deservedly he Rests at last . Muse here lets end , and wish for time to come , We ne're want Ossori's , nor like him be dumb . FINIS . By a true Lover of his Virtues . 