H : 134453 A BULL SENT BY POPE PIUS To encourage the Traitors in England , pronounced against Queen Elizabeth , of ever glorious Memory ; showing the wicked designs of Popery . SInce Constantine the Great , whose bounteous Hand , Impow'rd Romes Prelates with such vast Command , Ambition swells them , and they scarce think fit , The World should hold the Seat whereon they fit . Kings have their Footstools been , Imperial Crowns Pounded to Atoms by their fatal frowns ; The unhing'd Nations topsie-turvy turn'd , Clandestine Tumults , peaceful Cities burn'd ; With direful Plots unripp'd the Seams of State , Murder'd their Kings , and Thrones laid desolate . This blustering Monarch's Wings did Treason raise , First from a Monk to gain and Abbots place ; From thence a Prior , next a Hat all read , Declares with pride the blood himself has shed . This poor distressed Monk thus drawn from's Cell , At last storms Heaven , and breaks the Gates of Hell ; Eaths Pillars shakes , confines the terrene World , In his conceit the Globe's on Rockets hurl'd ; And arrogates more power than he who made Man out of Dust , And all this Structure laid : To cloak which monstrous pride , Saint Peter's Hood Is worn by him , though smear'd with Martyrs Blood , Whose sacred Eyes ne're view'd a Martyrs doom , Except his own when Crucified at Room ; But his Successors , far more great than good , Are flesh'd with slaughter , drunk with steeming blood . These but the shade of that Succession be , Yet dare pretend more Sanctity than he ; He ne're dispers'd horn'd Bulls , nor breath'd a Curse Against the Lord's Anointed ; no , nor worse , Sent Villains out to murder peaceful Kings , Indulg'd with Pardons tipp'd with Poison Stings : To silence all that dare defend , we will Insert their own preposterous Popish skill . 'Tis sure they'll not deny , or if they do , The Nation knows their Negative's untrue . A dreadful Sentence blown by Papal breath , Against the great renown'd Elizabeth ; The glory of her Sex , whose Virgin Zone Environ'd with mercy her establish'd Throne ; A Bull more fierce than those that Basan bred , To push the Royal Crown from off her Head ( Discharge her Subject's , and Commotions raise , To set the Nation in a Roman Blaze : From Pius Quintus , and his daring Crew , This Curse was sent , let Christians take a view . The Bull against Queen Elizabeth . I. Pius Rome's Bishop , serving God on high , To be remember'd to Eternity . 2. Christ has appointed me Supreme , that none Without my leave shou'd dare to mount a Throne : Princes my Vassals are , their pow'r's from me ; I Kings depose , and set their Subject's free . 3. Since Peter Rules the Church , my Pow'r is good ; He signs my Warrant , and I wear his Hood . 4. I take all pains , and spare no labour , yet The wicked doe to such a number get ; They disannul the Dictates I Command , And what's unjust , my sacred Rites withstand . 5. First , Englands Queen has ta'ne the Mass away ; No Sacrifice , no Prayers , nor Fasting-day ; No choice of Meats , nor Law for single Lives , Against my will the Clergy take them Wives . 6. She has Usurp'd the Kingdom , and maintains Herself Supreme , and wrists from me the Rains Of Ecclesiastic Government ; the Land Is almost drawn from my Pontific Hand : Obedience is deny'd , my Prelates sent To strong Confinements , or to Banishment . 7. She has removed all that stood for me , And so displac'd the chief Nobility : Of such Inferior Men her Council's made , As know not me , yet dare my Right Invade . 8. My Rebels too of Flanders she receives ; Those I Command to die , she still Reprieves . 9. For these , and such like Crimes , we think it fit Our Curse on her , and all that prompt her , light ; All those that durst our sacred Will control , From our dread Curse must Ransom back her Soul. 10. By Deprivation here we put and end To all the Rights , or Claims she cou'd pretend Unto the Kingdom , whatsoe're they be ; To all her Power , and late Authority . 11. We charge her Subject's , and command that none Shall dare t'obey her , or defend her Throne ; 'Tis sure damnation to 'em if they will Yield Homage to her , or her Laws fulfil . 12. All that the sacred Bound of Oaths have sign'd , Or their Allegiance do's their Conscience bind , We freely here discharge , and hold it true , That from this time there's no obedience due : For why , she is despos'd by our consent , And quite suspended from her Government . 13. Unquestionable is my Power , for I Am Prince of Nations , and Enthron'd on high Above the Powers , on me the Kingdoms wait ; I Kings set up , and excommunicate : I Princes can deprive , and with my frown Root Kingdoms up , and tumble Nations down : I can discharge all Subject's Oaths , as well I curse them can , and give them up to Hell . My Power is boundless , and I'm like that God That Rules on high , I bear his mighty Rod . Thus haughty Man presumest , that is but Dust , To blaspheme Heav'n : Thus Man that is unjust Confronts his Maker , and conspires to be His equal , both in Power and Majesty ; Assumes that greatness to himself alone , That Saints , nor Angels dare not think upon . Thus he deceives the World , and draws aside The simple Soul , a Sacrifice to's pride ; And trains him up in cruel Massacres , To murder Kings , and burn their Palaces ; Lay Cities low in Dust , no Treason spare , Embroil the Nations in a Civil War ; Hatch bailful Plots , as secret as the shade , And with deceit all guild their hellish Trade . From such Dire Men good God protect our Land , And save our King with thy preserving Hand ; Give him the power and strength , that he may still Tread on the Necks of all that seek his ill . FINIS . H : 134453 A BULL SENT BY POPE PIUS To encourage the Traitors in England , pronounced against Queen Elizabeth , of ever glorious Memory ; showing the wicked designs of Popery . SInce Constantine the Great , whose bounteous Hand , Impow'rd Romes Prelates with such vast Command , Ambition swells them , and they scarce think fit , The World should hold the Seat whereon they fit . Kings have their Footstools been , Imperial Crowns Pounded to Atoms by their fatal frowns ; The unhing'd Nations topsie-turvy turn'd , Clandestine Tumults , peaceful Cities burn'd ; With direful Plots unripp'd the Seams of State , Murder'd their Kings , and Thrones laid desolate . This blustering Monarch's Wings did Treason raise , First from a Monk to gain and Abbots place ; From thence a Prior , next a Hat all read , Declares with pride the blood himself has shed . This poor distressed Monk thus drawn from's Cell , At last storms Heaven , and breaks the Gates of Hell ; Eaths Pillars shakes , confines the terrene World , In his conceit the Globe's on Rockets hurl'd ; And arrogates more power than he who made Man out of Dust , And all this Structure laid : To cloak which monstrous pride , Saint Peter's Hood Is worn by him , though smear'd with Martyrs Blood , Whose sacred Eyes ne're view'd a Martyrs doom , Except his own when Crucified at Room ; But his Successors , far more great than good , Are flesh'd with slaughter , drunk with steeming blood . These but the shade of that Succession be , Yet dare pretend more Sanctity than he ; He ne're dispers'd horn'd Bulls , nor breath'd a Curse Against the Lord's Anointed ; no , nor worse , Sent Villains out to murder peaceful Kings , Indulg'd with Pardons tipp'd with Poison Stings : To silence all that dare defend , we will Insert their own preposterous Popish skill . 'Tis sure they'll not deny , or if they do , The Nation knows their Negative's untrue . A dreadful Sentence blown by Papal breath , Against the great renown'd Elizabeth ; The glory of her Sex , whose Virgin Zone Environ'd with mercy her establish'd Throne ; A Bull more fierce than those that Basan bred , To push the Royal Crown from off her Head ( Discharge her Subject's , and Commotions raise , To set the Nation in a Roman Blaze : From Pius Quintus , and his daring Crew , This Curse was sent , let Christians take a view . The Bull against Queen Elizabeth . I. Pius Rome's Bishop , serving God on high , To be remember'd to Eternity . 2. Christ has appointed me Supreme , that none Without my leave shou'd dare to mount a Throne : Princes my Vassals are , their pow'r's from me ; I Kings depose , and set their Subject's free . 3. Since Peter Rules the Church , my Pow'r is good ; He signs my Warrant , and I wear his Hood . 4. I take all pains , and spare no labour , yet The wicked doe to such a number get ; They disannul the Dictates I Command , And what's unjust , my sacred Rites withstand . 5. First , Englands Queen has ta'ne the Mass away ; No Sacrifice , no Prayers , nor Fasting-day ; No choice of Meats , nor Law for single Lives , Against my will the Clergy take them Wives . 6. She has Usurp'd the Kingdom , and maintains Herself Supreme , and wrists from me the Rains Of Ecclesiastic Government ; the Land Is almost drawn from my Pontific Hand : Obedience is deny'd , my Prelates sent To strong Confinements , or to Banishment . 7. She has removed all that stood for me , And so displac'd the chief Nobility : Of such Inferior Men her Council's made , As know not me , yet dare my Right Invade . 8. My Rebels too of Flanders she receives ; Those I Command to die , she still Reprieves . 9. For these , and such like Crimes , we think it fit Our Curse on her , and all that prompt her , light ; All those that durst our sacred Will control , From our dread Curse must Ransom back her Soul. 10. By Deprivation here we put and end To all the Rights , or Claims she cou'd pretend Unto the Kingdom , whatsoe're they be ; To all her Power , and late Authority . 11. We charge her Subject's , and command that none Shall dare t'obey her , or defend her Throne ; 'Tis sure damnation to 'em if they will Yield Homage to her , or her Laws fulfil . 12. All that the sacred Bound of Oaths have sign'd , Or their Allegiance do's their Conscience bind , We freely here discharge , and hold it true , That from this time there's no obedience due : For why , she is despos'd by our consent , And quite suspended from her Government . 13. Unquestionable is my Power , for I Am Prince of Nations , and Enthron'd on high Above the Powers , on me the Kingdoms wait ; I Kings set up , and excommunicate : I Princes can deprive , and with my frown Root Kingdoms up , and tumble Nations down : I can discharge all Subject's Oaths , as well I curse them can , and give them up to Hell . My Power is boundless , and I'm like that God That Rules on high , I bear his mighty Rod . Thus haughty Man presumest , that is but Dust , To blaspheme Heav'n : Thus Man that is unjust Confronts his Maker , and conspires to be His equal , both in Power and Majesty ; Assumes that greatness to himself alone , That Saints , nor Angels dare not think upon . Thus he deceives the World , and draws aside The simple Soul , a Sacrifice to's pride ; And trains him up in cruel Massacres , To murder Kings , and burn their Palaces ; Lay Cities low in Dust , no Treason spare , Embroil the Nations in a Civil War ; Hatch bailful Plots , as secret as the shade , And with deceit all guild their hellish Trade . From such Dire Men good God protect our Land , And save our King with thy preserving Hand ; Give him the power and strength , that he may still Tread on the Necks of all that seek his ill . FINIS . 