H : 134455 Upon the Departure of His GRACE , James , Duke of Monmouth . To all Protestant wellwishers . AH ! Can he go and no one shed a Tear For him , who never thought his Life too dear To hazard , to protect us from our Foes ; As his late Victories in Scotland shows . Holland and France , will Trumpet forth his Fame , Until they each of them shall want a Name . And shall we be less Grateful to that Prince , Whose daily Actions does the World convince ? Are only squared for the common good , For which he'le venture Fortune , Life and Blood . Let Protestants a sorrow now contrive , To show his absence they can scarce Survive . Let England lament until it be , Turned into a weeping Niobe ; And with their fervent Sighs keep full his Sails , With Loyal , safe , and the most prosp'rous Gayls . And let their Tears into the Sea resort , To waft him safely to his Royal Port. And may their daily prayr's to Heaven be , That he may escape all Dangers of the Sea. May his most Royal Father live to see , Him or'e his Foes obtain sole Victory . And be a pattern to his Royal Son , In what he hath so worthily begun . And may he in due time with all renown , Enjoy the Favours Fortune tumbles down . May this , and all the happiness that can , Be bounded in the boundless heart of Man , Attend the Noble Monmouth . May he be , Still our Defence , and Scourge to Popery . May thy Great Soul Great Prince like active Fire , The more depressed , more vig'rous and rise higher . Which like a Ball thrown hard against the Ground , Rises much more , upon a fair rebound . May still the Charms of thy Eternal Fame , Convince thy Foes of and immortal shame . May thy high Actions of thy Great Renown , Shake and destroy the Roman Triple Crown . May Heav'n and Earth both thy possessions be , And may thy Bliss last to Eternity . Great Prince and Patron , now we must submit , Our present Lives , to what the Fates think fit . Yet this we boldly dare affirm as true , None but your Royal Father , Sir and you , Can keep our half dead gasping souls alive , He whil'st he lives , and you whil'st you survive . May our Great God protect his happy Reign , To see you once return with Joy again ; To be Assistant to the Royal Will , Of our Dear Sov'raign , Faith's Defender still . Which Princely Monmouth we with Tears implore , Daily and Hourly , at Heav'ns Crystal Door . Our Pray'rs shall never cease , until God grants , This Christian-wish of all true Protestants . FINIS . H : 134455 Upon the Departure of His GRACE , James , Duke of Monmouth . To all Protestant wellwishers . AH ! Can he go and no one shed a Tear For him , who never thought his Life too dear To hazard , to protect us from our Foes ; As his late Victories in Scotland shows . Holland and France , will Trumpet forth his Fame , Until they each of them shall want a Name . And shall we be less Grateful to that Prince , Whose daily Actions does the World convince ? Are only squared for the common good , For which he'le venture Fortune , Life and Blood . Let Protestants a sorrow now contrive , To show his absence they can scarce Survive . Let England lament until it be , Turned into a weeping Niobe ; And with their fervent Sighs keep full his Sails , With Loyal , safe , and the most prosp'rous Gayls . And let their Tears into the Sea resort , To waft him safely to his Royal Port. And may their daily prayr's to Heaven be , That he may escape all Dangers of the Sea. May his most Royal Father live to see , Him or'e his Foes obtain sole Victory . And be a pattern to his Royal Son , In what he hath so worthily begun . And may he in due time with all renown , Enjoy the Favours Fortune tumbles down . May this , and all the happiness that can , Be bounded in the boundless heart of Man , Attend the Noble Monmouth . May he be , Still our Defence , and Scourge to Popery . May thy Great Soul Great Prince like active Fire , The more depressed , more vig'rous and rise higher . Which like a Ball thrown hard against the Ground , Rises much more , upon a fair rebound . May still the Charms of thy Eternal Fame , Convince thy Foes of and immortal shame . May thy high Actions of thy Great Renown , Shake and destroy the Roman Triple Crown . May Heav'n and Earth both thy possessions be , And may thy Bliss last to Eternity . Great Prince and Patron , now we must submit , Our present Lives , to what the Fates think fit . Yet this we boldly dare affirm as true , None but your Royal Father , Sir and you , Can keep our half dead gasping souls alive , He whil'st he lives , and you whil'st you survive . May our Great God protect his happy Reign , To see you once return with Joy again ; To be Assistant to the Royal Will , Of our Dear Sov'raign , Faith's Defender still . Which Princely Monmouth we with Tears implore , Daily and Hourly , at Heav'ns Crystal Door . Our Pray'rs shall never cease , until God grants , This Christian-wish of all true Protestants . FINIS . 