H : 134456 ENGLANDS Lamentation FOR THE Duke of Monmouth's Departure : Reflecting on his Heroic Actions . IS Monmouth banish't ? must HE not stay here ? Can he , Eclips'd , so quickly disappear ? Methinks we sink , and our disjointed State , Rolls headlong down the Precipice of Fate : Our Anchor's weigh'd , and this great Island-Boat , Like the fam'd Delos , on the Sea does float , A Sea whose Waves bear a far redder hue , Than those which Pharoh's mighty Host o'r-threw ; In which each Papist like a Rock do's fit , Ready to split us , when we dash on it . That King's unsafe , who sits upon a Throne , Whose strongest Pillar's lost , and leans , alone , On the weak shoulders of a yielding Crew , Who never yet a greater Burden knew , Than their own flesh , which they could scarcely save From falling in the Dirt , before the Grave . That King art thou , great Charles , now Monmouth's gone , Monmouth was truly Loyal to thy Throne , Wou'd Atlas-like , with his strong Shoulders bear The Weight of our declining Hemisphere : Who , maugre all Shocks of mighty Foes , Stood fixed , nor valu'd all the Threatening Blows . He , whom the Scots next to their God and Thee , Fear'd , and Ador'd , like a new Deity . He , who so lately quell'd the num'rous crowd Of fresh spawn'd Rebels , that Proclaim'd aloud , War 'gainst the Government , nor could they fear , Till within Scotland Monmouth did appear ; Whose very Sighed shot Death among them all , More seem'd with Fear than by the Sword to fallen . This is the least our Glorious DUKE hath done , France lov'd that Valour once which Maestricht wone , With which , like the 'Pellaean Conqueror , Himself his Standard on the Rampiers boar , While the amazed French stood idly by , Deserving not to share the Victory . 'Alexander . They Wondered then , and since as much have fear'd , When He at Mons so Terrible appear'd , Like Mars , all o'r with Blood and Dust besmear'd , When He , like the Great Trojan Hector fought , And wheresoe'r he came , such Wonders wrought , That as of old , now Jove , with Scales in hand , Weighing each Fate , did on Olympus stand , And found the English , though in number less , In Valour equal , could not choose but bless Th' Attempt while smiling , he might see from far , The Bloody labours of the God of War : 'Till Luxemburgh was force't his Ground to quit , And Victory , which on a Hill did fit , Doubtful to which she might her Favour show , Now clapped her Wings , and to the English Flew , The English who deserv'd her best , and knew , Best by their Valour always to maintain , That which their Valour nobly did obtain . Thus the brave DUKE prov'd English Spirits are , In Fight , as daring now as e're they were . And thus he god himself Renown , to be , For that sent hence , as the States Enemy . Sure , Poisonous Envy did their Breasts invade , Who did your Majesty to THIS persuade ; You were abused when you banish [ ' ] tO thus , Him , the Delight of Your Self and us . They knew , while he did in your Bosom lie , Their Daggers could not reach Your Majesty : Therefore t' effect their Villainous Intent , He , who alone could their dire Acts prevent , Must be remov'd , that so your Breast might be , More open to each daring Enemy . Know then , Great Charles , Thou art more hurt than He , For th' Wise and Valiant ne'r can Exil'd be . J.F. LONDON , Printed in the Year , 1679. H : 134456 ENGLANDS Lamentation FOR THE Duke of Monmouth's Departure : Reflecting on his Heroic Actions . IS Monmouth banish't ? must HE not stay here ? Can he , Eclips'd , so quickly disappear ? Methinks we sink , and our disjointed State , Rolls headlong down the Precipice of Fate : Our Anchor's weigh'd , and this great Island-Boat , Like the fam'd Delos , on the Sea does float , A Sea whose Waves bear a far redder hue , Than those which Pharoh's mighty Host o'r-threw ; In which each Papist like a Rock do's fit , Ready to split us , when we dash on it . That King's unsafe , who sits upon a Throne , Whose strongest Pillar's lost , and leans , alone , On the weak shoulders of a yielding Crew , Who never yet a greater Burden knew , Than their own flesh , which they could scarcely save From falling in the Dirt , before the Grave . That King art thou , great Charles , now Monmouth's gone , Monmouth was truly Loyal to thy Throne , Wou'd Atlas-like , with his strong Shoulders bear The Weight of our declining Hemisphere : Who , maugre all Shocks of mighty Foes , Stood fixed , nor valu'd all the Threatening Blows . He , whom the Scots next to their God and Thee , Fear'd , and Ador'd , like a new Deity . He , who so lately quell'd the num'rous crowd Of fresh spawn'd Rebels , that Proclaim'd aloud , War 'gainst the Government , nor could they fear , Till within Scotland Monmouth did appear ; Whose very Sighed shot Death among them all , More seem'd with Fear than by the Sword to fallen . This is the least our Glorious DUKE hath done , France lov'd that Valour once which Maestricht wone , With which , like the 'Pellaean Conqueror , Himself his Standard on the Rampiers boar , While the amazed French stood idly by , Deserving not to share the Victory . 'Alexander . They Wondered then , and since as much have fear'd , When He at Mons so Terrible appear'd , Like Mars , all o'r with Blood and Dust besmear'd , When He , like the Great Trojan Hector fought , And wheresoe'r he came , such Wonders wrought , That as of old , now Jove , with Scales in hand , Weighing each Fate , did on Olympus stand , And found the English , though in number less , In Valour equal , could not choose but bless Th' Attempt while smiling , he might see from far , The Bloody labours of the God of War : 'Till Luxemburgh was force't his Ground to quit , And Victory , which on a Hill did fit , Doubtful to which she might her Favour show , Now clapped her Wings , and to the English Flew , The English who deserv'd her best , and knew , Best by their Valour always to maintain , That which their Valour nobly did obtain . Thus the brave DUKE prov'd English Spirits are , In Fight , as daring now as e're they were . And thus he god himself Renown , to be , For that sent hence , as the States Enemy . Sure , Poisonous Envy did their Breasts invade , Who did your Majesty to THIS persuade ; You were abused when you banish [ ' ] tO thus , Him , the Delight of Your Self and us . They knew , while he did in your Bosom lie , Their Daggers could not reach Your Majesty : Therefore t' effect their Villainous Intent , He , who alone could their dire Acts prevent , Must be remov'd , that so your Breast might be , More open to each daring Enemy . Know then , Great Charles , Thou art more hurt than He , For th' Wise and Valiant ne'r can Exil'd be . J.F. LONDON , Printed in the Year , 1679. 