H : 134795 Partridge's Advice To the PROTESTANTS of ENGLAND . NOW , to your cost , you see with grief and tears , The tricking Shams of the proceeding Years : You that now see , scorn'd to believe it then Impos'd upon , even by the worst of Men . Now hang your Freedom on each Villains Sword ; Cheated yourselves , taking your Princes Word . Thus folly still helps to compeeat your fate : And all that can be said , You Repent to late . But , come , cheer up , Heaven will relieve your need ; 'Tis from that Throne , your happy Fates decreed . He had his order then to spare you too : A little Whipping is the Scholars due . The troops of Gods are brought you to caress : The dextrous Arts of Priests and Idleness . Religions scandal , to increase Rome's store ; Which Fools believe , and mad Men do adore . Tricks made by Priests , the Ignorant to surprise . Who Sacred Writ and Reason do despise : But you know better , and have oft been told Of those damn'd Cheats , you know they want your Gold . Preserve your Faith , your Ancestors have wone : You know the Truth , the Mystic Three in One . Stoop not to Idols , nor lay Reason by . Give not your Faith up , nor yet tamely die . The Sun will rise , the Actors fill the Stage : And One and Twenty Months is not and Age . Therefore be Wise , attend the Hand Divine , Till the still Voice gives you the Sacred Sign . I . TOuch't with a teeming strain of English growth , My burning Muse into a flame breaks forth In Sacred Passion , scorns to be afraid Of those vast Murders pious Room hath made . A gracious Mother , merciful and good , Her Thoughts are murder , and her Bosom's blood . II The Priests of Room are like their Mother true , Lazy and Lecherous , yet Obedient too ; Furnish'd with all the Vice that Nature gives : They are the only Epicures that lives . Yet they converse with God , disperse their Powers , Confess your Wives , and also get you Heirs . III . Of all the Arts the Devil yet made choice , This thing of Popery was his Masterpiece . For in revenge with Heaven , being at ods , He taught the Papists how to Eat their Gods. Then 'twould not be amiss , since thus they do , To make clear work , and Eat the Devil too . IV. Can you forswear your Faith , give God the lie , Cant with a Priest , and lay your Reason by : Lay down your Wealth to serve the Church & they That suck your Blood , when they pretend to Pray ? Can you be Priest-rid , and be aw'd by Threats ? Can you believe a Crew of Pious Cheats ? V. Can you believe a little Dow-bak'd God , A Conjuring Bell , and a Good-Friday Rod , A Lying Legend , and a Priestly Curse , A Dish of Holy-water , and a Cross ? When Rome grows Rampant , Hell itself contrives . When Satan Preacheth , Belzebub believes . VI . What Man can think the Inquisition good , When Churchmen wash their Hands in Lay-men's Blood ? Can you adore a Cross , be damn'd in Jest , Cheat all your Senses , and believe a Priest ? Heretic can't believe , ye're only fi True slaves to Room will never question it . VII . Should but a Priest say to his Zealot , Go Murder that Heretic : it must be so ; He dares not ask the Reason : goes his ways , The Father says it ; and the Fool obeys . What Man of Sense , but must amazed stand , To see Fools act , what Bloody Rogues command ? VIII . Consider France and Spain , see what's there done ; Under what Plagues those Neighbouring Nations groan . And all this done by Holy Churches care : For where Priests sway , be sure oppressions there . Priest ! P --- on the name , I loath the very smell : They'r wretched things , scarce good enough for Hell . IX . The Flux of Fate , that gives us hope's and fears , Sets Room in Triumph ; London all in Tears . That Brood , by Flames , that made your City rue , Will , if they can , next burn your Bodies too . Rome's Bloody Bigots , Londons Fate once chang'd ; Yet of a Crew of Rogues , but one Fool hang'd . X. Apostate Church ; a Faith built up in Blood . A lazy Priest , a little senseless God . All their Religions Lies : its proofs a since . When Scripture fails , then Miracles come in . Yet nee'r forget , nor it forgive them Knaves , While Martyr'd Godfrey's Blood for Vengeance craves . XI . Creation , What is that ? What Noise you make ? The Thing's not strange that Priests do undertake ; Nay , and do more , the Church hath here the odds , God made but Man , but now the Priests make Gods. Never be bubbled by a Popish Lie , Rather than that , resolve Revenge , and die . XII . Let not Rom's Court , Hozo proud , e're expect On English Men her lawless Laws t' erect ; Nor let the Popish-brood think to control One single Atom of a true English Soul : God loathes their Worship , they hate Holy Writ , We hate their Faith , Hell waits to punish it . H : 134795 Partridge's Advice To the PROTESTANTS of ENGLAND . NOW , to your cost , you see with grief and tears , The tricking Shams of the proceeding Years : You that now see , scorn'd to believe it then Impos'd upon , even by the worst of Men . Now hang your Freedom on each Villains Sword ; Cheated yourselves , taking your Princes Word . Thus folly still helps to compeeat your fate : And all that can be said , You Repent to late . But , come , cheer up , Heaven will relieve your need ; 'Tis from that Throne , your happy Fates decreed . He had his order then to spare you too : A little Whipping is the Scholars due . The troops of Gods are brought you to caress : The dextrous Arts of Priests and Idleness . Religions scandal , to increase Rome's store ; Which Fools believe , and mad Men do adore . Tricks made by Priests , the Ignorant to surprise . Who Sacred Writ and Reason do despise : But you know better , and have oft been told Of those damn'd Cheats , you know they want your Gold . Preserve your Faith , your Ancestors have wone : You know the Truth , the Mystic Three in One . Stoop not to Idols , nor lay Reason by . Give not your Faith up , nor yet tamely die . The Sun will rise , the Actors fill the Stage : And One and Twenty Months is not and Age . Therefore be Wise , attend the Hand Divine , Till the still Voice gives you the Sacred Sign . I . TOuch't with a teeming strain of English growth , My burning Muse into a flame breaks forth In Sacred Passion , scorns to be afraid Of those vast Murders pious Room hath made . A gracious Mother , merciful and good , Her Thoughts are murder , and her Bosom's blood . II The Priests of Room are like their Mother true , Lazy and Lecherous , yet Obedient too ; Furnish'd with all the Vice that Nature gives : They are the only Epicures that lives . Yet they converse with God , disperse their Powers , Confess your Wives , and also get you Heirs . III . Of all the Arts the Devil yet made choice , This thing of Popery was his Masterpiece . For in revenge with Heaven , being at ods , He taught the Papists how to Eat their Gods. Then 'twould not be amiss , since thus they do , To make clear work , and Eat the Devil too . IV. Can you forswear your Faith , give God the lie , Cant with a Priest , and lay your Reason by : Lay down your Wealth to serve the Church & they That suck your Blood , when they pretend to Pray ? Can you be Priest-rid , and be aw'd by Threats ? Can you believe a Crew of Pious Cheats ? V. Can you believe a little Dow-bak'd God , A Conjuring Bell , and a Good-Friday Rod , A Lying Legend , and a Priestly Curse , A Dish of Holy-water , and a Cross ? When Rome grows Rampant , Hell itself contrives . When Satan Preacheth , Belzebub believes . VI . What Man can think the Inquisition good , When Churchmen wash their Hands in Lay-men's Blood ? Can you adore a Cross , be damn'd in Jest , Cheat all your Senses , and believe a Priest ? Heretic can't believe , ye're only fi True slaves to Room will never question it . VII . Should but a Priest say to his Zealot , Go Murder that Heretic : it must be so ; He dares not ask the Reason : goes his ways , The Father says it ; and the Fool obeys . What Man of Sense , but must amazed stand , To see Fools act , what Bloody Rogues command ? VIII . Consider France and Spain , see what's there done ; Under what Plagues those Neighbouring Nations groan . And all this done by Holy Churches care : For where Priests sway , be sure oppressions there . Priest ! P --- on the name , I loath the very smell : They'r wretched things , scarce good enough for Hell . IX . The Flux of Fate , that gives us hope's and fears , Sets Room in Triumph ; London all in Tears . That Brood , by Flames , that made your City rue , Will , if they can , next burn your Bodies too . Rome's Bloody Bigots , Londons Fate once chang'd ; Yet of a Crew of Rogues , but one Fool hang'd . X. Apostate Church ; a Faith built up in Blood . A lazy Priest , a little senseless God . All their Religions Lies : its proofs a since . When Scripture fails , then Miracles come in . Yet nee'r forget , nor it forgive them Knaves , While Martyr'd Godfrey's Blood for Vengeance craves . XI . Creation , What is that ? What Noise you make ? The Thing's not strange that Priests do undertake ; Nay , and do more , the Church hath here the odds , God made but Man , but now the Priests make Gods. Never be bubbled by a Popish Lie , Rather than that , resolve Revenge , and die . XII . Let not Rom's Court , Hozo proud , e're expect On English Men her lawless Laws t' erect ; Nor let the Popish-brood think to control One single Atom of a true English Soul : God loathes their Worship , they hate Holy Writ , We hate their Faith , Hell waits to punish it . 