H : 135121 A Loyal CONGRATULATION To the Right Honourable , Anthony , Earl of Shaftsbury : Upon the Disappointment of his , the King and Kingdoms Enemies , By the Loyal Grand Jurie's Finding the Bill against him IGNORAMUS . In a short POEM . SIR , as I in a Melancholy Mood , Upon the Bank of our Fam'd River , stood , Seeing the Wherries passing too and from , And marking how the Tides did Ebb and Flow ; How flowing high , the Waters wash't the Wall Of our Dread Sovereigns Royal Court , White-Hall : How , when they Ebb'd and left the Kingly House , They naked left the Strand , the Mud and Ouse ; What pains men took who Row'd against the Tide , How easily the Boats did with it glide . Methought I saw within this Wat'ry Glass , The Image of our Times oft-Changing Face , Which did my Melancholy Thoughts relieve , And that Times Tide would turn , some Hope's did give . My Lord , The World and I do see it now , The swelling Tide begins to turn with You ; The God who flowing Waters does Command , Sets them a Perjod , and then bids them Stand , Does with his Power the Tides of Malice bound , Lest men with Waters or with Rage be Drown'd . Your Foes , whose Rage but now swell'd to the Brink , With Shame return , discovering as they sink , The Filthy Bottom and the Stinking Mud That lay unseen under the Rolling Flood . What Horrid Arts do Politicians use ? For Int'rest Law and Gospel will abuse ; How they can Traitors Hug , and Villains Love , When Malice would some Obstacle remove ! They care not if their Instruments be Damn'd , The King , and all the World beside , be Shamm'd , When their Design to bring about they hope , A Popish Successor , with him a Pope , For you my Lord they'd laid a desperate Snare , With Malice , Wicked Industry and Care ; With Cunning Arts of a Soul-Damning since , They thought they for your Life had laid their Gin , Their Trap's Discover'd , and themselves fallen in . Fools not to know , there can be no Defence Against a Righteous God and Innocence . But Sir , they aim'd not at your Life alone , More must have fallen when that you were gone , They'd first remove the Nations Prop and Stay , Then take Religion and our Laws away ; Bring in the Pope and Arbitrary Sway. But God look't down and saw the deep Design , And by Good Angels broke their Snares like twine : A Jury which upon Record shall stand , As worthy Patriots who had sav'd their Land ; Who by False Oaths would never be Trapann'd . O! Let their Names for e'r Recorded be , And let them shine bright to Posterity : For Precedents hereafter they'l be shown , For Wisdom and their upright Justice known , A long time after we are dead and gone . Who by your Fallen alone did think to Lame us , Will Curse , Damn and cry out on IGNORAMUS . Let their black Mouths be with damn'd Curses fill'd , And let them still on false Foundations Built ; Let them with Ballads , and with Pamphlets fill The Town , e're they reach You , your Fame to Kill ; Let them with their Poetic Malice swell , Falsely apply the Story , known so well , Of Absalom , and of Achitophel ; You need not care , for Heav'n has turned the Tide , And he himself appeared on your side : For which , I fear , some Wretch , whose Mouth is big With Blasphemy , will boldly call him WHIGG ; And if it were within their impious Power , Swear him from Heav'n , and hold him in the TOWER . All that with you , do for Religion stand , Who wish that Peace , may still flow in this Land , Who truly Love the King , and Government , Tho' they stand up for Rights of PARLIAMENT , Who spawn no PLOTS , whom no Affronts can move , Who tho' much urg'd , will never Rebels prove , Who do not Loyalty or Duty want , And every true unbiass'd PROTESTANT , Have by the Factious Scribblers of the Times , Been still accus'd of Black and Traitorous Crimes ; And if a Man speak Sense , or Law , or Reason , They call him Whig , and to his Charge lay TREASON . Methinks the Factious now their Tricks should cease , Who by all ways , strive to disturb our Peace , Tho' 'tis in Vain , and they discover'd have been , Yet will they try their old Shams o're again ; Almighty Money , Justice does invade , And PERJURY becomes a gainful Trade : They Lose their End , and can't the people move , Who Love the KING , and will not Rebels prove , They hop'd you Loyal , and did it believe , The Pope's Masqu'd Creatures , could not all deceive : That you are Lov'd , you now may well perceive , So many Joyful Fires , shew'd their Content , That you have Loyal prov'd and Innocent , For which great Sir , great in your Virtue now , All Loyal Hearts with Me , rejoice for You , And if you could converse them , You would find In these few Lines , the numerous Loyal's Mind . They Love You only , because You prove good , And that your Loyalty they understood : Therefore all those who Mourn'd the Doleful Fate , Do your Deliverance now Congratulate , Finding you a Found Member of the State . And may the King to 's Favour you restore , And 's Royal Beams upon you Shine once more , May Envy fly , your Enemies be Sham'd And no more PLOTS of State be ever fram'd ; May CHARLES long Reign with Glory and Renown , Peace and Religion our Blessed Nation Crown , That we once more may see those Days again When CHARLES restor'd , first over us did Reign . FINIS . LONDON , Printed for Charles Leigh , 1681. H : 135121 A Loyal CONGRATULATION To the Right Honourable , Anthony , Earl of Shaftsbury : Upon the Disappointment of his , the King and Kingdoms Enemies , By the Loyal Grand Jurie's Finding the Bill against him IGNORAMUS . In a short POEM . SIR , as I in a Melancholy Mood , Upon the Bank of our Fam'd River , stood , Seeing the Wherries passing too and from , And marking how the Tides did Ebb and Flow ; How flowing high , the Waters wash't the Wall Of our Dread Sovereigns Royal Court , White-Hall : How , when they Ebb'd and left the Kingly House , They naked left the Strand , the Mud and Ouse ; What pains men took who Row'd against the Tide , How easily the Boats did with it glide . Methought I saw within this Wat'ry Glass , The Image of our Times oft-Changing Face , Which did my Melancholy Thoughts relieve , And that Times Tide would turn , some Hope's did give . My Lord , The World and I do see it now , The swelling Tide begins to turn with You ; The God who flowing Waters does Command , Sets them a Perjod , and then bids them Stand , Does with his Power the Tides of Malice bound , Lest men with Waters or with Rage be Drown'd . Your Foes , whose Rage but now swell'd to the Brink , With Shame return , discovering as they sink , The Filthy Bottom and the Stinking Mud That lay unseen under the Rolling Flood . What Horrid Arts do Politicians use ? For Int'rest Law and Gospel will abuse ; How they can Traitors Hug , and Villains Love , When Malice would some Obstacle remove ! They care not if their Instruments be Damn'd , The King , and all the World beside , be Shamm'd , When their Design to bring about they hope , A Popish Successor , with him a Pope , For you my Lord they'd laid a desperate Snare , With Malice , Wicked Industry and Care ; With Cunning Arts of a Soul-Damning since , They thought they for your Life had laid their Gin , Their Trap's Discover'd , and themselves fallen in . Fools not to know , there can be no Defence Against a Righteous God and Innocence . But Sir , they aim'd not at your Life alone , More must have fallen when that you were gone , They'd first remove the Nations Prop and Stay , Then take Religion and our Laws away ; Bring in the Pope and Arbitrary Sway. But God look't down and saw the deep Design , And by Good Angels broke their Snares like twine : A Jury which upon Record shall stand , As worthy Patriots who had sav'd their Land ; Who by False Oaths would never be Trapann'd . O! Let their Names for e'r Recorded be , And let them shine bright to Posterity : For Precedents hereafter they'l be shown , For Wisdom and their upright Justice known , A long time after we are dead and gone . Who by your Fallen alone did think to Lame us , Will Curse , Damn and cry out on IGNORAMUS . Let their black Mouths be with damn'd Curses fill'd , And let them still on false Foundations Built ; Let them with Ballads , and with Pamphlets fill The Town , e're they reach You , your Fame to Kill ; Let them with their Poetic Malice swell , Falsely apply the Story , known so well , Of Absalom , and of Achitophel ; You need not care , for Heav'n has turned the Tide , And he himself appeared on your side : For which , I fear , some Wretch , whose Mouth is big With Blasphemy , will boldly call him WHIGG ; And if it were within their impious Power , Swear him from Heav'n , and hold him in the TOWER . All that with you , do for Religion stand , Who wish that Peace , may still flow in this Land , Who truly Love the King , and Government , Tho' they stand up for Rights of PARLIAMENT , Who spawn no PLOTS , whom no Affronts can move , Who tho' much urg'd , will never Rebels prove , Who do not Loyalty or Duty want , And every true unbiass'd PROTESTANT , Have by the Factious Scribblers of the Times , Been still accus'd of Black and Traitorous Crimes ; And if a Man speak Sense , or Law , or Reason , They call him Whig , and to his Charge lay TREASON . Methinks the Factious now their Tricks should cease , Who by all ways , strive to disturb our Peace , Tho' 'tis in Vain , and they discover'd have been , Yet will they try their old Shams o're again ; Almighty Money , Justice does invade , And PERJURY becomes a gainful Trade : They Lose their End , and can't the people move , Who Love the KING , and will not Rebels prove , They hop'd you Loyal , and did it believe , The Pope's Masqu'd Creatures , could not all deceive : That you are Lov'd , you now may well perceive , So many Joyful Fires , shew'd their Content , That you have Loyal prov'd and Innocent , For which great Sir , great in your Virtue now , All Loyal Hearts with Me , rejoice for You , And if you could converse them , You would find In these few Lines , the numerous Loyal's Mind . They Love You only , because You prove good , And that your Loyalty they understood : Therefore all those who Mourn'd the Doleful Fate , Do your Deliverance now Congratulate , Finding you a Found Member of the State . And may the King to 's Favour you restore , And 's Royal Beams upon you Shine once more , May Envy fly , your Enemies be Sham'd And no more PLOTS of State be ever fram'd ; May CHARLES long Reign with Glory and Renown , Peace and Religion our Blessed Nation Crown , That we once more may see those Days again When CHARLES restor'd , first over us did Reign . FINIS . LONDON , Printed for Charles Leigh , 1681. 