H : 134905 ON THE Prince's going to England , WITH AND ARMY , To Restore the Government . Hunc saltem everso Juvenem succurrere Saeclo Ne prohibete . --- Virg. Georg. Lib. I . ONce more a FATHER and a SON falls out , The World involving in their high Dispute : Remotest India's Fate on theirs depends , And Europe , trembling , the Event attends . Their Motions ruling every other State , As on the Sun's the lesser Planets wait . Power warms the Father , Liberty the Son , A Prize , well worth th' uncommon Venture run : Him a false Pride to Govern unrestrain'd , And by bad Means , bad Ends to be attain'd ; All Bars of Property drives headlong through , Millions oppressing to Enrich a few . Him Justice urges , and a Noble Aim To equal his Progenitors in Fame , And make his Life as Glorious as his Name . For Law and Reason's Power he does engage , Against the Reign of Appetite and Rage . There all the License of unbounded Migh Here conscious Honour , and deep sense of Right , Immortal Enmity to Arms incite . Greatness the one , Glory the other Fires , This only can deserve what that desires . This strives for all that e're to men was dear , And he for what they most abhor and fear . Caesar and Pompey's Cause by Cato thought So ill adjudg'd , to a new Tryal's brought , Again at last Pharsalia must be fought . the fatal Sisters ! now to Right be Friends , And make Mankind for Pompey's Fate amends . In Orange's Great Line , 'tis no new thing , To Free a Nation , and Uncrown a King . London , Printed for J. Tonson , 1689. H : 134905 ON THE Prince's going to England , WITH AND ARMY , To Restore the Government . Hunc saltem everso Juvenem succurrere Saeclo Ne prohibete . --- Virg. Georg. Lib. I . ONce more a FATHER and a SON falls out , The World involving in their high Dispute : Remotest India's Fate on theirs depends , And Europe , trembling , the Event attends . Their Motions ruling every other State , As on the Sun's the lesser Planets wait . Power warms the Father , Liberty the Son , A Prize , well worth th' uncommon Venture run : Him a false Pride to Govern unrestrain'd , And by bad Means , bad Ends to be attain'd ; All Bars of Property drives headlong through , Millions oppressing to Enrich a few . Him Justice urges , and a Noble Aim To equal his Progenitors in Fame , And make his Life as Glorious as his Name . For Law and Reason's Power he does engage , Against the Reign of Appetite and Rage . There all the License of unbounded Migh Here conscious Honour , and deep sense of Right , Immortal Enmity to Arms incite . Greatness the one , Glory the other Fires , This only can deserve what that desires . This strives for all that e're to men was dear , And he for what they most abhor and fear . Caesar and Pompey's Cause by Cato thought So ill adjudg'd , to a new Tryal's brought , Again at last Pharsalia must be fought . the fatal Sisters ! now to Right be Friends , And make Mankind for Pompey's Fate amends . In Orange's Great Line , 'tis no new thing , To Free a Nation , and Uncrown a King . London , Printed for J. Tonson , 1689. 