H : 134849 And Heroic POEM UPON HIS MAJESTIES Most GRACIOUS RELEASING the CHIMNEY-MONEY . ABove the Waves , so Neptune shew'd his Face , To chide the Winds and save the Trojan Raze ; As our Great MONARCH has our Fears releas't , And threatening Storms of Tyranny suppres't . Our drooping Nation , almost quite become , The Prey of Lawless Power , and Cruel Room ; Shatter'd by Popish Plots , and Jesuites Hate , Is now restor'd and made a Glorious State . The Seat of Empire , where must shortly come , The Rebel-Irish to receive their Doom ; And now proud Room by His Achievements scar'd , ( Although another Caesar were her Guard ) Could trembling wish behind more Alps to stand , While His fresh Laurels Her swift fallen portend . The Sea's our own , and now all Nations greet , With loering Sails each Vessel of our Fleet ; Our Monarchs Power extends as far as Winds do blow , Or swelling Sails around the Globe may go . Heaven that has plac'd this Island to give Law , To balance Europe , and her States to awe ; In this conjuncture does on Britain smile , The Greatest Leader , and the Greatest I'll . Whither this Portion of the World were rend , By the rude Ocean from the Continent Or thus Created , it was sure design'd , To be the Sacred Refuge of Mankind . Here the Oppressed shall henceforth resort , Justice to crave , and Succour at our Court ; And then our Sovereign , not for ours alone , But for the World's Great MONARCH shall be known . Fame swifter than his winged Navy flies , To every Land that near the Ocean lies ; Sounding his Name , and telling dreadful News , To all that Tyranny , and Rapine use . While his blessed Subject's , under their own Laws , Where no unjust control can interpose ; Enjoy in ample Liberty and Ease , With Freedom Plenty , and with Plenty Peace . Lords of the World's large waste , the Ocean , we Whole Forests send to Rule upon the Sea ; And every Coast may trouble or relieve , But none can visit us , without His leave . Our little World , the Image of the great , Like that amid the boundless Ocean Set ; Of her own growth has all that Nature craves , And all that's scarce , as Tribute from the Waves . As AEgypt does not on the Clouds rely , But to her Nile ows more than to the Sky ; So what our Earth , and what our Heaven denies , Our ever constant Friend ( the Sea ) supplies . The taste of hight Arabia's Spice we know , Free from the scorching heat that makes it grow ; Without the Worm in Persian Silk we shine , And without Planting , Drink of every Vine . Our's is the Harvest where the Indians mow , We Plough the deep , and Reap what others sow ; Things of the Nobles't kind our own Soil breeds , Stout are our Men , and Warlike are our Steeds . Rome , tho' her Eagle through the World had flown , Could never make this Island all her own ; Here flourish'd Edward , and the Black Prince too , Victorious Henry , and now GREAT SIR , YOU . For YOU we stay'd , once more to fill our Story With great Achievements , and with Acts of Glory . When for more World's the Macedonian cry'd , [ H ] e wist not Thetys in her lap did hide Another yet , a world reserv'd for You , To make more Great , than that he did subdue . When Fate or Error had our Age misled , And on this Nation such Confusion spread , The only Cure which could from Heav'n come down Was so much Power and Piety in One . One , whose Extraction from and Ancient Line , Gives Hope again that wellborn Men may shine : The meanest , in your Nature , mild and good , The Noble rest secured in your Blood . For when our Troubl'd Country call'd you forth , Your Noble Courage and your Matchless Worth Dazzling the Eyes of all that did pretend , To fierce Contention gave a prosperous End. No sooner You , GREAT SIR , the Throne ascend , But our Disorders cease , and all things mend . As if your Royal Touch were only sure The true King's-Evil of the Realm to Cure . 'Twas not Ambition spurr'd our Sovereign on To seize the Sceptre , and assume the Crown ; But like the Vestal Heat , his Martial Fire Was such as true Devotion did inspire ; His Zeal for GOD , and Pity to Mankind Awak'd his Courage , and confirm'd his Mind . Religion 'twas , that putting on his shield , Brought him Victorious through a bloodless Field ; His Arms were such , as th' Ancient Heroes wore , Bequeath'd him by the God he does adore . And all to save three Kingdoms from the Curse Of Lawless Rule , and Romes Tyrannic Force . A Princelike Pious Ardour of Renown , To seek the Church's Triumph in his own : Which once accomplish'd under his Command , Th' August and Grateful Senate of the Land Gave up what they had left ( who had done ill ) To Him , that more deserv'd the Throne to fill . With equal Love the Generous King releas't The chiefest Impost , which the poor oppressed ; Which , tho' so fair a Branch of public Store , He valu'd not , because it wrong'd the Poor . One Landlord to the House , to Chimneys two , Seem'd more than was to equal Justice due ; He that once lets his House , his Chimney lets , There the poor dresses what his Labour gets ; Hard , double-Pay for that from whence he eats . Or if through Poverty it be not paid , For Cruelty to tear away the single Bed , On which the poor Man rests his wearied Head , At once deprives him of his Rest and Bred . But such Injustice He would not Command , Who came by Justice to relieve the Land ; Nor would he have and opulent Land supply Th' Expense of State by grinding Cruelty . Thus the vexed World to find repose , at last Into Augustus Arms herself did cast . As England now with equal Toils oppressed , Her wearied Head did on Your Bosom rest . Then let the Muses with such Notes as these , Instruct us what belongs unto our Peace . Here in low strains your milder Deeds we sing , Hereafter we will Baize and Olive bring To Crown your Head , while you in Triumph ride On Vanquish'd Nations , and the Sea bestride ; While all your Neighbouring Princes unto You , Like Joseph's Sheaves , pay Reverence , and bow . LONDON , Printed for R. Taylor near Stationers-Hall , in the Year , MDCLXXXIX . H : 134849 And Heroic POEM UPON HIS MAJESTIES Most GRACIOUS RELEASING the CHIMNEY-MONEY . ABove the Waves , so Neptune shew'd his Face , To chide the Winds and save the Trojan Raze ; As our Great MONARCH has our Fears releas't , And threatening Storms of Tyranny suppres't . Our drooping Nation , almost quite become , The Prey of Lawless Power , and Cruel Room ; Shatter'd by Popish Plots , and Jesuites Hate , Is now restor'd and made a Glorious State . The Seat of Empire , where must shortly come , The Rebel-Irish to receive their Doom ; And now proud Room by His Achievements scar'd , ( Although another Caesar were her Guard ) Could trembling wish behind more Alps to stand , While His fresh Laurels Her swift fallen portend . The Sea's our own , and now all Nations greet , With loering Sails each Vessel of our Fleet ; Our Monarchs Power extends as far as Winds do blow , Or swelling Sails around the Globe may go . Heaven that has plac'd this Island to give Law , To balance Europe , and her States to awe ; In this conjuncture does on Britain smile , The Greatest Leader , and the Greatest I'll . Whither this Portion of the World were rend , By the rude Ocean from the Continent Or thus Created , it was sure design'd , To be the Sacred Refuge of Mankind . Here the Oppressed shall henceforth resort , Justice to crave , and Succour at our Court ; And then our Sovereign , not for ours alone , But for the World's Great MONARCH shall be known . Fame swifter than his winged Navy flies , To every Land that near the Ocean lies ; Sounding his Name , and telling dreadful News , To all that Tyranny , and Rapine use . While his blessed Subject's , under their own Laws , Where no unjust control can interpose ; Enjoy in ample Liberty and Ease , With Freedom Plenty , and with Plenty Peace . Lords of the World's large waste , the Ocean , we Whole Forests send to Rule upon the Sea ; And every Coast may trouble or relieve , But none can visit us , without His leave . Our little World , the Image of the great , Like that amid the boundless Ocean Set ; Of her own growth has all that Nature craves , And all that's scarce , as Tribute from the Waves . As AEgypt does not on the Clouds rely , But to her Nile ows more than to the Sky ; So what our Earth , and what our Heaven denies , Our ever constant Friend ( the Sea ) supplies . The taste of hight Arabia's Spice we know , Free from the scorching heat that makes it grow ; Without the Worm in Persian Silk we shine , And without Planting , Drink of every Vine . Our's is the Harvest where the Indians mow , We Plough the deep , and Reap what others sow ; Things of the Nobles't kind our own Soil breeds , Stout are our Men , and Warlike are our Steeds . Rome , tho' her Eagle through the World had flown , Could never make this Island all her own ; Here flourish'd Edward , and the Black Prince too , Victorious Henry , and now GREAT SIR , YOU . For YOU we stay'd , once more to fill our Story With great Achievements , and with Acts of Glory . When for more World's the Macedonian cry'd , [ H ] e wist not Thetys in her lap did hide Another yet , a world reserv'd for You , To make more Great , than that he did subdue . When Fate or Error had our Age misled , And on this Nation such Confusion spread , The only Cure which could from Heav'n come down Was so much Power and Piety in One . One , whose Extraction from and Ancient Line , Gives Hope again that wellborn Men may shine : The meanest , in your Nature , mild and good , The Noble rest secured in your Blood . For when our Troubl'd Country call'd you forth , Your Noble Courage and your Matchless Worth Dazzling the Eyes of all that did pretend , To fierce Contention gave a prosperous End. No sooner You , GREAT SIR , the Throne ascend , But our Disorders cease , and all things mend . As if your Royal Touch were only sure The true King's-Evil of the Realm to Cure . 'Twas not Ambition spurr'd our Sovereign on To seize the Sceptre , and assume the Crown ; But like the Vestal Heat , his Martial Fire Was such as true Devotion did inspire ; His Zeal for GOD , and Pity to Mankind Awak'd his Courage , and confirm'd his Mind . Religion 'twas , that putting on his shield , Brought him Victorious through a bloodless Field ; His Arms were such , as th' Ancient Heroes wore , Bequeath'd him by the God he does adore . And all to save three Kingdoms from the Curse Of Lawless Rule , and Romes Tyrannic Force . A Princelike Pious Ardour of Renown , To seek the Church's Triumph in his own : Which once accomplish'd under his Command , Th' August and Grateful Senate of the Land Gave up what they had left ( who had done ill ) To Him , that more deserv'd the Throne to fill . With equal Love the Generous King releas't The chiefest Impost , which the poor oppressed ; Which , tho' so fair a Branch of public Store , He valu'd not , because it wrong'd the Poor . One Landlord to the House , to Chimneys two , Seem'd more than was to equal Justice due ; He that once lets his House , his Chimney lets , There the poor dresses what his Labour gets ; Hard , double-Pay for that from whence he eats . Or if through Poverty it be not paid , For Cruelty to tear away the single Bed , On which the poor Man rests his wearied Head , At once deprives him of his Rest and Bred . But such Injustice He would not Command , Who came by Justice to relieve the Land ; Nor would he have and opulent Land supply Th' Expense of State by grinding Cruelty . Thus the vexed World to find repose , at last Into Augustus Arms herself did cast . As England now with equal Toils oppressed , Her wearied Head did on Your Bosom rest . Then let the Muses with such Notes as these , Instruct us what belongs unto our Peace . Here in low strains your milder Deeds we sing , Hereafter we will Baize and Olive bring To Crown your Head , while you in Triumph ride On Vanquish'd Nations , and the Sea bestride ; While all your Neighbouring Princes unto You , Like Joseph's Sheaves , pay Reverence , and bow . LONDON , Printed for R. Taylor near Stationers-Hall , in the Year , MDCLXXXIX . 