H : 134890 The Chancellor turned TARPAULIN , Or Jefferies Case . TO be a Pris'ner , hated , loath'd , and scorn'd , With unlamented Plagues , thy Fallen unmourn'd , Under approaching Torments keenest Dread , And 'midst a shouting Crowd unpitied led To meet a shameful Death , would seem t' atone All horrid Villainies except thy own : But they so numerous , great and loud appear , They dull Repentance , as they heighten Fear . Curs't by your King , your Country , and , it seems , You're Curs't too by your own Prophetic Dreams : Curs't in your Novice Years and Indigence , When Railing was your Law and Eloquence . And Curs't e're since for Fraud and Bribery , Lying , Partiality , and Perjury : Curs't by all People prosp'rous and forlorn , And will be Curs't by Thousands yet unborn . Curs't by the Just and Virtuous , and what's worse , You have your Father's and your Children's Curse . Legions of Ghosts you've murder'd will appear , And whisper on the Gallows in your Ear , Your byas't Judgments giv'n against the Good , That you might reek in Money and in Blood . The Tyrant when Perillus brought his Bull , Made the Inventor prove the first sad Howl . Your Whipping so ( though late ) should well be try'd ( Which you found out ) upon your bleeding Hide . And thus Condemn'd you'll be rewarded well , With Pill'ry , Carts Tail , Gibbets , Flames and Hell . And with your Quarters hurl'd into your Grave , Let this be wrote , I was both Fool and Knave , To Law and Drink a Scandal and a Slave . FINIS . H : 134890 The Chancellor turned TARPAULIN , Or Jefferies Case . TO be a Pris'ner , hated , loath'd , and scorn'd , With unlamented Plagues , thy Fallen unmourn'd , Under approaching Torments keenest Dread , And 'midst a shouting Crowd unpitied led To meet a shameful Death , would seem t' atone All horrid Villainies except thy own : But they so numerous , great and loud appear , They dull Repentance , as they heighten Fear . Curs't by your King , your Country , and , it seems , You're Curs't too by your own Prophetic Dreams : Curs't in your Novice Years and Indigence , When Railing was your Law and Eloquence . And Curs't e're since for Fraud and Bribery , Lying , Partiality , and Perjury : Curs't by all People prosp'rous and forlorn , And will be Curs't by Thousands yet unborn . Curs't by the Just and Virtuous , and what's worse , You have your Father's and your Children's Curse . Legions of Ghosts you've murder'd will appear , And whisper on the Gallows in your Ear , Your byas't Judgments giv'n against the Good , That you might reek in Money and in Blood . The Tyrant when Perillus brought his Bull , Made the Inventor prove the first sad Howl . Your Whipping so ( though late ) should well be try'd ( Which you found out ) upon your bleeding Hide . And thus Condemn'd you'll be rewarded well , With Pill'ry , Carts Tail , Gibbets , Flames and Hell . And with your Quarters hurl'd into your Grave , Let this be wrote , I was both Fool and Knave , To Law and Drink a Scandal and a Slave . FINIS . 