H : 134811 Lampoons . Over the Lord WORSER ---- rs Door . UNhappy Age , and we in it , When Truth does go for Treason ; Every Blockhead's Will for Law , And Coxcombs Sense for Reason . Religion's made a Paved of State , To serve the Pimps and Panders , Our Liberty a Prison Gate , And Irish-men Commanders . O wretched is our Fate ! What Dangers do we run , We must be Wicked to be Great , And to be Just , undone . 'Tis thus our Sovereign keeps his Word , And makes the Nation Great ; To Irish-men he trusts the Sword , To Jesuits the State . Over the Lord S ------- rys Door . IF Cecil the Wise , From his Grave should arise , And look the fat Beast in the Face , He'd take him from Mass , And turn him to Grass , And swear he was none of his Raze . To the Speaking-Head . I'M come my future Fate to seek , Speak then , Celestial Blockhead speak . Answer . Had'st thou not consulted with the Witch at Room , Thou need'st not thus , like Saul , to Endor come To seek out ( Brother Solid-head ) thy doom , The Hearts of all thy Friends are gone ; Gazing they stand , and grieving round thy Throne , And scarce believe thou art the Martyrs Son. Those whom thou favourest , merit not thy Grace ; They , to their Interest , Sacrifice thy Peace , And will in Sorrow make thee end thy days . Tempt not thy Fate too far , do not rely On force or fraud ; Why should'st thou Monarch , why , Live unbelov'd , and unlamented die ? The Ghost . A Papist dy'd , as 'twas Jehovah's Will , And his poor Soul went trudging down to Hell ! Where , when he did arrive , just at the Entry , He found a Mastive Devil standing Centry , With flaming Eyes , and Face as black as Soot , A Musketeer with a great Cloven Foe And who goes there ? I , a poor Papist Ghost , That's come to dwell upon the Stygian Coast . Stay where you are , and do not press so hard , For I must call the Captain of the Guard ; He gave me Order to let none come in , But only such as should have leave from him . The Captain call'd , accordingly came forth , A Devil of entegrity and Worth , Who all in noblest Scarlet being dressed , With a most delicate fine Embroider'd Vest , He asks the Ghost , with a great Voice , as loud As mighty Thunder , breaking from a Cloud , What was the bus'ness ? Sir , I am come to dwell , If you will please to give me leave , in Hell . Damn you , you whoreson Dog , said he to him , I love my Master , and you shan't come in ; For if above you Eat your God , I fear , Should you come in , you'd Eat the Devil here . A Dialogue between a Loyal Addressor , and a Blunt Whiggish Clown . UNgrateful Wretch ! Canst thou pretend a cause To fear the loss of Liberty and Laws ? Has not the King been at a vast expense To raise the Gallant Troops in thy Defence ? Did he not promise in a Proclamation , To rule by Law at's Coronation ? Clown . But has he not already damn'd the Test ? And sure that Princes Word is but a jest , Who Rules and Army , and Obeys a Priest ; Nor can his Solemn Oath make us much safer ; His Sword is Steel , his God is but a Wafer . FINIS . H : 134811 Lampoons . Over the Lord WORSER ---- rs Door . UNhappy Age , and we in it , When Truth does go for Treason ; Every Blockhead's Will for Law , And Coxcombs Sense for Reason . Religion's made a Paved of State , To serve the Pimps and Panders , Our Liberty a Prison Gate , And Irish-men Commanders . O wretched is our Fate ! What Dangers do we run , We must be Wicked to be Great , And to be Just , undone . 'Tis thus our Sovereign keeps his Word , And makes the Nation Great ; To Irish-men he trusts the Sword , To Jesuits the State . Over the Lord S ------- rys Door . IF Cecil the Wise , From his Grave should arise , And look the fat Beast in the Face , He'd take him from Mass , And turn him to Grass , And swear he was none of his Raze . To the Speaking-Head . I'M come my future Fate to seek , Speak then , Celestial Blockhead speak . Answer . Had'st thou not consulted with the Witch at Room , Thou need'st not thus , like Saul , to Endor come To seek out ( Brother Solid-head ) thy doom , The Hearts of all thy Friends are gone ; Gazing they stand , and grieving round thy Throne , And scarce believe thou art the Martyrs Son. Those whom thou favourest , merit not thy Grace ; They , to their Interest , Sacrifice thy Peace , And will in Sorrow make thee end thy days . Tempt not thy Fate too far , do not rely On force or fraud ; Why should'st thou Monarch , why , Live unbelov'd , and unlamented die ? The Ghost . A Papist dy'd , as 'twas Jehovah's Will , And his poor Soul went trudging down to Hell ! Where , when he did arrive , just at the Entry , He found a Mastive Devil standing Centry , With flaming Eyes , and Face as black as Soot , A Musketeer with a great Cloven Foe And who goes there ? I , a poor Papist Ghost , That's come to dwell upon the Stygian Coast . Stay where you are , and do not press so hard , For I must call the Captain of the Guard ; He gave me Order to let none come in , But only such as should have leave from him . The Captain call'd , accordingly came forth , A Devil of entegrity and Worth , Who all in noblest Scarlet being dressed , With a most delicate fine Embroider'd Vest , He asks the Ghost , with a great Voice , as loud As mighty Thunder , breaking from a Cloud , What was the bus'ness ? Sir , I am come to dwell , If you will please to give me leave , in Hell . Damn you , you whoreson Dog , said he to him , I love my Master , and you shan't come in ; For if above you Eat your God , I fear , Should you come in , you'd Eat the Devil here . A Dialogue between a Loyal Addressor , and a Blunt Whiggish Clown . UNgrateful Wretch ! Canst thou pretend a cause To fear the loss of Liberty and Laws ? Has not the King been at a vast expense To raise the Gallant Troops in thy Defence ? Did he not promise in a Proclamation , To rule by Law at's Coronation ? Clown . But has he not already damn'd the Test ? And sure that Princes Word is but a jest , Who Rules and Army , and Obeys a Priest ; Nor can his Solemn Oath make us much safer ; His Sword is Steel , his God is but a Wafer . FINIS . 