H : 18303 A Supplication to Eldertonne , for Leaches unlewdnes : Desiring him to pardon , his manifest unrudenes . GOod gentle master Eldertonne , may I not you entreat ? To pardon Leache that he hath done , and not with him to frete ? For I confess and know the same , it was for lack of lewdness : That he so blasde abroad your name , therefore forgive his rudeness . For you may see he is in deed , and unrude simple man : Therefore of him take you no heed , sith nurture none he can . A silly simple man he is , as proof may well be made : For nomore wit he hath ywis , but to call a spade , a spade . Therefore though that your filthy rhymes , he filthy name to be : Accuse him not I say of crimes , you hear his quality . It was no doubt unhomely done , to challenge in such case : So fine a fellow as Eldertonne , that hath so fair a face . But though your face be never so rich , so precious or so gay : Yet will he scratch it if it itch , the pains for to delay . Wherefore you ought him thanks to give , that works you such good : And not to shake him by the sleeve , to wreke your angry mood . I may well muse and mervel much , what might be your inten Sith that you prove your self one such , as truth cannot content . You show that Leache you do contemn , even by the self same reed : Wherein you do your self condemn , I wish you would take heed . You bind it up with oaths enough , in faith , in faith , say ye : But by such fruits a man may know , the goodness of the tree . A shame it is that you should bring , example of Christ I say : And eke forthwith the self same thing , so soar to disobey . For with the breach of charity , you do him sharply charge : And by and by outrageously , you rail on him at large . Thus Sathan also for his turn , the scriptures can out pike : And as you well his lesson learn , so are your deeds a like . Your heart is vain and bent to evil , your tongue also is naugh How can it be then but the devil , must rule both tongue and thought . But hereby men may easily spy , how you do Leache abuse : Sith that your quarrel for to try , by scripture you refuse . Therefore you go about I see , the scripture set apart : Unto your toys and vanity , his pen for to convart . And if in deed you could him cause , from scripture for to fly : No doubt forsooth but clause by clause , much bravery should we see . Then would you leek then would you laffe , as you do make report : Then would you answer every staff , and that in sugared sort . In sugared sort ? nay poisened then , I might it better call : Although it sugared seems to men , which are in sinful thrall . A worthy work it is doubtless , and full of learned skill : Whereby appears your shameless , and wilful wicked will . And where you write that secretly , your fault he should have told ; That might not be sith openly , your self did it uphold . And where as he full skilfully , takes scriptures for his stay : You say in deed that wickedly , he uses them alway . It is not straight way proved so , when that you have it said : Except you bring a proof thereto , which cannot be denayed . As if , that I should say in deed , you were and honest man : All wise men might me then deride , sith prove it not I can . I would now wish you should forget , his science to deface : For honestly a man may get , his living in that raze . Much better then the wit to spend , a Parasite to play : The bad to please , the good to offend , and play the fool all day . And him me thinks you should not blame , that can well shape a hose : For he may likewise cut and frame , a case for your rich nose . To make a hose is no such shame , to Leache in his degree : As is your nose a glorious fame , upon your face to see . It does become you very ill , to talk so of your tail : But you shall there your tongue hold still , as fit for tongues that rail . And if you still thus do deny , your knavery to forbear : You shall therein have victory , the garland you shall wear . But here I must full soar lament , the counsel you still give : To your vile Jone , not to repent , but beastly still to live . O wicked man darste thou be bold , such sinful seed to sow ? And eke the same for to uphold , in sinful hearts to grow ? O Lord shall whoredom thus prevail ? shall men thus sin maintain ? Is this a christian common weal , and can such filth sustain ? O magistrates play Phinehes part , towards such be not to mild : Which may procure most grievous smart , to many a mother's child . The whoredom of one heretofore , Great plagues to many hath borough Although the lord eftsoon therefore , in him repentance wrought . What shall our lot be then O Lord ? which foster such foul swine : As live a life to be abhorred , yet glory and joy therein ? Repent ( Oh wretch ) and call for grace , leave of these wicked toys : Lest Sathan reach thee sour sauce , to these thy pleasant joys . Now sir , if Leache , as you do tell , seems fondly things to kni It is because you cannot well , them home with reason hit . A homely cloak would serve full well , is there none to be had ? If Eldertonne of none hear tell , I doubt he will go mad . But if as you do threaten , so you fallen for to be wood : You shall straight ways to Bedlam go , to tame your madding mood . Now Eldertonne I must desire , you to hold Leache excused : For that no reason does appear , why he should so be used . And sith that I thus courteously , for Leache do you intrea Your frenzy so to satisfy , you need no more to freat . Wherefore gentle Maiste Elderton , as I may do you pleasure : Grant this my supplication , which is not out of measure . And thus subscribed , The first day of June : At which time you said , Begins your fume . Quod. Willyam Fulwod . Imprinted at London at the Long shop adjoining unto Saint Mildreds Church in the Pultry by John Alde . HHH : 18303 A Supplication to Eldertonne , for Leaches unlewdnes : Desiring him to pardon , his manifest unrudenes . GOod gentle master Eldertonne , may I not you entreat ? To pardon Leache that he hath done , and not with him to frete ? For I confess and know the same , it was for lack of lewdness : That he so blasde abroad your name , therefore forgive his rudeness . For you may see he is in deed , and unrude simple man : Therefore of him take you no heed , sith nurture none he can . A silly simple man he is , as proof may well be made : For nomore wit he hath ywis , but to call a spade , a spade . Therefore though that your filthy rhymes , he filthy name to be : Accuse him not I say of crimes , you hear his quality . It was no doubt unhomely done , to challenge in such case : So fine a fellow as Eldertonne , that hath so fair a face . But though your face be never so rich , so precious or so gay : Yet will he scratch it if it itch , the pains for to delay . Wherefore you ought him thanks to give , that works you such good : And not to shake him by the sleeve , to wreke your angry mood . I may well muse and mervel much , what might be your inten Sith that you prove your self one such , as truth cannot content . You show that Leache you do contemn , even by the self same reed : Wherein you do your self condemn , I wish you would take heed . You bind it up with oaths enough , in faith , in faith , say ye : But by such fruits a man may know , the goodness of the tree . A shame it is that you should bring , example of Christ I say : And eke forthwith the self same thing , so soar to disobey . For with the breach of charity , you do him sharply charge : And by and by outrageously , you rail on him at large . Thus Sathan also for his turn , the scriptures can out pike : And as you well his lesson learn , so are your deeds a like . Your heart is vain and bent to evil , your tongue also is naugh How can it be then but the devil , must rule both tongue and thought . But hereby men may easily spy , how you do Leache abuse : Sith that your quarrel for to try , by scripture you refuse . Therefore you go about I see , the scripture set apart : Unto your toys and vanity , his pen for to convart . And if in deed you could him cause , from scripture for to fly : No doubt forsooth but clause by clause , much bravery should we see . Then would you leek then would you laffe , as you do make report : Then would you answer every staff , and that in sugared sort . In sugared sort ? nay poisened then , I might it better call : Although it sugared seems to men , which are in sinful thrall . A worthy work it is doubtless , and full of learned skill : Whereby appears your shameless , and wilful wicked will . And where you write that secretly , your fault he should have told ; That might not be sith openly , your self did it uphold . And where as he full skilfully , takes scriptures for his stay : You say in deed that wickedly , he uses them alway . It is not straight way proved so , when that you have it said : Except you bring a proof thereto , which cannot be denayed . As if , that I should say in deed , you were and honest man : All wise men might me then deride , sith prove it not I can . I would now wish you should forget , his science to deface : For honestly a man may get , his living in that raze . Much better then the wit to spend , a Parasite to play : The bad to please , the good to offend , and play the fool all day . And him me thinks you should not blame , that can well shape a hose : For he may likewise cut and frame , a case for your rich nose . To make a hose is no such shame , to Leache in his degree : As is your nose a glorious fame , upon your face to see . It does become you very ill , to talk so of your tail : But you shall there your tongue hold still , as fit for tongues that rail . And if you still thus do deny , your knavery to forbear : You shall therein have victory , the garland you shall wear . But here I must full soar lament , the counsel you still give : To your vile Jone , not to repent , but beastly still to live . O wicked man darste thou be bold , such sinful seed to sow ? And eke the same for to uphold , in sinful hearts to grow ? O Lord shall whoredom thus prevail ? shall men thus sin maintain ? Is this a christian common weal , and can such filth sustain ? O magistrates play Phinehes part , towards such be not to mild : Which may procure most grievous smart , to many a mother's child . The whoredom of one heretofore , Great plagues to many hath borough Although the lord eftsoon therefore , in him repentance wrought . What shall our lot be then O Lord ? which foster such foul swine : As live a life to be abhorred , yet glory and joy therein ? Repent ( Oh wretch ) and call for grace , leave of these wicked toys : Lest Sathan reach thee sour sauce , to these thy pleasant joys . Now sir , if Leache , as you do tell , seems fondly things to kni It is because you cannot well , them home with reason hit . A homely cloak would serve full well , is there none to be had ? If Eldertonne of none hear tell , I doubt he will go mad . But if as you do threaten , so you fallen for to be wood : You shall straight ways to Bedlam go , to tame your madding mood . Now Eldertonne I must desire , you to hold Leache excused : For that no reason does appear , why he should so be used . And sith that I thus courteously , for Leache do you intrea Your frenzy so to satisfy , you need no more to freat . Wherefore gentle Maiste Elderton , as I may do you pleasure : Grant this my supplication , which is not out of measure . And thus subscribed , The first day of June : At which time you said , Begins your fume . Quod. Willyam Fulwod . Imprinted at London at the Long shop adjoining unto Saint Mildreds Church in the Pultry by John Alde . HH 