H : 18300 A MOORNING DITI UPON THE DECEAS OF THE MOST NOBL Prins HENRY EARL of ARUNDEL , The ancient & Primer Coounte of England , and right honourable Baron Mautravers & Clun : one of Oour most gracious Queen ELIZABETHS Majesteez most honourable privy Coounsel , and of the right nobl Order of the Garter the eldest Knigh that departed in the Lord at hiz Place by Toour hill ny London , on Thurzday Saint Matthiez day the latter xxiiii . of February in the xxii . year of her highness most prosperoous Rein . 1579. CArez & complaints that rueful moonings may purport , Proceeding from a mind with woez oppress A heavy heart dooun sunk within the breast , A damped coountenauns devoid of all comfort , May best beseem the state of woeful wigh And so may sorroz smart , us rightfully compel With sighs profoound bewail in careful plighted , The late deceas of him whooz honour did excel , HENRI that nobl Prins the EARL of ARUNDELL . Born & allied in Line long & Heroical , Comely in form of features & personage , Matched in high & equal marriage , Parent to one worthy Lord & Ladyz twoo , withal : For the rare bloomz of true Nobility That first out budded in hiz tender spring , The Earl hiz Father yet alive , & he But Lord Mautravers : Oour late most famoous King Of Callis too him gave the trust & gooverning . His first Wife Marry the Lord Marques Dorsets daughter . Lady Jane married to John Lord Lumley . Lady Marry married to Thomas Duke of Norfolk . The weighty charge whereof when he had underfang , He ransakld the orderz old & nu , The good he held in execution du , The bad he brake , and ay by Justis righted wrong : With the fine French he tempered in such sort Az for hiz Proowes great & Pollecyz again , For Fame to Prins & safety to the Fort , Both far & near it waz pronoounced of all men . That Callis never had like Captain az then . Oour King him made upon this five yeerz nobl say , At Bullen siege high Marshal of hiz hos Wheraz hiz peinz his daungerz with the most , Hiz valiauns by heart & hand waz prompt all way . And though a molehill to a moount be small , For certain truth yet this the writer bringz to mind , Who served him there at theez most actionz all : And for the grace enteer that ever he did find , May most deplore hiz death , but honour all his kind . Lord Mar - shall at the siege of Bullen . An. xxxv . Henry viii . The Prins benign anon soon az the tooun he won , For servis high done by this nobl Peer , Chaz him too be one of hiz Coounsel near , Lord Chamberlain also : which Honorz after than King Edward gave him : but Queen Mary made , Him Prezident of Coounsel and Lord Stuard too be : Of our Queen eak that dignity he hade . So az a thing it iz right evident to see , In hoow great grace With all hiz Sooverainz waz he . xxxv . Hen . viii . Anno i Regine Elizabeth . The higher karged ship , and deepar it doth draw , The danger more of storm of rok & sand , And blasts may blo that no state can withstand . At anchor holed of Fortitude when roze a flaw , He lay , with honour till he cam to port . And az he thought none praised virtue as they owe , Unless their deeds true virtue did reaport , He surely for hiz part , commended virtue so , Az waz hiz Embleam , LAUS VIRTUTUS ACTIO . For worthy pleazurz else : hiz Horse & Armour sitch , Hiz skill profoound in both , his solemn Queer By vois & Instruments so sweet to her , Hiz Jewelz , Antiquiteez , so many rare & rich , Hiz Tablz , Cloks , & his symmetrical Billdingz , so sumptuoously adoournd in every par For end , his exquizit appointments all So excellent for cost , for high devise & art , Az might be signz certain of hiz so nobl heart . For servis then , for honour , or for hiz Princez pleazure , Hoow mooch joyed he there too be liberal ? Of heart sy neeer towards the Nobiz all , Too State of life he made his Birthdegree his meazure , Ootherz merit small , mooch he wolld avauns Boounteous , benign , relieving many grievous gronez , In friendship firm for only change or chauns . But ah for woe : dear death not moovabl by monez , All theez hiz shining lights quite quenched hath at onez . Descended - from Caro - lus magnus who died . at Aix 815. Henry lord Matravers William Anno. xxx . Hen . viii . Twice Em - bassadour to King Phillip in Flaunderz and chief Commisioner in Queen Maryes days . Obscuring orgulioously by dark & deadly blast , The lustr of Jewel , the more inestimable , Az iz the loss so far irreperabl : And Earl , a Peer , a Prins , the only & the last Of that so hy FITZ ALLENZ name & blood , But why so sharp Oh Memory dost thoou declare Theez groundz of greevez ? more mere wear for thy mood Sum Opium for sleep or else white Nenuphare , A sooup of Lethes lake for to forget thy care . But noow , az wants a chief one among the States high , So Nobl youth , & all of gentl har The Herallds sage , the wise & learned in Art , This forlorn skath alas bewail may ruefully And thoou infaust day , dismoll , bisextill , Not hallf by Charlsez birth & coronation sighed So good , az too the Earl of Flaunders ill And too French Frauncis eak . O cruel in thy spite Woe worth the time that noow so soon that camest too light . Captain of Calles v. years . Born at Gaunt 1500 Croound Emperoor at Bolloni 1530. Charlez slave by Con spiratoours at Burgis 1127.3 . Ti The french Kings poou [ ? ] slave and be taken at Pavi 1525.30 . But sins that , heavy sprite doth freat the mind to nought , Driez up the bonez & gallz the heart so soar , Helps not the case ( God wot ) a whit the more , By wizdoom then bethink we , herein as we ought , First that this Peer ( hoow ever wear the case ) With love of all Estatz in hearts sincere enrolled , In honour pure did run hiz nobl raze , Then saw his Childerz Children ( a croon to hiz yeerz old Az Grandsire ( to their glory ) eak him they did behold . Prov. 17 . Prov. Ibidem . Who wear so virtuous all of mind & inclination As God took them , the sooner to be bles Yet her left one to coountervail the rest , Of whooz increasing honour such iz the expectation That in Avirall State & Dignity Az he succeedz & luckily enjoyz the same . So hope iz that through Gods benignity : By him shall glister long in honour & in fame , The bright shine of the magnific ARUNDELLI name . Bethink we eak hoow well he dispozed thingz eachon , What tender words our Queen unto him sen Whereat his heart did earn , hiz eiz relent , Reizd up hiz febl Sprite , that then by him anon Into the Lords handz recommended is . In Fame & in Succession sins her he lives ay , In Soul also too everlasting bliss Let us by solas suppl oour sorroz az we may , And hope in Christe to have a joyful meeting day , Devinctissimo ( pro facultate ) Arundelius . Guil. P.G. Born on Saint Georgez day 1512. Lived a Counseller and in great Officez 43. year . Buried at Arundell in Sussex Tuisday the 22. of March An. R . R.E.22 . Imprinted at London by John Allde . H : 18300 A MOORNING DITI UPON THE DECEAS OF THE MOST NOBL Prins HENRY EARL of ARUNDEL , The ancient & Primer Coounte of England , and right honourable Baron Mautravers & Clun : one of Oour most gracious Queen ELIZABETHS Majesteez most honourable privy Coounsel , and of the right nobl Order of the Garter the eldest Knigh that departed in the Lord at hiz Place by Toour hill ny London , on Thurzday Saint Matthiez day the latter xxiiii . of February in the xxii . year of her highness most prosperoous Rein . 1579. CArez & complaints that rueful moonings may purport , Proceeding from a mind with woez oppress A heavy heart dooun sunk within the breast , A damped coountenauns devoid of all comfort , May best beseem the state of woeful wigh And so may sorroz smart , us rightfully compel With sighs profoound bewail in careful plighted , The late deceas of him whooz honour did excel , HENRI that nobl Prins the EARL of ARUNDELL . Born & allied in Line long & Heroical , Comely in form of features & personage , Matched in high & equal marriage , Parent to one worthy Lord & Ladyz twoo , withal : For the rare bloomz of true Nobility That first out budded in hiz tender spring , The Earl hiz Father yet alive , & he But Lord Mautravers : Oour late most famoous King Of Callis too him gave the trust & gooverning . His first Wife Marry the Lord Marques Dorsets daughter . Lady Jane married to John Lord Lumley . Lady Marry married to Thomas Duke of Norfolk . The weighty charge whereof when he had underfang , He ransakld the orderz old & nu , The good he held in execution du , The bad he brake , and ay by Justis righted wrong : With the fine French he tempered in such sort Az for hiz Proowes great & Pollecyz again , For Fame to Prins & safety to the Fort , Both far & near it waz pronoounced of all men . That Callis never had like Captain az then . Oour King him made upon this five yeerz nobl say , At Bullen siege high Marshal of hiz hos Wheraz hiz peinz his daungerz with the most , Hiz valiauns by heart & hand waz prompt all way . And though a molehill to a moount be small , For certain truth yet this the writer bringz to mind , Who served him there at theez most actionz all : And for the grace enteer that ever he did find , May most deplore hiz death , but honour all his kind . Lord Mar - shall at the siege of Bullen . An. xxxv . Henry viii . The Prins benign anon soon az the tooun he won , For servis high done by this nobl Peer , Chaz him too be one of hiz Coounsel near , Lord Chamberlain also : which Honorz after than King Edward gave him : but Queen Mary made , Him Prezident of Coounsel and Lord Stuard too be : Of our Queen eak that dignity he hade . So az a thing it iz right evident to see , In hoow great grace With all hiz Sooverainz waz he . xxxv . Hen . viii . Anno i Regine Elizabeth . The higher karged ship , and deepar it doth draw , The danger more of storm of rok & sand , And blasts may blo that no state can withstand . At anchor holed of Fortitude when roze a flaw , He lay , with honour till he cam to port . And az he thought none praised virtue as they owe , Unless their deeds true virtue did reaport , He surely for hiz part , commended virtue so , Az waz hiz Embleam , LAUS VIRTUTUS ACTIO . For worthy pleazurz else : hiz Horse & Armour sitch , Hiz skill profoound in both , his solemn Queer By vois & Instruments so sweet to her , Hiz Jewelz , Antiquiteez , so many rare & rich , Hiz Tablz , Cloks , & his symmetrical Billdingz , so sumptuoously adoournd in every par For end , his exquizit appointments all So excellent for cost , for high devise & art , Az might be signz certain of hiz so nobl heart . For servis then , for honour , or for hiz Princez pleazure , Hoow mooch joyed he there too be liberal ? Of heart sy neeer towards the Nobiz all , Too State of life he made his Birthdegree his meazure , Ootherz merit small , mooch he wolld avauns Boounteous , benign , relieving many grievous gronez , In friendship firm for only change or chauns . But ah for woe : dear death not moovabl by monez , All theez hiz shining lights quite quenched hath at onez . Descended - from Caro - lus magnus who died . at Aix 815. Henry lord Matravers William Anno. xxx . Hen . viii . Twice Em - bassadour to King Phillip in Flaunderz and chief Commisioner in Queen Maryes days . Obscuring orgulioously by dark & deadly blast , The lustr of Jewel , the more inestimable , Az iz the loss so far irreperabl : And Earl , a Peer , a Prins , the only & the last Of that so hy FITZ ALLENZ name & blood , But why so sharp Oh Memory dost thoou declare Theez groundz of greevez ? more mere wear for thy mood Sum Opium for sleep or else white Nenuphare , A sooup of Lethes lake for to forget thy care . But noow , az wants a chief one among the States high , So Nobl youth , & all of gentl har The Herallds sage , the wise & learned in Art , This forlorn skath alas bewail may ruefully And thoou infaust day , dismoll , bisextill , Not hallf by Charlsez birth & coronation sighed So good , az too the Earl of Flaunders ill And too French Frauncis eak . O cruel in thy spite Woe worth the time that noow so soon that camest too light . Captain of Calles v. years . Born at Gaunt 1500 Croound Emperoor at Bolloni 1530. Charlez slave by Con spiratoours at Burgis 1127.3 . Ti The french Kings poou [ ? ] slave and be taken at Pavi 1525.30 . But sins that , heavy sprite doth freat the mind to nought , Driez up the bonez & gallz the heart so soar , Helps not the case ( God wot ) a whit the more , By wizdoom then bethink we , herein as we ought , First that this Peer ( hoow ever wear the case ) With love of all Estatz in hearts sincere enrolled , In honour pure did run hiz nobl raze , Then saw his Childerz Children ( a croon to hiz yeerz old Az Grandsire ( to their glory ) eak him they did behold . Prov. 17 . Prov. Ibidem . Who wear so virtuous all of mind & inclination As God took them , the sooner to be bles Yet her left one to coountervail the rest , Of whooz increasing honour such iz the expectation That in Avirall State & Dignity Az he succeedz & luckily enjoyz the same . So hope iz that through Gods benignity : By him shall glister long in honour & in fame , The bright shine of the magnific ARUNDELLI name . Bethink we eak hoow well he dispozed thingz eachon , What tender words our Queen unto him sen Whereat his heart did earn , hiz eiz relent , Reizd up hiz febl Sprite , that then by him anon Into the Lords handz recommended is . In Fame & in Succession sins her he lives ay , In Soul also too everlasting bliss Let us by solas suppl oour sorroz az we may , And hope in Christe to have a joyful meeting day , Devinctissimo ( pro facultate ) Arundelius . Guil. P.G. Born on Saint Georgez day 1512. Lived a Counseller and in great Officez 43. year . Buried at Arundell in Sussex Tuisday the 22. of March An. R . R.E.22 . Imprinted at London by John Allde . 